
More vagina discussion
CLOUDY 
Tuesday 
The campus controversy surrounding the upcoming performance of
HIGH 43° 
"The Vagina Monologues" continues with more pro and con comments. 
FEBRUARY 19,
LOW28° 
Viewpoint . page 10 
2002 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Poorman adds more social space 
"With the renovation of the
. University buys 
dining room we hope tooff-campus house address the need for more for retreats 'programmabl_c' space for ~tu­
dcnts and student organiza­
tions," Poorman wrote.

By JASON McFARLEY 
He said there would be
News Editor 
opportunities for groups to use the room for dances, par­Following an announcement ties, banquets, performancesof major renovations to the and meetings.
Alumni-Senior Club, student The room will be available 
life officials have made public for use in August, he said. 
plans for two additional pro­Student Affairs' second ini­
jects to improve social space tiative is the acquisition of the 
options. 
"Creek 
Campus 
House" 
Life Council 
"Wzth the renovation of located 
members at a 
next to
the dining room we hope

meeting 
J u d a y
Monday read to address the need for 
Creek just
about the 
more 'programmable' north of 
changes in a 
campus
space for students and

letter from 
and adja­
Father Mark student organizations . ., 
cent to
Poorman, 
Warren vice president Father Mark Poorman G o I f 
for Student 
Course.
Affairs. The vice presidentfor Student Affairs 
Officials 
Feb. 6 letter plan to 
to student 
recondi­
body presi­tion the small house and 
dent Brooke Norton details 
make it available to students 
dining hall renovations and through the Student Activities by its May target date. The meeting as guests.
purchase of an off-campus 
Office. 
house will be available to stu­Bishop and Foley, who takehouse for student use. 

"Again, it is a venue for 
dents in August. office April 1, said they would The Office of Student Affairs 

'programmable' space that 
"It's another good thing for now begin attending CLC.

is working with Food Services 
students can utilize," students," Norton said Executive Cabinet and
on the planned renovation of 
Poorman said in the letter, 
Monday. "I think it's exciting Student Senate meetings.

the upstairs dining room in encouraging the home's use that there are two more Bishop begins her term as
South Dining Hall, Poorman for short trips away from the venues we can use for social CLC chair in August, but the
wrote. He said Student 
University. "It provides an 
space programming." two assume leadership of the

Activities officials Brian ideal setting for day-long 
other organizations in April. 

Coughlin and Peggy Hnatusko retreats, team-building activi­
In other CLC news:

have been involved in the 
ties and the like." 
. Student body president­

plans and will likely be in 
He said his office is working and vice president-elect Libby 
touch with Norton's office for Contact Jason McFarley at 
with University administra­Bishop and Trip Foley,
student input, the letter said. mcfarley.l@nd.edu.
tors to complete the project respectively, attended the 
Harris: Disabled students need equality 
The discussion he present­unemployment for women etc because of a disability."
By KATIE RAND 
ed at Saint Mary's dealt with with disabilities is in the The ADA has nothing to do 
News Writer 
the nuts and bolts of the range of 80 percent. ,, . with giving disabled people American Disability Act from The basics of how the special advantages; rather it Richard Harris kicked off the perspective of a college American Disability Act exists to ensure equal treat­ND/SMC Disability classroom. The aim of the works are extensive. ment. One main aspect of Awareness Week with his lecture was to help students "The ADA looks like a the ADA is that nothing can lecture "Disability Awareness and faculty "think about building code. It's full of be changed at a given institu­
in the issues of inclusion and widths that handicapped tion until a complaint has Classroom See Also awareness on campus." parking spots need to be, the been brought. and on "Life Goes On" Harris began the lecture height of wheelchair inclines, "When a person brings a Campus" with a discussion of how where Braille should be," complaint about an institu• 
M O n d a y star to speak 
America in general tends to Harris said. "But it's really tion, the institution doesn't afternoon in al ND deal with people with disabil­not a building code. It's civil have a long time horizon to Stapleton ities. rights legislation." address the problem," Harris
page4

Lounge. "I don't know of any coun­The ADA is a companion to said. "If a complaint is never 
Harris, try that is as giving and help­the 1964 Civil Rights Act, brought, then an institution director of the Disabled ful towards people with dis­which confronted the issue of can remain inaccessible for Student Development Office abilities," Harris said. "But race. and the 1972 Title IX ever. I would hope that they at Ball State University, has at the same time, the unem­which dealt with gender. wouldn't, but they could." conducted hundreds of pre­ployment rate for Americans "ADA is an equal opportu­One of the institutions that sentations regarding disabili­with disabilities has been nity act," Harris said. "It pro­is challenged on a regular ty issues on college campus­hovering at the 67 percent hibits discrimination on the basis is higher education. For es throughout the United mark for years." basis of disability. but doe.s States. Specifically, the rate of not grant jobs, good grades see DISABILilY/page 4 


HTTP://OBSERVER.ND. DU 
BOG makes 
donation to new center 
By SHEILA EGTS 
News Writer 
The largest chunk of the Board of Governance budget surplus will be used to donate $12,000 to the construction of the new stu­dent center. the second phase of the Master Plan, the Board announced at its Feb. 11 meet­ing. Executive treasurer Kim Jensen said this is the largest check that BOG has written this school year. 
The large amount of the dona­tion. however. will not limit BOG's ability to provide funds to other purposes. According to Jensen, the $12,000 donation was taken directly from excess on last year's budget. All Saint Mary's students pay a fee includ­ed with tuition that is deposited directly to the operating costs of student government. 
"This is the students' money and we are giving it back to the students," said Jensen. "The amount of the donation is so large because it is going towards something the entire campus can enjoy instead of just a select few students." 
As a voice for the student body, BOG officials wanted the dona­tion to send a message to the administration and the larger population that students are behind the new student center. 
Vice president for finance and administration Keith Dennis reported that the $18.5 million expense for the student center is currently funded at about 70 percent. 
President Marilou Eldred was on the road throughout last week talking to a sizable list of poten­tial donors about finalizing dona­tions, according to Dennis. 
BOG hopes that their donation will help Eldred recruit that funding from outside donors. 
"This should be a symbol to the 

people who have the ability lo 
donate larger amounts that the project is really supported by the students and we need their sup­port as well," said BOG -vice pres­ident Kristen Matha. 
While the fundraising contin­ues, a proposal will be presented to the Board of Trustees finance committee on Thursday to issue College bonds to cover the remaining costs. 
According to Dennis, the bonds are necessary because they will be paid back with donations, but the pledges don't usually come in at the same rate as the construc­tion costs go out. 
The recommendation will be 

presented  for  approval  and  
reviewed  by  the  Board  of  
see BOG/page 4  

page2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
The topic at hand 
The Observer Viewpoint is a sounding board for groups and individuals with opposing. irreconcil­able differences. and one opinionated letter can provoke passionate objections, as in the recent case of"The Vagina Monologues." Like the issues 
of abortion, the death penalty  
and parietals, no single bril­ Colleen Barrett  
liant letter will change a  
resolved mind; it will simply generate a brilliant retort. Regardless of how convinc­ Account Executive  
ing or zealous the letter, yet  

another person will write in opposing the opppos­er. 
And so the argument over the morality of'The Vagina Monologues" may seem tedious and rather futile. 
But the argument is, for me, precisely the most important part of this monologue. Even as a self­proclaimed liberated woman with high aspira­tions and no regard for glass ceilings, I do find some of the subject matter of the "Monologues" rather crude and discomforting. I can only imag­ine what a conservative male student must feel. 
Though some of the material might be objec­tionable, the play was written by women for women in order to further confidence and under­standing, not to provide water-cooler jokes. Those who attend the "Monologues" for the liber­ation, the thought-provoking dialogue, and the eye-opening material will treat it with the respect it deserves -with the respect that women deserve. 
Those who go for the entertainment and con­troversy will certainly find all of the degradation and indignity that has caused so much dissension. And this is one of the major successes of the "Monologues." People are talking. Men and women alike are engaging in conversation that has been long overdue. 
Very few people have written The Observer complaining about the tactful and polite Sex Education Videos presented to children in the sixth grade, and I have rarely heard any thought­ful, progressive dialogue about the moral implica­tions oflearning where a woman's ovaries are located. The videos were created to serve the purpose of education, and they do so effectively. 
The objectionable language and material ofthe "Monologues" is necessary to stimulate conversa­tion. It was created for that purpose and by the responses it has generated, it has obviously done so successfully. 
Look back at every letter written to The Observer about the "Monologues." Both sides are present valid arguments, and yet still adamantly disagree. Why? 
Because women deserve dignity and respect; because women need confidence and pride in their sexuality; because the woman's body is scared and should be treated with reverence; and because women need to learn to love their bodies without shame. Is any of this false? Are any of these arguments wrong? 
The play itself may be objectionable, but the arguments that it brings up on either side ofthe issue all serve to promote and celebrate females as beautiful and strong. So, if you think the play is empowering, go see it. If you think it is repre­hensible, don't. 
But keep talking about it. Remember that the topic is the value and contribution of women in today's society. Women will continue to realize and exceed their potential. 
Contact Colleen Barrett at cbarrett@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itself a. a professional publiouion and strives for the highesl standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwc have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday "'"''P' duiing cnm .nd YaO.don period,. The Obsemer is 2 mcmh<,r of the Associated Prus. All «production right1 arc r«ervcd. 

By law. male citizens of the Republic of Korea are required to serve in the army for 26 months. Like many other countries, Korea requires a specified 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather • forecast for daytime conditions and hi 
KENT STATE UNIVERSITY 
Hacker accesses student numbers 
KENT, Ohio 

Using a fairly simple computer program, a University of Akron student has accessed student and employee Social Security numbers, e-mail addresses and first and last names. The accounting student used the program he wrote himself after he found a glitch in the Kent State University Web site. He said individuals with a background similar to his could have done the same thing. University officials are working to correct the problem. Roger, the stu­dent, asked his last name not be used for fear of prosecution. He was using the program and univer­sity Web site to e-mail about his business. He said he sent 37,000 messages to Kent State students and employees after logging in with one of the Social Security numbers he obtained. Most of the people Roger found information about did not know he had obtained it. 
Daily Kent Stater 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
"After the all-hall meeting on  "We didn't play well at all.  "We were all pumped up  
Sunday, we knew it was an  No one really stepped it up  because the Northwestern  
inside job. The fact that  for our team. Anne (Blair)  coach was saying some  
everyone knew it was  had a really good game at  things we didn't appreciate  
missing motivated someone  the end but itjust wasn't  so we were all gung-ho for  
to return some ofthe money."  enough to get us going. "  the match."  
Father John Herman  Katie Miller  Kerry Walton  
O'Neill Hall rector  Saint Maiy's guard  sophomore epeeist  
on the Belles' loss to Adrian  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 
International Yale students return home for service 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
"When I come back, all of my class­
"If you don't go to the army in mates will be gone. It will be hard Korea, you're considered a traitor," making friends." PH-Woon Oh said. Oh, on the other hand, who has




'il<I 

period of military service from its citi­have supposedly decreased over the zens. As the number of international years. they're still there," he said. 
r-.i 

students at Yale rises, more and more Tomer Posner already has served Yalies must decide whether or not Korean citizen, Chay must serve for his required tour of three years in the they will return home to fulfill their two years and two months before he Israeli military, working in technolo­military obligations. For many stu­turns 24. gy. research and development. While dents, a decision to return to serve Most of his friends back in Korea acknowledging some people were means interrupting their Yale careers. already have joined the army. For forced into jobs that were "not so 
This is the case for Yoon Chay who Chay, one difficulty with leaving mid­pleasing," his experience was very also was born in the Republic of way through his college career is by positive. Korea. Although he is fairly certain he the time he returns to Yale, most of For Posner. whose entire family will serve before he graduates, he still his friends will have graduated. lives in Israel, avoiding military ser­does not know exactly when he will 'Tm already one or two years older vice was never an option. return home. If he wants to remain a than most of the kids," Chay said. The Yale Herald 


............................... 
COI..D WARM SiATIONARY 


High Low Showere Ratn T-elOrma Flum.. Snow le• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cf.oudy 
Baltimore 58 38 Memphis 55 36 Sacramento 53 35 
Boston 46 34 Milwaukee 35 25 St. Louis 43 29
q_~_~A,~Q (f ~u 
Chicago 39 25 NewYor1< 51 35 Tampa 80 (j' 
Shower., T-storrns Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 72 46 Philadelphia 56 39 WaSh1ngton. DC 62 4l
v .. Auoc1-r-o,,,,,,,;c.1vor 
decided to serve after graduation, is wary of the harsh demands placed on soldiers in the Korean army. 
"Although beatings and violence 

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Schools face enrollment cuts 
MADISON, Wis. 

The University of Wisconsin-La Crosse and Green Bay are being forced to cut enrollment due to reduced budgets. Most schools in the UW System, including UW-Madison, are allowed modest annual increases in enrollment under the Board of Regents' enrollment management plan. The regents plan an increase of 5,300 full-time students by 2006 for all the UW schools combined. UW has been allocated a 400-student enrollment increase for next year, but the largest increase will take place at UW­Milwaukee, with a projected gain of 2,554 students. The board's enrollment management plan, referred to as EM-21, is an effort officials say will ensure each student receives an adequate education with the funds available for each school. The regents now must consider how to compensate for Gov. Scott McCallum's proposed UW System budget reduction of $51 million. 
Badger Herald 

Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Lesbian minister promotes diversity, spirituality 
By ALLISON ROCHE 
News Writer 
Higher education is at its best when it is unruly, according to Rev. Jennifer Walters whose keynote address kicked off Sisterhood Week at Saint Mary's Monday. Her address explored how truth and wholeness are found amid unruli­ness and diversity. 
The goal of Sisterhood Week is io make the Saint Mary's community more inclusive, regardless of differ­ences. 
"It is a week intended to provide information,.history and entertain­ment around lesbian, bisexuals and straight women in the commw,ity," said Astrid Henry, professor in the English and women's studies department,;;. 
As dean of religious life at Smith College, Walters had a unique per­spective to share on the week's theme, "Sisterhood Beyond Boundaries: Lesbian, Bisexual and Straight Women in Community." 
Walters is an Episcopalian minis­ter who also came out of the closet 22 years ago. She spoke very posi­tively of the dignity provided by women's educational institutions. 
"Women can affirm one anotl1er in ways that cannot happen in other environments," Walters said. 
Walters emphasized solidarity among women, regardless of boundaries based on race or sexual­ity. She said that diversity functions to make people feel whole. Her experience at a secular institution like Smith College has shown her the problems of not addressing the spiritual side of sexuality. 
"Avoiding looking at spirituality silences wholeness," Walters said. 

Walters pointed out that whether at Smith College or Saint Mary's, ignoring spirituality is especially devastating for lesbian and bisexual women given the shame that often accompanies their coming out. 
"At a secular college and at a reli­giorn, college, you end ~ith the same result; women who think that God doesn't love them," Walters said. 
Finally, Walters suggested that the final solution for college cam­puses is to take risks. Faculty and students need to risk entering into conversations about religion and sexuality to get over differences and "move on." 
The questions and discussions raised by faculty members and stu­dent,; in the audience after Walters' address focused on the conflict between administration and stu­dents over "The Vagina Monologues" being barred from campus. 
Sisterhood Weck continues with tonight's showing of "If These Wails Could Talk, 2," a film depicting the lives of three lesbian women from different eras, at 7:30 p.m. in Madaleva. 
"The Celluloid Closet." a docu­mentary about Hollywood's depic­tion of gays, lesbians and bisexuals, will be shown on Wednesday at 
7:30 p.m. in Moreau. 
The week will conclude on Sunday at 4 p.m. in Moreau with a panel composed of five alumnae, representing different eras, who will share their experiences with sexual­ity at Saint Mary's and beyond. 
Contact Allison Roche at roch0594@saintmarys.edu 
LIZ GAYDOS/The Observer 


For more information: http:llwww.nd.edu/~stdntaff/christmasapril.html 
Tuesday, February 19, 2002
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Disability 
continued from page I 
example, most colleges and universities encourage both genders and every race to study in whatever major they choose. Females are now 
-encouraged to study technolo­gy, science and other subjects that were not open to them years ago. However, that is not always the case with "Disability Humor -An Important Bridge," aimed more towards students. The presentation was meant to explore the use and misuse of humor relative to disability. Harris used jokes. cartoons and other visual aids to instruct students about atti­tudes towards disabled stu­dents and the possibility of using humor to overcome the discomfort gap. 
Rather than hold its weekly 
meeting, 
BOG was in 
people with attendance
"There are lots ofobsta­
disabilities. at the talk
cles that do not apply to
"There are in order to lots of obsta­gender r race that still show its 
cles that do exist with people who support for 
not apply to Student
have disabilities." 
gender or Diversity race that still Board and learn more
exist with Richard Harris people who director of the Disabled about the have disabili­Student Development Office issue. ties," Harris at Ball State University "[ think 
said. 
Harris said that when addressing students with dis­abilities, people should put the template of race or gender over the issue and then decide. For example, when trying to decide if a disabled student should study abroad, think of it in terms of if a women or a Native American should be granted that right, then decide. Harris thinks that chances are, our decision would be altered. In an acade­mic setting, Harris suggests following a simple phrase. 
"What you do for or offer any of your students. you must do for or offer disabled students," Harris said. 
Harris also gave a talk on Monday night called 
i t s 
absolutely 
important to be supportive of Disability Awareness week." said Michelle Nagle. student body president. "As student leaders it's so important to support endeavors like that. We all need to learn more about the topic." 
The event was sponsored by the Justice Education Department, Student Diversity Board and the Logan Center. ND/SMC Disability Awareness Week continues today with the student led discussion "Disabilities at ND" at 8 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center. 
Contact Katie Rand at Rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 

MPAACT performs 01onologues 
. Production by Afrikan group deals with social issues 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
A troupe of actors per­formed a series of mono­logues at Saint Mary's Monday highlighting the black experience of women and childbirth, men, family relationships and race rela­tions. 
The Ma'at Production Association of Afrikan Contered Theatre 

told about
"ft comes from the
pulled the her feel­

monologues mouths ofpeople who ings after from "The 
come from the world that her hus­
A l i b i 
Transcripts" we all live in. " a book of original pro­
Reginald Lawrence 
ductions that 
executive director of MPAACT
the group has put on during the last 10 years. 
"It comes from the mouths of people who come from the world that we all live in," Reginald Lawrence, execu­tive director. said. 
MPAACT was formed in 1990 by a group of students from the University of Illinois -Urbana/Champaign, who bonded together to share their knowledge of African and African-American cul­ture. 
The first four excerpts came from "Women, God and Baby Making." The four monologues dealt with the pain of childbirth, finding comfort in God during preg­nancy, the dehumanizing aspects of modern medicine and a view of God as a pimp who offers gifts and then takes them away. 

One of the monologues from a man's point of view dealt with his experiences as a slave in Kentucky while two others detailed experiences with war. 
The monologues about fam­ily explained several different issues. 
0 n e 
woman 
How does a 

band left her and t h e i r daughter. 
"I never thought I was a stu­p d woman. 
stupid woman 
keep from raising a daughter as stupid as herself," Sharlet Webb said. 
Then the monologue told of a son whose mother has died and must now deal with his father and the realization of his own sexuality as a homo­sexual. 
The final section of the per­formance discussed the rela­tionships between whites and blacks. 
The first excerpt was from a male slave's perspective and how he learned to deal with white men. 
"[ learned early to tickle a white man. You're supposed to keep him laughing. all the while you'll be laughing at him," Terry Cullers said. 
Another excerpt dealt with a woman who grew up telling her father about all the white girls from school who she thought of as her friends. He told her that they weren't her friends. 
Today she has lost all con­tact with her supposed friends. 
Another excerpt dealt with a man who found himself crossing the street when he saw white people ahead of him and doing other little deeds to preserve the con­scious of white people. As a large black man following behind whites and intimidat­ing them. he became con­cerned with their psychology so he would cross the street to give them comfort. 
Fusing a mix of writers, actors, directors and musi­cians into a theater is how MPMCT performs its unique blend. Performing pieces that tackle the issues of race, gen­der, economic standing and religion the company offers an examination of society. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 



'Life Goes On' star to speak at ND 
Special to The Ob.server 
Actor Chris Burke. formerly of the television series "Life Goes On," will deliver an inspirational keynote address on the potential of people with disabilities Thursday at 
7:30 p.m. in Notre Dame's 
Stepan Center. The talk is free and open to 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
Trustees on Friday. 
"The [BOG] donation will clearly be a strong signal to the trustees that the project is supported by the students," said Dennis who anticipates approval from the trustees. "It will let them know that the student center should be on the top of the priority list." 
If approved, the construc­tion of a new dining hall is scheduled to begin in April and continue for 14 months. The construction of the stu• dent center is projected ten­tatively to begin in July, 2003. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 
Reeyele Tl1e Obse1·ver. 

the public. 
The talk is the highlight of Disability Awareness Week at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Burke is best known for his role as Corky on "Life Goes On." 
Burke, who has Down Syndrome, also has made numerous appearances in 
television movies, series and public service announce­ments. 
A spokesperson and advo­cate for people with Down Syndrome, he also started a musical trio in 1994, which has released three albums and appeared on top televi­sion programs and at music festivals. 


Tuesday, February 19, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Queen visits Jamaica: Queen Elizabeth II arrived Monday on a visit to Jamaica, where she remains ceremonial monarch but citizens are increasingly questioning their centuries-old ties to the crown. She was met on a red carpet at Kingston's international airport by Prime Minister P.J. Patterson and Gov. Gen. Howard Cooke. 
Militants march in Zimbabwe: 
Thousands of ruling party militants marched through Zimbabwe's capital and hurled stones at the opposition headquarters on !vlonday as the European Union voted to impose sanctions on the violence-wracked African nation. An opposition-aligned group accused police of beating several of its mem­bers in a separate incident ahead of presiden­tial elections next month. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. pays $80 million to Pakistan: 
The United States paid Pakistan $80 million for providing logistical support to its forces in the war against terrorism, Finance Ministry officials said Monday. Finance Secretary Yunous Khan told The Associated Press that the $80 million already received are for use of airports, power supply, water and other resources in support of military operations in Afghanistan. 
Dolls getting more racially diverse: 
Toy makers are taking note with new doll lines that are more diverse than ever, includ­ing the first multiracial Barbie, which was on display last week at the American International Toy Fair in New York. Some dolls of different races and ethnicities, includ­ing black Barbie, have been around for years. But industry experts say an increased demand and awareness of other cultures has spawned a new wave of diverse dolls. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
13 arrested in marijuana ring: A local drug task force on Sunday arrested 13 people and seized vehicles, homes and other property in an investigation into a marijuana­distribution ring. Officers from Peru, Miami County and the state police seized three homes. 10 vehicles, one snowmobile, comput­er equipment and firearms, along with thou­sands of dollars in cash and four pounds of marijuana. Indiana Department of Revenue officials will be called in to review whether some of those arrested should face tax-eva­sion charges. 
The market was closed Monday due to President's Day. 
ISRAEL 

Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Exuding confidence that he will return to power. former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Monday that Israel must remove Yasser Arafat and destroy the Palestinian Authority -perhaps via military assault -before peace talks can resume. 
In an interview with The Associated Press, Netanyahu said he has no qualms about challenging Ariel Sharon, a sitting prime minister from his own Likud Party, and that he was gratified by polls showing Israelis -who sent him packing in a 1999 election -now give him widespread support. 
Netanyahu, 52, has been speaking throughout the United States and Israel, and has criticized Sharon for stopping short of what Netanyahu believes is the only way to end terror attacks against Israelis ­the removal of Arafat. 
"The goal is to defeat the te:rror regime, to effectively bring it down," he said at his well­appointed office in a mod­ern high-tech complex in Jerusalem. "And that goal is easily attainable." 
Netanyahu said he wasn't suggesting Israel 

physically harm Arafat. But instead of restricting Arafat to his compound in the West Bank town of Ramallah as Sharon has 
. done, the Palestinian leader should be allowed to leave -but not to return. 
"He keeps wanting to go abroad -I think we should not hinder him from doing so," Netanyahu said. "I would very much like to see him have a happy retirement with his friends from Tripoli ... with his friends from Baghdad." 
Israel also should elimi­nate the terrorist infra­structure that has been established in the West Bank and Gaza, which would be "a very simple thing to do, not very com­plicated and not very cost• ly," Netanyahu said. 
He was evasive about the exact steps he would take, but hinted strongly at a large-scale military operation: "Israel has not used a fraction of a frac• tion of the means that it has available, as you can imagine." 
Netanyahu said deter• rence would no longer work with the Palestinian leadership, because "at this point Arafat is already in 'Never-Never­Land."' 

Feds take over airport security 
tests Monday. was forced to return after it was dis­
Associated Press 
At Los Angeles International covered that one passenger had not 
CHANTILLY, Va. Airport, an inactive Army National been properly screened, FAA 
Airline passengers had their air­Guardsman tried to pass an nonfunc­spokesman Laura Brown said in port routines sharply altered after tioning military explosive through Washington. A concourse was evacu­the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and airport security and was arrested. A ated and passengers were screened now the way they're protected has screener became concerned after again after the flight returned. changed as well. noticing the device, which resembled Passengers at Washington Dulles 
The new Transportation Security an M-80 firecracker, said Sgt. Greg International Airport were pleased Administration took ov.er responsibil­Glodery of the Los Angeles Police with the changes, even if security is ity for airline security Sunday. the Department. A Federal Aviation tougher. first step toward a system where bet­Administration official said the Tanie Guy, an Oracle Corp. ter-trained, higher-paid federal device was found in the man's carry­employee, now arrives two hours employees screen passengers and on luggage. early at the airport. "They're a bit luggage. At New York's La Guardia Airport, stricter, to say the least," he said 
The new system received two early a flight that had left for Cleveland before going through security. 
page 6 
The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
Tape shows firefighter's courage 
Associ .. ted Press 
NEW YORK 

The firefighters' movements are calm as they arrive at the burning north tower of the World Trade Center. Their eyes grow wide as the magni­tude of their mission becomes clear. Then come the thumps -one after another -and a voice saying that people are jumping. 
The horrific noises continue as the videotape shot by two French filmmakers keeps 
rolling: A drone followed by a sudden bang accompanies 
"When I sat down to
the image of a second watch this video, I was plane slam­
very apprehensive. But 
ming into the 
when I was finished 
south tower 
and later, a watching it, the 
white noise overwhelming emotion I builds to a 
had was pride.,,
crescendo as that tower collapses John Vigiano and people 
retired firefighter 
run for 
cover. 
The tape by brothers Gedeon and Jules Naudet is an extraor­dinary account of courage and dread, of composure under pressure and of the cata­clysmic moments that, for many of the men captured on it, were their last. 
It has made the rounds of New York firehouses since Sept. 11 and was recently reviewed by The Associated Press. CBS plans to air footage on March 10 to commemorate the six-month anniversary of the attacks. 
"When I sat down to watch this video, I was very appre­hensive," said John Vigiano, a retired firefighter whose sons, firefighter John and police Dct. 
the attacks began. 
The opening shot has been seen by millions. The camera, taping firefighters checking a gas leak in lower Manhattan, pans up and captures the first plane slamming into the north tower. 
Most of the footage was shot by Jules, who accompanied firefighters to the north tower where they set up their first command center. 
What happens over the next two hours has not been seen by the public. 
As Jules and firefighters race to the scene, someone asks, "What kind of plane was that?" Joe Pfeifer, chief of Battalion 1, answers: "That looked like American Airlines. That looked 
like a direct attack." 
Top fire officials gather to 
coordinate their strategy in the 
lobby as the tower's occupants, 
seen as silhouettes on 'the mez­
zanine level above, stream out 
of the building. Pfeifer tells a 
firefighter: "Don't go any high­
er than 70." 
Members of Rescue 1, a spe­
cialty rescue unit, can be seen 
heading toward the stairwells 
to walk up the tower as thou­
sands of people head down. No 
one from that unit made it out 
alive that dav. 
Then the south tower is hit. 
Startled, firefighters rush to 
the windows to look outside. 
More debris falls. "Mayday! 
Mayday!'' blares o•ver the 
radios. The thumps continue 
and sirens wail. 
Fire Chaplain Rev. Mychal Judge, dressed in full firefight­ing gear with his white collar peeking out, paces the floor. Firefighters watch him, as if seeking reassurance. Judge would be dead within the hour. 

The call comes over the radio: "Everybody come out now. All units in Tower 1 (the north tower), get out now." 
Pfeifer struggles with his radio, trying to get a clear sig­nal. Radio problems plagu·ed the department that day, fire­fighters later reported. 
A Port Authority officer fran­tically presses buttons on the elevator switchboard. "Is any­one in the car?" he asks over and over. · 
And then it happens. 

With a roaring "ssshhh," the south tower collapses. Everyone in the north tower runs for cover and the tape goes blank. When it comes back on, the lens is covered in ash and it is dark everywhere. 
Pfeifer lived, but 21 of his men died that day. 
SPAIN School attempts to ban Muslim scarf 
Joseph, died in the attacks. "But when I was finished watching it, the over~helming emotion I had was pride." 
The fire department is using the tape as an investigative tool, but it also contains histor­ical significance and great per­sonal meaning, spokesman Francis Gribbon said. Rights to the tape belong to the Naudets, who have worked closely with the department on its use. 
"They've been very sensitive to the families and the fact that they've had this footage of a significant number of people 

who per­ished that d a y , " Gribbon said. 
The broth­ers were shooting a documen­tary about the life of a probationary firefighter, as they had been doing for many weeks, when 
. Scarf has stirred nationwide debate 
Associated Press 

SAN LORENZO 
DE EL ESCOHIAL 
Fatima Elidrisi, a 13-year-old 
Moroccan girl who insists on 
wearing a Muslim headscarf to 
school, arrived for classes 
Monday to the clicking of cam­
eras, applause from her new 
classmates and the watchful 
gaze of Civil Guards officers. 

The girl's traditional hijab scarf has stirred a nationwide debate in this predominantly Roman Catholic country. 
Accompanied by her father, Ali El Hadi, 35, and represen­tatives of immigrant support groups, Fatima was greeted by Delia Duro, director of the Juan de Herrera School. 
Fatima's father covered her face in an attempt to hide her from photographers among some 50 journalists who showed up at the school in this ancient town, about 25 miles northwest of Madrid. 
Controversy over Fatima began last week when the director of Juan de Herrera, a secular public school, said she would not be allowed to wear the hijab, a traditional head­scarf worn by many Muslim 
women in public. The school 
was overruled Saturday by the 
Madrid regional government, 
which said the obligation to 
give her an education took 
precedence over the issue of 
the scarf. 
Fatima was accepted at Juan 
de Herrera after a semiprivate 
Roman Catholic school she first 
had been assigned to insisted 
she wear a uniform and 
remove the hijab. 
The issue has received front­page coverage in Spanish newspapers and generated hours of debate on radio and television. 
Initially Duro, the school director, said the hijab was a symbol of discrimination against women that could not be accepted in a secular edu­cational system. The country's education and ministers agreed. 
Those who came to the girl's defense said the issue of her hijab demonstrated Spanish intolerance and ignorance of other cultures. They pointed out that the hijab was already accepted without problems in many schools in Spain. 
The Madrid regional govern­ment called for a common­sense approach and said it would consider drawing up legislation to avoid future such cases. 

The University of Nvtre Dame Depanm•nt of Music Presents 
THE WESTERN WIND OUINTET 
WESTERN MICHK;AN-;.iNIVERSITY 

Wednesday, Febru•ry 20,2002 Performing Woodwind 
8:00 pm,. Ann•nberg Auditorium Chamber Music of Latin~ American Composers 
Notre Dame Film. Television, and Theatre presents 
Aetors f1ro111 ThP lln1don SlagP Macbeth 
Wednesday, February 20 ............. 7 :30 p.m. Thursday, February 21 ................. 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 22 ...................... 7:.30 p.m. Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28. 
,-----------------------------------~---------­
Tuesday, February 19, 2001 The Observer . HEALTH NEWS page 7 
Doctors research bypass surgery 
Associated Pres< 
DALLAS 

Women under age 50 are three times more likely than men to die after undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery, new research sug­gests. 
A study led by Dr. Viola Vaccarino of Emory University in Atlanta examined 57,187 patients, 30 percent of them women, who had bypass surgery at 23 medical centers across the country between October 1993 and December 1999. 
Among patients ages 50-59, 
2.6 percent of women died, 
compared with 1.1 percent of men. Among patients 80 and older, 9 percent of women died compared with 8.3 percent of men. 
The study found that the dif­ference decreases with advanc­ing age. 
"It's a puzzling result," Vaccarino said. "We're not able to explain the difference based on our data. It could be a factor we didn't know about or test for." 
Overall, 5.3 percent of the women died in the hospital. compared with 2.9 percent of the men. Of the women younger than 50, 3.4 percent died, compared with 1.1 per­cent of men. 
Vaccarino theorized that women tend to have more pre­existing illnesses, including stroke and heart failure, and are usually referred for surgery when their heart disease is more severe. 
Because women have smaller arteries than men. she said. bypass surgery is more difficult to perform and, therefore, more stressful on women. 
"It's probably a combination of those factors," she said of the findings, published in Tuesday's issue of the journal Circulation. "Whatever the case, though, younger women usually have a worse outcome." 
-~!~t),~.:: ·:::•·;·~-;.~; ~ .
_w_;;_;..~-~i7;·}·~~:.:1..·., ,~. .... "i.
?f!!!f~?---:,;--; ;,;:;.; -. ,• 
t--'!ai.~' ~.,·•.. ..~~~'-t...t~ef;.::,:."':...· ~ 
"~':.'.~_?7~: ­
-~:J..I:·~--..~ ... 
·-: 
? 

_,, ,• 
... , ~-{:'r·>.'~ 
,_· ~--~~~~~­
" ; .: ::·i~,. 
·. ·' :, 1_ 
,, ,,, .,. . :,.,.~ '.' ..... ~ ,.• . 
~etirement plan, a good one, should be designed by clearly defining your goals and by carefully checking your calendar. The investments you make 20 years from retirement may be very different from the ones you'd make 10, 5, or even 2 years away. No matter what your retirement date, our Retirement Specialists can help. Our 
goal is to keep your assets working long after you've stopped. 
Come join us on February 27, March 12 and April 9, from 8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. for one-on-one counseling. 


Call Vanguard at 1-800-662-0106, ext. 69000 to schedule. THEVanguard::iRour. 
www.vanguard.com 

© 2002 The Vanguard Group, Inc. All rights reserved. Vanguard Marketing Corporation, Distributor. 

Study: Fewer Inedical tests lllay be fine 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
It seems almost every week brings a new headline: Get dia­betes tests at younger ages. Seek annual thyroid exams. Get screened for prostate cancer. Oh, and don't forget to check for kidney disease. 
Specialty medical groups and patient advocates are urging more and more seemingly healthy Americans to get screened for early signs of numerous diseases. After all. spot an illness early and often you can fight it better. 
But how much testing does the average symptom-free person really need? 
Not all that much, is the sur­prising answer from the expert panel that sets the nation's pri­mary care standards. 
Even that traditional checkup where "all of us go in and just get checked from soup to nuts" isn't needed every year for many people, says Janet Allan, co­chair of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. 
And several often-recommend­ed tests, such as prostate cancer screening or bone-density tests, actually are controversial because of mixed studies about their benefit. In fact, studies by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention cite only a hand­ful of screenings -for breast, cervical and colorectal cancers, high blood pressure and high cholesterol -considered most essential. 
Testing isn't always the best preventive care, adds Allan, dean of nursing at the University of Texas, San Antonio. The coun­seling that busy health workers often forget or bypass is crucial. 
For example, most of Americans' leading diseases are related to smoking, poor diet, lit­tle exercise and risky sexual practices. Yet a recent analysis by Georgetown University's Center on an Aging Society found only about half of adults even were asked about such risk factors during their last doctor's exam. 
Customizing preventive care to adjust for risks that patients can change -and those they can't, like a family history of disease ­is slowly overtaking the more typical mass appeals to screen millions for everything. That means consumers must have a regular doctor who knows their health history intimately -a "medical home" -to ensure they get the right tests at the right time, says Or. Edward Hill, a Tupelo, Miss., family physician and chair-elect of the American Medical Association's board. 

But is there a checklist to ensure consumers get the most essential tests? Allan's task force is an independent panel charged by the government to come up with such a master list. It now is reevaluating the latest research for a six-month rollout of updat· ed advice. 
Herc's the checklist so far for 

people at average risk of disease: 
. Cholesterol testing: every five years starting at age 35 for men and age 45 for women, to check total cholesterol and the "good" HDL type and "bad" LDL type, but not triglycerides. . 
Anyone at high risk of heart disease -a smoker, a diabetic, someone whose parent died of heart disease before age 50 or who has high blood pressure ­needs cholesterol testing starting at age 20, Allan cautions. 
. 
Regular checks of blood pres­sure, whether by a doctor or more accessible spots like drug­stores, and oral health. 

. 
To detect colorectal cancer, an annual fecal occult blood test for men and women starting at age 


50. Also, they need a more inva­sive exam -a sigmoidscopy or colonoscopy -once or twice a decade. 
. 
For women, a Pap smear to check for cervical cancer every one to three years. Also, a mam­mogram every year or two start­ing at age 50. But mammogra­phy has suddenly become embroiled in debate -some sci­entists challenge its effectiveness while others urge earlier testing -so the panel i5 reexamining it. 

. 
Young women who have had more than one sexual partner need testing for chlamydia. 



Tuesday, February 19, 2002 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

How do you choose an employer in today's economy? Do you seek an organization who has been successful for nearly a century? A culture that promotes learning and a "think straight, talk straight" philosophy" Or, do you want to be part of an organization that's committed to creating tangible, positive results for clients" 
If you've replied "yes" to all of the above, then Andersen may be right for you. 
For more information, contact your Andersen Recruiting Team for University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College at chi-campus.recruiting@us.andersen.com 
-

www.andersen.com/careers ANDERSEN 
@2002 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity e!Tlployer. 

=Ti=u=es=d=ay='=F=eb=r=ua=ry==l=9=,2=0=0=2==============================Th=e=O=b=s=erv=e=r=.=N=E=W,=S===============================_=_=_==·=~=-====~P-~•g~•~~-~ 
ITALY 
Tunisian terror suspect trial begins 
Associated Press 
MILAN 

Three Tunisians accused of cooperating with Osama bin Laden's terrorist network went on trial Monday in a heavily guarded courtroom on charges they supplied false documents and belonged to a criminal group that tried to traffic in arms and explosives. 
Prosecutor Stefano Dambruoso, who is leading Italy's investigation into Islamic terrorism in northern Italy, told the court he wants to prove the men were part of an international ring that "referred directly to al-Qaida." 
The Tunisians were detained during a major probe into suspected Islamic terror­ist cells last year. They are charged with criminal associa­tion with the intent to obtain and transport arms. explo­sives and chemicals and with supplying false documents. 
Defense lawyers argued that the defendants -Riadh Jelassi. Mehdi Kammoun and Adel Ben Soltane -may have committed some illegal acts, such as the use of counterfeit documents. but not terrorist crimes. 
"They are small fishes," said lawyer Gianluca Maris. "Investigators were seeking terrorists with arms and bombs. They found a modest amount of counterfeit docu­ments." 
Judge Ambrogio Moccia rejected a defense request to have the trial moved out of Milan, where Italian investiga­tors say a cell linked to al­Qaida operated. The defense says the men were arrested in a town outside Milan, not the city itself. barred cage. He waved to the 
Dambruoso asked permis­other defendants, who were sion to call witnesses from a handcuffed as they were long list that included escorted to benches, a handful German, Spanish, French and of prison guards hovering with 
Belgian  pistols  as  they  
investi­ sat down. Three  
gators w h o coordi­nated a  "Investigators were seeking terrorists with arms and bombs. They  paramilitary police guarded the entrance, and in an  
crack­down on suspect­ed al­ found a modest amount ofcounterfeit documents."  unusual sign of tight security, a plainclothes policeman stood  
Q aid a  behind  
support­ers in Europe  Glanluca Marls defense lawyer  Dambruoso. Dambruoso, who conducted  

before 
a n d after the Sept. 11 attacks. The judge said he would permit the testimony but that a limit­ed number of investigators could appear. 
Dambruoso also named as a possible witness Ahmed Ressam. an Algerian who was arrested in 1999 as he tried to enter the United States in a car with a trunk full of explo­sives and convicted of plan­ning to commit acts of interna­tional terrorism. U.S. investi­gators say he was trained in terrorist camps financed by bin Laden. 
Defense lawyer Antonio Nehuloni told the court he wanted to call as witnesses former Italian Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini and former U.S. Ambassador Thomas Foglietta. He said he sought Foglietta's testimony was sought because of an alleged terrorist plot against the U.S. Embassy in Rome in January 2001. 
In the courtroom, Kammoun was locked inside an iron-
the pretrial 

probe and asked for the indictments, has said the defendants were not directly connected to the Sept. 11 attacks but are believed linked to al-Qaida. 
Four other men arrested as part of the same probe went on trial earlier this month in Milan on similar charges. One of them is Essid Sarni Ben Khemais, a Tunisian man Italian police believe was sent from Afghanistan to supervise bin Laden's terrorist opera­tions in Europe. 
Dambruoso described Ben Khemais on Monday as the "major defendant" in Milan. Italian investigators suspect he was supervising the planned attack on the U.S. Embassy, but he has not been charged with that. 
Defense lawyers for Ben Khemais and his three co­defendants sought and received a fast-track trial that would allow for a reduced sentence if they are convicted, with Ben Khemais facing up to six years. 
************•********~**~ **************************** 
i* • . i * 
* Interested in being a * * * 
i * • i * 
: SMC C1ass Officer in: 
$ 2002-2003? 
*
*
*t Then come to one of the 'mandatory t informational meetings held: 
*
* 
t * Monday, February 18th @ 6: 30 pm in 
: * Room 303 Haggar
* Or
*t Tuesday, February 19th @ 5 : 3 0 * Haggar Par1or
*
*
* 
t Tickets for class
*: composed President, t Treasurer and 
*
*
* 
: Only 1 person from ! required to attend
* 
elections 
f 
*
*
*
: 
t 
*
*
* 
t 
*
: 
* 
* 

Questions? Call Mary Crawford-ext. 4453 ; Sponsored by SMC Board of Governance : 
i• •i
* *
* * 
* * 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
******************************************************* 
Vice President,: Secretary. t 
*
* 

each ticket is * : tbe meetings. t
* 
pm in t 
* 
*
*
* 
are t 
* 

Prosecutor compares doctor to drug dealer 
Associated Press 
MILTON, Fla. 
A doctor on trial for the deaths of four patients who overdosed on OxyContin is no different from a drug dealer. a prosecutor said Monday in clos­ing arguments. 
Witnesses testified that crowds of patients ate lunch or worked on their cars in the parking lot of Dr. James Graves' office, giving each other high fives when they came out with prescriptions, assistant state attorney Russell Edgar said. 
"You've got 
to realize 

"You've got to realize "Word
something's 

something's wrong when spread that 
wrong when 
he was the

outside your outside your office people 
go-to doctor,"

office people are having tailgate Edgar said. 
are having 

parties." "He's no dif­
tailgate par­
ferent than a
ties," Edgar 
drug dealer."

said. Russell Edgar 
Ellis admit­
Graves, 55. 

assistant state attorney ted that
testified that he did not know his patients were abusing drugs and said no one would have died if OxyContin had been taken as prescribed. 
"OxyContin is a good drug if it is taken properly," said defense lawyer H.E. Ellis Jr. "Pharmacy companies don't spend billions of dollars developing drugs if they are going to kill people." 
But prosecutors contend Graves knew or should have known that his booming prac­tice was made up largely of drug addicts seeking prescrip­tions for OxyContin and other narcotics popular on the street. 
The six-member jury is expected to begin deliberating Tuesday. A guilty verdict would make Graves the first doctor in the nation convicted of manslaughter or murder in the deaths of patients due to OxyContin overdoses. 

Graves is charged with racke­teering. four counts of manslaughter through culpable negligence and five counts of unlawful delivery of a con­trolled substance. If convicted on all counts, Graves could face up to 30 years in state prison. 
Edgar said Graves needed money after he was forced out of the Navy and fired from jobs at a Pensacola pain clinic and a state prison. He said the money rolled in as patients. most pay­ing cash. returned repeatedly to 
feed their 
addictions. 
Graves' 
record keep­

ing was poor, but said jurors would find evi­dence of a doctor practicing medicine, not indiscriminately prescribing drugs. 
OxyContin is a 12-hour syn­thetic opiate. Addicts defeat the time delay and get a heroin-like high by chewing the pills or crushing them and then inject­ing the drug. 
Two dozen pharmacists testi­fied they stopped filling what they called "Graves cocktails" that included Lortab, another painkiller, the tranquilizer Xanax and the muscle relaxant Soma besides OxyContin. 
"Each one of these were pop­ular street drugs," Edgar told the jury. "In the case of OxyContin, one pill sold for $50. The defendant knew that." 

fW".Z-~Z:S"~.Z-.Z-.Z-ZS'ZZ~ZZZ.U-~.Z-Z~Z.Z-.Z-£J1 
&•_-._,_, ___··_OU¾···--~ The American Cancer Society •· 
~"'·~ ' 

;;i:=> >J presents our Annual j 
It I i Daffodil DaysiI:.-;;·;;;·~~~;lars, vou can purchase one bunch 11 ten daffodils. j ffl_ and for iust tour dollars more, vou can purchase aslender glass vase f I lhatisiustpertectforvourbouqueu IIDellnlerswUIbe d¦lilnlrad 111111 dorms a¦ Th ¦ISdav, Mardi 2f., I ; All proceeds from our Daffodil oavs goes to lhe American Cancer 
I

j socletv for use in cancer research, educadon. programs. and patient ~ ij services here in St Joseph Countv. I 
~ND students: Bring the sign of Spring and Iha flower of hope to vour 1
I 1
dorm room. You can use lhe ordertonn below to place an order with ~ Jessica BrookShire In 225 Grace Hall or call 1-5829for more i infonnation. ~ 
I ~ 
f StMarv's Contact: Admissions Office 122 ! 
;_• LeMans Hall 284-4581 ; 
ij

*r-----------------------,~ 1
!1 lwanttoonler_bunchesolDaffodils•~-vases. --;;-;;-~ 1! )'.Y, I Name: •· l)',1
11 -----•U
ijl Address: __.___HallNotreDame,IN,46556 l)AHifo 1; ij I MV collb1bution of$_to fight cancer is enclosed. D·,-\ ·v -~ lij IJ.. ------------... -----------~J
~"&,~~~"&,~W&,~~~~~~~"&,~"¥&~¥;&.W&"&,~~~~'°e:&~>­


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Not1< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46~56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER.  
Kerry Smith  Pat Perets  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarl,:y VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Pauick McElwce SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Arnstadter SCENE EDJTO!u C. Spencet Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze Sk'S'l"EMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 

OFHC!i MANAGf.RiGENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVF.R11SING .....................................631-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OfFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS ..........................................................631-5323 obsecver.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 obscrvet.sports. l@nd.edu S,CENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.sccne. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO ............................................... ,........631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for 11p-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and races ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and onlineby the students ofthe UniversityofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~stiom regarding Observerpolicies should b, direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMik, Cannolly. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Q'ooerve~¥'°'''bog! 

,:~· \ 
'\ ~. 

Editor's note: Because"The Vagina Monologues" contains some graphic content and offensive language, the letters dis­cussing these issues will contain such language as well. In order to foster an intelligent dialogue on this matter. this lan­guage must be included. Readers who might be offended by such language are cautioned. 
'The Vagina Monologues' debate continues 
Women imitating men is dubious 
Thanks to Molly McShane for presenting the logic of feminism in all its glory. Guys immaturely make a big deal out of their private parts, so women should too. Men are crude and obnoxious, so women should be too. 
Women imitating men is a dubious enterprise to begin with; but feminists seem not only to seek to imitate us, but imitate us at our very worst. It is as if they consider decency, class, kindness, compassion, sensitivity and dignity -those qualities that most separate women from men -to be awful shackles holding women down, keeping them from attaining true happiness. 
Once women can be vulgar, indifferent (if not even hostile) toward babies and small helpless animals, loud and boisterous. drunk and promiscuous, mean to poor people and cripples and ambitious for power -in other words, like us men -then they will be free, they seem to think. It is a strange view. 
McShane also seems to think our attitudes toward our private parts can either take the form of pride or shame. I think this is a false dichotomy. Not being ashamed of what God gave you does not have to mean doing a play about it. No one is asking you to be feel embarassed about what is between your legs; no one is asking you to tell everyone about it either. 
We should be neither proud nor ashamed of what ~ we have been given, reproductively or otherwise. Should I be proud of being tall? Should I be ashamed of being short? Should I be proud of dark hair? Should I be ashamed of being bald? Should I even be proud of doing something virtuous? No. 
Jesus tells us when we do good, we are still only unprofitable servants, doing what we ought to do anyway. Hopefully everyone can think of an alterna­tive to pride and shame when discussing themselves, or parts thereof -I think quiet is the best one. 
Pat Burke class of ·oo Feb. 18,2002 

'Monologues' promote awareness 
In response to Sean Dudley's letter on Thursday, I would first like to ask Sean if he has actual­ly seen or read "The Vagina Monologues?" Undoubtedly, the Eve Ensler production of "The Vagina Monologues" is a far cry from a masturbation camp and at no point does it promote "les­bian sexual encounters." 
Instead, "The Vagina Monologues" portrays a diversity of experiences among women, across what are often portrayed as boundaries between women (some of these boundaries being nationality, race, class, age and, yes, sexual orientation). The common denominator in all of the monologues being, of course, vaginas. 
I agree with Molly McShane's statement on Feb. 15 that "The Vagina Monologues" is about empowerment. The intent of "The Vagina Monologues" is to end the many forms of violence against women by reclaiming ownership of ourselves. The intent of "The Vagina Monologues" is not to promote any one lifestyle over another. If Sean claims that "The Vagina Monologues" promotes mastur­bation and lesbianism, then he must also claim that it encour­ages Bosnian soldiers to rape women with their riffes. Your standpoint, Sean. is unqualified and one-sided. 
The goal of "The Vagina Monologues" is to dispel the myths about women and their vaginas, which Sean so gracious­ly upheld in his letter -namely, that there is something funda­mentally offensive and graphic about women and their vaginas. 
Because various forces of women's oppression have been justified through these essential­ist standpoints, it is only logical 
for Eve Ensler to reclaim a seemingly essential characteris­tic of women, such as the vagina, as a source of empowerment. 
"The Vagina Monologues" does not desensitize, rather, it offers a sense of respect and aware­ness about the reality and diver­sity of women's experiences. It is necessary to realize that dog­matic Catholicism does not encompass the reality and totali­ty of women's experiences. And even if the group of students protesting "The Vagina Monologues" is not willing to realize the existence of life beyond Catholicism, I simply ask you to remember that Our Lady, the Blessed Virgin Mother did, in fact, have a vagina. Perhaps. Sean, you encountered the slo­gan for "The Vagina Monologues," Think Inside the Box, and applied it erroneously to function within a self-serving Catholic context. 
Kelly Komenda 
semor 
off-campus 
l'eb. 18, 2002 

TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Maureen Smithe  Sam Derheimer  
Sheila Egts  Chris Scott  
Elizabeth Lee  Graphics  
Sports  Andy Devoto  
Katie Hughes  Production  
Viewpoint  Katie McVoy  
Lori Lewalski  Lab Tech  
Amanda Greco  

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should "The Vagina Monologues" be performed at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"How glorious it is -and also how painful -to be an exception. " 
Alfred De Musset French writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 19, 2002 page 11 
I gave up tact for Lent 
So. I was sitting in CJ's Friday night, enjoying the best hamburger this side of the continental divide, and it struck me: Why would anyone pass up this glorious, seasoned, BBQ-sauce­slathered, onion-coated, mouth­
John Litle
watering, slab of beef in exchange for a square of cod 
Frankly

and potato chips? 
Obnoxious
The answer for me is simple -way back in the late first millennium, fishermen in Venice were starving, so the Mother Church, who's had an obligation to fishermen since the calling of Simon, stepped in and said, "Hey everyone, we're going to eat fish on Fridays, yeah, because, um, to make a sacrifice.'' Lots of things get justified that way in Catholicism. So it was written, so it was done. 
The fishermen were happy, so the Church was happy. The people were feeling the pride of their ascetic sacri­fice by eating fish (is it really so differ­ent from meat?) and so it passed on throughout the ages and gained some sort of dogmatic significance. 
Excellent. That's all the reason I need to be ecstatic about a Church doctrine. It really upsets me when people com­plain that you should be able to eat meat on Fridays. 
It upsets me even more when Notre Dame students complain that there is no meat in the dining halls on Friday's during Lent. 
And let me tell you why. First, there is fish, and again, if you think about it. there's not much difference between meat and fish. In fact, I propose that the fish was never consulted in the whole "meat" classification system. I contend that most fish would consider themselves meat as well. That's not the point, however. 
I can't stand all the whining that you aren't making a sacrifice if meat is not an option in the dining hall. This argu­ment is complete bunk on two counts (and a third). 
First off, here l am on a Friday, eat­ing meat at CJ's. So you can get meat on a Friday, all you have to do is the following: Forgo 40s at four, get dressed, walk a quarter-mile to D6, get your car (if you have one), drive three miles to CJ's, order, wait and pay cash for your meal. That's not much of an effort at all, so first, it is a sacrifice because of the ease at which you could obtain meat as an alternative. Quit your whining. 
The next reason this argument is bad is that as I discussed earlier, not eating meat on Friday's was never meant to be a sacrifice in the first place. It was a Church bailout of a failing fishing industry (which only happened to be owned by the Bishops themselves) in the 900s. It was the earliest form of social-welfare, so who cares whether or not it is a sacrifice. 
The last reason that sacrifice argu­ment is out the door is that Notre Dame is a Catholic school. and when you decided to come here, you decided to agree to every single Catholic thing that is present on campus. If you don't like it, you're free to leave. In fact, we don't even want you here. This place is Catholic. If the University decided to persecute Jews, turn a blind eye to mass-murder or extort money from all the students promising a false salva­tion, you have no right to complain. After all, this place is Catholic, and you knew that when you got here. 
I sometimes hear the argument that the university is ignoring the 15 per­cent minority of those on campus who are not Catholic. First, I defer to my argument that Notre Dame is a Catholic school. And secondly, let's be honest, since when has Notre Dame cared about minorities? If they can't be both­ered to care about an ethnic minority or a sexual minority, what makes any­one think they'd care about a religious minority -especially through food sales. 

The final argument people make is that it is economically feasible to pro­vide meat to students on Fridays, even if 85 percent of students didn't eat the meat. This is totally bogus as well. A simple analysis of economics shows that at somewhere near $8.80 a meal, for 14 meals a week, plus 220 flex points, (assuming the average student only uses about 10 meals a week and each flex point is worth about two and a half real dollars) that Food Services is running chronically low on money. Couple that with the recent rise in pop prices to $1.25, and you can easily visualize the economic crisis that would be caused by a single tray of sliced turkey at the sandwich station. 
ln sum, Notre Dame is fully justified in enforcing meatless Fridays, just as it is justified in enforcing opposite-sex­less dorms. Stop complaining that Notre Dame students -don't you know that you're sheep -fall in line like the rest. 
John Litle is a junior MIS major who wants to let the community in on the fact that he's being sarcastic. His col­umn appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Respect Israel's own 'war on terror' 
Eighteen months ago, the idea that the United States must distance herself politically from Israel and accommodate the Palestinians may have been a legitimate policy option. Much has changed since that time. 
In her Feb. 12 letter, "America can strongly influ­ence the Middle East," Rachel Smith attacks contro­versial Israeli counterinsurgency methods. True, Ariel Sharon has repeatedly employed overwhelming force and violated international laws. Smith is also correct in her assertion that "significant changes are called for on both sides." Israel is caught in the unfortunate position of defending her security and protecting her liberty, and has yet to find an effective method of accomplishing both goals. Despite Israel's extreme measures, however, the United States must not play into the hands of the Palestinians to the detriment of Israel. 
Smith paints a sympathetic portrait of Vasser Arafat, a man "trapped under house arrest," unable to lead his people to peace. In reality, Arafat has had numerous opportunities to implement a final peace agreement with Israel. Abandoning the talks at Camp David in the summer of 2000, he made clear to the world that his thirst for power trumps his desire for a lasting peace. 
Over the course of the past decade, Arafat seemed to accomplish the daunting task of evolving from ter­rorist to statesman. He has held audiences with for­mer President Clinton, won the Nobel Peace Prize and come within arm's length of presiding over an official Palestinian state. With this intifada, however, Arafat has reverted to his terrorist roots and called into question any legitimacy he and his Palestinian Authority have ever had. 
The overwhelming number of Palestinian casual­ties, including women and children, cannot be pinned on Israel alone. The riots held by the Palestinians are designed to draw overwhelming response from Israel and sympathy from the interna­tional community. That sympathy is wearing thin. 
The images of Palestinians championing the events of Sept. 11 were painful for most Americans to watch. The continuation of Palestinian suicide bomb­ings is an overt slap in our face. Whatever common ground we may have had with the Palestinians is slipping away. By exhibiting popular support for ter­rorism, the Palestinian community has taken one more step toward the ominous network of "evil" our president has vowed to destroy. 
What right have we now to tell Sharon to sit down with Arafat and negotiate? Arafat has played this game too many times. If he is in control of the Palestinian combatants, let him order them to lay down arms. If he is not in control, as many believe to be the case, let him tell us exactly who is. Let him prove himself a statesman. Until then, do not Jet him continue to play us for fools. 
The U.S. policy toward terror is based upon four basic tenets: Make no concessions, bring terrorists to justice, do not tolerate state-sponsorship of terror and protect our friends. In the wake of Sept. 11 we have released the wrath of the U.S. military on the Taliban and al-Qaeda and vowed to continue our campaign against terror wherever we see fit. We have been pushed to our limit. And Israel has been pushed to hers. 
She is not innocent, but her struggle for survival is not to be taken lightly. We fear another terrorist strike. Israel expects it. To paraphrase former lsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu: "There comes a time when you can no longer afford to search for the needle in the haystack. You must simply take out the haystack." 
The debate over civil liberties and national security has drawn a great deal of attention in the United States over the past several months. As yet, we have no answers. Israel's position is much more dire, and the debate more heated. It is a situation with which she constantly struggles. Sharon and his government understand there will be no real security without peace, and no peace without justice. At the same time, like the United States, Israel makes no conces­sions. We will not negotiate with terrorists. Who are we to demand from Israel that which we will not do ourselves? That would be the ultimate hypocrisy, the ultimate abuse of our moral high ground. 
Katie Thompson senior off-campus Feb. 13, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 

page 12 Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Beachwood misses goal of '60s laidback vibe 
By SEAN McLAUGHLIN 
Scene Music Critic 
In the grand tradition of Gram Parsons, the Flying Burrito Brothers, and the Byrds' "Sweetheart of the Rodeo," Los Angeles' Beachwood Sparks is a direct descendent of Calfornia's late '60s country-rock scene. Even singer/guitarist Chris Gunst's voice mirrors an unapologetic melding of Roger McGuinn, David Crosby and Gram Parsons. 
Once We Were Trees, record­ed at J. Masic's Northampton studio, could easily be derided for abject hero-worship. Yet, the band's well-executed use of har­mony, a melodic organ and slide guitars manages to create a per­petually spacious, relaxed sound that reflects the ideal lazy sunny afternoon. While the album's 

overall vibe deserves praise, 
Once We Were Trees misses 
the mark in one key area that 
made the records that the band 
so obviously worships the clas­
sics they are today. On Once 
We Were Trees Beachwood 
Sparks simply fails to deliver a 
definitive set of great songs that 
can be individually taken out­
side the album-context. 
Still, there are moments 
worth attention. The banjo-dri­ven "Old Manatee" is a gor­geous tune that recalls an acoustic Neil Young. "Confusion is Nothing New" and "The Goodnight Whistle" . stand as psychedelic-country's answer to the Verve's break­through work on "Urban 
Hymns." 
Perhaps the best song on the 
album is the band's radical 
reworking of Sade's (yes, Sade) 
"By Your Side." Although "By 
Your Side" reveals that 
Beachwood Sparks knows how 
to deliver a great pop song, it 
also illustrates that the band 


may not know how to write one. track for the back porch, the 
Regardless, Once We Were barbecue and not a care in the Trees is worth a listen. As spring world. beckons on the horizon, it could be the standard Saturday after­Contact Sean McLaughlin at noon album, a perfect sound-smdaugh@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Mayer proves to be youthful and energetic 
ByUAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
There is no doubt that there has been a significant rise in the number of singer/ songwriters releasing albums on major labels since David Gray released White Ladder state-side. Since that landmark albwn was released in the United States, artists such as Ryan Adams and Pete Yorn, although they did work before, have started receiving major record label funding and airplay. John Mayer, a 25­year-old artist originally from Connecticut, definitively fits into this scene of musicians with his major label debut, Room for Squares. · 
It is obvious from both the title of the record and the packaging itself that Mayer is not the consummate "cool" musician -after all, the album is decorated with the Periodic Table. While listening to the album, it also becomes clear that these songs are not written by a bitter, cynical, tortured artist. 
Most tracks have a sort of playful naivete about them that make Mayer more like the guy who stayed home form the prom and played his guitar than the lonely, isolated artist writing songs under the influence. Mayer is definite­ly a product of older (and much better) "nerd rock" pop music. Reaching back to artists that wore horn rimmed glasses long before Weezer even knew what a guitar was, Mayer writes songs ¼ith the type of cheesy pop sensibili­ties that Elvis Costello and the Attractions played so well. 
There have been the obvious and tired comparisons made to both Gray and Dave Matthews, which is clearly shown whenever Mayer opens his mouth and sings with a voice not really suited to what he looks like. But there is something about his music that makes it stand apart from the rest of the singer/ songwriters currently 
making waves. 
Mayer must have been pretty excitnd to get major label money, time, and studio musi­cians. The production on the album is pretty dense, and there arc not just a few uses of overbearing organ and keyboards. Backup singers must not have been plentiful when he was still underground, and the enthusiasm of those sessions comes out in the album. 
The album borders on the annoying for about 50 minutes, but what makes the album good is that it never pushes you over. The extremely cheesy "Your Body is a Wonderland" might make elitists turn olf the stereo, but the strong amount of guilty plea­sure involved in actually listening to a song that is filled with Everly Brothers-esque sex­ual innuendos is hilarious, and pretty fun. 
That type of reaction stays pretty constant throughout the album; it may not be cool, but its enjoyable to hear a musician having such a good time and reveling in the fact that he's still young and has time not to be bitter. 
The songs never really stray that far from Photo courtesy ol www.newscom.com talking about youthful problems anyway. Singer/songwriter John Mayer plays with youthful memories and Whether Mayer is saying something stupid cheerful arrangments in his premier effort, Room For Squares. 
on a date ("My Stupid Mouth") or is wishing 
he was six again ("83"), adult territory is rarely breached. 
On songs such as ''Love Song for No One" and "Not 
Myself," there is a different sort of songwriting, with more 
concerned and typical singer/songwriter lyrics. Still they lit 
into the album's main context. The pace of the album rarely drops. "No Such Thing" and "\'Vhy Georgia" set an excellent begin­ning, with tight grooves and great melodies. '"My Stupid Mouth," one of the strongest tracks, follows suit, and "Your Body is a Wonderland" is annoying at first but rnluc­tantly gets you to like it. The middle section of the album gets bogged down occasionally in overproduction and a case of writer's block. "Neon" has decent lyrics but goes on for too long, "City Love" is a tired track and "83" L5 not really thrilling to listen to either. The quality of the album picks up again with "3X5" and "Love Song For No One," where Mayer's assertion that '"He's jaded/ I hate it" is hardly believable but the song stays great anyway. 


The best tracks come at the end of the album, with "Not Mysclr' and "St. Patrick's Day." Both songs are sung effortlessly, and the songs have enjoyable melodies. There is also an increased maturity in the lyrics; in "Not Myselr' Mayer says that his lover is his "saving grace," despite any outward appearance. In the latter track, Mayer is measur­ing his life in terms of holidays, and knows "we'll both be safe 'til St. Patrick's Uay." All in all, a great way to end the album. 
How the album goes over is ultimately going be based on your mood when you listen to it. If you are angry about something, Mayer will probably only increase your hatred of your existence. The music is extraordinarily youthful and enthusiastic, both qualities that could easily turn off people who only enjoy listening to The Smiths, Nine Inch Nails or Sex Pistols. 
However, on those more sunny days, Room for Squares provides great background music, and is like reminiscing without remembering all your embarrassing moments. And in the end, isn't that better than actually going to your high school reunion? 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrel@nd.edu 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 

Tuesday, February 19, 2002 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
KMFDM attempts fresh start with Attak 
By MIKE SCHMUHL Scene Music Critic 
Since its decline in the mid '90s, industrial rock has found a way to survive through action movie sound­tracks and the stereos of avid metal fans. KMFDM may be the embodiment of this trend. 
KMFDM, one of the pioneers of industrial rock and electronic metal. started its career in the mid '80s. Originally from Germany, the group ventured to Chicago in the early '90s to appeal to the American masses. After a couple major success es. KMFDM disbanded in 1999 after the release of Adios. 
Their first full album since the breakup, Attak attempts to renew the industrial sound KMFDM had mas­tered over their 15-year history. The first song, "Attak/Reload," gets the album off to a good start. 
A heavy beat and electronic back­ground effects pounds the listener's ears, as female vocalist Sascha Konietzko adds a powerful chorus. 

"Dirty" is a much darker song. The intense lyrics and the frightening vocals of lead signer Tim Skold par­allel the scratchy beat and heavy gui­tar riffs. 
"Urban Monkey Warfare" is a nice change from "Dirty." With a shallow beat, the group uses the song as a political outlet to sing about modern warfare: "Headed down the hard way/ Concrete Battleground/ Urban Monkey Warfare/ Sabotage Underground Camouflage." 
The song "Save Me" gives the lis­tener a sample of KMFDM's metal rock talent. Relying on traditional guitar riffs and drums and bass, the band constructs a hard rock song that stands out from the rest of the album. 
"Superhero" is the fastest song on the album with a scrambling beat and techno effects. Once again, the band molds opinion into its lyrics as they attack fame and celebrity: 
"You're a 
superhero/ 
Demigod/ 
No one 
anywhere 
anytime 
any which 
way but 
you/ If the 
mirror 
speaks the 
truth we 
must aspire 
and work/ 
Harder to 
be like you/ 
'Cause any-thing goes when you're a star." 

Overall the album is a success. However, many of the songs sound alike and the album gets frustrating towards the end. 
If vou don't like ind us trial music, this ·album isn't for you. If you are a huge fan of industrial/techno rock. then this is a good album to add to the collection. 

With their first album in awhile, KMFOM shows that they still have the skill to make great industrial rock. Whether they are trying to save a genre or just make great music again. they are off to a fresh start. 
Contact Mike Schmuhl at mschmuhl@nd.edu 


I I I 
I 
I 
I 
j 
~ 
l 
I 
page 14 Tuesday, February 19, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame's 'Dutch Treat' 
. Timmermans knows how to wait to showcase his talent for the Irish 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Spores Writer 
Good things come to those who wait. 
No one knows this better than Notre Dame sophomore T o m 
Timmer­
m a n s . 
After sit­ting out most of his freshman y e a r behind future NBA 


first-round Timmermans draft-pick T r o y Murphy and battling knee and ankle injuries during the early stages of this season, the Irish center is finally get­ting the opportunity to show­case his basketball skills on the court. In Notre Dame's narrow three-point loss to Syracuse on Sunday, Timmermans grabbed a career-high six rebounds while limiting Syracuse's center Jeremy McNeil to only two points. "It was hard to sit on the bench, but I never gave up." said Timmermans. "Even when I did not play, I just wanted to improve. When I was hurt this season, I did not get depressed or down on myself. I just kept plugging and working hard." A native of Dierhuis, Netherlands, Timmermans started playing basketball at age 12 when his friends asked him to participate in a tour­nament in the local sports club. "I was a soccer player and a speed skater," said Timmermans. "One day, I participated in a basketball tournament at a local sports 
club and just really liked the coaches. Tennessee, Oregon sport. I was always tall and I and Pittsburgh all recruited grew six inches when I was him, but he decided·to attend 15, so basketball made Notre Dame for its academic sense." reputation. 
As he grew older and "Notre Dame is recognized improved, Timmermans par• as an excellent academic ticipated in basketball tourna­institution with alums all over ments all across Europe. In the world," said the summer before his junior Timmermans. "I really liked year in high school, an [former Irish head] coach American AAU basketball [Matt) Doherty and felt com­scout noticed his talent and fortable with the coaching offered him the chance to staff at Notre Dame, also." play at the Blue Ridge School When Doherty decided to in Virginia. Although leaving leave Notre Dame to coach at his family was a difficult deci­his alma mater North sion, Timmermans dreamed Carolina, Timmermans decid­of one day earning a college ed to stick with his commit­scholarship to play basket­ment to Notre Dame. While ball. other players might have 
"Of course it is tough to entered Notre Dame with a leave your family for a new negative attitude after a country and a new culture," coaching change, said Timmermans. "Language Timmermans dedicated him­was not a problem though self to impressing new head because I learned English in coach Mike Brey and his staff school. You have to set high by demonstrating his strong goals for yourself' work ethic in practice in the 
Although there has been an weight room. influx of European players in Timmermans, who packed the NBA on 35 pounds and college of muscle onto basketball his 6-foot-11
"It was hard to sit on the
in the last frame in the 10 years, bench. but I never gave past year, is Timmer­up. Even when I did not quick to credit 
mans knew the coaching
play, I just wanted to
the compe­staff and his
improve. When I was hurt
tition would teammates be much this season. I did not get with his tougher in improvement.
depressed or down on
the United "When I
myself I just kept plug­
States. He came to Notre worked at ging and working hard.. ,, Dame, I was Blue Ridge skinny. I High to worked a lot
Tom Timmermans
adjust to with strength t h e forward coach Tony American Rolinski to style of improve my play. conditioning," said 
"European leagues are get­Timmermans. "Playing ting a lot better, but competi­against Troy Murphy, Ryan tion in the Netherlands is not Humphrey and Harold great," said Timmermans. "I Swanagan every day in prac­knew that playing basketball tice helped me improve in the United States would be tremendously." a real challenge." After overcoming injuries at 
During his senior year, the beginning of the season, Timmermans' talent caught Timmer.mans' hard work the eye of several college finally paid off when Brey put him into the regular playing roommates in Keough Hall rotation after Swanagan went and teammates don't always down with an ankle injury in know what to think of him. the middle of the season. "I am really happy for Tom 
Since playing his first signif­because I know how hard he icant minutes of the season has worked this season," said against Seton Hall on Jan. 27, roommate David Fitzgibbon. he has seen a steady rise in "Tom is a hilarious off the his playing court. It's not time over every day that the last you get heli­
"I guess it's just Tom 
month. In copter rides
being really good. He's a
l a s t from a 7-foot Sunday's great physical presence guy." g a m e While trying
in there and he's 
against not to burst
bouncing around a lot
Syracuse, out laughing he played more." when asked 21 minutes a b o u t w h i l e Timmermans'
Mike Brey
remaining personality,
head coach
in the cru­Swanagan cial stages added. "Tom of the game is Tom. He for his defense. has a different set of rules 
"I guess it's just Tom being than ·everyone else because really good. He's a great he's from another country. physical presence in there He's funny. I can't really say and he's bouncing around a what he is. I like him and I try lot more," Brey said about to help him any way I can." Timmermans increased play­Although Timmermans has ing time. reached new heights on the 
Timmer-mans' teammates court, he has not stopped his know that his play will go a legendary antics and practical long way in determining jokes off the court. Notre Dame's NCAA tourna­"Tom is such a big goofball ment hopes. sometimes," said friend Joe 
Humphrey attributes Quaderer. "Tom has not let Timmermans' recent success his success get to his head. to his great attitude and You could not ask for a nicer demeanor. guy to be around." 
"He's bigger, stronger, Timmermans' unselfish atti­faster, and a better player all tude and tough demeanor on around," said Humphrey. the court will continue to be "Tom has changed his men­an important part of Notre tality this season. He's very Dame's hopes to make the menacing. He knows he can NCAA tournament. help us and be a physical "I know my role on this presence in the Big East." team," said Timmermans. 
Fellow center Harold "We have plenty of guys who Swanagan has also noticed can score. My job is to play Timmermans' dedication and hard defense, set screens, and hard work this season. rebound. Our goal is to make 
"He had a lot of injuries the NCAA tournament again. earlier in the year," added We just have to keep playing Swanagan. "His attitude is hard." different. He's going to be a force to be reckoned with in the Big East over the next two years." 
While Timmermans is all 
Contact Joe Licandro at 
business on the court, his 
Licandro. l@nd.edu. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed­room houses. Call Bill at 532·1896 
Lost Gold Cross w/ Rhinestones Sentimental Value Please call 634· 4464 
4.7 BDRM HOMES.WALK TO ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002--03. 272-6306 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Womens reading glasses with tortoise shell rims. Lost between Nieuwland & Campus Ministry on Jan. 30. Email: emcnassa@nd.edu 
FOUND: Diamond ring in ladles room of Nieuw!and Hall. Will gladiy return with correct description. Call Meg at 4• 
34n 
WANTED 
TestMaster is looking for responsi• ble people to distribute Information, post 
flyers and proctor !rests. $10/hr. 1 • 800-929·7724 
·--·-·-·-----
TestMasters is looking for ret1J)onsi• ble people to distribute information, post 
flyers and proctor trests. $1Cl/hr. 1 • 800·929·7724 
IM LAX officials needed. Good Payll Soma exp. necessary. 
Contact Tara Fisher @ 1-3536. 
FOR SALE 
Collectors plates • Avon, Norman Rockwell. All in perfect condition with boxes and papers. Christmas Past, Easter and Mothers Day plates also avail• able. Call 574•234•9782. 
2-story, 3 bedrooms, formal dining & living rooms. All appliances good Carpeting & drapes throughout. Many closets. Gas heat & upper and lower air conditioners. Finished basement w/pool table. Call 574-234-9782. 
For Rent 
---·-··-·-···-····---­
MMMRentals.com 272•1525 mmm• rentals@aol.com 
5 mins from N014-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291 • 2209 
THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5·8 STU• DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT AREA 277'J097 
SUPER HOME GREAT AREA CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STU­DENTS 2773097 
MMMRentals.com 
3-bdrrn, 1·1/2 bath tri•level, sale neighborhood, new appliances, 2· car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232·4527 or 616-683-5038. 
----·-···············-·­
New 3-4 bdrms, 3-bath homes lea• luring fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, lamily room, 1 Ox20 deck, 2•car garage. $1500/mo. 
Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 

3-4 person house, Close to cam• pus, c/a Available June 1 Call 219· 298·3800 
_,. _______________ 
Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting furnished, air-conditioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M, 1F) Sale neighborhood, free street parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown. 1· 1/2 miles from Tacoma Metro. $390/month + 1/4 ulilties, call Michelle 202/829· 3725, or krup7B@hotmail.com 
River Condo For Rent $1050 MO Mishawaka 219-532·1537. 
PERSONAL 

Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on• campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1 ·800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
---···········-······ 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,at1· 7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
ADOPTION Young, loving happily married couple interested in adopt­ing a baby. Please call Matt & Robin 1•800· 484·6411 PIN#6463 
Good luck to the mens and womens basketball teams. 
Write Observer sports. Call 1-4543 
-------·······-··-·········­
Write Observer news. Call 1-5323 
·····-···················--­


Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Center for Social Concerns 
CENTER FOR I 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

. ·~,,. ,~-, •~.-Reminder: The deadline for ACCION Micro-lending Internships is tomorrow, Feb. 20th. Please bring your 
~-·?~·°'-71'._ •~i.--~:7 -~· ~.,Tv
r;lq:J!.---applications to the Center for Social Concerns. Housing paid, living stipend issued and $2500.00 Scholarship '"=""' ··"'-for 12 weeks this summer in Albuquerque, Atlanta, Chicago, New York City, and San Diego. 
*Hispanic Leadership Intern Program (HLIP) applications available at the CSC. An eight-week long summer internship. Interns exposed to and experience Latino communities in metropolitan Chicago where they serve as leader and student of the community. 
EXTENDED DUE DATE: Applications due February 22, 2002. 
Pilot Seminar for Sophomores ... 
Sophomores are invited to apply to a new pilot seminar. A group of sophomores will travel to the sea islands of South Carolina from May 11­18 to work with the Gullah people and other members of the coastal communities. The group will work with the Catholic sisters of Our Lady of Mercy in their ministries of home repair, GED tutoring, ESL tutoring, food and clothing distribution, in addition to learning about the rich history and culture of the area. A lications are available at the CSC. For information contact Carl Loesch at Loesch@nd.edu 
Senior Transition Programs 
Post-Graduate Service Opportunities 
"Integrating Faith and Social Concerns Beyond ND" Sunday, February 24 Passionist Volunteers Information Session 1-6 p.m. in Siegfried Hall TODAY, 4 p.m. at the CSC -Discussion with others in the Class of '02 
International Programs Presentation 

-Panel of Alums 
Returned Volunteers from HCA-Chile and other programs -Sunday liturgy 
Thursday, February 21 -Pizza Supper 
6:30 p.m. Siegfried Hall Lounge Questions? Call 1-5779 
Amate House Information Session 
Service placements in Chicago Sunday, February 24 

"Jung (War) in the 
6:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns
Land ofthe Mujaheddin" 
Holy Cross Associates presents ... 

A documentary about life in Afghanistan 
An Evening With Recently Returned Overseas Volunteers. 
and chailenges of establishing a hospital in the mist 
Come hear about the experiences of returned volunteers, from a
of the civil war 
variety of programs, who served in countries such as Chile, Peru 


Afghanistan. This hospital is meant to help these war victims, and during theirlunch hour (11:30-12:30) or after 5:30 at least once a week. presents many challenges and frustrations to its founders. Madison Center is also looking for general tutors for H.S. students. Soccer Coach at El Buen Vecino -Sarah -287-8228 Sponsored by Global Health Initiative (GHI) El Buen Vecino has a soccer team for high school teens and is in need of a coach this season. They would like to practice after school twice a week, however it 
Join GHI to learn about the costs ofwar in 
would be up to the new coach or coaches to set the dates and times of practice.
Afghanistan and challenges to international health and humanitarian aid Tutors to help with I-step preparation -Nan Soltinski -283-7516 She is looking for tutors to help high school Jrs. & Srs. study for their I-step tests, which they must pass prior to graduation. Help is needed from Feb 25th-March 11 th • Hours are 3:00­
5:00 p.m. at LaSalle H.S. Students need help in the subjects of Math and Enlish. Tutor for 5th grader at Madison Center -Erin Fermica -erintecon@aol.com 651-1255 (to page her at Madison) 
Carlos is 11 yrs old and looking for a tutor once a week to help him with his-schooTw-ork, especially 5th grade math. He lives in Hickory Village Apartments (behind Movies 14). St. Joseph Basketball Program -Larry Bauer -BauerL@lstsource.com Played basketbalJ in H.S.? Want to work with 2nd-4th grade boys in a local grade school intramural program? Looking for students to do clinics, help referee, coaching duties Saturdays in February and March; starts February 2nd• 
Volunteer for Preschooler-Marissa Runkle~ (219) 289-4831­marissar@logancenter.ocg 
A three-year old boy of Russian heritage needs a play companion at Open Door preschool. The student does not necessarily need to know how to speak Russian. Please be available on Tuesday~ from 9-IOa.m. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects, feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu.*** 
''This gripping film, once seen, is unforgettable." -The New York Times 
Tuesday, February 19, 7:00 pm 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
FREE PIZZA AND SODA 
After the Taliban came to power in Afghanistan, many schools and homes have been burnt down, lives lost, and the country's landscape marked with the signs of war. Thi"s includes land mines covering the ground, many of which are stepped on each day by innocent victims. This film examines the experiences of an Italian surgeon and war correspondent as they set up and run a hospital in today's war tom 
and Nicaragua, S. America, and Kenya, Africa. When: This Thursday, Feb. 21, 6:30 p.m. Where: Siegfried Hall Lounge 
Who: Anyone interested in meeting and hearing the,__ 
___--. 
Current Volunteer Needs: 
Tutoring/Children Activities 


Male Mentors at Madison Center -Tony Castelino -235-5457 Three students aged 14-16 at Madison Center are in need of positive male role models in their lives. Please be available to come to Madison Center 
.--------­
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish snap losing 
streak, beat BYU 
Special to the Observer 
The 18th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team snapped a three-match losing streak with a 5-2 victory over No. 51 Brigham Young Monday in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish, whose previous three matches were against teams currently ranked in the national top 10, swept their way to the doubles point and won four of six singles match­es to secure the win and improve to 5-5 this season. BYU fell to 2-5. Notre Dame will return to action Friday when it plays host to No. 47 Iowa at 3:30 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish won all three dou­bles matches to take a 1-0 lead. Sophomore Alicia Salas and freshman Sarah Jane Connelly finished first, notch­ing an 8-5 victory at No. 3. Seniors Becky Varnum and Lindsey Green , ranked 29th nationally in doubles, then clinched the doubles point with an 8-6 win at No. 1. 
Senior Nina Vaughan and junior Katie Cunha completed the sweep with a 9-8 (7-5) win at No. 2. Notre Dame has now won its last 18 matches in which it has captured the doubles point. 
Notre Dame won the first four singles matches off the' court to gain the victory. Connelly gave the Irish a 2-0 lead with a 6-1, 6-0 win at No. 6. At No. 1, Varnum won 6-3, 6-4 to set up the match­clinching victory, which came in the form of a 6-3. 6-2 win by Salas at No. 4. After the outcome was determined, Vaughan rallied from a 4-0 second-set deficit to win 6-4. 7-5 at No. 2 before Lu Oswald got BYU on the scoreboard with a 6-4. 6-3 victory at No. 3. 
In the final match on-court, Elizaveta Khoudoiarova saved a number of match points in rallying for a 4-6. 7-6 (7-2). 1­0 (10-6) win at No. 6. 

Salas' win improved her sin­gles record to 10-0 this spring. She has won 13 straight sin­gles matches, as well as 16 of her last 17 and holds a 12-0 mark in career dual singles action. 
Salas has been particularly dominant at home, posting a combined 18-1 record (10-0 singles. 8-1 doubles) in the Eck Tennis Pavilion this sea­son. 
She lost her first career sin­gles match at home as a fresh­man, but has since won all 15 singles matches in the Eck Tennis Pavilion or Courtney Tennis Center. 
JOBS 
Model needed for Figure Drawing Classes. $12/hr. Please call Art Dept. 631-7602 for info. 

IS YOUR T.V. ALWAYS TUNED IN TO ESPN? THEN THE OBSERVER WANTS YOU TO WRITE SPORTS. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Ratay earns Big East honors 
Spcdal to the Observer 
Notre Dame junior guard Alicia Ratay has been select­ed as a co-recipient of the Big East Conference Player of the Week 
award, the league office announced Monday. It is the first player-of­the-week award of 

Ratay's Ratay three-year Irish career, although she was a six-time Big East Rookie of the Weck during the 1999-2000 season. She shared this week's honor with Connecticut guard Diana Taurasi. 

Ratay averaged 19.5 points and nine rebounds per game last week, shooting 58.3 per­cent from the field (14•of-24) as No. 23 Notre Dame extending its winning streak to a season-high seven games 
with wins over St. John's 
and Rutgers. 

Ratay notched her first 
double-double of the season 
(and the fourth of her 
career) Wednesday against 
SJU, finishing with 14 points 
and a season-best 10 
rebounds. 

She topped that perfor­mance on Saturday night at Rutgers, scoring a season­high 25 points on 10-of-15 shooting in a 57-52 win over the Scarlet Knights. Ratay tallied 16 of her points in the second half, including 10 in a span of 3:21 which helped the Irish claim their third vie­
tory in the last four visits to Rutgers. 
For the season, Ratay ranks ninth in the Big East in scor­ing at 13.9 points per game, and she leads the conference with a .867 free throw per­centage. 
She also stands 11th on Notre Dame's career scoring list with 1,246 points, having passed Mary Beth Schueth (1,233 from 1981-85) with her 25-point night at Rutgers. 
Notre Dame (17-7, 11-2 Big East) will look to continue its recent success Tuesday when it plays host to West Virginia in a 7 p.m. contest at the Joyce Center. The Irish cur­rently own the nation's longest active home winning streak, and the 10th-longest string in NCM history at 50 games. 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
moving on in the tournament. 
"It has to be a team effort," said Smith. "That's what helped us so much on Saturday. We had some peo­ple coming off the bench and doing some great, great things. We need that. 
Wednesday if we don't win [today]. So it's a do-or.die sit­uation." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
I A FREE SPRING BREA~ 
Hott\::,t lJe!,li11:rno11s,r,a111us! Lowdst Prices Gllillcllllm,cl! Hest Aili1nes/H<1lt-JIS! F1ee Food! 2 Free Tnp» 011 1i; Sale,; Eam Ca~li! Group Discounb! Douk-11nl1ne. www.su11splashto11rs.com 
1-800-42(;-7710 

Whoever starts for us, it doesn't matter, it's the whole team with people coming off the bench." 
Linkous is confidant and determined to make that vic­tory happen. 
"We have a very positive outlook," said Linkous. "We're already talking about having practice on Wednesday. So we know we won't have practice on 
"Jung (War) in the Land of the Mujaheddin" 
A docume~ta~y about life in Afghanistan and challenges of estabhsh1ng a hospital in the mist of the civil war 
"This gripping film, once seen, is unforgettable. 11 -The New y ork Times 
Tuesday, February 19 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
7:00 pm FREE PIZZA AND SODA 
After the Taliban came to power in Afghanistan, many schools and 
homes have bee? bumt~own, lives lost, and the country's landsc~pe marked with the signs of war. This includes land mines _covenng ~h~ ground: many of which are stepped on each day by mnocent v1ctuns. This film examines the experiences of an Italian surge~n and war corresp?ndent as_ they set up and run a hospital in~_, ­today ~ ~ar tom Afghamstan. This hospital is meant to help these 
war victims, and presents many challenges and frustrations to its 
founders. 

Sponsored by Global Health Initiative (GHI) 

Tuesday, February 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Freshmen have solid showing in conference meet 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Writer 
In most college sports, it is usually a senior who makes the biggest impact on the team. Basketball has Ryan Humphrey. Football has Anthony Weaver. 

But for the Notre Dame men's track and field team it was the freshmen who made perhaps the biggest impact in 

Sandy
Trobaugh 
on20 
years 
at Notre 
Dani 
This Ct1Weel< in Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry
Baav 
Morning and Evening Prayer 
Monday-Friday 
8:45 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 11 4 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D' Alonzo, csc, Director 
Confirmation Session #10 
7:00 p.m. ··­330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
l~nesdav 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 
this past weekend's Big East Conference meet. 
Freshmen Dwight Ellick, Selim Nurudeen, Eric Morrison and Chris Staron combined for a total of 27 of Notre Dame's 101.75 points to lead the Irish to a third place finish at the Big East Conference meet. 
Sprinter Ellick had probably the most impressive perfor­mance of the freshmen, taking third place in both the 200­meter dash and the 60-meter dash. 
"Dwight Ellick was ranked third, got third. We got to be. I have areas to improve, so I come back, practice, and just get stronger and better," said Ellick. 
Nurudeen and Morrison were also in top form this weekend. Nurudeen took third -in the 60-meter hurdles and Morrison took fifth in the 800­m eter run and was on the eighth place 4x800-meter relay team. 
Morrison took seventh in the preliminaries of the 800, then was able to improve in the finals, where the times were a little bit slower than he is used 
to. "The time 

points wher-"Dwight Ellick was itself was ever we slow, only
ranked third, got third. 

could get because 
them," said We got points wherever everyone 
head coach we could get them ... needed a new Joe Piane. set of kick "I felt that returns [from
Joe Piane

I did pretty the prelimi­good. I went head coach nary race]. ln 
through a r o u g h atmosphere. I wasn't worried about being a freshman or anything like that. I have three more years to get first," said Ellick. 
Ellick has been making con­sistent improvement so far this season. In the 60-meter dash, he has taken first in a dual meet against Michigan State and fourth at the Meyo Invitational. 
"I was right in the area where I was expecting myself 

San Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Crypt 

Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat #40 
Friday-Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Bible Study (in Chinese) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. Call 631-5653 for information. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
llurdav 
No Greater Love 
... a day prayer, music and renewal No sign up required 
Check in begins at 10:00 a.m. Coleman-Morse Center Closing Mass at 6:30 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 
the last 100 meters [in the 
800] the guy steps on the rail, and we got helped there," said Piane. 
Following up the freshman performances was Staron in the high jump. Staron, whose best jump this year had been 6 feet, 4 inches going into the Big East meet, jumped 6-7 en route to a third place finish. He out jumped senior Quill Redwine who had been consis­tently finishing in front of Staron in previous meets. 

The only victories for the 
Irish in the Big East meet 
came from senior Ryan Shay 
who won both the 3,000-meter 
run a_nd the 5,000-meter run. 
Shay did not see the strongest 
competition on the weekend, 
as he won the 3,000 by three 
seconds and the 5,000 by 
more than four seconds. 
Classmate Luke Watson did 
not have the weekend he 
wanted to have. 
"It wasn't a bad weekend for 
me, but it wasn't good either. I 
think I could have done better 
in both events [the 3000-meter 
and the mile]. Primarily on execution and strategy, because in Big East races in distance races its all about . strategy. I didn't execute as well as I could have," said 
Watson. 
Watson still took second in 
the 3000 behind Shay and 
third in the mile run, .04 sec­
onds behind second place 
Ryan Hayden of Villanova. 
Taking first place at the 
meet was Connecticut, with 
Villanova finishing in second. 
Defending champion 
Georgetown finished a disap­
pointing fourth place. 
"I think the men were prob­
ably disappointed [with the 
third-place finish]. We scored 
almost everywhere where we 
could," said Piane. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook@nd.edu. 

Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 

Monday, Feb~ 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 1l4 Coleman~Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #70 
jjJ¾etr:eatDatef,Mar. 22-23, 2002 
-Pick up applications: 

Monday, Feb. 18 -Friday, Feb. 22 
114 Coleman-Morse Center 


RCIA-Purification & Enlightenment 
10:00-11:30 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Spanish Mass 
1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m . Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 

7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
ND SOFTBALL 
No. 14 Irish start rough, finish smooth at Pepsi Classic 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball over­came a rough start to the week­end and won three of its five games at the Arizona Pepsi Classic at the University of Arizona during the weekend. 
On Friday, the No. 14 Irish started their season against No. 1 Arizona, led by senior pitcher Jennie Finch. Behind her strong pitching, the Wildcats capitalized on eight Irish walks to win the 
...---­
game 3-0. 
"I think the game was [good for us] so we could see where we were right from the start," said junior shortstop Andria Bledsoe. "We were able to measure our­selves against the best and learn a lot." 
The Wildcats brought a 48­game home winning streak into the game and Finch won her 45th consecutive game. 
After that game, the Irish took on Auburn, who at 9-0 was off to its best start in school history. Two first inning runs put the Tigers ahead early. but the Irish would not yield another run for the rest of the game. 
In the fifth, pinch runner Kas Hoag scored on an infield hit from second base with a perfect slide to cut the lead in half. Then, Andrea Loman's homerun on a 0­2 pitch tied the game at two in the bottom of the sixth. 
Freshman pitch<lr Steffany Stenglein got out of a jam in the top of the 10th with runners on first and second with no outs. 
enabling the Irish to win the game in the bottom of the inning. Megan Ciolli's sacrifice fly to left scored Alexis Madrid to give t,he Irish the 3-2 victory. 
Notre Dame could not carry over that momentum to Saturday's game against Louisville. The Cardinals went up 1-0 on Melissa Jacobo's fourth inning homerun, but the Irish tied the game on Bledsoe's RBI single that scored Loman from third. 
Freshman Steffany Stenglein relieved fellow freshman Carrie Wisen in the top of the seventh and yielded three runs as the Irish lost 4-1. Those freshmen pitched all but one inning over the weekend and gained some valuable experience. 
"They [Stenglein and Wisen] did a tremendous job this weekend for us," said Bledsoe. "It is a tough thing to come into a great program and excel right away. They have one of the best defens­es in the nation and need to learn how to use it." 
However, the Irish made a comeback. They scored two runs on errant throws to get within one. The comeback fell short when Jenny Kreich was thrown out at third trying to advance on a wild throw. 
That afternoon. the Irish offense came together against New Mexico State. Stenglcin started the game and gave up three runs before she was pulled after getting only one out. Wisen relieved her to keep the Irish in the game by giving up four runs in six and two-third innings 
The Irish offense got started in the fourth by exploding for five runs. Lisa Mattison drove in 

Late-Night Co-Rec 
~-.,,\\eyW 

Starting at 1oPM 
RSRC Court 4 
Co•Rec6on 6 
* Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times. Register a Teom in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline Is fhursday, February 21 Limited to 6 teems. Double Elimination 
University ofNotre Darne 

Preliminaries February 22 Quarterfinals February 24 
Semifinals February 27 
Bledsoe and Jarrah Myers to get the lead down to two. Then two errors by the Aztec shortstop enabled the Irish to take a 5-4 lead. 
Notre Dame added one more in the top of the fifth and New Mexico State came back with three in the bottom of the sixth to take a 7-6 lead. Liz Hartmann drove in Myers on a 1-2 pitch to bring the Irish even. Then. in the eighth, Myers doubled home Loman to give the Irish the win­rung run and the 8-7 victory. 
Junior Jessica Sharron pitched the bottom of the eighth to get the save for Wisen (1-1). 
The Irish jumped out to the early lead against Southern Florida. Loman brought Kriech home with a single in the first and the Irish scored two unearned runs in the third to take a 3-0 lead. 
South Florida scored one in the sixth and two in the seventh, but could not get anymore giving the Irish the 5-3 victory. Stcnglein (2­
1) got the victory with Wisen pick­ing up the save. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 


College of Engineering 
Spotlight Nights 2002 
for First-Year Students 
c . mPUTER S[IEnCE lln . EnGlnEERlnG 
.PEn H. USE F.R 
FIRST-YE/lR 
STU . EnTS 
TUESD/lY,FEBRU/lRY19 
G:.. T. 7:3. P.m. 
35G FITZP/lTRICK H/lLL 
HAVE somE FOOD Toa. ~ WE START SERVlnG , 
AT 6:00 P.m. ~ . "' 
. . .. 
er11::.. ¦ r·-.11;eFl's • 

~~~!~li1bl:::t) 
w.l"lLIO 

College of Engineering 
Spotlight Nights 2002 
for First-Year Students 
mECH/lnlC/lLEnGlnEERlnG 
.PEn H.USE F.R 
FIRST-YE/lR STUDEnTS­
Tuesa/lY,FEeRu/lRY19 
G:.. T. 7:3. P.m. 
303 CUSHlnG H/lLL 
HAVE same FO .O TDD, WE START SERVlnG AT 6:0 . P.m. 

Finals March 1 7:00pm 

SALT LAKE 2002 


Tuesday, February 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
ICE HOCKEY 
Americans feel at home during 8-1 victory 
Associated Press 
WEST VALLEY CITY, Utah Maybe there is something to this home ice advantage. 
Brett Hull got the Americans going with a goal, then set up John LeClair for two more quick goals as the United States -off to its best start in Olympic hockey since 1980 -overpowered Belarus 8-1 on Monday. 
The United States went 2­0-1, tying Russia 2-2, to win its round-robin pool and all but assured itself of a favor­able quarterfinal match-up Wednesday against Germany. The Americans are 19-0-3 in their last 22 Olympic games on home ice since 1932. 
"We feel we can beat any team in this town," U.S. for­ward Jeremy Roenick said. "We dominated defensively in the first three games. We have a lot more to do in the next three games." 
Nearly all the players the United States had in Nagano in 1998 are back in Salt Lake City. Clearly, though, this is not the same U.S. 
Olympic hockey team, as the Americans have outscored their first three opponents 
16-3.  
"The  pucks  are  really  
going  in  for  us,"  Chris  
Chelios said.  

The Americans, playing with the confidence, rhythm and consislency they lacked during that dismal 1-3 per­formance in Nagano remem­bered most for their chair­breaking tantrum. haven't been unbeaten through three games this deep into an Olympics since the Miracle on Ice of 1980. 
That Herb Brooks coached both teams docs not seem a coincidence. Chelios credits Brooks with establishing a motivational, team-is-every­thing theme after the players arrived in Salt Lake City last week, dead-tired from a relentless pre-Olympics NHL schedule. 
"We've got confidence and momentum," said Chelios, who at 40 is the oldest play­er on the U.S. team. "We never got any momentum going in Nagano, never got anything started and we struggled throughout. Nobody had any confidence going into the (elimination) game against the Czechs, and it was because nobody had any goals." 
Not a problem in Salt Lake City. The only team that has played better so far is Sweden, which has defeated defending gold medalist the Czech Republic and Canada. 
Chelios also said Brooks encouraged considerable input from the players -an avenue that led Brooks to reunite former Dallas Stars teammates Mike Modano and Brett Bull on a line with LeClair during Saturday's tie with Russia. 
Hull responded by scoring the tying goal with 41/2 min­utes left in that game. just the kind of goal he has scored so often in Stanley Cup playoff games. 
Then, after journeyman Belarus goalie Andrei Mezin shut out the United States in the first period Monday, Hull got the U.S. offense rolling with a slap-shot goal from the high slot in the opening minute ofthe second period. 


FREESTYLE SKIING 
Skiier from down under comes out on top 
second-best aerialist in her She didn't know they had
Associated Press 

country, behind gold-medal come to America until the end favorite Jacqui Cooper. who ofher second jump. 
PARK CITY, Utah went home after hurting her Turns out, that was only her 
Guess what, mate? There's a knee in training last week. second-biggest surprise of the surprising new powerhouse at Camplin's biography offers a day. the Winter Olympics. glimpse of what many Aussies "As soon as I landed my sec­
It's Australia, the sunny land have to go through to make the ond jump, I thought, 'I feel of cricket, rugby and swim­Winter Games. really bad because nobody's ming, which had never won a She's an ex-gymnast. She here,"' she said. "Then I heard gold medal in the Winter used to train in a leach-infested my sister screaming. I said, Games before this year. lake near Melbourne, the best 'Oh, my party friend is here!"' Suddenly, they have two in facility the Aussies had for Camplin could have been the three days. their underfunded sport. She first Aussie to win winter gold, 
Freestyle aerialist Alisa had to sell her car to make were it not for Bradbury's Camplip joined speedskater ends meet this year. stunning victory in the 1,000­Steven Bradbury as the latest Oh, she's also not a very good meter speedskating finals golden child from Down Under. _skier. She didn't learn to ski Saturday night. But really, she She won Monday. giving the until she was 19. She trampled said, Bradbury's victory made Aussies one more gold than the her victory flowers because she things easier on her. athletes from the winter won­fell on her trip down the moun­"When he came through, it derland of Austria, and as tain to the winner's news con­almost pleased me that I didn't many as Canada. ference. have to go out and do this," she 
"That's awesome," Camplin "Skiing in Australia isn't said. "I knew that was a big said. "We're a summer coun­what it's like in North thing my nation was trying to try, a sunny country. But this is America," she said. "It's a chase. When Steven did it. I amazing. It will set a greal short. action-packed season, was like, 'Good, I don't have standard for Australian and we don't all get down the the weight of the nation on my Olympians. Hopefully, there mountain as gracefully as they shoulders."' are some people in Australia do over here. You see a lot of Camplin landed a pair of that actually see now that win­football teams out there. It's a triple-twisting, double backflip ter sports are something that little crazy." jumps -the most popular they can pursue." Camplin's victory brought out trick among the 12 finalists. 
Joining Camplin on the podi­the old cheer -"Aussie, Only two women tried triple um were a pair of Canadians. Aussie, Aussie! Oi, Oi. Oi!" -flips. One was Evelyn Leu of Veronica Brenner took silver from a strong Aussie contin­Switzerland, who set the world and Deidra Dionne won gent more used to making record in qualifying, but fin­bronze. noise near the swimming pool, ished 11th in the fmals, landing 
The day. however. belonged not on the mountain. hard on both her attempts and to the Aussies and their flam­The crowd included somersaulting down the moun­boyant gold medalist, a 27 -Camplin's parents and her sis­tain. year-old accounts manager ter. Regina, all of whom she "It wasn't as I had imag­who took a hiatus from her job told to stay home for the ined," Leu said. "The whole at IBM to make the rounds on Olympics because it cost too week was great, except the last the skiing tour. much and she didn't want the day." 
She was only considered the distractions. 

,-----,­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
you come here for an education in behind you. If you are what form with pride. dignity and who bought tickets to the func­-that's why you're here," you are supposed to, no one character, and you'll never tion also received season tick­
Lasorda 
Lasorda commented. "You're will ever be able to beat that regret it." ets for the 2002 baseball sea­
fortunate enough to play legacy. The evening was held to gen­son.
continued from page 24 
sports, but get an education, "You have this opportunity -erate excitement about the 
some of the most important things in life. 
"I come here tonight, not to hear my voice. but to deliver a message, and the message is to the youngsters to love your parents and to do everything you can to make them proud of you," Lasorda said. 
A longtime friend of Mainieri, Lasorda has also developed a close relation­ship · with 
Notre Dame 
"I come here tonight not 'How far
during the 
to hear my voice, but to could I have
past year, 
gone in life
including giv­deliver a message, and 
if I had
ing a speech 
the message is to the 
given it
at the 
youngsters to love your everything
Tennessee pep 
that I had?'
rally. parents." 
If you didn't
"I saw that 
you'11 regret
baseball team 
Tommy Ladorda it the rest of
filing in here 
your life,
hall of fame coach
earlier, and I 
was out there working with them today," Lasorda said. "And I have never seen a bunch of young baseball play­ers who were more polite than those fellows. That's a tribute to the parents, No. 1. And, No. 2, that's a tribute to [Paul Mainieri] because he is ... with­out a doubt one of the finest college coaches in this entire country." 
While much of the speech focused on baseball, Lasorda stressed the importance of get­ting an education and taking advantage of opportunities in life. 
"You young men, you players, 


Irish 
continued from page 24 
who I finished right behind. When I have someone like her pushing me at practice, it helps you carry that strategy to the meet," said Gunn. 
"She had the race of her life. When I looked up at the scoreboard and saw that she got fourth, I went crazy. That was huge. That was how we won the meet," said Grow. 
Head coach Joe Piane rec­ognized how important 
because that's why you come here." 
The coach also emphasized the importance of doing every­thing in life to the best of one's abilities. 
"When you get up in the morning and look in the mir­ror, there's going to people two people you cannot fool: God and yourself," he stated. "And you're going to say one of two things to yourself: 
but if you 
did, you'll 
never have any regrets because you're doing what you're supposed to do." 
As he concluded, Lasorda's admiration for the University showed through with some of his closing statements to the team. 
"When you go out there to play, play the game for the name on the front of the jersey and not on the back," Lasorda said. "Represent this team because it's the ·greatest insti­tution that you could ever rep­resent. Don't ever embarrass it, and when you leave here, leav_e a legacy for those coming 
and Georgetown had 102 points going into the race. 
Fortunately for the Irish, Georgetown got second and Notre Dame got third, which gave the Irish the two-point lead over the Hoyas. 
"If we ended up third, we couldn't lose. We were rooting for our ladies to be at least third, and Seton Hall to win, which is exactly what hap­pened," said Piane. 
"We were very confident going into the race. We thought we had to beat Georgetown to win, so it came as a surprise that we had 
Gunn's race 
"One surprise was 
was over the 
Tiffany Gunn. What a
weekend, also. help that was. Nobody "One sur­
anticipated that. She 
prise was 
ended up getting five 
Tiffany Gunn. What points where we were a help that 
hopingfor one." 
was. Nobody anticipated that. She Joe Piane ended up head coach 
getting five  
points where  
we were hoping for one," said  
Piane.  
The Irish were able to clinch  
the Big East title without any  
individual victories, showing  
the depth of the women's  
squad this year.  
"I don't think I've ever  
heard of anyone winning a  
meet of that caliber and not  
winning a single event. We  
scored in 15 events, and that  
shows a lot of depth," said  
Piane.  
The winner of the meet  
came down to the mile relay,  
the last race of the day.  
Notre Dame had 106 points  
I  
I  
•f  
'  

won," said Grow who anchored the relay team. 
J a m i e 
Volkmer 
also had a strong day, provisionally qualifying for nationals in the pole vault. Iler vault of 12 feet, 5 inch­es took sec­
ond place, and she also took sixth place in the triple jump. 
This victory marked Notre Dame's first victory in the indoor conference meet, and the coaches were named Coaches of the Year for indoor track and field. 
"They were great. It was wonderful." said Piane. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook@nd.ec1u. 
play, play your heart out," Irish baseball team and its 
Contact Chris Federico at

Lasorda said. "Wear that uni-upcoming season. Everyone 
cfederic@nd.edu. 

NEW INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
BRAZIL -Spring 2003 
RIO DE JANEIRO SAO PAULO 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
TUESl}AY, FEBRli.ARY 12rn 5:30-6:30 125 Havcs-Healv 
.., .. 

TH lJ RS DAY, FEBRlJ1\ R\' 21 s r 5:30-6:30 I 25 Haves-llealv
" ~· 


Tuesday, February 19 155 DeBartolo 7:00 p.m.  
Asst.  Dean Fr.  Presented by Jennifer Nemecek, ALPP Advisor and James Foster, SCPP Advisor  

Learn about the similarities and differences of the Preprofessional majors at Notre Dame and find out what professional schools look for in an applicant. For students interested in premedical, predental, prevet, or other related health professions. A student panel will also conduct a question and answer session. 


Tuesday, February 19, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
CLUB SPORTS 
JPW doesn't stop Irish from gripping No. 2 
and vault, but the Irish were out with a 19-7 pounding of Western undefeated in conference play
Special to the Ol,•crver 
of the scoring. The club will Michigan, followed by two one­and ranked 14th nationally. The compete next weekend at sided victories over Grand Irish dropped a 25-23 first game Second place for the women at Indiana's Big Red Invitational. Valley, 15-2, and Bowling Green, before rallying to win 25-17, 16­
the Purdue Golden Grips 21-3. The scheduled fourth 14. Next up was No. 20 BallInvitational was a stunning 
game with Xa,ier was officially State, who also fell to the Irishaccomplishment, as the JPW Women's water polo declared a forfeit as the Irish 25-19, 22-25, 15-9. With theirdepleted gymnastics squad was Playing before family and posted a 4-0 record for the tour­roster also reduced by JPW,
missing several members. friends during JPW, the Irish 
nament. fatigue finally caught up with the Highlights included ·Caitlin dominated their first conference Irish , as they dropped the finaleO'Brien's 9.0 first place on the tournament of the season. With to Wisconsin-Oshkosh, 27-25,Vault, and the team's domina­netminder Brigette Alge and her Men's volleyball 
25-22.

tion on the Bars, as O'Brien took defense holding opponents to 12 The Irish netters took three of Wish so many players missing, second, Katie Bonchonsky third, goals in three games. the Irish four contests in the Midwest Ten newcomers Dan Parziale andMary Blazwicz fourth and Susan exploded on attack. Seniors Conference Qualifier this week­Nick Abrams stepped up to fillJen,nings fifth in a strong 13 Lauren Kuzniar and Liz Parolin end, including two stunners over 
voids at middle hitter and

team field. splashed home 12 and nine goals nationally ranked teams, at host Libero, while Mike GiampaOn the men's side, only two each, while Allison Gienko and Iowa. In the tournament opener, played well out of his normalIrish were able to attend. James Margo Klosterman chipped in the Irish edged Northern Illinois position at outside hitter. AdamDiStefano performed on rings, with five goals apiece and 25-21, 19-25, 15-13. In the sec­Schreier's passing complement­parallel bar and vault. while Jacqee Aragon ripped the nets ond round the Irish squared off ed Phil Autrey, who was able toPete Blouin entered rings, floor for three more. The Irish opened against Wisconsn-Whitewater, 

How do you pray? 
Taize
Lectio Divina 
Ignatian Meditation

Rosary AdorationStations of the Cross 
Praise & Worship Mass 
Wall( around the Lal(es 
Throughout history, people of faith have developed many creative ways to pray. No Greater Love is a day long retreat that offers you a chance to try some of these ways for yourself through inspirational talks and student-led music-filled prayer. Come experience something new. 
Keynote Speaker: Chandra Johnson Music led by Danielle Rose 
Other contributors include: Fr. J. Steele, csc & Fr. Nick Ayo, csc 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD 
10 A.M. • COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER 
BREAKFAST, LUNCH & DINNER PROVIDED (LOSING MASS BEGINS @ 6:30 P.M. 
No sign up required • Space is Limited First 50 people get a FREE No 0iYe;,afr,y L---ovc-T-Shirt 
For More Info: Go to www.nd.edu/ --nglove or Call 1-3250 
direct an attack with many new faces. Veterans Jim Lowder Rob Smith, and Greg Silber anchored the team and provided some needed stability. 
Ultimate 
Cincinnati's Arctic Vogue may prove to be the coming out party for the men's squad of the Ultimate club, as they reached the quarterfinals before falling to Indiana 13-7. The Irish opened with a convincing 13-7 victory over Northwestern and followed up with a close win over Hope College, 12-10. Victories over Cilncinnati, 11-9, and a club team, 13-10 placed the team in the quarters. Stanford Hall's sophomore tandem of Sean O'Neill and Jess Moore played well all weekend on both sides of the disc, as the Irish continue to build team depth. 
Equestrian 
The equestrians competed at 

Purdue this weekend in separate 
Saturday and SW1day meets. On 
Sunday, the Irish' Molly Kopacz 
earned high point rider honors 
as she took first in Intermediate 
Flats and Intermediate Fences. 
Many riders had outstanding 
performances as Quin Swiney 
captured first in novice fences, 
and Meganne Hoffman and Jill 
Godbout placed second in open 
fences and novice fences respec­
tively. Callie Willis earned third 
in novice flats as did Erin 
Hughes in advanced 
walk/trot/canter. Godbout's 
fourth in intermediate flats was 
complemented by Mary Barter 
and and Kelly Gentille tying for 
sixth in the event. Barter also 
placed fourth in open fences. 
In Saturday's meet, Quin 

Swiney took second in both 
novice flat and novice fences, 
while Meganne Hoffman took 
third in open fences and fifth in 
open flat to pace the Irish. 
Kristen Jones and Barter placed 
fifth, sixth in open fences and 
Kopacz and Godbout took third 
and second in intermediate and 
novice fences respectively. 
Ski 
Twenty-four schools, including 

national powerhouses St. Olaf, 
St. Thomas, Wisconsin, 
Minnesota, Northern Michigan, 
Michigan Tech and Marquette. 
faced off at the Regional quali­
fiers at Marquette, Mich. In 
Saturday's slalom, the Irish men 
captured 11th place, as the four 
fasted skiiers earn points for 
their team. Joe Payne led the 
Irish with a 32nd place showing, 
followed closely in order by Dan 
Block, Wes Jacobs and Eric 
Hanson. Jason Leucht and 
Suthee Wiri narrowly missed the 
top four, while Marc Pribacz. 
who had a first place run at 
Divisionals, was unable to finish 
his first run on the hard-packed 
snow. 
The women's squad, missing 

start Molly Munstcrer to JPW, 
finished 10th as Danielle 
Clements finished first on the 
sqad in 11th place. Also garner­
ing points for the women were 
Ellen Block, Lauren Dacey, and 
Leslie Schmidt. Anna Maria her­
nandez and Caitlin Wolf both fin­; ished, but out of scoring. ' In the giant slalom on Sunday, 
both squads finished 11th. Block, 
Payne, Leucht and Jacobs fin­
ished in the scoring for the men, 
while Clements Block, Dacey and 
Schmidt gained points for the 
women. 
page 22 The Observe,· . SPORTS Tuesday, February 19, 2002 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish ready to top Mountaineers 
Bv KATIE McVOY ~ociace Sports Editor 
At 8 p.m. on Saturday things were questionable for the Irish. On a court where they have a bad history without their go-to player. the Trish were unsure how they would play against the Rutgers Scarlet Knights. 
However. tonight as the Irish take their home court to face off against the West Virginia Mountaineers, the mood will be more settled. 
After winning one game with­out leading scorer Jackie Batteast, it looks as if an Irish team that was unstable with Batteast early in the season has progressed enough that it can bring home the win even with­out her. 
"I think the rest of the teamed up with fellow freshman Teresa Borton in a solid offen­sive and defensive effort and McGraw hopes to see that com­bination again tonight. 
"I really thought {Flecky] played well," McGraw said. "She and Teresa played so well together, they're going to play a lot together." 
Freshman Allison Bustamante may also get to see some more playing time in the wake of the Irish injuries. With junior point guard Jeneka Joyce sidelined again because of an Achilles' tendon injury, Bustamante may see some extra time at point guard, a position she started in against Seton Hall two weeks ago. 
"Like Coach said, it's a great opportunity for a bunch of peo­ple to step up and show what they can do," Bustamante 
team, every­body's doing a little  'They're capable of {stepping up] and now  said. "I think we will do that."  
more," said  people actually have to.  With  the  
head coach Muffet  People did. "  increased leadership of  
McGraw."...  Alicia  Ratay  
I think they  Jackie Batteast  and  Ericka  
all want to do  forward  Haney, Notre  

well." 
Batteast, who will be out again on Tuesday due to a partially torn knee ligament, may find it diffi­cult to watch from the sidelines, but she's confident in her team­mates' abilities to carry the team. 
"They're capable of [stepping up] and now people actually have to," Batteast said, speaking to the press for the first time since her injury. "People did. I'm glad that they showed that they can play." 
Freshman Katy Flecky will again be starting in Batteast's usual spot, after having a solid game on Saturday with four rebounds and two buckets. She 
Dame has a 
solid front to present to West Virginia. Ratay, who was named Big East co­player of the week, scored a sea­s on -high 25 points against Rutgers on Saturday, and Haney has scored in the double figures in four games since mid­January. 
"I think [Ratay] just wants to win," McGraw said. "She's try­ing to do it any way she can and she's trying to contribute any way she can ... [Haney's] playing great. Ever since Connecticut, she's shooting well. She's scor­ing." 
The Irish will have to face off against a Mountaineer team that presents several problems for them offensively. West Virginia "They problems they present (14-10, 6-7) can hit shots from for us defensively is really quick­the outside and drive inside, ness on the perimeter ... it's a which will trouble a Notre Dame match-up problem for us," transition defense that struggled McGraw said. "On the inside I against Rutgers late. think Brandi Batch is a really 
big match-up problem for us." Tip-off is at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

7he 13esfof1lcousficafe 

Auditions this Thursday 9-12pm, La Fortune Huddle 
Brought to you by SUB 

Tuesday, February 19, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 33 Operatic soloist 65 Misfortunes 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON your desire to be and do every­THIS DAY: Justine Bateman, thing yourself will help you sepa­
1 Soreness 34 Pulitzer novelist 68 Clear the tape 
Smokey Robinson, Margaux Hem­rate yourself from those unwilling
Anne

5 Snakes do it 69 Nick at_ 
ingway to work hard. 00 9 Hitter's problem 38 High cards 70 Lexicographer Happy Birthday: You will be VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 14 Wheedle 40 Olympian's Webster the one who moves into the role of You'll have money on your mind quest leadership regarding personal today. Figure out a good strategy 
15 Put one 71 Like sunflowers 
financial affairs this year. You regarding saving and investing
43 Wedge in a

16 Medieval 72 Hall-of-Farner should take a serious look at your and you will get ahead this year.
bottleneck?

invader Slaughter insurance policies, investments, 00000 17 Maryland 44 Purposely lose 73 ·_La Douce" wills or any other personal papers LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Rela­46 Roman date that may require updating. You tionships will be hot. Whether you
athlete, for short 
should put some time aside to are building a stronger connection 
48 Sharp tum

18 Neighbor of DOWN have fun this year. All work and to the one you are in love with orSumatra 49 Museum house 1 Play part no play will result in stress. Your you are single, you will find your­19 Bandleader in 58-Across numbers are 11, 18, 26, 31, 35, 43 sell in a favorable position to tum
2 British runner
Shaw 53 Columbus Day ARIES (March 21-April 19): this part of your life around today. 
Sebastian 
No one will be able to keep up 000
20 Scenic park in mo. 
3 Sign of things to with you today. Your surefire way SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
58-Across 56 What Austrians 
come of getti'ng everything accom­Focus on the people who can
23 Gather together speak: Abbr. 
4 Send abroad plisbed will dazzle onlookers. influence your future. If you putfor stitching 57 Teacher's Don't do so much that you frazzle extra effort into the things that you 
5 Voodoo
25 18-Across, e.g.: charges yourself. 000 enjoy doing the most, you will Abbr. 6 Certain coffee TAURUS (April 20-May 20): find that you will be doing more of
58 European 

table shape You may want to keep things to these projects as time goes on.
26 In medias cultural center 
yourself for just a little longer. If 000
7 Jeans maker 
27 Noted bridge in 63 Muslim ascetic you share your secret thoughts SAGIITARIUS (Nmc 22-Dec ZO:
Strauss
58-Across 64 River spanned there is a good chance that some­You will be a fierce competitor
8 Calamitous
32 Record by 27-Across one will revamp your idea and use today. Your skill coupled with 9 Like night skies it as his or her own. 000 your desire to make things happen 10 Shortening GEMINI (May 21-June 20): will lead to a better future. 000 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE The more you contribute to a CAfRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
11 Express 
group you belong to, the better. This is not the best day to make r.:-r:-::,-:-r:::,-::::, 12 Sen. Snowe's Puzzle by Janet R. 8-nder You will end up in a position of 
changes around your home. Focus state 35 Actress with 52 The Big Ten's 60 •-go bragh• leadership if you play your cards on your work, where you can right. The responsibility you are make a difference. 00000
13 Decrease? many exes Fighting_
WO 
61 Fascinated by given will lift your self-esteem. AQUARIUS (JAN. 20-FEB. 18): 
y E 21 Word with pure 36 Gives off 53Bid 
000 This will be a great day to travel. 
or standard 
37 Patron saint of 54 Red Cross 62 Nail holders CANCER (June 21-July 22): Drop in to see someone you don't 22 Cigar residue marriage organizer Barton Tread carefully. Someone you least get to visit that often. A friendship 
DA 
111111t::::'t"::-r.:1 23 Accident sound 66 Make tracks expect may spread something will flourish if you are prepared to
39 Appeasement 55 Hungarian wine 
about you that is exaggerated. help solve a pressing problem. 00
-=+,..._,=-+=+=-lll!llt-~,.;+,;.,,t 24 Bootlegger's 
41 Wood-dressing 59 Stand 67_Na Na Although there may be a slight bit PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):product tool of truth to what's being said, it will lhe more creative you are allowed =-t-.,,,-i-,..+--."'1 28 Pep put you in an awkward position. to be, the better. You will have
42 Sign of summer 
29 A 1950 film was Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 0000 some great ideas for ways to make 45 Bet available by touch-tone phone: LEO (July 23-Aug. 22}: Your extra cash. Don't hesitate to start 
"all abour her 
outgoing personality coupled with your own business. 0000
47 Pet lovers' org. 1·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute).
,-,,,.t...,..=+.,.,+....+,.,+,,,.i 30 Spanish naval base site 50 Football's Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You have a need to possess and protect whatever Dawson best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 you consider to be yours. You cling to those you love. You are sensitive 
31 Olive in the comics 51 Esoteric years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
and athmed to the thoughts and feelings of others. You have a wonder­ful imagination. (Need advice? Clteck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
•: DECORATING THE ROOM ) •~;GV:;_Y;,:S~-:-=-=--~==:-­
TEN BVCKS FOR A POST~!?! ~ THIS VAN 60GH WHY, we CO\JLl) COVER OUR PRINT WILL GO ENTIRE ROOM WITH OU> NICB.Y WITH OUR NINTENDO CARTRIDGES FOR 

FOXTROT 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
::,,.
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


Much less controversy swirled around the little publicized play, The Penis Dialogues 
THE OBSERVER 
·Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester Name ______________________ 
Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Women's Basketball, p. 22 
. Women's Tennis, p. 16 
. 
Club Sports, p. 21 . Ratay, p. 16 

. 
ND Softball, p. 19 . Timmermans, p. 14 

. 
Men's Track, p. 17 


PORTS 
Tuesday, February 19, 2002 

Lasorda pleases crowd 
. Former Dodgers coach speaks at baseball dinner 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Assistant Sports Editor 
Former Los Angeles Dodgers head coach Tommy Lasorda unofficially opened the 2002 Irish baseball season with a speech to Irish players and fans in the Joyce Center Monday night. 
Notre Dame's season does not begin until Friday but the "ballpark style" dinner gave Notre Dame fans a chance to see the team before it travels to New Orleans to face Missouri in the first game of the season. 
Lasorda cast a light-hearted tone on the evening, telling jokes about growing up Catholic and recalling humor­ous stories from his many years in baseball with the Dodgers. 
The legendary c.oach and Olympic gold medal winner entertained the crowd of fans with numerous stories about baseball, Italians and Catholics before moving on to the more serious part of his speech. 
"I've been to a lot of affairs throughout these great United States and I love to meet peo­ple because when I leave I always feel so much richer, and I know when I leave here l will feel so much richer," Lasorda said. 
Lasorda spoke to many of the young people in the audience about what he considered 
see LASORDNpage 20 


WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Grow leads Irish to Big East title 
By DAVE COOK Spores Writer 
Track and field is an indi­vidual sport. From start to finish, the individual is in total control of the outcome of the race. 
But for senior sprinter Liz Grow, teamwork is most important. 
It is what won the Big East Conference meet for the Irish this past weekend. 
"This is my team, I've done it for four years, I love it. I love it so much to see how far we've come, and to watch these girls give it there all for this team. It's unbelievable," said Grow. 
Freshman hurdler Tiffany Gunn feels the impact that Grow has on this team this year. 
"She's awesome. She's one of those captains where if you're down, she'll pat you on your back. But if you're not giving your 100 percent she'll chew you out. She's one of those people that if you're not performing your best, she's not going to be happy. She makes sure that I'm giving it my all, she leads by exam­ple," said Gunn. 
Crow's success on the track at the Big East Conference championship was equally important as her impact on the team. 
Grow was in three events totaling 'five races on the weekend en route to setting a school record in the 500­meter and scoring 15 points for the Irish. 
"[Grow) is probably the best pick for captain that [sprints] coach [John] Millar has," said Gunn. 
Grow took second in the 500 and eighth in the 200, and was on the mile relay team that took third place. 
"I wish I would have won the 500. I really wanted those two points. I scored eight points where I would have scored 10 if I won," said Grow. 
Gunn was probably the biggest surprise of the meet. A freshman 60-meter hurdler who was ranked eighth going into the meet, Gunn snuck into the finals and took a fourth place finish for the Irish. 
"I've kept improving each weekend. It helps practicing alongside Tameisha King, 
see IRISH/page 20 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles looking for upset 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
For three Saint Mary's seniors, Elizabeth Linkous, Anne Blair and Jamie Dineen, Saturday's 66-53 upset victory over Kalamazoo was a memo­rable way to finish out their careers at home. 
Now they want more. 
"On Thursday we got togeth­er, and we were talking after practice about how we want to make this last as long as we can," said Linkous. "With the bracket we're in the tourna­ment, the only team we haven't beaten in our bracket is Adrian. So if we win this game we feel we can pretty much win the rest of them." 
No. 3-seeded Adrian has 
beaten the sixth-seeded Belles 
twice this season by scores of 
81-76 and 70-57. Saint Mary's 
hopes to break that streak in 
the first round of the MIAA 
tournament. 
The last time these two 
teams faced each other was 
less than a week ago at home. 
Linkous believes that Adrian 
has the pressure on them to 
win because it is the higher 
seeded team, and because it 
has already beaten Saint 
Mary's twice this year. 
"Today we talked about how hard it is for their mentality coming into the game playing us," said Linkous. "They have to think they have to beat us three times in a row, and it's hard to beat someone three times in a row. So we're pretty much thinking upset." 
For that upset to happen, the Belles must rebound better against Adrian. 
Rebounding has been a con­sistent problem all year for the Belles, and head coach Suzanne Smith believes that aspect of the game is the key to the Belles advancing to the second round. 
"They're a very good transi­tion team, they really push the ball and we definitely have to do a better job of rebounding," said Smith. 
Saint Mary's will also have to shut down the league's fourth leading scorer, Ra'Sheida Edwards, who averages 13.1 points per game. 
If the Belles can shut down 
Edwards and play much like 
they did on Saturday, they will 
have a very good chance of 
see BELLES/page 16 

. Women's Basketball vs. West Virginia, tonight, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Women's Tennis vs. Iowa, Friday, 3:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
on line 

. Men's Lacrosse vs. Penn State, Sunday, 1 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Tennis vs. Miami, Sunday, 1 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 






