
VOL. XXXVII NO. 64 
FIRST SNOWMAN OF THE YEAR 

I-ITTP://01\SERVER ND.EDU 
Law students protest decision 
By HELENA PAYNE New,; Editor 

A group of law students held a protest Friday to denounce Notre Dame's decision not to allow third-year student Jenning Wong to spend her last semester at the New York University School of Law to be with her fiance, former Notre Dame law student Rich Kohlberger. 
"A Catholic University that espouses traditional family values would not have a policy that would keep people apart," said third-year law student Aaron Bernard, who orga­nized the protest. 
He and other students in the Law School are planning to challenge a section in the school's Hoynes Code that allows the dean to waive the six-semester requirement for law students who were not transfer students. 
"The bottom line is that the law school basically requires that courses be taken at the school for the purposes of earning a law degree," Notre Dame spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Section 4.5.2.2 of the Code gives the dean power to waive the requirement in "extraordi­narily compelling reasons," which Wong and Kohlberger thought included the reuniting of spouses. 
Julissa Robles, a second­year law student who attended the protest, said she and a group of friends have wrilten letters and plan to press the issue until the law school reevaluates the clause. 
"A lot of students are so busy and the administration knows we're only in transi­tion," Hobles said. "They expect us to be really compla­cent and to not make any waves." 
Following Wong's July engagement to Kohlberger, the couple asked law school Dean Patricia O'Hara if she could spend two semesters al NYU and still get a Notre Dame law degree. Initially, Wong wanted O'llara's approval so the couple they could spend more time togeth­er and have an August wed-
see PROTEST/page 4 
Libraries integrate online systeins 
By KATE DOOLEY 
Nc:ws Writer 
The Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Bethel College campus libraries have imple­mented a new system that allows users to renew materi­als online. 
The three schools and Holy Cross College, which plans to implement the system in the future, formed a cooperative through a system called Aleph that connects to each school's online catalog. It uses the ID barcode as well as the last four digil'l of your social secu­rity number lo process the renewal. Administrators hope the new system will help to streamline the process of using materials through the libraries. 
"The reasoning behind the renewal system is to offer stu­dents, faculty and staff the convenience of renewing books online," said Kate Ward, collection manager and systems librarian at Saint Mary's...This service allows you the comfort of renewing your book at three in the morning while sitting In your dorm room wearing your pajamas." 
The system allows patrons to sec what they have current­ly checked out on their record and then renew materials or cancel any hold requests that are no longer needed. Brochures are available at all the libraries that explain the online renewal process step by step and provide the Web addresses for each of the libraries. 

Each school's system keeps track of its own collection individually so students must go to that specific library's online catalog to renew mate­rial. said officials. Most stu­dents' materials will be renewed for 28 days, whereas faculty and graduate students have a longer time period for renewal. 
Ward said public libraries have offered this service for some time now, but use in a university setting is a relative­ly new concept. They had to make sure that people's record would be secure and private. Ward instructs users to change their verification pin to something other then their social security number as well as logging out when done to protect your privacy. 
"We are committed to your privacy and your First Amendment right to read what you want to read," she 
see LIBRARY/page 4 
Jaguar displayed at Notre Dame 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 

As part of a presentation on changes in the automotive industry, one of the eight Jaguar XKRs used in the recent James Bond movie, "Die Another Day," was on display at the Mendoza College of Business last Friday. Mike O'Driscoll, president of the Aston Martin, Jaguar and Land Hover North American division, gave a talk about recent changes and industry developments in his company. 
O'Driscoll discussed the increasing recent democratiza­tion of luxury. Among the newest changes in the automo­tive industry include aggressive growth of premium car sales in the past seven years, brand pro­liferation, broad product portfo­lios and the strengthening of dis­tribution networks, where auto­motive dealerships have become full-service destination points, said O'Driscoll. He also explained how the merger of three separate companies has affected his company. 
"We put Aston Martin. Jaguar and Land Rover together to take on the competition," said O'Driscoll. 
Luxury vehicles are also more affordable now because of con­sumers' increase in affiuence and willingness to take on debt and leasing, said O'Driscoll. Luxury automotive companies have in turn aimed to promote brand awareness, publicity and media exposure, answer con­sumer preferences, create prod­uct extensions and enhance product performance. 

"If you could take one car to your high school graduation, this would be it," said O'Driscoll. 
The other three major auto­motive companies are BMW, Mercedes Benz and Lexus, explained O'Driscoll. The demand for different categori.es of luxury items has also increased rapidly, and these brands face many of the same challenges. 
The challenges of brand democratization include pre­serving authenticity, perfor­
mance and striving for a balance between the business growth attained by volume and the brand integrity achieved by exclusivity, said O'Driscoll. 
O'Driscoll also explained how company has evolved from Lyons' Swallow Side Car Company in Coventry, England to one of the world's largest lux­ury automotive companies. Jaguar will launch the newest model of Us XJ flagship brand next year, according to O'Driscoll. 
Contact Christina Cepero at ccepcro@nd.edu 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Monday, November 25, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Iammyhometown's expert 
I've successfully made it through the flrst three months ofmy college career. And as Thanksgiving approaches, I reflect on this semester and the classes I've had, the things I've done and the people I've met. And one thing has Maureen really stood out to 
Reynolds

me, besides the 
fact that professors 
always seem to News Wire 
hand out the big Editor 
papers and exams 
on the days that 
have already gone really badly. 
Everyone, no matter who they are or 
where they're from, becomes an expert 
on their hometown or state when they 
enter college. 
Think about it. When you meet some­one in a class and ask them where they're from they will come up with some sort of trivia to qualify their home­town. For example: "Where are you from?" "Dayton, Ohio. You know, Martin Sheen is originally from Dayton.~ 
My friends and I are no exception. Through various late-night conversa­tions, I have discovered that Emily knows all about the Minnesota Twins, Sarah can tell me the places various Hollywood stars hang out in Los Angeles, Meg is the resident expert on the Mafia in New Jersey and Nora has become our very own South Bend sage. Want to know a great place to eat or shop in South Bend? Ask Nora. Which crime family had each of its wives mys­teriously die while washing windows? Meg knows. 
Being from Chicago, I myself have become a meteorologist ofsorts for the area surrounding Lake Michigan. My forecast never changes: it will always get colder. No matter what the temper­ature is now, it will always get worse. While my friends from warmer climates huddle in their big winter coats, I am determined to boycott my own winter coat until snow accumulates on the ground (which, by the way, will not be until early December). 
I think that we do this because each person. when they enter college, wants to show that their hometown is just as interesting as everyone else's. Either that or we just enjoy one-upping every­one else's stories. 
Now freshmen, I'm going to bet that the same thing is going to happen when we go home for Thanksgiving this week. All those friends that we haven't seen since August are going to come home with all sorts of stories about their own schools. And we, in turn, will become experts once again, but this time on Notre Dame history. dorm life, off-cam­pus parties and everything else about life here. And ifit turns out that we are just trying to one-up each other, we have the consummate line to one-up friends from almost any other school. 
Just ask them what their football team's record is. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards i1Self as a professional publica­tion a11d scrives for chc highest standards of journal­ism at all limes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Art professor talks about rellgiously-Inspired art 
In the sixth nd final talk of the Sa tu rda y Scholar Series Professor Merideth Gill focuses on religious inspiration in art. 
page 3 

WORLD& NATION 
Iraqis claim 
U.N. provides unfair pretext for war 
In a letter addressed to the 
U.N. Sunday, Iraq claimed that the recent U.N. resolu­tion could allow the United States a pre­text to begin a war in the country. 
page 5 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Tyson Foods will not pay government fines 
Representatives from Tyson Foods announced they would not accept a $100 million fine from the U.S. Justice Department. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
A ND alum considers the Issue of gay priests 
Notre Dame alumnus Stephen Snchaz considers the problems asso­ciated with homo­sexuals in the priesthood. 
page 9 


WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Beaded Watches Workshop with Linda Topash Yazcl 5:30-7:30 p.m. at Heignbaux Lounge, LcMans Hall 

. 
CWIL (.)unstions and i\nsw1)rs 12-1 p.m. at Welsh Parlor, llaggar College Center 

. 
Sophomorn Board I\foeting 8-9 p.m. at Boom 304, llaggar College Center 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Cheese and mushroom spinach tortellini, Italian sausage mari­nara, Mexican beef pizza, pretzel sticks, Polish sausage. sweet and sour cabbage, Polish kluski noodles, potato and cheese pierogis, green beans, apple crisp, grilled tuna with lemon, asparagus cuts, wild rice, cream ofwheat, scrambled eggs 
Today's Dinner: Cheese and mush­room spinach tortellini, Italian sausage marinara, Mexican beef pizza, pretzel sticks, roast top round, sauteed herbed mushrooms, green bean casserole, baby carrots, apple crisp, spinach quiche, orzo portobello and cream, Italian-blend veg­etables 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
w
:c 
ti 
w 
~ 
..I 
ct 
0 




.s HIGH 36 27 LOW 25 25 
HIGH LOW 

SCENE 
Scene reviews 'Lord of the Dance'atthe Morris Center 
Scene critiques a recent performance of traditional Irish dance held Saturday evening at the Morris Performing Arts Center. 
page 10 
SPORTS 

Pasquerilla East and Siegfried win 
interhall  
Siegfriend  and  
Pasquerilla  East  
take  home  the  

interhall champi­onships Sunday afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium. 
page 20 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Bike rider collides with golf cart 
A student riding his bike near the north side of Notre Dame Stadium reported that he collided with a stu­dent driving a golf cart Friday after­noon. 
VJSitors stopped for soliciting 
NDSP stopped two visitors selling holiday gifts in Grace Hall Friday afternoon. The visitors were identi­fied, issued non-contractual interest forms and released. 
University decal confiscated 
NDPD confiscated a University parking decal from a University employee near lot A9 on Friday morning. 
complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Orzo meatball soup, cream of tomato soup, sausage pizza, cheese pizza, turket tetrazzini casserettes, California burgers, egg­plant parmesan sandwiches, french fries, bean and cheese burritos, sea­soned corn, vegetable kabobs, green beans 
Today's Dinner: tomato and pesto pizza, cheese pizza, fried pork fritters, french fries, vegetarian lasagna. garlic bread, beef stroganoff, peppercorn muffins, stuffed zucchini, orzo meatball soup, cream of tomato soup 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
29 
21 

HIGH 40 LOW 30 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Beef ravioli, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnovers, BBQ beef sandwiches, shrimp spaghetti, rotisserie chicken, oriental vegetables, roasted rosemary potatoes, red beans and rice, corn dogs, fishwiches, crinkle fries, soft pretzels, stir-fry beef and peppers, chicken fajitas 
Today's Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, spinach fettuccine, pesto sauce, tomato pizza, apple turnover, vegetables marinara, capri-blend vegetables. baked turbot jardiniere, beef bourguignon, klus­ki noodles, Bourbon-baked ham, baked sweet potatoes 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


HIGH LOW 
36 HIGH 20 LOW 
HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 65 / 43 Boston 47 / 36 Chicago 36 / 25 Denver 28 / 12 Houston 65 / 50 Los Angeles 69 / 50 Minneapolis 26 / 17 New York 50 / 36 Philadelphia 53 / 34 Phoenix 72 I 53 Seattle 50 / 32 St. Louis 38 / 25 Tampa 76 / 58 Washington 56 / 39 


35 24 

Monday, November 25, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Students participate 




Gill discusses religious art 
• Religious art aids in understanding the divine 
By MARIA SMITH 
News Writ~r 
In tho last talk of tho College of Arts and Letters Saturday Scholar Series. Meredith Gill, assistant pro­fessor or a.rt at Notre Dame, discussed religious inspiration in various artworks in her talk entitled, "Art and the Hcligious Imagination." 
Gill explored the methods used in religious art and what meaning lay behind the artists' endeavors. 
"Thomas Merton once said that a saint is a sign from God. The saint is a sacramen­tum, a sign of mediating grace," said Gill. "Can a work of art operate in the same way, as a sign of mediating grace?" 
Gill emphasized the special role artists have in making religious experience more accessible to their audience. "Artists offer us a way to imagine the unimaginable," said Gill. "Artists can 
then be la) "Artists offer us a way of faith by 
special wit­
to imagine the 
ness to the 
faith and unimaginable." works of art can be spe­
Meredeth GIii
cial witness­
assistant professor of art
es." 
Gill dis­cussed two main meth­ods -identification and vision -for creating art that connected viewers with a reli­gious experience. 
"llero the Roman martyr, Sebastian, is located in the Arno Valley of Florence, the artist's home town," said Gill, when describing Italian 
, 
Antonjo del Pollaiuolo's art­work "St. Sebastian" which depicts the saint being pierced by arrows for the crime of being a Christian. "Seeing this evoked quite lit­erally on one's own doorstep had to allow the viewer a way into understanding this gruel­ing death,'' she said. 
Gill also discussed the paiut­i n g "St. Augustine in His Study," a depiction by tho Italian artist Vittore 
Ca.rpaccio of the Catholic theologian and saint as a scholar. 
"In this painting, he appears not as [a] theolo­gian so much as a profes­sor in his study," said 
"Bernini has represented the purely invisible and the purely physical means . ., 
Meredith GIii assistantprofessorofart 
Gill. "Here, I think that identi­fication has to do with imag• ining an Augustine for the times." 
Gill said insights such as these were a positive aspect of identification in religious art. 
"The departure from histor­ical truth tells us about the continuities 
giving us new stage sets and new kinds of heroes," said Gill. 
However, she also emphasized the more dis­

turbing side of identification in art. 
"There is a deeper aspect to identification which plays into a very deep theme in Christianity," said Gill. "A work of art can prod us to imagine the worst of tor­ments, torments worse than 
death itself." Gill referred specifically to 
in annual food drive 
German artists Matthias Grunewald's painting "Temptation of St. Anthony," which shows the saint suffer­ing from the disease known as St. Anthony's Fire, a fungus which caused lesions and gangrene. The painting hung in a ward for patients suffer­ing from the disease, said Gill. 
"Perhaps the patients iden­tified with his suffering," said 
By 1AURA CORISTIN 
News Writer 
In order to help provide needy families with food for the holidays, students at Saint Mary's helped organize a food drive benefiting the Food Bank of Northern Indiana 
Gill. "And 
from Nov. 11-22. The Island
perhaps too 
Oasis Smoothie Company. the
they thought 
board of Dalloway's
about their 
Coffeehouse and Sodexho 
repentance as 
Food Services, the College's
the hours of 
food service company, spon­
d e a t h 
sored the drive. For every
approached 
four cans or perishable food
for hell might 
items donated, students 
indeed look 
received a coupon for a free
like this." 
smoothie that could be
Gill also 
redeemed at Dalloway·s
described the 
Coffeehouse. 
go hungry every day. 
"A lot of people don't real­ize that and don't look beyond fences and streets," said Carnegie. "They go where they need to go with­out realizing that they are so close lo people who need so much." 
Susan Almeda, a student manager at Dalloway's, said she is pleased with the results of Dalloway's food drive and with the generosity being shown throughout the Saint Mary's community. 
"I feel that every little bit helps because the Food Bank of Northern Indiana is in such desperate need of food," said Almeda. "Any contribution that we can make can help, and because there are other food drives going on for the Food Bank of Northern Indiana, the college is doing a really good job of collecting food as a community." 
Carnegie added that the Food Bank of Northern Indiana would accept both food and monetary donations. Every $500 raised brings in a truckload of food worth approximately $6.000 of donated food, she said. 
Contact Laura Coristin at cori0333@saintmarys.edu 
visionary in art. She referred specifically to the Cornaro Chapel in Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome. Gianlorenzo Bernini's statue "St. Teresa in Ecstasy" depicts St. Teresa in awe before an angel. The work stands in a richly paint­ed alcove in the Italian Church, while light from a hidden window above the alcove illuminates the scene. 
"Bernini has represented the purely invisible and the purely spiritual through pure­ly physical means," said Gill. "I think that we really could say, here, that we have a work of art as a sign of medi­ating grace," 
Bill Carnegie, director of the food bank, said they are running out of food everyday. 
"The big picture is we pro­vide food to over 300 local charities, and they have basi­cally cleaned us out of food." said Carnegie. "We are being forced to turn away agen­cies." 
The Food Bank of Northern Indiana serves about 90,000 people per month in 10 coun­ties in northern Indiana, said Carnegie. He pointed out that many members of the com­munity are unaware of how many people in the local area 
Gill's lecture was the sixth and last talk in the Saturday 
SOUTH KOREA 
Scholar Series, a project of the College of Arts and Letters that presents lectures on vari­

Firebombs hurled at 
ous topics the morning before each home football game. 

U.S. military base 
Contact Maria Smith at 
Associated Press 
mamith.4@nd.edu 
SEOUL 

Dozens of activists hurled firebombs into a U.S. military base early Monday, protesting last week's acquittals of two American soldiers involved in 
Leigh Hellrung is 21 today! 
Happy Birthday Bug! 
Love, Mom &Dad 
the deaths of two Korean teenagers. 
The attack on Camp Gray in Seoul. a small warehouse man­agement facility manned most­ly by South Korean employees. caused no property damage or injuries, the U.S. military said. 
South Korean police said one activist was arrested. 
"It's understandable for peo­ple to express their views and opinions. but we will not con­done violent demonstrations which could cause injuries and damage to facilities," said Lt. Col. Steven Boylan, a military spokesman. 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, Novemeber 25, 2002 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
ding, but they changed the date to December because of the delay it took at the begin­ning of the year to talk to deans in the law school. 
"We didn't want to get mar­ried and be separated," Wong said. 
In their letter to O'Hara, Wong and Koh!berger explained how they had grown accustomed to studying with one another before Kohlberger's transfer to NYll for his second year of law school. Even after the two were separated, they traveled every other week to visit one another, which they said put a financial and emotional strain on them, 
Kohlberger said he began talking with people at NYU about Wong's chances of acceptance while Wong began consulting with deans Vincent Rougeau and John Robinson about leaving Notre Dame. 
The couple claimed they were given a verbal confirma­tion by an NYU administrator that Wong could enroll at NYU as long as Notre Dame approved. 
In cases where students visit for a semester, Yvette Bravo­Weber. assistant dean for stu-


Library 
continued from page 1 

said. 
The library hopes that the sys­tem will serve the patrons as well as cut back on their late fees. Earlier in the semester, Saint Mary's library began to e­mail late notices as opposed to mailing them. 
Now, coupled with the renewal dent affairs of NYU's law school, said NYU has to get the permission of the school where the visiting student will receive his or her degree. 

"It's more Notre Dame's decision," Bravo-Weber said. 
Wong and Kohlberger both argued the reuniting of spous­es would merit an exception, but after attempts to meet with Robinson, the two were finally rejected in separate meetings with Robinson and O'Hara. Wong also claimed that both Robinson and O'Hara said they were "comfortable with keep­ing a husband and wife sepa­rate." 
Robinson would not com­ment on the situation and O'Hara did not return phone calls left by the Observer. 
"This is a Catholic school. Of all the places [where} mar­riage should be supported and embraced l thought that Notre Dame would support me in my wedding," Wong said. 
At this point, Wong said there is no guarantee that she would be able to register for the two classes she needs to graduate even if she did get Notre Dame's permission to go to NYU. However, she and Kohlberger have not changed their December wedding. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
online, when patrons receive a late notice, they can go right to the Web site and renew the book or magazine, making it easier to avoid late charges. 
Ward said that the library has received positive feedback on the renewal system but will con­tinue to identify and implement any needed improvements. 
Contact Kate Dooley at dool6ll0@saintmarys.edu 
Priest returns to his former parish 
Associated Press 
NEWTON, Mass. 
Monsignor Michael Smith Foster made an emotional return to his former parish Sunday for the first time since he was cleared of child sexual abuse allegations. 
"By your prayers you clothed my spirit. By your concern through letters and calls and action you wel­comed me into your lives when I felt like I had been cast into prison," he said. 

Foster was one of the high­·est ranking clergy members accused of abuse since the crisis erupted in January, when court documents revealed that the archdio­cese shuffled abusive priests between parishes. He is the presiding judge of the arch­diocesan tribunal that han­dles annulments and canon law issues. 
The Mass at Sacred Heart church was packed with those who steadfastly sup­ported the priest when he was accused of sexual abuse and twice suspended before being reinstated last month. 
As he made his way up the aisle toward the altar. shak­ing hands and greeting parishioners, the congrega­tion broke out in applause for about 30 seconds. 

"You stopped what was happening in your lives and gave your time and support to me. I am overwhelmed by your loving support," he told former youth group members and altar servers, who coun­tered the abuse allegation from a former altar boy. 
The archdiocese is "delighted"to have Foster back in full ministry, said spokeswoman Donna Morrissey. "We're going to work together to make sure we maintain and respect his good name," she said. 
Foster's case revealed deep wounds within the church, spurring accusations from both clergy and laity that the archdiocese mishandled Foster's case and has failed to protect its priests. 
In August, former altar boy Paul Edwards accused Foster of sexually molesting him in his rectory bedroom at Newton's Sacred Heart parish between 1980 and 1985. 
Foster then took a leave of absence and was suspended from his pastoral duties. But the charges were placed in doubt after acquaintances of Edwards pointed to factual errors in his account. 
Shuttle reaches space station 
into other trouble that fur­breasts were aboard
. Astronauts are 
ther delayed liftoff. Endeavour for Thanksgiving.excited about The long wait ended As for Christmas, Bowersox mission Saturday noted: "I can't 
night with think of a 
an ear­whole lot bet­
Associated Press "I've seen two or three
splitting ter place to
sunrises during the last 
launch. s p e n d CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. "You really couple days and I can ·t Christmas than Space shuttle Endeavour rocked the believe how many more up in Earth chased after the internation­house with orbit looking
I've got ahead ofme."
al space station Sunday, t h a t down, trying to 
bringing a relief crew for its ascent," find Santa 
three longtime inhabitants. Miss'ion Kenneth Bowersox Claus." 
The astronaut who will Control Earlier
astronaut
take over as the space sta­radioed. tion's next commander, Bowersox Kenneth Bowersox, said it said he was hard to believe he was took advantage of the last finally on his way after five two weeks of delay to catch 
long  years  of  up  on  
training.  sleep. So  
"I can't wait," he said in an interview with The Associated  "/ can't think ofa whole lot better place to spend Christmas."  did his c r e w -m a t e Donald  
Press on Sunday  Pettit.  
night. ''I've seen  Kenneth Bowersox  "It gave  

two or three sunrises during the last couple days and I can't believe how many more I've got ahead of me. But I think every day is going to be precious up here." 
Bowersox and the six oth­ers aboard Endeavour will arrive at the space station Monday afternoon. 
American astronaut Peggy Whitson and Russian cosrno­nauts Val~ry Korzun and Sergei Treschev have been aboard the space station for almost six months. Their mission was supposed to last 4 1/2 months, but all of the space shuttles were ground­ed after they moved in because of cracked plumb­ing. Then, Endeavour ran 
me an 
astronaut 

opportu­nity to try to put on a few 
pounds before flight," Pettit said. "So I did a lot of eating. And then I did a lot more sleep after that. And then, of course, we have to go to the gym." 
The postponements pushed the shuttle flight into normal daytime working hours and because of that, the astro­nauts said they felt in better shape. "Physically, I think the delays helped us," Bowersox said. 
Being in orbit over the holi­days may intensify the space station experience, said Bowersox, the father of three young sons. 
NASA made sure turkey 
Sunday, 
Bowersox and 
shuttle com­mander James Wetherbee gave Endeavour's robot arm a workout as the shuttle drew closer to the station. The job took on added signif­icance because of the dam­age that workers inflicted two weeks ago during oxy­gen-leak repairs; they acci­dentally hit the arm with scaffolding. 
Despite the 2-inch bruise near the shoulder of the 50­foot crane, it operated fine in orbit, although a wrist joint was sluggish. Mission Control said recently applied lubri­cant may not have had a chance yet to work its way into that joint. 
The arm will be used Tuesday to lift a giant girder from the shuttle payload bay for installation on the space station. 
Endeavour will spend a full week at the space station and return to Earth, with Whitson and her two station crewmates, on Dec. 4. 
Bowersox, Pettit and Russian cosmonaut Nikolai Budarin will remain aboard the orbiting complex until March. 


MCNAIR SCHOLARS PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME ANNOUNCES THE 
2002 -2003 RECRUITMENT MEETINGS WITH PROF. DON POPE-DAVIS 
AND MS. MARY NICHOLS (1-7514) 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2002 
7:00 -8:00 PM (Pizzas & Sodas will be served) 
IN ROOM 218 MAIN BLDG. 
FOR ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS WHO ARE EITHER: 
• First Generation College Students from low income families 
OR 

• African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans 
-




WORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 25, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Iraq claims U.N. resolution has unfair pretext for war 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 
In a point-by-point proLest, the Iraqi government com­plained to the United Nations Sunday that the small print behind the weapons inspec­lions beginning this week will give Washington a pretext to attack. 
The new U.N. resolution on the inspections could turn "inaccurate statements lamoug] thousands of pages" of required Iraqi reports into a supposed justification for mili­tary action, Foreign Minister Naji Sub ri said in a letter to 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan. 
"Them is premeditation to target Iraq, whatever the pre­text." Sabri said. 
llis lengthy letter, a detailed commentary on the Security Council resolution, was not expectnd to affect the inspec­tions, which resume Wednesday after a four-year suspension. Iraq had accepted lhe rcsolulion in a Nov. 13 let­ter from Sabri to Annan. 
Preparations moved steadily ahead on Baghdad's outskirts Sunday, where technicians at the U.N. inspection center worked to establish a "hot line" with liaisons in the Iraqi gov­ernment. The first working group of 18 inspectors arrives Monday on a flighl. from a U.N. rear base in Cyprus. Their numbers are expected to swell by year-end to between 80 and 100 at a time in Iraq. 
In seven years' work after the 1991 Gulf War, U.N. experts destroyed large amounts of chemical and bio­logical weapons and longer­range missiles forbidden to Iraq by U.N. resolutions, and dismantled Iraq's nuclear weapons program before it could build a bomb. The inspections were suspended amid disputes over U.N. access to Iraqi sites and Iraqi com­plainls the United States insert­
ed  spies  in  the  inspection  
teams.  
A new focus on  Iraq by the  

Bush administration led to adoption of Resolution 1441 and the dispatch of inspectors back to Iraq with greater pow­ers of unrestricted access to suspected weapons sites. Washington alleges Iraq retains some prohibited weapons and may be produc­ing others. 
The resolution, adopted unanimously Nov. 7, demands the Iraqis give up any chemi­cal, biological or nuclear weapons. or face "serious con­sequences." 
It requires Iraq to submit an accounting by Dec. 8 of its 
weapons programs, as well as ing it had committed a "materi­of chemical, biological and al breach" of the resolution ­nuclear programs it claims are a finding that might lead to peaceful. Any "false statements military action. or omissions" in that declara­The Bush administration has tion could contribute to a find-threatened war to enforce Iraqi 

KUWAIT 
Latest attacks on U.S. citizens spark fear in Middle East 
friendly nations like Kuwait are no tion of broad anti-American feelings. and you see Americans, maybe your
Associated Press 
longer enclaves of safety. But local press reports say the suspect, neighbors are Americans.n 
"The thing that is scary, that's differ­Khaled al-Shimmiri, told investigators Kuwait is, in many ways, emblematic 
KUWAIT CITY ent this time, is that it seems more he hated Americans and Jews. of how complicated America's image 
In Kuwait, two American soldiers are organized," said Felix Reinberg, an Many here fear the attack -problems and security concerns can be shot on a quiet stretch of desert high­American engineer who has spent 11 Kuwait's second in which American in the Middle East. way. In Lebanon. an American nurse is years working in Kuwait. He spoke soldiers were shot -will not be the The vast majority of this oil-rich murdered at a clinic. In Jordan, a U.S. days after the U.S. soldiers were last. nation is pro-American, grateful to the diplomat is gunned down in his front injured in the highway shooting "It's obvious these incidents will hap­U.S.-led coalition that drove out yard. Thursday. "They've never really target­pen, and will continue to happen," said Saddam Hussein's army in the 1991 
As U.S. soldiers prepare for possible ed Americans or Westerners in Abdullah Sahar, a political scientist at Gulf War. Thousands of American war with Iraq, and as violence contin­Kuwait." Kuwait University. "Kuwait is a very workers and more than 10,000 U.S. ues in American-allied Israel and the The Kuwaiti government. eager to small society, and this is a very small soldiers have been welcomed. Palestinian territories, a series of keep good relations with Washington, country, and the Americans are every­Even America's harshest critics want attacks on Americans in the Middle has portrayed the shooting as the act of where: You go to the markets and you those troops to remain -though they East has sparked fears that even a single, mentally ill man, not a reflec-see Americans, you go on the street insist a deep hatred lies beneath the 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli troops occupy West Bank mosques: 
On the firsl Sunday since Israel reoccupied Bethlehem, troops barred Christians from worship­ping at the Church of the Nativity, one of Christianity's most sacred shrines. Soldiers in anoth­er part of the West Bank searched four mosques for suspected militants. There were no signs that the Israelis were near an end to the operation in the bib­lical town, despite a State Department call for troops to leave as soon as possible, with Christmas just a month away. Christian tradition holds that Jesus was born in a grotto under the Bethlehem church. Israeli forces rolled into Bethlehem, in the West Bank just south of Jerusalem, early Friday after a Palestinian suicide bomber from Bethlehem blew himself up on a Jerusalem bus a day before, killing 11 passengers and injuring more than 40 other people. The army has been conducting house-to-house searches for militants there. Soldiers arrested a local Islamic 
Jihad leader on Sunday, the military said. 
disarmament, with or without 
U.N. sanction. But other gov­ernments, including France, Russia and China, say that decision can be made only by the Security Council. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Senate urges probe on money trail: 
Lawmakers pressed for answers Sunday on a possible Saudi money trail in the Sept. 11 hijackings and said regardless of whether one exists, the kingdom must stop its "duplici­tous" coddling of terrorists. Saudi officials spent the weekend having bankers pore over the records of Princess Haifa al-Faisal, wife of their ambassador to the United States, to see how thousands of dollars from her account might have ended up in the wrong hands, said Saudi foreign policy adviser Adel al-Jubeir. But he said it was "crazy" to sug­gest she had done anything intentionally to support terrorism. Lawmakers said the FBI's investigation should pull no punches, and the Bush administration should be open about the findings, despite the risk of offending an important ally with whom relations already have been strained. 
Shelby predicts al-Qaida attacks: 
Sen. Richard Shelby, an eight-year veteran of the Senate Intelligence Committee, warned Americans on Sunday to expect another major attack from al-Qaida terrorists. "Oh, absolutely. It's going to happen," Shelby said on NBC's "Meet the Press." Ile said he based his opinion partly on a warning of a spectacular attack contained in an audiotape, broadcast Nov. 12 on al-Jazeera television in the Persian Gulf emirate Qatar. U.S. intelligence experts attributed the tape to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi-born fugitive who leads the al-Qaida terror network. "There were several mes­sages there," said Shelby. "One, to all of his support­ers, and to us, that he is alive, and he's kicking, and he's going to be around. And I think ho also sent the message he's going to attack us and attack our allies." Shelby, R-Ala., who is leaving the intelligence commit­tee in the new Congress convening in January, has been known for years as a leading Senate authority on national security. 


r--­
' 
page 6 
. 
I 
I 
I I Mold in schools 
draining budgets 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
To protest a menace in their school, nearly 1,000 students at East High School in Memphis skipped homeroom one day. 
Across the state, another 1,000 students spent a month at Bristol Motor Speedway not watching NASCAR races. but studying in the skyboxes while a threat was removed at Sullivan East High School. 
In each case, the problem was 
the same: mold. 
Nationwide, school districts are finding allergy-inducing mold in walls, on carpets and near ventilation systems. While one report blames aging build­ings and mold-promoting con­struction techniques, one expert says it's due to a lack of proper ventilation in newer schools. 
"It's a growing problem, and it's one of the more high-priority issues that schools are dealing with," said Ericka Plater, indoor air quality manager for the American Association of School Administrators. 
Mold has forced some admin­
istrators to shut down schools 
and make millions of dollars in 
repairs. Others face lawsuits 
from students and staff who 
claim moldy buildings caused 
long-term health problems. 
In Austin, Texas, voters approved a $49.3 million bond issue in February to pay for mold removal and preventive maintenance in 91 schools. In Fort Myers, Fla., several teach­ers sued county school officials last week, accusing them of fail­ing to fix mold problems. 
In Tennessee, just before the Bristol students were forced out of their school, teenagers at Heritage High School about two hours away in Maryville got an unexpected four-week vacation when mold was found there. The repair estimate: $1 million. 
Memphis school board mem­bers called an emergency meet­ing after hundreds of students there refused to enter East High, which some parents described as a "mold-infested hazard." 
About 600 students received medical screenings after Donald Criss Mister Jr.• 17, died Nov. 16 following an asthma attack. So far, no link has been found between the death and mold in the school, but the school board hired an environmental consul­tant, and federal inspectors with the Environmental Protection Agency will tour it Monday. 
Sonji Wright, the mother of a student. told Superintendent Johnnie B. Watson that bringing in experts wasn't enough. 
'-''My baby is on a respirator. Mr. Watson," she screamed through a white mask that cov­ered her nose and mouth in a sign of protest. "She cannot breathe, and what are you going to do about it?" 
Mold problems usually go unnoticed until people become 
ill. No federal agency regulates or monitors air quality in schools, and few states inspect for it. 
In Tennessee. no state agency monitors mold in schools. 
"It's really everybody's prob­lem because it's such a new issue," said Judith Morgan. the state Education Department spokeswoman. "That's why it seems to be falling kind of between the cracks." 
Tennessee's education depart­ment sent e-mail to school offi­cials statewide Friday and directed them to an EPA Web site that offers guidance on air quality issues. 
Plater said a federal report suggests old. dilapidated schools might be more susceptible to. mold. Others say the Gypsum wallboard and carpeted floors that replaced plaster and wood make newer schools a greater target because they soak up more moisture. 
David Weekley, president of Knoxville-based Environmental Consulting and Testing, said the 1970s energy crisis prompted construction of more airtight schools. Less natural ventilation is part of the problem, he said. 
Another factor is the tendency of cash-strapped districts to delay maintenance and patch leaks, he said. 
Mold occurs naturally and can grow almost anywhere that's warm and damp. Experts have identified more than 100,000 species of mold; at least 1,000 are common in the United States. 
While the most common molds generally aren't haz­ardous, some types are blamed for headaches, fatigue and res­piratory problems. 
Sullivan County Schools direc­tor John O'Dell said the Bristol high school was shut down for about six weeks and $600,000 worth of repairs after children became ill and several class­rooms tested positive for black mold, or Stachybotrys char­tarum, which can cause breath­ing problems. 
The mold there was primarily around poorly insulated pipes that carry cold water through­out the building to cool class­rooms. The pipes created con­densation that dripped onto porous ceiling tiles, providing a breeding ground for mold. 
"I think we're all more sensi­tive to it now," O'Dell said. "We've told the principals and custodians to keep an eye out for any discolored tile and then replace it immediately." 
The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 25, 2002 
AUSTRIA 
Conservatives make gains in parliamentary elections 
the war. 
Associated Press If the final results confirm the People's Party in first VIENNA, Austria place, that would put them 
Chancellor Wolfgang above the Socialists in terms Schuessel's conservative of popularity for the first party made large gains to time since 1966. dominate parliamentary Despite elections on Sunday, but 
Party] crash," the Austria Press Agency cited him as saying. 
But some of those prepar­ing to vote under slate-gray skies in Vienna Sunday were clearly bent on depriving the 
Freedom 
their poor Party of
"I can only prevent a
coalition partner Joerg showing, another
coaliton that includes the 
Haider's anti-immigration however, term in party was pounded at the the Freedom Freedom Party by backing power. polls. according to initial P a r t y "I can only
the Greens. " 
results. remained in prevent a 
Preliminary results position to coalition released by state television extend its Barbara Steiner that includes showed Schuessel's People's government the Freedom
Austrian citizen 
Party captured more than 42 role into the percent, the Interior Ministry next legisla­said. That is 16 percentage tive period. points better than its perfor­Although the Social 
mance in 1999 elections. Democrats and the People's 
Haider's Freedom Party Party have buried differences stood at in the past to just over govern in a 10 per­''There will be no "Grand c e n t , Coalition," it
{Freedom Party} crash. " 
d O W D was unclear nearly whether the two-thirds Alfred Gusenbauer S o c i a 1 from the 
leader of the Social Democrats Democrats 
27 percent it cap­tured in the last elections. 
The Social Democrats also gained but appeared to have been outpaced by the People's Party. They were listed at just over 37 percent, more than three percentage points more than in the last elections. The environmen­talist Greens stood at around 9 percent, little changed from their results two years ago, the preliminary results showed. 
Official results were expected in December after absentee ballots are counted. 
If the figures remain unchanged the People's Party surge would reflect the strongest gains by any party since the end of World War 
II. Conversely, the Freedom Party losses, if confirmed by the final results, represent the largest drop in popularity of any party since the end of 
could opt to 
again cooper­
ate with their traditional rivals. 
Their leader, Alfred Gusenbauer, had expressed confidence that his party would win at the polls, and it was unlikely that he would allow the People's Party to dictate coalition terms from a much stronger position. 
With political differences great and mutual suspicions strong between the Greens and the People's Party, that left a renewed coalition between the Schuessel's con­servatives and Haider's rightist a likely option. 
Haider, casting his vote in Klagenfurt, capital of the southern Carinthia province he governs had defied pre­dictions his party left in shambles after months of infighting between rightist supporters and moderates would do badly. 
"There will be no [Freedom 
Party by 
backing the Greens," said Barbara Steiner, 32. 
When Haider's party came to power in 1999, the European Union imposed seven months of diplomatic sanctions on Austria. alarmed by then party leader Haider's anti-foreigner stance, veiled slights of Jews and open admiration for some of Adolf Hitler's poli­cies. 
Israel recalled its ambas­sador and hasn't yet returned him. 
But EU officials·now con­cede that sanctions were a mistake that only strength­ened Haider among those convinced that the rest of the world was against them and that Austria was being pun­ished for making a democra­tic choice. 
The Freedom Party's suc­cess turned out to be the harbinger of a trend in Europe that saw right­wingers and anti-immigra­tion mavericks make gains in France, the Netherlands, Denmark and elsewhere. 
But the Haider-instigated infighting which led to resig­nations of several popular Freedom Party ministers from government and Schuessel's call for elections more than a year ahead of schedule left the party in chaos. 



ttentio.rz 

•
I 

-' 
Junior Parents Weekend is around the corner and hotels are going fast. 
The Morris Inn will be holding a lottery to reserve a spot for the weekend. Lottery numbers can be picked up at The Morris Inn front desk. 
Deadline: Monday, December 2nd 
For more information visit: www.nd.edu/-jpw or contact jpw@nd.edu 


Monday, November 25, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 22 
DowJones 
8,804.84 -40.31

Ji!, 
NASDAQ 
1,468.4 
+1.19 

S&P500 
930.55 -3.21 
AA,1fX"
• 
816.05 -10.16
•
NYSE 
491.63 -1.49
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
BROCADE COMM SY (BRCD)-27 .47 -2. 00 5. 28 

gf~s0;~!!!-l~l!l!ll:i£illt111:lltll!lfll!:ll!l~lll:l1llfll 
LUCENT TECH (NDRU) +10. 22 +0.14 1. 51 
NAsoA6lJ0eJI:i!~Pii,IllB!,1il1[1lllllll!ll!!i1li 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +2. 38 +0. 09 3. 87 
IN BRIEF 
Qantas gets part of Air New Zealand 
Qantas Airways will acquire 22.5 percent of Air New Zealand In a deal that caps nearly a year of talks between the two airlines. 
The deal announced Monday calls for Qantas to invest as $550 million New Zealand dollars ($272 million) into the New Zealand airline. which is 82 percent owned by the gov­ernment after a bailout last year. 
The Qantas purchase will allow the airlines to rationalize their operations and interna­tional services to form a strong Australasian airline group, Air New Zealand said. 
"This is a major decision that will shape the future of Air New Zealand ... and an initiative which will bring tremendous economic gain to New Zealand," Air New Zealand chairman John Palmer said. 
The combined operations would be con­trolled by the New Zealand carrier. Qantas will assume two seats on Air New Zealand's board. 
Kentucky nursing home fights closure 
Lawyers for the nursing home whose owner had an affair with Gov. Paul Patton go to court Monday to defend the facility against state efforts to shut it down. 
Attorney Fred H. Simon said he would call employees of Birchtrec Ilealthcare and rela­lives of the home's residents to testify about the quality of its care. He also hoped to have results of a private inspection. 
"This is the first opportunity to dispel al! the innuendo about 'immediate jeopardy' this facility has supposedly placed its patients in," Simon said last week. 
The state's Cabinet for Heallh Services has compiled a thick dossier on the nursing home, with allegations of alleged deficien­cies that include for conditions that alleged­ly put residents in jeopardy. 
The state is trying to revoke Birchtree's license for "continued and substantial fail­ure" to meet minimum requirements for a nursing home. 
Tyson officials refuse fine 
• Food company will not accept government deal 
A.%ociated Press 
CHATTANOOGA 
Meat-processing giant 
Tyson Foods Inc. is not 
backing down . . The Arkansas-based 
co'mpany, which paid a 
price four years ago for 
getting too cozy with the 
Clinton administration, is 
caught in a high-stakes, 
"politically charged" game 
of chicken with the Justice 
Department. 
Eleven months ago, a 
federal grand jury indicted 
the company, two of its 
executives and four for­
mer managers on charges 
of conspiring to smuggle 
illegal immigrants from 
Mexico, Guatemala and 
Honduras to work in its 
poultry plants. 
The government told 
Tyson it could avoid pros­
ecution by paying a $100 
million fine. company 
attorneys say. But Tyson 
calls the fine excessive 
and accuses the govern­
ment of using undercover 
agents to entrap Tyson 
employees. 
The deadline for plea 
agreements is Dec. 6, but 
attorneys on both sides 
don't expect any. Motions the Department of Politics cut costs and boost pro­rural town northwest of 
filed in Chattanooga earli­at Hendrix College in duction. The company Chattanooga that is home 
er this month also indicate Conway, Ark., said the paid smugglers to trans­to Tennessee's highest
defense attorneys are pre­government knows it has a port at least 140 immi­concentration of 
pared to go forward with a case that will send the grants to its plants and Hispanics.
trial Feb. 4 rather than corporate world a mes­provide them with false Manager Jimmy
pay any fines. U.S. District sage. documents so they could Howland, 36, committed 
Judge R. Allan Edgar "If you go after the work, prosecutors say. suicide after the charges 
expects the trial to last at biggest fish then others For example, prosecu­were made public. Former 
least six weeks. will become aware of the tors say, a Tyson manager managers Spencer Mabe, 
The stakes at trial could risks of engaging in once told an undercover 50, and Truley Ponder, 58 
be high for the world's behaviors of this sort," he agent that the company were charged along with 
largest poultry. beef and said. would pay $200 for each Gerald Lankford, 63, of 
pork processor. Tyson The indictment implicat­"illegal Mexican alien North Wilkesboro, N.C., a 
employs 120,000 workers ed 15 Tyson plants in nine delivered." former human resources 
and recorded sales of $25 states Tennessee, Government evidence manager in the retail 
billion last year. Alabama, Indiana, includes undercover fresh division. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Kentucky, Mississippi, audiotapes and videotapes Robert Hash, 49, of 
John MacCoon said the Missouri, North Carolina, and subpoenaed company Greenwood, Ark., vice 
government would have Texas and Virginia -as documents. president of the retail 
an expert witness assess part of a conspiracy to Tyson contends "a few fresh division and Keith 
the company's financial defraud the government. managers" acted outside Snyder, 42, of Bella Vista, 
benefit from the alleged Prosecutors contend company policy at five of Ark., who worked as a 
conspiracy, although he immigrants worked for its 5 7 poultry processing manager at Shelbyville
declined to provide an lower wages than legal plants. Three of those and Noel. Mo., remain on 
estimate. workers at Tyson's plants, managers worked at a administrative leave from 
Jay Barth, chairman of allowing the company to plant in Shelbyville, a Tyson. 



Dockworkers reach agreement 
He praised both sides, saying lead Association, the industry group, for 
Associated Press 
negotiators "demonstrated states­computerized cargo tracking sys­SAN FRANCISCO menlike leadership, which made tems that will make dockside work 
West Coast dockworkers and ship­this agreement possible." more efficient. but also cost jobs. ping companies reached tentative The agreement. reached late The union, in return, wanted agreement on a contract that could Saturday, still must be ratified by a increased compensation and pen­end the drawn-out labor dispute majority of the 10,500 members of sion benefits. that shut down the coast's major the International Longshore and "With this contract we are usher­
ports for 10 days and prompted the Warehouse Union. A caucus of ing in a new era of modernization."' president to intervene. about 100 union members will meet Joseph Miniace. president of the 
The six-year contract would pro­Dec. 7 to vote on the contract. and PMA, said Sunday. vide wage and benefit improve­the entire rank-and-file will proba­"Workers can harness technology ments for union members. plus bly vote on il. in early January, and make it work for them," said technology and dispute-resolution according to union president Jim AFL-CIO Secretary-Treasurer improvements that the companies Spinosa. Richard Trumka, who joined the needed, said Peter Hurtgen, head of The major sticking points in the negotiations. "They can bridle it, 
the Federal Mediation and negotiations had centered on the saddle it and ride it to job, pension Conciliation Service. desire by the Pacific Maritime and economic security." 
O
THE 
BSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
Monday, November 25, 2002 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dam,, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USIN.ESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. M.ANAGfNG EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena. Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR• Karie McKenna SAINT MARV'S EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Marc Lu12 
AD DESIGN MANAGER, Mcghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTllATOR• Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieio 
CoNTROLLERt Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OntCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTJSING.....................................631·6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631..4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
YIEWPOfNT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SclNE.........................................................631•4540 observer.scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MAR.¥'s.............................................631•4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!observer.nd.rdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advercisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners ro the Editor must he signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observer policies slwu/4 be direct· ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
i"l,r o•M"r (USPS ')99 J.-40J ii publi,httf Monday thtuugh 1;11da,, ~pt during Q.IJlJ, u.dy.:,auon pcrioo.1. A.iubi-:ripdon tn The Obscrvnll 1100 Coronc ac...da11ic yrar: S'5S(oronr1CTJ1CHa 
1n.c Obs.t-iwr 11 puhlisbtd :at: rmlMASTr.R OH Sou.ch Pining H~ Sc:nd .dd..C1 wrm:tiun1 ro: 
Noc~ n~"· IN 46'>56 TheOOlt::rw-r 
~.0.R<>l<Q l"c:riodkal romgc r.aid at Norn: !Jam" Nnuc D.mw, IN 46"i56--077') and addi1ion;J m~lint l;Jfliwi, 
11,.c Omt"rvn ii a ll'lrtnhtt ofthe Auod.au-d jlrt'III. AU rvrod.uaioa rigllu we ,aavaJ. 

Ramadan is in its second week as I write this. It is now the long middle of the month. During the first few days of Ramadan, everyone is excit­ed because of the change, kind of like the start of the holiday sea­Maite Uranga son. People talk about who is fast• ing and who is 
Life in Africa 
not. The 14-, 15­and 16-year-olds who are fasting for the first time feel grown up. The little kids like it because after about two in the afternoon they can get away with everything because their parents and older siblings no longer have the energy to control them. The Koranic students who go from house to house begging for food get more food this month than during most others for the same reason soup kitchens have extra food around Thanksgiving. 
And I like it because it is refresh­ing to see a culture and people devoted to something without taking into account the financial implica­tions or lost work hours. Do not mis­understand me: Ramadan is hard. I fasted for three days last year and was content to never do it again for the rest of my life. The middle two weeks of the month are painful because the end seems so far off. Despite this, I see the benefits that Ramadan provides and think it would be amazing to see what would happen in the United States if Americans fasted for even a week. 
Americans always complain about lack of time for themselves and their families. This fasting period would allow everyone to slow down dra­matically. After-school soccer prac­tice, happy hour, late afternoon classes and any other late afternoon or evening activities would be can­celed for the duration of the fast. People would leave work or school around noon to go home. Because of low energy levels, no major activi­ties could take place and families would sit around and talk to each other. 
Malls. corporations, police services and grocery stores would cut their employees to the bare minimum. Most importantly. all this would be done without the guilt that many Americans have when they do take time for their families and them­selves. All this was done in respect for God or some other force greater than themselves. It would be blas• phemous to calculate the dollar value of lost work hours or worry about the effects of lost school hours. Families would get hours to themselves. People would have time to think. Life would slow down. 
Realistically, of course, this would never happen. Long ago, most Christian religions abandoned the practice of fasting because it no longer fit within the Western cultur­al context. Simplified down from an extended fasting period, I think it would also be interesting to imagine if Americans adopted some form of the Muslim practice of praying five times a day. When I first arrived in Mauritania I found the five-times·a­day prayer excessive. Five times a day, the mosques scream out over their microphones for people to stop what they are doing and pray. 
The entire act of praying takes anywhere from five to 20 minutes. It was not this time that bothered me; it was the fact that meetings would stop at sundown for everyone to pray and then resume. I did not understand why they could not just wait five more minutes until the meeting was over to pray. As my life pace transitioned from American speed to Mauritanian speed, I began to appreciate these daily interrup• tJons in routine. The religious aspect is obviously very important. But because I am both an outsider to the religion and a former anthropology major. I see the importance and · benefits of the process. 
Five times a day people stop what· ever they are doing. They wash their face, hands and feet. The actual act of praying is similar to a stretching exercise. They start by standing up really straight, then bend at the waist for a few seconds, then go to a sitting position. bend at the waist again with their head to the ground and then stand up to repeat it between two and four times depend· ing on which prayer it is. This is repeated 17 times throughout the day. 
Yet again, this would give Americans the time that they so des• perately want. They would stop everything they are doing, thereby realizing that what they are doing is not as vitally important as they think. Then they would refresh themselves by washing their faces and hands and finally doing some stretches. For a minimum of five minutes a day. five times a day, no one could interrupt them, they could not answer the phone or respond to e-mails. Most likely. I know, even this is too much for most Americans, including myself. Now I appreciate Ramadan afternoons and the call to the mosque. 
Maile Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthro­pology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Teresa Fralish Bryan Kronk Shannon Chris Federico Nelligan Scene 
Claire Heininger C. Spencer Beggs Viewpoint Lab Tech Sheila Flynn Nellie Williams Graphics Illustrator Katie McKenna Patrick Quill 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Due to the short week, there is no poll question. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do, or do not. There is no 'try."' 
Yoda 
The Empire Strikes Back 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 25, 2002 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Homosexuality presents problem to priesthood 
I was disappointed, though not sur­prised, to see Richard Friedman's Nov. 21 article attacking the Church for reiterating its teachings on the priesthood and reiterating the posi­tion that the Sacred Congregation for Heligious pronounced in 1961 that homosexuals should not be ordained as priests. This is not a new policy, only the reiteration of one that has been mostly ignored for the last 40 years. I am sure that I will draw the ire of some in the Notre Dame com­munity for this letter, but I think it important for some clarification. 
Let's start by understanding that the very nature of the priesthood is sacrifice. Priests are not supposed to be glorified social workers. Their pri­mary duty is to administer the sacra­ments. Their life is a sacrifice in ser­vice. Contrary to popular belief, no one has the right to be a priest, not even heterosexual men. The priest­hood is a service you are called to, by Christ, through a bishop. 
No one can be positive they have a vocation to the priesthood until a validly consecrated bishop, in com­munion with the Church through the Pope, lays hands on the candidate and ordains him. The Church did not create the priesthood, it is only the custodian of the tradition which Christ founded. This is why the Church has always stated that it docs not have the authority to ordain women. The Church has given a form to the fundamental, but it has not created it. She must be careful to guard it against distortion, and can­not add or subtract from its meaning. 
The priesthood is also a position of teaching and therefore authority. This does not mean that the priest has power, but rather responsibility to be an example and an educator of the teachings of the Church. It is here that homosexuality is most evi­dently a problem if allowed in the priesthood. 
The fact is, no one who under­stands the issue blames homosexuali­ty for pedophilia. However, most of the cases in the current scandal are not pedophilia but rather sexual acts with teenagers who had reached, at least biologically, sexual maturity. A 17-year-old being abused is not the same situation as a 7-year-old being abused. 
Most of the perpetrators of sexual abuse that have been brought to light have been cases where adult homo­sexual men, from 25 to 50 years old, have shown a preference for teenage boys. The most unfortunate part of' the scandal has been that a clerical culture where homosexuals make up a significant minority has encouraged sexual immorality and covered up its most atrocious instances. 
I am not trying to say that persons with a homosexual orientation neces­sarily advocate sexual immorality. However, any time people who are inclined to a particular activity find themselves in the company of others in like mind, the activity tends to occur. This is why you can go to the Rock on a weeknight and find your­self participating in a pick-up basket­ball game if you arc so inclined. The tradition of Alcoholics Anonymous has the same understanding. 
When a group of people who are trying to deny their learned inclina­tion to drink get together, they can encourage each other in their restraint. But they must avoid situa­tions where drinking occurs, or that they associated with drinking previ­ously. until they can be sure the pressure will not be too much. They also are encouraged to find ways to relieve their lives of stress, since a high-stress life tends to discourage the healthy pressure to reform their lives for the better. 
Courage, a support group for homo­sexuals trying to live chaste lives, strongly advises against a person with a homosexual inclination enter­ing a seminary to become a priesl. Homosexuals cannot escape the temptations of the world by becoming priests. The priesthood is not a place to run from your problems. 
It is not an easy way to live out your life chastely. It is not something you do because you can't do some­thing else. The priesthood, by its nature, is not equipped to deal with a significant number of men who suffer from the same serious afflictions. This is why alcoholism has been such a problem for the priesthood and often priests have to spend many years away from their duties to learn how to live sober lives. 
It's also why former alcoholics, or recovering alcoholics, are carefully, and sometimes painfully, scrutinized before they can become priests. And even then it is an exception, not the rule, to ordain such a person. Still, if an alcoholic were to succumb to the bottle it is not the case that his action would likely result in the scan­dal and pain of something as serious as what we have seen over the last year. 
Unfortunately, I think it can be said that we have seen over the last year the effects of a homosexual subcul­ture in the priesthood that has destroyed the lives of many people. The problem, even then, is not per­sons with a homosexual orientation. It is the unfortunate culture of dis­sent that holds a strong sway in the Church. 
It has become commonplace for priests to disagree with that or another teaching of the Church. Not only have "little ones" been led astray by this, but some have also been terribly scarred. I find it hard to imagine that this problem of ped­erasty would have had such a strong effect if faithfulness to the teachings of the Church and fraternal account­ability had been the norm rather than "hush-hush cronyism" and dis­sent from teachings on sexuality. 
Stephen R. Sanchez class of 200 l Sraren Island, NY Nov. 22 
GUEST COLUMN 
Macho man attitude perpetuates stereotypes 
Ile stands tall with his shoulders spread wide. Ile inhales deep breaths and exhales loud grunts as he scratches him­self. He watches football by day and drinks beer by night, all the while staring intently (and lustfully) at beautiful women or wrestling with his buddies in the mud. 
This is the picture of the stereotypi­cal male. John Krasting 
We sec it day in and day out. Television programs such as Tim Allen's "Home Improvement" and Jimmy Kimmel and Adam Carolla's Daily Targum "The Man Show" arejust two quin­tessential examples ofwhat the typi­cal man is supposed to be like. Their shows illustrate the love of power-tools, flannel shirts and girls on trampolines. These shows. along with other fonns of media like Maxim magazine, promote male bonding and pride. 
This sense of pride dates way back. The American man ha5 always stood for independence and defiance, even from the days of the revolutionary war. We were a bunch of dis­sident rebels who took charge and settled this country. 
While that war was fought with muskets, today's power struggle is waged with testosterone. Some men aspire to be leaders controlling their surroundings with excessive dis­plays of aggression and force. The quest to be the most powerful male is often referred to having an "Alpha Male Complex." 
Experts argue that this emphasis on power and control is a natural instinct governed by that primitive limbic system that subconsciously makes us belch in an attempt to make our presence known. 
Being an Alpha Male in today's society, however, is a tough gig. It requires constant supplies of alcohol and sports channels. All of these external influences give us pause to think how much of the male dominance is actually influenced by our culture. 
What happens when men don't fit the stereotype of the genital-adjusting dude in a tight white T-shirt? To put it bluntly: he is often walked all over. 
Some individuals even find it hard to be socially accepted among other men and have a diffi­cult time gaining their respect and attention. More sensitive men may be labeled shy, weak or gay. 
This is a com­plete fallacy. There are many men in America with passive personalities who just don't think a good beer is their thing. If an individual doesn't fit into the category of a typical male, it is absolutely no indication ofhis strength, goals or sexuality. 
There are also some men who take their testosterone well beyond the legal limit -and I mean that quite literal­ly. The truth is that this excessive display only leads to problems. Men seek psychological highs when they attempt to control women or commit crimes. The Beltway snipers are prime examples of t.wo men who enjoyed controlling the police and the American people with criminal acts and intimidation. These men have issues that deal with insecu­rity and believe that they can find the answer by playing 
the role ofa dominant male. There is no doubt that this nature versus nurture contro­versy has solid arguments for both sides. While there is a biological link to the excessive displays of"manli­ness," there is also an obvious and clear influence from within our society -what is perceived to be the normal expected 
behavior for men. Keep in mind, however, that there 
are many more ways to be a leader and stand out from the crowd-and being a leader is 
not dependent on a person's sex. 1 know countless women who are strong and fearless, and they demonstrate those qualities in a very dignified and classy way. If you're a man, explore your sensitive side 
-listening to people can often achieve just as much respect and admiration from others. Unless there is a burn­ing uncontrollable urge from within, try to keep the macho man to yourself. 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 21 edition ofthe Daily Targum, the daily newspaper ofRutgers University. ft is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVER 

page 10 Monday, November 25, 2002 


By CLAIRE KELLEY 
Scene Wricer 
Music blaring. Lights flashing. Hearts pounding. Twenty-four dancers are on stage, each tapping out quick complicated rhythms with their feet touching the floor at exact­ly the same time. This is Michael Flatley's rock dance fusion "Lord of the Dance," a spectacular experience of an accelerated version of tradition­al Irish Dancing that showed Friday and Saturday at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Although the show's original creator no longer per­forms as the lead, the dance goes on. 
The mystical performance begins with a troubled dream of the Spirit, a magical fairy, who senses an evil presence that has come to challenge the Lord of the Dance. In a vague good versus evil plot, the Spirit trav­els through time to help the Lord of the Dance protect his mythical people from the Dark Lord. A series of dance numbers introduce each main char­acter and their dancing followers who represent each moral extreme and work their conflicts out through dance. 
An evil temptress dances with a sexy suggestive flair, while the pure and fair heroine glides through the air with a delicate elegance. But the show is at its best when the entire company is out on stage dancing. The age-old elements of an Irish cel­ebration stim­ulate the audience with an adrenaline pumping combi­nation of infec­tious Irish music and energetic danc­ing. 
"Lord of the Dance" combines traditional choreog­raphy to light jigs and beautiful pat­terns of customary group dances with glittering costumes, thunderous sound and fluorescent strobe lights to create a modern frish spectacle that invades the senses. Sometimes the glitz is overwhelming and the hard shoe taps are so suspiciously over amplified that they sound pre­recorded. 
The dancing numbers are bro­ken up with Celtic songs per­formed by a woman who has a beautifully clear voice. But her songs take away from the momentum of the show and do not contribute to the plot at all. In fact, they seem completely random. Another musical break in dancing features a pair of violinists who play to taped supple­mental music that dis­tracts from their talent­ed performance. 
The story comes to a climax with a dance off between the Lord 
'Dance' is flat 
Michael Flatley sIrish dance success 'Lord of the 

J 
of the Dance and the Dark Lord. Of course. goodness prevails and the Lord of the Dance magically repairs the Spirit's flute and banishes evil. The incredible "Planet Ireland," a celebration of dance, caps off the show. 
At one point during the show. the dancers tear off costumes that resemble traditional dresses to reveal skimpy black tops and spandex shorts. This dramatic gesture sym­bolizes the show's departure from the rigid traditions of historical Irish dancing. Michael Flatley, the show's creator believes that Lord of the Dance brings a new passion to Irish dance. A passion that he felt was missing in the contemporary Irish Dance scene. The immense public response proves that his vision is a magical triumph. 
Today, Michael Flatley is a world superstar. But even before "Lord of the Dance" he had a history in the spotlight. A Chicago native, he became the World Champion Irish Dancer in 1975 at age 17 -the first non-European to win the title. He broke the world record for fastest tap dancer with 35 taps per second. A featured dancer and flutist, Flatley traveled with the famous Irish musi­cal group The Chieftains in the early nineties. But Flatley was destined for massive mainstream success. 
Many of Flatley's achievements can be attributed to his 
competitive atti­
tude and 
h i s 
NSIDER 
Monday, November 25, 2002 Notre Dame 42, Rutgers 0 

r • 
The offense's turn 
Irish explode for 28 third-quarter points in rout ofRutgers 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writ~r 
The Irish offense finally had more fight than fright as No. 8 Notre Dame slammed 1-9 Rutgers 42-0 Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Carlyle Holiday tied a Notre Dame school record with his four touchdown passes as the Irish notched their tenth win of the season, making head coach Tyrone Willingham the win­ningest first-year coach in Notre Dame history. 
"You don't get many shutouts in your career," Willingham said. "So being able to start with a shutout and ending at home with a shutout its special when that day comes and you sit down and 
,. . 
reflect on it. Our team carries an understanding of what we can be and our team is excited about the 
,. 
brand of football we have been playing and that we are having fun." 
With his team now 10-1, Willingham surpassed Terry Brennan's and Ara Parseghian's previous first-year records of nine wins in a season. However, the freshman Irish coach did not wish to discuss that. 
"I can't talk about that," he said. "That is not anything about Tyrone Willingham. it is about our team -our assistant coach­es and our players." 
Under Willingham. this Irish squad made the biggest one-sea­son turnaround since 1964, when Parseghian transformed a previ­ously 5-6 team into a 9-1 power. 
The offense took time to get started in the first quarter against a lowly Scarlet Knights squad that had entered Saturday's game allowing 198.1 rushing yards per game. 
In the second quarter. though, Notre Dame put its first points on the board after Holiday's 38-yard touchdown pass to Arnaz Battle. Then Shane Walton gave the Irish their eighth non-offensive touchdown of the season as he followed a disputed interception of a Ryan Hart pass with a 45­yard return to the end zone. It was Walton's seventh intercep­tion of the season. 
Replays showed Walton trapped the ball on the ground, and Hutgers coach Greg Schiano vehemently protested the touch­down. 
"That was huge for us," said linebacker Mike Goolsby, who made seven tackles for the Irish. "The defense. the whole team, prides itself on displays like that. 
That's what we've been doing all year. It's good to finally get hack to it." 
The third quarter was when Notre Dame gave reason for its high-ranking. During the second play of the half. Battle scored his second touchdown of the season after catching a 63-yard pass from Holiday. 
The Irish went on to score on their next three possessions. with Holiday throwing touchdown passes of 37 and 26 yards to Omar Jenkins and Maurice Stovall, respectively, and with Ryan Grant running 28 yards into the end zone. 
It was Holiday's first career four-touchdown game. 
"I said that I believe that at some point the offense would begin showing some of its poten­tial," Willingham said. "Today it did that. The passing was excep­tional in that stretch in the third quarter, really for the whole game to he quite honest about it. I thought that they did a great job in playing in a way that I think they can play." 

While Willingham said he did not say much at halftime, the players said he challenged them to step up their efforts. 
"We came out Coach Willingham presented a chal­lenge to us at halftime," Jenkins said. "We answered the chal­lenge. basically we saw what can happen when we execute fully, and that's what happened." 
While HoJiday said it was the offense's best performance of the season, he still acknowledges that there is work to be done before the Irish take on No. 6 USC next Saturday. 
"I don't know if we're back on track," Holiday said. "I know we came out second half how we wanted to play and how we thought we could play, but this should carry on for the rest of the season and until the bowl game, we just have to keep that there." 
Saturday's domination of the Scarlet Knights still serves as a confidence boost for the Irish, especially after the near-loss to Navy and the upset by Boston College. 
"It's a big momentum builder," Holiday said. "It shows we can put points on the board, put our game together, what we can do those kind of things for our team, it's a big confidence booster for us." 
The Scarlet Knights' coach acknowledges the improvements the Irish offense has made. 
"If Holiday can throw like that and they can run routes like that, they are going to be pretty tough to beat." Schiano said. "Because that has been something that hasn't been a big part of their offense, and certainly it was today." 
While the offense showed its potential, the Irish defense remained strong as ever, with second-string players entering the game in the season's final game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"I think that we added some offense to it makes it impressive," Willingham said. "Our defense has been extremely consistent all year in not giving up a great deal and today is no difference." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at 1indsJey. l@nd.edu 
player of the game stat of the game play of the game 
quote of the game 
Carlyle Holiday 
42 
Amaz Battle's 63-yard touchdown In 
"We smell blood and just go and get The Irish quarterback was 13-of25 
it .. for 270 yards, no interceptions and 
the third quarter 
points Notre Dame scored 
Saturday -the most against an The second Battle touchdown put 
Courtney Watson 
Jour touchdowns. including a 63­opponent since beating Rutgers Notre Dame up 21-o the Irish offense 
Notre Dame linebacker 
yard bomb to Battle. 
and was thefirst of four third quarter scoresfor Notre Dame. 
45-17 in 2000. 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 25, 2002 
report card 
A 
quarterbacks: Holiday had his best game of the season, throwing for 270 
yards and tying a school-record with 
four touchdowns, including a 63­
yarder. 
B 
running backs: The running backs didn't do anything exceptional. but they didn't have to. They averaged 
over four yards a carry and Grant 
broke the 1,000-yard mark. 
A-
receivers: Battle ended his Irish home career in style with two touchdowns while Jenkins and Stovall each added 
another score. Eight different 
receivers had catches for the Irish. 
B+ 
offensive line: The line did a decent job of opening up holes for the running backs and only allowed one 
sack. They also gave Holiday ample to time to throw for the most part. 
A-
defensive line: The line held Rutgers to only 18 yards on 27 attempts ­
and that included a 17-yard run in the second half. 
linebackers: The linebackers did a nice
B+job helping stop Rutgers running game, but did allow the Scarlet Knights tight ends to get open. 
+ 
B 
defensive backs: Walton's interception return for a touchdown gave the Irish some momentum in the first half. The 
backs also held Rutgers to completing 
only 40.8 percent of their passes. 
B 
special teams: Hildbotd didn't have his best game and Setta didn't attempt a field goal, but did make his extra 
points. The return teams and coverage teams didn't do anything bad or outstanding either. 
A 
coaching: The coaches exploited Rutgers' weaknesses on defense and it paid off as the Irish offense had its 
biggest game of the season. A good halftime speech sparked a solid sec­ond half as well. 
overall: The coaching staff 
had the team ready for 
Rutgers and it showed. The
3.48 
offense clicked, the defense was suffocating and the seniors got to play. 
adding up the numbers 
points Notre Dame scored in the third quarter 2 8 Saturday -a new Irish record lor most points in the third quarter of agame 
24 
inches Rutgers averaged per rushing attempt Saturday, one inch more than 
the Scarlet Knights averaged in their last five games 
combined seconds of Notre Dame's first three touchdown drives in the third 
100 
quarter 
6 
number of Notre Dame running backs to reach 1,000 yards in a season before Ryan 
Grant reached that milestone Saturday 
days passed since Carlyle Holiday last threw an interception in agame 
44 
last time Notre Dame recorded two shutouts in the same
1996 
season 
wins Willingham has this season -an Irish 1o 
record for a first-year head coach 
1 
number of times an associate sports editor accidenlly dropped his press pass in aurinal 

They didn't want to leave. 
Their teammates had filed out, the band started playing the alma mater and the fans were heading toward the exits. 
But seniors 
Arnaz Battle and Shane Walton, roommates, best friends and teammates, paused to soak it all in one last time before they walked through the tunnel for 

the last time with Andrew Soukup their Notre Dame uniforms 
on. Irish They started 
Insight
by signing auto­graphs for a few eager fans in the end zone. They ended it by tossing gloves into the stands. And in between, they humored a student leaning over the brick walls asking for a photograph and posed for a pic­ture. 
Battle and Walton better try to get a copy of that picture. A picture of the Irish Guard dancing with 42-0 shin­ing on the scoreboard. A picture of two grinning Irish seniors who helped a 5-6 team turn into a 10-1 squad. 
A picture that captured their last moment on Notre Dame Stadium, with thousands of fans roaring their approval. 
After the game, the pair said they weren't crying. But they might have been before, each added with a smile. 
"Before i.he game, I felt a little teary-eyed," Watton said. "But now it's done and il's over." 
It's over. 
Most would kill to get the chance walk-on Dan Novakov had, to take a handful of snaps in garbage time with a gold helmet on your head and 80,000 fans cheering you on. Most would give both arms and both legs to run out of the tunnel before every game. Most would cry tears of happi­ness if given the chance to play one year for Notre Dame. 
What Battle and Walton experi­enced in college defies explanation. They couldn't have imagined what would happen when they first entered Notre Dame, Battle as a quarterback. Walton as a soccer player. 
But five years, three coaches, two losing seasons and one return to glory later, neither could have imag­ined a better way to walk out of Notre Dame Stadium. 
At one point in Saturday's 42-0 thrashing left the Knights scarlet for that matter, couldn't have script­ed a better home finale for Notre Dame's seniors. 
None of them wanted to start the game on the bench. Yet none of them seemed to mind that they finished the game on the bench, watching Tim O'Neill run rampant over Rutgers. 
"That was definitely the way I wanted to go out," Battle grinned. "It was nice to see other guys get the ball." 
The seniors aren't finished yet. Even as Tyrone Willingham praised them for the tremendous leadership they demonstrated this season. he reminded them they still have mote work to do. 
Looming ahead 
this week is a road 
with embarrass­"That was definitely the trip to USC, where ment, all ofNotre the Irish will face
way I wanted to go out. It
Dame's points had another ranked 
was nice to see other
come courtesy of opponent this sea­the residents of guys get the ball." son, where the Irish the Battle-Walton will probably be house. underdogs once
Arnaz Battle
Battle got the again, where the Irish on the score­Irish will have their 
Irish receiver 
board first by catching a short screen from Carlyle Holiday and scampering 38-yards Michigan State­style through Rutgers' Swiss cheese of a defense. 
Later in the second quarter, Walton prevented a deflected pass from hit­ting the ground twice by grabbing it and scampering 45 yards for an interception return. 
Then, on the second play of 1he sec­ond half, Battle caught an under­thrown pass, sprinting 63 yards and juking a safety to make the score Battle and Walton 21, Rutgers not a chance. 
Offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said the first 10 plays of the second half were scripted and he thought the Irish could get a score on play No. 2. 
The script Diedrick wrote worked to perfection. But he, or anybody else chance to lock up a 
BCS berth. 
Then there's a bowl game against one of the top teams in the country, where the seniors will make sure to remind the rest of the team -as if it needs to be remembered -about the Fiesta Pizzle two years ago. 
But for a moment on a sunny after­noon at Notre Dame Stadium, as Battle and Walton walked off the field, away from autograph seekers, away from camera toters, away from one of the most dominating victories of the season, away from thunderous roars, everything seemed perfect. 
Picture perfect. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Monday, November 25, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Holiday, offense exceptional in victory 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Spoirs Edi1or 
The coaches said it would take time. The players said it would tako time. They all said the Irish offense would take time to click with a now system. 
The time finally came Saturday against Rutgers. 
Carlyle Holiday and the Notre Dame offense had their most impressive perfor­mance of the season, gaining 468 yards scoring 42 poinls in a shutout victory over the Scarlet Knights. 
"We believed that at some point this season our offense would show its true potential." coach Tyrone Willingham said. "Today our offense did exactly that. Obviously, Carlyle Holidays performance passing was exceptional in the third quar­ter, and truthfully, throughout tho game. Our offense did a great job of playing the way I think they can." 
Holiday was 13-of-25 for 270 yards passing and a Notre Dame record-tying four touchdown passes. He also Jed the Irish to four third quarter touchdowns in less than 10 minutes, with three of those drives taking a combined 100 seconds to finish. 
lloliday credits his improvement to learning the now West Coast system more each week. 
'Tm at a stage right now where I know what I did wrong or I know what I was supposed Lo do and I think [offensive coor­dinator Bill Diedrick] sees that and he laughs about it sometimes," Holiday said. "Ile sees it as a good sign and I do too. It's just more comfortable to know that when you had something there, you can just go back and know what you have the next 
time." 
Holiday turned heads against Navy by throwing the deep ball effectively and "Like coach said it felt like a knockout I have to make the tackle which I'm not racking up a career-high 272 yards pass­punch," Holiday said. "After that second good at." ing. However, because the effort came touchdown. I think they quit a little bit Willingham said that the entire offense against the 1-8 Midshipmen, Holiday because you look over at their sidelines has improved and learned the new system wasn't given as much credit for his and some of them have their heads down. better and this has been one of the biggest improvement. Then to come out the next play and score keys. But when he did it again this week, a touchdown, I think that took all the ~Each week, Carlyle has gotten better, Holiday showed something he had been energy out ofthem." and better, and better," Willingham said. missing his entire career -consistency. Holiday threw touchdown passes of 38, However, it must be noted that it can't be "I don't know if I erased [anybody's 63, 37 and 26 yards -two went to Arnaz just Carlyle. It has to be the offensive line, 
doubts!. ii's shown that I could throw the Battle and one each to Omar Jenkins and it has to be improvement, the running deep ball," Holiday said. "I feel a lot more Maurice Stovall. Saturday, Holiday com­backs have to be improving, the receivers comfortable, 1 know what I can do, the pleted passes to seven different receivers. have to be improving, the overall under­
fakes are better, ball placement, I feel a More importantly, he did not throw an standing of our system has to be improv­lot better." interception for the fifth straight game. ing. If we are doing that then we have the The most surprising aspect of Notre 1loliday has only picked off two times this chance to get better as a passing unit. 
Dame's offense Saturday was their ability season, once again Michigan and And I think our guys have done that." to not only score, but score quickly. The Pitlsburgh. four touchdowns in the third quarter were "I like no interceptions," Holiday said. "I 
the most ever by an Irish team during that hate throwing interceptions. I have to run quarter in Notre Dame history. for them, so interceptions are a killer. Plus Contact Joe Hettler at jhett1er@nd.edu 

Grant reaches 1,000-yard milestone 
as a relief," Grant said. "I did "I think you want to always and Bobby Brown on the list.
Observer Staff Report 
what I'm supposed to do. think end zone when you're Tom Gatewood, who had 77 in That's my job to not fumble." running with the ball," O'Neill 1970, holds the record. 
No one said much about 
Offensive coordinator Bill said. 'Tm quick but I'm not Battle also became the first
Ryan Grant breaking the 
Diedrick was also pleased with fast. I guess they caught me. Irish player to have two touch­1,000-yard mark this season Grant's performance. He felt [My teammates) were ribbing down receptions since Joey
-and that's just fine with 
the back returned to his old me a little bit about it in the Getherall did it against AirGrant. 
style of running the football. locker room." Force in 2000.
The Irish running back 
"I thought he was back to Willingham was actually
gained 68 yards on 18 carries 
running a lot more aggres­worried when O'Neill had that 
versus Hutgors Saturday, giv­
Setta continues streak
sive," Diedrick said. "The best long run.
ing him 1,001 yards this sea­Nicholas Setta made all six
run that I was pleased with "Obviously, when he got in, 
son. Grant became the seventh was when he made the one everyone on the team was extra points against Rutgers,running back in Notre Dame guy miss, broke the tackle and excited about him being on the giving him 86 straight extra history to reach such a feat got his TD and r think that, to field, and since he does play so points made. That's good
and the first since Autry 
me, that was a little more of a hard, we were fearful that he enough for second on the all­Denson did it in 1996. 
time Notre Dame list. Craig
signature of what he's done." might score," Willingham said. 
"It was one of my goals, it Hentrich holds the record with 
Another highlight of the 
means a lot to me. but I 136 straight extra points con­
reserves' play was when
understand the perspective Seniors' Day 
verted.
Carlos Pierre-Antoine's sack in that at this position, l kind of With such a big lead late in the fourth quarter.
rely on other people," Grant the game, many of the seniors 
page 3 
•
scoring 
summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame 0 14 28 0 42 Rutgers o o o o a 
First quarter no scoring 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, I\utgers 0 Arnaz Battle 38-yd reception lrorn Carlyle Hollday willl 11:17 remaining (Setta kick) Drive: 10 plays, ao yards, 4:13 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Rutgers 0 
Walton 45-yd lnterce.pllon return with 7:25 remaining (Setta kick) 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Hutgors 0 
Batlle 63-yd reception from Hollday with 
14:16 remaining (Sella kick) Drive: 2plays, 80 yards, 0:44 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Florida State O 
Omar Jenkins 37-yd reception from Holiday with 12:21 remaining (Sella kick) Drive: 1 play, 37 yards, 0:07 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Rutgers 0 
Ryan Grant 28-yd run with 8:50 remaining (Sella kick) 
Drive: 2 plays, 35 yards, 0:49 elapsed 
Notre Dame 42, Hutgers 0 Maurice Stovall 26-yd reception from Holiday with 5:36 remaining (Sella kick) 
Drive: 6 plays, 49 yards, 2:14 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
no scoring 
statistics 
total yards 

41-190 14-28-0  rushes-yards comp-att-int  27-18 20-49-2  - 
6-206  punts-yards  10-450  
3-2  fumbles-lost  4-1  
8-72  penalties-yards  12-68  
20  first downs  15  

passing  
Holiday Dillingham  13·25-0 1-3·0  Hart Cubit  12·25-1 8-24-1  
rushing  

Grant  16-68  Facyson  8·35  
O'Neill  6-52  Pittman  4·8  
Holiday  5-51  Barnes  1· (·1)  
Powers-Neal  6-25  Jones  1 • (-2)  
Wilson  2-1  Hart  5· (·10)  
Lopienski  1-1  Cubit  8· (·12)  
Novakov  1-(-2)  

receiving 
said. got their chance to finally Saturday's captains 3-108 Hobbs
Battle 5-43
Grant had been criticized reach the field at Notre Dame 
Battle moves up on list Game day captains for tho Jenklns 3-61 Marlin 5-30 over tho last few weeks for stadium. Arnaz Battle moved up to Irish were John Crowther, Jeff Stovall 2·39 Smith 4-28fumbling tho ball too much. He The highlight of tho reserves 
ninth place on Notre Dame's Faine, Courtney Watson and McKnight 2-27 Tucker 2-21 
didn't fumble Saturday and play was when Tim O'Neill 
all-time receptions .in a season Ryan Roberts. All 31 seniors Shelton 1-18 Facyson 2-10 
feels his game is back on busted a 42-yard run down Loplenski 1-17 Pilch
list with 46 on the season after were on the field for the coin 1·16 track. the Irish sidelines late in the his three catches Saturday. flip, with the other 27 standing Wilson 1-10 Carty 1-10 "I don't take [not fumbling] fourth quarter. Grant 1-8
Battle moved past Tim Brown a few yards onto the field. 
~HE 
Monday, November 25, 2002 \JnSERVER Notre Dame 42, Rutgers 0 

ANDY KENNNThe Observer 
Notre Dame Is led onto the field by many of Its seniors Saturday against Rutgers. The game marked the last home contest for this year's senior class. Notre Dame won 42-0. 
Notre Dame played its most complete game of the season en route to pounding Rutgers 42-0 in the seniors' final home game. Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday threw a record four touch­
down passes, and Arnaz Battle and Shane Walton each scored for Notre Dame. The Irish scored 28 points in the third quarter to break a school record. 
SENIOR 
DAY 
-


THE 
OBSERVER 

Monday, November 25, 2002 page 11 
ithou t the Lord 
nee' dazzles and disappoints Saturday 
determination to achieve perfect.ion. Hut ho has also been criticized for being a strict authoritarian and a power hungry egomaniac. 
This reputation emerged when he left tlrn Irish dance phenomena "Hivcrdancc" in which he was a lead dancer and choreographer. "Hiverdancc" exploded on the world scene as a seven-minute piece in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1994. But Flatley had lo share the spotlight and after six months he left the show blaming issues of arlistic control. Ile claims the producers of' "Hiverdance" wanted to incorporate all different nations into the show, while Flatley believed that an all Irish show could stand on its own. Unable to agree on any settlements, Flatley sued the pro­ducers or "Hiverdancc" for a percent­age of the revenues that he believed were right!'ully his. 
When Flatley began to envision his own project, he knew that he wanted the successor to "Hiverdance" to be more of a rock concert than a the­atrical performance. Wilh an origi­nal score by Honan llardiman and talented Irish dance champions from all over the world. Flatley began to see his detailed vision come to life. With his name above the title in "Lord of the Dance," Flatley became the star of the show -oiled, bare-chested and per­forming as the hero and savior of Irish dance with two beau­tifu I women competing for his attention in a flashy, 
male fantasy world. 
Since its world debut in Dublin on .July 2, 1996, "Lord of' the Dance" has met extreme international success. It broke London's famous Wembley Arena's performance record, selling out 21 shows. Opening in the United States at Hadio City Music Ilall where it sold out its f'irst 13 performances. "Lord of the Dance" went on to per­form at the 1997 Academy Awards. As a result of the success of the show, Flatley can afford to get over any hard feelings he had for "Hiverdance" since he has his own revenue sensa­tion. In 2000, with an exhausting schedule and rumors of failing health, Flatley performed in a final show of his tour "Feet of Flames," a magnified version of "Lord of the Dance" he created to draw attention to his final performance. 
Today, Flatley serves as artistic director and continues to oversee all aspects of the show and the numcr­
o us "Lord of the Dance" troupes. There arc two permanent dance troupes. one is currently touring Europe and the second is touring the United States. Flatley also recently signed a $250 million deal for the show to remain in The Venetian hotel and casino in Las Vegas. With an incredibly successful video and soundtrack CD, as well as overpriced merchandise -a dinky program costs $15 -total gross for Lord of the Dance is fast approaching $100 million. 
While Flatley has lived his life with an attitude of extreme confidence, he has introduced the world to the power of Irish dancing. lie is a hero for many Americans as a purveyor of Irish pride. Flatley awed the world and carried the show to its extraordi­nary success because of his incredi­ble talent, but without his command­ing stage presence as Lord the show seems to become nothing more than an extravagant mon­
eymaker. 
Contact Claire Kelley at kelJey.38@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 25, 2002 
NFL 
Lions' odd coin toss call helps Bears to OT victory 
. Detroit wins toss and goes with wind; Bears get ball and Edinger kicks game-winning FG 
Associated Prrss 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. Detroit took the wind and Chicago got the win. 
Sore-armed Jim Miller came off the bench to rescue the Bears, who benefitted from Detroit's unconventional over­time strategy Sunday to beat the Lions 20-17 and end an eight-game losing streak. 
Miller, playing with a sore right elbow. led the Bears to 10 points in the final 2:33 of regulation, featuring two great catches by Dez White, and Chicago (3-8) forced overtime on Paul Edinger's 22-yard field goal on the final play. 
After winning the coin toss to start overtime, the Lions (3­
8) decided to play defense first with a strong 17 mph wind at their backs instead of taking the ball. 
But given the ball first, Miller moved the Bears from their own 35 to the Detroit 22, hitting third down passes of 14 and 15 yards to Marty Booker and then connecting again 

KRTPHOTO
with a 5-yarder to White on 
Members of the Chicago Bears carry kicker Paul Edinger off the field after he kicked the game-winning field goal in the Bears' 20-17
fourth-and-3 from the Detroit 
victory over the Lions Sunday. The Bears were able to kick the field goal when the Lions refused the ball after winning the coin toss.
30 to get Edinger in position for the game winner. 39 with an 8-yard sack on Favre was sacked three last five minutes. into contention in the AFC fourth down, and the Vikings times and had little success Ronde Barber stepped in North after a poor start. Patriots 24, Vikings 1.7 got a 6-yard touchdown from against the vaunted Bucs front of a slant pass intended Cleveland trails Pittsburgh by 
The New England Patriots Bates with 19 seconds left in defense after taking advantage for Terry Glenn to turn back a half-game. outlasted a Minnesota team the half. of Tampa Bay's only turnover another threat and Dexter The Saints (7-4) have lost that can't win on the road and They had no such problems to give the Packers (8-3) a 7-0 Jackson's interception and 58-three of four to fall into third can't hang onto the ball any­a week earlier when they lead in the first quarter. yard return to the Green Bay 5 place in the NFC South. where. upset Green Bay 31-21. That The Bucs (9-2) are off to led to Johnson's TD pass to McAllister, the NFC's leading 
Tom Brady threw three night, the Patriots failed to their best start ever and thrust Dilger. runner with 950 yards rush­touchdown passes in the first score an offensive touchdown themselves into position to Favre, who dropped to 0-5 ing, was active but never got half and the Patriots held on in a 27-20 loss in Oakland. make a run for home-field at Raymond James Stadium, into the game because of a for a 24-17 win Sunday over The Vikings cut the lead to advantage in the playoffs, finished 20-of-38 for 196 sprained right ankle. the sloppy Vikings. 21-17 early in the fourth quar­which would be major for a yards. Johnson was 15-of-25 New Orleans struggled with­
Minnesota lost three fumbles ter. But the Patriots' defense franchise that's never won a for 134 yards with no inter­out him, gaining just 74 yards and forced no turnovers, held, and Adam Vinatieri postseason game on the road. ceptions. rushing and scoring just one increasing its league-worst added a 34-yard field goal Johnson returned from being touchdown on six trips inside turnover differential to minus-with 11:09 remaining. poked in the right eye to throw Browns 24, Saints 15 the Cleveland 20. Cleveland 
19. TD passes of 4 yards to Joe The running back scamper­forced three red-zone 
The Vikings have lost 16 Buccaneers 21, Packers 7 Jurevicius and 3 yards to Ken ing down the Superdome field turnovers -two interceptions straight on the road and Brett Favre was no match Dilger. Martin Gramatica was not Deuce McAllister. and a fumble by Aaron Brooks haven't won since for the NFL's top-ranked kicked field goals of 38 and 51 With New Orleans' star -and twice held the Saints to Thanksgiving Day 2000 in defense. yards for the Bucs, who trailed wa-tching from the sidelines, field goals. Dallas. Tampa Bay intercepted 7-3 at the half. Cleveland rookie William Brooks completed 23 of 40 
The Patriots (6-5) led 21-0 Favre four times and Brad Brian Kelly had two inter­Green ran for 114 yards and a passes for 318 yards, but and got the ball back at the Johnson threw two second­ceptions, setting up Tampa touchdown to spark the threw three interceptions and Minnesota 31 when Richard half touchdown passes Sunday Bay's first TD and stopping Browns to a 24-15 victory over no touchdowns. Seymour recovered Randy as the Buccaneers beat the another drive deep in Bucs the Saints on Sunday. Couch was 12-for-21 for 182 Moss's fumble with 2:14 left in Packers 21-7 in a meeting of territory with Favre working It was the fourth victory in yards and a touchdown for the half. the teams with the best record feverishly to try to wipe out a five games for the Browns (6-Cleveland. He was intercepted 
But the drive ended at the in the league. two-touchdown deficit in the 5). who have climbed back twice. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
•••ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578 dept 2626)lwww.springbreakdis­counts.com 
..At Last Spring Break.. Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash· tours.com 1800426771 o 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004·Anlan Properties, L.L.C. 532·1896 Call Bill. 
ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI­TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only company exclusive to Acapulco! Thats why we re the BEST. 'Go Loco In Acapulco" with the #1 Spring Break Company in Acapulco for 16 years! 
Call 800-875-4525 Today. www.bianchi-rossi.com. Be a Rep, travel FREE-ask howl 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break VacationslMexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texasl Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Mealsl 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours_com Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
Male roommate tor Spring Semester, Turtle Creek townhome. Call Leonard 272-8582. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL.NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. 
$99,500. 
Williamson.1@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
2 & 4-bdrm houses for 2003. Close to ND. 616-699-5841. 
Very comfortable & clean home on ND Ave., beginning Summer or Fall, 2003. 4 BR, 1.5 BA, security system, washer/dryer. Huge rooms. Owners have references from previ­ous tenants! Max of 5 seniors or grads. Lease details 255-5852, leave message with name and phone. 
TICKETS 
BCS BOWL TICKETS FOR SALE (All LOCATIONS) Local(574)654·0168. TOLL FAEE(800) 272-8553 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800· 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
my goodness, this was a busy sports weekend. 
Way to go Mod Quad for dominat­ing the lnterhall finals this weekend. 
I didn't jinx it. It's cloudy and cold now, isn't it? 
And snowing loo. 
two more days... 
well, by the time I read this again, one more day... and I'm spent. 

Monday, November 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Buckeyes ready to 'Fiesta' after defeating Wolverines 
the clock for the bend-but-don't­Washington 29, Washington Matt Kegel, Gesser's replace­the opening 10 minutes
Associated Press 
break Buckeyes, who have won State 26 ment. dropped back and tried to Saturday at the Hose Bowl. six games by seven points or Washington's John Anderson throw. The ball came loose, and Carson Palmer has his coach­COLUMBUS, Ohio 
fewer this season. kicked five field goals, including Ellis leaped on it. es' endorsement for theGo ahead, Ohio State. !l's safe But coming against the hated the game-winner from 49 yards "I intercepted it, then I Hcisman Trophy. 
to exhale. 
Wolverines (9-3, 6-2), this nail­out in the third overtime, and dropped it," Ellis said. Carson Palmer threw a 34­
The Buckeyes escaped yet 
biter was sweeter than all the Kai Ellis forced and recovered a The ball hit the turf, but Ellis yard touchdown pass to Kareemanother tight jam Saturday with 
others. disputed fumble to secure grabbed it, and the Huskies Kelly on the first play froma 14-9 victory over rival 
"When Will made the catch, I Washington's 29-26 thrilling vic­sprinted off the field to celebrate scrimmage following one ofMichigan. 
just started crying," said safety tory over No. 3 Washington the victory. UCLA's many devastating mis­A season of hope has turned Michael Doss, who decided to State on Saturday night. Not so fast, though. takes, and that got No. 7 USC offperfectly magical for the second­put off an NFL career by staying "When you get on a little bit of The celebration slowed as offi­and running to a 52-21 victory
ranked Buckeyes (13-0, 8-0 Big 
for his senior season. "We had a roll, the goal posts get bigger," cials huddled near a pile of play­over the Bruins (No. 24Ten), who are on their way to faith we could win every game, Anderson said. "You want to be ers at thP 40-yard line. After ESPN/USA Today, No. 25 AP).
the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl to play 
that's what makes this team so out there." about one minute, a hush went "The first play was huge. Itfor a national title on Jan. 3. 
special." The loss spoiled Washington over the crowd when referee gave us momentum for the
"The way they've won has 
The Buckeyes earned a share State's chance to secure a Rose Gordon Riese snapped on his whole game," Palmer said afterboon great for college football," 
of the Big Ten title with No. 5 Bowl berth. Now the Cougars (9-microphone. passing for 254 yards and four
said Buckeyes coach Jim 
Iowa (11-1) and can now sit 2, 6-1 Pacific-10) must win at "The ruling on the field was touchdowns. "Before the game,
Tressel, now 2-0 against 
Michigan. "We have a scrappy, back and wait to see who they'll UCLA on Dec. 7 to capture the that it was a backward pass. we were talking about putting play in Tempe, Ariz. Washington recovered that pass, up 50.
tough. talented, smart bunch of conference title, and it's not folks who want to achieve.'' "It's time to party," said defen­known whether quarterback and the game is over." Riese "It's an awesome feeling to announced. beat these guys the way we did."
Swea.Ung out every last tick of sive Pnd Kenny Peterson. Jason Gesser will be able to the clock, the Buckeyes finally "Fiesta. Fiesta ... " play. The ruling was that Kegel had Palmer and Kelly hooked up got past the Wolverines and will With Michigan controlling play Gesscr was knocked out in the thrown the ball to his left, away after Tab Perry fumbled the play for a national champi­and clinging to a 9-7 lead after fourth quarter with a high ankle from the line of scrimmage, opening kickoff and Grant onship they've been chasing three quarters, Ohio State sprain on his right leg. making it a live ball. So when it Mattos recovered, putting USC 
on top after 16 seconds of play.
since 1968. seemed destined for more heart­Washington (7-5, 4-4) had the hit the turf, it wasn't an incom­USC also scored touchdownsMaurice Hall scored on a 3-break against the Wolverines. ball first in the third overtime, pletion. 
on its next two possessions for ayard run with 4:55 left and the The Buckeyes had undefeated and after a sack and two incom­"It was a backward pass, 
quick 21-0 lead. UCLA scored
Buckeyes survived two late dri­seasons and their national title pletions by Cody Pickett, it was therefore a fumble, and we 
early in the second quarter to 
ves by Michigan (No. 9 hopes wiped out in 1995 and up to Anderson. He trotted out ended up with the ball. So the 
draw within two touchdowns
ESPN/lJSA Today, No. 12 AP). 1996 by Michigan. for the 49-yard attempt, and a game was over," Washington 
before the Trojans ran off 31
"We might not go out and But this team found a way to collective groan arose from coach Rick Neuheisel said. 
straight points.
score 50 points. We might not win -just as it did early this Martin Stadium when his kick Cougars coach Mike Price The 52 points were the mosthold teams to 10 yards," said season at Cincinnati, in overtime sailed true. didn't see it that way. 
scored by either team in the
Buckeyes running back Maurice at Illinois last week and with a "I just wanted to make sure I "That was just a bad pass. It series since USC defeated UCLAClarctt, "but we make the plays fourth-quarter comeback at made it," Anderson said. "I was a forward pass," he said. 
52-0 in 1930 -the second 
when we have to." Purdue two weeks ago. knew our defense would get the USC 52, UCLA 21 meeting between the teams. The Will Allen intercepted John "This is a huge win." said job done." Whatever chance UCI.A had of year before that, the Trojans
Navarrn's pass just short of the Tressel, who accepted a Fiesta The Cougars took over, and it 
upsetting crosstown rival beat the Bruins 76-0. end zone with 0:00 showing on Bowl invitation after the game. was all over on their first play. Southern California dissolved in 
;1/EEO II RIOE TO TIIEIIIRPORT? FREE SHUTTLE TO SOUTH BEND AIRPORT ON WEDNESDAY AND BACK TO SCHOOL ON SUNDAY . a WEDNESDAY SHUTTLE SCHEDULE (Nov. 27) MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT RUNS 1 2 3 4 LIBRARY CIRCLE NOON 1:30 3:00 4:30 MAIN CIRCLE 12:20 1 :50 3:20 4:50 REGINA 12:40 2:10 3:40 5:10 MCCANDLESS 12:50 2:20 3:50 5:20 MICHIANA AIRPORT 1:10 2:40 4:10 5:40 As a service to students flying home for Thanksgiving, Notre SUNDAY SHUTTLE SCHEDULE (Dec. l) Dame Express Shuttle will be MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT RUNS running to the airport on 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MICHIANA AIRPORT NOON 1:30 3:00 4:30 6:00 7:30 9:00Wednesday and back on Sunday. The shuttle will be dropping students off at LIBRARY CIRCLE, MAIN CIRCLE, REGINA, and MCCANDLESS. Ad sponsored by Student Government.  

,­
.I 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 14 COMPILED FROM nrn OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, November 25, 2002 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 


down, and McPherson went make a change," Bowden was making progress and 
Associated Press 
8-of-20 for 80 yards. said. just needs experience," TALLAHASSEE, Fla. "I don't like doing it, but I McPherson took over for Bowden said. "I felt like he 
Florida State coach think the situation, the play Rix after the Seminoles lost was gaining it, and he Bobby Bowden has opened of our quarterbacks, 34-24 to Notre Dame on wasn't losing games for us, up the competition at quar­requires me to take a Oct. 26. Rix struggled and but this last week he took a terback again after watch­strong look at both of turned the ball over three few steps backward." ing Adrian McPherson them," Bowden said. times before giving way to Bowden also would not struggle against North Rix came into the game McPherson, who led Florida rule out rotating Rix and Carolina State. with a little more than two State to two scores at the McPherson -pulling out a 
Bowden said Sunday he minutes left and effectively end of the game. trick former Florida coach will decide whether moved the Seminoles down McPherson led Florida Steve Spurrier used to beat McPherson or Chris Rix will the field before throwing an State to victories over Wake the Seminoles in 1997 start the finale against No. interception in the end zone Forest, Georgia Tech and when Doug Johnson and 15 Florida after he watches with 8 seconds remaining. North Carolina. Though his Noah Brindise played. them practice. "The way he moved the numbers through those "If everything else fails, 
The Seminoles lost 17 -7 football team in the brief three games were not spec­we would try anything, to the Wolfpack on time he was in there was tacular -51-of-98 for 654 even that," Bowden said. Saturday and dropped nine enough make you think yards -McPherson threw "Steve Spurrier did that to spots to No. 23 in the latest that we better let these kids one. interception while us and beat us that way, AP Top 25. FSU failed to fight this out another week throwing eight touchdowns. but most of us don't know score an offensive touch-and decide if we need to "I feel like [McPherson] how to do it that way." 
IN BRIEF 
Pbiilies sign third baseman and attitude. Goestenkors, whose team won its Bell to 4-year deal "His work ethic is second to none," opener over East Carolina by 62 Sowa said. "He's always prepared, points Friday. "This hopefully proves 
The Philadelphia Phillies don't plays the game the way it's supposed to people that not only were we here
have to worry about their new third to be played. He's very unselfish, to play, but we're here to stay." 
baseman's relationship with manag­knows how to play and has come
er Larry Bowa. 
David Bell, who helped the San from winning teams." Epstein to become youngest Francisco Giants reach the World GM with Red Sox Series last month, agreed to a $17 Top-ranked Duke blows out The Boston Red Sox will hire Theo million, four-vear deal with the No. 2 Tennessee Epstein as their general manager, a 
Duke's first week at No. 1 was a
Phillies on Sunct"ay. team source told The Associated 
Bell hit .261 with 20 homers and rousing success. Press on Sunday night. 73 RBIs last season. The free agent Alana Beard had 22 points, nine Epstein, 28, will be the youngest will replace All-Star third baseman rebounds, seven assists and five GM in baseball history when the Scott Rolen, who was traded by steals to power the top-ranked Blue team makes the announcement, 
Philadelphia to St. Louis in July. Devils over No. 2 Tennessee 76-55 which is expected to come Monday. 
Rolen and Bowa had opposite per­Sunday in the inaugural women's Randy Smith was 29 when he was sonalities and feuded often during Jimmy V Classic. hired by the San Diego Padres in their 1 1/2 seasons together. Bell It was the 35th meeting of No. 1 vs. 1993. and Bowa got along well when they No. 2 in women's college basketball. The Red Sox have been without a were together in Seattle from 1999-Tennessee, with six national titles, permanent general manager since 
01. has been involved in 19 such Florida financier John W. Henry
"I know Larry, and I really like matchups and dropped to 4-6 when bought the team in spring trainingLarry," Bell said. "I look forward to ranked second. and fired Dan Duquette. Mike Port playing for him." "This was a great opportunity for was named interim GM !'or the sea­
Bowa, a coach with Seattle when us to show the nation that we were son and was a candidate for the Bell was there, likes his approach here to play," said Duke coach Gail long-term job that went to Epstein. 
Monday, November 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Irish blowout Bucknell, 73-42 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
The way Torin Francis looked at his performance Saturday, the Irish freshman was just doing his job. 
But if his job includes setting freshman records, the Irish won't mind making sure Francis gets more work 
Francis grabbed 20. rebounds against Hucknell, the most any Irish freshman recorded since LaPhonso Ellis grabbed 18 in 1989, as the Irish rolled to a 73-42 victory Friday night. 
"That's just part of the game," said Francis, who fin­ished with 11 points. "It's just something you have to do." 
It was the third straight game the Irish played where their defense completely shut down their opponent, but it helped that they were facing a team that was horribly out­matched. Bucknell struggled to find the basket all night, only making 21.1 percent of their shots. 
The 42 points Notre Dame allowed were the fewest since 1999, when they gave up 42 to Valparaiso. And over their first three games, the Irish have allowed just 135 points, the fewest they allowed in the first three games of a season since 1947. 
But it helped that the Irish played a team that made more free throws (15) than field goals (12). 
The Irish were never seri­ously challenged, scoring the game's first seven points. Bucknell only got as close as five points with seven minutes left in the tirst half before the Irish reeled off a 16-point run to pull comfortably ahead. 
"I do like what we're doing defensively," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We're working on that end and trying to defend." 
The game was a coming out this season for Chris Thomas, who seemed to be much more noticeably absent during Notre Dame's first two games. Thomas scored a game-high 20 points, the most he's scored all sea.son, to key the Irish offense. 
Thomas was fearless coming out of the locker room at half­time. scoring eight of Notre Dame's first 10 points to stretch a 40-21 halftime lead to a 50-24 lead. 
"I just felt like the last couple of games I've been passive," he said. "There's nothing wrong with that, but tonight as a team, we struggled offen­sively." 
Torrian Jones also had his most prolific scoring perfor­mance of the season. The junior guard finished with 13 points in 21 minutes played, often scoring on penetrating drives or when his teammates found him flashing underneath the basket. 
"I was patient, and it was a night where my drives were there," Jones said. "Guys were turning their backs on defense and I was picking my spots and finding them." 
Matt Carroll added 13 points and Dan Miller chipped in 12. 
Tom Timmermans returned to the Irish lineup after sitting out the first two games with back spasms. He played nine minutes, grabbing three rebounds and failing to score, and Brey said the Irish center wasn't quite back to 100 per­cent. 
The Irish have another quick turnaround, as they prepare to face Furman in the semifinals of the Guardians Classic tonight at 9:30 p.m. The Irish will then face either Creighton or IUPUI in the final or conso­lation round Tuesday night, depending on whether or not Notre Dame wins tonight. 
By Tuesday, the Irish will have squeezed in five games in 10 days. 
"Playing the games is great," Brey said. "But the slippage you get is you haven't prac­ticed much in the last week." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
ND WOMENS CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish expect strong finish at NCAAs 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in school his­tory, the Notre Dame womens cross-country team has a chance to finish in the top 10 in the NCAA Championships. 
Led by sophomore Lauren King and freshman Molly Huddle, the Irish have qualified for the national championships for the fourth time in the pro­gram's history, and their depth and performances this year have earned the team its place as the fifth ranked team in the nation. 
On Monday, at Terre Haute. they will attempt to conclude the season in the same manner they have run each of their previous races. 
"We're going in there on a p1·etty high note," Irish coach Tim Connelly said. "I thought our kids ran their best race of the season at [the regional finals in West Lafayette, Ind.]. We believe we have a shot at plac­ing really high.'" 
The team has seen steady improvement throughout the season, both in their races and workouts. 
"We know that the team is working really well and has 
been really good," King said. "Everyone's fit. The workouts have been going great. We know we're ready for this level of competition." 
Unlike past years, Notre Dame has expected success from the outset of this season. 
"I might not appreciate it as much as some of the upper­classmen. who know what the team has done before and how it's such a big improvement compared to where we've been," lluddle said. "The fresh­man class, our first season all we know is the best Notre Dame has been so far." 
Huddle is one of throe fresh­men that will run for the Irish today. 
"If you ask anyone of those freshmen, they"ll tell you that they expected tu be in the NCAAs when they decided to come to Notre Dame," Connelly said. 
Veteran Irish runner Jen Handley is the lone senior among the team's competing top runners. 
The Irish are fresh off the program's first victories at the Great Lakes Regional and the Big East Championships. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 

Entries due Friday, December 6 
Drop off in Student Activities Office 314 LaFortune 
Questions? Email schuster.13@nd.edu 
Monday, November 25, 2002
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
Pyros 
continued from page 20 
halftime, the rejuvenated Chaos came out firing in the second half. 
When a Coons pass intended for Follmer was picked off in the end zone, Cavanaugh gained the momentum Coons said. "Our team probably had the most fun of every team, and we won. It was a great sea­son, with great coaches." 
Coons wasn't the only senior quarterback that played excep­tionally well. For Cavanaugh. Meyers was 10-of-18 for 132 yards with one touchdown. 
For the Pyros, KrisLin Marcuccilli caught three passes 
for 26 «Yards, 
and center 

"I couldn't ask for
and the win­Allison dow of oppor­anything more as a Pcrber was tunity they on the
senior. Our team 
had been receiving end 
probably had the most
waiting for. of two passes 
After a com­fun ofevery team." as well. pletions by She, like Meg Myers to Coons,
Abbey Coons
Jenny Nokes played both 
and Melissa Pyros quarterback ways as 
Marcotte. the Chaos drove down the field. A 40-yard reverse by Lisa Ruffer set up and 11-yard touchdown pass by Meyers to Laurie Hohberger with 45 sec­onds remaining. 
But the extra point pass was knocked down and PE ran out the clock to claim the champi­onship. Coons and the Pyros were joined in celebration by a sea of red that chanted "I love Abbey" after the game. 
"I couldn"t ask for anything more as a senior," an elated 
Raillblers 
continued from page 20 
"Bill had some nice offensive play calls," said Siegfried coach John Torgenson. 
Bingle, Torgenson notes, has a keen knowledge of the game and calls all of the plays from the line of scrimmage. 
Alumni scored first on its second drive of the game. Running back Alex Roodhouse broke a 50-yard run on first down from the Dawgs 9-yard line. Roodhouse, who had 86 yards rushing and 14 yards receiving on the day, ended the drive with a 2-yard touch­down run. putting Alumni up 7-0. 
The Alumni defense that had hardly given opponents a whiff of the end zone all sea­son stood strong in the first half, letting Bingle and the Ramblers drive down-
but 
quarterback 
and defen­
sive back. In a game where the star players negated each other's perfor­mances, the storv was of the role players who came up big in the end. 
"We were probably the last team people would have thought would win, but we did it," Coons said. "We've just grown so much this year." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
receivers," said Ratchke. "He's a great quarterback." 
Alumni coach Steve Keppel saw an opportunistic Siegfried team that would not quit. 
"I think it was just them making big plays," Keppel said. "They were driving the ball on us [in the first half] but our defense was able to stop them. They just made some amazing catches towards the end. And their defense stepped up in the sec­ond half." 
Like its defense, the Alumni offense struggled as the game went on. 
The Alumni offensive output of the day more or less ended with the first-half touchdown. Bingle and Siegfried's offen­sive took over and kept the Dawgs offense off the field. When Chris Cottingham and the Alumni offense returned to the field, the Ramblers defense entered the game well-rested and shut the 

field, Dawgs down. 
"This is a dream for
stopping A Pat 
everyone, to come out
Siegfried Muzin sack short of the here and be victorious in on third end zone down late in
Notre Dame Stadium. You
twice on the fourth 
fourth down. get the shivers, you quarter all The Dawgs know?" but ended had trouble the hopes of in the sec­the Alumni
John Torgensen
ond half faithful. -w h e n Siegfried coach "Our first 
Siegfried elected to spread the field and throw. 
"I was kind of surprised how easily we could pass," said Bingle. "They've been shutting everyone out, and we haven't been throwing quite so much the past couple games. Our receivers made some real good plays. Jack Kaup, Nate Ratchke, and Mike Wall, they're all over the place." 
Kaup, Bingle's go-to-guy all season, caught a 17-yard strike from Bingle in the back of the end zone to tie the game at 7 -7 in the third qu ar­ter. On the drive, Bingle com­pleted five of five passes, including three to Kaup. 
On the following touchdown drive. Bingle connected with Ratchke for 26 yards on a great diving catch to set up a 15-yard Tim Breitbach touch­down run. 
"Bill makes us look good as 
drive, we 
were moving the ball pretty well," said Keppel. "There were penalties and some mental mistakes that kind of hurt us in the sec­ond half. But games like this go by pretty fast. You need to take advantage of your drives, and we really didn't do that in the second half." 
A holding call on Alumni's first drive and a clipping penalty on the punt return to set up the Dawgs' final drive proved crucial to the game's outcome. The Siegfried defense buckled down after the first touchdown and did not let up. 
"We should have won by a lot more," said Bingle. "We pretty much dominated the game. We punch those first couple in and I don't think they'd have been around at all." 
For now, the Siegfried 
LISA VELTE/The Observer 
A Siegfried player breaks a tackle during the Ramblers' 14-7 victory over Alumni Sunday after­noon at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Ramblers finally hold the tro­phy after losing in the finals to Dillon last year. 
"It's just great to be out here. It's a great experience," said Ratchke. "To come in here and win after last year, getting smoked by Dillon. We got down 7-0, but all year we didn't give up, we kept our heads up. We just got the job done. It's a good feeling." 
"This is a dream for every­one, to come out here and be victorious in Notre Oame Stadium," said Torgenson. "You get the shivers, you know?" 
Contact Pat Leonard at 
pleonard@nd.edu 

-·----­Monday, November 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Revenge 
continued from page 20 
defeated Mia.mi 30-19, 31-29, 27­30, 30-19 to win i1S third consec­utive Big East Tournament title. 
"We absolutely wanted to play Miami for the title," outside hitter Emily Loomis said. "They really fired us up with their comments at the banquet." 
Loomis capped off the confer­ence season by winning the tour­nament's Most Outstanding Player award. Against the llurricancs, the sophomore from Fort Wayne, Ind. recorded game­highs in kills with 21 and hitting percentage of .462. 
The Irish (23-8) got off to a fast start, hitting an incredible .606 in game one and committing only one attack error. Loomis led the Irish with eight kills in the game. 
Alter dropping the first game in Saturday's 3-1 semifinal win over Connecticut, Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown knew her team needed to start strong. 
"It was really big for us to come out and_play well in game one after dropping the first game [against Connecticut]." Brown said. "rt was a confidence boost for the team. To hit .600 in one game is amazing. We were really on." 
Keeping the pressure on in game two. the Irish held a com­fortable margin throughout the game. The Hurricanes were down 29-25 and facing a 2-0 dis­advantage. Gelting a block, two kills and capitalizing on an Irish passing error, the Hurricanes tied the game at 29. 
But the top blocking team in the country used two of its 10 blocks in game two to win the last two points and take a two games to none lead in the match. 
"The blocking was huge at the end of game two, especially if you look at the way we won the game," Brown said. "Ten blocks in a game is another amazing sta­tistic." 
In game three, the Irish found themselves down 18-15 after a three-point Hurricane run. Closing the gap to one point three times, the Irish could never break through and were forced to a game four. 
Wanting to avoid a decisive game five, the Irish jumped on the Hurricanes (25-5) quickly scoring the game's first eight points and built a 20-8 lead. Miami forced Brown to use a timeout by scoring the next four points. 
Out of the timeout, the Irish scored five straight to regain con­trol of the game. Loomis closed out the match with her 35th kill of the weekend. 
Freshman middle blocker Lauren Brewster recorded a dou­ble-double against the Hurricanes with 15 kills and 12 blocks. Fellow freshman Lauren Kclbley had her second straight 15-kill match against the Hurricanes. 
The Irish used their imposing front line to force the Hurricanes into hitting .158 for the match. Big East Player of the Year Valeria Tippiana had 11 kills for the Hurricanes but hit only .025. 
With the win, the Irish qualify for their 11 th consecutive NCAA Tournament. which begins in two weeks. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
S01iles 
continued from page 20 
having fun." 
Even when Kelhley makes one of her rare mistakes, she doesn't get mad. Instead she walks back to the team huddle with a smile. Brown doesn't yell at her players and get mad at them for making a mistake. She challenges them. In game three on Sunday, the Hurricanes built a five-point lead and looked to be running away with the game and grabbing the momentum. 
But Brown got off the bench and asked her team. "Are we gonna get this kill?,., 
While the Irish lost the game, they got that kill and stayed con­fident and happy. 
"The team is out there having fun and the captains have been a big part of that," Brown said. 
Maybe the smiles come from setter and captain Kristen Kinder who had to be told to set­tle ~own on the court by Brown numerous times because she was getting too excited. Maybe this confidence comes from the team seeing Brown questioning the officials on a debatable call and not jumping off the bench and earning a yellow card as two Miami coaches did Sunday. 
Maybe the smiles came from the fact ·the Irish saw Connecticut players with the deer-in-the-headlights look as the Irish won the last three games Saturday by 13. eight and 12 points. And when they accepted their Big East Tournament Champion T-shirts and plaques for the third straight year, the smiles got even bigger. 
'Tm just having some much fun out there," Loomis said. 
The Irish hope to continue having fun and gel past the sec­ond round of the NCAA Tournament for the first time since 1995. And if not, there's a good chance Loomis will still be smiling. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Lazar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
MENS CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish prepare to surprise nation in NCAA Championships 

championships, which will be Moore finished first for the Irish tion, and the Irish are hoping for Irish are made of." 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
held in Terre Haute, Ind., by in both the Big East and Great at least a top-15 finish. According to Mobley, the key to 
Spores Writer 
receiving the final at-large bid. Lakes meets. Mobley, who still "We're the most ready we've Notre Dame's success will be in Last year, they were automatic has not fully recovered, believes ever been all year," Moore said. the team's ability to focus only on Last year, the Notre Dame qualifiers. he will be able to match or better "There's really only one race. what they can do, rather than mens cross-country team entered "We just want to go out there his individual performance from Every work out, every race has worrying about their competi­
the NCAA Championships· after and prove to everyone that we last year's national champi­been preparing us for this." tion. 
victories at the 13 ig East and belong there," Irish sophomore onships, when he finished in 38th The Irish are set on proving "We want to go out there and 
Great Lakes Regional Todd Mobley said. "We were the place and earned All-American their worth to the other teams not get caught up in who we arc 
Championships and ultimately last spot in, so people question honors. that will be competing for the racing and perform to our abili­
finished fifth in the finals. This whether we deserve to be there. "I am not 100 percent," Mobley national title. ties for the first time this season," 
year circumstances are a little After Monday, I think they will said. "I am well enough ·that I "Our goal was to get here," Mobley said. "We'll surprise a lot 
different for the Irish, who lost know that we do." think I can challenge for as well freshman Eric Morrison said. of people in doing so." 
three All-Americans due to grad-Ever since an injury four weeks as I did last year, if not better." "We were really focused on that 
uation. · ago, Mobley has not been able to Despite Mobley's injury, the last race. A lot of teams are 
Contact Joe Lindsley at 
Notre Dame just barely quali­turn in his usual team-leading team feels that they are ready to counting us out. I'd like to go out 
jlindslc@nd.edu
fied to run in today's national performances. Freshman Tim challenge much of their competi-there and show them what the 
MENS SWIMMING 
Irish fall to Purdue, but see improvement 
meet by taking first in 11 events
Observer Staff Report 
on the evening. However, the 400 
After their comeback victory at freestyle relay team of Krakowski, Texas Christian the week before, J.R. Teddy, Randolph and Matt the Notre Dame mens swimming Obringer again turned in a win­and diving team had momentum ning effort, touching the wall lirst and high expectations coming into with a time of 3:09.39, another their meet against Purdue Friday record for the season. night. Three more swimmers had 
The 18th-ranked Boilermakers their best finishes this year, as proved worthy of their ranking, freshman Patrick Davis came in 
-
handing the Irish a disappointing second in the 1650 freestyle with loss. The Irish were defeated 175-16:03.37. In the 200 freestyle, 123 in the dual meet at Rolfs junior Matt Obringer swam Aquatic Center and are now 4-3 1:42.14, just a tenth of a second on the season. behind Paul to place second. 
The 400 medley relay team of Junior Lucas Wymore came in a Jason Fitzpatrick. Frank close third in the 200 buttert1y Krakowski, Tim Randolph and and qualified for the Big East Doug Bauman continued their championship with a time of winning streak, coming out on top 1:54.96. for the Irish in the first event of "We knew Purdue was good, the meet and earning their best and to be 50 points away shows finish of the season. The Irish took our team is improving so much control of the tightly-contested from last year," said Wymore. race in the last leg, winning by .07 "Our team has really come of a second with a time of 3:27. J9. together. and our transition Lo However, the Boilermakers quick­becoming a national powerhouse ly took over the contest by win­is starting." ning the next three evenlc,. Notre Dame's Joseph Miller 
For the Irish, Randolph had a won the three-meter diving event very strong day, winning the 100 with a scorn of 325.35. Miller fin­breaststroke in 58.31, his best ished second in the one-meter time of the season. Randolph also contest. placed second in the 100 freestyle The Irish will look to turn in a with a time of 47.26, losing by less good performance at the Notre than one second to Purdue's Louis Dame Invitational. Notre Dame Paul. 
will host the meet December 6-8 Purdue dominated the dual at the Rolls Aquatic Center. 
... 
. 
page 18 Monday, November 25, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS SOCCER 
Garcia scores 2 in 3-1 rematch victory over Akron 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports W rircr 
Rafael Garcia has been getting scoring opportunities all season long. For some reason, he just hasn't been able to con­vert them. 
Until Friday, that is. 
A senior playing in what may turn out to be his last game at Alumni Field, Garcia scored two goals for the Irish and fellow senior forward Erich Braun added a late insurance goal, as the Irish advanced into the second round of the NCAA Tournament with a 3-1 victory over Akron Friday night. 
"It was probably my last home game here, and I just wanted to come out and show them what I had and end it on a good note, and help my team advance to the next round," Garcia said. "I just wanted to come out here and win the game. Whatever it took ... I'm a team player. Tonight was my night to put the goals in and take us to the next round." 
With the two goals Friday night, Garcia doubled his goal output on the year. 
Notre Dame opened the scoring just under 15 minutes into the game, as Greg Martin drove down the left side of the field and booted a cross pass directly in front of the net. Garcia found the ball, and headed it on the ground towards the net. The ball bounced low to the ground and squirted between Akron goalie Dan Pinho's legs to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
"I think when he got that first goal he got a lot of confidence," Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said. "He played a terrific game tonight." 
After an Akron goal 15 minutes later tied the game heading into halftime, the Irish took the opening kickoff of the sec­ond half and headed directly for the Akron goal. A breakaway for the Irish led to an Akron defender clearing the ball across his own net and nearly into the net, almost giving the Irish a lead 
WOMENS SOCCER 
just 15 seconds into the half. 
Both goalies were tested, as both Pinho and Irish goalie Chris Sawyer faced a barrage of shots on net. Halfway through the second half, a shot by Akron after a Notre Dame foul deep in its own end needed an acrobatic tip-out by Sawyer to prevent the Zips from taking the lead. 
"That was a phenomenal save," Clark said. "That's the difference. because suddenly, you're 2-1 down, but instead of 2-1 down it's still 1-1." 
Pinho finished the game with 10 saves while Sawyer grabbed six. 
With just under 22 minutes to play, the Irish broke the stalemate. Chad Riley sent a pass from along the left side to a charging Justin Detter down the middle of the field. Detter passed to a streaking Garcia in the right corner of the field, who fired a low shot past a charging Pinho and into the net. 
"It was amazing," Garcia said. "1 just saw the goalie slip and fall as the ball went [past the goalie and] into the side netting." 
'Ibe Irish added to that lead less than 12 minutes later. After an Akron turnover deep in the Irish defensive side of the field, the Irish mounted a break­away. After bringing the ball to just past the midfield line, Detter booted a pass to Braun, who slipped past an Akron defender and chipped the ball over Pinho -who was caught out of position and well away from the net. The ball eventu­ally rolled into the net to give the Irish a 3-1 lead. 
"[Braun] was very cool and calm [on the play}," Clark said. "I know it looked like an easy opportunity. but anyone who plays soccer knows that's not an easy one. He did that well, and it took the pressure off coming down the line, because if it had stayed at a one-goal game, it was going to be very hectic, and that kind of took the wind out of their sails." 
Braun's goal was his 11th of the sea-
Irish fall to top-ranked Cardinal in Sw-eet 16 on late goal 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Spores Wricer 
Stanford's womens soccer team came into their third­round match with Notre Dame 
having allowed only four goals all season and the No. 1 ranked Cardinal showed why Saturday night, ending Notre Dame's
-
season with a 1-0 victory. The under­dog Irish 
played evenly with Stanford for 80 minutes thanks to brilliant play by goalkeeper Erika Bohn and gutsy play from a short­handed Irish squad. But Stanford's Marcia Wallis scored the game winner for Stanford with nine minutes left in regula­tion. 

Notre Dame lost All-American candidate Candace Chapman from the defense early in the first half, while junior midfielder Randi Scheller was forced from the game in the final minutes as the Irish continued to suffer 
"... Andfor us to make a run at the end ofthe year like we did, I'm really proud ofour kids. " 
Randy Waldrum 
coach 
from the injury bug that has hurt the team all season. 
"Candace is a very spe­cial player who adds so much of a different dimension," said Irish coach Randy 
Waldrum. "When she went out of the game, that was a big blow for us. 
We were just piecemealing the group together at the end, and the depth just caught up with us." 
Freshman Maggie Manning replaced Chapman in the lineup. 
Manning entered in the midfield with sophomore Mary Boland moving back to the defense. 
The Irish came out in a differ­ent formation in the second half, dropping one of the forwards back into the midfield to make up for the loss of Chapman. 
"If we could have kept playing with three up front, we felt like we could throw something at them that they weren't used to seeing," said Waldrum. 
Despite the injuries and strong opponent, the Irish, who came out in green jerseys for the first time since the 1999 College Cup semifinals, battled Stanford equally throughout. The Cardinal held only a 6-5 advan­tage in shots on goal, with a 7-4 advantage in corner kicks. 
Stanford's score came off an Irish goal kick. Midfielder Callie Withers passed to Wallis who hit from 16 yards out. 
"If they did get shots, they were from pretty far out," said junior defender Melissa Tancredi. ''That was our game 

(574) 272•737& • 222 Dlxleway South 

Once again, the Irish defense stepped up as the clock ticked down, preventing any last-minute letdowns. Kevin Richards knocked away a potential last­minute goal opportunity for the Zips, and preserving the two-goal margin of victo­ry. 
"I thought all the seniors stepped up [tonight]." Clark said. "I thought [mid­fielder Justin Ratcliffe] had been strug­gling in the last few games, but he really had a very good game, and of course 
With the win, the Irish, after not achieving a victory in their first eight matches with Akron, have defeated the Zips in both matchups this year. 
Now the Irish advanced to the second round of the NCAA Tournament, a place it has not been since 1996. This time around the Irish will battle in-state rival Indiana Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
plan, but one slip cost us." 
Stanford will ride a 14-game winning streak into the quarter­finals, having recorded 12 shutouts during that streak. 
"Stanford has a great team that is capable of winning it all," said Waldrum. "We have gone through an incredible year with as many as six or seven key peo­ple out ... and for us to make a run at the end of the year like we did, I'm really proud of our kids. They have been incredi­ble." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE UBWell2@ND WINNERS! 
Thank you to everyone who responded last week! We appreciate your questions and comments. 
Wednesday's Question 
Answer: False Going to bed on an empty stomach does not improve the quality. ofslee.P--••.... Winners: Joe Shuster Denise Emmert Jennifer Majcina Christina Ostrowski Christen Meko Jennifer Morgan 
Thursday's Question 
Answer: Forty Percent of Americans are sleep deprived.* Winners: Will Secor Katherine Ball Bonnie Cockerill Kristina Drzaic 
Friday's Question 
Answer: 50,000 accidents occur annually due to fatigue and sleepiness.* Winner: Scott Gavin 
Email us with questions, comments, or suggestions at UBWell2@nd.edu. 
*According to The Clinical Handbook of 

UBWELL2@ND
Sleeping Disorders by Antonio Culcbras .EDU 
Monday, November 25, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
Dude, how come It snows 
so much around here? 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
~IDJg
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
BRRP...and then we toured the museum... saw all the
to form four ordinary words. 

sights...lhen we... 
YURUS '\.. ,:• 
I [J b
C:2002 Tribune Media Servlce1S, Inc. All Rights Reoer;ed 
ONSIE 
± 
I rI JtBIGTAM j (J 
HARO TO OIGE:ST
J 
AFTE=R A. l:31G 
ME::AL...
ISHOPIN ± Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as
I I t IJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans:[11111] (1111]
(Answers tomorrow) 
Saturday's I Jumbles: GUISE GLOAT MATRON GROUCH Answer: What she showed when she stopped dyeing her hair -HER TRUE COLORS 
Stumped? Call 1 ¦900•776-6718 (99 c·ents a minute) 
CROSSWORD 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
63 "Who_we kidding?" 64 Other half of the Hollywood duo 
66 Half a dozen 67 Go out with 68 Bury 
69 See 11-Across 70 Pianist Hess and others 71 Poor 
DOWN 
1 iV comic Bob 
2 Celebrated Italian violinmaker 
3 Apply, as a coat of wax 4 Epilogue 5 Rum cocktail 6 MGM symbol 7 Regarding 8 Pie chart part 9 Arrange by ZIP code, e.g. 10 Fr. holy woman 
Puzzle by Belta Sue Cohen 
11 Oompah 
29 Spanish hero
instrument 
who died in 1099
12 Assn. with many 
30 Suffix with cigar 
G ult members 13 Feel sorry for 
31 Behind 
32 Transmit to the Moon" 33 Boys writer 
18 "From the Earth 
34 "This looks bad" 22 Put on again, as 
35 Nothin'
weight 
39 Meat slicer site 
24 Appetizers with 
41 _-la-la
sweet-and-sour sauce 44 Believe in wholeheartedly
26 Kind of suit 46 Ship speed units 
name 49 Make beloved 
WILLSHORTZ 
50 Obtuse one 60Dame_, 
53 A-list types Barry Humphries character
54 Broadcast 55 Apprehensive 61 Droops 56 Big party 64 Mom, dad and 57 Opera excerpt the kids: Abbr. 58 Cashier's cry 65 Gas suffix 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christina Applegate. John F. Kennedy Jr., John Larroquette, Amy Grant Happy Birthday: Prepare to think fast and proceed forward with great speed this year. Be shrewd and rid yourself of whatever is holding you back. Your accuracy will be uncanny and will win you the support you need to advance. Implement your talents and your ideas and watch them mushroom into something terrific. Your numbers are 3, 8, 19, 26, 33, 48 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will attract romantic partners with your charismatic personality and your energetic approach to life. Don't terr someone you love them if you aren't sure that you do. Make sure of your feelings before you make any announcements. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Friends or relatives may interfere with your personal objectives. If you need some advice, try to find someone who is impartial and who is aware of your situation. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This will not be the day to take chances. Lock your money up where it's safe. Stay out of stores where you might be enticed to spend on household items. Make sure that legal affairs arc in order. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your home environment appears to be extremely active. Plan your day carefully if you wish to dodge any setbacks. Make a list of priorities. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Difficulties with authority figures will surface. Be diplomatic so that you don't antagonize someone, but don't ·allow anyone to curtail your freedom. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Problems with groups may be upsetting. The only person you can really know and help is yourself. Put an effort into self. improvement. You will be successful. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Put your efforts into getting your own work done and refrain from interacting with peers who are just wasting time. Stay focused and you will please everyone around you.**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may find thal your emotional partner is feeling a little rejected. Unless the two of you start to communicate, there could be problems. Secret affairs could develop with someone at work. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't donate too much time or cash to organizations. You may find that you are being taken advantage of. Added responsibilities or demands may be inevitable. Make sure your priorities are straight. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Ask for favors but offer something in return. You can get involved in your own business or a partnership successfully. This is an excellent time to tum your dreams into reality. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Secret communication may be undermining your reputation. Don't let others know your thoughts or what you're up to. For the time being, focus on what you are trying to accomplish. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Creative courses will raise your earning potential and lead to a successful enterprise. Don't go halfway; follow your ideas through to completion. Socialize with friends who can offer you mental stimulation. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be interested in so many different things that it will be difficult for you to decide what you should pursue. You'll need to be careful not to spread yourself too thin and become a jack-of-all trades and master ol none. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com. astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
ACROSS 
Oregon's capital 6 Sounds worked on by speech therapists 11 With 69-Across, a film with 27­
and 64-Across 14 Appliance maker 15 Immobile 16 Wire service 
inits. 17 27· and 64-Across film, 
with "The" 
19 Wager 
20 W.W. II area: 
Abbr. 
21 Principles 
22 Risque 
23 A nonmusician 
may have one 25 Exude 
27 Half a famous Hollywood duo 
33 Place for a breath of fresh air? 
36 Wriggly fish 37 Precisely 38 Give time 40 Mo. with 
Columbus Day 42 Giant 43 Dummies 45 Rankle 47 Unhip person 48 27-and 
64-Across film 51 Certain legal protection 52 Difficult 
experience 56 Outlaws 59 "_Fideles" 62 Untruth 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
SLOWPOK WA MPS 

------------------------------------------------------------------~--~---­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ____________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Monday, November 25, 2002 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pyros, Ramblers bring home titles 
. Senior QB Coons leads PE to 7-6 victory over 
.. 
Cavanaugh 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Senior quarterback Abbey Coons led Pasquerilla East out of the tunnel on Sunday and then led her team to vic­tory on the field. 
Coons was 13-of-23 passing for 135 yards and a touch­down to lead the Pyros over the Chaos 7-6 in an exciting interhall finale Sunday that went down to the wire. 
PE's only touchdown was scored by Kathryn Lent in the first half, who made an out­standing grab of a pass that was batted around in the end zone. Leslie Follmer caught the extra point. 
"It was a play that was drawn out very well," Coons said. "I had great protection from our offensive line, and I was waiting for something to open up. Kathryn slipped behind the defense, and luck­
.. 
ily she caught it." It took more than luck to beat a Cavanaugh team that didn't give up after the first half touchdown. And after 
see PYROS/ page 16 

LISA VEL TE/The Observer LISA VELTE/TheObserver Pasquerilla East quarterback Abbey Coons fires a Siegfried quarterback Bill Bingle scrambles with pass in the Pyros' 7-6 victory over cavanaugh. the ball during the Ramblers' victory over Alumni. 
. Bingle leads Siegfried over Alumni, 14-7 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Siegfried would go where Bill Bingle took them. He took them all the way. 
Bill Bingle dismantled the well-respected Dawgs defense and the Ramblers finished the season unde­feated with a 14-7 victory over Alumni to win the 2002 mens interhall cham­pionship. 
The Siegfried Ramblers threw the ball for over 150 yards and scored 14 points on an Alumni defense that had given up only 13 points all season. 
Bingle, who played wide receiver and back-up quar­terback last season for the Ramblers. captained the offense this year and took control of his team's des­tiny. 
He threw for 161 yards on 13-18 passing in the decid­ing game with Alumni, and his seven rushes for 50 yards were also crucial, and two scrambles of 21 and 22 yards jump-started separate Siegfried drives. 
see RAMBLERS/page 16 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish top Hurricanes, clinch 7th Big East crown 
. Irish tell cocky 'Canes who 'better team' is with win 
ByMATTLOZAR Sports Writer 
PITTSBURGH 
At the Big East awards banquet Friday night, a Hurricane volley­ball player told the crowd "the better team won" when her Miami team ended Notre Dame's 43-game Big East regular season winning streak last weekend. 
In Sunday's Big East Tournament Championship, the seven-time Big East regular sea­son champs taught the league's newcomer a little lesson about 
~ respect. I A determined and confident Notre Dame volleyball team
I 
see REVENGE/page 17 
t 
I 
I 

PITTSBURGH 
In Saturday's Big East Tournament semifinal similar to the regular season match-up between the teams, the Irish dropped game one to Connecticut and gave the under­dog Huskies a chance to pull the upset. 
But the Irish were smiling. 
"We knew after game one that we Sports were better Columnist than them 

. Irish stay calm, have fun in winning 
in all aspects of the game," Big East Tournament Most Outstanding Player Emily Loomis said. 
Loomis led the Irish in kills and smiles this weekend. 
Every time she recorded one of her 35 kills, she turned to her teammates, threw her hand in the air and smiled. 
But Loomis was also smiling when the Irish couldn't make the block, committed a service error or when Irish coach Debbie Brown replaced her with defen­sive specialist Keara Coughlin in the back row. 
This smile comes from the atti­tude the Irish have built since day one. 
"The captains set the tone for us when we came in." Big East Rookie of the Year Lauren Kelbley said. "We are out there 
see SMILES/page 17 

MENS SWIMMING 
MEMS SOCCER 
WOMENS SOCCER 
MENS BASKETBALL 
CROSS COUNTRY 
FOOTBALL 
Purdue 175 
Notre Dame 3 
Stanford 1 
Notre Dame 73 
Irish at NCAA 
Notre Dame 42 
Notre Dame 123 
Akron 1 
Notre Dame O 
Bucknell 42 
Championships 
Rutgers 0 
The Irish hoped to use 
Seniors Rafael Garcia 
The Irish fought 
Torin Francis set a 
Today 
The Irish broke open a 
momentum from two 
and Erich Braun scored 
valiantly in the third 
freshman rebounding 
14-0 halftime lead to
The Irish men and 
road wins last week, but 
all three goals to 
round of the NCAA 
record with 20 boards 
notch their second
women compete for the 
fell short against the 
advance the Irish in the 
Tournament, but fell on 
against the Bisons 
shutout of the season
national title. 
Boilermakers Friday. 
NCAA Tournament. 
a late Cardinal goal. 
Friday. 
and improve to 10-1.
Men: page 17 
page 17 
page 18 
page 18 
page 15 
Irish Insider
Women: page 15 




