
SMC library celebrates 20 years of service 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library celebrates its 20th anniver­sary today by honoring its past, pre­sent and future. 
In its 20-year history. the library has adapted to changing times. 
Before Cushwa-Leighton was opened in 1982, books were housed in the Alumnae Centennial Library. now known as Haggar College Center. The library was crowded and uncomfortable, lacking many luxuries now taken for granted, Saint Mary's graduates say. 
"I didn't like the library, and I didn't like studying in it," said Noel Wehrung Becker, a 1971 alumna. "It wasn't a suitable working environ­ment." 
Sister Bernice Hollenhorst, who recently retired as library director after 26 years in the position, real­ized the need for a functional library on campus. She and John Duggan, then-president of the Co11ege, collab­orated to design the new facility. 
With support from alumnae Margaret Hall Cushwa and Mary Lou Morris Leighton, plans for the library began. Indianapolis-based architect Evans Woollen was chosen to design the new building, and con­struction began in October 1980. 
The building was completed in June 1982, and Cushwa-Leighton Library was formally dedicated on Sept. 3, 1982. 
In 1983, Cushwa-Leighton was recognized and honored by the American Library Association in cooperation with the American Institute of Architecture as one of 
the best new libraries of 1982. 
"When we first opened the library, we weren't publicly computerized at all. We didn't have any electronic references and had to instead rely on paper indexes," said Bob Hohl, interim library director. 
"Today we can provide access from the library here to other libraries all over the world. That really was a utopian dream 20 years ago." 
Cushwa~Leighton Library is part of the Midwest Area Library Consortium, along with the libraries at Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Bethel College in Mishawaka. 
Its "ex libris" electronic circulation and catalogue mode also allows for more co-op ventures with other area libraries. 
Housed in its five levels are over 200,000 books. offices, reading lounges, study rooms. a media cen­ter, college archives and the Trumper Computer Center. The Trumper Center is located in the basement of the library and is open 24 hours for student access. 
"We hope to continue the program we've made by providing more elec­tronic databases and by continuing to identify what it is we need to have," Hohl said. 
A reception will be held today from 1 to 3 p.rn. in Cushwa-Leighton to celebrate the building's anniversary. Scheduled activities include a cake­cutting. exhibit of photographs, card signing for Sister Bernice and a gift presentation to the library by College President Marilou Eldred. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintrna.rys.edu 

Cabinet optimistic on tailgating policies 
said. 
"[Despite the new inclusions] the policy really hasn't changed that rnuch,"Bishop said. 
The more drastic changes relate to the tailgating policy. The new system for tailgates requires students to register and receive approval for their pre­game gatherings in advance. An online registration system already is in place for students to register tailgates for Saturday's home football game versus Purdue.Student tailgates will be restricted to a portion of Blue Field, south of Notre Dame Stadium. Uniformed officers from Notre Dame Security/Police as well as plain clothes members of the Indiana State Police will be on hand to enforce University policy and Indiana law. This year, all tailgates must end by kickoff time. Cabinet members appeared cautiously optimistic about the new tailgating policy, but some still had doubts. 
"Is this just a reason to get more people in trouble?"said Arny O'Connor, Club Coordination Council coordina­
see EXECUTIVE/page 4 


RAs react to diversity 
•


seminars 
By KELLY HRADSKY and 

SARAH NESTOR 

News Writers 
The Saint Mary's Diversity semi­nars led by Frances Kendall, Ph.D., were controversial from the start. 
"I was expecting her to be more of a motivational speaker, in retrospect I feel like she targeted the Resident Advisors," Mary Brown. Saint Mary's senior and RA said. "Overall I think many of us [RA's] came out with the same negative outlook." 
Kendall sparked debate with her analysis of the power of mascots and how they can affect a community. 

"If I was looking to buy a house in South Bend and I went to a realtor and she took me by St. Joseph High School and I saw the marquee that said 'Become an Indian' I would not want to live in this city," Kendall said. "I wouldn't want my family or friends to live in or visit this city 
see DIVERSITY/page 3 


By MATTHEW BRAMANTI News Writer 
Improved communication between Notre Dame officials and students will be vital to the success of the new alcohol and tailgating policies, said members of the Executive Cabinet, an advisory board to the student body president. 
The group used its first meet­ing of the year Monday to focus on changes to the alcohol policy introduced in the spring. 
· Libby Bishop, student body president, said revisions have left many questions unanswered in the minds of students.The revised alcohol policy, outlined in du Lac, the student handbook, forbids hard alcohol and expands the definition of "abu­sive drinking." 
The revamped definition out­laws 40-ounce bottles of beer, beer bongs and the practice of "shotgunning"beers. 
Class and student body ofTicers are still assessing the potential impact of the new regulations, but they don't anticipate much real change from last year, Executive Cabinet members 
' 

page 2 Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
Secrets hurt freedoms 
A federal appeals court in Cincinnati last week ruled that the Bush adminis­tration unlawfully held over 1,200 deportation hearings in secret since the terrorist attacks oflast September. That means that more than 7 50 people were deported -their lives were brutally inter­rupted -in hearings that excluded friends, family and the press, in violation of the basic rights guaranteed by our Constitution. 
The current 


Pat McElwee 
administration has made a policy of keeping its actions Associate free from public Viewpoint scrutiny.assuring Editor the American peo­ple that Bush knows best -and that anyone question­ing executive actions is a traitor or unpa­triotic. In fact, Mrs. Cheney personally and publicly has kept a black list of pub­lic dissenters since the early stages of the war on terrorism. 
Why hide so much from the American people? 
Uncensored news footage ofthe war in Afghanistan was virtually absent in the United States, while foreign journalists kept their people informed about American troop movements and showed actual war footage on the evening news. Here, independent accounts from the ground were rarely considered essential to a news report on the war. 
Was the U.S. censorship campaign really aimed against terrorists (in the case ofAl Qaida, concentrated in the Middle East where information was available), or rather against possible crit­ics at home? 
In another alarming move, hundreds of people disappeared here at home after Sept. 11, a style ofjustice that reminds one ofCommunist China, Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, not democ­ratic America. In response to court demands for oversight, Attorney General John Ashcroft ordered that detention facilities not release any information about who was imprisoned within their walls, on what charges and how long they had been there. 
But the secrecy in this administration extends beyond the war on terrorism to domestic issues. Dick Cheney does not want anyone asking how much influence Enron executives had in formulating energy policy. In fact, he is fighting tooth and nail to keep that information secret. 
Thus, in what would otherwise seem a surprising move, the Bush administra­tion is fighting a court battle to keep information about Clinton's pardon of former business partner Marc Rich a presidential secret. They hope to estab­lish a precedent. 
"Democracies die behind closed doors," declared the judges in Cincinnati in their unanimous ruling against the secret meting out ofjustice. It's true, just think. Without the pressure of an informed public, Watergate would never have come to light, and the Vietnam War might have ended years later. 

Perhaps the biggest long-term danger of the current Bush policy is that the executive will shield itself, through secrecy. from the checks and balances provided by informed legislative and judicial branches. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Pat McElwee at pmcelwee@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 



CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
SMC BOG 
World Summit desires to 
reps make expand 
headway at dialogue 
conference 
Leaders attend­Mary's Board of 
Members of Saint 

ing the World Governance dis­
Summit in South cussed ways of 
Africa agreed on a expanding their 
plan to protect the communication 
environment and with the College 
help the needy. community at their meeting. 
page 3 page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Student Activities Night, 7-9 
p.m. JACC. 
. Film Series. "Looking In, Looking Out: Latino and Latin American Perspectives," 7 p.m. IIesburgh Center Auditorium. 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Student Diversity Board Meeting, \Vcdnesday, 12 p.m. SGA Board Boom. 

. 
Theatre Dopt.. Picnic, 5 p.m. Moreau Courtyard. 


Student receives harassing 

voicemail message 

A Notre Dame student reported receiving a harassing telephone mes­sage on her answering machine at an off campus location. A suspect has not yet been identified. 
NDSP conducts off-campus 


welfare check · 

NDPD responded to an off-campus location to do a welfare check on an individual. 



BUSINESS NEWS 
United Airlines announces shakeup in senior leadership 
United Airlines announced veteran oil executive Glenn Tilton as the com­pany's new CEO in an effort to restore public trust in the company. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Check out the benefits of "trash" TV 
Columnist Amy Schill wades past the sleaze associated with daytime and reality TV shows, main­taining it boosts self-esteem. 
page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

NDSP relocates vehicles 

NDSP relocated three vehicles to D03 lot due to work being done in the lot. 

Student busted for alcohol 
consumption, false ID 
A Notre Dame student received a University citation for minor con­sumption of alcohol, failure to pro­duce identification upon request, and possession of false I.D. The case is being referred for administrative review. 


R~port filed for missing 

PITA 
A report was filed by NDSP of a palm pilot being taken from the vic­tim's room between Aug. 10 and Aug. 18. Currently, there are no sus­pects. The case is pending further investigation. 
SCENE 
Find out what music is hot and what's not 
The Observer music critics review the best and worst of the siz­zlin' summer music scene. 
page 14 
SPORTS 
SMC golfers break record at Ferris Invitational 

The Saint Mary's golf team scored a new record at the Sunday Invitational despite a mostly "young" team. 
page 24 
Information compiled from the Notre Dame Security/Police blotter. 
South Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Greek pork loin. turkey pot pie, hamburger, grilled turkey, chick­en taco, chicken teriyaki, Bianco pizza. 
Today Dinner: Bianco pizza, buffalo chicken wings, grilled cod, peppered flank steak, grilled cheese on white, peppered chicken tangerine, chicken taco, grilled spicy chicken. 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 80 HIGH 79 HIGH 82 HIGH LOW 56 LOW 57 LOW 60 LOW 60 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Minestrone Soup, New England clam chowder. baked manicot­ti, pepperoni calzone, beef tips and mushrooms, Italian beef sandwich. 
Today Dinner: Honey mustard chick­en breast, beef fajitas, salmon fillet, baked manicotti, pepperoni calzone, tomato soup, New England clam chow­der. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
IJ.I
:x: 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
.... 
ct 
CJ ..J 0 HIGH 82 HIGH 68 LOW 75 LOW 57 

Atlanta 89 / 71 Boston 73 / 68 Chicago 82 / 59 Denver 61 / 60 Houston 91 / 73 Los Angeles 91 / 65 Minneapolis 78 / 59 New York 79 / 69 Philadelphia 86 / 69 Phoenix 108 / 84 Seattle 65 / 50 St. Louis 88/ 67 Tampa 87 / 75 Washington 89 / 72 

Tuesday, September 3, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 





Board prioritizes expanding dialogue with faculty 
Saint Mary's Board of establish an active dialogue with 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 

Governance this year plans to faculty and a working relation-
News Writer 

ERIN MORAN JOINS GLYNIS BELL & RHOND.A ROSS ' 
(JONIE FROM HAPPY DAYS) 

Exactly what it sounds like. 
THE 






MONOLOGUES 

g 

CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents 
The 2002 Endowed Fall Lecture Series 

SCRIPTURE AS A SOURCE OF WISDOM 
Tuesday, September 10, 7:30 p.m. 
Camilla Burns, S.N.D., Ph.D. 
Institute of Pastoral Studies Loyola University, Chicago 
0 


EXPERIENCE AS A SOURCE OF WISDOM 
Tuesday, September 24, 12:15 p.m. 
Barbara Searle, M.A., Ph.D. 
Psychologist in Independent Practice 
0 

TRADITION AS A SOURCE OF WISDOM 
Tuesday, October 8, 12:15 p.m. 
Susan Simonaitis, Ph.D. 

Theology Department Fordham University, New York 
Saint Mai\ Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 

All Lectures are in Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall 
Free and Open to the Public For information: (574)284-4636 E-mail: manuszak@saintmarys.edu 
ship with campus security, board 
members decided Monday. The move expands upon last year's policy of co-sponsorship with the administration and student organizations by build­ing bridges with all members of the college community. 
"This year we are looking forward to working with secu­rity," said Kim Jensen, student body president. "Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, student body vice-president, and I feel like security has not been used to their full capacity." 
BOG and security will co-host an event on Wednesday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The event will be used to increase awareness of safety by handing out angel sticks. an indicator to see if a beverage has been tainted with a drug, and desig­nated driver bracelets. 
The bracelets will be avail­able at the front desk of any residence hall and at the secu­rity office. 
Those students who partici­pate in wearing the designated driver bracelets may receive nonalcoholic drinks and free cover into participating local 
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
either." 

The seminar became chaotic when Kendall brought up the discussion about whether or not a confederate flag should be allowed to hang in a Resident Advisor's room. Participants became so engrossed in stating their opin­ions that they just shouted out their opinions and a few even booed the speaker when they did not agree with what was being said. 
"I did not like how she seemed to single out people and make assumptions about them," an RA who wished to remain anonymous said. "She assumed that we are all upper­middle class white females born to privilege." 
Even though Resident Advisors were encouraged to attend the three workshops. many chose not to return because of the way Kendall presented her arguments. 
"I did enjoy her. but not because I liked what she had to say. She challenged my pre­bars. 
Security and BOG will also be sponsoring a raffie for those stu­dents who turn in the bracelets to security or to a hall front desk at the completion of the night. One possible prize may be a weekend trip to Chicago. 
"The bracelets came at the request of the students,"said Jensen. 
In other BOG news: 

. 
Adrienne Dorbish, president of Student Activities Board, announced that "Meet SAB"will be Thursday on the Library Green. There will be many activ­ities and prizes to take back to the dorms to introduce students to the events held on campus. 

. 
BOG and Linda Timm. vice president for Students Affairs, are looking at the recent disrup­


tion of shuttle service to Le Mans and Holy Cross Halls. Jensen explained that the problem should be remedied shortly. 
Contact Shannon Nellilgan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 

vious thoughts and made me defend myself by considering what was personal," DeCleene said. 
Kendall began the second seminar with an explanation that left several students feel­ing insulted. 
Kendall explained that she came into the first seminar, "Assuming that you [students] knew about institutional racism, but there has been an apparent disservice to your education." 
There were students who agreed with the speaker and came away with a positive experience from the seminars. 
"I grew up in Nigeria so I didn't experience discrimina­tion because everyone is the same, so I didn't think about diversity until I got here," Patricia Mobolade, Saint Mary's sophomore said. "Hearing her speak about all these issues and seeing she didn't come from a minority was encouraging." 
Contact Kelly Hradsky at Hradl060@saintmarys.edu Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu 



Volunteers Needed 
The Earl)· Childhood Development Center Jorared at Saint Ma,y's College and the Univenity ofNotre Dame is looking for volunteers who enjoy young chi!dren. If you would be interested in speajing 2 hours per wee.k .lmding and playing with children, please call: Karl at ECOC-SMC 284-4693 or Sue at ECOC-ND 631-3344. (Employment opportunities at ECDC-ND -MI1-f.F ll:15-12:30.) 

Early 
ChildhOOd Develo""'1btt Center, Inc.. 


184,.4693 
(ECDC--SMQ 

6JI·3Jff 

(EC.DC-ND) 



page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
news: popularity in the last few 
SOUTH KOREA 

. Bishop discussed the sell of years, "Bishop said. Cabinet



Executive 

The Shirt in both dining halls, as members expect that broader continued from page 1 well as other locations on cam­visibility of The Shirt will bring
Typhoon, landslides, 
pus, possibly including residence increased sales, ensuring the tor. halls. security of a major source of stu­In other Executive Cabinet "The project has lost some dent activities funding. 
floods kill 113 people 
Associated Press 
GANGNEUNG 
A powerful typhoon that lashed South Korea over the weekend killed at least 113 people and the toll will likely rise as officials check reports of others missing in floods and landslides, the government said Tuesday. 
Rusa was the deadliest typhoon to hit South Korea since 1959, when Typhoon Sara left more than 840 people dead or missing. 
On Tuesday, the govern­ment's anti-disaster center said that 113 people were confirmed killed and 71 others missing after Rusa swept through eastern and southern parts of South Korea. All-news station YTN put the death toll at 138 killed and 77 missing. Earlier, officials said 88 had been killed. 
Park Chung-ho, a center official. said the death toll could rise as communica­tions with remote, isolated areas were restored. 
Rusa, the Malaysian word for deer, destroyed many sections of railways and roads, wiped out bridges, knocked out elec­tricity and submerged thousands of homes. Property damage was ten­tatively put at $750 mil­lion. 

One of the hardest was Gangwon province on the country's east coast where 128 people were killed or missing. Its seat, Gangneung, was swamped by waist-high floods after two steady days of torren­tial rains. 
"Nothing is more miser­able than this," said Kim Bun-hee, a 61-year-old housewife, standing in a long line to get a ration of drinking water brought by firetrucks. Kim said the basement of her home was still filled with water. Power outages that had crippled the city of 220,000 for two days were eased as officials began repairing damaged power lines. But residents had difficulty getting drinking water. 
Hundreds of graves were washed away in a land­slide that destroyed a large part of a public cemetery outside Gangneung. Television clips showed people shoveling the lev­eled ground to try to locate the missing tombs of their loved ones. 
Thousands of soldiers were helping residents clear mounds of broken furniture and damaged household goods that filled streets. 


HUNGRY? 

thursday 9/5 4-7pm fieldhouse mall 



STUDY IN BRAZIL 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
THURS. SEPT. 5, 2002 6:00-7:15 PM 
& 
THUR. SEPT. 19, 2002 5:00-6:15 PM 
ROOM 129 HAYES-HEALY Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
kickoff the year with 





WELCOME WEEK 

rudy on the quad 
9:30 pm, north quad movie "rudy", popcorn, snowcones 


welcome picnic 
4-7 pm, fieldhouse mall free pizza and snowcones 


acousticafe 
9 pm, the huddle student bands 

jill sobule 
9 pm, lafortune ballroom loft show with "supermodel" singer 

dale k 

10 pm, washington hall 
sat 
hypnotist 


henna festival
8 

3-6 pm, dooley room, lafortune 
sun 

free henna tattoos 

Tuesday, September 3, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 




Bush looks to gain support from labor unions 
Associated Press 

NEVILLE ISLAND, Pa 
President Bush, hoping to drive a wedge between Democrats and their big labor base, pledged Monday to fight recession and terrorism on behalf of American workers. 
"Congress needs to get mov­ing," Bush said during a Labor Day address, urging lawmakers to stop blocking his efforts. 
He demanded action on his terrorism insurance, energy, retirement protection and tax­cutting policies, saying Americans are hurting more than economic indicators sug­gest. 
"I know the statistics and all that business, but what I worry about is when I hear stories about people who can't find work," Bush said. 
Since the 2000 campaign. the president and his advisers have tried to siphon money and votes from organized labor, the cor­nerstone of the Democratic Party's base. 
Though he has not made huge gains overall, Bush has man­aged to cultivate relationships with two labor leaders: James 
P. Hoffa of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and Douglas J. McCarron of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners. 
Both labor leaders are rivals of AFL-CIO president John Sweeney, who leads the federa­
tion of 66 international union 
affiliates. 

"When you look at rank-and­file union workers, there is increasing support for President George W. Bush," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. "They are not in lockstep with some of these older-line liberal labor leaders. There's splits in the labor movement." 
Introducing Bush at a picnic outside a union hall, Mccarron said he won't agree with the president on every issue, but that disagreements would be over principle, not personali­ties, "because I believe in the integrity of this man." 
Trying to show empathy with the working man. Bush helped several carpenters-in-training practice building a house. 
He grabbed hold of a power miter saw and quickly cut four blocks away from two-by-fours. Chuckling, the president held his hand down toward the floor. his fingers gripped in his fist, and pretended to be missing all 10 of his digits. 
Playfully offering reporters instructions, Bush said, "Never put you hands near the saw while it's cutting." 
Bush and unions have worked together to push his energy plan, which includes opening Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, and imposing new tariffs to help protect the ailing U.S. steel 

and Joiners to celebrate the Labor Day holiday at the Joint Apprenticeship Center in Pittsburgh, Penn. 
industry. the opening of the U.S. border sions. 
Still, some Bush policies ran­to Mexican trucks and the Even the steel tariff decision kle even Teamsters leaders, renewal of fast-track legislation has been watered down by including the killing of that did not include labor­exceptions offered to angry U.S. ergonomics workplace rules, backed wage and safety provi-allies. 
SOUTH AFRICA 


Summit negotiators agree on energy, sanitation issues 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG 
With world leaders pushing for action, negotiators at the World Summit agreed Monday on a plan geared to help the globe's poorest peo­pie while reversing environmental declines. 
Agreement came as participants resolved the last main sticking points in a 70-page action blueprint that seeks solutions to a range of issues ­energy, clean water, health and sanita­tion. 
The plan urged using a variety of energy sources that included both wind and solar power as well as fossil fuels -a victory for the United States and other oil-producing countries. 
"Humanity has a rendezvous with destiny," French President Jacques Chirac declared. Alarms are sounding across all the continents. We cannot say that we did not know!" 
"The persistence of mass poverty is outrageous and an aberration," Chirac said. The world, he said, "is suffering from poor development, in both the North and South, and we stand indif­ferent." 
The 10-day conference, which start­ed a week ago and ends Wednesday, aims to shape an agreement to turn promises made at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. into reality. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan urged the more than 100 world leaders in Johannesburg to commit to firm action to solve problems identified a decade ago at Rio. 
"The model of development we are accustomed to has been fruitful for the few, but flawed for the many," Annan said. "A path to prosperity that ravages the environment and leaves a majority of humankind behind in squalor will soon prove to be a dead-end road for everyone." 
"Here in Johannesburg we must do more." 
The agreed text includes a commit­ment to "urgently" increase the use of renewable energy sources, but sets no deadlines. Developing countries had sided with the United States and Japan against including targets that the European Union sought. 
The United States and oil-producing countries had resisted targets, arguing that concrete projects were more important than paper agreements. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Mandela criticizes U.S. Iraq policy: 
Nelson Mandela said Monday that he is "appalled" by U.S. threats to attack Iraq and warned that Washington is "introducing chaos in international affairs." He said he had spoken with President Bush's father and Secretary of State Colin Powell. 
As several world leaders at a summit here urged restraint by the United States, South Africa's revered former president issued a stinging rebuke to the Bush administration. 

Pakistan's army seeks al-Qaida men: 
Hundreds of Pakistani soldiers were sent to a remote region of northwest Pakistan on Monday after tribesmen offered refuge to six suspected al­Qaida men, authorities said. 
The government was negotiating with the tribes­men to hand over the men, officials said on condi­tion of anonymity. The soldiers had virtually sur­rounded the village of a few hundred people, they said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


New Hampshire plane crash kills seven: 
Keene Mayor Michael Blastos said the parents, grandparents and two young children had been vis­iting relatives in nearby Newfane, Vt.. and had been staying in Keene. 
Authorities said the pilot was from Lafayette, La. They did not disclose his name. Blastos did not know if he was a member of the family. Identities of the victims were being withheld until relatives were notified. 
There were no survivors in the crash, said Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Jim Peters. 

Officials reassure public about West Nile: 
A house explosion rocked a neighborhood on Maryland's Eastern Shore, killing a gas utility worker and injuring four residents and 13 firefighters. The explosion blew firefighters off their feet and left nothing but a pile of rubble where the house in the working-class neighborhood stood. The small Cape Cod-style home was lifted off its foun­dation. and glass and metal debris were strewn 50 yards away. A door lay on a sidewalk nearby. "All of a sudden it was 'Boom!' and that was it," said Sonny Larson, Snow Hill's fire chief. 


Tropical storm approaches Atlantic shore: 
Tropical storm watches were posted Monday along the southern half of South Carolina's coast, with Tropical Storm Edouard churning eastward in the Atlantic Ocean about 200 miles offshore. 
Edouard was upgraded to a tropical storm early Monday. The affected area stretched from Titusville, Fla., northeast of Orlando through the Georgia-South Carolina border. 
The hurricane season's fifth named storm was mov­ing east at 5 mph at 5 p.m. EDT. Warnings were down­graded to watches Monday afternoon because the east­ward motion delayed any threat to coastal areas. fore­caster James Franklin said. 
Should Edouard continue moving east, watches would be abandoned entirely, Franklin said. 

Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 


Gas explosion kills worker 
DAME COMMUNITY 
Without you, Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer........ . 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition ofthe Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visit our new website today for information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~prayers/ 
VIDEOTAPED 
• 
Improve your job interviewing skills through a practice interview with a company recruiter. 

• 
Recruiters will provide feedback on your verbal and non-verbal communication skills. 


MOCK 

Sign-up in 
The Career Center 
Interview Center--First Floor of Flanner Hall (No appointments taken by phone or email) 
Sign-ups Continue for SENIORS JUNIORS SOPHOMORES 
INTERVIEWS 
Sponsored by The Career Center 248 Flanner Hall 
Write for Observer News.
. 

Call Helena at 1-5323 
Associated Press 
SNOW HILL, Md. 

A house explosion rocked a neighborhood on Maryland's Eastern Shore, killing a gas utili­ty worker and injuring four resi­dents and 13 fire fighters. 
The explosion blew fire fight­ers off their feet and left nothing but a pile of rubble where the house in the working-class neighborhood stood. 
The small Cape Cod-style home was lifted off its foundation, and glass and metal debris were strewn 50 yards away. A door lay on a sidewalk nearby. 
"All of a sudden it was 'Boom!' and that was it," said Sonny Larson, Snow Hill's fire chief. 
The cause of the explosion is under investigation, but authori­ties believe it is related to a reported gas leak in the area. Water on the ground, after 12 hours of heavy rain, may have disrupted underground gas lines and caused a leak, said Snow Hill Police Chief Michael McDermott. 
Eastern Shore Natural Gas 
Company General Manager Steve 
Ashcraft referred questions to 
the company's attorney Mark 
Cropper, who did not immediate­
ly return calls seeking comment. 
The fire fighters were investi­
gating a gas leak at about 5:30 
p.m. Sunday when the blast occurred. The gas was turned off at the meter, but gas apparently 

still leaked from the line, Larson said. 
McDermott said fire fighters were so overcome by the explo­sion that police officers had to pick up fire hoses and extinguish the blaze. 
"I was directing traffic and the next thing I knew I was lying on the ground," said Scott Brown, a volunteer firefighter who was nearby when the house blew up. 
Most of the fire fighters were hurt by flames from the explo­sion and by flying glass, said Larson, who suffered cuts to his face and arms. 
Firefighter Jay Bare said most of the men were outside the house when it exploded. 
"I think they had been on the scene for several minutes, enough to gather more people there before the explosion," Larson said. 
Utility worker Ignatius Daniel 
Saienni, 38, of Stockton, who 
was responding to the gas leak. 
died in the explosion. 
Two people were in satisfacto­
ry condition at Peninsula 
Regional Medical Center in 
Salisbury. 
Four were in critical condition 
Monday at Bayview Medical 
Center, one was in serious condi­
tion and one was in guarded 
condition. 
Eight others were treated at 
Peninsula Regional and released, 
a hospital spokeswoman said. 

"Education that works for working adults" Accelerated Bachelor's Degree Con1pletion Program 
*Organizational Management Program 
*Management Information Systems (OMP and MIS available as stand alone certificate programs) 
*Bachelor ofScience in Nursing for RNs *General Education Electives 
Classes once a week 6:00 p.m. until 1 0:00p.m. 4 to 6 weeks per class 18 to 20 months for the complete program 
Classes begin September 23, 2002 
Goshen College Division of Adult and External Studies ( 800) 390-3490 www.goshen.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, September 3, 2002 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch September 2 
DowJones 
8,663.50 ,, -7.49 
NASDAQ 
1,314.85 " -20.92 
S&P500 
916.07 
-1.73 
AMEX 

867.33 ~ +4.35 
NYSE 

495.55 +0.35
~ 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM(SUNW) -3.66 -0.14 3.69 
,ijgj1:~,~~t~~~~i!.?;:~1:t:~~~;,~~;~f!!~pi~~:::::';:~~~f:'~~ 
CISCO SYSTEMS(CSCO) -2.68 -0.38 13.82 
ilibffi;;;;::im«t:;:~::€Bx,;,:;;·;,:~-~-;l·,;;,;~~;f:i~i1;,;,t,~;~ii:;;;:;:;,~;;,i@;:,§ 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2. 74 -0 .47 16. 67 
IN BRIEF 

Venezuela expects economic growth 
Venezuela's economy should grow by almost 
four percent in the second half of the year 
after shrinking seven percent in the first half, 
the planning minister said. 

Felipe Perez acknowledged that the econo­my's nine percent contraction in the second quarter was larger than expected, but insisted the government wasn't revising its 2002 growth predictions. 
The government maintains its prediction of a 3.5 percent contraction this year -which implies 3.8 to 3.9 percent growth in the sec­ond half of the year, Perez said in an interview published Monday in El Universal newspaper. 
Companies to develop electric cars 
Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. announced Monday they will work closely together to develop hybrid gas-electric cars. 
Under the deal unveiled Monday, Toyota will supply components for Nissan models sold in the United States starting in 2006, targeting 100,000 vehicles over a five-year period, both sides said. 
Hybrid vehicles reduce polluting emissions by switching back and forth between a gaso­line engine and an electric motor. They're also more convenient than electric vehicles because they run on regular gas and don't have to be recharged. 
Insiders buy low-valued stocks 
While skittish individual investors are large­ly keeping their wallets closed amid the stub­born slump in stock prices, insiders at a broad range of companies have been taking advan­tage of the market trough to snap up shares in their firms. 
Executives from scandal-plagued companies such as biotech ImClone Systems Inc. and con­glomerate Tyco International Ltd. to down­trodden technology firms like Sun Microsystems have been picking up shares of late, helping swing insider trades toward the positive in August, according to Market Profile Theorems. 
searches for  
cleaner choices  
Associated Press  
RIO DE JANEIRO  
The world's top oil pro­ 
ducers tried to clean up  
their image as enemies of  
the environment Monday  
with delegates to an indus­ 
try summit calling for com­ 
panies to look for cleaner  
ways to do business.  
The possibility of war in  
Iraq and the impact on  
world oil prices shadowed  
the World Petroleum  
Congress, which drew  
more than 3,000 delegates  
from 59 oil producing or  
consuming nations, and  
top oil executives.  
For the first time, envi­ 
ronmental defenders such  
as Greenpeace,  
Conservation International  
and the World Wildlife  
Fund were invited to the  
meetings and delegates  
pledged to seek cleaner­ 
burning fuels and reduce  
the gases blamed for glob­ 
al warming.  
"Oil companies have to  
continuously seek out new,  
alternative ways of doing  
business which will have  
the least impact on the AFPPhoto  
environment," India's oil Brazilian President Fernando Henrlque Cardoso is greeted by South African  
minister, Ram Naik, told President Thabo Mbeki and United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan. 
the convention.  
Naik said India, with a market of nearly 1 billion people, has followed Brazil's lead in mixing gasoline with ethanol to reduce emissions of green­house gases. A recycling center for the tons of garbage produced by the congress was even set up at the site. But for some groups, the environment-friendly spin was simply for show. "I think it's greenwash," said Frank Guggenheim, executive director of Greenpeace in Brazil. "We are participating so they can't say we're against dialogue, but I don't think the people at the confer­ence are serious about protecting the environment  ... They talk about environ­ment, but from the point of view of accidents, you have to be a little skeptical." Oil officials urged gov­ernments and oil compa­nies to share "clean" tech­nologies and redouble efforts to protect the envi­ronment. "It is no longer possible for any of us to carry out our oil or gas exploitation activities without proper regard to the broader issues of environmental protection," said Lew Watts, group managing director of Shell Sustainable Development and Latin America. He told delegates that the energy industry is at least "partially responsi­ ble" for the damage inflict­ed on the environment this past century. Norwegian oil minister Einar Steensnaes said not enough has been done to implement the promises to protect the environment issued at the Earth Summit in Rio in 1992. A follow up summit, in Johannesburg, South Africa, ends Wednesday. "Fossil fuels, at least for the next 20 or 30 years, will constitute the main source of energy in meet­ing increased global demand," Steensnaes said. "Coal, oil and natural gas all contribute in varying to degrees to ... increasing the level of greenhouse gases."  "Ten years after the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, we once again need to address the links between energy and the environment," he said. Oil officials fear a con­flict in the Middle East could disrupt supplies from the oil-rich region. Last week, oil prices rose to around $30 a barrel amid fears of a U.S. attack on Iraq. Other oil producers could raise output to cover the shortfall. Ali Rodriguez, the presi­dent of Petroleos de Venezuela, said Monday that Venezuela has the capacity to greatly increase its current oil out­put.  


BR.4ZIL 
Oil producers look for options 
. Industry 
United names Tilton new CEO 
and had signaled his wish last May to billion in the past 18 months and has 
Associated Press 
retire. threatened to filed for Chapter 11 
CHICAGO As part of the switch, United bankruptcy protection this fall if it 
United Airlines named veteran oil announced that president Rono can't cut costs dramatically and win executive Glenn Tilton its new chair­Dutta and chief operating officer a government loan guarantee. man and CEO on Monday, reaching Andy Studdert are stepping down. Neither the company nor its new outside the airline industry in its Both had been under fire from the CEO addressed the possibility of effort to keep the ailing carrier out of company's unions for more than a bankruptcy in a four-page news bankruptcy. year. release announcing his appointment. 
Tilton, 54, vice chairman of The company said their responsi­Tilton stressed the need for a "gen­Chevron Texaco Corp. and acting bilities will be assumed by other uine partnership" between the air­chairman of energy marketer Dynegy executives. Tilton also was given the line and its unions and employees at Inc., was selected by unanimous vote title of president; United did not the 55 percent worker-owned com­of the board of United parent UAL elaborate on other shifts. pany. Corp. during a special Labor Day Tilton arrives with United needing "Our highest priorities must be to conference call, the company said. to take swift, urgent actions to steer restore employee trust and revive 
He replaces interim CEO Jack it out of danger. The nation's No. 2 investor and customer confidence," Creighton, who turned 70 on Sunday carrier has posted losses of nearly $3 he said. 
page 8 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
MEXICO 

Fox faces criticism on unfulfilled campaign promises 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 
Two years after toppling 
Mexico's powerful ruling party 
with brash promises of change, 
President Vicente Fox acknowl­
edged that he still has work to 
do -and turned to an often 
hostile Congress for help. 
Giving his second state-of-the­
nation address to an increasing­
ly impatient electorate, Fox said 
late Sunday that he wasn't con­
tent with the work he had done. 
"In spite of the fact that we 
have moved forward, we aren't 
satisfied," Fox said. "We would 
betray Mexicans' hopes for 
change if we felt satisfied with 
what we've accomplished so far. 
I'm the first person to admit that 
not all our goals have been 
achieved." 
In a speech interrupted by 
boos and protest banners, Fox 
urged lawmakers to help him 
build the Mexico he promised 
voters on July 2, 2000, when he 
ended the Institutional 
Revolutionary Party's 71-year 
hold on the presidency. 
He thanked Congress for its 
"invaluable contribution to the 
process of change," part of his 
new strategy to build a better 
relationship with a legislative 
body that has often blocked his 
major proposals. 
On Saturday, he met with leaders of Mexico's three main parties and urged them to help him change Mexico for the bet­ter. 
Opposition party members didn't seem ready to work with Fox. They preceded his speech with sometimes harsh attacks. criticizing the president's failure to fulfill promises to reform everything from migration to the tax system. 
Sen. Jesus Ortega of the oppo­sition Democratic Revolution Party said changes promised by the Fox administration never materialized. 
"Those who before claimed the need to criticize power, today look to hide and protect it," he said. 
Later, lawmakers interrupted Fox's speech several times with shouts of protest and banners that read: "Where are the mil­lions of jobs?" and "From lie to 



LO()KI NG TO BE PAR~1· OF A GROUP? 
'~­
f . . -, 
'-:• 

AIR FORCE ROTC 
Make your decisionI ntact: 1Lt. Alan Acree@ 631-467 or acree.1@nd.edu 
lie." Sometimes stumbling over 
his words, Fox appeared visibly 
uncomfortable with the 
reminder of his earlier promis­
es. 

He took office Dec. 1. 2000, 
with the bluster of a braggart, 
promising to create 1 million 
jobs a year, increase gross 
domestic product by 7 percent 
annually and end a simmering 
rebel conflict in 15 minutes. 
Instead, Mexico has lost hun­
dreds of thousands of jobs. And 
Fox has been forced to scale 
back his growth pledge -first 
calling 7 percent a goal to be 
reached by the end of his term. 
then conditioning even that on 
the approval of all his reforms 
by Congress. GDP itself has 
been generally flat. The rebel 
conflict remains at an impasse. 
Fox acknowledged that many 
people wanted more. 

His government, he said, "is 
conscious of the many expecta­
tions that it has been charged 
with. I know that Mexico 
demands better results. I know 
that there is still a lot to do." 
Still. he cited the smooth 
transition of his presidency and 
said he has helped strengthen 
democratic institutions, includ­
ing the increasingly indepen­
dent legislature and courts. 
But the legislature's indepen­dence has also been the down­fall of most of Fox's major pro­posals. Until the last few weeks Fox has flippantly ignored Congress -which in turn has largely rejected his proposals. 
Fox said Sunday that must change. 
"It is time to restore an envi­ronment of understanding ... to strengthen dialogue with a genuine attitude to come to agreement and create reforms," he said. Only mem­bers of his own party applaud­ed. 
Right now, he is trying to get lawmakers to agree to his pro­posal allowing more private investment in the state-run electricity sector. 
But Congress, where no party has a majority, remains divid­ed. 
The major parties couldn't even agree on who would give the official response to Fox's speech Sunday. Before PRI congresswoman Beatriz Paredes Petra Santos placed a funeral walked out with members of her took the podium, lawmaker wreath in front of her, then Democratic Revolution Party. 

WRITERS WANTED 
SHARE YOUR NOTRE DAME EXPERIENCE! 
• The Office ofUndergraduate Admissions is hiring several writers for its electronic newsletter targeted at high school students. Check out the latest edition at http://admissions.nd.edu/eirish. 
• 
Articles will address student life at ND and run approximately 500 words in length. 

• 
Writers will be paid per published article. 

• 
Applicants should have strong writing skills and voice, as well as the ability to submit articles on a deadline. 


Ifyou are interested, please submit your name, hometown, year, dorm, major, list ofprinciple activities at Notre Dame, and a short writing sample (something you've already written that reflects your writing style) to Leah Ashe, Admissions Counselor, at Ashe.2@nd.edu. 

·------------------------------------· 
I  I  
I : I  Have you thought about  I : I  
: I  teaching Religion and  : I  
I  I  
: I  becoming a Catechist?  : I  
I: : I  ¦­(?Jy1PUSl'v11NISTRY  I: : I  
I I  *Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents?  I ¦  
: ¦ I :  * Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week? *Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish?* Would you like to work towards catechist certification?  : ¦ ¦ :  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
:  If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions,  :  
I I  come find out more about being a Religion Teacher.  I I  
I  I  
I  I  
I :  Important Informational 1'4eeting:  ¦ :  
:  Thursday, September 5  :  
=  5:00-6:00 P.kf.  :  
I  Room 330 Coleman-klorse Center  :  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I :  Call .John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163  II  
I  I  

·------------------------------------· 
Tuesday, September 3, 2002 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Wisconsin tornado injures dozens 
Associated Press 
LADYSMITH, Wis. 
A tornado ripped apart a northwestern Wisconsin town Monday, leveling a Baptist church and a gas station and injuring dozens of people, wit­nesses and officials said. 
The tornado struck down­town Ladysmith at 4:30 p.m., the National Weather Service said. There was virtually noth­ing left of several downtown businesses shown on television footage. 
"Most of the town is a disas­ter. There's buildings missing, down. torn apart -every­thing." said Christine Wright. an employee at the Holiday Station Store, a gas station downtown. "They're shutting the town down." 
Gov. Scott McCallum declared Ladysmith a disaster area and planned to visit the site Tuesday. spokesman Tim Roby said. 
McCallum verbally gave the go-ahead for rescue workers to start working under the decla­ration Monday night and the 
• I
tlii 
Wdco•T• 
NEX'fB. 

state emergency management team was on its way to assess the damage, Roby said. 
Thirty people were treated at Rusk Memorial Hospital. with 18 dismissed and the other 12 with non-life threatening injuries, said administrator Mike Shaw. He said he spoke with sheriff's deputies Iate Monday and was informed there had been no reports of deaths. 
Ladysmith Police Chief Norm Rozak said the storm swept through two small neighbor­hoods and the business district in the center of the town, dam­aging as many as 60 homes and businesses. 
He said everyone was accounted for, and it appeared most of the injuries were bruis­es and cuts. 
"It surprises me right now, looking at this devastation, that nobody to our knowledge is deceased," Rozak said late Monday. "It's not good for us, but there's a lot of great people up here. We'll have so many volunteers tomorrow that we won't know what to do with all of them." 
Sandy Zajec. who owns a Ladysmith radio station, told KARE-TV in Minneapolis that the Baptist church and an Amoco gas station were leveled and the top floors of a motel and the fire department were ripped off. 
"There was like no warning," she said. "It was just there ... right in the center of downtown Ladysmith." 
Arriving in Ladysmith on the heels of emergency workers, Mike Mirr told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel he was grief­stricken by the sight of the town. 
"The water tower blew down. hotel's wrecked, old folks home's wrecked, main street devastated. Terrible. Everything is just twisted metal," Mirr. a member of the Bruce town board, told the newspaper. 
Red Cross dispatcher Kathy Nelson in nearby Eau Claire County said a four-block area of Ladysmith was destroyed, and the Red Cross was sending numerous response teams to set up emergency shelters for people who were left homeless. 

An aid station was set up at a school in Bruce, about 10 miles west of Ladysmith, American Red Cross spokeswoman Jodi Oman said. 
"Right now, we're still picking people up. We're still checking houses for people that we don't know if they got out yet," Oman said. 
The sheriff's department said numerous trees were down and several vehicles were damaged. Power was out and crews were sent to Ladysmith to assess the damage. Xcel Energy spokesman Brian Elwood said. 
"There's power lines down, there's poles broken," said Elwood of the company's Eau Claire office. 
The storm moved out of the area by early evening, said meteorologist Tony Zaleski of the National Weather Service Minneapolis office. 
A second tornado hit north of Wausau on Monday evening, said Roy Eckberg, a meteorolo­gist in the weather service's Green Bay office. 
Welcome to Notre Dame. Your life just went from O to 90. 
> 
DIGITAL WALKIE-TALKIE 
> 
> 
> 
SPEAKERPHONE Whc,.tevev +wists "'"tA tl.\v\\S colle~e WIRELESS WEB ACCESS H'\vows c,\t yol.\ -yol.\ C4'\\\ tAe..,.J. A\\tA AOL" INSTANT MESSENGER'" service 
Ne,ctel cc,.\\ helr. We've ~ot the \\ewest
> 
TWO·WAV MESSAGING 
rho\\eS, coolest .Pe"'tt,wes "'"tA Sweetest 
> 
> 
JAVA"1 GAMES & APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR Y.c,\te rlc,\\\S yol.\ \\eetA .Pov the vitAe o.P 
yol.\v H.Pe. '/Ol.\1ve ve"'tAy-Svi\\~ It. 
Now's c:11. ~v-e"'t +-i""'e to ~et )l(e,ctel: 

. . . 
~ ·-J--" t
.,.,11 )l(oi-ve D°'""'e stl.\~e\\¼-s "'"~ f"'-ve\\¼-s 

'.... -!---~ ..
l 'J,;,,;/-,.· .~ ~ 

! i
~et"' ( , . .;,...l~(:OL'\\.1.f-o~ "'"-Y v"'+-e 
--l-·-··. 
__j __ ;
pl"'~ O\\\~ ltoo"' o..P-~ c:11.\\y pl--.o\\e. 

:·-1·-~
,o b~y. 

-: --r----,­
1 ' 
, ,o i-o \\e>C+-el.co'M/ivish-si-l.\~e\\i-. 

·-r-+ 
, c"'l1 i-o\1-~ee l-'n?-<;0,-212,. 

~ :· -t--: 
# visit Jt)),,\ (OIMIMl,\\\lC"'-M.O\\S "'-t': _. ___.L 
j
1,,CJ lvo\\woo~ t)vive, 'Sol.4.+-h Be\\~ 
574-24,-,g Is> 


iiiiiiiiii
*Offer is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002. While supplies last. Requires new activation, one year Service Agreement and 
c~ --....i
credit approval. $200 early termination fee applies. Must be 1 B years of age to purchase. In store purchases require at least 2 forms of valid identification. Account Set-up fee of $35 per phone; maximum $70 per account. Fees may vary by market $100 instant savings is oil the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point g of sale. 10% off monthly rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this otter. Other restrictions may apply. Rate plans are subject to taxes. fees and other 
~ 
charges. Current prices are subject to change. Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 Nextel Communications, Inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Nextel _c logo are registered trademarks of Nextel Communications. Inc. Motorola and the Stylized Mlogo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and iiiiiiiiiii all other Java-based marks are registered trademarks ol Sun Microsystems. Inc. AOL, AIM, Buddy List and the Triangle design are registered trademarks of America OnHne, Inc. Instant Messenger is atrademark of America Online, Inc. 
Campers escape forest fire 

Associated Press 
AZUSA. Cal. 
A wildfire spread rapidly across more than 10,000 acres of national forest. send­ing thousands of holiday campers fleeing. 

About 8,000 campers, hik­ers and residents had to leave the Angeles National Forest after the fire erupted Sunday afternoon. Several said they were separated from friends and family and had to leave their belongings. 
"They told us we had 10 seconds to get out, to run," Lisette Cardenas told a Los Angeles television station. "You could see the smoke right behind us." 
The fire rapidly spread north on both sides of Highway 39 north of Azusa, about 30 miles east of down­town Los Angeles, said U.S. Forest Service spokeswoman Gail Wright. 
It grew to 11,500 acres and there was no immediate word on when it might be contained, said Gwen Smith of the U.S. Forest Service. 
Authorities said possible causes included a lightning strike and a propane tank explosion. The fire destroyed an abandoned forest service building. 
Farther north, in El Dorado County about 40 miles east of Sacramento, another fire destroyed one house, con­sumed 776 acres and was threatening 30 other homes, although the danger eased by Monday afternoon. U.S. Forest Service spokesman Bill Fiedler said. 
A 15-year-old boy was being detained Monday in connection with the fire. A second boy, also 15, was released to his family on Saturday after being ques­tioned by authorities, said sheritrs Lt. Kevin House. 
House said at least one boy was playing with matches when the fire ignited Saturday amid heavily forest­ed canyons between the cities of El Dorado Hills and Rescue. Forest Service spokesman Ken Thompson said firefighters hoped to contain it by Tuesday. 
In Wrightwood, about 55 miles northeast of Los Angeles, a 554-acre fire was 61 percent contained. Investigators had found a body in the fire and drug manufacturing equipment for a methamphetamine lab 
nearby,  Forest  Service  
spokeswoman  Karen  
McKinley said.  

Nationwide, the National Interagency Fire Center reported 18 large active fires Monday that had burned more than 66 7,000 acres in eight western states. 

page 10 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 3, 2002 

Cli niq ue free 8-pc. gift Yours with any $19.50 Clinique purchase 
Free gift includes Long-Last Shine Lipstick, Total Turnaround Visible Skin Renewer, Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion, High Impact Eye Shadow Duo/Sheer Powder Blusher, Compact Mirror, Clarifying Lotion 2, Moisture Surge Eye Gel and Cosmetics Bag. 
Gifts are one per guest. please, while quantities last Cosmetics. Also at Lake Forest 

FREE clear signature bag with purchase of a complete 3-step skincare system. 
Clinique 3-Step Skincare System includes Soap in a Dish; 12-oz. Clarifying Lotion in 1, 2, or 3; and 4-oz. Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion. $49. 



fields.com the sheer joy of shopping• 

-
Tuesday, September 3, 2002 page 11
The Observer . NEWS 

Experts aim to ease W. Nile worries 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Public health officials sought Monday to assure Americans the blood supply was safe despite concerns that an organ donor who received a transfu­sion may have transmitted West Nile virus to four transplant recipients. 
One of the four died of brain swelling that can be caused by the virus, which until now has been blamed solely on mosquito bites. 
The three others were hospi­talized with symptoms associat­ed with West Nile, although doctors aren't sure they have the virus or whether they got it from a medical procedure. 

The organ donor. a Georgia woman, died in a car crash last month. She may already have been infected or may have got­ten West Nile through blood transfusions in the emergency room after the crash, the CDC said. 
Samples from the four trans­plant recipients were sent to the CDC's lab in Fort Collins, Colo. Test results are expected within the week. The organ recipient who died was in the Atlanta 
ND Freshman Ladles 
Cheerleading Tryout 
• 
Two positions available -Fall semester 

• 
Cheer & Tumbling Experience Needed 


.Joyce Center, Gym 2, September 4 at 6:30 pm 
• Pick up forms to complete before tryout at Joyce Center -Above Gate 3 -See Beverly 
area. The others are at hospi­tals in the Atlanta area, in Miami and Jacksonville, Fla .. health officials said. 
Public health offidals spent the weekend assuring people about the national blood supply, despite the lack of a West Nile screening process in donated blood and organs. Any potential blood donor showing symptoms of the virus would be turned away, they said. 
"The blood supply is as safe as it's ever been," Trudy 
Sullivan,  an  American  Red  
Cross  spokeswoman  in  
Washington, said Monday.  


The Food and Drug Administration issued an alert to blood banks two weeks ago to exercise extra caution when screening donors. 
"We've known for some time that there is a theoretical possi­bility that people can get this through blood or organ trans­plants," said Tom Skinner, a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention spokesman, said Sunday. 
So far this year, 638 people in 27 states and the District of Columbia have tested positive for West Nile virus, and 31 have died. according to the CDC. 
PEER ADVOCACY 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT OR 203 LAFORTUNE BEFORE WEDNESDAY 
One step closerto a... 

Buv ·1HE SHIRT' and be apan ol ill 
Visittable 130 at Activities Night11,a chance to win ..The Shirl'' 

SOUTH AFRICA 
Mandela 
criticizes 
U.S. policy 
. Nobel Prize winner objects to attacking Iraq 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

Nelson Mandela said Monday that he is "appalled" by U.S. threats to attack Iraq and warned that Washington is "introducing chaos in international affairs." He said he had spoken with President Bush's father and Secretary of State Colin Powell. 
As several world leaders at a summit here urged restraint by the United States, South Africa's revered former president issued a stinging rebuke to the Bush administration. 
"We are really appalled by any country, whether a superpower or a small coun­try, that goes outside the 
U.N. and attacks indepen­dent countries," Mandela said before going into a meeting with French President Jacques Chirac. "No country should be allowed to take the law into their own hands." 
The United States has made toppling Saddam Hussein a priority, accusing the Iraqi leader of developing weapons of mass destruction despite U.N. resolutions that prohibit him from doing so. Vice President Cheney has argued in favor of pre-emp­tive military action to remove Saddam from power. 
"What they are saying is introducing chaos in interna­tional affairs, and we con­demn that in the strongest terms," Mandela said. 
The 1993 Nobel Peace Prize winner said he tried to call Bush to discuss the mat­ter but that the president was not available. Mandela said he instead spoke with Powell and former President George Bush. He also planned to speak by tele­phone with Condoleezza Rice, Bush's assistant for national security. 
A number of top figures from the previous Bush administration have spoken out recently against unilater­al military action -raising speculation that the elder Bush shares some of their doubts. The former presi­dent, however, has kept silent on his son's Iraq poli­cy. 
Chirac, who is in South Africa to attend the World Summit on Sustainable Development, said he shared "a common position on the assessment and approach of these issues" with Mandela. 
South Africa's current president, Thabo Mbeki, and German Chancellor Gerhard 
Schroeder  also urged  
America  to  exercise  
restraint.  

The two leaders met on the fringes of the summit and "agreed they were not com­fortable with any military action being taken against Iraq," said Essop Pahad, a Cabinet minister in Mbeki's office. 

THE OBSERVER 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nacre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/As.IT, ME....................631-4541 
8USINF.SS OmCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VtEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. I@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.spores. I@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobsm,er.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, feacures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as
r possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
I the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
! 
l Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsnvtrpolicies should be direct­ed to £Jitor in ChefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The°""'""'' (USPS 599 2•4000) is publi,hcd Monday through Friday accpt duri"I 
exam aAd ...,_,<ion f><riod,, A '"""''lf'OOO ., Tl,, Ob.crvu is SI 00 for one: a.adcmic 
,-.r; $55 fo, one scme1ter. 
The Obocr,,,cr i> publi,hcd at: POSTMASTER 

024 So.uh Dining Hall Send addn:s, WrR:<OOIU "" Nom: Dame, IN 46S56-0779 Th<Obocm:r Periodical pos"'F paid ai Nouc Dam. P.O.l!oxQ ,nd .ddirio,»l rnailinJ ollia,,. 024 Sourh Dining Hall Nom: D.,.... IN 46556-0m 
The Oho,,-is• member oi rh<, Asooci•rcd Pn:s,, All rcprodoction ricJ,u an: 
....,..d, 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
page 12 



Bishops' plan fails to resolve Catholic Church's sex-abuse scandal 
One flippant proof for the divine origin of the Catholic Church is that, in 2,000 years, the priests and bishops have been unable to kill it. Whatever the Vatican decides on the norms for diocesan priests adopted by the bishops, the sex abuse scandal is no cause for discouragement as to the Church or clerics in general. The reli­gious orders have adopted less rigorous rules for their priests. The bishops at Dallas, however, gave us a virtual manual on how not to handle a crisis. We can note only a few points here. 
First, the bishops refused even to authorize a study of the relevance of dis­sent and clerical homosexuality to the abuse problem. Michael Novak, a for­mer dissenter. described the reaction to Paul Vi's Humanae Vitae in 1968: "Immediately, a host of theologians, clergy and lay people publicly dissented. Then, more afraid of being called 'con­servative' than of being faithful to Catholic teaching, the bishops ... refused to exercise their teaching authority.... Dissent-as-rebellion spread from one aspect of the Church's sexual teaching to others. It grew and grew. Soon enough, homosexual rings were operating freely in several important seminaries. Over the years, scores of ... seminarians were seduced and corrupted. "As Father Richard John Neuhaus noted, "The overwhelming majority of the [clerical] sexual abuse cases involve adult men having sex with teenage boys and young men, and by ordinary English usage we call that a homosexual relationship." This subject is worthy of the bishops' attention. 
Second, the bishops imposed sanctions on their priests while they insulated themselves from any personal and financial accountability for their own involvement. Nor did they put their own jobs on the line. Why did they not oblige every bishop who has knowingly authorized the continued ministry of a priest guilty of sexual abuse to submit his res­ignation to the pope? The pope would decide whether to accept that resignation. The bishops who caused this crisis should at least volunteer to get out of the way. 
Third, the bishops imposed a one-size-fits-all system of permanent separation from ministry "for even a single act of sexual abuse ... of a minor -past, present or future," even of elderly priests who might have committed one misdeed, many years before, and have served with distinction since. Impersonal "zero tolerance" is a dubious Christian response, but it does play to the media. 
Fourth, the bishops painted a bullseye on the backs of their good priests, whom they exposed to permanent removal from ministry pursuant to vague criteria. The bish­ops' definition of "sexual abuse" does not require any "phys­ical contact" or any "discernible harmful outcome." Such abuse can be found "whether or not it is initiated by the child." It applies to "contacts or interactions between a child and an adult where the child is being used as an object of sexual gratification for the adult." Neither a presumption of innocence nor a burden of proof is specified. How can a priest disprove an accusation framed in such vague terms? The potential for intimidation and blackmail is obvious. 


And a priest's continuance in ministry after the adoption of the bishops' policies could create tort liability on the theo­ry that the priest had thereby assumed a duty to avoid the vaguely defined "sexual abuse." An "alleged offender" will be relieved of his "function" merely on the bishop's finding that the allegation is "credible." Evidently, only after he is so relieved will an "investigation in harmony with canon law" begin. Good priests, subjected to this regime, may now be inclined to act with a caution inconsistent with the energetic performance of their ministry. 
Fifth, the bishops created uncertainty as to the terms "minor" and "child." They generally describe the problem as "sexual abuse of minors." As amended in 2001, Canon 1395, § 2, cited by the bishops, authorizes punishment of a cleric who has sex with a "minor" below the age of 18. But the bishops define "sexual abuse" as activity between "a child. and an adult." At common law, a "child" is a person below 
14. In most states, however, the age of consent is 16. ls a person above the legal age of consent a "child?" Is the bish­ops' emphasis on the "child" an implicit green light for sex between homosexual priests and males who are post-pubes­cent or above the legal age of consent? In its civil law impli­cations, the bishops' work product at Dallas is replete with ambiguities and invitations to litigation. 
Neuhaus made the basic point: "If bishops and priests had been faithful to the Church's teaching and their sacred vows, there would be no crisis. That is the fact quite totally evaded at Dallas." However, as John Paul II said in his homily at World Youth Day in Toronto: "Do not be discour­aged by the sins and failings of some of [the Church's) mem­bers.... Think of the vast majority of dedicated and gener­ous priests and religious whose only wish is to serve and do good." 
Charles Rice is a professor emeritus on the law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at plawecki.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Andrew Thagard Chris Naidus Teresa Fralish 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemm Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 

Sports Katie McVoy Lauren Dasso Joe Hettler Scene Mike Schmuhl 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you feel safe in South Bend? Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When television is bad. nothing is worse. I invite you to sit in front ofyour television set when your station goes on the air. ... I can assure you that you will observe a vast wasteland.•· 
Newton Norman Minow former FCC chairman 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
page 13 

Despite sleaze, trash TV boosts self-esteem 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sense of community grows in off­campus neighborhoods 
There is more to living off-campus than having "free­
dom" to do what you wish away from parietals and rec­
tors. Notre Dame students living off-campus in the 
Northeast Neighborhood (the area directly south of 
campus that includes Lafayette Square and most off­
campus houses) should recognize how fortunate they 
are to live in such an active and richly diverse neighbor­
hood. 
Much attention has been drawn to the unfortunate 
incident that occurred last Saturday when three stu­
dents were robbed near a Corby Street party. While that 
incident was a very serious one that needs to be 
brought to the attention of all students for safety con­
cerns, I hope that it doesn't overshadow all of the posi­
tive things that are taking place in that area as well. For 
example, last Saturday from 1 to 4 p.m.• community and 
University organizations co-hosted a block party for 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students living in the 
neighborhood and permanent residents in the area. 
The block party was the end result of several discus­sions between neighbors and students concerned with their strained relationship. On Saturday, about 50 stu­dents and 100 neighbors (including children) came together for an informal barbecue in order to meet one another and discuss the importance of a unified commu­nity. Information on recycling, South Bend city code, volunteer opportunities and community-oriented polic­ing was available to everyone who attended. 
At the block party, Luella Webster, a lifelong resident of the neighborhood, spoke about the importance of building community in the area. She wanted students to know that the neighbors in the area want to work together to cut down crime and create a healthy pla~e to live for all. Addressing everyone gathered at the bar­becue, she said, "Students should feel comfortable going to their neighbors and asking them to watch their home while they are away on break, and we (neighbors) should be able to do that with students as well." 
The Northeast Neighborhood is one of the most eco­nomically and racially diverse neighborhoods in South Bend. More than 40 percent of the population is African-American. Unemployment rates for the area are slightly higher than the average for South Bend; median income levels and high school graduation rates are 
A defense of Wyoming 
Marlayna Soenneker's article in Thursday's 
Observer. "Wyoming fails to impress," left 
some strong impressions. Wyoming natives are 
used to hearing about desolate roads and 
sparse populations. Her experience is not 
unique. I think it fortunate that they only 
encountered a mouse and squirrel on the high­
ways, especially driving so late at night. 
Having gone to school in Powell, I spent much time on Highway 14. State Highway 14 connects Yellowstone Park, our country's first National Park, with Devil's Tower, our coun­try's first National Monument. Alternate high­way 14 takes you north through Powell and Lovell. home of one of the largest wild horse herds in the country and a spectacular drive, especially during the day, when road signs are easier to read. 
Wyoming was the first state to grant women the right to vote and the first state to elect a woman governor. It is the final resting place of Sacajawea. Cheyenne, our capital, was the first municipality to have street lights. Wyoming produces more coal than any other state. 
I remember the spectacular Wyoming sun­sets and the generous hearts of its residents. It's no mystery that many people find this a challenging state to travel through and yet, from 1840 to 1870. nearly half a million people did so during the westward migration. Wyoming is mystical, abundant in beauty and rich in natural resources. 
Did you know that 95 percent of the nation's sodium carbonate comes from Wyoming? Many of us are familiar with the commercial product refined from this raw material. I use it during the academic year, near The Observer delivery points. 
Richard Baxter 
director of special events Saint Mary's Aug. 30 

I watched too much TV this summer. I had noble goals: I wanted to catch up on some reading, write a bunch of columns, study for the GRE, learn Latin -the usual summer stuff. But after eight 
Amy Schill
hours each day 
reading the literary 
analyses of 10th 

Dazed and
graders (I worked 
Amused
for a company that 
scores standardized 
tests, the last refuge 

for the educated unemployable). I had a 
bad taste in my mouth for the English 
language, not to mention for the literary 
acumen of today's high schoolers (kids, 
George shot Lennie, not the other way 
around, and Hester Prynne did not get 
the Scarlet Letter by finding a pearl in 
Cuba with the Old Man). 

So after work, vegging in front ofthe TV always seemed more appealing than "Ulysses," the light summer novel I had chosen. The problem was, not only was I watching TV, I was watching trashy, IQ­lowering television. Trash TV is all the rage these days, and Jerry Springer, the first avatar of televised sleaze, has paved the way for a host of dating shows and other life-affirming reality programming. I think I like the dating shows the best. 
I like them because no matter how much they try to differentiate themselves from each other (dating on a bus, dating on a cruise ship, competitive dating, pop­up dating, extreme dating, dating to fight the war on terror), all these shows are essentially the same: Participants will eith~r strike out miserably or have sex in a hot tub. I think the advertisers have fig­ured out this dichotomy. There are two types of people in these shows: those who will need the adult phone service 
when the date is over and those who will need the ment is a bit disturbing, it herpes medication. Ah, is also all too easy to dis­young love. miss our qualms about 
Believe it or not, enjoying the specta­dating shows are cle. probably the most People choose to 
innocuous of go on these pro­
America's guilty grams after all, pleasures. While giving us the right dating shows satis­to ridicule them as fy our desire for we do any celebri­virtual sex, other ty. This argument 
shows satisfy our works to a certain desire not for vio­extent, and I too lence, but that desire to rationalize to myself as 
witness the misery of oth­I occasionally (and guilti­ers. That's right, we like to Ozzy Osbourne. We love seeing dysfunc­tional characters on reality programs pre­cisely because they are so foreign to our own reality, causing anyone who can string a coherent sentence together to deem himself an intellectual dynamo in comparison (sorry George). 
Though human suffering and 
slightly lower. Running the risk of sounding presumptu­
ous, I will guess that the average Notre Dame student 
did not grow up in a neighborhood with much resem­
blance to this one. 
On Friday, The Observer editorial headline stated, "Life outside the bubble draws students into danger." The author of the article states "there is little practical reason for students to move off campus." I think that the mere experience of living "outside the bubble" in a community in which not everyone looks the same or comes from the same economic and educational back­ground is a very valuable one for students. 
Notre Dame values community. Scott Kachmarik, associate director of Residence Life and Housing, was quoted in last Friday's Observer as saying, "The move­ment of seniors off campus hurts the sense of communi­ty on campus. We lose some valued community mem­bers." Instead of lamenting the loss of those community members on campus, we should encourage them to become valuable leaders and active community mem­bers in the new, diverse community of which, by virtue of their moving off campus into a residential area. they have now become a part of. The Robinson Community Learning Center and the Northeast Neighborhood Center are great resources for students looking to get involved in the area. 
I do agree with the last line of last Friday's editorial: "Life is different outside the bubble." In realizing this, I hope students do not make the mistake of trying to extend "the Notre Dame bubble" to their homes off­campus. To all students living off campus, I urge: Please, meet your neighbors. Learn their names and take time to get to know them; you'd be surprise at what you might discover. Most students, including myself, appreciate and value the sense of community we are blessed to share here at Notre Dame. Extending that sense of community into the Northeast Neighborhood between students living off campus and the permanent residents there would be beneficial to all. 
Maura Kelly Notre Dame senior 
off-campus Aug. 31 

that even though our retirement has been lost in the stock market, our grades are dismal and our country is at war, it's all okay because that guy on Springer just got left by his wife for a KKK midget mon­key, and I think they're about to fight. 
While our dads could never be as per­fect as Cliff Huxtable, at least we can rest assured that they are more stable than 
a show that claims to be searching for an idol but still lets us relish in kicking off the failures each week. I know it's all in fun. People are being well paid for their humiliation, and the only real victim is me, for after a summer of "Rendez-View" and "Idol," I'm going to have to wait for the DVD version of "Ulysses," with special deleted scenes in which Stephen becomes a singing sensation, only to be upstaged 
by the Fifth Wheel. 
However, there is one show that even the most cynical TV observer has trouble watching with ease: "The Anna Nicole Show." Now I know Miss Anna is not the most sympathetic personality around, but when E!'s highest-rated show ever is based on our amusement at watching the misadventures of an overweight, over­medicated blonde and her sexually frus­trated poodle, something has gone terri­bly wrong. I like to think that somewhere between the highs and the hangovers, Ozzy senses the irony of his TV stardom, but this poor woman is too stupid to real­ize she's being exploited. 
And when we gain pleasure in reaffirm­ing our rel_ative intelligence over the igno­rant, whether they live in mansions or trailers, are we really any better than that vertically challenged racist monkey? Think about that my friend. 
So though my TV choices probably don't put me in a good position to be moraliz­ing, I think my conscience is going to keep me away from the trash TV for a while. 
Until, of course CourtTV airs the Martha Stewart trial. 
Amy Schill is a senior English major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in thts column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 14 Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
Blazin' Sui 
Reviews ofsome of thi 
Wilco Yankee Hotel Foxtrot 

The brainchild of former Uncle Tupelo member Jeff Tweedy. Wilco has run the genre gamut from early alt­country to liberal interpretations of twang pop in three previous efforts. On the band's fourth outing, Yankee Hotel Foxtrot, Tweedy & Co. disregard genre restric­tions on an album that offers everything from upbeat jangle pop to cerebral ballads that take the listener through an agonizing canvas of 
· ~ · despair and frustration. 
The product of Tweedy's prodigal poet­ics and the band's experimentation and growth (including a line­up change) makes Yankee move like a well-oiled Tin Man: walking fine, but with the scars of an afflicted past. The soundscape sweeps from ethereal to stolid, the orchestration from cosmic to comic. But the boldness of the music is encased in a plaster cast of vulnerable, naked and shockingly powerful lyrics. 

Tweedy's voice can sound like a child's who gets caught looking up a mannequin's dress, but then explode on the next track. The opener, "I Am Trying to Break Your Heart", moves like a drunken confession, slurring nonsense over a playground of a piano played by a ceiling fan. 'Tm the Man Who Loves You", is a frenetic and engaging track, showing a conviction and energy that Tweedy leaves out of other songs. When he mumbles on "Reservations", "The truth/ proves its beautiful to lie", you involuntarily cringe, somewhat embarrassed that on some level, you can sympathize. 
That's exactly what this album makes you do: regardless of whether or not Yankee is exactly your type, it nests in your head. The songs are accessible enough to get inside of to brood over, but retain an inherit simplicity that allow you to listen without think­ing. No other band today could execute this marriage of disparate sounds into the aural masterpiece that Yankee spills out as. And all this without a "radio sin­
g1e" ... 

Review by Daniel McSwain 
Counting Crows Hard Candy 

The Counting Crows are timeless. Theirs is the music for the night before, the morning after, and the tumul­tuous in between, and with the release of their fourth studio album, Hard Candy, they have perfected their craft. Boasting a slew of accompaniment ranging from violin and cello, to the backing vocals of Sheryl Crow, Matthew Sweet, and Ryan Adams, they have never been more refined. Lyrically, Duritz's vivid story telling evokes Americana with Dylan-esque intensity, offering concise and telling imagery throughout; "On certain Sundays in November/ When the weather bothers me/ I empty drawers of other summers/ Where my shad­ows used to be," and remaining constant despite the album's myriad of sounds. 

The infectious title-track and light-hearted single "American Girls" open the album with a reluctant smile. The mournfully funky "Good Time," bewails the daily struggles with self. let alone others, while the broodingly catchy rocker "If I Could Give All My Love," contemplates life's deceptive impermanence. 
The insomnia that inspired "Goodnight L.A." is prac­tically audible, and the soft horns of "Butterfly in Reverse" and "Carriage," present the band at their most developed and mature. After the hopeful "Miami" and "New Frontier," with its 80's synth-pop charm, the wanderlustful piano ballads "Up All Night" and "Holiday in Spain," bring the Crows' strongest and most diverse album to its bittersweet end, and estab­lish them as rare survivors in a dying breed of genuine American rock bands. 
Review by John Fanning 
Flaming Lips 
Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots 

In Yoshimi Battles The Pink Robots, the Flaming Lips latest release after 1999's critically celebrated The Soft Bulletin, lead singer Wayne Coyne con­fronts the relation between metal parts, human emotion and the comic value of robots. 
On the slowly accelerating groove of "One more robot/ Sympathy 3000-21." Coyne muses on a futuristic computer programmed to feel human emotion (no relation to Data on star trek as far as I can tell). Elsewhere the gurgle of robot voices and lines like "Oh Yoshimi/ They don't believe/ But you won't let those robots eat me" clearly indicate that Coyne isn't taking his new robot adversaries too seriously. Overall the album uses a lot less original instrumentation than on The Soft 
Bulletin. 


Instead the Lips have opted for more computer noises. and chopped up beats, but without crossing into purely electronic territory as the swoon of strings and horns, and the jangle of bright guitar lines still make themselves felt throughout the album. The concept album idea seems to wear 
off early in the album, after the ins trum en tal "Yoshimi battles the pink robots pt.2" ends with 
what we can only assume 
is the evil robots defeat. 

With the remainder of the album Coyne returns to more familiar themes of sadness, loss and death with varying emotional impact. 
The closing songs, "Do You Realize" and "All We Have is Now," however, Coyne's reflections and the accompanying music create moments of emotional poignancy matching many of The Soft Bulletins more powerful moments. With lyrics like, "Do you realize­that happiness makes you cry/ Do you realize that everyone you know someday will die." Followed by "All we have is now," with Coyne's faltering falsetto singing that "You and me were never meant to be part of the future," the album ends on two of its best songs. 
While the Flaming Lips latest may not be the mind blowing space journey suggested by the album's art­work, or outdistance the Soft Bulletin, it still is a fun ride leaving the listener with some powerful reflections on what it means to be human in the present. Sorry robots, I don't think you could really understand this one yet. 
Review by Joe Reising 
Bruce Springsteen The Rising A year after the Sept. 11, the thought of a tribute album dedicated to the occasion at first brings a cringe to many faces. For a tragic event to be packaged and turned into a pop album seems to cheapen the idea of heroism and turn it into a patriotic moneymaker. Bruce Springsteen, however, tackles this problem gracefully, resulting in a time-piece album that stands as a poignant reminder of the emotional turmoil Americans felt in the wake of such a disaster. Continuing in the Springsteen tradition, The Rising is an album ringing of the roots of American rock with the influence of folk, blues and gospel. Rhythm guitars, 
catchy hooks, sing-a-long choruses, and culmi­nating moments make up the majority of t h e album. 
Springsteen 
pays tribute to 
the fire fighters in 
"Into the Fire" singing, 
"I need your kiss/ But love 
and duty called you someplace 
higher/ Somewhere up the stairs/ Into the fire." The song eases into the hymn-like chorus, 

"May your strength give us strength/ May your faith give us faith/ May your hope give us hope/ May your love give us love." 
On "Empty Sky," Springsteen paints the image of what millions of Americans were witness to the morning of Sept. 11, "Blood on the streets/ Blood flowin' down/ I hear the blood of my blood/ 
'f/g,. ~~~~~ 
~koy~ e\~~t~r~~;/ct; 
woke up this morning to 
an empty sky." Joined with 
. the E Street Band for a studio album for the first time in 18 years, Springsteen has created an album that bottles up American pride and lets it loose on the airwaves. Not just anyone can tap the emotion of Sept. 11 and put it into 15 tracks. That honor belongs to Bruce Springsteen. 
Review by Julie Bender 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
page 15 

tnmer Music 
s summer's best albums 
Sweep the Leg Johnny Going Down Swingin' 

rock with a 
, 
Sweep the Leg Johnny is a five-piece band that could be somewhat accurately 
described as blis­tering math 
Sa XO ­

phone. Math rock is a predomi­nantly instru­mental genre marked by intricate and interlocking layered guitar parts, dissonance, and start-stop-start-stop dynamics. Unless you have the myriad of subtleties 
and time changes memorized, it's basically impos­sible to dance to, due to the nature of the complex, bizarre, and frequently changing time signatures. 
Sweep the Leg Johnny, who got their name from the movie Karate Kid, features Notre Dame graduates and former WVFI d.j.s Steve ·Sostak on saxophone and Chris Daly on guitar. With the addition of Mitch Cheney. formerly of San Francisco-based math rock outfit Rumah Sakit, on second guitar this album is 
even more elaborate and intense than their previ­ous efforts. The song structures bare no resem­blance whatsoever to the conventional song writing of most rock bands. There is very little melody in the sparse vocal lines and really nu chords either. Despite this, the music definitely contains melodic passages full of hooks. 

Going Down Swingin". released last summer, is their fourth and final album. The stellar open­ing track is a gripping 14­min u te epic full of sweep­ing crescendos and intricately woven guitar, bass, drum, and sax parts. Other stand out tracks includes "Only In a Rerun," "J. Daly's Message to Jacob and 
Sylvia," and "Transit Must Suffer." Although I prefer their earlier material, this album is still phenomenal and definitely worthy of a listen. If you're into pro­gressive rock, jazz, noise, or just complex music then check out Sweep the Leg Johnny. 
Review by Tim Bradley 

Red Hot Chili Peppers By The Way 
With the release of their ninth album, By the Way, The Red Hot Chili Peppers show that they have contin­ued to improve their sound since the release of their first album in 1984. 
In By the Way, The Peppers, who almost single­handedly started the rock-rap style, have continued in their more melodic mode evident in recent singles like "Scar Tissue" off of 1999's Californication. Though fans may be a bit taken 
aback by lead singer Anthony Kiedis' mel­lowed tone, the 

,i[t\'1~; !
change is nothing new; The Peppers have been slowly changing their style for almost 10 years. Ever since the ballad "Under the Bridge" from 1991 's 

BloodSugarSexMagik, each Peppers album has discreetly backed away from their rec­ognizable (and often imitated) adrenaline 
soaked style. 
But By the Way isn't a watered down Peppers album by any stretch of the imagination. The Peppers sound comes off in its best form yet. Gone is the uncon­trolled, phrenetic mosh-pit album of the early '90s; in its place is a controlled and elegant composition. The Peppers' old sound isn't gone, it's just grown up. 
The album might take a few go rounds to appreci­ate, but it is undoubtedly the group's best work to date. 
Review by C. Spencer Beggs 

Weezer Maladroit 
Trying to resuscitate the ailing body of rock, not to mention resurrect the heavy metal corpse, Weezer had their work cut out for themselves on this, their aptly (or not) titled fourth effort. Hivers Cuomo. 
Weezer's often nebbish, sometimes cracked front man, seems infused with a divine right to rock passed directly from the gods of metal themselves.· The rhythm section is reminis­cent of the polished glory days of Genesis. Back-up guitarist Brian Bell sounds more like Rivers· own alter ego than his side­kick. 


Offering a refreshing departure from the fabri­cated pop sound of the Green album, Weezer invokes bands like Rush, Iron Maiden, and even a 
little G'n'R to craft their new melodic metal pop. 
"Dope Nose," the first single, is a blend of pure rock goodness and sardonic hair metal nostalgia. Reminding listeners that there is life after emo, Weezer invites their fans to sing along and rock out a little. the reason that their "Blue" album became an anthemic hit for drunken air-guitar wielding college guys everywhere. 
"Keep Fishin'," the second single, and easily Weezer's best since their debut, brings out old friends melody and harmony to display their honed skills as both songwriters and musicians, and comes out solid and spotless. 
But despite ali the throwback goodies, Weezer winds up a little short on their lyrical credibility. Rivers put more emotion into this album than the last, but still doesn't sell it like he did Pinkerton. And Maladroit does have its share of unfortunate pop disasters. But with the drive to keep rock alive, Weezer flies their metal flag proudly, and in the process, made a wickedly enjoyable album. 
Review by Daniel Mcswain 

Norah Jones Come Away With Me 
What would a summer be without soft, cool jazz breezing through curtained windows? That's exactly what Norah Jones offers on her debut album, Come Away With Me. Released in February, this album has been getting more and more publicity with every month. Perhaps this is due to Jones' voice, which at times seems to tiptoe lightly on the music while other times it glides soothingly through it. Or maybe it's the genre-defying piano Jones can roll out while being backed by the smooth bass of Lee Alexander, the guitar workings of Jesse Harris, and the comple­mentary drumming of Dan Rieser. 
The album opens with the catchy number "Don't Know Why," a song with a sly feel to it as Jones' vocals weave in and out of the piano and bass back­ing. On her cover of Hank Williams' "Cold, Cold Heart," Jones shows her ability to transgress musi­cal genres and morph a country twang into a jazz line with smooth over-laying vocals. Perhaps the strongest song on the album is Jones' own "Come Away With Me." Like a song-writing veteran, Jones fills this song with gorgeous piano strokes and a deep, sensual voice carrying a tune that is something remi­niscent of a Carol King song. With an album of such beauty released only as a debut, Jones makes it easy to plug in and come away with her. 

Review by Julie Bender 

Blackalicous Blazing Arrow 
If popular rap about gator boots, Gucci suits and chromed out Escalades starts to annoy you after awhile, picking up a Blackalicious album will change your perceptions on the hip hop genre. 
Rapping, rhyming and singing over intricately sim­ple beats and rapping about social issues and every­day life, Blackalicious have created a near mas­terpiece with their newest album, Blazing Arrow. 
With no "bling bling" to brag about, the artists of Blackalicious flaunt their wealth of musical talent on every song on the album. 
Easily some of the best and fastest rappers around, Blackalicious meddle with different MCA Records tones, volumes and pro­


~~1s:!~~~ int~~~!~,ng::~ ff, .. -~:::r 
"4000 Miles," making their music sound soulful and meaningful. 
All in all, Blazing Arrow is certainly the best hip hop album of the summer and one of the definitive hip hop albums to date. 
Review by Alike Schmuhl 
Tuesday, September 3, 2002 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Students create their own football rankings 
! 
Notre Dame, meet the tered out and completely dis­Sendwich Index. "Sendwi­appears by the team's sixth what?" you ask. The Sendwich game. Index is an objective, perfor­The "preseason factor" is mance­evident for based, several automated teams. Of system for course ranking teams may the collec­lose key tive rela­players or tive per­make posi­formances tive adjust­of all ments in Division the off-sea­lA college son, but football this makes 
teams. Try no differ­
saying that ence to the 

ten times Sendwich 
fast. Index 
In contrast to the A.P. and unless they prove themselves Coaches' polls, the Sendwich on the field. Index does not rely on a popu­Virginia Tech, for example, lar vote or human adjustment. is currently ranked No. 19. Rather, it uses a computerized The Hokies finished last sea­system to evaluate the relative son with an 8-4 record and a quality of teams based on who, Sendwich ranking of 47. where, when and how they Coming off two solid wins they perform. may seem underrated. 
The Sendwich Index was However, VT has already conceived and developed by jumped 28 spots. LSU dropped Eric Chanowich and Eric four to No. 10 with a road loss Sendelbach, against a quali­both senior ty Virginia Tech 
computer Over the past five years. team. 
science In the other
the Sendwich Index has 
majors at big game of the Notre correctly selected the week, after a 
Dame. For national champion. close win at 
those scor­home against 
ing at previously No. 

home, that's Eric Chanowlch and 14 Washington, Current Last Week Team Name Sendwich Points Record 
us. Eric Sendlebach Michigan 1 1 Miami Fla 9.5618 0-0 
We origi­moved up four 2 2 Florida 7.58796 1-0
creators 
' I 
nally creat­spots to No. 16. 3 3 Tennessee 6.9429 1-0 
J
: . ed the Washington fell 4 4 Oregon 6.08008 1-0 I Sendwich Index as a final pro­to No. 22. 5 5 Texas 5.02472 1-0 '. ject for our Data Structures So where does Notre Dame 6 7 Oklahoma 4.94823 1-0
{ . 
class taught by Jesus fall? At the end of last season, 7 8 Nebraska 4.81089 2-0 
Izaguirre. Much to our sur­the Irish were ranked No. 58. 8 9 Florida State 4.24462 2-0
l prise, the results were quite After pounding Maryland, 9 11 Washington State 4.13061 1-0 accurate. however. they have moved up 10 6 LSU 3.69995 0-1 Over the past five years, the 19 spots to No. 39. Perhaps 11 16 Michigan State 3.67541 1-0 Sendwich Index has correctly this is a bit low, but give it 12 12 Stanford 3.55092 0-0 selected the consensus nation­time. 13 13 Illinois 3.3588 0-0 al champion. Additionally, in Note that the Sendwich Index 14 10 Colorado 3.21864 0-1 comparison with the final A.P. includes only games played 15 15 Hawaii 3.16621 0-0 poll, we have selected 90 per­against other Division IA 16 20 Michigan 3.08046 1-0 cent of the same top 10 teams teams. Miami, Fla., for exam­17 17 Syracuse 3.05984 0-0 over the past three years. ple, still has a record of 0-0 18 26 South Carolina 2.99911 1-0 In order to gain some stabili­even though they easily defeat­19 30 Virginia Tech 2.97536 2-0 ty in the early weeks of the ed Florida A&M, a Division IAA 20 25 Georgia 2.94799 1-0 season, the Sendwich Index team, this weekend. 21 19 Georgia Tech 2.73794 0-0 incorporates its own final Our Top 25 will appear right 22 14 Washington 2.72838 0-1 rankings from the previous here every Tuesday. For fur­23 38 Wisconsin 2.61288 2-0 season. For those who believe ther information on the 24 23 UCLA 2.60456 0-0 that each team should start dynamics of the Sendwich 25 24 North Carolina 2.59643 0-0 the season with a clean slate, Index or to see complete cur• don't be disheartened. A rent and past rankings, please 

39 58 Notre Dame 1.89876 1-0
team's performance from the visit www.sendwich.com. past season is gradually fil-




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Souch Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED: Notre Dame vs Michigan 1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee. Wanted: 1 "GA" ticket tor any ND Need 2 or 4 GA tix to home games. tickets Date: Sept. 14, 2002 Need Excellent Condition $12,000. 631· Available immediately • Fall semes­home football game. Call Jim 234-276-8507. Call 288-2877 after 5. 
WANTED tickets for a special anniversary sur­7829. ter only • 2 BR cottage five min from 7228. prise. Please call John Jacob campus. Dave 243-5353. Phone # (814) 893-5701 91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal, For Sale: single football tic for Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich. game. 

BENCHWARMERS SPORTS clean, 1-owner, very good condi­Furnished rooms for rent in a spa­Purdue and Ml. Call 233-3618 after 255-8256. LOUNGE 236 So. Michigan Needs ND family looking for babysitter in tion. $4200. 277-0189. cious comfortable home. Includes 6. bartenders, DJ and promotional home-Tues. 3-6pm AND/OR kitchen privileges, washer/dryer, people. 232-0022. Thurs. 5-8pm. Some flex. Great Land Rover Discovery Series 11. A/C, internet, quiet reading rooms, NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME WANTED: ND tickets. HIGHEST 
kids, good pay. Call Michelle 233-1999. Original owner, 45K, excel­swimming pool and patio. 2 miles GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593 PRICES PAID 251-1570 2921. lent condition, loaded. $26,500. from campus. $330 month. Call 
(574-233-2104). Tom at 574-243-4749. All Notre Dame vs Michigan State $250 a day potential/bartending. football tickets for sale at 517-351 • ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST Training provided 1-800-293-3985 1992 or go to: PRICES 289-9280 
FOR SALE 
! 
ext. 556 All size homes available for 2003-www.Jaro.e.s!b.e.Iicketman,corn••=•• ••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• FOR RENT 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 
·-············································ Washer/dryer. Excellent condition. www.mmmrentals.@ill Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289· ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR $360/pr. 634-4760. 8048 or astrog999@aol.com SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Seeking BABYSITTER for 3 small Room in Home for rent $400.
: t 
children in Granger -various Large one-bedroom condo for sale. Utilities incl. 8 min. to campus. Furn TICKETS
l i 
hours/days. Refs & car rqrd! Call One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly or unfurn. Jacuzzi. Call Donna 255-Needed: Large quantity of Stanford ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT 
' I
I 
Laura 243-4776. remodeled. Fully equipped. 4737. We need Michigan tickets! Call 4-tickets for reunion. Please help. ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd.edu 2899 or 256-5633 289-8048. 
ji 
I, i 
. ' 
I·, 

Tuesday, September 3, 2002 page 17 
The Observer . SPORTS 

U.S. OPEN 
Davenport, Capriati advance to quarterfinals 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Lindsay Davenport spent the better part of Monday sitting by a window at the National Tennis Center while rain fell. Once play started, she rose to the occasion. 
Playing just her fifth tourna­ment since knee surgery, ·' --Davenport moved into the U.S. Open quarterfinals by beating 13th-seeded Silvia Farina Elia 
SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Sign Up on the Internet NOW @ www. LaurenStudias.cam to ensure your place in yoorZIHl3 Dame Yearbook! 
Friday, 4:00-10:00 p.m.  & Saturday, 9:00 a.m . .:.5:00·J)~m.  Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m;,  
Coleman-Morse Center, Room 103  Coleman-Morse Center,. Room""-330  
. ,.  

For further information, contact Dorothy Aiiderson ·1n the Theology Department, 631-78l 1. Syllabi for the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept., 130 Malloy Hall. Register through D4:RT orgoJ2 the Registrar's office. 
~a.-· ........ ~ 

of Italy 6-3, 6-1 in a match that started more than 7 hours late because of downpours. 
..It was hard for me to get going. I really didn't have a lot of time to" prepare, Davenport said. 'Tm so relieved it's over with, but I don't remember going out there too many times with no warmup, not a lot of notice." 
Third-seeded Jennifer Capriati followed Davenport in Arthur Ashe Stadium and also 

One-Credit Courses -\ 
offered by the Dq,artment of Theology.. 
in cooperation with the Ofjice-of Campus Ministry 
God 
Where: Class of 2003 "When: Pictures taken 

Sept. 2 -Sept. 20 Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To Be In the 2003 
Dome 



OrjginatSQl 
Theo. 340J. _sc,/:_ . 1 credit.-·· S/U'•t:~:
:-w~~~: .·. .· ­
Instructor: 
J. Mattl!ew Ashley 
Wednesdays . ;~t.. September 4, 11; 1:8,~~;y[~~?!t.c,._
25 & Q f 2 9 ·· :~l~': >: '-·· ; . 
, C .. , --.,;-;.,ik,.. 

Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:05p.in. ...·,..,. Coleman-Morse.Center,Room 331 
~ -~~, 
::,~alth 
'.":,;,~,: •'"#~,;',,· ;;_.,,,.. 

Theo. 340K. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. DavitfBurren, C.5.C.
11U' 
Mondays •,;,~ :1i, September 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, and Oct. 7 Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p]n., Coleman-Morse Center,i;;Room 330 
Prayer 

Theo~.340A. 1 credit. Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham· 
__. 
Sundays, September 15, 22, 29, Oct. 6, 13 
eased into the round of eight, beating fellow American Amy Frazier 6-1, 6-3 despite eight double faults. 
Rain that fell through the night continued into Monday, and organizers postponed 60 doubles and junior tournament matches. They were still hoping to be able to fit in a big sched­ule of main draw singles action, though by 8:45 p.m., only Davenport and Capriati had completed their matches. 

"The bad news is: We're behind in matches, doing the best to make them up," tourna­ment referee Brian Earley said. "We're certainly hopeful to get where we need to be. We know it's a hardship." 
Davenport only had a hard time right at the start against Farina Elia, dropping the first two games. Then she turned it on, winning four straight games and 12 of the remaining 14. Davenport won eight of the last 
nine points in each set, closing 
the match by breaking Farina­
Elia's serve at love. 
"Once I got back on serve 
pretty early, I think I felt a lot 
better out there," Davenport 
said. 
The American finished 2001 
atop the rankings. but she was 
out from November until last 
month because of her knee 
injury. While Davenport and 
another former No. 1 player 
recovering from surgery, 
Martina Hingis, were sidelined, 
Serena and Venus Williams met 
in the last two Grand Slam 
finals and climbed to 1-2 in the 
world. 
In Davenport's comeback. she 
reached the semifinals in the 
first two and the finals in the 
last two. Two losses came 
against Venus Williams. includ­
ing the title match Saturday in 
New Haven, Conn. 
She spent nine weeks on 
crutches after her operation in 
January, then endured months 
of rehabilitation that included 
eight hours a day using a 
machine that repeatedly bent 
and straightened her right 

knee. 
Davenport also changed her 
diet and has appeared fit in her 
four victories here. 
The worst potential backlog was in the lower half of the men's draw, which includes four-time U.S. Open champion Pete Sampras, 1997 finalist Greg Rusedski, third-seeded Tommy Haas, and three-time French Open winner Gustavo Kuerten. 
Their third-round matches got under way Sunday, but they were halted in progress, with Sampras serving down 5-4 to Rusedski, Haas up a set against Thomas Enqvist, and Kuerten a set ahead of Nicolas Massu. Even if all were finished Monday, it meant one men's finalist probably would have to play five matches in seven days. 
"We know best-of-five (set matches} take a lot out of a guy," Earley said. "We know the bottom half of the draw is going to be a struggle for some­body." 
It certainly wouldn't make things any easier for the 31­year-old Sampras, who has been struggling with his game of late. He hasn't won a tourna­ment since July 2000, when at Wimbledon he claimed his record 13th Grand Slam title. 
Haas has had pain in his right arm -though his coach, David Ayme. said Monday it's "not a factor when he gets on the court" -and another player in that half of the draw, fifth-seed­ed Tim Henman, has been fighting right shoulder prob­lems. 
"We're not even thinking that far ahead," Ayme said, refer­ring to the chance that there could be a jammed schedule. "If we lose one. Tommy's on a plane, and he watches the rest of the tournament at home on 
TV." 
While pushing the men's final back a day to Sept. 9 could hap­pen, Earley said there are some limits to what his options are as he tries to figure out a way to get all the matches in. No day's action will start before 11 a.m.. for example, and players won't have to play more than one sin­gles match in a day. unlike at some lesser tournaments where weather interrupts action. 

-. 
.. ! .,.';/h(I

., 1 ..)'T'(l (V1? •. ~ \("\ . .\'T rnnr ~ • ~ • ~ 
., page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 3, 2002 





( 
i 
I 
I 
J 
' 
,l 
• 
C E N T E R F O R 
ervzce
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Come to Activities Night at the
'' ... to act justly, to love JACC tonight (from 7:00 to 9:00 
tenderly and to walk p.m.) to learn about service op­
humbly with your God. '' Micah 6:8 portunities in the South Bend Community. 
Service/Social Action Clubs and local Agencies 
420 CSC-General information 520 Helpful Undergraduate Students 421 Experiential Learning 521 HIV-AIDS Awareness/ Students with AIDS Training 422 CSC-Social Concerns Seminars 522 Hugh OfBrian Youth Foundation Alumni Association 423 CSC-Urban Plunge 523 Humane Society of St. Joseph County 424 CSC-Summer Service Program Internships 524 Knights of Columbus 425 CSC-Senior Transitions Program 525 Life Treatment Centers 426 CSC-National Youth Sports Program (NYSP) 526 Lunch P.A.C.K., ND/SMC 427 CSC-International Summer Service Leaming Programs 527 Memc.rial Hospital 428 CSC-Appalachia Break Seminar 528 Memorial Hospital/Community Health Enhancement 429 American Cancer Society Club 529 Ms. Wizard Day Progra!n Team 430 American Cancer Society 530 ND for Animals 431 Amnesty International Notre Dame 531 Neighborhood Study Help Program 432 Best Buddies 532 Oasis 433 Super Sibs 533 Operation Smile Student Organization 434 Logan Recreation Club 534 Pax Christi-U.S.A., Notre Dame 435 Logan Center 535 Progressive Student Alliance 436 Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame/Saint Maryfs 536 Reins of Life 437 Big Brothers/Big Sisters 537 Right to Life, Notre Dame 438 Boys & Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County 538 Robinson Community Leaming Center 439 Broadway Christian Parish 539 Saint Josephfs Chapin Street Health Center Volunteers 440 Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 540 Silver Wings 441 Campus Girl Scouts 541 S-O-S 501 Catholic Charities 601 South Bend Area Schools 502 Center for Basic Leaming Skill 602 South Bend Housing Authority 503 Center for the Homeless 603 South Bend Juvenile Correctional 504 Charles Martin Youth Center 604 Special Friends Club 505 Childrenf s Dispensary 605 St. Joseph County Police 506 Circle K, Notre Dame 606 St. Vincent de Paul Society 507 La Casa De Amistad Inc. 607 Students for Environmental Action 508 Clay Fire Tenitory-Student Firefighters 608 Teach for America 509 College Football Hall of Fame 609 Teamwork for Tomorrow 510 Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 610 Trident Naval Society 511 Community Resource Center 611 Twenty-First Century Scholars 512 Dismas of Michiana (Dismas House) 612 United Religious Community 513 Dream Center 613 University Young Life 514 East Timor Action Network@ND 614 Urban League of South Bend & St. Joseph County 515 Educational Talent Search 615 Womanis Care Center 516 Foodshare 616 Womenfs Resource Center 904 First Aid Services Team 617 World Hunger Coalition 
517 Global Health Initiative, Notre Dame 618 Youth Services Bureau-Safe Station 518 Habitat for Humanity 904 First Aid Services Team 519 Harbor Light Hospice 
*For more information regarding these groups, please visit the CSC's website at http://centerforsocialconcems.nd.edu/ 
-
··----· 

Tuesday, September 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
Terrapins to just 16 rushing yards. 
"That was the most fun I've ever had playing ball," said Goolsby, who tied Hoyte for the team lead with eight tackles and one sack. "After the first quarter and getting accus­tomed to things, I just went out there and was my normal self. I had a blast out there.... 

"Taking out the ACC champ 
HAPPY 2 1 ST B I RT H DAY WO J! 
From Your Alumni Dawgs and Saint Mary's Girls 
.___---September 2"\ 5:02 pm-----September 3r\ 2:21 pm 


This Week in Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 

dav 
Activities Night 2002 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 

Daily Mass @ Malloy Hall 
12:00 p.m. Malloy Hall Chapel 


Campus Ministry Open House at the Coleman-Morse Center 
5:30 p.m. -7:30 p.m. 

Sign-up for Campus Ministry retreats, faith-sharing groups and many other programs 

dav 
Pachanga '02 
6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
like that, that was pretty impressive," he added. 
The start was particularly special for Hoyte, who lives about 30 minutes south of Giants Stadium. A large contin­gent of family. friends and coaches made the trek from 


av 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
RCIA-lnfo Session for Candidates 
1:00 p.m. -2:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
RCIA-lnfo Session for Sponsors 
2:00 p.m. -3:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 


What if I'm Not Catholic?! 
Info Kickoff for Protestant Students 
4:00 p.m. -7:00 p.m. Student Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
If you re asking yourself this question then 
you wont want to miss this gathering of 
Protestant Christians at Notre Dame. 
¦ 
Find out ways you can nourish your faith life 

¦ 
Hear from upperclassmen 

¦ 
Meet other first year students 

¦ 
0Join us for Prayer & Music 

¦ 
Dinner will be provided 


For more info, call Jemar Tisby @ 1-3389 Co-Sponsored by: Iron Sharpens Iron & Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
where he had to be on defense -he just let instinct take over. 
"I think personally I just understood my material a lot better than in the spring," Hoyte said. "The fact I didn't have to think every time I lined up on the ball and could just play, that helped tremendous­ly... 
Baer admitted he was slight­ly worried about starting three untested linebackers at what is essentially the quarterback position on defense. 
Linebackers are responsible for getting the coverage schemes from coaches, relay­ing them to the players and then making sure players line up correctly. 
But the fact that the Irish often try to simulate game con­ditions in practice made the transition easier for the trio of first-time starters. 
"It's not like they haven't done anything before," Baer said. "They play against our offense in practice, which is a pretty good offense. Anytime you play against our offense, it prepares you for a game like this." 
The strong debut of Hoyte, Goolsby and Curry allowed Baer and the Irish to breathe a sigh of relief. Still, they're not dwelling on Saturday's victory; they know the Irish have 11 more games to play. 
"I think it gives me a great amount of confidence, but the fact is that we have one mis­sion, one goal on this football team," Hoyte said. "That is to win football games." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
Hoyte's Parlin, N.J ., home to watch the linebacker start his first collegiate game. 
Whenever Hoyte came off the field, he sought out Watson on the sideline for advice. But once Hoyte got on the field. he didn't have to worry about 

Without you we don't have a prayer 
Contribu~e a p~ayer to the new Campus Ministry Prayer Book! , • • Get details onlme at www.nd.edu/~prayers 
-

Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Freshman Retreat #42 
(September 27-28) 
Sophomore Road Trip #1 
DESTINATION :Unio,own (September 20-22) 
Space is Limited Sign up with Friends 
Sophomore Road Trip #2 DESTINATION:Un/oiown (September 27-29) 
Space is Limited Sign up with Friends 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #72 (September 27-29) 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
i I I 
I I I 
l l 
l 
l 
I 
i I I 
I I I 
1 
I 
1 
I I 
1 
I I 
I 
l 
I 
I I I j 
1 
i 
I I I 
l l j 
j 
l 
4 
l 
I 
I 
l• 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
•I I 
l 
I I 
I 
I 
I I I 

~ 
I 
I ~ 
\ 
' l, 
,, 
!l \ 
0 
1,
i) 
,({
.:j, 
. ' 
!. 
). 
\ 
!, 
!, 
,; 
t 
f, { 
i, 
\~
\, 
>' 
''i, I'·ti. 
f
i;
I' 
f! 
/ I 
i /, 
I I 
f 
) 
I 
{,, ,. 

; 
' 
page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 3, 2002 

Nicholas Boyle, University of Cambridge 
,j Author of Goethe: the Poet and the Age, Vol. 1: The Poetry ofDesire (I 749-1790) Vol. 2: Revolution and Renunciation (J 790-1803) 
Co-Editor of Goethe and the English-Speaking World: 
· i~y,:',i;· Essays ftom the Cambridge Symposium for his 250th Anniversary Co-editor of Realism in European Literature: Essays in Honour ofJ P. Stern 
Author of Who Are We 1Vow?: Christian Humanism and the Global Market from Hegel to Heaney 
Winner ofthe Goethe Medal in 2000; Fellow of the British Academy 
The Third Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures 

o as 
e 
Sacred and Secular Scriptures: a catholic approach to literature 
Bible as Literature September 3, 2002 September 5, 2002 

Literature and Theology History and Hermeneutics* 
September 10, 2002 Revelation and Realism* September 12, 2002 Beyond Bibliolatry* 
Literature as Bible April 1, 3, 8, and 10, 2003 

All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies and begin at 4 p. m. 
*The lectures on September 5, 10, and 12 will be two-hours in length with a refreshment break. 

Funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of our donors. The Pew Charitable Trusts, the William J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
tit SMC Sports Round-up tit 
Tuesday, September 3, 2002 page 21 

VOLLEYBALL 
Belles bring home first win of the season 
Saint Mary's brought home victory No. 1, defeating Tri­State at the Alma Invitational this weekend. 
The Belles played four games over the course of the weekend, finishing with a 1-3 record. Tri-State, which is aiming to join the MIAA next season, was an important vic­tory for the Belles. 
Although recorded confer­ence play does not begin until Wednesday, Saint Mary's did face off against conference opponent Alma. 
The Belles dropped the match. The Scots, who fin­ished were MIAA conference champions. were the Belles' only opponent who defeated them in three games (30-12, 30-18, 30-20). 
Saint Mary's also fell to Aquinas 5-2 (30-24, 30-23, 30-24, 29-31, 15-11) and Carthage 4-1 (30-24, 30-23, 23-30, 30-15). 
Allison Shevik had 36 kills for the Belles, Elise Rupright added 34 and Elizabeth Albert rounded things off with 24 kills. Freshman Bridget Wakaruk had a team high 102 assists. 
The Belles will kick off recorded conference play on Wednesday against the Kalamazoo Hornets. Last sea­son the Horneys finished 9-5 in conference play. The Belles lost both matches against the Hornets. The game begins at 
6:30 p.m. at Saint Mary's. 


IN BRIEF 
Soccer 

The Belles dropped both of their matches in New York this weekend, but both by close scores. 
Freshman Carrie Orr scored a goal on an assist from Emily Wagoner to send Sunday's game into overtime against Hartwick College. 
Hartwick scored in overtime to defeat the Belles 2-1. 
On Saturday, Saint Mary's dropped its first game of the season to Rowan University 2-0. 
Golf 

The Belles opened their season with a bang, taking home an eight place finish in a field of 18 Division I and II teams this weekend, breaking a school record for single round play. During the two-round Ferris State Invitational, sophomore Stefanie Simmerman led the Belles with a team-low 167 strokes. Julia Adams, Chrissy Dunham and Megan Mattia added to the team total, with 170, 178 and 183 strokes respectively. 
Ferris State won the tournament but the Belles managed to tie confer­ence opponent Albion, who finished just ahead of Saint Mary's last sea­son in the final standings. 

Tuesday, September 3, 2002
page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

J. 
t \_\ \'• 
,-'\. l .'·, 
I 
} 
\ 
~ 
!}~l 
( 
f ), r ,_, 
l: 
\. 
',' 
' 

,, 
~' 
: ~ 
:\ " ),, f El/118 THROUGHGIITE3
"Pi 
! 
I 
l,
r ,) FOR A LISTING OF PARTICIPATING GROUPS, ,j 
.l 1,--VISIT www.nd.edu/---sao/an f~ },
h.
,) 
'\ 
,, ~ 
\' 
1,­
!,, 
t,· 
I. 
l ii -­
\\'SND 

l 
il ,.,.
1•11 ml Im ml ml •.lll 2211 Im 1221 1121 1•20 ,1.,1 1,20 ml 1•20 ml 1-•1• 22,1 1120 ll!ij ,120 1•1• 1241 1,1, 0,1 1•1• ml 1m ml 1119 IHI I 11, Im ml Im ml 1•1• ml Im ml 1111 ml 1111

f 
i:i ,,.,
Im ml Im •2•1 1 .17 Im ml Im 11•1 1111 

~ .... ml ,,,. '271 lo• ml I ll6 ml Im ml Iu• 
Im ml Im ml Im n,1 Im ml Im 1101 Im
.... ,,., 1,1, .... 2201 1201
•2•1 I Im Im I u•,.,., ,:m1 Im .,101 . Im 1:m1 Im nnl Im IJOI Im Im ml Im oi1 Im ml Im ml Im ml 1112

r 
_...,, ,,..~ 1•11 ml Im ml 1•11 ml ml 1111
,.,. ml 1,10 4.1-'I I"• ml ....'"' inl 1110 ml I110 

Slac\:ntn .... ml 1>09 .,., 1,09 ml ,.., 1209 IHI 1100 
tahln hrr-t
j ,... ml I"'• ml ml •-I••• ml ll<III .,,, I•••
,.., ,.,., 1,01 .,., ,..., H•I 2,., I101 .,., 1101
I-''"

SIM.-\ ie'tlra
• 
chlirt: here .... ml ,,06 ml ''°' 1"11<1 ml .... ml 1106 ll71 1,..
,.., ,_.., ,,., ,.., ml 1:w, ml I2D) I IOI I,;
.,., nil

!! .... 1'91 I'"' •-·•• l-111• ml 1-••. ml 110, I••• l:i 
...J ,... 1,u .... ,.., ,.., ,,.. ,.., 1io.• ,'"'.., ,,.._,
,.,, ,.., .,., ,,.,
16112 1502 , ...1 ....

' '"''-..,,..-,''°l --­
I ' JOI .101 101 101 
';
r 
~­
(I 
t' 
l. 
) 

20 19 ! I I 1 Iii U H U U II 10 9 I 1 6

r --------------­
GATF.J ENTRANCE
I 
I 
r 
,· 

, I 
..

' ­

Tuesday, September 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
One Credit Class 
Eight Sessions, 4:35 pm -6:30 pm 
One Wednesday per Month beginning in September, concluding in April 
ROSP 460A/560A; HIST 460M; MI 560A 
(Strong reading knowledge of Spanish required) 
Bartolome de las Casas: Texts, Historical Contexts, and Contemporary Resonances 
Professor Sabine Maccormack, Carey Senior Faculty Fellow, Erasmus Institute 
meets Wednesdays 9/11; 10/9; 11/6; 12/4; 1/22; 2/19; 3/19; 4/16 4:35-6:30 pm, 1125 Flanner 
The Spanish conquest of Central and South America generated a crisis of conscience in Spanish universities and in Spain at large. People wanted to know: was the conquest justified, and if not, seeing that it could not be undone, what were the invaders to do? In this prolonged and often bitter debate, Bartolome de las Casas (1474-1566), Dominican friar and bishop of Chiapas in Mexico, formulated what still are among the most moving and intellectually incisive arguments for the equality of all human beings. He also wrote one of the earliest comparative histories of civilization. The task of the course is to understand the thought of Las Casas and his followers in its sixteenth century context, and then to enquire into the connections between the ideas of Las Casas and contemporary theologians of liberation, in particular Gustavo Gutierrez. 
Questions: send e-mail to Erasmus@nd.edu or call 1-3441 
If you would like to attend, please send an e-mail to Erasmus@nd.edu so we can send you a copy of the paper prior to the seminar 
The Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Institute for Latino Studies proudly present the first film in the "Looking Out, Looking In" film series: 
NOVIA QUE TE VEA TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 7PM HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AUDITORIUM 
This month's theme is Cruzando Fronteras/Crossing Borders 
El Norte will be shown Tuesday, September 17 

MENS SOCCER 
Irish tie No. 19 Creighton 1-1 
. Notre Dame wins tournament on tie breaker 
Observer Special Report 
The No. 23 ranked Notre Dame soccer team tied No. 19 ranked Creighton 1-1 in a dou­ble overtime thriller Sunday in their second game at tbe Diadora Challenge Sunday. 
Rafael Garcia put the Irish in front at the 7:12 mark by scor­ing off an assist from Justin Detter. The Blue Jays tied the game by Damien Westfield in the 55th minute. 
The tie, accompanied by Notre Dame's 3-2 win Saturday against Southwest Missouri State. gave the Irish the tourna­ment trophy. 
Both Creighton and Notre Dame had 1-0-1 records, how­ever the Irish won the tie­breaker, most goals scored 4-2 over the Blue Jays. 
The Irish also placed four players on the All-Tournament Team and had the tournament MVP in forward Erich Baun. 
In their first game of the sea­son, Baun scored two goals to give the Irish the brief lead and eventual win. Baun connected on Notre Dame's first goal just 17 seconds into the game off assists from Rafael Garcia and Kevin Goldthwaite. Baun scored the game-winning goal off a penalty-kick in the 68th minute as Notre Dame goal­keeper Chris Sawyer shut out Southwest Missouri State the rest of the game. 
Both Southwest Missouri State's goals came from Kai Harris, who tied the game in the ninth minute from an assist by Jed Holhbein and then again in the 60th minute. 
With the win, Notre Dame improved its streak of season­opening wins to eight and improved to 17-7-2 in season openers overall. 

Friday Sept. 6 
2002 
7:30 p.m. 
Moreau Center for the Arts 
Little Theatre 
Indiana Folk Singer 

For ticket information call { 5 7 4)284-4626 



' 
\i 

page 24 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, September 3, 2002 

~


around the dial 
MLB Brewers at Cubs 7 p.m., FoxSports Pirates at Braves 6:30 p.m., WTBS 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 6 p.m., USA 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. Miami reclaimed sole possession of the top spot in The Associated Press Top 25 poll Monday, two days after a lopsided vic­tory over Division I-AA Florida A&M. 
The Hurricanes received 34 first-place votes, seven more than last week, when they were tied at No. 1 with Oklahoma. The Sooners were second with 21 first-place votes and 1,744 points, 39 less than Miami. 
Texas remained third, followed by Tennessee. 

Florida State and Florida. 
The Hurricanes beat Florida A&M 63-17 Saturday night, scoring touchdowns on six of their first eight posses­sions and then resting their starters for the game this week at Florida. 
"The polls don't mean too much right now," Miami defensive end Matt Walters said. "It's nice to be No. 1, but we aren't worried about that. We just want to win all of our games. We know that if we win all of our games, then we're going to be in the national champi­onship game. 
"Even if we win next week by one point and fall to No. 4, we could care less because if we win _them all, everything will work out and we'll be in the big show -the Fiesta Bowl." 
The Sooners opened the season with an unimpres­sive first half against Tulsa on Friday. They finished with 509 yards and a 37-0 victory, but three turnovers and sev­eral dropped passes over­shadowed the outcome. 
Michigan made the biggest strides, moving up six spots from No. 13 to No. 7, following a last­second victory over Washington. The Huskies fell from No. 11 to No. 14. 
Ohio State, Nebraska and Georgia rounded out the top 10. 
Colorado and Louisiana State had the biggest drops, falling 10 spots each. The Buffaloes slipped to No. 17 after a 19-14 loss Saturday to in­state rival Colorado State. The Tigers slid to No. 24 following the 26-8 defeat Sunday fit Virginia Tech. 
Washington State was No. 11, followed by Virginia Tech, Oregon, Washington and Michigan State. 
IN BRIEF  
Official cites lack of evidence for  would be found. It's taken a  lot  weeks to heal.  
closing probe PARIS An exhaustive doping probe into Lance Armstrong's cycling team was closed last week because of a lack of evidence, a French judicial official said. After 21 months of inquiries, investigators found no proof that the U.S. Postal Service team used banned substances during the 2000 Tour de France, the official told The Associated Press, speaking on customary condition of anonymity. Armstrong won his second con­secutive Tour title in 2000. He won the Tour for the fourth straight year in .July. "It's a relief that it's officially over," U.S. Postal's director of operations Dan Osipow told the AP in a phone interview. "We've expressed our innocence time and time again. "All along, we felt this conclusion  longer than anyone expected." The judicial official said that none of the tests carried out on blood and urine samples taken from Armstrong and his teammates two years ago showed evidence the cyclists used banned drugs or underwent banned medical proce­dures. Investigating judge Sophie­Helene Chateau closed the investi­gation late last week, following the recommendation of the Paris pros­ecutor's office. Prior put on DL, won't pitch again this season CHICAGO After all the concern about Mark Prior's innings and workload, the right-hander's rookie season is over because of a hamstring. The Chicago Cubs placed Prior on the disabled list Monday with a strained hamstring, an injury that will take at least three or four  "It makes no sense thinking about getting him back for the last week of the season," general man­ager Jim Hendry said. "He did a terrific job, obviously, hut he's the cornerstone of our future and we're not going to take any chances with him." To replace Prior, the Cubs recalled left-hander Steve Smyth from Triple-A Iowa. Smyth was scheduled to pitch the first game of Monday's doubleheader against the Milwaukee Brewers. Prior was injured Saturday in the first game of a day-night double­header against the St. Louis Cardinals. Batting in the bottom of the fifth, he ran to first base after a third-strike wild pitch by Cardinals starter Luther Hackman. He then slid hard into second on a fielder's choice. Prior came out to start the sixth. but was unable to deliver a pitch. his hamstring being injured.  


Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
page 25 
The Observer . SPORTS 


Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's Internation~I Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5:00 PM 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2002 
TUESDAY,SEPTEMBER17,2002 240 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre-Professional Students Huge variety of internships available in Puebla 
Engineering courses offered in Monterrey AL, BA courses offered in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 FOR SPRING 2003, DECEMBER 1 FOR FALL 2003 AND AY 2003-4 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/,...,intlstud/ 
The U\tiMate TYivia Cha\\enge 
Don't miss this open contest testing your l<nowledge of trivia! 
Free Refreshments 
Wednesday,Sept.4 
10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. 
Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 

NFL 

Weinke benched in favor of Peete 
. Fox makes change to improve anemic offense 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
The Carolina Panthers believe Chris Weinke is still their quarterback of the future, even though they've benched him. 
Carolina coach John Fox said Monday that 14-year vet­eran Rodney Peete will start the opener Sunday because Weinke has yet to grasp the offense and Peete will give the Panthers a better chance to beat the Baltimore Ravens. 
"Chris is still a big part of our plans," Fox said. "We brought in Rodney to help on and off the field, and this, in my opinion, is a move to help our football team and help Chris." 
The decision did not sit well 

"In my opinion, my days .,
with Weinke, strained who started as a starting quarterback knee, the last season as death of his
for the Carolina Panthers 
a rookie when father-in­
Carolina went are not done.·· law and the 1-15. He was birth of his 
expected to be third child,
Chris Weinke 
the starter this but Fox said
quarterback 
tory over Minnesota in the opener, their only victory of the season. Weinke started 15 games, passing for 2,931 yards with 11 touchdowns and 19 interceptions. His quarter­back rating of 62 .0 was sec­ond-lowest in the NFL. 
But he missed almost all of the spring and early summer workouts with a shoulder injury and didn't get a chance to work in Fox's system until training camp opened last month. 
The coaching staff didn't think Weinke had a grasp of things yet, so they opted Sunday to go with Peete, who has not attempted a pass in two seasons or started a game since 1998. 
Peete, 36, has played just two quarters in the preseason, completing nine of 19 passes for 68 yards with no touch­downs and no interceptions. 
He missed much of training 
c a m p 
because of a 

season, but struggled in the presea~on under the new offense Fox installed when he was hired in January. 
He completed 35 of 59 pass­es for 270 yards with one touchdown and two intercep­tions in four preseason games. He was particularly ineffective in the final Friday night against Cleveland, going 1-for­3 for 3 yards with an intercep­tion that was returned 47 yards for a touchdown. 
"By no means am I happy about this, the timing of it is tough," Weinke said. "Any competitor wouldn't be happy about it. My goal is to work hard, to go out there every day and prove that I'm capa­ble of this. 
"In my opinion, my days as a starting quarterback for the Carolina Panthers are not done." 
It's the second consecutive year the Panthers have made a quarterback change the week before the season open­er. Last year, Weinke was handed the job when Carolina released Jeff Lewis in the final round of cuts. 
He led the Panthers to a vie­
Peete's 
familiarity 

with the system made him the 
better choice to play against 
the Ravens. 
"I think right now at this 
point with Chris only having 
five weeks in the offense and 
Rodney having a past in it, I 
think this decision is purely to 
give us the best chance of win­
ning Sunday.'' Fox said. 
The move was a shock to the Panthers, who are now taking Fox and his demands quite seriously. 
"It was a bold move on coach Fox's part and sends a message to everybody," tight end Wesley Walls said. "Coach is not afraid to make changes and that point should trickle down to every last one of us." 
Peete, signed during the off­season to help tutor Weinke. now is trying to help Weinke stay positive. 
"It is awkward ... but you understand this is a business. you have to understand all the ... little things that happen along the way and sometimes peo­ple's feelings get hurt," Peete said. "You've got to fight your­self to try to not take it per­sonal, that's what I tried to 
tell him." 

~----------------------------------------­
\~ 
l~ , 
\ page 26 
\ \ 
' 
t FOOTBALL 
\ 
~ 
., 
'\ 
\ ~l \ Grant knows he can improve 
·, 
?i 
il{ ) 
< 
I 
By ANDREW SOUKUP

I 
Sports Writer 

)! 
\. Ryan Grant was less than 1: 
pleased with his rushing effort 
,·
'i 
,{ in Notre Dame's 22-0 victory 
I 
over Maryland Saturday. and he 
'I 
~\ \ promised not to let that happen \ \ again.\ \ Grant rushed for 66 yards on
H1 
23 carries, a meager 2.9 yards­}~~ per-carry, far below the 3 .8 average he recorded in five 
i f'l )f games last year. "Par. Maybe sub-par," Grant said when asked to rate his per­k\ formance. "I've got high stan­dards for myself." 
lqh . } I 
' 
·\'\ l Grant's primary backup, Marcus Wilson, only carried twice for 4 yards before leaving before halftime with a shoulder:,!\ injury. Rashon Powers-Neal 
added 34 yards on eight carries. 
l~ 
In all, the Irish rushed for 130 I,~ yards, but 42 of those yards
~' 
,.) 1. :,' came on Notre Dame's final 
,'\ 
\ \1 drive of the game, when the Irish ran the ball on 10 consec­L \ \ utive plays to kill the clock. 
"Other than the last drive, we didn't put together a good time­consuming drive that I like," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "That was proba­bly disconcerting to me." 
"We did the job that I came to do, that's win," Grant said. "From a team standpoint, I'm really glad we won. A win is a win but on my personal stand­point I know exactly what I need to work on." 
----·-----·---­
The Observer . SPORTS 

Spreading the ball around 
Notre Dame's highly touted freshmen wide receivers, Rhema McKnight and Maurice Stovall, both caught passes in their first collegiate games. 
Stovall had one of the longest receptions of the day, a 16-yard catch midway through the third quarter. McKnight, meanwhile, caught a pair of passes for nine yards. 
Stovall and McKnight were just two of the eight Irish wide receivers that got into the game, a sign that Notre Dame's offense isn't afraid to mix up the personnel on the field. 
"A lot of guys are going to play, a lot of guys have roles," Diedrick said. "It gives people an opportunity to get involved, providing they keep making plays." 
Considering eight players each caught passes, Notre Dame showed it can spread the ball around the field. Irish quar­terback Carlyle Holiday, who through a career-high 27 pass­es, said fans shouldn't be sur­prised if he throws even more passes. 
"I think it is low [throwing 26 passes]." Holiday said. "You expect to throw maybe 36 balls a game. As long as you execute, that number can keep rising or keep falling." 
Red in the red zone 
Diedrick was most upset at the end of Saturday's game over Notre Dame's inability to punch the ball into the end zone. 
Three times, the Irish got inside the Maryland 20-yard line, and three times. the Irish had to settle for a Nicholas Setta · field goal. 
The closest the Irish came to scoring was in the second quar­ter when. on third-and-goal from the Maryland 15. Holiday scrambled for the end zone before getting stopped on the one-yard line. 
"We had a lot of penalties when we're not supposed to and a lot of breakdowns sometimes in the offense and we really have to work on that," Holiday said. "In order to be a better a ball club, we have to score in the red zone." 
Respect earned 
Notre Dame's stellar debut Saturday made a big impression in the minds of national voters. 
The Irish, who were previous­ly unranked in both major col­lege football polls, jumped up to 23rd in the AP poll and 24th in the coaches poll. Maryland, who entered Saturday's game ranked 20th and 21st. respec­tively, failed to receive a single vote. 
"This was a great opportunity to show the nation what we can do and earn that respect that is so much needed at this univer­sity," linebacker Brandon Hoyte said after Saturday's victory. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
CORRECTIONS 
The following statistics are being reprinted due to production errors in Monday's issue. The Observer regrets the error. 
statistics 
total yards 




rushing 

. ' 
45-130 rushes-yards 21-16 
27-10-0 comp-att-int 32-12-3 passing 

4-36.8 punts-yards 7-37.6 
1-0 0-0
fumbles-lost return 
11-80 2-20

penalties­

356 133
yards 

15 8
time of possession 

first downs 
Holiday 17-27-0 McBrien 9-23-2 
rushing 
23-66
Grant 

8-33 Kelley 3-9-1
Powers-Neal 
8·15 Crawford 10-16
Holiday Lopienski 3·8 Merrills 4-6 Wilson 2-4 McBrien · 4·3 Killian 1·2 
receiving 
5-87 Kelley 2-(-11)
Jenkins 

4-68
Battle 

2-17
Campbell McKnight 2-9 Williams 5-68 Clark 1-9 Dugan 2-15 Stovall 1-16 Parson 2-11 

tackling 
Jackson 14 
Hoyte 

8 Henderson 11
Earl 

8 Cochran 11 


Notre Dame's Fraternal Catholic Organization 
Invites prospective members to visit us at ACTIVITIES NIGHT, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3R0 from 7 -10 pm at the JACC AND at our Open House, Wednesday, September 4111 from 5-7 pm at the Knights Building on South Quad next to the Coleman-Morse Center. 
The Knights of Columbus is an international organization focussing on charity and fraternal events. Membership is open to any Catholic Man of 18 years of age. 


Tuesday, September 3, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
Just be sure  l~st.effec:tiviit pep r11lly speakers  
to enjoy the  I... I do not  
season while  know this word  
·, it lasts.  .. .  in engUsh, but­.,,  
'  .  ~.-.;,._  ...  
. ,:  .. •'  
; ..-· . ~~tt-.,::  .  .·c.. .•  ~Mo..t..~ alS:ili:i:llli~  . .  C  
:,,,:  
entTA  :Otning HaUMari.ger Guy  .  ..  

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GUJED 
j 
NEEGIN j 


www.umble.com 
LIVOAJ 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 
HE "( 
I I I I I ]" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' 
Jumbles: BISON MINUS SUPERB DAHLIA 
-...
s Answer: When the zoo built a monkey house, the crowds grew by-LEAPS AND BOUNDS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To order, Hnd your n•me, llddreu and $5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Mlldla Servicea, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70" Over Beethoven" 
71 Oscar winner Paquin 
72 Takes five 
73 Not just a five­minute jaunt 
DOWN 

1 German industriat region 2 _ podrida 3 Play around (with) 4 Dumbfound 
5 "Mission: Impossible" assignment, maybe 
6 Thought: Prefix 7 Screen pooch 
of 1939 8 Makes suds 9 Shortest light 
1OUnimpressive brain size 

11 Unplanned 12 Rock concert 
venue 13 Out of practice 21 End of a two­
part move 22 Request before 
a click 26 Build 27 Shamu, for one 28 Rise quickly 29 Oiwying-up 
process 31 Natural gas, for one 32 Common 
refrigerant 35 "_ Gantry" 37 Pac-10 team, 
for short Answers to clues 1n this puzzle are available by touch-tone 

39 "Thank You"  52 Public square  60 Let stand, in  
singer, 2001 40 Leave in a hurry 42 Steven Bochco  "G h. ,.53 . reat w ite bird  editorial parlance 61 Aviation pioneer  
series  54 Preakness  ·  Sikorsky  
43 Doesn't skimp with 48 Window smasher, maybe 50 Actors Begley  entrant 56 It's eye­grabbing 59 On the_  62_Stanley Gardner 63 Polio vaccine developer  
and Begley Jr.  (bickering)  65 LAX info  

phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.corn/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords tor young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

INTERESTED IN A CAREER IN SPORTS? 
The Notre Dame Sports Promotions Department is looking for Notre Dame students to help with: 
ADVERTISING GAME MANAGEMENT PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES 
Learn more at the informational meeting.... 0 

Wednesday, Sept. 4 -7pm Joyce Center Football Auditorium 
If interested, but unable to attend meeting, contact Kristin or Jeff at 631-8393 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Valerie Perrine, Charlie Sheen, Mort Walker, Al Jardine Happy Birthday: You will have more oppornmities than you know what to do with this year. Don't be afraid to take on a little extra work; your time and effort will pay off. Long hours are apparent, however, the results you get will be so rewarding that l_J;Jj_ W!-)11_'.,t JI_Un.d, Y~Al:Ji!iJy to use pn:cision and detail in everything you do ~J~~ ~l~ ~St':)Your numbers are 12, 16, 28, 31,35,42 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Someone from your past may reswface. Don"t forget the reasons why this person became history for you. Also, someone you live with is likely to cause you a little strife. Giving in will only result in lowering your sc:lf-i:Steem. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Conflicts in the workplace will lead to a tense atmosphere. Abstain from gossip and vem to close: friends. This can be a great day if you are true to yow-self. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If there are children in your life. today they're bound to be contrary. It's better to laugh it off than to try to set them straight. If you haven't been careful about budgeting, you may suddenly find yourself in a tight spot financially. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Mood swings are in the forecast today, but shirking responsibilities will only heighten your anxiety. Since you'll be feeling erratic, it won't be difficult for others to upset you. Be prepared 10 face 
opposition. *** 
LEO (July .23-Aug. 22): It's better to avoid a love triangle. Compens.ite by being self-indulgent. Focusing on health and beauty is a good idea. Pamper. primp and play. *** 
VmGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may feel like being generous, but don't expect gratitude. Don't involve yourself in too much because your time and fw1ds will slip through your lingers. Children may be the greedy, so don't spoil them. **** LIBRA (Sept. .23-0ct. 22): Loved ones may tum everything into a big problem, pushing you right off course. Just stay on task. Satisfaction will come from your own success. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put yourself first and don't feel guilty. You owe yourself a vacation or at least a night to rel1111. You are in a creative cycle so it's important to allow yo=lf to develop something you feel strongly about. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Money is the issue today. Too many things you want to spend it on and not enough to go around. It may be time to start looking into long-term invesunents. *** CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan. 19): If a lover is lagging behind and complaining. you may start feeling a little oppressed. A revolution may be in order. If it isn't working. you may wunt to sit down and have a w.lk. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful when planning your comings and goings. otherwise you might find yourself stranded. Avoid arguing with relatives for now. You aren't likely to win. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March .20): If you cw1 hang arom1d a group of children for a while, you might find that their im1ocencc rubs off 011 you. You1l be feeling creative and very in tune. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You will have the stamina and fortitude to plow through life. You will make everything look easy when actually it's your capacity for hard work and diligence that gets you where you want to go. Gieck out Eugenia's Web Siles at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, astromate.oom. 
-
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVF.RSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
ACROSS 

1 Couch 5 Fail to act 1oHost betore 
Carson 14 Grad 15 Think the world 
of 16 Light brown 17 Sask. neighbor 18_palm 
19 Whiz kids 
20 Hoot at confined hooters? 23 Bank statement 
amt. 24 Have a bite 25 Eventually 27 Explorer 
Johnson 30 Captain's hook 33 Send via 
Western Union 34 Hamlet, in "Hamlet" 36 Bill Gates, to some 38 Supplies, as assistance 
41 Claim Confederate leader has varied taste? 
44 Winetaster's criterion 45 1970 Kinks hit 46 Triumphant cry 47 Room at San Quentin 49 Part of a basilica 51 Auction buy 52 Villain in Exodus 55 Response to a preacher 57 Tennis judge's cry 58 Entice W.W. II agents? 64 Racer Luyendyk 66 It's a fact 67 Site of the Taj Mahal 68 _ suit (baggy outfit) 69 First name in cosmetics 

.... 

Tuesday. September 3, 2002 
FOOTBALL 


Linebackers learn on the job 
• Untested core plays like veterans in 22-0 victory 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Brandon Hoyte tried to stay calm. He really did. But as soon as the sopho­more linebacker learned he 
, . was starting his first college game less than 30 minutes from his hometown, he couldn't contain his enthusi­asm. Neither could Irish coach­es after Hoyte 's impressive debut Saturday. 
Despite finding out he was starting in place of a sickened Courtney Watson less than 48 hours before kickoff, Hoyte fin­ished with a team-leading eight tackles and one sack in 
,If 
Notre Dame's 22-0 shutout of Maryland. 
"I'm so proud of that kid and so happy for him," Irish defen­sive coordinator Kent Baer said Saturday. "When he got on that airplane, he never expected to start tonight. But he did a lot of things in the fall, 
f;? and he deserved it. He's worked so hard, and every­thing played out." 
Coaches couldn't stop raving about Hoyte in the fall, a rela­tive unknown in the spring who made tremendous strides during two-a-day practices with his keen understanding of the Irish system. 
Before the game, Baer promised Hoyte would see sig­time Notre Dame boarded the viral infection left one of the home opener against Purdue on defense. All the trio did in nificant playing time, but he plane to New Jersey Thursday primary leaders on defense in watched from the sidelines. the its first game was combine for didn't expect Hoyte to sneak morning and when Baer told a windsuit for Notre Dame's Irish were forced to start three 19 tackles and two sacks, his way into the starting line­Hoyte he was starting Friday season opener. linebackers -Hoyte, Mike while helping to hold the up. afternoon, Watson got so sick While Watson, who is listed Goolsby and Derek Curry ­
At some point between the he vomited uncontrollably. His as probable for Saturday's who had never played a down see IRISH/page 19 

SMC GOLF 

Golfers break record at Ferris Invitational 
. Team shoots a new level." on the right foot -even with a expectations didn't include break­beginning MIM play this week­But youth was not an accept­young team. ing a school record. end. They discussed how they
342 to start year 

able excuse for the Belles on "It's great to see that young "We didn't expect to break the could be better. on right foot Saturday. A team that is half potential that could ultimately record as a team," Simmerman And they had just broken a 
freshmen and under the leader­lead to a bid for the NCAAs," said said. "Basically, we wanted to go record. By KATIE McVOY ship of a first-year coach made sophomore Stefanie Simmerman, in and play to the best of our abil­"If we can break the school Associate Sports Editor quite sure that everyone knew who finished first for the Belles at l·ty. .. record in the first two-round of 
that just because they were young Ferris State. And if you ask them now, they'll the year when we're not playing 
Teams often use youth to didn't mean they weren't danger­Saint Mary's ended the fall sea­say they didn't play to the best of at our best, what are we going to explain why their seasons haven't ous. They sent that message son last year in third place in the their ability. Following the tour­be doing at the end of the sea­gotten off on the right foot. When home with a new school record. MIAA. The Belles knew they nament they talked about how son?" Simmerman said. asked why her team made so On Sunday at the Ferris State would improve before this season they could have shaved some many mistakes a coach might Invitational, the Saint Mary's golf began. They headed into the two­strokes off their final score. They say, "They're young and they team shot a 342, breaking the round tournament with expecta­said they had to focus on some Contact Katie McVoy at need to get used to playing at a previous record and starting off tions to play their best, but those areas of improvement before mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 


FOOTBALL 
FOOTBALL POLL
SMC GOLF 

Looking at the linebackers 
Two Notre Dame students have created their own 
Saint Mary's golfers 
poll for ranking college football teams. Check out the 
broke a school record by 
Three inexperienced linebackers played like veterans during Notre Dame's 
poll and their column inside today's paper. 
game against Maryland Saturday. The trio combined for 19 tackles and two sacks 
shooting a 342 at a 
en route to helping shutout the Terrapins. 
recent tournament. 

page 16
page 28
page 28 








