
Naturally Excellent
RAIN 

Monday
Art Institute of Chicago's new Ansel Adams display showcases nature pho­tography in "Ansel Adams at 100." 

APRIL 8, LOW 46° 
HIGH 59° 
2002
Scene . pages 10-11 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 112 

Senior handles finances for Chocola 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Erin Casey is a veteran campaigner and brings a wealth of experience in finance. fund-raising and politics -and some heavy­weight political connections to her job as Republican congressjonal 
candidate Chris Chocola's finance director. Casey. however, still considers graduation from Saint Mary's her No. 1 priority. 
Casey graduates in May with a degree in political science. She has a minor in public relations. Until 


graduation, she will work Casey part time for the Chocola campaign. 
"I arranged my work schedule around my classes," Casey said. "But there have been a lot of difficult decisions I have had to make." 
Casey is carrying a 15-hour credit load in her final semester and spends many late nights and weekends on the campaign trail. which leaves her less time to enjoy her final weeks at Saint Mary's. But it's a sacrifice she is willing to make. 
"My lifestyle has changed a lot," Casey said. ''I've become someone who has less time for 
see CASEYIpage 6 


Students will hit TV airwaves 
. FTT majors plan local access debut 
ByJUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students are developing a cable-access television show that will begin filming in the fall. 
Christine Becker, a professor in the Department of Film, Television and Theatre, began to mold the project after students in her classes voiced support for a student-run television show. 
The program is tentatively called "ND TV" and is still in the planning stages. 
"It's going to be a biweekly cable-access variety show with campus news, interviews and campus entertainment," said Becker. 
Segments of the show will be filmed at the AT&T Cable Access Studios in South Bend and the 00Shaughnessy Hall loft. "ND TV" is scheduled to be a 30-minutc program with a possible Oct. 1 premiere of an hourlong spe­cial. 
Participation in the creation and direction of the show will be strictly volunteer and will not 
see FTf/page 6 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
EXPRESS YOURSELF 


Dancers spin accross the stage during a traditional Latin dance at Latin Expressions, held at O'Laughlin Auditorium Friday. The production was an event on the schedule for Spring Visitation, a tw(Hjay program this weekend for accepted minority students at Notre Dame. 


Student media take home awards 
Observer Staff Report 
Observer staff members won sev­eral awards. and the paper placed third overall Saturday at the Indiana Collegiate Press Association annual 
convention at Ball ICPA State University. Awards The contest hon­
ored work from Awarded at Ball the 2001 calendar State University. year. The paper
. Scholastic 
earned top honors
Magazine, first 
in five categories. place Cartoonist Tom Keeley's "Fourth
. Juggler, first 
and Inches" won 
place 
its second honor 
. Dome, second this publishing year by winning
place 
first place in the 
. The Observer, editorial cartoon 
third place category. Keeley 
was recently 
named one of the 
top 10 college comics nationally. 
Associate Sports Editor Katie McVoy won first place in Sports News Story for her coverage of for­mer Irish head coach George O'Leary's December resignation. 
Mike Connolly, the 2001-02 Editor in Chief; Noreen Gillespie, the 2001­02 Managing Editor; Kiflin Turner; a a current associate news editor; and 2001 Notre Dame graduate Christine Kraly won in the news or feature series division for a four­part series investigating minority recruitment and retention at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Gillespie also earned top honors in the editorial category for an editori­al urging Saint Mary's to adopt an open-speaker policy. 
Tim Casey. a 2001 Notre Dame graduate, won in the column writing category for a piece about Scott Delgadillo, who died from cancer in January 2001. 
Other writing awards went to 2001 Notre Dame graduate Erin Piroutek and current Managing Editor Kate Nagengast, who placed second and third, respectively. in the news feature story category. 

Assistant Scene editors Sam Derheimer and Matt Nania won sec­ond-and third-place awards, respectively, in the entertainment feature or review category. 
And 2001 Notre Dame graduate Tim Logan won third place in the news or feature series division. 
In the photo categories, current Photo Editor Nellie Williams, 2001­02 Photo Editor Peter Richardson and staff photographers Kylie Carter and Brian Pucevich received awards. 
Richardson won second place in the feature photo category. He teamed with Carter and Williams to earn another second-place honor in the photo essay category. 
Pucevich placed third in the sports photo division. 
In the best illustration category, 2001-02 Illustrations Editor Beth Amer and staff photographers Angela Campos, Rico Casares and Ernesto Lacayo earned a third-place 
see MEDWpage 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, April 8, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Supporta cau_se 

one step at a nme 
There is a little-known, life altering dis­ease affecting nearly 500,000 people in the United States. It strikes at least one person between the ages of 20 and 40 (our demo­graphic) every hour of every day. 
This disease eats away at myelin, the protective coating on the body's nerves. As a result, symp­toms can range from bal­ance problems and light numbness in the limbs to blindness or paralysis. Every person has different reactions and symptoms, and those symptoms come and go depending on the day. _One person may end up in a wheel chair while another may walk around without noticeable symptoms. 
The cause of the disease is largely unknown, which means our opportunities for prevention are limited. No gene has directly been shown to significantly increase an individual's susceptibility to this disease. 
What is the name of this potentially debili­tating disease? Multiple sclerosis. 
Because so little is actually known about MS it can bring an especially frightening diagnosis to a patient and his or her family. People just don't know what to expect. No solid cure is available, but promising treat­ment options are available thanks to the efforts of countless researchers, doctors and regular people who volunteer their time and effort. 
Every year, cities across the United States host MS Walks, a quiet yet effective way to raise money and awareness about this potentially debilitating disease. 
So, with one month left before graduation, a group of Notre Dame seniors, titled Team Boot, will be walking together for one of their last times. With just four weekends remaining in our college career, my friends and I will get up too early on a Sunday morning for the 90-minute drive to Chicago. This is our way to spend time together while chipping away at a mysterious dis­ease. 
A disease that could one day affect one of us -or you. Chances are, you or someone you know will be affected by MS in your lifetime. Without a doubt, many members of our Notre Dame family struggle with this disease every day. A diagnosis doesn't mean the end of the world, but it will bring a life change. 
MS doesn't get the same notoriety as AIDS or cancer, so research funds are limited. I ask you to spend a few minutes learning about this disease, contributing whatever you can to the various organizations sup­porting MS patients and praying for those working to overcome the daily obstacles MS presents. 
When Team Boot heads up to Chicago's lakefront next weekend for the 3-mile walk, I'd like to say we're walking with the sup­port of our Notre Dame family. I know how mighty the Domer force can be when called upon for help. This is such a call. 
To sponsor or join Team Boot, go to www.nationalmssociety.org and head to the e-pledging link. Type in my name and you're ready to go. If everyone in the Notre Dame community gave just one dollar and a small prayer, we'd all be a lot better off. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest stand.ards of journalism at a!l times. We do, however, recognize thar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Obse1Ver (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during <Xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofche Associated Prcu, All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Hate mail targets Latino center 
Stanford, Calif. 
Last month, a student staff member at Stanford University's El Centro Chicano received a letter that claimed to contain anthrax and expressed anti­Latino profanities. The FBI has since investigated the contents and determined that the letter does not contain anthrax. It had been specifically addressed to El Centro. Students who read the letter were shocked by its explicit nature. Dean of Students Marc Wais immediately responded to the incident by sending out a notice to Stanford faculty. El Centro was not the only target of the threatening hate mail. More than 50 Latino attorneys and com­munity groups in the Bay Area, Sacramento and Washington, D.C., have received such letters. Attorney General John Ashcroft and Gov. Gray Davis have promised to pursue a thorough investigation. 
Stanford Daily 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 
. Lecture: "Religion, . Film: "Come and See . Lecture: Naughton . Concert: The Murasaki 
Repression and Revolution," (Russia)," Montgomery Lecture, McKenna Hall Duo, Annenberg 
Dennis Dunn and Rev. Theatre, 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. Room 100-104, 4:15 p.m. Auditorium, 7:30 p.m. 
Michael Bourdeaux, . Lecture: Ethics and . Concert: ND Schola . Film: "All About You." 
O'Shaughnessey Hall Room Public Policy, Freeman Musicorum, Basilica of the Carey Auditorium, 7 p.m. 
119, 3:30 p.m. Dyson. C-100 Hesburgh Sacred Heart, 9:30 p.m. 
Center, 4:15 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 

Artificial heart becomes a viable option over transplant 
Tuscon, Ariz. 
controller directly responds to 
With the demand for heart trans­changes in the patient's circulation, plants on the rise and the amount of speeding up or slowing down when available donors still insufficient, doc­needed. tors are relying more and more on Though artificial hearts aren't as alternative methods of aiding patients. successful in patients as human heart­
Doctors at the University of transplants, they are still a viable Arizona's Sarver Heart Center on alternative for patients who are ineli­Thursday implanted another patient gible for the transplant list due to age at UA with a Novacor brand artificial or disease, heart, one of the options available cardiothoracic surgery at UA. "Before the last couple of years, today as a temporary or permanent The Novacor heart is an electrically artificial hearts were used as a stop­alternative to heart transplants. The powered pump that is implanted into gap measure to bridge people to heart implant was the 45th for doctors at the abdomen to do the work of the transplantation. More and more now, Sarver Heart Center. The first hap­patient's left ventricle, the part of the we're seeing artificial hearts being pened in 1988. heart responsible for most of the used for longer-term applications," 
"We want to draw attention to pumping. The battery pack and the Copeland said. how well a patient can look. do, how controller for the device are outside of "We want to show that this is a ben­independent he can be, and what the body, and the patient carries them eficial thing and people can live out­kind of quality of life he can have in a pouch over his shoulder. The side the hospital with it," he said. with an artificial heart in place," patient's heartbeat rhythm is audible said Dr. Jack Copeland, chief of through the external device, and the Arizona Daily Wildcat 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Attacks strike Jewish community 
BERKELEY.Calif. 

A string of recent attacks on members of the local Jewish community have Jews and Palestinians alike fearing for their safety and cam­pus leaders calling for understanding. The attacks on two Jews Thursday and anti-semitic graffiti on a Berkeley church are the latest incidents emanating from increased tensions between Palestinian sup­porters and Israeli sympathizers. Berkeley police declined Thursday evening to comment on whether the two incidents were related and whether either is being investigated as a hate crime. ASUC President Wally Adeyemo said he met with the chancellor Thursday to discuss ways to prevent further attacks and ways to ease tensions between the different groups, and he hopes to have a plan to combat further attacks in place by next week. 
Daily Californian 



5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
...-,,..
""rY" 

0 2002 AccuWeether, Inc. COLD STATIONARY 
Pn,nun,: ~ 
® © E.iJ ~ C}J f:;:;:J ~ [zl tj \:Q~ 6'.~ 
High II.ow Shower• R¦ ln T-•torma Flurrle• Snow Ice Sunny Pl CSoudy Cloudy VM Associafed Pr983 
Atlanta 70 55 Las Vegas 83 59 Portland 66 48 BaJtimore 65 51 Memphis 70 62 Sacramento 67 52 Boston 56 45 Milwaukee 50 40 St Louis 27 17 Chicago 55 43 New York 58 49 Tampa 82 63 Houston 81 63 Philadelphia 64 51 Washington, DC 67 53 
-. ' 

Monday, April 8, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Toastmasters renews charter 
. Group given official status after hiatus 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College Toastmasters 
was re-chartered by Tammy Miller, the Toastmasters International District ll governor,· at a Sunday ceremony. 
Toastmasters first began on Saint Mary's campus 20 years ago. The· group came together through the advice of Jack Ruhe, professor of business administration and eco­nomics. 
Recently the group had fallen on hard times because of low atten­dance and mismanagement of funds. Bridget Buhrfiend, Saint Mary's senior and current Toastmasters president, has worked to keep the organization alive on campus. 
"I am so proud of Bridget and the work she has done, and I am confl­dent that her board will keep Toastmasters together next year," Ruhe said. 
Toastmasters allows for leader­ship through its many positions and helps members learn by making speeches and working with others. 
Karen Ristau, Saint Mary's vice president and dean of faculty, was the keynote speaker at the Sunday ceremony, and her speech centered on the role of Catholic women's col­leges today and in the past. She noted the timing of her speech in relation to the recently published book, "Catholic Women's Colleges in American History" by Cynthia Russett. 

"Our sisters from Saint Mary's had to fight the Bishop and the even the Holy Cross priests to make them realize that women can be educat­ed, and not just across the road to do their laundry," Ristau said. "In the 1950s and 1960s, American Catholic institutes were the only ones encouraging women to learn." 
Ristau congratulated the women involved with Toastmasters and encouraged them to continue their 
work. 
Miller echoed those sentiments. 
"Continue with the effort, and maybe one day we can convince them over at Notre Dame to charter their own Toastmasters club," Miller said. 
The Toastmasters I meet every Sunday at 8 p.m. in 232 Moreau Hall. Toastmasters III meets Tuesdays at 7 p.m. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

Grad earns 
clerkship 
. Murray, '00, heads to Supreme Court 
Special to The Observer 
Brian Murray, a 2000 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School. earned an appointment for a U.S. Supreme Court clerkship for the 2002-03 term. 
Murray, from Portland, Ore., is the fifth Notre Dame graduate in recent years to be selected for what is considered the most prestigious position a recent law school graduate can attain. 
Murray is serving as a law clerk for Judge Diarmuid O'Scannlain of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit until July, when he will begin his clerk­ship for Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. 
A 1997 graduate of Notre Dame with a bachelor's degree in chemical engineer­ing, Murray received the Law School's Col. William J. Hoynes Prize in 2000 for outstanding scholarship, application, deportment and achievement. 
Richard Garnett and Nicole Stelle Garnett, assistant professors of law, coor­dinate the clerkship program for Notre Dame Law School graduates. Both are former Supreme Court clerks themselves, for Chief Justice William Rehnquist in 1997 -98 and for Justice Clarence Thomas in 1998-99, respectively. 
Each of the nine Supreme Court justices appoints four clerks every term, except Rehnquist and John Paul Stevens, who choose to hire just three. 

THE
BSE 


proudly congratulates its 2001-02 ICPA award winners 
TOM HAIGHT 
Third place, Advertising Display 
MEGHAN GORAN 
Third place, use ofphoto, graphic in Advertising 
BETH AMER ANGELA CAMPOS, RICO CASARES, ERNESTO LACAYO 
Third place, Illustration: "Final Piece ofthe Puzzle" 
TOM KEELEY 
First place, Editorial Cartoon: "Guess Who?" 
TlM LOGAN 
Third place News Series: "Two Ways to Peace" 
MIKE CONNOLLY, NOREEN GILLESPIE, KIFLIN TURNER CHRISTINE KRALY 
First place News Series: "Moving Toward the Dream" 
NELLIE WILLIAMS, KYLIE CARTER PETER RICHARDSON 
Second place Photo Essay: "A Day ofPrayer and Mourning" 
BRIAN PUCEVICH 
Third place, Sports Photo:"Rock Bottom" 

KATE NAGENGAST 
Third place, News Feature: "A Long Way From Home" 
ERIN PIROUTEK 
Second place, News Feature: "Living in a Climate ofChange" 
KATIE MCVOY 
First Place, Sports News Story: "O'Leary Resigns" 
SAM DERHEIMER 
Second Place, Entertainment Story or Review: "Heavy Sound and Angry Attitude Define Evolve" 
TIM CASEY 
First Place, Column: "Scott Taught About Life" 
MATT NANIA 
Third place, Entertainment Story or Review, "A Timely Apocalypse" 
PETER RICHARDSON 
Second place, Feature Photo: "Taking Center Stage" 
NOREEN GILLESPIE 
First Place, Staff Editorial: "Open Speaker Policy Only Option for SMC" Third Place, House Advertisement: "Number One" 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 8, 2002 
Media 
continued from page I 
award. 
The Observer also won three third-place awards for advertis­ing. 
Staff ad designers Meghan Goran and Tom Haight won for best display ad and best use of photography or graphic art. respectively. Gillespie won her third individual honor at the contest with her win in the best house ad category. 
The paper placed third in the newspaper of the year contest, behind Ball State and Indiana University daily student newspa­pers. 
Other Notre Dame media attended and won top honors at the convention. The Scholastic placed first in the best news magazine contest, and Juggler was first in the best literary magazine competition. The Dome was second in the best yearbook contest. 
THE OBSERVER 
It's where you get your news. 
SK honors memory of cancer victims 
. Race. renamed to honor Clery, Thomas and Murphy 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Writer 
A SK run to benefit the Leukemia Society will be held to raise awareness of this dis­ease on April 14. 
Formerly known as "In Tribute of Their Race," the event was renamed the Clary­Murphy-Thomas Race to pro­vide a greater legacy for three Notre Dame students who died from leukemia: Brionne Clary, Conor Murphy and Miranda Thomas. 
Katie Sanders and Katie Rak created the race last year after Thomas" September 2001 death and Murphy's January 2001 death. 
"By using the students' names, there is more of a like­lihood that the race will con­tinue for many years into the future, and it will continue to honor these three students," Sanders said. 
Money raised from the race is allocated to the scholarship funds of the run's namesakes and to the Leukemia Society. Because the Leukemia Society raises a majority of its funds from runners, organizers believed a benefit race was a logical choice to help the cause. 

All participants in the run are required to donate a mini­m um of $10. In addition to helping the cause, all runners will receive a race shirt and food after crossing the finish line. 
Donations from non-runners are welcome and can be given at the sign-up locations or at the race site. Last year the race raised more than $5.000 from entry fees and donations. 
Anyone interested in par­ticpating in the race can sign up in either of the dining hall lobbies during dinner hours on Monday and Tuesday night. Signups will also take place during Acousticafe at Lafortune Student Center Thursday night. Last-minute signups will be accepted before the 3 p.m. race Sunday. 
Contact Jessica Oalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu. 

Performance highlights Latin culture 
Special to The Observer 
The Institute for Latino Studies will present an evening of music, comedy and satire with a performance of "Lalo & La Chola, Together at Last" at 8 p.m. April 18 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art on campus. The event is free and open to the public. 
Featuring internationally acclaimed performers Lalo Guerrero and Marfa Elena Gaitan, the performance will feature Guerrero strumming his guitar and singing while reflecting on the history of the Mexican-American com­munity, and Gaitan using music and art to tell the story 
· of her ancestors. the Pocho people. Recognized as the father of Chicano music, Guerrero is a legendary Mexican-American singer and composer whose career spans six decades. He has been inducted into the Tejano Hall of Fame and in 1997 received the National Medal of Arts from President Clinton, the first Chicano to receive the nation's highest 
arts award. 

Gaitan, also known as La Chola, is an interdisciplinary artist who examines cross­cultural, gender and class issues through music, perfor­mance art and satire. Her multimedia show, "Chola Con Cello," is a satirical commen­tary on Pocholandia, the ancestral home of the Pocho people. 
A native of East Los Angeles, Gaitan has traveled extensively throughout the country living out of a suit­case and a cello case, pre­senting history with an 
unusual combination uf 
stand-up comedy and classi­
cal cello. 
The performance is direct­ed by Nancy De Los Santos, a 15-year veteran of the film industry who began her career in Chicago as producer of the television series "At the · Movies" featuring film critics 
Roger Ebert and Gene Siske!. 
She has worked on numer­
ous feature films and is 
cowriter and coproducer of 
the documentary "The Bronze 
Screen: 100 Years of the 
Latino Image in Hollywood 
Cinema," which will air this 
KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 

Some Undergraduate Courses for fall 2002: 
IRISH LANGUAGE IRST 101 Beginning Irish I An introduction to modern spoken and written Irish: basic principles of grammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary. Emphasis is placed on the application of these principles in every-day situations. Students learn how to conduct simple conversations: talking about oneself and asking information of others; talking about family and home; describing the weather and daily activities. 
HISTORY OF IRELAND IRST 326B Irish History I This course explores the main themes in Irish history from the Plantation of Ulster in the early C 17th through the rebellion of 1798, a period that witnessed the emergence of many forces and rivalries that have shaped modern Irish society and politic. · :-,; IRST 441 The Vikings Did the Vikings contribute anything to western civilization other than plunder and pillage.pagan savagery, and horned helmets? This course examines the Vikings' impact on Europe and North America over four centuries. Discussion centers on primary sources from England, Ireland, France, Russia, and Scandinavia, archaeological evidence and modern treatments of Vikings in film and literature. IRST 235 The Irish American Experience For sophomores only, this course will examine the history of the Irish in the U.S. In many respects the Irish are the great success story in American history. They have moved from the shanty towns to the board rooms of Wall Street. Along the way they have left their marl!: on American politics, literature, religion, and the Labor Movement; these are the areas that the course will study. The heart of the course will be the century of immigration, 1820-1920. 
IRISH LITERATURE 
IRST 471 Dying Cultures: Studies in Six Irish Writers 1910-2000 Bram Stoker, W. B. Yeats, J. M. Synge, Elizabeth Bowen, Seamus Heaney, Medbh McGuckian. The aim of the course is to look at the exemplary role assigned to the notion of a dying culture in the work of the authors listed here. The versions of such·'cultures are the pre-modern (Stoker); the Anglo-Irish and the Modern (Yeats and Bowen); the traditional Gaelic culture (Synge); and Northern Ireland (or 'the North'), in Heaney and McOuckiari. Close examination of the fiction, drama and poetry involved will be reinforced by an analysis of the versions of history deployed by these authors, most especially those versions dominated by the notion of a conflict between ,'.II;adition' and 'modernity'. IRST 453 Visits to Bedlam 'He gave the little wealth he had,/ To build a house for fools and mad··.. .'. l)ean S.wift's obsession with establishing a hospital for the 'insane' in CI 8th Dublin signals a wider interest in the 'Age of Reason' with madness, the irrational, and what Freud called the unlzeimlich, or th!:,:uncaajiy~-iBeginning with Don Q11ixote, a work that did much to construct early modern ideas about madness, the course moves through short readings in C 17th and C 18th writers, philosophers, and physic/ans. who ~,a}yzed madness. A key question is to what extent was madness seen as a 'national' trait and to what extent did that idea and its supposed opposite, 'rationality'. define certain views of 'Englishness'? The course·eJids with a consideration of later representations of madness. including Dracula and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. ; -t. ' "'1;!~ IRST 302 Crime and Violence in the Nineteenth-Century Irish and British Novel This course explores diff'erent dimensions of the Cl9th concept of crime through novels written in Ireland and Britain during the last half of the century. Key texts, including Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes, an extensive ~#,lection of Fenian prose, Bram Stoker's Dracllla and Joseph Conrad's The Secret Agellt, provide diverse perspectives on history and literature and a framework for discussion of violence and social change, sexu~~tt;,~conomics, and politics. IRST 303 Victorian Empire Writing 1868-1901 The late Cl9th United Kingdom witnessed considerable democratization, a process that many conservatives feared would lead to anarchy throughout the Empire. In fact, crown and empire became ever more popular. This course explores how literature bolstered the i~~Jqgy .of imperialism in the popular imagination, paying particular attention to the intersection between the troubled categories of race and gender and exploring Ireland's anomalous r~l~~onship to EmP.,~ ~)' c?~~~ing Irish·writing with that of India and Africa. 
ANTHROPOLOGY . . '\:i:t}\. ,, .· . 
IRST 321 Folklore, National Culture and Irish Identity The notion of folklore emerged·in the late Cl 8th and Cl9~bf:..9o~~ly asspciate4;,w,iJh ideas of cultural relativism. from the romantic period on it became an important resource to national movements in search of cultural authenticity. This course explores the idea offolkl4!'.triifl;yn.the ... W~l.'o1y;9£:ideas and examines the relationships between folklore and popular culture and modernity. It looks at the Irish case in detail, from the begi~iµng~:9.f;_cholarly interest in popular culfure t~'.tlieli11~t#u.~9nwfza~i;in of folklore study in the southern state. IRST 324 Irish Traditional Culture Yes, it had to happen; finally acourse· ab\)ut the Leprechaun-but not as you kno~ l3imt~/.·•'.(tii~~.course is concerned with narrative traditions (stories and storytelling), popular religion (folk belief) and material culture (folklife), lraditionally the core areas for researchers in folklore and fo~fe."'It interro~ates the notion of 'traditional culture', implicit or explicit in the work of folklorists. relating that work to anthropological and other writing on Jreland. • >:<-:i. .·. -~·· ';':j\1;:t:.,_ ;'.;i•··,J~t::t\'/1:h ,: . lRST 482 Archeology of Ireland This cotu·se examines the cultural and historical trajectory of the 'aic,haeology 4:lfliel<!ii<l:thrqqgh a-serfos'of richly illustrated lectures, organized chronologically. that trace cultural, social, and technological developments from the Neolithic through_ Viking periods. Integrated witl(t_tils Iect~e'~~i~i~M,d,'.ru!W!]g concurrently on alternate days, will be a series of seminar and discussion classes focused upon a number of anthropological and archaeologii!ill issues related to each of thcstjierioos.oftfme:.~'.':A; :':t;.,i,f ,, ,._,, 
\i ~Jl~i?;i· ::~;i/ .'¥· .· . . :~~,•:~;;?~~•:-~~:) :· See Dart Registration Book for other Irish Studies courses,iM,ir'jlct.~rs/md;~lass timer: ';;~., 
·l '" ,-·:.,.,
·•.1.. • 
~F.''.; . .''.t./ht:r~.,•: 1'~1;J·:.-. ,,.f.:,:. ·. ' ~-{t<.:~_. '"<}~· . .:: ~-' :(1;,t::... ·.:'~. 

Graduate courses to be announced shortly; for additional inft5.-;,f,{J~i!;~'ft1~t'atBreanda~)t,f~cSuibhri~f .! .''" . 
• .../:ift~:.;;·t.~f:t~~:~::; ~' ?.. ·-.•~~-.~~/·; I .~;;f) 


ATION 
Monday, April 8, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVE~ WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hungary's election sets tone for EU: 
The Socialists narrowly defeated the governing center-right coalition in the first round of elec­tions Sunday and prepared to enlist the help of another party to gain final victory in a runoff. The election comes at a crucial time, as the country approaches membership in the European Union. The country of 10 million seems to be moving toward a two-party system. 
Taiwanese youth protest Starbucks: 
While their parents might still follow the age-old tradition of beginning the day with a cup of tea, many young Taiwanese are turn­ing to coffee, as Starbucks shops sprout up across the island. This worried Lee Shen­chih, heir to a century-old tea growing fami­ly. So as a counteroffensive, he set up a chain of stores that sell Taiwanese tea. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Powell remarks on diplomacy: 
Between celebrating his 65th birthday and embarking on a trip to the Middle East, Secretary of State Colin Powell found an hour Saturday to outline U.S. diplomatic policy at the annual meeting of The Trilateral Commission in Washington. Characterizing Powel's private remarks, a senior member of the commission said he gave a "commanding sense of U.S. diplomacy and the importance of its diplomatic role." 
90,000 gallons of oil spill in La.: 
Strong wind hampered cleanup efforts Sunday as workers tried to contain a 90,000-gallon crude oil spill off the southeast Louisiana coast. Four-foot waves made it difficult for boats called skimmers to collect the oil, BP spokesman Daren Beaudo said. By early Sunday afternoon, the Coast Guard said about 6,720 gallons had been recovered, but officials were trying to figure out the cause of the spill. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEF 
Fire burns DePauw residence hall: 
More than 300 DePauw University students were evacuated Sunday morning in Greencastle, Ind., when a fast-moving fire burned through a residence hall built in 1917. None of the students was injured, authorities said. The fire at Rector Hall apparently began on the fourth floor. which later collapsed from the fire and intense heat. The blaze sent flames and thick, black smoke rising above the school. University President Robert Bottoms said a young woman called for help after discovering the fire before it had spread through the dorm. 
Market Watch April 7 

Dow l 0,271.64 +36.47 
Jones 

Composite
Same: 

Volume:
199 
1,350,953,856 

$. ~NJBX, ·,r A¥. tsd)!B<j~JijlF:Iil~!:ai/1;.l!l::III
NASDAQ: 1,770.03 -19.72 
bdiil&ii:::::;::;;~m:EuSfa~iiHii~lilliEifaili1@'1i~·fo1m: S&P 500: 1,122.56 -3.78 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -1.12 -0.39 34. 37 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -5.22 -0.48 8.71 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.27 -0. 72 16.15 WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -3.69 -0.24 6.26 NORTEL NETWORKS (NT) -11.56 -0.49 3.75 
ENGLAND 


Associated Press 
LONDON 
Tens of thousands of mourners stood in a giant, snaking line Sunday to pay their last respects to the Queen Mother, unde­terred by waits of up to 12 hours, as churches across Britain gave thanks for the life of the royal matri­arch. 
The huge, and unexpect­ed, demand from the pub­lic to say farewell to the Queen Mother Elizabeth prompted officials to extend the opening hours of Westminster Hall until dawn on Tuesday -just hours before the coffin is to be carried in procession to nearby Westminster Abbey for the funeral ser­vice. 
Roger and Wendy Wood set off from their home in central England in the middle of the night to join the line to view the coffin. 
"We got here at 4 a.m. and we don't mind waiting until whatever time we get in to see the coffin because we want to show our respect and support for the monarchy," he said. 
Officials said about 200,000 people had filed through the hall by late Sunday, with a further 70,000 people still waiting outside in a four-mile line. 

Ambulance staff warned of cold temperatures again Sunday night after the thermometer dropped to 39 degrees Saturday, with chill winds whipping off the River Thames. Volunteer staff served more than 30,000 gallons of tea and coffee to people waiting in line. 
Queen Elizabeth II is expected on Monday to thank all those who have lined up to pay their respects when she gives a public eulogy on national television for her mother, who died March 30 at the age of 101. 
Churches across the 
country held special ser­vices Sunday to celebrate the life of the Queen Mother. At St. Paul's Cathedral in London, where she celebrated her 100th birthday, hundreds of worshippers sang her favorite hymns. 
Many Britons loved the Queen Mother, recalling her warm smile and visits to the bomb-damaged East End of London during World War II. 
"It's very important to be here. The Queen Mother represented the standards and the quali­ties of a bygone age," said Steve Gutteridge, 48, one of the waiting mourners. 

Church fore es 6 priests to resign 
with minors. themselves as priests or exercise
Associated Press 

Telephone calls to Zwilling's home their priestly ministry publicly at 
NEW YORK and office on SW1day were not imme­least until the matter is further clari­
The Archdiocese of New York said diately returned. fied or resolved," the statement said. Sunday that six priests have been The statement released Sunday With 2.4 million members, the New asked to leave their assignments said information concerning the six York archdiocese is the nation's third because of past allegations of sexual priests asked to step down from their largest. misconduct. archdiocese positions was included The Catholic Church has been 
The announcement, made in a -in information forwarded to District rocked in recent months by accusa­statement released by archdiocese Attorney Robert Morgcnthau. tions around the country of sexual spokesman Joseph Zwilling, comes The archdiocese did not release misconduct by priests. New York's less than a week after the archdio­the names of the priests because not Cardinal Edward Egan has been cese said it had given the Manhattan all of the allegations had been sub­accused of helping to hide such cases district attorney's office a list of stantiated, the statement said. when he was bishop of Bridgeport. cases involving priests who have "The priests in question have been Conn. Egan has said he handled the be.en accused of sexual misconduct informed that they are not to present cases appropriately. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, April 8, 2002 
resident expert on campaigns and elections. He under­

Casey 
stands the need for money to run a campaign.

continued from page 6 
"[Casey's] position is one social things. It is a balancing with a lot of responsibility," concern. It is just a matter of Pierce said. "The old line 
how hard I am willing to from Jesse Unruh, 'money is work." the mother's milk of politics,' 
Because Casey loves what is appropriate here. she does, she's been willing Campaigns simply don't run to work very hard. Her duties without money. Campaigns include working with the have become increasingly 
finance committee, contact­expensive. It is one of the ing current donors, looking things that candidates hate for potential donors and the most." organizing fund-raisers for According to Pierce, Chocola's cam­Casey's 
paign. p a s t
"I truly believed in the 

"Essentially, I experi­
candidate, and there was 

am in charge of ence has 
fund-raising, no question in my mind helped getting the nec­when they asked me to her in her 
essary funds to job on
take the job. " 

run a campaign Chocola's in this district." staff. Casey said. Erin Casey Casey has Since Casey worked
finance director for Republican

began the job, on two
congressional candidate Chris

House Majority previous
Chocola

leader Dick c a m -Armey and paigns for Speaker of the House Dennis political office. In 1998, she Hastert have come to the was a finance intern for Sue 
area to lend their support to Anne Gilroy's losing run for Chocola's campaign. Indianapolis mayor. Gilroy is "One of the things that now the Indiana secretary of 
[Casey] brings to the cam­state. paign is she has much larger Casey took a semester off connections in the state and school in fall 2000 to work on 
local level than Republican David McIntosh's unsuccess­candidates in the past have ful bid for governor of had," Patrick Pierce, one of Indiana. Casey's professors, said. "So "I started as an intern and you get things like Dick then I stayed on as deputy Armey coming here to raise finance manager," Casey money. Republicans in the said. past have not had heavy­Earlier this year, when weights like that come in. Casey was looking for a job, When you can swing things Chocola's campaign like that it is a real boost to approached her and offered your campaign." her the position she holds 
Pierce is running Jim now. Chocola, who lost to Caldwell's campaign for St. current U.S. Rep Tim Roemer Joseph County commissioner in the 2000 general election, this year and is Saint Mary's is running for the seat that 
Officials: Children's 
hospital will still close 
Vanderburgh County, Hamilton

Associated Press 
said. "Why are 11 children from
EVANSVILLE, Ind. 
this county hospitalized, whileState officials are standing by counties like Lake, St. Josephtheir decision to close the and Allen have one childEvansville Psychiatric Children's between the three of them in aCenter and urging opponents of state hospital?" he asked. 

the plan to help arrange alter­Hamilton said the decision tonative care for patients. 
close the center was not easy.

Andrew Stoner, a spokesman "but it's the right one for thefor Gov. Frank O'Bannon, says most important people in thisit's time for those who are upset situation -the children we areabout the closing to "calmly sit committed to serving."
down" and start working with However, his comments didstate officials to place patients not change the minds of localinto community-based care. 
officials who are trying to per­Officials announced the deci­suade O'Bannon to keep thesion last week. They say closing facility open. 

the center will save the state State Rep. Dennis Avery, D­about $3.3 million a year. 
Evansville, said closing the cen­O'Bannon does not plan to ter will not necessarily cut thevisit the 28-bed children's hos­state's cost. 

pital, as he has been asked to "These kids are not going todo by state Rep. Brian Hasler, 
evaporate," Avery said.

D-Evansville. 
"They're going to continue to"ft may be hard for some folks need services, and it's going toto understand, but many praise cost the state to provide thoseGov. O'Bannon's efforts to build services -unless we ignorecommunity-based services for them. and we can't do that."

the mentally disabled in He and others disputedIndiana," Stoner told the 
Hamilton's contention that theEvansville Courier and Press. 

children will be better served byStoner and John Hamilton, moving them out of the hospital. 

secretary of the Indiana Family and Social Services Roemer will vacate when his term ends. 
"I truly believed in the can­didate, and there was no question in my mind when they asked me to take the job," Casey said. "All of the candidates that I work for are the best for the job." 
Chocola himself believes that Casey was the right choice for his staff. 
"I am excited to have Erin as part of our campaign team," Chocola said. "She has been doing a tremendous job already, and r look forward to having her full time as soon as she graduates from Saint Mary's." 
As Chocola's finance direc­tor, Casey is one of the youngest staff members on his campaign. But that's nothing new to her. While working on McIntosh's cam­paign, Casey was 20 years old, and the colleague near­est to her age was five years older. 
"You learn to be profes­sional, and you are taken seriously," Casey said. "As long as you know what you are talking about, it doesn't matter how old you are." 
Casey knows what she is talking about, if her experi­ences in and out of the class­room are an indication. 
"The majority of what helps me do my job right now are my on-the-job experiences, but I wouldn't have gotten those jobs if I hadn't taken 
I 11 ustrato r/Author 
David Shannon 
Wednesday 
April 10th 
10:00 am 
in the 

my classes," she said. "Even the classes I'm in right now are helping me as I go along." 
The Saint Mary's political science faculty, of which Pierce is chair, is pleased to see one of its students be so successful in a campaign. 
"We as a faculty believe that the point is to be involved," Pierce said. "Regardless of whether they are Republican, Democrat, conservative or liberal." 
Pierce believes that Casey's personality is particularly suited well to the campaign trail. "Erin is just one of those folks who are very par­ticipatory," Pierce said. "Her participation is driven by a sincere abiding interest in politics. The more of those folks you have around, the better an experience for everyone." 
As for Casey, who will join the campaign full time after graduation, campaigns are definitely something she would like to continue. 
"I am taking the whole thing as a learning experi­ence," Casey said. "I love campaigns. I am looking for­ward to moving to Washington and having a career in politics." 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
FTT 
continued from page I 
count for course credit. Students involved in "NU TV" will have joined the effort to gain knowledge in the cre­ation and direction of a T.V. show. Becker said. 
All ideas for the show will come from students, and the hosts, directors and camera crew will be students. 
Two meetings already have been held to discuss ideas for the show, such as a suggested proposal to interview alumni before football games. There also are plans to hold a con­test between campus bands to develop a theme song for the show. 
"Right now we have mostly only FTT majors involved, because we want to make sure we have people with television experience behind the camera," said Becker. But others are welcome to partic­ipate in the project. she said. 
Contact Becker at beck­er.34@nd.edu for more infor­mation about the project. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivik@nd.edu. 



Hammes Notre Dame Bool<store 
HAMMES 

NOTRE DAME 
Meet David Shannon 
Meet Caldecott Honor Award-Winning 
Administration, said southwest 

BOOKSTORE
Indiana places more children in 

IN THE ECK CENTER
institutions than other parts of the state. Contact Ben @ 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
Of the 19 patients at the 
NEW WEST Realty

Psychiatric Children's Center on 
312.942.1202 bbischmann@hobnail.com

Friday, 11 were from 
Monday, April 8, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Violence draws international response 
. UN demands Israeli-Palestinian cease-tire 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

The U.N. Security Council on 
Sunday insisted on "immediate 
implementation" of resolutions 
demanding an Israeli­
Palestinian cease-fire and an 
Israeli withdrawal from 
Palestinian cities without 
delay. 
Israel's continued military 
action against the Palestinians 
is "unacceptable" and a viola-. 
tion of international humani­
tarian law, said a statement 
agreed to by the 15-member 
council. which includes the 
United States, after an cmer­
gen cy meeting held at the 
request of Arab nations. 
Israel's U.N. Ambassador 
Yehuda Lancry indicated there 
would be no immediate pull­
out, insisting that an Israeli 
withdrawal must be "strictly 
related and connected to cer­
tain Palestinian steps -the 
cessation of terrorist acts, the 
meaningful cease-fire." 
"Once we have certain 
assurances that the 
Palestinian side is determined 
to prevent suicide bombings, 
to arrest terrorists -at least 
as a declaration of will -we 
will be then convinced, maybe, 
to respond with some similar 
steps, maybe a selective with­
drawal also," he said. 
After their closed-door meeting the council expressed serious concern at ""the fur­ther deterioration of the situa­tion on the ground," where Israeli troops and Palestinians renewed fierce battles Sunday in the West Bank cities of Jenin and Nablus. They cited "many victims among the civil­ian population and the threat 

of  destruction  of  the  
Palestinian  National  
Authority."  

Syria's U.N. Ambassador Mikhail Wehbe called the situ­ation "very grave," saying Israel's aim "is to kill all the Palestinians in Jenin and Nablus." 
Arab League foreign minis­ters meeting in Cairo on Saturday called for the emer­gency council meeting to force Israel to pull out its troops and tanks. The ministers denounced the Bush adminis­tration's handling of the Middle East conflict, saying 
U.S. bias was allowing Israel to flout international resolu­tions. terrorize Palestinians and destabilize the region. 
In just over three weeks, the council has adopted three res­olutions, laying out a blueprint to end the latest fighting and get the Israelis and Palestinians back to the nego­tiating table to discuss a peace deal. Members said Sunday night they were "deeply dis­turbed" by the failure of both sides to implement the provi­sions. 

The council scheduled a sep­arate closed-door meeting Monday morning with Israel's 
U.N. 
Ambassador Yehuda Lancry and the Palestinian 

U.N. 
observer, Nasser Al­Kidwa. The council will hold an open meeting on the esca­lating Mideast violence on Monday afternoon. 




www.STARTHEREG . PLACES.C . M/B1Z7 
Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
. Pro-Israel New Yorkers hold protest 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Thousands of demonstrators filled a city block near the United Nations on Sunday to support Israel in its military offensive in the West Bank on a weekend that has drawn pro­testers from both sides of the conflict to the streets nation­wide. 
Police checked inside coats and backpacks as demonstra­tors were admitted past metal barriers to the rally scene in midtown Manhattan. 
"This is to show support to Israel and to demonstrate against worldwide terrorism," said Lenny Brafman, 46, hold­ing a banner made of U.S. and Israeli flags. 
One sign read: "Arafat Osama Terror." equating Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat with Osama bin Laden, the suspect­ed, fugitive leader of the al­Qaida terrorist network. 
In Los Angeles, about 2,000 demonstrators chanted "Arafat's a Terrorist!" outside a federal building. At one point there was a tussle between pro­1srael and pro-Palestine demonstrators, but police said there W(\re no reports of major disturbances. 
The rally came a day after a pro-Palestine rally in the same location that drew hundreds of protesters. 
In San Francisco, close to 500 pro-Palestine demonstrators took to the streets near San Francisco State University. 

START HERE. GO PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest 
industries in the world. Even in fashion. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, April 8, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. BOJt Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDIT01t: Helena Payne 
Vtf.Wl'O!NT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 

SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sheila Egts 
PHOTO EDITOR• Nellie Wil11ams 
CRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoco 

ADYF.RTISING MANAGER: Marr Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze: 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin 
WEIi ADMINl~TRATOK: Scou Brodfuehrer 
CoNTROIJ..ER: Lori Lewalsk.i 

D.EVEWPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING............................. , ..•.... 631-G900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631--4542 MANAGING EmmR/AssT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OFFIC.E .............................•..•••.••..631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINI.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631--4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!lobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, spnrts, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movieJmusic for

weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews

minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online fuatures for spe­

and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and

articles published after 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news i.s reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of che Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough leaers is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q_ue,tion.r regarding Obsmm-policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Noreen Gillespie Justin Krivickas Helena Payne Sports Mike Connolly Viewpoint Kristin Yemm 
Scene C. Spencer Begg, Emily Howald Graphics Katie Malmquist 
Production Noah Amstadter 
Lab Tech 
Peter Richardson 

Graduating with horrors 
So I'm coming up on the end of my junior year, and I figure it's time to put down the beer and decide what rm going to do with my life. 
It turns out I'm in no way qualified to brew beer. In fact, I'm not really Amy Schill qualified to do anything. This stems from the 
Dazed and
fact that I'm an 
Amused
English major, and that although I do know that I should have placed a noun after the word "this" at the beginning of this sen­tence, I have no real marketable skills whatsoever, unless you count being extremely pretentious and occasionally making esoteric jokes about post-colo­niality. I killed at the tool convention. So barring the opening of a novel-read­ing factory, I don't think the skills I've learned will translate directly to any job not involving a narnetag. 
Which leaves me to consider my other options. I've thought a lot about doing a year of service after graduation, and not just because it's a good way to hide that fact that I am unable to give my parents any return on their investment in my education. However, though I have a big heart, I've never been good at actually helping people. I've partici­pated in countless service projects over the years: spilling 300 gallons of paint, ruining several good pieces of wood by messing up on the circular saw and successfully nailing one nail ... after 20 minutes. I've been known to drive fami­lies into poverty simply my picking up an electric drill. In short, the only way I can help my neighbor is to stay as far away from him as possible. 
OK, so I have no market value, no value to my community, and anyone who has met me knows I have no social 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
skills whatsoever: I write a Viewpoint column, for Pete's sake. So what can I possibly do that, in the long run, will reward my nerdiness, anti-social behavior and general lack of real-world skills'? 
Of course, graduate school. 
Over this past academic year. profes­sors have started to encourage me to consider grad school. Now, no teachers have ever thought I was smart before, so I can only attribute this change to their picturing me in a job interview and laughing heartily. But my new­found post-graduate opportunity does not come without strings, since appar­ently socially inept toolishness isn't the only qualification for grad school. (Man. I hope none of my professors are read­ing this.) You also have to take the GRE, and in order to do well on the GRE, you have to know pretty much everything about every work of literature ever (hence the nerdiness qualification). 
Now I know a fair amount about two books: "A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man" and "The Berenstain Bears Read A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man." So I definitely need to take courses in the next year that will broaden my knowledge base a bit. Luckily, English majors are forced to see their advisers before getting their PINs to ensure that not all our courses are on religion and nature in "Curious George." 
So I eagerly went into my adviser's office with a list of courses I wanted to take. As always, I happen to have a transcript of the meeting: 
Me: Here's the list of courses I want to take next semester. (I was excited.) Adviser: That's interesting. Here's a 
list of the courses you WILL take. Me: But I'm not a fan of "The Canterbury Tales." Adviser: You need to know about it to 

get into grad school. 
Me: I'm going to grad school'? 
Adviser: What are you going to do instead, get a job? {We both laugh). 
Me: Now, I hear grad school is diffi­cult and time-consuming. Will I have to stop drinking heavily'? 
Adviser: Please, rm drunk right now. 
Me: Seriously? 
Adviser: You've probably never seen 
a faculty member not drunk; it's the 
only way we can put up with you 
homogenized tools. 
Me: Did you just use the word tool, Captain Ph.D? 
Adviser: Get out ofmy office. 
So now I have all the courses I need to fool yet another institution of higher learning that I am smart. The only problem now is, do I really want to be a grad student'? I mean, I'm sorry to any grad students who are reading this col­umn, but have you looked at your­selves'? You're weird. You may be smarter than me, eventually more suc­cessful than me, you may be correcting my grammar right now, but I have never picked up a professor's dry cleaning. 
So, none of my post-graduation options look all that attractive, but I'm gonna keep grad school in mind. If it doesn't work out, there is one more occupation that doesn't even require you to be in touch with reality: Notre Dame administrator. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major who would like to remind the adminis­tration that this is a humor column, and that most Notre Dame students make smart choices: Only one out of flue knock the administration daily. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Protest publicly to influence administration 
Congratulations on your noteworthy protest -smashing your empty bottles on the steps of the Dome and running like cockroaches before security flashlights. Well done, well planned and (note sarcasm) absolutely guaranteed to make the administration take you seriously. 
If you wish to be taken seriously, be nonviolent. Be serious. Be heavy-handed. Be public. Walk out of a football game. Ifit means so much to you to have your SYRs and hard liquor, make a real statement. Next fall, right after the first opening kickoff, walk out of Tyrone Willingham's first home game. An empty student section in Notre Dame Stadium. Imagine the power of that image on national television. 
Get the band to defy its director, and during the halftime performance, they can form an Absolut bottle and play "The Beer Barrel Polka," then drop their instruments and walk off the field. 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame publicly address the recent cases of sexual abuse involving the Catholic Church? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

Sixty thousand alumni and fans will see. National television cameras will see. Nationally televised announcers will ask what's going on, and your cause, pathetic though it is, will instantly be thrust onto television screens and newspaper pages across America. 
That's a protest. And I'd pay to see it, as long as it includes two tickets to the game. 
But who am I kidding? Even if alcohol really is the only thing that can move the student body to outrage (though whether by consumption of it or denial of it is an open question), football is the sacred cow that cannot be violated, even by 10,000 angry students. 
Now, go ahead. Make me a liar. 
Patrick Grady 
class of '88 Palarine, Ill. April 4, 2002 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nothing in education is so astonishing as the amount ofignorance it accumulates in the form ofinert facts." . 
Henry Adams writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 8, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Readers react to sexual abuse by priests 
Church hierarchy must take responsibility for priests' actions 
My haL goes off Lo Joanna Mikulski for finally bringing up an issue that desperate­ly needs to be discussed, especially in an intellectual powerhouse like Notre Dame. However. her April 5 column about the recent pedophilia scandal in the Catholic Church addressed one point that I feel needs to be elaborated a little more. 
I know, I know, you've already read all about the crisis. Just a few priests in Boston were a little overactive with chil­dren, but the Vatican is now offering reha­bilitation programs and is mopping up just fine. A few settlements paid out, and it will be an event we can look back on and chuckle about in the relatively near future. And let's be honest, many of us feel this way. 
But the truth is, it is an issue that needs to be discussed. We aren't talking about "a few" isolated incidents in Boston -in fact, we're not even talking about pedophilia in general, as that's not the real issue, but I'll get to that in a minute. 
Out of a priesthood numbering a little under 700 in Boston, around 70 are accused molesting children. That's 10 per­cent of the "men of God" in the Boston parish. 
It gets worse -Boston isn't the only place. All over America parishes are being investigated, and many have released the names of other accused child molesters. This is not Boston's problem -this is America's problem. 
It gets worse. Apparently in other coun­tries, especially Ireland, priests are being rooted out for having committed the same types of acts. This is not America's problem -this is the world's problem. We're look­ing at more than just "a few" incidents. My guess is, that 10 percent statistic will be repeated. and perhaps even trumped, quite a few times as more information comes out. 
But as I said earlier, the molesting, although morally reprehensible, is not the real issue. The real issue is the fact that the Vatican has covered the whole ordeal up for decades. (In fact, based on what I know of my own great-grandfather, who was an altar-boy, it's been a lot longer than that, but I'll stick to modern history for now.) Rather than call out the priests as soon as their behavior became known, the Archbishops and Cardinals decided to move them around. Former priest John Geoghan, who may have molested up to 130 different children, was merely moved to different parishes for over 30 years to cover up his offenses. 
The cover-up job that the Vatican has been doing for decades is a breach of the bond of trust that is supposed to exist between the clergy and the congregation. Catholics trust their priests and that larger conglomeration of clergy called the Roman Catholic Church. And the latter has abused that trust. Rather than caring about the well-being of its congregation, the Church instead decided to protect its pedophiliac priests. And you wonder why there's now a movement by some American Catholics to separate the American Catholic Church from the Vatican. 
Boston Cardinal Bernard Law made a statement after the ball started rolling that "in hind­sight," the cover-up was wrong. In hindsight? You don't need hindsight to know that looking the other way while children are molested is wrong. You don't need hind­sight to know that compromising your integrity is wrong. You don't need hindsight to know that breach­ing the trust of your congregation is wrong. The Vatican is proposing rehabilita­tion and other solu­tions, but it has missed the point. 
Even after all this blows over, and eventual­ly it will, rehabilitation programs won't prevent the covering up of future inci­dents. The clergy could, if it so desired, breach its trust with the congregation again and again. 
The problem is not with a few priests, pedophilia, or even the sexual dysfunction inherent in the Catholic Church itself. It is a problem of respect. It is time the Church gave back that respect and started caring about its congregation, rather than saving its own skin. And more importantly, it is time the Church began 
following its own doctrine ­ judge not lest  
ye be judged.  
Brodie Butland  
freshman  
St. Edward's Hall  
April 7, 2002  


Situation does not warrant questioning Church doctrine 
The recent events within the Church have saddened us all, but 
they do not require Joanna Mikulski's comments in her April 5 col­
umn. She claims the contemptible actions of a few priests and 
bishops merit questioning the Church's policy of making decisions 
without first consulting the faithful, and its doctrine, specifically 
that of ordaining women and the requirement of priestly celibacy. You can question doctrine, but t.rying to change it will get you nowhere; doctrine does not change. I have one word for those who advocate female priests: infallibility. The Catholic Church will never ordain women; it's doctrine. I won't give the reasons for this; the Magisterium does that in "Declaration On The Question Of Admission Of Women To The Ministerial Priesthood." Priestly celibacy is not doctrine. For nearly 1,000 years, the Church allowed married priests. In fact, of the 24 rites. only one requires celibacy. Nevertheless, this will probably not change for years to come, if ever. As people say, "The Church thinks in centuries and moves even slower." However, these are not Mikulski's most radical ideas. She would have the Church consult "the opinion of Church membership" before making a decision, basically making the Church a true democracy. Thankfully, this too will never happen. What if the Church had consulted popular opinion in past 
• cases, such as Arianism? The vast \\ majority of the Church, including l bishops, believed this was heresy. 0{ Consulting popular opinion would have Q made us all polytheists today. The fact is, what is popular is not always right; more­over, what is right is not always popular. Furthermore, God's laws are not subject to opinion. God didn't ask Adam and Eve, "Should 
murder be okay? It's up to you." Instead, He told them, as He did with Abraham. Moses and David, and as Christ did with the Apostles. God is the divine monarch. Mikulski's call for a democra­tic Church would be an "Americanization." She even uses the term "American Church." There is no "American Church." There is the Church in America, but the Church is universal. Placing country before creed breaks with the tradition of "God, Country, Notre Dame." 
Becket Gremmels freshman Alumni Hall April 7, 2002 

Nerdiness is not necessarily negative 
Who wants to be a nerd? 
Ben Affleck, Nelly Furtado, The Rock, Shag and Barry Bonds are all superstars in their respected fields, but if you listen to Joe Muto in his April 4 column, they are all also nerds. That's because these stars, along with many others, know how to have a good time without the obsessive consumption of alcohol. 
If that's the standard to go by, I wouldn't mind being called a nerd at all. Joe and all those others out there who feel as though "countless gallons of beer" are necessary to break out of any nerdy ways are selling themselves too short. Alcohol use does not bring out creativity or inspiration, but rather it suppresses them. The type of students who Notre Dame attracts are surely bright enough to come up with alternative forms of entertainment. Drinking is not the only way to socialize. 
Although I do not completely agree with all aspects of the new alcohol policy, it is a step in the right direction. And yes, Joe is right that this campus probably will be a lot different in 10 years. Hopefully there will be more students who repre­sent strong Christian values, which should be the goal of any Catholic university. 
If you chose Notre Dame because you wanted to go to a great party school,_ you probably made a bad decision. There are hundreds of schools across the nat10n where you can find an opportunity to get drunk. But most of those places don't offer the tradition, the quality education, the thrill of a home football Saturday and the incredible alumni network. Notre Dame prides itself on being special and unique. Maybe this is just an opportunity to increase our uniqueness by partaking in alcohol-free activities that add variety to our social lives. Then instead of becoming a "national joke," we could become a university that sets a new stan­dard for others to follow. 
Karrie Koski 
sophomore 
Farley Hall 
April 6. 2002 


By RANDI N. BELISOMO 
and MARIAH RAIN QUINN 
Scene Writers 
Clarity, stillness and precision: three words that describe both the artist and his subject matter. "Ansel Adams at 100," an exhibit now running at the Art Institute of Chicago, profiles the work of this great American photogra­pher, whose art was created not as an end but as a means to the illumination and celebration of the country's vast natural wonders. 
A d a m s viewed him­self as both 
an artist and 
"His heart was in the mountains -or 
$2.50 on

naturalist; he 
every time in the mountains was time parchment

embarked on 
a lifelong well spent. He really felt that that was stock. D a v i d
quest to give a place for him. Ifthis wilderness ever 
Travis, pho­

form to the 
disappeared, we as Americans would tographic

sense of inde­
feel cheated.,, curator at the

finable quali­
Art Institute

ties of nature that he expe­of Chicago,
David Travis 

rienced while pointed out 
Photographic Curator 

in the Adams' con­American of the Art Institute of Chicago nection to the 
West. 
A rugged youth, Adams was born in 1902 in San Francisco, which was still a frontier city then. Adams was restless from the start, exhibiting symptoms of hyperactivity in his frequent spells of unexplained weeping and uncontrol­lable laughter. These eccentricities caused his removal from formal schooling at age 12. From that point on, Adams was tutored by his father. 
In 1916, the family vacationed in Yosemite Valley. a place where 
O
THE
BSERVER 

CEN 
ar 


page 10 Monday, April 8, 2002 

"El Capitan, Merced River, Against Sun, Vose Ansel Adams' awe and respect for nature. 
dling of the environment and expressed an anticipation of a future centered on man's reliance on the earth. 
In his rich career, Adams synthe­sized nature in a camera lens, harmo­niously combining its many dimen­sions into a unified photograph. Whether shooting a blade of grass or a violent thunderstorm, Adams made each natural wonder appear divinely important, regardless of its size or dramatic quality. Immersing h irnsclf in the environment, Adams stretched human limits, transcending the tem­poral and entering into eternity. 
"His heart was in the mountains ­every time in the mountains was time well spent," Travis said. "He really fell that that was a place for him. If this wilderness ever disappeared. we as Americans would feel cheated." 
That 68-year relationship with 
Adams' energy finally discovered an outlet. 
In a letter to his Aunt Mary, he wrote, "Yesterday, I went up to Sierra Point and enjoyed lying on my chest and looking over the edge -about 1,500 feet down perpendicular." 
Adams had also made 30 pho­tographs with his new Kodak Brownie. 
By 1925, Adams was taking pictures on Sierra Club outings. He compiled his shots into albums and left them at the San Francisco Sierra Club office, where members could order prints at $1 each on white buff stock for 
artistic com­
munity. 
"The coun­try had not taken it to heart that a photographer could be an artist, but Adams had the advantage of meeting many photographers, including Alfred Stieglitz of New York, who had fought this battle before," Travis said. "He had a few people who were on his wavelength." Travis said. 
Adams contributed articles to Camera Craft and other popular mag­azines and also wrote a book, the 
highly successful "Making a 
Photograph." 
Though in these works Adams focused on topics of technique and style, he never lost sight of his sub­ject. This passionate attentiveness manifested itself in other personal successes. 
As a Washington, D.C., lobbyist, Adams put the energy into the cre­ation of new parks and environmental protection laws in the early "50s. Using his own photographs to support the cause, Adams gained recognition as a powerful environmentalist. 
Although Adams began photography at an early age, he never regarded his work as finished. It was for these inexhaustible possibilities that Adams lived to capture his natural subject. 
Because Adams could not describe his love affair with nature, he strove to express it in its fullest photographic form. His own relationship with the environment often appears as com­plex as the relationship among nature's intermingled components. It was these interactions that proved fascinatingly real to Adams; these were interactions in which he was a true and working part. 
In 1923, Adams commented on this phenomenon: "I saw more clearly than I have ever seen before or since the minute detail of the grass. the clusters of sand shifting in the wind, the small flotsam of the forest, the motion of the high clouds streaming above the peaks. There are no words to convey the mood of these moments." 
The layers of nature that Adams conscientiously captured, the juxtapo­sition of horizon against mountain, pond against mountain and grass against pond, contained a tangling density that rivals the intensity of emotion that the photographs spawn in the viewer. His landscapes were shot with the intention of elucidating these relationships, the natural web of interaction to which every being belongs. 
While such photographs were strik­ing in their breadth, Adams' single­object photographs were done with an understanding of the underlying details of nature's many parts. Isolating the parts of this natural web, Adams shot trees, grass and leaves with a dignified eloquence; the objects appear starkly alone, best revealing their subtleties. Adams' style dcmon­strat1:is majesty and minuteness, both aspects of' Western grandeur. 
In 1952, Adams confessed that he had been growing less interested in making new photographs, instead becoming more concerned with their use. lie devoted much time to teach­ing traditional technique and t:onsult­ing museums in the development of their photography collections. Adams had already spent many years as an adviser to the department of photog­raphy at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. 
Along with collaborator Nancy Newhall, he authored "This Is the American Earth," an album of land­scape photography and a long poem by Newhall. The book depicted the unhappy history of the human han-


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, April 8, 2002 page 11 
eau 



photographic legacy with 'Ansel Adams at 100' 

ANSEL ADAMS/Trustees of the Ansel Adams Publishing Rights Trust 
Valley, California" (1950) demonstrates 
nature. so famously depicted in his photographs, served as a stepping stone fur his art. The exhibit at the Art Institute tracks Adams' develop­ment as an artist. 
"The thing about a one-person show is that you get to grow up with the artist,'' Travis said. 
Adams called his photograph "Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico" in 1941 "a terribly fortunate accident that does happen sometimes." 
Adams was driving on Highway 84 in New Mexico as the sun was setting and the moon was rising over the Sangre de Christo mountain range. The light was reflecting on a small church and the gravestones of a small cemetery, and, as Adams said, had a quality that was extremely beautiful. Adams pulled to the side of the road and managed to take one photograph before the light faded and the moment was lost. 
"Mount Williamson, Sierra Nevada, 
from Manzanar, California" (c. 1944) 
is viewed by some as an attempt on 
Adams' part to describe the natural 
world in spiritual terms. The fore­
ground of the photograph is a rock­
strewn landscape, with the mighty 
Mount Williamson rising in the back­
ground. The scene is bathed in 
streams of light, pouring out from 
behind a cloud that obscures the sun 
from view. There is an epic, almost 
omniscient quality about the work. 
Nature is portrayed, in all of its raw 
beauty, as both the created and the 
creator. 
In later years, Adams took to 
reprinting many of the negatives that 
he had taken earlier in his career. He 
changed his method of printing, 
heightening the contrast in these 
reprints, increasing the dramatic 
quality ancl. the starkness of the pho­
•tographs. 
Two prints of a photograph that 
nicely demonstrate this change are 
1958's "Aspens, Northern New 
Mexico." Adams reprinted the photo 
in 1976. In the '58 print of the photo­
graph, the slender aspens blend in 
with the sky and forest that constitute 
the background. It is a quiet forest 
scene with an ephemeral quality. In 
the '76 print of the same negative, the 
contrast between the aspens and the 
rest of the elements of the photograph 
has been heightened. The aspens 
stand out, separated and alone. 
Adams had an eye for grand 
panoramas, and some of his most 
famous images capture the sweep and 
grandeur of the mountains and 
canyons. 
In the photograph "Grand Canyon 
National Park from Point Sublime" 
(1942), Adams set up his camera on 
the very edge of the precipice, and in 
doing so, succeeded in capturing the 
vastness of the canyon. The photo­
graph ably creates the illusion that 
the viewer is standing on that 
precipice with the magnificent canyon 
at his or her feet. 
"Monolith, the Face of Half-Dome, 
Yosemite National Park" from 1927 is 
another of Adams' most enduring 
images. The photograph depicts the 
sheer face of the monolith rising 
above the surrounding landscape. The 
monolith stands starkly against the 
sky, untouched even by the snow that 
is gathered around its base. The black 
and white image perfectly captures 
the simplicity and power of the scene. 
Adams had the capacity to give a 
similar sense of the infinite to even 
his smallest subjects. "Tree Detail 
Stump with Birdwing Shape" is a 
twisted and flowing piece of wood 
marked by multiple crevices. Though 
relatively small. the stump has the 
quality of an ocean wave. Bowing and 
unbroken. 
Often Adams captured the contra­dictory aspects of nature, as in the photograph "Cedar Tree, Winter, Yosemite" (ca. 1935). There is a deli­cacy about the photograph, with the snow balanced on the limbs of the tree. It also captures the tree's impos­ing nature as it towers above the landscape. 
Adams beautifully caught the transi­tory aspects of nature in his 1940 "Surf Sequence." This series of five photographs was taken one morning as Adams drove along the Pacific Coast Highway to Carmel, California. 

moment. But above all the exhibit demon­strates Adams' love of photography 
and nature. 
Each of the pho­" His heart was in the tographs captures 
mountains -every time in 
a different aspect 

the mountains was time
of the shifting and delicate patterns of well spent. " sea and sand. 
"As I pho-
David Travis 
tographed, I 

Photographic Curator 
became aware of 

the relation of one of the Art Institute of Chicago 
image to those pre­ceding and follow­ing," said Adams. 
The series aptly demonstrates the cyclical. transient nature of the sea and. by extension, the world. 
The exhibit ably demonstrates Adams' mastery of nature photogra­phy. Taken as a whole, his works cap­tu re a wide swath of the natural world, from the timeless mountains of the Sierra Nevadas to fleeting moments where chance and the right light joined to create an unforgettable 
Adams once said, "You know, I could climb two peaks in a day with a 50­pound pack and still want to photo­graph in the evening." 
"Ansel Adams at 100" is on display at The Art Institute of Chicago, 111 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Ill., through June 2. The exhibition does not require a spe­

cial ticket. Audio tours of the exhibit are available for $6, $5 for members. 
Call (312) 443-3600 or visit http://www.artic.edu/aic/ for further information. 
Contact Mariah Rain Quinn at mquinn2@nd.edu and Randi N. Belisomo at rbelisom@nd.edu. 

Monday, April 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 12 
NBA 
Riley can take the Heat for another year 
Heat. "The president is not going to fire the the buck stops here."
. Veteran coach will 
"I don't have any plans other than to coach," Riley said. The Heat are 33-43. Riley's worst pre­return to Miami coach and manage the team," Riley said. The decision is Riley's because he has vious record was 42-40 in his first season "I like what I do. We all take stock in the support of owner Micky Arison. with Miami six years ago. Associated Press what we do and search and say, 'Is it A 96-88 loss Sunday to the Los Angeles There was speculation when the Heat 
time?' I'm young. I'm invigorated. I'm Lakers left the Heat on the verge of elimi­started 5-23 that Riley might quit. 
MIAMI healthy." nation from the playoff race with six Following a midseason surge that got the 
Pat Riley's worst season won't be his There had been speculation that the games to go. It would be the first time team into playoff contention, the Heat last. 57-year-old Riley might retire as coach Riley has failed to make the postseason. have lost eight of 1Ogames. 
Assured of his first losing record in 20 and continue as team president. He took "We didn't get it done," he said. "This "I didn't get them over the hump after years as an NBA coach, Riley said Sunday responsibility for the disappointing sea­team is good enough to be in the playoffs all that hard work," Riley said. ''That's he'll return next season with the Miami son but said he wants to keep both jobs. and should be in the playoffs. Ultimately, what it comes down to." 
Raptors surge past Pacers into final playoff spot 
game season series 3-0, so if when he sank a free throw and assisted on a big 3-pointer York 36-12 in the second
~ociated Press 
the teams are tied at the end with 31 seconds left. His bas­by Antoine Walker as the quarter, stretched the lead to of the regular season, Toronto kets included a fast-break Celtics beat the Nets. 43 points in the third and
Alvin Williams scored 26 

would win the tiebreaker. layup when Robert Horry fed The victory not only snapped coasted through the final 14points as the surging Toronto 
Chris Childs had nine points him with a behind-the-back New Jersey's 13-game home minutes with five reserves onRaptors moved into playoff and eight assists for the pass. winning streak, a franchise the court.
position with a 94-84 victory 
Raptors, who are yet to lose record, it also prevented the 
over the Indiana Pacers on 
since Carter had season-end­Nets from clinching the
Sunday. 76ers 89, Bucks 87 Clippers 97, Nuggets 75
ing arthroscopic knee surgery Atlantic Division title.

Toronto pulled a game Aaron McKie and Derrick Michael Olowokandi scored 
March 26. The Eastern Conference­
ahead of the Pacers in the race McKey made big shots down 23 points, and Elton Brand
An 8-0 Raptors run midway leading Nets can capture the
for the eighth and final post­the stretch as the Philadelphia had 18 points and 10 rebounds
through the fourth quarter division by winning one of
season berth in the Eastern 76ers beat Milwaukee, the as the Los Angeles Clippers
helped give them their fourth their final four regular-season
Conference. Both teams have Bucks' ninth consecutive road beat the Denver Nuggets to
straight win at borne. games or having the Celtics
six games remaining, includ­loss. snap a three-game losing
lose one of their remaining
ing Wednesday's rematch at Eric Snow had 15 points and streak. 
five.

Indiana. Lakers 96, Heat 88 a season-high 14 assists for Brand had four offensive 
The Raptors, on a remark­Sbaquille O'Neal, returning the 76ers, who moved out of a rebounds to break the single­able roll since losing Vince from a wrist injury that side­tie with Milwaukee for sixth Kings 116, Knlcks 82 season franchise record of 3 71 Carter to a season-ending knee lined him for two games, place in the Eastern Chris Webber led eight Kings set by Michael Cage in 1987­injury, set a franchise record scored 40 points Sunday to Conference. The teams play in double figures with 16 88. Brand's 54th double-dou­with their eighth straight win lead the Los Angeles Lakers to again Tuesday at Milwaukee. points and 14 rebounds as ble tied Sven Nater's club after losing 17 of 18 games. a victory over the Miami Heat. In their eighth game since Sacramento added another record set in 1980-81. 
Antonio Davis had 21 points The Heat lost for the eighth Allen Iverson broke his left remarkable chapter to the best The Clippers are close to and 10 rebounds, and Keon time in 10 games and moved hand, the 76ers solidified their season in franchise history, 
being eliminated from playoff Clark had 15 points and nine closer to elimination from the bold on one of the eight beating the New York Knicks. contention -they trail eighth­rebounds for the Raptors, who playoff race. They are 11th in Eastern Conference postseason The NBA-leading Kings (57-place Utah by 41 U2 games have beaten Indiana seven the Eastern Conference with berths while sending the 19) returned from a perfect with five remaining in the race times in a row dating to last six games left, five games Bucks to their fifth loss in six six-game road trip to humili­for the final postseason spot in season. behind eighth-place Toronto in games. ate the last-place Knicks with 
the Western Conference. Reggie Miller led the Pacers the chase for the final berth. another dazzling display of 
However, Los Angeles moved ball movement and shooting.

with 26 points. Jermaine The Lakers, who have five Celtics 102, Nets 90 within a game of getting back O'Neal scored 24, and Brad games remaining, moved a Vlade Divac had 14 points
The Boston Celtics put the to .500 with a 38-39 record. Miller added 15 points and game ahead of third-place New Jersey Nets' bid for their and eight rebounds, while Peja James Posey scored 18 eight rebounds. Dallas in the Western first NBA division title on hold Stojakovic had 13 points in his points to lead the Nuggets, 
Toronto is just a game Conference. for a couple of days, and made second game back from a who have lost three straight on 
behind Milwaukee for seventh O'Neal made 14 of 22 shots, a little statement in the nine-game absence with a the road and 14 of their last place and two back of sixth­grabbed 11 rebounds in 41 process. hamstring injury. 16. Donnell Harvey added 16 place Philadelphia. minutes and reached 40 points Paul Pierce scored 15 of bis In its eighth straight victory, points, including Denver's final 
The Raptors lead the four-for the sixth time this season 32 points in the fourth quarter Sacramento outscored New 10 of the game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$250 a day potential/bartend­ing Training provided l-800­293-3985 ext. 556 
Well maintained houses near campus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274­9955 
FEMALE SUB-LET IN CHICAGO 2recent ND grads seek a roommate to share spa­cious 3 bdrm, 2 bth apartment­close to Wrigley, EL, very safe 5/1-8/31 Call for details (312)-696-1579 
WANTED 
2000 grad seeking room or apartment to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 or email krup78@hotmail.com 
SMC alumna looking for someone to do childcare in my Granger home for school year 2002-2003, 2-3 hours per day, M-F. Must have own car. Call 247-0690. 
Summer Employment for College Student. Care for 11 
and 9 year old. Fun, relaxing summer. Good pay. Hours 
9am-5pm. Please call Lisa 
631-9947. 
Portrait Photographer. Available 30-40 hours per week l to 3 years experience working with high school seniors? Fine arts education? Enjoy career opportunity with award winning studio? Call Priscilla l-800-844-5725 Ext 
124 
Reliable businessman looking to rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home for 9 to 12 months or longer. ASAP. Call Tim 574­250-8552. Lv. message if nec­essary. 
Looking for single Castle Point roommate coming sum­mer and/or fall. Free high­speed DSL internet. currently $323 per month + utils. Call 574.277.9322 if interested. 
FOR SALE 
Mens new black NOTRE DAME leather jacket (med) $1 SO. 631-6234 or 616-684­6692. 
P ASSA T VW 1996. $7500 obo. KellyBB=$8900. Black, all avail options, heated leather seats, manu trans, no fluid leaks, 150k, tight fast sporty sophisticated. Call Jason 634-4645 
Couch, loveseat, and recliner. $450 or best offer. Less than a year old. Perfect condition. 233-0360 Selling all household goods. Good quality & cheap. For info: 277-1379 after 12 pm daily. 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmmrental s@aol.com 
MMMRentals.com 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking ... Nice 3-4 bedroom house­air,sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cottage..cute.. DAVE 291­2209 
3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 272-6306,292-6717 
3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. CIA. Security system. Close to campus. 616-699­5841 Nice 3-4 bdrm, 1.5 bath, C/A, gas heat, W&D, fenced back­yard across from park, VERY SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, fireplace, 2 car garage $1050/mo+dep. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038 

2 Great Homes: 4 & S Bdrm, W&D, close to campus. Well Kept! Great Location' ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255-8403. 
Furn. I bedroom house w/ garage. l mi N of campus. Avail mid-May to mid­August. $550/month all util incl. Call Laura 514-8568. 
Summer Rent 2 bdrm, Castle Pt part furn Amy 243-0195 1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath house with lots ofupdates. OW/wash/dryer inc. Walking distance to campus. Spacious yard for tailgating, recreation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec or $325 ea for 5+ Call 277­8450 or email house@newwebtech.com 
short/long tenn 3 mo. max. Matt 631-2000 3-1 lpm M-F $250/mo. 1/2 mile to ND 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more infonnation, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
FAX IT FAST! Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center FAX# 574-631-FAXl 

Monday, April 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
SPRING BRINGS A FRESH START 


New Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham observes his play­ 
ers on the practice field for the first time Saturday. Players  
remarked that Willingham's practice was  more fast-paced  
than former head coach Bob Davie's workouts.  
Junior tailback Julius Jones practices his cuts during Saturday afternoon's practice.  
Jones and freshman Ryan Grant wiJI key the Irish backfield in the fall.  

When the Irish took the practice 
field for the first time under head coach Tyrone Willingham Saturday, one tlring was apparent -spring practices would no longer be as slow as during the Bob Davie years. "Every second ofpractice you are doing something," said sophomore quarterback Jared Clark. "Whether you are going somewhere or doing a rep, it's always a little quicker." 
. 
Photos by

Sophomore quarterback Jared Clark drops back to 
Junior tight end Gary Godsey sprints forward towards pass during Saturday's Irish practice session. RICO CASARES a pass. Godsey is In position to start next fall. 


somewhere or doing a rep, it's coaches and players drew no other," Willingham said. "We chance to line up and just play always a little quicker." conclu-are just trying football was a welcome relief
Football 
Willingham said his faster­s i o n s to create an for the players.
"We don't want to go so quick environment "We've been looking at play­
continued from page 20 paced practices, however, still about the leave plenty of time for coach­t e a m that we don't have time for where we books for so long, it was nice sity. The players said the ing. after just understand to finally lino up and throw the
teaching, which is really 

intensity and pace of practice "J guess you could call it a one prac­how we do ball around," rising junior
what we are here for.,, 

was quicker than during for­fast-paced practice," tice. the things we Carlyle Holiday said. mer head coach Bob Davie"s Willingham said. "But we don't "Really want to do The Irish spent Sunday in tenure. want to go so quick that we what we Tyrone WIiiingham and why we meetings and will return to 
"It was a little bit faster don't have time for teaching, focused do things the field today.
Irish head coach

pace," rising junior Jared which is really what we are on was way we do Clark said. "Every second of here for." under-them." practice you are doing some­Other than impressions standing the language and how After weeks of meetings and Contact Mike Connolly at thing. Whether you are going about the pace of practice, we communicate with each learning new terminology, the connolly.28@nd.edu. 
Monday, April 8, 2002

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Foster leaves Vanderbilt for Ohio State 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Jim Foster left a storied Vanderbilt team after 11 years for what he con­siders the ultimate challenge -taking Ohio State's women's basketball team to the national title. 
"There's only one team that can win the last game of the season, and that's the team that wins the national cham­pionship," Foster said Sunday. "That's why l came here. That's what I think we can be about.'' 
Foster said he believed next year's Vanderbilt team was good enough to win the national championship, even as he moved to the Buckeyes. 
"Everything we do is geared toward playing in March. That's when it's fun," he said. "Your adrenalin is flow­ing. That's why players are in the gym in July for, that's what the 500 shots in the summer is for. That's what rehab­bing from injuries is for. It's to play in March, cut down the nets and be a champion." 
Foster had a 256-99 record at Vanderbilt that included 10 NCAA tournament appearances. In 1993, he reached the Final Four, where the Commodores lost to Texas Tech in the semifinals. That was also the only sea­son Ohio State made it to the Final Four, losing to Texas Tech for the national championship. 
Vanderbilt lost to Tennessee in the regional finals of this year's NCAA 
tournament, finishing 30-7 and No. 4 in the final AP poll. 
The 53-year-old Foster gave up secu­rity at Vanderbilt to move to Ohio State. 
"You're presented with opportunities in life and you make decisions," he said. ''Obviously. I had a comfort zone. But there are places where there is the ultimate challenge. This is one of those places." 
Foster met with Ohio State's return­ing team members for one hour Sunday morning. 
He replaces Beth Burns, fired March 4 after going 81-65 in five years at Ohio State. Her tenure included the 2001 WNIT title and a 1999 appear­ance in the NCAAs. 

However, the Buckeyes haven't been 
riationally ranked since January 1999 
and haven't won an NCAA tournament 
game since 1996, two years before 
Burns arrived. 
The Buckeyes are coming off a 14-15 
season in which many of their top play­
ers were hampered by injuries. 
"This is a master coach and an out­
standing teacher," said Andy Geiger, 
Ohio State's athletic director. 
Foster's five-year package is worth . around $400,000 a year. with incen­tives that could extend the contract. 
Foster, who also coached at Saint 
Joseph's from 1978-91. has a career 
record of 504-225 that includes only 
two seasons (1979-80, 1998-99) with a 
losing record. 
NFL 
Gruden settles in with Bucs 
A,;sodated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

Practice flows at breakneck speed. and the new coach of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers is all over the field, barking instruc­tions and demonstrating how he wants things done. 
The start of training camp is more than three months away. But at this pace, there's no doubt Jon Gruden's stamp will be on the team before the NFL season begins in September. 
"He is definitely hands-on," quarterback Brad Johnson said. "He's going to take it to you in the classroom, he's going to repeat it. He's going to come out here and tell you before the huddle, he's going to talk you through the play, and he's going to talk to you after the play." 
Gruden began installing his version of the west coast offense this weekend during the first of three minicamps he will use to lay the foundation for the 2002 season. 
He inherited a team that's made the playoffs four -0f the past five years, so he is not rebuilding from the ground up. 
The Bucs already have one of the league's top defenses, and the club paid a hefty price to pry Gruden from the Oakland Raiders in hopes he can inject life into an anemic offense. 
"You have to sell your system just like everybody else in foot­ball does," Gruden said. 
"The good thing is we had an opportunity to put this offense in from scratch in Philadelphia and in California.... But we're not going to run the same offense we've had in previous places. We're going to put a unique spin on it and make it unique to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers." 
Gruden's in-your-face, rah­rah style is a stark contrast to the laidback personality of for­mer coach Tony Dungy, who was fired in January after losing in the first round of the playoffs for the second straight year. 
The new coach asked for, and received. 100 percent participa­tion in the three-day, voluntary mini-camp that ends Sunday. Defensive starters Warren Sapp, Derrick Brooks and Marcus Jones attended, but did not join the workouts because of injuries. 
"That's a credit to us. We want to learn and be a better ball club than a year ago," Sapp said of the turnout. "No knock on Tony or anything he did because he built the greatest organization that I know. But now. we have to take what he's given us and add the fire Gruden has on offense. Hopefully, it will equal a cham­pionship." 
Sapp noted Dungy coached the Bucs for six years, so said there will be a period of adjust­ment. 
Few changes are anticipated on defense because Gruden retained Dungy's entire defen­sive staff. The same can't be said for the offense, which has to learn a new playbook. 
"It's a whole new verbage, a whole new language," Sapp said. <'It's like speaking Swahili. You've got to be in the class­room and learn it. That's where our offense is right now. It's Swahili to everybody but Gruden and those coaches who have been here 15 hours a day with him for the last two months." 
In addition to a new scheme, Tampa Bay will have several new players on offense next sea­son, including running back Michael Pittman and quarter­back Rob Johnson, the former Buffalo starter who has been brought in to compete with Brad Johnson and Shaun King. 
The Bucs are still trying to 
determine how fullback Mike Alstott fits into their plans. The four-time Pro Bowl selection is due a $2 million roster bonus on April 15 and is scheduled to earn another $2 million during the season. 
Although general manager Rich McKay said he'd like to keep Alstott. the team has not made much progress in talks aimed at restructuring his con­tract. 
"I don't necessarily feel com­fortable that we'll get it done. I think it's one of those where you have to see what we can do and hope that it works out," McKay said. 'Td like it to work out. But we really haven't made a lot of progress, haven't started down the path. Usually these deals happen at the end, not at the beginning." 
Alstott reiterated that he'd like to stay in Tampa. 
"Right now, I'm here and I plan on being a Buccaneer. I want to play for coach and want to be here," Alstott said. 
"The contract situation, I'm not going to get into because they have to work out a lot of things. (But) I'm willing to work with it, and help the team. Obviously, I love it here, love the situation I'm in, and want to fin­ish my career as a Buccaneer." 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Williams wins 26th Wooden Award 
A,;sociated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Jason Williams of Duke, last year's runner-up, won the 26th John R. Wooden Award on Sunday as college basketball's top male player. 
"Wow. This is a great award," Williams said, accepting the tro­phy from Wooden in a presen­tation at the Los Angeles Athletic Club. "This one just tops them all. Coach Wooden represents everything I've always stood for -pride, integrity and trust." 
Williams beat out Drew Gooden of Kansas by 900 points. 
Williams will graduate in May with a sociology degree in just three years. He is the third Duke player in four years to win. Shane Battier beat out Williams last year, and Elton Brand won in 1999. 
Williams led the Atlantic Coast Conference with 21. 3 points a game. 
Duke lost to Indiana 7 4-73 in the regional semifinals of the NCAA tournament when Williams missed a free throw that would have tied the game. 
"Everybody's been saying, Tm sorry you missed that shot against Indiana,' but I've had a great career," said Williams, also selected as The Associated Press player of the year. 
Williams received 5,223 points in voting by a national panel of sports writer and sportscasters. Gooden was sec­ond with 4,323. 
Juan Dixon of national cham­pion Maryland was third with 3,845; Cincinnati's Steve Logan was fourth at 2,887; and Gonzaga's Dan Dickau was one vote behind in fifth. 
Williams singled out Dixon in his thank yous. 
"Playing against Juan for three years has been a great thing for me,'' he said. 
Williams was accompanied by Duke assistant Johnny Dawkins, filling in for coach Mike Krzyzewski, who is recovering from hip surgery. 
Former Louisville coach Denny Crum also attended to receive the fourth· Legends of Coaching award. Crum played and coached under Wooden at UCL.<\.. 

A. PRIMEquity Line-of-Credit Loan at 2.9%APR* 4.]5%APR* 
Introductory rote for 6 months Low regular rate 
For information, call our Loan-by-Phone, at 800/567-6328, stop by your nearest branch, or visit our web site at www~ndfcu.org. 
•4 NOTRE DAME
"'t,";I FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

•APR is Annual Percentage Rate. P,operty lr,surance is. require~. Not valio with any other ofter Rates a,e subject to change. Consult a lax advisor regarding the deduc1ibility of interest A balloon payment will resull at maturlfy. After the six-month Introductory period, the APR wHI reYert to the t11g:hest prime !endl.ng rate of the previous quarter. The special introductory rate offer rs only available tor new lines opened through May 31, 2002. Minimum amount is $5,000: m.1))mum IS $100,000, Independent of the University. 
Monday, April 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
to score two runs. 
"Today and yesterday, LViloria] just went out there and threw his heart out and made a couple of great defense plays," Stanley said. "Ile gives our offense defi­nitely something to be excited about when he goes and gets three outs and we come in." 
Freshman John Axford started the opener on Saturday and pitched 6 1/3 innings of the 7 ­inning game. 
The Irish took a 2-0 lead in the third inning, when Ken Meyer opened the inning with a single, and Steve Stanley sacrificed Meyer to second. Paul O'Toole then hit a single to right, allowing Meyer to score and O'Toole to ad.:ance to second on the throw home. The next batter, Andrew Bushey, smacked a single to cen­ter, allowing O'Toole to score. 
The Irish increased their lead in the fourth, when Steve Sollmann doubled to left center. Two batters later, Kris Billmaier drove Sollmann in with a single. After Thaman advanced Billmaier to third with a single, Meyer reached on an error by St. John's shortstop Mike Rozema, allowing Billmaier to score and giving the Irish a 4-0 lead. 
After a first-inning scare, John Axford was able to calm down, allowing only two hits after the first inning. He left the game with the bases loaded in the top of the seventh and the Irish in the lead, 4-0. Matt Buchmeier came in and allowed only one runner to score on a sacrifice fly. After a single re-loaded the bases, Buchmeier got the batter to pop out to short­stop Sanchez to preserve the 4-1 Irish victory. Axford finished with six walks and five strikeouts for the day. 
In the second game of the dou­bleheader, the Irish once again found themselves in an early jam, 

as Notre Dame starting pitcher 
J.P. Gagne gave up three runs in the first inning. 
The Irish were able to produce several run-scoring opportwtities in the game, ,vith two runners on base in both the second and fifth innings, but the St. John's start­ing pitcher Greg Holmes was able to pitch his way out of both jams. 
Holmes, however, was unable to pitch his way out of the sixth inning, when Sollmann grounded a one-out single up the middle, and Sanchez reached on an error by Red Storm third baseman Jason Kane. 
On the next pitch, Billmaier launched a 400-foot home run ball that cleared the left-center field fence. 
Irish reliever Grant Johnson was able to hold the Red Storm scoreless for the last three innings, but Notre Dame couldn't score any runs. 
The Irish next face Western Michigan on Tuesday in a mid­week matchup with the Broncos, before two pivotal Big East dou­bleheaders at home against Pittsburgh and Virginia Tech on Thursday and Friday, respective­ly. 
"Our pitching staff has another week under its belt and I think we're confident that we're contin­uing to get better. Obviously [the games against Pittsburgh and Virginia Tech] are four big games for us. We're very, very excited for the opportunity to play this mid-week game [versus Western Michigan] and have a successful weekend. If we can do that, obvi­ously we 're going to be in the cat• bird seat." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish shut down 
No. 41 Mustangs 
Luis got in at 1 [a.m.]. They had
PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND 

to be at Studebagels for break­fast at 7:30 [a.m.]. That was a 
pretty big effort on their part." Taborga, who won all three of his matches with the Bolivian The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting 
ECONOMICS 

Davis Cup teams, lost the first set. Bayliss was worried that areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty 
Taborga was tired out from last highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. 
week's play and travel and that the 40-degree temperature dif­Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, ference was affecting him.
philosophy, political science, and economics. 

The senior rallied, though, earning his ninth victory in 13 If you are looking for 
Taborga, ranked 18th in the nation, came from behind to
PPE 

defeat No. 29 Krystian Pfeiffer, 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. "It is not insignificant what
THE MINOR IN 

they did," Bayliss said. "Javier got in here at 11:30 last night. 
(1) an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second 
Lacrosse
major, and 
continued from page 20 
(2) an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 

Tracy Mullaney, who had four goals for Connecticut, then PPE wants you! 
quickly cut the Irish lead to two and six minutes later, Connecticut struck again to 
FOR MORE INFORMATION1 contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy 

end the half 4-3. The Irish came out of half­Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Political Science time cold, uncharacteristicallyDepartment, Roos. l@nd.edu. 
letting Connecticut score three quick goals to give up the lead, 
6-4.
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos or Professor 

Natalie Loftus finally steppedO'Connor. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 11. Late applications will be 
up to stop the run, scoring accepted only if openings are still available. 
unassisted. When the Huskies answered, making it 7-5, Loftus scored again to keep the Irish within one.
PPE INFORMATION MEETING MONDAY, APRIL 

When Kelly Feely scored for Connecticut, the Irish finally
8, 5:00 PM, 105 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 

woke up. Shearer started the run, dur­matches against a ranked oppo­nent. It was the fifth time this year Taborga has returned from one set behind to win. 
Senior Casey Smith, ranked 87th, defeated Johan Brunstrom at No. 2, winning in straight sets, 6-4. 6-4. Senior Andrew Laflin also triumphed in two sets with his 6-3, 6-4 victory against Ryan Mauck. Laflin now stands at 17 ­1 for the season. 
After Haddock-Morales, Smith and Laflin gave the Irish a 3-0 lead, Notre Dame still had to fight to clinch the match. In the final three matches, the Mustangs fought hard, winning the first set in each. 
In addition to Taborga's clinching victory, sophomore Matt Scott, playing at No. 4 sin­gles, held off Alexis Rudzinski 2­6, 6-3, 6-4. Scott now boasts a 28-4 singles record for the year. 
Senior Aaron Talarico, the la.st to win, concluded his battle with Gwinyai Chingoka 2-6, 6-4, 6-4 at No. 3. 
Bayliss was impressed by Notre Dame's performance today. but he is still worried about the team's inconsistency. 
"Certainly this was a good effort, but we've been up and down through the year," he said. 
"We certainly caught a hiccup down in Ann Arbor [when the Wolverines upset the Irish] that caught my attention pretty quickly. The thing I like now is that [we've had] two pretty good solid singles efforts in a row after a poor one." 
The doubles problem is still an issue though. Bayliss was plan­ning to play the same lineup on Sunday that lost to Indiana State last week and will most likely come up short in Saturday's home match against No. 9 Kentucky. 
Eventually, one player who has started all season will have to be dropped from the lineup, because the Big East tourna­ment, which takes place in Miami on April 19-21, limits how many players a team can send. 
"Eventually we have to consol­idate [the lineup] and probably one of the guys that has been a starter all year is going to have to miss [the Big East tourna­ment]," Bayliss said. "It's a really silly rule. It's a cost containment thing that I'm annoyed with." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at 
jlindsle@nd.edu. 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 

With its second consecutive win Sunday, the eighth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team seemed to put concerns about its recent slide to rest by shutting out No. 41 Southern Methodist. 
By posting wins in all of the singles matches, including three come-from-behind victories, the Irish dominated the indoor courts as they won the overall match 6-0. 
The dominant win could be misleading as an indicator of the team's progress. The Irish have struggled in doubles matches lately but did not complete the doubles portion Sunday. 
The doubles matches were abandoned because the Irish had already clinched the match and because the Mustangs need­ed to make their flight home. 
"It's a good win for us," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. 
"We were the better team," said sophomore Luis Haddock­Morales, who won solidly in straight sets, 6-4, 6-2. "We were really fired up. We kept our poise." 
Haddock-Morales and senior Javier Taborga were playing under tiring conditions. Both players had returned to South Bend less than 12 hours earlier after spending last week partici­pating in Davis Cup qualifying matches for their respective countries, Bolivia and Puerto Rico. 
Despite a week of intense play last week and limited sleep before the match, they both won their matches. 
ing which the Irish scored six goals in 10 minutes, to pull the Irish again within one. Marrota scored off a pass from Andrea Kinnik to tie; then Simon scored off a feed from Shearer to put the Irish ahead for good. 
"We did a good job of keep­ing our poise through the whole game, even when we were down," said Simon, who has had the hot stick lately with eight goals in the last three games. "We fought back, didn't get frustrated and scored the goals we needed to." 
Jen White, coming off her best game of the year, made nine saves. Connecticut's April Pollock had a solid game with 17 saves. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolema@nd.edu. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 8, 2002 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Braves top Mets on Giles homer 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Marcus Giles hit a three-run homer in the 14th inning Sunday to lead the Atlanta Braves over the New York Mets 5-2 and avoid a three-game sweep. 
Giles hit his first homer of the season off Saturo Komiyama (0­1), the Mets seventh pitcher, to end the 4-hour, 59-minute game, the longest at Turner Field, which opened in 1997. 
Gary Sheffield was hit by a pitch opening the 14th and took second on a passed ball by Vance Wilson, playing because Mike Piazza bruised his left leg Saturday. 
Vinny Castilla struck out, Julio Franco was walked intentionally and Giles hit his 370-foot drive over the left-field fence. 
Albie Lopez {1-1), Atlanta's eighth pitcher, pitched two scoreless innings. 
It was Turner Field's longest game by time and innings, top­ping a pair of 13-inning games and a 4:54, 12-inning game against Baltimore. 
Atlanta's Mark DeRosa, get­ting his first start of the season, hit a two-out, RBI single in the eighth inning off Scott Strickland to tie the game at 2 after Giles reached on a two-base error by first baseman John Valentin. 
New York put runners on first and third in the 10th on singles by Edgardo Alfonzo and Jeromy Burnitz, but McKay Christiansen bounced to first and Alfonzo was tagged out at home. 
In addition to playing without Piazza, the Mets were without first baseman Mo Vaughn, who has a swollen right hand after being hit by a pitch Thursday. Both are day to day. 
The Mets, who won the first two games of the series 9-3 and 11-2, scored two runs in the sixth off rookie left-hander Damian Moss, starting in place of the injured Greg Maddux. Jay Payton had an RBI single and Roberto Alomar had a run-scor­ing grounder. 
Phillies 3, Marlins 2 
Pat Burrell led off the 11th inning with a home run against Braden Looper, lifting the Philadelphia Phillies to a victory over the Florida Marlins. 
Cliff Floyd's homer off Jose Mesa in the ninth gave the Marlins a 2-1 lead. But the Phillies tied it when Burrell's single set up Mike Lieberthal's one-out RBI single. 
Cliff Politte (1-0) pitched two scoreless innings. He retired Derrek Lee on a fly to right with the bases loaded to end the 10th. 
Burrell, 3-for-20 to that point, hit a 1-0 pitch from Looper (0-2) into the left-field bullpen for his second homer. 
Marlins starter Ryan Dempster allowed one run and five hits in eight innings. He left with the lead after Floyd hit Mesa's sec­ond pitch into the upper deck in right field, snapping an O-for-10 slump. 
Florida manager Jeff Torborg used four pitchers in the ninth, but none could get the save as the Marlins' bullpen again strug­gled. 
Vic Darensbourg walked Bobby Abreu to start the inning, and Gary Knotts walked Scott Rolen. Michael Tejera struck out Travis Lee, but Burrell hit a sin­gle off Looper to load the bases. 
Reds 6, Expos 5 
Even after a dramatic win, the Cincinnati Reds could not cele­brate. Not after losing Ken Griffey Jr. 
Grilley will miss at least three to six weeks after injuring his troublesome right knee in a run­down during a 10-inning victory over the Montreal Expos. 
Griffey partially tore the patel­la tendon and partialJy dislocat­ed his right kneecap. Cincinnati placed the All-Star center fielder on the 15-day disabled list after a 10-inning, 6-5 win over the Expos. 
"It's a serious injury," team doctor Timothy Kremchek said after Griffey had an MRI exam. 
The Reds will try to treat Griffey with rest and rehabilita­tion. 
Kremchek said there was an "outside chance" Griffey will need an operation. If surgery is required, Griffey would likely be out for the rest of the season, the doctor said. 
Griffey, who was bothered during spring training by ten­dinitis in the same knee, was hurt as he was being tagged by third baseman Chris Truby in the seventh inning. Griffey had tried to score from third base on a grounder and was trapped in a rundown. 
"I didn't hear anything," Truby said. "I didn't see what happened. He said something about his knee." 
Giants 10, Padres 1 
Livan Hernandez didn't need Barry Bonds on Sunday. 
With Bonds given a day off, Hernandez pitched a four-hitter, had three hits and drove in three runs to lead the San Francisco Giants over the San Diego Padres. 
The Giants (6-0), the only unbeaten team in the major leagues, are off to their best start since 1930 and have outscored opponents 41-5. 
Jeff Kent, in his second day back from the disabled list, hit his first home run of the year and drove in two runs. 
Hernandez (2-0) struck out five and walked one in his first complete game since last Aug. 

17, retiring 11 straight at one point. He is batting .714 (5-for­
7) with three RBIs -only three Giants have driven in more runs. 
Diamondbacks 2, Brewers 0 
Curt Schilling struck out a career-high 17 and pitched a one-hitter in overpowering Milwaukee, leading the Arizona Diamondbacks past the Brewers. 
Schilling (2-0) allowed only Raul Casanova's clean single to right field in the second inning in his second career one-hitter. 
Schilling did not permit a run­ner to reach second base. The shutout was the Diamondbacks' third of the season in six games. 
The co-MVP of the World Series was so dominating that fans took to cheering foul balls in the latter innings. 
Schilling struck out seven of the first 10 batters he faced and fanned the side in the third and fifth innings. He outdueled Ben Sheets (1-1), who gave up five hits in seven innings. 
Astros 7, Cardinals 6 

Daryle Ward's leadoff home run in the 12th inning gave the Houston Astros a come-from­behind victory over the St.. Louis Cardinals. 
Luther Hackman (0-1) escaped a bases-loaded. one-out jam in the 11th. But the next inµing, Ward hit an 0-1 pitch off the right-field foul pole for his sec­ond home run. 
Ricky Stone (1-0) pitched two hitless innings and struck out three for the victory. 
The Astros rallied for three runs in the ninth off Mike Timlin to tie it at 6. 
Jeff Bagwell hit an RBI double with two outs and Lance Berkman was intentionally walked to load the bases. Richard Hidalgo followed with a two-run single to tie it, then Ward grounded out to send the game into extra innings. 
Jim Edmonds hit a two-run homer for the Cardinals and also stole home as part of a ninth­inning double steal. 
J.D. Drew hit an RBI single in the eighth off Octavio Dote! to put St. Louis ahead 4-3, and the Cardinals added two runs in the ninth off Billy Wagner. 
Edmonds singled, advanced on a sacrifice and a groundout and came home as Eli Marrero swiped second. Edgar Renteria doubled in a run for a 6-3 lead. 
Edmonds continued his hot hitting in Houston. He is 27-for­62 with six home runs and 14 RBIs in 16 games at Astros Field. 
Dodgers 6, Rockies 4 
Kevin Brown rebounded from a horrible opening-day perfor­mance, which wasn't nearly as surprising as his performance at the plate. 
Brown pitched seven shutout innings and also had three hits, including his second career home run, as the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Colorado Rockies to complete a three­game series sweep. 
The Dodgers outscored the Rockies 24-6 and outhit them 33-18 after opening the season with three losses to San Francisco, when they got outscored 24-2 and outhit 32-· 13. 
"I think we rebounded very nicely and obviously got our­selves back to the square," Dodgers manager Jim Tracy said. 
Brown (1-1) allowed seven earned runs and nine hits in four innings of a 9-2 loss Tuesday. Against Colorado, he gave up four hits, struck out five and walked none, allowing only one runner to reach second base. 

Monday, April 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Hard play key to 
Pirates 4-1 start 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Yes, it's early. But after 100 losses a year ago, a fast start is refreshing for the Pittsburgh Pirates, even if it's only five games. 
"I said all winter that the tri­als and tribulations we went through last year would make us a better club," Pirates man­ager Lloyd Mcclendon said Sunday when his team's chance to sweep a three-game series from the Chicago Cubs was put off by a rainout. 
The Pirates headed back to Pittsburgh for their home open­er, and with a win against Cincinnati on 
Monday they the Cubs
"I said all winter that the

would be 5-1 1 c r 1
trials and tribulations we

for the first time Arizona, since 1983. went through last year but it's no ''The kids arc excuse.
would make us a

playing just as As most
better club. " 

hard as they did Chicago last year," baseball McClendon said. fans and
Lloyd Mcclendon 

"We're just get-players
Pirates manager

ting better know, it's 
results and some of our young kids are growing up. We took our knocks last year, dealt with them and we're better because of it." 
Pittsburgh's quick start has come without its best hitter. Brian Giles. who has batted .315, .315 and .309 since com­ing over from Cleveland three seasons ago, hasn't played in any of the five games after pulling a muscle in his right side while taking batting prac­tice last week in New York. 
The up-the-middle defense has looked solid with Jack Wilson at shortstop and Pokey Reese, the former Red, man­ning second. 
And in beating the Cubs on Friday and Saturday on cold, windy days at Wrigley Field, the Pirates got strong pitching from youngsters Dave Williams and Josh Fogg. Fogg, a rookie acquired in a deal with the White Sox that also landed Pittsburgh Sean Lowe and Kip Wells for Todd Ritchie, pitched seven shutout innings in his first major league start Saturday. 
The Pirates also are waiting hopefully for the return of Kris Benson, who won 11 and 10 games in 1999 and 2000 before missing last year because of elbow reconstruction surgery. He's currently on a rehab assignment in the minors. 
By contrast, the Cubs are struggling at 1-4 and have scored just one run in each of their last three games. They're batting .186 in those three games, including 1-for-21 with runners in scoring position. 
The weather has been miser­
able since 
seldom nice in the upper Midwest in early April. Rains, cold winds, low temperatures and snow flurries are commonplace. 
'The weather is not going to change. It's something you have to deal with. It's not pleasant," Cubs manager Don Baylor said. "But they play in it, also." 
The Cubs certainly miss Bill Mueller and Moises Alou, who are injured. 
"There always seems to be one inning if we could just get a two-out hit, we're right in the game," Baylor said. 
"We need Moises in the line­up," said Sammy Sosa, who has three homers this season, but just one other hit in 19 at-bats. 
Sosa says the Cubs can't wait for warm weather to start hit­ting. 
"Nobody' wants to play in cold weather, but there isn't warm weather early in the season. You have to make adjustments. It's our job." 


PIZZA COfl'IPAtw­
)iizzadoneright 
(Expires 4/10/02) 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD 
~711~f27~ 

Griffey injures kneecap 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Reds star Ken Griffey Jr. will miss at least three to six weeks after injuring his trou­blesome right knee in a run­down during Sunday's game against Montreal. 
Griffey partially tore tho patella tendon and partially dislocated his right kneecap. Cincinnati placed the All-Star center fielder on the 15-day disabled list after a 10-inning, 6-5 win over the Expos. 
"It's a serious injury," team 
doctor Timothy Kremchek said after Griffey had an MRI exam. 
The Reds will try to treat Griffey with rest and rehabili­tation. . 
Kremchek said there was an "outside chance" Griffey will need an operation. If surgery is required, Griffey would likely be out for the rest of the season, the doc:tor said. 
Griffey, who was bothered during spring training by ten­dinitis in the same knee, was hurt as he was being tagged by Expos third baseman Chris Truby in the seventh inning. Griffey had tried to score from third base on a grounder and was trapped in a run­down. 

Griffey went down holding his knee and was briefly attended to by Cincinnati medical personnel before limping gingerly off the field. 
Last year, Griffey missed most of the first throe months because of a partially torn left hamstring. 
Earlier in the game, Griffey hit his 461st career home run. 
Clemens returns to form 

starter to give up a run this sea­son, retired the first 13 batters until Ben Grieve's double with one out in the fifth. Bernie Williams made a diving attempt on the liner to right-center, but the ball one-hopped off his glove and rolled away. 
Twins 10, Blue Jays 6 
Corey Koskie hit a three-run homer in the first inning and Torti Hunter also had three RBIs as the Minnesota Twins won their third straight. 
Dustan Mohr and David Ortiz also homered for the Twins, who won three of four against Toronto. 
Chris Woodward and Raul Mondesi homered for the Blue Jays, who had won their first two games of the season. 
Staked to a 4-0 lead in first. Brad Radke (1-0) didn't allow a hit until Carlos Delgado hit a bloop double with one out in the fourth. 
Radke allowed three runs and four hits in six innings, struck out four and walked three. 
Red Sox 4, Orioles 1 
Pedro Martinez won for the first time since last May 30, rebounding from an awful open­ing day performance to pitch six strong innings and lead the Boston Red Sox over the Baltimore Orioles. 
Martinez (1-0). coming off a season shortened to 18 starts by shoulder pain, allowed one unearned run and three hits. struck out five and walked one. Shea Hillenbrand backed him with a pair of two-run homers. 
Pitching against a team in a horrid hitting slump, it was a vast improvement from 
Asso,iated Press 
Roger Clemens completed a near-perfect turn through New York's rotation, allowing one earned run in 7 1-3 innings as the Yankees swept the Tampa Bay Devil Rays with a 7-2 win Sunday, 
Jason Giambi drove in his first run with tho Yankees and Derek Jeter had three hits and three RBIs for New York, which has won five straight since losing 10-3 on opening day in Baltimore. 
Yankees starting pitchers had not allowed a run since that game until the Devil Rays scored an unearned run in the sixth. That snapped New York's 23­inning scoreless streak and a 33 1-3-inning stretch by the starters. The Devil Rays ended their own 26-inning scoreless run. 
The stellar pitching has been important for the Yankees, with Giambi still trying to get com­fortable with his new team. Giambi, 3-for-21 this season, got a standing ovation after his run­s co ring single in the eighth. Giambi, who has been booed much of his first weekend in New York, laughed as he left for pinch-runner Ron Coomer. 
Giambi's slow start hasn't mattered much the way the Yankees are pitching. Clemens (1-1) followed up scoreless starts by David Wells, Mike Mussina, Andy Pettitte and Orlando Hernandez with a strong one ofhis own. 
Last year, the Yankees top four of Clemens, Mussina, Pettitte,. Hernandez didn't win consecutive starts until Sept. 5­9. 
Clemens, the only Yankees 
the notre dame center for pastoral liturgy announces the 4th annual Mark Searle Lecture in liturgy 
JEN NIE WEISS BLOCK 
author of 
COPIOUS ~FIOSTING A Theology of Access for People with Disabilities 
Thursday, April 11, Z00Z • 7:00 pm (edt/cst) 
McKenna Hall, Room 112 -114 • University of Notre Dame 
Book signing and reception following program. 
for information contact the center for pastoral liturgy 1224 hesburgh library university of notre dame• notre dame in 46556 574-631-5435 • ndcpl.l@nd.edu 


Martinez's first outing, when the right-hander gave up seven earned runs and nine hits in three innings against Toronto. 
The three-time Cy Young Award winner allowed only one runner past second base and retired his final seven batters. Martinez threw 85 pitches, 54 for strikes. in lowering his ERA from 21.00 to 7.00. 
Indians 5, Tigers 1 
C.C. Sabathia's no-hit bid was stopped by Randall Simon's sin­gle leading off the eighth inning, and the Cleveland Indians went on to beat the winless Detroit Tigers. 
After Simon lined a clean sin­gle to center on the first pitch of the eighth, Jose Macias hit into a double play. Wendell Magee reached on an infield single and Andres Torres had an RBI triple for his first major league hit. 
Paul Shuey and Bob Wickman finished the four-hitter, complet­ing Cleveland's first sweep at Detroit since 1996. Wickman entered with the bases loaded and got his third save when Simon grounded into a game­ending double play. 
Sabathia (1-0), who struck out two and walked two, was trying to be the first Cleveland pitcher to throw a no-hitter since Len Barker's perfect game against Toronto on May 15, 1981. Detroit hasn't been no-hit since Randy Johnson did it in Seattle in 1990, and the last one at Detroit was by Nolan Ryan in 1973. 
Royals 9, White Sox 2 
Jeff Suppan knew the Kansas City Royals needed a well­pitched game Sunday after being blown out 14-0 Saturday -,by the Chicago White Sox. 
Suppan gave the Royals just that in a triumph over the White Sox that gave Kansas City the series two games to one. Suppan (1-0) held them to one run on six hits and no walks in seven innings. The only run he allowed came on Frank Thomas' broken-bat homer in the first. 
"I take the approach every game that I'm going to give the best I can," Suppan said. "That's my goal." 
Suppan has been the Hoyals' Opening-Day starter for three straight seasons, but has never won more than 10 games in a season. 
"Suppan pitched a great game," manager Tony Muser said. "He went right after them. He worked both sides of the plate real well. He kept them at bay until we broke it open." 
Suppan has yielded five home runs in two starts. 
Monday, April 8, 2002
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Cuhna leads Irish past No. 27 Hurricanes 
By COLIN BOYLAN 
Spores Writer 
As it turns out, all the Notre Dame women's tennis team needed to snap out of a late season slump was an ace. 
The Irish topped 27th-ranked Miami by the score of 4-3 at the inaugural "Ace for the Cure" tennis promotion, bringing the team's record to 12-11 and halting a four­match losing streak. 
Inspired and conceived almost entirely by junior Katie Cunha, the Ace promotion was intended to increase awareness of and funding for fighting colon cancer. 
Fittingly enough, it was Cunha who won the deciding match to clinch the win for the Irish, in front of a capacity crowd at the Eck Tennis Center. 
"We had a lot of fan support today," said head coach Jay Louderback. "All the credit for that should go to Katie." 
In anticipation of the event, the stands were packed with more than 100 specta­tors, by far the biggest turnout for an IrLc;h home match this season. 
The Irish had sparkling doubles perfor­mance. All three teams earned convincing wins, with the team of Cunha and Green pulling out the deciding win, 8-3. 
In singles play, Vaughan knocked off 109th-ranked Marcy Hora with a dominant 6-0, 6-2 performance, and Salas swiftly fol­lowed with a 6-4, 6-0 win against Siham Bennacer. 
After the Hurricanes stormed back to bring the overall match to 3-2, all eyes were focused on Cunha's court. 
The junior calmly responded with 6-3, 6­4 win against Sarah Robbins as the stands erupted in applause. 
"The crowd gave us a really big advan­tage today," said Louderback. "It was defi­nitely a factor." 
The Irish can now focus their attention ahead to the Big East tournament, where Louderback anticipates a No. 1 seeding for the team. 
"Beating Miami was huge, because it should give us a real boost heading into Big East," he said. 
The win highlighted a tough weekend in which the Irish split a pair of close match­es, losing 4-3 to 19th-ranked Northwestern on Saturday. 
The Irish opened the weekend on a posi­tive note against the Wildcats. The No. 1 doubles team of Cunha and Lindsey Green earned an 8-2 win against Marine Piriou and Jessica Rush, while the No. 3 team of Alicia Salas and Sarah Jane Connelly topped Ruth Barnes and Andrea Yung 8-5. 
Those two wins were enough to gain the Irish their first doubles point since the team altered its doubles lineup several weeks ago. 
"All of our new doubles teams have been playing well," said Louderback. "It just wasn't until this week that they all played well together." 

On the singles side, however, the Irish weren't able to translate that momentum into a 'Wiil. 
Once again. the middle of the Irish sin­gles lineup played solidly while the top of the lineup struggled. 
The Wildcats evened the match at one apiece when Piriou defeated Varnum 7-5. 6-2. Salas then gave the Irish the lead once again when she notched a win against Simona Petrutiu 7-6, 6-2. 
However, Northwestern came storming back with a pair of singles victories over Vaughan and Cunha. Green made things interesting when her 2-6, 6-4. 6-2 win against Rush evened the score at 3-3, but Connelly couldn't pull out the deciding win in a tight 6-1, 4-6, 6-2 match. 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish show skill at season's only home meet 
. Women's squad wins 7 of 16 events 
By DAVE COOK Sports Writer 

This weekend the Irish women's track and field team enjoyed the luxury of competing at home in their only home meet of the outdoor season. Hosting three teams -Central Michigan, Western Michigan and Michigan State -the Irish fared well in the blustery weather conditions, win­ning seven of 16 events. 
"The biggest advantage of run­ning at home is that a lot of peo­ple get an opportunity to com­pete,,. women's distance coach Tim Connelly said. "We tried to make it a pretty low-key situation so that people could compete." 
Jaime Volkmer led all Irish on the weekend with two victories in the pole vault and triple jump, while taking second in the long jump. The junior's effort marked the fourth time in her collegiate career that she had a multiple­victory meet. 
The fact that many of the Irish runners were not running in their prime events did not deter them from having strong races. Of the five victories on the track, four were from women who normally compete in a longer race. 
"Kids that are good athletes compete well no matter what race you put them in," Connelly said. "Part of what we wanted to do was run the kids down a race." 
In the sprinting events, the Irish won all three races -the 100-. 200-, and 400-meter dashes. The winners were Kristen Dodd in the 100 (12.03 seconds), Liz Grow in the 200 (23.84), and Kymia Love in the 400 (55.73). Normally, Dodd competes in the 200 and Grow competes in the 400 or 500­meter race. 
Grow, Dodd and Love all had a strong 200-metor dash, finishing first, second, and third, respec­tively. 
The dL'itance events were high­lighted by freshman Christi Arnerich's Big East-qualifying effort in the steeplechase. In her inaugural steeplechase race, Arnerich ran an 11 minute, 16.55 second race good enough for a third-place finish. Emily Showman also had a strong race, improving on her steeplechase time by 10 seconds, as she fin­ished fourth in 11:16.83. 
"Christi, for the first time she's ever run that race, did a great job," Connelly said. "Showman improved by 10 seconds ... it's not unrealistic to expect someone to improve a lot every time out just by mastering one more aspect." 
Victories in the distance events came from Megan Johnson in the 800-meter run and Jen Handley in the 1,500-meter run. Lauren King also had a strong 800-meter race, running with Johnson the whole way for a second-place fin­ish. 
In the 3000-meter run, fresh­man Katie Wales continued her outdoor season success, finishing as the top Irish runner with a third-place, 10:13.41 effort. Jennifer Fibuch finished closely behind with a 10:14.12 fourth­place finish. 
The Irish got somewhat of a scare when Tiffany Gunn tripped over one of the hurdles in the 100-meter hurdles, taking her out of the race. Luckily for the fresh­man, who has had strong races at Arizona and Purdue so far, she bruised her knee. 
"It wasn't a pull or anything like that," Connelly said. "We didn't come out of it with any muscle pulls, and when you're running in the cold like that, that's what you really fear." 
The only throw event that the Irish women competed in over the weekend was the javelin, where Kate Duman continued her suc­cess with a third-place throw of 
36.39 meters. Duman has fin­ished in second place and third place in her first two collegiate meets in the javelin. 
Only two other women compet­ed in the throws -Andre Duplechain finishing fourth in the javelin and Lauren Della Volpe fin­ishing 12th. 
The Irish will continue to gain strength and experience as they travel to Columbia. Mo. for the Missouri Invitational next week­end. Once again, many Irish com­petitors will be running in differ­ent events than they are accus­tomed to get ready for upcoming meets. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
. Watson, Madigan lead Irish against 3 Michigan schools 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Senior Staff Writer 
Saturday's Spring Opener at Moose Krause Stadium between Notre Dame, Western Michigan, Central Michigan and Michigan State wasn't scored -but that doesn't mean there weren't any winners. 
Two Irish athletes, senior Luke Watson in the 1,500­meters and junior Mike Madigan in the javelin, came away with first-place finish­es, while five other athletes took second place in their respective events. Many Irish athletes -including senior All-American dis­tance runner Ryan Shay ­sat out the meet, the team's only home competition of the outdoor season. 
"In the grand scheme of things, it's not a big meet for us but the good thing it does is that it gives a lot of guys a chance compete," Watson said. 
Watson, who qualified for the NCAA Championships in the 5,000-meters last week­end at Stanford, used the meet as an opportunity to test his speed rather than his endurance in the shorter 1,500-meter race. While Watson has run a faster con­verted mile time than the 3 minutes, 48.55 seconds he posted Saturday, he felt that his finish was a positive sign. 
"The way I ran it was going out kind of slow and finishing really hard," Watson sai.... • ran a 43 for 
•.u last 300 meters, and that's really encouraging." 
Coming in right behind Watson was senior Pat Conway in a time of 3:51.42. Conway, historically the team's top miler, had strug­gled with injuries through­out the cross country and indoor track seasons, but seems to have put those problems behind him. 
"All of the sudden, the out­doors came around, and he's really got things together," Watson said of Conway. "His injuries have kind of van­ished and he's really come into his own right now." 

In the javelin, Madigan fin­ished with his longest mark of the season with a throw of 58.25 meters. The meet marked the end of a week of tough practices for Madigan, who is making technical adjustments to his throw in an effort to add distance. 
"We had a lot of throws; my arm. was a little sore from throwing so much, but I think we got a lot done," Madigan said. "I added a couple of feet and felt really good, so hopefully I can keep heading in that direction." 
Madigan, who is preparing to take the MCAT examina­tion this spring, was also happy to have a weekend in South Bend after traveling to Arizona and Purdue the past two weekends. 
'Tm from Pennsylvania, so my parents had the opportu­nity to come to the meet," Madigan said. "It's nice every year to have one home meet, especially with the MCAT coming up." 
Besides the performance of Watson and Conway in the 1,500-meters, the Irish added other strong perfor­mances in the distance events. Freshman Eric Morrison, who finished fifth in the Big East Indoor Championships in the 800­meters, took second in the 800 Saturday in a time of 1:51.27, nearly two seconds faster than Morrison's time at last weekend's Purdue Invitational. Morrison was just .01 second behind win­ner Kris Seats of Western Michigan. 
In the 3 ,000-meter steeplechase, sophomore David Alber, the team's top athlete in the event last sea­son, finished second with a career-best time of 9:11.92, 10 seconds behind winner Chris Stine of Western Michigan. 
In the sprints. the Irish were led by sophomore Ryan Hurd, who finished fourth in both the 100-mcters and 
200-meters. Hurd posted a time of 11.21 in the 100 and 
22.04 in the 200. 
In the 400-meters, three Irish athletes eclipsed the 50-second mark, led by freshman Trevor McClain, who finished fourth in a time of 49.11 seconds. Senior Nick Saracco took seventh in a time of 49.68, just .1 second in front of classmate Mike Mansour, who took eighth. 
The Irish 4x100-meter relay team of Hurd, junior Tom Gilbert, senior William Croker and sophomore Jules Vandersarl was disqualified after dropping the baton on the final exchange. In the 4x400-meters, the Irish team of Croker, Saracco, Mansour and sophomore Napoleon Suarez finished fourth in a time of 3:20.85. 
In the hurdles, the Irish were led by an encouraging performance from Suarez in the 400-meter hurdles. Suarez, who has missed much of the season with an injured left hamstring, qual­ified for the Big East Championships with a sec­ond-place time of 53.63 sec­onds. Central Michigan's Adam Lyon won in a time of 
53.35 seconds. 
"It felt good just being able to run in front of the home crowd, being that it was my second meet of the year," Suarez said. "I felt very well running in it. I hit a couple of the first few hurdles, but I almost caught him at the end." 
In the jumps, senior Quill Redwine, who finished sec~ ond in the high jump while taking third in the triple jump, led the Irish. Notre Dame added third-place per­formances by Gilbert in the long jump and senior Josh Heck in the pole vault. 
In the weight throws, senior Derek Dyer finished third in the discus and fourth in the shot put, while freshman Chip Roberts added a fifth-place finish in the hammer throw. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 

Monday, April 8, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
I'LL Oo IT R1&HT 
AFTER 
THIS INNINC:,. 


RYAN
TOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
BILLAMEND 
lcO<i,Elc, TALK I'LL Do TELLING ME HOW NER\/oUS 
:JUST YESTERDAY YOU WERE 
SoME SE.NSE IT RIGHT YoU WERE ~BoUT YOUR 
1NT0 YoUR SoN. AFTER 
/ J THIS
&lt~D£S THIS SE.Mi.STE.Ii! 
I CAN'T BELIEVE '!'OU! INNING. 
I
r:-:i I 
,,-::. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Like some Chinese
1 _ Mayer 
cooking(wiener maker) 33 Overflowing6 Doe's mate 

(with) 

10 Poker action 34 Rocket engine 13 Great Plains 35 Hubbub tribe 36 Mangle 14 San Diego 37 Nickels-and­baseballer (bothers with­trivialities)
16 Holiday preceder 38 Last year's sr. 
39 Misjudge

17 Informer 40 Military doctor 
19 Nothing 41 Unloads 20 Is in danger of 42 Corruptssinking 44 100 centimos 21 Prophecy giver 
45 Like a beaver 23 UK news 
46 Minister: Abbr. 

source 
47 Letters after a 26 Mineral suffix 
48 "Aeneid" poet 27 Mennonite group 50 Like ghost 28 Pennsylvania stories university 52 Koch and Asner 


53 Habitual boob tube watcher 58 "Do Ya" rock grp. 59 Extra 60 The "U" in 
U.S.S.R. 61 Ballpoint, e.g 62 Gone across a 
pool 63 Barker of military orders 
DOWN 1 Gives a thumbs­
up 2 Dog command 3 Make dove 
sounds 4 Person missed by a 63-Across 5 North Carolina's 
capital 6 Volleyball kill 7 License plates 8 Summer cooler 9 Ones using 
brushes and 
Puzzk by CtulsUna H0<.1ll1\an
combs 10 Substitute 29 Suffix with 43 Scott Joplin tune 51 Sicilian spouter 11 Worse than organ or patriot 44 Whom a copper 54 Big Detroit inits. 
knavery 30 Games before 12 Prefix with finals phone 31 Modifies 15 Singer Caruso 32 Signals, as to 18 Trodden track an auctioneer 
34 Document
22 _ Wednesday 
23 Held responsible amendment 37 Unfolds
the Ides of March" 38 Film director Van Sant
25 Committee head 40 Voodoo and wizardry
27 Ancient Mexican 41 Crafty apprehends 55 Lungful46 Fix, as cuffs 56 Coat, informally 48 Prez's #2 57 "You're Still the 
49 Inactive _. (1998 Grammy winner) 
50 Creamy shade 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: 
and mail to: 
THE OBSERVER 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julian Lennon, Betty Ford, John Gavin, Patricia Arquette 
Happy Birthday: You will use new techniques in your work in order to stand out in the crowd this year. You will instinctively know what changes to make to enhance your appearance and your atti­tude. You will use your imagina­tion to relate to others. Your num­bers are 9, 12, 15, 23, 31, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You may want to keep your thoughts to yourself for the time being. Someone you consider to be a friend may not be able to keep a secret. Focus on making your home a place of comfort. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Friends, partners and people you meet through organizations you belong to will be there to help you out. Let everyone know your ideas and drum up some enthusiasm. 
0000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Don't get down and depressed. Your confusion regarding your professional direction can be cleared up if you research the courses available to you. Addition­al skills will come in handy. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time to get on with life by involv­ing yourself in activities that inter­est you. Your attitude is changing and you may find a better philoso­phy to live by. Having more fun should be your intent. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Unusual financial opportunities are present. Take the initiative and make some moves that will lead to financial gains. You should invest in your­self, not in someone asking for a donation.COO 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you take care of all your responsi-
EUGENIA LAST 

bilities quickly you should have time to get out and mingle with some interesting people. It's high time you did things that you enjoy. Group participation will bring you fabulous results. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You should be able to get ahead today. Hard work will pay off and doors will open due to your contentious­ness. Solid plans can lead to all sorts of interesting proposals. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

The more time you have to get involved in creative hobbies today the better. You may discover that something you enjoy doing can turn into a moneymaker with a lit­tle extra work and promotion. 
00000 SAGITTARIUS (No\>: 22-Dec. 21): 
You should be trying to build your assets and prepare for your future security. Putting money into your home will add value and make your place more comfortable. Don't dismay if someone you care about opposes your ideas. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

You can ask for favors if you explain everything that you are try­ing to accomplish to someone who is in a position to help you. Money­making ventures will pay off, how­ever, you must do everything by the book. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

If you aren't happy with your cur­rent position consider doing some­thing a little more unusual. The rewards will be far greater if you are passionate about what you do. 
000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
You'll be emotional today. Don't let someone you work with limit you or push too many responsibilities your way. You need a little time to yourself. 000 
Birthday Baby: You will fight hard to achieve your place in society. You will have leadership abilities, and will make a difference to orgaruzations 
-

you believe in if you are given the chance. You will always be looking and listening for new ideas that will help you obtam the power you desire. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic yearObserver is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint D Enclosed is $50 for one semester
Mary's Community. Name _____________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address __________________ 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Campus Sports 
. 
Men's Tennis, p. 15 

. 
Track and Field, p. 18 

. 
ND Women's Tennis, p. 18 


By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 
How does the Notre Dame baseball team spell relief? 
V-I-L-0-R-I-A 
Junior relief pitcher Brandon Viloria pitched 2 2/3 dominant innings of shutout relief by freshman starter Chris Niesel, and the IrLc;h were able to capitalize on fielding mistakes by St. John's as they took the rubber match of the 3-game series against the Red Storm on Sunday, 5-2. 
"Brandon is a huge lift to our team," senior captain Steve Stanley said. "He's an emotional pitcher. He's the kind of guy that goes in and throws strikes and gets the job done for our team." 
In Saturday's doubleheader, the Irish and Red Stonn split the two games, with the Irish taking the first game 4-1, while the Red Stonn were able to withstand a furi­ous Irish comeback and squeak out a 4-3 decision in the second game. 
With the 2-1 record this weekend, the Irish improve their record to 17-11 and 5-5 in the Big East. 
"We're in good position right now," senior captain Steve Stanley said. "We know that our team is one that is going to continue to get better and better. Coming away with two of three from St. John's is a big accom­plishment for our team." 
In Sunday's game, the Irish found themselves in an early jam, as Niese} allowed two two-out singles in the top of the first inning before getting a groundout to end the inning. 
Niesel was able to calm down after the first, retiring the side in order in the third. 
In the fourth inning, St. John's opened by putting its first two hitters on via a walk and single. After a flyout to center, Young hit a drive to left-center field, but Stanley chugged over to make the athletic catch. On the throw into the infield, the ball skipped into the dugout for a two-base error that scored a runner from second. 
The Irish would respond in the bottom of the fifth, when Stanley whacked an RBI single to left, scoring Thaman from third. The next batter, Matt Bok, fired a shot to right-center for an RBI triple that gave the Irish a 2-1 lead. 
St. John's finally got to Niesel in the seventh inning, on consecutive one-out doubles by Chad Cambra and Rozema that tied the game at 2. 
However, Irish head coach Paul Maineri promptly inserted Viloria in the lineup, and the Red Storm never threatened again. 
The Irish scored the winning runs in the bottom of the seventh. Javier Sanchez and Joe Thaman both reached base with singles. After an RBI single by Bok and a walk to O'Toole, Bushey smacked a single to left 
see BASEBALL/page 15 
FOOTBALL

... 
Irish appear eager in first spring practice 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Senior Scaff Writer 
In their first practice of the spring. the Irish were a little too eager. 
During basic agility and pass-catching drills at the start of Saturday's· practice, new head coach Tyrone Willingham had to encourage his team to slow down a bit. 
"This is warm-ups gentle­men. Warm-ups. I don't want you to pull a hamstring," Willingham shouted at the beginning of his first spring practice as Irish coach. 
After the half-speed warm­up drills and stretching, how­ever, practice picked up inten­
see FOOTBALL/page 13 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
PORTS 
Monday, April 8, 2002 


RICO CASARES/The Observer 

Irish reliever Brandon Viloria hurls a pitch against St. John's on Saturday. Viloria's dominant relief pitching helped the Irish take two of three games from the Red Storm this weekend. 
National Sports 
. 
NFL, p. 14 

. 
National League , p. 16 

. 
American League, p. 17 


BASEBALL 

Irish find relief, take 2 of 3 from Red Storm 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish come back, top Huskies 
By CHR1S COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame's women's lacrosse team scored six goals in the final 15 minutes against Connecticut to show that the Irish can even win on their bad days. 
"We saw what we needed to do and we went ahead and did it," said junior midfielder Danielle Shearer about the last-minute scoring push. "That says a great deal about our program that we can beat a team on a really bad day." 

The Irish were down 8-6 in the second half but came back to beat the Huskies 12-9 on Saturday. Meredith Simon and Kate Marrota each had two key goals during the six-goal Irish comeback. Simon, along with Shearer. was the leading scor­er for the Irish who have won four consecutive games and improved to 8-1 on the season. 
The game started with the Huskies scoring first, marking only the second time this sea­
son the Irish have not scored first. 
Lauren Fischer. 37 seconds later, converted on a free posi­tion shot to even the score 1-1. Simon then scored, followed by two from Shearer. 
Up 4-1 with 15 minutes to play in the half, the Irish start­ed to fall apart. 
"We were just off," Shearer said. "We weren't catching in the midfield, we weren't doing the fundamentals." 
see lACROSSE/page 15 

. 
SMC Tennis vs. Hope, Tuesday, 3p.m. 

. 
SMC Softball at Calvin, Tuesday, 3:30 p.m. 

. 
Baseball vs. Western Michigan, Tuesday, 6:05 p.m. 

. 
ND Softball vs. Purdue, Thursday, 3p.m. 




'
I 
I
l _ 





