
-
Editorial
SNOW 

Friday

Libby Bishop and Trip Foley started their administration early with a rousing pledge to represent students, but they must make sure to follow 
MARCH 22,
HIGH 32° 

through on their promises. LOW22° 
2002
Viewpoint . page 12 


THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 109 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
STUDENT SENATE 



Senators call meeting for alcohol resolution 
Notre Dame gains new national pro01inence 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLlS 

Notre Dame can take pride in another group of shining stars. Its restrooms. 
A Web site has recognized the public restrooms in the Main Building at the University as the best in the United States. 
"When I go to the john here now, I feel positively ennobled," said Michael 0. Garvey, a Notre Dame spokesman. 
"I'm told, although I haven't been in there, that the women's restrooms are very nice, too," he added Wednesday. 
Notre Dame won the distinction after nearly a year of online voting at www.thebestofusa.com. 
Voters were enthralled by the restrooms' Victorian charm, including tile floors imported from England, faucets with chrome and brass accents, and solid oak doors on the stalls. 
The restrooms are cleaned three times a day, leading one voter to boast that the floors were "clean enough to eat off." 
Honored as he was, Gary Shwnaker, the university's direc­tor of facilities operations, wouldn't go that far. 
"We work hard to keep them clean, and we're very pleased that somebody thinks that highly, but I wouldn't eat otrthe floor," he said. 

Bishop and Foley vow to represent students 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 

Saying administrators "sold students short," Libby Bishop and Trip Foley renewed Thursday their commitment to fight pro­posed changes to the University alcohol policy. 
Still more than a week away from taking office, Bishop and Foley, the student body presi­dent-and vice president-elect, said they would pick up where Wednesday's rally left off and continue to represent student interests. 
"I think that students were sold short by not involving them in the process of making this policy," Bishop said in a release. "I will personally take an active role on working with Bill Kirk [assistant vice president for Residence Life] and his office on the writing of this policy and ensure that a number or students will have input in the revision process." 
Bishop and Foley enter office April 1 but this week began 
see BISHOP/page 6 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Assistant News Editor 
The Senate decided Thursday to hold an emergency meeting on Sunday evening to pass a resolution calling for a review of the proposed ban of in-hall dances. 
The primary reason behind the emergency meeting is to pass the proposed resolution before Monday's Campus Life Council meeting. If it passes, the resolution will be brought up at the same CLC meeting where Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, is expected to formally present revisions to the 18­year-old alcohol policy. 
The resolution calls for stu­dents, faculty and administra­tion to be involved in reviewing the changes to the in-hall dance policy. 
"Life in the residence halls is a hallmark of the Notre Dame experience and the traditions of these residence halls bolster the Notre Dame community by bringing together the resi­dences of a dormitory," the Senate Residence Life Committee wrote in a copy of the proposed resolution obtained by The Observer. 
The resolution also refers to the potential cancellation of sig­nature hall events and says the "direction of the proposed Alcohol Policy threatens to neg­atively alter traditions, some of which have lasted for over 20 years." 
Stanford Senator Aldo Tesi, chairman of the Residence Life Committee, said an important part of the hall dances was its location in the halls. 
"I am concerned about the smaller dorms such as Badin, where we only have 120 girls and it will be hard for us to have dances. For formals, we have to have two or three other dorms join us in order to have the dance financially and it detracts from the tradition," said Sole Galmarini, Badin sen­ator. 
Other senators raised con­cerns that smaller halls would be financially unable to meet the costs of their dances and that some dances might have to be cancelled in the fall because of the lack of space and avail­able weekends due to football games. 
Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities, countered this by saying that the University has compiled a list of on-campus sites where hall dances can take place. Also, the University is looking into the possibility of reduced costs at off-campus sites. 

"We have a list and there are 30 venues. Some of them are unique and unexpected. It would be irresponsible to release a list without informing ;, the venue that their foyer might be used for a dance. These places would be ideal because they would be free to use," said Coughlin. 
"Some of these places are the business school library and DeBartolo. They aren't 30 great new places and they are defi­nitely unique," said Pat Hallahan, Sorin Hall senator and the chief of staff for Libby Bishop, student body president­elect. 
Coughlin said that hall dances 
see SENATE/page 7 

USA VELTE/The Observer After much discussion, senators decided to table their pro­posed alcohol resolution in order to make amendments. An emergency meeting has been called for Sunday so senators can approve the resolution. 

Friday, March ·22, 2002

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 

INSIDE COLUMN TODAY IN NOTRE DAME HISTORY 


Put thing~ in perspective 
Notre Dame is one of the most respected and recognizable educational institutions in the country. renowned not only for its academic and athletic excellence, but also for the integri· ty of its student body. 
But judging from the 
behavior of that same stu-Sheila Flynn 
dent body beginning 
Monday night, you'd never 
know it. Copy Editor 
As students have rallied to whine and cry "Oppression!" over the past few days, they have exhibited only their own immaturity and contemptible lack of perspective. Eager to rebel against the administration and reclaim their alleged loss of"voice," they have attracted the media to campus and, because of Notre Dame's fame. gained national attention. 
But, in the process. students have damaged their own reputations, presenting an image of themselves as spoiled, ungrateful children. They have cavorted in front of the cameras, yelling in outrage and burning copies of duLac. The headline of the South Bend Tribune Thursday read "ND Battle Brews," accompa­nied by a photograph of O'Neill Hall's jester. 
I don't know about you, but this is not exactly a portrait I want to see painted of Notre Dame's student body. Not all students are reacting so childishly, but those who are simply drag the rest of us down with them. We look shallow, self-absorbed and disgraceful. 
Those of you who are so violently protesting should be ashamed of yourselves. 
Take a step back and think about where the entire policy stands in the big scheme of things. First of all, the University's not revoking any constitutional rights. Under federal law, the majority of us aren't supposed to be drinking anyway. Plus, it's not like the campus is going dry -the new policy still allows lower-proof alcohol. And you're not banned from drinking hard alcohol, either; most of the better parties happen off campus anyway. 
It's also possible that the policy will cut down on the number of alcohol-related hospital visits and sexual assault cases during dances. I don't know about anyone else, but I think that's a good thing. 
Now think about why you're here in the first place. You're here to study, learn and prepare yourself for a successful run in this world, and you're lucky. Very few people on the planet are . privileged enough to have the opportunities to be at an institution like this one. 
And I hate to resort to the cliche, "There are children starving in Africa," but there are. 

I don't think an American soldier in Afghanistan would complain about drinking beer in a Notre Dame dorm room rather than shots. I doubt an inner -city kid would moan and groan about having to walk a little farther to a college dance. But some people on this campus are acting like these inconveniences are the end of the world. And they're fueling public opinion that education here is a joke -a silly attempt to entertain a flock oflackadaisical, unappreciative teen-agers. 
The public does not see students campaigning to help Afghan refugees, working to improve the community or staging any sort of political protest. Instead, in a time of international alarm which calls for awareness and action, we are shown dis­puting changes in alcohol policy. 
I don't know about you, but I think some people need to put things in perspective. 
Contact Sheila Flynn at sflynn@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards icself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 

The Observer (USPS 5~9 2-4000) is published Monday through Frid•y exc~pc durmg ~xam and vacation periods-. The Observer is-a member of the A:.soc1ated Press. AH reproduction ngh[s are reserved. 
University honors Cosby 
March 22, 1990 

Notre Dame announced that entertainer Bill Cosby and 11 others would be given honorary degrees at the 145th Commencement Exercises. Cosby was also asked to be the Commencement speaker while earlier that year he received an honorary doctor of laws degree from the University. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
University of Wisconsin prepares for steep budget cuts 
PIA1TEVILLE. Wis. 

University of Wisconsin-Platteville educators are bracing for a budget cut that Chancellor David Markee is calling the worst in his time here. Tuition increases are expected, and a freeze on admissions and new hiring is in effect as administrators await the cut. 
The state Assembly passed a proposal March 15 that UW leaders say will cost the system $108 million in funding, the Wisconsin State Journal reported. The bill now moves to the Senate for approval. The Board of Regents will determine the amount of the cut UW-P will be forced to swallow after the bud­get is approved. 
UW System President Katherine Lyall ordered a hiring freeze at all 26 UW campuses in anticipation of the budget cut; however, UW-P administrators already had imposed a hold on the hiring of new personnel. 

"We had already started that. We decided not to build tenure track posi­tions," Markee said. 
For the next school year, UW-P will hire one-year, part-time replacements for tenure-track positions that open. 
The UW System Board of Regents also suspended all undergraduate admis­
sions, although students already 
accepted will not be affected. 
While UW-Platteville already had 
accepted 90 to 95 percent of next fall's 
freshman class, admissions was only 
halfway through applications for trans­
fers when the freeze took effect. 
Markee is optimistic they will be able to 
accept those students currently left out. 
Hoping the freeze will end within the 
next few weeks, Markee said he 
encourages those students still to 
apply. 
"We'd like to complete that class of new students," Markee said. 
The university is looking at other ways to cut costs without removing services from students. Cutbacks in supplies, especially with computers and technolo­gy, are being considered, Markee said. 
The Exponent 

SETON HALL UNIVERSITY 
Officials combat Ecstasy use 
SOUTH ORANGE, N.J. 
While there haven't been any reported incidents involving Ecstasy on campus, Seton Hall University offi­cals said they are sure the drug is used on campus. The university is taking several steps to ensure the drug's popularity does not rise. The university has begun edu­cating administrators in all positions, and next month Public Safety and Security will take part in a conference on club drugs, Crime Prevention Officer Gary Christie said. "We are in the process of developing policies, pro­cedures and strategies," Christie said. A unified coali­tion will look at ways to increase activities on campus and find other ways to get the students involved, Christie said. "It's not just enforcement but also giving someone an alternative," Christie said. Ecstasy is a stimulant that allows the user to be active for a longer period of time. It is known for reducing inhibitions, pro­ducing feelings of empathy and eliminating anxiety. It also suppresses the body's need to sleep, eat or drink. 
The Setonian 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather@forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ /


Wetherbee talks of shuttle flight 
March 22, I 990 

Commander James Weatherbee, Notre Dame's first gradu­ate in space, talked about his experiences of being in space. The 1974 graduate was the pilot of STS32, which launched from Kennedy Space Center on Jan. 9, 1990. While in space the shuttle's crew launched a Navy satellite and retrieved a large facility containing long term scientific experiments. 
YOUNGSTOWN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Students appeal for meat-free diets 
YOUNGSTOWN. Ohio 

A videotape of bleeding, dying chickens being tossed onto the backs of poultry trucks played over and again on a television next to an information table in Kilcawley Center. Cattle and dairy cows had their necks sliced open and their horns cut off in other portions of the videotape titled "Meet your Meat." Students watched in horror as the animals on the tapes cried out as their bodies were turned into food for human consumption. Though members of Youngstown State University's Environmental and Animal Rights Coalition didn't film the undercover videotape, they used it to show what they say goes on in many slaughterhouses nationwide. Members of YSEARC passed out information about The Great American Meatout from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Tuesday in the arcade of Kilcawley Center as a way of informing people not to eat meat on Wednesday. the official day of the Great American Meatout. 
The Jambar 

NATIONAL WEATHER 

~ 

C 2002 Accuweather, Inc. Pr&HUfB: ® © ~.High Low Shower ¦ Rain V/11 Assocmtr:Jd Pross  ~.T-11torma Flurries  tzZl. Snow  COLO [21 Ice  WARM S1ATIONAHY 0 \Q;~. 4i~1', Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  48 39 32 36 62  24 22 23 23 43  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  79 45 34 36 37  53 26 22 2& 26  Portland Sacramento St. LOUIS Tampa Wasn,ngton  58 63 42 74 40  43 45 29 52 26  

Friday, March 22, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



'Amistad' actor uses life to inspire students to make a difference 

By MAUREEN SMITHE Senior SraffWrirer 
Being yourself and following ones own desires is the best way to make a positive difference in the world, according to Derrick Ashong, Ilarvard graduate and supporting actor in the motion pic­ture "Arnistad." 
.\slwng was born in Accra, Ghana, and moved to Brooklyn at age 3, on to Saudi Arabia at age 8, and then to New Jersey at 15 lo tin­L,;h high school. 
Opening his lecture with the question "Can anyone tell me what it means to be cool?" Ashong said his wide range of living experiences as a youth forced him to create his own niche. 
'Tm an /\.fro-American Arab kid. Where's my category?" Ashong said. "l was gonna do my thing and hopefully everything would work out." 
This realization, he said, was a very profound moment in his life. Most of the students at his New Jersey high school had grown up together and were w1familiar with different people. Ashong had to break from his novelLy "cute" repu­tation and find pride in his own identitv. 
His journey toward Harvard did not begin until the summer before his senior year in hlgh school when he participated in a prestigious summer program at Williams College. During a public speaking exercise a white male student read a poem by a black woman about her ability to overcome constant struggles in life. In reflection, the student said that all black people should follow her lead and reject welfare. affirmative action and other benefits of society given to minorities. Everyone agreed with him except for J\shong and the two black females. 
''I made my voice heard. I told him that I had a significant prob­lem. Something had to be wrong with him because I could not remember the last time someone approached me and said, 'You are a man of an underrepresented minority group, is there anything I can do for you?' Somehow I missed The night of the poetry reading, all the handouts that my people Ashong said he decided to go to were receiving," Ashong said. Harvard because he wanted to 

Do you know QQmpµt~rH,./iilLtmL The Observer ··need~ yo~~:("r 
:'t;,,,. ·····•·· ··.·•{:i:?w,·•·>; i, ....•··•·
For informafio tnejoba contacb~aa,ijJ';:tMl~lll'l?~tu:·· 
Personalized 
Notre Dame Graduation Announcements 


prove that his spot would be right­fully earned, not handed out. 
"How would someone look at me and think I wasn't taking his place. What made it 'your' place?" he asked. 
Despite doubtful looks from high school guidance counselors and general questioning from his peers, Ashong applied to and was accept­ed at Harvard because of his good grades, heavy school and commu­nity involvement and extensive world traveling. However, when he arrived at the Cambridge, Mass., campus in the fall of 1993, he soon learned that once again he'd be forced to establish his own reputa­tion. 
"I got there and there was this look -'He's too short for basket­ball. Too skinny for football. He must be an affirmative action,"' Ashong said. "I remember being so hurt because I thought I had made it." 
Ashong didn't just stop with admission to Harvard. For his senior year thesis, he petitioned to write and produce his own musical theatrical performance. His chosen topic explored issues among African and African Americans within a semi-autobiographical context. 
The show sold out every night and audiences left the theater with high acclaim for the project. 
University of Notre Dame 


fax: 1-931-685-6473 Place orders in person on: 
Tuesday and Wednesday, March 26 and 27 LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Ashong's professors graded it summa cum laude, and he also earned the prestigious Hoops prize, which binds his work and places it permanently in the Harvard library system. 
"Of all the people who thought I couldn't be here, who thought I was unfairly bumping them from their deserved spot -how many of them are authors at Harvard?" Ashong said. "I go through this story to illustrate a very simple point: for some very strange reason people didn't see in me what I saw in myself." 
Ashong's accomplishments cul­minated in his supporting role in "Amistad." He said working on the role pulled him back to his roots to the point where he would often take the movie's context home with him at night. One such instance revolved around a scene where he had to put chains around his wrists. Although he was only on the set for four hours that day, he still felt imaginary chains when he went home for the night. 
"The type of mental chains that evolve when an entire society dehu­manizes an entire element of itself are lasting, real and destructive," Ashong said. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu. 

. . 
AFDnm 500•t1esllia •llmmtiaas •MarkeUng, Consultant's Seminar· 
Leam The Methods OfAProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements. f An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
·A One Da,Semlnar,ABaal DI011,r TBn YnrsDIInvaluable Experteuce. • 
This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must have in business to move forward in high level business. : The class is taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says wilt, "change the course ofan entire industry.•
' ' 

~ 'ARE For class dates, private classes_ &~SDAB"?ore information, go to our web EJl/ll:alJQlflr,,.,,_.,...,.C"-s1ta, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 _IIIIWW.IISIISIBll/1.COm E-mail • lnventor@usastand.com 
~ ~ 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Friday, March 22, 2002 
DRINKING LIABILITIES



Pope speaks on U.S. sex scandals 
its history while Home remains dark shadow of suspicion is cast 
Associated Press 
silent. over all the other fine priests 
As they comfort the victims of who perform their ministry with 
VATICAN CITY abuse, the pope said. priests honesty and integrity and often 
Pope John Paul ll, in a letter should redouble their search for with heroic self-sacrifice." 
released today, weighed in for faith. He expressed no opinion The way that the Jetter men­the first time on recent on the conduct of the American tioned abuse victims is likely to pedophile scandals in his bishops. disappoint those Catholics who 
church, saying "a dark shadow In three sentences referring to were expecting a fuller, more 
of suspicion" had been cast over the scandals, the 81-year-old pastoral response.all priests by "some of our broth­
pope presented priests as among "As the church shows her con­ers who have betrayed the grace the victims "personally and pro­cern for the victims and strives 
of ordination" and succumbed to 
foundly afflicted" by the to respond in truth and justice to evil. unnamed sins of priests who had each of these painful situations,"
In his annual pre-Easter mes­succumbed "even to the most the letter said, priests must 

sage to priests around the world, grievous forms of the mysterium "commit ourselves more fully to the pope did not mention the iniquitatis -the mystery of evil the search for holiness." 
American church, which manv -at work in the world." At a news conference about 
Catholics in the United States say 
"Grave scandal is caused," the the letter, a top Vatican official,is undergoing the worst crisis in letter said, "with the result that a Cardinal Dario Castrill6n Hoyos, LISA VELTE/The Observer 
A banner hanging outside Zahm Hall. 



When I Was Younger... 
my future was so easy to define. I was going to be a teacher or a doctor. I had no idea of what that would take. In college I found myself questioning my future all over again. 
But then, one day I answered an invitation to discover religious life. After much prayer and examination, I found my life had a new sense of direction and purpose. 
Religious Life... Isn't it worth exploring? 
For more information, contact: 
Sr. Elyse Marie Ramirez, OP, Vocation Director DOMINICAN SISTERS OF SPRINGFIELD 
Phone 217.787.0481 • FAX 217.787-8169 1237 West Monroe• Springfield, IL 62704 e-mail: SEMRamirez@spdom.org website: www.springfieldop.org 



• ••••••••••••• I •••••••
lllll II I¦ Ill I ¦¦ 

¦ ¦ ¦¦¦ ••••• ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦ 
¦¦ • ¦ • ¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ 
¦ ¦• •••• • • ¦• ¦ ¦¦¦ 
¦ •• ¦ ¦ • ¦ •• ¦¦ ¦ ¦ 
¦ • ¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦ ¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ 
II ¦
¦ ¦ ¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦ 
I

¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦ 
¦ ¦ I ¦¦¦¦ ¦ I ¦ I ¦ ¦¦¦
I II I II I
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ 
I

I I 1111 11111 Ill ¦¦ II II ¦ 11111 

alumni senior club, friday, 8pm 
Tickets: $5 pre-sale (Lafortune Info. Desk) $7 at the door 

• ~ s t f r ; , " J l , J , 1 , , : • , 1 , 1 , • ,. , ,, • • l I • ' 






ATION 
Friday, March 22; 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
38 die in Colombia rebel clash; 
I leavy fighting in Bogota, near the Venezuelan border, killed at least 38 soldiers and leftist guerrillas, Colombia's military said Thursday. The army said retreating rebels took refuge in the neighboring South American country. Elsewhere, guerrillas have occupied a pump­ing station at a reservoir in Colombia's south­ern Andes, cutting the water supply to more than 500,000 people, authorities said. 
Death toll tops 1,500 in Mideast: 
In nearly 18 months of violence, l,221 people have been killed on the Palestinian side and 363 people on the Israeli side. The Palestinian figure includes 46 suicide bombers, several sus­pm:tcd informers for Israel killed by Palestinian militants, 13 Israeli Arabs killed in pro­Palestinian riots and a German resident. 


NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. restricts government Web sites: 
The White House has placed new controls on government information about weapons of mass destruction and is telling agencies to clear Web sites of even unclassified data that could help terrorists. Advocates for govern­ment openness say information about nuclear, biological, radiological and chemical weapons should be kept out of the hands of would-be attackers. They worry, however, that the guidelines released Wednesday could be used to withhold an array of other material as well. 
Group requests morning-after pill: 
Some women's advocates urged Congress Thursday to pass a bill that would require hos­pitals receiving federal funds to ensure that sexual assault victims are told about emer­gency contraception. The contraception, known as the "morning-after pill," is a high dose of birth control pills taken within 72 hours of unprotected sex to prevent pregnancy. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Senator resigns after affair scandal: 
A Vigo County School Corp. custodian has been disciplined for having sexual encounters ·in the administration building with a former district administrator who is now a state senator in Terre Haute. Sen. Mark Blade, the school dis­trict's purchasing director since 1986, resigned from the position Feb. 21. At the time, he said his resignation was for persona.I reasons. The district's personnel office released disciplinary records Wednesday to the Tribune-Star, includ­ing a letter that custodian Trilla Eiler wrote admitting that she and Blade had an affair. 
Market Watch .March 21 
Dow 10,479.84 -21.73 Jones 

Composite 
Volume:
~ s:r;: 
1,328,530,047 
AMEX: 904.39 +7.47 
NASDAQ: 1,868.83 +35.96 
NYSE: 601.82 -0.5S 
S&P 500: 1,153.59 +l.74 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
W..SDAQ-100 INDEX (tm) +2 . 66 +0.96 37.02 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SU!wJ) +3. 27 +0.28 8.83 LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +6.44 +0.29 4. 79 GENERAL ELECTRIC (GE) -3.48 -1.35 37.45 OAACLE CORP (ORCL) +4. 86 +0. 61 13 .15 
MEXICO 

Associated Press 
MONTERREY 
A day after a deadly car bombing, President Bush said Thursday that "two­bit terrorists" would not stop him from visiting Peru or thwart his goal of build­ing better ties throughout Latin America. 
"Sometimes it seems like the terror threat might be going away, but all you got to do is look on your TV today and be reminded about how evil these mur­derers are," Bush said. 
The president got a sendoff for a four-day trip to Mexico, Peru and El Salvador with a raucous airport rally in the Texas border town of El Paso. 
"We cannot let the ter­rorists take over freedom­loving societies and we will not," Bush said, decrying a suicide bombing in the Middle East, a grenade attack on a church service in Pakistan and a car bombing near the U.S. Embassy in Lima, Peru. 
Bush's first stop was in Monterrey for a U.N. sum­mit on global poverty. The president was to meet on the sidelines of the meet­ing with Mexican President Vicente Fox and Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien. 
The subject of terrorism loomed large over Bush's day. Before boarding Air Force One for El Paso, Bush met with Milton Green, whose wife and step-daughter were killed in the Pakistan attack. And while en route, he called Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi to discuss an attack by an offshoot of the Red Brigades terror group, in which an Italian economist was killed. 
The president told reporters in Washington that Wednesday's attack in Lima, which killed nine people, would not make him change his travel plans. He is to visit Peru on Saturday, the first U.S. 
president to do so. He said he trusts that President Alejandro Toledo will make his country safe for his American visitor. 
"Two-bit terrorists aren't going to prevent me from doing what we need to do, and that is to promote our friendship in the hemi-. sphere," Bush said. "Our· neighborhood is important to us, Peru is an important country. President Toledo has been a reformist. obvi­ously worked within the democratic system. And you bet I'm going." 
Bush said "we might have an idea" who set off the bomb. "They've been around before," he said. 
House plans to disassemble INS 
No. 3 official in the Justice senior Democrat, and Rep. Sheila
Associated Press 
Department. Jackson Lee. D-Texas. 
WASHINGTON "This agreement will allow "We want this to be a comprehen­
House Republicans and Democrats Republicans and Democrats in sive response to the disaster of agreed Thursday to dismantle the Congress, in concert with the Bush immigration affairs." Lee said. Immigration and Naturalization administration, to work together on The INS has been criticized for Service, which has come under fundamentally dismantling the INS," years because of long backlogs of intense criticism since the Sept. 11 said Rep. James Sensenbrenner, applications for benefits such as attacks. who chairs the House Judiciary naturalization or permanent resi­
Under their plan, the INS would Committee, which has oversight of dency. INS supporters and critics be replaced by separate bureaus for the INS. say the agency is burdened with enforcement of immigration law and The plan combines two bills, one conflicting missions to help immi­for providing immigration services. sponsored by Sensenbrenner, R­grants enter and stay in the country The bureaus would report to an Wis., and Rep. George Gekas, R-Pa.; and to identify and keep out those assistant attorney general for immi­the other by Michigan Rep. John who try to enter illegally or who gration affairs, who would be the Conyers, the Judiciary Committee's may pose a danger. 


---. ----­
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 22, 2002 
Conference brings Asian awareness 'in focus' 

By ANDY THAGARD 
Assisranr News Wrirer 
The Coalition for Asian Awareness is hosting "ln­Focus," a conference explor­ing Asian-American issues and celebrating diversity, on Saturday. 
The daylong event, which corresponds with Asian Awareness Month, features speakers, panel discussions, workshops and a concluding banquet with keynote speaker Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business. 
"We're really, really excit­ed," said Monica Wisner, executive chair. "This is the first one, and we're trying to get students from a]l over to participate. This is definitely not just for Asian students." 
The group has been inter-
Bishop 
continued from page 1 
meeting with University officials and organizing student response to the proposed changes. 
Father Mark Poorman, vice pres­ident for Student Affairs, announced Monday three sweep­ing changes to the alcohol policy: 
. 
the outlaw of "hard" alcohol in undergraduate residence halls, 

. 
the ban of in-hall dances known as SYRs 

. 
and the revision of tailgating rules to allow drinking-age stu­dents to host parties before Saturday home football games in the fall 


Poorman said the changes would keep Notre Dame from becoming an alcohol-centered campus. He expected that University officers would approve the changes this summer and enact them in the fall. 
If approved, they will be the first major amendments to the policy since 1988. The University first adopted an alcohol policy in 1984. 
Revisions this year are the result of a two-year study into the alcohol use and abuse on campus, Poorman said. 
But Bishop and Foley disagreed with the process officials used to develop the changes, saying it almost completely excluded stu­dents. 
"This can never happen again ... where they work for two years in secret," Foley said in a Wednesday interview. "Abusive drinking isn't a good thing, but this policy isn't going to solve that." 
The pair took particular issue with the barring of in-hall dances. Foley called the move "tradition­attacking" and worried that it would endanger hall spirit. 
"It's not a real solution," said Foley, who believed that drinking and socializing would shift oil' cam­pus and pose safety risks for stu­ested in sponsoring such an American Hesource .Center at workshops held in Coleman­event for the past few years Pomona College and manager Morse Center classrooms. and began official planning in of a coalition of Midwest Clubs within the Coalition, November, according to Asian university clubs. including Korean-American, sophomore Richie Dang, co­Mooko will address issues Vietnamese and Filipino­director of public relations for such as the Japanese intern-American organizations are the confer-ment during sponsoring the workshops. ence. World War 11, The events include intellectual 
"We basi­the U.S. spy. discussions on affirmative
"This is the first one. 
cally contact­plane over action, discrimination,
and we're trying to get
ed every club China in 2001 Catholicism, Asian-American on campus, students from all over to and recent identity, the Asian media and dorms and hate crimes, interracial relations.
participate. This is 
local busi­according to Workshops also include more
definitely not just for
nesses for Wisner. He light-hearted activities includ­funding," Asian students." will also give ing sessions in cooking, danc­Dang said. a presenta­ing and origami. "We're also tion entitled The conference concludes
Monica Wisner
generating "The Yellow with a banquet in the 
executive chair 
Peril: A Thing Mendoza College of Business
revenue by charging a $10 fee in order to cover costs." 
The conference kicks off with a lecture by Daren Mooko, director of the Asian-
dents. "It has the effect of hurting the special aspect of the residential community we have at Notre Dame." 
The ban of in-dorm dances and hard alcohol in halls was a double­whammy, according to Bishop. 
"I don't really know what they're trying to accomplish there," she said. 
In the wake of the probable changes, Bishop and Foley called for Student Affairs and Student Activities officials to increase fund­ing for student groups to plan on­campus events. The money would pay for attractive new program­ming on campus. 
Bishop and Foley c::aid they also will work with the CJ!lice of Alcohol and Drug Education to address the root causes ofabusive drinking. 
The pair has a scheduled meet­ing ,vith Poorman in early April. They said they would urge Poorman to include them and the student body in spelling out the details of policy initiatives. 
"When it's such a change as this that affects student life so much, I think student opinion is critical," Bishop said. 
Students in February elected Bishop and Foley, who had cam­paigned on the issue of clearing up unclear tailgating rules. 
Now, the announcement of three changes to the alcohol policy expands the pair's agenda. 
They pledged a zealous but real­istic campaign to represent student interests. 
"We need to work toward a fun­damental change in how policy is determined at this school," Foley said. 
Bishop added, "Hopefully, we can use this passion that people have about [alcohol policy changes] to get students to talk to us about other concerns affecting their lives here." 
Contact Jason McFarley at McFarley. l@nd.edu. 
of the Past atrium and an address by and Current Woo. Trend." "She exemplifies a lot of 
Throughout the day, confer­what we're trying to portray," ence participants will have Dang said of Woo. "Not only is the opportunity to attend 10 she a woman and a dean, but 
,.. 
Well maintained houses near cam!")us 
• 
Washers and dry<:rs provided 

• 
24-hour maintainance staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-4-5-& 8-bedroom houses 


' ' 
Only 4 left for the 2002-2003 school year Also leasing for the 2003-2004 school year 
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 274-9955 Voicemail: 674-2571 
she is Asian. When she heard about it [the conference] she was excited to speak." 
The conference is sponsored by more than 11 campus organizations and, if success­ful, may become an annual event, according to Dang. Fifty students from Notre Dame. Saint Mary's, Holy Cross College and Valpraiso University had registered as of Thursday. 
The Coalition will accept additional registrations on Saturday morning and through its Web site at www.nd.edu/-aaa/AAC. 
Contact Andy Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
If you were a Notre Dame professor, what would you say in your... 
Last Lecture? 
Alexander Hahn 
Department of Mathematics Director, AUSC Honors Program 
Tuesday, March 26 
7pm 
Welsh Fa111ily Hall Lounge 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED!!! 
SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT, WELSH FAMILY HALL, AND KEOUGH HALL 
Friday, March 22, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

and March 2001, referenced in Poorman's Monday e-mail to
Senate 
students, were composed of 
students. About 240 individu­
continued from page 1 
als participated in the forums. held outside and under tents and onlv 56 were students. would be evaluated on a case­In an· attempt to strengthen bv-case basis as all dances are their resolution, senators dis-
currently han­ cussed  the  
dled.  addition of a  
The  sup­ "We have a list and  clause that  
posed lack of student involvement in  there are 30 venues. Some of them are unique  would be linked to the Annual  
the l'ormation  and unexpected. "  Fund's  use  
of the alcohol  of SYRs  to  
policy was also emphasized by several sena­ Brian Coughlin director of student activities  advertise for fund raising. The Annual  
tors, although  Fund  is  a  
no  mention of  University­ 

student involvement was sponsored fundraiser directed included in the draft of the res­toward alumni. olution obtained by The The advertisement appeals Observer. to alumni to donate money so 
Blake Ilaan, Keenan Hall that future students could senator, pointed out that only enjoy SYRs as they once had. nine of the 28 focus groups The mailing included a picture heh.I between September 2000 of a couple at a dance and used the popular MasterCard adver­tisement to compare the SYR memory to a priceless experi­ence. 
The Senate intends to use the Annual Fund's use of SYRs to demonstrate that the University does recognize the traditions that arc associated with SYRs. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
A resolution to amend du Lac to include a disciplinary process flowchart was unani­mously approved. This flow­chart is intended to provide clarity for students and to aid them in their disciplinary hear­ings. 

. 
The resolution regarding an increase to club allocations will be voted on in next week's meeting. 


Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes l@nd.edu. 




Qua[ity Diamonds 
® 
John M~ Marshall's 
Incorporated 1965 
J.ewelers / Gemologists
Goldsmiths / Platim1msmiths 
K,~y Bank Building, Suite nlOl Souith Bend, Indiana 4161601 
287-14127 
.~,,.-.,, ~~":,
t .. ~ I 
Come To Papa
tf ~(
\ .,..~...,~ 
,_,.,-t.,Jf'',r7 
For A Celebration 
I ·½i 
•'' ,. :::,,
['!""c;z 
Of Great Taste! 
./~,1 
/'At Papa Vino's Italian Kitchen®you'II enjoy ~r • • ,,,,J generous portions of Italian entrees and 1~~('i~ . pastas like: '· ~ • Chicken Parmesan l ·-..,, 1( Shrimp Farfalle 
• 
• 
Chicken Scallopini 

• 
Pasta con Pollo 

• 
5almone alla Griglia 

• 
Shrimp Ravioli 


And remember, Papa recommends you 
complement your meal with our delicious 
appetizers, desserts and wines. 
Magnifico! 
MISHAWAKA S110 Edison lakes Parkway • 574-271-1692 RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED 
HOURS: Sunday-Thursday 11:00 a.mA0:OOp.m. &. Friday-Saturday 11:00 a.m.-ll:00 p.m. 
Madness invades at midnight at Angela 
By GRACE ARREDONDO News Writer 
A four-letter word that is in every college student's vocab­ulary will help pull in an expected 1,000 students to Midnight Madness held in the Angela Athletic Facility tonight. 
Free. 
The free food, free prizes, free games and alcohol-free fun are all factors that make this annual event the highest­attended student activity on campus. according to organiz­ers. 
Saint Mary's athletic direc­tor Lynn Kachmarik started Midnight Madness when she joined Saint Mary's three years ago and saw a commu­nity in need of an independent identity. 
"When I first got here [to Saint Mary's] I remember this overwhelming feeling of everything being about Notre Dame," Kachmarik said. "Our women were going across the street looking for a social life. I was glad Notre Dame was across the street, but I wanted to make life at school about Saint Mary's. I wanted the women to be excited about Saint Mary's." 
Kachmarik promoted cele­brating Saint Mary's and found much-needed support from College President Marilou Eldred and Vice President for Student Affairs Linda Timm. 
The tradition started as an inner-class contest, rather than being athletically based so that the main idea of school pride could be promot­ed throughout the Saint Mary's community. 
Many people would argue that the success of Midnight Madness lies heavily on the anticipation of the free give­aways throughout the night. 
This year's grand prize con­sists of a weekend for two in Chicago, two nights in the Ritz Carleton, dinner at the John Hancock Signature Room, $50 
brunch money on Sunday and $1,000 for a shopping spree. 
Other prizes range from blenders to DVD players. lap­top computers, gift certificates to the Inn at Saint Mary's and various restaurants in the area. Traditionally, everyone who attends will go home with a prize. Prizes are sponsored by the Vice President for Student Affairs Office and the Belles Varsity Club. 
Area restaurants, including Chick-Fil-A. Fazoli's, Papa John's, Wolfies and Studebagels contributed to the event. 
Freshman Shay Jolly believes the prizes will entice many students. 
"I think that a lot of people will be there just for the prizes, but once they are there they will see the whole purpose -Saint Mary's pride." 
Class competition will take place in events such body spelling, hula hooping, dodge ball, tug-o-war and Frisbee. 
Senior Denise Langlois said students will make the most of the event. 
"I won't be intimidated by any of the freshman or under­classmen when the classes compete for the grand prize," said Langlois. "I want the underclassmen to not hold back, to go crazy and savor every moment." 
Transfer sophomore Amber Looney is excited about her new experience with Midnight Madness and being able to be apart of a well-known Saint Mary's tradition. 
"I think it will be all about fun, friends, pride and most of all free food." said Looney. 
The event begins tonight at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility, and people must be in the building by 10 p.m. unless they have ticket stubs from the campus play "The Learned Ladies." 
Contact arre9847 at email@saintmarys.edu. 
Call Helena at 
1-5323 
and write for Observer News 
AmlISSIO:\ CALE:\D.\R 2002-03 
,Jwie 15  Last day to apply  
for Fall 2002  
August 26  First day of Fall Session  

• Master's degree in Clinical Social \Vork 
(lVLS.W) 
• 
Dual degrees: M.S.W. and Child Dwelopml.'"nt (M..S.), Law (J.D.), Divinity (M,Div.), or Child and Family Law (M.J.) 

• 
Classes at our Water Tower Campus, off North Michigan Avenue 


m' Chicago'lli /e&uil ll1Uvcrsity 
LOYOLA MSW Admission: Jude Gonzales 
at 312.915.7289
:¦.i::
~-~ ofSodalWork 
Friday, March 22, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
New magazine aims to inform students on careers 
By JOHN FANNING NewsWrirer 
In order to better inform stu• 
dents of career options that fit 
with their passions and interests, 
a group of Notre Dame under­
graduates has been working to 
establish a non-profit foundation 
called Changing Times. 
The project, which is unaffiliat­ed with the University, is the end­result of an idea originally con­ceived by Keough juniors John Cam10n and John Mirshekari. 
But because the two founders are currently studying abroad, they have put the project into the hands of a staff of about 20 stu­dents with a variety of majors and interests. 
According to the foundations mission statement. students often miss opportunities to pursue their dreams because they are unaware of 
with contemporary career issues facing today's students. 
The publication is merely a starting point for the organiza­tion, staff member Kaitlyn Dudley said. 
"The magazine is the first major channel that we are going to use, but it is not the totality of the foundation," she said. 
Changing Times staffers also hope to eventually include an interactive Web site and experi­ment with ot.her types of media. 
"Through a variety of media including but not limited to a magazine and Web site, Changing Times will provide col­lege students with this informa­tion and inspiration. Changing Times will relate the real stories of people, both professionals and students. who have come alive l.o their interests and made an impact on society," according to the mission statement. 
The group is 
the possibili­now in the
"Changing Times will
ties available process of sub­
relate the real stories of
to them. mitting its busi­College stu­people, both profession­ness plan to the dents, then. state of Indiana 
als and students. who
have a two­to become an
have come alive to their
fold need: official non­better infor­interests and made an profit organiza­
mation on impact on society. " tion. That 
their career would allow the options and group to receive inspiration to Changing Times funding from use their mission statement other charitable 
unique skills and interests to transform society. 
As a result of this concern, the foundation was formed with the goal of better informing students at Notre Dame and eventually at other schools across the country -about the options available to them after they graduate. 
Cannon, Mirshekari and their staff have modeled their project after successful enterprises such as student-run Web site NDToday.com, as well as founda­tions similar to their own at other universities such as Yale and Princeton. Yale, for example, has an entire office dedicated to stu­dent-run non-profit organiza­tions. 
The first tangible product of the enterprise will become avail­able to students in late April. It ""ill come in the form of a maga­zine called Aspire that will deal 
foundations, 
individuals and 
corporate spon­sors. "Changing Times relies a lot on networking," Dudley said. The group has several ambi­tious plans looming. 
"We hope to have a national release in the fall, to the schools that we feel most need to hear our message." 
Although Changing Times operates independently of the University, Dudley said the orga­nizations working with the school isn't out of the question. 
"We think that our mission is in line with the university's mission, and our goal is to work >\>ith the university in the future, though there is no relationship right now," she said. 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu. 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTHBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
www.iusb.edu/~cted 
GRE • 

Be better prepared for these critical exams with an intensive review class from IU South Bend. 
What makes our programs stand out from the competition? 
Value: Our review classes are priced hundreds of dollars LESS than other test prep programs. Proven strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions. Live, in-person instruction. No videotapes or remote telecasts. . _ . Experienced instructors with up-to-dale knowledge of the latest re~IsIons in the tests, providing you with tips you may not find in a book or onhne. In-class practice sessions with actual exam questions. Extensive take-home materials for additional review and practice 
THE FOLLOWING EVENING CLASSES ARE AVAILABLE THIS SPRING: 
GMAT Review: Mondays, April 15-May 13, 6:20-10:20 p.m., plus one Saturday, May 18, 1-5 p.m. at IUSB. Fee $429. GRE Review: Mondays, April 15-29, and Tuesdays, May 7-28, 6:20-10:20 p.m., plus one Saturday, May 18, 1-5 p.m. Fee: $499. 
To register or for more information, call lU South Bend Continuing Education: 237-4261. 
Prof talks on parents' WWII experiences 
By JILL MAXBAUER 
News Writer 
Until recently, Lisa Ganser, a Professional Specialist of Biology at Saint Mary's College, knew nothing about her parents experi• ence during World War II. But her uncle's discovery of family pictures in a book about the war in the Pacific inspired her parents to open up and discuss what hap­pened. Her parents and grand­mother videotaped their stories and memories and sent them to Ganser. 
"Thfl most special part or this story is that it's never been told. I didn't even know ahuut it until two weeks ago," Ganser said. But she felt that the stories were so strong, she wanted to share them Thursday in a lecture entitled "The War: A Pacific Islander's Perspective." 
Ganser's mother was five years old living in Guam when she remembers her father talking about "something going on" in late October 1941. Her mother recalls the Gaumanian's feeling deserted by America, although they were always hopeful that the Americans would come back. But American's left Guam completely defenseless for the Japanese attack on Dec. 8, 1941. 
Ganser's mother vividly remembers a ten-mile march that to concentration camps. The Guamanians were ordered out of their homes with as much as they could carry. Those who couldn't walk were carried. and the Japanese shot those who couldn't be carried. 
"My mother remembers watch­ing her father pull an ox cart on this march. It contained my grandmother and newborn uncle, as well as our possessions ... there was no grimacing, no com­plaining, it was just something that they had to do. They were too scared to show emotions," Ganser said. 
When they Guamanians got to the camp, they were told to build primitive huts and dig holes for toilet.'>. 
"These holes were awful. When it would rain. the holes would fill. spilling excrement every­where... many people got sick," Ganser said. "My mother had [hook] worms so bad, that when she coughed, worms flew out of her mouth." 
The Japanese occupation went on for two and a half years. Priests were killed, the soldiers hid the Guamanians from the American soldiers and there was sexual atrocities performed against the young women. 
"My mom witnessed all of these crimes, people being killed in front of their families," Ganser said. 
As many as 700 people were killed. which is devastating for such a low population. 
Ganser added. "A few years ago, my mom received a compen• sation check for one thousand dollars from the Japanese gov­ernment as a form of apology I guess..." 
Ganser said she found the strength the people or Guam showed during this time amazing. "They prayed all the time ... After the liberation, the people of Guam were quick to forgive ... well not quick, but they forgave the Japanese for their actions," she said. "My hypothesis is that they are such Catholic people, it is just part of their lives to forgive oth· ers." 
Ganser's father and grand­mother lived on the island of Oahu when Pearl Harbor was bombed. The family worked for the Dole Pineapple Plantation. Her father was eight years old and, along with a Japanese friend. had gotten up early to play that day. They lived twenty miles from Pearl Harbor and saw the planes begin the attack from a cliff on the island. 
"My dad remembers the smoke being so thick and it was so hot that he felt like he had to run." 
When her father ran back to the house, Ganser's grandfather told him to stay inside while he went to look for his mother. He could feel the bullets hitting the ground as the planes shot at the workers. 
"My grandmother was out in the field for the second wave," Ganser said. "While all the women heard the planes, they didn't take much notice since they lived in between military bases and planes were constantly in the air. That is until her friend saw the Rising Sun on the planes and they all became worried." 
After the attacks, everyone on the plantation had to dig their own bomb shelter. 
"My father's was six feet under­ground and ten feet wide, enough for a family of five, and it was stocked with water and canned food ... and there was always the air raid sirens going off," Ganser said. "My grandmother said she got so sick of them that she was going to wait to feel the bullets before running to the shelter again." 
Ganser said her father remem­bered how prisoners in the camps could be swept away with­out a moment's notice. 
"My dad's friend that be was playing with that morning, their family was forced to leave the next day, since there was such intense suspicion," she said. "He never saw his friend again. And he lived in fear that my grandfa­ther, who looked Japanese, would be taken away." 
Contact Jill Maxbauer at maxb3126@saintmarys.edu. 
CHEERLEADING 
Leptteebaun 
Tryouts 
J"nformal INFOR.kE4TIOl\l 1lfeeting 
1\'Ionday, l\'larcb 25, 2002 --5:30 p.n1. La .Fortu~c -1\tloutgnmery Theater 1st Floor 
o -Ask Questions · .. _ .:) .1\1eetthis vear)s ~he¢r team memb~rs 
.., ··: . '' .. . ' .
' ' 
-3 
·F.:veryone welcon1e ".} NO prior cheerleading txperience· re<1 uired -CUnks start3/26/02 · 
!.,........................................ 
----------------------------------~~-~---------­
-
Friday, March 22, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
California dog owners found guilty on all counts 

Asso~iatcd Pres, 
SAN FRANCISCO 
A woman whose two huge dogs mauled a neighbor to death in their San Francisco apartment building was convicted Thursday of murder, u charge almost never leveled in an animal attack. Her husband was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter. 
Mar:jorie Knollcr, 46, could get 15 years 1.o life in prison for the second-degree murder conviction in last year's death of 33-year-old Diane Whipple, whose throat was ripped open in a gruesome attack that left ihc hallway spattered with blood. 
Knollcr looked stricken upon hearing the verdict, fighting back tears and turning to look at hnr parents. She appeared to mouth, "llelp." 
Her 60-year-old husband, Hobert Noel, showed no reaction. Both were convicted on the manslaughter charge, as well as having a mischievous dog that killed someone. Those charges carry up to four years each. 
Sentencing was set for May 10 in San Francisco. In all, the jury deliberated for 11 1/2 hours over three days before convicting the couple on au counts. 
A large group of Whipple's friends and her domestic partner, Sharon Smith, burst into tears ih the courtroom. 
'There's no real joy in this but certainly some measure of justice for Diane was done today," Smith said later. "I'm glad to see the jury didn't buy some of the smokescreens that were put in front of them." 
The jurors reached verdicts on everything but the murder count on Wednesday. They said they took up the murder charge last, realizing it was the most serious charge and the most difficult. 
Juror Shawn Antonio, 27, said that the jurors played repeatedly a TV interview of Knoller in which she disavowed responsibil­ity for Whipple's death. 
"There was no kind of sympa­thy, no kind of apologies," he said. "It helped us a lot." 
[t was the first murder convic­tion in a dog-mauling case in California and was believed to be only the third of its kind in recent 
U.S. history. 
[n pursuing the charge, prose­cutors said the husband-and-wife lawyers knew their two powerful Presa Canarios were "time bombs," and they brought in more than 30 witnesses who said they had been terrorized by the dogs, Bane and Hera, which both outweighed the 110-pound vic­
tiin. 
The defense contended that Knoller and Noel could not have known their animals would kill, and that Knoller tried to save Whipple by throwing herself between her neighbor and the enraged Bane. They also disputed the witnesses' accounts of being menaced by the dogs. 
The gruesome case was a sen­sation in San Francisco: Whipple, a successful member of the city's gay community, was savagely killed outside her door in exclu­sive Pacific Heights by an exotic breed known for its ferocity. 
Soon word spread that the owners were lawyers who spe­cialized in lawsuits on behalf of inmates. They were also in the process of adopting an inmate, white-supremacist gang member Paul Schneider, who officials said was trying to run a business rais­ing Presa Canarios for use as guard dogs. 
The couple acquired the dogs from a farm in 2000 at·ter Schneider complained the ani­mals were being turned into "wusses" there. The dogs' former caretaker later testified she had warned Knoller that Hera was so dangerous it "should have been shot." 
After the attack on Jan. 26, 2001, Knoller and Noel defiantly blamed the victim. Noel. who was noi present during the attack and was not charged with murder, suggested Whipple may have attracted the dogs' attention with her perfume or even steroids. 
"It's not my fault," Knoller said in the TV interview that was played for the jury. "Ms. Whipple had ample opportunity to move into her apartment. She could have just slammed the door shut. I would have." 
In closing arguments, the pros­ecutor called her tone "cold as ice." 
"Marjorie, from what I could see, never took any responsibility until it was convenient for her to do so at trial," the victim's moth­er, Penny Whipple-Kelly, said afterward. "They had tried all along to blame my daughter and anybody else that they possibly could instead of looking at them­selves." 
The case made legal history even before the trial began when Whipple's partner, Smith, claimed the same right as a spouse to sue for damages. The Legislature enacted a law to allow such lawsuits by gay part­ners. 
Pretrial hearings were explo­sive, with the prosecutor alleging at one point that Knoller and Noel practiced bestiality with their dogs. Evidence relating to that claim was burred from the trial by the judge along with most evi­d cnc e . about the Aryan Brotherhood. 
The trial itself was grim: The jurors were shown 77 bloody photos of Whipple's wounds, many of them blown up to wall size on a movie screen. The pros­ecutors said the college lacrosse coach had been bitten every­where except the top of her head and the soles of her feet. 
Experts said the 120-pound Bane delivered the fatal wounds and prosecutors said Hera tore at Whipple's clothing during the attack. Both dogs were later destroyed. 
Knoller testified for three days, crying, shouting and insisting she never suspected her beloved dogs could be killers. 
"I saw a pet who had been lov­ing, docile, friendly, good toward people, turn into a crazed, wild animal," she sobbed, referring to Rane. 
Her lawyer, Nedra Ruiz, con­tributed to the courtroom drama by crawling on the floor, kicking the jury box and crying during her opening statement. In closing arguments, she accused prosecu­tors of trying to "curry favor with the homosexual and gay folks." 
Noel did not testify and con­tended through his lawyer that he had no warning the dogs would kill. But his letters to the couple's adopted son were read to the jury. Two weeks before the attack, Noel wrote about an inci­dent in which Whipple was fright­ened by the dogs as she entered the building's elevator. 
LARGE $10.99! 
(UP TO 3 TOPPINGS) 
2 FOR $18.9-9 
PIZZA COMPANV<t plzzadoneright 

NOW OPEN THURSDAY-SATURDAY till 2 am! 
Not good with other offer. Expires 4.10/02 SR 2J at Ironwood (next to SUBWAY) 271-1277 
-
page 10 Friday, March 22, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


How do you choose an employer in today's economy? Do you seek an organization who has been successful for nearly a century? A culture that promotes learning and a "think straight, talk straight" philosophy? Or, do you want to be part of an organization thafs committed to creating tangibie, positive results for clients? 
If you've replied "yes" to all of the above, then Andersen may be right for you. 
Attention University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Freshmen and Sophomores: Want to find out more about a career in professional services? Don't miss Andersen's workshop "Defining Your Aspirations" focused on uncovering your interests and career goals: 
The University Club Tuesday, April 9 
6:00 PM -9:00 PM 
Share dinner and learn more from our professionals about life in professional services and today's business world. Pre-register by Monday, April 1. Registration forms are available at The Career Center on the 2nd floor of Flanner Hall or email Andersen at chi-campus. recruiting@us.andersen.com. 
>
ANDERSEN 
www.andersen.com/ careers 
©2002 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 22, 2002 page l l 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nolfe Dame, IN •16556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46:,56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR! Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spcn~er Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Sheila Egrs PHOTO EDITOR, Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR, Andy Devoro 
AovrnnstNG MANAcrn, Marr Lutz Ao DESIGN MANAGtR: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Pahvd Chin WEH ADMINISTRATOR: Sam Brodfuehrer CONTROLLF.R: Lori Lcwalski DFVHOPMF:-,;T MANAGER: Amanct.1 Greco 
CONTACT Us 
Ol-FICE MANAGERiGlNERAL INF0..............631-7471 liAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5 313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. ]@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAJly's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMlNISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obrerver.11dedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather fot up-to-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online feature5 for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published afrer 
ro meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe E&ror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofal.I opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters ro rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qwmious regarding Ob,ervrr poli.;:it> should be dim·t­ed to Edit~r in ChiefJason McFarley. 
Leaders must confront officials 
This is the fourth in a series ofeditorials commenting on Residence Life official "Bill Kirk's door every day this sum­the proposed changes in the alcohol policy at Notre Dame. mer" as the policy is revised. The juniors won a close election in Pebruary in part by 
When Father Mark Poorman proposed major changes to campaigning on the issue of holding administrators account­the University alcohol policy Monday, Libby Bishop and Trip able for unclear student tailgating rules. Poorman's pro­Foley's student government administration posed changes somewhat address that issue. But started before current student leaders' Bishop and Foley must realize t~at they were
Qt5gerver
term had even ended. •al elected to represen.t all student mterests -not 
Poorman's announcement essentially just tailgating. forced Bishop and Foley, the student body While Bishop and Foley should insist that offi­president-and vice president-elect, to begin cials enact clear, convenient tailgating regulations fighting for student interests two weeks before the pair offi­this year, they must also demand that with these likely alco­cially takes office on April 1. But Bishop and Foley took a hol policy changes -and with all other changes affecting firm stand against the policy changes, vowing at undergraduate life -students and their elected leaders Wednesday's rally to play a significant role in the rewriting have a seat at the table to discuss how and why the of whatever policy University officials inevitably approve. University makes decisions. 
Their words rousingly wiped away any worries students Bishop and Foley should start confronting administrators might have had about the soon-to-be leaders' commitment to by speaking at Monday's Campus Life Council meeting, campus concerns. The pair, however, needs to immediately where Poorman will formally introduce the proposed turn that talk into action. changes. They must call for a student voice this spring in the 
It's one thing for Bishop and Foley to condemn administra­probable rewriting of the alcohol policy and should continue tors in front of 600 students who helped elect them and with to actively represent students and rally their support. whom they live, study and work. It's another thing to follow Wednesday was a good start. Now, Bishop and Foley must through on their Wednesday promise to students to be at quickly deliver more. 
Editon 
Address all types of violence 
In the field of conflict resolution, conquest, the mass slaughters of the Berrigan and groups likes Pax Christi, two types of violence exist: hot and innocent, the exploitation of whole the War Resisters League and the cold. social classes -these crimes are Fellowship of Reconciliation. 
Hot violence is the death and chaos committed by the organized communi-It is saying to those behind the of Sept. 11. Hot violence is the ty under the leadership of respectable attack: we forgive you. We reject Columbine High citizens." vengeance. We believe in political, School massacre, Colman Since Sept. 11 and Oct. 7 when legal and moral solutions to settling the Oklahoma pilots from the world's richest nation grievances, not killing more people.
McCarthy
City bombing. began bombing impoverished people And then summoning still more moral The unspeakable in Afghanistan, those of us who are courage, to ask the attackers to for-horror is visible pacifists have found ourselves ---:---,..~ give America for all of our violence,
Guest Column 
and visceral. denounced for not waving for being the world's major arms Outrage is imme-flags or joining the iL--rr peddler, for having a military diate. Emotions hordes who cheer /. """-'----==-budget 23 times greater are stirred. George W. Bush \t than the combined military 
Cold violence has little of that. It is and his war coun-, budgets of our seven out of sight, so routine as to arouse cil. ~ · alleged enemies, for few emotions, so ordinary as to leave A familiar ;,• : supporting dictators, the corporate media unstirred to script is being :'-for militarizing our report it. followed, as J' ___...._ schools with ROTC 
Cold violence is the worldwide daily written by 'Ji."· programs, for confer-death toll of some 40,000 people from Hermann R ring honorary preventable hunger-related diseases. Goering, the degrees on presi-Cold violence is the dying of Iraqis Nazi leader: ,:~; •.• dents who believe in 
.~ 
everyday caused by U.S.-imposed eco­"The people .,;. .: increasing budgets nomic sanctions. Cold violence is the can always be for military violence killing of 12 million animals a day to brought to do , ,· while decreasing satisfy America's taste for meat. the bidding of ~. t,·:t ;1, ; funds for the poor. 
We learn to compartmentalize. But the leaders. l ~,. :• 1" -k_ , Where to begin this 
how can we be selective, condemning That is easy. All '~\· ·',~ ••1-~ ••. overhaul? Perhaps in hot violence while condoning cold vio­you do is tell · 1if ' .~ the schools, with peace lence? Double-standard ethics means them they are ' · ·J /j education. Unless we 
that U.S. political leaders can decry being attacked and -{,\'· ' . , ') teach our children peace, the highly visible eruptions of violence denounce the paci-·:·, --:·:; :,. someone else will teach -the World Trade Center, Columbine fists for lack of patri-·· '.; :' _[' them violence. High, Oklahoma City -while ignoring otism." ..:; ;tl ~ public policy decisions that gird sys­The solution? Withdraw "•-,.,~~:1;: · Colman McCarthy, a former temic and institutionalized violence. support -political, financial Washington Post columnist. directs 
In "The Respectable Murderers, a and emotional -from all double-the Center for Teaching Peace in classic text on nonviolence, Paul standard practitioners of violence, hot Washington, D. C. He will deliver the Hanley Furfey. the Catholic University or cold, legal or illegal. Transfer the keynote address in the sociologist, wrote: "The sporadic support to those working to eliminate Undergraduate Peace Conference at 7 crimes that soil the front pages, the violence, no matter where it found or p.m. tonight in the College ofBusiness daily robberies, assaults, rapes and who is madly justifying it. Administration's Jordan Auditorium. murders, are the work of individuals This nonviolent response to Sept. 11 The views expressed in this column and small gangs. But the great evils, is in the tradition of Gandhi, Dorothy are those ofthe author and not neces­the persecutions, the unjust wars of Day, Jeannette Rankin, Daniel sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Meghanne Downes Courtney Boyle John Fanning 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
Scene 
Amanda Greco 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Jimmy Atkinson 
Production 
Noah Amstadter 
Lab Tech 
Angela Campos 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Should the administration 

"Leadership is practiced not so much in 
make the proposed changes to the alcohol policy? 
No 
words as in attitude and in actions." 
93% 

Harold Geneen 
Poll courtesy of NDToday.com Total Votes: 759 
entrepreneur 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, March 22, 2002 
Searching for integrity in politics 
While waiting in a cafeteria line on Capitol Hill, I observed two congressional staff members debating campaign tac­tics. 
One. a Democrat. accused former President George Bush of undermin­ing Democratic hopefuls in the late 1980s by using tac­tics typical of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
The other, a Hepublican, coun­tered by pointing out how absurd it would be for a sit­ting vice president Capitol to attempt to bug Comments the oflice of a potential oppo­nent. 
The two staff members were abuzz over a story published this week when Senate Minority Leader Trent Lott (R­Miss.) revealed· that in 1989 a listening device was discovered under a table before Lott. then a freshman senator, moved into his fourth floor suite. The table had been in Sen. Joseph Biden's (D­Del.) conference room which the Delaware senator had just vacated. 
"That was the table where we did all the presidential planning," Biden, who mounted a bid for the Democratic presi­dential nomination in 1987, said in con­firming Lott's report. "We had all my meetings when I was running for presi­dent at that conference table." 
Biden, who is considering a second run for the White House, said those in his inner circle always wondered how infor­mation from their strategy sessions was being leaked. 
"I was the only one to use [the room]," Eiden said. "We couldn't understand how certain things and certain information and rumors and all this stuff about me, the plagiarizing and that stuff' made its way outside the room. 

Biden continued, "We couldn't under­stand how the hell people knew some of this stuff." Biden exited the race for the Democratic presidential nomination in September 1987 under a dark cloud after he was accused of using parts of a speech from British politician Neil Kinnock. The cul­prit in the eavesdrop­ping incident was never discovered. 
Our "chow line debate" escalated when the Democrat likened the Iran-Contra era tactics against Riden with the current President's cam­paign tactics in the South Carolina primary against Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) in 2000. 
The Republican shot back that the NAACP produced television ads against Bush/Cheney that were in poor taste, to which the Democrat questioned, "Oh, and the NRA treated Gore/Leibermann with civility?" 
I leaned towards the man behind me, not knowing his party affiliation, and said, "These two are classic examples of what this place has become after New Gingrich gained control. Why can't any­body be civil like Democrats and Republicans used to when Gerry Ford (R-Mich.) and Tip O'Neill (D-Mass.) were party leaders?" 
The man behind me said that he was a Republican from South Carolina who just lost his county chairmanship because he supported McCain in 2000. He said, "I hate to say this, but I agree with the Democrat. You have not seen a dirtier campaign than the South Carolina pri­
mary. I was with Mrs. McCain when she first saw the pam­phlet claiming that she had an abortion, and she was devastated." He continued by saying that this Bush administra­tion has more conservatives in 
it than the Reagan admin­istration, and that every issue was held as a litmus test for fellow 
Republicans. He complained that party members 
cannot be 90 per­cent with the right wing; they must be 100 percent. He sup­ported a local Republican congressman who admits he wants gov­
ernment funding to work for his district, and the local Christian wing of the party in his state is mounting an effort to defeat him in the primary. 
I said that l would love for someone to challenge all the current Republicans in congress who complain about the size of government and taxation. "Let them go without any federal funding for one year in their districts. and then we'll see just how important government is to local communities," I said. 
I continued by saying that I admired John McCain because he reminded me of Harry Truman. Both of them said their minds and did not walk blindly down the party path. I recalled how Ronald Beagan recognized that a year after his tax cuts, he needed to make adjustments and worked with congress while the cur­rent president will not entertain the notion of simply reassessing the sched­uled future cuts. 
I said that I found it ironic how the Bush campaign chided Al Gore for using focus groups when they had done the same thing. 1thought it interesting that Bush kept his DUI arrest a secret while trying to claim that he had the most integrity of any candidate. And I men­tioned how Bush recently said he really did not know the Enron CEO well until documents released showed how the two were extremely close and often social­ized together. 
My new South Carolina friend said. "You don't know the half of it. Those folks will allow Secretary of State Colin Powell to endorse the use of condoms because they need him. but they try to destroy somebody like me who wants to use government to better my community. YoU' just don't know the half of it." 
As I lowered my plate onto my tray, I turned to him and said, "By the sound of it. I don't think l want to." 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame class of 1973, served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and Public A.ff airs Director. His column appears every other Friday. and his e­mail address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

They're pushing us around 
There has been a lot of vilification of Father Mark Poorman the past couple of days and frankly I'm dis­turbed by it. People have been writing "Osama bin Poorman" on dry-erase boards, putting pictures of him in the urinals for target practice and ranting about him in public until they foam at the mouth and people have to drag 
Joe Muto 
them out of the Waddick's line say­ing "Calm down, Muto, you just wet yourself." 
Livin' on a 
Actually, I can't blame the good 
Prayer
Padre. because it's not the man's fault. For you see, he is not Father Poorman at all, but an evil clone, hell bent on destroying all fun on campus. I have no proof of this, but that's the only explanation I can think of for this blunder of Three Stooge proportions. 
I spoke at the rally the other day. For the record. I did not say that "celibate white men" are pushing us around. I said that "middle-aged, celibate white men" are pushing us around. I hate being misquoted. 
I believe that my comment has some validity. The stu­dents of Notre Dame. a diverse group that holds a vari­ety of different viewpoints and has a wide range of val­ues and opinions. is being controlled by a small contin­gency of priests who don't exactly have their fingers on the pulse of the student body. It's like Walter Kronkite trying to direct a Jay-Z video. 
Obtuse metaphors aside, the administration has total­ly lost touch with the student body and seemingly. with reality. If l\'otre Dame is a family, then current students are noisy kids banished from the adult table. We have to sit at the kids' table until we're wealthv alumni and can sit with the adults. This policy is a way to shut up the noisy kids without dealing with any real problems like the horrible state of' gender relations or the severe lack of activities that would drive many to drink in the lirst place. 
The most infuriating thing is that administrators 
assume a condescending attitude, like it is beneath them even to deal with us. They seem shocked that a group of sex-deprived, frozen and bored stiff 20-year olds would want to do anything but sit around and play Monopoly at LaFortune on Saturday nights. 
If they take away my booze, my tailgating. and my Mardi Gras, after already taking away my right to con­fer with women after-hours, l have a feeling I'm going to go slowly crazy like Jack Nicholson in "The Shining." Don't be surprised next year if campus police have to shoot me off the North Quad water tower after I climb it with a high-powered BB gun and start picking people off. 
I'm going to cut this off now, because l want to save room for others' opinions. But I'd like to address the students first. 
The rally was a great start. But we can't stop there. I can see exactly what Poorman is up to. He's threatening SYHs, knowing that we would conveniently protest. But he never had any intention of getting rid of SYRs. My guess is we an1 going to get SYRs back, we're going to pat ourselves on the back. reeling that we got something done. Then we'll blindly go back to our daily tasks while the administration bends us over on the tailgating and hard alcohol issues. Do not let this happen. 
We need to show that we have a voice, and we will not lay idly by and get pushed around. Burning du Lac is a good start. I'd burn my copy, except I'm using it to prop up one of my stereo speakers. Show the adminis­tration they can't pull the wool over our eyes. Next year 1will be O'Neill Hall's president, and not only will I ignore any new rules that go into effect, but I will urge my freshmen to ignore them as well. They ,viii beat us only if we let them beat us. 
Joe Aiuto is a sophomore FIT and English double major. Ile can be contacted at jmuto@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Where's the proof! 
Students have made some excellent points regarding the changes in the alcohol policy; however, what I would like to see is the proof that backs these changes up. 
Father Mark Poorman claims 30 focus groups were consulted before this decision was made, but declines to specify who they were and what was said. His letter makes references to percentages. numbers, and comparisons to other schools, yet does not include these statistics and assumes we will simply take his word for it. 
Perhaps ii' students had access to the results of this study, we could better under­stand how this decision was made. If the sit­uation is really that bad, then the evidence will be right there for all of us to sec. At a universitv of the caliber of' Notre Dame, it would se~m reasonable to believe that the students could gain insight into the adminis­tration's decision through the publication of these statistics. Whatever that insight may be, at least the University would have afforded some respect to the students that they are attempting to protect. Who knuws, we might even agree. 
Ryan Pohlman 
1unior Soran Hall March 20. 200.' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT
Friday, March 22, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Examining the new alcohol policy 

New rules show lack of respect for students 
As rrn off-campus. 21-year old senior next year, the new alcohol policies do not 
affect me in Lhe least. In fact, I'm now better off since I can tailgate \\<ithout fear of 
fine or harassment like so many of-age tailgaters experienced this past season. 
So why am I enraged about Father Poorman's new policy? It shows an utter lack 
of respect for and confidence in the student body. Of course. this problem is not 
new. and Notre Dame faculty members face similar problems, but never has this 
outrage been so manifest as now. Much is being said about the direct impact of the 
policy on campus life. I wish to add my views of the larger picture here. 
I doubt that anyone would deny that the students, faculty and alumni of Notre Dame are what make us a great University. Notre Dame carries a tradition of excellence in academics. but unlike other top-tier schools, we have strong social traditions that make us a family, resulting in one of the most dynamic alumni net­works in the country. 
Furthermore. unlike so many other universities, we have great respect for our school. We do not riot when we win national championships (or lose them), and we do not hold mass protests against policies we think are unjust. We usually respect the administration's decisions, learn to live with them and adjust our lives accord­ingly, like mature adults. No doubt, many were upset when the Graffiti Dance, the campout for football tickets and Sophomore Siblings· weekend were cancelled. but we eventually took these actions as a loss, moved on and embraced the new Notre Dame. Could we have protested, taken action, embarrassed this University unbear­ably? Yes. Did we? No, we were more mature than that. 
What Poorman's policies tell us is that the University does not see students as adults, but as uncouth youngsters that must be monitored and controlled in every way, shape and form. Instead of approaching us as adults. seeking our input (and I'm not talking focus groups possibly made up of anti-drinking. anti-social people here). the administration acted like bad parents. They waited until housing con­tracts were in for next year and until RAs were hired (I'm sorry, guys) to unveil their tradition-killing plans. 
It was a sly move. Perhaps the students. forced to live under their new, tighter rules, will eventually forget we ever had SYRs and tailgating and there would be a minimum of student response. Wrong. There will be enough of us that remember when we could be social on campus to keep the fire alive. 
The problem goes way beyond alcohol, parietals, or even being able to fish in the lake. The lives and livelihoods of the heart and soul of the school, the students and faculty are in the hands of a handful of administrators, some of whom probably forgot what it was like to be a college student. We have no voice and when we ask for one, we are refused. The saddest thing of all, however. is that no matter what the students do, no matter how much backing from all majors. ages, sexes, races, sexual persuasions or social types we have, the administration will not listen. I feel sorry for the underclassmen and the incoming freshmen. They all deserve to have the same Notre Dame tradition I experienced as a freshman and sophomore. 
When I came to Notre Dame as a freshman, I was amazed at the level of cama­raderie and closeness in the dorms. I had close friends at every grade level, in every major, and I never felt the need to leave campus to have a good time. I sel­dom felt held down by the rules. 
In the short three years I have been a student here, much has changed. Already, before the new alcohol regulations have taken effect, I have noticed a dwindling dorm spirit, or rather a flame starved for oxygen from an overbearing administra­tion. I have seen our administration take action against long-standing traditions that were never a problem and stifle our spirits without warning, Three years ago, I would have recommended the school to anyone. Now, I see Notre Dame as an excellent place to delay or harm one's social development and to increase one's stress level to outrageous levels. 
Some argue that if you don't love the school, including all the changes it may care to make at will. you should find somewhere else to go. If the administration wants to parent a school full of overstressed. fake-ID wielding. drunk-driving, immature and unwieldy students on a campus where few and mostly underclass students live in the dorms (where they can't wait to get out), they may. 
However, I cannot have respect or admiration for a rule-making administration that does not respect us or treat my friends and me as adults. Give us a say, a real say, and mean it, or I guarantee Notre Dame will not be Notre Dame any more -it will be another school in the Midwest, and that would be a shame. 
Jesse Hensley 
junior • Siegfried Hall Mar~h 20, 2002 
Learn from the past 
I was a sophomore in 198:i. I expect­ed to live on campus until I was a senior. Then the 1984 alcohol policy was announced. It took two minutes for us to agree that we were moving off campus early. 
In 18 years the administration has learned nothing. I'm pushing 40 now, but I remember enough to know that believing that banning hard alcohol on campus will decrease abusive drinking is absurd. Completely. utterly. absolute­ly absurd. It's the behavior of an ostrich. Personal experience teaches me that for those who want to drink, the proposed changes in the alcohol policy will increase their drinking. not decrease it. 
I think back to those days and I thank God that I never killed any of my bud­dies or myself driving to off campus bars and parties or doing any of the other ridiculously stupid things we did. I lived through it relatively unscathed, but not everybody will. 
No one who reads this should think that I condone abusive drinking. The administration is right about one thing. Binge drinking is dangerous. But the administration's answers to the prob­lem are so far from adequate that it shocks me. As much as my alumni friends complained about ineptitude in the search for a football coach, the alcohol policy review process makes that search look stellar in comparison. 
The solution must be student-based. It cannot be dictated from above. The answers to ultimatums from above will be rebellion today just as it was 18 years ago when I moved off campus in an act of defiance. Today's acts of defi­ance will perpetuate the problem, not diminish it. 
I guess you can always review the policy again in another 18 years when this try fails. 
Timothy Short 
class of '87 
Mill Creek, Ind. 
March 20, 2002 
How important is booze? 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
movies 
page 14 Friday, March 22, 2002 
By MATT NANIA and MELISSA RAUCH 
Scene Movie Critics 
In most years, by the time the Academy Awards ceremony rolls around, the winners have already become a foregone conclusion. Because the Oscars arrive at the end of a long line of awards shows and crit­ics' picks, which statistically predict the Academy's selections quite well, the actual bestowing of the golden statue seems little more than a formal­ity. 
Not so this year. 
While some frontrunners have 

emerged, the 74th Annual Academy Awards seems ripe for surprises and upsets. As always, behind-the-scenes antics and Hollywood politics cloud the issue of who or what is actually the most deserving, but this year the diverse nature of the nominated films and acting roles has split the industry more than ever, resulting in a wide variety in their choice of winners. 
Each of the films nominated for Best Picture, for instance, has received that highest designation by some other vot­ing body, making predictions much more difficult. 
In both the male and female lead act­ing competitions a heated two-way race has developed. For the men, 
Oscar forecast­ers are debat­ing between Russell Crowe and Denzel Washington. For the women, Sissy Spacek and Halle Berry are battling it out. 
Also adding to the drama, this year marks the first time three African­Americans have been nominated in lead acting categories. 
In the past, only Sidney Poitier has achieved the Best Actor award, while no black woman has ever earned the prize. Denzel Washington, Will Smith and Halle Berry will look to increase that total. 
Interestingly, Poitier will receive an Honorary Lifetime Achievement Award for his 

career in film. 
To find out the winners and check out the stars' attire, tune into the 74th Academy Awards, hosted live on ABC by Whoopi Goldberg this on Sunday at 8 p.m. 
Below is an in­depth look at each category and Melissa (MR) and Matt's (MN) predic­tions: 
Best Picture 
Nominees: "A Beautiful Mind," "Gosford Park," "In the Bedroom," "Moulin Rouge" and "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship ofthe Ring" 
The race for the most sought-after trophy in entertainment consists of five very different films. Leading the pack is "A Beautiful Mind," which depicts the true story of John Nash and his battle with schizophrenia. 
Well, "true" might be too strong of a word considering the media backlash the film has received for its alleged historical inaccuracies. 
But these criticisms (instigated by Miramax, who's pushing its contender, "In the Bedroom") have been met with equal support from journalists who feel that the film is truthful to the spir­it and overall life story of its subject. 
Controversy aside, the film has been well-received by both critics and audi­ences. 
Which brings us to "Lord of the Rings," the expensive, action-packed box office hit that mimics the style and success of last year's winner, "Gladiator."However, fantasy films have never done well on Oscar day, so voters will be hesitant to award the series from the get-go. 
"Moulin Rouge" has been gaining steam, according to some pundits, but it's a stretch to think that such a wild and innovative film will appeal to the Academy's more conservative contin­gent. 
"In the Bedroom" is the critical dar­ling, but unlike "American Beauty," the previous award-worthy look at suburban family life, it doesn't have much comedy or optimism. 
Last but not least, there is "Gosford Park." This upstairs-downstairs Robert Altman ensemble is set in a mansion on the English countryside. Post-Sept. 11, the Academy wants to award a film that lifts the spirits and verifies the triumph of human nature. No movie about a bunch of gossip-monger­ing snobs will receive much acclaim at the show. 
The winner will be: MR and MN: "A Beautiful Mind" 
Best Actress 
Nominees: Halle Berry for "Monster's Ball," Judi Dench for "Iris," Nicole Kidman for "Moulin Rouge," Sissy Spacek for "In the Bedroom" and Renee Zellweger for "Bridget Jones's Diary" 
This is a three-way race between Berry, Kidman and Spacek. Dench has won enough Oscars already, and not enough people saw "Iris," so she's unlikely to win. Zellweger should feel honored just to be nomi­nated. 
Spacek was the early favorite after winning over the New York 
and Los Angeles Film Critics associ­ations, the Foreign Press Association ( G o I d e n Globes) and the American Film Institute. 
B e r r Y ' s recent victory with the Screen Actors Guild has caused a stir. however, with many pointing out the A c a d e rn y tends to favor Y o u n g e r actresses (see Julia Roberts' win last year). Kidman is also poised as a potential usurper of S P a c e k ' s crown, as vot­ers may want to congratulate her for both of her acclaimed performances this year ("Moulin" and "The Others"), as well as her personal triumph follow­ing that nasty divorce with Tom Cruise. 
The winner will be: MR: Nicole Kidman MN: Halle Berry 
Best Actor 
Nominees: Russell Crowe for "A Beautiful Mind," Sean Penn for "/ Am Sam," Will Smith for "Ali," Denzel Washington for "Training Day" and Tom Wilkinson for "In the Bedroom" 
Russell Crowe is up for a Best Actor Oscar for the third year in a row. Had he not won (inexplicably) for "Gladiator," he would be the clear-cut favorite this time around, despite his behavior at the British Academy of Film and Television Arts Awards cere­mony, where he berated and muscled the show's producer after the actor's acceptance speech was cut off for time. 
This little incident was the subject of much attention last month, and it may have hurt his chances to walk away with the Oscar for the second year in a row (an honor that the Academy may not wish to give out). But one gets the sense that voters simply don't care about the man's behavior. The evi­dence: last year Crowe was labeled a marriage-breaker due to his affair with Meg Ryan, but that obviously didn't hurt his votes. And his win at this year's Screen Actors Guild Awards indicates further that he's more respected for his work than for any­thing else. 
But Crowe has stiff competition in 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE.
movies 
Friday, March 22, 2002 
page 15 
Opie/Richie Cunningham days to finally join the Big Boys. 
The winner will be: MR: Robert Altman MN: Ron Howard 
the form of Denzel Washington, who's com­manding per­formance in the gritty cop­d r a m a ''Training Day" is the film's most highly praised aspect. Voters may take this chance to a w a r d Washington for years of fine acting, even though the character he portrays -a corrupt cop ­isn't exactly sympathetic. Race as an issue in the Oscar system cannot be ignored, and with the nomi­nations of Smith and Halle Berry, the Academy is clearly looking to award at least one 
African-American at this year's cere­mony. If it's not Washington, then it'll be Berrv. and vice-versa. 
The o'ther contenders for Best Actor -Penn, Smith and Wilkinson -have the chance to upset if the vote between Crowe and Washington is split. 
The winner will be: MR: Hussell Crowe MN: Denzel Washington 
Best Director 
Nominees: Robert Altman for "Gosford Park," Ron Howard for "A Beautiful Mind." Peter Jackson fur "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring." David l,ynch for "Mulholland Drive" and Ridley Scott for "Black Hawk Down ... 
While Altman and Howard have emerged as the frontrunners for the prize, the nominated men in this cate­gory all seem deserving of the award. While many critics couldn't decide exactly what to make of "Mulholland Drive," most praised Lynch for his unique cinematic vision. 
Without a matching nomination for Best Picture however, Lynch's chance of victory is quite small. Ditto for Scott, who couldn't muster the win last year even when his film, "Gladiator," tri­umphed over all. 
For his multiple-year work on the "Rings'.' trilogy, Jackson should be rec­ognized for undertaking such a daunt­ing task. Unfortunately, he's a Hollywood unknown and still has two films. and voters could wait to award him later. That leaves the sentimental favorites: Altman, who's never won despite an impressive body of work, and Howard, who's overcome his 

Supporting Actress 
Nominees: 
Jennifer Connelly 
for "A Beautiful Mind," Helen Mirren for "Gosford Park," Maggie Smith for "Gosford Park," Marisa Tomei for "In the Bedroom" and Kate Winslet for "Iris" 
Unlike most categories this year, the Supporting Actress race has a clear favorite: Jennifer Connelly. She has emerged a fine actress in the past few years: starring in smaller independent films and winning the highly coveted part opposite Russell Crowe in "A Beautiful Mind." In terms of actual screen time, the character of Alicia Nash, John Nash's wife and main source of support, is nearly a leading role. Academy voters recognize this and will reward her effective, moving performance with the Oscar. Helen Mirren and Maggie Smith will split the "Gosford Park" vote, and both Marisa Tomei and Kate Winslet seem to lack support. 
The winner will be: 
MR and MN: Jennifer Connelly 
Best Supporting Actor 
Jim Broadbent for "Iris," Ethan Hawke for "Training Day," Ben Kingsley for "Sexy Beast," Sir Ian McKellen for "The lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" and Jon Voight for "Ali" 
While Broadbent and Kingsley won raves for their performances this year, McKellen is the likely favorite. As Gandalf the Wizard, McKellen provided the heart and soul of "Lord," the year's most-nominated film. Voters who could not muster the courage to vote for the fantasy picture for Best Picture will want to compensate by awarding the film an acting award. As for the others, "Training Day" belongs to Washington, not Hawke; and Voight did not have enough screen time (bare­ly 13 minutes) in "Ali" to make him a legitimate contender. 
The winner will be: MR and MN: Ian McKellen 
Screenplay -Adapted 
Nominees: "A Beautiful Mind," "Ghost World," "In the Bedroom," "The lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" and "Shrek" 
Akiva Goldsman has written his share of trashy screenplays ("Lost in Space" and "Batman & Robin"), but his script for "A Beautiful Mind" more than warrants a nomina­tion. The film's narrative benefits greatly from the writer's choice to hold back certain facts from its audience as John Nash becomes schizophrenic. If it weren't for the contro­versy surrounding the accuracy of the film's depiction, "Mind" would be a shoe-in. The most likely upsets are the screen­plays for "Lord of the Rings," a tri­umph of compression (from epic novel to epic film), and "In the Bedroom," a triumph of expansion (from short story to two-hour character drama). But considering "Mind's" win at this year's Writers Guild Awards, it looks like Goldsman will fittingly go home with a gold man. 
The winner will be: 
MR and MN: "A Beautiful Mind" 
Screenplay -Original 
Nominees: "Amelie," "Gosford Park," "Memento," "Monster's Ball" and "The R o y a l Tenenbaums" 
While each of these films won many critical accolades, "Memento" is the most deserv­ing and should win the award. Having been unfairly ignored in the Best Picture category, this award would be a fit­ting consolation to the film's writer/director Christopher Nolan. 
Unfortunately, the film that will likely win the award is ''Gosford Park," the winner of the Writers Guild of America award for best screenplay. The WGA often fore­casts the Oscars accurately; how­ever "Memento" was left off its ballot due to a technicality and 
Among the other nominees, "The Royal Tenenbaums," the unconvention­al comedy also overlooked for a best­film nomination, has a slim but unlike­ly chance. The final two films need not hold their breath in this category, as "Monster's Ball's" best shot lies with Halle Berry and "Amelie" will likely win for Best Foreign Film. 
The winner will be: 
Mil: "Memento" 
MN: "Gosford Park" 
Contact Matt Nania at nania.4@nd.edu and Melissa Rauch at mrauch@nd.edu. 

therefore never "The Lord of the Rings," with Its 13 nominations, may not considered. win as many awards as hoped, since there are still two more movies to follow and receive acclaim. 

page 16 The Ob.erver . SPORTS Friday, March 22, 2002 
2002 NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Indiana upsets top-seeded Duke, 7 4-73 

Associaled Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
With a never-give-up rally and a wild ending, Indiana produced an upset of Duke as stunning as any in the Hoosiers' hoops history. 
Chipping away persistently at a deficit that was as big as 17 points. Indiana took advantage of another Jason Williams mis­cue at the foul line and beat the defonding national champion Blue Devils 74-73 in the South Regional semifinals Thursday night. 
Top-seeded Duke had a chance to tie it with 4.2 seconds left when Williams -a unanimous All-American -was fouled as he made a loug 3-pointer to get the Blue Devils within a point. But he missed the free throw, and Carlos Boozer couldn't convert a follow shot. 
Indiana (23-11), seeded fifth, makes it first trip to a regional final since Rob Knight took them to the final eight in 1993. The Hoosiers will play the winner of the Kent State-Pittsburgh game with a chance to move on to the Final Four. 
"No one believed in us, that we could win this basketball game," Hoosiers coach Mike Davis said. "I hope now that people know I can coach." 
It was the most significant victory of his tenure. which began ,vhen Knight was fired in 2000. Davis has had to deal with the pressure of succeeding a coach who won three national titles in a state that treats basketball as religion. 
Davis jumped high in the air and raced onto the court with his players to cele­brate the victory over Duke, which returned four starters from last year's title team. 
Williams, only a 67 percent free-throw shooter, left the Rupp Arena court in tears. 
Jared Jc ffries had 24 points and 15 rebounds for the Hoosiers. who held Duke to 33 percent shooting in the second half. 
"The team worked so hard the whole year to. get to this point." Jeffries said."Duke's a very good team, they put a lot of pressure on us." 
The last words from Davis to his team before they ran onto the f1oor: "Let's go shock the world." 
The Hoosiers were shockingly bad, though, at start. They allowed Duke to take a 29-12 lead 11 minutes in, scoring 19 of those points off Indiana turnovers. 
But the Hoosiers used a 17-5 run to close to 63-62 with 5:42 left as Jarrad Odle scored 11 of his 15 points and Jeffries became nearly unstoppable inside. 
Indiana was helped by the poor shoot­ing of Williams. The guard followed up his 5-for-18 shooting game against Notre Dame in the second round with a 6-for-19 effort against Indiana. 
Boozfff led the Blue Devils with 19 points and nine rebounds, but he, along with several other starters, got into foul trouble late. Duke's defense. which caused a season-high 23 turnovers by Indiana, was soft inside late. 
The lilue Devils led by double digits at halftime Thursday despite a combined 4­for-16 shooting effort from Williams and Dunleavy. Boozer had 12 points at the break, and Chris Duhon had seven to help make up for the difference. 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Slumping Irish lose second straight to No. 51 Purdue 
puts the team in a tight spot as teams that we know we can able to build on that momentum point when Lindsey Green rolled By COLIN BOYIAN they enter the toughest part of beat." in the singles competition as past Melissa Woods, 6-4, 6-3. Spores Wri[cr their schedule. Against the Boilermakers. Purdue used a pair of upset vic­However, Purdue closed out 
The Irish will return to action Notre Dame slipped into an early tories over ranked Notre Dame the match when Shawn 
In a year characterized by Wednesday against Illinois, fol­hole by losing the doubles point. players to maintain the upper Zuccarini fought through a first­streaky play, the Notre Dame lowed by tough contests against Purdue picked up victories hand. set tiebreak and defeated junior women's tennis team is finding top 25 opponents Wake Forest, against Notre Dame's top two Purdue's Gretchen Haynor got Katie Cunha, 7 -6, 6-1 at No. 5 itself losing some ground at a Duke and North Carolina. doubles teams to secure the the hosts rolling early with a 6-1, singles. dangerous time. Senior captain Becky Varnum opening edge. Meanwhile, Alicia 6-1 win at No. 2 singles over After the match was decided, 
The 22nd-ranked Irish knows the Irish will have to play Salas and Sarah Jane Connelly senior Nina Vaughan. Connelly lost a three-set super dropped their second consecu­better than they have in recent continued their impressive dou­Moments later. Iqbal gave the tiebreak decision at No. 6 singles tive match Thursday afternoon, matches. bles showing by earning an 8-1 Boilermakers a 3-0 match lead to Amy Walgenbach, 7-6, 1-6, 1­losing 5-2 to No. 51 Purdue at "For some reason, we really win over the Boilermaker tan­when she won 7-5, 6-2 over No. 0 (10-6}. the Lafayette Sports Center. haven't been prepared for our dem of Melissa Iqbal and Lara 75-ranked Becky Varnum, 7-5, 
The setback pushes Notre matches mentally," said Burgarello. 6-2 at No. 1 singles. Contact Colin Boylan at Dame to 10-7 on the season and Varnum. "We've lost to some Their teammates were not Notre Dame earned its first cboylan@nd.edu. 
· The Observer accepts classifieds every business clay from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Nurre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit-all classifieds fot content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Fraternities•sororities*Clubs'Stude nt Groups Earn $1.000-$2,000 with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event. Does not involve credit card applications. Functraising dates are filling quickly, so call today' Contact Campusfundraiser.com at (888)­923-3238, or visit www.campus­fundraiser.com. 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 3 NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND NORTH 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097 B & B for ND grad 4 rooms 3 miles ND (574)287-4545 
WANTED 
2000 grad seeking room or apart­ment to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1 . 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 or email krup78@hotmail.com 
Camp Counselor for children w/ dis­abilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $7­S11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 6 sites in Summit County Must enjoy outdoor activities. Call 800-CYO-CAMP for an appli­cation. 
In-home NANNY needed to care for 1-year-old infant. mornings and/or afternoons, all summer (mid-May to mid-August). Experience with infants, references, and transporta­tion required. Contact Dr. Knoedler: 631-4264 or aknoedle@nd.edu 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with disabilities. Located on the shore ot Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ Arts & Crafts/ Recreation/ Canoeing, Nurses, Therapists, Food Services annd Auxilary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible and love children. June 16 through August 11. Salary, room & board and experience of a life• time provided. Notre Dame stu­dents have the opportunity to participate through the summer ser­vice project Call or write tor appli­cation and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette. Ml 49855, (906) 228-5770, e-mail Ba:tC1ittHC@aol.com 
FOR SALE 
Men s new black leather jacket (med) $150. 631-6234 or 616-684­6692. 
2000 VW Jetta GLS. immaculate, automatic, loaded (CD. monsoon sound, cruise, moonroot), 14,500 miles, white w/ black leather interi­or. Onl:t $161500 Contact 289-7194 
FOR RENT 
MMMAentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
4 bdrm/2 bath house, Available after 6/1. 3 block from campus. Call (773)-486-8862. 
5 tastefully decorated rooms for rent for Graduation/ND Football weekends in private home, less than 2 miles north of campus. Continental breakfast included, many happy repeat customers! 
Call 
Kim 277-8340 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )large (6-9) people 
2) medium (3-5 people). Call Bill at 532-1896. 
Summer Rent 2-bdrm Castle Point partfurn 243-0195 
2 Great Homes: 4 & 5 Bedrooms. Well Keptl Great Location! ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255-8403. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house. wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cottage ..cute.. DAVE 291-2209 
3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM· PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 272­6306,292-6717 
PERSONAL 
BEST RESTROOMS? Has anyone seen the ones in the basement of the SDH? They would be No. 1 on the 'Worst" list. 
Save a tree Please recycle The Observer, 
wouldnt ii be great if 600 folks showed up at the hate crimes vigil sat at 1230pm? 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude. CSC. at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER 
Like sports? Like writing? Write for Sports. Call Chris at 1-4543. 
Like news instead? Write for News. Call Helena at 1 ·5323. 
Like taking pictures? Work for Photo. Call Nellie at 1·8767. 
Do you follow the campus entertain-men! scene? Write for Scene. Call Spencer at 1-4540. 
Observer online: ooserver.nd edu 

Friday, March 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish expecting close match against Hoosiers 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Wricer 
Thi'. lust two times Notre Dame played Indiana, the Irish lost to the Hoosiers, 4-3. 
Saturday, when the seventh­ranked Trish travel to Bloomington, they expect some resistance but arc not about to allow the 57th-ranked Hoosiers to upset them. 
"I think they always give us some trouble," Notre Dame's Javier Taborga said. "The last two years they beat us, and l think the team is waiting for this for redemption." 
The last two times, Notre Dame had the skill and ability to win, according to Taborga, moved from the 20th-ranked to the 11th-ranked singles player in the nation after going 4-0 at last weekend's Blue-Gray Classic. 
"I think we were a lot better than they were," he said, "They caught us at a point in the season when we were not playing well. That's the opposite now. Right now we arc coming out of a very good month. and we are very strong in certain positions. I think they are going to have way too much trouble beating us." 
Although Notre Dame lost to then-eighth-ranked Illinois on Sunday at the Blue-Gray Classic and subsequently dropped from fourth to seventh in the rankings as the Illini rose to second, the Irish do not feel that they are in a rut as they prepare to take on Indiana. 
"The circumstances are really the opposite from the last year when they beat us," Taborga said. 
Against Illinois last weekend. Notre Dame was without the ser­vices of number three player Aaron Talarico, who was hospi­talized during a close Irish victo­ry against Harvard the day before. Additionally, the Blue­Grav Classic was Notre Dame's first outdoor tournament of the season, while the match at Indiana will be played indoors. 
"Although we lost to Illinois, I think we know that with all the guys healthy and the way we've been playing indoors, we shouldn't have a problem," Taborga said. "I think the team is playing better indoors than out­doors." 
Talarico is disappointed he could not participate on Sunday but he does not feel the loss to lllinois has adversely affected his team. 
"[The Blue-Gray] was the kind of tournament where everyone was gunning for us. Yeah, we were disappointed, but at the same time, we had just beat Illinois [two weeks earlier]. Our team was banged up, [the Illini] were banged up. In the whole picture, it wasn't a huge loss," said Talarico, who is completely recovered now and will play on Saturday. "I just got extreme dehydration [last weekend]. I had no water in my system," he said. "I think I drank too much sweet tea." 
While the Irish seem to be con­fident, they are not completely discounting the Hoosiers. 
"We really cannot say that we have the win guaranteed," Taborga said. "On paper if you compare the two teams, we should beat them pretty easily. But every single year they give us a fight." 
"They always come up ready to play, They have a lot of fighters on their team, so they're a really tough team," Talarico said. 
While Notre Dame has nation­ally-ranked players in No. 11 Taborga, No. 64 sophomore Matt Scott and a fifth-ranked doubles duo of Taborga and senior Casey Smith, Indiana does not have any true standouts. 
"They don't have one player that is just unbelievably good. They just have a lot of solid play­ers, a lot of fighters, a blue collar team," Talarico said. "I always expect a tough match from them." 
After the Irish had the opportu­nity to see how they fared out­doors last weekend, thev are focusing on improving in c~rtain areas indoors in hopes of becom­ing a stronger outdoor team. After all, the NCAAs are played outside, not inside. 
"The one thing we're going to work against Indiana is doubles. I think the adjustment to out­doors for our doubles team hurt us a bit," Talarico said. "Our doubles will get stronger indoors, and hopefully we will be able to 

RICO CASARES/The Observer 
Irish senior Javier Taborga returns a serve in a match earlier this season. Notre Dame takes on Indiana Saturday. 
build on that and then bring [the Notre Dame has some firm improvements] outdoors." goals for this season, and the 
The team's strengths overpow-match against Indiana could be er it'i weaknesses though, as evi-another step in winning home denced by its 15-4 record. court advantage for the NCAA According to Talarico, Notre tournament, as well as a step Dame's greatest asset is its team towards the national champi­chemistry, something he thinks onship. has been complemented by "We have fun on our trips, but Taborga's performances and at the same time we really take leadership. ourselves seriously because we 
"Javier has made our team the have a good team this year and difference between being a 20th-it'll be too bad if we don't cash it ranked team and a top ten in," Talarico said. ranked team," he said. "He's playing some ball, and it's help-Contact Joe Lindsley at ing our team a lot." jlindsle@nd.edu. 

The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott 
email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 22, 2002 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Nixon places seventh in SO-yard freestyle 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Senior SraffWriter 
In the fastest heat ever recorded in NCAA history, Irish senior Carrie Nixon placed seventh in the 50-yard freestyle finals at the NCAA Swimming and Diving Championships in Austin, Texas Thursday. 
Nixon. who sat out last year after shoulder surgery, earned a career-best time and broke her own Notre Dame record in the event with a time of 22.53 seconds. Her finish Thursday night also topped her morning preliminary performance of 22. 70 seconds. 
The race ensured Nixon the second All-American honor of her career. 
"To come back and go life­time-best after being out for a year is pretty incredible," said head coach Bailey Weathers. 
Although Nixon placed fourth in the event in 1999, the 2002 field of competition was record-setting. In what was the fastest 50-yard swim in United States' history, Georgia junior Maritza Correia set a new NCAA, American and U.S. Open record by finishing in a time of 21.69. Rice junior Mandy Mulzar was second in 22.17. while Auburn's Eileen Coparropa was third in 22.39. Only .05 seconds separated fourth through seventh place 
..._ 
Want to write for Sports? 
Give Chris a call a 
1-4543 
as Georgia's Stefanie Williams was fourth in 22.48, Texas junior Erin Phenix was fifth in 
22.51 and Auburn sophomore Rebekah Short was fifth in 22.52. 
"That's probably the fastest heat there's ever been in American swimming at the college level." Weathers said. "It's comparable to Olympic trials." 
Nixon is one of nine Irish athletes competing at the three-day NCAA Championships this weekend. 
She is joined by teammates senior Kelly Hecking (back­stroke) senior Allison Lloyd (breastroke). senior Heather Mattingly (diving), sophomore Lisa Garcia (individual medley and butterfly), sophomore Marie Labosky (individual medley and freestyle), sopho­more Lisa D'Olier (butterfly). freshman Kristen Peterson 
(backstroke) and freshman 
Kelli Barton (freestyle). 
Mattingly, who is the only diver in Notre Dame history to compete at the national meet all four years of her career, earned honorable mention All­America honors on the 1­meter diving board and fin­ished 12th with 267.00 points. It was Mattingly's best-ever finish in the 1-meter competi­tion at the NCAA Championships. Her previous best finish on the 1-meter board was 15th as a sopho­more. Mattingly, who will also compete in the 3-meter event tomorrow, was 12th on the 3­moter board in 2001. 
The Irish 400-yard medley relay team of Hecking, Lloyd, D'Olier and Nixon earned hon­orable mention All-America honors after placing 13th with a time of 3:42.87. 
In morning preliminary swims, Notre Dame's 200­yard freestyle relay team of Hecking, Nixon, Garcia and Peterson just missed making the consolation finals, finish­ing 17th in the preliminaries in 1:32.78. 
Harton, a freshman, partic­ipated in her first career NCAA meet. finishing 56th in the 500 freestyle (4:59.61) and sophomores Garcia (30th, 
2:02.21) and Labosky (54th, 
2:04.44) competed in the ZOO­yard individual medley. 
The Irish continue at the NCAA meet Friday with pre­liminaries at noon and finals at 8 p.m. The same foursome who competed in the 400-yard medley relay will begin Friday's competition, this time in the ZOO-yard medley relay. 
Labosky ,vill then compete in her strongest event, the 400-yard individual medley, in which she placed 12th at the 2001 NCAA meet to earn hon­orable mention All-America honors. Labosky comes into the race with the 13th fastest time nationally. Barton also will compete in the 400-yard individual medley. 
Free pizza, subs, and t-shirts for all those competing 
Rocking music from different decades 

$10 for those competing 
Saturday March 23 
$2 at the door Foundation 
Sponsored by Alumni Senior Club 
Welsh Family Hall 
10pm-2am
O'Neill Hall 
Swing Club 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 
Heather Mattingly earned All-American honorable mention honors in the 1-meter diving competition at the NCAA Championships. 
This Week in the Department of Music 
Thu. March 21:  ND Glee Club  
8 pm, Washington Hall.  Free admission.  
Fri. March 22:  Erin Nelson, grad. horn recital  
w/ II-Eun Byun, piano  
5 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium.  Free admission.  
Fri. March 22:  ND Glee Club  

8 pm, Washington Hall. Admission $3. Sat. March 23: Kristen Moskow, senior voice recital w/ Patricia Collins Jones, piano 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission. Sat. March 23: Audri Nelson, grad. trumpet recital w/ Katie Badridze, piano 7 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Free admission. Sun. March 24: ND Prof. Maria Stablein, piano 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorum. Admission $3-10. 
Tickets available at the La Fortune Box Office: 
631-8128 
Call 631-6201 for more information 
Raffle Prizes 
Special appearance by a dancing professor 
All proceeds benefit the Diabetes 

.. --_. ~ --..:. ----­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 22, 2002 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish hope to take away Hofstra's pride 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
It has been a tough year for the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team. 
The Irish have lost four games against some of the stiffest competition in the coun­try by a combined five goals. 
With a 1-4 record, the good news is that the Irish still have a lot of lacrosse left to play to turn their season 
against
"We need our veterans to
around. 
third-ranked 
The bad step up their play. We 
Loyola and news is that have to do a betterjob of fourth­the opposi­r a n k e d
tak~ng care ofthe ball on
tion will not 
Virginia, but get any easi­offense.,, the Irish still 
er th is 
came up
Saturday 
short at the
Kevin Corrigan
when the end of the
head coach
Irish play 
host to the visiting Pride of Hofstra. Hofstra has been a thorn in Notre Dame's side over the last three years, including handing the Irish their only regular-season defeat last year. 
The No, 12 Pride have defeated the Irish three straight times, each time by one goal. 
Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan believes this game is critical for the Irish to gain some confidence as they try to return to the NCAA tourna­ment. Hofstra is Notre Dame's las·t opponent before they begin Great Western Lacrosse League divisional play, which will determine the Irish post­season prospects. 
"We cannot worry about what has happened in the past against Hofstra," said Corrigan. "Right now we just need to focus on the next game we play. We really need a win this week to try to get back to the NCAA Tournament." 
Although Hofstra's record sits at 3-3, they enter this game coming off an impressive 11-8 victory over Fairfield. Captain Devin Ryan and the rest of his fellow seniors would love to defeat Hofstra for the first time in their careers, but they know this game will not be easy. 
"Hofstra is definitely a good team," said Ryan. "They are strong every single year, and they ,vill be no different on Saturday. They are capable of beating anyone in the country." 
The key to Irish success against the Pride will be stop­ping senior attackman Tom Kessler. Through six games, Kessler has scored 11goals and registered 10 assists en route to a team-leading 21 points. 
Notre Damo's defense, led by senior captain A.J. Wright, per­formed well 
games. 
" 0 u r 
defense has played very well, but it does not matter if the other team scores more goals than you at the end of the game," said Corrigan. "Our offense is improving, but we need a total team effort against Hofstra." 
The Irish offense has strug­gled with consistency this sea­son because it has had to replace so many starters from last year. The youth movement on the Irish offense, led by freshmen Brian Giordano and Matt Malakoff, has improved since the beginning of the year. 
'Tm very pleased with how our younger guys have been playing. They keep getting bet­ter each game," said Corrigan. "We need our·veterans to step up their play. We have to do a better job of taking care of the ball on offense." 
Brian Giordano echoed the sentiments of his coach. 
"We're in the middle of an ongoing learning process on offense," he said. "We're start­ing to pick up on each other's tendencies. If we put together an offensive and defensive game plan like we did against Rutgers, we will be successful every time." 
Contact Joe Llcandro at licandro.l@nd.edu. 
100'~
Sn~ 
XXXI 
Early Sign Ups!!! 
When: Tuesday, Marchl911a -27"' 12-2 p.m. and 5-7p.m. '\Vhere: 1st Floo:r LaFortune WhatYon Need: creative team name, 
name and phone# ofcaptain and $17 
This year's t.ournament proceeds to be donated to ND Clnb ofJo.mica .Jumpball Programme 
QuestionsP Email us at bkstr.l@nd.edu 
Visit our sponsor 
.....­
a·• 

RICO CASARES/The Observer 
Irish sophomore midfielder Owen Mulford looks downfield during Notre Dame's 10-9 loss to Penn State earlier this season. The Irish host Hofstra on Saturday. 
JOln US 
for a free retreat; 
this could be the weekend that changes your 
LIFE! 
call or write: toll-free 1-866-774-0005 eafonn@~dmc-op.org 
www.aamc-op.org 
• 
Friday, March 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Madness 
continued from page 28 
the other three halls. The Angels have already managed to score 52 points, and with two of their teams playing in championship games, they could add 30 more points to their total. 
The Comets of LeMans will be taking on Holy Cross's Little llascals in soccer, while Le Bak will be taking on Holy Cross's Prom Queens in volleyball. The Prom Queens will be making a repeat appearance at Midnight Madness, coming in as the defending champions after defeating the Senior Spikers last year. 
The basketball finals will be a battle of the car-driving, off­campus crowd. The Super Sexy Seniors will be taking on the Basketbclles in a match that promises to be entertaining. The Super Sexy Seniors, with varsity athletes such as Rachel Deer, Kelly Roberts, Katie Hobinson and Mary Campione, will provide stiff competition for the Basketbe!Ies. 
Following the intramural championship games, athletic activities that the whole cam­Those changes include a sur­pus can take part in will begin. prise opening that the planning There will be several drawings, team has been referring to as class spirit contests, games and "the Opening Spectacular." food. Aside from Kachmarik, Miller 
But for all those involved in and a few other members of planning the event, it is really the planning team. the opening about school pride. will be a surprise even to those 
"The whole who have purpose of the helped plan
"The whole purpose of
night is really Midnight to share Saint the night is really to Madness. Mary's spirit share Saint Mary's spirit "The main 
and pride," thing with the
and pride."
said Athletic opening spec­Director Lynn tacular, [is Kachmarik, Lynn Kachmarik that] tho peo­who intro-ple on he
Saint Mary's athletic director 

duced the event three years ago. 
According to Kachmarik, the planning committee is hoping for an increase in participa­tion, from the over 800 com­munity members who came last year, to more than 1,000 this year. 
"One of our goals this year is not only increasing the number [of guests in attendance]. but to keep them longer," Kachmarik said. "We don't want people coming and going. So we've tried to make some changes in the course of the night, throughout the duration." 
planning com­
mittee know every dntaiI [of the night] so nothing has been a surprise," Miller said. "This way we still have a surprise to them. [Since] onlv a few of us know exactly what is going to hap­pen." 
The madness gets under way tonight at 8 p.m. and all stu­dents, except those who have ticket stubs from Saint Mary's presentation of "The Learned Ladies," must be in the d333oors by 10 p.m. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmary~.edu. 
TEACH DAKOTA 
We need good people with bachelor degrees in math, music, or science to learn the teaching profession in rural, western South Dakota. The population served will largely be Native American, middle or high school age. TEACH DAKOTA participants earn a salary with benefits, plus a full­tuition scholarship, as they simultaneously work and earn a fully accredited teaching degree. 
Applications are due April 19. The program begins in July. Learn more al: www.lmhdakola.org 

PRESENTS 
The 17th Annual Philip & Doris Clarke Family Lecture on Medical Ethics 
I\'1cKenna Hall/Center for 
Continuing Education, Auditorium j ..c~ 
4:00 p.1n. 4 i· 
<( ' :, 
NCAA COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Arkansas upholds coach's dismissal 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
The University of Arkansas' top executive upheld the dis­missal of basketball coach Nolan Richardson, saying Thursday that he concurred in a campus chancellor's decision to fire the basketball coach. 
President B. Alan Sugg said he reviewed 80 pages of mater­ial submitted by Richardson and interviewed a number of people while doing his own research. In the end, he agreed that the coach should be replaced. 
"Based on my review, I am firmly convinced that the termi­nation of your employment agreement by [Chancellor] John White in consultation with [athletic director] rrank Broyles was legal and fair," Sugg wrote Thursday in a letter to Hichardson. "I find no evi­dence of discriminatory con­duct or motive in the making of this decision by John White and Frank Broyles." 
It wasn't whether Richardson would sue. The appeal to Sugg was seen as a prerequisite for any action through the courts or government agencies. 
"We're not going to move in haste. We'll consider all options carefully and in due course," said Richardson's lawyer, John Walker. "It'll he awhile before we choose to do anything. We won't make any announcement about it. We'll just do it if we do it." 
For a time, and with input from several others, Richardson tried to develop a variety of conditions under which he might stay at the uni­versity, Walker said. One set of suggestions, obtained by The Associated Press, demanded that Broyles resign and that Richardson be allowed to take a year off. 
"We were asked by emis­saries, purportedly represent­ing the university, what condi­tions would be appropriate in order to resolve this matter," Walker said. 
Walker and university lawyer fired Harrison said Richardson never presented the demands to Arkansas. 
"They were never presented because our settlement discus­sions broke down," Walker said. 
White terminated Richardson's contract March 1 and said the coach had asked privately and publicly to be bought out. 
Richardson said Feb. 23 and Feb. 25 that if the university bought out his contract, he would leave. He said later, however, that he wanted to stay and asked Sugg to review White's decision. 
EARN ASALARY, BENEFITS, AND TEACHING DEGREE 

Move in right after graduation and store your furniture, etc. No storing and moving a second time Quiet, safe and secure apartments 
Never pay another utility bill Various sizes, effeciency, 2 room, 1 bedroom 
Tired of sharing an apartment? 
How about some privacy? Shown only by appointment Call the Mar-Main Apartments 
574-233-2098 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 22, 2002 
BASEBALL 
Irish carry win streak into Big East opener 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Edi tor 
After playing a total of 15 games in four early-season tournaments in the warmth of the Deep South, the Notre Dame baseball team finally returns to a more familiar environment this weekend, as it travels to Storrs, Conn., for a three-game Big East series against the Connecticut Huskies. It marks the Irish's first conference games of the year. 
For the Irish, who entered the season ranked as high as fourth in some polis, the trips proved surprisingly unkind, as a rash of injuries to multiple Irish starters, including last year's Big East Rookie of the Year Steve Sollmann and preseason All-American Brian Stavisky, struck the squad. 
"We've had so many vital injuries," 
Following the Irish Baseball Classic in San Antonio, Texas, at the end of spring break, the Irish havr started to i;omc together, winning four straight games to push the.ir record to 9­
6. 
"[After losing those gamesl we dropped out of the top 25, but at the same time, our team is just finding itself," Stanley said. "We're learning about each other and becoming a team." 
Several Irish hitters have been on a roll lately, including Slanley, Stavisky and Bushey, who are each hitting over .400 for the season. Stavisky has already made a powerful impact with h.is return to the lineup, belting three home runs and boasting a monstrous 1.048 slugging percentage. 
Part of the staple of the Irish lineup this year has been the impressive contributions of sev­eral freshmen pitchers. Irish 
starters 
senior captain C h r i s
"I don't really think {the 
Steve Stanley Niese!,
injuries] have been that
said. "You real­G r a n t ly don't realize bad, especially because it's Johnson with guys like and John
mainly been the veteran
[former Irish Axford
players that have been 
pitchers Aaron have com­Heilman and shifting around alot.. " bined this D a n n y season for Tamayo] last a 3.10 ERA
Andrew Bushey
year how and 57 important it is Irish captain strikeouts 
to have such a great defense behind you. Especially with some of our inexperienced young pitchers, we're really finding out now what good defense is all about." 
The injuries, combined with the fact that the Irish were play­ing mostly Southern teams in their own regions, led the lrish to a 5-6 start. 
"We had been struggling early," Stanley said. "When we first went to Round Rock [Texas], we lost three of the four games, so we started out with a real tough start." 
In their earlier struggles, the Irish suffered injuries to starters at every infield position, causing many players to be forced into unusual situations, including having catcher/third baseman Paul O'Toole start his first game at second base since high school and seniors Ken Meyer and Matt Bok starting at first base and left field, respectively. 
"I don't really think [the injuries] have been that bad, especially because it's mainly been the veteran players that have been shifting around a lot," Irish captain Andrew Bushey said. "For the most part, it's been minor adjustments, but it's been adjustments we've handled pretty ,veil." 
in nearly half of the team's 134 innings pitched. 
The three are each expected to start a game in the series this weekend. 
"That's something I don't think I've ever done," head coach Paul Mainieri said. "But I have complete confidence in these young guys. They've showed so far this year that they have great ability and com­posure on the mound." 
The Huskies got off to a much more difficult start than Notre Dame did this season, going 0-4 before winning their next five games out of six to even their record at 5-5. They are led at the plate by junior infielder Brett Barnham, who is current­ly batting .486 after their first ten games. 
Junior lefthander Jesse Carlson has been the staple on the mound for the Huskies, going 3-0 and pacing the team in ERA at 2.84 and strikeouts with 25. 
The teams will play a double­head er beginning at noon Saturday, and will wrap up the series with another noon start Sunday. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

10:00 a.m. 
11 a.m. 12 noon 
1:30 p.m. 
3:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 7:30-9:00 p.m 
SATURDAY, MARCIi 23 
Mark Bradford, author, Nice Girls Finish First, the story of the 2001 Notre Dame Women's Basketball National Champion Team 
Trinity seniors performing selections from 
Our Town 
Trinity musicians and vocalists 
Peter Welling, author, Shawn O'Hisser: The Last Snake In Ireland; Children's storytime and book signing Ken Poling, Master Gardener, Windmill Acres and Channel 22 's Gardening Expert: Spring Gardening Talk 
Trinity musicians and vocalists The Marian Emery Trio 
We l»o Mondays 
1 
Like No flace Else! 
,.,,. 
• 
,.,,-----. ~--­

Enjoy a of faji±as (enoush jusf $11*~ 






Friday, March 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
affect their performance. just make you more nervous." 'The thing for me is for it not to The most impressive wins for
Fencing 
let me get nervous," said Ament. the pair came against Penn "You can't think about the pres­State's team of Meredith Chin
continued from page 28 
sure because other people are and 2001 NCAA runner-up Marta national championship for relying on me. You can't think Grochal. Kryczalo continued her Kryczalo and Ament. the intense that it's your fault that the team dominance of the foil field, beat­pressure of the NCAAs did not loses if you drop a bout. That will ing Chin 5-0 and Grochal 5-1. 
"ChiU•Out" +his Saturday Men's Lacrosse Vt. Hoft+ra 
First 100 fans 
•
receive a bowl of chili and a Notre Dame headband 
,iietweenth, ­
---=--·· ....uns...
· 
SPORTS BAR 
EST. 1985 
< Saturdav 
1pm 
Moose Krause Stadium -weather permitting[otherwise -Lottos Sports CenterJ 

Hate Crimes V"g ... l
3. 3­

Stone'hen,ge Saturday 

Ma:roh 23 
12 -.. 30 pm 
Sponsored by Student Government, PE, Lyons, AAA 1 and SUB 

Ament defeated Grochal 5-0 and 
Chin 5-3. 
"l was pretty confident going in 
because I already know how to fence both girls," Ament said. "Because I knew that was the head-to-head competition, I was . even more intense. l was pretty 
pumped up for it." 
Kryczalo's +60 indicator, her 
touches scored minus her touch­
es received, is 14 more than 
Ament's and 26 more than 
Wayne State's Inga 
Wallrabenstein. who is in third 
place. In yielding only 10 touches 
and compiling a 14-0 record, 
Kryczalo could not have planned 
a better opening day. 
"I thought I could score like 
that because I felt a lot of pres­
sure on me because I am one of 
the fencers who can win this," 
she said. "I felt glad to do this 
well because I couldn't do any 
better." 
With the success of the foil 
team came the disappointment 
from women's sabre. Cari 
McCullough's eight victories and 
sophomore Destanie Milo's five 
gave the Irish 13 points, but 
placed them sixth overall. 
Early in the meet, McCullough 
and Milo could not build any 
momentum. Their one win in the 
first round caused assistant 
coach Janusz Bednarski to toll 
the fencers to regain their focus. 
"During the first round [the 
bad start] messed me up badly, 
but after the first round I got 
myself back on track mentally," 
said Milo. 
McCullough had a more inter­
esting method. 
"Janusz told Destanie and I to 
just go do whatever it took to get 
our heads back into the game," 
said the senior sabre captain. "I 
called my friend, who is a singer. 
He is a good luck charm for me 
really. I told him to sing to me, 
and he did, and it calmed me 
down I think ... Then I got back 
in and I was in a good mood. I 
forgot about the first round and 
everything was fine." 
After their disappointing open­
ing round, McCullough rebound­
ed to win seven of her next nine 
matches, while Milo took five of 
nine. During that comeback. 
McCullough defeated MIT's Caroline Purcell, the 2000 NCAA champion, 5-4. 
Knowing his women's sabre squad underachieved, head coach Yves Auriol realizes a bet­ter effort is necessary on day two. 
"Women's sabre is so strange. With what Cari did today, after a lousy first round, she came back. and that means she is strong and· is functioning," said Auriol. "But the big disappointment of the day is Destanie Milo. We need a bet­ter showing from Milo to win the overall title, and I'm sure she will." 
In women's epee, sophomore Kerry Walton sits in third place with a 12-2 record in her NCAA Championships debut. Junior captain Anna Carnick is in eighth place and has nine wins . 
Walton started off winning her first six matches before losing 5­2 to St. John's Emese Takacs, the defending epee national champi­on. Carnick and Walton both beat 2001 runner-up Ariene Stevens to give Notre Dame a split against St. John's. Walton scored the winning touch with four sec­onds left in overtime to earn a 4­3 victory. 
"Their women's team is extremely strong," Walton said. "They beat us during the regular season so it was great to split with them. That was excellent." 
The big match-up for the epeeists today will come from Penn State. Stephanie Eim is in first place with a 14-0 record and 2000 champion Jessica Burke has nine wins. The Irish, with 21 wins, are in second behind the Nittany Lions' 23. 
Despite his team being in first place after day one, Auriol does not want to entertain the idea of winning a national champi­onship. 
"There is a lot of fencing left," he said. "I don't even look at the score. I don't want to know." 
The women's competition con­cludes today and the men will fence on Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 

page 24 
Track 
continued from page 28 
statement this weekend. Last year she took 13th place in the 400-meter dash at the NCAA outdoor championships with a time of 53.28 seconds. During the indoor season, she has improved her 400 time to 53.1 seconds. 
Joining Grow in the sprints will be junior Kvmia Love, and sophomores Kristen Dodd and Ayesha Boyd. Love won the 400-meter dash in last year's Baldy Castillo Invitational. Grow took first in the 100-meter dasl1 and second in the 200-meter dash. All four women make up the mile relay team that took ninth place two week­ends ago at the Indoor National Championships. 
Tameisha King has had considerable success at this invitational. Last year she placed third in the 100-meter high hurdles and first in the long jump. King was one of the six Irish women to qualify for the 2001 Indoor National Championships, where she took 13th place over­all in the long jump. Joining her will be freshman Tiffany Gunn, who competed in the 60-meter hurdles during the indoor season. 
Rounding out the women competitors this weekend are pole vaulters Jamie Volkmer and Jill Vanweelden. Volkmer took first place in the pole vault at last year's Baldy Castillo Invitational, with Vanweelden finishing in third. 
Completing the Notre Dame squad are the men's sprinters, led by two freshmen who have had impressive indoor seasons. Freshman Dwight Ellick is the top Irish sprinter, posting times of 6.83 seconds in the 60-meter and 21.32 seconds in the· 200-meter during the indoor sea­son. Classmate Selim Nurudeen, who has a time of 8.02 seconds in the 60-meter hurdles, will run the 100-meter high hurdles this weekend. Joining them will be Jason Beckstrom, Ryan Hurd and Torn Gilbert, all running in the 100­and 200-meter events. 
This weekend's invitational is a chance to pre­pare for the Purdue and Stanford Invitationals next weekend, where the whole track and field team will be split up and competing at one of the two invitationals. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
By AARON RONSHEIM Sports Writer 
Two doubleheaders at home this weekend will lead off the Notre Dame softball team's Big East schedule. The Irish (8-12) will play two games against Rutgers on Saturday, followed by two more against Villanova on Sunday. 
Players arc eager to spend a weekend in South Bend and play at home for the first time this year. 
"We are excited to be back at home," centerlielder Jenny Kriech said. "We have been traveling a lot this season. We are really pumped to play in front of a home crowd." 
After the toughest pre-confer­ence schedule in school history, in which the Irish played eight top­25 teams, they hope that the tough schedule has prepared them for Big East competition. 
"I think it is going to be a huge advantage for us because we have been facing all the top teams," said third basemen Andrea Loman. 
The Irish will face two teams at the opposite ends of the standings this weekend. Rutgers has a record of 1-11 and has scored only 22 runs in those 12 games. 
Villanova, along with Notre Dame, was picked to win the Big East conference. The Wildcats are 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 22, 2002 
SOFTBALL 
Irish kick off conference season 
12-2 with the help of Theresa Hornick, the preseason Big East pitcher of the year. 
Even though Rutgers has gotten off to a slow start, they are very capable of turning their season around. Under Pat Willis' 30 years of coaching. 
When asked about pitching around Lugo or any special plans, Gumpf said, "We will go right at her. She is good, we just·have to be smart." 
Even through the Wildcats have gotten off to a good start, Loman is confident 
the Scarlet Knights about Notre
"We have been traveling
have only finished Dame's under .500 three a lot this season. We are chances 
times. really pumped to play in against the 
"Their record Wildcats.
front of a home crowd." 
doesn't show what "We know they are made of. how we mea­We saw them play, Jenny Kriech sure up and they are a good against them.
centerfielder 
and scrappy team," 
said Irish head 
coach Deanna Gumpf. 
Brittney Neer leads the Scarlet Knights with a .414 batting aver­age, good enough for fifth place in the Big East. 
This will be the only time that Notre Dame gets the chance to play these teams, so games will be important for both teams, espe­cially the Villanova-Notre Dame matchup. 
Last season, Villanova finished with a 43-10 record under coach Maria DiBernard. The Wildcats are looking to improve on that record with their strong pitching staff. Besides Hornick (5-1), Villanova has Shannon Williams (3-0) and Kristen Hayes (2-0) who are responsible for a team earned run average of only 1.23. 
On offense they are led by junior Sara· Carlson, the Big East presea­son Player of the Year. and Ricci Lugo, who has six home runs on the year, along with a .417 avg. and 25 RBIs. 
We think we 
are the better team. so we just have to stick it to them and let them know who is top in the Big East," said Loman. 
The Wildcats will face a very balanced Irish team. The Irish have five players with more than five RBIs. The Irish have 11 round trippers on the year and over spring break Jarrah Myers broke the career record for homeruns with her 14th of her career against Oregon. 
The Irish believe that their pre­vious success will carry over into the weekend. 
"I think it will be a really good weekend for us. We have had some really tough competition, but overall we've meshed over spring break, and I think we can have a great weekend," said Loman. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu. 


Francine Masiello 
University of California, Berkeley 
Third O'Grady Latin American Literature Distinguished Lecturer at the University of Notre Dame 
Lecture titled "Reflections on The Art of Transition", Department of Friday, March 22nd, 4:30p.m. Department of Special Collections, the Hesburgh Library 5:30 p.m. Reception in the Department of Special Collections, the Hesburgh Library 

Co-sponsored by the Department ofRomance Languages and Literatures and the University Libraries with support from the Helen Kellogg Institute of International Studies and the College ofArts and Letters 
_J 
Friday, March 22, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


Be the Change . .. 
2{}02 University o_fNotre Danie U11dergraduate Peace Co1~fere11ce 
March 22 -23 · 
C01ne check out this student organized conference featuring student panel presentations and a1tistic perl<Jnnances on peace issues. a ro undtahle discussion \Vith fr. Ted. and tl1c kc)notc address by Colman I\1cCa11hy. farned peace advocate and educator! 
Register no,,, for FREE at '""""'"'... nd.edul-krocinst/bechangc02.html 
(~onJcrcncc Schedule 
Friday, Marcil 22 
9:00 a.1n. -5 :00 p.111. Rc~istration Great llall. Iks burgh Center 
7:00 p.m. Kevnote Address: Colman J\.-1cCarthv
. . 
Jordan Auditorium. Ivkndoza College of Business 
9:00 p.m. Bowlinv:. Outin1l. for Panel Presenters 
~-~ 
Beacon I3ovv l (transportation provided) 
SaturdaJ', March 23 
r,·l I! eve/Jls al I In· 1h·.'ihurgh Cen!L'r.fnr /J11er11a1 innal Studies J 
9:00 a. m. -Noou Registration 
Panel Session #4 
A Roundlahle DiH·u:,;sion "·ith 
9:30 -10:30 Panel Session #I 
Fr. Ted :Vue/ear H'eapons b·sues Devn:es o(!de11ti11·
,.., . .. 
I'euce £ducalion !11itia1ives looking al !he Afiermath: Rd~'-:ious Founda!ions o/ .!us/ice ,,tfier Con/lie! I'ew...·e 
I 0:45 -11 :45 Panel Scss ion WJ. 4:00 -5 :00 Panel Session #5 
( 'o/man A.fcCarlln· fnlernut ional Resr,<mses tu 
Peace Stralegies JVorkshop ( '011//icl Vouth and (i/obal Change The Role u(Afedia in Cunf/ic1 Islam and an ln!er-Religious Pea(.'(.', Dc:vel<J/Jllll'/11, and Alu/Ii­
Dialogue Facel'-!d Solutions 
Noun -1:30 L LUldl (Free for all rcgi stered attendees) 5:00 Closing Concc11 1:30 -~:30 Pane-I Session #3 
l\:1_-torming Peace ThroughNu/re Dume Take Ten Jfus ic and .•l r1 
PrcsenJari,m lnl<:'!'lhtlional £1hnic Con/lid Dif/en:nl I'ers1N.'c/ in.,.,..' 
Jfili!urr & /v'un-I 'iulenl . lprwoaches 10 Pn1ce 
... you want to see in tlie world 
'"!;'.JEJ:;il:l!!J::r:;:,rrr:11111111111,,1,:11r1r,,11,1111:tl!JJIIIIIJlf11111Jfllllll1112111111111111111111111111111flllr111111tllllf~lfl 
~~~­
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 22, 2002 
MIKE CONNOLLY/The Observer 
Notre Dame's Andrea Ament, left, competes Thursday. 
Connolly 
continued from page 28 
When the Irish have a problem and no one else can help, all they have to do is find the A-Team. 
Just like the 1980s TV show, the Irish A-Team always delivers. And they do it with stone-cold efficiency. 
Ament and Kryczalo's bouts are rarely suspenseful or even excit­ing. Kryczalo won eight of her bouts without yielding a touch while Ament shut out two ofher opponents. The closest bout Kryczalo had Thursday was her 5­3 win against Ament. Nobody else scored more than two touches. 
"I thought I could score like that because I felt a lot of pressure on me because I am one ofthe fencers who can win this," Kryczalo said. "I felt glad to do this well because I couldn't do any bet­ter." 
Ament's only close bout ofthe day came against Metta Thompson of Ohio State. Thompson jumped out to a 4-1 lead before Ament mounted her comeback. With machine-like effi­ciency, she calmly broke down Thompson's defenses and collect­ed aS-4 win. 
The A-Team delivered again. 
"I wish we had the same two girls in epee and sabre," head coach Yves Auriol said with a smile. "I would be walking around verv relaxed." 
But this 2002 version ofthe A­Team is completely lacking Mr. T's bad attitude. 
Both Kryczalo and Ament are as easygoing and polite off the strip as they are ruthlessly efficient with their weapons. 
They quickly dispatch each opponent with a smile and little celebration. They both point out that their individual successes are only important because they can help the team win a national title. 
"I've never really come f'rom a team with a team spirit. I've never really cared about a team·or even had a team before," Ament said. "This is exciting for me. I feel like this is not even individual for me, but really fighting for the team." 
For the past eight years, some weakness in an individual weapon or weapons has prevented the Irish from winning another national title. But with Ament and Kryczalo beating every fencer that dares to step on the strip with them, a poor showing by an incli­vidual can be covered up. 
Because the Irish know: Ifthey have a problem, and no one else can help, they can always rely on the A-Team. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75 • Mon -Fri 11 :30 • 3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday · Thursday 11 :30 AM • 10:00 PM Friday· Saturday 11 :30 AM • 11 :00 PM Happy Chinese New Year Special Buffet Feb. 11 , Monday: 5 pm -9 pm Feb. 12, Tuesday: 11:30 am -9 pm 222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376  
RKRF..\fK NAL SPI. RL LiNIVERSin ur NoTRr DM-.1r. ' RecSports has openings for this summer and the 2002-2003 academic year in the following positions: ~ludent ~upervi~or~ front De~k ~upervisors fitnes~ Room ~upervi~or~ Issue Room ~upervisors Lifeguard~ Any one who is interested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an application. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1:00-5:00. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 8, 2002.  

PROUDLY l'RFSENTS 

LJA¥5 11 

A Showcase af Tamarraw•s Talent Sunday. March 24 4:30 p.m. Washington Hall Donations Greatly Appreciated 

FEATURING THE MUSICAL. LYRICAL, POETIC. AND DANCE STYLINGS OF: 
Tamesha Williams  Brandee Barnes  
Marvelous Dean  D'Antre Phillips  Lonnie Charles  
Elizabeth Ford  Kalen Phillips  Ashuntia Prieto  
Ieshia Harris  Terral Golden  Autumn Ford  
Aslyn Jackson  Arsenio Smith  Shaquille Melchor  
Judy Lukes  Rasheen Boyd  J ahnelle Moniquette  
Kendaya Smith  Quentin Burnley  
Thaddeus Phillips  




o/o

APR* 
AstowAs 
¦ 
Financing On New 
& Used Vehicles 
It'll Get Your Motor Runnin'! 
t:O,. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 
·Annual Percentage Rate. As Iowas 6.25%APR 1s available for various financing terms. Rates sub1ect to change without nolice. Certa,n restnctions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Cred,I Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 


~ ---------~--­
Friday, March 22, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND fNCHES 
TOM KEELEY 

FOXTROT 
RYAN
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 
So +~"+ s tt¢ ~iJd-._ 


I WANT To &o SOMEPLACE 
WARM AND WET, WHERE 
PEoPLE Go CRAZY! 
SAD NEWS, MoM.M"f 
Nll'll!A STAI< 
PUNCTURED THE HOT 
WATER 
HEATEI<. 
I 
BILL AMEND 
f'EEL FREE To FoLLoW 
ME 1NT0 THE BASEMENT, PAIGE. 
' 
I MEAN GOOD Cl<A 
CROSSWORD 
A.CROSS 30 Fancy, as a restaurant
Like some glasses 31 Expensive fur 
8 Slightly 33 Break down 
15 Evidence of 34 Citation openerchange 
36 Mouths (off) 16 Not leave alone 39 Help for a long17 Rules 
shot 18 "It's MY treat!" 
43 More than a 19 _•Jet (winter scuffle vehicle) 
44 Door sign 20 Break down 
45 'Me too" 
22 Shar•_ 
46 Common links
(wrinkly dog) 47 Part of many a
23 Mannequin bus. address
25 Suffix with Roman 49 Sudden blow 
26 Pear variety 50 Some "JAG" roles: Abbr. 
27 Some take a licking 51 Like final manuscripts
29 Supplementary: Abbr. 53 Loe. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE e L u F R E s o 

14 Siren 21 Barely get past 24 Places for muezzins 26 What's not done yet 
28 Cook in a wok, ILLICI RESA maybe B E E C H E E N D E R 30 Kind of way 
54 Gazebo framework 56 Because of the challenge 58 Cousin of baseball 59 Restraint 60 Soap maker since 1882 61 Union label? 
DOWN 
1 Craves 2 Taconite or siderite 3 Blessed, in a way 4 Carbohydrate suffix 5 Bit for Miss Muffet 
6 Becker of "L.A. Law" 7 Healthful load 
ad claim 8 Parting words 9 Once and again 
10 Let 
11 They: Fr. 
12 Get wild 

44 Some Vivaldi 51 It may be polished
music 47 Pie choice 
52 Cousin of "Shucks!" 
48 Midwest city 55 Dress (up)
whose name means Cartoonist "hospitality" Browne 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriplions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Puzzle by Manny Noa-•ky 
32 Cattle genus 33 Schwarz 
35 Where Illinois and Vermont are 
36 Breakfast order 37 Bottled gas 38 Many a retiree 40 School 41 "That is so 
wrong!" 42 Caretakers 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Karl Malden, William Shatner, Bob Costas, Andrew Lloyd Webber 
Happy Birthday: Don't overre­act or take on too much this year. You just have to learn to gauge yourself and your time a little bet· ter. Refrain from spending money you haven't got, especially for big­ticket items. Your numbers are 11, 17, 22, 29, 35, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will have a hard time getting friends and relatives to do things your way today. Take a back seat and make life easy on yourself. If you try to use force you will end up spending time all by yourself. 
00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your interaction with others will lead to new friendships and lots of good times. Consider taking a pleasure trip or at least checking out the possibilities. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Career opportunities are present. Don't hesitate to set up inter­views, make cold calls or answer ads in the newspaper. You can up your income if you make a move. 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You will be emotionally up and down today. Don't be too quick to let others know how you feel You will be too sensitive to deal with is.sues that are bothering you. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may not be fully aware of all the things going on around you. Keep your eyes and ears open and if you can, do a little investigating of your own. The more you know the better prepared you'll be. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Love and romance are in the air. If 
EUGENIA LAST  
you are in a relationship be sure to  
make romantic plans. If you are single by all means get out and  ...  
enjoy the company of like-minded  
people. 0000  
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You  
may be able to talk circles around  
most but when it comes right  
down to business you may find  
yourself a little short of knowledge  
to argue your point. Don't overre­ 
act; back down and learn all you  
can from those around you. 00  
SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21):  
You will find yourself totally  
engrossed in conversations that  
are so descriptive and interesting  
it will be impossible for you to  
walk away. Mix business with  
pleasure if possible. 00000 SAGITIARIUS (Nw 22-Dec. 21):  
You may be inclined to get  
involved in a risky venture. Your  
financial situation will suffer if  
you expand your interests too  
quickly. Ask for sound advice  
from someone you respect and  
trust. 000  
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):  
If something doesn't go according  
to plan don't worry about it. Tune  
is on your side and the longer you  
wait, the better. It may be best to  
back off for the time being. 00  
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
The best place to put your energy  
is into your work. Regardless of  
anything else you should be able  
to get ahead if you put your mind  
to it. Don't give in to bad habits  
just because you are heading into  
the weekend. 000  
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  
You have to make your plans  
early today. You should try to do  
something creative or unusual.  
You will feel satisfaction from  
your artistic accomplishments.  
00000  ...  

Birthday Baby: You are active and in love with life. You are a proud and independent individual. You have high energy, combined with loyal­ty and kindness. It will be hard for anyone to dislike you. 

...
otre 'Dame so~6a((
Saturday, March 23 vs. Rutgers 
11:00am/1:00pm 
Free Notre Dame 
headbands to 1st 100 fans, sponsored by 

~ 
"Chili Bowl" Free chili to 1st 1 oo fans! 
Sunday, March 24 
vs. Villanova 11 :ooam/1 :oopm 
Free Sundae Sunday 1st 100 fans receive a coupon for a free Free hot chocolatesundae from 

to 1st 100 fans from Notre Dame Concessions! 
AJ:HE
Campus Sports Campus Sports
vnSERVER 
. Men's Basketball, p. 34 
. SMC Cross Country, p. 28 
. 
Men's Soccer, p. 33 . ND Women's Soccer , p. 26 

. 
ND Women's Basketball, p. 30 . NO Volleyball, p. 24 

. 
ND Cross Country, p. 28 . SMC Volleyball, p. 21


PORTS 
Friday, March 22, 2002 
2002 NCAA FENCING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Starting down the road to a title 
. Despite slow start, Irish on top after first day 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
MADISON, N.J. 
Concerned expressions blan­keted the faces of the Notre Dame fencing team after the women's sabre team opened Thursday's competition with only one victory in its first 10 matches. 
By the end of the day, one thing returned the smiles to their faces. 
Winning. 
Notre Dame, led by its first­time national championship team qualifiers, stands in first place v.ith 61 points at the NCAA Championships after Thursday's matches. 
Defending champion St. John's is in second v.ith 57, while Penn State is third v.ith 53. 
Notre Dame's freshman foil duo of Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament won 27 of their 28 bouts on Thursday and claimed the top two places in the field. Their combined win total puts them in first as a team and is the maximum possible since Kryczalo and Ament faced each other in their first match. 
"That was as well as we hoped to do, so it's nice that we achieved our goal," said Ament. "We still have some tough people to fence, but we also got through some tough people today." 
Although this meet is the first 
see FENCING/page 23 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish begin outdoor season 
By DAVE COOK Sports Writer 
After a week of rest for the Notre Dame men's and women's track and field teams following an impres­sive showing at the NCAA Indoor Championships, the Irish are ready to begin their outdoor season. 
The teams will be sending 18 athletes to Tempe, Ariz., for this weekend's Baldy Castillo Invitational, and head coach Joe Piane is wasting no time in showcasing his talent­ed Irish squad.· 
The 18 competitors who are going are primarily short-dis­tance runners and field event athletes who hope to post NCAA qualifying times. The longest distance the Irish will be running this weekend is 1,500 meters, by Pat Conway, Kevin Somok and Erie Morrison. Somok took third in the 1,500-meter run in last year's invitational with a time of 3 minutes, 52.68 seconds. 
In the field events for the men, junior Mike Madigan is making his 2002 season debut in the javelin. Madigan has a personal best throw of 190 feet, 10 inches, when he took first at the 2001 Notre Dame Spring Opener. He also took sixth place in the Baldy Castillo Invitational last year. 
Senior Derek Dyer looks to continue his success at this invitational, where in 2001 he took fifth and third place in the shotput and discus events, respectively. In the shotput last year, his best throw was 48-9, but he has since improved that mark to 51-3 inches during the 2002 indoor season. 
Senior indoor All-American Liz Grow will be leading a strong contingent of Irish sprinters this weekend. Grow, who is seeking a fourth con­secutive berth to the NCAA outdoor championships this year. hopes she can make a 
see TRACK/page 24 

. Irish call on the A-team 
MADISON, N.J. 
At the high-pressure NCAA Championship, freshmen are sup­posed to get nervous. They are supposed to lose concentration a few times and drop some silly bouts. They are sup­posed to get rattled by the crowds, get intimi­dated by the tough com­petition and falter under pressure 
Mike Connolly
v.ith a champi­onship on 
Outside
the line. 
Looking In 
They are certainly not supposed to combine for 27 wins and sit in first and second place after the first day. 
But that's exactly what Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament have done. Kryzcalo's 14-0 record places her in first place of the women's foil competition, while Ament's 13-1 record sits her in second. 
They've been as reliable as a pair of seniors -so reliable that Irish fans have taken to calling them the A-Team. When the sabre and epee fencers won just eight of their first 20 bouts, the foil team churned out nine wins out of 10 bouts. The only loss came when Kryczalo beat Ament head­to-head. 
see CONNOLLY/page 26 
SMC MIDNIGHT MADNESS 
Intramural season culminates tonight 
games in five-on-five soccer,
By KATIE McVOY 
five-on-five basketball and four­
Associate Sports Editor 
on-four volleyball. Following the three champi­
It's that time of year again onship games, the madness when Angela Athletic Facility begins. will host one of the largest "It's not just about athletics, crowds of the year. As students, it's about pride of Saint Mary's," 
faculty and staff emerge from said Janel Miller, who helped 
their classrooms, they will enter organize the event. "It's not just Angela to participate in tonight's about the prizes. It's about the Midnight Madness extravagan­games, having fun. I just want to za. see people come, give it a try."' 
The third annual culmination Heading into intramural 
of the intramural season and championships, the LeMans Hall presentation of the intramural Angels have a 30-point lead on championship will kick off at 8 
p.m. tonight, with championship see MADNESS/page 21 
... 
. Women's Swimming at NCAA Championships, 
OBSERVER
Today~Saturday
SPORT 
ooline 
. Fencing at NCAA Championships, Today-Sunday AT AGLANCE . Women's Lacrosse vs. Virginia Tech, Sunday, 1 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 





