
VOL. XXXVII NO. 45 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Irish victories confirm ND credibility 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
News Writer 
Hcturn to glory used to be a catchy T-shirt phrase. Now it's a statement about a football giant awakening from a decade-long slumber. 
As dnzens of Irish players cel­ebrated Saturday on the field of Florida State's Doak Campbell Stadium, as hundreds of Notre Dame student<; celebrated in the bleachers, as thousands of Notre Dame fans celebrated across the nation, one man managed to remain calm. 
After most of the Florida State crowd had filtered out of the sta­dium, Tyrone Willingham stood with his 
a r m s 
crossed, his "It's great to take a Notre Dame 
back to near-team's heart in their own would be 1y 50 lucky to win
stadium."

reporters. lie eight games looked all season, let straight Glenn Earl alone eight of 
ahead, star­safety their first 
ing at the scoreboard that had Notre Dame 34, Florida State 24 blazing as bright as Notre Dame's future. 
"Is this a Notre Dame moment? I think it is," athletic director Kevin White said min­utes after the Irish improved to 8-0. "I think this clearly is a spe­cial moment in the history of this University." 
Even as White, the man who hired Willingham after botching the George O'Leary debacle, gushed about the Notre Dame resurgence under Willingham, the Irish coach searched for a way to explain how a team that finished with a losing record in two of the past three years now sits undefeated and on the brink of a national championship. 
"We've not looked at it as 8-0." said Willingham. only the fourth Irish coach to win his first eight games with the Irish. "We've looked at it as win, win. win." 
It's a position the Irish haven't been in for a while. 
When Notre Dame beat Florida State in 1993, it was the last high-water mark for a foot­ball team that would experience nine years of mediocrity. ' ;ie Irish lost their next gaml' to Boston College, missed out on a chance at a national title and have never seriously challenged for a championship since. 
The underdog Irish began the season unranked, unknown and 
unrespected. 
Many thought 


eight. This 

was supposed to be a rebuilding year, a year that Notre Dame adjusted to Willingham and played in a dot­corn bowl game. 
But if the Irish heard the talk about rebuilding, they didn't pay attention. They were too busy reloading. Now, they're ranked No. 3 in the latest Bowl Championship Series standings. just four wins and four-tenths of a point from creeping into the national championship Fiesta Bowl. 
"Why are we playing so good? I think because we are good," linebacker Courtney Watson 
see VICTORY/page 3 
Above, Notre Dame fans suggest a higher rank for the football team after they defeat Florida State 34-24. At right, ESPN analyst Lee Corso wears a Seminole headdress as he predicts a Notre Dame loss before the FSU game. 
. 
Photos by Nellie Williams 


CSC cancels D.C. seminars 
. Sniper incidents prompt Center to halt 2 break trips 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
In response to the recent sniper attacks in the Washington, D.C. area, administrators at the Center for Social Concerns opted to cancel the planned fall break Washington Seminar and Living the Gospel of Life Seminar trips to the nation's capital. 
The 33 students in two seminars were scheduled to depart Notre Dame in CSC vans on Oct. 19 and return on to campus on Oct. 26. 
Carl Loesch. director of the Appalachia Seminar and edu­cational immersions at the CSC, sent out an e-mail Oct. 14 to the seminar partici­pants. informing them that University officials were con­sidering whether or not to cancel the program or give students the option to drop out without penalty. However, 
campus lecture, staying in the class and planning a weekend trip of related events in Chicago and being compensated for the differ­ence or stay­
officials decided  "The situation altered  ing in class  the and  
Oct. 16 to cancel the trips alto­g ether.  the dynamic ofthe trip since we would have to make sure no student  going to the capital for a few days in m i d  
Students in the  was alone at any time."  January. The CSC  
seminars were given the oppor­ Chris Broughton Washington seminar leader  will also allow the students in  
tunity  to  the  can­ 
attend one  celled semi­ 
of  the  nars  to  be  

other CSC Fall Break semi­automatically accepted for nars if they wished. same seminars offered in the 
Loesch and the seminars' spring. student leaders have given The Washington Seminar, a the student participants the one-credit theology and polit­options of dropping the class ical science course, focuses and receiving a full refund, on ways for living a Christian staying in the class, receiving life by discussing readings in a full refund and writing a paper on an approved on-see DC TRIPS/page 4 

Saint Mary's hires security escorts 
By JAMIE BELCHER 
News Writer 
Students and faculty on the Saint Mary's Campus may have noticed this semester that security escorts have been tak­ing longer than in the past. 
Interim Security Director Rosemarie Harris has found a solution for the problem. 
"We've hired two escort dri­vers and we are going to be using a van so that we can transport more students at one time," Harris said. 
The escort drivers are actual­ly off duty firemen that the col­lege has hired from the South Bend Fire Department. Cyril Quinn and John Firtl joined the team of security officers at the college starting Monday. 
When they are not working at the firehouse, they will be on hand at the college seven days a week. The department is also hoping that having firemen on staff will improve service in the case of an emergency and also promote safety on campus. 
Quinn and Firtl will alternate days, working a night shift from 8 p.m. to 2 a.rn. escorting students around campus. 
The college has also decided to start using vans, instead of cars, for efficiency and added security. 
"We are asking them, because they are in a van. that when they are not escorting somebody that they patrol the parking lot, just to keep an eye on the vehicles there. Since they are up in a van they can see things a little bit better." Harris said. 
In an effort to cut back on the number of calls to the dispatch area, the department plans to 
see ESCORT/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
FSU fans 

shovV class 

Let me start this column by saying that I am NOT a Seminole's fan. Growing up in a family of Florida Gators and cheering for the Irish has nurtured a certain hatred for Florida State within me, or as I call 
them (due to past players'/convicts' behavior), Free Shoes University. 
I was, however, pleasantly sur­prised by the way in which the 'Noles treated visiting 

Notre Dame fans. I've been dying to Andrew Thagard 
go to the Notre 
Assistant

Dame-Florida State game since I News Editor first learned about it. I borrowed seven friends IDs and entered the SUB­sponsored ticket lottery, figuring I'd be a shoo-in with eight chances to win two tickets. I soon learned, however, that a few other Darners shared my interest in attending the game. In fact, over a quar­ter of the University's underclassmen entered the ticket lottery, according to SUB. 
Determined to be at Doak Campbell Stadium on Oct. 26, I arrived at Lafortune a little after 5 a.m. one Monday morning to purchase two of the 15 unsold tickets. Again, my attempt was thwarted -this time by two oppor­tunistic Morrissey residents who pur­chased the extra tickets before me and then scalped them to the highest bidder. 
No matter, I thought after wishing death upon them, I'll still get tickets. I called all the ads in The Observer classi­fieds and checked around online, but quickly realized I couldn't afford to spend over $200 per ticket. 
My offers to donate a kidney or my first-born child in exchange for two tick­ets also went unanswered. 
It looked like I wasn't going to the game. 
Salvation, however, came in the form ofa friend at Florida State who went out ofthe way to track down two tickets for me and my University of Florida friend. 
In addition to that generosity, Seminole fans showed respect toward us throughout game day. I assumed that my Notre Dame kelly-green T-shirt and my friend's Gator T-shirt in the student section would guarantee us martyrdom. 
Iwas wrong. 

Aside from some friendly trash talk­ing, everyone in the student section was very hospitable. I watched in awe and fear as over 80,000 'Noles did the infa­mous tomahawk and no one complained when I cheered at Irish successes. It was the way college football is supposed to be. 
One Seminole fan, in fact, asked me where he could purchase one ofthe Notre Dame shirts. After the game, my friend even gave me my moment to rub in the Notre Dame victory. 
This past weekend Isaw our football team prove once again that they're awe­some but I also saw Florida State fans prove that they have class. Now who would've guessed that? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 


CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards icsclf as a professional publica­tion and suives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  BUSINESS  
NEWS  NATION  NEWS  

Pfizer agrees BOG approves 
Saint Mary's 

Putin leads 
to pay for new student 
Russia in a day 
Medicaid magazine 
of mourning for 
overchargeshostages 
The pharmaceuti­approved funding 
Board members 
The Russian 

cal company will Monday for a new 
president led the 
pay a $49 million to student-produced 
nation yesterday in 
the U. S. Justice publication, 
a day of remem­
Department to set­Bellezine. 
brance for 118 
tle allegations that 
in the standoff at a hostages who died 
it overcharged 
Moscow theater. 
Medicaid for the drug Lipitor. 
page 3 page 5 page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Blood drive. Holfs Sports Hccrcation Center, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Please pre-registerat 1-6100. 

. 
Campus Bible Study. Colemen-Morse Center Conference Hoom, 7 to 8 p.m. Bring your own Bible. 

. 
llallowecn Fun and Storytime. Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 11 a.m. Please wear costumes. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Brown bag Lecture with Chandra Johnson. "The History of Black Catholics in the United States," Stapleton Lounge, noon. 

. 
Lecture with Hobert Johansen. "U.S. Hesponses to al-Qaida and Iraq," Hagger Parlor, 7 p.m. 




WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled tri-color rotini, flamenca sauce, buffalo chicken lasagna, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza. pretzel sticks, minestrone soup, tomato soup, broccoli cheese soup, champagne rice pilaf, whipped potatoes, oatmeal, scrambled eggs, bacon slices 
Today's Dinner: Hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, roasted turkey breast, peas, cherry crisp, potato pancakes, baked potatoes, fresh spinach, ham­burgers, grilled hotdogs. krinkle cut fries, Chinese noodles, plain rice, veg­etable eggrolls, chicken tacos, Spanish rice, refried beans, broccoli garlic tofu, grilled cheese sandwiches, peas 
VIEWPOINT 
Response to the Toogood case reveals contradictions 
Columnist Charles Rice explains how the outcry over a recent child abuse case exposes the hypocrisy in American opinions. 
page 10 

Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
SCENE SPORTS 
Scene reviews 
Notre Dame Tom Petty's 
womens soccer newest rock 
defeats Boston album 
College 

Tom Petty's 
The Irish close album The Last DJ, 
out their season scores high marks 
with a win on the for its criticism of 
road over the abuses by radio 
Eagles Sunday as corporations. 
they hope for a spot in the post­season tournament. 
page 24page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
NDSP investigates
harassment 
complaint 

NDSP is investigating a harassment complaint received Sunday from Lyons Hall. 
Univt;rsitY .employee 
sustains mJury 

A Notre Dame employee was transported to the health center Friday after sustaining an eye injury at Welsh Family Hall. 
EmP.tY. keg found on 
roa<ls1de 

An empty keg was discov­ered along Holy Cross Drive Sunday and is currently being held at the Security building. 
Abandoned bikes 
recovered 

Three abandoned bikes were found and brought to the Notre Dame Security building. 
Locked bike stolen 
near bookstore 

A student reported that 
his locked bike was stolen from a bike rack outside the book store over fall break. The case is pending and there are no suspects. 
Student reports 
camera stolen 

A Notre Dame student reported losing a camera at the Knights of Columbus building. 
AttemP.ted b1.1rgl~ry
under 1nvest1gat10n 
NDSP is investigating an attempted burglary that occurred at North Dining Hall over fall break. 
Information complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: meatballs with sauce, baked cheese ravioli, pesto sauce, Mexican beef pizza, pretzel sticks, macaroni and cheese, cauli­flower, BBQ chicken, grilled tuna with lemon, turkey breast, bread stuffing, long grain and wild rice, grilled chick­en, reuben sandwich, seasoned fries, onion ring, BBQ Cantonese pork 
Today's Dinner: meatballs with sauce, baked cheese ravioli, pesto sauce, Mexican beef pizza, pretzel stick, spinach pie, green bean casse­role, turkey noodle casserole, fried perch. roast top round, Cajun chicken breast sandwiches, seasoned fries, onion rings, taco baskets 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0: 
UI 

::z:: 
~ 
3 
...I 

c( CJ ...I 0 HIGH 41 HIGH 43 HIGH 44 HIGH 36 LOW 40 LOW 40 LOW 32 LOW 28 

Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Seafood Creole soup, cream of mushroom soup, Italian meatball sandwich, cheese pizza, vegan grilled vegetable pizza, ham­burger, french fries, grilled cheese sandwich, veggie reuben, hot open faced turkey sandwich, pasta fantasti­ca, caesar salad, zucchini pasta salad and pork fried rice. 
Today Dinner: Seafood Creole soup, cream of mushroom soup, savory Shepherd's pie, cheese and vegan grilled vegetable pizzas, hamburger, french fries, grilled cheese sandwich, Monte Cristo sandwich, baked bbq chicken and balsamic roasted vegeta• bles. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 35 HIGH 37 LOW 25 LOW 29 
Atlanta 74 / 62 Boston 47 / 35 Chicago 46 / 42 Denver 35 / 21 Houston 81 / 62 Los Angeles 71 / 56 Minneapolis 842 / 34 New York 51 / 40 Philadelphia 49 I 42 Phoenix 77 / 58 Seattle 49 / 34 St. Louis 52 / 44 Tampa 82 / 71 Washington 48 / 45 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
The Observer . NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Group approves magazine 
include a: variety of sections magazine that this is impor­
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
including off-campus anti­tant to the students," she 
News Writer 
dotes, an alumna column and said. 
a creative writing segment, Following the first publica­
In an effort to provide a said the magazine's promot­tion, the magazine hopes to creative outlet for members ers. become of the Saint Mary's student "We are indepen­body, seniors Katherine Rand open to all dent I y
"We are open to all ideas 
and Anne DeCleene request­ideas and are funded ed partial funding for the seeking fur-and are seeking further with rev­first printing of the new stu­ther input input from the entire enue gen­dent magazine, Bellezine, at from the er ate d
student body. " 
a BOG meeting Monday night. entire student through After debate by the board body," said advertise­members, funds were allocat­DeCleene. "We Anne Decleene ments. 
senior  This will be com­ 
p I et e d  
with  the  
aid  of  the  Students  

International Business Club. 
"The goal is that the publi­cation will become a self-sup­porting monthly magazine," Decleene said. 
Promoters of the new mag­azine also said that the Student International Business Council will assist the new magazine with its budget and funding process. 
In other BOG news: 
. Senior Kristi Brandon requested recognition for Impact Christian Fellowship from the Board of Governance. The fellowship, an organization that serves college students around the world, helps provides support for all members of the Christian faith. After some debate by the board, the motion for recognition passed. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 



Joyce relocates to Holy Cross House 
By CHRISTIAN PALMER 
News Writer 

Following improvements in his condition, Father Edmund Joyce was moved from St. Joseph Regional Medical Center to Holy Cross House on Oct. 25 to continue his recovery from a stroke he suffered on Sept. 20. 
Holy Cross House, located on Notre Dame•s campus near Moreau Seminary, serves as a retirement community for Holy Cross priests and brothers. It is unclear when the 87-year-old Joyce will return to his previ­ous residence in Corby Hall. 
According to Father William Seetch, CSC religious superior, Joyce continues to respond well to therapy and has regained a greater degree of movement in his left arm. 
"He's showing gradual but steady gains in both strength 
"Every  "The goal is that the  also urged  
woman in the  publication will become a  the board  
Saint Mary's family will be represent­ self-supporting monthly magazine."  to consider the posi­tive impact  
e  d  •  "  the maga­ 
DeCleene said. "We will have  Anne DeCleene senior  zine would have on the cam- 
articles from  pus  com­ 
alumna,  munity.  

"This publication is going toabroad students in Rome and 
grow," Dorbish said. "You
Ireland and we will have arti­can already tell by the inter­cles and art work from the est and amount of organiza­current student body." 
tion that has already gone
The first issue will be an into the establishment of the estimated 36 pages and will 
Associated P rcss 

The number of U.S. crimes rose last year for the first time in a decade, an increase that coincided with an economic downturn that many experts say played a key role. Murder, armed robbery, rape and bur­glary all were higher in 2001, the FBI reported Monday. 
"The economy has to be the prime suspect," said James Lynch, professor at American University's Department of Justice, Law and Society. 
The crime index increased 
2.1 percent last year, the FBI said in its annual report drawn from 17,000 law enforcement agencies nation­wide. That marked the first year-to-year increase since 
1991. 

Still, the number of crimes is 18 percent lower than a decade ago and 10 percent fewer than in 1997. 
The index measures four violent crimes (murder, 

Beginners 

and movement," Seetch said. 
Joyce will remain in therapy for the immediate future, according to Sectch. Following the improvements in his condi­tion. Joyce is now allowed brief visits by other Iloly Cross priests. 
Joyce, Notre Dame's execu­tive vice president emeritus. suffered a stroke in Corby Hall on Sept. 20 and was rushed to the medical center, where doc­tors originally listed him in sta­ble condition on Sept. 23. 
He was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1949 and worked as a University administrator for 35 years. In addition to serving as executive vice president. Joyce's previous positions at Notre Dame included chief financial officer and chairman of the building committee. 
Contact Christian Palmer at cpa1mer@nd.edu 

ed for the new magazine. 
According to Hand and DeCleene, Bellezine was cre­ated to fill the void of repre­sentation by current publica­tions offered to the student body. 
"We hope that this will be a publication that will ade­quately represent all of the interests or the community," Hand said. 
According to DeCleene, the magazine will benefit the entire student body by giving a voice to the all or the women in the community. 
want to pro­vide a differ­ent type of publication that will continue far into the future and become a tradition at Saint Mary's." 
Senior class president Rachel Finley lent her sup­port to the new magazine at the meeting by encouraging the board to support student­run concepts and Bellezine in particular. 
Adrian Dorbish, Student Activities B o a r d president, 
Campus Ministry Internship Information Night 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Find out if a year of ministry in the Notre Dame community is for you... Tonight! 

Tuesday, October 29 
6-7pm 316 Coleman-Morse Center ,___ Pizza provided~ 
Contact Darrell Paulsen, 1-5827 for more information 


FBI reports decade's first crime rate hike 
forcible rape, robbery and aggravated assault) and three property crimes (burglary, lar­ceny-theft and motor vehicle theft). 
There were 4,160 crimes per 100,000 people in the United States last year, up slightly from the 4,124 per 100,000 recorded the previous year. 
The number of murders increased for the second straight year, following several years of decline, to 15,980, or 
2.5 percent more than in 2000. Forcible rapes were up less than 1 percent and rob­beries rose 3. 7 percent. Aggravated assaults, on the other hand, fell by a half-per­centage point to the lowest level since 198 7. 
The FBI report did not include the Sept. 11 deaths at the World Trade Center, Pentagon and from the plane crash in Pennsylvania. Those deaths, the FBI said, "are dif­ferent from the day-to-day crimes committed in this coun­try." 
Martial Arts 
Instruction 
Unique combination of Tae Kwon Do and Ju Jitsu 
When: Tuesdays, November 5-December 1 O, 5:15-.;6:45p,m Where: Rockne Memorial Room 301 
Registration begins October 30. Limited to the first 25. Registration fee is $10.00;• Fees due at time of registration 
., 

Delnons1Mtion and Information Meeting October 29, 5:15pm Room 301 -Rockne Memorial 
For more information call 1-6100 or visit r.e~R~Gl~:i[,\?i~du 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002
page4 Tbe Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

DC Trips 
continued from page I 
preparation for the week in Washington. Students in the seminars were scheduled to attend a meeting of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, meet with Georgetown professor Coleman McCarthy, partici­pate in a homelessness panel and engage in various other service projects. 
Junior Chris Broughton, one of the Washington Seminar's student leaders, said students did not want to risk being stranded on a highway that might be shut down because of a sniper attack. 
''The situation altered the dynamic of the trip since we would have to make sure no student was alone at any time," said Broughton. 
Senior business major Nicole Straub, the other stu­dent leader of the Washington Seminar, trav­eled to Washington, D.C. last spring. 
"It was an incredible expe­rience," said Straub. "It's really unfortunate that the kids who signed up this semester didn't get to go." 
Parent concern was another reason students were reluc­tant to participate in the sem­inars. Megan O'Donnell, junior class president, had planned to participate in the Washington Seminar but said she seriously questioned her decision after her parents expressed concern about the sniper attacks. 
The Living the Gospel of Life Seminar, a new one­credit CSC course, focused on issues relating to the preser­vation of life. Seminar leader Bryan Haffey said students planned on meeting with members of the National Right to Life Committee, Indiana Congressional Representative Tim Roemer, the Organization for the Human Life Amendment and attending a meeting of the 
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. 
Contact Christina Cepero at cepero. l@nd.edu 

Escort 
continued from page I 
have the van going continu­ously. Intended route stops will include Regina Hall, LeMans, Angela and Senior parking lots. the bus stop in front of LeMans and other campus areas. Depending on where the van is when a student is ready, it may take ten to 20 minutes to complete the whole cycle. However, a student will most likely not be waiting more than 10-12 minutes. 
"We are in the experimental stages with this effort and we appreciate patience, coopera­tion, and suggestions," said Harris. 
The department also asks that if there are two or more students in one location, going to the same place that they consider walking together. 
Contact Jamie Belcher at belc510l@saintmarys.edu 


Victory 
continued from page I 
said. "I think we've had the talent to be 8-0 for a while." 
The Irish entered Saturday's game as to-point underdogs, but made a slrong statement with their first offensive play of the game. After Arnaz Battle scored a 65-yard touchdown pass, he imitated the famous Seminole tomahawk chop and then waved his hands in front of his chest. 
While Battle earned him a celebration penalty and a tongue-lashing from coaches, the message was clear -the Irish weren't about to be intimidated in the most hostile road environment they've faced all sea.son. 
Yet as Battle's touchdown silenced the home crowd, 6,000 green-clad Irish fans wildly celebrated in the end zone bleachers -the most impressive show of support for an Irish road game this sea­son. 
"It's great to take a team's heart in their own stadium," Irish safety Glenn Earl said. "You heard the stadium go silent, and then you have your own section of fans up there going crazy. It's great." 
But as players walked off the field slapping high-fives with students leaning over guardrails and signed auto­graphs for jubilant fans, Willingham reminded every­one the Irish have a long way to go, and he cautioned his team about thinking about end-of-the season bowl games. 
After all, when Notre Dame beat Florida State in 1993, they lost to Boston College the next game and lost their chance at a national champi­onship. 
Fittingly, the Irish face the Eagles on Saturday with a chance to avenge a nine-year old loss. 
"Anytime you're undefeated, it's a great thing, " Willingham said. "But you've got to take it for what it is. It's an eight vic­tory, it's a great step, but if you don't get the next one, what does it mean?" 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


You Are Invited! 


MetJeffImmelt, Chairman and CEO of the Most Admired Company in America 
and hear him talk about the New GE. 

Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business, featuring the in.troduction by Dean Carolyn Woo. 
GAME DAY ATTIRE 
We bring good things to life. 






WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
RUSSIA 
Putin leads day of mourning for deceased hostages 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

President Vladimir Putin led a national day of mourning Monday and pledged Hussia would not surrender to terrorist "blackmail." Hclatives and friends grieved for 118 captives who died in the siege at a Moscow theater, all but two from the paralyzing gas used to rescue I.hem. 
Using words remarkably similar to those of President Bush after the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States, Putin pledged in televised comments to give the military broader powers to move against suspected terrorists and their sponsors. 
"llussia will answer with mea­su rcs adequate to the threat to Lhc Hussian Federation in all places where the terrorists, the organizers of these crimes or I.heir ideological or financial sponsors arc located," Putin said. "I emphasize -wherever they may be." 
Putin has said the theater raid was planned abroad, and the Hussian Foreign Ministry on Monday claimed, without offering evidence, that Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist organization was involved. 
Officials said 405 of the freed captives remained hospitalized, 45 of them in grave condition. Deputy-Prime Minister Valentina Matviyenko said 239 people had been released. 
Russian medical oflicials said 116 of the hostages held by Chechen rebels in a Moscow the­ater had succumbed to the gas, the exact composition of which remained a secret -even to med­ical personnel treating the victims. 
Russian authorities provided the 
U.S. Embassy with some informa­tion about the effects of the gas, but have not told them the name of the agent despite repeated reques1s, an embassy spokesman said. 
Doctors from a Western embassy have examined some of the former hostages and conclud­ed "the agent they were exposed to appears consistent with an opi­ate rather than a nerve agent," the embassy spokesman said, speaking on condition ofanonymi­ty. Opiates, including morphine and heroin, are derivatives of the opium poppy. 
In Germany, a physician treat­ing two former hostages said doc­tors would try to determine what gas was used through blood and urine tests and that it did not appear to be a known chemical weapon. 
"It remains a puzzle," said Dr. Thomas Zilker, a toxicology pro­fessor at Munich University Clinic. 
The U.S. Embassy spokesman also said American diplomats located a body believed to be that of a U.S. citizen who died during 


An unidentified Russian hostage is greeted by her father after being treated for exhaus­tion Monday. Russians mourned hostages who died from an gas used to attack Chechen rebel gunmen holding a Russian theater audience hostage. 
the hostage-taking, one of two Two foreign women -one were killed during the storming of Americans in the theater when Dutch, one Austrian -and a 13-the building early Saturday. Many Chechen rebels stormed it year-old girl from Kazakhstan of the insurgents were women Wednesday night during a perfor­also were known to have died. who claimed to be Chechen war mance ofthe musical "Nord-Ost." Russian officials said 50 rebels widows. 
Sniper suspects face murder, other charges in Virginia 
Associated Press 
SPOTSYLVANIA, Va. 

The teenager arrested in the sniper slay­ings may have fired the shot that killed an FBI analyst, a prosecutor said Monday as Virginia charged both suspects with crimes that could bring the death penalty. 
John Lee Malvo, 17, and John Allen Muhammad, 41, now face murder charges in both Virginia and Maryland in the three­week series of attacks that killed 10 people and wounded three. Alabama has charged them in a killing during a robbery. No deci­sion had been made yet on federal charges. 
Fairfax County prosecutor Robert Horan Jr. said evidence shows that Malvo may have fired the shot that killed Linda Franklin on Oct. 14 outside a Home Depot in Falls Church. He would not elaborate on the evidence. 
"There will be some evidence that the juvenile was the shooter just like there will be evidence that the adult was the shooter," Horan said. "But the point is, we don't know right now, and no one knows right now." 
The pair were charged Monday in Spotsylvania County with the murder of Kenneth Bridges on Oct. 11 and the Oct. 4 wounding of an unidentified woman. The murder charges were based on state law allowing capital punishment for the killing of more than one person within three years. 
In Hanover County, where an unidenti­fied man was wounded on Oct. 19, the pair were named in a variety of charges includ­ing attempted murder and terrorizing the public -the first charges brought under a post-Sept. 11 state law passed in July. 
In both counties, the charges against Malvo were made in juvenile court, but authorities said they would seek to have his case transferred to adult court. 
County, state and federal prosecutors have yet to figure out who will bring the two men to trial first. 
Spotsylvania County Sheriff Ronald Knight said Monday that Muhammad and Malva should be tried in VITginia as soon as possible. "Everybody is looking for that to happen since Virginia has the death penal­ty" for both adults and juveniles, the sheriff said. 
In Maryland, 17 -year-olds are not eligible for the death penalty. There is no death penalty in the District of Columbia, where one person was killed. 
Virginia, which allows condemned pris­oners to choose between lethal injection and the electric chair, has executed 86 peo­ple since capital punishment was reinstated in 1976, more than any other state except Texas. In the same period, Maryland has executed three people and is one of two states with a moratorium on executions. 

Montgomery County, Md., prosecutor Douglas Gansler said Sunday that he believes his state should prosecute the men first, in part because Maryland had the most slayings: six. 
A senior Justice Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said discussions continued Monday on whether the federal government would bring its own charges. The overriding concern, the offi­cial said, is to ensure that a swift, certain death penalty is available if either defen­dant is convicted. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. wins key support for Iraq draft: 
The United States won key support Monday from chief weapons inspectors who told the Security Council they would be better off with a new res· olution that warns Iraq of consequences if it fails to cooperate. "I think it is desirable that Iraq understands that any lack of cooperation or violation ... will call for reactions on the part of the council," said Hans Blix, the top U.N. inspec­tor. But Blix and Mohammed El Baradei, who heads the International Atomic Energy Agency in charge of nuclear inspections, questioned sev­eral details in the U.S. proposal and said it was up to the council -not them -to decide whether Iraq was in compliance. "It has been suggested that we hold war and peace in our hands (and) we decline that statement," Blix told journalists after discussing the U.S. proposal inside the Security Council. "Our job is to report." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Student kills 4 in Arizona shooting: 
A student flunking out of nursing school opened fire in a class at the University of Arizona on Monday, killing two professors and a third person before apparently taking his own life, officials said. The attack sent scores of students rushing toward the doors, many of them screaming as they fled. Police went room to room looking for more victims and later called in the bomb squad to search the building. 

Trial opens in Winona Ryder case: 
Winona Ryder went on trial Monday on charges of shoplifting more than $5,500 in designer hats and other merchandise, with her lawyer depicting the actress as a victim ofoverzealous security guards. The prosecution called it a simple case of theft. "When you enter a department store with the intent of stealing, that is burglary," prosecutor Ann Rundle said in her opening statement. 

Feds want terror report kept secret: A classified document describing terror suspect Jose Padilla's multiple contacts with top al-Qaida leaders should remain sec_ret, federal prosecutors said in court papers filed Monday. Lawyers for Padilla, a former Chicago gang member accused of plotting to detonate a radioactive "dirty bomb," say 
U.S. District Judge Michael Mukasey of New York should not review the classified document because prosecutors have refused to share it with them. The case involves whether Padilla should be held as an enemy combatant. In the federal filing, U.S. Attorney James Corney of New York contends that an unclassified version of the document includes most of the key information regarding Padilla's contacts with al-Qaida in Pakistan and Afghanistan. The classified version, prosecutors said, is intended to provide the judge with intelli­gence information about Padilla's status as an enemy combatant. 


page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 29, 2002 

Center for Socia( Concerns 

J-JuJJJJBJJ]JJ£J 


htt ://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 " Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-1 OPM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 1 OAM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 

Summer Service Internships (SSI) !! Summer Service Internship Information session will be held NEXT TUES, NOV 5TH, In the CSC's Classroom @ 6:30 P.M. 
Come hearfrom others who have partidpated! 
Find out about this 3 credit service-learning experience -eight weeks during the summer months; $2000.00 scholarship, with room and board provided. Plus, the added incentive of getting an extra $1000.00 Americorps award! 
New Experiential Learning Courae/ 
Theo 325/LAST 325/ILS 325: 
From Power to Communion: An Emerging Theology 
Instructors: Fr. Robert Pelton, C.S.C. (Fellow, Kellogg Institute), Barbara Szweda (Notre Dame Law School), and Christopher Welna (Associate Director, Kellogg Institute) This course hopes to expose students to the reality of Latin America both by academic research guided by instruc­tors at Notre Dame and in Cuba, and by community and shared-learning experi­ences with the people of Cuba; Course involves a spring break immersion in Cuba. 
Info meetings for Spring 2003 Class: 
TONIGHT!, Tues, OCT 29th, 7-8 p.m., CSC coffeehouse & Mon, NOV 4'\ 7-8 p.m., 

Law School, Room 101 
The Center offers resources to faculty members teaching commu­nity-based learning and research courses. If you are interested in some support for your work in this area, please contact Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Center Associate Director, Concurrent Associate Professor of Economics, at beckman..9@nd.edu or 1-4172. She can assist with course develop­ment grants, workshops, reading materials, and more. 

International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP) 2003 
Sites in 13 develcping rountries arotmd the world 
Remaining Information Sessions: TODAY, TUES, OCT 29™ & WED, OCT 30TH 
All Sessions, 6:30 -7:30 p.m., in CSC Lounge 

APPLICATION DUE DATE: NOV pr 
CO'.NP~FR!E'.NC~:

Mexico Seminar applications 
O_ption for the Poor in Christian 'Theo(o3y
Now available @ CSC 
November 10-13, McKenna Hall 
Seminar dates: May 16th -June 
P[an 'Ahead] 

1st in Oaxaca, Mexico 

Registration & Conference Schedule Online: 
Applications due: Nov. 27 
www.na.edu/~fatino/oytionforyoor 


--------------------------------~­
Bus0iNESS 

Tuesday, October 29, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch October 28 
Dow Jones 

8,368.04 -75.95 
NASDAQ 

1,315.83 -15 .30 
S&P500 

890.22 -7.43 
AME¥ 

807.29 -4.72
•
NYSE 

475.57 -3.58
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -7.47 -0.88 10.90 1
i~iili~i!l:!Jilili11ll:::::,· 


INTEL CORP (INTC) +l.33+0.22 16.81 
illttlili:l,lll;t;1:11!l~ll~ll;::1111:::1111;11i111::111i111~ili 
BROCADE COMM SY (BRCD).17 .21-1.42 6.83 
IN BRIEF 
Feds give OK to Citigroup purchase 
Citigroup. the nation's largest financial institution, was given approval on Monday by the Federal Reserve to purchase Golden State Bancorp, the nation's second largest savings bank. The Fed approval, which had been expected, was granted on a 7-0 vote. Citigroup announced last May that it wanted to buy San Francisco-based Golden State in an effort to increase its presence in the lucra­tive California market. 
Golden State, which operates more than 352 California Federal Bank branches in California and Nevada, also owns First Nationwide Mortgage. the nation's eighth biggest mortgage servicing company, and Auto One, which writes prime and subprime auto loans. 
Profits rise at American Express 
Profits rose strongly at American Express in the third quarter, beating analysts' estimates. 
The financial and travel company, which was hit hard last year by investment losses and fallout from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, said Monday its net income totaled $687 mil­lion, or 52 cents a share, in the July­September period, up from $298 million, or 22 cents a share. a year earlier. Results in 2001 were reduced by a $232 million restruc­turing charge as well as $65 million in Sept. 11-related expenses. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had projected earnings of 51 cents a share. 
American Express shares rose $1.12. or more than 3 percent, to close at $34.25 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Kenneth f. Chenault, chairman and chief executive officer, said in a statement accom­panying the report that the results "reflect stronger revenue momentum in the card busi­nesses, which more than offset the impact of weaker equity markets on our financial ser­vices business." He said that improved cost control and risk management also had helped. 
Pfizer agrees to pay settlement 
. Company will pay for Medicaid overcharges 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Pfizer Inc. said Monday it will pay $49 million to sct­tl e Justice Department allegations that it over­charged the Medicaid pro­gram for its cholesterol­lowering drug Lipitor. 
The settlement will be split between the federal government and the states because Medicaid is a jointly funded program. 
The charges stemmed from a whistle-blower law­suit alleging that educa­tional grants by Parke­Davis to the Ochsner Health Plan in 1999 consti­tuted a rebate that low­ered the price of the drug for the Louisiana insurer. Federal law requires drug companies to offer the Medicaid program the low­est price paid by any pur­chaser. 
The suit was brought in 1999 by John David Foster, who worked for Parke-Davis at the time. Pfizer acquired Parke­Davis through its 2000 takeover of Warner­

Pfizer Inc. agreed Monday to pay $49 million for allegedly overcharging Medicaid for the
Lambert. 

cholesterol-lowering drug Upitor. The company is pleased an agreement has been reached.
The settlement repre­sents more than double the $21 million the health plans and two phar­compliance program, but tions and private lawsuits, Medicaid program was macy benefits managers. the new arrangement most of which center on overcharged, according to Pfizer also said it had would require enhancing practices that allegedly led Foster's lawyer, Joel entered into a corporate some procedures. She to higher prices. For Androphy. integrity agreement with declined to elaborate. example, attorney generals 
Foster will receive about the Office of the Inspector "The settlement was a in 47 states are investigat­$6 million for his role in General of the U.S. legacy issue. We are ing whether Pfizer illegally the settlement, Androphy Department of Health and pleased it is over," Caprino marketed the epilepsy said. Human Services to make said. drug Neurontin to physi­
As part of the settlement. sure its policies comply The settlement comes at cians. the government will not with pricing regulations. a time when virtually all Pfizer shares fell 34 pursue allegations made in Pfizer spokeswoman major pharmaceutical cents to close at $31.56 on the same lawsuit involving Mariann Caprino said the companies are the subject the New York Stock payments to five other company already has a of government investiga-Exchange. 

Cigna to restructure health-care 
"We have a good understanding as were to blame for the underwriting
Associated Press 

to where the concessions were mistakes. 
made, and where we need to tight­"It's not bad data. It is bad execu­
PHILADELPHIA en," he said. But he also character­tion," he said. 
Cigna Corp., the nation's third­ized 2003 as "a rebuilding year" for Cigna is also struggling to settle a largest health insurer, said Monday Cigna. lawsuit filed by thousands of doctors it will spend $100 million to restruc­Hanway said he expects a mem­who say the firm's computerized ture its health-care division and will bership loss of about 5 percent by billing program unfairly slashes take at least a year to rebuild after a January. The company said it claims and denies them their legiti­pricing miscalculation sent the com­expects operating income in 2003 to mate fees. pan,"s profits plummeting. be between $875 million and $925 A group of plaintiffs represented 
In a bid to stave off competition million, down from an estimated by the Connecticut State Medical and win over dissatisfied customers $915 million to $950 million in Society objected to an offer that grumbling about poor service, Cigna 2002. would have paid the doctors $200 offered some clients deeper price Cigna CFO Jim Stewart said the million to settle, saying that the plan discounts last year than the compa­firm planned to take an after-tax would force doctors to resubmit hills ny had initially planned, or could charge of about $100 million in the from as far back as 1996. afford, oflicials said. fourth quarter related to its restruc­"There are many physicians who 
Last week, the company said earn­turing effort. Details of the plan have would be unable to go back electron­ings this year and next would be far not been made public. ically and resubmit those claims,'' lower than expected, and investors The firm said the pricing errors said the society's director, Tim responded by dumping Cigna stock. were not caused by problems in its Norbeck. The stock closed Monday at $38.58 technology systems. which are He also complained that the settle­on the New York Stock Exchange, undergoing a five-year, $1 billion ment wouldn't adequately resolve down 81 cents, or 2 percent. upgrade. how the company would settle pay­
In a conference call with investors, Hanway acknowledged that some ment claims in the future. Cigna CEO H. Edward Hanway said of the company's operations -par­Cigna spokesman Wendell Potter the pricing mistakes were "out of ticularly in customer service areas said negotiations are continuing. character" for the company and -have been disrupted by the The company is to announce third wouldn't be repeated. upgrade, but said human errors quarter results on Friday. 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


• 

2002FAIR
I •ng a ra uate 

wednesday SC
october 30·4-8 pm

sports heritage hall,joyce center (enter gate 1 or 2) 
all students regardless of degree, major, college, or year
,;; 


American University 
School of International Service 
Argosy University 
Admissions 
Ball State University 
Graduate School 
Bastyr University 
Admissions 
Boston University 
College of Communication 
Brandeis University 
The Heller School of Social Policy and Management 
Case Western Reserve University 
Mandel School of Applied Social Science School of Nursing 
The Catholic University of America 
Graduate Admissions 
Central Michigan University 
College of Health Professions 
Columbia University/Ben Gurion 
M.D. Program in International Health 
Concordia University 
Graduate Admissions 
Cornell University 
Graduate School 
Creighton University 
School of Pharmacy & Health Professions 
DePaul University 
Graduate Admissions 
Duke University 
School of Medicine Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy 
Earlham College 
Master of Arts in Teaching 
Eastern Illinois University 
Graduate School 
Eastern Michigan University 
Enrollment Services 
Franciscan University of Steubenville 
Graduate Admissions 
GEM Fellowship Programs 
Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science 
Georgetown University 
Graduate School of Arts & Sciences 
Graduate Theological Union 
Admissions 
Grand Valley State University 
School of Health Professionals 
Indiana State University 
School of Graduate Studies 
Indiana University 
School of Optometry School of Public and Environmental Affairs 
IUPUI 
Purdue School of Engineering and Technology 
Indiana University South Bend 
Graduate Business Programs 
John Carroll University 
Boler School of Business 
Johns Hopkins University 
School of Nursing 
Logan College 
Chiropractic Admissions 
Loyola University Chicago 
Graduate School Graduate School of Business Graduate School of Social Work 
Marquette University 
Graduate School 
Methodist Theological School in Ohio 
Admissions 
Midwestern University 
Admissions 
Minnesota Paralegal Institute 
Admissions 
National Colle_ge of Naturopathic Medicine 
Naturopathic Medicine, Classical Chinese Medicine 
The New England College of Optometry 
Optometry 
New School University 
Political and Social Science 
NewYork Institute of Technology 
Admissions 
New York University 
School of Social Work Steinhardt School of Education 
Northwestern University 
Medill School of Journalism 
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary 
Divinity 
Purdue University 
Graduate School Administration 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
Admissions 
Rice University 
Professional Science Master's Program 
Rollins College 
(rummer Graduate School of Business 
Roosevelt University 
Graduate Admissions 
Rush University 
College Admission Services 

Saint Mary's College 
Department of Nursing 
Saint Xavier University 
Admissions 

Samuel Merritt College 
Admissions 

St. Louis University 
School of Public Health 
Texas Tech University 
Graduate Admissions 
Tulane University 
School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine 
U.T. Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas 
Southwestern Graduate School 
University of California, San Diego Graduate School of International Relations and Pacific Studies 
University of Detroit 
Mercy School of Dentistry 
University of Florida 
Graduate Minority Programs 
University of Health Sciences 
College of Osteopathic Medicine 
University of Indianapolis 
School of Occupational Therapy School of Physical Therapy 
Universitv of Kentucky 
School o(Public Health 
University of Michigan 
School of Social Work 
University of North Texas 
Graduate School 

University of Notre Dame 
Graduate School MBA 

M.S. in Accountancy Program 
University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Education School of Social Work 
University of Southern California 
Leventhal School of Accounting 
University of Tulsa 
Graduate School 

Washington University 
Biological and Biomedical Sciences 
Wayne State University 
Graduate Admissions School of Medicine Anatomy and Cell Biology 
Western Michigan University 
The Graduate College 
Weston Jesuit School ofTheology 
Admissions 

Xavier University 
Health Services Administration 
sponsored by also plan to attend: 
THE 
Successfully Applying to Graduate School:
CAREER 

Panel Discussion with Faculty and Current Graduate Students
CENTER 

tuesday, october 29, 7:00-8:30 pm • 126 debartolo hall 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 The Observer . BEYOND CAMPUS page 9 
Students protest war on Iraq in D.C. 
By NICK CHAPIN 
Cavalier Daily 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

More than 100,000 people filled the streets of the nation's capital Saturday in a nonviolent protest against possible U.S. military action in Iraq. 
The demonstration, possi­bly the largest anti-war rally since Vietnam-era protests according to organizers and police, began in Constitution Gardens adjacent to the Vietnam Veteran's Memorial and led to a march that encircled the White House. 
"I thought it was great," said Sarah Lantzman, a member of the Charlottesville Center for Peace and Justice, which helped organize trans­portation to the event. "There was a broad range of people there, not just the people who always go to protests." 
The event was coordinated by International Act Now Stop War and End Hacism, an activist organization that worked with many other groups to advertise the rally and transport protestors to the capital. 
Before the march, throngs in Constitution Gardens lis­tened to speakers ranging from former Attorney General Hamsey Clark, to Hev. Jesse Jackson to Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney. Speakers said the President does not speak for all Americans and that a war on Iraq would be destructive and unnecessary. 
"We come from different races, from different cul­tures, from different parts of the country -we are the real America, and Americans stand for peace and rational thinking," said Rev. Al Sharpton. "You will not declare this wickedest of wars in our name." 
Banners and signs with slo­gans such as "Bronx says Peace", "Nebraskans for Peace", "Not in our name ­Lawrence. Kansas" and "Evanston, IL -neighbors for peace" announced sup­port from across the country. 
The diversity of the crowd extended beyond age and race, encompassing both fre­quent protestors and those unaccustomed to demonstra­tion. 
"I've never been to any­thing like this before," said Abigail Reid, a Minnesota resident who attends American University. ''It's amazing." 
Students from the University of Virginia also made the trip to Washington to take part. 
"I came because I wanted to stand up for my genera­tion," second-year College student David Dexter said. "War now would be preemp­tive and unnecessary, and I don't feel it's in the interest of the majority of the American public." 
Parents pushing babies in strollers, and veterans of protests of the past joined 
students and middle-aged citizens in protest. 
"We've been working for a long time in the peace move­ment, during Vietnam and the Gulf War," said Jackie Florshcim of Brooklyn, N.Y. who attended with her hus­band Henry. "We don't want to see war proliferate." 
A small group demonstrat­ed in support of action against Iraq across the street from the march, announcing "Saddam is a Murderer" over a megaphone and brandish­ing signs that read "Axis of Evil: Saddam, Farrakhan, John Muhammad" and declared Osama bin Laden 
and  Saddam  Hussein  
"Wanted."  
Many  of  the  anti-war  

demonstrators commemorat­ed Sen. Paul Wellstone of Minnesota, who died Friday in a plane crash. 
Wellstone was an ardent opponent of military action against Iraq and a longtime liberal activist. 
He was the only senator in a competitive re-election campaign to vote against the resolution giving Bush the power to launch military action unhindered by Congress. 
Numerous placards denounced war and made jabs at Bush. Some read "Regime change begins at home", "Money for Jobs Not War", "War is not an option", "Start seeing Iraqi children", "No blood for oil", "Protest is patriotic" and "Dissent is an American Virtue". 

Catholics welcome new rosary changes 
By LAURA JENSEN 
The Daily Iowan 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
The Roman Catholic Church changed its most well-known prayer, the rosary, for the first time in centuries by announc­ing a new set of mysteries to meditate on while praying. 
Pope John Paul II announced the change in an apostolic letter on Oct. 16, declaring the period between October 2002 and October 2003 as the Year of the Rosary and adding the mysteries of light, or the luminous myster­ies, to the rosary. Church offi­cials said the changes are aimed at re-connecting Catholics to the rosary and encouraging them to pray it more often. 
"The rosary uses what we call mysteries to reflect on the important events of Christ's life," said Father Ed Fitzpatrick, the director of and campus minister at the Iowa Newman Catholic Student Center. "I think that it's a great new reflection." 
The mysteries of light include Christ's baptism, his first miracle at Cana, his pro­claiming the coming of the Kingdom of God, the transfigu­ration of Christ in front of three disciples, and the estab­lishment of the Eucharist as a sacrament. 

"I sense that the Holy Father is dismayed at the darkness in the world and wants us to pray for light with these new luminous mysteries," said Father John Stecher, a cam­pus minister at the Newman Center. 
Thomas Scheck, a UI gradu­ate student in religion, said tho addition is important because it diverts from the three standard mysteries. 
"I think it's very significant because he is promoting the use of the rosary as a devo­tional tool for Catholics and is making these mysteries more focused on Christ's earthly ministrations," he said. 
The rosary incorporates common Catholic prayers, such as the Lord's Prayer and Hail Mary. to meditate on the 15 mysteries of the life of Jesus Christ. The rosary includes the five joyful myster­ies of Christ's birth, the five sorrowful mysteries of his cru­cifixion, and the five glorious mysteries of his resurrection. The circle of beads ends in a crucifix and is divided into five sections, each consisting of 11 beads representing a mystery in one of the four different types of mysteries. 
"The pope has had a lifelong commitment to Mary and the rosary and to helping Catholics to grow in personal holiness, prayer, and close­ness to God," Scheck said. 
This Weel< in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 

Edav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #4 
7:00 -8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 

,nesdav 

Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 -11 :00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Vocation Conversation with Sr. Sue 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Dia de Los Muertos Celebration 
1:00 p.m. Blessing of the altar in LaFortune Student Center followed by a reception 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Learning To Talk About Race Retreat for Student Leaders Pre-Retreat Plunge 
5:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
Retreats 

signUPS 
Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Freshman Retreat #43 
Retreat Date: November 8-9 Sign-up dates: Septemer 30-November 4 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 

~VER 
VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
I'.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norre Drune, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Ja.son McFarlc:y 

MANAGING WITOR  
Kace Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING ED!l'OR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena 1'ayne VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Lauren Beck SroRn EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScJlNE EOITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 

ADVERTISING MANAGER• Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CoNTROI..LER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADV£RTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/As.sT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................ , ...... , .......... ,, .. ,.. ,.... ............631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE...................................................., ••.• 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc,l@nd.edu PHOT0..................................,.....................631-&767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMiNISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:lloburver.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is noc governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assiscant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include concact information. 
Qiuuiom rtgarding Observer policies should be direct­,dto Editor in Chi,fJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
~ Oh~~e.r{USPS 599 240i it publiihc-dMonday rhrough Friday except during aam ;md vacuir,n paioJs. As11b$<;:nFcion ID The Observer is $100 for on~ ~demic year. S5S fur one 6Cfflt'l'fef. 
The Ob~er is pubfuhd ac POSTMASTER U24 Sil1.adi Din.nag H:JI Send ¥idta, wrn:1ni.on~ to: 
No11c D.mc. IN 4'5'5-6 Theo~.. 
P.O.&xQ Pi:rioditJI Po•Lat,C' p~d ..,, Notre: 0..Jflc: Norsr DamlC', IN 4655&-0771> u1J ,ddition~ rnaaling offkrs. 
The Ot.ncr j,1 a member ofdK-Auociited Pre,. All rcprodw:rion rig:hu an: RJIC'l'\'Jt'.t. 
Response to child abuse case reveals society's hypocrisy 
It took Madelyne Toogood, a 26-year­old Irish Traveler, to put Mishawaka on the map. On Sept. 13, a surveillance video at Kohl's department store cap­tured Mrs. Toogood apparently punching her four-year-old, Martha, as she put the child into her car in the parking lot. 
The national and even world media went berserk. For several days, Mrs. Toogood dominated the talk shows, on some of which she appeared in an unsuccessful effort to quiet the storm. Prosecutor Chris Toth, running for re-election, immedi­ately charged her with a felony. In line with his "tough on crime" theme, he offered "no deals" and asked the court to set a $50,000 cash bond. 
Not to be outdone, Dr. Laura Schlesinger put the phone numbers of Superior Court Judges Jerome Frese, who set Toogood's bond, and William H. Albright, who will try the felony case, on her Web site. She urged listeners to call them because she thought Toogood's bond was set too low. Their phones rang off the hook. Frese pointed out that the $5,000 cash bond he required is 10 times higher than the normal bond for such a crime. Frese, a Notre Dame Law School graduate and highly respected judge, stated the obvious, that we should not punish the defendant before she is con­victed and should try people "in the courts and not on television." 
The video, shot from behind Mrs. Toogood, showed her leaning into the car with her arms swinging for 25 seconds, but it did not show the contact of her hands with Martha or anything else. The facts turned out to be comparatively tame. Martha had no injuries. Toogood said she slapped her with her open hand and shook her by her ponytail. Toogood said that when she got into the driver's seat, Martha told her that her ponytail was messed up. Toogood said she turned around and apologized to Martha. She said later that she had no excuse for striking Martha. On Oct. 10, temporary custody of Martha was awarded to her grandmother in South Bend. On Oct. 17, Mrs. Toogood was charged in LaGrange, Ind., with shoplifting some fabric last August. That got the banner headline on page Al of the South Bend Tribune. 

This case tells us some­thing about our law and culture. Consider the contrast between the popular and official reactions to Mrs. Toogood's offense and the reality of what she could have done to Martha with impunity less than five years earlier. On the very day of Martha's birth, if delivery had been completed except that Martha's head had not yet emerged from the cervix, Toogood could have aborted Martha. 
The prosecutor, who charged Toogood with a felony when she slapped hut did not injure Martha, would have had to look the other way at the dismember­ment of Martha because Too good would have been engaged, not in a felony, but in the exercise of a specially privileged con­stitutional right. Martha, instead of being with her grandmother, would now be dead. In successfully opposing laws to outlaw that procedure, abortionists argued that such "partial-birth abor­tions" are no more cruel than ordinary surgical abortions in which the living child is dismembered inside the mother's womb. IfMadelync Toogood really had it in for Martha, her mistake was that she waited too long. 

From 1973 to 1998, 38,010,378 unborn children were legally executed by abor­tion in the United States, not counting the indeterminate but larger number killed by pills, IUDs and other early abortifa­cien1S. The number is now over 40 mil­lion. Every day of every week we legally 
execute more unborn children than the 3,021 victims of the Sept. 11 
attacks. The prevention of "child abuse" of born children is a 
major priority in law enforcement. the media 
and in popular opinion, as it should be. Yet sur­veys consistently show 
that three of four Americans favor the legalized execution of unborn children in at least some cases. A Gallup Poll last May found that 25 percent thought abortion 
should be legal "in all cases," 12 percent in most cases and 39 per­cent in a "few" cases. Only 22 percent thought it 
should be illegal in all cases. "Boobus Americanus" will 
accept the dismemberment of a living, unborn Martha but will react 
in frenzy when her mother slaps a four year-old Martha. How do you make sense out of that? Ask your theology professor. The answer might be interesting. 
Professor Emeritus Charles E. Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. Contact him at plawecki.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not those ofThe Observer. 
Notre Dame has always been a top choice for women 
I would like to correct an error in the article "Panel Recalls Early Days of Coeducation" published in the Oct. 10 edition. The article states that the first group of female undergraduates came from Saint Mary's in the fall of 1972. That is incorrect. The University admitted 375 women that fall. Of those, 250 were transfers from Saint Mary's and 125 were freshmen who were admitted directly to Notre Dame. 
As one of those freshmen, I think the distinction is impor­tant. Most of us did not even apply to Saint Mary's. Had I not been admitted to Notre Dame, I would have matriculat­ed to my second choice, Duke University. Most of my class­mates had similar opportunities. 

From the very beginning, Notre Dame women have been academically talented, motivated young women able to compete and succeed in the most rigorous academic envi­ronment. As the mother of a daughter who is a freshman at Notre Dame, I know that tradition continues today. 
Mary Anne Kennedy Reilly 
class of 1976 0cc. 16 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Andrew Thagard Teresa Fralish Helena Payne Maureen Reynolds 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemm 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Sports 
Christine Armstrong Lauren Dasso Matt Lozar 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
In which bowl game will Notre Dame play? Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Work to survive. survive by consuming, survive to consume: the hellish cycle is complete. " 
Raoul Vaneigem Belgian philosopher 
Os.5f.RVER 
VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, October 29, 2002 page 11 
In an uncertain world, marathon unites runners with city and spectators 
At 5:30 a.m. on a cold, dark Sunday, my roommate Erin and I stood with friends at a train station in suburban Chicago. We had met them only moments before, yet their words of support, advice and encouragement Joanna helped convince us Mikulski that we could reach our goal, still seven hours and 26.2 
Tuesday Voice 
miles ahead of us. 
It's a rare occur­rence to be wel­comed with open arms by a group of strangers. So often many of us immedi­ately regard with suspicion those we don't know in places that we aren't familiar with. 
Over the past year and a half, events in the United States and abroad have only served to convince Americans of the need to be cautious. Recent shoot­ings in the Washington, D.C., area drove residents to doubt the safety of their local streets and stores. Perhaps most chillingly, the alleged suspects do not fit the profile of the typical killer. Hesidents are now forced to question the nature of people they thought they knew. 
As rstood at the start line of the Chicago Marathon, I was struck by the sense of community among the almost 32,000 runners, who might at another time regard the participants beside them as part of a large, impersonal city. 
The marathon had started as some­
thing very individual for me. This sum­
mer, I completed most of the training alone. Earlier in the semester, Erin organized students to a run for a local charity. In the days before the race. 
she suggested that we dedicate 
each mile to a friend or rel­
ative. However, I allowed the excitement and stress of senior year to prevent me from rais­ing much money or reflecting on what it meant to run a mile for some­one else. As race 
day 
approached, 
I thought 
mostly of the 
time and train­
ing I had invest­
ed myself. I 
remembered how 
accustomed I had 
become to the singular 
rhythm of my strides, my 
breath and my thoughts. Then, 
at the moment the race began, my sin­
gular rhythm suddenly became part of 
the movement of thousands. 
Along the course, spectators stood three, four or even 10 deep. While waving signs with the names of friends and family members, they cheered for all of the runners. Friends, who had come to support Erin and me. became 
so engrossed in cheering partici­pants at mile 20 that they missed us cross the fin­
ish line. It didn't matter. As I struggled 
toward the final stretch down Columbus 
Avenue, I had the support of 
thousands of specta­tors. I found even 
greater inspiration in the run­
ners, fighting for each stride during the last miles. They were not professional ath­letes, but people like myself, who just decided one day to pick themselves up and start running. The marathon was sport without money, advertisements, inappropriate 

behavior or personalized shoes. It was 
sport, fought for pride and common 
achievement. At the end, I wanted to 
see other runners cross the finish line 
with success just as much as I wanted 
to myself. I knew that others had the 
same feeling. 
As I crossed the finish line, a man 
beside me wrapped his arm around my 
shoulder and yelled, "We did it! We did 
it!" before disappearing among the 
crowd of runners. I walked on past the 
tables of blankets, water and food, 
knowing that the exhausted participant 
beside me, the woman who handed me 
a bottle of water, the family and 
friends who greeted me with smiles 
and I were all part of the same accom­
plishment. 
Much has brought the country 
together in the past year and a half. 
Often it has been a sense of common 
loss. The marathon brought people ­
from those local to Chicago to those 
from other countries -together for 
one day, or maybe even just one morn­
ing, through a sense of common tri­
umph. 
That's enough to make someone 
want to do it all over again. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English 
and German major. Her column 
appears every other Tuesday. Contact 
her at mikulski. J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column . are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

University owes workers respect, living wage 
Appreciate and compensate workers' contributions to society 
Employers have one right-the right to be regulated. 
That's right, as a precondition to doing business in America, every busi­ness must submit to America's regula­tions, and those businesses that don't like those regulations can move to Mexico. 
In his Oct. 18 column, "Workers have one right," John Litle says that a despi­cable $8,000 per worker, per year is all the worker "deserve[s]" because that is the exact value of everything they pro­duce. That's simply not true by any eco­nomic model. Supply and demand in the labor market accounts for workers' salaries being determined by their value in the job-market, which is independent of whatever "contribution to society" they make. 
Litle is so ignorant of the current situ­ation of the world outside of his thick haze of Cohiba cigar smoke, to see that families (yes. with wives and children) are still living on minimum wage not because they are stupid or lazy or bad workers. but because they can't even make enough "capital" to fund their next food-shopping venture to the supermarket, let alone a small business. 
And when Litle says that he will start a business "at the risk of my own finan­cial security," he's deluding himself. The fact is, his personal financial security is padded by huge amounts of corporate welfare programs. Yet, his workers will receive nothing save for tougher bank­ruptcy laws. 
In closing, there is only one type of worker that can't be regulated -and that is the robotic one. So while you loudly wait out your days till your father's company can employ robotic workers, Mr. Spacely. you should know that the miners and factory workers involved in building the cogs and sprockets for your army of robotic workers are in the meantime unionizing and demanding a living wage. 
If you took a breather from reciting your avaricious cliches you've somehow extracted from the undergraduate busi­ness education of which you boast, you would realize that the faculty and the more conscientious members of the stu­dent body are wholeheartedly encourag­ing the workers to come together and demand their right to work in an envi­ronment which is a true reflection of the dignity and appreciation that they deserve. 
Joey Kominkiewicz 
sophomore 
off-campus 
Oc1. 27 

Low-wage workers have few options 
When I was 15, I started working as the "stock manager" at an upscale fashion store. My job entailed spend­ing four hours after school in a drea­ry basement, shelving boxes of shoes and sorting pantyhose. I was miser­able, and at $7 an hour, I lasted five months. 
I had the luxury of quitting. My par­ents provided my clothing, shelter, food, transportation and medical needs, plus the promise of a college education. All that I earned went into the bank. Had I not been so blessed, however, my subsistence would have depended on that income. and "exer­cising my right to quit," as John Litle proposed in his Oct. 18 column, "Workers have one right," would not have been an option. 
I found Litle's argument sadly mis­guided. First, he claims that if employees are unhappy with their meager wages, they should just find new work (although he later criticizes those who "move from job to job"). Yet with high unemployment rates, if a worker loses his current position, he is unlikely to quickly find another, and thus reasons that little money is better than none at all. Certainly this fear of being fired also relates to their reluctance to unionize. 

Furthermore, Litle denigrates those who are trying to support families on minimum wage. Last time I checked, domestic life wasn't strictly allocated to the fiscal elite. He asserts that loy­alty over time is rewarded, but when one is starting from an obscenely low base, a minimal increase of salary, 1 while helpful, is still insufficient to 
l

supply even one person's most basic I expenses. 
Finally, Notre Dame is not a tradi­tional business and is certainly not in the financial peril that Litle claims would justify unfair pay. 
There is a member of the custodial staff I see almost every morning as I walk to the Rockne pool. She's been up since 3:30 a.m., and when her shift ends she goes to her second job, rehabilitating wounded animals. I'd be exhausted, hungry and cranky, but she always offers me a smile and a bit of friendly conversation before faith­fully returning to her labor. Surely the University could offer her what she deserves for her services in 
return. 
Kristen Nugent 
sophomore 
off-campus 
Occ. 20 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Petty won't back down 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Edi tor 
It takes a Jot for a song to get banned from the radio these days. Usually banning is the result of explicitly sexual lyrics, ref­erences to violence or harsh language. Even then, most songs escape the censors with strategically placed beeps that don't leave much to the imagination. 
But Tom Petty, the long-standing hero of classic American rock and roll, has defied the odds. 
Petty's latest single has been banned from the radio, not for damaging lyrics, but rather for his opinion. Like his rock and roll influences from the 1960s, Petty has used his latest album, The Last DJ, to take aim at corruption. 
In his supposedly highly controversial new single, "The Last DJ," Petty points a finger at the music industry and their manipulative ways of controlling radio. He sings, "There goes the last D.J. who plays what he wants to play / And says what he wants to say / Hey, hey, hey /There goes your freedom of choice / There goes the last human voice/ There goes the last D.J." 
Obviously radio doesn't like to hear the truth. Since the 1996 Telecommunications Act was passed deregulating radio, radio has become a corporate business, with dol­lar signs popping from the speakers instead of music notes. Controlling radio today are only two major companies, Clear Channel and Infinity. These two conglom­erates own over 1,200 of the country's radio stations, controlling which bands will make it big and songs will and will not be heard. 
Tom Petty has remained stalwart against this corruption of the music business. As a man who just "won't back down," Petty 
has kept his concert tickets and album prices comparatively low during a time when it's not uncom­mon to see seats at a concert sell­ing for $150 and CDs going for $20. Petty has also refused to be corpo­rately sponsored or to license his music for advertising. As a reflec­tion of his position shown by his actions. Petty describes his latest album by saying, "The La.st DJ is a story about morals, it's really about vanishing personal freedoms." 
The vast majority of songs on this album follow the same route as the first single and take aim against corporate greed, the entertainment industry and those vanishing American freedoms. In the biting song "Joe", Petty rants, "Bring me 
a girl / They're always the best I You put ·em on stage / And you have 'em undress / some angel whore / who can learn a guitar lick / hey, that's what I call music," slamming the music industry for putting lust before talent. 
In 
"Dream ville," Petty gets nos­talgic for a greener past as he sings over strings and horns, "Like it was Dreamville I A long time ago / A million miles away/ All the trees were green I In Dreamville." 
Not every song is filled with sarcasm, anger and a want for the past, however. Petty flirts ½'ith the sweet love song genre of music as well. "You and Me," is an easy paced song of constant guitar strumming that speaks optimistically of love for life with the girl you love. 
Petty breaks out the ukulele on "The Man Who Loves a Woman," creating a jaunty, playful number, which cascades into choral harmonies warning women to "stay away," for "in the mornin' he'll be far away.'' 


The song with which Petty dos• es the album, reminiscent of a defiant John Lennon tune, gets right back to his intended mes­sage. Petty's voice is eerily bitter over the light gui­tar of the verses as he sings threatens that "There'll be more just like me / Who won't give in." The song fades into a dron­ing electric gui­tar, leaving the imprint of bitter­ness to linger a bit longer in the listener's head. 
The effect of the album is quite powerful. Although Petty 
may sound like a cranky old man, com­
plaining about the present state of the 
world, his words ring truth as the banning 
of "The Last DJ" demonstrates. Power to 
Tom Petty, a man who can stand his 
ground. He says it right when he sings, 
"You may turn off my microphone / But 
you can't steal / What you can't feel." Ain't it the truth 
Contact Julie Bender at 
bender. IO@nd.edu

ALBUM REVIEW 
Mayer strikes gold on re-release 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scene Music Critic 
Fortunately for his fans, John Mayer has re•released Inside Wants Out, his first solo album. Originally released independently in Atlanta in 1999, about a year after Mayer left Boston's Berklee College of Music, Inside Wants Out helped create a significant local following for Mayer. Those lucky enough to have gotten their hands on this gem the first time around know exact· ly why this second chance is such a won­derful thing. Inside Wants Out is a solid album from start to finish. John Mayer at his best 
Inside Wants Out, an eight-song EP, con­sists of solo acoustic renditions of Mayer's songs as well as a few recorded with a full band. Four songs that were later re­worked for Room for Squares, Mayer's major label debut, are included on this previous album. By releasing the earlier versions of these familiar songs, the hit "No Such Thing," "Back to You," "My Stupid Mouth," and "Neon," John Mayer offers lis­teners a glimpse into his evolution as a musician. 
Inside Wants Out contains stripped-down versions of these songs that are played at a slightly slower pace allowing Mayer's voice to take center-stage. The simplified melodies allow little distraction from his poignant lyrics that envelop the listener and become an even more integral part of the recording. Also, Mayer's talent as a gui• tarist, which is often lost amid the flashi-

INSIDE WANTS OUT John Mayer 
Sony Records 


ness of Room for Squares, is clearly present on "Neon" and other tracks included on Inside Wants Out. 
Before the release of Room for Squares and the subsequent re­release of Inside Wants Out, Mayer said, "People won't really under­stand what Inside Wants Out was until this next record [Room for Squares) comes out. I think we're making a record that's gonna be the true fulfillment of what the songs were supposed to be in the first place." 

Although he considers the tracks on Room for Squares to be what he originally had in mind for the songs, Photo courtesy ol Rolling Stone.com 
John Mayer treats fans on his re-release. oh
the versions included on Inside 
Wants Out better serve to showcase Mayer as an outstanding individual song• writer and musician. 
Inside Wants Out also contains four songs that were not released on Room for Squares. In fact, "Comfortable," which was not included on Room for Squares, is arguably the best song on Inside Wants Out. It possesses endearingly sincere lyrics accompanied by stirring guitar and violin melodies that form a beautiful ballad of lin­gering feelings for a lost love. Other notable tracks are the energetic "Love Soon" and the hidden-track, "Quiet," which lives up to its namesake and is perhaps the most soothing of all the songs on Inside Wants Out. 
Mayer's Inside Wants Out is the perfect choice for anyone who enjoys relaxing music with honest lyrics and simple guitar melodies. While his major label release at times feels over-produced, Inside Wants Out contains none of the pop twistings that characterize Room for Squares. 


Mayer's vocals and guitar rilTs are strong enough to stand on their own, making Inside Wants Out a necessary addition to any John Mayer fan's collection and a good start for any music-lover who has not yet experienced the captivating talent of this young man. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at tum­brink. I@nd.edu 


NSIDER 
O
THE 

Tuesday, October 29, 2002 BSERVER Notre Dame 34, Florida State 24 
Toinaha-wk flop 

Irish capitalize on Seminole turnovers in 34-24 victory 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spores Editor 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Seminoles head coach 

Bobby Bowden isn't sure how 
it happened. 
On Saturday, while his team 

was busy passing for 325 
yards, Bowden unintentional­
ly joined a club -a club of 
Notre Dame opponents who 
have fallen prey to the 8-0 
Irish while they thought they 
had everything going for 
them. Notre Dame took home 
the 34-24 victory against the 
Seminoles. Florida State took 
home a lifetime membership 
the the "We Lost to the Irish" 
club. 
"You can count us in the 

club," Bowden said. "We're in 
the club." 
They joined up by losing on 

the big plays. 
At the end of the first half, 

the score was tied at 10, and 
it looked as if the game was 
going to end the way Bowden 
thought it would -with one 
team kicking a last-second 
lield goal. 
That's when the Irish 

signed the Seminoles up with 
a performance that Bowden 
said left the Seminoles "bum­
fuzzled." 
With 5:26 left in the third quarter, Notre Dame took its first shot at its victim. Courtney Watson intercepted Seminoles quarterback Chris Rix to set up a 35-yard Nicholas Setta field goal for three of the 17 points Notre Dame would score in a 2:26 span. The play proved to be one that would turn the tide for the Irish Saturday. 
you're trying to bring back in put the Irish up 27-10. an attack that gained 296 early. It probably took theOn the second play of the 
the offense, it had been back With that, the Irish chopped yards against No. 1 Miami crowd out of the game."
proceeding 
there from any hopes of a Seminoles vic­two weeks ago, to 93 yards. Washington's 1-yard touch­Florida State 
day one." tory. "That's huge," Irish corner­down run with four minutesdrive, Glenn 
"Turnovers. That's how On the "It's great to take a team's back Shane Walton said. to go in the first half tied the
Earl landed 
ensuing heart in their own stadium," "That's part of every game. game at 10, but it was an all­
a solid hit on they beat everybody. So 
kickoff, the said Earl, who led the Irish You shut any team's running Irish ballgame from there.
Rix to force count us in the club." 
Seminoles defense with nine tackles, game down and make them In the final minutes of play.
a fumble. 
signed on including the forced fumble one dimensional, and it Florida State put together
Vontez Duff the dotted and a sack. "You hear the makes any game easier." two scoring drives and recov­
Bobby Bowden

recovered 
line. Carlos stadium go silent, you have The Irish leapt out to a ered two onside kicks to
the loose Seminole head coach 
Pierre-your own section of fans up rapid start. On Notre Dame's bring the game within 10. Butball on the Antoine hit there." first offensive play, Holiday it was too little, too late. as
Florida State 
Florida State The final Irish touchdown connected with Arnaz Battle the Irish became the second2-yard line, 
kickoff in the fourth quarter on a 31-on a 65-yard touchdown pass team to defeat the Seminoles
setting up 
returner yard run by Grant silenced to give the Irish a 7-0 lead in Doak Campbell Stadium
Hyan Grant for a two-yard Terrence Washington, caus­the Florida State war cry that less than two-and-half min­since 1991. 
run into the end zone on an 
ing a fumble that Brandon resounded in the stands. But utes into the game. "Turnovers. That's how
option play. 
Hoyte recovered at the the Irish defense had already "We wanted to take a shot," they beat everybody."
"We had sat on the option 
Seminole 17. Just three plays been silencing the war cry on Diedrick said. "I probably Bowden said. "So count us inlong enough," Irish offensive 
later, Irish quarterback the field. would have preferred to take the club.''
coordinator Bill Diedrick 
Carlyle Holiday tossed a 16-Although the Irish allowed three straight shots ... you

said. "We did that before, 
yard pass to Omar Jenkins in 325 passing yards, they held want to come in and you Contact Katie McVoy at 
spread the field, little parts 
the corner of the end zone to the Seminole rushing attack, want to make a statement mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Irish safety Glenn Earl hits Seminole quarterback Chris Rix, forcing a fumble. The fumble was recovered by Vontez Duff at the Notre Dame 2-yard line, setting up a touchdown on the next play. 
ptaver of the game 
Carlyle Holiday 

71ie Irish signal caller was 13-of-2 I for 185 yards, no interceptions and two touchdowns. including a 65­yard bomb to Baltle on the first play. 
stat of the game 
2:26 
time it took the Irish to score 1 7 points in the third quarter 
Three turnovers and one long pass spelled the end for the Noles. 
play of the game 
Courtney Watson's Interception of Chris Rix In the third quarter 
Watson's interceptinn set up the go­aheadfield goalfor the Irish More important, ft turned the tide and led to two more turnovers that led to points. 

quote of the game 
"They're serial killers. They kill everyone the same way. " 
Bobby Bowden 

Florida State head coach He later retracted his convnents 
Tuesday, Octnber 29, 2002
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 

quarterbacks: Holiday had his best A-game ofthe season, threw for 185 yards and two touchdowns, including a career-long 65-yarder. 
running backs: The Seminoles did a 

B 
good job shutting down the Irish run attack, but Grant scored two touch­
downs and managed to record 94 yards. 

A-
receivers: Battle and Jenkins both had touchdown receptions, adding to a total of 185 passing yards. Grant and 
Stovall also added big catches. 

B 
offensive line: The line was up against a very physical defense. They provid­ed good coverage but were not very 
effective opening up the Irish run game. 

A-
defensive line: The line stopped the threat of a dangerous Seminole run 
attack. holding Jones to 34 yards. The Irish had good pressure on Rix. 
linebackers: The linebackers helped toA-stop the Seminole run game but left the short pass game open if Rix had chosen to use it. 
B+ 
defensive backs: Earl forced a fumble that Duff recovered and Earl and Walton led the Irish in tackles. Rix did manage to 
get some yards in the first half and they 
allowed two scores in the final minutes. 
special teams: Setta was 2-for-2 on field 

B 
goals and 4-for-4 on PATs. The Irish 
kick team caused a fumble that set up 
an Irish touchdown. However, they failed to recover two Seminoles onsides kicks in the final minutes of the game. 

A 
coaching: The offensive play calling was solid but, more importantly, the Irish coaching staff took its team into 
hostile territory and kept it focused and won the game. 
overall: The Irish had a solid 
game in hostile territory 
against a dangerous oppo­

3.44 
nent. The offense and the defense were solid. 
adding up the numbers 

number of teams that have won at Florida State in the last ten years -Notre Dame and Miami 
2 
average length in seconds of Irish touch­down drives -the longest was 54 sec­

33.5 onds 
time in minutes it took Florida to score 
1.• Oo 

its final two touchdowns 
total number of rushing yards recorded by Florida State's Greg Jones, 60 yards less than his average 

last time Notre Dame scored a touch­
198 5 

down on its first offensive play of the game. 
of fans attending

84,106 number 
Saturday's game, a new record for Doak Campbell Stadium 

number of plays in Florida Slate's touchdown 
2o 

drive which covered 93 yards in over eight minutes 
Willingham's age when Bobby Bowden took over as Florida Slate's head coach 


TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Standing between a pair of seven­foot walls lining the tunnel exit to Doak Campbell Stadium, Bill Diedrick kept his gaze straight ahead. 
He didn't look 
up, but if he had, he would have seen Irish fans inebriated with the program's biggest win since a 1993 victory against Florida State. 
He didn't look 

around, but if he Andrew Soukup had. he would have seen BCS bowl officials Irish eyes light up at 
Insight
the prospect of Notre Dame playing in one of college football's four premier bowl games. 
All the Irish offensive coordinator could see was Carlyle Holiday jogging off the field. 
For a moment, Holiday and Diedrick embraced. the artist con­gratulating the brush for painting an image of success. 
Nothing else mattered. Not even the sight of Fiesta Bowl blazers rubbing shoulders with Notre Dame suits. 
"I don't see them," Diedrick flatly said after the game. "Not at all." 
Apparently. the walls of Doak Campbell Stadium weren't the only things contributing to Diedrick's tun­nel vision. 
He belongs to a small group that includes the rest of the coaching staff and the players. Together, they claimed they are focusing on Notre Dame's next opponent and don't pay attention to the sudden interest BCS bowls are showing in Notre Dame. 
But after Saturday's win. the walls preventing the Irish from looking ahead toward the end of the season started crumbling. 
Even as Diedrick hugged Holiday and maintained the Irish had to keep their focus on the field, University President Father Edward Malloy eagerly chatted with a Fiesta Bowl rep just a few yards away. Seconds earlier, athletic director Kevin White pumped hands with another repre­sentative of the BCS championship game. 
Listening to Irish players say they don't get any respect at the same time as University officials were hob­nobbing with the BCS elite was almost comical. 
The Irish had a point before. After demolishing Florida State, they no longer do. 
Two weeks ago at Air Force, some­one asked Courtney Watson if the Irish deserved to be ranked in the BCS. "Why not?" the linebacker answered. "Nobody asks Miami that question." 
All season long, Notre Dame legiti­mately played the no-respect card. They watched Lee Corso don Falcon and Seminole headgear and Vegas oddsmakers put the Irish as under­dogs in seven of their eight games. Bulletin boards aren't built big enough for all the negative things analysts said about the Irish week after week. 
Yet the Irish harnessed the dic;re­spect, channeling it toward a single purpose. Sure, they wanted to win, but after each game, players took thinly veiled shots at the so-called experts who predicted the Irish to lose. 
Saturday's victory took care of that respect problem. [t also created another one. Now Notre Dame has to adjust to being the favorite. 
Suddenly, there are few huge tests looming on the horizon. Saturday's game against Boston College is just another game on the schedule, not a major obstacle the Irish have to hur­dle. Barring a major collapse. Notre Dame is all but guaranteed a BCS berth. 

While the coaches and players might preach the cliched one-game­at-a-time philosophy, they're proba­bly the only ones who can stay focused on Boston College. Malloy and White all but giggled at the sight of dollar signs dancing in front of their faces. Students who only dared to whisper the letters B, C and Sin dark corners before now hop on the Internet to check plane tickets to Arizona. 
In the midst of this hurricane of enthusiasm stand the players, who spent the first eight games of the sea­son fighting to earn everyone's respect. 
They'll spend the next four trying to keep it. 
"Anytime you're undefeated. it's a great thing," Tyrone Willingham said. "But you've got to take it for what it is. It's an eighth victory, it's a great step, but ifyou don't get the next one, what does it mean?" 
The last time Notre Dame beat Florida State. Sports Illustrated ran a giant cover with an Irish lineman cel­ebrating and "We Did It!'' in giant yel­low letters. All the undefeated Irish had to do to win the national champi­onship. the experts said, would be to take care of Boston College. 
The hardest part of the season is over. That's what they said in 1993, back when the Irish had respect. back when they were the favorites. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Holiday earns hug as he embraces role 
By CHRIS FEDER1CO 
Sports Editor 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

On Notre Dame's first offensive play from scrimmage Saturday, Irish quar­terback Carlyle Holiday faked a hand­off to tailback Ryan Grant. rolled right and hit nanker Arnaz Battle in stride 40 yards downfield. 
The speedy receiver outran a Seminole defender for a 65-yard touchdown. 
It was a perfectly executed play action pass. And i1. was just the begin­ning of another solid outing for the junior signal caller. 
lloliday finished the afternoon 13­for-2 l for 185 yards. but the most important statistics were his two touchdown passes with no intercep­tions. 
"I think he played an excellent game with tho conditions and a hostile envi­ronment," Batlle said. "Florida State has a very athletic defense -very aggressive -and Carlyle stayed in there and put the ball on the money. Ile made some great plays." 
After the game Saturday, Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick uropped part of the emotionless exte­rior that Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham likes so many of his coaches and players to display. As Holiday ran off the tleld, Diedrick met the young quarterback at one of the stadium tunnels with a big hug. 
"I hug [Holiday] like that after every win," Diedrick joked. ''I'm glad it's a 
win." 
Diedrick's display of emotions was understandable. Holiday continued to demonstrate the progress he's made running Notre Dame's new offensive he was week seven, and he's definite­Air Force -Holiday has stood tall in 
ly better than week one," Diedrick the face of defenders and been able toscheme. 

said. "I think he's played well the last deliver accurate passes in key situa­

After sitting out one game with a shoulder injury, Holiday has estab­two or three outings. Each one he's tions, as he did Saturday on the two lished himself as the undisputed getting a lot more comfortable, and touchdown passes to Battle and leader of the Irish offense. In three today I think he just did a great job." receiver Omar Jenkins. games, Holiday has gone 37-for-61 Heading into the season, many crit­"I've seen a lot of maturity in for 442 yards. In that span, he has ics questioned whether Holiday would Holiday]." Battle said. ''I've been here thrown three touchdowns, run for two be able to effectively run the compli­all of his years. l 've seen him come in more and has only one interception. cated pro-style offense. Last year, behind [former Irish quarterback] Most importantly, the Irish are 3-0 Holiday was primarily a running Matt Lovecchio and develop. He's against three very tough teams and quarterback who would scramble out really stepped up. It shows his athlet­undefeated on the season. of the pocket at the first sign of a rush ic ability to be able to go from an Even though he hasn't put up num­and gained yards with his feet instead option style offense to passing. It bers that will any awards, Holiday of his arm. shows that he can run the ball as well has done what a good quarterback So far this season, Holiday has as throw it. He's a great weapon in has to be able to do -put points on shown how much he has grown as a our offense." 
the board at the right time and lead quarterback in Willingham's offense. his team to victory at the end of each While still nimble-footed and danger­day. ous as a scrambler -as witnessed Contact Chris Federico at 
"I think Carlyle is better now than with his 54-yard touchdown run at cfederic@nd.edu 


Bow-den retracts 'serial killers' coininent 
not have said, especially in the time, and he was just He also added four more

Obmvcr Staff Report 
the wake of recent events" waiting for the right time to consecutive PATs. Bowden said. "I certainly come out. After beginning the year as

Florida State head coach 
meant no disrespect." "We had sat on the option the MVP of the Kickoff

Bobby Bowden quietly got 
long enough," Diedrick said. Classic, Setta lost his rhythm.

everyone's attention on A new option Prior to Saturday's kickoff,
Saturday at his post-game With just over four minutes he had missed six of his last
press conference. Reaching the goal left in lhe third quarter the Irish coach Tyrone seven field goal attempts.
And the attention-getter Irish offense borrowed an Willingham refused to call it connecting on only two of
had nothing to do with his 
idea from Air Force. a slump. So when Nicholas nine since the first Irish

team. As Bowden discussed his The Irish played the option. Setta stopped missing field game. team's defeat, he described Quarterback Carlyle goals on Saturday, he attrib­But Saturday, despite his lloliday took the snap and uted it, in part, to his coach's second field goal brushing
Notre Dame as serial killers. "Turnovers. That's how pitched to running back Ryan confidence. the goal post, Setta got the they beat everybody," Grant, who ran two yards for "It's unbelievable, because ball where it needed to go. the score. that's the one guy who you 'TU take it," Setta said. "If
Bowden said. "So count us in the club. We're in the club. "I didn't expect it," Grant worry what he thinks." said it wouldn't have kissed it, it "They're serial killers. They said. "We ran it in practice Setta. wouldn't have gone in. So I kill everybody the same and the coaches said, 'Try "When you've got him and would have given it a kiss." not to cut inside' ... I thought, the rest of the coaches and
way." Following the game, 'Oh, I'm cutting it back the team supporting you, it's Game day captains inside.' They got there fast." great." Irish game day captains on
Florida State issued a statc­ment retracting Bowden's Although it was the first The Irish place kicker con­Saturday were receiver time the Irish have pitched nected on both field goal Arnaz Battle, linebacker
comment. Bowden apolo­gized for the poorly chosen on the option, offensive coor­attempts, one from 35 yards Courtney Watson, cornerback metaphor. dinator Bill Diedrick said the out, the other from 39 yards Shane Walton and center Jeff "I used an analogy I should play has been in the book all out. Faine. 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame  10  O  17  7  34  
Florida State  3  7  0  14  24  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Florida State 0 
Arnaz Battle 65-yd reception from Carlyle 
Holiday (Nicholas Sella kick) with 12:40 remaining Drive: 1 play, 65 yards, 0:13 elapsed 
Florida State 3. Notre Dame 7 
Xavier Beilia 24-yd FG with 7:05 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 73 yards, 5:28 elapsed 
Notre Dame 10, Florida State 3 Sella 39-yd. FG with 1:16 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 58 yards, 5:44 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Florida State 10, Notre Dame 10 Torrence Washington 1-yd run with 4:14 remaining (Beilia kick) Drive: 20 plays, 93 yards, 8:41 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 13, Florida State 10 
Sella 35-yd FG with 5:26 remaining Drive: 24 plays, 5 yards, 2:02 elapsed Notre Dame 20, Florida State 10 
Grant 2-yd run with 4:09 remaining (Setta kick) Drive: 1 play, 2 yards, 0:06 elapsed 
Notre Dame 27, Florida State 10 
Omar Jenkins 16-yd reception from Holiday (Sella kick) Drive: 3 plays, 17 yards, 0:54 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 34, Florida State 10 
Grant 31-yd run with 10:14 remaining (Sella kick) 
Drive: 2 plays, 63 yards, 0:51 elapsed 
Florida State 17. Notre Dame 34 
Anquan Boldin 5-yd reception from Adrian McPherson with 1:12 remaining (Beilla kick) Drive: 9 plays, 95 yards, 3:08 elapsed 
. Florida State 24, Notre Dame 34 
Nick Maddox 29-yd reception from McPherson with 0:12 remaining (Beilia kick) Drive: 5 plays, 51 yards, 0:58 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
11iu1;*lr¦::~~~00tll418 
rushing yards 
li1l,1lw~,1r~116 
passing yards 5 
l_i_l=l=·l=)~=·i=l=t=::_e_!=:~>-~•=~=j1325 return yards 
rl;itt~®ffelrl~;~~Jl] ::11111 
time of possession 
lliW,~kflr!Bl~i~s 

32-116  rushes-yards  32-93  
13-21-0  comp-att-int  21-43-2  
6-252  punts-yards  6-269  
1-0  fumbles-lost  3-2  
4-40  penalties-yards  11-98  
13  first downs  20  

passing  
Holiday  13-21·0  Rix  13-32·2  
McPherson  8-11 ·0  

rushing 

Grant  19-94  Jones  14-34  
Holiday  5.17  Rix  10-28  
Loplenskl  1-4  McPherson  3-25  
Wilson  7-1  Maddox  2-8  

receiving 

Batlle  3-77  Boldin  9-175  
Jenkins  3-23  Maddox  4-90  
Grant  3-15  Morgan  4-33  


-_l 
n!_Hl: 

Tuesday, October 29, 2002 VfiSERVER Notre Dame 34, Florida State 24 

BRIAN PUCEVICHfrhe Observer 
Glenn Earl (No.19) and Darell Campbell (No. 60) make a tackle against Florida State. The Irish defense forced two fumbles and two interceptions. 
RESPECT  The Irish were the underdogs for seven of their eight games, including Saturday's game against the Seminole when Florida State was a 10-point favorite. However, Notre Dame proved itself as a team that can play with the cream of the crop on Saturday against Florida State.  
Three turnovers and three scores in the third quarter gave Notre Dame an undisputed lead  
EARNED  and caught the attention of the sports world.  





O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, October 29, 2002 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Hives bring hope for rock 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Ediror 
If the Bush Doctrine had been in place a decade ago, America would have stormed the beaches of Sweden when they sent Ace of Base lo terrorize our radio waves with crappy music. Despite any past quar­rels our country may have had with the Lion of the North in the past, the latest Swedish audile offering may be a peace­maker even though Abba may truly be an unforgivable offense. 
The Hives' latest, Veni Vidi Vicious, is an album that plays the way a rock album is meant to play: raw. The band's sound is hard to define, but it might suffice to say 
that they're new garage rock. The Hives are what would happen if The Beatles had their genes spliced with The Rolling Stones and the resulting band went partying with The Sex Pistols from 1983-1986. And with names like Nicholaus Arson, Chris Dangerous and Vigilante Carlstroem, their punk rock for­bearers would be proud. 
Veni Vidi Vicious is a great party album. Each song moves into the next seamlessly. Though some tracks off the album like "Hate To Say I Told You So" and "Main Offender" got a bit of airtime on radio stations over the summer, the album really doesn't have any sin­gle-worthy material. The value of Veni Vidi Vicious comes more from the way it works as a compilation of 
solid punk material. And while its fairly undeniable that The Hives rock out on their 
Veni Vidi Vicious 
The Hives 
Warner Bros. Records 



instruments, their lyrics are a bit basic. For example, "Hate To Say I Told You So" plays on basic teenage rebellion ala The Clash: "Do what I want cause I can and if I don't / because I wanna be ignored by the stiff and the bored because I'm gonna." But then again, that's punk for you. It might be a good thing that the vocal tracks are buried so far beneath the hard rocking guitars. 
Veni Vidi Vicious was actually released in 2000 by Warner Brothers, but the album didn't really catch on until early this year. Their popularity was cemented when they performed on MTV's Video Music Award 2002. But the band hasn't been an overnight success by any means. 

In fact the five members have been play­ing together since they were 13. 
Along with The Strokes, The Vines and The White Stripes, The Hives appear to be on the cutting edge of a rock revival. Though perhaps their native English speaking counterparts will be better equipped to lead the charge in the U.S., the fact that The Hives have produced a solid, fun album should be enough to keep them around for at least another crack at the charts. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@ncl.ec1.u 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Chambers shows Australian flavor 
By LIAM FARRELL Scene Music Cricic 
Australia is not really associated with American roots music, but native Kasey Chambers has won the admiration of such artists as Lucinda Williams and Steve Earle for her brand of country rock. lier debut The Captain was criti­cally acclaimed, and her follow-up Barricades and Brickwalls mines similar 
territory. Like most legitimate country artists today, Chambers wears her influences on her sleeve. Her voice sounds like a young, heartbroken Emmylou Harris and her melodies recall the Jayhawks and more roots oriented artists such as Alison Krauss. One of the strongest 
songs on the album is Chambers' cover of the Gram Parsons' "Still Feeling Blue", showing country music dexterity amid other rock songs like the opening title track. 
The problem with creating such an influenced record, however, is that origi­nality can be hard to find. 
Kasey Chambers' voice is probably the best part of the album, injecting emo­tion into even lack­1uster lyrics. She always sounds sec­onds away from breaking into an angry punk song, and her duet with Paul Kelly of the punk band the Living End on the beautiful "I Still Pray" strength­ens that connection. 
There is good atti­tude in the songs, a certain amount of genuine earnestness with a healthy amount of sorrow that improves the texture of her work. 
Her lyrics lack great diversity and origi­nality, how­e v e r . Although the genre she plays in is usually composed with simple lyrics of pain or hap­piness, she 
o f t e n repeats metaphors and images 
Barricades and Brickwalls 

Warner Bros. Records 



to death, losing some of the impact of later songs because they seem to be mir­ror images of earlier tracks. 
Her musicianship tries its hardest to drag the lyrics up to its level, but in the end she sounds too much like Jewel or one of the woman singer-songwriter clones that she is obviously too talent­ed to be grouped with. When listen­ing to songs like "On a Bad Day" or "Nullarbor Song", there is no doubt to the listener that there is genuine sadness, but one just wishes that it could be expressed more poetically. 
But the album is saved by repeated listens. On first glance many songs are less than break­through, but the construction of the album comes through upon con­tinued attempts at making sense of Kasey Chambers. lier potential is undeniable and there are Dashes of musical excellence here. She should not yet be grouped in with artists such as Aimee Mann or 

Beth Orton simply because her album does not compare to the Magnolia Soundtrack or Daybreaker. But there are good songs here, and it's a good sec­ond effort. 
Contact Liam Farrell at farrell.50@nd.ec1.u 
?...,.fTr,...-,-') 

Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

McNabb leads Eagles to win over the Giants 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Donovan McNabb didn't need to use his arm. His legs were enough to beat the New York Giants. 
McNabb ran for 111 yards and one touchdown, and Philadelphia had a remark­able 299 yards rushing as the Eagles beat the New York Giants 17 -3 in the final Monday night game at Veterans Stadium. 
It was Philadelphia's third straight victory over the Giants after losing nine in a row to them and gave the Eagles (5-2) a two-game lead over New York (3-4) and Washington (3-4) in the NFC East. 
McNabb had just 137 yards passing, but the Eagles domi­na.ted the Giants on the ground. Duce Staley had 126 yards on 24 carries, and David Akers kicked three field goals in the first half in which the Eagles had the ball for 20:31. 
Philadelphia hadn't had two 100-yard rushers since Oct. 8, 1995, when Ricky Watters and Charlie Garner did it against Washington. The Eagles had seven runs of 10 yards or more. The Giants had allowed just 11 such runs entering the game. 
McNabb put the game away with a 40-yard TD run 4:30 into the fourth quarter that gave the Eagles a 15-3 lead and McNabb connected with Chad Lewis on a 2-point con­version. His run capped a nine-play. 99-yard drive that took 3:33. 
On third-and-11, McNabb dropped back to pass, stepped up in the pocket, avoided a tackle at his feet by Cornelius Griffin, started to scramble, cut to his left. streaked down the sideline, jumped over a blocker at the 5 and went into the end zone. 
It was McNabb's second 100-yard performance in three games. 
He had 100 yards on 12 car­ries in a 28-25 loss to Jacksonville on Oct. 6. 
The Eagles took advantage of the absence of defensive tackle Keith Hamilton, who went down with a season-end­ing Achilles' tendon injury two weeks ago, by running at his replacement, Lance Legree, and right defensive end Kenny Holmes. They had 195 yards rushing in the first half, but couldn't get into the end zone. 


AFP Photo Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb tries to elude New York Giant defender Kenny Holmes. The Eagles went on to win 17-3. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Glavine, Thome among 70 to file for free agency 
to exercise his $7 million Giants, who lost Game 7 of the His contract had contained understand there is a risk that 
Associated Press 

option for 2003. World Series 4-1 to Anaheim annual salaries of $9,927,000, he might find a more attractive 
Greg Maddux, Roger on Sunday night. No Angels including $3,827,000 deferred offer elsewhere, we remain 
ANAHEIM, Calif. Clemens, Andy Pettitte, Jeff filed. with interest, but the White hopeful that we can reach 
Tom Glavine, Jim Thome and Kent. Robb Nen and Cliff Floyd San Francisco has two key Sox exercised a clause that some sort of agreement that Ivan Rodriguez were among 70 are among the 184 players players who are eligible but allowed the team to change the would keep Frank with the players who filed for free potentially eligible to file for didn't file Monday: Kent, the salary because he didn't make White Sox," Williams said. agency as baseball's offseason free agency by the Nov. 12 2000 NL MVP, and closer Nen, the All-Star team and isn't Chicago notified Thomas on began. deadline. who must decide whether to going to finish among the top Oct. 6 it was invoking the 
Frank Thomas of the Chicago Clemens is expected to exercise a player option for 10 in MVP voting or win a clause. White Sox, who is under con­decline his $10.3 million option 2003. Silver Slugger this season. "We have had some very pos­tract, also opted to explore the with the Yankees, because his Thomas, a two-time AL MVP. Chicago general manager itive conversations over the market, his right because the deal also includes a $10.3 mil­has until Dec. 7 to sign with Kenny Williams and Thomas' past two weeks," Tellem said. team exercised a provision in lion buyout. New York has an another club or keep his con­agent, Arn Tellem, said they "The White Sox have expressed his deal that would defer most $11.5 million option on tract with the White Sox, which will continue negotiations. their interest in retaining of his salary without interest. Pettitte. calls for annual salaries in the "Although we are not sur­Frank, and we will continue to 
Meanwhile, Atlanta Braves Shawon Dunston and Bill next four seasons of $250,000 prised that Frank exercised his hold discussions with the Sox catcher Javy Lopez decided Mueller filed Monday from the plus $10,125,000 deferred over right to shop his services on even while we are evaluating against free agency, deciding NL champion San Francisco 10 years without interest. the open market, and we other options for Frank." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che righr to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Happy Birthday. Tami!! It's about time you turned 21! ;)
NOTICES WANTED FOR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL 

CONGRATULATIONS Renee and 
#1 Spring Break VacalionslMexico, All size homes available for 2003-Michael on your engagement!Hl $250 a day potential/bartending Jamaica, Bahamas, Fk:lrida, Texas! 2004 mmmrental5@aol.com UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do We're all so happy for you and wish Training provided 1-800-293-3985 campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. www_mmmrentals.com N.D-tickets buy and sell. Please not go it alone. If you or someone you the very best! :) ext 556 Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234-check our prices. 273-3911. you love needs confidential support 
7007 endlesssummertours_com ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Your Mom... SPRING BREAK RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. Louise Gude, csc, at 1-7819. For INSANITYIWWW.INTER-CAM-CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST more infonnation, see our bi-weekly Hi, Ramon!!! Love, your secret PUS_COM OR CALL 1-800-327-Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 PRICES PAID 251-1570 ad in THE OBSERVER Observer fan Club! ;) 
6013. GUARANTEED LOWEST per day. No experience necessary. HOUSES FOR RENT FOR PRICES. FREE MEALS AND Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 2003/2004: ean Bill at 532-1896 ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS At least I don't have an unhealthy DRINKS! CANCUN, JAMAICA, PRICES 289-9280 Americas #1 Student Tour Operato< love interest in an action tigure ... FLORIDA AND BAHAMAS PARTY OOMUSPROPERTIES-NOW Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free CRUISE! OUR SEVENTEENTH LEASING FOR 2003-2004 NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR lntonnation/Aeservations 1-800· Y-M-C-A!II YEAR! REPS WANTED! SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN-SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
FOR SALE 

TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM-Hey Nellie, who's the third person PUS-4-5-8-9&10BEDAOOM ND FOQTBAlJ_ TICKETS WANT-Taco Bell= Taco Hell going to be?? HOUSES· STUDENT NEIGHBOR-ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726
LOST & FOUND 

LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO HOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM -t can't believe I have to work Adrienne. admit it, you want to date 
FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CAU. -NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) tonight. ugh._. a guy with earrings and tattoos, too. Digital Camera Lost Nikon Coo!Pix NON-RENTAL NEW!.YREMOD-WASHER/DRYERS-CALL TODAY bringing family, friends & girlfriend 775 Before Pitt Game LDSt near El.ED. FULLY EQUIPPED. -HOUSES GOING FAST -CON-to 1s1 ND game-Please call Chllcl< Hi, this is Kathy. Is Candle there? Katie, congratulations on your stadium call Destanie at 4-4283 $99,tiOO. Wllllamson.1 @nd edu TACT: KRAMER (574)234-2'436 -at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmal-blessed event. I'm looking forward 
(574)274-8955 • (574)674-2471 fey@global.t-bird.edu Whoal Geez... _ to living In a triple! ;) 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 

SENDWICH INDEX 
Irish claim top position in Sendwich Index 
The No. 1 sign atop Grace Notre Dame easily handled the Seminoles tacked on 
llall may not yet be lit up, former No. 7 Florida State two touchdowns with less 
bul the Irish did take over in Tallahassee. The Irish than two minutes remain­
the No. 1 spot in the Send­capitalized on turnovers ing to make the final score 
w i ch a n d 34-24. Bowden even went 
Index 
n i f t y so far as to call an onside 
t h i s p I a y kick with 12 seconds 
week. calling remaining. 
Notre to break Perhaps Bowden and San 
D a m e a 10-10 Francisco 49ers wide 
became tie wide receiver Terrell Owens 
t h c o p e n should get together and 
fourth with 24 start a poor sportsmanship 
diffcr­straight club. Fortunately, Bowden 
Eric Eric

e n t poi n ts got what he deserved and team in Chanowlch Sendelbach during a Florida State fell to No. 18 as many 10 min-in the Sendwich Index with weeks ute span the loss.
Sports Sports

to sit in the The Irish were formerly
Columnist Columnist

atop the second ranked No. 2 after a solid 
rank -half. win in Colorado Springs 
ings. In typ-against previously unbeaten 
Despite entering the game ical Bobby Bowden margin-Air Force. The Falcons 
----u-.-.-n-l-~.-;·;-;;-.~-:,-;·;-c-;·;•-J-i-~""~"'f""'!""'l• ... '. _......"""""_ jfJ.~\tii~/iil
...k""l"':-~I-~.......... 
the-scoreboard-indi­
cated 21-14 victory. 
The loss against 
Notre Dame may have 
been the straw that 
broke the camel's back 
for Air Force, as they 
followed up with a loss 
against previously win­
less Wyoming. Air 
Force is currently 
ranked No. 42. 
Sitting Ducks 
Two weeks ago 
Oregon had a perfect 
record, national cham­
pionship hopes, and a 
No. 8 ranking in the 
Sendwich Index. With 
consecutive losses to 
Arizona State and USC, 
the Ducks dropped as 
many games in eight 
days as they had previ­
ously lost in over two 
years. 
Oregon fell from the 
ranks of the unbeaten 
with a stunning defeat 
at home against 
Arizona State. The Sun 
Devils trailed 21-0 
early in the second 
quarter. but passed 
their way back into the 
game and an eventual 45­42 victory. 
One week later, USC easi• lv beat the Ducks 44-3 3. 'l~his game was not nearly as close as the final score might indicate as Oregon tacked on two meaningless late touchdowns. Former all-American recruit, turned disappointment, turned superstar once again Carson Palmer threw for 448 yards and 5 touch­downs in leading the Trojans to a victory. 
With the double whammy, Oregon dropped out of the top 25 and is currently ranked No. 31. USC and Arizona State both moved up significantly, as they currently rank No. 6 and No. 13, respectively. 
Fiesta Bowl Scramble 
Is Notre Dame really the best team in the country? Sadly. we may never know. The Irish currently rank No. 3 in the Bowl Championship Series standings behind Oklahoma and Miami. If both the Sooners and Hurricanes remain unde­feated, Notre Dame will probably not move into the top two, a requirement for making the national cham­pionship game. 
The winner of Miami and Virginia Tech on Dec. 7 is nearly guaranteed a No. 1 BCS rank following that game, with the victor receiving a needed boost in the computer rankings and quality wins departments. 
Oklahoma may decide its season this weekend against No. 20 Colorado. Should Oklahoma win, their only remaining pre-bowl challenge would be a likely rematch with Colorado in the Big 12 championship game. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writers and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Eric Chanowich at echanowic@nd.edu and Eric Sendelbach at esendelba@nd.edu 




to Japan 

Engage in international exchange and teaching through the JET Program 
BENEFITS 

¥3,600,000/)T round-trip airfare national health insurance IO -20 days paid leave travel opportunities international alumni network 
NO teaching experieuce or knowledge ofJapanese required.' 
APPLICATION 
www.us.emb-japan.go.jp 
DEADLINE 

December 5, 2002 
,QUESTIONS? 
www.chicago.us.emb:iapan. go.jp/jic.html (312) 280-0434 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
ND SWIMMING 
Wolllen successful, men lose in Colorado 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associare Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame mens and womens swimming teams trav­eled to Colorado over fall break with the same goal -win their first dual meet of the season. 
However, only the womens team fulfilled their goal. 
Notre Dame's women defeat­ed Colorado State 162-100 Oct. 25, while the men lost to Air Force 178-120. 
Womens head coach Bailey Weathers was happy with his team's results. 
"We were pleased overall with their performance," Weathers said. "We've been training at altitude and the meet was done at altitude, so that was a challenge for us. In terms of comparing our times that we did last year at the same time when we were at Florida, they were very similar. The times were very competi­tive [ with those in Florida last season]. So we're pleased with who where we are." 
Lisa Garcia and Laurie Musgrave stood out in Weathers' mind. Garcia won the 100-and 200-meter butter­fly events. while Musgrave won the 200 breaststroke. 
The Irish also got contribu­tions from Kelli Burton, Danielle Hulick and Heidi Hendrick. 
Meanwhile, the mens team had a solid meet, but fell short to the Falcons for their first dual meet loss of the season. A pair of freshmen, Patrick Davis and Tyler Grenda, led the Irish, with Davis posting wins in the 500 and 1000 freestyle and Grenda winning the 200 breaststroke. 
Joe Miller won the three­meter dive to lead the mens divers, while teammate Tong Xie finished third in the same event. 
The Notre Dame women have two home meets this week against Purdue on Wednesday and Indiana on Friday. 
Weathers said the competi­tion in Colorado should help the team in this week's meets. 
"I think we hoped to be able to beat [Colorado State] but [the meet] tells us a lot of what we need to do this week against Indiana and Purdue," 
he said.  
The Irish men  are off until  
Nov.  8  when  they  host  
Michigan State.  

Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Pinella accepts Tampa position 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
For Lou Piniella, the opportu­nity to work near where he grew up was just part of the appeal of becoming the manag­er of the struggling Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 
Piniella was introduced after finalizing a four-year, $13 mil­lion contract that makes him the second-highest paid man­ager in the majors. He is confi­dent he can help transform the team with baseball's youngest and least-expensive roster into a championship contender. 
'Tm not a baseball savior. I'm not a baseball guru. I believe in no shortcuts to suc­cess," the 59-year-old manager said after slipping on a No. 14 Devil Rays home jersey during a news conference at Tropicana Field. 
"I believe in hard work. I believe in dedication. I believe in taking a tremendous amount of pride in the uniform that you wear in the city that you repre­sent," he added, tugging on the front of his jersey. "That's what we're going to try to instill here. I'm looking forward to the challenge." 
Piniella asked out of the final year on his contract with the Seattle Mariners, so he could seek employment closer to his home in Tampa. The Mariners agreed to allow the Devil Rays to negotiate with the manager after the Devil Rays met their demand for All-Star outfielder Randy Winn as compensation. 

Tampa Bay also received minor league shortstop Antonio Perez in the deal. 
The two-time AL manager of the year went 840-711 in 10 seasons at Seattle. The Mariners won a league-record 116 games in 2001 and won three AL West titles and made four playoff appearances under him. 
Overall. Piniella is 1,319­
1.135 in 16 seasons of manag­ing in the majors. He led the Cincinnati Reds to a World Series championship in 1990 and also served a successful stint as manager of the New York Yankees from 1986-88. 
In Tampa Bay, Piniella inher­its a team that has lost 206 games the past two seasons ­most in the majors. The Devil Rays tied the Detroit Tigers for the worst record in the AL (55­
106) this year and never won more than 69 games under previous managers Larry Rothschild and Hal McRae. 
McRae was fired last month and moved into a position as an assistant to general manager Chuck LaMar. Six other candi­dates -none with big league managerial experience -were interviewed as potential replacements, however the team focused solely on Piniella once the Mariners agreed to let him out of the final year of his contract in Seattle. 
The New York Mets were interested, too, but were unable to agree with Seattle on com­pensation. Once it became apparent that Piniella was going accept the Devil Rays' offer. the Mets quickly closed on a four-year contract with Art Howe. 
Piniella reportedly will earn about $2.5 million in 2003. roughly the same that he would have had he remained in Seattle. The remainder of the contract calls for about $3 mil­lion in 2004, $3.5 million in 2005 and $4 million in 2006, plus he could earn up to $3 mil­lion in incentives based on vic­tories. 
In addition to being able to live year-round in the same city with his family and elderly par­ents, the ultra-competitive Piniella also found the chal­lenge of taking over one of the league's worst teams appeal­ing. 
Seattle was struggling before he began to turn the Mariners around in 1993. He sees the same potential in Tampa Bay, which trimmed its payroll to a major league-low $34 million this season. 
Learn more about the University of Southern California's Leventhal School of Accounting 
Master of Accounting (MAcc) & Master of Business Taxation (MBT) Programs 
• All degrees welcome 
• 
Earn your degree in ONE YEAR! 

• 
NO WORK EXPERIENCE REQUIRED 


Come meet Chrislynn Freed, Director of the Master's Programs 
at the 

Graduate School Fair 
Wednesday, October 30th, 4:00pm -8:00pm 
at Heritage Hall, 2nd floor concourse of the Joyce Center 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
FOOTBALL 
Elevation lifts Grant, Irish above Falcons 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Writer 
t\t his weekly press conference before their game against Air Force on Oct. 19, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham had joked that his team would run faster because they had trained at sea level. For running back Ryan Grant, that didn't turn out to be such a joke. 
The sophomore recorded 190 yards as the Irish swept past the Falcons 21-14. 
"Did I run faster?" Grant asked 
when Willingham suggested in the post-game press conference that the thin air wasn't a factor. "I ran raster because they were trying to tackle me." 
With the oITensive line opening holes, Grant hatl a career-best running game and scored an 18­yard touchdown for the Irish. 
"The coaches did a great job culling plays and the line did a !;real job opening holes," Grant said. "I could pick where I want­ed to run." 
Before the game began, ana­lysts assumed it would be Air Force that would rack up the rushing yards -the Falcons led the nation in rushing, averaging 33tJ yards a game with their triple option attack. But the Irish defense shut down the option with little trouble, holding the ralcons to only 161 offensive yards. The Irish wcren 't sur­prised at their ability to shut down the option. 
"I knew it from the get-go," Irish cornerback Shane Walton said. "They haven't seen a defense as physical and as fast as our defense. I think we proved that tonight, we can play the pass, we can play the option, any kind of option we can play." 
The Irish offense was equally unsurprised by their success. Quarterback Carlyle Holiday, who ran for negative yards against Pittsburgh, picked up 86 rushing yards, 52 more than the Falcons' Chance Harridge, including two touchdowns. 
With 1:12 left in the first quar­ter and Air Poree up by seven, Holiday broke out of the pocket and raced 53 yards for a touch­down. 
"We were trying to get the ball to one of our over routes and it didn't show up because he got rushed out of the pocket." Willingham said. ''Ile displayed his athletic ability, a couple of missed tackles. guys he made miss and got in the end zone." 
Holiday also scored the final Irish touchdown of the game, going one yard into the end zone late in the third quarter. 
In the second half, it wasn't just the run game that the Irish found successful. Holiday began connecting on passes consistent­ly and Arnaz Battle began receiving consistently. Battle was the receiver on all eight passes that Holiday completed during the game. 
"I think the thing we said last week about Arnaz is that he's slowly, and that's not being dis­respectful to Arnaz, but that he's slowly learning the nuances of being a receiver and you see that each week come up a little bit more," Willingham said. 
Air Force could not put a drive together. The option attack was unsuccessful. Harridge, who had been leading the Falcons in rushing, was effectively shut down and the pitch wasn't work­ing. 
Air Force took the usual Irish approach to scoring -making plays on defense. The Falcons 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 


took advantage of two Irish fum­bles to score their touchdowns. With three minutes to play in the first quarter, Holiday fumbled and Marchel Graddy returned the fumble 21 yards for the Air Force touchdown. 
With the Irish leading by seven at the half, the Air Force defense forced another fumble that kept them in the game. On the kick off beginning the second half -0f the play, Vontez Duff fumbled the ball on the return, setting up the 16-yard offensive drive by the Falcons. 
"I just think those things hap­pen," Willingham said. " ... 

Vontez was turned and the guy caught the ball. On the other one, Carlyle was hit on the blind side and it popped loose. Sometimes those things happen." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 



INNSBRUCK 
2003-2004 Academic Year 
Come and meet Professor Gemot Gtirtler, Director ofthe Innsbruck Program 
Wednesday, October 30, 2002 213 DEBARTOLO 7:00 PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.J5@nd.edu Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
HOCKEY 
Irish split conference games over fall break 
By CHRIS FEDERlCO 
Sports Editor 
It was an up-and-down week for the Notre Dame hockey team over fall break. The Irish began their week off from classes with a pair of victories over CCHA opponent Western Michigan, 4-2 and 8-5 in a home-home series with the Broncos. 
Some of that momentum came to a halt. however, with a pair of conference losses at home to Ferris State last weekend, 5-2 and 4-1. 
In Notre Dame's first home game of the season against Western Michigan two weeks ago, the front line of seniors Michael Chin and Connor Dunlop and junior Rob Globke carried the Irish to victory. The trio had three of the team's four goals and con­tributed five assists in the con­test. 
For the second half of the series, the teams traveled to Kalamazoo. Mich.. and the Notre Dame offense caught fire for eight goals to escape with the 8-5 victory in the offensive battle. 
Junior center Aaron Gill had his first career hat trick for the Irish, as Notre Dame net­ted three goals in the first and never looked back, getting four more in the second peri­od and tacking on its final score in the third. 
The Irish took advantage of Bronco mistakes, converting four of seven power plays, while Western Michigan scored on only one of its three power play chances. 
As a result of the wins. the Irish earned their first spot in the national rankings since the 1998-99 season, being ranked 11th by the Inside College Hockey.com poll and 15th in the USAToday/American Hockey Magazine poll. 
The Irish suffered their first loss of the season Friday night in the Joyce Center at the hands of CCHA rival Ferris State. The two teams entered the final period of play knot­ted at 1-1. but the Bulldogs used four third period goals to pull away 5-2. 
Globke put the Irish on the 


WINTER & SPRING
BREAK 

Panama City Beach • South Padre Island• Vail Steamboat•OaytQna BeadJ• Breckenridge 

board in the second period 
with his sixth goal of the sea­
son. Junior defenseman Neil 
Komodoski would add Notre 
Dame's only other goal of the 
match. getting his fourth of 
the season on an Irish power 
play in the final period. 
Notre Dame had a chance 
for redemption the following 
night, but the Irish were 
unable to stop Ferris State 
senior left wing Chris Kunitz, 
who had two goals and two 
assists in the Bulldogs' 4-1 
victory. 
The Irish avoided a shutout 
when sophomore center Cory 
McLean knocked a rebound 
past Bulldog goaltender Mike 
Brown with just 3:10 left to 
play in the game. 
With the pair of losses. the 
Irish fell to 3-2-1 on the sea­
son and 2·2 in the CCHA, and 
dropped to fourth place in 
conference standings. 
The Irish return to action 
Friday as they host high-flying 
Boston College. The Eagles are 
3-0-0 and are currently 
ranked in the top five in each 
of the three major college . hockey polls. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederico@nd.edu 

RESERVED COURT TIME SCHEDULING MEETING 

Any organization wishing to request weekly 
BASKETBALL or VOLLEYBALL 
court time at Stepan Center for the 2002-2003 academic year must attend-­

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER-30 4:30pm Montgomery Theatre 
1st Floor Lafortune Student Center 
You must have a representative present at the meeting to request your times. 
Weekly court time will run November 2002 through April 2003. Coordinated by the Student Activities Office. For more information. contact 631-6912. 
HALLDWUN N/6«tr 
ULTl~Alt fl!l~Btt 
TOURNA~tNT 
ihu~, o,tobe.r 31 l,:3opm dil) 

. ~th\~ fit\dti 
-Simplified Rules -Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and spouses -Co-Rec 5 on 5, min. of 2 females on the field at all times -Space limited -Register a team in advance at RecSports -Deadline to register: Wednesday, October 30 at 5:00pm -All teams guaranteed at least 2 games 
for more information l.a\\ 1-(p\OO or Vi&it rec.5port1,.na.e.au 


ANDY KENNNThe Observer 
Junior right wing Rob Globke battles for the puck against Toronto earlier in the season. The Irish lost two games after starting the season 3-0-1. 

NOT ALL.AIR F'ORCE R,...
:. f,.:.,:c· 

STUDENTS F'L~/ PLANES.(1 
, -~•,'.',-'-·.
• • !f':: 

. G.e'.'rfltJG TH.EJ;e;i "fUJTJON
Ii . .. ,;:',<H 
: ·r;-J.E AIR F'OF:'.;E JS "fi-J?.JLL'E'.NO 
___I. ·• \~l 
APFscrrc.coi'1J 
J-8&S-..!~Z3-1~82 
.... 

-Iuesday, October 29, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

WoDlens 
continued from page 24 
in the first half. 
The second half was more of the same for the Irish as Thorlakson scored the fourth goal in the 61st minute for the 
International Study Program in 
PARIS, FRANCE 
Study Political Science, International Relations, Sociology, Economics, and Modem History in the Heart ofParis at Science Po, one of Europe's most Prestigious Institutions 
Meet with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director 
INFORMATION MEETING October 30, 2002 
6:00 PM 116 DeBartolo 
Dec. 1, 2002 deadline for Academic Year 2003-2004 Application available: www.nd.edu/-iotlstud 


GET A TASTE OF LIFE AT THE Tor. 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
A Marine Corps pilot is coming to campus 
who can take you up for trial flights. We're looking for a few college students who have the brains and skill -as well as the desire -to become Marine pilots. 
SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
To reserve your seat on October 30th for a free orientation flight over Notre Dame, contact: 
CAPTAIN JOHN WIILIAMS 1-877-299-9397 osolaf@mcd.usmc.mil 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS MarineOfficer.com 
2002 
Irish off a pass from Chapman. Boland added the fifth goal a few minutes later and Warner capped the scoring on a chip shot with 12 minutes remain­ing. 
Goalies Erika Bohn and Lauren Kent combined on the shutout for the Irish. 
Now the Irish must wait two weeks for the NCAA 

University ofNotre Dame 
If you're cut out for it, we'll give you free civil­ian flight training, maybe even $300 a month cash while you're in school. And someday you could be flying a Harrier, Cobra t;-· or FIA-18. . ~~ 
!ll.~f:,;\
Get a taste of what life is -~.:.. =.,rrit?Jl
f'.,,~°T.:11~
like at the top. The flight's 1°·Q,_ ­
} .\,......., 
on us. .,,.•.,\,.~ ~ 
Tournament selections. 
"Our first priority [in those two weeks] needs to be to get everyone as healthy as possi­ble," Scheller said. "We need to stay fit, focus on soccer and wait until the NCAA tourna­ment selection." 
Contact Andy Troeger at 
at.roeger@nd.edu 
VOLLEYBALL 

No pot of gold at end of Rainbows 
. Irish win two Big East matches after dropping two in
Hawaii 
MA ZA 
By TT LO R 
Sports Writer 
While the trip to Hawaii provided a break from the regularities of Big East action, getting wins makes the Irish happy. The main­land was much kinder to the Irish than the middle of the Pacific Ocean. 
After dropping two games against Hawaii, the Irish rebounded by defeating Pittsburgh and West Virginia at the Joyce Center over the weekend. 
"You always want to do that [win after tough losses]. Even though we played at a high level in Hawaii, you want to come back and win both of those matches," Notre Dame volleyball coach Debbie Brown said. "With Pittsburgh ant West Virginia, we didn't necessarily play well start to finish, but we ended both matches 

well with "Even though we played apart than strong 
at a high level in Hawaii, us playing 
g a m e better."

fours." you want to come back 
Jessica

Against and win both of those Kinder,Hawaii, 
matches." Loomis 
Notre Dame 
a n d
battled the 
Kristen 

country's Debbie Brown 
Kinder 
No. 2 team 

Irish coach each had a 
in game one of both matches. The Irish lost 30-26 and 34­32 in those games before the Rainbows wore down tho Irish. 
"I think in both matches we started off strong and were really good in game one on both days. Maybe more so, individuals learned we can play with best in country," Brown said. "I think we learned that we have to be more consistent over time, instead of being a little bit hot, you have to play an entire match. It was a great experience and it was valuable to be in that atmos­phere in front of a big crowd." 
In the first match, Notre Dame lost the last two games 30-23 and 30-17. 
Middle blocker Katie Neff led the Irish with 11 kills. Outside hitter Jessica Kinder 

{j}kint su;;;,Jl 6Jl11de11IJ: ~ffofl, a, tod/e,J(,, jJ{ld, a;J'//JItJJ ?Bome-/(1. a//l/ hJ!{,,pmallonalJJMdi1',f_J/i.""' 
Yi3htmie6 ~~a,lffin,e al {jlhMI 9/_6;'? 6. !Jl;;,1:71t1, 7.-00 l}J;;t;JJ'fK1r ?B{i//J'/}(t/e-Jt ?Benle-Jt 
double• 

double for the Irish. Jessica Kinder led the team with 12 kills and Loomis had 13 digs. 
The Irish won the last three games 30-28, 30-28 and 30-13. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame (17-5, 8-0) continued its per­fect season in the Big East with a four game win over West Virginia (9-14, 3-5) 30­23, 30-20. 28-30. :rn-20. 
The Irish dominated at the net with 20.5 blocks com• pared to a total of three from the Mountaineers. Brewster led the Irish with 10 blocks. 
Notre Dame plays its last non-conference match of the season tonight playing at Illinois State. The match is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
had 10 kills and recorded a 
~:~::ei.gh "360 hitting per-
After pushing the Rainbows to extra points in 
game one of last Tuesday's 
match, the Irish couldn't break through dropping the next two games 30-18 and 
30-25. 
Outside hitter Emily Loomis had 13 kills, Neff had nine and freshmen Lauren Brewster and Lauren Kelbley each had seven. 
Pittsburgh gave Notre Dame a scare in Friday's match winning game one 30­23 and taking a 18-11 lead in game two. In game one, the Panthers hit .419 and were looking to pull the upset. 
The Panthers (15-7, 5-2 in the Big East) then proceeded to fall apart. 
"I think one of the things that happened in game two was that Pitt started making unforced errors and hitting balls out," Brown said. "We served strong throughout that stretch putting pressure on them, we got a block or two. In game two, it was more them fa I I i n g 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 



Associated Press coaches' polls, visit weak­tern." 1.36 for strength of sched­ling Rutgers. The BCS formula uses the ule, zero for losses and no But it's the final BCS AP media and coaches' bonus-point deduction. 
Notre Dame moved a lot standings Dec. 8 that will polls, computer polls, Notre Dame had 6.99 closer to national title terri­determine which teams strength of schedule, won­points -5 for poll average, tory. play in the national title loss record and a bonus­1.83 for computer average, 
The Irish narrowed the game at the Fiesta Bowl in point system. 0.16 for strength of sched­gap behind second-place Tempe, Ariz .. on Jan. 3. Notre Dame, 8-0 after a ule and no bonus-point Miami in the Bowl For now, though, the pos­34-24 win over Florida deduction. Championship Series stand­sibilities are intriguing -State, moved up thanks The remaining games for ings released Monday, with the top six teams in the BCS largely to its rise from No. 6 Miami and Notre Dame Oklahoma holding on to the standings are unbeaten, to No. 4 in the media poll. appear to give the top spot. and five can finish the sea­Oklahoma (7-0) had 3.33 Hurricanes an edge in 
The difference between son with perfect records. points -2 for poll average, strength of schedule. After second and third is so tiny "If five teams finish unde­1.17 for computer-rank this week, Notre Dame that if Notre Dame beats feated. the BCS poll still average, 0.56 for strength­plays weak teams Navy (1­Boston College next week­determines who plays in the of-schedule, zero for losses 7) and Rutgers (1-7) before end, it might be enough to national championship and a 0.4 deduction for a its finale against USC (6-2). move the Fighting Irish game," BCS coordinator victory over Texas. Miami plays Tennessee (4­ahead of Miami. The Michael Tranghese said. Miami (7-0) had 6.69 3). Pittsburgh (6-2), Hurricanes, No. 1 in both "And, yes. there will be con­points -1 for poll average, Syracuse (2-6) and Virginia the AP media and the troversy. But this is the sys-4.33 for computer average, Tech (8-0). 
IN BRIEF 

Rix benched fourth quarter and led Florida State Lakers placed center Shaquille Chris Rix will be replaced as to two late scores to cut a 24-point O'Neal and forward Mark Madsen on Florida State's starting quarterback deficit. the injured list Monday. 
by Adrian McPherson when the No. "The way (McPherson) came in O'Neal. recovering from surgery on 18 Seminoles play at Wake Forest there and took us down in there his arthritic right big toe, and this weekend. twice, we just felt like we just had to Madsen, who has a strained left 
Seminoles coach Bobby Bowden have him back there," Bowden said. hamstring, must miss a minimum of announced the move two days after Rix is 13-7 in two years as a five games. a 34-24 loss to Notre Dame, Florida starter, one fewer loss than his three The Lakers will open the season immediate predecessors combined Tuesday night against San Antonio
State's seventh defeat in the last two years under Rix. He has been criti­-Chris Weinke, Thad Busby and with an active roster of Kobe Bryant, 
Danny Kanell. Derek Fisher, Rick Fox. Deveaucized following a 5-3 start, Florida 
State's worst since 1986. The Seminoles have lost three of George, Hobert Horry, Slava "The only answer as to why we're their past four games but are 4-0 in Medvedenko, Tracy Murray. rookies Jannero Pargo and Kareem Rush,
doing this is that we feel like we the Atlantic Coast Conference. They Soumaila Samake, Brian Shaw and
should," Bowden said after Monday's would still win the league title and Samaki Walker. 

practice. "There was no question we go to a BCS bowl if they beat their They'll only have 11 players in uni­need to move [McPherson] in there four remaining ACC opponents. 

form since Fox was suspended forand see what he can do." O'Neal. Madsen out for the first five six games Monday for his role in aIn Saturday's game, Rix turned the games 
bench-clearing brawl during an
ball over on consecutive possessions exhibition game Friday night against to set up 10 Notre Dame points and O'Neal, Madsen out for the 

Sacramento. Kings guard Doug
break a 10-10 tie. first five 2ames 

Christie was suspended for two
As expecteu, the three-time defend­
McPherson, who has never started a games.

ing NBA champion Los Angeles
college game, relieved Rix late in the .. -~ --· . --~~ .. --.. ' 
--~---­

Tuesday, October 29, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
their high finishes, both seem to have the potential to run faster. 
"They were pretty conserva­tive and pretty controlled early on," Connelly said. "They didn't do anything to get themselves in trouble. They did a pretty nice job getting themselves 
where they needed to be, and not get­ting in trou­ble, so I think both of them feel that there's a bunch more there." 
The Pre­N at ion a 1 meet is intended to opportunity themselves 
for the title meet a chance to score points in hopes of receiving an at-large bid. 
"Obviously we helped ourselves out a lot in terms of at-large points," 
"Obviously we helped was followed 
by freshman
ourselves out ofa lot in 
Stephanie
terms ofat-large points. " Madia and 
sophomore 
Katie Wales,
Tim Connelly 
who finished
Irish coach 
give teams an to familiarize with both the 

course and the competition they will encounter at the national championship. Additionally, it gives teams that will not automatically qualify 
Connelly said. "We beat a whole lot of teams that are going to be automatic quali­liers. We definitely went down there and got done what we needed to get done." 
The Irish are still working on line-tuning their lineup to give them optimal performances. 
Freshman Loryn King ran in the Open race with the Irish junior varsity runners, but her time was fast enough that she would have finished in the Irish top five had see run in the var­sity race. Additionally, junior Megan Johnson injured her Achilles tendon and finished seventh on the team in the var­sity race. 
"We're just kind of' nursing that [the injuries) right now," Connelly said. "I think she'll be ready by the time nationals comes around." 
Senior Jennifer Handley was the third Irish runner with her 
37th place 
finish. She 
71st and 93rd, respec­tively, in the field of 254. 
Connelly thinks the elder King and Huddle, by working together during their races, are in the position to lead the team to a great season. 
"It's a good kind of competi­tion," Connelly said. "They ran together the wq_ole race. They 
"I didn 'tfeel any pressure, but it was definitely harder to do it well." 
Tim Moore Irish freshman 
figured out that they need ea.ch 
o t h e r b e c a u s e 
LIZ GAYDOS/The Observer
there are 

The Irish competed In the Pre-National meet over fall break. The 13th ranked womens team fin­
going to be 
ished fourth and the mens team finished 11.th at the meet.
tough patch­es during the teammate right there helping race. They you out." need each Mobley finished fourth for the other to help Irish behind junior David Alber each other and freshman Eric Morrison. 
through it. They're two of the Alber ran 24:45 and finished in best kids in the country." 34th place overall, while 
The same strategy of running Morrison was 83rd. Sophomore together normally helps Mobley Sean O'Donnell rounded out and Moore on the mens team, the Irish top five with his 103rd but with Mobley lagging behind place finish. and fighting his injury, Moore Last year, the team took sec­was on his own. ond at the Pre-Nationals. and 
"I didn't feel any pressure, they had been hoping to per­but it was definitely harder to form in a similar manner this do it well," Moore said. "It's year. easier to run when you have a "We haven't really lived up to our expectations all year yet," Moore said. "We really wanted to do well at the Pre-Nationals so we could get some points." 
Moore has overcome one per­sonal hurdle this season, but says he still has more chal­lenges. 
"All season I've been having problems with my stomach," Moore said. "I figured out how to fix that." 
Now part of the problem, both for him and team, is the ability to overcome the mental barriers. 
"I was right out there with 


As Senior VP of Financial Planning at a major movie studio you could: 

!'.l 
!l 
i:: O.K. a $93 million bud et 
= 
..Cl 
< u Hire 7,500 extras Rent 273 pa Im trees (and 1big fan to make them sway) 
How do you get a job like tl,;s? Start today. 

,:: Apply for a Summer Dream Internship at: 
Cl
-~ www.StartHereGoPlaces.com/biz2 
E 
the front pack but I was just a couple strides off the back of it," Moore said. "I think if I just would have buckled up and gone with that pack, it would have been much easier for me to hang with them and then I would have had a better fin­ish." 
Both Irish teams will compete at the Big East Championships in Boston College on Friday. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@od.edu 
Start here. Go places. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
Start going places with a Summer Dream Internship. Register online today and complete your application by 2/01/03 to compete for one of two $5,000 paid internships. Eight other students will receive cash value awards of up to $1,000." 
., Co ·00 '0'01/02 2/1)1/03 and is open only to leoal residents of the 50 United States. eighteen (18) or older at time of 
... 
•contest Rules: complete rules can be found on the CollegeClub.com Web_ site. ~O PURCHASE NECESSARY. n~~st en/:X pen runs ' ' -i I! on the StartHereGoPtaces com Web site located at www.Startl-JereGoPlaces.com or o_n the -= < entry enrolled in a 11111/part•lime accredited college or umvers1ty, and IS subiect to the complftse Contest 0: Ir,ial r1ne~E:m~e~at!~;~~::1a1 Rules Employees and family members of Sponsor not eligible to part1cIpate. Sponsor IS not ~ CollegeClub com Web s,te located at www.CollegeClub.com. Al! entnes become )he prope$' 0 ponsor. as e ine .1 •n I.he ssina of the eniries The authors of the two (21 Grand Prize winning essays will each receive their 1esponsible ior technical or other malfunction:;, IOJl or unavailable network ~hnnecltidons••~r f:ed el:~owc co(SSmoooIT~l~Sp~t::r:~rse;,P\~intemship. The Grand Pri1e is not transferable. except bv Sponsor. who may substitute pril~ Vi(ilh
! 
Cl choice al one of [he ·summer Dream Internships _provided. by_Spqnsor. wh1c inc uhees ,,ve. ousa 1°~ tilO s 01 the three (3)winning Runners-Up esseyswill receive one tho~sand dollar(Si,000) 91ft checks. The authors of the five (5) wm_n1ng a prize ol equal value or opportunity._No ~ash or prize subst1tut1on rs_ al,owed and _ot r restnctiobns app.Ji au .11 ~ · nnn•·ble f r any and all lillll!S Sl)Clnsor: The American Institute ol Certified Public Accountants. 1211 Avenue of the Americas.
"'C
.. Honorable Mention essays will receive five hundred collar (!i5001 gift checks. Void where proh1 ,tee. mneSr~ w200 J":f"bad' CA moo
i · 

.,_ New y01~. NY 10036-8775; ColiegeClub.com. adivision of Student Acwntage. Inc.. 2035 Corte Del NogaI. urte • rs • • 
rn 

page 22 
Mens 
continued from page 24 
turned to heartbreak last Saturday, as the Irish fell to Georgetown on a penalty kick with 24 seconds left to give the Hoyas to a 3-2 victory. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 1-0 lead on a goal from Detter -his sixth of the sea­son -off an assist from Braun with 29:21 left in the half. 
However, the Hoyas tied the match later in the half off a goal from Kemmons Feldman. 
The Hoyas notched their sec­ond goal of the game with a goal from Jeff Curtin with 
26:57 left in the match. 
Just as the game appeared to be ending in the Hoyas' favor, Martin scored the game-
WOMENS GOLF 
Irish finish eighth at adidas fall invite 
ByANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame womens golf team had many positives and few negatives to take from their play at the adidas Fall Invitational. The Irish fired a total of 932, good for eighth place in the 11-tearn event held Oct 21-22 at the Dye Course at the PGA Village in Florida. 
For the second consecutive weekend the Irish played two great rounds and one poor round, although this time the poor round came at the begin­ning of the event. The Irish shot 320 in the first round placing them in a distant eighth place. Despite firing rounds of 305 and 307, they were unable to catch any of the teams ahead of them. 
"I feel like it is one step clos­er to where we're trying to go," junior Shannon Byrne said. "We started rough but we bounced back, and I think that's a sign of where our team is headed. Now we're having two good rounds instead of one." 
Byrne became the fourth Irish golfer in five events to lead the team by finishing in a tie for 17th. Bryne's total of 230 (76-79-75) was a career best. 
She was joined in the top 20 by freshman Sarah Bassett, who overcame a poor first round to climb into the top 20 for the event at 231 (86-71­74). Bassett's 71 was her career low and the best round on the team this fall. 
Fellow freshman Katie Brophy turned in another solid performance for the Irish, fin~ ishing at 235 (81-75-79) in a tie for 27th. Following Brophy was senior Terri Taibl, who tied for 38th at 241 (82-80­79). To round out the {rish effort, Suzie Hayes fired a 245 (81-82-82) to tie for 40th and Karen Lotta tied for 57th with a 256 (85-86-85). 
Baylor won the event with a score of 899. edging Arkansas by one shot, while Randi Gauthier of North Texas was the medalist with a 1-under­par total of 215. Her final round 72 placed her one shot better than Hanna tying goal with 4:14 left in the match, 
With overtime a near-cer­tainty, the Irish were whistled for a handball in the penalty area with less than 30 seconds left. 
Curtin's shot beat Irish goalie Greg Tait, and the Hoyas' late goal was too much for the Irish to overcome with such little time left. 
Despite the loss, the Irish clinched a berth in the eight­team Big East postseason tour­nament Sunday, as ninth-place Syracuse Jost to Virginia Tech, 1-0. The Orangemcm currently have 10 points with one con­ference game remaining -not enough points to overtake the Irish, who, with a 5-3-1 record in the Big East, have 16 points. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
Svenningson of Baylor and Amanda Mc Curdy of Arkansas. Svenningson began the day tied for the lead, but fired a 73, while McCurdy's 68, the low round of the day, also put her one short. 
Notre Dame, which hosted the event, also had three golfers compete as individuals. Freshman Lauren Gebauer tied for 33rd at 237 (80-78­79), while Rebecca Rogers fired 248 (89-78-81) to finish 44th. Lauren Barbir rounded out the Irish squad in tying for 48th at 251 (84-84-83). 
"We've had a lot of mental training and preparation," Byrne said. "I've been strug­gling but it's starting to come together for me, and I think it is starting to come together for a lot of us. We're looking forward to times where we're in it from the beginning." 
The Irish finish their fall schedule on Nov. 4-5 when they play in the Pine Needles Invitational at Pinehurst, N.C. 
Contact Andy Trocgcr at atroeger@nd.edu 


lllaPAY, OCTOBER..31 11:DIAN 2:DDPN 
The $t,~clent~ctivities e>ffice invites !jot~ tocioin the st1~dents ctncl st<tff ofthe entire L<tForl1~ne $tHdent Center for ct H11LLoween CJpen HoHSe. There will be tre<ds, Wrtches' ~rew(so1w) 11n~ s1~rprises! for morB information call €>~1-7~e)8. 
. -· -------­

-----------------------, 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 


Law, Human Rights and Children in Armed Conflict 
Wednesdav, 0ctober30 1n.m. Hesburuh Center 
Auditorium 


Jo Becker 
Director, Children's Rights Project, Human Rights Watch 
Sponsored by the Henkels Visiting Scholars Series and The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
¥ Mo1{re invited to the-¥
• 

LAFOR.TUN£ OP£NHOUS£ 


Tuesday, October 29, 2002 Thr Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
(iotN'1 +~OlffR. NOT OOLY 00 .I: N01" ,. OR ON ~~ \$ A,LW.>~5. t:NOW HALF Of·-nt£ ~lMi:Tu'V\E.,.. 

HAPPY TOWN 
a.rr IT SE;E:MS -rHAT 1H£ VJC<R.L.D Is At.SO Sl.f.1Wl.'/ ~f;TT\!.J~ ME:.! 
___.,,,,, 
, V<>U''RE ~-r 
~Hff~lt !SIT 
-,;--·..--...il!IJ!l'l:ll 
.,,. 

JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
J]1]fW~
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
LITTE 
tIJ 
02002 Tribune Me<lia Se1Vlcea, Inc. 
All Rights Ai,served. 
OCKAL j
I I r 
NICKES j
I [I
www..jurrbla.com 
TIFFUL 

b 
Answer: A 

[IIIJ (!!)oFIT] 
(Answers Monday) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: MUSTY FLAME VESTRY BROKER Answer: When he skipped a grade, his teacher said it was a -"SMART MOVE" 

WHAT HE GOT WHEN HI= TOOK KARATE= L.E=SSONS. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
JUMBLI: CLASSIC SERIES NO. 20 • To order, Hnd your namt, lddJell lhd $5.45 and""'"° cbe<:k payable to Tribune Modlo Sorvlceo, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
31 "You'll never _!" 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


HEY STUDENTSII ND BASKETBALL SEASON BOOKLETS ARE NOW ON SALE NI) ~ AT THE JOYCE CENTER ~ NI) t:ztJ :, $50 PER BOOKLET (18 GAMES) ::, t:ztJ 
62 Lightened (up) 63 Liquefy 64 1990 World 
Series champs 
DOWN 
1 Like some maidens of myth 2 Pakistani tongue 3 Realizes 4 "Miss America" appears on it 5 Priest's title 6 Pallid 7 Long spring 
8 Turner who was called the "Sweater Girl" 
9 Cleared the boards 10 Synonym compiler 11 Transmission closer 12 Lion's home 13 Superlative suffix 21 Acceptance speech word 22 Not just a tie-up 25 Business expenditures 26 Bandleader Shaw 27 Vote in 28 Drench 29 Relinquished 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WILLSHORTZ 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN 0:-i THIS DAY: Richard Dreyfuss, Winona Ryder, Bill Mauldin, 
Amit Paul 

Happy Birthday: You will be full of great ideas lhis year, so don't let your indecisiveness stand in the way of your progress. Concentrate on the projects that mean the most to you and lei the others go. If you set your priorities straight, this can turn into a memorable year. Your numbers are 10, 23. 28, 31, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): If you've taken on too much, you can expect 
problems with your mate. Reevaluate your priorities and make a concerted effort 
lo create balance in your life.***** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make your plans early to spend a passionate day 
...

with someone you love and ri:fuse to let other people interfere. Don't hesitate to make lhe fir.;t move. Be playful and creative. ** GEMINI (May 21-June W): Don't let family and friends put unrealistic demands on you today. Get out on your own, enjoying hobbies or creative endeavor.;, The time spent will be helpful to your business. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You don't need additional people on your domestic scene. If company drops by, make up an excuse lo retire early. Gel your relationship ba:k on track by creating privak: time together.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may have a problem getting others to pitch in and help. Take aserious look at your career position and consider making moves that will be more lucrative. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get friends or relatives who are reclusive oul and involved in groups you btlong to. It will do them a world of good and they will have aJoi to offer. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Tempers may flare if you decide to work today. Your partner is tired of being neglected and you should make some special plans lo compensate.**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel will be in order. You may find that a promotion will lead to a change of residence. Your gul feelings regarding new colleagues will be more ao;:uralt than you imagine. Pay attention to your intuition. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 21): Take care of the hidden matter.; thal were plaguing you in the past. Tie up loose ends and finalize legal documents and contracts. Once all Ibis is done you can relax and enjoy youl'!Clf. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Talk lo those who can make a difference. You ,. may find that you losl the one you wish to share your success with. Plan celebrations !hat include tha! ~ial pet5on. *** AQUARIUS (JaIL ZO-Feb. 18): You may be interested in picking up apel as acompanion. Do some research before you make your choice. You ;hould consider shuffling through some papers that will ease your workload tomorrow. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:h 20): Plan to spend time with friends and family. You may have been in the doghouse. bul today is a new day and your mate will be more willing to forgive you. Do something special together. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be courageous, caring and confident in all that you do. You will be able to lead others in the direction you feel i1 best, and therefore you will never stand alone in your pur.;uits. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRl'SS SYNDICATE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Bother s Be overthrown 9 Wear away 
14 Square measure 15 Not in port 16 Wanders 17 Bad day for 
25-Across 18 More or less 
follower 19 Ticket seller 20 Gridiron order 23 Egg maker 24 Take-home pay 25 Rubicon crosser 29 Armor-_ 31 Grp. symbolized 
by an elephant 34 Sweater material 35 Thumb (through) 36 Enterprise helmsman 
37 Grtddle order 40 Clock sound 41 Like mellower 
wines 42 Stop in the Sahara 43 Band performance 44 It may give a shock on a ranch 45 French equivalent of the 
White House 46 Groceries holder 47 Playtex product 48 Gridley order 55 Tour of duty 57 "Purple _" 
(song played at Woodstock) 
58 Telegraph 
59 Door part 
60 Malt beverages 
61 1950's British P.M. 
Alright boys, hustle up. The Administration has found a new 'Incentive' for you guys to keep 
wi ning. 
01' Jimmy the icwel boy here is going to show you just what will happen if you don't play well. 
Puzzle by Ste11en Dorfman 32 Stan's partner in comedy 33 Sign of life 35 Plastic block maker 36 Influence 38 Bart's mom 39 Grinding tooth 
44 Went in separate directions 
45 One ot the Gallo brothers 
46 Eat to excess 
47 Diagonal face of a chisel 
48 $5 bills 49 Impact sound 50 Fit as a fiddle 51 Wide-mouthed 
pitcher 52 Assistant 53 Historic Scott 54 Desires 55 _-wolf 56 Actress Carrere 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: t-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords frqm the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 



PORTS 
Tuesday, October 29, 2002 
WOMENS SOCCER 
Making a run toward the postseason 


By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports W1iter 
The Notre Dame womens soc­cer team concluded its regular season Sunday with a 1-0 over­time win at Boston College to cap a strong finish that strengthened the team's c.hanc.es of qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. 
Aner losing four out of five in early October to fall to 7 -6. the Irish won four of their last five games, including the last two, to finish 11-7. The Irish, now ranked 17th, will probably qualify for the NCAA Tournament despite not quali­fying for the Big East Tournament. They also stand an outside chance of getting to play the first two rounds at home based on a strong region­al ranking. 
After Notre Dame and Boston College played to a scoreless tie in regulation, junior forward Amy Warner initiated the sequence with a run down the left side. She passed the ball to fellow forward Amanda Guertin whose goal gave the Irish the win. 
With the goal, Guertin set a Notre Dame record with her third career overtime game­winner. She had previously been tied with Warner and 1996 national player of the year Cindy Daws. 
w
In-
c.) Notre Dame 34 z Florida State 24 
s
c.:, lrish silence their doubters with an
cc 
impressive win over the Seminoles. 
Irish Insider

! 
~ 
"I think the strong finish puts us in a pretty good position for the post season," junior Randi Scheller said. "The past few weeks we've gotten healthy and have been playing well. Hopefully the wins will put us where we want to be." 
Notre Dame also split a pair of home games over the past week, falling to BYU 3-2 before defeating Syracuse 6-0. 
The Cougars scored on a rare late-minute penalty kick, with Aleisha Cramer-Rose convert­ing the attempt. to win the game. 
The Irish had taken an early lead on a goal by Candace Chapman, but the Cougars struck back with two goals in the first half to take a 2-1 lead at intermission. Katie Thorlakson tied the game at 2 early in the second half on a high shot that eluded BYU goal­keeper Amanda Gott. 
The Irish rebounded against Syracuse, scoring early and often in the 6-0 rout. Scheller started the scoring three min­utes into the game heading in a corner kick from Amanda Guertin. Moments later Scheller struck again for her second goal of the game on an assist from Thorlakson for the 2-0 lead. Mary Boland headed in another Guertin corner kick for the third goal of the game later 
see WOMENS/page 19 
MENS SOCCER 
Up-and-down Irish win two, lose one 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame mens soc­cer team made huge strides towards earning a home match in the quarterfinal round of the Big East postseason tour­nament over fall break by win­ning two of three conference games over fall break. 
After last weekend's round of Big East play, the Irish stand in third place with one conference game remaining. 
The Irish kicked off the week with a 3-1 upset of No. 5 Connecticut on Oct. 20. The game started out poorly for the Irish, as the Huskies domi­nated the Irish on both sides of the ball 
The Huskies notched the first goal of the game with 21 min­utes, 41 seconds left in the first half. Midfielder Anthony Curtis hit a pass that found Andres Rota, who booted a shot past Irish goalie Chris Sawyer to give the Huskies a 1-0 lead. 
The second half marked an offensive awakening for the Irish, and it showed early in the period. Greg Martin opened the scoring for the Irish on a penalty kick after Chad Riley was taken down by Curtis inside the penalty area just 1:49 into the period. 
Martin scored his second goal of the game less than seven minutes later, as he took possession of a loose ball off a throw-in from Notre Dame defender Kevin Goldthwaite. Martin's chip shot just soared over Connecticut goalie Adam 
en 
FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame 21 Air Force 14 
Irish rush over Falcons and shut down their triple option attack. 
page 17 

ANDY KENNA/The Observer 
Irish soccer player Mary Boland shoots during a game against Purdue earlier in the season. 
Schuerman to give the Irish a 
2-1 lead.  
The  Irish  carried  the  
momentum  from  the  
Connecticut  victory  into  

Wednesday's match with the Wildcats, and Notre Dame extended its winning streak to five games with a 5-0 victory. 
Five different players scored for the Irish, and all five goals were scored in the first half. Riley opened the scoring with his fourth goal of the season at the 22:20 mark of the first half. 
Just over seven minutes later, midfielder Justin Detter received a cross pass from Goldthwaite. Detter's shot evaded Villanova goalie Sean Teasdale to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
The lead became 3-0 less 

than a minute later, as Goldthwaite added his second assist of the game in setting up a goal by Braun. Braun's goal -his eighth of the season ­tied him for ninth all-time in Notre Dame history with 33 goals for his career. 
A goal by Devon Prescod put the Irish ahead 4-0. Just 1:31 later, the Irish extended their lead to five goals when Justin Ratcliffe beat Teasdale to close out the scoring for the Irish. 
After a poor performance by their goalie in the first half, the Wildcats switched goalies in the second half, replacing Teasdale with Craig Bald, who held the Irish scoreless in the second half. 
Momentum for the Irish 
see MENS/page 22 
ND SWIMMING 
HOCKEY 
Notre Dame 162 
Ferris State 4 CSU 100 
Notre Dame 1 
Irish women win first 
Notre Dame dropped
dual meet of the season. 
two games in confer­ence play after a fast start to the season. 
page 17 page 18 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Hawaii 3 Notre Dame 0 
Trip to Hawaii shows Irish need to play a full match to compete with-the country's best. 
page 19 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish 
•

nursing 1n1ur1es 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

Both the Notre Dame mens and womens cross country teams, competing at the Asics/Pacesetter Pre­National meet on Oct. 19, got a taste of the competition they will face at this year's national championships. 
For the Irish women. that taste was rather sweet, but it was just a taste. 
For the Irish men, it was a little more bitter than sweet. 
With top runner Todd Mobley struggling with an injury, the men finished in 11th place. Freshman Tim Moore led the squad with his 22nd place finish, but that wasn't enough to put the Irish within reach of the top teams. Moore ran 24 min­utes, 30 seconds in the eight-kilometer race. 
"It's definitely tougher not having [Mobley] there in the workouts," Moore said. "He's a good leader so it's good to have him around." 
Meanwhile, the 13th­ranked female runners took fourth place in a field that featured the top programs in the nation, including No. 2 Stanford which ran away with the team title. 
While the Irish were pleased with the victory, coach Tim Connelly believes his team has more to give. 
"It was a pretty good effort," Connelly said. "That's as well as we've run yet this year. I still don't think that's everything we have, but I was pleased with finishing fourth." 
Sophomore Lauren King, who clocked in at 20:24 after the six-kilometer race, led the Irish women with her sixth-place finish. It was King's third race of the sea­son and her third top ten fin­ish this year. King was backed up by freshman Molly Huddle, who finished in seventh place with a time of 20:25.9. 
Huddle, running her sec­ond race of the season, and King were able to run together the entire race, using each other to defeat their opponents. Despite 
sec IRISH/page 21 
WOMENS GOLF 
Notre Dame 8th at adidas Fall Invitational 
Solid final two rounds don't help Irish over­come a bad first round. 
page 22 
t 
' 











