
Wild Bill's brings Bluegrass to Notre Dame
CLOUDY 
Tuesday
In a collaboration with WVFI, Scene explores this band's music and its positive reaction on campus. Wild Bill's can be heard on WVFI 
MARCH 5,
HIGH 36° 
tonight at 9:30 p.m. 
Scene . page 11
LOW28° 
2002 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 102 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND. 
University selects Fox 

Mexican president will speak at commencement exercises 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 
University officials confirmed Tuesday that Mexican President Vincente Fox will be the princi­pal speaker at May 19 (:ommencement services. 
Fox, 60, follows President Bush as the second consecutive head of state to deliver the graduation address. 
"We are delighted that he will honor us with his presence," University President Father Edward Malloy said in a release. "President Fox is a lrader who is at once pragmatic and passionate. While he has worked tirelessly to end corrup­tion and strengthen his nation's Pronomy, he also has demon­strated a steadfast commitment to representing and serving the most vulnerable among his con­qituents, from the poor to the unborn." 
Fox had been in consideration as speaker ever since his his­1oric election in July 2000, when his National Action Partv (PAN) defeated the 71-yea~ rPign of the Institutional Hevolution Party (PRI), accord­mg to Notre Dame officials. Fox was the first foreign head of 
tate with whom Bush met upon assuming office, although that was not a factor in selecting Fox to speak, oflicials said. 
Like every year, the University searched for a speaker who "made a significant contribu­tion to church, society and the general welfare of mankind," said Dennis Brown, associate director of Public Relations and Information. "President Fox has achieved that with his accom­plishments in such little time in office." 
!frown compared the annual process of selecting a speaker to "kind of like athletic recruit­ing." University officers first made overtures to Fox last fall and received confirmation only two weeks ago. Administrators then coordinated with the Mexican general council in Chicago as well as with people in Mexico in drafting an appro­priate press release. 
Fox will be the sixth foreign 
chief to speak at a  University  
graduation.  He  follows  
Canadian  Prime  ministers  

Lester Pearson (1963) and Pierre Trudeau (1982), Salvadoran President and Notre Dame graduate Jose Napoleon Du a rte (1985). Chilean President Patricio Avlwin (1992), Irish Taoiseach Albert Reynolds (1994) and Bush. 
· Many students, faculty and staff had speculated that the speaker would be someone con­nected with the Sept. 11 attacks and ensuing rescue efforts. 
The University has yet to release this year s honorary degree recipients. 
The 157th Commencement exercises will be at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Elizabeth Kahling at kahling. l@nd.edu. 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group approves, passes forward activity fee increase 
• Requests follow from overwhelming drive two years ago 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Associate News Editor 
In March 2000, Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's students 
received a call for help. 
Their ailing classmate, Conor 
Murphy, was stfoggling with 
leukemia and in desperate need 
of a bone marrow transplant. 
The disease had recently taken 
two other Notre Dame students, 
Brionne Clary and Miranda 
Thoma5, leaving the community 
desperate for a way to help. 
Hundreds heeded the call, 
stretching a line through the 
LaFortune Student Center. 
Many came, but only a few will ever be chosen. Jonathan 

By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 

With little discussion Monday, the Campus Life Council passed a Student Senate resolution to increase by $15 in 2002-03 the student activity fee assessed to Notre Dame undergraduates. 
Passage of the measure means the resolution will now go to the Office of Student Affairs for approval. If approved by Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, the Board of 
20,000. Jorrissen, a senior, and Trustees would still need to sign Woyach, a 2001 Notre Dame off on the increase. The CLC adopted the resolu­see MARROW/page 4 tion 13-1. The lopsided vote fol­
lowed slim debate on the matter of raising the student activity fee from $65 to $80. 
"It's definitely looking toward the future and assessing where we want to go," Judicial Council President Tim Jarotkiewicz said about the plan drafted by the Financial Management Board and approved Wednesday by the Senate. "The Student Union deserves a lot of credit for this." 
If approved, it will be the first increase in four years. While tuition has increased steadily, the fee that funds student clubs and organizations hasn't been adjusted for inflation since 1998, 
see CLC/page 4 
Jorrissen and Jen Woyach are some of those few. The odds of a patient actually finding a match are only one in 

SMC holds first-round elections 
By KATIE VINCER 
News Wrirer 
Class council voting Monday at Saint Mary's yielded a winner in the Class of 2005 race and set up run-off contests in the 2003 and 2004 elections. 
In the close 2005 election, the Sarah Brown ticket drew 51 per­cent of the votes to defeat current class president Maureen Garvan­Oskielunas' ticket. Brown's run­ning mates included Mary Holland, vice president, Jill Roberts, secretary; and Shay Jolly, treasurer. 
"We're definitely excited," Holland said. "The first thing we plan on doing is [to] start plan­ning for next year." 
About 27 percent of the class voted. 
The Rachel Finley and Nickey Prezioso tickets from the Oass of 2003 will meet in a run-off elec­tion Wednesday after earning 41 and 30 percent of the vote, respectively, in the primary that had a 49 percent turnout for the Oass of 2003. 
The incumbent ticket for the class of 2003, Alison Joseph, Stephanie Pace, Erin Woloshansky and Kelly Logan, only received 26 percent of the vote and will not advance. 
Finley's running mates are Candace McElligott, vice presi­dent, Erin Moran, secretary, and Torie Cox, treasurer. 
Prezioso's running mates are Kara Harms, vice president, Nina Ready, secretary. and Katie 
see ELECTION/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, March 5, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Adventures in 


the chair 

Here's a·message from the guy on crutches or in a wheelchair that you've passed on the quads, in DeBartolo or in the dining hall: Thanks! 
Three weeks after I fell getting down from my loft and broke all the bones in my ankle, so many people have assisted me. Thanks to the golf cart dri­vers who have navigated through the snow while attempting to hit a mini­mum number of people, curbs and buildings. Thanks to my friends from Knott Hall who have pushed my wheelchair on the way to the dining hall through the frozen tundra of Mod Quad that never seems to get plowed. Thanks to the nurses in the infirmary who watched in mild amusement as I filled a triple room with all of my books and walking aide. And thanks to the countless people who have held doors open and given my wheelchair a push when it got stuck in the snow. 
I knew I was in trouble when I lay shaking on the floor of my room when everyone within earshot packed in the room to look at my deformed foot that was rotated 90 degrees from normal. Thankfully, no one acted on my shouted demands to "snap it back into place!" 
As the ambulance rolled away from Knott, r asked the medic what they would do to my foot and he responded, "Well, they'll probably give you some medicine and snap it back into place. The bitch of that is it will hurt like hell at the time, but you won't remember it when you wake up." 
Well, I don't remember that experience, but the many others will stay in my mind forever. 
I've fallen in the bathroom of the infirmary and had to swing my walker up into the air to snag the "I've fallen and I can't get up" cord. I've seen the horror on the faces of the nurses who were far more upset about the incident than I was. 
I've fallen on the ice outside the library and had a passerby pick me up and then summon a friend to bring my wheelchair. Now, the library monitors remind me to "be careful" every time I crutch through the lobby. 
I've been stuck at DeBartolo after the go-lf cart couldn't make it through the snow and had to frantically dial the library to alert my professor to my whereabouts as a class pre­sentation worth 30 percent of my final grade was under way. When I finally arrived at the library in the back of the security Durango, my professor met me outside and pushed me in. 
Of course, having a broken ankle does have a few perks. r moved into a single to avoid my loft, l can use my crutches to hit the snooze button en my alarm without getting out of bed and I also get to park on campus. 
But this experience has taught me to appre­ciate all the small things in life we come to take for granted like walking, holding a dining hall tray, going up stairs and taking a shower without a large rubber plastic boot on my foot. 
So my message to everyone is appreciate what you have, and continue to help me and the other disabled students on our quest to lead as normal of a life as possible. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at 
brodfuehrer. I@nd.edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those a/The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a profes•ion.l publicacion and strives for rhe highesr standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
corr~r our error. 

The Observer (USPS )99 2-4000) is published Monday chrougb Friihy except during CX!lm and vacation p,riods. The Observer is • member of rhe Associated. Press. Al!. rtproduc:rion rights are r.eservtd. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"/ thought it was classless. I  "I don't feel we need points  "People have commented to  
thought it was vulga·r. I wish  or judges, wins or losses. For  me that it's unbelievable to  
I had known more about it  a lot ofthe girls, it's a huge  have another woman elected  
because ifI did, I would not  battle just to get themselves  so soon. There are no more  
have gone. I was not the only  in the ring."  barriers in that regard. I a,rt  
person who walked out 10  confident she will do a  
minutes into it."  Keri Jerge  great job. "  
women's boxing captain  
Kamille Peter  on female boxing  Brooke Norton  
Saint Mary's sophomore  student body president  
on '"The Vagina Monolouges"  on president-elect Libby Bishop  

Compiled from LJ.Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Entrepreneurship still alive at Brown University 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. Entrepreneurship Program, said he 
Enterprises such as Turner feels the policy is a bit "far-fetched." Broadcasting, Nantucket Nectars, "A dorm room is different from Foresite Solutions and Jessica's using the Internet," Hazeltine said. Wonders all stemmed from the minds "You pay for it, so in some sense it's of Brown University graduates. In yours." some instances, the seeds of these He questioned how strictly Brown enterprises were planted while the enforces this policy and cited Jessica founders were still students at Brown. Nam '00 as an example of how the • 
Yet rules outlined in Brown's stu­policy could be circumvented. As a dent handbook explicitly prohibit stu­junior at Brown. Nam began her busi­dents from operating businesses out of ness as an independent study in which their dorm rooms. The policy states: she explored baking as a business, "Brown University enjoys certain tax preparing her fresh baked goods in exemptions as an educational institu­the kitchen of her Barbour Hall suite tion which can be jeopardized when and selling them through local retail­individuals in the campus community ers. This small-scale operation ulti­operate a business enterprise on mately served as a prelude to University premises." Jessica's Wonders, the fresh-baked 
The policy elaborates students who Barrett Hazeltine, professor emeri­goods company that Nam officially start businesses are forbidden from tus of engineering and a member of began in her senior year at Brown. using University facilities or services the Advisory Board for the Brown Brown Daily Herald 

BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 
Interns return to post-Olympic life 
PROVO, Utah 
Although the end of the Olympics means life can get back to normal, for many it is a bittersweet ending. Many student interns who participated in the game are finding it difficult to return to school after the Olympic experience. For Amy Green, 25, a senior majoring in public relations, the Olympics was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. "The Olympic experience really changed my life," Green said. Green worked for International Sports Broadcasting for six weeks during the Olympics and really enjoyed the experience. "I made a lot of really great friends and saw some incredible things. It's hard to go back to school after being in that environment," Green said. Green finished working for the Olympics on Tuesday and was disappointed to see the Olympics end. "It was really sad to see how quiet and dead Olympic Square was on Monday and Tuesday," Green said. "The whole Olympic atmosphere was so incredible. It was like a big party all the time," Steadman said. 
The Daily Universe 

UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
Rhodes scholarship in question 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Giving its winners at least two free years of study at Oxford University, the Rhodes Scholarship is arguably the most prestigious scholarship available to U.S. stu­dents. A criticism of the scholarship is only students from prestigious colleges and universities have a chance of winning. Since the scholarship started in 1902, University of Utah has had 21 winners, the last one about 10 years ago. For 2002 Harvard University had five winners. Rhodes officials deny the accusation that prejudice against public universities exists. The Chronicle of Higher Education disputed the accusation last year as well. Former Utah student Jared Raynor, who almost won a Rhodes scholarship, said there's no bias. "There's certainly no such bias whatsoever," said Elliot Gerson, American secretary of the Rhodes Scholarship Trust. "The best student at the University of Utah has the same chance as the best student at Harvard or Princeton." 
Daily Utah Chronicle 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

~-~,~~~~ ~  ~ ~  
Showers T--storms Rain  Flumes  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via k!Joclalod Press GraphicsNat  


The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon,Tuesday, March 5. 

Cl 2002 AccuWeat-. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pmture: :,~
® © G~E2J~~~ ()\fi,ii@;@~ 
tHah Lovv Shower• Railn T••tonn• FlurrlH Snow toe Sunny Pt. Cloudy Ctoudy 
VI.a A.wodaled Pr96.9 

Tuesday, March 5, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Board approves mailing funding 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance decided Monday to donate $145 to the Senior Leadership Commiitee to help defray the cost of mailings to the student body. 
The committee typically uses the mailings to educate Saint Mary's students about alumni and senior donations to the College. 
"The purpose of our campaign is to educate seniors to give now and after they graduate, but we· have been speaking to every­body," senior Kelly Roberts told the Board. 
According to Roberts, only a few seniors were acquainted with the committee and its aims in the past. By targeting the entire student body this year, the committee hopes to raise awareness and increase the amount and number of dona­tions that current and past stu­dents give to the school. 
Along with printed informa­tion the committee plans to dis­tribute to each student, Roberts said representatives were at a kick-off activity for the cam­paign Thursday night. They also plan to attend the upcoming Midnight Madness and Sai-nt Mary's Tostal. A seniors-only meeting is planned for April. 
In addition to attending vari­ous events and answering stu­dents' questions about their purpose, the committee plans to get underclassmen involved with the body. 
"We have a junior who attends every one of our mcet­in gs,'' Roberts said. "We are also trying to set up a system where we have a freshman and sophomore on our board, so lhat we don't have to start over every year." 
Funds donated by the senior class will be used to purchase a gift for the College. According to Roberts, the committee pur­chased several chairs in O'Laughlin Auditorium last year. This year, they are aiming a little higher. 
"We as a committee decided [to endow] something i.n the stu­dent center, maybe a chair or a room," Roberts said. "We're aiming high -we want to go for a room." 
Student body president Michelle Nagle and the rest of the Board supported the com­mittee's efforts to spread their message to the community. 
"We wanted to support the education of the whole student body," Nagle said. "Anything that gives back to Saint Mary's student body is very valuable." 
The Board also agreed to sponsor the attendance of two Saint Mary's art majors, Connie Williams and Lisa Ritter, at a conference on Education in the Ceramic Arts. The Board gave Williams and Ritter $890 to help with registration costs and transportation to the Kansas City, Mo., conference. 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintinarys.edu. 

I
I 
I March 6th LaFortune Ballroom 
I
I 
~ 
I
I
I
I
I
i
I
I
I
I
I 
~ 
II 
FREE ADMISSION ­

Enron collapse spawns new class 
ByJUSTIN KRNICKAS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has responded to the demise of the Enron Corporation with a class to explore the significance of the bankruptcy of the much-publi­cized corporate giant. 
Beginning March 18 and run­ning through April 22, the five­week course will focus on the business and accounting issues associated v.1th Enron's collapse. The company's troubles have made headlines since late last year. 
Thomas Frecka, professor of accountancy, conceived the idea for and will teach the course. 
"The Enron debacle is the most important event to impact the accounting profession in recent memory," Frecka said. 
Enron's Chapter 11 reorgani­zation is the largest bankruptcy in American history, and experts predict, it will eventually cause major detriment to the U.S. economy. With more than 21,000 employees in some 30 countries and revenue in excess of $100 billion, it is still unclear how the company ran out of money. 

Enron's executives and com­pany board agreed to seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy protec­tion in early December of 2001. The fast pace at which Enron collapsed is now the subject of · multiple investigations, including a criminal investigation into the company's alleged fraudulent accounting methods. 
The course, according to Frecka, will focus on fundamen­tal topics associated with corpo­rations -accounting and tax disclosures, pension and man­agement compensation, the pro­vision of audit and non-audit ser­vices and legal and ethical issues. It will be available to stu­dents with a minimum of nine credit hours in accow1ting cours­es. 
Accounting professionals, other interested students and the general public are also encour­aged to attend lhe course for no credit. 
"Given the singular impor­tance of this event. we would be remiss if we didn't provide a forum for our students and members of the financial com­munity to explore the issues that are so prominently in the news," Freckasaid. 
Classes will run from 7:30 to 9 

p.m. on Mondays in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
For more information about the course, contact Frecka at Frecka.l@nd.edu 
Contact Jwtin Krivickas at krivickas. l@nd.edu. 
Cheney defends widening of war 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Vice President Dick Cheney defended the Bush administra­tion's worldwide strategy against terrorism from Democratic critics Monday night and said American casualties in Afghanistan are lamentable but they-cause is a just one. 
Twice, Cheney refused to say who he had in mind. But Senate Majority Leader Tom Dasch!e, D-S.D., has recently criticized President Bush for not defining the parameters of the war, even as it expands to include more countries. 
"Some of our friends on 

r=l!l=rdm=rdm=em=em=rdm=~=em=em=e1e=~=rdm=em=e1e=fdm=rdlf;!=rdlf;!'=e1e=rdm=rdIB!=em=~ l!l 
I
I I
I
I
I
I
I
I
!
i
I 
~ 
; 
~ 
I
I
I
I 
WE REQUEST A DONATION AT IBE DOOR FOR PATIY KWJAT ; 

F.!l SPONSORED BY FARLEY HALL ADW@Rl(S ml
I ~ 
@I ~ 
(Capitol) Hill have questioned us about the strategy ... on the war on terror," Cheney said at a campaign event for Sen. John Warner, R-Va., in suburban McLean, Va. 
"I think I would suggest to them, and I won't name any names here, but the president has been abundantly clear on the subject of who the enemy is. I can't remember the last time we ever had as direct-spoken a president as we have today," Cheney said. 
Daschle has faulted the administration for what he sees as lack of a clear direction in the war. 
"We really don't know what the direction is, frankly. We talk about going into Yemen. We're talking now about going into the Philippines and other places," Daschle said on "Fox News Sunday." 
" ... Before we go into a lot of these other locations, I think it is important for us to better under­stand what our purpose is, how long will we be there, how many troops will be there, how does it affect our efforts in Afghanistan." 
Cheney also defended Bush's use ofthe phrase "axis of evil" to describe Iraq, Iran and North Korea. The choice of words sparked massive protests in Iran and North Korea, and strong questioning from moderates in all three nations. 


Observer wins ACP honorable mention 
Contest The second was for
Observec Staff Report 

special coverage by a four­year college daily paper of 
The Associated College the Sept. 11 terrorist Press recognized The attacks. Observer staff this weekend Students from two-and with two honorable mention four-year colleges and uni­awards at the organization's versities nationwide attend national convention in Los the convention each year. Angeles. The Observer consistently 
One award was for general earns honors in the newspa­excellence in the four-year per contest. college daily newspaper Last year, the ACP named division of the ACP The Observer National Newspaper of the Year Newspaper of the Year. 
How an engineer syends her 21st birthday... with ameasuring cu.yI 

Hayyy 21st 
Green! 


page4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, March 5, 2002 
Marrow 
continued from page I 
graduate and currently a medical student at Ohio State University, beat all odds when they were asked to donate tissue that could save someone else's life. 
The donation process prescnL'i many drawbacks. Countless pre­liminary blood tests, extensive physical exams, pain in the lower back and in-depth counseling make dona­
the end of last summer. 
"I was taken aback initially. I had signed up a co'uple years prior, and the notion of being a donor faded with time," Jorrissen said. "I was actually on a vaca­tion when my contacts were try­ing to get a hold of me. Needless to say, I was surprised to hear the answering machine messages when I returned. I thought it was a call straight from God." 
Jorrissen underwent two sepa­rate blood tests, both of which confirmed his compatibility with 
the patient But 

tion more "The bottom line is that when doctors than just a found a better
taking part in the process 

physical sac­match, rifice. might save a life. " Jorrissen's oblig­Although only ation ended. 2 to 3 percent Despite the
Jonathan Jorrissen

of the mar­relatively short
bone marrow donor

row in the hip area is extracted, anesthesia and an overnight stay in the hospital are required. 
Despite the drawbacks. Jorrissen and Woyach perse­vered. 
Events such as the bone mar­row drive bring together the community, according to Woyacb. who decided to donate as a sign of solidarity. 
"I remember hearing about the bone marrow drive from friei1ds and thinking that this is what makes Notre Dame such a spe­cial place -when someone is in trouble, other people go out of their way to help them out," she said. 
Woyach has gone through all of the necessary blood tests and is scheduled to donate on April 2. As a medical student, her sched­ule is tight and classes are rigor­ous, but that hasn't stopped her from helping to save a life. 
"I think right now I'm most nervous about the time commit­ment. I have had to miss a few classes, and will have to miss some more, but the people at ilie Red Cross have been really nice about working around my classes and other activities," Woyach said. 
Although initial worries about pain and apprehension from her parents gave Woyach cause for concern, she said she is looking forward to the actual donation. 
"J was really surprised at first, then kind of scared about the commitment required to be a donor. Now, though, I'm pretty excited," she said. 
Her bone marrow will go to an anonymous patient suffering from leukemia, aplastic anemia, sickle cell anemia, radiation poi­soning or an immune deficiency syndrome. The marrow, which produces red and white blood cells and platelets._ protects against disease and controls bleeding. Since the procedure's introduction in 1987. more than 11,000 donations have come from unrelated donors and 60,000 donations from patients' family members. 
Jorrissen received the call at 
duration of his 
commitment, Jorrissen still went through the emotional anxiety most potential donors fm:e. Looming concerns of pain -and even the very small chance of death doctors warned him about -made his family members nervous. Yet they were extremely supportive, he said. 
"When something like this comes up. it alters your routine. If you dwell on the pain and inconvenience involved in the process, it can be quite difficult, but the bottom line is that taking part in the process might save a life -that made it quite easy," Jorrissen said. 
Although Jorissen did not have to make the final sacrifice, he said all his effort paid off in the end. 
"We are all united as brothers and sisters in God.... Registering is one small way t0 serve others with love -to litf''" LilV save a life, which is a beau · thing," he said. 
Friends of Conor Murphy. who died last January, agree with Jorrissen. 
"Conor showed all along that he wanted everyone to band together to fight leukemia, and the fact that people are still sup­porting his cause would obviously make him happy," said Murphy's fellow Zahm Hall resident, Wes Jacobs. "I know that he's smiling somewhere every time some­thing like this happens." 
Another friend, senior George Remus. said, "I think Conor would be just as positive and excited about it as ilie recipients were, and I think it would encourage him to try to continu­ally organize future bone mar­row drives, to help existing data­bases to grow." 
A simple blood test puts an individual on the registry. 
More than 4 million people worldwide are registered donors, but new registrants are always needed. Potential donors must be between the ages of 18 and 60, with no history of hepatitis, heart disease, cancer or HIV/AIDS. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu. 
CLC 
continued from page l 
according to Brooke Norton, student body president. 
"It's a 23 percent increase, but [more than) 10 percent of that is from inflation," Norton said. 
Supporters of -an increase believe the raise will allow pro­gramming bodies such as the Student Union Board to increase and improve activities and provide more money for under-funded clubs. 
Off-campus senator Matt 

Smith, the sole dissenter, said he opposed the resolution because it doesn't reflect his constituency's interests. 
"Most students I represent don't participate in all the activ­ities that are sponsored on cam­pus through the foes," Smith said following the meeting. "They don't want to pay when they won't reap the benefits." 
He also fought the proposal because the University contin­ues to deny club status to gay­and-lesbian group OutReachND. "A funding increase should be accompanied by recognition for them," Smith said. 
The resolution came to the 
Ridge: U.S.-Mexico border is mismanaged 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 
The U.S.-Mexican border long ago outgrew the way it is managed, and both countries need to find a mo.re modern solution. Homeland Security Director Tom Ridge said Monday. 
Kicking off a two-day meet­ing designed to coordinate security between the two countries after the Sept. 11 attacks. Ridge told reporters in Mexico City that he planned to looks for ways to create a "smart, secure, friendly, 21st century border." 
"Our relationship long ago outpaced ... our approach," he said of the growing trade and ties between Mexico and the United States. 
Ridge will be holding two days of meetings with Mexican officials to design a new bor­der-management agreement similar to one reached with Canada in December. 

The agreement with Canada called for a computer system that would ease the entry process into both countries for low-risk, preappruved users, and new technology to clear goods in factories, rail yards and seaports instead of wait­ing until they reach the border crossing. 
Still, Ridge has said that drug trafficking and illegal immigration make U.S.­Mexican relations more com­plicated than America's ties to Canada. 
He was to meet with Mexican President Vicente Fox and other key Mexican offi­cials. 
Ridge acknowledged that increased security has signifi­cantly slowed both commerce and other legitimate traffic at the border and he said he hoped the two sides could develop a plan to ease cross­ings while maintaining a high level ofsecurity. 
CLC after a month of debate and committee work in the Senate. Senators approved the $15 dollar increase following a divisive 18-9 vote and a succes­sion of changes. 
The initial plan called for a $10 hike next year and a $5 increase every other year until the fee reached $100. The pro­posal passed by the Senate and CLC recommends only a one­time raise and includes no men­tion of additional increases in subsequent years. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
Election 
continued from page 1 
Erchick, treasurer. 
"We arc thrilled with the results since all the candidates were excellent," Finley said. 
The 2004 tickets of Katie Haeberle and Jamie Belcher will also meet in Wednesday's primary. Haeberle earned 37 percent of Monday's votes, while Belcher won 33 percent. 
The Liz Bailey ticket ran a los­ing campaign, receiving only 24 percent of class votes with an election turnout of 36 percent. 
Haeberle's running mates are Erika Kozlowski, vice president. Kelly Viater. secretary. and Jenny Burke, treasurer. 
Belcher's running mates are Rebecca Doll, vice president . Bitsy Doro, secretary, and Anneliese Woolford, treasurer. 
"We just hope that the class recognizes that we're trying to continue the projects we've been working on the past two years while on freshman and sophomore board into our junior year," Belcher said. 
Contact Katie Vincer at vinc0858@saintmarys.edu. 

Statement of the Bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
This month ic is expected char che  
Statement  Uniced States Senate will consider a bill-the'Hulltlll Ooning Prohibi­ 
on Human  rion Act of2001' (H.R. 2505, S. 790)-co ban all human cloning in  
the Uniced States.This is ameasure  
Cloning  that all citizens ofgood will should rally to support.  
Bishop John ~ I. D'Ar,r  Crearing human life in the laborarory  
by cloning prestncs us with afunda­ 

mental challenge. Can a·dtmocraric civilization survive which reduces human beings co mere products ofamammcrucing technique When cloning is done co pursue medical research, what is euphemisrically called 'ther.ipeuric cloning,'the reducrion ofhuman life to acommodiryis even more compete-a new hunun lilt is created solely to be destroyed or harvtsttd. Evm ifmedical benefits could be derived lrom rucb desrruc­cion, it is never ethical to achieve good ends by evil means. 
·Human cloning for any pnrpose is comr:uy co the found.arional values of 
our nation, as w.s slavery and segregation in previous generations, As a 
represcnrarive ofrbc Holy Seestated in December to acommictee of chc 
Unired NatiollS General Assembly:'The act ofcloning... is aaually a 
form ofimpo~ng dominion over another human being which denies the 
human dignity o(die child and m.tkes him or her asl.we ro che will of 
orbers.' 
Progress in srem cell rm:1.rch and other mroical adl'allce.1 docs nor depend on the pursuit ofhuman cloning. Every few weeks there arc news stories 

beraldinggreac disco1-eries in cbe use of adult stem cells. Noc only is the scienrific worcb ofso-called"rherapeuric cloninghighly speculative, bur a further regrcs.~on in society's respect for hum:tn life and human dignity will necessarily occur wu~ human doning is prohibiced by law. 
While some quesrion the dignity of the human embryo at this early stage, can anyone be sure beyond areasonable doubc char this life does not bear the divine spark present in every human person/ Ido not believeso. Imagine if aphysician wanted to remove the organs from someone who he was noc sure had died yec. Cottld any appeal citing all rhe people who would benefit from these organs jusrify risking che deach ofan innocent pcrsoni Certainly nor, 
Iencourage all che citizens ofIndiana co contact their senators, Richard Lugar and Evan Bayh, and express rheir suppcrr for che'Human Cloning Prohibirion Acrof 2001' (H.R.2505, S. 790), which will ban all human 
clorjng in the Unired $races.  
Where to call or write:  
Hon. Ricnara Lugi.r  Hon. EY2n B2yh  
SH·306 Hm Sc1mcOffict Building  SR-4J6 Rlllsdl Sen.re Office Building  
Washi:lgto;i, D.C 20510-1401  W11hi~-gmn, DC20510-1404  
Tel:202-224.48;4 ~202-128-0)60  Td:2CZ·l24-562l F.ir:.202-228-1377  
E-miil: 1inarur_!.g;ir@!upr.1m1tc.gov  E-r.iail: 1t:1itor@biyh.im1tt.gov  





RL 
ATION 
Tuesday, March 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Kashmir clashes kill I7: Separatist violence in India's region of Kashmir has left at least 17 people dead. Indian soldiers killed eight lslamic militants trying to sneak in from Pakistan-controlled Kashmir along the remote frontier. India accuses Pakistan of aiding at least a dozen Islamic militant groups fighting in Kashmir. 
Rusman vodka exporter blocked: The exporter of Stolichnaya vodka accused the Russian government on Monday of illegally blocking shipment of the popular spirit in a trademark dispute that has left tons of the beverage stranded in port in western Russia. Authorities in the western enclave of Kaliningrad have refused to release 150 ship­ping containers of vodka, mostly Stolichnaya, that belong to the SPY Spirits Group. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Lake at crematory to be drained: 
Investigators Monday planned to begin drain­ing a three-acre Jake at the Tri-State Crematory in a search for more discarded corpses. Authorities said they will probably spend more than a week dredging the dry lakebed for human remains. A skull and a torso were discovered in the lake last month. So far, 339 rotting corpses have been discov­ered dumped in pits, left in sheds and stacked in vaults. 
Fake NYC firefighter sentenced: A 
man who posed as a visiting firefighter after Sept. 11 was sentenced Monday to one to three years in prison for theft and planning fraud. Jerome Brandl. 34, pleaded guilty to attempted criminal possession of stolen prop­erty and scheming to defraud. Brandl posed as a volunteer firefighter from Milwaukee took accepted donations from community members. He had no comment in court. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Man beats toddler to death: Police investigators believe a man frustrated because he kept losing at a video game took his anger out by beating a crying 2-year-old boy to death. Michael Willis, 33, of Gary, was being held Monday in the Lake County Jail on a murder charge after officers found Kenneth Coleman Jr. dead in his mother's home on Wednesday. Officers found the child with bruises on his forehead, arm, stomach and chest, the county prosecutor's office said. The coroner's office found that Kenneth died as a result of the injuries. 
Market \Vatch March 4 


(RA(LE COOP (ffiCL) -14.51 -2.32 13.67 W\SDAQ-100 INDEX (W)) +3.95 +1.41 37.15 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUl'M) -2.91 -0.26 8.67 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +9.87 +1.48 16.48 INTEL CORP (Il'ITC) +2.81 +0.87 31.85 
Powell endorses summit meeting 
Arafat. look at, and that all of us together in 
Associated Press 

At a brief news conference after the European Union, the United WASHINGTON talking to Javier Solana. the senior States and other leaders around the 
Secretary of State Colin Powell diplomat for the European Union, world will look at this vision and see praised on Monday a proposal by Powell said the situation in the what we can do to make this vision Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak Middle East was "terrible," with vio­a reality," Powell said. for an Israeli-Palestinian summit lence between Israel and the Solana, who has been to the area, meeting. Palestinians escalating. said he was very concerned about 
Powell took up the proposition He said the Bush administration the fighting and the Europeans were with Mubarak, who offered to play was redoubling its efforts to halt the determined to be helpful. host to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon strife and that a peace proposal by In that regard, Powell spoke by and Palestinian leader Yasser Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi telephone over the weekend with Arafat. "It's an interesting idea," Arabia was a positive development. German Foreign Minister Joschka Powell said. "It is a vision that we all have to Fischer. who has played a promi­
However, he said a decision ulti­exam~ -and hopefully it's a vision nent role in European peacemaking mately was up to Sharon and that all Arab nations and Israel will efforts. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
As many as nine American soldiers were killed and 40 more were wounded Monday when two U.S. helicopters took enemy fire during the most deadly allied air and ground offensive of the war in Afghanistan. 
The U.S. assault, code­named Operation Anaconda, marked a new approach. Instead of rely­ing on Afghan forces to take the fight to the al­Qaida, with U.S. troops in support, the Americans took the lead. Afghan, Canadian, Australian, German, Danish, Norwegian and French forces were supporting. 
Fighting was fierce, by all accounts, in difficult conditions. 
U.S. ground troops and pilots were operating at elevations between 8,000 and 11,000 feet, said Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, cold, icy and snowy "like the Rocky Mountains in the middle of the winter." 
Army officials said Apache attack helicopters had been hit with extraor.,. dinary amounts of small arms fire but were able to continue their assaults. Air Force AC-130 gunships, armed with howitzers and 40mm cannon, were serv­ing as the ground troops' airborne artillery. 

Air Force bombers and Navy and Air Force strike aircraft had dropped more than 350 bombs by Monday. 
The men killed Monday were not the first U.S. casualties in the new offensive, which appeared far from finished. Army Chief Warrant Officer Stanley Harriman, 34, of Wade, N.C., was killed in a ground attack Saturday shortly after American forces, joined by Afghan and other allied troops, began the offensive against hundreds of fighters of the al-Qaida terror network and the former ruling Taliban militia dug in near the town of Gardez. 
Names of the Americans Monday were being with­held until relatives could be notified. 
The American deaths underscored not only the dangers in pursuing President Bush's declared goal of eliminating Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida but also the difficulty of assaulting what Pentagon officials say are well­armed and well-organized pockets of al-Qaida resis­tance in eastern Afghanistan. 

page6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, March 5, 2002 
Medical students report burnout problems 
Associatecl Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Three out of four medical residents in a University of Washington study report suf­
gave less-than-ideal care. 
Too little sleep, frequent shifts longer than 24 hours and lack of leisure time were most often rated as major stresses by residents in the university's internal medicine University of Washington med­ical professor and one of the authors of the study, said the research didn't determine whether patient care was affected. 
But according to the study in in the University of Washington system, called the study a "snapshot" that doesn't fully describe the experience. 

"Sure, there definitely were times when I felt really tired and concluded that increased cyni­cism and symptoms of depres­sion were associated with edu­cational debt. 
Of those surveyed, 42 per­cent had debt of at 
fering from "burnout" and half residency program. of those said they sometimes Dr. Anthony Back, 
Medical residents· burn out 
A study of 115 young doctors shows that the majority of them suffer from "burnout," a syndrome of depersonalization, emotional exhaustion and a sense of low personal accomplishment. Residents who reported these symptoms and behaviors also said they sometimes gave suboptimal patient care. 
1!11111! Those with "burnout'' ilf:,o'Jm,',H Those without "burnout'' 
100'3/o 
80 
60 
40 
20 

O Total Depressive Alcohol Career monthly weekly Residents symptoms misuse dissatisfaction Suboptimal patient care 
Doctors in debt 
Almost 20 percent of doctors have over $100,000 in student loans while completing their residency. 
4.6% 
.·...~•.·• 23.2.%·;;;;~J:lffi®~·~;; 
Educational debt $0-4,999 I$20 ODO~ $50,,.000-Over 
49.999 9ci,999 $100,000$5,000-19,999 
Burning in the red A separate questionnaire shows that a substantial number of residents have had financial struggles that could have interfered with training. 
All residents Second year through fifth year residents 
AAffl 

Credit card debt over $3,000 Cannot afford books and equipment 

Disposable monthly income Cannot afford required fees for less than $100 certifying exam 
§ FQ 

Cannot afford safe housing Work moonlighting jobs 
SOURCE: Annals of Internal Medicine AP 
ISRAEL 
Gunman kills 3, 

Tuesday's Annals of Internal probably would "We cannot relieve the l e a s t a Medicine, slightly more than say burned out," $50,000;
suffering ofothers ifwe,
half the residents experiencing said Gore, in her 19 per­burnout reported one or more third year as a ourselves, are suffering." cent had "suboptimal" patient care resident. "After debt of at practices at least monthly. a few days off or l e a s t
Linda Hawes Clever 
compared with about 21 per­after moving $100,000
Doctor at California Pacific
cent of residents not experi­onto a different and 43 encing burnout. rotation, my Medical Center percent 
Such practices included resi­response would had a dents making treatment or be completely monthly medication errors "not due to different." disposable income of $100 or a lack of knowledge of inexpe­Even when fatigued, Gore less. rience," failing to fully discuss said, she felt "very supported" One-third did medical work treatment options and answer by other residents and the outside their training and 349 patient questions and dis­attending physician on duty. said they worked more than 20 charging patients "because the Another article in the journal hours a week at their moon­team was too busy." said about a third of 4,130 res­lighting jobs. 
Doctors generally serve one idents surveyed nationwide "We cannot relieve the suf­year as an intern and train for reported four or five symptoms fering of others if we, our­three years as residents fol­of depression. selves, are suffering," Dr. lowing graduation from med­The survey, by the Resident Linda Hawes Clever of ical school. Services Committee of the California Pacific Medical 
Dr. Julia Gore, chief resident Association of Program Center in San Francisco said in at the Veterans Affairs hospital Directors in Internal Medicine, an accompanying editorial. 
attacker also stabbed people
Associated Press 
with a knife. 
Shoe salesman William Hazan 
TEL AVIV told the station that amid the 
A gunman opened fire at a violence he saw a tall man Tel Aviv restaurant early fighting with someone else. Tuesday, killing three people "I thought he was beating the and wounding 25 before he was terrorist. Then the tall man shot to death, officials said. stabbed me in the back with a 
A shoe salesman who was knife. Then I understood that eating said he pulled his own he was the terrorist. Hight gun and shot the attacker. It away I started firing at him." wasn't immediately clear if said Hazan. police also returned fir~. The attack came during an 
The Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, especially violent period in the linked to Vasser Arafat's Fatah 17-month conflict between movement, claimed responsibil­Israel and the Palestinians. In ity for the attack in telephone weekend attacks, Palestinians calls to local TV stations, Israel killed 22 Israelis, and in Radio reported. The callers reprisals, Israeli forces killed identified the attacker as a 16 Palestinians on Monday. Palestinian from the Jebalya "We saw a terrorist firing refugee camp next to Gaza City. toward the restaurant and then 
Police said the assault on the entering," said a witness, who all-night restaurant was car­gave his name as Effie and said ried out by a lone gunman, but he is the owner of the business, did not further describe him. called "Seafood." "He was fir­
"A man fired with an M-16," ing all the time." He said the Tel Aviv police commander Uri attack lasted about five min­Bar-Lev told Israel Radio. utes. 
"He also apparently tried to "We were dancing and all of throw a grenade, but it did not a sudden we heard gunshots. explode," said police comman­We all hid under the tables," der Yossi Sedbon, also over said another witness, who Israel Radio. Sedbon said the declined to be identified. 





"Service is a form oftravel We "ma_ke cam_J( in tfi.1se y(accs-111a11y yfaces-wfiere wefoe( strn1~7es~•-f only 6ecause we're wem-y. '111dee.{. service is that ,·estfossness we fed imti(we 6ui[d a liome whe,·e we are weary mu{w~1ke 11 to new views thro113h ~~tfe1·mt_wi11cfows. %1£6t'i113 homesick, sometimes, is not a fonging for the liome we du118 t.1 as clii(di·en, 611t_(t1r tlie one t.1 wllicli we are ca(foJto serve, 110 matter howfo,·eign." 
~Miguel Vieyra (ND. 'OJ). Reflecting on his Hispanic Leadership Internship in the Pilsen neighborhood of Chicago 
Current Volunteer Needs: 
Scouting Program at LaCasa de Amistad -Charles Vonderheid -289-0337 Were you a Boy Scout or Girl Scout? Looking for some interested volunteers to work with their scouting program on Thursdays from 4:00-5:30 at Lacasa de Amistad. The program will run until the end of the school year. Algebra/Geometry tutor for Junior in HS -Vanessa Kosanovich -289-4330 She would like an algebra/geometry tutor to work with her son one to two times a week for 1-2 hours, preferrably beginning around 6:00 or 7:00 p.m. Tutor would need transportation to her home in South Bend. 3rd Grade Math Tutor-Tanya Ford -234-6041 (w) 268-1047 (h) She is looking for a Mat!} tutor to help her 3rd grade son. Please be available after school at least once a week, a location on campus can be arranged. Tutors to help with I-step preparation -Nan Tulchinsky -283-7516 Many, many tutors are needed to help high school juniors and seniors study for their I-step tests; which they must pass prior to graduation. Help is needed for English and Math, Monday thru Friday from 3:00-5:00 at LaSalle High School from February 25th -March Sh. Greater St. John Church Tutoring Program -Thelma Harris -631-5447 They have a homework-focused tutoring program on Tuesday nights from 5:45-7:00 and are looking for volunteers to help keep the children on task and answer questions on their homework. The church is located on the west side of South Bend and its program serves up to 45 children of all ages. Tutor to help with study skills for 7th grader -Katie Mnichowski -251-9870 She would like a tutor to assist her daughter with homework and most importantly help her develop better study skills, including tips on memorizing material or reading textbooks. Please be available once or twice a week (Thursday thru Sunday) for one hour. Male Mentor for 8-yr old boy -Deb Isakeb -631-8844 Do you enjoy sports, cars, videogames and long for the days of childhood? If so, become a mentor for an 8-year old boy whose father is absent from his life. Please be available to spend time with him about once a week. Newly Opened Safe House for Elderly-Charlene -246-0144 OASIS, a newly opened safe house which provides short-term emergen9y shelter for elderly at risk for abuse or neglect, is one of only 18 in the nation and is in need of volunteers for overnight ( llpm-7am) and weekend shifts (7am-7pm & 7pm-7am). Volunteer must be able to become alert if needed during the night and 2 volunteers may sign up together for 1 time slot. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu.*** 


l . l I ' J I . l J ' .· l l ' ' ' J ' I ; C I ) l . . l I J l ' . J • ' I 
O
THE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, March 5, 2002 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bux Q, No{[e Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGINC. EDITOR  OPERATIONS AfANAGF,R  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jasun Mcf.arley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Parrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR.; Noah Aimtadter ScliNE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDiToR: Pet~r Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SV:.TF.MS ADMINISTRATOR: I'ahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR• Adam Turner CONTROIJ.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .....•.•..•... 631-7471 FAx........................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnTOR/AssT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.................... ··········· ...... .....................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT........•. ·•·•· .................. ············· ...631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 
observer .sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.................................·-·······.. ············631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAJNT MARYs............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767· SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.......... .......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire athttp://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampw. news. spores, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online fuatures for spe­

and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer

archives to search for 
articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdencs of the UnivetsicyofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofal! opinions through fetters is encour:iged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include ooncacr information. 
~tiom regarding Obreroerpolider should be direct­tdw Editor in Chief Milu Connelly. 

The incidence of false rape reports in 
the United States is 1 percent to 2 per­
cent. This is the same incidence as false 
reports of burglary. 
Did you doubt that O'Neill's Mardi Gras 
money was stolen 
when rector Father 
John Litle 
John Herman 
reported it? Then 
why do you doubt 
Frankly
every girl who 
Obnoxious
reports a rape on 
this campus? 
Notre Dame 
should be ashamed. We Jive in a society 
that excuses, promotes and encourages 
rape. That society is Notre Dame and its 
leadership -the Notre Dame adminis­. tration, specifically the Office of 
Residence Llfe, leads the effort. 
As ifit's not hard enough for a woman who has experienced this most private, terrifying, destructive and soul-stealing experience to come forward and report it, students at Notre Dame have a ten­dency to not only doubt the girl, but to actually blame her for the crime commit­ted against her. 
Recently, I've had several conversa­tions regarding this attitude with Notre Dame students. In one such conversa­tion, one student asserted. "the thing that gets me is nai've people don't make the correlation between risky behaviors leading to negative things happening." Though certainly such sentiment on its face is not without merit, it hides a bitter and frightening undertone. That is, the attitude that if a girl is drinking, she deserves terrible things to happen to her. Certainly this attitude pervades this cam­pus. whether we want to admit it or not. 
Perhaps it would do me well to define rape in a manner consistent with at first moral, and then later, legal culpability. Morally, you've committed rape if you set out during an evening to have sex, and you have sex with someone who does not consent. Consent consists of the permis­sion granted by a person in full control of her faculties. It doesn't matter if you're drunk, if you had it in mind before get­ting drunk or while getting drunk, that you were going to have sex. You pre­meditated your crime and as far as I'm concerned (far be it for me to pass judg­ment), you should burn for it. Similarly, it doesn't matter if the girl you are raping is drunk. If she·s not capable of saying no. and you're having sex with her, you're committing rape. Sadly, we live in a community that says. so long as you're drunk, everything you do is excused. How terrible. 
Legally. it's a little different story. According to the law as originally writ­
. ten. interestingly, rape is non-consensual sex with a woman. Note that men were not even protected in the original statute. Now. the exact text of Indiana law (IC 35-42-4-1) says that a person who has sex when: "(1) the other person is com­pelled by force or imminent threat of force; (2) the other person is unaware that the sexual intercourse is occurring; or (3) the other person is so mentally dis­abled or deficient that consent to sexual intercourse cannot be given; commits rape, a Class B felony." 
The key to this is, it doesn ·t say you·re protected if you're drunk, and it explicitly states that a drunk woman cannot give consent. If you can even vaguely under­stand her incapacity, you're a rapist. 
An example: If your girlfriend wanted to have sex with some guy, and she went out and had sex with him while she was drunk, it wouldn·t matter to you whether she was drunk or not. Similarly, it doesn't matter to the law whether you're drunk or not when you commit a crime. I hope women are reading this and con­sidering reporting the criminals who so callously abused them and hurt them for one single night of physical gratification. 
Of course there's a caveat to this whole discussion. Even when you report the 
· crime to the proper authorities -ResLife -they're not going to treat you with the dignity due a normal human being. This is because this administration cares only to save face when confronted with rape on campus. They substitute public image for justice, especially ifyour 
·attacker is an athlete or a person in a place of authority. Perhaps you doubt this assertion. Hopefully last year's Cosmopolitan article (March 2001), helped open some people's eyes to the University's non-confrontational stance on campus rape, because I can·t relate all the specifics to you. 
What I can tell you comes directly from someone who has endured ResLife "jus­tice." In a typical ResLlfe action, espe­cially when it comes to athletes and rape, you can expect that even written confes­sions mean nothing to a ResLlfe panel. 

What would your response be, if after bearing your soul, being denied the right to question your accuser or his witness­es. even though he could question you through the panel, and being forced to sit in the same room with your rapist for six hours, your case was basically dismissed. because "Well. your file is extensive. and we·re pretty busy with the football sea­son, so we're going to recommend coun­seling for your rapist." 
What is a victim to do then. in the case of rape? In the words of a victim who endured the ResLife system, "Bypass Notre Dame at all costs." That means report your case directly to the St. Joseph County Sheriff. I imagine many women avoid this hoping to avoid public­ity. but what they trade for the "privacy" of ResLife is justice. If the sheriff can't or won't make a case for you, only then should ResLife he considered a viable alternative. 
I would like to leave you with some information about rape amd getting help and other general facts you should know. If you ·re the victim of a rape, you know someone who is or you just need to talk about it, you can call Sex Offense Services (SOS) in South Bend. The num­ber is 289-HELP and it is in no way asso­ciated with the University. They can help you get through the entire process of reporting the crime, if that's what you want to do, or they can just talk. 
Next. if you think you·ve been a victim of sexual assault, you have three days to get to a medical facility to have evidence taken. Some people are under the impression that you have less. but this is erroneous. If possible. I'm sure you know, don't shower or throw away your clothes, etc. Some additional Notre Dame rape statistics are available at www.nd.edu/-jlitle/rapestat.html. Most importantly though, no matter what any­one tells you, even if you were drinking or don't remember, no matter what­it's not your fault. 
John Litle is a junior MIS major who hopes people actually still read and lis­ten to his column. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be contact­ed atjlitle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Scott Sam Derheimer 

Brodfuehrer Chris Scott Sheila Egts Graphics Elizabeth Lee Andy Devoto 
Sports Production 

Katie Hughes Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Lori Lewalski Amanda Greco 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you believe there is a tolerant environment for gays and lesbians at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Those who stand for nothing fall for anything." 
Alexander Hamilton politician 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 5, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Women's boxing deserves equal treatment 

Why aren't these women angry'? I'm ill-mannered knaves will come to leer referring to our women boxers. ['II get at "chicks" fighting. Maybe so. Well, back to this point later. here's a ne,vs flash: women get ogled 
I hate boxing. Oh sure, boxing all the time. They might as well choose reflects every facet of athleticism: the circumstances for themselves. We strength, dexterity, endurance and can't impose restrictions on women just strategy. Boxers are superb athletes. I to stop men from misbehaving. That grant you that. sort of logic leads to women wearing 
Still, there must be some alternative burkas. sport that could showcase all the same In the same vein, we might start hid­skills, without resorting to formalized ing dedicated female athletes in a violence. "tucked away" underground gymnasi­
I hate boxing. lt's the vicarious par­um. Oh wait, we're already doing that. ticipants who scare me the most. My A woman's dignity is her own, to be suspicion is that few people learn to wagered against glory if she pleases. judge boxing on technical merit. When When Beth Rinkus says that women's cameras pan the crowds at ringside, boxing is "more about form and con­you don't see genteel observers trol" she seems to imply that sedately marking their score-women's boxing can be cards. You don't see afi-legitimized by emphasiz­cionados nodding sagely ing technique rather at the outcome of a than violence. Why nobly-fought split­should this be so? decision. As long as the 
The crowd wants ~ usual rules of blood. They want boxing ar_sl satis­to see heads snap fied, style back. They want should be a to see mouth­matter of per­guards fly. sonal taste. Disoriented When a staggering and woman unconscious­chooses ness are the finesse over only results brutality, it that most peo­should have ple under­nothing to stand. do with the Though box­fact that ers are ath­she's a letes, I fear woman. that many For spectators are women ghouls. fighting 
I hate box­women, build ing. However, should not be the refrain of an issue. If a my opening dia­woman wants tribe is just a · to be a savage preamble to my brawler, then actual point of nobody should contention: if we're stand in her way. going to let men I certainlv won't. I fight in public, then think that women's we must allow women boxing will only gain the same opportunity. 
acceptance if we aban­We are all indebted to don the absurd notion Noreen Gillespie for bring­that women must be dain­ing this matter to our attention ty at all times. in her March 1 article. I now return to my opening 
I don't sec why "coa.ches' concerns question: why aren't these women about the skill level" should denv angry? Most of the women interviewed women boxers a public venue. No one seemed a little frustrated, yet resigned is refused admittance when uncoordi­or even understanding. That was the nated little boys make their first impression I got. Maybe that's what it attempts at tackle football. Fans cheer takes to work the system. Maybe they loudly. even if the hits are not exactly were just being polite. Patience has bone-crunching (and rightly so). 1know built a strong women's b,oxing program 
· a guy who fought in the Bengal Bouts where once there was none. Perhaps after one season of training, with no further patience is required. It seems prior experience. Some of the women like a gross injustice to me, but I'm not have been boxing for years. They a woman so perhaps I'm not entitled to deserve a chance to test their mettle an opinion. under scrutiny. even if they are utterly Don't miss my point: I hate boxing, laughable, which seems unlikely after but ifwe allow men to beat each other, so much practice. The gateway to then women deserve equal opportunity. Centre Court at Wimboldon bears this Rudyard Kipling quotation: " ... if you Mark Zajac can meet with triumph and disaster, graduate stuaen t and treat those two importers just the Department of Physics same ... " March 3, 2002 
Perhaps the administration fears that 

Feminist promotion of 'V-day' is not true social work 
Regarding the performance of "The nists' favorite. They are the teachings Vagina Monologues" and the contro­of the Church. One only has to look at versy it has generated at Notre Dame the sad state of affairs of the mainline and Saint Mary's, one only has to read Protestant churches that have caved the letters to The Observer in favor of into all manner of feminist dogma and the production to get an understand­have gotten out of the business of res­ing of the ideology of those who back cuing souls to see where all this_ leads. the performance. One should be care­Why does Notre Dame need "V-day" ful in supporting such a production anyway? Notre Dame has a long histo­without understanding the agenda ry of what used to be called charity that drives it. It may be that many who and social work. I would have to ask back the production don't really your feminist experts what it is now understand the depth of the agenda called so I don't use some patronizing behind this play and "V-day" specifi­or offensive language. Fifteen years cally and feminism in general. ago, there was plenty of discussion 
The vacuous words and phrases about violence against women and the used in the letters are those that typi­pathetic date rape committed by some cally distinguish feminist cant; it's jerks. Students 15 years ago did chari­about "diversity," or it's about ty work to help battered women. This "empowerment," or it's about "giving went on without some national femi­voice to actual women" and "reclaim­nist agenda driving it. ing these words and the right to tell It is disconcerting that today Notre our stories." What does "essentialist" Dame students need this feminist mean, anyway? sophistry to justify social work. I hope 
It's really about a long-term agenda the students who espouse it learned it that has as its roots Marxist and elsewhere and not at some so-called Communist thought and won't be sat­"gender course" at Notre Dame. They isfied until science creates an artificial would be better off learning what VE­womb to grow babies. This agenda is day means to understand what true really driven by a small minority of oppression is. women who have a self-loathing because they happen to have a period Lt. David Sauve once a month and men don't. U.S. Navy 
It also happens to run antithetical to class of '90 the social teachings of the Catholic March 2, 2002 Church. Thos!) teachings are not just those of Pope John Paul II. the femi-
Hold club funding more accountable 
It has been said that benign neglect number of clubs and organizations is the worst thing that can happen in present on campus. politics. I write in the hope that the What makes Notre Dame special is student body, the Campus Life Council that its student body comes together and Father Mark Poorman will not for important events. Yet, as quoted neglect a full consideration of what is on the front page this past Thursday, at stake in the potential raising of the the outgoing head of the Club student activity fee. Coordination Council said, "The stu­
It must be made clear from the dent activity fee increase would add to beginning that the issue is not the the number of events for students and money itself. It is rather a question of keep the cost of events lower." This is the basic standards which must be good logic but is also bad policy. A maintained for spending the burgeoning club system (which lacks University's funds. The current stan­appropriate accountability) will dards for accountability are not strin­decentralize the campus and further gent enough, and until this is reme­harm the extent of student unity. died, further funding increases are These ideas, if accepted, would inappropriate. mean that·some ·clubs would not· ' ,,,v• 
As [ understand it, club expenditure receive the funding they desired. I reports are due at the end of each have absolutely no problem with this. year and arc accessible through the [ love this school and gladly pay my Financial Management Board. While dues for well-attended and highly use­my hall's senator claims to have ful events and clubs. But I have no access to these records, I am told that interest in funding the Cow Tipping non-senators have been unsuccessful club, nor do I think a majority of stu­in obtaining this information, in spite dents do. I ask that the Campus Life of the fact that our fees help fund Council and Father Poorman ade­these activities. This is not right. quately consider these issues, because These reports should be open and the majority of our popularly elected easily accessible, perhaps through the senate has failed to do so. Internet with the requirement that one's AFS and password be submitted. Neil Ruddock 
There is a larger issue, however. senior Notre Dame students entrust the Fisher Hall Senate, CLC and administration with March 2, 2002 maintaining a healthy student life. This is not to be equated with the 

O
THE BSERVER 


page 10 Tuesday, March 5, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
String quartet attains perfect harmony with Tool 
By TOM O'CONNELL 
Scene Music Critic 
Third Eye Open is an album with an extraordinary concept. The work of the critically acclaimed art rock band Tool has been paid homage by an unlikely group: the string quartet. 
Tool's four studio albums are full of hard-rocking beats and guitar riffs. With the instruments nicely balanced by vocal­ist Maynard James Keenan's pop-trained voice, Tool is a band that can overload your senses. Third Eye Open takes Tool in a completely different 
through pain. Physically and emotionally, 
Tool demonstrate this through music that 
is more than typical head-banging power 
chord.~" 
Frequent changes in time and key makf' 
many of Tool's songs like three-movement symphonies. Slow-building crescendos that explode at their culmination make a string quartet a good candidate to handlr such songs. The strings can be quiet and peaceful one moment, powerful and alienating the next. The reason this would · never have worked for people like Hritne) Spears or Blink 182 is that their sounds are too sugary, too pleasant and LOO easily digestible. Tool does 

direction. Composed not write songs that
Third Eye Open was

mostly but not exclu­you can hear once and
clearly a risky move, but

sively of their greatest then casually hum the hits, this album is min­upon listening to the melodv. Uke most Tool imalist. stripped down. songs·, this album
album, you realize that it

The hard-thumping makes you work to
makes perfect sense

drumbeats are absent, understand it, and that and only the complexi­because it has been so is exactlv what makes ty of the melodies it beautiful and ulti­
brilliantly executed. 

remains. 
Third Eye Open was clearly a risky move, but upon listening to the album, you realize that it makes per­fect sense because it has been so brilliant­ly executed. The reason Tool was chosen for this tribute project was that they are known for their intricate yet subtle musi­cal arrangements. The album synopsis on the back cover of the album says that, "The greatest road to advancement is 
mately more satisfying than much of today's mainstream music. 
Tool's first big hit, "Sober," starts off the album. The violin takes most of the lead, and it can range from cool and mellow to screeching and violent. Sober is a depressed song, and its mood swings are captured nicely by the string arrange­ment. The sharp piercing viola of "Intolerance" makes the song sound even 
creepier on strings than 

Third Eye Open
in tne band's original ver-

The String Tribute 
. s100. The electric violin 
to Tool 
used on "Th,, Grudgp" 

Vitamin Records
gives the song· the 


angry sound it needs. 
T h e Grudg<'" is about an icy 


person who revels in hate and is desperate to control all his relationships through guilt. 
"Opiate" is given an upbe~t, almost pos­itive sound at first and ends up becoming the lightest and one of the most pleasing songs on the album. Last summer's hit "Schism" is given a truly creepy interpre­tation and is the best song on this tribute album. The song is about the breakdown of communication between lovers, and though the lyrics were quite important for Tool, the instrumental sound handles the cold and distant feeling that was the essence of the song. At the very end, the song literally melts down, symbolizing the ultimate destruction of the relationship. 
"Ticks and Leeches" is a perfect exam­ple of the string quartet's ability to handle a slow-building crescendo into a fast-paced, furious rhythm. 

"Aenema" is a song of bitter hatred and loathing that depicts an earthquake that breaks Los Angeles off into the ocean. The music is arranged extremely well. with cellos and contrabass giving the song its fast moving low beats. However, this is· one of the few songs that loses a littlP meaning because the lyrics were so important. The lyrics curse the hypocrisy and inanity of such things as South Central gangster wannabes, L. Ron Hubbard and his celebrity Scientologists and pathetic aspiring actresses. The lyrics are missed, but can be sacrificed for this type of project. 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Morissette delivers typical, but strong album 
Morissette tries to resist Cupid's the album's first track capableBy MAUREEN SMITHE arrow. "You're essentially an of being her next big single, Scene Music Critic employee/ And I like you having thoughtfully establishes exactly 
to depend on me/ You're a kind what the title states. "Do you 

Alanis Morissette never really of protege/ And one day you'll derive joy when someone else changes. From Jagged Little Pill say you learned all you know succeeds?/ Do you not play dirty to Supposed Former Infatuation from me." when engaged in competition?/ Junkie. her general sound and Morissette sings for the sake of Do you have a big intellectual lvricism maintains a constant, honesty, whether her emotions capacity but know that it alone familiar and dependable pulse. and intentions are nervouslv raw does not equate wisdom?" With that said, it should be or bitterly scorched. With "So Morissette knows what she expected that her newest album, Unsexy ," she takes apart the wants and isn't afraid to ask. Under Rug Swept, would disap­pain of rejection in an attempt to In her grand riot grrl tradition point Morissette fans looking for rebuild her self-esteem. "l can of "You Oughta Know" and somethlng new. But, it does not. feel so unsexv for someone so "Your Congratulations," 
Morissette may do the same beautifuV So unloved for some­"l'.'arcissu;;" attacks an ex-lover thing over and over again, but one so fine/ I can feel so boring in a seething account of his the same thing can be a good for someone so interesting/ So inconsistencies and egoism. thing. Her music channels hon­· ignorant for someone of sound ''Dear momma's boy, 1 know esty and thoughtfulness through mind." you've had your butt licked by her brain into her listeners. Her As in her former albums, some vour mother/ I know vou've formula is kind of like a scientific of her lyrics in Under Rug Swept ~njoyed all that attention from theory: it has yet to fail. creatively voice the frustrations her and every woman graced 
The album's first single, of the feminist movement. With with your presence after." "Hands Clean," is a typically "So Unsexy'' and "A Man," Morissette wants to please her­Morissette sublime untangling of Morissette tackles North self before pleasing another, a snarled relationship. Singing American gender issues head on. quite an honorable -albeit dif­about a much younger lover, "21 Things I Want in a Lover," ficult -endeavor in both her 
personal and professional life. 
Morissette is known tor con­
tradiction. both of herself and·

Under Rug Swept 
others. J\'iany songs in her 
album compose a diatribe to her 
ability to rely on herself. She
Alanis 
comes down from her pedestal with "That Particular Time," a
Morissette 

song about a relationship lost world of open discussion, open feel safe." 
despite her countless efforts and minds, and open hearts, perhaps Like every other Morissette
Reprise Records infinite patience. "I've always a quiet response to the attacks of album, Under Rug Swept is a 
wanted for you what you've Sept. 11. "We'd rise post-obsta­safe bet. But with this Canadian 
wanted for yourselli' And yet you cle more defined and more siren, it doesn't take a gamble to 

Rating 

wanted to save us high water or grateful/ We would heal be hum­know you've got a winner. hell." bled and be unstoppable/ We'd The album closes with a hymn­hold close and let go and know
... ,.1.~~ 
'-:, ... 

like plea for what she considers when to do which/ We'd release Contact Maureen Smithe at perfection. "Utopia" describes a and disarm and stand up and smithe. l@nd.edu 

r\l.HE
vnSERVER 


Tuesday, March 5, 2002 
page 11 

CAMPUS BAND 
WIid Bill's bring bluegrass to the Golden Dome 
Ever wonder what it's like to be in a band at Notre Dame'! Ever wonder what it's like to be in a blue­grass band at Notre Dame? Wild 1:3ill's Bluegrass /5rigade are not afraid to answer these questions ­regardless of whether or not anyone is actually asking. in an attempt to advance the Notre Dame community's awareness of its own campus bands, The Observer and \\'VF! have teamed up to spread the knowledge. In that spirit. Wild Bill's Bluegrass Brigade have agreed to share some of their crazy bluegrass antics with the pub­lic through a little Q&\ Wild Bill's Bluegrass Brigade is made up of fifth-year architecture student Nick Doro on mandolin, junior sci­ence prenrofessional Kevin Hansen on bass, law student Jamie Klang on fiddle, junior engineer Marcel Lanahan on guitar and senior government and philosophy major Jared Marx on banjo. Here's a little more about their band. 
Observer: How did Wild Bill's Bluegrass Brigade form? 
Wild Bill's: Actually, it's a pretty good story. The late Colonel William T. Bonafide, affectionately known to his admirers as "Wild Bill," was a true bluegrass lover and about as great a man as ever lived. ½'bile some say that Wild Bill is only a myth -a legend of sorts ~ we who believe in his spirit and the spirit of bluegrass know bet­ter. The five of us, arriving on campus early last semes­ter as lonely bluegrass wanderers but believers in the Colonel, found a common bond in Wild Bill and joined together to bring his music to all who would listen. 
Observer: So, describe your style ofmusic. 
Wild Bill's: We play Bluegrass music, a form of music [we're being serious now] that was originally invented and popularized in the 1940s by a mandolin player by the name of Bill Monroe. His group, "The Bluegrass Boys" had a mandolin, a guitar, a banjo, a fiddle and a bass [but no drums]. an instrumentation that has become standard for bluegrass bands. Known particu­larly for its fast tempos and opportunities for exposition of musicians' virtuosity, bluegrass grew out of folk and country music and finds its geographical roots in the southern Appalachian region of the United States. We play a more "northernized" and popularized version of bluegrass [not one of us, after all, is from south of the Mason-Dixon line] but we try to keep our repitoire bal­anced with a good number of"classic" bluegrass tunes. 
Observer: What is the origin ofyour unique name? Wild Bill's: We were jamming one day on "Will the Circle be Unbroken" when the ghost of the great Wild Bill was gracious enough to pay us a visit. Our mandolin player Nick was really scared at first, and Kevin didn't believe that we had actuallv been blessed with the good Colonel's presence and promptly left the room. Our fiddle player, Jamie, on the other hand, being accus­tomed to spiritual apparitions, was unfazed. Marcel and Jared, hav­ing grown up in a small town in upstate New York, were more confused than anthing. This was a typical response for them to most things. But those who were brave enough to stay in the room were known to hear Wild Bill pro­claim the birth of a new band, a band to bring the 

joy of Bluegrass 
to the cloudy skies of South Bend: Wild Bill's Bluegrass Brigade. 
Observer: Just who exactly usually shows up to a Wild Bill's live show? 
Wild Bill's: Again, we tum to ol' Wild Bill -"Friends, strangers, vagabonds, obscure appreciators and affi­cianados, your tired poor huddled masses ... "all walks of life show up to hear these boys play. It is truly a treat." 
Observer: So far, how has ND received Wild Bill's? • Wild Bill's: We'd say that most who come to listen to us are pleasantly surprised by what bluegrass actually is. All joking aside, we like to think that bluegrass is at its heart just fun music. It's upbeat and it's lively and it's very accessible. The popularity of the "O Brother Where Art Thou" soundtrack has certainly helped to put the music form on the map as well. The best thing, really, is that it's so flexible. We do Bob Dylan, The Beatles. and 
The Grateful Dead right alongside with classic folk or fiddle tunes. That definitely helps to get our audi­ences excited about what we're playing. We have usually been received surprisingly well. As our gui­tar player Marcel says, "It's all part of our secret plan to get our fellow students out of their rooms with their MP3 playlists and into the world of live music." 
Observer: /Joes Wild Bill have any groupies? Wild Bill's: Being a Wild Bill's groupie is a calling that few have responded to as of yet. It requires a special attitude, but more importantly, a special wardrobe, including straw hats, flannel shirts, toothpicks and perhaps some missing teeth. In truth, we are indebted to our close friends who, while at times failing the wardrobe test, have been great about supporting us eYerytime an_d every­where we've played. Our bass player Kevin would like to remind the student body that we are, how­ever, an equal opportunity fan-base employer and we are always trying to get the word out about our band to whoever will listen. Those who wish to receive the Wild Bill's email newsletter !this really exists] need only e-mail our banjo player Jared at jmarx@nd.edu. 
Observer: Describe your greatest moment as a band. 
Wild Bill's; Our greatest moment was getting paid by Student Activities for a show at Senior Bar that we played in January. Oh wait, that still hasn't happened ... But seriously, we were pretty bummed out after Christmas break when our origi­nal fiddle player, Nathan, wasn't able to come back to school for the second semester. But we were 


Nick Doro and Marcel Lanahan of Wild Bill's Bluegrass incredibly lucky to find Jamie, a tremendous musi­Brigade perform their style of energetic, "northem" blue­cian who had played fiddle since his childhood and grass at the Coleman-Morse Center on Notre Dame campus. majored in music as an undergrad, to take his place. That's not really a moment, but it was probably the luckiest thing that's happened to the band. 
Observer: Describe the weirdest thing that has ever hap­pened to any ofyou as a result ofbeing in a band at ND. 
Wild Bill's: Well, we once got a big group of kids from Amnesty International to dance in a big circle to Bob Dylan's "Knockin' on Heaven's Door." That's not quite so weird as incredibly fitting, though. Let's see. It sure will be weird when Student Activities actually pays us ... 
Observer: What can ND students who have never seen Wild Bill's expect from one of your live shows? Wild Bill's: They can expect an upbeat, energized mix of traditional and popular music played in true bluegrass style. Fast-paced dancing has been known to break out spontaneously at our shows, including various iterpreta­tions of the "electric slide" [at least, that's what it looked like to us] as well as many, let us say. less-choreo­graphed steps. If you like to clap you-r hands and stomp your feet, we're your band. 
Observer: What else does Notre Dame need to knoll' about Wild Bill's Bluegrass Brigade? 
Wild Bill's: Many things we have said here are bole: faced lies. We're not lying, however, when we say tha, we love what we're doing. When all is said and done. we're mostly in all of this to have a good time. We enjoy just practicing and when we play in front of people WP just hope that we can share a little bit of the excitement that we find in the music with them. And we might add to any who are still not sure if they want to come out tu see us: We do play a damn fine version of the Charli,· Daniel's Band's "The Devil Went down to Georgia.'' 
This story was compiled by Sam Derheimer, who can be contacted at sderheim@nd.edu. For more information on Wild Bill's Bluegrass Brigade, contact Jared Marx at jmarx@nd.edu. 
This article is the first in a series offuture collabora­tions with WVFI. If you would like to have your band featured, please contact the Scene Department at The Observer at scene.1@nd.edu. 

MEN'S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame suffers 7-6 setback at Pennsylvania 

Special co The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team suffered its sec­ond straight one-goal loss as the Irish dropped a 7 -6 decision on the road at Pennsylvania. Sonny Sarker broke a 6-6 deadlock with 4:30 remaining when he tallied the game-winning score which gave the Quakers the vic­tory in their season opener. 
Sophomore Dan Berger scored a career-high four goals for the Irish in the contest. Berger net­ted Notre Dame's first four goals of the game. 
Trailing 6-5, freshman Chris Richez's first collegiate goal tied the game with 7 :10 left in the contest. Kyle Frigon tallied the other goal for the Irish. Sarker and Scott Solow each had two goals for Pennsylvania in the win. 
The Quakers led 5-3 at the half after outscoring the Irish 3­1 in the second quarter. Notre Dame held Pennsylvania score­less in the third 15-minute stan­za as the two teams head into the decisive fourth quarter tied at 5-5. 
With the loss, Notre Dame falls to 0-2 on the season. The Irish return to action on Sat., March 9 at home against Rutgers. Face­off is at 1 :00 p.m. 


WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish set pace early for 15-3 win over No. 17 Ohio University 
"I was on a roll," said Mccardell and Maureen Loftus. "We had to step it up." team has. 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 

Fischer. "I was just hoping to Henwood had steals that led to The team responded to "After coming off last week­Spores Writer 
play well." ,goals in the early first half. Loftus' effort and played out end at Loyola, it was really one Fischer was the leading scor­Goalie Jen White had 10 the end of the game solidly of our goals to be the first to 
Alissa Moser and Lauren er for the Irish. saves, an interception and despite aggression from the score and to keep it rolling," Fischer set the tone early for The Bulldogs were ntlt able some out of goal plays. frustrated Ohio team. said Moser. "We needed to the Irish in Sunday's game to come back from the initial "Jen is technically very The Irish dominated the mid­come out strong this game and against No. 17 Ohio University scoring bombardment as the sound. She reads the play very dle of the field for the entire set the tone for the whole sea­on the way to a 15-3 victory Irish played stingy defense the well," said Coyne. game, forcing the Bulldogs to son." over the Bulldogs. whole game. Ohio threatened to make the constantly try to catch up with The Irish hope to carry this 
Moser, team captain, scored "The attack was getting pos­game closer in the second half the faster home team. Danielle tone into Stanford and Florida the first goal for Notre Dame in session off the draw, [Ohio] scoring two quick goals. Shearer set up three goals, and during their spring break trip. under 30 seconds. then was never got it down on our side Natalie Loftus led an Irish scored one herself. Angela The Irish will be back at home assisted by Fischer for another of the field," said Tracy Coyne, rebuttal, getting an assist and Dixon and Loftus both had two March 17 against Big East point two minutes later. Irish head coacl:f. goal as well as colliding with goals in addition to three each opponent Boston College, Fischer continued the scoring The Irish played a more the keeper. from Moser and Fischer. Ten which will begin a five game streak, grabbing the next three active defense, attacking the "We played solid the whole different people scored for home stand. Irish goals. The pair scored ball as soon as it came into game and we did not want Notre Dame, showing the num­five of the team's first six their half. . Both Kelly them to come back in it," said ber of potential weapons this Contact Chris Coleman at goals. ccolemanl@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532-1896 4-7 BDRM HOMES. WALK TO ND.FURN. 
SUMMER,2002-03. 272-6306 $250 a day potentiallbartending 
Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Fratemities·sororities*Clubs*Stude• nt Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 with the easy Campusfundraiser.com threehour tundraising event Does not involve credit card applications. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact Campusfundraiser.com at (888)· 923-3238, or visit www.campus­fundraiser.com. 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies room of Nieuwtand Hall. Will gladly return with correct description. Call Megan 4-3477. 
WANTED 
Need some extra $$? Oo you enjoy babies and toddlers? First Unitarian Church needs nursery caregiver for about 2 hrs. on Sunday mornings. Close to ND. For more info, call 288-9167. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN Remodeled in 1998 new insulated windows hot water heater & plumb­ing 200 amp electric update newer-furnace & roof basement laundry room privacy fenced backyard w/ deck 10x12 utlily garage excellent area $59500 Jim-Day 574-233-253 Eve 574-259-6843 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm• rentals@aolcom 
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl Fall 2002 Oave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291-2209 
MMMRentals.corn 
4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available 
after 6/1. 3 blocks from campus. Call (773)-486-8862. 

Spacious 4-borm house avail.now or for Fall 2002. Fronse 255·8403. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)large (6-9) people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call Bill at 532-1896. 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confiden­tial support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, csc, 
at 

1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! 
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! 
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! 
Space 
is Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com Buy your Observer classifieds Just pennies a day! Write for The Observer sports sec-
lion. Call today to find out more 
1-4543 

Tuesday, March 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
SOFTBALL 
Irish split pair of games at Aggie Invitational 
By AARON RONSHEIM Sports Writer 
For the third time this season the No. 24 Notre Dame softball team split a pair of games on the opening day of a weekend tour­narn ent. The Irish dropped the first game 6-3 to No. 19 Louisiana-Lafayette, but regrouped to defeat Illinois State at the Texas A&M Aggie Invitational over the weekend. 
"I think that we are playing some great teams ... but that day, that game, they played bet­ter than us," said Deanna Gumpf, Irish head coach. 
Against Louisiana-Lafayette, Irish pitcher Steffany Stenglein was not helped by the Irish defense, as two Notre Dame errors allowed the Cajuns to take a quick 3-0 lead. Stenglein was pulled in the second inning after giving up another run on double down the leftfield line bv the Cajuns' Summer Lapeyrouse. Hight-hander Carrie Wisen went the rest of the way holding the Cajuns to only two runs. 
The Irish capitalized on Louisiana-Lafayette's errors to score three unearned runs in the forth inning for their only scor­ing. 
"We battled back. Unfortunately we had too many mistakes. The mistakes will get you in the end because the team with less mistakes-is going to win," said Kas Hoag, team cap­tain. 
In their second game, the Irish defense was again solid as Stenglein rebounded from her poor outing to shut out Illinois State. Stenglcin spread five hits over seven innings for her forth victory of the season. 
Both pitchers posted zeros on the scoreboard until Irish All­American center fielder Jenny Kriech started a two-out rallv with a triple over the lSV center fielder's head. Freshman right­fielder Megan Ciolli followed with a single up the middle, bringing Kriech home and giving the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
"[Meganl really stepped up. All the freshmen have stepped up. I am proud of all of them, and they can only get better." said Gumpf 
The Irish brought some awful weather with them to Texas as both of their games on Saturday were cancelled because of rain and high winds. The Irish were scheduled to play Illinois State again and a rematch of last weekend's 2-1 lost to No. 23 
TexasA&M. 
"We would have loved to get a second chance against Texas A&M again because I know we could have won. We were pretty positive a.bout tho weekend but unfortunately the weather didn't hold off," said Hoag. 
"Every weekend we are play­ing top competition. I think that's something people don't realize. As long we keep improving against these great teams we will be there in the end and that is all I care about," she said. 


ANDY WILSON/The Observer 

Junior Andrea Loman prepares to take a swing In a previous Irish game. Notre Dame split its 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at 

games this weekend with a win over Illinois State and a loss to Louisiana-Lafayette.
aronsheil@nd.edu.

,---------------=­
• • • • • • .. ' ' • .. .r. ~, ~ y' :,: • 

Information Meeting for Summer 2003 
Wednesday: March 6 7-9 pm And Thursday: -March 7 7-9 pm 
131 Debartolo Hall 
,.. 


I 
I I -,,.. I 
~I 
Tuesday, March 5, 2002 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

Strong Irish pitching leads to three wins over weekend 
ByJOE HETTLER 
Sporrs \X'riter 
The Notre Dame baseball team relied upon strong pitching in all four of its games last weekend at the Homestead Classic in Florida, en route to picking up three wins in four tries. 
The Irish won their open­ing game 6-0 against Duquesne Friday night behind the arm of junior right-handed pitcher J.P. Gagne and the hitting of senior catcher Paul O'Toole. 
Gagne gave up two hits, struck out six and did not walk a batter in his seven innings uf work. Another junior right-hander, Brandon Viloria. worked scureless eighth and ninth innings to close out the game. 
O'Toole slammed his first home run of the season. a three-run shot in the fourth inning, and added a single as well. 
Freshman shortstop Matt Macri made his Notre Dame debut an impressive one by collecting two hits, including a double and an RBI single. Macri had been unable to play in the any of the Irish's previous games this season due to an elbow strain. 
On Saturday, the Irish won their first game against Fairfield 6-4 behind another strong pitching perfor­mance, this time by fresh­man right-hander Chris Niese!. The rookie followed up his 10-strikeout perfor­mance against Southern Illinois with nine strikeouts and only one walk against the Stags. He also picked up his first career victory in a Notre Dame uniform. Senior right-hander Matt Buchmeier grabbed his sec­ond save of the season by pitching the eighth and ninth innings. 
Senior center fielder Steve Stanley paced the Irish with four hits and scored two runs. while Matt Hok w·ent 3-3 and scored one run. Macri started as the desig­nated hitter and had anoth­er solid hitting performance by adding a double, driving in two runs_ and scoring once again. 
Macri's classmate, Grant Johnson. got his first career start in the nightcap against Florida International and went 5 1/3 innings allowing only two earned runs and 1,triking out seven to give the Irish the opportunity to win. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, the eighth inning turned into a disaster. 
Trailing the Panthers 5-4 in the eighth inning, the Irish allowed eight runs, including seven unearned, before losing 13-4. Notre Dame committed six errors 
in the game. Freshman John Axford was given his first career loss after go.ing 2 1/3 innings. 
In the weekend finale against Sacred Heart University on Sunday, the Irish were led by their 1-2-3 hitters and an effective pitching performance by Pete Ogilvie, who went five innings, yielding only one run, striking out four and walking only one batter. Stanley had another four-hit game, nok collected three more hits, and freshman shortstop Matt Edwards added two hits of his own to pace the Irish. 
Bok improved his team­leading batting average to .500 (10-20) while Stanley moved into third place in Notre Dame baseball histo­ry, passing Alec Porzel, with 280 career hits. Stanley ended the weekend by going 10-18 and improved his bat­ting average to .438. 
Senior closer Matt Laird pitched the ninth to record his first save of the season. 
The Irish were without several players during the weekend trip, including reigning Big East Player of the Week Andrew Bushey and junior outfielder Brian Stavisky. 
Contact Joe Hettler at hettler.l@nd.edu. 



This Weel< in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Edav 
Confirmation-Session #11 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
Mnesdav 
Sant' Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Log Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
RCIA-Study Session 
6:30 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Bible Study (in Chinese and English) 
8:00-9:00 p.m. 
Wilson Commons Ben Fisher, bfishcer@nd.edu Heidi Oberholtzer, oberholtzer.1@nd.edu 

Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Bible Study (in Chinese) 
7:30-9:30 p.m. Call 631-5653 for information. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Kfflurdav 
Holy Cross Mission in Coachella, CA Seminar 
March 9-March 16, 2002 Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 


Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

__.....dav 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
Mid~er111s STUDY BREAN 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel [INTERFAITH CHRISTIAN NIGHT p RAYER] 
"usl·c & Prayer 

WednesdayNight
10 pm • Morrissey Chapel 
0 
.. 

Tuesday, March 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish defeat Wisconsin, Ohio State in weekend matches 

By COLIN BOYIAN Sports Writer 
The Irish earned a convincing victory against Wisconsin on Friday, beginning by sweeping the doubles matches and going on to sweep the match. They came back against Ohio State on Saturday to win 5-2, pushing their record to 9-5 and their win­ning streak to season-high five matches. 
"I thought the team played fantastic this weekend," said Jay Louderback, head coach. "Obviously it wasn't good to lose the doubles point against Ohio State, but it's a great confidence boost to know we can come back and win a match like that." 
Friday's match against the No. 35 Badgers was expected to be a difficult test, but the Irish played strong early on and fought back in several tough singles matches to blank their opponents. 
The team opened competition by sweeping the doubles match­es with surprising ease. Teammates Lindsey Green and Becky Varnum won their match 8-3 and Katie Cunha and Nina Vaughan clinched the doubles point with an 8-4 victory. Only the third team of Alicia Salas and Sarah Jane Connelly seemed to encounter difficulty, but they too pulled out a 9-8 victory and a doubles sweep. 
Things got interesting when Wisconsin forged a strong come­back in singles and several Irish players struggled early in their matches. Both Vaughan and Salas dropped their first sets by the score of 1-6, as both players seemed plagued by unforced errors. Meanwhile, Varnum was embroiled in a close first set bat­tle with No. 71 Vanessa Rauh. 
Fortunately for the Irish. 

Green turned in a strong singles performance with a 6-2, 6-4 vic­tory over Shana McE!roy to give the Irish a 2-0 lead and some breathing room. 
Varnum eventually won the first set and then rolled over Rauh in the second for a 7-5, 6-1 victory and Connelly quickly fol­lowed with a 7-5, 6-2 victory that clinched the match. 
The Irish were far from done, however, as Salas and Vaughan both turned their games around and earned tough three set victo­ries, and Cunha added a three set win of her own to sea.I the shutout. 
"I was really happy with the wa.y we fought back to win those three setters," 
said Louderback. 

Against. the Buckeyes Saturday, it initially appeared as if the team's momentum had not carried over into that match. The top two doubles teams struggled to losses and only the third team of Salas and Connelly played strong enough to earn a win. 
Down 1-0, the Irish were in the unfavorable position of having to come back from a doubles loss for the first time all season. However, Green continued her strong play with a 6-2, 6-0 win and both Vaughan and Cunha pounded their opponents by scores of6-3, 6-2. 
Vaughan's win was particular­ly impressive, coming against Erica Fisk, who was No. 49 in the nation entering the weekend. 
Once again, Connelly was there to clinch the victory with a 6-3, 6-4 win, her second clinch of the weekend. 
"Yeah, it's really nice to clinch the match," said Connelly, "but it takes a whole team to play well, so I don't think that my win is more important than anyone else's." 
The win improved the Irish to 9-5, a stark contrast from a cou­ple of weeks ago when the team was struggling at 4-5. Louderback credits the 5-2 win against Iowa two weeks ago for the team's improved play. 
"I think the Iowa match was a turning point for our season," said Louderback. 
"It was a big one for us because all of our seniors stepped up their games when we needed them to. Since then, we've played very well as a team." 
The Irish now face a difficult road test as six of their next seven matches will be played away from the Eck Center. The road trip will include difficult matches against North Carolina, Duke and Wake Forest. Louderback, however, is trying not to focus too much orr that fact. "It's big for us because we will be playing outdoors for week, but I don't worry too much about six of seven on the road," he said. 
Instead, the team will focus on improving their doubles play, an issue that has concerned Louderback all year. Recently, he shifted the doubles line-up and re-paired certain players with one another. So far, the results have been reasonably successful. 
Namely, the new tandem of Salas and Connelly has been rock solid to date. The team has been 6-1 since their pairing and chemistry has been good. 
"The switch was definitely best for the team." said Connelly. "The No. 2 team [of Cunha and Vaughan] has a lot more experi­ence playing college tennis and Alicia's playing style is similar to mine." 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 

WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish 14th following first round of Classics 
Individually, Tulane's Alexis 
Special to The Observer 

Wooster and Alabama­Birmingham's Heather LourieThe Notre Dame women's golf each fired one-over par 74's to
team battled cold and high 
tie for the first round lead. Annawinds on the way to a 352 total Knutson of Mississippi State andafter one round of the Tulane 
Carolin Landmann of Tulane
Green Wave Golf Classic at the 
were one stroke behind with par 73, 6,008-yard Lakewood 
two-over 75's. 
Country Chili. 

Notre Dame's top golfer wasThe second round of play was senior Kristin McMurtrie whocancelled due to poor weather 
shot a seven-over par 80.
conditions. The final 18 holes McMurtrie is entered in the tour­will be played on Tuesday begin­nament as an individual entrant. 
ning at 9:00 a.m. with a shotgun 
Sophomore Rebecca Rogers
start. 

was the team's top scoring golfer The 352 total left the Irish 44 as she tied for 43rd with an 85.
strokes behind Tulane 
11 strokes behind the tourna­University. Playing on their ment leader.
home course, the Green Wave Shannon Byrne was tied forturned in a 26-over par 308 on 57th with an 88. Terri Taibl wasthe way to the tournament's first tied for 62nd with an 89 andround lead. The Green Wave will freshman Casey Rotella had a
take a 10-stroke lead over 
90. Karen Lotta Notre Dame's
Campbell University into 
top golfer this season, was dis­
Tuesday's final round. 
qualified in the first round. 
Mississippi State was third with Senior Lauren Fuchs also play­a 319 and was followed by the 
ing as an individual entrant,
University of Memphis with a joined Taibl in a tie for 62nd
321 in fourth and Central 
with an 89.
Florida with a 323 in fifth. 

IPlease Recycle The Observer. I 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 5, 2002 
• 

;:; 2m:2 P.1:.i.~«-0.ter}\l")IJ'."';'ef()(!f!'en~ t,LP. P.r.L..ew-3!°~!!-n:~a'.r.~::.s T':-~ t.,;.~ !'.l'e ti~. i'ir.m cl' ?rii.':-ewt1tJ:?'!)Ol.k~~~-:.• r.,r_,p dr.d "~t}W:-1:· ~ cf ::-re i«r.:.do..ri<l':-?r1r:~watJ.:-l'hi."!li..-.«:i·:r.;;?P.?"t.i rn-~,?Jnirh.t.:Mffl. we 'Jr:e r.tU~i tn re :,n Attim,,.t,;:-.,/1':' .~.i.~ ,i;,rti rrr..1al f.n:,--,,,::;ir,i,:::1 Er.pl."}.,,,._ 
fRtcf.\lVATERHOVsE[mPERS I 

Sare hackers work for a good cause. Help us help caipanies becaoe IIDre secure, arrl ~•11 relp )IO.l hrild a career . 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere Q;pl[tutlties. Info. F.ree tidets. 
Look beyond the numbers. 
Tuesday, March 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish make transition to outside play with tournament 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Writer 
After its first outdoor tournament play since last fall, the Notre Dame men's tennis team is confident about making the transition to the upcoming outdoor season. 
The Irish participated in the 113th annual Pacific Coast Doubles tourna­ment over the weekend, which was held at the LaJolla Beach and Tennis Club. Since the tournament is open to professional. amateur and collegiate athletes it is not officially sanctioned by the NCAA. While it counts towards a playing date. it does not count toward official standings, There are no team scores since it is an individual doubles tournament. 
Boasting Don Budge, John McEnroe and Jack Kramer as previous winners, the Pacific Coasts Doubles continues to attract elite competition. 
"We go for two reasons. One, the competition is exceptionally good. Secondly, it is our transition to outdoor play," said head coach Bobby Bayliss. 
Top-ranked teams such as Stanford, University of Southern California, University or California at Los Angeles and Pepperdine competed. 
Since South Bend _weather prevents the Irish from practicing outside and NCAA rules prevent teams from travel­ing to warmer areas in order to prac­tice, Bayliss likes to have his team compete in this tournament every year in hopes that the outdoor experience will help the [rish prepare for the approaching outdoor season. 
"We are able to go there and play outside, and if we don't make that transition very well, it really doesn't cost us anything," Bayliss said. 
It is not an easy transition from the 1ndoor season to the outdoor season. "Indoors you're in a relative vacuum, so the ball sounds bigger. It's very easy 
to hear the sound of the ball. By listen­ing to the sound you can pretty much tell how well it's hit and how hard it's hit, and [the ball's] trajectory stays the same because there's no wind," Bayliss said. 
''Outdoors all that changes," he said. "Most indoor teams have a really hard time when they first go outdoors.... I think we can be better outdoors. We have to make the transition though." 
The Notre Dame doubles team of Brent D'Amico and Aaron Talarico was the most successful of Irish pairs par­ticipating. They lost to Scott Lipsky and David Martin of Stanford, one of the top doubles teams in the nation. 
"Our guys played awfully well,'' Bayliss said. "Over the weekend.-I was really happy [ with the transition)." 
"I think everyone got some good practices. We could have done a little better in some areas, but overall, going outdoors after being in doors for so long, it was a good transition," D'Amico said. 
The Irish duo of Javier Taborga and Casey Smith, ranked seventh national­ly. did not participate in this tourna­rn ent because the NCAA limits the number of playing dates to 25, and Bavliss would rather have them com­pete in tournaments that count toward official records and standings in the Notre Dame's effort to win the Big East and to advance to the regional and national championships. 
Andrew Laflin and Matt Scott advanced to the second round, where they lost to Sebastian Graff and Stefan Suter of Pepperdine. The duos of Matt Horsley and Billy Pate and Brian Farrell and Luis Haddock lost in the first round. 
The Irish will next compete indoors at Illinois on Thursday. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindslel@nd.edu. 


Support the scholarship funds in memory of 
CONOR MURPHY, BRIONNE CLARY and MIRANDA THOMAS 
Come to 
'~ TOUCH OF IRELAND" 


Tuesday, March 5, 2002 Washington Hall 8 p.m. 

Featuring Irish Music by John Kennedy1 Irish dancing by Caitlin Allen and Paul Cusick, anda perfonnance by members of the ND/SMC Irish Dancing Club. 
Tickets are $5 from LaFortune Box Office All revenue will go towards the memory scholarship funds 
Track 
continued from page 20 

championships. The team ­consisting of Liz Grow, Ayesha Boyd, Dodd, and Kymia Love -is ranked in the top five in the nation. 
"The women's mile relay was a great race. That puts them solidly in the NCAA's and pretty high up in the country," said Piane. 
"I didn't think we would break any records. Honestly, I didn't think we would run any faster. we would just maintain our spot. Then when I heard our time, it was almost fake. It was just awesome," said Grow. 
Grow raced for the final time on Meyo Track and ended just where she wanted to be: on top. Grow set school records and personal records in the mile relay and the 400-meter dash en route to two first place finishes on the weekend. Going into nationals. she is currently ranked seventh in the country. 
"I was definitely very excit­ed. I feel really good going into nationals. I'm just going to go out there and run as fast as I can and make it into the finals," said Grow. 
Boyd had a melodramatic end to her indoor season before nationals. Her 200­meter time of 24.00 seconds puts her at No. 17 in the nation. She wanted to run bet­ter this weekend, but she stumbled on the turn and lost a few precious hundredths of a second. Like the DMR, it is up to the NCAA officials to deter­mine whether or not she 
-
makes it to nationals. 
If all goes well, the women will send two relay teams and three runners to nationals. 
"On the women's side I think we're going to be pretty solid in having Liz [Grow] in the 400, two relay teams, Tameisha King in the long jump and possibly Ayesha Boyd in the 200," said Piane. 
Contact Dave Cook at cook.2@nd.edu. 
·AlollUIM liOD •BIJSltl11 •lnnMlians •laruang, cans1111anrs seminar 
Learn The Methods Of AProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
AIIRiJ Dav Seminar,•Boot OIOr,rTen rcanOflnJ/aluable Experia11ce. 
This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must have in business to move forward in high level business. The class is taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, "change the course of an entire industry.· 
~AB£~class dates, private classes &
:7f... ro~DAB more information, go to our web,__..,..~.,_Uram site, orcaTIMr. Adamsat2T7-8104 .IIINIW.IISIISIIIIIII.COIII c•mall • lnventor@usastand.com 
r-­
i 
I 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 5, 2002 
CLUB SPORTS 
Irish figure skating places 7th in U.S. Championships 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame figure skat­ing club skated a strong pro­gram with excellent presenta­tion to place seventh in the 2002 U.S. Synchronized Team Skating Championships at Lake Placid, N.Y. 
With a backdrop of Sarah Hughes, Michelle Kwan, Jaime Sale and women's figure skat­ing receiving so much sports coverage in recent weeks, the timing was right for the Irish to receive well-deserved atten­tion. Traditional power Miami Ohio won the competition, even as one judge placed the Irish ahead of the Redhawks. 
Skating to a Latin-themed program, the Irish finished ahead of many experienced clubs and even several varsity programs. Teams from the Big 10 (Michigan State, Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin) to the Ivy League (Princeton, Columbia), from Big East Syracuse to perennial powers such as Delaware and New Hampshire competed, yet the Irish. skating what was described as the "program of a lifetime" still were able to place in the upper tier of the nationals. 
Men's Volleyball 
The men's volleyball club split six decisions this week­end, including two matches with top-four nationally ranked teams. 
The Irish opened 2-1 in pool play, losing to Lees-McCrae 25­21, 26-24 and defeating Baldwin Wallace 25-21, 24-26, 15-12. The highlight of the tournament was the victory over No. 4 Illinois 25-20, 20­25, 25-11. 
Rob Smith, Dan Parziale and Mike Giampa provided consis­tent play from middle hitter while Mark Overmann's defen­sive play at libero anchored the club. In a playoff game for seeding, the Irish defeated Ohio to advance to the gold bracket. Jim Lowder, Brian Price, Adam Schreier and Brian Michalek were strong on attack all week­end and led the Irish over the Bobcats 15-7. 
In the challenge round, losses to Toledo, 25-17, 25-23 and Indiana, 25-20, 25-17 dropped the Irish to a ninth place finish in the 27-team field. The Irish held the lead most of the first game against the third-ranked Hoosiers, before a powerful arsenal of jump serves knocked the Irish ·out of the tournament bracket. 
Equestrian 
Several equestrians had exceptional performances this weekend at the Illinois Wesleyan Show. 
Callie Willis placed first in both novice flat and novice 

fences to earn Heserve High Point Rider honors. Molly Kopacz again was a standout for the Irish as she placed sec­ond in intermediate fences. Also garnering points for the Irish were Sabrina Badger and Quin Swiney, 
Sailing 

While the campus was sub­jected to snow, ice and contin­ued cold weather, the sailing club was competing in the Eckerd College Intersectional Regatta in Florida. 
Competing in a strong field against teams that practice year round, the Irish placed seventh as host Eckerd won the event followed closely by Rollins. 
The Irish were bunched with Florida State, Florida, Tulane and South Florida, with North Carolina State trailing the rest of the field. The Irish were crewed by Jack Gaither and Mike Stephens in the A divi­sion, and Matt Cassady and Meghann Finerghty in the B division. 
Ultimate 
Injuries and illness prevented a depleted ultimate club women's squad from advancing in the Rocky VII tournament in Philadelphia this weekend. 
After opening with dominat­ing wins over Maryland. 13-1, and Rutgers, 12-2, the Irish dropped a pair of games to Yale, 12-5, and top seeded Bucknell, 11-3. A knee injury didn't leave enough women to field a team, so the Irish with­drew from competition. 
Highlights of the abbreviated weekend were Karen Chu's deep cuts and Meredith Sheperd's layout catches. The Irish also attacked well against the zone defenses that had proven troublesome before this weekend. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Some thoughts before we go mad 
Unseasonably warm weather Seton HaWSt. John's game in the ing in your direction), but that's improve their seeding for the big Of course, it will do the Irish no leaving town like a boxer running quarterfinals. Playing the Red why it's called "madness" and dog of all tournaments. favors if they have a hard time from Mike Tyson. Convincing Storm at Madison Square Garden not the "NBA Playoffs". As Kenny Zeigler of Furman, focusing on this week's prelimi­yourself "studying" for midterms would be a tall order for the Irish So, of course, Notre Dame the team that lost to Davidson in naries. isn't really "trying to read every­and, despite their 2-0 record wants to go to New York City, the conference championship, But it would be understand­thing for the first time." against the Pirates, swashbuck­win three games, pick up another said on ESPN.com: "It's March able. 
Finding out Notre Dame hadn't ling Seton Hall wouldn't be much trophy and some claim to a con­Madness. Anything can happen." won 20 games in the regular sea­easier. ference championship for its own And the Irish can be pretty Contact Ted Fox at son since 1988-89. But here's the funny thing sake. much assured they'll have a shot fox.34@nd.edu. The views in this 
None of this could spoil the about the conference tourna­But the bigger goals, some­to make that anything happen, column are those ofthe author month of ment: what does it mean, again, times spoken and sometimes not, regardless of what happens on and not necessarily those ofThe college bas­exactly? Ifyou're a team like are to build momentum and Thursday, Friday or Saturday. Observer. ketball that Providence, the sixth seed out of is now upon the "Is There an Echo in Here?" us, or what and you can win four games in I like to call four nights, you'll get an NCAA "The Happy Tournament bid. Happy Joy And while you're pulling off Joy Time of that magic act, try to convince Year." Yes, the PAC-10 and Mountain West I am seek­to stop complaining about the ing profes­East Coast bias, would ya? sional help. Beyond that, it's a no man's But this land of hoops, predominantly month of featuring teams already in the madness NCAA tournament and encom­always passing four days that no one will tends to remember as soon as it ends. bring out the best in us. The two things that save these 
For starters, vou can scratch conference tournaments are the Digger Phelps' iate '80's team fact that they feature college bas­from that distinction and replace ketball, and that basketball is it with Mike Brey's bunch, who played in March. picked up regular-season win No. The only playoff that does mat­20 Saturday against Providence. ter gets underway next week 
Throw in the three-game skid with the 64 teams that make it of Syracuse to finish the season, through selection Sunday and and the Irish finished second in onto the court on Thursday. I'm the Oxymoron Division (Big East sorry, but team No. 65, the loser West, as opposed to the "Is There of the "play-in" game, we have an Echo in Here?" Division, the no record of you actually being Big East East). there. 
Now, back in the pre-confer­In the NCAA Tournament, it's ence tournament days, that win six straight games played didn't mean a whole lot. But as over the course of three weeks, long ac; Notre Dame has to play go home national champions. in a Big East Tournament, and Lose, just go home. since the folks at Conagra Foods This is all anyone cares about. .want to sponsor something, These are the brackets Brey has Brey's Bunch might as well take hanging up in his office all sea­that first-round bye. son long. 
Besides, I'm all for anything Whether you're Davidson, that takes the Orange's 2-0 whose already in as the Southern record against the Irish and Conference Champion, or Duke, makes it less meaningful than who J'll go out on a limb and trying to figure out which of a guess will be there, the task possible three teams is the real remains the same: win six. Big East champion. Once you're there, no coaches 
Granted, the Irish don't have or sports writers can tell you an exactly sterling record in Big whether or not you get to play for East Tournament play, so win­the national title. Win six, and ning games, and not first-round you can ask them to help you byes, should be their biggest con­make room in your trophy case. cern right now. No, the best team doesn't 
They'll get the winner of the always win (Kansas, we're look­



Tuesday, March 5, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
HERE'S THE GL'fr-IN PROPOSAL, Silt 
Fox,You 
"' 

LOOIC 
AWFUL! 
_/ 
Fox, YOU'RE DREAMING A&AIN. 
AND 010 I 
MENTION YOU 
LOOI( AWFUL? 
/ 

B B ~m
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNIGNHAM 

-
-,.. 

Could it have been freaking colder last night? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Queens's Stadium 5 Big Mama 9 Made eyes at 14 Mooring place 15 Cornerstone word 16 Colt's sibling 17 Big Apple cardinal 18 1934 Mae West tune 20 Pipsqueak 22 Mars and Milky 
Way 
23 Deb.ussy's "La 
24 Poke fun at 26 Tries again 28 Groundhog 
Day's mo. 
30 Human equivaJent of a 16-Across 
32 Cote-_, France 33 The rain in Spain 35 New Mexico artists' home 37 Killer whales 41 Has an Olympics honor 44 Ferber and O'Brien 45 School founded in 1440 46 The Eternal City 47 Misbehaving 49 Assns. 51 Coral_ 52 Spotted beetle 56 "Spare" things 58 Exist 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

AMBO 
A K 1,;.;+~~ D I E U TE ENTS 

59 Earthbound avians 61 Like extra-lite­ice cream 64 Be an innovator 67 Callas, for one 68 Locks locale 69 Arctic ice 70" Brockovich" 71 Serengeti scavenger 72 Merlin, e.g. 73 Place to work 
DOWN 
1 Big galoots 2 Sound of relief 3 Nora Ephron 
best seller 4 Bert's "Sesame 
Streer pal 5 Tent spot 6 •-takers?" 7 Snooty sort 8 Kind of energy 9 Descendant 
1 O Dodger great 34 Sheikdom of 50 B'way notice 62 Famous #2 Hodges 
song 52 Gate closer 11 Four-legged 63 Bazooka target 
36 One way to be 53 Orderly grouping 
Andean caught 54 Diplomat Silas 65 Bond creator12 •-Gantry" 
38 CNN debate 55 Chasms Fleming 13 Batik artisans show 57 Finito 66 Actress
19_ Scott 39 Peak 60 Mall event · WanamakerDecision 40 Queens's
21 YM orGQ 
Stadium 25 Wipe clean 42 Sponsor of Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 27 Dropped Columbus available by touch-tone phone: 
pop-up, e.g. 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
43 Casey Jones, 28 Tum toward for one Annual subscriptions are available for the 29 Old oath 48 Hardly best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 31 Kin of keno Einsteinian years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2002 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jake Lloyd, Dean Stockwell, Rex Harrison 
HaJ'.PY Birthday: You'll do everything in a big way this year. You will come into secret infonna­tion that will help you get ahead financially. You'll be likely to inher­it property or possessions. You will be compassionate toward tl1.0se in need. Your insight into future trends will enable you to make the right choices. Your numbers are 8, 15, 23, 26, 31, 35 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You're on a roll so don't stop now. Travel if you can but if not, make 
-sure that you involve yourself in something that will make you think and bring you added wis­dom. Someone you least expect will help you further your goals. 00000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone will need your help. Bend over backward and you will feel good about what you have done. Personal rewards will be yours. Money opportunities are presentbut don't take a risk 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be able to deal with emo­tional matters that have been both­ering you for some time. Your elo­quent way of putting things will help smooth out any problem areas that you may have faced in the past. 0000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be able to make headway where your career and moneymak­ing skills are concerned. Push to get the position you want today. Your talents will be recognized. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll come up with all sorts of brilliant ideas that will enable you to fur. ther your creative projects. You 
EUGENIA LAST 

should be sure to make time for 
socialevents.00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Di£. ficulties at home may lead you out the door today. Don't let someone push you or pick an argument with you. Stay cool and refuse to let anyone or anything get to you. 
00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Get out and talk to as many people as possible and you'll discover that you really do have a lot to offer. You can be proud of your accom­plishments today. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

Take care of any personal paper· work that has been neglected. You need to tidy up your own matters before you can tend to someone else's. You may want to check outa tax haven that you have heard about. 000 
SAGIITARIUS (Nmi 22-Dec. 21): 

Take the initiative and do some­thing to counteract any of the ongoing problems that have been bugging you. If someone isn't treating you properly, stop putting up with it 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Work behind the scenes in order to push .~head. The more you do without others being aware of your ideas the more of an impact you willmake.000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be dedicated, loyal and ready to take a leadership position. You will have plenty of opportuni­ties to get others to listen to you. Don't let anyone hold you back or stand in your way. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't take what others say to heart today. It probably isn't your fault. You just happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time today. .. Avoid emotional encounters. 00 
Birthday Baby: You have the ability to visualize and create all sorts of things at a very early age. You are levelheaded, loyal and responsible. You will always want to be doing something worthwhile. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the · two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 

Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
O
THE

Campus Sports Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's Tennis, p. 17 
. Club Sports, p. 18 
. 
Women's Tennis, p. 15 . Men's Basketball, p. 18 

. 
Women's GoH, p. 15 . Softball, p. 13 

. 
Baseball, p. 14 . Men's and Women's


PORTS 
Lacrosse, p. 12 
Tuesday, March 5, 2002 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Graves, Humphrey, Thomas named All-Big East 
ByANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Three Notre Dame basket­ball players earned spots on the All-Big East team. but all insist the focus of the Big East T o u r n ­ament is on how the team does. not their individual accolades. 
S e n i o r Graves forward I-lyan Humphrey was one of seven players named to the All-Big East first team. Freshman point guard Chris Thomas joined him on the squad as a third-team selec­tion and senior guard David Graves earned honorable men­tion recognition. 
"It's great and all, but I'm just glad three guys got Lhe honor," Humphrey said. "It really shows the 
strength of Humphrey our pro­gram right now." Humphrey averaged 18.9 
points per game and a league­leading 10.6 rebounds per game. He recorded 18 double­doubles in 27 games. 
Thomas, who was also named to the Big East All­Rookie 1.cam, is averaging 16 points per game.. He joined Connect­icut's E m e k a 0kafur and Provi­dence's R y a n Gomes as Thomas 
the only unanimous selections to the rookie squad. 

"[Thomas] has gotten a lot of respect from the players and the coaches in the league, " Brey said. 
Thomas, Okafur and Gomes are considered the leading candidates for Big East Rookie of the Year, which will be announced at a banquet tonight. 
Graves'. who has played the most games in Notre Dame history, is averaging 14.9 points per game. He has also recorded 49 steals this season. 
"It's a nice honor that some guys think I'm good enough to be on the All-Big East team," Graves said. "But my focus was for us to win games, and we've done that. We're poised and ready to go." 
The seven players named to the All-Big East first team were Boston College's Troy Bell, Connecticut's Caron Butler, Georgetown's Mike Sweetney. Pittsburgh's Brandin Knight, St. John's Marcus Hatten, Syracuse's Preston Shumpert and Humphrey. The Big East Player of the Year will also be announced tonight. 
The Irish play the winner of Wednesday's St. John's-Seton Hall game. Game time is 9 
p.m. Thursday. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
asoukup@nd.edu. 

WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish set records at Alex Wilson Invitational 
. Women's team awaits NCAA ·qualifying decision 
By DAVE COOK 
Spom Writer 
The women's distance mectlev team accom­plished all they could in trying to qualify for the NCAA championships this weekend. 
The relay team -con­sisting of Kristen Dodd, \1:egan Johnson, Lauren King, and Jen Handley ­finished in first place at the Alex Wilson Invitational last Friday. In doing so, they ran a sea­
.. son best 11 minutes, 
26. 92 seconds, placing them 15th in the nation. 
Each year the NCAA determines how many teams will qualify for nationals in any given event. The relay team's ranking of 15th in the nation puts the Irish on the bubble. Now, all they can do is wait for the NCAA to make a decision Monday on whether or not they will qualify. 
"I think everyone put together what they had 
on that day. The provi­sional time is what we were looking for, and we got it. Now we're just going to have to wait and see how we compare with the other teams in the country," said King, who runs the anchor leg of the relay. 
King also ran a person­al best in the mile last weekend. Her second place time of 4:44.60 qualifies her for nation­als, although she may not be running in it if the dis­tance medley team quali­fies. 
"[King] qualified in the mile, but probably wouldn't run it. She'll probably just run the [dis­tance medley]," said head coach Joe Piane. 
Megan Johnson and Jen Handley qualified in the distance relay. while Kristen Dodd also quali­fied in the mile relay. 
The mile relay team continued their succ-ess this weekend, breaking all kinds of records. Their time of 3:36.84 is a track record, meet record, and school record by over 1.5 seconds set by the same four girls. It also moves them up in the rankings for next weekend's NCAA 
see TRACK/page 17 


Liz Grow runs her portion of the mile-relay. The team broke the track record, meet record and school record In this weekend's meet as well as being ranked in the top five in the nation. 
. Women's Golf at Tulane Green Wave Golf Classic, Tuesday, All Day

SPORTS 
. Men's Basketball at Big East Tournament, Thursday,AT AGLANCE 9:30 p.m. 










