
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VO. XXXVII NO. 55 H P://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
EXECUTIVE CABINET 

Officers discuss Shirt, review strategic plans 
"Everything lined up as per­Senior class president Matt By MATT BRAMANTI fectly as it could have," Schuster Smith presented his council's News Writer said. strategic plan, focusing on popu­
She predicted next year's pro­lar events in order to foster class 
Executive Cabinet members ject will be successful, but said unity. met Monday evening to discuss that its too early to know for cer­"Everything we've seen this the future of The Shirt strategic tain. year proves that the sky's the planning, and a new student Schuster encouraged students limit," Smith said. referring to his events calendar. to submit designs for next year's organization's successful pro­
Courtney Schuster, chairperson Shirt. Entries are due in the gramming. of The Shirt, delivered a report Student Activities Office by Dec. His plan stressed the need for on the success of the project. 6. quality events. and noted that 
"We've delivered 104.000 Peggy Elnatusko, assistant such programming is not neces­shirts. with more on the way," director of programs for Student sarily expensive. Schuster said. Activities, emphasized the chari­"Money is good, but it's better 
She also briefed the Cabinet on table purpose ofThe Shirt. to have creativity in using the the new financial arrangement of "There are students out there money we have," Smith said. the project. with need, and The Shirt brings He noted the popularity of 
"We 're making 7 percent of the in the funds to meet that need," recent events at the Alumni­wholesale price of anything that Hnatusko said. Senior Club, including a Gralliti has 'Return to Glory' on it," she A portion of revenues from Dance revival and senior lunch­said, adding that this deal has sales of "Return to Glory" prod­es. brought in an additional $50,000 ucts goes to the rectors' fund, Dan Barabas, president of the for the student-run project. which helps disadvantaged stu­off-campus council, also deliv­
Schuster credited The Shirt's dents pay for some of the costs of ered his organization's strategic success to an attractive design, student life. Aid has been given plan. positive media coverage and the for club dues, dance tickets, "Safety is the most important Irish's performance on the grid­medical expenses, among other iron. means ofassistance. 
see SHIRT/page 6 


Accounting program Inoves up 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's accountancy programs arc moving up in the world. According to the industry newsletter Public Accounting Report, the Mendoza College of Business' undergraduate pro­gram is now the fourth best in the country, while the graduate program maintained its fifth­place spot. 
The rankings are compiled from a poll of accountancy fac­ulty members at colleges and universities throughout the United States. 
Angie Kase, program manag­er or the graduate accounting program, attributed Notre Dame's success to the focultv and to undergraduate students who move into the graduate program. 
"We've lraditionally had a lot of strong undergrads from Notre Dame who continue here," Kase said. 
She also praised department chairman Tom Schaefer. 
"His membership in national accounting organizations has added to the visibility of the pro­gram," Kase said. Schaefer serves as president of the Accounting Programs Leadership Group, a board of the American Accounting 
sec ACCOUNTING/page 8 
PLO advisor condemns Israel 
By MElANIE BECKER 
News Writer 

Diana Buttu, the Chief Legal Advisor for the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO), addressed human rights viola­tions in Israel Monday at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium. 
Buttu was born and raised in Canada by her parents after they l1ed Palestine in the late 1940s. She attended Queens College in Canada, received a law degree from Stanford University and is currently pursuing a master's degree in human rights and refugee compensation from Stanford. 
Buttu encouraged the audi­ence to "think like a Palestinian," in order to under­stand the problems in the Middle East. She questioned the U.S. media's portrayal of events in Israel and said that she was concerned that U.S. citizens do not understand the truth of the situation. 
According to Buttu. the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is political. not religious. 
Land dispute has been the problem that has led the Palestinians and the Israelis to the brink of war, she said. Israeli occupation of Palestinian land has pushed Palestinians out of their homes and off their land and along the West Bank in Jerusalem and in Gaza there are segre­gated Israeli and Palestinian settlements, Buttu added. 
As Israeli communities grow and expand they are building through Palestinian Communities and destroying homes that are in the way, she said. 
"Get rid of the people, hold onto the land," Buttu said, 

Diana Buttu lectured a Saint Mary's crowd on human rights violations In Israel, accusing Israelis of pushing Palestinians out of their homes and off their lands. 
describing the Israeli's theory Palestine. Us here, them violators of it arc subject lo behind settle expansion. there," demonstrates the death on the spot without any 
According to Buttu, the relo-desire of Israeli to remove the questions. she said, adding cation of Palestinians to Jordan Palestinians from the area, she that personal tra.vel has been has become a prevalent idea in said. restricted without permission Israel as 43 percent of Israelis Since the Freedom of the Israeli government. support ethic cleansing of Movement in Oslo in 1993 Trees, agriculture and fertile Palestinians and 70 percent Palestinians have been subject land are being destroyed with­support tlle removal of to more restrictions from the in the Palestine, according to Pafestinians from Israel. Israelis, Buttu added. Buttu. Checkpoints have been 
Israeli propaganda such as Palestinians have an imposed the slogan, "Jordan equals curfew from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., see PALESTINE/page 6 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Banchalkon sidewalks 
This Inside Column is a personal request to the administration to ban all chalk writing on the sidewalks on cam­pus. 
I think everyone's noticed that chalk writing on sidewalks has become a lot 
more prominent this year. Until recently, the Peace Coalition seemed to have a monopoly on the idea with messages slamming possible military action in Iraq. Campus side­


walks have become Andrew Thagard particularly crowd­ed on football week­
Assistant

ends ½ith additional 
News Editor 

people and crudely drawn chalk mes­sages vying for space. 
Lately, a chalk war seems to have erupted between the Peace Coalition and some unidentified chalk writers. Walking around campus the other day I noticed messages that read, "Beat up Poor People," "Human: the other white meat," "Global Warming + Nuclear Winter = Perfect Temperature" and "Let's have sex with Saddam." 
Ihave no idea who wrote that last one. 
These unidentified chalk artists also use the tactic of writing "Not!" after Peace Coalition messages, which can be pretty amusing. 
My personal favorite, however, is "DeBartolo Hall= Stupid." Clever, huh? 
These messages can be pretty enter­taining. It's also refreshing to know that students on campus can express them­selves in ways besides The Observer Viewpoint section. Despite this, I think all sidewalk chalk art should be banned. 
I mean the University's already on a roll here. They've banned sex, hard alcohol and limited tailgating. I think banning chalk on sidewalks is a logical next step. 
For an institution so concerned about looking aesthetically pleasing, I'm sur­prised they haven't considered this already. Every day, I see University groundskeepers toiling to keep the grass perfect, hedges trimmed and flowers blooming. If a leaf falls off a tree any­where on campus, someone is there to cloan it up. Idon't think it's fair to ruin the hard work of these people by scribbling chalk on quad sidewalks. 
Let's not forget the safety ramifications such a ban would have on the student body as well. 
Campus sidewalks are already crowd­ed, dangerous places, especially in the winter with ice. My walk to DeBartolo consists of dodging backpack wielding walkers, mad bicyclists and the occasional golf cart. 
I don't trust these people as it is. 
Adding distracting chalk messages on the sidewalk equals a formula for disas­ter. 
Now I know some people are already upset at this proposal. They're probably saying, "What about my right to free speech?" 
Well, we all have to make sacrifices sometimes. Free speech is great but not when it limits my right to walk to the Dining Hall without getting chalk on my shoes. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards it.self as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, (please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Saint Mary's BOG considers student request 
Saint Mary's Board of Govern­ance considered a student financial request for a play. Officers tabled the resolution for fur­ther discussion. 
page 3 Iraqi Parliament denounces U.N. resolution 

Iraq's top law­makers denounced the latest U.N. reso­lution on weapon's inspections despite possible war with the United States. 
page 5 
BUSINESS 

VIEWPOINT
NEWS 
Letter overseeing 
Board 

condemns accounting 
behavior of industry draws 
Leprechaun at criticism 
Navy game 
The new board 

A Notre Dame appointed to over­
fan from Maryland see the nation's 
reminds the Irish to accounting indus­
win with honor try is already 
and lose with embroiled in con­
grace. He criticizes troversy. 
the Leprechaun's behavior at Saturday's game. 
page 7 pages 10-11 
. Campus Bible Study. Coleman Morse Center confornnce room. 7 
p.m. Please bring your own Bible. 
. 
Lecture with Mark and Louise Zwick. "Chesterton's Distribution." DeBartolo llall, Hoom 138, 7:30 p.m. 

. 
Junior Class Board Meeting. Ilaggar Hall, Boom 303, 9 p.m. 


South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Meatball stroganoff, supreme pizza, pretzel sticks, pasta primavera, chicken and dumplings, London broil teriyaki, garlic mashed potatoes, philly steak sandwich, sweet and sour chicken and Caribbean buffa­lo chicken wings. 
Today's Dinner: Meatless baked ziti, supreme pizza, pretzel sticks, noodles romanoff, roast beef hash, turkey broc­coli bake, pork loin with apples, sea nuggets, cantonese BBQ chicken chick­en and cheese chimichanga. 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 


.

• 
~ HIGH 42 HIGH 44 HIGH 48 HIGH 48 LOW 37 LOW 37 LOW 38 LOW 35 
SCENE 

Music critic: Aguilera's latest album strips artist of talent 
The Observer's music critic claims Aguilera's latest album "Stripped" is terrible and the work of a "wannabe" diva. 
pages 12-13 
SPORTS 
Miami reclaims Sendwich top spot, Irish remain third 
Miami's win over Tennessee pro­pelled it to the top of the Sendwich Index, while Notre Dame maintained its third-place rank­ing. 
page 7 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Athlete sustains injury 
An injured student athlete was transported to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. The injury occurred at Riehle Field. 
Golf ball hits car 
A student reported that his vehicle was struck by a golf ball. The car was parked in the South lot. 
Stolen jacket remains a 
mystery 
A visitor reported the theft of a jacket in the Joyce Center. The case is still under investi­gation and there are no sus­pects. 
N,D~P questions
visitors 
NDSP questioned four indi­viduals outside of North Dining Hall. They were told to leave campus immediately. 

Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Three grain and roast­ed vegetable soup, chicken gumbo creole chowder, fresh tomato and pesto pizza, caesar chicken breast, hamburger, Texas-style grilled cheese sandwich, ham and cheese hot wrap, turkey ched­dar wrap, California sushi roll, fresh three bean salad and scampi with lin­guine. 
Today's Dinner: Three grain and roasted vegetable soup, chicken gumbo creole chowder, ground beef enchiladas, bacon spinach alfredo pizza, grilled chicken breast, fried cod sandwich, bean burger with lettuce and tomato, roast beef, grilled portobello with aioli, citrus rice and fresh bean salad. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 40 HIGH 42 LOW 35 LOW 35 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Allan Hiley British Drawing Collection. The Suite Museum or Art, all day. 

. 
Story Time: "Night Lights." Stories, crafts and activities. Ilammcs Notre Dame Bookstore, 11 a.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Financial Aid Workshop. Stapleton Lounge, 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. 

. 
Senior Class Board Meeting. Haggar Hall, Hoom 304, 9 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Vegetable lasagna, pepperoni, cheese, vegetable, and four cheese pizzas, Texas chili, cream of broccoli soup, chicken and dumpling soup, southern fried chicken, au gratin potatoes, baked cajun pollack, Italian rice pilaf, vegetable ratatouille, bratwurst, vegetable eggrolls and por­tobello fajita. 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable lasagna, pepperoni, cheese and vegetable pizzas, Texas chili, cream of broccoli soup, tomato soup, chicken and dumpling soup, grilled pork chops, broccoli rice casserole, grilled tipapia, California blend vegetables, butternut sauce, breaded cheese sticks and pork tamale. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
c:: 
w 

:::c 
~ 

l.&.I 
3: 
....I 
<
(.) 


0 

Atlanta 58 / 39 Boston 55 / 42 Chicago 46 / 35 Denver 52 / 35 Houston 70 / 42 Los Angeles 84 / 54 Minneapolis 43 / 29 New York 58 / 45 Philadelphia 58 / 43 Phoenix 80 / 58 Seattle 58 / 46 St. Louis 49 / 36 Tampa 84 / 65 Washington 54 / 44 

Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 


AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 
To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you can develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for SPRING 2003 can be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment. 
ARTS AND LETTERS 
STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL (ALSAC) 
PROUDLY PRESENTS 
THE FIRST ANNUAL FACULTY-STUDENT FORUM 
WITH A SPECIAL GUEST APPEARANCE BY 
MARK w. ROCHE, 
I. A. O'SHAUGHNESSV DEAN 
An informal event where students and professors can come together to discuss various academic issues, voice propositions for change, or just get a chance to socialize with each other outside of the classroom. 
Potential Discussion Topics: 
•Core 
Course Curriculum 

•Careers 
and Graduate Education 

•Study 
Abroad Programs 

•Discussions 
on Teaching Style 

•Undergraduate 
Research in All Areas of Study 

•Changes 
You'd Like to See 

•Ideas 
you'd like the Council to consider for a formal proposal to the College 


Refreshments will be served. All Arts and Letters faculty and students welcome! Teachers invite your students ... students invite your teachers! 
Tuesday, November 12 1st Floor Lounge, Coleman-Morse 5:30 -7:00 p.m. 
(Stop by any time) 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Officers debate funding play 
. Board fears approving senior project could set problematic precedent 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 

Merideth Pierce, a senior theater major, requested funds from the Board of Governance (BOG) during the body's meeting Tuesday. These funds will allow her to 
complete her inten­sive senior compre­hensive in theater by directing the chil­dren's play, "Still Life with Iris" by Steven Dietz. she said. 

Pierce intends to present the play to the children who attend elementary school in the South Bend school dis­trict. 
"I am dedicated to doing this right and believe strong­ly in the power of art in a child's curriculum," Pierce 
said. 
This presen­tation is unique com­pared with traditional comprehen­sives in the theater department because the student is presenting and advertis­ing the play outside the 

Saint Mary's academic com­munity, Pierce said. 
Pierce said she is asking for money because she is required to purchase the rights and scripts to the play due to its audience of school­children. 
Sarah Brown, sophomore class president, said that Pierce is a phenomenal Saint Mary's woman, considering 
Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631-5323. 
"/ am dedicated to doing 
to draw up a this right and believe proposal for standards on
strongly in the power of 
funding senior

art in a child's curicu­
comprehen­lum." sives. 
Merideth Pierce In other BOG Saint Mary's senior news: 
"/ think it would be important to consider what type ofprecedent this sets for students with BOG's status on campus." 
Kristen Matha student trustee 
her drive and commitment to 
the arts inside and outside the college community. 
The board did express some concern over the fund-· ing of' senior comprehensives and the differentiation between that and funding other class assignments. 
"I think that it would be important to consider what type of precedent this sets for students with BOG's status on campus," said Kristen Matha, student trustee. 
Following a brief debate, BOG decided to table discus­sion on the funding of com­prehensives until the E X C C U t i V C Board is able 
. N i I a 
Ahmad, vice president of the student diversity board, attended the BOG meeting to collect sug­gestions and an endorsement on the harassment clause she is currently working to implement in the student handbook. 
No decision could be made 
came to introduce herself to the board and expressed her hope to work with the stu­dent body. 
"I have an open door poli­cy," she said. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 
because only 17 members of the board were in attendance. The discus­sion was tabled until next week. 
. Hose­m a r i e Harris, interim director of security, 


page4 

SMC students debate cotntnittnent 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students gath­ered Monday evening to discuss relationships and commitment, as part of ihe continuing sexu­ality series "Relationships: Sexuality at its best." 
Last night's discussion "Life Realities of Commitment" 
"You ·ve got to find the

was the sec­unexpected. ond part of a place where you realize Many involun­two part tary commit­
you make the right 

series spon­ments can
decisions. " 

sored by occur in your Student life," Thomas Affairs and said.
Judy Fean 

Activities. The Students
director of Campus Ministry

director of discussed not 
Campus Ministry, Judy Fean moderated the discussion. 
"This is an opportunity to share experiences but to also dialogue with others about their experiences," Fean said. 
Fean invited other campus staff members and students to help plan the discussion and share their stories. Assistant director of Health and Wellness Services Debbie Bauters, direc­tor -of Marketing Communications Nick Farmer, Saint Mary's senior Renee Donovan and Notre Dame grad­uate student Leah Thomas all 

Bishops' leader calls for healing 
. Critics have tried to capitalize on the scandal to undermine the Church's teachings 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The head of the nation's Roman Catholic bishops pleaded for unity within the church Monday as he and his fellow prelates prepared to adopt a sex abuse policy that they promised will get offending clergy out of public ministry. 
Bishop Wilton Gregory, presi­dent of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, opened a gath­ering of the American hierarchy with a speech focusing on the church's future following a year of scandal. Fellow prelates stressed that the new policy -a reworked version of a plan they first approved in June -still bars guilty priests from all church work. including saying Mass pub­licly. 
"We will eradicate this plague, this horror from our midst," said Bishop Thomas Doran of Rockford, Ill., who helped draft the plan. 
At the bishops meeting last June. Gregory set the tone with an address about the abuse crisis in which he repeatedly apologized for the church's mishandling of molestation claims. Victim advo­cates noted the new focus Monday and accused bishops of participated in the discussion. 

"Some commitments you choose and others choose you," Donovan said. 
Thomas shared her recent experience with an immune deficiency that has left her incapable of digesting wheat products and forever altering her diet. 
"I think the commitments in 
our lives can 
be pretty 

only commit­monts made in sexual relation­ships but also commitments made to family, work and your­self. 
"You've got to find that place where you realize you make the right decisions," Fcan said. 
The next discussion, "Sustaining Relationships: com­mitment and forgiveness" in the sexuality series will be on Dec. 9 at 7 p.m. in Regina north lounge. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
abandoning their commitment to reform. 
Gregory denied there was any change. But he also said the crisis that erupted in January with the case of a pedophile in the Boston Archdiocese has "fractured" rela~ tions among prelates, priests and rank-and-file Catholics. He acknowledged clergy feel "unfair­ly judged" by the misdeeds of a few. 
"We cannot and must never allow the particular positions that we have taken on such a serious issue, or even the mistakes that we have made in understanding and addressing it, to destroy our communion with one another in the Lord," Gregory said. 
Critics inside and outside of the church have tried to capitalize on the scandals to undermine Catholic teaching, Gregory said. He urged bishops to challenge them. 
Thousands of Catholics angry about how bishops have dealt with errant priests have joined reform movements. 
Pataf!onia 
excltlsively
at-•~ 
Sminute~ from OUTPDliT Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-2000 for more details 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002

The Observer . NEWS 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 102 DeBartolo 5:00 PM 
~.......,...._.~~ 
Information Concerning: 
Academic Year 2003-2004 Fall 2003; Spring 2004 and Summer 2003 
,...._.__,_, -'~ 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 (April 15, 2002 for summer 2003) Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/,...,intlstud 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTR·E DAME 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM
,...; 

•
Studyinthe nation's capitol 

•
Work in.an internship 

•
Fulfill philosophy, theology, and fine arts requirements 

•
Study public affairs 

•
live in an exciting city 


John Eriksen, Director 338 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 

/:' ··-" www.nd.edu/~se111ester i?('•· 
•
Applications for Fall 2003 & Spring 2004 are now being accepted online 

•Open 
to Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors from all colleges 


------------------~ 
WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush: War against Iraq maybe necessary for security 
U.N. Security Council approved a 
As,ocia1cd Press 
tough new resolution with an 
WASHfNGTON until Friday to accept the resolu­
In somber tribute to soldiers of tion that would send U.N. inspec­wars past, President Bush said tors hack to Baghdad after an Monday he will commit "Lhe full absence of nearly four years with force and might of the United broad new powers to go any­States military" against Iraq if where at any time backed by the Saddam Hussein refuses to dis­threat offorce. arm swiftly. With the clock ticking, Bush 
As the rubber-stamping Iraqi traveled across the PoLomac River parliament condemned a U.S.­to visit Arlington National backed United Nations resolution, Cemetery, lay a wreath at the Bush used two Veterans Day Tomb of the Unknowns, praise addresses to underscore his impa­America's veterans and pledge his tience. resolve against terrorism and 
"Thetime to confront this threat Iraq. is before it arrives, not the day "We will not permit a dictator after." he told several dozen veter­who has used weapons of mass ans during an East Hoom ceremo­destruction to threaten America ny. with chemical, biological or 
Behind the scenes, Bush has nuclear weapons," the president approved tentative Pentagon said. "This great nation will not plans for invading Iraq should_ a live at the mercy of any foreign new U.N. arms inspection effort plot or power." fail to rid tile nation of weapons of Standing beneath the marble mass destruction. The strategy dome of' the cemetery's flag­calls for a land, sea and air force draped amphitheater, the presi­of 200,000 to 250,000 troops, dent drew cheers and whistles of 
Reuters Photo 

administration ot1icials said, as approval when he declared. "The 
President George W. Bush places his hand over his heart during a wreath laying ceremony at
they sought to build up pressure dictator of Iraq ·will fully disarm or 
the Tomb of the Unknown in honor of Veteran's Day at Arlington Cemetery outside Washington,
on Saddam to relent. the United States will lead a coali­
D.C. Monday. Bush said a war with Iraq may be necessary to ensure national security.
"We have to keep, in a sense, a tion to disarm him." gun pointed to the head of the In Baghdad, Iraq's parliament Iraqi regime because that's the condemned the U.N. resolution as this is anything but an absolute but the U.N. thought it best to ask whelming power of the United only way they cooperate," Bush's full of lies, and a senior lawmaker dictatorship and this decision is up for return-receipt requested," she States of America," he said in the national security adviser, urged that it be rejected -a to Saddam Hussein," she told said. East Room. "Should military Condolcczza Rice. told National prospect that likely would bring reporters at the White House. Bush himself said Iraq is behind action become necessary for our Public Radio's "The Tavis Smiley on war. Even if Saddam accepts the res­the eight-ball. "No enemy that own security, I will commit the full Show." Rice dismissed the response and olution, Rice said she will remain threatens our security or endan­force and might of the United 
The talk of war grew to a the parliament itself. skeptical. gers our people will escape the States military. and we will pre­crescendo just three days after the "l don't think anyone believes "They are obligated to accept, patient justice and the over-va.il " 
IRAQ 
Iraqi Parliament condemns 'dishonest' U.N. resolution 
does not fully comply. as cover for difficult decisions in the past, night on Friday. It is up to the Security
Associated P rcss 
Parliament speaker Saadoun Hamadi and harsh rhetoric does not necessarily Council to interpret its own resolution. 
BAGHDAD said the resolution was stacked with "ill mean parliament will reject the proposal. Eckhard said. 
Iraqi lawmakers denounced a tough, intentions," "falsehood," "lies" and "dis­Saddam ordered parliament to recom­Anne Power, a spokeswoman with the new U.N. resolution on weapons inspec­honesty." Salim al-Koubaisi, head of par­mend a formal response, and lawmakers British mission at the United Nations, tions Monday as dishonest. provocative liament's foreign relations committee, were expected to vote on recommenda­said Britain intepreted the deadline to be and worthy of rejection -despite the recommended rejecting the resolution tions for the Iraqi leadership Tuesday. seven 24-hour periods from the minute risk of war. But parliament said it ulti­but also advised deferring to the "wise According to the resolution, Iraq has the resolution was adopted. That would mately will trust whatever President Iraqi leadership" to act as it sees fit to until Friday to accept or reject the reso­mean that Iraq has until 10:17 a.m. EST Saddam llusscin decides. defend Iraq's people and dignity. lution, approved unanimously last week Friday to respond. Other Security Council 
One after the other. senior lawmakers "The committee advises ... the rejection by the U.N. Security Council. members could have diITerent interpreta­rejected the resolution, the latest in a of Security Council Resolution 1441, and U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said tions however. Chinese deputy ambas­long effort to ensure Iraq scraps its to not agree to it in response to the opin­there are numerous interpretations for sador Zhang Yishan, the current council weapons of mass destruction. This time, ions of our people, who put their trust in the deadline -the minute the resolution president. said he was checking on the however, the United States and Britain us," al-Koubaisi told fellow lawmakers. was adopted, the minute Iraq was noti­exact deadline. have made clear they will attack Iraq if it Saddam has used parliament's action fied, the end of business Friday, or mid-

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Gunfire claims Palestinian toddler: 
Israeli soldiers killed a Palestinian toddler and wounded two others in Gaza Monday. hospital offi­cials and witnesses said. The shooting came as Israeli leaders weighed a military response to a Palestinian shooting rampage that killed five people, including a mother and her two young sons. In the second straight day of violence to take children's lives, the 2-year-old boy was killed shortly after 7 
p.m. while he played ball in Rafah. Israel's army said forces had returned fire and knew of no casual­ties. while the boy's uncle said there had been no fighting in the area. Meanwhile. expectation mount­ed of an Israeli operation in the West Bank city of Nablus, where Israeli ot1icials said Sunday's shoot­ing rampage in Kibbutz Metzer -a community that symbolized Jewish-Arab coexistence -had been planned. Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, which are allied with Yasser Arafat's Fatah group, claimed responsi­bility for the kibbutz attack. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Pre-9/11 rules barred box cutters: 
Airlines failed to enforce existing security guidelines on Sept. 11 that required airport screeners to confiscate box cutters from pas­sengers, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press. Government rules did not specifically bar the objects before last year's attacks, but the airlines were in charge of security then, with the Federal Aviation Administration overseeing their performance. The airlines issued a manual in 1994 that list­ed for screeners items passengers could not carry past airport checkpoints. The AP obtained a copy of the document, which included box cutters such as those purportedly used by the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers. "If they knew these were problems, why weren't they more responsible in protecting the public?" asked former FAA security chief Billie Vincent. 
Leaks may hurt Virginia sniper cases: 
Prosecutors in the Washington-area sniper case seem to have put together a tidy package: a weapon, witnesses and an alleged confession from one of' the suspects. Legal experts say, however, that leaks to the media about purported incriminating statements by 17-year-old John Lee Malvo could hurt the case. Virginia was given first shot at prosecuting Malvo and his fellow suspect, John Allen Muhammad, 41. because the state is considered most likely to impose the death penalty. A key element of the state's case emerged last week when investigators interrogated Malvo, and, according to published accounts. he confessed to several shootings. The teen's lawyers will try to get the statements barred from his trial on the ground that he was questioned without his court-appointed guardian or attorney. They also could use the leaks to request transfer of the trial from the Washington area or, later, to challenge any conviction on grounds the jury pool was tainted. 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
be misinformed on the root of the cause, she added.
Palestine 
Buttu suggested that the 
continued from page l 
placed in Palestinian territory, which restricts the travel of goods within the Palestinian State resulting in the malnu­trition of the Palestinian People. According to Buttu, 70 percent of the population lives on two meals a day or less and 50 percent of the population is unemployed. Additionally, in the last two years 1.5 percent of the Palestinian.population has been injured or killed as a result ofterrorism, she said. 
In June of 1967 a resolution was passed by the United Nations calling for the with­drawal of Israeli forces in Gaza and the West Bank. Buttu said. Israeli forces remain today in violation of International Law, according to Buttu. 
The United States continues to support Israel in violation of its Foreign Policy Laws and a Pro-Israel lobby exists with­in this country which is sup­ported by the Christian-Right while no Palestinian Lobby exists to challenge the U.S.'s sur,port of Israel, she said. 
international community place pressure on Israel through trade embargos, visa require­ments for travel and with­drawal of financial support. 
"I want to see consistent application of the United States' Foreign Policy so that Israel is not above the law and Palestine is not placed below it," Buttu said. "If we continue to feed into the notion of get­ting rid of the people and hold­ing on to the land, there can never be peace in the Middle East." 
Tuesday's lecture was spon­
Intercultural Leadership, the Justice Education Department and the Peacemaker's Coalition in conjunction with the Global Exchange Organization. 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck0931@saintmarys.edu 
A~ 
Shirt 
continued from page 1 
issue facing off-campus stu­dents today," Barabas said, not­ing the high rate of crime in off­campus housing developments. 
The plan calls for greater cooperation among the University, South Bend police and area landlords to increase security and prevent crime. 
In other executive cabinet news: 
u Student body vice president Trip Foley reported on the development of a comprehen­sive student activities calendar. The current calendar, "Everything Under the Dome," will be supplemented by a broader online version. 
"The website should be ready just before Christmas," Foley said adding that the onlinc cal­endar will allow student groups to post events, continuing the success of the current system. 
u Junior class president Meghan O'Donnell encouraged members of the class of 2004 to attend class events this week. Every day this week faculty members will be available for lunch at Reeker's to talk with students. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramanti@nd.edu 


The Saint Mary's College Theatre presents 
from OUTPDST 
Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-iooo for more details 
sored  by  the  Center  for  
Academic  Innovation,  the  
Center  for  Women's  

......... following_,,,....,. ..........
'Nothing can prepare you 

r---, r----.. r---.. r---.. r---,.
for a one-ton bomb being 
I I

ll5%0FFI I I I $59 I know is financed by the 
dropped nearby that you I All Retail I I $26 $16 I IC I , I I $69 I I Cosmecics, I I Women Cut I I Men Cui & I I O or, CU< & I I Highlight>, I
United States. This is what 
I Skin Care, I I & Style I I Style I I Sryle I I Cut & Style I
Palestinians are living with," 
I Flat !con• I I I I I I One Process I 
I I

Buttu said. 
.___ .. ·---· .. ___ .·---· .. ___ .
If U.S. citizens knew the 

Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us.
truth they would lobby to the 
You'U be pleased with the quafi\y and setvice we provide.
United States government to 
We hope to see you soon. 

stop supporting Israel, Buttu 
-New dicms only-valid wich che following sryliscs only. Melissa-Connie-Serge'-Kris1in-J cnnifc-r-Elainc
said. With inaccurate percep­
NOTVAIJD FOR Sl'IRAL PERMS, !ONG HAlR ADD SIO. NO<miEROISOOUNfS Ai'Pl.Y.ATRIASAI.ON RJ~SFllVl~ THE IUGITTTO
tions from the media, however, Thursday, November 14 Ill 8:00 pm Ai~D
RfFUSESERVICF. TOANYCU!NrWHOSE HAlRCONDfnON IS UNSUffABll: WE 00 NOTSERVlCE HA!R THAT HA.S BEEN 
OffMICAll.Y>11WGHTENED OR IUlAXID.
the U.S. public will continue to 
Friday, November 15 Ii 8:00 pm I <;,,~THE "/t!J...­
MU~T BE PRESl"NTED TO RECE£1TIONl.1.I BEFORE SERVICES ARE Pl!.Rl:ORMID 
Saturday, November 16 ~ 8:00 pm ~HoTREDAME,,H
ATRIASAWN2

ATRIA SALON 
Marrin's Shopping C:n1er 1357 N. lronwooJ Dr, 
Sunday, November 17 Ii 2:30 pm LITTLE THEATRE 
NM'..t to.SprintComer of Edison 
271-8804 

2B9•50H'O 
OFFER EXPIRES 11·2&-02 L,·u than 1 mile from umpw. 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 574/284-4626 


"'ifyou have come to he(r me, you are wastinB your time. 'But ifyou have come because your fi6eration is bounduy with mine, then fet us work together." ~an 'Aborigine woman
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

A Belated Congratulations and Thanks to the 235 participants of
CONCERNS 

Appalachia Seminar 
Appalachia Seminar * Gullah Seminar * 
Angela Miller-McGraw Mike Bott 
Cultural Diversity Seminar * Global Health Initiatives Seminar
Shane Cooper Adam Dell Jesse Hanssen 
who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 
Shaye O'Donnell Katherine Brandes 
during Fall Break in service and experiential learning at 18 sites across the nation. 
Jenn Carter Linda Hu Andy Hagans Meeghan Conroy Johnny Maas Emily Wiering Ellie Radigan Mariah Marsh Francis Larkin Caitlin Early Ellen McCarthy Kara Bucci Stephanie Rohrs Patricia McHale Kevin Sibbernsen Monica Kerschner Molly McShane Kathleen Chenoweth Maria Shakour Kara Al worth Henry Chan Grace Kulkoski Chris Moulton Erin Condon Tiffany Thompson Meghan Gowan Jason McLaughlin Jess Reddinger Kelly Ninneman Kristen Leary John Donnelly Meg Hunter-Kilmer Bradley Metzinger Van Tran Lisa Normile Kathleen McCoy Michael Fung Jami Kirk Joe Schuster Kerry Zarnitz Benjamin Rossi Maryanne McElwee Andrew Hoyt Diana Mattingly Daniel Silva Annette Bravo Jessica Schmidt Maureen Ritchey Robert Hutchison Mary Meehan Nathan S. Smith Victoria Orpin Lisa Skalla Annee Tousseau John Jarczyk Courtney Paquette Stephen P. Smith Claudette Byrd-Francis Stefanski Michael Borgia Jason Kingery Erin Phillips Bill Bonner Rinck Meredith Thomson Christopher Henschen Daniel Linton Valerie Aguilar Alex Clark Katherine Doyle Kelly Cowherd Patrick Hertzke Darren Luft Katherine Boyle Troy DeFrank Brita Hellige Leigh Hellrung Brian Michalek Andrew Lynch Abigail Braun Daniel Picciano Laura Knapp Lauren Hoge! Robert Murphy Dane Macaulay Meg Diehl Meghan Jones Kellie Nakamura Julie Kurtzman Charles Winslow Ill Anthony McConnell Martha Fulcher Chloe Lenihan Calherine Poholek Anne McGrath David Woo Matt Padberg Sara Gilloon Christine Armstrong Alana Reyes-Mir Becky Nelson Chris Planicka Andrew Polaniecki Maggie Priest Amber Azevedo Laura Ricci Amy Peck.ins Micali Brock Gerardo Rojas Elizabeth Sauer Megan Buller Kathryn Twidwell Christine Phillips Ben Zerante Mark Roland Linda Skalski Chantal DeAlcuaz Kathleen Welsh Rebecca Walter Brian Trzop John Updike Emily Ungerer Petula Fernandes Paul Cruickshank Maura Woznica Lindsay Byrne Laura Nilan Timothy Caprio Erin Fox Joshua Hunn Mercy Bachner-Amy Guimaraes Katie Osterholz Matthew DiBiase Meghan Kelly Mitch Rees Reimer Katie Hesmond 
M. Martha Patzer David Prendergast Mary Lundgren Timothy Ruggaber Brooke Buckman Kristine Lam Erin Sheehan David Terschluse Cassandra Meyer Brian Cruz Mary Kate Castellani Margaret O'Connell Kathleen Thompson Sarah Keefer Elizabeth Murphy Timothy McCann Jessica Heri nger Lynne Defilippo Rebecca Byers 
Briana Foley 

Jennifer Morgan Ashlee O'Donnell David Retchless Mary Kovacik Annette Gonzalez Kate Mosesso Marianne Sciarrillo Jonathan Streit Katllryn Lent Devon Hegeman Amelia Hoffmann Kathryn Mulcahy Megan Sheehan Anne Bowman Margaret Mahon Molly Kopacz Caitlin Smith Sarah Sheehan Dan Buonadonna Shaina Morphew Kate LaPlante Gregory Celio Cara Spicer Kathleen Camosy Yunji Willa Qian Sara Lauck Nick Dailey Meredith Sweeney Adrienne de la Rosa Sarah Roseberry Soek Leng Goh David Tollaksen Caitlin Willard Kristen Kenny Maggie Ruddy Meghan Martin Anna Arias Meghan Colgan Ashlee Logan Kendra Simpson Jackie McAdams 

Gullah Seminar Cultural Diversi~ Yaqoob Bangash 
Seminar 

Mary Beecroft Brett Aidan Danielle Finley Dominic Galvin Megan Flynn Jeramia Garcia Caitlin Grady Melody Gonzalez Tiffanne Mahomes Brigette Gynther Alissa Mendoza Saleem Ismail Lindsay Moorhead Cecilia Lemmes Joseph Nardino Kelly MarquezKristin Pene Marissa Matthews Mainon Schwartz Katrina Picon Arienne Thompson Jeannie PrivatJemarTisby Kaitlin Redding Cherise Yund 
Jane Sloss Rosebudl'. Jourdan Sorrell Dana Stovall 
GHI Seminar Jonathan McCrea Meghan Sise Marlana Klinger Meridith Runk 
Although the "Washington" and "Living the Gospel of Life" Seminars were cancelled given 
the conditions in D.C. around fall break, the CSC extends its gratitude to these seminar participants. 


Tuesday, November 12, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 11 
Dow/ones 

8,358.95 -178.18
•
.N4SLMQ 

1,319.19 -40.09
•
S&P500 

876.19 -18.55 
AMFX 
. 

818.23 -5.95
•
NYSE 

467.95 -8.71 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
~1£0 INB< <Cm) -3.03 -0. 76 24.31 
as:r,..~.·.·~•t!•I••••1::::!;Iil!1ll!ll1!lllll.ll!llii!:llll~ill 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -5. 24 -0. 50 9. 05 
:~9~:;;m!soo§xm[ 1~&i1:~1~1i~111,~, ...\Jii~;~~! 
INTB...CIW (INTC) -4.46 -0.81 17 .34 
IN BRIEF 
Study: CEOs saw 200 l pay raise 
Salaries and other pay perks for chief exec­utives rose last year in most industries, according to a research group's study released Monday, even as the economy slipped and the stock market fell. 
The private, New York-based Conference Board said the biggest increases in 2001 were for executives in energy and construction businesses. It was last November that Enron Corp. began its collapse in an accounting scandal and sent a shock through the energy trading industry. 
As Enron declared bankruptcy and account­ing troubles arose at other companies, includ­ing WorldCom and Adelphia, lavish pay arrangements for top executives began to receive criticism. New rules are being drawn for corporate accounting of some sources of executive enrichment, such as stock options. 
Wall Street Journal cuts 23 reporters 
Dow Jones & Co., which announced last week it would cut 230 jobs, said Monday that 23 Wall Street Journal reporters will be laid off and another eight are taking voluntary buyouts. 
Some of the laid-off employees will work through the end of the year, said Brigitte TrafTord, a spokeswoman for Dow Jones, pub­lisher of The Wall Street Journal and other media properties. She said two reporting teams at tho Journal will be eliminated, the New York law group and the regional eco­nomics team. 
Tom Lauricella. newsroom director for Dow Jones' union. the Independent Association of Publishers' Employees, said the cuts would hurt the Journal's coverage of stories such as scandals involving Worldcom, Enron and Martha Stewart. 
"These are people who have been at the cen• tor of reporting on some of the biggest stories of the past year," ho said. "This is a core area of coverage for any national newspaper. and they've just sent these people packing." 
Accounting board draws fire 
• Oversight board to meet Wednesday 
Auociated Pren 
WASHINGTON 
The new board to oversee the accounting industry, steeped in controversy over the selection of former FBI director William Webster as its chairman, plans to hold its first meeting behind closed doors Wednesday. 
The controversy already has brought the resigna­tions of Harvey Pitt, chair­man of the Securities and Exchange Commission. and the SEC's head accountant. 
The five-member accounting oversight board plans to privately discuss administrative matters, such as office space and staff, several people close to the matter said Monday. They spoke on condition of anonymity. 
That prompted an objec­tion from Barbara Roper, director of investor protec­tion at the Consumer Federation of America. 
"The whole point of creat­ing this board was to restore investor confi­dence," she said in an inter­view. "They will further the impression that the public interest isn't being served." 

Unlike the SEC and other government regulatory a company now facing Office, also is investigating ments" about how much he agencies, the new oversight fraud accusations. Webster's appointment and knew about the company's board isn't subject to so­Pitt, a Bush appointee, the Senate Banking financial problems. called "sunshine" laws resigned under fire last Committee plans hearings. BOO Seidman released requiring that meetings be Tuesday and SEC Chief Pitt, Herdman and an SEC documents Thursday show­open to the public. Accountant Robert commissioner initially ing that in a July 13, 2001, 
Creation of the indepen­Herdman -who also approached Webster about conference call with the dent board was mandated played a role in Webster's taking the accounting over­audit committee, its accoun­by Congress last summer in selection -offered his res­sight job. Webster has said tants warned the committee legislation responding to the ignation to Pitt on Friday. he told Pitt that he headed members of "material wave of accounting scan­Webster himself said last the audit committee at U.S. weaknesses in internal dals at Enron, WorldCom week he will step aside if he Technologies, which has accounting control." and other big companies. A decides he can't be effective been sued by shareholders. Webster told Dow Jones bitterly divided SEC voted heading the board because Herdman's office then told Newswiros on Friday that on party lines about two of the controversy. Pitt that information did not the auditors did voice con­weeks ago to appoint President Bush would not create a problem for cerns, but not in an urgent, Webster and the other indicate whether he wanted Webster's selection. "house on fire" way. board members. Webster to remain, saying Webster fired U.S. lie continued to insist that 
The SEC inspector gener­he wanted to see the results Technologies' outside audi­BOO Seidman was fired al is investigating the cir­of the internal SEC investi­tors last year when he because the audit commit­cumstances surrounding gation. headed the board of direc­tee believed it was charging Webster's selection, includ­Webster did not return a tors' auditing committee. too much and taking too ing whether Pitt concealed telephone call seeking com­The auditing firm, BOO long to do its audits -not from his fellow commission­ment Monday. Seidman, recently alleged because of a warning about ers before they voted Congress' auditing arm, that Webster had made the company's financial Webster's watchdog role at the General Accounting "false and misleading state-controls. 

Jury subpoenas four energy cos. 
North Carolina-based Ouko Energy months working with a California 
Associated Press 
and Oklahoma-based Williams Cos. Senate panel investigating the state's 
SAN FRANCISCO said Friday they received subpoenas energy crisis and evidence of possi­
Four power sellers confirmed they from federal prosecutors in San ble market manipulation in 2000 and have received subpoenas from a fed­Francisco. 2001. eral grand jury investigating the All four said they would cooperate. California owes tens of billions of energy crisis last year in California. Shares of Williams fell 1 cent to dollars for power it bought when 
The grand jury, based in San close Monday at $2.60 on the New prices soared, and hopes to convince Francisco, is probing accusations York Stock Exchange. Duke shares federal energy regulators to order that several power companies fell $1.55, or 7.8 percent, to $18.41; energy sellers to refund $9 billion in schemed to drive up prices. Reliant dropped 31 cents, or 13.8 alleged overcharges. The state Public 
Atlanta-based Mirant Corp. and percent, to $1.94, and Mirant fell 34 Utilities Commission has blamed Houston-based Reliant Resources cents, or 15.1 percent, to $1.91. most of the blackouts on energy com­Inc. on Monday confirmed they had Matt Jacobs, an assistant U.S. panies withholding power from the received subpoenas from the U.S. attorney in San Francisco, said he market. The report singled out tho Attorney's office in San Francisco could not comment because the case five largest energy suppliers -Duke, requesting information regarding is ongoing. Dynegy, Mirant, Reliant and California's energy markets. Federal investigators have spent AESM'illiams. 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
Tornado kills at least 35 in southern and eastern U.S. 
The tiny community 40 miles you could hear was the No bodies had been found Hill Elementary School, fourth­
Associated Press 
west of Knoxville was nearly screaming and praying." since early Monday, but Hamby grader Johnny Rosales looked wiped off the map, with about a Daylight brought a picture of said digging out could take through a window into the rub­MOSSY GROVE, Tenn. 
dozen of the 20 or so homes destruction. In Mossy Grove, weeks. ble that was once his class•
Searchers and dazed sur­
reduced to concrete founda­clothes fluttered from tree "We're hoping that we're past room. It was only five monthsvivors went from one shattered tions and piles of rubble a few limbs. Power lines dangled the bad stuff," he said. ago that the town's high school home to another Monday, pick­feet high. from poles. Cars lay crumpled In Carbon Hill, Ala., 70 miles burned down, and the boy saiding through splintered lumber The tornado -estimated by after being tossed like toys. northwest of Birmingham, he does not know where he will 
and torn sheet metal for any 
the National Weather Service About the only sound was the seven people were killed by go to school now.
sign of the missing, after 
as being between 200-and bleating of a battery-operated nighttime storms that sent ''I'll guess they'll bulldoze it
twisters and thunderstorms 
300-yards s m o k e giant hardwood trees crashing like they did the high school,"killed at least 35 people in five wide -cut a a I a r m down on houses and mobile he said. 
states. 
five-mile path "Everybody's house is buried deep homes. Dan McCarthy of the federalMore than 70 reported torna­across Morgan in the rub­Sheryl Wakefield cowered in Storm Prediction Center in
does cut a path of destruction just totally gone. My son 
County. ble. her concrete storm shelter and Norman, Okla., said unseason­
from Louisiana to Pennsylvania doesn't know where his 
Henry, her Searchers listened to a twister roar down ably warm weather Sunday in
over the weekend and into 
husband and house is." believed that the country road where her the 80s, followed by a coldMonday. Sixteen deaths were two children most of the extended family lives in six front, made conditions ripe for
reported in Tennessee, 12 in survived after missing in homes. Her sister and niece the rash of twisters, some of
Alabama, five in Ohio and one Sheryl Wakefield
taking shelter and around were killed when their dou­which were estimated to be at
each in Mississippi and 
Mossy Grove resident
in the base­Mossy Grove blewide mobile home was least in the F-3 category, withPennsylvania. More than 200 ment of a were OK thrown across the street. its winds ranging from 158 mph topeople were injured. 
neighbor's and had metal frame twisted around a 206 mph.
"Yesterday, we had a nice home that collapsed around simply been unable to get in tree. It was the nation's biggest
brick house and four vehicles. 
them. touch with family members, "Everybody's house is just swarm of tornadoes from a sin­Today, we don't own a tooth­"It was just deafening it was said Steven Hamby, Morgan totally gone. My son doesn't gle weather system since more
brush," said Susan Henry of 
so loud," said 17-year-old County director of emergency even know where his house is," than 70 twisters -some top­Mossy Grove, where seven peo­Tabatha Henry. "You could medical services. The storm she said through tears. "It's ping 300 mph -killed 50 peo­ple were kilted and at least 40 hear the wood pop in the knocked out telephone service gone. It's just gone.'' ple in Oklahoma and Kansas inwere still unaccounted for as of house, and that was it. Then all and blocked roads. At the now roofless Carbon May 1999. 
midafternoon. 
Accounting 
continued from page 1 
Association. 
Linda Espahbodi, an instruc­tor in the accountancy depart­ment, added that the College of Business's focus on ethics has helped to create a better breed of accountant. Corporate scan­dals, including those at Enron, Tyco, and WorldCom, are dis­cussed in the accountancy pro­gram. 
"Ethics are built into every course," Espahbodi said. 
Despite the success, the facul­ty is committed to improve­ment, she said. 
"Our goal is to make this the premier accounting program in the country," Espahbodi said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramantl@nd.edu 

FACE


a.a.__.;._ 
OUTPOST 
s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
5minutes from Campus 

Call 259-1000 for more details 

> MdfrJiiOOtii®Mfu 
SPEAKER PHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL' INSTANT MESSENGER'" service TWD·WAV MESSAGING JAVA"' GAMES & APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CEUULAR 
i.'JOc 

'ToJ.""y H--.e J.i~H-""1 """"l~ie+""l~ie wo.-~s eve..-se.ve..-""1 hl.\\\J..-eJ. 1Ml1e.s. A11t.J. t-OIMOvYOW, \\l'\nO\\wt.A.e.. 
NEXrEl 
'(ov.. .....eveY w.iss .,._....._ythi.\\8i why st"'-v+ \\Ow? Ne;,ctel's J.i.Bit.,..l wel\l\:.ie+.,..l\:.i.e .Pe.,..tv.Ye lets yov. Bet YiBht thYOv.8\.\ wi.th the pv.sh 
o.P "'-bv.++o\\. -rt,...,..t w.e"'-\\S \\O w.isseJ. c.,..lls, 
v..\\chec\:.eJ. voice "'"'"'ii OY pho\\e t"'-8· 'C.,..v.se who h.,..s tiw.e .PoY .,._n th"'-t whe\\ yov. C4'\\\1t eve\\ J.eci.J.e wh.,..t to we.,..Y? Now yov.'Ye Ye.,..J.y-BYi.\\~ It. 
~ow's "" 8v-e""t ti1Me t-o Bet-~e>et-el: "'II t,toi-ve l)"'""e st-1.\Ae\\ts 8et 
""10%"' ~lSCCl.\\\i-"" """Y Yc:11.t-e pl""" """"' $\00-t o.P.P """Y pho\\e. 
'To \,\.\y: 

,-'o to \\e)Ctel.cotM/iY'ish-stv..J.e\\t. , Co?l.ll toll-Pvee 1-n1-r;-o,-2·n,. , co\\h,i.c+-JDM CotMtMl.\\\lCoi.tio\\S 
oi.+-~4-24,-,g Ig 
1-1<-\sl-skow v..Ji.A 1-'"""-""l-I\) .,. 1-kis u 1-o ,,:c,:iv,: .Aiscoi.,~. 
1,1 2002 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. F'ricewatarhouseCoopers refers lo the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and other members of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organization. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
fJR1cf.\tVA1ERHousE({nPERS I 
VOTED '1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

Help us help companies determine how import taxes, manufacturing costs and labor will affect their profits, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 
-
rJ!j,E
\JJ:D'ERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dam<, IN 46556 014 South Dining Hall. Nom Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

N£WS EDITOR: Helena Payne V1l'WPOINT EDITOR, Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR, Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR, Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Luc-t. 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER, Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROu.ER: Lori Lewa!ski 
CONTACT Us Oma: MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.....••.....•. 631-7471 FAX........................................······ ...............631-6927 
ADVERTISING .................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR lN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EorroRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS.................................................... ......631-5323 observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 
observer.viewpoinr. J@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................ 631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MAJ\y's .... , ........................................ 631-4324 
observer.smc.l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS....... .........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither inscirurion. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tions r,garding Ob,m,npol.icir, should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. · 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th.C'O!nc&Y\'1 (USPS 599 2-40) is. pubfohcd Monday 1hrough FriJ.-y au:pt Juring exam and v.-:ar.ion pcriod.i;. A iubKriprion kl The Ob~rvCf" ii SlOO for one ac.ukmic )TM: J'j) far on, semenc:r 
Th~ Ol»c-rvtr i, pu.hll.1.W ,ai:~ POSTMASTER 014 Sou1li Dining HaJI Send. addtcu corrn:riom to: 
Notl'C' Dame, IN 46556 Thi: OhscrYcr 
r.o.lloxQ 
11criodi.:J 1>0u~ paid ~c Notre Dame None D•mc, IN 4655(..0779 
and .ufd1don:af m'-.iling offic:tS 
Thr Ob~is ., n1tmlx.-r 1lf1hr A.ii,:m;1;altJ Prm, All rqtr~on ti;hu an: 
,_..i 

I'm confused. I was under the impression that liberals accusations and forced to confront your opposing opinions, valued their right to free speech. I thought they multiple times a day. But never once did I ever dream touted open-mindedness as their greatest of disrespecting your voice or your right to pre­virtue. So why, when walking pa5t South sent your ideas. Dining Hall last week, did I see what had Open-mindedness docs not only apply to the been a chalk comment in support of war views of the minority. Popular opinions have with Iraq scribbled through and edited a right to be expressed. I was proud that for with anti-war propaganda? once, the conservative view was expressed. 
This is not a letter addressing the Liberals may be the minority on campus, morality of war, but merely calling to but since you have been the only ones talk­attention the need for students to respect ing. you are the only ones being heard. It is each other's opinions. Por weeks now the a shame you felt so threatened that you had sidewalks have been riddled with chalk to show such disregard for your peers. I know denouncing war and pointing fingers at the your chalk additions to the comment only President. I've had flyers waved in my face and sought to contradict a sentiment on war, but it read countless Viewpoint letters presenting the lib­contradicted much more than that. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Students often go to extremes at this University. From Sunday until Thursday, they pour over books at the library until 2 a.m., attend endless lec­tures and meetings and spend hours 
working out at  
Rolfs. They coun­teract each  Joanna Mikulski  
responsible  
moment during the week with an  Tuesday Voice  
equally irresponsi­ 

ble one on the weekend. 

For better or worse, my friends and I are no exception. We don't just study; we pull all-nighters. We don'tjust party; we make a game of it. Last weekend my roommates and I fared particularly well in this University's cultural competition of "going to the extreme." When on Sunday everyone began to tell their stories from Thursday, Friday and Saturday, we could definitively prove that we had mastered the art of enjoying a week­end that starkly contrasted with the week before it. 
Like my roommates and I last week­end, Republicans dominated on Election Day. They retained their hold on the House and gained the majority in the Senate. They also fared well in gubernatorial races. The country seems to be moving towards an extreme -a political one. 
I have learned over my years at Notre Dame that going to the extreme has its benefits. Every morning that I 
Anti-war activists should respect others' free speech as well as their own 
eral view.· 

I may not have agreed with your ideas, and I truly did not appreciate your superficial and immature jibes at the President, but I never once questioned your right to speak your mind. I walked past your chalk demonstrations, upset by your 
Republicans must avoid extremes in w-ake of election victories 
wake up at 6 a.m. to finish a paper, I think of the weekend. The possibility of fun with friends a day or two in the future allows me to resist the urge to fall asleep and get my work done. 
Republican dominance could help politicians get something accomplished in Washington in the next two years. It might allow for the passage of legisla­tion for which the country demonstrat­ed its support last Tuesday. In addition to pushing through policies that stalled in the Democrat-controlled Senate, Republicans are also aiming to get approval for a number of conservative judicial nominees in the federal courts. 
However, Republicans need to recog­nize as they pursue their agenda and push for judicial nominees that going to the extreme could harm the country in the long run -especially in regard to the civil liberties and the environ­ment. 
The Homeland Security Act, legisla­tion high on the Bush agenda, could allow intelligence officials to compile data on the private lives of Americans. The Bush administration may also consider a second attempt at drilling in the Alaskan National Wildlife Reserve -a move that would threaten one of the country's most magnificent natural treasures. Furthermore, judi­cial nominees favored by the Bush administration have a track record of striking down environmental regula­tions in favor of business. 
After all, anyone at this University 
Mary Henrick 
senior Pangborn Hall Nov. 7 

would tell Republicans that extremes aren't always healthy. Students some­times drink too much and get sent to the hospital. Exhausted from a week of practical all-nighters, I collapsed after the Boston College game two weeks ago and slept for 16 hours. In the end. I only survive here by trying to strike a balance between doing what I have to do and doing what I want to do. 
Republicans might want to enact a very conservative agenda, but for the health of the country they need to lis­ten to the moderates in the fold. In reality, they did not receive a definitive mandate from voters to go to the extreme. The races in Missouri and Minnesota that shifted the balance in the Senate were both determined by less than three percentage points. 
The responsibility falls on Democrats to stand their ground over the next two years to ensure that Republicans maintain a balance. Like the students here, the Bush administration and House and Senate Republicans must realize that moderation is the key. !t might not be what they really want, but in the end, it's in the country's best interest. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English and German major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at mikulski.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Andrew Thagard Matt Lozar Tim Heine Lauren Dasso Maureen Christine Reynolds Armstrong Viewpoint Scene Kristin Yemm Julie Bender Graphics Lab Tech Andy Devoto Sarah Schneider 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does the recent lawsuit against Lafayette Apartments make you reconsider the decision to move off-campus? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'iln election is a bet on the future, not a popularity test ofthe past. " 
James Reston American journalist 

OffiFRVFR 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Irish must remember to win with honor, lose with grace 
I havo been a Notre Dame football fan since I could walk. Watching Sunday morning replays of the Notre Dame games were the highlight of my week. Ono of the worst days of my life was when USC's Anthony Davis scored six touchdowns against the Irish. 
Heccntly, my family and I moved to the Annapolis area, and as a lover of college football. I pur• chased season tick­ets to Navy l•ootball. I have grown to admire and respect what Navy Football and the United Slates Naval /\cademy rcpre• sent, even with their dismal won-loss record. 
1was deeply saddened by an incident this weekend in Baltimore toward the end of the hard• fought contest. After the Irish scored the winning touch­down with less than two minutes left, the Notre Dame Leprechaun danced in joy across the field and then stomped on the Navy "N" at the SO-yard line. He made sure the entire 70,000-plus crowd saw this mockery as he stomped several times, emphatically. 
Since this happened during the TV timeout, I doubt the national TV audience saw this, for which I am thankful. I did find it difficult to explain this to my nine-year-old basketball• playing daughter who was sitting next to me. And I cannot even begin lo describe the faces of the Navy Alumni who were sitting around me after this display. 
I think I need to remind this mascot and those who follow the greatest football fran­chise on earth that you have to answer to a 
higher moral authority as a leader in college athletics. I do not think I am going out on a limb here by saying that I doubt if any one Navy football player could even make the Notre Dame foot­
ball team. yet Navy out-played and out• hustled Notre Dame 
for 58 minutes. Players at Notre Dame are likely all either high school All-Americans or 
first team All-State. Navy players are 
usually second team All-County. Keep in mind that this 
summer, while most of Notre Dame's graduating football seniors will be fighting for a job in the NFL, most of 
Navy's graduating midshipmen will like­ly be deployed on warships in the Persian Gulf. 
As Edward Bennet Williams, deceased trial lawyer and ex-owner of the Baltimore Orioles once said, "Through my years of contest liv­ing, I have learned how to win with humility and lose with grace." 
Rick Schwitzer Severna Park, Md. Nov. II 

Support for Rice and the Pope's teachings 
It is with disturbance and some sorrow that I read Chris Scally's article and previous Viewpoint pieces attacking Professor Rice. Mr. Scally writes about the "stupidity," "worth­lessness" and arrogance of Professor Rice's writings. Nothing justifies such violent language. 
Mr. Scally accuses Professor Rice of not presenting enough support for his views; yet Mr. Scally's piece lacks logical foun­dation by confining itself to attacking Professor Rice personally. I appreciate Professor Rice's column as an effort to point read• ers toward Catholic teaching. I also appreciate the responses as long as they are based on serious thought. 
I would like to suggest that there is no arrogance in deferring to the Catechism or the Pope's teaching but that the arrogance rather lies in attacking, without offering substantive support, a man expounding these teachings. The Catechism and the Pope's teaching are based on research, deliberate thought, and input by distinguished men and women. Perhaps Mr. Scally should start by challenging his own views before attacking those that many faithful and educated people believe to be truthful. 
Mr. Scally dislikes being told what to think and believes that there is more than one correct opinion. It is easy to overlook in how many ways we are told what to think but only oppose it in few circumstances. We are told to think that it is proper to eat with utensils (silverware, chopsticks). but couldn't it be just as proper to eat with our hands? Additionally. some matters may have only one correct answer: either there is a God or there is none. 
Professor Rice has served his country in the U.S. Marine Corps and has taught at Notre Dame for several decades; the list of his accomplishments and honors is considerable. I had the honor and pleasure of attending Professor Rice's last torts class. It was one of the most memorable experiences of my aca­demic career at Notre Dame. 
I support serious debate, but I oppose attacks based on mere polemics. The potential of great thought and scholarship at Notre Dame is remarkable. Let's not destroy this potential. 
Michael Wolz graduate student Fischer Graduate Residences Nov. 11 

What would Democrats do differently? 
I'm somewhat suspicious of the plea given by Danny Richter in his Nov. 8 let­ter, "Republicans, what are you going to do?" I infer from his letter that he real­ly doesn't want answers to the concerns that he expounded upon, but since I really don't know what the motives of his Viewpoint piece were, I won't specu­late more than I have already. Here is my response. 
I am nol a Republican or a Democrat. I have only slight sym­pathies for the Republican Party, but quite frankly there aren't enough differences between the parties to merit my support for either. 
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution outlines the limited powers of the federal government. All of them arc clearly listed. It might be interesting for the big government propo­nents of the Republican and Democratic parties to read up on them. They might learn something. 
As to Richter's concerns, I don't see what difference a Republican or Democratic administration could make. r,;,1;I:);'.:iI~'~>.;~·•lllill~~......._......"'........,....... ,-:-•'••· ·•·.,--•·•··•·•·
Let's look at the first concern -global \\ warming. H.ichtcr considers global warm­ing a fact. What does that mean? In 2001 the National Academy of Sciences released a report on global warming. One of the 11 scientists, Dr. Richard Lindzen, wrote an article in the June 11, 2001 issue of the Wall Street Journal stating. "The NAS never asks that all participants agree to all elements of a report, but rather that the report represent the span of views. This the full report did, making clear that there is no consensus, unanimous or otherwise, about long term cli­mate trends and what causes them." 
So is global warming a fact? And even if it were, what can be done? It makes no difference what the administration of one country does when so many coun­tries share the planet. And how was the previous administration's stance on global warming different than the current one? 
The next concern was water. Again, since nothing concrete was mentioned about water, I'm not entirely sure how to respond. But let me use an interesting fact that I recently happened upon from the book "Showdown" by Los Angeles commentator Larry Elder, "For seven years, 11 months and 28 days in office, Clinton kept the arsenic levels exactly where they had been since 1942 -at 50 parts per billion. In the waning hours of his administration, Clinton reduced the allowable parts from 50 to 10. Bush put it back to 50." Of course. Bush was 
slammed for this act, but it seems very few people really cared about the truth of the event. Again my question is this: What differ­ence does a Democratic administration make? As far as the war is concerned, I have mixed feelings. The protection of the United States is one of the few powers granted to the federal government. I'm not totally sure that what the U.S. government is currently doing is truly protecting us, but I don't know that it is not. It certainly did not stop the attacks on 
Sept. 11. Perhaps if more resources are available to the federal government for defense, then we will be able to avoid future attacks. If it is protecting us by tak­ing on Iraq, then the government is doing what it was created to do. 
Richter also asks how the federal gov­
ernment is supposed to educate its people when it spends so mych money on defense. If Richter would go back to the Constitution, 
he would see that the federal government is 
not supposed to finance the education of its people. Again, I ask him to go back to Article I. Section 8. He might also look into the billions of dol• 
lars that the federal government has put into failing educational programs like Title 1. The solutions to Richter's concerns won't ever be solved by a 
Democratic or Republican administration. Unfortunately, the answer to his editorial question is no dUTerent than if it read "Democrats, what are you going to do?" Regardless of party, the answer would be the same: Spend more taxpayer money and get little to no results. 
Ty De Long 
Univcrsiry staff mcmb"r Nov. 9 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


CE 

ic 
page 12 Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
The New Orange is a band with flavor 

By MARIA SMITH A.,sistanr Scene Edicor 
Thursday night Orbit Music was ringing with live rock music. The pro­motional gig may have been small compared to Saturday night at Benchwarmers or Halloween at the State, but the band named The New Orange played their set well and jumped a.round the stage with all their usual energy. They pointed curious shoppers towards their display, Hotter, Newer Sounds by The New Orange, on sale now. 
The New Orange, one of the rela­tively few· South Bend or Notre Dame bands in the area, is beginning to appear on the music scene at house parties, at Cheers and at other spots around town. Vocalist Higgs Boson, guitarist Mneumonic, and bassist ElCordobes (technically known as Beau Bratton, Michael Anderson and Andrew Mitchell) began the year in a drummer-less slump, but drummer Brian Zampell auditioned for the band after seeing their advertisements around campus. With the advent of the Zampire, the band got back on track. 
In addition to playing local engage­ments, the band has toured other cities, going as far as Philadelphia. The group hopes to start playing more often in Chicago and expanding their territory. 
The New Orange categorizes their sound in the category of garage rock, a recently expanding musical move­ment best known for newer bands like The Hives and The Strokes and older bands like The Kinks. While most garage rock bands have certain traits in common, the genre encompasses a lot of different sounds and attitudes. Garage rock is characteristically straightforward, without synthesizers or other intrusive sounds. While the music is often unsophisticated in 
terms of chords and structures, the simple style can showcase interesting instrumentals and lyrics. 
The New Orange sometimes takes the simplicity of garage rock too seriously. Some tunes lack both instrumentation _and lyrical intelligence. Their music can descend into a mere grating noise. This may be intentional, though, a result of their slightly twisted senses of humor. "You and I, we're gonna learn the alphabet, yeah, Sesame Street," whines the vocal in track five of Hotter, Newer Sounds. Whether it's humor or just Jack of inspira­tion, some of the lyrics seem to be written by a 3-year-old. 
However, at their best Anderson and Mitchell's compo­sitions have a lot of energy, with some unique lyrics and good gui­tar riffs. 
With such a varying sound. even the band has trouble defin­ing their music. "I can't really describe their sound, but it's why I got into them," said Zampell. "It gives me the ability to do whatever I want on the drums." 
"It's high-brow music," said Anderson in a more abstract description. 
"That's a lie," Bratton said. "It's music for the masses." "For the high-brow masses," said Anderson. 
While the musicians have a sense of humor about themselves and their lifestyle, they work hard and take their music seriously. The group prac­tices every day in the basement of their house near campus. 
Hotter, Newer Sounds was recorded at Home Buddies Studio, also in the basement of their house. 
Like all starting bands, The New Orange struggles with space and 

The campus band The New Orange Is a garage rock band which has played venues as close as Cheers bar In South Bend and as far as cities like Philadelphia. 
equipment constraints. Making a band 
well known takes good recordings, but 
high quality recording requires more 
resources than many starting bands 
can come up with. "You can tell the studio is really 
small on our recordings," said 
Anderson. "We need a bigger space." "We're as loud as our equipment 
allows us to be," said Mitchell. "And 
that's not very loud. In fact, it's quite 
pleasant." The band is looking for more than just a bigger space to suc­ceed. They are currently searching for a. manager to help them books gigs, make T-shirts and take care of other small but important tasks involved with band life. 
The band also is at odds about getting producer as well. 
"I don't want a producer coming in and getting his dirty little hands all over our sound," said Mitchell. 
"I really think we need a producer," said Bratton. 
The band members come from all parts of the coun­try. Zampell Iives in Boston, Mass.; Mitchell comes from Butte, Mont.; Anderson comes from Napa Valley, Calif.: and Bratton is a native of Osh Kosh, Wis. 
In addition to their differ­ent hometowns, the band members' musical e<luca­
. tions have little in common either. Zampell has a histo­ry drumming for bagpipe bands and Mitchell actually began his musical career playing saxophone. 
Made of both current and former students, the three original members have played locally under the name The New Orange for about six months. Before that they played under differ­ent names, including Chapped and Frighteningly Obtuse Triangle. 

Like most bands featured on VHl 's Behind the Music, the band also seems to have had a tumultuous histo­ry. They claim to have broken up peri­odically over various disagreements. 
"We've kicked each other out of the band several times," said Mitchell. "We kicked Mneumonic out for a year because he had too many bootleg Dave Matthews Band CDs." 
Nevertheless, all the members cur­rently seem devoted to improving their sound and furthering the career of The New Orange. The band has dis­cussed the possibility of moving to San Diego. They would enjoy both the improved weather and the music scene of the area. The band did, how­ever, note some advantages of South Bend for a starting band. 
"This is a good location for a band because it's a central location. You're close to Chicago, Detroit and Indianapolis," said Mitchell. "It's good for touring." 
Leaving the area soon would also means saying goodbye to Zampirc. who is a junior in the engineering program. 
"This is a lesson for all you kids," said Mitchell. "This rock and roll thing gets you nowhere. Stay in school.·• 
Whether or not The New Orange moves on to greener pastures, they'll continue to be seen for a while around town. Their Web site, www.thenewor­ange.com, offers a glimpse into the minds behind the music. It also offers a free download of track five off' Hotter, Newer Sounds. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith.4@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, November 12, 2002 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Aguilera strips herself of musical talent 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Edi tor 
It's u good thing thal Christina /\guilora's latest album. Stripped, came along when it did; for a minute. it looked like the world was running short of over­produced bleach-blonde pop starlets who are competing to set the world record for best outfit created from a piece of dental floss and a gum wrapper. 

Stripped is a terrible album filled with Aguilera's inane wanna-be-a-diva vocal stylings layered an overly diverse selec­tion of musical genres. The only standout track on the album is the current single ''Dirrty." With its rolling hip-hop founda­tion supporting Aguilera's breathy vocals, the song has a decent beat to dance to and is fun for its rowdy night club feel. The track features Redman and obviously owes a lot to his influence. Of course. "a lot" in this context mean "almost every­thing." 
But enough about the music. let's get right down to what this album is really about: Aguilera's fantastic, surgically enhanced assets. 
Even with danceable beats, Aguilera's single is basically an insipid five-minute descriptlon of her supple, nubile body. But with such phenomenal cover art of the (fittingly) stripped pop queen, who needs to shell out the extra five-spot for a copy of the latest Rolling Stone, which also features a serving of Aguilera au nature!? 
Then again, who needs to shell out $17 for a CD when a yearlong subscription to Playboy is only $12? Heck, you could get a subscription to the country's finest gen­tlemen's magazine and a copy of the genie-out-of-a-bottle Rolling Stone and have well over 13 times the amount of silicone-implanted, collagen-injected and apparently nippleless women for the same price as this worthless piece of 
laser­imprinted plastic.. 
I\ s 

devoid of any type of soul that e v e r y other cor­porate-ere­ation pop album is, Stripped marks a new low. Aguilera has left the realm of edgy PG­13 exhibitionism and achieved a new level of overproduced eroticism almost unparalleled in the industry. Even worse, this image is apparently trying to be passed off as some sort of strong woman feminism. 
The sexually ambivalent libertine ver­sus liberated image Aguilera's corporate Doctor Frankensteins at RCA have been hocking like a set of Ginsu steak knives is not even remotely believable at this point. Didn't anyone catch the fact that her last major release was entitled My Kind of Christmas? Apparently, all Christina wanted for Christmas was no credibility. 
Then again, this isn't exactly a great surprise. Wasn't this the same ex­Mouseketeer who declared in her first single "Genie in a Bottle" that we could be with her as long as we "rub, rubbed her the right way?" Yeah, remember when we thought Britney was the trashy one? 

If Aguilera wants her image to be as sexualized, "dirrty" and objectified as she portrays herself, let her have it. It's a shame that a singer with real vocal talent isn't exploiting that instead ol' herself. Luckily, nobody stays the "it" the girl very long based on sex appeal alone; even sili­cone doesn't hold out against the curse of turning 30. 
Everyone knows that sex sells. But sex used to be used to sell albums, but now albums are being used to sell sex. Something's rotten in the state of MTV. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
8 Mile's music is hardcore 
I I 
and reiterating rumors that Rabbit's The 8 Mile soundtrack also offers performances from 8 Mile, Jay-Z I By EMILY TUM BRINK character is based on Eminem 's life. many amusing opportunities for the should take the crown despite Nas' Scene Music Critic On the album's final track, "Rabbit rappers to take cheap shots at other inclusion of "U Wanna be Me," a track 
j
Run," Eminem shows that writing artists. On "Love Me." a posse effort whose sole purpose is to bash his 
raps is essen-by Eminem rival.
Music from and inspired by the Motion Picture 8 Mile possesses an tial for dealing 

with his boys New artist 50 Cent makes his pres­with the prob­
Obie Trice and ence known on "Wanksta," a song that
incredible lineup of notable and some­what notorious artists gathered by lems of every­
50 Cent, is already an underground hit. His Eminem, executive producer of the 
day life. 

everyone from success, along with that of fellow "Some days I 
D'Angelo to Shady Records artists Obie Trice and
soundtrack and star of the film. just wanna up 
Lauren Hill is D12, shows that Eminem is right on tions from Eminem himself and fea­
The album contains three contribu­
and call it 
criticized: his way to becoming a successful tures such notable rappers as Jay-Z. quits, I I feel 
"Used to listen music executive. Nas. and Gangstarr. Eminem also uses like I'm sur­
to Lauren Hill The only questionable tracks includ­this opportunity to promote Obie rounded by a 
and tap my ed on the 8 Mile soundtrack are Macy Trice, 50 Cent and D12, three up-and­wall of bricks, I 
feet, I then the Gray's "Time of My Life" and coming artists signed to his record Every time I go 
bitch put out a Boomkat's "Wasting My Time." to get up I just 
CD that didn't Although they were obviously meant the mood of the film, all of the rap­fall in pits,/ My 
label. Shady Hecords. In keeping with 
have no beat." to provide relief from the harsh reali• pers on the 8 Mile soundtrack cover life's like one 
8 Mile is ties of the rap tracks. all they manage dark and somewhat violent themes. great big ball 
also the only to do is interrupt the flow of the of shit, I If I 
album that album. lays down, which happen to be some could just put 
On the three tracks that Eminem 
can claim to Despite these minor mistakes, the 8 it all into all I 
feature tracks Mile soundtrack is a strong group
of the best on the album, he sheds his spit, / 'Stead of by both Nas effort. However. listeners expecting to
mischievous Slim Shady alter-ego and assumes the identity of Jimmy always tryin. to 
and Jay-Z, find danceable jams on 8 Mile like "Habbit" Smith, the aspiring rapper swallow it." 
two rappers those by Nelly or Outkast should look he plays in the movie. Eminem's 
who arc noto­elsewhere. This is not a pop-infused honesty comes· 
rious for their album. It is hardcore. Those longing ed on 8 Mile arc some ol' his most bru­through on 
The Eminem tracks that are includ­ongoing feud to return to the days when Tupac over who is reigned will be grateful for Emincrn's
tally intense to date. On "Lose these tracks in Yourself," Emincm begins by describ­ways that were 
the king of efforts to revive gangsta rap. ing Rabbit's struggle to succeed from impossible dur­
New York. an external point of view. but eventu­ing his 
Basing the ally switches to the first person, iden­prankster Slim 
victory entire­Contact Emily Tumbrink at ly on their tumbrink. l@nd.edu 
tifying himself with Rabbit's struggle Shady days. 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS SOCCER 
Irish to host first 2 rounds of NCAA Tournament 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame womens soc­cer team -looking to make a postseason run after enduring an injury-plagued regular sea­son -received one of 35 at­large berths i.I\to the 2002 NCAA womens soccer championship Monday. 
The Irish will play host to first­and second-round games this weekend at Alumni Field. Friday's action opens with Purdue (13-4-3) facing Eastern Illinois (12-7-2) game at 5:00 
p.m. Notre Dame (11-7-0} and Big Ten Tournament champion Ohio State (8-10-3) will play at approximately 7:00. The win­ners then will advance to Sunday's second-round game at Alumni Field to be played at 1:00. 
The winner of Sunday's game at Notre Dame will move on to next week's third round of tho NCAAs against the team that emerges from games at national No. 1 seed Stanford -featuring Denver, California, Cal Poly and the host Cardinal. 
Notre Dame has advanced to the NCAAs every season since 1993. The Irish won the national title in 1995, finished second in 1994, 1996 and 1999 and made two other trips to the College Cup semifinals in 1997 and 2000. The Irish advanced to the quarterfinals in 1998, lost in the second round last year and lost in the first round in 1993. 
The Irish -ranked 21st in last week's NSCAA coaches poll ­will be looking to continue their lateseason surge that included four wins in the final five games. Notre Dame tied for fourth in the Big East Conference Mid-Atlantic Division standings (3-3-0) but did not advance to the Big East Tournament based on the head­to-head tiebreaker versus Georgetown. 
The Irish had a 7-3-0 overall Big East record when including cross-divisional games highlight­ed by a 3-1 win over eventual champion Connecticut and a 1-0 win at Boston College. 
The NCAA third round and quarterfinal games (Nov. 29­Dec.1) will be played on campus sites while on Nov. 29 to Dec. 1 the College Cup semifinals and final will be played at the University of Texas on Dec. 6 and 8. 
The other national seeds include No. 2 North Carolina, No. 3 Pepperdine and No. 7 
UCLA 


CLUB SPORTS 
Young mens volleyball team takes 3rd at MSU 
as the club fell 25-17, 21-25, intermixed squads in on­to a high level of competition. than the 6-1 score indicated,
Special to The Observer 
15-13. water drills. On Sunday, the In an 8-2 loss Friday, the as each team put 21 shots on 
The Irish then dropped clos­Irish placed with Michigan club allowed three goals in 2 goal. Again, the first line of 
A young and shorthanded ing matches to Wisconsin­and Northwestern among the minutes 8 seconds later in the Mattia, Venechuk and Lizzy Irish mens volleyball club Milwaukee,. 26-24, 25-17 and top three schools in the eight­first period. The second peri­Coghill was dominating at placed third in the Bronze No. 23 ranked Wisconsin 22-team bracket. od was played evenly as times, with Mattia scoring the Division at Michigan State's 25, 25-17. 15-11. The Irish Commodore Jack Gaither, Emmy Venechuk connected on lone Irish goal, assisted by Back to the Hardwood Classic lost another chance to Matt Cassady, Meghann a power play goal, assisted by Coghill. this weekend. Captain Andrew advance when an administra­Finerghty, Katie Roney, Katie Megan Mattia and Karen Strong defensive play by Mascarenhas led a squad of tive error prevented Bowling Thompson and Katie Brandes Jozwiak. Mattia then scored in Nell Ryan, Becca Frigy, only six available players with Green from playing its sched­comprised the various crews the third period as the Irish Colleen Bell and Elizabeth only two players having previ­uled match with Notre Dame. for the Irish. The club will continued to pepper the net. Klimek kept the score knotted ous game experience. The Irish will return to compete this weekend in the A barrage of late goals, the at one at the end of the first 
The Irish opened play with a action this Saturday when North -South Intersectional last coming with six seconds period. 25-19, 25-23 victory over they host the Notre Dame at Cal Santa Barbara. remaining, sealed the game. The Nora Cooper-Surma, Northwestern before falling to Invitational at Rolfs Sports Although holding a 33-15 Angelina Zehrbach, Megan No. 5 Indiana 25-10, 25-14. Recreation Center. Womens Ice hockey edge in shots on goal, the Barkley line played well in The third match was highly The women's ice hockey Irish could not explode on the this game, as the Irish kept controversial as the Irish were Sailing club was swept by Oakland scoreboard. the game close until the final penalized ten points for arriv­The Notre Dame sailing club over the weekend, falling to 0-The Allison Ricci, Karen eight minutes of the game. ing late to work the score­participated in a double elimi­6 in WCHA conference play. Jozwiak and Erin Phillips line Oakland scored twice in the board and scorebook for a nation team racing clinic at The club continues to show applied pressure throughout final two minutes. preceding match. The penalty the University of Michigan. improvement as it suffers the the game. The club will next take the proved too much to overcome, Saturday's races involved growing pains of stepping up The second game was closer ice December 6-7 at Michigan. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexc-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents p~r char-.icter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 

..At Last Spring Break .. Book now Free Meals, Panies,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash 
Part time babysitter needed. My home; Eagle Lake. AMS and PMS optional. Call Colleen. 269-699­7613 
Charming home In beautiful safe neighbomood. , mile lrom ND. 3­bdrm, 1 1/2 bath,lr, dr, family room, eat in kitchen, finished basement. Beautiful hardwoods; new carpet throughout. Built in gas grill in large private backyard. All new appli­ances. References required. 
950/mo. 288-5118 
WANTED 

#1 Spring Break VacationstMexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texasl Campus Reps WantedI Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234· 7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Bartenders needed! Earn up to $300 per day. No experience nec­essary. Call 1.866.291.1 B84 ext U187. 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
FOR SALE 

LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO NO. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 

All size homes available tor 2003· 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. 
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE-fully fur­nished 2 bdrm apt avail. spring semester or from Jan-Aug 03, w/d incl, DSL, heated parking garage, 4 miles from ND & located on bus route, $950/mo (util. incl.) call 234­
4536 
3-bdrm,2 futl bath 1,594 sq.ft. house. Close to ND. All appli­ances.big yard,garage,C/A. Beautiful. Must see. $1100/mo. 
243-9901. 
nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses. 288-9673. Avail now. 
TICKETS 
N.D. tickets buy and setl. Please check our prices. 273-3911. 

WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Woo! 
Comm Majors: the end is near! Good luck on those comps! ;) 
Ya, now if I were only motivated to work on my own comp... 
We drank one at the Gipper. haha 
The leprechaun: mascot or cheer­leader. Talk amongst yourselves ... 
Hey, Katie: (Molester laugh) =D 
I'm determined to get out early... 
page 15

Tuesday, November 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

~ffee and Conversation 
for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
...and every second Tuesday of the month 
7:00 -9:30 pm 


316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites 
Gay, Lesbian, and 

Bisexual members ofthe Notre Dame family, their friends and supporters to an informal coffee at the 
Co-Mo. Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 


*Coffee anr refreshments will be served* 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
Dotting your "l"s and Crossing your "T"s: Last minute thoughts for Angers candidates 
INFORMATION 
MEETING 

With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
'lease "oin us whether it is our zrst, econd or third meetin with us! 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
7:15 PM 209 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 Academic Year 2003-2004 Fall 2003-Spring 2004 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
Chaos knock out defending champs 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Last week, Cavanaugh sport­ed shirts that read, "Leave no doubt." However, many did doubt the Chaos until the end. 
In a game that featured big plays, the biggest play came at the end of the game by Cavanaugh quarterback M~g Meyers. However, she wasn't on offense. 
After leading Cavanaugh on two consecutive scoring drives, Meyers intercepted a pass as a defensive back to preserve Cavanaugh's 13-12 win over defending champion Welsh Family. 
Welsh Family looked to have control over the game early, as 
. talented quarterback Lauren Hoeck completed 70-yard touchdown bomb to wide receiver Bethany Barker. The extra point pass attempt, how­ever, was ruled out of bounds and incomplete. 
The high-octane offense of Welsh Family did not stop, as Vanessa Lichon caught a 20­yard Hoeck pass for another touchdown. 
Meanwhile, the Chaos option offense struggled through the first half. Finally, they put together a touchdown drive that included two key fourth­and-five conversions, and two great catches by Nancy Powaga, one for the touch· down. Although the oxtra point failed, the mid-game adjust­ment to a passing game bene­fited Cavanaugh. 
"When we switched our offensive focus from the option to a passing-oriented game, it really opened things up, and we were able to be success­ful," Powaga said. 
The Chaos did not stop there. Instead. they got the ball back after a huge defensive stand, and proceeded to march up the field again. This time, Meyers hit standout receiver Jenny Nokes for the touch­down. Down one, Cavanaugh was successful on the conver­sion with 40 seconds remain­ing. 
Meyers intercepted fellow quarterback Hoeck on the next play, ending the game. 
Cavanaugh continued their unbeaten season, as they dethroned Welsh Family, dish• ing them only their third loss in four years. 
"We knew that we had to play one of the best games of our lives to beat them," Powaga said. "People thought that this game was over, but it wasn't. We had 1,000 times more heart than they did." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

PE dominates BP in 20-12 semifinal 
By LISA REIJULA Spons Writer 
"Next stop, Stadium!" was the cheer chanted from the Pasquerilla East sideline after the hall's 20-12 victory over Breen-Phillips in Sunday's semi­final. 
PE dominated BP from the opening minutes of the game. The Pyros scored on the opening drive and then intercepted the Babes on their first offensive play. 
PE quarterback Abbey Coons calmly Jed her team on offense. The senior standout threw for another touchdown in the first half to give the Pyros the early 13-point lead. 
Coons faced little pressure and had plenty of time to make deci­sions. Junior receiver Kathryn Lent caught two touchdown passes and Kristin Marcuccilli had one for PE. 
BP (7-1) struggled for the majority of the first half on both sides of the ball. The defense had trouble finding an answer for Coons and her receivers. 
The second half brought renewed enthusiasm for both teams. A long run by BP quar­terback Atasha Potter gave her team momentum. The resulting touchdown pass by Potter to Lauren Ohlenforst got the Babes on the board, but the extra point attempt failed. 
The PE defense buckled down repeatedly tipping passes and sacking Potter twice giving the ball to its offense. A touchdown pass by Coons put the Pyros up 20-6. 
Again it was Potter who brought BP back. Another huge gain on a run brought the Babes to the 2-yard line. Ohlenforst caught Potter's throw to cut the score to 20-12 but that was all the Babes could muster. 
"We didn't expect to have such a good season," Ohlenforst said. "This loss was a wakeup call, but our coaches told us there is no reason to hang our heads." 
Terifay likes PE's chances against Cavanaugh despite a 28­0 loss in the season opener. "We're both different teams now. We are a strong team and all of us contribute," Terifay said. "We will just concentrate on what we need to do and we're ready to avenge our loss." 
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
. -----~ --­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Field goal sends Siegfried back to the Stadium 
By PAT LEONARD Spores Writer 
John Nowak's kick sailed through the uprights and the Siegfried Ramblers rushed the field raising their white helmets. They had done it, and they want­ed everyone to know: Siegfried will return to the Stadium. 
With a 23-yard field goal by Nowak in overtime, first-seeded Siegfried bested fourth-seeded Fisher, 3-0, in a semifinal game at Riehle fields Sunday. 
The Green Wave's only loss of the regular season came in their first game against Siegfried, a 17 -0 defeat in which Ramblers quarterback and outside line­backer Bill Bingle threw two touchdown passes and intercept­ed Fisher once. On Sunday, Fisher intercepted Bingle once and allowed no touchdovms. yet the Green Wave offense had equal difficulty advancing the ball. 
It all came down t.o one kick, a big kick. Nowak felt no pressure. 
"I knew the line would hold their blocks and give me time," Nowak said. "I just treated it like a routine extra point, because that's basically what it was." 
In overtime, each team has four cracks at the end zone from the 10-yard line. Even after watching Fisher kicker Carl Elkins miss a 22-yard thip shot and having Fisher call a timeout to ice the Siegfried kicker. Nowak remained focused. 
"John is confident, and confi­dence is a great thing to have in a kicker," Siegfried coach John Torgenson said. "I had no doubt putting him out there. He doesn't miss." 
Siegfried kicked the field goal on third down in overtime as a precaution. 
"If we would have fumbled the snap, we told the holder just to drop on it," Torgenson said. "It gave us two chances." 
The teams finished with simi­lar offensive stats. Siegfried amounted 122 yards of total offense compared to Fisher's 
114. Siegfried's Bingle threw for 
·_;<:;-;--, UDE:NT.S FLY pi 
"E:TfJNG ·rHE:JR ·ruJT 
; ~ 

rHE: AIR FOflCE IS ·n-r 
' :., i.~::,: 
,•.1'z~?-:•?:1.1',r;. 

1Jf.ii':i;1'4l/4il·nj -;-.> 
~,~ J • " •• • ' : .: ~ 

·~;lf/~.':,/1; ', ;::,~.};,;, J4't. _,!Jd n'/.~-;i,/,~·-;, ,;!
;j;{.f;iiitt·(t-}~
1.·-,1t..._\;5t~.ax, .-'
if:~~:/14
.f.1,-• .,/. • 
.-.-y,:_-.,,•,,t
-~:#~+~? ''/'
-·i"JIY, . ,_. .--,-,-/ ·tR Po11ca,!;;
-:/, .,.,:, 
/~~ 

AFrJO'J'C,CD>'1J 
l J8SSJ4.E3-7-Si:12 
l . 
47 yards on 5-for-12 passing. Fisher quarterback Andy Pfiester had 59 yards on 6-12 passing. Ramblers running back Tim Breitbach ran for 68 yards on 16 carries. Cameron Chappell gained 41 yards on the ground for the Green Wave. 
A botched Fisher punt early in the first quarter gave Siegfried the ball at the Fisher 20. Fisher held them on fourth-and-one and regained possession. 
In the fourth quarter, a deter­mined Siegfried offense marched downfield behind Bingle's arm, going 64 yards on 10 plays. A false start moved the Ramblers back, but a late hit on Bingle as he scampered out of bounds cost the Green Wave 15 yards and kept the Siegfried drive alive. Fisher's Lee Gettler put a stop to that, picking off Bingle at the 15­yard line and taking it back 20 yards. 
Fisher was never able to capi­talize after making big plays on the defensive end. The Green Wage missed a 35-yard field goal in regulation and then missed a 22-yarder in overtime. 
'f#~ 
Fisher's missed opportunities left the game up to John Nowak, holder Nate Rapche, and the Siegfried line. They did not dis­appoint. 
"It was a hard fought game. the best game we played all year as far as both teams putting effort out there," Torgcnson said. "It's nice to come out on top, but Fisher did an excellent job and they deserve a lot of credit. Now. we hope to win in the Stadium." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
• 

SOPHOMORE ROAD TRIP I~ Hl--r--rlN« --rHt f{l/t11 lt«ltlAI. 
If '/IU M/t;t;~1J ~.ff~ flfl~~ t,~~ If •... '1".ff~ I{l./r1J __,-fll'P, 
,. 

NOW I~ '1".ff~ C,.ff./rNC,~ flfl ­'/IU {, I -YIU/? f fll~N1Jt; ~I ~~'1" IN (Jl./r/?1) 
the second 
DESTINATION:Unknown 
~ 

adventure of the year. 
Meet the Buses at the CoMo on Thursday, Nov. 14th at 6:30 pm. 

Plan on returning to campus around 10:30 pm. 
* 7P-,4C,f; 14 /,,/M/~{;1) * 
Reserve seats ASAP on the bus for you & friends by emailing fsantoni@nd.edu • We will take reservations on a First-Come, First-Served basis until the busses fill up or until Midnight on Wednesday, which ever comes first. 



Tuesday, November 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Defending champ Dillon ousted by Alumni 
Best Deal on Campus. 
Student discounts and other exclusive promos from Apple make the holidays merrier and switching to the Mac easier. 

iPod 
Plflylists > Browse > 
II.
EHtrns 

In Sync.
Settings > Rbout · > 

The new iMac • Starting at $1,099 .. 
Holds up to 4,000 songs Discounted just for Students 10 hour battery life
------........ 

Download a CD in seconds 
iPod • Starting at $269 
Special Promos 
Discounted just for Students 
Apple has great promos going to help make buying a Mac and the accessories you need more affordable. all discounted for Students. 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Sports Writer 
Usually there's nothing all that special about a 3-yard pass to a wide receiver. Yet that pass may have been the one of the most important in the game as Alumni knocked defending champion Dillon out of the play­offs with an 8-0 victory Sunday. 
The reason for the winning margin being eight instead of seven was a fake extra point the Dawgs ran to perfection after scoring the only touchdown of the game. 
Holder and quarterback Chris Cottingham took the snap and stood up to a throwing position where he found wide receiver Corey Harkins open in the end zone for the two-point conver­sion. 
"We've used (that play] quite a few times," Alumni captain Steve Keppel said. "We've 
i'!Ri~
onlyat-=-~ 
Sminutes~ 
from DUTPDST 
s ors
Campus 

ColdWeatherExperts 
* 
he, University of Notre t1a1!1e Ch•0ri.lle •. ·. 
iJ, • ·•... J  "'¼.,  and Chamber"'Orc, Alexander Blach!  ·  
•  '~It  «:...,.~~~.,"  ¥::,;:  i, . . ·i.­ ,.  
II  \  ·ve,i('e;ae,Solennes de Confessoff, K.  * 3~  
..  
,j,-ill:·tc;,;--,..+,;11*  '1/,4....  •·  
~  f  '\....  <t<.  
;jll::  ~  ,j:: ~  ~:;:.  ~ .,,. *  f,  
~  ......  



always thought it's important to 
go for two on your first touch­
down because it puts pressure 
on the other team." 

Dillon was unable to rise to the challenge, ending the game with three turnovers and several crucial penalties. A pivotal call was a personal foul against Dillon that eventually led to Alumni's sole touchdown, 
Dillon captain Patrick Esper said his team had no one to blame but itself for the final out­come. 
"We put ourselves in that posi­tion," he said. "We had chances to tie up the game. I don't want to point to any one play; it's a team game and you can't lay it all on any one player." 
The only scoring drive of the game started on the Alumni 42­
yard line and spanned 14 plays 
until Chris Cottingham ran a 
successful 1-yard sneak on the 
goal line to give Alumni the lead. 
The two point-conversion play 
made the score 8-0, the only 
points the Dawgs would ulti• 
mately need. 
Shortly before the end of the 

second quarter, Dillon was able 
to drive to the Alumni 35-yard 
line, but any hope of a score was 
extinguished when Alumni's T.J. 
Strachota intercepted Big Red 
quarterback Michael Johnson. 
Dillon's best scoring opportu­nity came shortly into the fourth quarter, when the Big Red was able to reach the Alumni 3-yard line. A holding penalty set Dillon back, and the drive ended on the Alumni 10 when Dawg line­backer Tommy Demko picked ofT a Johnson pass. 
Johnson was also intercepted near the end of the fourth quar­ter at the Alumni 34 by defen­sive back A.J. Remen. 
Dillon knocked Alumni out of the semifinals in last year's play­offs and the Dawgs were espe­cially happy to return the favor to their rival. 
"If they would have beaten us or not, it's still a great game to play Dillon," Keppel said. "To beat them twice in one year [including a 14-0 regular season win] is a major accomplish­ment." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Double your memory. 
Double the standard configuration of memory for only $40 on any Mac. 
Eicplres Dec:M'il'ler 31, 2002 

Brighten your holidays. 
Buy a Mac and an HP DeskJet 3820 or 5550 printer and receive a $99 rebate. 
Eicpires ,W,uary 7.2003 


For more information on these and other promotions,please visit www.apple.com/educationlpromos/ 
Room 112 Information Technology Center 
Get your student discount at: ~ofuftoh~ c~hf~r http://solution.nd.edu/ 
Notre Dame's Computer Products Store 574-631~7477 
... 







local community have also contributed to make this event possible. 
A_p_p_J_ic_a_ti_on_·____v_,;2_.1_,:·, Ltfo~:-Or'to sJgnup;':1/,:~£'~ ; .. /0/,o////,/,/~i...._/j ~2.-1 
NEW COURSE OFFERING! 

THEO 273: Vocation and Leadership in the Catholic Social Tradition 
This course will invite students to consider the meaning ef vocation in relation to the social mission ef the church. Beginning with a theological understanding ef the significance ef vocation and charisms, this course willprovide a narrative-based exploration ef the vocationaljournry efprominentfigures in the Catholic socialtradition such as Francis ef Assisi, Dorotf!y Day, Cesar Chave=v and Oscar Romero. The emergent understanding of vocation will be held in conversation with the witness given l?Y leaders from other religious traditions, e.g., Badshah Khan, Gandhi, and Thich Nhat Hanh. Using the method ef service-learning, this course willinvite students to develop an awareness of their socialjustice commitments in light of their own sense ef vocation. Students in the course are required to be involved on a week/y basis in a service or social action pr(!ject in the local communiry. Come to the front desk of the Center for Social Concerns to pick up the 
learning agreement and the application form. 
"Iraq: Hope Amidst the Devastation" 
Speaker Kathy Kelly, Founder of Voices in the Wilderness NEXT TUES, Nov. 19 7:30PM Little Flower Catholic Church 
(54191 N. Ironwood, S. Bend} 
: Current Volunteer Needs : • Not all volunteer needs for this week are shown here; •
• 

visit the CSC's website for a complete listing.
!'futors: 

•A tutor is needed for an eleventh grader in physical science. Either Mondays or Tuesdays. 
!Contact: Stephanie Overhalster at 289-2746. 
•
•
.Disabilities: 

:Students who can translate Spanish or Vietnamese are needed to work with parents with tod­ttdlers with special needs. Translators are needed for one hour per week in the morning. :Contact: Marissa Runkle at 289-4831 ext. 1043. 
~pecial Attention: 

!A, student who is familiar with Desktop Publishing is needed for a 5-10 hour project that would -involve advising the staff on the application and helping design program note cards. 
• 
•

.Contact: Rev. Mike Mather at 289-0333. : ***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects 
• please email cscvols@nd.edu.*** 
S0,/7i:~7//~~·77',,.._.•·o,>7-,.._,_N/:-/L··.. ·-f-:;::-:-;-:-:-;/;/:7::,
l///::·.<//,//-/:i.·Utp1.n2;, ver1a . ew ea/ ·... / ./ /I 
~~~:~~~~~~9¥:~JtftEX~i~J~~~;e;~ I
~ajt~~t~i~:;si:~tltiw;t;i:~;;;i::;;~e1;l:
t1-~9~51-d~d: ~~Jatt~~l!,o~i]ispn:foni,nu~1/J ~ar/9,JJfC~1Jte~;93i~~/~9 l l;~gi,si-reJt,1f:r9u ~,Y~Y?_~r9~}~3J1SPO!;:atm~; Jhei:e,alsg, f_ / ll~~;:l
l~p~a!Main (:1rde/st,~1,ng,J1J8~~-?~1Isj99-~nl.J,~IJ"c;I? . µes,;-:1 
areeiMr. !Ye4Jn.a sinCelQ
··--•:·.-: _'-,'-_·_; _,
,'· _· 
Faculty Opportunities... 
The Center ofe.rs resources to faculty membes teaming comnunity-based leaming and eseach couises If you aie interested in some 
suppot for your W>rk in this area, please contactMary Beckman, Ph.D., Center Associate Director, Concurrent Associate Professor of Economics, at beckman.9@nd.edu or 
1-4172. She can assist with course development gant& workshop!j reading 
m~erial~ and moe. 

---------. ·­
page 19 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
5ENDWICH INDEX 
-
Miami reclaims top spot; Irish still ranked third 
After five weeks of dancing among the top five. the Hurricanes have final­ly regained their No. 1 spot in the Sendwich Index. Miami used a solid road win against Teunessec and a loss by former No. 1 Kentucky with no time remaining. While this may be the play of the year, Virginia Tech and Syracuse likely pro­vided the most exciting game of the year. 
In a contest that saw 
numerous lead 

Oklahoma changes, Syracuse's to ascend Damien Rhodes gave from a dis­the Orangemen the vic­tant second. tory with a 25-yard 
T h c touchdown and an !lurricanes· ensuing two-point con­dominating version in the third defense overtime. The Hokies thwarted were intercepted on the any upset second play of their half hopes the of the third overtime to 



Volunteers may have 
Sports

had. 
Columnist

Tennessee mustered only 200 yards of offense, morn than a third of which came on a 74-yard run by Cedric Houston on the second play of lhe game. Houston's dash set up Tennessee's lone field goal. 
Miami took over and cruised to a 26­3 victory behind Hoisrnan hopefuls Ken Dorsey and Willis McGahee. Dorsey was 19-for-37 for 244 yards and a touchdown while McGahee ran the ball 29 times for 151 yards and a score. Kicker Todd Sievers did the rest, making four of five field goals. 
The loss was the fourth of the year for Tennessee, as they settled in at No. 
45. Miami was previously No. 2. 
Wild Finishes 
LSU's Devery Henderson miracu­lously caught a triple-tipped 75-yard game-winning touchdown against 
csc 
. 

F ·O fl SOCIAL CONCERNS 
end the game with a 50-42 Syracuse victory. 
Sports 
Virginia Tech previous­
Columnist 
ly missed a potential 
game-winning 36"yard 
field goal in the first 
overtime. 

Both teams usually favor the ground game, but the Ilokies, who were with­out the Kevin Jones half of their elite running back tandem, turned to quar­terback Bryan Randall on offense. 
Though his team fell short, Handall answered the call with 505 yards and three touchdowns. Syracuse's Troy Nunes accumulated 404 yards and a touchdown. 
Despite a disappointing season, the Orangemen won their third game in a row, while handing Virginia Tech its second consecutive loss. Virginia Tech dropped five spots to No. 20, while Syracuse skyrocketed from No. 104 to No. 52. 
Bucking Broncos 
The Broncos of Boise State have some kick this season. For years. they 

-
have been infamous for playing on a blue turf field, but the Broncos are finally getting some recognition for what they do on that field. 
Boise State owns a 6-0 record in the WAC and a 9-1 overall record, with their lone loss coming at Arkansas. The Broncos should cruise in their final two games against Louisiana Tech (3"6) and at Nevada (5-5). 
With 144 points on 24 touchdowns, halfback Brock Forsey is the nation's leading scorer. Forsey is 38 points ahead of the rest of the pack and he's part of the reason why Boise State's offense leads the naLion in scoring, averaging 47.9 points per game. 
Despite their prolific numbers and a No. 23 ranking in the coaches poll. Boise State may not be going any­where for a bowl game this year. The Broncos will likely be playing in the Humanitarian Bowl on their blue home turf where and face the No. 8 team from the Big 12. 
The Broncos will probably receive offers f'rom larger bowl games, but the WAC o!licials, with a likely scenario of only three bowl-eligible teams, would like to keep the Broncos in one of its three bowl ties -the Humanitarian Bowl, the Hawaii Bowl and the Silicon Valley Football Classic. 
Boise State is currently ranked No. 33 in the Sendwich Index. They peaked as high as No. 21 two weeks ago. 
The uiews expressed in this column ar those of the authors and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Contact Eric Chanowich at echanowic@nd.edu and Eric Sendelbach at esendelba@nd.edu. 

UrBAN PLuNgE 
A 30 Year Notre Dame Tradition 
URBAN PLUNGE: A 48-HOUR IMMERSION EXPERIENCE INTO URBAN COMMUNITIES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. STUDENTS MEET LOCAL INDIVIDUALS, WORK WITH AGENCIES, VOLUNTEER FOR PARISHES AND WITNESS THE DAILY ENVIRONMENT OF URBAN AREAS IN THE UNITED STATES. 

Application Deadline Extended Deadline Friday, November 15 
Sign -up Today! 
Don't miss out on this Great Service Opportunity! 
-AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, November 12,2002 
-

around the dial 
COLLEGE f OOTBALL Miami (Ohio) at Marshall 8 p.m., ESPN 
WOMENS COLLEGE SOCCER Big Ten Championship Game 8 p.m., FOX 
MLB 


Associated Press unanimously for the first to be able to pretty much 1990 and 1992 and for the time. The San Francisco stay consistent," he said. Giants in 1993 and 200 I, Giants outfielder received Bonds hit .370 to win his and is the first player to
NEW YORK 
all 32 first-place votes and first NL batting title, and twice win the honor inBarry Bonds is winning 448 points in balloting by set records with 198 consecutive seasons. No
Most Valuable Player 
the Baseball Writers' walks, 68 intentional other player has won anawards so fast and so 
Association of America. walks and a .582 on-base MVP award more than
often, he doesn't know 
''I'd rather win the percentage. He had a . 799 three times, and only 10what to do with them. 
World Series, but this is slugging percentage, down others have won it in con­
"All my trophies are in 
great. I'm very happy from his record .863 last secutive seasons.
storage. I don't have a 
about it, very excited," year but still good enough In other sports, only thehouse big enough," Bonds Bonds said Tuesday in to lead the major leagues. NHL"s Wayne Gretzkysaid Monday after winning Japan, where he is on the St. Louis outfielder (nine), and NBA's Kareemthe National League MVP major league all-star tour. Albert Pujols was second Abdul-Jabbar (six) and Billfor a record fifth time. "I 'Tm trying to figure out with 26 second-place votes Russell and Michael
happen to have a little 
why. a 38-year-old player and 276 points, followed Jordan (five each) have
house in San Francisco. 
is still playing like this. by Houston outfielder won as many or more MVPI've been living out of stor­"Forget the historical Lance Berkman (181) and awards as Bonds has. 
age for the last eight, nine 
part about MVPs. rm over­Montreal outfielder "I wish mine could be
years now." 

joyed, very happy, very Vladimir Guerrero (168). respected as much asBonds, the only baseball pleased, especially coming Bonds also won the MVP theirs, but unfortunately
player with more than 
off the 73-home-run year, award for Pittsburgh in they haven't," Bonds said. 
three MVP awards, won it 
IN BRIEF 

Faulk remains injured 
Marshall Faulk probably will miss the St. Louis Rams' next game with a right foot injury. 
Faulk left in the fourth quarter of Sunday's 28-24 victory over the San Diego Chargers with a sprained left ankle and a strained tendon on the bottom of his right foot. 
He was optimistic after the game, but coach Mike Martz said Monday the 2000 NFL MVP will be listed as ques­tionable. 
The Chargers held Faulk to 72 total yards -36 rushing and 36 receiving. He ran for at least 150 yards in each of the three previous games. 
Lamar Gordon, a rookie, finished Sunday's game and had one carry for 9 yards and caught four passes for 27 yards. The Rams also have Trung Canidate, a first-round pick. 
Norman plans PGA return 
Greg Norman will rejoin the PGA Tour next year, allowing him to play in as many tournaments as he wants. 
Norman gave up his PGA Tour membership last year because he played in only 11 events, one short of the minimum. 
The two-time British Open champi­on was allowed only five sponsors' exemptions in 2002, along with what­ever majors or World Golf Championships for which he was eligi­ble. He wound up playing 13 times, and made the cut in all four majors. 
Norman will not claim "home cir­cuit" status for the 2003 season. Foreign-born players can use that to play their home tours without having to get a release from the PGA Tour. 
Instead, the PGA Tour will allow Norman to play a liberal amount of overseas events without making him play at least 12 tour events to retain his membership. Norman gives up his voting privileges under the compro­mise. 
Referee doll found on 
Paterno's door 

Joe Paterno's dispute with officials has reached a new level. 
An effigy of a football official, hung with a string around its neck and a yellow flag in hand, was on the front door of the Penn State coach's home Sunday. 
Paterno has been frustrated with officials this season, as all three of No. 16 Penn State's losses -to Iowa, Michigan and Ohio State -have involved questionable calls. 
Against Iowa, one official ruled a catch in overtime good, and a second official called it out of bounds. Penn State lost that game 42-35, and Paterno raced down the field and grabbed the jersey of an official to protest.Michigan, a disputed call denied the Nittany Lions a chance at a potential game-winning field goal. 
Against Ohio State, Penn State's last drive stalled when Zack Mills' pass landed in front of receiver Bryant Johnson. Replays appeared to show Ohio State cornerback Chris Gamble holding Johnson. No flag was thrown, and Ohio State won the game 13-7. 
page 21

Tue~day, November 12, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
... 
c 
!! 
C: 
:, 
.,C, 
u 
-~ ~ 
:;; 
::, 
a. 
.,,.
., 
'i:
., 
u 
0
.. 
.~ 
"iii 
C: 
C 
"' 
.g
.. 
E 
<(.. 
;. 
> 
,a
l -c, 
I ~ 
0
... 
0"' 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
night's game with a few ques­tions to answer before Sunday's season opener against Bucknell. 
Brey expressed concern with 
Notre Dame's ability to handle ing for a presence to develop 
full court pressure at the end of close to the basket. The Irish the game. The Irish committed shuffied numerous ·players into seve-ral turnovers towards the the lineup, trying to find a lineup end of the game trying to bring that worked against the quick the ball upcourt, something Brey but physical All-Star squad. said the Irish will address in Freshman Torin Francis had practice. the most productive night of the 
More pressing, in Brey's mind, Irish frontcourt, finishing with 13 was how the Irish are still wait-points and nine rebounds. But 
The Nanovic Institute Film Series The New Rebels in European Film: Britain and France 7:00 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
RENEGADES: 
November 13, Wed, 'Trainspottin9" (Britain, 1996) Author ana professor Clive Bloom (NO's London Centre) will introduce the film••With Q&A after the screening. 

November 14, Thurs, "Mauvaises Frequentations (BAO COMPANY)" (French, 1999) DirectorJean•Pierre Ameris will introduce the film with Q&A a(ter the screening. Co-sponsored by The Lonaon Proyram, International Stuay Programs, Film, Television ana Theatre Gender Studies 
This program was made possible with the support of the Cultural Services of the French Embassy and the French Ministry ofCulture (CNC). 
the rest of the Irish big men struggled, and starter Tom Timmermans failed to score a point. 
"I think we'll have questions about the front line probably until the Big East starts," Brey said. " ... We're still searching [to see who emerges]. and I think we're going to have to do that as best we can and still go after wins early." 
Notes: 

. Jere Macura made his first appearance for the Irish this sea­son Monday night. 
Macura, who missed Notre Dame's first exhibition game of the season with a knee injury, entered the game midway through the second half. He fin-
Football 
continued from page 24 
said. "It's good to get away from 
it from an objective standpoint to 
see what you need to improve 
upon." 

The Irish have plenty of ana­
lyzing to do. as well. 
One of the first priorities for 
the Irish is to solve their fumble 
problems. After fumbling seven 
times against Boston College, the 
Irish put the ball on the turf four 
Limes against NayY. losing three. 
They also have to patch a 
defense that broke apart in the 
}I 
Sportswear
largest selectio~ at 
Sminute~A 
from CUTPOS'T 
Campus 

Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
ished with five points and four rebounds in 10 minutes of play­ing time. 
. Six of Notre Dame's 16 home games have already sold out, and many more arc close to that number, Irish officials said. 
In addition, all 3,150 student tickets sold out within 36 hours ::,. of going on sale. 
The six sold-out games are Marquette, DePaul, Georgetown, Pittsburgh, Virginia Tech and Connecticut. 
"I thank our fans, and I think they're smart," Brey said, "Because we have an exciting product." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asou.kup@nd.edu 

third quarter, allowing Navy to seemingly slice down the field with relative ease and gave up over 200 rushing yards for the first time this season. 
"We need to worry about Rutgers. The last two weeks ­the last three weeks. really ­we haven't performed up to our abilities," linebacker Courtney Watson said. "That's something we need to worry about. We need to get focused on that." 
But the Irish coaches believe their players will respond. espe­cially considering the lackluster performances they displayed over the past three weeks. It's just a matter of' finding the right way to light the fire under the players -something offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick thinks the Irish can do themselves. 
"My goodness sake, I would hope that being at the University of Notre Dame and being a foot­ball player, he would have a good deal of competitive nature within him," Diedrick said. "I think when a young man doesn't do something. they feel they're capable of, they respond in a positive way." 

Contact Andrew Soukup at asou.kup@nd.edu 

Rent 273 pa Im trees (and 1 big fan to make them sway) 
How do JrO(I get a job like this? Start today. 
Apply for a Summer Dream Internship at: www.StartHereGoPlaces.com/biz2 
'Cont.csr Rules: compiet1e_rulcs .can be found on the CoilegeClub.com Web_s;te. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. Con,~es_t entry peciod runs 10/01/02-Z/01/03 and Is open only to legal residents of tile 50 United States, eighteen (18) or older at time of enuy. cnrulled ,n a lu.1/pan-tune. accr&drtea coI1ege, or unIverst,tv. and rs sub1ect to the complete Contest Omcra! Rules. Entr;es may_ be submrltec on the StartHereGoPlaces.com Web sita located at www.StcnHereGoPlaces.com or on the CollegeClub.corn Web ~•le locateo at _www.CollegeCwbcom Al, entries become the prope~ of Spons?r. as def med _in the complete Contest Off1c1al Rules. Empioy_ees and fam;ly members al Sponsor not e!igible to panicipate Sponsor is not 1espons1\1le lo, 1~c~rn_ca. or othe, malfunctions_. lo? or ~navarlable network connectIons.,9r failed electronic commun,catrons th_a_r may occm m the proce_ssIng of_lhe entnes. The_authors of lhe two 12} Grancl P111e winning essays wil! each ,ece1ve their chrnce o, one of the_ Summer Dream lnturnsh,ps provided by,Sp9nso,r. which mcludes "ve _th~usand dollars ($5.000) 19 be pa,c over the course or the ,ntern.1h1p. The Grand Prize Is not transferablij, except by Sponsm. who may subs1i1u1e pr,ze with a p11tc of eq~al Yl:1ue or oppor1 urnty_No cash or pr,ze subsrrtut,on Is.~I owed and_othcr restrrcl!~~s apply: The aut~ors o: the thice (3) w,nmng Runners-Up essays will receive one thousana dollar (Si.ODO) gift checks. The aulhors of :he five (5) winning Honorable Mention essays wd,1 receive f:ve hund_,ed_ collar !SSOO) gm checks. Vo,d where proh1b1ted. W:nners will be responsible for any and all li:xes. Sponsor: The American Institute oi Cert1/1ed Public Accountants. 1211 Avenue of the Amcncas 
Start here. Go places. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication. and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
Start going places with a Summer Dream Internship. Register anline today and complete your application by 2/01 /03 to compete tor one of two $5,000 paid internships. Eight other students will receive cash value awards of up to $1,000... 
Vl C. New York. NY 10036-8775. Col!egcClub.com. a d1v1s1on of Stuoenr Acvantage. Inc. 2035 Corte Del Noga!. Suite 200, Carisbac:. CA 92009. · 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Salas defeats teammate Connelly to win title 
By MARK ZAVODNYIK 
Sports Writer 
Despite a silence that filled the air at the Eck Tennis Pa\·ilion. Notre Dame's Alicia Salas prevailed to win the sin­gles championship of the Eck Classic. 
The reason for the lack of cheering was that Salas faced freshman teammate Lauren Connelly in the championship match. Salas managed to over­come the tension and earned a tough 6-4. 6-1 victory to clinch lhe Blue Flight Championship. Salas said that she was excited about the victory, but it felt strange to be playing a team­mate. 
"I didn't like it at all," Salas said. 
Salas used confidence gained over the first two rounds of the tournament to vault her into the championship match, a formula that she has used throughout the fall season. Salas was par­ticularly happy with her aggres­sive play, good ground strokes and lack of mental mistakes. 
In the championship match, Salas met her toughest competi­tion of the tournament in Connelly. 
"She did a really good job," Salas said. 
Connelly finished her first fall campaign with an 8-5 singles record, highlighted by two wins over top-70 opponents. 
With the victory, Salas, the 
This 
Week in 

Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 
l!dav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
Confirmation Session #5 
7:00 p.m. Siegfried Hall 


Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse, Room 330 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Music, Prayer & Fellowship 10:00 -11 :00 p.m. Morrissey H all Chapel 

86th ranked player in the coun­try this fall, moved her fall sin­gles record to 11-4. 
"I think .it was the best tennis I've played this fall," Salas said. "I was very confident playing at home" 
The Eck Classic, a yearly event hosted by Notre Dame, saw this year's best perfor­mance by the Irish womens ten­nis team. The final tournament of the fall season, No1:re Dame competed against Syracuse, Purdue, Indiana and Louisville. 
Salas was not the only mem­ber of the Irish team to ·capture a singles title in the Eck Classic. Freshman Kelly Nelson cap­tured her first collegiate tourna­ment title with a dominating 6­0, 6-1 victory of Kristine Holte of Syracuse to clinch the Gold Flight singles title. Nelson is the first Notre Dame freshman to win a singles title in the Eck Classic since 1988. 
"Being a freshman, I didn't have much experience, but I had nothing to lose," Nelson said. 
Nelson posted impressive come-from-behind victories in the second and third rounds that set her on the path to the final. 
Although only a freshman, Nelson led the Irish in singles this fall with a 12-5 record. 
In doubles, the Irish duo of senior captain Katie Cunha and freshman Kristina Stastny reached the championship match before being ousted 8-6 


Sophomore Road Trip 
Destination:Unk.novvn 
Susses leave CoMo@ 6:30 p.m. 
Email fsantoni@nd.edu for info or to reserve seats. 
ffldav 
807 Mass 

8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #73 
November 15-17 Fatima Retreat Center 
ROTC Freshman Retreat 
November 15-16 

Moreau Seminary 

RCIA Retreat 

1:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 

7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

by Lara Burgarell and Missy Wright of Purdue. Cunha and Stastny com­piled a 5-2 record this fall. 
Stastny was also pro­ductive in the Blue Flight of the singles draw where s h e advanced to the semifi­nals before losing to Connelly. 
In Sunday's third-place match, Stastny defeated Sarah Batty of Indiana 6­4. 6-3. Stastny's sin­gles record Irish player Maggie Donohue hits a backhand shot during a match earlier in the this fall was season. The Irish ended their fall season with the Eck Classic this weekend. 7-5. 
Sophomore Gold Flight consolation bracket compete again until Jan. 22. 
Sarah Jane Connelly also had a on Sunday. Salas said the time off gives successful weekend, winning Senior Maggie Donohue lost a players a chance to work on the Blue Flight consolation title tough match tiebreaker to Trine and fix little things that cannot 
over Amy Walgenbach of Juliussen of Syracuse in 3-6, 6-normally be addressed in prac­Purdue 6-4, 6-2. Connelly has 1, 1-0, (10-6). while freshman tice. an 8-5 singles record with three Liz Donohue defeated We-Ming losses to ranked players. Leong of Syracuse 6-0, 6-1. 
Notre Dame's Donohue sisters The I.r;ish ended the fall por­Contact Mark Zavodnyik at both played well in the singles tion of their season and will not mzavodny@nd.edu 
Retreats 
sign 
1 

Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Freshman Retreat #44 Retreat Date: December 6-7 
Sign-up dates: November 11-December 2 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 

Sophomore flJ Road Trip rolls on .. 
1)111 '/OU M/;; ,,,./It f/~;,,, t,-PG IFF ,,,./It ~IP#OMO~t /'l0~11 -'f~IP~ 
~#Ufl~1J-,4Y I~ YOUfl C,Jr-,4NC,t -ro JUMP OP ~Q-,4K1J -rHI 'llltfl'~ ~ie,op1J 
DESTINATION:Uriknown 
-,41JVtA1-rUflt! 

See the ad elsewhere in the Observer for details or email fsantoni@nd.edu. 

Tuesday, November 12, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
It builds up my staminaone letter to each square, to form four ordinary words 
-. 
1) 
:•. ~ ' ),

I EJYTT j
I [I
C2002 Tribune Media Servleea, Inc. 
All Righla Aeeerved. 
DAAHE 
j
I I r 
1-% ~

~ CLOPIE 
WHY THE:

I J I 
MU51C.IAN WDRKE::0

www.jumble.com 
our OAII...Y. TELKIN 
j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I tr tJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: TO [III ] ''( I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: SCOUR BAKED DIVIDE INSIST Answer: What she felt like when her hair was cut too short-"DIS-TRESSED" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 28 -To order, ..nd your name, ¦ddtu• ¦ nd $5.95 and rnake check pay1bfe to Ttfbune Media Servh•••• P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL noM0-4330, 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD W1LLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
01JeNewiffork0imt~
Crossword 
ACROSS 33 Laid-back, personalitywise
1 Trojan War hero 36 Unlike dirt roads
5 Hawkeye's show 38 It's charged 9 Serviceable 39 Nightgown wearer of rhyme
14 DNA carrier 42 Chowed down15 To_ (exactly) 
4J Tom and Jerry, irrationally for two 16 Spoke 
44 • And there you are!" 
11 Drags along 
1a Numbers to crunch 45 Doesn't guzzle 
1 s Fresh from the 47 Suffix with laundry Manhattan 
20 Keats work 48 Teen's embarrassment 
21 Address book 110. 49 Modern research tool
22 Retrain from singing? 55 Galileo 
24 1999 Will Smith ss How !he excited movie go 21 Decay ss Corrida cry 2a Sought a seat so Cara or Castle 
29 _von s1 Loch Bismarck monster 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

..,,...,U.,....,,.S,..,S,., 
NT E 
o I L 
63 
64 
65 
66 
&7 
68 
&9 
1 
L o -;:.t;1v1IIIII 21 r.-f~~.F.-r.-t-.-.....r,;-1~;:+.~ 23 
26 10 
32 

j 

Edited by Will Shortz 
No. 1001 
Pack ii in Exotic fruit Rebuke to 
Brutus Cancel Obie candidates Leak slowly First couple's 
place 
DOWN Shining 
2 Day after mercredi 
3 Child who behaves perfectly 
4 Illiterates' marks 5 Achieved 
success 6 In any way 1 Wimbledon unit a Scorching times 9 Oceanic killers 
10 Get beaten by 
11 12 13 
Eye part 
Navy commando Poet_St. Vincent Millay 
Small-time Extend, as Time 
Pulled a six­shooter Emptied "Kon-_ Travail 
Most qualified to serve 
!-'+:+.:::+=i 33 ·Jabberwocky" starter 


J5 Chick's sound 
36 Orama essentials 37 Make fractions 40 France's longest river 41 Staff member? 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Neil Young, Booker T. Jones, Nadia Com.-ulri, David Schwimrm 
Happy Birt!Mlay: It won\ take yru long to pick up the information you reed in ord:r to do something that is il!1JIOl1alll to you and to your fuuu-e. You will have the ado..>J disciplire this year to quit bad habits and start arew. If you an: reluclant to listen to other,, you may mis.soul on soirething of value. Your nwntm are 10, 13, 15, 22, 28, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can meet someone special if you gel involved in worthwhile causes. Business partnerships could evolve from conversations wiih estabfislru individuals. Don't lrsitale kl expre5S yourself. **** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional confrontations will interfere wiih your 
performance !11 work. Separate situations in order to remain objective, or you will 
jeqJardize the ISSOOi most impcmnl to YOlL tt 'GEMINI (May 21-JWJC 20): Take advantage of ihis lime of feeling relaxed to enjoy 
creative endeavors or physical fitness programs. It will h: awonderful evening for socializi '*1f'tt.*
CANCAA (JUllC 21-July 22): You may find yo=lf taking care of ihc needs of okk:r family iremtm. Be sure to get relatives lo trip you rather than laking all the 'bili •ourself. *H*
Lto(Julf13-Aug. 22): You can solidify a partrership if you have played your cards righL No reed to presswe anyore. Yourchann and oovious ~~ apix:aJ will attracl the individuals you ~teJQJOC1ed. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 2..1-Sept. 22): Make plans to do ihings wiih children. You can stabilize your relationship if you are willing to stroke your mate's ego. family projects will be 
soccessful. *** 
LIBRA (Sept 2..1-0ct 22): You will receive morey ihat you thought you'd never see again. Make sure you put~t~ti;ood use. Your plans for cntt.'ltlinmcnl will be well nmved by your fiierd<;. * 
SCORPIO (Oct 2.~Nov. 21 ): You may have been feeling stilled at home. Too many people have dropped in to see you. Don't allow family to put wm:asonable demands 
OIIY!Xc).ti 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may find it difficult 10 discuss personal problems, blll you must get an outsiders opinion. It's imperatil'e lhat you start to sec your situation m cxm-~nts. tttt 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be torn il!twccn work and hmn: oo:e again. Make the r.:cess;uy phore calls befm: your mate is Olli of bed or irduck: him or her in yrur oosilrsHlelireriitioo;. tt1r AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): Yoo are always alink ahead of your time. Unf<Ilwlalely, 
~i=~~up~fflon among~-Do your own thing and ref= to let 
PlSCF.S (}'eh. 19-Man:h 20): Put your effoos into tx:autifying your hoire. Rewanls foc ajob well done should bc in order. Treat everyore to dinrl.,-out or a movie. *** 
Birt!Mlay Baby: You will re corcerred wiih what eveiyooc around you is up to. Your p-eoccupation with the way things work can Ix oovanlageous ifyou awly this curiositylo life. You will be quick, interesting and certainly a little ahead of your time. 
Oiock out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugeniala.s!.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGITT7f/Jl. UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Goodman's 54 Back, as amusic 

racehorse 46 Fastens pants, 55 Hobbling gaitin a way 
56 Asia's _ Sea 50 Dairy section 
57 Tuneful Horneselections 

s2 Summer on the 51 Fritter away Riviera 
S2 Twisted 63 Can. province 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online su~criptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comldiversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name --------------------------­Address------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


PORTS 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Ugly, but a win 
• Irish struggle in win over EA Sports AH-Stars 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spom Writer 
It wasn't pretty, but it was a win. 
Despite connecting on just 4-of-19 3-point attempts and withstanding a late charge from the EA Sports All-Stars, the Irish won their final exhibition game of the season Monday, 81­64. 
"Like Coach says, it's not how you do it. We're going to have games like this in the Big East, but a win's a win," Matt Carroll said. "We didn't do anything too flashy to get the crowd out of their seats. which we'd like to have, but we have to learn how to win these games." 
Carroll in particular showed how the Irish relied on nearly everything but their perimeter shooting. The senior guard started the game by missing a pair of wide-open 3-point attempts and ended the first half with just four points. 
But Carroll rallied in the 

second half to finish with a 
game-high 18 points. He 
also tallied seven rebounds 
and six steals. 
Carroll's shooting strug­gles were typical of an Irish squad that struggled to find the basket on long-range jumpers, connecting on 29­of-72 attempts from the field. 
"They really kind of hugged us and took us away and forced us to do some other things," Irish coach Mike Brey said. ''That's kind of new territo­ry for us. Can you win a game without the lightning strikes from the 3-point line?" 
The Irish proved they could. At times, Monday's game appeared less of an exhibition and more of a Big East clash. But even though their shots weren't falling, the Irish responded by driving to the basket, grabbing 18 offensive rebounds, shutting the All­Stars down on defense and scoring points on transition. 
"We didn't shoot well, but I think that's a good sign," said Chris Thomas, who fin­ished with 17 points and six assists. "If we can put up this many points and not shoot well, we'll be fine." 
The Irish received a little 
bit of a scare from the All­
Stars. EA Sports scored the 
first six points of the game 
and held the Irish scoreless 
for the first two minutes. 
Although Notre Dame 
opened up a 35-22 lead using an 18-4 run toward the end of the first half, the All-Stars mounted a brief rally at the end of the game. 
Trailing 61-40, the All­Stars reeled off a 14-3 run, cutting the Irish lead to 10. But that was as close as they would get as Notre Dame handily pulled away for the win. 
"They're very hard on themselves, and they just didn't feel good about them­selves tonight," Brey said. "Certainly there's some things we can improve on, but they've got high stan­dards, and thev're hard on themselves. which is great as a coach." 
One of the bright spots for Notre Dame was the play of Jordan Cornette, who injured his ankle in a scrim­mage last week but played 22 minutes Monday. Cornette entered the game early. and his quickness down low transformed the Irish defense. He finished with eight points, seven rebounds and two steals. 
"I felt a lot better," Cornette said. "It felt kind of sore early in the week, they put me in progressively this week through practice, and I was ready to go tonight." 
The Irish left Monday 
see IRISH/page 21 

CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Irish forward Dan Miller drives past an EA Sports All-Star during Monday night's 81-64 exhibition victory. 

FOOTBALL 
Off week allows Irish to heal bodies and minds 
"We've always said anytime a from various injuries. Sapp
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
bye shows up, we will take apparently injured himself in 
Sports Writer 
advantage of it," Irish head practice Thursday, while coach­coach Tyrone Willingham said. es said Hilliard wouldn't make 
The lethargy began in the While the Irish take the week the trip earlier in the week. final 72 seconds against Florida off, fans will be keeping their Ryan Grant said Saturday he State, when the Irish surren­eyes on the postseason picture. needed the week off to rest his dered a pair of meaningless Notre Dame stayed at No. 7 in ankle, which he said he injured touchdowns in garbage time. the all-important BCS rankings in the third quarter. And many 
It continued against Boston released Monday, while Ohio other Irish players have assort­College, when the Irish suffered State and Miami -the nation's ed bumps and bruises. their first loss of the season. only two remaining Division I-A But more importantly, the 
And the lackluster play sur­undefeated teams -stayed at Irish say they need the week off faced again Saturday against 1-2, respectively. to recover mentally and to get Navy, when the Irish squeaked But the Irish say they can't over a loss to Boston College past a team that odds-makers start thinking about BCS berths. many players said they still said they were supposed to beat Instead, they're going to work hadn't gotten over by the time by four touchdowns. on rehabilitating both their bod­Navy kicked off. 
Now, the Irish will spend the ies and their minds. "I think it's good to, you know, off week trying to recover both There's plenty of work the have that well-rounded rest, physically and mentally as they Irish have to do on the injury mentally and physically," defen­try to find the win-at-all-costs front. Both Gerome Sapp and sive lineman Darrell Campbell attitude they exhibited over Cedric Hilliard didn't make the their first eight games. trip to Baltimore, each suffering see FOOTBALL/page 21 

WOMENS TENNIS 

SENDWICH iNtltX 
MENSINTERHAlLFOOTBALL 
WOMENS INTERHAll FOOTBALL 
Alicia Salas and Kelly Nelson win 
Miami reclaims top spot in after 
Alumni 8, Dillon 0 
Welsh 13, Cavanaugh 12 

individual titles in last weekend's 
impressive win against Tennessee. 
Siegfried 3, Fisher 0 
Breen-Phillips 20,
Eck Classic. 

Irish remained at No, 3. 
Pasquerilla cast 1.2 

pages 17, 16
page 22 
page 19 

page 15 






