
Ancient wisdom, modern dorms
CLOUDY 
Friday 
Students can learn how to harness the energy in their dorm rooms with a 
few tips from the Chinese art and science of Peng Shui.
HIGH27° 
JANUARY 19, 
Scene . page 12-13
LOW 1S0 
2002 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 69 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Abroad students return to housing pinch 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER A.ssist.llH '-Jews Editor 
Two study lounges in Pasqucrilla Hall West ,vere ('.onvPrtPd to r<'sident rooms during the brnak to accommo­clatt: fiw wonwn returning from sturly abroad programs. push­ing tlw total numbn of' convert­Pd study lounges in that dorm to fh·I'. 
l'W rP1:tor SistPr SuP Bruno said sht' rt•quest<'d that thr> study loungPs lw ronvPrtPd to rooms IJl'rause morP students WPl'P l'Pturning from study abroad programs than those who ll'ft at the end of the s1~mnstnr. No othPr dorms PXpPriPncPd a housing short­age. 
"I mad!' thP rt'quPst bPcause originally WP had 17 women h'aving and over 20 wanting to mow back ,rnd we couldn't get everymrn bark home. Student residences reluctantly granted my request because there were some available beds in other dorms," said Brnno. 
Associate director of Hesidence Life and Housing Scott Kachmarik said the deci­sion shows his department's consideration for the communi­ty aspect of the residence halls. 
"There are some room open­ings across campus: technically we could have said, 'We're going to put you someplace Kachmarik. converted triples. She said she pleased that she was able to November ... but we got an e­else.' {The decision] shows our Junior Leslie Petersohn, who received an e-mail from Bruno return to her old dorm. mail from Sister Sue later that commitment to the residence returned from the London pro­during November regarding the "We started hearing about 
see ROOMS/page 4 

hall community," said gram, is living in one of the housing situation and is the problems in the dorm in 

Activists travel to March for Life 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Etlicor 
On Tuesday, 150 students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will join between 100,000 and 200,000 pro-life supporters from around the country for the c1.nnual March for Lifo in Washington D.C. 
Groups of students will leave for Washington both Saturday and Sunday to participate in the annual March. which coincides with the Roe vs. Wade Supreme Court ruling made in 1973. The trip also includes a "Collegians for Life Conference" at Georgetown University, a Mass at the National Shrine and a rally. 
The events are meant not only to demonstrate against legalized abortion but also to raise aware­ness for other pro-life issues including cloning and the death penalty, according to Stephen Merjavy, one of the Notre Dame Right to Life trip coordinators. 
"l think it L1.he Marchj encom­passes all these issues," Me1javy said. "It focuses primarily on abortion but has a wider scale." 
While fewer students have signed up to attend this year's March -150 compared to last year's 30p0 -the club has been able to keep the student price the same by subsidizing the cost. Tricia Keppel, trip coordinator, estimates that the club will spend more than $4.000 for the event, some of it paid for by an aponymous donor. 
"We didn't want to raise the price from last year," she said. The club attributed last year's 
see MARCH/page 8 
Marino heads College of Science 
Special to The Observer 
Joseph Marino, currently chair of the Department of Chemistry at the University of Michigan, has been appointed dean of Notre Dame's College of Science, according to provost Nathan Hatch. The appointment is effective this summer. 
Marino, who also will hold a faculty appointment as pro­fessor of chemistry, succeeds Francis Castellino, who will step down after 22 years as dean. Castellino will continue as Kleidcrer-Pczold Professor of Biochemistry and director of Notre Dame's Keck Center for Transgene Hesearch. 
"I am very pleased to announce the appointment of .Joe Marino, and I have great confidence in his ability to provide the kind of leadership · to the College of Science which will be necessary to take it to the next level of prominence," Hatch said. "I am deeply grateful to Frank Castellino for all that he has done to build at Notre Dame a first-rate college with a very firm foundation on which to grow." 
As chair of the chemistry department at Michigan since 1997, Marino has contributed to the steady rise in the department's stature and national ranking. During his tenure, research expenditures have grown from roughly $5 million to more than $9 mil­lion. 
Marino served from 1994­97 as associate dean for research, computing and facilities in Michigan's College of Literature. Science and the Arts, the largest college at Michigan with 16,000 under­graduates and several thou­sand more graduate students. In this position, he provided leadership in key strategic areas, including research pol­icy and administration; facili­ty renovation; management of a $10 million budget for set ups, renovation and comput­ing; fundraising and develop­ment, and overseeing the development of the college's information technology infra-· structure. 

Marino, an organic chemist, has mentored more than 35 Ph.D. students from Michigan and another 10 students from Brazil, where he has had an active research collaboration ove·r the past 16 years. 
A native of Hazleton, Pa.. Marino joined the Michigan faculty in 1969. He received his bachelor's degree in chemistry from Pennsylvania State University in 1963 and earned his master's and doc­toral degrees, also in chem­istry, from Harvard University in 1965 and '67, respectively. 
Marino's research interests include new synthetic meth­ods, total synthesis of natural products of medicinal interest and biometric oxidative processes. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, January 18, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What a basketball game should be 
My favorite Christmas present was not earrings. Nor dothes. Nor perfume. 
It was a ticket. To a. basketball game. 
On December 29. 2001, I was one oflucky 22.000-plus fans who saw the University of Kentucky play Louisville in 
Rupp Arena. 
For weeks in advance. I read the Lexington Herald­Leader's letters to the editor about Rick Pitino's return to Rupp. The former Kentucky head coach was now coach­ing at UK's ultimate rival. I.ouisville Cardinals. 


ESPN sportscasters talked Laura Rompf about Pitino's return each night on Sporli, Center the week leading up to the game. Sports Illustrated did a fea­ture on the storv. 
Kentucky basketball is often in the national limelight. but Pitino's return made the game even bigger. 
For Kentucky fans. the game was amazing. They proudly wore their blue. cheered on the Cats and rose to their feet yelling 'Tubby" in honor of the current Kentucky head coach Orlando "Tubby" Smith. 
You might know the tradition of Kentucky bas­ketball. Rupp's Runts. The seven national cham­pionships. The 1992 Duke/UK game with that famous Laettner shot. 
In Kentucky. life is basketball. and that Saturday afternoon showed just how loyal Kentuckians are to the Wildcats. 
This Saturday, Kentucky will take on a different school. Our University. The Irish. Unlike Kentucky home games, there will not be 22.000-plus fans. There will only be 12,000. 
Unlike Kentucky home games. there will not be fireworks exploding as the starters are announced. The names will simply echo through­out the Joyce Center. 
However. on Saturday at noon, I hope the Irish fans come out in big numbers. 
I hope Green shirts will be seen throughout the Joyce Center, with a minimal amount of royal blue. 
I hope the student section is there early, stays standing, and doesn't give up until the end. 
I hope Irish fans will cheer even louder for Kentucky natives Harold Swanagan and David Graves. Let's show UK what we've got and what they missed. 
The game is televised on CBS. so we have a chance to show the entire country on Saturday that Notre Dame is more than a football school. We play basketball here. And we play it well. 
Go to the game on Saturday. Tailgate if you want. Yell "We Are ND." 
Because the Kentucky fans that come here know what basketball games should be like. And I have no doubt we can surpass even their expec­tations. 
Contact laura Rompfat rompf2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a profe\sional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism ar all times. We do, however, recognize that we will m.1ke mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhroup,h Fri,by exctpr during exam ,rnd v.ic.1rion periods. The Obstrver is ;1 mrml>~r of the Aliuciared Press. All rceprodue,ion rip;lm arc «served. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Professor wins Catholic laity prize 
Wednesday, January 14, 1976 
Notre Dame history professor Dr. Jay Patrick Dolan won I.he John Gilmary Shea Prize of the American Catholic Historical Association. The award is given each year to the American or Canadian author who, in the judgement of the committee, has made the most original and signif'­icant contribution to the histography of the Catholic Church during a 12-monlh period. 
Petrucel1i named coach of the year Thursday, January 16, 1992 Notn, Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli was named the National Women's Soccer Association/Metropolitan Life Insurance Company's regional coach of the year in the Central !legion. Petrucelli guided the Irish to a 15-2-3 record and their first rwer national ran king. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Duke stands behind balanced early decision policy 
DUHHAM. N.C. apply early because the acceptance 
When Yale University President 
outlook is better. Hichard Levin told The New York "If' there were no benelit to applying Times in Derember universities early decision. then it wouldn't make should look at collectively abolishing a difference to the student," he said. early admission, his comments "Virtually every college gives some prompted officials at many elite uni­b1rnelit to students applying through versities to look at their application (this process]." processes. Students. while rncognizing bettPr 
While cautioning about potential admission prospects. said those abuses, senior administrators at Duke prosper.ts were not t.h(~ir primary rea­University remain satisfied with the Christoph Guttentag. director of son for applying early. school's current admissions policies. undergraduate admissions, said the Junior Drew Preslar said the 
"On balance. I believe early admis­University limits the number of stu­reduced workload of completing only sions can serve students and institu­dents admitted under early decision to one application was an incentive. tions well. but only if it is carefully about 30 percent of each entering The advantages of' early decision, designed and appropriately limited," class. Such applications account for 10 however. do not rest solelv with stu­President Nan Keohane wrote in an e­percent of the total applicant pool. denl'i. Keohane said the process bene­mail. "If it is carried too far, then I "In limiting the size of the entering fits tho University by allowing it to think the costs far outweigh the bene­groups, we are in the minority among enroll student'> whose first choices are fil'i, both for studenl'i and for the col­selective colleges," Guttentag said. Duke. leges and universities." He acknowledged many students The Chronicle 

UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA 
Student returns after threat of lawsuit 
NOHMAN, Okla. 

A student forced out of the University of Oklahoma in September after the president of the Pakistan Student Association accused him of a hate crime is back on campus. Chance Shipman started class Monday, but it is not yet known if he will be able to rejoin coach Jack Spates' wrestling team. While Shipman has returned to school this semester. his friend Gary Frizzell. forced out of Oklahoma in November, has not. His father, Gary, said Frizzell decided not to come back to Oklahoma until the fall semester. The Frizzells have hired an attorney who is looking into the matter. Frizzell's father did not com­ment except to say: ''Gary is in no way guilty." Shipman's readmission is a complete turnaround from the university's stance just one month ago. The ongo­ing revelations about junior Mohammad Yaseen Haider, in jail since Nov. 8, prompted Shipman to threaten a lawsuit against the university. 
Oklahoma Daily 


UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY 
Expected deficit won't affect tuition 
LEXINGTON. Ky. 

Although University of Kentucky r.xpects a $6 mil­lion-dollar budget shortfall due to state budget cuts made by Gov. Paul Patton, students will not be exp<~ct­ed to foot the bill, of'ficials said. Last Thursday. President Lee Todd held an all-day budget meeting with other Kentucky administrators to discuss prelimi­nary plans on how to deal with the shortfall. It was his decision that there would be no additional tuition increases, said Jack Blanton, senior vice president for administration. "t\lTordability for Kentucky students has always been a large concern," Blanton said. Todd's decision pleased history junior John Hammons. "I think it's great that they're not raising [tuition]," he said. "It would have been unclassy to place the burd<m on stu­dents." Kentucky students will still have to pay the 6 percent tuition increase that Kentucky's Board of Trustees approved in the fall of 2001, but there will be no additional increases to those figures. 
' Kentucky Kernel 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and hi~h temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Friday, Jan. 18. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
I SaturdAy
I 
Sundajl 

Monday Tuesd~y 
~, 
l . ) 

P,-un,; 

®© ......
Wedriesday ,~ fP 
HJvh Low Shower• Rain T-1tom,1 Flurriea Snow k:• Sunny pt, Cloudy Cloudy ~ .. _, t ·~.......,,.,. 
VmA•-.x.iatftf Pr.H

(;~/:J·"'....,;... \,i.r-1 
Atlanta 53 43 Las Vegas 51 33 Portland 42 35 
Baltimore 42 24 Memphis 45 38 Sacramento 52 32 
Boston 37 25 Milwaukee 22 11 St. Louis 35 25
Q,Q,QAGQ (f ~ Ll 
Chicago 26 14 New York 40 25 Tampa 74 56
Showers T-storms Rain Rurrios Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 84 57 Philadelphia 42 27 Washington, DC 44 28
Vta Assoc111t«I Prsss GraphicsN•t 
Friday, January 19, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 



Cheney refuses to discuss Enron ties 
Associated Preso 
WASI IINGTON 

A Democratic congressional leader said he documented 17 provisions in Vice President Dick Clrnney's energy plan that beue­f'i ted Enron. and <lemaml­11d anew that the While !louse list contacts with Lhe bankrupt 1lrwrgy trad­ing company. 
Thn admin­
i strati on again rdusnd on Thursday, calling the request by Hep. I lcnry Waxman, D-Calif., "a partisan waste of taxpayer money." 
Waxman, the top Democrat on the Hous!' Covrernment Heform Committef!, has been asking Chern~y sinl'e April to turn over records on whom he met with as he developed the national ern~rgy strategy. Cheney has rofused, though the White House acknowl­edged that Enron representatives met six times with Cheney or his aides on energy issues last year. Enron has been the largest single donor to President Bush. 
Waxman said that because he was stomiwalled. he did his own analysis of" what Enrj4 
on sought and what Enron got in the energy plan. 


"The analysis reveals that numerous policies in the White House energy plan are virtually identical to the positions Enron 
advocated,"  Waxman  wrote  
Cheney  in  a  letter  dated  
Wednesday.  

Among the examples: energy deregulation initiatives, support for trading in energy derivatives, proposals to facilitate natural gas projects, the granting of eminent domain so power lines could be built more quickly and spur dr~velopmrmt in India. 
"This creates the unl'ortunate appearance that a large contrib­utor received special access and obtained extraordinarily favor­able results in tho Whito House energy plan," Waxman wrote. 
Waxman's findings came as the administration was under intense scrutinv for its contacts with Enron in thP weeks beforp it wont bankrupt. 
White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said the energy plan contains only proposals that Bush and Cheney believed would help make the nation more energy­independent. 
"The allegation by Congressman Waxman that any­thing was put in that plan for political purposes is, of itself, a partisan waste of taxpayer money." Fleischer said adding that "the administration will con­tinue to be forthcoming in answering questions and provid­ing information." 
AFGHANISTAN 
Powell negotiates in Kabul 
. Secretary of State vows to stop terrorism 
A,sociatcd Press 
KAl3L'L, Afghanistan 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, the most senior U.S. official to visit Afghanistan in 25 years. promised Thursday t h e 
United States would h e I p rebuild tho coun­try and wipe out the "cont­

a m i n a -Powell tion'' of terrorism. 
Powell told Hamid Karzai, the interim Afghan leader, the United States would make a substantial financial commit­ment at next week's interna­tional aid donors conference in Tokyo and that U.S. forces would be relentless in pursu­ing the remnants of al-Qaida and the Taliban. 
"This country needs every­thing," Powell said on NBC's "Today" show. "It needs a banking system. It needs a hnalth-carn systmn. It needs a sanitation system. It needs a phone system. It needs road construction. Everything you can imagine." 
Prime Minister Karzai. obvi­ously buoyed by Powell's visit, empbasi:.:ed Afghanistan's deep needs during a joint news conference at the presi­dential palace. 
'"The Afghan people have been asking for a staying com­mitment, a staying partner­ship. from the United States to Afghanistan in order to make the region safo, in order to make Afghanistan stand back on its own feet and continue to light against terrorism or the return of terrorism in any. form to this country," Karzai said. 
Powell assured Karzai that Washington would be stead­fast. 
"We don't want to leave any contamination 1.Jehind," Powell said of continuing mili­tary efforts to purge Afghanistan of terrorists. "That is in the interests of the Afghan people and certainly the mission we came here to perform." 
After Powell's visit, the White House announced Karzai will meet with President Bush on Jan. 28 in Washington. 
"We look forward to an Afghanistan that is prosper­ous, accountable to its citizens and at peace with its neigh­bors and the international community," White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said. 

In Washington, the U.S. gov­ernment released photos and video excerpts of five suspect­ed al-Qaida members deliver­ing what Attorney General John Ashcroft described as "martyrdom messages from suicide terrorists," Ashcroft called upon people worldwide to he!p "identify. locate and incapacitate terrorists who are suspected of planning additional attacks against innocent civilians." 
The United States holds bin Laden and al-Qaida responsi­ble for the Sept. 11 terror attacks on the United States. Washington opened its mili­tary campaign in Afghanistan to rout the extremist Taliban regime which was sheltering bin LadHn and his organiza­tion. 
In a continuing sign of law­lessness outside Kabul, two trucks belonging to the United Nations' World Food Program were hijacked by gunmen in northern Afghanistan, the 
U.N. said Thursday, in the lat­est report of banditry hamper­ing aid operations in the coun­try. 
U.S. troops on Thursday were helping Afghan forces in a disarmament campaign in one of country's most poten­tially volatile regions, where weapons are plentiful and law enforcement is minimal. 

notre Dame us. nebraska-Omaha 
page 4 The Observrr . NEWS Friday, January 19, 2002 
Roollls 
continued from page l 
said she had to be a little creative, but she Ht us all in. It worked out really well. the only problem is that we don't have sinks. but that hasn't been a big deal yet because we are right across from the bathroom," said Potersohn. 
At the beginning of the semestf'r, '.~9 study lounges in Dillon Hall. the Mod Quad dorms and the West Quad dorms were converted into rooms to accommodate a f'rnshrnan cl.ass that was 100 students larger than normal. The extra large class was the rr,sult of more students than expected accepting Notre Dame·s offt>r or admission. 

!low this extra large class might affect next year's housing is not yet known because housing contracts have not been distributed to determine the number of current students who wish to livr, on campus next year. While the admissions ortice will bP carefully monitoring the size of the incoming class, another factor that affects housing is the numher of' students who chose to study abroad. Kachmarik said "only a handful of stu­dents" decided not to study abroad this semester because they were concerned about security after the Sept. 11 attacks. International Study Program director Torn Bogenschild said he actually expects that slightly more stu­dents will be going abroad next year compared to this year. 

ISRAEL 

Gunman breaks up bat mitzvah 
Associated Press 

HADEHA, Israel 
Moti I lasson was dancing al his neighbor's bat mitzvah or Jewish coming of agP cPrcmo­ny when hn heard tho firsl shots or an attack tlw would leave six of' the party-goers rlrmrl and sonrn 30 injured. 
Some of' the 100 people in tlw banquet hall dovn under tho tables during tho late night attack Thursday. Others began to shout in fright. llasson quickly grablrnd a chair and ran toward Llw Palnstinian attacker. who was firing an M­16 assault rifle. 
"I startnd to hit the terror­ist,'' said llasson, a :H-ycar-old truck drivor. "I y<illod at.-overy­nn<i to grab him and kill him." 
Some people threw bottles l'rom thnir tables at the attack­er who was ichmtilind as Abed llassouna, a memlrnr of the militant Palestinian Al Aqsa Brigades. The group has vowed to avenge the death of 0110 ilc; leadnrs who was killed in a bomb blast wideJy believed to have be,m carried out by Israel. 
Others joined I Iasson and hit the attacker with chairs, wit­nesses said. 
Ilasson said that after Im hit tho attacker in the face with a chair the man's gun appeared 
to jam. 
"I Iis gun just stopped shoot­ing," said Hasson, who was standing outside the Armon David or David's l'alac1• ban­quet hall. tlm site of' tlw attack in the northern city of lladera. Ile wore sweat pants and a sweat shirt and was carrying a hag of thn clothes lw worn dur­ing tlrn attaek, which were soaked with the gunman's blood. 
The attackc:r was beaten unconscious, 1lasson said. 
Fliahu lskov said Im saw the attacknr on th() floor and grabb1id him by tlw l'oot to drag his body outside ol' tlw banqunt hall. 
"I thought that hn had nxplo­sives strappnd to his body and would nxplodn," lskclV said. "I though if he cxplodml it would bn best ii' hfl exploded outside." 
Other people pulled table­cloths from the banqunt tables and wrapped the wounded in them so they could quickly take them outsid() in case there were iixplosions. 
The northern city of lladera is located near th;i line sepa­rating Israel from the West Bank and has been the scene of several Palestinian bomb­ings in the past year and a half. 

Kachmarik said that if there are more students than {:an be accommodated in available housing, a lottery may be held to determine which students would actually be put in l10us­ing. However, he said it is not likely such a lottery will be held. 
"This is my fourth year and we've never had to have a lot­tery before and I don't get the sense that we'll have to do that this year ... I'm a housing guy. I can put people anywhere. If it comes down it. I can find places !"or people anywhere," said Kachmarik. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at Brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 
YOU WANT TO CHANGE THINGS ­
TEACH FOR AMERICA IS THE NATIONAL CORPS THAT CALLS UPON OUTSTANDING AND DIVERSE RECENT COLLEGE GRADUATES TO COMMIT TWO YEARS TO TEACH IN URBAN AND RURAL PUBLIC SClfOOLS AND .BECOME LIFELONG LEADERS IN ENSURING THAT ALL OF OUR NATION"$ CHILDREN HAVE AN EQUAL CHANCE IN LIFE. 
No previous education coursework required. full teacher salary and benefits. 
T~C:I-IFC>~IVIEIRIC:.A. 
www.teachfora merica .o rg 

ATION 
Friday, January ] 8, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
5 dead after Palestinian attack: A 
PalPstinian tossPd hand grenades into a w1!d­di11g hall in n<-irtlwrn lsra1d late Thursday, and· livr 1woplr wer<' kil!t!d and morn than 30 wound,,cJ. !srnuli po!icn said. A Palestinian militant group claimed responsibility. Army radio said a suicid,i bomber trind to detonatn explosives atlaclrnd to his· body at the PnlratH'P to the hall but was overtaken by security guards. The attacker then exploded tlw grPllltdcs. 
Ecuadorian plane missing: A plane carrying oil ,vorkcrs from Ecuador's state­own('d oil company v-nts missing Thursday al'Lnr failing to arriv1i at its destination in tlw Amazon jungle, a company official said. ThP Fairchild F-28 aircraft was carrying 21 employPns or PctrnPclrndor and fin, crow. 
NATIONAL News BRIEFS 
Chicago cracks down on homicide: 
Jlw city's police superintendent announced steps Thursday to combat Chicago's rising number of murders. the highest of .all U.S. cities fast year with 666. Superintendent Terry llillard said nffice1rs would more aggrPssively pursue outstanding warrants and parol(\ violators. target gangs and drug deal­1•rs. 
Bush signs mentoring bill: President Bush signed legislation Thursday that cxpands programs for al-risk children, and said his fiscal 2003 budget would contain $SO~ million to encourage adoption, reunite troublPC! f'amilies and find mentors for those with parnnts in prison. Bush said his budget would also proposo $60 million for teen-agers who ar(' approaching adulthood in foster car,•. and $25 million in seed money for pro­grams that are devoted exclusively to lhe chil­dren of inmatns. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Second grader parades gun: 
Investigators want to know how a second­gradP student got a .22-caliber pistol he took to school to show friends. ThP gun· apparently bf\longt'd to tlHi boy's mother. who police qunstio1wd afterward. The incident remains under invPstigation. A school official noticed Llw gun sticking out of tlrn boy's pants pocket Wednesday after seeing a group of students huddlNI around the boy at Center EIPmentary. "No act or threat of violence was observed or initiated," said Marion Police Capt. David Gilbert. 
Market Watch January 17 
Dow 
9,850.04 +137.77 
Jones 
LJ 
Composite~ Same: 
Volume:
202 
1358.459.()08 
AMEX: 835.22 +5.80 NASDAQ: 1,985.82 +41.38 NYSE: 579.26 +4.lO S&P 500: 1,138.88 +11.32 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
KMART CORP (KM) -2.50 -0.04 1.56 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +2.24 +0.87 39.65 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNitJ) +2.15 +0.26 12.37 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.85 +0.54 19.48 INTEL CORP (INTC) +2.47 +0.82 34.53 
CUBA 


'I. AFP Photo 
Urs Boegli, a senior representative for the International Committee of the Red Cross, leads a group of four ICRC members to their inspection of the Guantanamo U.S. Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
Guantanamo Bay inspected 
Associated Press 

GUANTANAMO BAY 
NAVAL BASE 
Guards practiced basic commands in Arabic Thursday for dozens of al­Qaida and Taliban prison­ers being held at this remote U.S. military out­post, while a forklift groaned, hoisting materi­als to expand the tempo­rary detention facility. 
International Red Cross workers were to arrive at the U.S. naval base in east­ern Cuba later Thursday to review conditions that some rights groups have called inhumane. U.S. offi­cials say the prisoners' rights are not being violat­ed. 
Behind three fences and coils of razor wire, prison­ers with shaved heads and orange jumpsuits sat in open-air cells of chain-link fence. Occasionally, Army guards led a prisoner out of a cell, taking him for a walk in the heavily forti­fied yard. 
"For the most part, they do what they're told," said Sgt. Lisa Juve, an Army guard who spoke to jour­nalists who were allowed to see the detention camp, but only from about 150 yards away. 
Military officials say the camp will soon be able to hold 320 inmates, or more if they are doubled up two to a cell. Workers also are building a permanent prison to hold up to 2,000. 
The United States is holding more than 300 prisoners at the Marine base at Kandahar airport, in Afghanistan, and a few others elsewhere. 
Thirty more prisoners arrived in Guantanamo from Kandahar on Thursday, bringing the inmate population here to 110. 
When they arrive, pris-. oners are given a half sheet of paper to write to family members .or friends of their indefinite deten­tion in Cuba. 
A Marine security guard, Cpl. Joe Lupo, said he was struck by the prisoners' size. "They're pretty small guys,» he said. describing some of them as appearing to be in their teens. 
Military officials say most are in their 20s and 30s, though they are not revealing identities or nationalities. 
Governments have iden­tified seven of the prison­ers as Yemeni and three as British. Saudis also are among the prisoners, Saudi officials said. and Australian officials have identified one prisoner as one of their nationals. 
CONGO 

Volcano leaves thousands homeless 
Associated Press 

GOMA 
A volcano in eastern Congo erupt­ed Thursday, sending out plumes of ash and three rivers of lava that destro.yed 14 villages near the Rwandan border and drove thou­sands from their homes. 
The sky around Mount Nyiragongo began glowing red, and ash fell on the nearby town of Goma before dawn Thursday. Three lava flows were detected. two coming down the mountain's cast side and one down 
' • ,· ... . J.".,,lt'.• .. -­

the west. 
Thousands of people were left homeless when the lava destroyed their villages. Most fled to Goma, 30 miles south of the volcano, while hundreds of others tried to enter neighboring Rwanda, but were turned away by border guards. 
There were no reports of deaths or injuries. Pierre Ramazani, an aid worker with the French aid group Medecins du Mondo, or Doctors of the World, said he saw hundreds of people walking on roads, carrying only pans and mattresses. 
The United Nations peacekeeping mission in Congo reported 350 U:N. international staff members were evacuated by road and by plane from Goma, U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said in New York. 
"There arc reports of a significant number of people fleeing the area. A skeleton staff from the U.N. Humanitarian Coordination Office along with [private groups] which had remained behind to plan assis­tance to the displaced are now them­selves preparing to evacuate as the situation deteriorates," he said. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, January 19, 2002 
DNA clears I 00th convict 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Marking DNA's stunning reve­lations for the nation's criminal justici> system, new tests led to the rr.lease of lhe I 00th person to be th1ed nationwide because of genetic testing. 
The rnlease of' Larry Maves in Indiana · · I a s t always thought it was." said Peter Neufeld, one ol' the founders ol' the lnnor.ence Projccl at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in NHw York. 
"It's very easy for an innocent person to be convicted," he said, noting problems with eyewitness testimony, police lineups and state c:rime labs. 
Poli en, 
. too, wel­

"ft s very easy for an innocent
month 
comed the 

comes as person to be convicted. " 
latest exon­
a timely 
eration.
victory 
"That [is]

Peter Neufeld 
for a 
a good

nation­co-founder of the Innocence Project at 
thing as 

w i d e the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law 
coalition of advo­cates seeking to free those wrongfully convicted. The advo­cates plan to gatht. r this wnek­end to call for reform ol' the

• 
criminal justice system. 
Mayes. 52, spent 21 years in prison for a rape qf a gas station cashier that he steadfastly main­tained he never committed. He was released from Indiana State Prison on Dec. 21 after DNA tests of old crime scene evidence was compared to his own genet­ic tests. 

"This DNA revolution, it's made clear our criminal justice · system is not as reliable as we 
well, an<l not univ for 

I a. w enforcement," said Sheriff Aaron Kennard in Salt Lake County, Utah, who worked with a nation­al commission addrnssing DNA's uses in the criminal justice sys­tem. "We want the bad people behind bars and held account­able, ancl those inuocent to be let go." 
Last week, Kennard was able to pinpoint the rapist in an unsolved 8-year-old case through DNA, as the state goes through and tests evidence of unsolved cases. The rapist is in prison for another sex offense, he said. 
Neufeld, a defense attorney who launched the InnocencH Project with attonrny Barry Scheck, said the lirst exonera­tions came slowly, with the first two released in 1989, one in 1990 and tw~> in 1991. But as more jurlgcs allowml exceptions to statules for DNA tests, and some states passed laws to allow for post-conviction tesling, the 
pace picked uµ. 
At the same time, more pro­jects began modeling themselves arter the New York-based pro Liono project. Now them arti at least 25 working nationwiclfl. 
Last year, there wcrn 20 prison inmates !'reed by DNA tests, Neufeld said. 
"This whole rnovemnn't is about ... trying to make the criminal justice system a lot more reliable than it ever was in the past," Neufeld said. 
2 military planes 
crash in desert 
Associated Press 

TUCSON, Ariz. 
Two I'nilitary attack jets collided and crashed in thn southern Arizona d·esert Thursday, the Air Forcn said. One of the pilots was killed. 
The single-seat A-10 Thunderbolt II jets, were on a training mission when tho r.rash occurred, said Master Sgt. Dan Carpenter, base spokesman at Davis­Monthan Air Force Base. 
B-ase of!icials said the soc­ond pilot was airlifted to a Sierra Vista hospital, where hr was in stab!!'\ condition. 
There was no immediate 
word on a possible cause. 
The pilots wcrn assigned to the 355th Wing at the Tucson base. A third aircraft 
involved  in  the  mission  
returned safely.  
The  crash  site  is  in  a  

rugged area just north of the U.S.-MP.xico border in the southeast r:orn1\r of Arizona. Firefighter Francisco I lomrn, who went to tlw scene from nearby Douglas, said mili­tary helicopters circl0el the wreckage Thursday aftcr­
•noon. 

The A-10 Thund1. rbolt II, used in close air support of grounrl forces, gained fame during the Gulf War for attacks on Iraqi tanks. 

~yt--,::, 289-5080~a,29~ Announces the Following Introductory Offers Of... e) r:o:: ~F;, r -;-;;-, I ;5;, r 71~, I 76;,I Avcda I I Women's I I cn•1r.Cu1&,1)1< I I Men's Cut I I Hilites & I L !~J f.:u!:'_!!Y!:J C:"::'~c:J L:;~e.J ~u!;'_!!Y!:J Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Valid with the FollCM.IJg Stylists O:lly: Sarah, Vicki, Connie, Miran:a & Karol -NEW CLIENTS ONLY-Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Arc Performed (Certain Restrictions Apply) 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Offer Expires 2/1/2.002  
SUMMER INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITY at a WORLD-CLASS/GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FACILITY The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science and Technology (CEST), will award one swnmer internship at Argonne National Laboratory (Argonne, IL) for 2002 with a follow-up research appointment on campus in the Fall. Stipend, room and board are provided for the 10-week program at Argonne, Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline {.(ll!l field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their Junior Year by May 2002, and registered to return for Fall semester of2002. For more details, contact Donna Fecher in the Center for Environmental Science and Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants required to complete an application and submit transcripts. Deadline is February 22, 2001.  


Campus Bible Srudy (CBS) Pa1t1 II 
EveRy Tuesoay ar 7:00 p.m. 114 CoLeman-MoRse Con,:eRence Room 
All students are invited to attend Bible Study every Tuesday through the semester beginning January 22, 2002. 
All sessions last one hour. 
Bring your own Bible and a friend. 


For further information contact: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc 631-4616 or Campus Ministry 
631-7800. 
Friday, January 19, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
N. Korea calls for inquiry of U.S. acts 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

North Korea on Thursday again accused the Unitfid Statt~s of killing civilians dur­ing thr Koman War and asked for a U.N. investigation bo !:au sn American forces fought under the U.N. flag. 
Washington lcrl U.N. forces that fought with South Korea against North Korean invaders. who were backed by China and the former Soviet Union in thfl 1950-53 war. 
llistorians say North Korean troops committed atrocities, summarily nxecuting U.S. 
prisoners of war and slaugh­tering large numbers of South Korean civilians. U.S. officials have dismissed most of the North Korean claims as pro­paganda. 
In a letter to the U.N. Security Council, North Korna's U.N. Ambassador Pak Gil Yon urged the United Nations to "t.akc measures to prevent the recunencc of such crimes against humani­ty." 
The U.S. Mission to the United Nations and the U.S. State Department had no immediate comment on Pak's letter. Nor did the Security Council. 
Chemical spill scares parents 
Associated Press 
HERCULANEUM, Mo. 
Parents here warn their children not to play in the dirt or along the curb. If they are allowed to play outside at all, their toys and swing sets are washed down first, and they have to leave their shoes on the doorstep when they come back in. 
These are some of the health precautions families take in this blue-collar town where the nation's largest lead smelter has spread cont­amination to homes, yards and streets. 
"Most people in the spring and in the fall turn on the fan. But before we turn on the fan we think, "'It's going to kick up a lot of dust,"' said Carol Miller, 38. 
Of her four children, ages 3 to 12, three have health problems she attributes to the lead. The oldest has hear­ing problems, the 10-year-old has reading disabilities, and her youngest is stunted in his growth, she said. 
This week, the federal gov­ernment announced it will move hundreds of residents -most of them in families with young children or preg­nant women -into tempo­rary homes for months while experts carry out a multimil­lion-dollar cleanup and crackdown on emissions from Doe Run Co. 
The smelter, with a work force of 250, is the town's major employer and the chief reason Missouri is the 

nation's top producer of lead used in car batteries, televi­sions and other products. 
There is nothing new about pollution in Herculaneum, a town of about 2,800 people, 30 miles south of St. Louis along the Mississippi River. The smelter's smokestack has dominated the horizon of the small river town since the 1890s, and officials have known for decades that the lead and other toxins are blown in the air and across on the ground. 
In recent years, Doe Run has spent millions of dollars to reduce the pollution and clean up the contamination, and the smelter's emissions have improved, but they still fail to meet federal stan­dards. 

T H A I R [ S T .-\ U R A ?'>: T 
\ \'e are lool<ing fonvard to creating a wonderful evening and a romantic experience for you and your special guest this Valentine's clay. 
( l'k:1s..-m:1kl' :1 n:st:1YJtion in :1ch·:1nce 1f you rlan LO · s1,c·nd >·,)ur· rom...111ciL' l'\c:lling with us.) 
Lunch:\1,,n rri IL.1m-lpm /)inner\ ll, n .SJL 'i11 m 9pm 
211 N. ,\Iain nownto"l-vn South Bcncl 
232-4445 
Late N~t O~pies XVI Late Night Olympics Team Events 
Co-Rec Volleyball Half Court 3 on 3 B-Ball (M & W) Nerf Football Co-Rec Innertube Water Polo Wiffleball Co-Rec Soccer Target Golf Broomhall (M & W) Kickball Racquetball Singles (M & W) Kayaking Monster Dodgeball Table Tennis LNO Obstacle Course 
Friday, January 25, 2002 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM Joyce Center • 631-6100 • recsports.nd.edu 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 

Friday 2:00PM-5:00PM Saturday 10:00AM-3:00PM Sunday 12:00PM-4:00PM 
Golf Shop -Rockne Memeorial -1-6809 

ENTAL RATEf 

5.00 
FOR DAILY RENTAL 

6.00 
FOR OVERNIGHT RENTAL 

7.00 
FOR TWO DAY RENTAL 




R~~ 

page 8 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Priday, January 19, 2002 

night al the Morrissey Chapd. 'Tm excited." Knpp1~l said.
March 

"Tho people that arc going am 
dedicated and excited to Imcontinued from page 1 
going. It's a day vvlwrn you can stand there and be a voict\ forlarge att1rndancc to the presi­those who don't have a voico."
dential inauguration that 
This year
ocu1rred 
marks Notrn
tht"' same 

"It's a day where you can Dame and
week ­

o n d . stand there and be a voice for Sainl Mary's 
sixth trip to
Also. stu­

those who don't have a voice." 
\Yashington
rl en ts 
for tho March
o n I V 

missp~I Tricia Keppel sin cl' its beginning in
one day trip coordinator 
I 974. Tim
of class 
trip, organiznd
last y1~ar 

by Monica Brown, Kcppol andcompari>d to this year's two. 
Merjavy, is one of' tlrn club's
'"Last year the inauguration larger events. Thn organizalion
foll on the Saturday we arrived 

is also involved in community
and that drew a lot of pBople," service activities, lik<' Projec·tKeppel said. "Last year was rleli­Mom. and hosts a spring confer­nitely the pl'lak in attendance." 

f'nce.
In preparation for the event, tlw club sponsored an informa­tional meeting on Monday, an icP skating social on Twlsday Contact Andrew Thagard at and a sendofl Mass on Thursrlay thagard. I@nd.edu. 
IN MEMORY OF 
LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON 
A.B., M.A., PH.D. 
27 FEB 1943--19 JAN 1994 
Master's in Clinical Social Work 
\' -l. r l f ~ • K :-.· o \\ r. F D (, ,-• T II , D 1 T 1 o ,. 
Loyola's MSW, accredited since 1921: 
• 
Clinical specializations: children, families, adults, couples, elderly, health, and school social work 

• 
Four dual degree programs: MSW and Child Development (MS); Law (JD); Divinity (MDiv); or Child and Family Law (MJ) 

• 
Available at Loyola's Water Tower Campus, Chicago, and at Carthage College, Kenosha, Wis. 


Also available at Loyola's School of Social Work: BSW and PhD degree programs 
nr Chicago's Jesuit UniVe£sity 
LOYOLA MSW Admissions: ;.~ UNIVERSITY 
Jude Gonzales 

i .1 CHICAGO at 312.915.7289
;:,: . s 

o4' _<: Graduate School 1'J.,, lfo' of Social Work 
Loyola University Chicage is an equat opportunity educator and e-nployer. ©2002 loyola University of Chicago. 



Friday, January 18, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOESN'T HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS. {For Arts & Letters students we will support any language except French, German, Italian or Spanish) 
R• 

For details and application fonns, go to: 
~ 

http://www/nd.edu/---sumlang/ or 
XXXI 
COMMISSIONER
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies ­
(154 Hurley Building· Ph1-5203) 
APPLICATIONS 
application deadline: 3/8/02 
Applications Due Friday, Jan. 25 

Pickup an applie..ation at the Student Activities Office at 314 LaFortune and sign up for an int.er-view. 
Checkout the website for more info: Sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies and 
www.nd.edu/~bk.strl or 
Email us at bkstr.l@nd.edu
the College of Arts and Letters 
NIGERIA 
Labor leaders halt strike over fuel prices 
Associated Press 
LAGOS 

Bowing to pressure from l'residnnt Olusegun Obasanjo's government, of'ficials of the coun­try's largest labor movement Thursdav said they were sus­pending ·a debilitating two-day general strike over rising fuel prices. 
The decision by the Nigeria Labor Congress to call off the work stoppage -which had been outlawed by government and judiciary -came just hours after police arrested dozens of labor activists. including the labor movement's leader. 
Nigeria Labor Congress leader Adams Oshiomolc was seized by policn at the airport in the capital, Abuja. as he attempted to board a flight to Lagos, the West African 11ation's largest city, said Congress spokesman Chris Uyot. 
It was the second time police had detained Oshiomole since the strike paralyzed commerce Wednesday across most Nigerian cities and provoked clashes in some places. He was charged with harassing people at a hotel and construction site. 
"We arc tired and have tried­our best to secure his n1lease," Labor Congress official Isa Tidjani told reporters in Abuja. "We don't know how long (Oshiomole) will remain in detention." 
Before his arrest, Oshiomole had vowed to continue tho action until the government lowered fuel prices. 
At least 29 other labor oflicials 
and trade unionists were detained 
'EAAl')VLKO 

SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
Protect Your Asset & Privacy With an affordable International Trust and build wealth at the same time. plus help St. Johns Center Call l-888-437-0077 

Thursday morning in the north­ern city of Kano, Uyot said, bring­ing to at least 110 the number arrested nationwide. Police would not confirm the number. 
Obasanjo's government had outlawed the strike, a decision supported by Abuja's High Court late Wednesday, oflicials said. 
In many parts of the country, the strike appeared to be weaken­ing. Most government employees returned to work in Abuja, and banks reopened after beefing up security. Yayali Ahmmed, head of Nigeria's civil service. warned over state television Wednesday that public workers who failed to return to work would be fired. 
But the strike held in some cities. In Lagos, banks, gasoline stations and major stores had remained· closed, though some small neighborhood shops reopened to sell bread and veg­etables. Most buses and taxis had staved off the roads, and com­muters were traveling highways on foot. 
Before the strike was suspend­ed Thursday, there was no imme­diate sign of the clashes between demonstrators and police that plagued Lagos a day earlier and left at least one labor activist injured with a gunshot wound to the leg. A policeman was injured by a stone-throwing mob. 
The union accused authorities of throwing tear gas at 30 union members detained in a crowded cell in Port Harcourt. Police declined to comment on the alle­gation, and it was not possible to · ind11pendently confirm the inci­dent. 
CUBA 
Anlerican -wolllen nteet Castro 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 
When 40 influential women from Washin-gton state met with Fidel Castro this week, the 75-year-old presidirnt s p e n t several. minutes chatting with each one, ask­ing their names, t h e i r interests, t h e i r thoughts on Cuba. 
"He obviously had read the biographies and knew who each person was," said Susan Jeffords, dean of Social Sciences at the University of Washington. 
While Castro met with the entire group for three hours, he spent another two hours talking with delegation member Sen. Maria Cantwell. When the Washington Democrat told Castro she feared she would miss her afternoon flight, he personally escorted to the airport in his black Mercedes Benz. 
The personalized attention that Cuba's head of state gave each woman demon­strated his great interest in Americans whose opinions could count in efforts to change U.S. policy toward the communist country. It also underscored what Castro has said all along: his beef is with the U.S. govern­ment, not with the American people. 

"It was certainly exciting 
to meet with him. He is a 
very charming and eloquent 
man," said Jeffords, who 
traveled here with the uni­
versity's Center for Women 
and Demo<;racy. Their visit 
ends Friday. 
Castro learned the impor­
tance of courting average 
Americans such as these · women during the fight for 
shipwreck survivor Elian 
Gonzalez, who returned to 
the island in the summer of 
2000. 
While Cuban exiles battled 
to keep the child with his 
relatives in Miami, many 
other Americans supported 
efforts to have the child 
returned to his father on the ·island. 
The seven-month battle 
over the boy, who was res­
cued at sea off Florida's 
coast, showed that even if 
Americans don't agree with 
Cuba's 
form of 

govern­"It was certainly chairman of ment, the center that
exciting to meet with 
they no organized the
him. He is a very
longer trip and presi­V i e W charming and eloquent dent of Stellar 
,,

C u b a man. International, a through Seattle invest­a purely ment firm. 
Susan Jeffords
ideologi­"I first came c a 1 Dean of Social Sciences, here a little prism. University of Washington over a year ago 
While the Bush administration and powerful Cuban exiles support the 40­year-old embargo against the island as a way to pres­sure Castro, both Democratic and Republican lawmakers have fought to ease and even eliminate the sanctions, saying Cuba could bP,come a new market for American products. 
Legislators across the politi­cal spectrum also have worked to erase U.S. restric­tions against travel by most Americans to the Caribbean island. 

An Arizona Republican, Rep. Jeff Flake. is sponsoring an amendment prohibiting the Treasury Department from spending money on enforcing the four-decade travel ban. 
Flake believes that by trav­eling morn freely to Cuba, Americans will bring with them ideas and values that will help end the communist regime. 
The Washington women ­bankers, business owners, government officials and oth­ers -said they also support freer American travel to Cuba, and hope to return next year. For this visit, they trav-· eled under a Treasury Department license granted to· the University of Washington. 
The trip wa~ aimed at pro­moting understanding between U.S. and Cuban women leaders, said Laurie McDonald Jonsson, board 
with a vision 

that American women should have the chance to share with the women of Cuba," said Jonsson. 
The Americans said they were impressed by the gains women had made in Cuba, and particularly with individ­ual women they met in recent days. 
"I've had the chance to meet some amazing women here. Some I will remember for the rest of my life," Jeffords said. 
Connie Niva, head of the Washington State Transportation Commission, said she will also remember meeting Castro, who chuck­led when she shared a joke learned here about Cuba's huge buses, known as "camels" for their unusual shape. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Helena Payne Sheila Egts 
Katie Rand 
Sports 
Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 

Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Production 
Noah Amstadter 
Lab Tech 
Tim Kachmar 
POLL RESULTS 

Was the hiring of Tyrone Willingham the right choice for Notre Dame?: 
*Total votes: 348 

. Poll courtesy of NDToday.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When one says that a writer is fashionable one practically always means that he is admired by people under 30." 
George Orwell author 
r---------------­
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Holl. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EnrroR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR Noreen Gillespie  BUSINESS .MANAGER Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR Kerry Smith  OPERATIONS MANAGER Pa< Peters  

NEWS EOITOR: Jason Mcfarley VIEWl'OINT EDITOR: Pairick McEJwec Sl'ORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EorroR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERflSING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DE.~IGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GitAPHIC.S EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 0FMCE MANAGER/GENERAL lNFO..............63 l-74 7 I FAX..........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8&40 
oh.ervaJ@nJ.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-454 l BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-53!3 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................63 l-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO.............. . ....................................... 631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMl"l!STRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.11d.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, a.swell a.s cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
s 

weather for up-to-the  movies/music for  
minute forecasts  weekly student reviews  
advertise for policies  online features for spe­ 
and rates ofprint ads  cial campus coverage  
archives to search for  about The Observer  
articles published after  to meer the editors and  
Augus1 1999  staff  

POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and onlirie by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on conrem. 
The news is reported a.s accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authoIS and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro ill readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include romacr informa,ion. 
Q11estio11s rey;ardmg Obsn-wr policies should be direct­ed 10 Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 
OTHE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 18, 2002 

Commend Notre Dame for abroad programs 
Notre Dame students do experience the world outside our cozy corner of' Northern Indiana. In fact, they do so in relatively high numbPrs. 
According to a recent report released bv the Institute of 
OJhe FJTtorial
International Education, the University had the second largest pro­portion of students studying abroad among t\mcriran research universities in 1999-2000 at 37 percent. 
Notre Dame's international study program should be commended for the work it has done. 
Students from Notre Dame visit cities and peoples from WAstern Europe to SouthAast Asia, sometimes learning new languages but always adapting to a foreign way of life. They were doing this before Sept. 11 and they are doing this now. While estimates from travel industry and other sources place the drop in overseas traflic since September 11 anywhere from ts to 40 percent, Thomas Boganschild, the director of Notre Dame's international 
Atlas analyzed 
What do you do when you can't find a single existing religion you agree with? Why, you create your own. 
After having encountered Ayn Rand fans on college campuses and online 
chatrooms (they  
always show up  Christine Niles  
sooner or later). I  
thought I should  
finally get around  
to reading "Atlas  As I See It ...  
Shrugged." Last  
summer, lan­ 
guishing in south·  

crn France, I was provided the oppor­tune lime to wade through the 1,000­plus page book. 
The novel encapsulates all the major aspects of Hand's philosophy, something she termed objcctivism, although the characteristic of objec­tivity comprises only one facet of her worldview. The story revolves around the industrial geniuses who keep the world going and carry it, like Atlas, on their backs. The enemies consist of the "moochers" and "looters" of the world, those who believe in sacrifice, mercy and taxes (this will make sense, I promise). 
The title gives away the plot -what happens when Atlas shrugs? What happens when the movers and shak­ers of the world stop moving and shaking? The answer: the world goes rolling off Atlas' back to shatter into a thousand pieces on the lloor. 
One thing I will give to Rand -her philosophy is unique. One doesn't Mten encounter fervent pro-capital­ism cheek-by-jowl with atheism. At times her story takes near-paranoiac turns regarding the plots of American socialists to destroy America's eco­nomic freedom through forced shar­ing. It is understandable when you realize Rand spent her early life in post-czar Russia, when the Soviet Union .was just taking its baby steps. The communist governnrnnt seized her father's pharmacy and hencefor. 
ward Hand dreamed of moving to her ideal country, the United States. She eventually defected, married a Hollywood actor and spent the rest of her life in America. Thus, her work displays blatantly pro-capitalist, anti­communist sentiment -which doesn't bother me a bit. lier meta­physics, however, are another matter. More on this in another column. 
There seems to be a great deal of good mixed with a great deal of bad in the novel. Hand lauds creativity, free­dom, the courage to lift oneself from despair and strike out alone and the honesty to take responsibility for one­self rather than blaming society for one's problems. Some monologues are downright inspiring. 
However, a fatal flaw exists in her 

· work: her enemies are too easy. She paints a simplistic portrait of them: all those who believe it right to sacrifice a victim (usually money-laden) for the benefit of the Staie. Although she suc­ceeds in making them out to be despi· cable, there is no complexity to their wickedness. They seem, rather, like straw men erected for the sake of easy conquest. They are altogether too uncomplicated, too simply sketched. They present no real chal­lenge to the heroes and therefore the heroes' struggles are made all the less interesting and all the more pre­dictable. 
Wise men have said that one should never underestimate one's enemies. Rand ignores this and thus her story lacks the richness and depth it might otherwise have attained. Her meta­physics and epistemology equally lack depth for the same reason: Rand fails to take her intellectual enemies seri­ously. 
The most striking aspect of the work is Hand's self-aggrandizem1mt. One of the htmrns, Dagny, is a woman of Rand's own heart -and an impres­sive figure sho is. Not only is she a genius, slrn runs thr~ most. pownrf'ul 
needs. 

In a world that has violently revealed itself as still frag­mented, where war can tear lives apart and intolerance of what is foreign find sympathies with peoplA in all coun• tries, it is all the more important for young people to trav­el and to 1mgage other cultures. 
In times such as these, a dangerous temptation is to pull up the drawbridge and cut off contact from the unfamiliar. 
This temptation should be resisted. 
In the semesters to come, students must continue to study a.broad, seeking understanding with others and working to replace intolerance with respect and justice. 
study programs. said there has not been a fall in the number of applications duo to the attacks. 
Boganschild ever1 expects an even greater numbers of students to participate in study abroad programs next year. 
This increase in foreign travel by Notre Dame students is exactly what the world 
transcontinental railroad business in the world. Plus she is beautiful, famous and brimming with confi­dence. On top of all this, she is loved by the three most handsome, powerful and brilliant men in the world, who never cease to effuse with praise for her. Dagny accepts it all with the false modesty of those who believe them­selves superior. By page 700, one begins to think this love quadrangle is no more than the idealistic fantasy of an adolescent, times three. 
There is a dark side to Hand's phi­losophy. In one disturbing scene, Hand systematically describes the occupants of a passenger train. She demonstrates how not a single pas­senger agrees with her worldview, before she sends them off into a dark tunnel to suffocate to death. Ironically, Rand's philosophy sets out to praise human worth, yet the final result is a conceited disregard for human dignity and the worthwhile perspectives that exist apart from her own. One gets the sense that Hand would not have been bothered in the slightest if all her political and intel­lectual enemies were eliminated as they were in her book. 
Meanwhile, the Prime Movers arc shepherded to a hidden valley in the Colorado Rockies, a heaven on earth of sorts. This place is known only to the elect few, and here they bide their time frolicking over verdant pastures while they wait for the world to self­destruct. Once that occurs, their mis­sion is to return and rebuild the world, repopulating it with others of objectivist bent. 
Like I said, a new religion. 
Christine Niles is a student at the Notre Dame law School Her column appears bi-weekly. She can be con­tacted at viewpoint. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those <~{ the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 18, 2002 page 11 
GUEST COLUMN 
Society, not TV ads, creates 'cool' drinking image 
Akohol is cool. There are no two ways about it No matter how hard the average authority 11gure protests, it's cool. Alcohol is up them with leather miniskirts, riding motorcycles and cut­ting class. Them is something sexy Charles about the Crawford socialitn's hip flask. with its shiny steel cm;P The Daily and screw-off top. Aztec James Bond wouldn't b(' who hP is drinking Sprite: only his ultra-dry rndka martini will do. 
This is thn problem faced by anyone trying to discourage alcohol use -or any ollrnr frownnd-upon activity, such as smoking -<'SpPcially among minors. It's so damn cool. 
Tlw cacheL is unavoidable. 
Br1iaking a 50-yt>ar network Lclevi­sion ban, NBC rncently decided to accnpt ads for distillml spirits, more commonly known as hard liquor. 
/\nd now tlH\ country is up in arms. 
From all quarlers the cry has b1rnn raisml. NBC is putting profits above the health and safoty of America! Down with tlw network and its devious cor­ruption of our youth' 
This reaction is. of course, wholly expPctPd -trrnsP days. tlw outraged responsP starts bcfon, tlw offending prnss conl'erence is over -and yet most of' the arguments it raises are far f"rom. shall we say, watertight. 
In a lctlPr to NBC. representatives Frank Wolf lH-Va.J and Lucille Roybal-
GUEST COLUMN 
Allard {D-Calif.) question, "Why now your change of heart'? It is a sad com­mentary that your bottom line today is rrwre impm·tant tu your company than thf) lives of young people• tempted to drink or recovering alcoholics trying to beat their disease." 
Apparently the honorable represen­tatives suffer from a severe case of tunnel vision. Focused on NBC's ads, they ignore the !'act that the American corporate (and political) structure is not exactly wanting for members who put their bottom line above the health and safety or the citizenry. 
Also, they arc somehow OK with the beer and wine commercials that cur­rontlv run on network TV. Indeed, the hard.liquor ads that show regularly on cable and local stations are fine. It's just the NBC spots that will bring harm. 
Finally, tbcy gloss over the real prob­lem: that both the young people and the recovering alcoholics they are so concerned about (the ones from their districts, naturally) already know exactly how cool alcohol is and didn't have to learn it from a 30-second spot on TV. A hundred-thousand different messages already inform·kids about booze. From movie characters to mag­azine ads to our very language llet's go grab a "cold one," etc.) the message is clear: drinking is adult. It's cool. 
Bill Press, host of the CNN shout-fest Crossfire says, "No matter how hard it tries, there is simply no way for NBC to justify or explain its decision to sell time to the liquor industry, except for what it is: pure greed." 
The facts of the matter are these. NBC is in business to make money. So are liquor companies. The product being advertised is legal. It is also under the most restrictive set of adver­tising guidelines devised for any prod­uct, ever. A few of the 19 provisions are: 
The advertiser must air social-responsibili­ty (anti-underage drinking, pro-desig­nated driver. etc. l spots for four months before NBC will accept product ads. Even after that point, 20 pp,rcent of the ads must be social-respon­sibility themed. 
Thr ads must air between 9 and l 1 p.m. or on "The Tonight Show With Jay Leno." 
No professional ath­letes can appear in the ads. 
No one can be shown drinking liquor in the ads. 

The actors in the ads must be at least 30 years old. 
Alcohol is cool. We can't get around it. We also can't get around the fact that the consequences of alcohol are quite often devastating. Whether it be a drunk driver, a binge-drinking death or an alcoholic parent, there is no denying the terrible effect that alcohol Can have. Yet most Americans are responsible drinkers. 
So, it turns out that all this hubbub over NBC's ads rnally comes down to the following: 
Parents should 
know what their kids are watching on TV. They ­should be ready to frankly and seriously discuss alcohol with them. They shouldn't demo­nize it, and nfli­ther should the media 1>r our con­gress demonize NBC. Because we all know what happens when an authority figure tells a kid they can't have some­thing cool. 
And if it's any­thing, alcohol is cool. 

This column originally appeared in the Jan. 16 edition of the San Diego State University newspaper, The Daily Aztec, and is reprinted here courtesy ofU-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Corporate news endangers objectivity 
Mickey Mousp is creepy. Walter lssacson is a boob. And General Electric makes too many war machines to bP in the television news business. · 
1 am able to freely express these brash opinions through the First Amendment and the newsprint paid for by Tim Daily Pennsylvanian. Unfortunatdy. l am a dying breed 
Will Ulrich 
-a member of the media who doesn't answer to one of the monolithic corporate conglomer­Daily ates that control thn !low ol' infor­
Pennsylvanian
mation throughout tht1 world. • 
Now this isn't going to be your typical look-at-rnt!•solnmnly-watching-out-for-the-truth­now-arnn 't-1-cool columns. I realize that journalism has always been caught up in partisanship and commerce. Even back when the Federalists and the Jeffersonians Mch had their own papers, the name of the game was selling copies. 
I don't think our government or our citizenry can do much ol' anything lo make the kind of journalism one finds on TV fresh and clean. Rather, I simply think it's a shamn that tlw vast majority of Americans get their news from sources which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of' hug1\ corporate entities that can do nothing but toe a pro-staws-qun, pro-big-business lino. 
Tlw lion's sharp ofthn mndia rackPt is governed by 10 untrustworthy f"amilies and things may still worsen in the information cos/ nostra. 
Tlw libPral magazi1rn "Tbe Nation" devoted its Jan. 7 Pdition to the topic or thesn corµorato conglomerates. and its reporting deserves your attention. Even if you don·t read lhe magazine, take a luok at its alluring cen­terl'old -a chart entitled ''The Rig Ten." 
This is lhe nanm givrn to the 10 corporalo giants that dominat" the media, and their various holdings are laid out in a menacing series of color-coded bubbles. The thing rnally does resemble a law enfori.:ement chart of I\Jnw York's old r.rinw families, except names like c;,m1bino and Genovese have been supplanted by ones lik<i lkrtelsmann. AOl/l'imt~ Warnflr, Vivendi and Viarom. 
Some may look at this chart and Im out a hearty "So what!" Media outlets are like any other business. Other businesses need to consolidate in order to thrive today. Why shouldn't the media? 
That argument has its place, but it fails to take into account the undeniable harm that these conglomerates have already done to objective journalism. 
Take the case of CNN, a network once lauded for its hard-hitting reporting. Currently under the towering corporate umbrella of AOL'Time Warner and the guidance of former Time Managing Editor Walter Issacson, Saddam Hussein's choice for television news becomes more of an info-tainment dealer every day. 
According to The Nation, lssacson recently distributed a memo at CNN which told staffers that news broadcasts should be sugarcoat­nd to maintain sup­port for the Prnsident and his war -this to a network whose flag­waving was already becoming pathological. 
As if we needed another sign of CNN's trek from Atlanta to Hollywood, lssacson and Co. this week works for a perfect example. 
In addition to its TV networks and sports teams, GE is one of the nation's largest defense contractors. Focusing mostly on the construction of aircraft engines, GE's prof­its certainly get a boost during wartime. In 2000, 8 per­cent of the company's $129.9 billion total revenue came 
from defense contracts, and that's sure to jump after 
Sept. 11. How can the public really expect NBC, MSNBC and CNBC to fairly and accurately 
report all of the news about a war from which their corporate parent derives financial benefit? Obviously, most of the ways in which the media cartel filters news aren't overt. The most damage will be done 
by the tendency of these corporate interests to filter out news items that challenge and vex the average 
citizen. That's because a fuzzy, coherent depiction of world events sells more diapers. 
As a paradigmatic example, take a Nov. 4 survey by the Sunday Times of London which found that "four out of every IO British 
Muslims believe Osama bin Laden is justified in mounting his war against the UnitPd States." This survey, conducted by a rep­
utable London newspaper, certainly clouds the picture of Britain as inde­fatigable ally that has been presented by 
major news sources. It's an item worth considering, but just the sort of item that doesn't find its way into the news these days. 
were forced to apologize for a • ~•~ promotional ad that called anchor (It This column Jirst appeared in the Jan. 16 edi-Paula Zahn "sexy." ----~ tion ofthe University ofPennsyluania newpaper, The 
Anyone who thinks that the objectivity ol' news Daily Pennsylvanian, and is reprinted here courtesy of sources isn't threatened by corporate ownership is out U-WIRH. of his mind. One need look no further than tho the link The views expressed in this column are those ofthe between General Electric and the NBC family of net-author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE 
campus
page 12 
Friday, January 18, 2002 



Scene examines the ancient art and~ 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS Scene Editor 

Feng Shui {pronounced "Fung Schway"} is a term kicked around about as much as "PCS network" and "VCR Plus" and, like its fellow jar­gonistic catch phrases, nobody seems to know what it is or how it works. 
Simply put, Feng Shui is the art and science of living in harmony with your environment by attracting positive energy and blocking negative energy. While this might sound like a piece of the plotline of the latest anime flick, Feng Shui has been around for about 6,000 years. Originally developed in China, Feng Shui is the art of object placement in one's living space to best harmonize the occupant with his or her environment. 
But don't expect that moving your futon to the other side of your dorm room will suddenly make you win the lottery. Feng Shui is based on rules and guidelines of positioning of objects. 
Feng Shui is primarily concerned with harnessing qi (pronounced "chee" and also spelled "chi"), a complicated energy force in constant motion and flux. While different schools of Feng Shui define qi as different things like electro-magnetic, gravitational or quantum fields, it is easiest to think of qi as the universal energy that con­nects all things. Qi comes in both posi­tive and negative forms. 
Sheng qi is a positive energy and is beneficial to your senses. Things that taste, smell or look good are full of sheng qi. Besides the five types of sheng qi related to the five senses, there is a sixth type of sheng qi that is unnamed: it is meLaphysical in nature and is identified with the feeling of being in love or being in tune with nature or another person. 
Along the same lines there is a negative energy known as sha qi. Sha qi is the exact opposite of sheng qi. Like sheng qi, there is also an extrasensory version of sha qi which is identified with an ominous sense of impending doom or depression. 
Qi not the same for every­one; for example, one person may like the smell of garlic and another may not. For the former, the aroma of Italian food would most likely be full of sheng qi, but the latter would find it full of sha qi. It is in this way that no object has either sheng or sha qi, but rather it is the qi's interaction with the individual that causes it to be positive or negative. In fact, Feng Shui translates lit­erally as "wind and water;" symbolically the two elements are the primary forces that cause qi to be sheng or sha. 
And it is because qi can be changed in this manner that the arrangement of objects in one's environment direct­ly affects whether one experiences 
sheng or sha qi. For example, to harness the most qi, a practitioner of Feng Shui would want to make his or her front door (a place where qi flows into the home) as inviting as possible to encourage sheng qi to enter the home. 
Because Feng Simi is an individual endeavor, it is often hard to give good advice. Thi> art uses a mode raic Ly complex web of numerolo­gy to deter­mine the best ways for individuals to arrange their possessions. However, there are a number of basic rules that one can take as fairly sound advice. These rules, however, are not set in stone. It is important to realize that no building can be perfectly arranged with Feng Shui. It's best to approach Feng Shui with an open mind 


Feng Shui is not a religion. In fact, one of the fundamental concepts of Feng Shui is the belief in a higher 
power, but whether it is Buddha, Jesus or the Big Bang is irrelevant. Feng Shui walks the thin line between faith and science. 
Vera Marie Kostelnik, a local Feng Shui practi­tioner, explains the relationship between Feng Shui and religion as one of symbiosis. 
"You want to bP one with your source, bP one with God, with th(' Earth. And when you am 01m with your source you am in Feng Shui: things go smoothly ... I don't know if vou noed to b111ieve iu anything ... but it helps," Kostelnik said. 
Although belief in Feng Shui is critical, it is not faith that actualizes Feng Shui's beneficial effect, but rather the physical nature of objects interacting with their environments and the practitioners positive energy causing beneficial things to happen as well. 
"It's physics. Physics works for everybody," Kostelnik said. Kostelnik feels that the proof is in the pudding with regard to Feng Shui. 
Nine Feng Shui Tips 
1) Beds should always be made as well a~ room represents clutter in the mind. 
2) Use light colors in decorating. Dark cola Light colors are inviting and warm .. 
3) Hang metal windchimes by the door tot 
4) Put statues and pictures of deities high ence. 
5) Play meditative music to relax and invitE 
6) Use orange scents to refresh the mind 1 
7) Dangle a crystal from a window if its vi~ unpleasant sights. 
8) Hang pa-kau mirrors to deflect sha en~ 
9) Put a fish tank near the door for good f~ black goldfish for good luck. The bla~ 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 18, 2002 
Notre Dame hopes to leave Kentucky blue 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Irish forward Ryan Humphrey dives on the floor for a loose ball during Notre Dame's win against Army earlier this season. Notre Dame players say they are looking forward to having the students back cheering In the Joyce Center. 
POST PERIMETER 
BENCH
PLAYERS PLAYERS 
I.I.I 
:E 
cc 
C 
I.I.I 
a: 
l­
o 
z 

::::::::::::::::::::::::.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.:.-: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 



Brey is in his second year as a head coach at Notre Dame. He has a habit of maximizing the potential of play­ers. While Notre Dame has regained national respect under his tenure, he has yet to beat a top-ranked opponent. 
The Irish tend to play man-to-man that shuts down an oppo­nent, but can shift into a zone. They live and die by the 3-pointer, but when the perime­ter shooters struggle they look to get the ball inside. 
Humphrey has been an inside force all year long for the Irish and leads Notre Dame in scoring. But his free-throw shooting leaves something to be desired. Swanagan is a solid all-around player and is willing to do the little things. 
Thomas, the top rookie in the Big East, is a good 3-point shooter but often tries to do too much. When Graves and Carroll are hot, the Irish light up the scoreboard. But their shots have disap­peared lately, and the Irish have struggled. 

Brey has been reluc­
The Irish have 

tant to use his bench 
played a multitude of 

all y·ear. Jones is a 
close games, but have 

good defensive pres­
yet to dominate a 

ence, Macura is a 
quality opponent. 

solid rebounder, and 
While the students are 
back from break, the

Cornette is a combina­
Irish have struggled

tion of the two. 
However, the trio has 
on national television 

not seen many min­
over the last two 
utes lately. 
years. 

Smith has one national championship under his belt. Despite being under intense pressure as the head coach of the Wildcats, he has put hie; mark on the tradition of Kentucky basketball. 
Kentucky likes to slow it down on offense and try to get the ball inside. The Wildcats play an aggressive man-to-man defense but have had difficulty guarding the 3-point shot. 
While both teams play similar styles, the 
1

:Fi¼l~:~~,{i
~~,.;~ 

.;.~.·~ gw f.'.'°h'~IJn .~! 
Ke,n,tu ~y•4~~Hcl'C presence on the court. 
The  Wildcats  must  
frustrate  the  Irish  
offensively.  

The Wildcats have a center tandem of Camara and Estill. Both are excellent shot blockers and can step outside for three-point shots. However, they tend to disappear offensively. Despite his sizP., Fitch is a great rebounder. 
===::::::::::::::::::: ~=:::::::::::::::::::=-==================.:: ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,:: 
Th~. .. a,.t~i~tic 
HtJmphr~r n;!U!,t ll;\>oid 
getµng in,Joul tt.oillil1:1. He,:pe~.ds t9 win tl).e battle of t:li.¢ boa rd$ an.d ·· bf> a.n. inside pres­ence for the Irlehc 'A.s long. as..,he is ill the game, the lrish have the edge. 
Prince is the reigning SEC Player of the Year and may be the most versatile player in the nation. Hawkins' shot selection either keeps with Wildcats in the game or takes them out of it. Bogans has been a mystery this season. 
While fan support for 
the Irish might be the 
greatest it has been all 
dp, ~ 
Jila~ed 

1. 

,s.tne 1~rot Notre Dame must stay
Th 

close early becauseout ers Kentucky pulls away in 
the Iffflittnvin-:--­

bench. the first half. 
Kentucky is one of the deepest teams in the nation and regular­ly plays 10 players. Carruth is deadly behind the arc. Daniels and Hayes are solid defensive contributors. Chiles has been shaky as a backup point guard. 
Kentucky has been a Jekyll and Hyde team all year. They've shown they can compete with anyone in the country, but thP.y've also strug­gled and have blown big leads. Which Wildcat team is going to show up Saturday? 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 

After coasting through the first seven games of a non-con­ference schedule, Mike Brey and his Irish squad hit a few stumbling blocks. 
Going 5-4 in their last nine games, the Jrish have tasted a little bit of reality: the Big East conference is a tough place to play. Add a non-conference powerhouse like the No. 12 Kentucky Wildcat squad that is heading to the Joyce Center court Saturdav to thP. mix, and the Irish are at a critical point in the season. Rut the challenge awaiting Brey's unranked squad is one the team is look­ing forward to. 
"This game is a great atten­tion-getter," Brey said. "It's an RPI game. It gives the program some attention if we can come up with a win." 
Winning games against ranked teams has been tough for the Irish. The team traveled to the Carrier Dome Monday to take on No. 8 Syracuse, only to come up five points short despite a late-game defensive stand. 
"This game is going to be very comparable [to. the Syracuse game]", Brey said. "It's a top-15 program, they're a confident basketball team." 
The Wildcats have proven their talent with a 11-4 record in the regular season. The pre­season SEC favorite, the Wildcats have disposed handily of several opponents, including Indiana, a team the Irish couldn't beat in early December. And Tubby Smith's Wildcat team proved it meant business when it came heart­breakingly close to an overtime upset over No. 1 Duke. 
But with the highs have also come the lows. 
A home-opening loss to unranked Western Kentucky jolted the program at the outset 
COACHING STYLE OF PLAY 
and a recent slump has hurt the team. The Wildcats dropped two straight games to Mississippi State and Georgia last week. 
"They had a little lull, but they played well against Ole Miss in their last game," Brey said. "They are a very talented team." 
If the Irish hope to pull off an upset before the home crowd, they will need to fine-tune their offensive game. The Irish, who averaged nearly 90 points in their seven-game winning streak to open the season, have averaged just under 62 recent outings. 
But because the level of com-Dame student section in more than a month. 
"Students drive the building," Brey said. " When the endzone is filled with students it makes a lot of electricity. And that's contagious." 
Humphrey is looking forward to the familiarities of the Joyce Center. 
"On the road, I was getting heckled a lot," Humphrey said. "With our student section, it will be good to have them on our side and against the other team." 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu. 
INTANGIBLES 

petition has increased and the Irish defense has held fast, Brey is not too concerned with the lack of offensive productivi­ty. 
"I think we're OK," Brey said. 'Tm a big believer in aver­ages." 
According to Brey, the keys to an Irish win Saturday are rebounding and taking care of the ball. 
"Our poise is important, and staying in character," Brey said. "In big game situations there is a tendency to do things that aren't you." 
According to senior forward Ryan Humphrey, defense will continue to be the key when the Irish take the court. 
"Defense is important," Humphrey said. "We need to play tough defense and keep rebounding." 
Defensively, the Irish will look to contain the Wildcat's most explosive player, Tayshaun Prince. The forward, who shoots more than 50 percent from the field, averages nearly 18 points a game. The rest of the Wildcat scoring comes from a balanced and deep bench in which 10 players see consistent court time. 
Playing to the home crowd will make the task of an upset easier for the Irish, who have not played in front of the Notre 
Friday, January 18, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Together until the end 
Senior captains played together in high ­school before anchoring rebuilding process 
inspiration for Graves. over .500 onlv three times. Graves 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
The pair had often talked about and Swanagan joined highly-tout­
Associare Spores Editor 
going on to play college basketball ed New Jersey recruit Troy together. And when it came time Murphy in what was MacLeod's 
A hulking, trash-talking post 

to choose a college, Graves last -and best -recruiting class 
player sporting a gold tooth 
spurned his hometown college at Notre Dame. And when thev quickly caught the attention of and committed to play for John arrived, they made a pact to turn David Graves at a high school MacLeod at Notre Dame. But it the Notre Dame basketball pro­basketball camp. 
didn't look like Swanagan would gram around. 
Although both players had jnst 

join him. "We didn't care whether we finished their freshman years of Swanagan was interested in were going to be on the cover of high school. Graves found himself 
Notre Dame, but he didn't think ESPN," Graves said. "We justgawking at the physical player MacLeod was interested in him. wanted to get this place back to who controlled the inside and lronkally, Notre Dame was very where it needed to be." 
dominated opponents. 
interested in Swanagan, but That didn't happen their first 
"He intimidated the hell out of 

didn't think he wanted to play for year. While Murphy dominated me," said Graves. 
the Irish. Had Graves not made a tho Big East and Graves emerged Little did he know that Harold timely phone call to clear up the as a potent pe1imeter player, the 
-
Swanagan would quickly become 
problem. Swanagan would have Irish stiU finished 14-16. In fact,his closest friPnd and that the two 
played college basketball at Graves lost more games in his 
of them would graduate from col­
another school. first year of college basketball lege seven years later as major "Look, you should take a visit than he did between sixth and contributors to the sudden turn­up there," Graves told his friend. 12th grade.
around of the Notre Dame basket­"If you like it, we can play togPth­"If you look at where we came ball program. 
er for four more years and turn from in high school, we all came "We're like brothers," Graves the program around." from winning programs, and we said. "There's days where we·re Swanagan hopped on the next weren't used to losing,"fighting, there's days where we're plane to South Bend and loved Swanagan said. "Freshman year, back together. In the end, we've everything about the campus. it was really tough for us to lose always had each other's back." 
Even after he committed, ii was a as many games as we lost. We In Kentucky, yoW1g boys do one fight for him to clear the admis­wanted to turn the program
of two things. Either they fall in ­
sions department. They didn't around and to be able to look 
love with basketball or they move 
think Swanagan, who struggled back in four years and say we did out of state. Basketball is life in 
academically in high school, our job."
the state where residentc, live and would be able io succeed in the It was an attitude the l.rio would 
breathe Wildcat blue. It just what my style would be like," back to the NCAA tournament
classroom at Notre Dame. But make sure they passed on to each seemed natural that Swanagan 
when Swanagan is hit, he never new class of freshmen. And they Brey said. "But because of all the and win a league championship," and Graves would grow up bleed­falls down, At Notre Dame, he made the message very clear. things they went through with the Brey said. "For them, I feel good i.ng basketball. worked to prove them wrong. He Moral victories against top­coaching changes and being beat that they are going out on a very While the two spent Wgh school studied hard and earned solid ranked opponents wouldn't cut it up early, they're a pretty resilient positive not and can feel they re­summers playing on the same grades, culminating in a person­anymore, they said. The final group. They've been through _just established orn program."
AAU teams, they both came from 
al-best 3.5 grade point average score was all that mattered. about anything, and you have to While each player says they very different backgrounds. last semester. "Right when I came in," said like their mental toughness." want to return to the NCAA tour­
Graves had strong family support 
"I believed in myself, but I don't junior Matt Carroll, "they told me, While Graves and Swanagan nament and make another shot at and easily managed good grades. think a lot of' people believed in 'Last year we were OK, but didn't are close friends with all 1 O other the Big East title, deep inside, Swanagan's parents were always me." he said. "What motivatAs me do any postseason stuff. Listen. members of the team, there is a there's a small part of each player moving in and out, and he spent is people thinking I can't do things We're going to turn this thing special bond between the that is Alated at what the duo has much of his life with his grand­... People doubted me. I guess I'm around and be a national con­Kei1tucky natives that only they already accomplished at Notre mother and great aunt. But proving them wrong now." tender.'" can tmderstand. They are a pair Dame -both on and off the 
despite different backgrounds and During MacLeod's eight years that understands each other's
But if the players were deter­court. 
upbringings, the two seemed to 
as head coach at Notre Dame, the mined to turn around the pro­inner secrets and deepest "When I first c1;1.me here, I have mutual respect for each Irish had never qualified for the gram, they had trouble finding a thoughts. When Graves was didn't even know if I was going to 
other. Graves became a source of 
NCAA tournament, never won a coach who wanted to stick with replaced by Swanagan in the be here for four years, if I was stability for Swanagan. while game in four years in the Big East them. When Macleod resigned starting lineup midway through going to fail out becausfl people 
Swanagan became a source of tournament, and had finished after Graves, Swanagan and last season, it was Swanagan who thought I didn't have the ability to Murphy complP.ted their first sea­understood the l:rm,iration Graves do the things at school to succeed son, Matt Doherty was hired as was feeling. \l\lhen a determined and play basketball," Swanagan head coach. Hut just one year Swanagan wanted to -prove he said. "Now, I'm nearing the end, later, Doherty bolted for North could succeed at Notre Dame, and it's a big relief to me and my Carolina and Mike Brey was hh·ed Graves joined him in study hall. family." 
as the third basketball coach in "I haven't always had family "It's all been very satisfying," three years. around to talk to, and when I Graves said. "It's what I wanted Through all the personnel don't, I have Dave to talk to," us to do. I wanted to be a part of changes, Graves, Swanagan and Swanagan said. "Everytimfl J'm in the rebuilding and to see it fold 
Murphy formed the foundation of need or I need to talk to some­out be~ore ..my eyes, and it's been body, he's there." a blessmg.
a team that qualified for the NCAA tournament iu their junior "He's persevered through so When college basketball is a year. In fact, after Murphy left a much. You think you have things distant memory, Graves and year early for the NBA, the only bad, and then you look at him Swanagan will still be calling 
three people who had been affili­and you say you have it as good each other up on the phone, ated ·with the Notre Dame basket­as you can," Graves said. laughing about life. They'll talk ball program for more than three "Everytime you come into contact about how they transformed a 
years were Graves, Swanagan with Harold, you enjoy your life." dismal basketball program into and strength and conditioning In the one season with Matt one that is nationally respected. coach Tony Rolinski. Doherty as head coach, the Irish And they might even be able to 
"It feels like I've been here 12 narrowly missed a NCAA tourna­watch the Irish play in the Final years because of all the people ment berth and finished second in Four. that have circulated through the NIT. Last year, Graves and They might even remember here," Graves said. "A lot of play­Swanagan celebrated Notre that day, years ago, when they 
ers in the country would have Dame's first Big East West first met in a Kentucky gym. 
transferred. But ~hen you have Division Championship in school Then, they'll talk about how they players in the school that trust the history and helped lead the Irish anchored a program in transition program and have blind faith, to a 20-10 record and an appear­and each other. 
things will work out. If I didn't ance in the NCAA tournament -"There's always going to be a have faith in this place, I would the first for the Irish in 11 years. special bond between me and have left." They've had their own individ­David," Swanagan said. "We 
Graves, Murphy and Swanagan ual success, too. Until Swanagan grew up together in high school, made sure none of the younger missed a game earlier this season we played college ball together, 
players lost faith, either. And as against Colgate, the pair had and it's going to be a fact that MacLeod, Doherty and Brey played in every single college we're going to spend some holi­passed through the revolving door game together. And Graves needs days together after we graduate. to the office of Notre Dame bas­just 27 more 3-pointers to set the He's part of my family now, and ketball coach, the players all-time Notre Dame record for we're going to stick together.'' 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer remained the cornerstone of the most career 3-point shots made. 


Senior David Graves watches his shot fly toward the basket basketball program. "They came in here when it Contact Andrew Soukup at during Notre Dame's win against New Hampshire. Graves was "(When I first came in, they was absolutely rock bottom, and asoukup@nd.edu.
they helped lead this program

a key part of Notre Dame's rebuilding process. were] a little in shock, wondering 
,.. 

_ . page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 18, 2002 
Big East race heats up; Irish in third 

-Freshman Chris Thomas flips up a shot during Notre Dame's season opener against New Hampshire. Thomas earned Big East Co-Rookie of the Week honors, the third time he has done so this season. 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sporrs Editor 

After dropping Monday night's contest to Syracuse, the Irish missed a golden opportunity to take control of the Big East West Division. Now, with Notre Dame entering the heart of the Big East schedule, every game becomes important as tho Irish try to defend their league title. 
The 14-team Big East conference is split up into two divisions of seven teams each. The Irish are tied for third place of the West Division with a league record of 2-2. Ahead of Notre Dame is undefeated Syracuse and 3-2 Pittsburgh. Georgetown is tied with the Irish. and Hutgers, Seton Hall .and West Virginia bring up the rear of the West Division. 
After Saturday's non-conference game against Kentucky, the Irish close out their schedule by play­ing 11 Big East games, eight of which are against West Division foes. 
Notre Dame has a crur.ial four-game homestretch coming up that will impact the Irish postseason hopes. After Saturday's games against Kentucky, the Irish host Georgetown, Seton Hall, and Pittsburgh. If the Irish will all three games, they will move into sec­ond place in the WP-st Division. 
The way teams finish in their respective divisions during the season determines where they will be seeded in the Big East Tournament. For example. if the Irish finish third in the West Division, they will play the sixth-place team in the East Division. The top two teams earn first-round byes for the early March tournament held in Madison Square Garden, while the seventh seed in each division does not earn a tournament berth 
In the East Division. Connecticut is on top, followed by Miami, St. Johns, Villanova, Boston College, Providence and Virginia Tech. 
Although the team lost to Syracuse Monday night; Notre Dame has beaten West Division foes Pittsburgh and West Virginia. The Irish lost to East Division !)pponent Villanova in the Big East opener last month. 
Notre Dame plays home-and-home series against all division foes, meaning that the Irish play two games against each opponent, one home, and one away. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Domino's Pizza Team Notre Dame 
1627 S Edison Ave 
South Bend, IN 
271-0300 

• Store Hours: Mon thru Thurs 4 pm to 1 am Fri & Sat 11 am to 3 am, Sun 11 am to 1 

Campus Special 
Large One Topping Pizza And 
Your Choice Of: Cheesy Bread, Cinna Stix, Bread Sticks 
~HE
vnSERVER 

Friday, January 18, 2002 page 13 

cience of object placement, Feng Shui 

She became interested in the art in 1983 when, after a divorce and a series of dead-end jobs, a friend sug­gested she read a book on Feng Shui. Kostelnik started organizing her house by adding a fish tank, a Feng Shui maneuver meant to increase one's good fortune, to her home. After she installed the fish tank her luck, indeed, began to change. As she con­tinued to organize her home with Feng 
for Colle e Students: 
: books and papers organized, clutter in the 
1rs may cause depression and introversion.· 

harness invigorating yang energy. 
p on walls and shelves in a place of rever 
sound sheng qi to enter the. room. r studying. includes corners, rooftops, or other 
y. une. ~se eight orange goldfish and one goldfish will absorb sha qi. 
Shui she found that her life had almost completely turned around. 
Kostelnik enrolled in Feng Shui and Eastern Philosophy classes at the University of California at Berkeley under the tutelage of Lin Yun, a prac­titioner of Black Hat Feng Shui. 
Eventually, Kostelnik managed to open a metaphysical bookshop with the money she save from the increas­ingly large tips she was receiving 
while she worked as a waitress; tips, she believes, that were a direct result of her use of Feng Shui. Kostelnik eventu­ally returned to Indiana where she has been a practitioner of Feng Shui and occasional univcr­sitv lecturer for the past seven years. 
"T think that Feng Shui [helped me to manage myJ problems in a better manner, a more adult man­ner, with inielli­genr.e," Kostelnik said. 
Dealing with life's chaos is Feng Shui's pur­pose. Because the qi of one's envi­ronment is direct­ly Jinked with one's personal qi, ordering the space in which one lives will cause the chaos in one's per­sonal life to be resolved. 

Feng Shui cannot always con­trol all the factors in an envi­ronment. Apartments and dorm rooms can present par­ticular Feng Shui challenges because of the conservative amount of space, limited options in location and (of course) smaller financial bud­gets. Remember, Feng Shui is not a to do list; one does not have-to have obsessive-compul­sive disorder to improve one's qi. 
Kostelnik feels that the biggest piece of advice she can offer college students is to clean up their living areas. 
"Your home is a metaphor for what is happening in your life, it's like a mirror. If your home is cluttered it probably means your mind is cluttered too," Kostelnik said. 
For example, doorways and windows with straight path­ways leading to them may invite shars, intense bursts of sha qi known as "poison arrows." Often times in Feng Shui-conscious buildings, 
architects will build zig-zag paths to 
prevent shars from crossing. A dorm 
room may not have enough space to 
add an object to block shars, but a 
simple pa-kua mirror, an octagonal 
mirror bor­
dered with 
the eight I Ching tri­grams, can reflect a shar away from one's room. Interestingly enough, the Taj Mahal ­one of the mosl Peng Shui-con­scious build­ings ever built neglected to protect against this anomalv and built · long straight paths with powrr lines running along them to tho entrance which reput­edly brought abouL the downfall of its builder. 
Meditative music such as 
Photo courtesy of www.nd.edu 

Gregorian 
The rarely photographed Stepan Center, the least aesthetically
chants can 
pleasing building in the world, desperately needs a bulldozer­
help promote 
sized dose of Feng Shul. 

relaxation which breeds sheng qi. Mirrors can also be placed to symboli­cally increase the room's size. Proper lighting can ward of sha qi lurking in gloomy corners as well. 
A room should also reilect its occu­pant. Personal chachkies that reprc­sent the interests of the occupant should be prominently displayed. Also, portraits and statues of deities should always he placed high up on a walls or shelves in places of reverence. 
While professional Feng Shui consul­tations are available, it is probably best to check out the interior decorat­ing section of the local bookstore and pick up a basic book on Feng Shui. Kostelnik warns that there is a lot of misinformation in many books and recommends The Western Guide to Feng Shui by Terah Katherine Collins, Move 'your Stuff, Change your Life by Karen Rauch Cater and The Dancing Wuli Masters by Gary Zukov. 
Finally, Feng Shui is not for every­one; most Feng Shui practitioners are quick to point out that Feng Shui is meant to be enjoyable, relaxing and productive and for the individual, but by no means mandatory. Even those skeptical of qi or Feng Shui's power will find that the art at least offers a lot of practical decorating tips and is much more enjoyable than trying to get digital cell phone service on cam­pus or program a VCR. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 

page 14 lhe Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 18, 2002 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish open indoor home season tonight 
By DAVE COOK Spom Writer 
Luke Watson is back. Ile is strung and he is eager to get the 2002 track season under wav. 
Watsu1{ was sidelined for the 2001 season because of problems with his IT band, a leg injury which left him unable to compete. He decided to sit out the whole season because he ,vas not feel­ing strong -both physically and men­tally. 
"I obviously wanted to be out there competing, just because I'm a competi­tive person. It definitely was not fun sit­ting on the sidelines," Watson said. 
During the 2000 season, Watson won the steeplechase run at the Big Eusl outdom-championships and took 18th place in the same race at the NCAA national championships. Watson is also coming off a fifth place finish at the NCA'\ national championships in cross­country this fall where he earned All­American honors. 
Nuw Watson is eager to carry on where he left off as the team continues its season Friday night at Notre Dame against Ball State and Western 
-Michigan. "Luke Watson will help out immense­ly. He would help any track team. He's going to be a major help," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. Alongside Watson is a distance corps that is as good as it is deep. Six-time All American Ryan Shay will be returning for his final season. Shay finished sixth at the cross country nationals during the 2001 season, and he took first place in the 10.000 meter race at the 2001 NCAA Championship during outdoor track. Shay also finished sixth place behind Watson in the 2001 cross-coun­try national championships. Also looking to contribute significantly in the distance events are Pat Conway, Marc Striowski, Todd Mobley, and Kevin Somok. Friday night, Shay will be running the mile and Watson will be running in the 3000-meter race. For the women's track and field team, it is Liz Grow who will be leading the Irish into the 2002 season. Last season Grow became the first woman sprinter in '.\lotre Dame history to earn All-American honors. She fin­ished in eighth place last year in the 400-meter dash during the 2001 NCAA outdoor championships. Grow will be running in the 500 
meters Friday, an event in which she does not usually participate. Sophomores Ayesha Boyd and Kristen Dodd will be joining Grow in the sprint­ing events. Boyd won both the 60 meter and 200 meter dashes in competition last week at Purdue, a non-scored meet. Freshmen Tonva Cheatham, Tiffany Gunn, and Latasha Steele add to the young yet strong sprint group. 
Also back is the entire 4x400 meter relay team that qualified for the !'\CAA championships during the 200 l season. 
Another All-American in Tameisha King will be contributing significantly for the women. King participates in both the hurdle events and the long jump. Joining King in the long jump is senior Jaime Volkmer, who also participates in the. pole vault competition. 
In the men's sprint events, it wil.l be Torn Gilbert who will be carrying much of the weight this season. Gilbert is tho only one who has had considerable suc­cess in Big East competition. Gilbert runs the 60 me1.l'rs and the 200 mehm;, his specialty being the 200 meters. 
James Brar.ken and Rvan Hurd also look to succeed this season. From the football team, Vontez Duff, Julius Jones, and Matt Shelton look to add to the sprint corps. 
The Irish will see very strong competi­tion this Friday from Western Michigan. 
Junior Krisy Mahome was named Mid-American Conference Track and Field Athlete of the Week last week for contributing in every win in their last meet. She runs the 200 meter and 400 meter dashes. 
On the men's· side of Western Michigan, Dale Cowper will be leading the team as a thrower ranked ~o. 4 in the nation as of now. Western Michigan also features Steve Walke who runs in both the 4x400 meter relay and the 600 meter run. 
From Ball State comes Zach Rile¥ in the weight throw and sophomore Matthew Denmark who placed first in the high jump with an NC.A'\ Provisional Qualfying height of 7 -1. 
For the women, junior Natash Lathery set a school record in the 600m last week. Also from Ball State is junior Katie Nowak who finished first at Purdue last week in the 1600. 
Running events begin Friday night at 
6:30 p.m. on Meyo Track. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
MLB 
Selig sees Washington as "prime candidate" 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

The city that twice lost the Senators got an unexpected boost Thursday when baseball commissioner Bud Selig said Washington was tho "prime candidate" to get a team through reloeation. 
On a day when players' union chief Donald Fehr directly spokfl to all owners for tho first time, Selig made the biggest news -though his aides said no team would rnowi this season. 
"There's no doubt in my mind that relocation is coming," he said. "It's just a question of when. I've always said that we need to solve the basic problems, and when we solve the basic problems we can then turn our attention to reloca­tion." 
Washington has been without a major league team since the expansion Senators became the Texas Rangers after the 1971 season. ror at least a decade, groups have tried to obtain a team for either HFK Stadium or Northern Virginia. 
Washington/Northern Virginia has been the most aggressive region in seek­ing a franchise. 
''I'd have to say that given the demo­graphics of the area, and the number of people who want it, I would say it's the prime candidate,"' Selig said. 
Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief legal coun­sel, said no team will move this year. He said it was too early to tell if a team could relocate for 2003. 
After Fehr spoke to owners, he briefed his players on the status of negotiations for a new labor contract, and Arizona pitcher Curt Schilling blamed Selig for the tumultuous offseason, dominated by talk ofcontraction and franchise sales. 
"As a group, I think players are deeply disappointed the commissioner chose two days after the World Series to make the announcement he made," Schilling said. 
Schilling's Diamondbacks capped one of the best World Series ever by rallying in the bottom of the ninth to beat the New York Yankees in Game 7 on Nov. 4. Two days later, owners voted to elimi­nate two teams, plunging baseball into an offseason of uncertainty. 
The contraction plan has been baited by a Minnesota court and owners are in the midst of unprecedented franchise swapping. On Wednesday, a group head­ed by Florida Marlins m-.ner John Henry was given approval to buy the Boston Iled Sox in a record $660 million deal. 
Owners vow to quickly approve a $158 million sale of the Marlins to Montreal Expos owner Jeffrey Loria and a $120 million sale of the Expos to the r.ommis­sioncr's oflicc, which would operate the team this season -unless contraction goes through and the Expos are foldnd. 
"We settled the 13oston thing," Selig said, adding owners would d<ial with Florida and Montreal "expeditiously." Ile still says it isn't too late to eliminate two teams this season, with Montreal and Minnesota the likely targets. However, most baseball ollicials say the obstacles arc to great for this season. 
"Contraction, although it's provoked an angry and bitter response, is on the table because the owners want it to be on tho table," Selig said. 
Schilling said the uncertainty has hurt baseball's finances. 
"The game should be going through the roof publicity-wise," he said. "Owners have killed season-ticket sales for some franchises." 
Relocation for 2003 could wind up being linked with a failure to eliminate teams this year. An injunction forces the Twins -the original Senators before they moved in 1961 -to honor their 2002 lease at the Metrodome. Selig and the team are awaiting word from the Minnesota Court of Appeals on their attempt to lift the order. 
Selig said that if the commissioner's office buys the Expos, an independent person would be put in charge. Tho com­missioner's oflice intends to operate the Expos for one season at most. 
"I'd be shocked if it was for more than one year," DuPuy said. 
An option remains to eliminate two teams in 2003, including the Expos, and move _another franchise. Anaheim, Oakland and Tampa Bay have been mentioned as possibilities by owners. 
Both Fehr and Selig gave hope that the 2002 season will not be interrupted a work stoppage, which would be base­ball's ninth in three decades. The union hasn't considered striking and owrn~rs haven't considered a lockout. 
Bargaining is to resume next week on a labor contract to replace the one that expired Nov. 7. Teams proposed last week to increase the amount of shared locally generated revenue from 20 per­cent to 50 percent, after a deduction for ballpark expenses. The union worries that it would drain money from high-rev­enue teams that would otherwise spend it on players. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m, to 3 \J.m. ar the None Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, iriciuding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica, 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. BEST Hotels, FREE parties, LOW­EST prices! www.b­reakerstravel.com (800) 985-6789. 
FOUND: Watch outside ot South Dining Hall on Monday, Jan. 14. Call Claire 634-3677 to identify. 
WANT-ED•·--·--·--·-------·-----­
Do you miss your family pet? Consider becoming a FOSTER or VOLUNTEER for the cats and dogs al PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 1Ominutes tram cam­pus. Please visit www.petrefuge.com. e-mail web­master@petrefuge.com, or call 256-0886. 
GET CHEAP TEXTBOOKS1 
Search 16 bookstores with 1 click' S&H and taxes are also calculated. 
http://www.bookhq.com/ 
Why live in crowded houses? Have your own space, privacy & security. Mar-Main Apartments 
233-2098 
3-bdrm, 1-1/2.bath tri-level. safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
New 3-4 bdrms, 3 bath homes fea­turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck. 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232­4527 or 616-683-5038. 
nice homes north of ND [close] for next school year ideal for 3-8 stu­dents great area 2773097 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com 
3 Bedroom House Close to Campus $595.00 per month 
Call 233-1440 

Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 StudentTour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Into/Reservations 1 ·800·648­4849 www.ststravel.com 
GET CHEAP TEXTBOOKS! Search 
16 bookstores with 1 click! S&H and taxes are also calculated. http://www.bookhq.com/ 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis• tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Damn Yankees opens Feb 7! 
Tix on sale Jan 21, LaFun Info Desk' 
Have an eye tor news? 
Always able to tell what's important, and see sides that others don't? 
If you answered yes to either of the two above questions, come work for the Observer News department. 
Call Jason McFarley at 1-5323. 
Do you like music? 
Are you a movie buff? 
Do you like to experience fine dining in the finest restaurants South Bend and beyond? 

Are you a closet Ian of Broadway shows? 
If the above description fits you Spencer Beggs, Scene Editor, wants you to come work for The Observer. 
Call Spencer at 1-4540. 

Do you sit in the bleachers filling out the scorecard every time you go to a baseball game? 
Do you like knowing Notre Dame and Saint Marty's greatest athletes up close and personal? 
It this describes you, come write for Observer Sports. Call Noah at 1-4543. 
Were you the kid in the family always catching the sites on vacation through a 35 mm lens? 
Do you understand what the term "F-stop means"? 
Do you like having the best seat in the house for sporting events? 
If all this is you, call Peter Richardson, Photo Editor, at 1­8767, 
Paper is a resource. 
Always remember to recycle The Observer. 
Have a clever message to leave a friend? Some extra tickets you've gotta sell? Be sure to use Observer Classifieds, the best way to reach the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. Visit us in the base­ment offices of South Dining Hall for details. 

Friday, January 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
Iy had to prove themselves much beforn and !the coaches] have nevrr faced the kind of pressure they face at Notre Dame now. But we'll know by Feb. 6 [signing dayl how well they've done." 
Since Willingham is African­American. Lemming thinks he will have an easier time bring­ing in black recruits. But since bis hiring Willingham has already lost three top black recruits. 
"I think [his race] should be very important except they've been losing [!Jlack recruits] since he's been here. They've lost Dominique Byrd, Gavin !Jickev and Julian Jenkins, three ·or the guys that every­body expected Notre Dame to get. But l do think it is impor­tant in the long run," Lemming said. 
The Irish have had another problem to overcome during this year's recruiting process. 
The annual football banquet is planned for every December and is mainlv used for recruit­ing visits. Hut this year the banquet was cancelled because of the coaching. situation and this may cost the Irish dearly this year. 
"A lot of the players that could have come into Notre Dame in December have already committed in January before they've had a chance to get to the (January] 18th," said Lemming. "They had to cancel both weekends because of the coaching change and it has some effect on (the recruit­ing]." 
Many of the players that have already verbally committed to attend Notre Dame have been excited about ·the hiring of Willingham. The recruit that seems the most thrilled about Willingham is safety Jake Carney. Carney narrowed his college choice down to Stanford and Notre Dame before choos­ing the Irish. Now that Willingham is the head coach, Carney is thrilled. 
'Tm extremely excited about [Willingham)," said Carney. "My top two [schools] that I had narrowed down to before committing to Notre Dame were Notre Dame and Stanford. This really was a per­fect situation for me. I think he's a great coach and his character and coaching style makes you want to play well for him and work hard for 
him."  
Offensive  lineman  Bob  
Morton couldn't agree  more  
with Carney.  

"When I saw Coach Willingham at the press confer­ence I was highly impressed," said Morton. "He handles him­self very well, which is going to be one of the main points for this job. I have nothing but good things to say about him." 
Almost all of the previously committed recruils were expected to stick with Notre Dame despite the head coach­ing situation. The two recruits that were wavering on whether to sign with Notre Dame or not were quarterback Chris Olsen and lineman Jeremy Vanalstyne. As of now, Olsen has reaffirmed his commitment to the Irish while Vanalstyne has changed his verbal com­mitment to the University of Michigan. When asked whether he knew where he would attend school next year, Vanalstyne was indecisive. 
"I don't know right now," said Vanalstyne. 
Despite losing Vanalstyne Notre Dame can still bring in a top five recruiting class for next season depending on how well the Irish do this weekend when 15 blue chip prospects make their official visits. 

The biggest name visiting this week is Lorenzo Booker. Booker, a running back from Ventura, Calif .. is rated as the third best player in the country and the No. l running back. Lemming believes the Irish have a chance to sign him. ... 
"He's never been to Notre Dame and he doesn't like cold weather," said Lemming. "The positive is that he knows Notre Dame will give him the best education and also probably a better chance to play and team him with his teammate and good friend James Bonelli." 
Booker, along with other top high school players from around the country. will get a chance to meet Willingham this weekend and the new head coach will have one last chance to secure a solid recruiting class. 
Contact Joe Hettler at hettler. l@nd.edu. 
"I think that he has a great work ethic and he's a really great person and football coach.,, 
Scott Raridon 
"J think he's a real determined guy and he knows what he wants to do with the program. " 
Chris Frome 

What the recruits are saying ·about Willingham 
"With him being a new coach I  "/ have a really good relationship  
think he brings a lot to the  with Tyrone Willingham and we're  
institution such as racial  going to see if we can continue that  
diversity, good values and  when I get here because he's a  
just being a good  great guy and a good person to be  
head coach.,,  around."  
Marcus Freeman  Jeff Jenkins  

"/ talked to coach Willingham on the phone and I'm really excited to come out on Friday. Hearing that call from [Willingham] that they're _qoing to run that type of offense made me feel better. .. I told North Carolina State 'No' and I'm firmly committed to Notre Dame. " 
Chris Olsen 

Important CSC Vehicle Driver Update 
CSC Driver Authorization Certification cards 
issued prior to January 2002 will no longer be acceptedl 
· All drivers must attend a new information session 
ONLY THE ACTUAL DRIVER OF A VEHICLE MAY SUBMIT A REQUEST FOR USE 
~ 


DUE TO 
Cl ~opROCEDllRA.l, o,~.. . O~~ · fur -~G ~ Center for Social Concerns ~ VEHICLE DRIVERS 
ALL STUDENTS WHO PLAN TO DRIVE CSC VEHICLES (beginning January 21, 2002) 
....

MUST A I I END A NEW INFORMATION SESSION THIS SEMESTERI 
The following hour-long sessions are the ONLY planned sessions that will be offered at the CSC this semester*: January 20, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. January 22, 5:30 -6:30 p.m. January 27, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. January 31, 8:00 -9:00 p.m. February 3, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
March 3, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
There is no need to register. Bring pen and driver's license to session. 
Questions? e-mail: cscvans@nd.edu or csc web page at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu and scroll down to CSC driver update. *If any additional training sessions are deemed necessary, the dates will be listed on the web page 
.... 

Friday, January 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 16 
SMC SWIMMING 
Saint Mary's swimmers sunk by Alma, 145-93 
"Everybody was tired from th is. past Sat urd a y . Those the 100-yard butterfly. The bounce back individually,"
By NELLIE \VILLIAMS 
travel and trajning." that went to rlorida, left a 200-yard medley team was said Petcoff. "Everyone is 
Spores Wrin,r 
The Relles left for Florida lot of their races down the only relay team oil the working hard in practire. We Jan. 3 and had to spend a there." Belles to beat Alma. really are gearing for the 
Worn out and fatigued nighl in the Atlanta airporl Petcof'f felt that the team "We were really worn conference meet." from traveling and .a week of bPcause of snow and ice. In did not have enough timo to down on Saturday," said· Hamsey knows the Belles training in Palm Beach. Fla.. Florida, the team trained rest after their intense train­Hamsey. "J was trying to con­ran do better. the Sainl Mary's swim team everyday and swam one meet ing in Palm Beach. centrate on my form and "Our goal is to shake off suffered a hard loss on against Division I and II "I had thrm tired and I techniqur and definitely felt last Saturday. It was a tough Saturday against Alma schools. finishing sixth out of hadn't let them recover fatigue." loss for us. We are going to College. Alma outswam the eight teams. enough," said Petcoff. The dual meet against move on and show the con­Belles, winning by a score of "The Florida meet went Sophomore Megan Hamsey Alma was the Belles first ference that it wasn't our 145 to 93. exceptionally well," said was the onlv individual to MIAA conference meet of' the best." 
"They swam a.s hard as Petcoff. "We swam hard in take first place against Alma. year. This weekend they will they could have swam," said Florida, which is one of Lhe She had two individual wins, travel to Calvin College. Contact Nellie Williams at Belles coach Greg Petcoff. masons we didn't do so well in the 200-yard fnrnstyle and "I think everyone will will6176@saintmarys.edu. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Walton's triple-double leads Arizona past Southern Cal 
lot with the approach that he run to finish the game got man on misses," Olson said. vious season. Thn other 
Associated Press 
takes to things." Trojans within 17. "but they had so many prob­Wildcats to achieve it were TUCSON, Ariz. Walton was 7-for-11 from Sam Clancy scored 30 lems with it we just opted to Damon Stoudamire in 1994­
Luke Walton is one of the the field and a career-high points for USC, one short of stay with it." 95. Chris Mills in 1991-92 best at making his team­13-of-15 at the foul line. As his career-high. Desrnon Clancy said the defense and Matt Muelbach in l 989­mates look good. On usual. Walton talked in terms Farmer added 13 and should not have been a sur­90. Thursday night, Walton was of the team. Gennaro Busterna had 10 for prise. Walton had 20 points, the one who took center "This is the best we have the Trojans, who shot 33 per­"We see the zone all the seven rebounds, five assists, stage. played for a full 40 minutes," cent from the field. compared time," he said. "We just three steals and two blorks 
Luke Walton had 11 he said. "We showed people with Arizona's 54 perrent. weren't making the shots." in the first half as Arizona rebounds and 10 assists to go what we can do if we keep "Thirty points doesn't mean USC coach Henry Bibby took a 51-26 lead. Near the with a career-high 27 points. our energy up." anything when you lose by faulted his team's defense. end, his teammatns knew he 
The 6-foot-8 junior son of Salim Stoudamire scored 18 17," Clancy said. "We didn't play defense needed one more assist. former NBA and UCLA great points, including 6-for-6 at Olson rare-ly uses a zone tonight," he said. "We just "Some of the managers told Bill Walton got his first the foul line. The freshman defense, but he felt it would didn't step it up." me in the huddle," Walton career triple-double in (No. guard broke the Arizona take some of the inside pres­Walton became the fifth said. "' I think they told some 18 ESPN/USA Today, No. 16 record for consecutive free sure off his young front-line Arizona player to get a of the other players because AP) Arizona's 97-80 rout of throws by running his streak players. He said he's never triple-d_ouble. The last was every time I passed the ball Southern California (No. 23 to 35. He is 45-of-46 from the had a team play so much Loren Woods, who had 13 they were shooting it." ESPN/USA Today, No. 18 AP). line this season. The old zone in a game. points, 10 rebounds and 10 Walton got his 10th assist, the Trojans' first Pac-10 loss. record of 29 in a row was by "We came out with the idea blocked shots against completing the triple-double. 
Walton had a career-high Dylan Rigdon in 1993-94. that we were going to go with Washington on Jan. 13, 2001. on a 3-pointer by Bynum 27 points, 11 rebounds and Freshman Will Bynum the zones on made shots and Woods also had one the pre-with four minutes to play. 10 assists. He also had four added a career-high 17 
steals, a career-best four blocked shots and played the point in a stifling zone defense that befuddled the Trojans from the start. 
"He does things you don't teach," Arizona coach· Lute Olson said. "It's in the genes. He has a great feel for the game. He also has a great feel for leadership, and it's always a positive thing. He really helps the young guys a points, Rick Anderson 11 and Channing Frye 10 as the Wildcats (12-4, 5-2) beat the Trojans for the 17th consecu­tive titne at McKale Center. 
The Trojans (13-3, 5:1) had won nine in a row and had never started the Pac-10 sea­son 6-0. but they were out of this one in a hurry. 
Arizona led by as many as 27 points in the first half and by 31 in the second. A 17-7 

NYSP 2002 summer Service Program 
Do you want to work with young people this summer? 
Do you want to stay on campus and make $1,500 for six weeks of work? 
If you like kids, sports, and working outdoors, then the National Youth Sports Program is for you! 
n 
NYSP. 

The National Youth Sports Program, (NYSP), is a sports and enrichment summer program serving 10-16 year-old students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds on the campus of the University ofNotre Dame. Camp runs Jw1e 24-July 26, Monday-. Friday, from 8:00-2:30, with the addition of Saturday, July 6th to make up for the 4th of July holiday. We also hold a staff training week from June 17th-21st• Our camp features basketball, soccer, softball, swimming, golf, and other sports combined with drug and alcohol prevention, computer, and selfesteem/life skills programs. 
We need you. The NYSP is looking to hire 25+ undergraduate or graduate students from all backgrounds to be role-models and leaders for the swnmer as project aids. Those students selected as aids will act as camp counselors leading their team of 12-15 campers throughout the five-week program. This summer service project pays $1,500 for the six­week experience and will result in a ND theology credit through the Center for Social Concerns. 
Ifyou are interested, pick up an application in the Center for Social Concerns. If you have any additional questions, call Pam or Ryan at 631-6614. 
Friday, January 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
option and more passing than lloliday said. "He doesn't care · be on the same page." ing controversies and a month the 2001 Irish offense, raised who plays, just get out there "We're starting over. It's a away from the Stadium, April
Football 
the question about who will and work hard." whole new ball game," Holiday can't come to soon for the 
take the quarterback role. When spring football begins
continued from page 24 
Following the meeting with the in April, Holiday, Jared Clark team, the · and Matt
ly going to gRt it done." Although 5-foot-8 and small­question LoVecchio will 
s t i l l "He just said whoever will all be looking
er in size than many of the Irish playPrs. Willingham remained. win games for us will be to adjust to made his presence known. Willingham out there. Ile doesn't care the new 
did not offense. And
Following his hiring earlier 
who plays, just get out
th is month. players were addrnss anv with a new expecting someone who would specific there and work hard." coach, the tak<• control. but what sur­players, 
quarterbacks prised thnm was t!rn laughter. instead may all be
Carlyle Holiday

"I thought he was more of keeping the starting over. 
Irish quarterback

laying down rules and things focus 011 his "lle's got a likP that," Duff sairl. "It was a theme of plan and hR nice atmosphere in there, doing what knows what 
nverybody laughing and hav­it takes to win a game. he wants us to do," Lovecchio ing tt good time." "H(' just said whoever will said. "We're just going to have Willingham's offonse at win games for us will be out to follow his plan and do what Stanford. which used less there," quarterback CarlylH he tells us and everyone will 
Cleveland and Jn;nwuod RuathJ-18011 Cleveland Raad South Bend, Indiana ./66J7 (119)271~8/ JO 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 


More Great Opportunities! 

12-month 
.00!. 
cenificate 
425!. 


30-month 
Askhowvou certificate 
C80 88r0 .25°1oAPY" 
more on new IRA deposits! 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
'Annual Percentage Yield (APY) is accurate as of 1116102. Rate subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions, such as early withdrawal penalties, may apply. Not applicable with other specials. Independent of the University. 
..Annual Percentage Yield (APY). This offer ends April 15, 2002. Minimum IRA deposit of $2000. You must have a Notre Dame Federal Credit Union checking account to qualify for the addil1onat .25%APl. IRA contnbutionsfor 2001 m11ybe made through April 15, 2002. 
said. "But you've just got to adjust yourself to it. to what's going on. I mean, you're a col­lege football player. You should be able to do that." 
The fullbacks and tight ends may also see a change in offense. following the team meeting, tight end Billy Palmer expressed his eager­ness to get in and play. 
"It's a great opportunity for everyone," he said. "llopefully, do as much as they can as soon as thRy can." 
Despite the uncertainty about what positions they may be taking, there was a general consensus that the team is ready to play. After the coach-Irish. 

"Being home for a month, there was this waiting to get back, just get back and see my team," Faine said. "It's just part of my life ... Everybody wants to get back here and get back on track, a better track than last year." 
And following Thursday's meeting, the players say there is only one answer to whether or not Willingham can get the job done. 
"Dcfin itely. Definitely." Faine said. "Without a doubt." 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

HAPPY 21st SNOOZER! LOVE, 
HE SACS 
PS -CALL ME ON MY CELL 
"SPRING BREAIC 
+CANalH, Acluw:o, MAzAllAII ,.L .!Artwr.A. BllilAMAs, &S. PIIDRE ~ www.studentexpress.com call Now: 1-800-787-3787 

A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels' Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 

r--------------------------­
TOWER MANIA! 
LARGE 10 ITEM TOWER 
€AST Of PIZZA CtUCAGO 
$9.99

PIZZ4 COMiPANV'1' 
and 

ADD 6 BREADSTICKS & SAUCE $1 .49! We'll match any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon We take Visa & Mastercard! 
Expires 2/2/02 
-~------------------------­



MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish look to swallow Grizzlies 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sports Writer 
In December's Notre Dame Invitational, Oakland University was the ·on1v team that came rlose to threatening the Irish stronghold on the meet. 
The Irish swallowed the Golden Grizzlies easily by the cundusion of the weekend to win the compe­tition. Saturdav, the men's S\\irn­ming and di~g team will look to beat Oakland again as the two teams square off in dual meet competition. 
"Just because we beat them in the Invite doesn't mean we'll beat them in the dual meet," said co­captain Jonathan Pierce. "We have to stay focused and keep our heads in the game." 
The Irish men kick off a four­meet streak that will end their dual meet season mid-February. It's the final stretch to fine tune their skills and qualify for the Big East Champiouships ~ making the next month a critir.aJ tirrrn in the team's schedule. 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
ND hosts Iowa in 3-day meet 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Spons Writer 
Notre Dame swam the University of Iowa before -but it wasn't exactly a serious type of meet. 
It didn't even have real events. 

During their training trip under sunshine and warm tem­peratures in Honolulu, Hawaii, the teams squared off for a little non-conventional competition ­75-yard events, 600-yard events. 150-yard events. None were offi­cial NCAA events, and none could really measure progress. 
Still. it was fun. 

"There v.:asn't a lot of pres­sure," said junior Laurie Musgrave. "When you swim a 75, vou're not sure what time is good for that. It was different;­and different is fun." 
The Irish \Yon the face-off, capturing 12 of 13 events. But the "fun" events will be put away this weekend, when the Irish face off against Iowa again ­this time, for real. Both the University of Iowa and the University of Illinois will arrive on campus for the Notre Dame Dual Meet Invitational -a 3-day 
SCUBA DIVING COURSE 
YMCA LIFETIME CERTIFICATION SEVEN CLASSROOM AND POOL SESSIONS MEETS SUNDAYS 3:30 -7:30 PM CLASSES BEGIN JANUARY 27 

IMPORTANT .INFORMATION MEETING 
SVNDAY, JANUARY 20 
1:00 PM ROCKNE RM 218 
"We want a little more experi­ence in our primary events for the swimmers," said head coach Tim Welsh. "We want to go faster each week, and look at the scoreboard at the end of the day and be pleased with our performance and points." 
This weekend's matchup against Oakland will he tho toughest chal­lenge for the Irish. While they defeated Oakland earlier this sea­son, they dropped the dual meet to Oakland last year. Traditionally one of Notre Dame's most compet­itive dual meets. it will be the hardest mf'et of the season, Pierre said. 
Oakland is strong in the sprint­ing events, with two of its relays high in national rankings. The 200-yard freestyle relay is ranked fourth nationally, and the 400­yard relay ranked sixth. 
The Irish have the advantage in the distance events and diving, and should bf' competitive in the 400-yard individual medley as well. But the key will be stopping Oakland headliners, such as 
dual meet between the three teams. 
This time, the only abnormal part of the meet schedule is that it's in mock Championship for­mat -imitating the schedule of events at the Big East and Big Ten Championships. 
It is the first in a series of five meets over the next month that will wind down the dual meet season for the Irish and propel them into post-season Championship competition. 
"They're extremely critical," said Irish head coach Bailey Weathers about the upcoming meets. "We have a lot of deci­sions to make for Big East. The hard decision at this point is in terms of who swims the relays ... it's a matter of figuring out who's the best person." 
The Irish have several headlin­ers vying for positions on the relays -four backstrokers, three breaststrokers, four but­terfliers and four freestylers. Swimmers will also have to make decisions over the next month about what events to swim at the conference champi­onships. 
And they know it's crunch time. 
sophomorP Sean Broadbent. who posted the fastest Oakland sprint times at last years Mid-Con Championships, and was elected Newcomer of the Year by the con­ference. · 
"Our objective will be to break tip the top people so they don't dominate Urn evenLi;," said Welsh. 
But Oakland's lack of depth might give the Irish an in to break up those top performers. 
"Oakland has a liniited number of really fast swimmers." Pierce said. "They're not nearly as deep as we are. We need to focus on events where they put their good swimmers, because they're going to expect them to win." 
"We pretty much can't be afraid," said sophomore sprinter Matt Obringer. "We can't think about what they've got. We know we've worke<l hard. We pretty much just have to go after it." 
The meet begins at Holfs Aquatic Center at 2 p.m. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 
"This month is going to be really big for us," Musgrave said. "It's really time to start to bear down and focus." 
The Irish swim Villanova on Jan. 26, Northwestern on Jan. 31 and University of Michigan on Feb. 2. Michigan and Northwestern, the most difficult competitions on the schedule, land at the end of the season ­leaving the Irish no room to back off at the end. 
"It's set up that way to have our most important dual meet competitions at the end," Weathers said. "That's the type of competition we're going to face across the board at Big East." 
It also will force the Irish to hang onto their undefeated dual meet record for the season. 
"It's not too unrealistic," Weathers said. "We haven't been beaten this year, and to win that out would be huge for 
us." 
The Irish swim tonight at Holfs Aquatics Center at 6 p.m., and Saturday at 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
giH0843@saintmarys.edu. 
rvoTED#f 
. by~pJe
I whoknow 
I tannfnaf 
: I 
I 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Duke blows past Maryland at home 
Associated Press 
DUI-U-L\M, N.C. 

Things were back to normal in the Duke-Maryland series ­the top-ranked Blue Devils won in Cameron Indoor Stadium. 
The third-ranked Terrapins wern unable to stop All­American Jason Williams, who scored 34 points as the Blue Devils (15-l, 4-1) took over first place in the Atlantic Coast Conference with a 99-7 8 victo­ry Thursday night. 
Lonny Baxter led Maryland (13-3, 3-1) with 24 points before fouling out with 3:46 left and his team down 15 points. 
The Terrapins were trying to become just the lhird loam since 1985 to beat the Blue Devils three straight times on its famed home court, but Williams put a stop to that. 
After an incredible :~o lead changes in the opening 23 minutes, Williams scored seven points in a one-minute span, getting two driving layups and a 3-pointer as Duke opened the second half with scores on eight straight possessions to take the lead for good and improve to 17-4 in its last 21 games against Top 10 tnams. 
Mike Dunleavy, who scored just two first-half points, was also a hero in the second half, scoring 19 points. Carlos Boozer added 20 for the Blue Devils. 
Duke led 73-63 with 12:39 left before the Terrapins closed within three two minutes later. But Dunlcavv hit a bank shot, a 3-pointer a~d Williams turned 
: . : ).-,... ,-:· ;~ . :~\' 0' .:JP·:: );, 

.Hff~ .~, _Delicious M~;:,:';;;;; 
~iOJ ,'\,~· Vege tamm Pia tters 
Imported -~dian & Other Wines and Beer Dine In, Carry Out, Reservations Desired 10% Discount tor ND/SMC Students 15% Discount for parties of 5 or more 
Dinner; Tues*Thurs 5:00-9:30 Fri-Sat 5:00~10:00 
--·---------­
For Your Best TanEv~rf 1
1
Get a Fun Tan · 
(\J 
(!J 
I 

I 1111 !l <ii ~ I 
I 
a Maryland turnover into a slam dunk to push the lead back to 10. 
About a minute later. Dunleavy made two free throws and hit a long 3-pointer as \1aryland fell behind again by double digits and then faded down the stretch. 
Williams had struggled some against the Terrapins in his career. shooting 39 p1irccnt in seven previous ot1tings. but hn was 13-for-23 from the field, had eight assists and seven rebounds in arguably his best game of the season. 
The top two scoring teams in the ACC combined to score 97 points in the first half as the lead changed hands 25 times as neither team could pull away. 
The players didn't shake hands or look each other in the eye before the opening tip, and it was clear both were rnady out of the gate. 
The lead changed hands 10 times before the first television timeout as the Blue Devils and Terrapins at one point com­bined to score on 11 of 13 pos­sessions as the game racnd at a fover pitch. 
The largest lead of the open­ing half was seven points by Duke as Williams took control early, scoring 15 points over the first 11: 15. 
The Terrapins got a lift late in the half when reserve Hyan Handle, who is averaging 4.2 points, scored seven points over the final 1:48 as Maryland went to the locker room with a one-point lead and once again feeling good about itself' in Cameron. 



~---------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, January 18, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 


At GE, your career can take you anywhere. The diversity of our businesses means new opportunities are constantly unfolding. And o.ur fast-paced, informal environment is designed to helpyou explore them. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline and never leave GE. 
Because we have small company attitudes with large c_ompany strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. We're a high-spirited company where people are free to dream and encouraged to take risks. 
Find ollt foryourself why GE has been honoredas Americas Most Admired Company, by Fortune Magazine, fouryears in a row. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Come to the 2002 Winter Career & Internship Fair to learn more about GE. 
Resumes must be submitted to Go Irish by February 4, 2002 12:00 pm. 
a
• We bring good things to life. 
Aircraft Engines Applia~s Aviatio11 Services Capital Services Card Se!Vlces C001mercial [quiµnent Financing Commercial nnance Research & Dewlopment Fmployers Reinsllfance Corporation Financial AsStlrance Equity Global Consumer Finance G.lubal Exchange Servir.es Industrial Systems Lighting Medical Systems Mcrlgage Insurance NBC Plastics Power Systems Real Estate Specialty Materials Strucwred Finance Group Supply Transportation Systems 
Koss 
continued from page 24 
gram from former swim team 
co-captain Matt Hedden, who 
participated in the research 
last year. It was Hedden's 
encouragement that inspir1:d 
him to apply for the research 
position, Koss said. 
But accepting the research 
opportunity meant having to 
leave the team for a week 
early in the season-and 
miss two dual meet competi• 
tions. 
"I gave kind of a speech 
before I left," Koss said. "I 
told them that even though 
I'd be on the other side of the 
world, [I'd be right there 
with them.] They were really 
supportive." 
Koss trained during his 
week in Japan, working out 
with stretch cords and medi­
cine balls while trying to 
research and sightsee. 
But despite the difficulty in maintaining the responsibili­ties of both activities, he wouldn't have had it any other way, he said. It's taught him time manage­ment, and the lessons he learned in Japan will be invaluable in his career. 
"It made me realize a ton of things. When you read your physics books, you have no idea how the experiments took place. It's just this view of some guy with crazy hair with amazing intellect," he said. 
He also learned that while he might not know every­thing about the culture, he could use the talents he had to fit in. 
When an instruction manu­al for a rotary pump written in English befuddled his Japanese-speaking col­leagues, Koss was able to read the directions -some­thing the other researchers couldn't. 
Then, he helped them assemble it. 
"I didn't speak English for the first three or four days," he said. But smiling, he adds 
"l know enough [Japanese] to get by now." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at giU0843@nd.edu. 

1-800-SURFS-UP
www.studenTexpress.com 

233-1234 
Student Rate Fares, courtesy Irish Cab. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 18, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish ready for battle before the war 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Spons Editor 

While players on both teams have had Mouday ai'ttmwon's nationally tP,Jevised contest betw~~en Notre Dame and Connectir,ut circled on thc>ir calendar for months. tlni Irish first must take on the Providence Friars in Rhode Island Saturday aftPrnoon. · 
Head coad1 Muffet /\JcGraw stressc>d throughout this wi>ek's prac­tices not to look past Saturday's 
game. 

"The most imprnianl game on the schedule right no,v is Provideuce,'' McGraw said. "We've really got to take it one game at a time here because ewry game is so criLlcal. We want to try to get one of those [Hig East tournament! byes ... I think Connecticut is reallv not the focw, of the season like it was last year." 
\IVhile Connecticut is ranked No. 1 in the polls, undefeated and embar­rassing opponents each time they take the court. the Irish have taken a difforent path sinco the two tc'ams met in the KCAA Semi.final last year in St. Loui'l. Notre DamP is just 9-6 on the year and 1-6 away from the Jovce Center. 
:.I think initially when we get on the road, we don't seem to be the same team," freshman forward Kelsey 'Wicks said. "I think that all of our focus has gone into being the team that we are at home and focusing and being prepared and everyone stepping up to a leadership role. Until that happens, we won't be the team that we're capable ofbeing." 
Wicks and her teammates begin that mission Saturday. Notre Dame topped Providence 72-66 on Jan. 5, led by 26 points from freshman for­ward Jacqueline Batteast and 20 from classmate Teresa Borum. The freshman scored 5:i of Notn• Dame's poin1..s for the game. 
Saturday's game is particularly worrisome for the Trish on thl' olfon­sive end. While junior Alicia Ratay emerged as the team's leadu1g scorer in three of the last four games, the junior scorod only six points on 1-8 shooting last time the Irish and Friars met. And while the freshmen stoppod up as Jfa!ay struggled, thP newr:om­crs have shot better on their homo court than on opponents' cow·L'>. 
"They were physical with IRatayl, the referees let us play anu conse­quently she didn't gPt to the line as much," McGraw said of her guard's performance against Providence. "She also had some open looks, shfl just didn't bit them. That was the game where everybody elsA was playing so well, she saw herself as more of a passer." 
And while McGraw expressed plea­sure with the role that her freshmen are taking, she stressed that t.hA lead­ership needs to come.from the team's elder statesmen. 
"I really think on the road, your upperclassmen really need to lead," McGraw said. "That's key for us and that's what hasn't been happening. I think the freshmen are taking more responsibility than they really deserve to in some of these situa­tions." 
To ,vin on Saturday, the Irish also need to play a complete game. 
McGraw's team fell 60-59 last 
Saturday at Villanova after leading 
55-45 with less than seven minutes 
rnmaining. Against Providence, Notre 
Dame built a 54-41 lead midway 
through the second hall" before allow­
ing the Friars to close within one 
later in the period before pul!ing 
away. 
"Wo know that last time wo played Providtmce we let them back in the game so we've got to be rca!ly focused," sophomore point guard Lc'Tania Severe said. "We haven't bricn doing that wrll on the road so vve'vc got to be focuseu 011 the task, ui.ke it one ganw at a Jinw." 
And '.\1cGraw hasn't had any truu· ble keeping the team from looking too far alrnad, at. lrast according to 
Wicks. 
"That's quite simple," Wicks said when asked how the team slays focused. "Coach YlcGraw's job is preuy much go ke0p us focused on the task at'lmnd. She's been pretty much 'Providence, Providence Providence' first so we havnn'l even got to Connecticut yBt." 
Notes: 
. Guard Jencka Joyce, who has rotated in and out of the starting line­up all season, took part in the team's last two practices and is exp(icted to play limited minutes Saturday. The sophomore has bfien nursing a hip pointer, as we II as heel and toe injuries. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. 

Do it all night·long one more 
(J 
time. 

The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 
' 
. . 


Friday, January 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 -­
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish start off spring ranked seventh 

By RACHEL BIBER 
Spotts Writer 

With the 2002 tennis season underway, the Irish find them­selves in unfamiliar territory. 
Notre Dame is slott1'd snventh in the latest Intercollegiate Tennis Association rankings ­its highest presnason rank ever -as thev he1:1.d into tomorrow's play aga.inst No. 75 LC.-Jrvi1rn and No. 64 Furman. 
Cracking into the upper eche­lon of the collegiate tennis rank­ings may place the Irish in unclrnrted trrrain, but tl1Py will not be slowing down to ask their competitors for directions, and arP sure thPir solid lineup will reel in the wins. 
"With our enviable combina­tion of tremendous depth. ta!Pnt and experience. we fully nxpect tn be a fixture in the top 10 this year," Nutre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss said. "Our sights are set on an impressive showing in the NCAAs hosted by Texas A&M in May." 
While Bayliss' lofty expecta­tions have yet to be tested, the success of the Irish should be assured by a squad that lost no starters from 2001, and one that also includes four starting seniors. Last year's team fin­ished out the season with a 17-7 dual match record and a No. 16 ranking. 
The faces that brought Notre Dame to its nationally recog­nized stature last year will no doubt be the same. Leading the Irish in singles will be the com­bination of seniors Casey Smith and Javier Taborga, alo11g with sophomore Luis Haddock­Morales, followed by the group­ing or seniors Aaron Talarico and Andrew Laflin, sophomoni Matt Scott and junior Brian Farrell. 
The depth rnprescnted in the singles lin1mp was a major elP­ment in the success of 2001, but tlrn team's disappointing perfor­mance in doubles last year high­lights an area of much needed improvement. 
"The reason for our success last vear was that we were real­ly tough down below, and Wt~ won <'nougli big matches between one. two and three," Bayliss said. "I think the key for this vear is that our doubles has to b; much more sucressful than it was last year. We've changed the combinations, and .Javy and CasPy have done exr'.eptionally well fthis fall]." 
Others may describe the dou­bles duo of Taborga and Smith as doing better than "exception­ally well" this fall season, as the two paired up at the Nn. 1 posi­tion, racking up 15 wins to a mere 4 losses, en route to earn­ing a .\lo. 6 national ranking as they head into the spring sea­son. 
The No. 6 ranking marks the highest by an Irish pairing since the fall rankings in 1997 when Brian Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski were ranked fifth. 

While the No. 1 doubles posi­tion is locked up in the hands of Smith and Taborga, the No. 2 and No. 3 slots are up for grabs. Vying for one of the spots at Nos. 2 and 3 doubles will be Talarico, Farrell. seniors Ashok Raju and James Malhame, sophomore Ben Hatten and freshmen Paul McNaughton and Brent ])'Amico. 
Although the Notre Dame line­up is still being twr,ak«ld, UC­1rvine and Furman are not expected to give the Irish a seri­ous run for their money.. 
"The weekend will be an inter­esting opener," Bayliss said. "!UC-Irvine and Furmanl are both NCAA level teams, teams that could make the tournam1mt. They're teams we expecl to beat, but it wouldn't he too big of a stretch for one of them to beat us." 
Heating UC-Irvine and Furman will rely heavily on the depth of Notre Dame, which has definite­ly be identified as a major strength• for the Irish, but Bayliss also recognizes the need for a strong leadership to sur­facr, in the highest part ol' the lineup in order to fulfill hopes of success in 2002. 
"Depth is a strength," Bayliss said. "And then the emergence of one or two of the people at the top to really take chargr, would separate us from a lot of teams." 
Contact Rachel Biber at rbiber@nd.edu. 
In its third season, 
OPEN 

Summer Shakespeare proudly presents: 
THE
AUDfflONS 
TEMPEST 
BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
7:30 

A Story ofMagic, Love, and Forgiveness 
Successful Applicants Receive: 
JULY 23 -28 
-Summer Housing -Summer Stipend -1/2 Tuition Remission -Shakespeare -in 
performance (6 credit 
hours) Opportunity to perform in an equity company 
roduction Produced by Paul Rathburn 
Directed by Gavin Cameron-Webb 

Time: 7:30 Sh 1Summer 
Washingwn Hall 
University of Notre Dame 
For ticket information and reservations, call 
aKes~-eare
1 0 1 DeBartolo uni,·eni,y "'E"'d,m, 
219.631.5069 
¦-;; 
orvisitwww.nd.edu/-sumrshak
Jan. 21-22 
OPEN 
AUDfflONS 
101 DeBartolo 
Opportunities for: Actors Singers Dancers Assistant to a Director Assistant to a Stage Manager Assistant to a Producer 
-Other Technical Theatre Positions 
7:30 

101 DeBartolo Jan 21 & 22 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, January 18, 2002 
HOCKEY 
Irish ready to skate up CCHA standings 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
.Sports Writer 
Throughout the course of any ath­letic season there is a separation of' the contenders from the pretenders. Such a separation is about to come in the CCIIA. 
Right HOW there are eight teams in the league that am \Yithin six points of third place. Notre Dame and the University of Nebraska-Omaha are two of the· teams jammed in the CCI IA standings. 
That is what makes this weekend's games against Nebraska-Omaha important for the Irish. If Notre Dame is going to separate itself from the competition, then the team must have a success against the teams closest to them in the standings. 
"We are coming into this weekend looking for the sweep," said sopho­more Aaron Gill. "This is a huge opportunity to jump ahead of the log­jam and put us up in front of the competition." 
The Irish have been playing better hockey as of late, going 6-3-1 over the last six weeks of competition. A large part of that success has been freshman goalie Morgan Cey and the developing corps of young defense­men. 
During the first month of the season the defense was young and inexperi­enced. A couple of games the Irish took leads into the third period only to give up tying and winning goals. Through the last six weeks though the Irish defense has played with a renewed sense of confidence. 
0 

"We have one of the younger defen­sive corps in the league," said sopho­more defonscman Brett Lebda. "We had to get used to playing v,ith each other. Right now it foels like every­thing is coming together." 
In :-Jebraska-Omaha the Irish find a tram in thr. samr predicament as themselves. The Mavericks are one point behind Notre Dame in the CCIIA and thPy are looking al tho Notre Dame series as a way to move up in the standings. 
Nebraska-Omaha started off the season on fire, going 7-2 in their first nine games. llowevcr, as of late the Mavericks have cooled off some. Nebraska-Omaha is a more human 5­7-3 since mid-November when CCHA play started. Senior Jeff I loggan leads the l\faverick ofTensc. lie is their lead­ing scorer with 14 goals and 16 assists on the season. In goal is 
.sophomore Dan Ellis, who has stats 
similar to Notre Dame goalie Morgan 
Cey. 
The Irish are happy to have the stu~ dfmts bar,k, and hope that the home crowd canpropel them to a weekend sweep. Notre Dame has sold out their last three games at the Joyce Center. 
"Over break it was great, sellouts every night," said Lebcla. "It is a great feeling when you have a full building and a loud supportive crowd." 
The puck drops tonight and tomor­row night at the Joyo~ Center at 7:05 
p.m. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 


< 
.....

Friday, January I 8, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
THINGS YOU NEVER W,A.NT TO HEAR FROM YOUR PROFESSOR ON THE FIRST l>AY OF CLASS 
GREETINGS, CLASS. SINCE I'M 60IN6 TO IE ON SABBATICAL FOR MOST Of THE SEMESTER, YURI, YOUR T.A. WILL BE HANl>UN. THE TEACHING DUTIES 
Fox TROT 
THIS ONE ~ROUP oF HIJNl<'f 80YS HOW WAS . KEPT TR'nfll(;, To PICK NICOLE AND ICE SKATING? ME. Ul' THE WHOLE TIME! 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32Long-_ 52 Asteroid landed on in 2001
1 One of those? 33 Old galley 53 Hobo's aversion 
5 Buff 34 Certain 15 Words of reception 54 !3ig name in 
commitment television
35 Rectors' inferiors 16 First pope 
36 Saul's general 17 Salad fruit DOWN
37 Stir up 

18 Sunkist product 1 Wine variety 
38 _-humanite:

19 Off yonder 2 Important
Fr. 20 Nailed down fortress in the 
39 Actor Herbert 

Crusades21 Trivial pursuit 
and others 

3 Not just feuding 22 Football gain 40 Range 4 Preparation for 24 Rub down 
44 Part of an 800 confession25 Art follower 
collect call 

5 "Give to26 Puts off number 
Cerberus" 28 Instrument on 45 Flattops? {Greek and 
the Beatles' Roman saying)
47 Inadvisable"Within You action 6 Growth in aWithout You• recently burned

48 Indian Ocean 

29 Candidate of clearingpart1872 7 Colortul writing 50 Touch off 31 Cheerleaders' 8 Hands-on-hipsfinales 51 Stop on the way dances 
9 Stevens of TV's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE "The Farmer's 
A W L S Daughter" C R E W A I T 10 Kind of page N K A 11 Super_ ....,-=+,,.+,::+.:i (video game 
name) 
12 Formerly 
13 Makes a 
commitment (to) 
_......,_,.,....,,--i 14 Their addresses 
are not in the 
phone book 
23 "Where Have All the Flowers Gone?" singer 
R L A 25 Amateurs -.+N,-,+,,T.+::-S+:Y,:i 27 Run 
TOM KEELEY 
'?\He roeop r0 ifO -0.\-\f /\\,AV,.C.. KV..'A 
BILL AMEND 
BECAUSE THEY 
LU(EO You, OR BECAUSE YOU l<EPT FALLIN6 OVER? 
\ 
LET ME END MY STORIES WHERE I WANT To, OKAY? 
L)V 

PUD!e by Manny Noaowaky 
28 Took a hop 29 Travel far and wide 30 Put back to 
work 31 Breed 33 Crummy advice 34 Bows 35 Wakes up 37 Temporarily 39William_, 
chief of staff for Roosevelt and Truman 

41 Cuba's Castle 
42 Collection of chapters 
43 Stowe character 
45 Feeder frequenter 46 Scientist who won a 19n Presidential Medal of Freedom 
49 It may be breathtaking 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


~ 
..... 
HOROSCOPE 
LtlEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Nicolas Cage, Kenny Loggins, Katie Courie, David Yost 
Happy Birthday: You must rely on yourself and your own efforts if you really want to make positive moves this year. Offers that sound too good to be true may be tempting but are not like­ly to pan out. Your numbers are 6,11,18,22,26,31,38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your quick wit and energetic atti­tude will attract a lot of attention today. You will find yourself making closer connections to people you work with. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20)): New opportunities will develop through friends and colleagues. You will find yourself in an opportune position if you want to make changes to your career and your home. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Let your creative talent flow. You have a gift when it comes to com­munication and you must not hold back if you have something important to say. 00000 
C::ANCER (June 21-July 22): This is not the day to pick a fight with someone you care about. You may be a little disgruntled but that doesn't mean that you should take it out on others. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have no trouble wrapping others around your finger. Your charming manner and entertain­ing personality help others to see things your way. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Sudden changes may throw you for a loop but if you are willing to 
EUGENIA LAST 

ride the storm you will find your­self sitting in a pretty good posi­tion. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 

Focus on what you can do rather then what you can't. You must work with the people most likely to further your cause and avoid dealing with those who are nega­tive or unwilling to lift a finger. 
000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Don't be too sure about a deal that you are involved in. It is best to ask questions as well as doing a little investigative research yourself before you proceed. 
000 SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. Z1): 
If you decide that you want to promote something that you believe in you should do it with­out hesitation. The people around you will be eager to listen and quick to respond. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on your job. If you want to make changes, go for interviews or send out your resume. You may find that someone you cur­rently work with is holding you back.00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel and educational pursuits will be in your best interest. You will pick up valuable information if you listen to someone you respect and admire. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Deals can be made if you seize the moment and act fast. Take care of matters that concern older relatives. A lack of sympathy may cause some tension at home. 
000 
Birthday Baby: You have so many things going on in your head. You are inventive, curious and quite willing to experiment. You have a great deal of warmth and charm and you put others at ease. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
IC 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-----------------------------------------~-------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ___________________-,-_ Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
O
THE 
Campus Sports 
BSERVER Campus Sports 
. 
Hockey, p. 22 . ND Swimming, p. 18 

. 
Men's Tennis, p. 21 . SMC Swimming, p. 16 

. 
ND Women's Basketball, p. 20 . ND Track, p. 14


PORTS 
Friday, January 18, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Making his mark 
. Willingham has 

. New head coach last chance to land meets with team top recruits for first time 
By KATIE McVOYBy JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sporrs Editor Sports Writer 
He didn't get specific. He
The month-long search for a 
was relaxed. But Tyrone
head coach may hurt Notre Willingham made his pointDame's chances to land top perfectly clear at his first
recruits, according to recruit­team meeting with tho Irish. 
ing analyst Tom Lemming. 
"He doesn't accept losing,"Lemming believes Tyrone 
wide receiver Lorenzo
Willingham may struggle land­Crawford said of the new Irishing his first Irish class. 
head football coach. "He's all
Lemming believfls that 
about winning."
rncruiting at Stanford and At a Thursday afternoon
recruiting at Notre Dame pre­
team meeting, the Notre
sent two completely different 
Dame football team met
scenarios. 
Willingham for the first time
"It was a different kind of 
since his hiring on Jan. 1.
recruiting at Stanford where During the hour and a halfthey only went after the top 
meeting, Willingham outlinedacademic kids which is easier his game plan for next season
recruiting," Lemming said. 
New Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham -winning.
"Now in order for 
"Win. That was underlined,·{Willingham's coaching stafD began an important weekend Thursday, bold-faced, everything," saidto prove themselves at Notre cornerback Vontez Duff. "HeDame they have to battle the meeting with his team for the first time. This wants to win in the classroom,
Florida States and the 
on the field, in social life." 
Tennessees and the Michigans weekend, Willingham faces another big test Following a 5-6 season, thehead to head. It will be deter­team welcomed Willingham's
mined by signing day how 
when many recruits come to Notre Dame for ideas and took with them agood they've done this year." 
sense of confidence in the
Lemming also said that the their visits. Willingham 's ability to takerecruiting problems more than 
the team in the right direc­likely would concern 
. tion.
Willingham's staff and not the "My first impression is thathead coach himself. 
Photos by the guy is really pushing his"I think Willingham will be 
point to win," center Jeff
good, it's really his staff that's NOAH AMSTADTER AND Faine said. " ... He just makes
the quesOon mark," said a great point that that's what
Lemming. "They've never real-
ALLSPORT he's here for. I think he's real-
see RECRUITS/page 15 see FOOTBALL/page 17 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Koss travels to Japan for physics research 
!em. Koss has a size 14 foot, completely different sense of pool, he leads the swimming Dame student to work on the
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
and the little wooden heeled cleanliness," Koss said, and diving team as co-cap­project, which concludes this 
Sporn Writer 
shoes his hosts expected him laughing about the shoes. tain. And in the classroom, he semester. The research has 
to squeeze his feet into were But Koss is used to fitting was chosen as one of only taken him to Japan twice, 
Standing in the bathroom of about a size six. into difficult situations as a two undergraduate members once last summer and once 
a Japanese home, Mike Koss Not to mention the problem four-year veteran of the swim in an international research this October to collect data. 
realized he was surrounded of a tall American male trying team -a task he has man­project. Koss will analyze the data 
by a culture in which he just to teeter around a foreign aged while working towards The project, completed in and co-author a paper sched­
didn't fit. house in a pair of heels. a physics degree. Between collaboration with the uled to be presented at a 
In a tra­Koss, a senior co-captain of putting hours into the pool Research Center for Nuclear meeting of the American 
ditional the men's swimming and div­and putting hours into the Physics in Osaka, Japan, Physical Society this spring, 
gesture of ing team, was chosen to trav­laboratory, Koss has learned examines Isoscalar Giant "Mike is a very bright stu­
hospitality, el to Japan this year as a to make balance a goal. Dipole Resonance -a scien­dent," said Umesh Garg, 
h i s member of an international "I love the guys I swim with tific process that provides a Notre Dame physics professor 
Japanese physics research team. While and l love the stuff I do," he way to determine nuclear and Koss' adviser for the pro­
hosts had the language of physics said. "Swimming and compressibHity patterns. The ject. "It's a really remarkable 
provided comes as second nature Koss, research are both things I benefit of that research is opportunity. Something like 
him with a the language of a foreign cul­really enjoy ... but it has that scientists can use the being able to go to Japan and 
pair of ture did not. meant a lot of nights with information to determine if a be part of international col­
h o u s e "It was just completely very little sleep." star will sink into a black laboration is not common." 
shoes -geijas in Japanese -amazing to me," he said. Koss' balance was reward­bole or explode in a superno­Koss learned about the pro-
worn to keep the house clean. "There's a huge difference in ed this year with honors in va. 
There was just one prob-cultural customs. They have a both of his passions. In the Koss is the second Notre see KOSS/page I 9 


. 
Women's Swimming Notre Dame Dual Invite, Fri-Sat. 

. 
Track vs. Ball State and Western Michigan, Today, 6 p.m.


SPORTS 
. Hockey vs. Nebraska-Omaha, Today, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Basketball vs. Kentucky, Saturday, Noon 




