
VOL. XXXVII NO. 69 ND launches Euro conference 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
New~ Writer 
McKenna Hall this wcek­cnd will host the thn~e-day "The Year of' Lhe Euro" con­1'(1ronce sponsornd by the Nanovic lnstitutf' for liuropoan Silldifls and con­vt1ned by sociology Professor Hobert Fishman and politi­cal scinnce Professor Anthony Messina. 
A series of uight presenta­tions ranging from 1 1/2 to two hours in length will occur today through 
Sunday and "We felt it would be ers. feature a "The con­
fascinating to bring
collection ference is
together major scholars 
of scholars inter-disci­f r O m to see how they would p lin a r y," Europe and Messina
evaluate this event." 
N o r t h said. "[It America. features] W e Robert Ashman sociolo­IProfessors sociology professor gists, polit­
Each session will feature discussion from four to five prominent scholars on top­ics ranging from the Euro's catalyzing effect on econom­ic change to the currency's implications on politics and social policy. Notre Dame faculty members will partic­ipate in each presentation, as well as scholars from American universities such as Northwestern, Yale, Hice and Harvard and interna­tional universities such as the University of Montreal and Cenleral European University, among oth­
Fishman a n d Messina] 
both fell as scholars who had worked in Europe for some time that the inaugu­ration of the Euro and the launching of a common cur­rency in 12 European coun­tries represented a major watershed event in the his­tory of Europe and the European Union," Fishman said. "We felt it would be fascinating to bring together majnr scholars to sec how they would evaluate this ,went and the meaning of monetary change." 
ical scien­
tists, histo­

rians, and economists. We wanted to focus on both the non-eco­no mic and the economic aspects of the Euro currency and involved the fertiliza­tion of North American and European scholars." 
Both Messina and Fishman said that the con­ference would focus on many of the non-economic issues associated with the introduction of the Euro currency that often get 
see EURO/page 6 
HTTP.//OBSFRVER.ND.I lHJ 

Lafayette case unresolved 
By LAUREN BECK 
Nev.·s Wrirer 
Debate in the lawsuit between the city of South Bend and Tari pp Development Corp. may be over for now, but students who live in Lafayette Apartments remained con­fused about the situation and worried that tho issue is not yel. resolved. 
Thomas Dixon, attorney for Taripp president and Lafayette landlord Chris Matteo, said tho lawsuit has been stayed, meaning neithnr party is currently pursuing it. 
Dixon said he and his client had clarified the mis­understandings that caused the problem and had worked to solve it without subjecting Lafayette ten­ants to fines or eviction. 
South Bend filed the law­suit against Taripp follow­ing repeated complaints of intoxication, consumption of alcohol by minors, loud noise, indecent exposure and trash and debris on the property. Specific concerns regarding a party on Sept. 6 were cited in the lawsuit, which was filed on Oct. 11. 
Assistant City Attorney Ann-Carol Nash said the police had been addressing problems for the past three years at the apartment complex, leading the city to believe that the property constituted a public nui­sance. 
Concerns about possible trouble with the city prompted Tracy Clark of Real Estate Management, 

property manager for Lafayette, and Capt. Wanda Shock of the South Bend Police Department to meet with Lafayette residents on Sept. 4. Clark and Shock advised students of policies regarding gatherings. 
Dixon said a key mis un ­derstanding occurred at that meeting, leaving resi­dents unclear as to the offi­cial rules. 
"The police informed ten­ants that the City was con­cerned with parties spilling over into the front parking areas of the comp]ex and adjoining streets, and that as long as parties were kept under reasonable con­trol in the back area, there would be no problem," said Dixon. 
But the tenants' lease states that outdoor parties 

By JASON McFARLEY News Wrirer 
A St. Joseph County Superior Court judge could forgo a jury trial and rule in favor of a former S a i n t Mary's stu­dent who alleged in a lawsuit that ex-Notre Dame foot­ball player Clifford Jefferson raped her last year. 
Lawyers for the alleged vic­tim this week asked Judge Jenny Pitts Manier to enter a default judgment for the woman, according to court 

are not allowed without the landlord's permission. 
"Quite reasonably, the tenants believed they had received that permission because a representative of the landlord was present when the police gave the OK for parties in the back area,"said Dixon. "That understanding was bol­stered at the next party when, throughout the evening, police on regular patrol told students to keep their party in the back." 
When police issued cita­tions to five guests at the party, which took place two days after the meeting with Shock and Clark, the city decided to take legal action to get its message across to students and landlord. 
see LAFAYETTE/page 4 

ROASTING OVER AN OPEN FIRE 


No-show delays Jefferson rape suit 
records. If Manier approves the motion, it would have the effect of' finding Jefferson liable in the civil case and would likely negate the need for a trial. 
In the meantime, the judge has postponed the trial to Jan. 21. 
The trial was to begin Monday, but neither Jefferson nor an attorney ror the for­mer Notre Uame cornerback appeared in court. That's when attorneys for the plain­tiff' made a motion for default judgment, a tactic commonly used when the opposing party is unresponsivt~ to court dates. 
Counsel f'or the alleged vic­tim first entered a motion for default judgment in September 2001 after 
see JEFFERSON/page 3 
Friday, December 6, 2002

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Words of advice 
I thought I would take this opportunity to pass down a few words of advice to my junior counterparts. 
Last year, my friends and I con­gratulated our­selves on being masters of the uni­verse after con­quering that most­difficult-of-all years, junior year. I had made it through what was suppos­edly the most diffi­cult philosophy class. my roommate survived public pol­icy and business law. We were, of course, amazing students to have sur­vived such classes and planned to enjoy the fruits of our labor when we stepped onto campus as the ever-powerful, ever­unproductive senior. 
We signed up for the mandatory but lazy 12 credits, planning on spending most of our nwnerous hours offree time planning what outfits we would wear to Heartland and coming up v,ith new MP3 play lists. 
We came onto campus basking in the sunlight of senior year. 
Then the great shadow of the comp eclipsed our sunlight and made us the slaves we are today. 
Hours and hours of free time spent watching ESPN, blending daiquiris and dancing turned into hours and hours in the library. Did anyone else know that place actually existed? 
The piles of beer cans and clothes that_ were smoky from the bar were replaced with piles of books on subjects as fasci­nating as "Sartre and his existentialist drama," "the army oflnd.ia and the development of frontier warfare" and "male domination in the image of ath­letes." And that was just the beginning. 
We thought we spent a lot of time in front of our computers before. But time in front of computers junior year gener­ally involved chatting on IM, playing Snood, and checking email to see if that guy you met last night actually emailed like he said he would. 
This year, when I'm looking at my computer screen, Microsoft Word pro­claims that I am revising page 10 of 25 pages of single-spaced paragraphs regarding what should help me with the rest of my life. 
But let's think about this. I am a the­atre and philosophy major. I'm going to law school next year. As much as I want to spend hours and hours writing a paper on Sartre's "No Exit" (don't get me wrong, I really do like the play), I have trouble seeing how the comprehensive requirement is going to better prepare me for law school. 
Want a better example? How about spending weeks of your life chronicling the war in India and Pakistan, compar­ing it to the war in the Middle East and discussing what relevant lessons were learned in the first war that could help the conflict in the Middle East. Then, after writing that 30-page paper, try tak­ing a two-day test on every period in human history. 
Welcome to senior year. 
Welcome to the comp. 
Welcome to hell. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5659@saintmarys.edu 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Conf,~rence. "The Y<'ar of tlw Euro." McKenna llall, all day. 

. 
Las Posadas Procession and 


Celebration. Throughout campus, 
7:30 p.m. 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
AA Meeting. llavican llall, room 20, 9:30 a.m. Confidential. 

. 
SAB Movie. Carroll Auditorium, 


7 p.m. 

. 
Marriag,~ Prnparntion lfotrnat. Fatima Hctrcat Center, (i p.m. 

. 
Concert. "Handel's Messiah." Washington llall, 8 p.m. 


. Annual Madrigal Dinner and 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, four cheese pizza. southern fried chicken, au gratin potatoes, mixed vegetables, baked Cajun pollock. bratwurst on a hoagie, steakhouse fries, vegetable lo-mein and portobello fajita. 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable lasagna, Italian sausage marinara, four cheese pizza, grilled pork chops, corn, grilled tilapia, baked noodle casserole, butter­nut squash, breaded cheese sticks, sesame chicken breast and pork tamale. 
Today's Lunch: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, supreme pizza, pasta primavera, chicken and dumplings, baked haddock jardiniene, London broil teriyaki, garlic mashed potatoes, Philly steak sandwich, onion rings, sweet and sour chicken and Caribbean buffalo wings. 
Today's Dinner: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, supreme pizza, roast beef hash, pork loin with apples, sea nuggets, cantonese BBQ chicken and chicken and cheese chimichanga. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
0:: 
LI.I 
s :c 
== 
..Jer: (J



CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself a.s a professional publica­cion and strives for rhe highesr standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, rewgnize that we will make misiakcs. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 SQ we can couect our error. 
..s 
HIGH 23 HIGH 
LOW 16 LOW 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Saint Mary's gears up for annual Madrigal dinner 
Saint Mary's is get­ting ready for their annual Madrigal dinner. The event features food and entertainment. 
page3 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
BUSINESS NEWS 

United rushes to battle financial emergency 
United Airlines scrambles to find a means of dealing with its financial crisis as investors predict a bankrupt­cy filing. 
page 7 
WORLD& NATION 
Winter storms robs millions of power nationwide 
Winter storms robbed over 1.6 million homes of electricity around the nation. 
page 5 
SCENE SPORTS 

Critics review a not-so-royal Hamlet 
Theatre critics reviewed "Hamlet," the Not­So -Roy al Shakespeare Co.'s latest work. 
page 14 
Critics allege Iraq tortures its athletes 
Human rights groups accused Iraq of torturing its athletes and encouraged their expulsion from the Olympics. 
page 17 

VIEWPOINT 
Students need to be informed in Layfayette situation. 
Miscommunication between South Bend and Layfayette is most damaging to the students involved. 
page 1.2 
Entertainment. Hcgina Lounge, 7 p.m. 
South Dining Hall 
North 
SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 
39 
21 

SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 
25 
5 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student vehicle sustains vandalism 
A student reported that his vehicle was vandalized while parked in the Library lot on Nov. 30. 
Employee loses 
Kontrol Kard 
A University employee reported losing her Kontrol Kard at an unknown location on Tuesday. 
Student suffers sports-­
related injury 
NDSP transported a student to University Health Services after he sustained a sports­related injury. The incident was reported at LaFortune Student Center on Wednesday. 
NDSP recovers wallet 
NDSP found a wallet previ­ously reported missing, stored it in the Security Building and returned it to its owner on Nov. 29. 
Complied from NDSP Crime Bf.otter 

Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Garden vegetable soup. Canadian cheese soup, cheese, sausage and mushroom pizzas, cheese enchiladas, grilled salmon steaks, wild rice blend, roasted corn, chicken with rosemary garlic, dijon roasted pota­toes, Italian mixed vegetables, Tex Mex bean burger and baked teriyaki tofu. 
Today's Dinner: Garden vegetable soup, cheese, sausage and mushroom pizzas, California garden stromboli, hot beef sandwich, grilled turkey reuben, bean burger. french fries. rigatoni with Italian sausage, beef tacos, herbed pasta and chicken salad. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


21 31 18 22 
28 26 

Atlanta 46 / 28 Boston 34 / 25 Chicago 31/ 28 Denver 55 / 30 Houston 55 / 38 Los Angeles 67 / 51 Minneapolis 32 / 22 New York 35 / 22 Phlladelphla 35 / 18 Phoenix 72 / 49 Seattle 49 / 40 St. Louis 40 / 32 Tampa 64 / 46 Washington 35 / 20 

Friday, December 6, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Jefferson 
continued from page 1 
Jefferson had missed f'iling deadlines and court dates related to the original April 3, 2001. suit against him. On the day of the hearing to consider tho motion, Jefferson retained a new lawyer who asked for an extension to file a response to the original complaint. 
Hecent documents show that Jefferson, who graduated in 2001, is not currently rep­resented by counsel in the pending lawsuit. His last lawyer withdrew in October because he was unable to communicate with his client after Jefferson returned to his native Texas over the summer. 
The suit against Jefl'erson alleges that he raped then­19-year-o ld Saint Mary's freshman early March 22, 2001, after meeting her at a downtown South Bend bar. It claims Jefferson gave the woman a false name at the bar and later raped her in his car parked on Saint Mary's campus while she was passed 

singersongwriterstoryteller 
out from the effects of alco• hol. 
The woman wont home to Pennsylvania a week after the alleged assault and has not returned to school. She filed suit after a state police inves­tigation found no grounds to pursue criminal charges. 
The suit seeks damages for medical bills incurred by the woman and for physical and emotional suffering. It also seeks damages to discourage the alleged assailant from future sexual assaults. 
Jefferson has reportedly denied the rape allegation and claimed the sex was con• sensual. 
Four other former Notre Dame football players are awaiting trial early next year on criminal charges that they sexually assaulted a then 20· year-old female University student in March. University officials expelled the men in April for sexual misconduct, and the St. Joseph County prosecutor brought charges against them last summer. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 

illiams 
SMC plans Madrigal dinner 
By KATHLEEN MILLER 
News Writer 
For 30 years, the Madrigal Dinners have taken place at Saint Mary's, making it a long• standing tradition for the Saint Mary's College Music Department, as well as for the communi• ty. 
From Friday to Sunday, the annual Madrigal Christmas Dinners take place in Regina North Lounge, where guests can celebrate the holidays. Renaissance-style. 
Nancy Menk, production coordinator of the Madrigal Dinners, describes the production as being reminiscent of the 16th century. 
"[The Madrigal Dinner] is a re-creation of an English Renaissance feast," Menk said. "During the course of the dinner. there is choral and instrumental music, along with entertainment 
CON 

Friday Dec 
LaF Free 9 pm 
provided by jugglers, jesters, and various char­acters." 
Throughout the dinner, there are five fanfares to begin each section of the evening's celebration, each fanfare being intro­duced by trumpets. 
The First Fanfare wel• comes the guests, 
while the partici•
"We have been practicing 
S e c o n d pates as 
ever since fall break and
Fanfare t h e brings in we've put a lot ofwork instru­the Wassail mental­
into it." 

Bowl, or ists in Christmas the pro­Punch. The Meghan Harrass duction. Hoar's student Meghan 
H e a d , along with the rest of the feast, is brought in during the Third Fanfare. The Fourth Fanfare brings in the Figgy Pudding. actual• ly a flaming cheesecake due to the negative reac­tion to real Figgy pudding tends to invoke. Finally, the Fifth Fanfare intro­duces the Entertainment. 
6 

rtune Ballroom 
Participants in the 
Madrigal  Christmas  
Dinners  include  the  
Madrigal  singers  and  

actors, all of whom are Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. The jug­glers are Notre Dame graduates. Also, the Andrews University Early M u s i c Ensemble 
Harrass, 
a senior at Saint Mary's and one of the Madrigal singers, looks forward to partici­pating in her first Madrigal Dinner after many weeks of practicing for the performances. 
"We have been practic­ing ever since Fall Break and we've put a lot of work into it. It's been nice, singing traditional songs, since I'm used to singing contemporary pieces. It's really put me in the Christmas mood and has been a lot of fun," Harrass said. 
Although very few changes have taken place over the years, Menk looks forward to improve­ments in this year's din­ners. 
"Our costume designer, Maggie Baker, has designed new costumes for the food servers and actors. Also, Thomas Boelman, the Set Designer, has improved the set, making many physical changes to the performance," Menk said. 
Since past reactions to the Madrigal Christmas Dinners have been highly favorable, Menk said she is confident in the success of this year's production. 
"The Madrigal Dinner is a well-supported tradition in our community. We sell out every year, which is why we have added a fourth performance on Sunday afternoon." 
The Madrigal Christmas Dinners takes place in Regina North Lounge, beginning at 7:00 p.m. The Sunday afternoon matinee takes place at 
2:00 pm. 
Tickets are $32.50 and are available only in advance at the Saint Mary's College Box Office, 284-4626. Tickets to attend Friday and Saturday's dinners are sold out; tickets are still available for Sunday. 
Contact Kathleen Miller at mill2335@saintmarys.edu 



page 4 
The Observer . NEWS Friday, December 6, 2002 
Lafayette 
continued from page 1 
The lawsuit stated Lafayette posed a risk to the health and safety of the community and held Taripp responsible for permitting illegal activities on their property. 
"We sued the owner of the property since the peo­ple creating problems var­ied from year to year. so we concluded the place wasn't managed well," said Nash. 
An Oct. 30 letter from D i x o n explained ever, does not define what constitutes an outdoor party. 
Dixon insisted he and Matteo were on the stu­dents' side. 
"Some students were upset and didn't realize what we had to do to keep the city at bay, but we wanted to let them know that we hear them and understand where they are coming from," he said. 
"Your landlord has been called to task by the city as a result of your party and parties that have gone on at the premises in the past. Your landlord holds you accountable only for 
the lawsuit your viola­
·we wouldn't have lived 
and its tions of the
here had we known it 
conse­lease," his quences to was going to be like this. " Oct. 31 let-residents. ter said. "The law­"The city
Albert Gembara 
suit is the wants to 
result of Lafayette resident see evic­
your 100 keg party a t Lafayette Square Apartments the weekend of Sept. 6, 2002," the letter read. "In a nutshell, your parties have caused great concern from the leaders of this community. Quite sim­ply, if you cannot control this problem, you will face eviction proceedings." 
Dixon said the party vio­1ated the residents' lease because students attending the party broke the City's noise, trash and public incl'ccency laws. The party exposed residents to poten­tial eviction and fines from the City ranging from $50 to $2,5000. 
Some tenants criticized the letter as harsh and con­fusing, but Dixon said he just wanted to make sure students controlled their future parties since the City had its eye on them. 
To assuage students' fears. Dixon held a meeting that night to clarify the terms of the lawsuit and address other student con­cerns. In a letter he wrote the next day, Dixon acknowledged that students were confused about the policy on outdoor parties. Since Shock and other police officers had given students information that contradicted the terms of their leases, Dixon agreed that it would be unfair to assess them attorney's fees. 
Dixon said the lawsuit did not apply directly to stu­dents. but he advised them to carefully study and abide by their lease. namely. the clause that forbids outdoor parties without prior approval. The lease, how­
tions. 
Neither 

your land­lord nor I wants to see that 
happen." 
Senior Lafayette resident Albert Gembara said the apartments have been sub­dued in the months after the lawsuit was filed, although he thought it was too early to judge the whole situation. 
"It has detracted from the whole atmosphere. There are still some random par­ties but not to the same extent," he said. 
Gembara said he and other tenants still did not know what the status of the lawsuit was and what, if any, consequences it would have for them. Overall. he said his experience at Lafayette has not lived up to his expectations. 
"We wouldn't have lived here had we known it was going to be like this," he said. "If we have problems,. the landlord addresses them, but haphazardly and unwillingly." 
Nash said she is pleased with the current situation at Lafayette and thinks the lawsuit will be resolved soon. 
"I think that the owner of the complex and the man­agement have been working hard to help everyone understand what the rules should be, and I haven't heard any complaints from the police department," she said. 
Dixon recently wrote a letter to the city asking officials to dismiss the law­suit without prejudice, 
Contact Lauren Beck at beck.l3@nd.edu 


-=liP§ide 
~flJfR 

FUN! GAMES! SHOPPING! ~upetrn~rket ~w@efl ~cav~ng@t Huntg Eating Contegtg Orao S:taekJ-ng Mucll;-Mu.ch More! 
pa•=:~{:t'H"''I
t-;~._··,.-:.i:,•;1_-:,.-.·,:•1..-:,._•fl"..i•";i~'...-;;1,.-;~.<Jr;ll",:i",.';-"';;"",.';l',.i~---;;r;::_r;,...;1,1.~:~,..t.f'S.';;1.-:1.~1::-·.-:~•:--.-:l~ 
.BusPie~I.eMansCircle@ 9:15pm Library Circle@9:30pm 
ND SMC HCC StudentsONLY! You MUST ride the bus with Flipside to participate in the events 
Questions.! Catt. Jeff4--2174 
Visit our website at vvww.nd.edw'~flipside or on ATh1--our screen name-is FlipsideEvents 

3:30pm-5:30pm Mondays and Wednesdays 3:30pm-5:30pm 
Contact Vernell Ball-Daniel 
921 North Eddy Srrm 
louth Btnd, IN 41,617 
No car? Don't worry! We are on the 
ND/SMC Shuttle route!!! 
1( 
ROBINSON COMMUNl1Y LEARNING CENTER 

WORLD & NATION 
Friday, December 6, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Winter storm cuts power to 1.6 million homes 
Associated P rcss est hit as freezing rain coated 
trees and power lines. 
More than 1.6 million homes Duke Power said about 1.2 and businesses were without million customers were blacked elcclricity Thursday from out Thursday in North and Oklahoma to Lhc Carolinas as a South Carolina, far surpassing deadly snow and ice storm the record number affected snapped power lines, canceled when Hurricane Hugo tore airline f1ights and shut down through the i·egion in 1989. schools and some government The utility said it could be days omccs. before electricity is restored. 
The storm spread freezing Carolina Power & Light rain and up to a foot of snow reported a peak of 466,000 from the Texas Panhandle to customers without service. Its Virginia on Wednesday. then worst natural disaster was veered up Lhe East Coast on Hurricane Fran in 1996, which Thursday. It was blamed for at knocked out power 791,000 least 17 deaths, mostly from customers. traffic accidents: six in Other utilities in the Kentucky, three each in North Carolinas also had hundreds of Carolina and Missouri, two in thousands of customers with­Arkansas and South Carolina, out power. and one in Tennessee. South Carolina Gov. Jim 
"We've got wrecks every­Hodges declared a state or where," Virginia State Police emergency in the afternoon so Sgt. D.A. Shaver said. "We're the National Guard can be 
calling troopers in to handle mobilized to help Upstate resi­the influx. but it will get worse dents. before it gets better." Some 3,000 stranded travel­
"It isn't fun driving side­ers spent the night at North ways." commuter John Budnick Carolina's Charlotte-Douglas of Massapequa Park, N.Y., said International Airport as the or morning conditions on Long storm snarled air hubs in Island. "It's getting worse, loo." Charlotte, where many US 
Schools were closed Airways flights transfer and in Thursday in parts of the Atlanta. Delta's primary hub. Airport had shut down. The and some flights were canceled sounded like gunshots during Carolinas, Pennsylvania, West The storm also played havoc pilot announced he was return­at Newark Liberty hunting season. Virginia. Virginia. New Jersey, with airline traffic in the ing to LaGuardia, but the flight International Airport. New A 30-foot section of a pine Tennessee and Kentucky. A few Northeast. A Delta shuttle left was diverted again. The plane York's Kennedy International tree crashed into Richard schools closed in Connecticut New York's LaGuardia Airport eventually landed at Hartford, reported no delays. Wallace's roof, but he took the and New York City's northern for Washington on time at 7:30 Conn., shortly after 10 a.m. In Raleigh, N .C., the steady damage in stride. "You have to suburbs. a.m., but by the time it arrived LaGuardia reported delays of cracks of pines and oaks buck­put some things in perspec­
The Carolinas were the hard-Washington's Reagan National up to an hour at midmorning ling under the weight of ice tive," he said. 

IRAQ 
Hussein urges Iraqis to support U. N. inspectors 
Associated P rcss 
BAGHDAD 
President Saddam Hussein urged the Iraqi people on Thursday to support the new U.N. arms inspections as a welcome opportunity to disprove American allega­tions that his government still harbors weapons of mass destruction. 
The White I louse quickly rejected those claims, insisting they lack credibility. President Bush, asked on Thursday if the United Stales was headed toward war, replied: "That's a question you should ask to Saddam Hussein." 
In a holiday greeting to Iraqi leaders, Saddam said he agreed to the inspections, in which one of his own palaces was searched, "to keep our people out of harm's way" in the face of U.S. threats. 
The Iraqi president's remarks contrast­ed sharply with a vice president's harsh words about the inspections late Wednesday. Taha Yassin Ramadan had accused the U.N. monitors of being U.S. and Israeli spies and of staging the presi­dential palace inspection as a provocation. 
Saddam spoke at a gathering of the leadership of his Baath Party and the Iraqi military on the first morning of the three­day Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr. 
He denounced an "unjust, arrogant, debased American tyranny." Then, turn­ing to U.S. allegations that Iraq retains chemical and biological weapons, he said Iraqis wanted to disprove those claims after a four-year absence of U.N. weapons inspectors from their country. 
"Some might claim that we didn't give them a proper chance to resist, with tangi­ble evidence, the American allegations," Saddam said. 
"We shall provide them with such a chance," he said, referring to the round of 
U.N. weapons inspections that began last week. 
Washington threatens to go to war against Iraq if, in the U.S. view, it does not cooperate in the disarmament effort. Alluding to eventual war, Saddam declared: "We shall take the stand that befits our people, principles and mission. Victory will be yours." 
In Washington, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said the United States will provide intelligence to U.N. inspectors to prove allegations that Iraq still holds banned weapons. 
"The president of the United States and the secretary of Defense would not assert as plainly and bluntly as they have that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction if it was not true, and if they did not have a solid basis for saying it," Fleischer said. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
lsreali tank shell hits building, kills 7: 
Amid a battle with Palestinian gunmen, an Israeli army tank lircd a shell into a two-story building in Bureij refugee camp in the Gaza Strip, killing seven people and wounding at least seven, wit­nesses and hospital officials said Friday. Israeli troops moved into the camp early Friday with tanks backed by helicopters. The army said it was conducting a targeted operation. 
Australia wildfire destroys homes, cars: 
The worst bush fires in a generation raged out of control around Sydney on Friday, forcing hundreds of people to flee their homes as firefighters strug­glnd to contain the towering flames. Overnight, strong, hot winds fanned more than 60 fires around Australia's largest city, including one in a park just six miles from downtown. Overnight rain in some areas and a change in wind direction failed to extin­guish the flames. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush to argue Iraq violating U.N. pact: 
The Bush administration set the stage Thursday for mak­ing its case for U.N. Security Council action against Saddam Hussein, contending it has solid evidence that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction. The White House would not say what its evidence might be. Saddam said in Baghdad that Iraq wants to disprove the U.S. allegations, though he did not explicitly deny having chemical, biologi­cal and nuclear weapons or a program to develop long­range missiles. 
Aircraft hits Miami Federal Reserve Bank: 
A small plane crashed into the Federal Reserve Bank Building and one body was recovered from the wreckage Thursday night, the branch manag­er said. About 90 people were evacuted from the one-story building, and no one inside was injured. The aircraft slammed into the northeast side of the bank about 8:45 p.m., exploded and burst into flames. 
Court weighs campaign finance arguments: 
A federal court Thursday heard challenges to tho new campaign finance law's limits on the ads that political parties and interest groups run on behalf of candi­dates. even as the Federal Election Commission spelled out how it will enforce the limits. Lawyers opposing the limits told a three-judge panel the law will chill political speech by corporations, labor unions, and political parties. They were among several groups challenging the law in a hearing that began Wednesday. 
Ore. child welfare workers fired by state: 
Two child welfare agency workers were fired Thursday for how the agency handled reports that a girl was being sexually abused by a man who now is charged with killing her and a friend. The two employees met with department officials on Tuesday to present their side of the story and received notice of dismissal Thursday. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Friday, December 6, 2002 
Asylum denied for Chinese couple 
A.soci.it,:d l'res. 
SAN FRANCISCO 

A couple who claimed they fled China to escape tlrreats of forced sterilization and abor­tion were denied asylum by a federal appeals panel Thursday. 
An immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals had earlier said Xu Ming Ll and Xin Kui Yu were not eligible for asylum. In an opinion filed Thursday, the 9th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed. 
The couple's attorney, Michael Karr, said he would advise them to ask the full court to review the decision by the three-judge panel. Karr declined to comment further on the opinion. 
Li and Yu, an unmarried couple, fled China in 1998 after officials gave Ll a forced pregnancy exam. At the exam, she was held down while a doctor examined her "private parts," Li, then 19, said according to court records. 
Li said she was told she would receive similar tests in the future, and if found preg­nant, would be subject to an abortion. She said officials told her her boyfriend, Yu, then 21, could also be sterilized. 
"I was so scared. I was yelling. I was making noises," Ll said, according to court doc­uments, adding that officials threatened her, "For the rest of your life you cannot have child." 
Her exam came after the two were observed spending time together until early hours of the morning, and a man in their village told Li her rela­tionship with Yu was "shame­ful," she said. Li told him to stop interfering, and that she planned to have many babies with her boyfriend. 
After the exam, the couple applied for a marriage certifi­cate, but were told they did not meet the minimum marriage age requirements -20 for females, 22 for males. 
A few months later Li and Yu heard there was an order for their arrest. They fled to San Francisco, where they claimed they were United States citi­zens. They later admitted they were citizens of China. 
The Immigration and Naturalization Service sought to send them back to China, but Li and Yu applied for asy-
Ifyou are reodyfot something differellf_ rbodos is waiting lot you/ Legendary beaches and 
fantastic nightlife makes Spring Break in Barbados unforgetta 
lum. Karr said Li was perse­cuted because she resisted a "coercive population control program" by the Chinese gov­ernment. 
Li was turned down by an immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals because she failed to demon­strate she had been persecuted in China. or that she had a well-founded fear of persecu­tion, according to court docu­ments. Justice Department spokesman Jorge Martinez declined to comment on the case. 
In its opinion. the federal panel agreed with the immi­gration board in denying Yu's asylum petition. 
"While one may condemn the way Xu was treated as inconsistent with human rights, we cannot say that the record compels us to conclude that her treatment was an 'extreme form of cruel and inhuman treatment,' or that she would likely face such treatment on her return," Judge J. Clifford Wallace wrote. 
Philip Hwang, staff attorney at the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in San Francisco, which helps low-income refugees seeking asylum, said the decision could make it more difficult for others. Hwang read the decision. but was not involved in the case. 
"The danger is that the court has somehow raised the bar on what you need to show," Hwang said. "If a woman who has gone through an invasive physical examination of her private parts by strangers can't meet the standard for persecution, what is that going to mean for the next refugee?" 


Euro 
continued from page 1 
overlooked. The implications of the Euro on society, identity and transnational relationships will also be addressed in the discussions. 
"We are interested in high­lighting that the introduction of the Euro is not simply an economic event," Messina said. "That is something that to some extent is underempha­sized. We are going to learn as a result of the papers and pre­sentations from our colleagues what they think the ultimate significance of the Euro will be. We don't have a precon­ceived idea about this." 

CENTER F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Talk It Out .. . Walk It Out .. . Wait It Out .. . 
Volunteers also Welcome! 
Please Contact: Kim or Bill at TakeTen. I@nd.edu Or call us at 634-9424 
1( 

ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
The group of panelists elists during dinners today and includes both Euro-enthusiasts Saturday. and Euro-skeptics who will The conference was co-spon­
cover the range of 
opinions "We are interested in regarding highlighting that the 
the Euro 
introduction ofthe Euro 
currency and its 
is not simply an future economic event." 
implica­tions. 
Anthony Messina
T w o 

g u e s t political science professor speakers. Philippe 
sored by the European Union, the Graduate School's Office of Research, the Henkels Lecture Series, The Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Keough Institute and the Political Science and Sociology depart­

Schmitter of the European University Institute in Florence and Herve Carre, minister of Financial Affairs for the Delegation of the European Commission, will address pan-ments. Student interns also assisted with the preparation and organization of the event. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

TAKE TEN: 
Action to Prevent Childhood Violence in South Bend 
1 Credit Social Concerns Seminar: Spring 2003 
Team with fellow students and help schools in South Bend STOP Violence before it happens 
• This ONE-CREDIT COURSE focuses on issues 
of youth  and  violence  in  South  Bend schools.  
• Participants  will  learn  ways  to  help  reduce  
violence  while  having  fun  interacting  with  

children in area schools. 
• 
Participants become members of the Take Ten Team, spending 1 hour per week in their schools, attending training sessions, and 1-2 evenings per month discussing their experiences of promoting Take Ten. 

• 
Readings for the one-credit course supplement training, and reflection addresses the Church• s role in preventing violence in our society. 


• Registration ends January 29, 200 3 
For an Application or more Information, please contact 
Jay Caponigro at 631-9423 Caponigro.2@nd.edu 
Need Christmas presents for family members or friends? 

CHRISTMAS TRADITIONS is a collection ofholiday favorites creatively arranged for piano, and played by senior music theory and MIS major MARK SCOZZAFAVE 
CDs are $10.00 each or 3 for $20.00 
For more information 

www.nd.edu/mscozzaf/ music mscozzaf@nd.edu 574-634-1663 WEB.SITE btdA!L 

Friday, December 6, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WlRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
l\tlarket Watch December 5 
DowJones 
8,623.28 • -114.57 
NASDAQ 

1,410.75 -19.60
•
S&P500 

906.55 -11.03
•
AMEX 

821.46 -0.93
•
NYSE 

482.78 -4.79
•

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -3.95 -0.78 18.96 
NAScAQ~.•1e0.••·•.1wo~I::cooq1/t1i~:13iI1:tilit!l:11i11is 
~.;:,;,: :•:-. ·.·.;-· :-:-:-: -:·:;: <·:_.:-:-::.:::;:.:-:;:;:;::;; .:::::::-:-:;:;:~:;:;::~:::::::;:::::~::::,::;:::::::;,::::::;: 
UAL CORP (UAL) -67.95 -2.12 1.00 
SUN ..Hl£j~f!I£i:1iii:;; ••l•k:1111ii111:111~!illl!l!lilHI 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -3.26 -0.36 10.69 
IN BRIEF 
Mattel agrees to pay $477,000 fines 
Mattel Inc., maker of Barbie dolls and other famous toys. agreed along with two of its for­mer employees to pay $477,000 in fines for making political donations in the names of other people, the third-largest fine ever imposed by the Federal Election Commission. 
The lines, announced Thursday, stem from $120,714 in donations that came out of Mattel funds from 1996 to 2000. The money went to 23 Democrats and Republicans, two party com­mittees and five political action committees. 
Among the recipients: the Democratic National Committee, the Gore 2000 presidential campaign; committees for California's Democratic senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein. 
GM, Chrysler offer holiday incentives 
Two of the three major U.S. automakers have sweetened their incentive packages for the holidays, a move predicted by some ana­lysts as the companies try to meet year-end sales goals. 
General Motors Corp. on Thursday announced a holiday financing package for several 2003 sport utility vehicles. Earlier this week, DaimlerChrysler AG's Chrysler Croup improved financing terms on most Dodge and Chrysler minivans for the coming month. 
GM, already offering no downpayments or finance charges on many models, has enhanced its "Zero, Zero, Zero" program by offering no-interest financing for up to 60 months on 13 SUVs. 
Simon properties bids for Taubman 
Mall operator Simon Property Group took its latest $1.5 billion takeover bid for smaller rival Taubman Centers directly to sharehold­ers on Thursday, heating up its battle with the Taubman family. 
Taubman said Thursday that its board will evaluate tho $18 por share bid, a 50-ccnt­per-share increase over Simon's previous offer. which Taubman rejected. 
United scrambles to chart plan 
. UAL stock falls in anticipation of bankruptcy filing 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
United Airlines scram­bled to chart a course through its financial emergency Thursday as its stock went into a free­fall on expectations of a bankruptcy filing, an action its CEO insisted is not a foregone conclusion . 
A day after losing its bid for government assis­tance, United executives met with union leaders, consulted with a key air­line ally overseas and tried to shore-up the financing it woul.d need to keep 11ying in bankruptcy. 
Shares in parent UAL Corp. lost two-thirds of· their value in response to the Air Transportation Stabilization Board's deci­sion late Wednesday not to provide an $1.8 billion loan guarantee. 
Trading in the stock was halted for the session's first four hours Thursday, Chief executive Glenn ruptcy-court protection. offering assistance to its while the New York Stock Tilton, following a meet-The lead lenders embattled partner. But Exchange reviewed UAL's ing with leaders of the involved in the negotia­it's improbable that qualifications to continue pilots' union that holds tions are J.P. Morgan, Europe's No. 2 carrier being listed. In heavy the largest single stake in Citigroup, Bank One and could pitch in enough to afternoon trading, shares the airline, declined to say GE Capital, a rinit of help United dodge bank­plunged $2.12, or 68 per­whether United will file General Electric, accord­ruptcy. cent, to $1 -the lowest for bankruptcy but said it ing to the sources, who If United does file for level in decades. is not inevitable. spoke on condition of Chapter 11, its shares 
Standard & Poor's fur­"What we have said is anonymity. would become almost ther downgraded United's we're going to consider all The ATSB ruling left worthless and a bank­corporate credit ratings of our options and nothing open the possibility ruptcy court judge over­following the "disappear­really is a foregone con-United could seek loan seeing its overhaul could ance of any realistic pos­clusion," he told Chicago's assistance later by pre­order far steeper cuts sibility" of paying off WLS-TV. senting an improved busi-than the carrier has pro­deferred debt and avoid­He also tried to calm ness plan. posed. ing bankruptcy. passenger worries, saying Industry experts said Analysts say United's 
United, which has about the company is "going to there's seemingly no planued 6 percent reduc­$1 billion in cash, has be much better for this chance anything could be tion in capacity next year $920 million in overdue experience -absolutely secured immediately, may be doubled and thou­debt obligations. no doubt about it." which United needs to sands of additional layoffs 
"The ATSB's decision The carrier continued avert bankruptcy. are likely from United's will almost certainly lead negotiations Thursday to "I can't imagine them work force of 83,000, to a Chapter 11 bankrupt­. secure a $1.5 billion loan avoiding it unless some­already down from cy filing by UAL and in the event that it files one writes them a check around 100,000 since the United as soon as United for bankruptcy, sources for $2 billion," said ana­Sept. 11 attacks. has completed arrange­familiar with the matter lyst Ray Neid) of Blaylock Because of the stock ments" to fund operations said. and Partners. plunge, Dow Jones & Co. while in bankruptcy, S&P The so-called debtor-in-Germany's Lufthansa, removed UAL from the credit analyst Philip possession financing which along with United Dow Jones Transpor­Baggaley said -an opin­would allow United to belongs to the 14-member tation Average and ion echoed by many oth­continue operations while Star Alliance of airlines, replaced it with United ers. restructuring under bank-said it was in talks about Parcel Service Inc. 
Penthouse opens first nightclub 
partnering with Penthouse brings a the menu is mostly burgers and fries. 
Associated Press 

new mystique. The Penthouse plan is to open luxu• CLEVELAND "You have an internation·auy known rious clubs with food and drink that Penthouse Magazine plans to license name." Spencer said. "It's known for cater to women and couples as well as a chain of upscale strip clubs around sex and it's known for quality and we men and that add polish to the image 
the country. hoping to cash in on its want to carry that same theme." of a seedy strip club with plastic seats well-known name and expand its fran­Neither Penthouse nor Spencer and watered-down drinks. chise as magazine sales have ebbed. would discuss financial terms of their "These will be places where you can 
The first Penthouse Key Club was parLnership, though Spencer said he go and have dinner." said Penthouse filled with customers on its grand spent $1.5 million renovating the club, spokeswoman Dottie Meyer. "A higher opening Wednesday in Cleveland. and which now has a lavish mirrored entry caliber of girl'> will be dancing, and it the second will open Friday in Dallas. hall with velvet upholstered stone will be a more living-room type atmos­
Penthouse consultant David "Slim" benches and murals of Greek statues. phere." Baucom said the magazine expects to The dining areas feature leather The clubs are an attempt by parent sign up about two dozen strip clubs booths and wood paneling. Patrons company General Media 
nationwide over the next two years. can choose from some of the world's Communications Inc. to extend the Tim Spencer, owner of the Cleveland top champagnes and cognacs, though Penthouse brand beyond the maga­club, said his club had gotten stale and the primary drink is beer on tap and zine. 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, December 6, 2002 
Grand jury to hear N.H. church abuse case 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. 

A grand jury investigat­ing how the Catholic church handled child sex abuse cases has been scheduled for a special meeting Dec. 13, The Associated Press has learned. 
The grand jury has been hearing evidence against the Roman Catholic Diocese of Manchester for several months. Sources familiar with the case, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a decision on an indictment could come as soon as the meeting next Friday. 
While priests have been convicted on sex abuse charges, no diocese over has been indicted in the United States. 
Attorney General Philip McLaughlin would not com­m en t Thursday on the i,nvestigation, but would not rule out a settlement. 
The grand jury in Manchester is looking at cases dating to the 1960s which involve nearly 50 priests and more than 100 alleged victims, according 

to Senior Assistant Attorney General Will Delker. He said tho probe has focused on the church's actions, but individuals also could face charges. 
Any indictments likely would be misdemeanors brought under the state's child endangerment statute. For an institution, a misde­meanor conviction carries fines of up to $20,000 per offense. 
Patrick McGee. spokesman for the diocese, declined to comment. The diocese covers the state. 
McLaughlin's office has 
been investigating whether diocesan officials violated child endangerment laws by transferring from parish to parish priests suspected of molesting children. He has said he planned to finish the investigation before he leaves office on Dec. 18. 
Patrick Schiltz, dean of the University of St. Thomas School of Law in Minneapolis, said an indict­ment of a diocese would be unprecedented. Schiltz. who has represented the church in abuse cases, said he was skeptical about going after the church, 
rather than individual wrongdoers. 
"To go further and indict the Catholic Church in the clergy sex abuse scandal is pretty out there," he said. 
Delker would not say whether Bishop John McCormack is a target of the investigation. McCormack, who became bishop of Manchester in 1998. has been ace used of ignoring complaints about abusive priests in Massachusetts while he served as one of Cardinal Bernard Law's top deputies from 1984 to 1994. 


Friday, December 6, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
117 cruise passengers fall ill 
Associated Pres, 
MIAMI 

Nearly 120 people have ber.n sickened with symp­toms consistent with a. Norwalk-like virus on a fourth cruise ship to report an outbreak of a stomach ailment in recent weeks. 
The Oceana, operated by P&O Cruises of Great Britain. reported that 114 passengers and thrne crew nrnmhl•rs have been treat• cd for some sort of virus. the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
said Wednesday. 
More than 1.000 passen­gers have recently become sick cin cruise ships, but cruise lines and travel agents said the problems have not significantly cut into business. 
A CDC spokesman said the symptoms aboard the Oceana arc consistent with the virus that have recently plagued llolland America's Amsterdam, Carnival Cruise Lines' Fascination and Disney Cruise Line's Magic. Federal health offi­cials were expected to board the Oceana to inves­tigate. 
The Oceana, carrying 1,859 passengers on a 15­night trip, is on only its third sail since its inaugur­al voyage from Fort Lauderdale's Port Everglades on Nov. 1. 
The Norwalk and Norwalk-like viruses can cause diarrhea, stomach pain and vomiting for 24 to 48 hours. according to the CDC. They are spread through food and water and close contact with infected people or things they have touched. 
Health officials said the "Some of our passengers sickness is common, espe­who are experienced cruis­cially in colder months. ers do understand the real 
and that whether t h e r e 
h  a  v  e  
b  e  c  n  
m  o  r  e  

c a s e s aboard cruise s h i p s t 11 a n usual, or if the I a t e s t c a s e s h a v e s imp I y received 
it is unclear facts. Some of it has been 
"Some ofour passengers who are experienced cruisers do understand the real/acts. Some ofit has been totally overblown. " 
Jeanne T. Van Houten travel agent 
totally overblown." 
Hath er than miss out on their 1 o n g ­planned vacations, many pas­s en g er s have decid­ed to sail with a few precautions. Some are washing their hands 

more attention. 
The cruise industry, still recovering from a slump attributed to the weak economy and Sept. 11, has been aggressive in trying to reassure the public. The cruise lines have been quick to note that they h a v e b e e n frequently or using anti• bacterial lotion. Others arc taking a pass at the self­serve buffets. One traveler even brought his own food, water and a pillow. 
''I'm very impressed with the treatment and the cleaning." said Pat Edwards, of Remington, 
taking "/feel pretty confident Va. "l feel s h i p s pretty confi­
that I won't ca.tch 

out of dent that I 
service anything on this trip." won't catch a n d anything on scrub­this trip."
Pat Edwards 

b i n g Tom and
cruise passenger

t h e m K a r e n 
f r o m stem to stern. 
Travel agents said they have field­ed questions from people booked far in advance on cruises, but have not seen many customers back out. 
"Our passengers are still cruising," said Jeanne T. Van Houten. owner of lsings Travel in Boca Raton, who said she had only one cancellation. 
Holzwarth 
0 f 
Cleveland, 

a b o a r d Carnival's Fascination, said they never considered canceling their vacation even after hearing about an outbreak that sickened about 200 people on the ship's previous voyage over the weekend. 
"We have two kids at home and a baby sitter," Karen Holzwarth said. 
Flight delays decrease 21 percent this year 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Flight delays are down 21 percent this year and. notwithstanding Thursday's East Coast storm, good weath­er is the main reason. 
The Federal Aviation Administration considers a flight delayed if it takes off or lands at least 15 minutes later than scheduled because of problems in the air traffic sys­tem -mostly weather and congestion. Through the first 11 months of the year, delays fell to 263,197 from 332. 562 in 2001. 
Weather is responsible for about two-thirds of all delays. 
While the good weather was mainly responsible for the improvement, FAA officials also credited a project begun in the delay-ridden summer of 1999 to improve air traffic procedures and use new tech­nology. 
"We're getting more experi­enced," FAA spokesman William Shumann said. "The entire FAA air traffic system and the airlines and other users are doing a better job of managing delays due to weather." 
A comparison for just the first eight months of each year shows that delays fell by 32 percent in 2002. That time frame does not include the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the congestion that followed as the aviation system strug­gled to return to capacity. 
Helping ease air traffic this year was a 7. 9 percent decline in scheduled flights through November 2002. 
David Stempler, president of 
the Air Travelers Association. said the decline in delays is good news but that air tra!Tic control is just one part of an aviation system that needs to be improved. "More and bet­ter-utilized runways would go a long way in reducing delays," he said. 
The FAA's survey includes all scheduled flights -from airliners to corporate jets ­in the United States and Canada. The survey does not measure delays caused by an airline, such as engine trou­ble. 
J\ separate survey by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics shows that in the first eight months of this year, late arrivals fell by 24 percent and late departures by 28 per­cent, compared with January­October in 2001. These statis­tics measure 10 major air­lines. 
FAA Administrator Marion Blakey said this week that more improvements in the air traffic control system as well as four new runways opening next year in some of the nation's busiest airports ­Denver. Houston, Miami and Orlando, Fla. -will further reduce delays. 
f,'.YVj ()J4'f,-"J·'1 [1···; f.f ~ 
'l.,.·· l i.y . J J l J ~·J..,...? 
FLEECE 
Selecti:1.. 
~ 
f,om CUTPCST Campus :J•z.2i£: 
Cold WNlher E.lq»rla 
CaU 259-2000 for more details 


Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan • Cantonese · American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch • Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 1 O 

(574) 272-7376 -222 Dlxleway South 
(U.S. 31 In Roseland) South Bend, IN 
l
"As You Wish" X---:~t}~~1
mnortt:_ -~, =~~~~tiKS
r V / I -CHANGE PURSES 
LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY. SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala -Bolivia -Peru -Mexico -Thal/and • India Lafortune Room 108 Dec. 2-7 (Sat.) 10-Bpm Proceed5 from Mies of Jc:wolr;, ~usrantCG the lovln<J h.anda of Guatemalan families atim<:& th<:lr average >1alsry, ae well 1H fund,; for their education. 
Happy 21s' Birthday, 
Aldo Tesi, 

Nebraska's most eligible bachelor! 
Love from the family Mom, Dad, Gina (who says hello to all the Stanford men) and Monica 
Friday, December 6, 2002 
page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
BRAZIL 

6 South American leaders hold trading bloc summit 
Associated Preos 

BRASILIA 
Six South American presi­dents convened a summit of the continent's largest trading bloc Thursday. aiming to work out a timetable for a free trade agreement covering most of the continent. 
A key issue at the two-day summit -taking place amid political and economic turbu­lence in the region -was a schedule for eliminating tariff barriers between the six Mercosur countries and five other South American coun­tries that belong to the Andean Community trading bloc. 
Cl.oser cooperation between the two blocs could give South America more muscle in U.S.­led negotiations for the Free Trade Area of the Americas, which would create a free trade zone stretching from Alaska to Patagonia by 2005. 
The Mercosur presidents, who met behind closed doors Thursday, were also expected to formalize a plan to allow people to work in member countries and more easily obtain citizenship. 
But turmoil distracted from discussions. Financial chaos in Argentina and currency prob­
-, ...~ .. ~'l'"l~.~.... -~ ~ ~ 
-· •. . ... ~ ~, --~ '• ... ­

lems in Brazil have dragged the Mercosur region into crisis. 
The trading bloc -Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay -has a combined gross product of almost $1 tril­lion. Chile and Bolivia are associate members. 
On Thursday, traders pushed the value of the Brazilian real down to a five-week low of 
3.77 to the dollar. 
Investors in South America's largest economy are nervous about inflation while firms are having to pay burgeoning debts in dollars. There are also concerns about President-elect Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's delay in appointing key eco­nomic officials. 

News that Paraguayan presi­dent Luis Gonzalez Macchi faces impeachment on charges of corruption sent ripples of concern among delegates at the summit. 
Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Lafer underlined that "there is a democratic clause characterizing Mercosur. That means full respect of the democratic rule." 
Mercosur has used its power before to ensure that democra­cy prevailed in Paraguay. 
Countries that do not comply with the organization's democ­racy rule face the threat of being expelled from the trade bloc. 
Paraguayan President Luis Gonzalez Macchi, who was attending the summit, told reporters Thursday the allega­tions against him -that he once owned a stolen luxury automobile and mishandled millions of dollars in state funds -were politically moti­vated and he was ready to face Paraguay's parliament. 
Gonzalez Macchi also said the summit's final declaration Friday will address the politi­cal chaos in Venezuela and the crisis in Argentina. Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez had intended to sit in on the sum­mit but was forced to cancel because of a general strike at home aimed at ousting him from power. 
Venezuela, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru belong to the Andean Community. 
Outgoing Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso hosted the summit, but visiting presidents also met with Silva, who takes office Jan. 1. 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 


The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
574/239-6611 · 800/522-66I I 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 

Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame 
Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your 
specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, 
with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect @
~ EQUll kOUSINC
home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
~ LENDER 
Independent of the University 
the made-for-you 
Makeover 
Discover makeup made to suit your 
skin tone, your style, even the clothes 
you wear. Call me today for a free 
makeover. We"ll create a look that's 
uniquely yours. 
Kelly McLeod Class of 2000 Independent Beauty Consultant (574) 674-8774 
MARY KAY 

www.marykay.c9m/kellymcleod Student Discount on Products. 
Consider Us in Your Future Plan... 
" ' , 
At this time in your life, you are searching for answers to life's tough questions about your future. 
It's important that you con• sider all of the options. 
RELIGIOUS LIFE__ _ WORTH EXPLORING 
For more information, contact: 
Sr. Elyse Marie Ramirez, OP, Vocation Director DOMINICAN SISTERS OF SPRINGFIELD 
Phone 217.7870481 e-mail: SEMRamirez@spdom.org 1237 West Monroe Springfield. IL 62704 website: www.springfieldop.org 
' 

CARDINAL CHARTERS 
IF QUALITY COUNTS... ~ M U&AAIWMVUI 

•
Since 1923 •Group Services •Professional Drivers 

•
Luxury Buses •Competitive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 


,-----~-----­
Friday, December 6, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Prosecutors seek reversal in New York jogger case 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Citing DNA on a sock, prosecu­tors asked a judge Thursday to throw out the convictions of five young men found guilty of beat­ing and gang-raping a jogger during a 1989 "wilding" spree in Central Park that exposed the city's deep racial divide to the rest of the nation. 
District Attorney Hobert Morgcnthau's recommendation came 11 months after a convict­ed rapist who had never before come under suspicion in the case confessed. Also, DNA tests con­firmed that his semen was on one or tho socks the victim was wearing 13 years ago. 
Morgenthau stopped short of declaring the five innocent, but said the confession and the tests create "a probability that the verdicts would have been more favorable to the defendants." And he said no purpose would be served by retrying them. 
The decision of whether to throw out the convictions rests with state Justice Charles Tejada, who is expected to rule by Feb. 6. 
The attack on a white 28-year­old investment banker, allegedly by a gang of black and Hispanic boys from Harlem, became emblematic of New York City's struggles with crime and race relations in Urn late 1980s. 
The live defendants, who were 14 to 16 at the time of the attack, arc now mostly in their late 20s and have already com­p I e tcd prison terms ranging from six years to 11 1/2 years for the crime. shooting of black youths on the "I was a monster," Reyes said were used." 
But throwing out of their con­subway and attacks in the in a recent TV interview. "I did The prosecutor said "it is clear victions could clear the way for Howard Beach and Bensonhurst some real bad things to so many that Reyes is the person who tied them to sue the city and would neighborhoods. people and harmed them in so the jogger with her own T-shirt free them from having to regis­Some questioned whether the many ways." ... strikingly similar to the way ter as sex offenders for the rest Central Park youths were round­DNA test results returned in he tied another of his victims." of their lives. ed up because of their skin color May corroborated his story and Defense attorneys said there 
Their families and lawyers and suggested police would not Morgenthau said one of his was clear wrongdoing by police called for an immediate ruling have pursued the case so pubic hairs was found at the in the case, but nothing in the from the judge. aggressively had the victim been scene. The same tests -more 58-page recommendation from 
"We are truly moved by this black or Hispanic. sophisticated than methods prosecutors questioned the decision," said Sharonne Police said all five confessed -available a decade ago -failed methods used by detectives in Salaam, four of them on to link securing the con­
mother of video -and that the five fessions.
"This new evidence -all
one of the "We allfeel we were evidence proved youths to "This new evi­youths. devastating at the crime it does is implicate an dence -all it docs 
denied justice. " 
"But we trial. scene. is implicate an
additional perpetrator." 
also feel "We all took T h e additional perpe­like we've Sharonne Salaam turns getting on former trator," said been vic­mother of one freed youth top of her," prosecu­Michael Palladino Michael Palladino 
timized, Antron McCray, tor in the detective of the Detectives' like the then 15, told c a s e , Endowment Central police in one tape. Lind a A">sociation. "None Park jog-Defense attor-Fairstein, of the evidence ger. We neys said the recently exonerates or all feel we were denied justice." youths were coerced into bogus said she has no doubts the five eliminates the additional five." 
Through a spokeswoman, the confessions by police who kept are guilty and that Reyes merely The youths were also convict­victim declined comment. questioning them for hours. But finished the assault. ed of attacking several other Despite remarkable recovery until January's confession, there At trial, the only physical evi­people in the park that night, but from severe brain injuries, she seemed to be little chance of dence connecting the boys to the Morgenthau said those should has said she remembers nothing overturning the convictions attack was blond hair found on also be dropped. of the attack and was unable to against McCray, Kevin one of the youths that prosecu­The jogger, a former employee help police identify suspects. Richardson, Raymond Santana, tors said matched that of the vic­of Salomon Bros., is now 41. She 
The victim was left for dead in Kharey Wise and Yusef Salaam. tim. But Morgenthau said new lives in a Connecticut suburb a pool of mud and blood on April The confession came from tests showed the hair was not and works for a nonprofit orga­19, 1989, after dozens of Matias Reyes, 31, who is serving hers after all. nization. She has been married teenagers descended on the park a life sentence for raping three Moreover, the district attorney for five years and is said to have to mug runners and bicyclists in women near Central Park and said the boys' alleged confes­a book due out in April. a crime spree dubbed "wilding." raping and killing a pregnant sions had "serious weaknesses." Deloris Wise, the mother of She was in a coma for 12 days. woman. He said he broke his Their accounts "differed from Kharev Wise, said her son 
The randomness of the spree long silence after finding reli­one another on the specific entered prison as a bewildered terrified many New Yorkers. It gion. details of virtually every major youth and left a bitter and bro­was another blow to a city strug­Reyes told investigators he aspect of the crime -who initi­ken man. gling with a soaring crime rate raped the jogger, crushed her ated the attack, who knocked the "He doesn't even realize and it came during a string of skull with a rock and left her for victim down, who undressed her, what's going on today," a tearful high-profile racial incidents, dead. He also said he followed who struck her, who held her, Wise said. "He doesn't care. Why including Bernhard Goetz's his usual pattern of acting alone. who raped her, what weapons should he?" 


Close to campus! tand ~\r 
centra\ t\ea 
(Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! 
Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way (574) 272-1441 

r----­
O
THE 
BSERYER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, December 6, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
A.ssr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPJ!RATI0NS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR. C. Spencer Beggs l'H0TO EDITOR• Nellie Williams 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kade McKenna SAINT MAR\"s EDITOR: Sarah Ncsror 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Niero 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER.IG.EN.ERAL lNF0-.............631-7471 FAX........ , .................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.-.................... ,................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0R/AssT. ME ..................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFIC.E........................................631-5313 NRWS..........................................................631-5323 
observcr.obsnews.l@nd.edu Vl£WPOINT......................... ........................631-5303 observer.vicwpoint.J@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports.l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.srnc.l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-6767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visic our Web site ac http:llobstroer.,uL,du for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, fearures and opinion columns, as wdl as cartoons and r~iews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily n-wspap,:r published in prim and onlinc by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including advercisemcnts, is no1 governed by policies of the administration ofeither inscirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on concenr. 
The, news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.<ible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinioru; through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Obsm1,rpoiicia shouM be dirtct­td to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Olucr;c1 (USPS 5'99 240} is pllblimtd Monda)' ,hruugh Friday a..;cptdwin1 cum uid w~rion pc:flod,;_ A ,uJ:,."'rirtion IU 1'lK-Ohsavcr ii; $100 for one KaJc:rnic }'Car. S''-fti.r OM kme1ta' 
lnt: OiiMm" U pub-li,hcd ,.,: POSrMtSrt..R 02'6 South Dining Hall Send :.ddscsa <..onccrions co: Notre OUJtc, lN 46-SSt n~o~ 
P.O. llo,Q Paiodi-:..1 pottage p~ at None Dame Notre-Dame. IN 46556-0779 and additl0na1 m,ai.ling offiCC1. 
~ Obscm:-.r i.r a mcmhc:r of rhc !wociattll PrC5J. AJI rC?rodut'tlon righa aTC raavc:d. 
Misunderstanding led to lawsuit 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Andrew Thagard Chris Federico Will Puckett Matt Lozar Meghanne Pat Leonard Downes Scene Viewpoint C. Spencer Beggs Kurt Bogaard Lab Tech Graphics Lauren Forbes Katie McKenna Illustrator Patrick Quill 
Not only was the lawsuit involving Lafayette Apartments a colossal misunderstanding, but it was also an avoidable one. 
Police told students they could host parties in their backyards. So students did. They kept their parties contained to the back­yard and made sure guests stayed out of the parking lots and front yards. 
Residents did everything police told them to do. OJhe 
userver
But apparently, those weren't the right things 
a lawsuit against Lafayette's landlord following the Sept. 6 Kickoff Classic party, stating that the apartment complex was a public nuisance. 
Students were then told by their landlord they could not, in fact, hold gatherings anywhere outside the apartmenlS, without prior pennission from the landlord. The police had been mistak­en. 
As students feared they would be assessed attorney's fees or be sued themselves, they maintained the conflicting rules con­fused them. The police said one thing. The landlord said anoth­er. And the students didn't know who to believe. 
If authority figures want people to respect rules, they must enforce them evenly and make sure they are known, rather than creating additional uncertainty for students. 
Students should be held to the same standards under the law as any other citizens. If they throw rowdy parties and in effect invite police action, they must deal with the consequences of their actions. 
But at the same time, students should be valued just as much 
to do. their instructions clear. They need to distinguish Despite taking these precautions, the city filed between the law and the lease so students know 
Editorial 
Appreciating the holiday season 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should University employees beallowed to unionize? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 280 responses. 

as any other South Bend residents. They should be treated with the same dignity as any other apartment tenants. 
And that means the police and their landlords owe them the respect to communicate with one another, to coordinate what they tell students and to cooperate with each other's rules and 
regulations. 
If they expect students to obey the law and com­
ply with the terms of their lease. they must make 
what is permissible under each, especially since some behavior is legal but not allowed according to the terms ofthe leases. 
Police, tenants and landlords have now begun to work togeth­er to solve this problem. This is a commendable step in the right direction. 
But this type of communication should have started long ago. Ifit had, the City of South Bend and Lafayette Apartments could have avoided the whole legal mess in the first place. 
ln the future, when students ask what type of behavior is per­missible on and around their property, they deserve a straight­forward, well-researched answer, not two or three contradicto­ry ones. 
Students need to know on whom to rely and who to trust when it comes to important legal matters. 
If students, police officers and tenants show each other mutu­al respect, communicate regularly and aim for a common understanding, they can avoid another mishap like the one at Lafayette. 
Turn to page 23 of Notre Dame's 1974 Dome yearbook. It shows a picture of two students looking out of separate windows in Dillon Hall. On the left is a student flashing the "peace" symbol typi­
cal of the Vietnam era, holding two fin­gers in the fonn of a "V." On the right, lurking in the shad­ow of the window screen and hard to see, is my friend Joe Schmitz. 


It was 30 years ago this month that Gary J. Caruso I, a senior, met the underclassman Joe. We quickly Capitol became friends Comments and stayed in touch for several years after graduation. But today, he is as ghostly as his image on page 23. We lost touch of each other, and for almost 20 years now we have had no contact. 
Many years ago, I. sent Joe a Christmas card containing a three-page note. It was returned with the addressee unknown. Today it sits in a drawer wait­ing for another sending, but without a hope ofever being sent. Despite all of the Internet tracking technology and Notre Dame databases, Jo.e has been lost. 
That yearbook is one of a limited reminders I have of a good friendship during my senior year. 
I think back to the holiday decorations I had on my dormitory door during those long-lost days at Notre Dame. Twinkling lights, probably banned in the dorms today, surrounded an irreverent Santa with his slightly impaired reindeer, each of which held various alcohol and drug paraphernalia. Today I feel like Scrooge peering with the Ghost of Christmas Past at his boyhood campus. 
All ofus have pictures of yesterday's Christmas eras. My family has boxes full ofWorld War II era photographs featur• ing most of my deceased relatives. I wonder if those days were as warm as the memories the photographs instill in me today. They give me an incentive to appreciate this holiday season as it unfolds so my digital photographs will mean more in years to come. 
This season is like the calm before the storm, both politically and economically. We have a president intent upon waging war with Iraq regardless of the findings of United Nations' inspectors. With it will come casualties both American and oth­erwise. How many of those who are nearing the end of their lives on earth are exerting a special effort to appreci­ate the events of this month? 
Throughout the world, families are preparing to celebrate this holiday sea­son. For some, they will lose a loved one before they can celebrate together. For others, this will be the last holiday they will celebrate with their families. Are any ofthem making a personal effort to celebrate as though it was their last? 
It is easy for us to ignore global politics while focusing on our personal lives. It is easy for us to limit our sights on what immediately affects us without consider­ing how delightful that experience may be in rel.ation to others. It is difficult for us to separate each day and live it with such zeal that it seems longer than a mere 24 hours. 
Ironically, we focus on tragedy and unpleasant experiences. Tomorrow we commemorate the 61st anniversary of a day that lived in infamy at Pearl Harbor. Unless that day is a birthday or wedding anniversary, it remains a negative blot on our calendars. 
This writer has no magic formula for appreciating life other than to be aware of the moment as it unfolds. Having lost my father two years ago, I can look back and appreciate various moments we shared together. In hindsight, I would have savored those moments more intensely as they occurred rather than just to have "attended" those times. And while today I still have such incredible memories of those experiences, I have Jeamed to intensify my personal atten­dance in my contemporary life. 
In the spirit of the holiday season from brown-tinged photographs of the Civil War. black and white photographs of soldiers during World War II or colored photographs of Notre Dame in 197 4, we make our existence meaningful through our appreciation of events as they unfold throughout our lives. Make this month as meaningful as it unfolds. Someday, it may only be a blurred image in next spring's yearbook. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame class of 1973, served in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him at Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When we remember we are all mad, the mysteries disappear and life stands explained. " 
Mark Twain writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Friday, December 6, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Defending a BCS berth 
First, I would like to thank Mr. Leach for his did not receive this berth for two reasons. compliments to Notre Dame in his Dec. 5 let­First of all, they lost to a 7-6 Iowa State team. ter. In the same spirit, l would like to Second. and more importantly, the Big 
applaud the University of Iowa for their terrific football season. I feel. however, that Mr. Leach has chosen the wrong target in his effort to ensure that Iowa plays in a major BCS bowl. 
The first target that Mr. Leach misses is the Bowl Championship Series itself. The premise of Mr. Leach's article is that the best college football teams should play in the major BCS bowls. That is arguably a fine idea, but it is not the system that the con­ferences and Notre Dame established. The system could have sent the top eight ranked teams in the BCS standings to the major bowl games, but instead decided to have automatic bids for conference champs and at-large bids left largely to the discretion of the individual bowl games. 
Perhaps Mr. Leach should be writing to the Florida State school paper, and imploring a four-loss Seminole team to decline their automatic bowl bid. No matter how the at­large bids are distributed, Florida State will be the least deserving team in a major BCS bowl. 
The second target that Mr. Leach misses is the Big Ten. The Big Ten conference has an automatic berth in a major BCS bowl. Iowa 
Ten schedule this year did not have Iowa play Ohio State. Had the two teams played, the whole situation would be averted. If Iowa had won. they would go to a major BCS bowl. If ----~ Ohio State won, Iowa 
would have two losses and would not go to a major BCS bowl. 
Mr. Leach also fails to note that Notre Dame played one of the hard­est schedules in the country, playing five teams ranked in the top 25, to Iowa's two. He also fails to mention 
that the Big Ten is cur­rently trying to bribe the Orange Bowl into selecting Iowa. Were Notre Dame to engage in such behavior, I am sure 
Iowa fans would be the first to criticize. Iowa had a very good football 
season. If they don't end up in a major BCS bowl, it will be because of 
the system their conference agreed to, and because of their conference's poor sched­uling. Notre Dame is responsible for neither, and should accept an invitation to a major BCS bowl if it is offered. 
Jason Thompson 
Notre Dame Law School off-campus Dec. 5 

Racism is a social problem 
We wish to quickly respond to the Dec. 4 letters written by Barry Baumbaugh and Andrew Henrick. Both express typically closed-minded white responses to racism fostered within a cul­ture still seething with an undercurrent of white supremacy. 
As to Baumbaugh's argument that we should define racism strictly according to the dictionary, we ask if Baurnbaugh (associ­ated with the Physics Department) would accept that physics terms can adequately be defined by Webster's. If so, we do not need a physics department at all, we only need the good book of Webster's. Race and racism affect our daily lives just as docs physics. and so the process of continual study and redefinition of the terms of racism is no less justified. 
In Henrick's column, we see an appeal to a Webster's dictio­nary definition from 1936. Effectively, this is a definition of racism that was written by white men back when the denial of restaurant service to blacks was considered a white man's moral duty in parts of this country. We argue that such definitions are questionable based on the context in which the were developed. 
Also, Henrick asks why we view only societies as racist. We do not; we also acknowledge that individuals functioning within and supporting the racist social structures are racists. Racism is defined as participation within that racist social structure, a structure designed to consolidate power for only one race. Therefore. while non-white people can discriminate based on race, when they do so, they do not participate in the racist social structure and are, therefore, not acting racist. This, however, is not to say that racial discrimination is ever permissible. 
We thank both men for speaking up and presenting their feel­ings. Yet, we ask that they and other people (white and non­white) viewing race through archaic status quo analyses might take some time to think about these new. more complete defini­tions of racism. 
Tona Boyd 
McGlinn Hall 
Shamus Rohn 
off-campus seniors Dec. 4 

Reconsidering issues about Church scandals 
I agree with Robert Davidson's Dec. 2 letter that stated that homosexuals should not be blamed for the Church scandals. [ also agree with him that our bishops have failed to act as true shepherds and have been complicit in grave evil. 
That being said, I found his letter a bit troubling for a number of reasons. First. we can agree that homosexuals are not to blame for the current crisis in the Church, without disregarding the facts as they exist on the ground. 
As a descriptive matter, the sexual abuse involved in the current scandals has been predominantly homosexual. The victims have been largely young teenage males. Whether this indicates that homosexuals are more apt to abuse is a different question. Nevertheless. we should not allow a false notion of tolerance to cloud our vision to the actual facts as they stand. The abuse involved in this crisis has been primarily homosexual. 
Second, though his words indicate differently, to be charitable to a young man studying to serve our Church as a priest. l assume that Davidson takes seriously the Church's teaching on sex­uality and homosexuality in particular. Those who experience same-sex attraction are experiencing desires which are objectively disordered. That is, they desire something which is by its very nature disintegrative. If the Church's teaching is true, which Davidson and I believe it to be, then such desires might make one more apt to engage in disintegrative behavior called to holiness, a realization that including the abuse at issue in the cur­Christ reveals to us our true path rent crisis. which is radical service to God and 
Third, it is true that if the Church others. and a deepening sense of had been more faithful to her Christ's presence in everyday life. teachings, this scandal would ----Our bishops have failed to 
not be gripping the Church. But Davidson's analysis seems to be way off the mark. He cites Vatican II's push for decentraliza­tion. Though such a push might be found in the pages of the National Catholic Reporter and the writings of Father McBrien, it is unclear where the impetus for such structural reform is in the actual documents of that Council. 

Pope John Paul II, inci­dentally a father of the Council, has been offering an authoritative interpretation of Vatican II for these last 24 years. That inter­pretation is one that promotes a radi­cal service to the truth and the laity on the pa.rt of the priesthood and the epis­copacy. a flowering of lay movements, an understanding that every Catholic is 
remain faithful to that authentic vision. By acting as corporate CEOs protecting their turf and fail­ing to act as fathers. they 
have truly failed Christ and us all. 
Our priests have commit­ted grave sin and failed to live their sex­
uality as a pos­itive gift to the Church. The human carnage left in the wake of 
these failings is almost unbearable. But, note that none of 
this has to do with failing to decentralize or to give up 
"power.fl It has everything to do with a failure to realize that authority is not synonymous with authoritarian or power but rather with radical ser­vice. 
Fourth, Davidson makes bald asser­tions with absolutely no backing. Banning homosexuals from the priest­hood will lead to more repressive semi­naries according to his argument. Repressive seminaries caused the pre­sent crisis. Here Davidson falls into the quick and pat assumptions for which he criticizes Mr. Sanchez. I have a feel­ing that the current roots of the scan­dal are much more complex than either of these quick answers. 
Finally, it is a valid theological ques­tion. to ask whether self-identifying homosexuals can be priests. Here one must differentiate between those who identify as homosexual and those who experience same-sex attraction. If one cannot see oneself or understand one­self as spouse and father, it might well be impossible to be a priest. For that is truly what a priest is: a spouse to the Church and a father to his flock. 
Can homosexuals see themselves as married to the Church and as fathers? I do not know. But we need to ask these and many more questions if we are to get the real roots of the crisis. The facile answers to which Mr. Davidson rushes certainly make for good, bombastic prose. They do not, however, lead us any further toward getting to the roots of the crisis and to finding a solution to It -a solution which will only come from being open to the truth and letting him lead us wherever he desires. 
Conor Dugan 
Notre Dame Law School off-campus Dec. 5 

---· 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 14 Friday, December 6, 2002 


7~ 1/t,t-Sa-'R~ S 
prese 
Scene Editor and Scene Theatre Critic 
Hidden deep within the bowels of DeBartolo Hall, the majesty of Shakespeare's "Hamlet" electrified the too often stagnant air of an often under-occupied classroom as the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company brought the 400 year-old text to life Thursday night. With a collection of some of the most talented actors the University has to offer, the NSRSC expertly tackled one of Shakespeare's most complicated plays. 
When young Prince Hamlet (third-year law student Matt Holmes) returns home to Denmark upon news of his father's untimely death, he finds 
that his uncle, Claudius (senior Dan Fisher), has taken the throne and married his mother, Gertrude Gun­ior Katy Kertez). 
But it soon becomes clear that 

there is more than meets the eye to the king's death. Hamlet is visited The Not-S by the ghost of his father (freshman 
Shakespeare
Ceschino Brooks-DeVita) who reveals that his death was no acci­dent and implores the prince to Director: JJ Marler revenge his murder. Playwright: William Shakesp 
The disturbed prince feigns Stage Manager: Dave Hartw insanity to discover whether the Starring: Matt Holmes, Meg~ specter's words are true. He con­Hanash, Tom Conner, Jeff Eyern 
vinces a traveling troupe of actors Federico, Sean Nelson, Justin 1,1 to perform a revised version of a Ellen Kennedy, Dan Hoople, play that suggests that Claudius Ceschino Brooks-DeVita, Lena I murdered his brother. When the Pete Gaffney and David Tull king becomes agitated, Hamlet and his best friend Horatio (junior Tom Friday and Saturday n Conner) are convinced of his guilt and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. ;1 and Hamlet vows to take down the $8 general admission king. 
But Hamlet's single-minded vengeance costs the life of the woman he loves, Ophelia 
I Gunior Meg Ryan), whose brother, Laertes (Adel Hanash), vows to make Hamlet pay at any cost in turn. The situa­tion quickly spirals out of control, fatalistically marching 
toward one of the bloodiest and tragic finales in Western literature. 
"Hamlet" is considered by many to be Shakespeare's most difficult and most beautiful play. Some have con­tended that the show is, in fact, the single best play in the Western tradition. The Not-So-Royal cast and director senior JJ Marler immediately realized the enormity of producing the show. 
"The expectations when people come to see 'Hamlet' arc so high that you have to know that you are going to get a great cast and great group of people to work around you," Marler said. 
And Marler got exactly what he wanted. About half of the cast mflmbers are long-time veterans or the NSRSC, all having worked on three or four of the Company's pre­vious shows. The other half of the cast making their debuts with the NSRSC had a strong foundation to build on. The cast also had a protracted rehearsal period of three and a half' months to prepare the show. 
"lThe cast] started to gel right away because they've been on stage many times together ... Some cast mem• bers started showing real chemistry on day one," Marlor said. 
The cast's hard work pays off in spades. Holmes capti­vates the audience with his portrayal of Hamlet, tapping into the deepest recesses of the character's turbulent thoughts to create one of the most amazing showcases of acting skill in a dramatic production at the University in 
recent memory. He plays the role with passion and truth, embodying a Hamlet that is both tortured and pure. Ile dominates the 

Above, a sobbing Horatio (junior Tom Conner) holds a dying Hamlet (third-year law student Matt Holmes). To the left, feigning insanity, Hamlet confounds Lord Polonius (senior Jeff Eyerman). Below, Ophelia (junior Meg Ryan) loses her mind to a broken heart 
. 
Photos by 

C. SPENCER BEGGS 


----~-­
THE 
OBSERVER 


Friday, December 6, 2002 page 15 



.ffl
. . ' 

show both physically and emotionally; the stillness in his death wa.-i only broken by the sobs of Conner's endearing and personable Horatio. 
Hyan plays off of Holmes' powerful performance bring­ing to lifo a hauntingly real Ophelia who comes close lo perfocting the lost love and sanity of the part. 
"I think that putting on Hamlet at Notre Dame has raised the bar for things wAre trying tackle as far a,.<; sub­ject mattnr," Hyan said. "I'm really proud of how it's turned out. I know I've learned a lot about myself as an actress playing this role, which is pretty much my dream role." 
Fishflr's turns in a chilling rendition of the fratricidal 
king sparing with Holmes through icy dialogues and fiery confrontations. Supp()rted by llanash's rapidly maturing Laertes, Kertez's Jackie Kennedy-esque Gertrude and senior Jeff Eyerman's Arthur Miller-like Polonius, the ca_<;t builds on each other's energy and abilities brilliantly. 

In typical Not-So-Hoyal style,
>-Royal 
"Hamlet" is performed in a modern 
Company dress. That's n()t so say that the compa­ny ha<; modernized the show itself. 
"Shakespeare in his time would have performed his plays in modern dress. are We're performing a play that is timeless 
lg 
and putting it in our own context, but 
yan, Dan Fisher, Adel we're not changing any of the themes," an, Katy Kertez, Mike Marler said. illiams, Amanda Greco, 
Overall, the performance of the cast 
nica Kerschner, 
and crew upon the horribly under-dra­
aligiuri, Liz Clouse, 
matic stage of 101 DeBartolo Hall is 
commendable_ The many technical ele­
ments of thfl show involved in the 
ht at 7:30 p.m. numerous time consuming scene 101 OeBartolo Hall. 
changes detracted greatly from thjs
5 for students. 
achievement In a show that runs just 
over thrne hours, the use of an extended 
blackout and inconsistent, erratic and 
sometimes irrelevant music to cover the shifting of the minimalist furniture on stage seflmed to be a waste of time that could have been bettor filled with the Bard's words. Though the use of furniture to establish setting illustrntnd the club's ability to !unction within its limited budget, its overall effect upon the scene was far less noticeable than il'i effect upon the runtime. 
Stage manager Dave Hartwig marveled at how the Company managed to preserve the show's production process and come out with such a high quality product. 
"The magic of theatre is that 20 plus people r,an get along for thrn!l and a half months, not kill each other and still put on, pnrhaps, the world's greatest play," Hartwig said. 
"/lamlet" opened Thursday evming. The show will run tonight and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. with a 2:30 p.m. mati­m~e on Sunda!t Gemiral admission is $8, $,tj for students. 1kkets are available at the door or in advance from the l,aFortune Student Center box office. Call (574) 631-8128 fiir reservations. 
Audilions for thP Not-So-Hoyal Shakespeare Compan!!'s spring show "The Taming of the Shrew"' will be held on Sunday and Monday from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. Callbacks will bti Judd Tuesday at 7 p.m. Callbacks and auditions will he held in 141 DeBarlolo llall. 71ie audition will be cold readings from the sr.ript. but those auditioning ma!! pre­pare a Shakespearian monologue ifthey care to. For more information 11isit www.nd.edu/-snelson3. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu and Chris Sandrock at sandrock ..1@nd.edu 
Above, Hamlet confronts his mother (junior Katy Kertez) about her role in his father's deceitful murder. To the right, Hamlet parleys with the fratricidal king Claudius (senior Dan Fisher). Below, the volatile Laertes (junior Adel Hanash) demands to know the circumstances ofhis sister's demise from Claudius. 
. 

Photos by 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 

Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Byron Dafoe's return to Boston wasn't any better than his departure. 
Dafoe made 36 saves and held Boston scoreless for two periods but Glen Murray scored his 16th goal of the season at 1:53 of overtime to lift the Bruins to a 4-3 victory over the Atlanta Thrashers. 
Dafoe (2-2-0) made his first start against the Bruins since signing with Atlanta on Nov. 20. It was his second career start against Boston. 
"It was kind of weird, but it was good to get it over with," Dafoe said. "This was the one game I had to be leery of, I'm glad it's over." 
The Bruins had their eight­game home-unbeaten streak snapped Monday in a 4-0 lost to St. Louis, but they returned to the win column when Murray scored his second goal of the game. The power-play tally came after a tripping penalty to Mike Weaver behind the Atlanta goal. 
"This club is still learning how to play together," Murray said. "We have to learn more about playing with a lead." 
Dafoe was 132-104-34 with a 
2.29 goals-against-average and 25 shutouts in 283 games over five seasons with Boston. But, after going 35-26-3 with the Bruins last season, he became an unrestricted free agent and was not offered a contract by Boston. 

"Byron looked good to me," Bruins coach Robbie Ftorek said. 'Tm sure he will be back in form by Christmas." 
Flyers 3, Rangers 2 
Michal Handzus became the second player in NHL history to score an overtime goal on a penalty shot when he beat New York's Dan Blackburn with 36.7 seconds left in overtime in the Philadelphia Flyers' victory over the Rangers. 
Handzus, who was taken down from behind by defense­man Tom Poti, faked a forehand shot, then went to his backhand before lifting a shot over Blackburn's left pad. 
Edmonton Oilers. 
Fedotenko scored on the rebound from the low slot after Edmonton's Tommy Salo stopped a wraparound shot by Tim Taylor. 
The Lightning are 3-5-3-1 when trailing after two periods and have come-from-behind 12 times to earn points. Tampa Bay won just once (1-27-5-1} when behind after 40 minutes last season. 
"This year, it's a different mentality ... win every game," Tampa Bay center Vincent Lecavalier said. "It's not trying to win. It's not let's go out there and work hard and compete. It's win." 
The Lightning and Carolina which had a seven-game It was announced after the chances in overtime as unbeaten streak (6-0-1) end. It's game that Lightning defense­Brathwaite stopped breakaways the first time the Oilers have man Jassen Cullimore will have by Martin Havlat, Magnus lost at Tampa Bay since Dec. rotator cuff surgery on his left Arvedson and Todd White. 12, 1992 (6-0-2). arm Monday and be sidelined Ottawa capitalized on a dou­

"We've had some good suc­four to six months. ble minor roughing call on cess down here," Edmonton Senators 2, Blues 2 Blues defenseman Bryce coach Craig MacTavish said. "I Marian Hossa scored on his Salvador with 2:16 remaining in knew we were in good shape own rebound with 1 :06 left in regulation. Salvador was whis­
going into the third period with regulation as the Ottawa tled for pummeling Chris Neil. a 2-1 lead. We let them take it Senators, capitalizing on a late Scott Mellanby's power-play to us. We were a little guilty of power play, tied the St. Louis goal had given the Blues, sitting on the lead." Blues. unbeaten at 2-0-2-1 in their last 
Pavel Kubina's goal from the Hossa scored his 16th of the five games, a 2-1 lead. top of the right circle got the season after Fred Brathwaite Doug Weight also scored with Lightning even 2-2 at 3:19 of stopped his shot from the point. the man advantage for the the third period. The left side of the net was wide Blues, 6-0-1-1 against the 
"It feels good," Fedotenko open for Hossa's backhand Eastern Conference and 3-0-1 said. "We trailed by one. We rebound. against the Northeast Division. just needed to come out strong The Senators got off 11 shots Chris Phillips got the other goal and we did." the first two periods combined, for the Senators. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS 2003/2004: Anlan Properties, L.L.C. Americas #1 Student Tour OperatorNOTICES 532-1896 Call Bill. FOR RENT FOR SALE PERSONAL Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free 
Information/Reservations 1-800· ..Al Last Spring Break" Book now, Turtle Creek Townhouse available Juday Lake 3 bdrm ranch on lake. Powerful prayer to the Holy Spirit . 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com Free meals, Parties, drinks, 2 free al discounted rate for Spring 2003. Walk/bike to campus. Broker You who solve all my problems,
WANTED
trips, Lowest prices. Maximum 3 people, 2 bedrooms, 2 owned. 272-6306, 329-0241. who lights all roads so that I can Happy Birthday Mom! Sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-bathrooms, AC, dishwasher. obtain my goals. You who give me n10 Bartenders neededl Earn up to LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO the Divine gift to forgive and forget I luv you 3031 
$300 Per day. No experience nee-Call 277-0900 for details. FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. all evil against me and in all ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI-essary. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOO-instances of my live, You are with Cheers to wine and cheese TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only All sizes homes available fOT 2003-ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. me..I want in this short prayer to company exclusive to Acapulco! Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu thank you for all things and to con-Three days left! That's why we·re the BEST. "Go firm that t never want to be separat-Loco In Acapulco· with the #1 #1 Spring Break VacationslMexico, www.mmmrentals.com Notre Dame insignia medium black ed from you, even in spite of all A catfight would have been sweet. Spring Break Company In Acapulco Jamaica. Bahamas, Florida, Texas! men's leather coat -brand new -material illusions. I wish to be with for 16 yearsl Call 800-87 5-4525 Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234-2 & 4-bdrm houses for .2003. Sacrifice ... $200. you in eternal glory. Thank you for Maybe you see a little cat. "Misha, Today. www.biancni-rossi.com. Be 7007 endlesssummertours.com your mercy toward me and mine. misha little cat. Come here, to a rep, travel t:REE -ask howl Close to ND. 616-699-5841. Call Diana at 631-6234 or (269) Daddy." But he doesn't listen. Maybe 
WANTED; OlO NOTRE DAME 684-6692. E.J.P. you get angry and scream, "Come SPRING BREAK INSANITY! YEARBOOKS. House for Rent: 2BR, 1 bath, here you little monkey cat.• But then WWW.INTER-CAMPUS .COM OR 1/2mile ND, completely remodeled, UNPLANNED PREGANCY7 Do you realize It is wrong to scream at CALL 1-800·327-6013 GUAAAN-CALL 233-1296. very quiet/safe neighborhood, not go it alone. If you or someone the cat. But Wyou had had a Sobe
TICKETS

TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE includes stove, relrig., washer & you love needs confidential support Green Tea, you would have been MEALS AND DRINKSI CANCUN, Males roommate for Spring semes-dryer. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary more patient and balanced, like a JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND !er, Turtle Creek Town Home. $620 per month. BCS COWL TICKETS FOR SALE Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For Latin guy with apony tail, who knows BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! 17 (All LOCATIONS) Local (574)654--more Information, see our bi-weekly how to say all the right things, and YEARS EXP.I REPS WANTED! Call Leonard 272-8582. Call 273-1717 0168. TOLL FREE(800)272•8553 ad in THE OBSERVER maybe play some guitar. 
Friday, December 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
OLYMPICS 
Saddam's son torturing athletes 
. Group says Iraq's Olympic athletes are being tortured 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 

A human rights group formal­ly demanded that the IOC expel Iraq's national Olympic commit­tee claiming its chief -Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein's eldest son Uday -tortured and jailed athletes who failed to please him. 
Indict. based in London, said it had lodged a complaint against the Iraqi body with the Ethics Commission of the International Olympic Committee. It said it had includ­cd witness statements and United Nations reports. 
"Iraq has violated every single provision of the IOC Code of Ethics," said Charles Forrest. chief executive of Indict. "The IOC should have investigated this on its own. Now 1 hope it will be forced to." 
IOC officials said they were aware of the complaint but were unable immediately to comment because they had yet to receive the document. 
Indict said Uday once made a group of track athletes crawl on newly poured asphalt while they were beaten, and ordered that some be thrown off a bridge. It also alleged he ran a special prison for sportsmen who offended him. 
"The Iraqi committee is the only Olympic committee in the world with its own prison and torture chamber," said Ann Clwyd, a British lawmaker who is fndict's chairwoman. "To allow (it) to participate in the Olympic movement is to mock all of the Olympics' high princi­ples." 
The Iraqi committee also par­ticipated in the looting of Kuwait during Saddam's 1990­1991 occupation of that country and continues to run front com­panies that are used to duck 
U.N. sanctions, Indict claimed. 
Indict was set up in 1997 to try to get Saddam and leading members of his regime brought before an international tribunal on charges of crimes against humanity. 
Forrest said Indict had com­bined testimony from exiled for­mer Iraqi sportsmen, evidence from United Nations human rights investigators and media reports to build its case to the IOC. 
Indict had had difficulty col­lecting evidence from former athletes because they often were living as refugees in the West and wanted to avoid pub­licity because they were afraid family members who still live in Iraq would be harmed, Forrest said. 
He said the IOC should look again at how it tackles viola­tions of Olympic ethics by the national committees. 
"The ethical standards the 
code establishes are not equipped to deal with things like torture or running a prison," he said. 
IOC officials noted the organi­zation previously suspended Afghanistan's national commit­tee because the country's for­mer Taliban regime barred women from sports. 
Iraq was investigated in 1997 by the international soccer gov­erning body, FIFA, after allega­tions members of the Iraqi national squad were tortured because they lost a key match. 
FIFA spokesman Andreas Herren said two officials were sent to Iraq, where they inter­viewed members of the Iraqi Football Association. Twelve players also were interviewed and physically examined. 
"They weren't able to find any evidence or any witness to con­firm those allegations," Herren said. 
But, he added, "We were quite conscious of the fact that our investigative resources were very limited. We are a non-governmental organization and there are limits to what we could achieve." 
But Clwyd said the FIFA inquiry was a "disgraceful whitewash." 
"You can't expect athletes interviewed in Iraq to commit suicide by telling the truth. The IOC must deal with these allega­tions of torture and corruption in a much more serious man­ner," she said. 
NFL 
Davis being phased out from Redskins 
, l 
Associated P rcss 
ASHBURN, Va. 
There's not much a player can say when it appears the team is phasing him out. Accepting it seems wrong. Complaining about it seems wrong. 
So Stephen Davis shrugged. 
"What am I going to say? What can I say?" the Washington Redskins running back said Wednesday. He didn't speak in an impolite or angry manner. In fact, he looked at reporters and added: "Nothing against y'all. Trust me. Nothing against y'all." 
Davis is Washington's No. 3 career rushing leader and the first player in franchise history to run for 1,000-plus yards three years in a row. He's not flashy, but he has excellent vision and the reputation for turning a 3-yard gain into a 6­yard gain. 
But now he's playing for coach Steve Spurrier, who would rather pass the ball, even though the Redskins don't have the quarterbacks to run a pass-oriented offense. 
Though he's tried to bolster his case with comments such as "this offense has to go through me," Davis has just 726 yards on 193 carries. He's on pace to get fewer than 1,300 yards and fewer than 290 carries for the first time since 1998. 
Then, this week, Spurrier dropped the latest Davis bomb• shell: Second-round draft pick Ladell Betts will get plenty of playing time over the final four games as the Redskins (5-7) wind down the season. 
"Stephen has carried it a whole bunch this year," Spurrier said. "And if we are going to look to these younger guys, maybe there is a time to do it in the next four games." 
The Redskins will have to deal with Davis after the sea­son because he is scheduled to count an unwieldy $11.4 mil­lion against the salary cap in 2003. Either a new contract has to be negotiated, or Davis will have to be cut. 
So far. there have been no negotiations. 
The soft-spoken Davis isn't the transient type, and he's said he would like to remain in Washington. But he's taken shots at Spurrier's play-calling. including a not-so-subtle "their game plan was better than ours" after the Thanksgiving loss at Dallas. 
Spurrier has waffled in response. He's said, at times, that he needs to run Davis more, and other times he's indicated he'll keep throwing because the run has been just as ineffective. 


~~ 

C.,:aa.,mbI~.-s~:ir~mbI~..­

-
I l<:>l~.s <>f P'.._.tt-F>L.1tt C:i<>lf 
~riclay-., I=>ecern_ber 6 8 10:30 
~ights e>f ~c:,l~rr1b~s :13ase:rr1er1t 

Friday, December 6, 2002 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Expos superstars might be on the trading block 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Bartolo Colon. Javier Vazquez and Vladimir Guerrero might be available for the right price. 
The Montreal Expos have concluded they will have to shed some payroll in 2003 to keep to the budget given them by the commissioner's office. 
Expos general manager Omar Minaya began calling other GMs, telling them to think about proposals to bring to the winter meetings, which start Dec. 13 in Nashville, Tenn. 
Montreal president Tony Tavares said the team had begun talking about possible trades and about extensions with the agents for Guerrero and Colon, both eligible for free agency after the 2003 sea­son. 
"Omar is looking at the land­scape right now to see what's out there," Tavares said. "You have to look at what all the alternatives are." 

Montreal, sold by Jeffrey Loria to the other 29 teams last winter, is operated by the com­missioner's office, which is exploring a possible sale before the 2004 season. The Expos had a $38 million payroll last season, and keeping the same group together probably would result in a $50 million payroll next year, the team estimates. 
"We probably can't take on 50," Tavares said, "but that doesn't mean we can't be cre­ative about getting additional revenue and reducing expens­es." 
Guerrero's salary goes from $8 million in 2002 to $11.5 million next year, Colon's salary jumps from $4.8 million to $8.25 million and scc-ond baseman Jose Vidro's increas­es from $4 million to $5.5 mil­lion. Vazquez, who made $4,775,000, is eligible for salary arbitration. 
Montreal, whose attendance is among the lowest in the major leagues, figures it will increase revenue by shifting 22 home games from Olympic Stadium to San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
"You've seen a lot of creative deals out there," Tavares said. "We're looking to do that out of necessity, not out of choice. This year we're revenue chal­lenged, but we can take on more in the future." 
Minaya declined comment, and commissioner Bud Selig didn't return a telephone call seeking comment. 
"We don't know exactly which way this Rubik's cube is going to spin," Tavares said. 
NFL 
Supreme Court paves way for new Cardinals' stadium 
The Supreme Court without income taxes from Cardinals Harbor International Airport. Though work will begin soon­
As•ociated Preu 
comment denied a petition for employees and their spouses that Three days after the Court of er, "we're looking to a formal 
review of an Aug. 27 decision in are not directly related to foot­Appeals ruling, the TSA agreed groundbreaking after the turn of 
PHOENIX which a Court of Appeals panel ball to pay for the $355 million to put the $355 million. the vear," he said. 
The Arizona Supreme Court ruled that the law that created stadiwn. retractable-roofed building at a The Supreme Court's action has cleared the way for con­the TSA was constitutional. The It also prohibited the authority site in Glendale next to a new was "a big, giant step forward in struction work to begin in decision upheld a lower court's from pledging state general fund arena the Phoenix Coyotes are making the stadium a reality," earnest on the Arizona ruling from November 2001. money to secure bonds for the building. said Michael Bidwill, Cardinals Cardinals' new stadium. A lawyer for west Phoenix project. With the Supreme Court's vice president and general coun­
Brad Parker, a spokesman for developer John F. Long declined Long sued after land he offered action, "we are all set to move sel and son of team owner Bill the Tourism and Sports comment and a spokesman for as a site for the stadium was forward," Parker said. Bidwill. Authority, said a decision Long did not immediately return rejected by the TSA board in The Cardinals now must "Despite the pleas of a variety announced also gives the go­a call for comment. favor of a location in Tempe. The acquire the land, and that will be of community leaders who went ahead to Cactus League baseball While rejecting most of the Tempe site was pulled when the followed by completion of site in to visit with Mr. Long, he projects in Phoenix and Surprise arguments in Long's challenge, Federal Aviation Administration engineering and design work decided to take it to the Supreme and construction of a new youth the Court of Appeals did elimi­declared it a potential hazard for which had been on hold because Court, so it's taken four months sports facility. nate the TSA's ability to use planes at Phoenix's nearby Sky of the court case, Parker said. to get the answer," Bidwill said. 
THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE 
THIS CHRISTMAS SEASON, PLEASE VISIT THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE LOCATED OUTSIDE THE DOOLEY ROOM ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. DEDICATE AN ORNAMENT TO SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY ALCOHOL, SUCH AS IN AN ALCOHOL-RELATED ACaDENT OR A CASE OF ALCOHOL ABUSE. ALL DEDICATIONS ARE CONFIDENTIAL. THERE WILL BE A PRAYER SERVICE ON DECEMBER 12TH TO PRAY FOR THOSE WHO ARE REMEMBERED BY ORNAMENTS ON THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE. 
ORNAMENTS ARE AVAILABLE THROUGH  ADDITIONAL HOURS:  
THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG  SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7TH  12-4PM  
EDUCATION (311 LAFORTUNE) FROM 8 AM  SUNDAY, DECEMEBER aTH 2-6PM  
TO 5 PM DAILY, AND DURING  MONDAY, DECEMBER 9TH 6-9PM  
ADDITIONAL HOURS AT THE TREE  TUESDAY, DECEMBER  10TH 6-9PM  
LOCATION.  THERE IS A SUGGESTED  
DONATION OF $1 PER ORNAMENT.  ALL  

DONATIONS WILL GO TO THE ALCOHOL AND ADDICTIONS RESOURCE CENTER IN 
0 0 
SOUTH BEND. SPONOSORED BY PILLARS 
-
' ­
Friday, December 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Monday Night Football creator found dead 
Associated Puss 
NEW YORK 

Hoone Arledge. a pioneering television executive at ABC News and Sports responsible for creating shows from M()nday Night Football to Nightline, died Thursday. He was 71. 
Arledge died at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. spokesman Jeffrey Schneider said. The cause of death was complications from cancer, ABC News reported. 
"Hoone changed the face of television sports coverage with Wide World of Sports in the early 1960s and the production of the Olympic games," said longtime broadcaster Jim McKay. 
Although he retired in 1998, Arledge ·s far-reaching influ­ence can still be seen on TV: when a slow-motion replay is shown at a sporting event. when Peter Jennings reads the news or when a sportscaster criticizes a player. 
Arledge was single-handedly credited with bringing modern production techniques to sports coverage, then building ABC News into a power during the 1980s. For a decade, he was president of the sports and news divisions at ABC. 
The 36-time Emmy winner was cited as one of the 100 most important Americans of the 20th century by Life maga­zine in 1990. 
"Roane Arledge revolution­ized television and with it the way people see and understand the world," ABC News President David Westin said in a statement. "He was our leader and our friend, and we will miss his passion and his will to make us all better than we were." 
Roone Pinckney Arledge was born July 8. 1931, and reared on Long Island. The Columbia College graduate joined ABC Sports as a producer in 1960 after a five-year stint at NBC. 
Appealing to his bosses to bring showbiz to sports, the 29­year-old was given control of ABC's NCAA football broad­casts. Through the 1960s, he introduced innovations taken for granted today: slow-motion and freeze-frame views, instant replays, hand-held cameras and the placement of microphones to bring the sound of the game into living rooms. 
In addition to all the techni­cal innovations. McKay said Arledge would also be remem­bered for "putting the focus on the human being involved in sports." 
In 1961, Arledge created "ABC's Wide World of Sports," one of the most popular sports series ever, and coined its tag line -"the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat." 
Arledge, who became presi­dent of ABC Sports in 1968, supervised coverage of 10 Olympics from 1964 to 1988, 
....
including the memorable 1972 schedule. was brought to the games in Munich disrupted by air by Arledge in 1970. a terrorist attack in which a When Sports Illustrated in somber McKay delivered the 1994 selected 40 individuals news of the deaths of the with the greatest impact on Israeli athletes. Arledge sports over the previous 40 expanded Olympics broadcasts years, Arledge was third beyond the competition by behind Muhammad Ali and including personal profiles of Michael Jordan. athletes, a style echoed today The reaction was harsh, since his protege, Dick Ebersol, though, when Arledge was runs NBC Sports. selected in 1977 to resuscitate 
He was the first to demand ABC's struggling news division that networks, not sports -while still running sports. leagues, approve announcers "People in news were out­-a philosophy that led to his raged that I hadn't been a hiring of Howard Cosell, the reporter or worked my way up. abrasive New Yorker who was The newspaper articles were probably the most famous brutal," he later recalled. sportscaster ever. Critics thought he would turn 
"His intuitive genius, that the division into ABC's Wide sixth sense that told him what World of News. would or wouldn't play on tele­ABC created, after disastrous vision, was never more appar­starts, the newsmagazines ent than when we first worked 20/20 and Prime Time Live together in the 1960s." Cosell under his watch. He lured wrote in his autobiography "I David Brinkley to ABC and Never Played the Game." installed him on This Week. 
Monday Night Football, still a reviving the Sunday political staple on ABC's prime-time talk genre. 
~12/5 
U 10 PM
R 
s 
155 DBRT 

$2 
101 DBRT . 
TEN THOUSAND VILLAGES SALE 
An opportunity to buy gifts that support fair trade for developing countries. All profits support artists and help in paying a fair wage for their work! 
STOP IN ON FRIDAY TO BUY YOUR CHRISTMAS AND ADVENT GIFTS! 
Cookies and Hot Cocoa will be available Sponsored by: BP, Cavanaugh, Farley, and PE 
Friday, December 6 / 2002, 1:00 4:00 PM Breen Phillips Hall 24 Hour Lounge 
-
Friday, December 6, 2002
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Nevin wouldn't waive clause for Griffey trade 
Associated Prcss 

SAN DIEGO 
The Cincinnati Reds and San Diego Padres agreed to trade Ken Griffey Jr. for Phil Nevin last weekend but the deal died when Nevin wouldn't waive his no-trade clause. 
Nevin said that he told Padres general manager Kevin Towers that he wants to stay in San Diego, where he resur­rected his career in 1999 after arriving as a backup catcher in a spring training trade with Anaheim. 
"I let them know that's where I want to be," Nevin said by cell phone from Las Vegas, where he was golfing with Padres manager Bruce Bochy, "I just don't really want to talk about it, honestly. I'm staying in San Diego and wc'JJ just take it from there. Those are things that are sup­posed to be left between the teams." 
Towers said he had no com­ment. 
A baseball source familiar with the proposed deal, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the teams agreed to the swap over the Thanksgiving weekend. 
Griffey has been bothered by injuries the past two seasons after orchestrating a trade to Cincinnati in 2000. 
He tore a tendon in his knee during the first week, setting up another season limited by leg injuries. He also pulled a hamstring and strained hip muscles, limiting him to 70 games. a .264 average, eight homers and 23 RBIs. 
Nevin·s agent, Barry Axelrod, wondered why the Padres would even discuss a Nevin trade in the first place. 
"There never could have been a deal, at least from our point of view," Axelrod said. 
The Padres included a no­trade clause in the $34.5 mil­lion, fuur-year contract exten­sion Nevin signed in November 2001. That extension kicks in with the 2003 season. 
But with Nevin again vacat­ing third base in favor of Sean Burroughs. he's apparently become the target of trade talks. Nevin is expected to play right field. 
Last spring, Nevin moved from third to first, and first baseman Ryan Klesko moved to right field so the rookie Burroughs could play third. 
That experiment failed, though. Burroughs struggled because of a shoulder injury, was benched. went on the dis­abled list in late May and then spent 1 1/2 months at Class AAA Portland. 
Nevin moved back to third base after Burroughs was benched, but broke his left arm diving for a ball two days later. He had a frustrating season, capped when he made an obscene gesture to a heck­ling fan late in late September, angering Towers and Bochy. 
Axelrod said Towers asked 
him before the recent general 
managers meetings whether 
Nevin. an All-Star in 2001, 
would ever waive the no-trade 
clause. 
Nevin and his wife have a 
new home in the San Diego 
area and he has a a daughter 
from a prior relationship who 
lives in the area, Axelrod said. 
The only way he would consid­
er agreeing to a trade is if it 
were to a West Coast team 
that has spring training in 
Arizona and that he'd play 
third base. 
"Clearly, Cincinnati would 
not be one of those," Axelrod 
said. 
Nevin was the top pick over­
all in the June 1992 draft, by 
Houston, but developed a rep­
utation as a hothead and 
bounced around the majors 
until settling in with the 
Padres. He became their start­
ing third baseman in August 
199'l. 
GG66GG666666GGGG~6 
• ARE YOU READY FOR THE REAL WORLD? •
G 6 
~-TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS IS DOING L THEIR CASTING CALL FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL 'V 
• YEAR! 
6 

If.,;,;; Hurry And Sign Up Today For Your Spot In The Real __ ,-.
~ 

V World 2003-2004. You'll Meet Hundreds Of New People VG And Be Able To Live Next To Close Friends. Spaces Are 6 ~~; Filling Up Fast. Don't Wait Apply Today! /&...:V Give Us A Call At (S74) 272-8124 V 
60GOOG6tiGGGGOeoeo6 


1t1>Lwutl 
·.1 d' p· UU\CH 
-~,.J Me 1nm 1zza tRRR~ou1 
· .eese & 1Topping ••,~.~~!~~ 
-
FREE 0£LIVERY. SI 00 M1mmum for Delivery Nol Valid Witl Any 0th~ Oller Valid Only At L1sl'lii Marco's Piua LocallOn; Expires 12·15·02 
~E~ 
ACtEPIED ~ERE 
Mtr5!prn11~ec:1edilf.aEd1nlo,n\1IIIJJl

Large Pizza 
,.,~aril!mvJlorller.,er;

Cheese & 1Topping 
CHECH OUl llllR UR\LV SPfC\8LS 100\ 
Pi1111 

Serving 243•1122
Noire Dame 52750 IN 633 .......574· .,._1111 & SI. Mary's Now Open Until 3:00am F,iday &Saturday! 
Bethel College 
Visit ua on rhe Wab at www.m-,coa.t'!om 


Tuesdays and Thursdays
Robinson 
3:lOpm-5:lOpm
Community 
Mondays and Wednesdays

I...ectt-ning Cente..­
Are you looking for a place to volunteer this semester? Do you want to work with kids! Well we have the perfect job for you!! The Robinson Community Learning Center needs. No prior experience necessary. Federal Work study positions available! 

At 631-8750 or vballdan@nd.edu 


921 North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 46617 
No earl Don't worry! We are on the ND/SMC Shuttle route!!! 
~ 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING CENTER 
C2002 Mafto':.. Inc :MS2(a)-6D2 


Friday, December 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 

Stoudamire pleads innocent 


attorney, Steve Houze. He and 
Associated Pres. 
Wallace had been scheduled to enter pleas Friday on the 
PORTLAND, Ore. charges. 

Portland Trail Blazers guard Wallace was not expected to Damon Stoudamire has plead• appear in court but also plead ed innocent to a misdemeanor 'innocent t'hrough documents, marijuana possession charge as is the custom in misde­rclated to a traffic stop in meanor cases in Lewis County. Washington state last month. Houze said. Teammate Rasheed Wallace County prosecuting attorney was expected to do the same. Jeremy Randolph did not 
Stoudamire entered his plea immediately return phone in documents filed in Lewis messages from The Associated County District Court. accord-Press seeking comment. ing to his Portland.based Wallace's Seattle-based attor­
ney, David Bukey, also did not return messages.
Hey Graduate ... Moving to Chicago? 
After workouts Thursday morning at the Trail Blazers' practice facility, Stoudamire said he could not talk about
•lWO MONTHS FREE RENT 
the matter. Wallace did not 
on selected units 
comment.

Hot 
Stou<,tamire already has legal troubles related to the
• NO SECURllY DEPOSIT 
Feb. 23 discovery of marijua­na at his Lake Oswego home. 
Apartments 
Stoudamire and his father
• 3,000 Great Apartments 
were charged with felony pos­session of marijuana, but the charges against his father
• Hottest Locations in Town
In The 
were dropped. In August, a judge declared the search ille­
• Apartments for Every Price Range 
gal and rejected a prosecution request to use the marijuana
Windy City. 
as evidence. That ruling has
• Short-Tenn leases Available 
been appealed. 
Late last month Wallace, Stoudamire and driver Edward Smith of Portland were stopped on Interstate 5 north of Centralia, Wash., for 

Accepting Applications for Controller for Observer 
Sophomore Accounting Majors Need to contact Business Office I 
i

631-,5313 
ll 

or email: 
lewalski. 1@nd.edu 
speeding. The group was returning after a Trail Blazers game against the Seattle Supersonics. 
A search of' the vehicle turned up a small amount of marijuana, police said. Misdemeanor possession is punishable with a fine of up to $1,000 and up to three months in jail. 
Afterward, Stoudamire and Wallace appeared in a brief news conference, where they apologized for the incident. 
Stoudamire's plea comes the same week that prosecutors in Oregon's Washington County decided not to pursue felony domestic abuse charges against Blazers' forward Ruben Patterson. 
Patterson's wife Shannon called police to their home on Nov. 25 alleging she had been assaulted by her husband. Patterson was taken into cus­tody and later released on bail posted by a teammate. 
On Monday. Shannon Patterson went to Washington County prosecutors and said she did not wish the prosecu­tion to proceed with the case. District Attorney Bob Hermann announced a day later that Patterson would not face formal charges because of a lack of evidence. 
The Trail Blazers could take their own disciplinary action against Patterson. 
"We're still gathering infor­mation, sorting through what the options are, and when we come to a decision, we'll cer­tainly tell you," team general manager Bob Whitsitt said. 
Patterson apologized to Blazers' fans in his first public comments, made before Portland was routed 103-88 by the Dallas Mavericks Wednesday night. 
"It's a family matter, and I'm going to take care of it and move on," Patterson said. "Everybody knows I'm not a bad person." 

ft~IDA.Y, OEC!MBER 6 
8:30PM NO EXPf~ESS 
U.OJJEP-WE!. Of l.AflmWl\'l'l 

-Ait.0 1tM11w to f~ fif; ~ -TEAMS AWST BE I 61N ~ f l,IRL -Or,;,t l'P..ACrta BINS 8PM -HO EH'JRV FEE 
SK,N (}p NOVI #..f HD Eftt<;S! ~Drv SrOOOO' ~TMtl~ 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 6, 2002 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Franchione accepts Texas A&M position 
A..,odated Press 

COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Dennis Franchionc left Alabama after only two sea­sons to take over as the new coach at Texas A&M. 
Erle Nye, chairman of the Texas A&M board of regents, confirmed Franchione had agreed to a deal with the Aggies. 
Franchione leaves Alabama less than a year after the school was hit this year with harsh NCAA sanctions. He replaces R.C. Slocum, who was fired Monday after the Aggies' 50-20 loss to Texas closed out a 6-6 season. 
Texas A&M scheduled a news conference for 9:30 a.m. EST Friday to announce the hiring. 
The 51-year-old Franchione and new Aggies athletic direc­tor Bill Byrne landed in a pri­vate jet at A&M on Thursday afternoon and strolled down a crimson carpet that had the Aggies' logo on it. 
Franchione brushed past reporters. saying, 'TH talk to all of you tomorrow." 
Byrne also declined to answer questions. 
Franchione -25-11 at TCU from 1998-2000 and 17-8 in two years at Alabama -had been noncommittal on his plans in recent weeks. 
He dismissed reports in Texas newspapers that he would be the Aggies' new coach and called one "idiotic." He said he had "never wavered" on his intentions to return to Alabama next sea­son but never promised he would stay. 
"The first week they brought it up, he was just like, 'Don't worry about it. Just focus on the game,"' Alabama center Alonzo Ephraim said. ''.That's just his personal life. I don't think it will hurt our pro­gram.'' 
Mike McKenzie, who edits Franchione's Web site, said Thursday that Franchione told him he planned to have the position coaches notify the Crimson Tide players and he wouldn't return to meet the team. 
Franchione's deal caps a tumultuous week at A&M. beginning with Slocum's firing and the hiring of Byrne on Tuesday. 
Nye said the school and Franchione had agreed to many terms of a contract, including duration and salary. 
The A&M board of regents has proposed a five-year con­tract for Franchione to take over the Aggies' football pro­gram, the Houston Chronicle reported. The offer to Franchione was believed to be worth $10 million to $11 mil­lion. 
Despite a 10-3 record this season, Alabama isn't eligible for a bowl game because it is on NCAA probation due to recruiting violations that took place before Franchione was hired. 
Franchione met for about three hours Wednesday with Alabama athletic director Mal Moore and members of the Alabama board of trustees, then left without commenting. 
Franchione canceled speak­ing engagements Wednesday night in Columbus, Ga., and on Thursday in Montgomery, Ala. 
Moore said he granted A&M officials permission to talk to Franchione but wanted the coach to stay with the Crimson Tide. 
PGA TOUR 

Furyk's 'boring' 64 takes lead 
Associated Press 

THOUSAND OAKS. Calif. 
Jim Furyk had a boring round compared to Tiger Woods and Davis Love III, which was fine by him in the Target World Challenge. 
While both Woods and Love went eight consecutive holes without a par, Furyk picked his spots at Sherwood Country Club and avoided costly mis­takes on his way to an 8-under 64 to take a one-stroke lead. 
Nick Price and Padraig Harrington were at 65 after playing without a bogey. which was the best way to move up the leaderboard ­and stay there -on a perfect day for scoring. 
"You can make a bunch of birdies, but it's also a course where vou can make a bunch of mistakes," Furyk said. "If you can eliminate those bad holes, which is difficult, you can shoot a really low round." 
That's what stopped Woods 
(68) and Love (66). 

Woods, the tournament host and defending champion of the $3.8 million exhibition, reached the 15th hole and looked over at a large score­board; 
"You have to shoot 10 under just to keep up," he said under his breath. 
Instead, he was running in place, answering every birdie with a bogey, and vice versa. 
After a par on the opening hole, Woods didn't make another par until he missed a 5-foot birdie putt on the 10th. 
He really got it going in the middle of his front nine with four straight birdies that pulled him within two strokes of the lead, then hit into the hazard off the ninth tee and had to get up-and-down for a bogey. 
"They were absolutely per­fect conditions. Just look at the board,'' Woods said, noting that only four players in the 16-man field failed to shoot par or better. "You just knew you had to take it low today." 
The good news? "I didn't shoot myself out of the tournament," he said. 
Neither did Love, who had the most entertaining round of them all with nine birdies and an eagle. His problem was Love had only four pars. 
Good day or bad day? 
"I like making that many birdies," Love said. "If you miss it any place on this golf course, JOU can make a big number. 
His biggest came at the par­3 15th, when his ball came up just short in a mixture of grass and rocks. Love had a decent lie. but was worried about hit­ting the rocks with his club and wound up advancing the ball only a few inches. He wound up with a double bogey. 
"I should have gotten it out," he said. "I just chickened out of the shot." 
It's hard to blame a guy for not wanting to get injured, not in a tournament that pays $1 million to the winner and $130,000 for last place. And not with the start of the 2003 PGA Tour season -the money that counts -only a month away. 
The other secret to low scor­ing was lack of sleep. Furyk, Price and Harrington -the top three guys on the 
Jeaderboard -were all in South Africa last week for the Nedbank Challenge. 
"I knocked some of the rust off," Furyk said. 
He played with Chris DiMarco, who knocked the ball all over Sherwood -eight birdies to go with a bogey and a double bogey that put him at 67 with David Toms and Retief Goosen. 
Phil Mickelson played the par 5s even par -two bogeys and an eagle when he hit a 6­iron for his second shot on the 522-yard 11th hole. Ile was at 68, and gets to play with Woods on Friday. 
After going 18 months with­out playing together, this will be the fifth time in their last eight rounds that Woods and Mickelson ~ Nos. 1 and 2 in the world -get to spend qual­ity time inside the ropes. 
That means more cameras, which isn't good news fur Woods. 
On Sunday in the Skins Game, a man without media credentials clicked a camera during Woods' swing out of a bunker on the final hole with $200,000 on the line. Caddie Steve Williams removed the camera and dropped it into a lake. 
On Thursday, a photograph­er clicked as Woods stood over a 6-foot eagle putt. He paused but didn't yell, and missed the putt. 
"It was early enough that I was OK," he said. "I just mis­read it." 
Williams didn't heave the camera into the Sherwood for­est, he simply asked the pho­tographer in a strong voice not to do it again. 


AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, December 6, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIH.E SERVICES page 23 

team r9cord · .perc.•i PllJQ{: Pi\Yod[) San Diego .... 8·4 •.. •.··. ,867 ' / ';i'j;J\' '.:ii;:izitil:'.1 
Oakland a,4···.:. •>:·•.&&t·•>t ~a;s> ,, ,;1;~\fM Oenver 
Kansu City 
.. ··::•·::...····•·····••::::·•····· :;~;1;1;1••··::·i ·:1;i1~ri::l!i 
...:-:\:/\}\~?:~J 
1 

··ees >:::ii[ji~:!! :::11:•:!:1:::r.l.!.!.t.:_!.r.:..:_~.:.;.!.!.:.:.1_!.:_!.;.!.'.l.•.!.i:.:_!.1.1.1.•.l.•.1..1.[.l 
....-.-. \;;;~:;:~~•?:::;; . 
1 2 
·i 
4 
i. 
ll 
9 
10 
11 
13 1 f 
a,:( I;~li¦I
12 
15 14 ·.. s;r1:s:~.•.. ··· ....
•::••·••·••••·• ;1~11;1;:~ !::~:t::lf11!11111!/lil )••:lm:t:I~1•@1i:1 1t•• 
around the dial 
SATURDAY COLLEGE FOOTBALL Army vs. Navy 12 p.m., CBS Virginia Tech at Miami 1 p.m., ABC MAC Championship: Toledo at Marshall 
2;30 p.m., ESPN2 Washington State at UCLA 4:30 p.m., ABC SEC Championship: Georgia vs. Arkansas 6 p.m., CBS Big 12 Championship: Colorado vs. Oklahoma 8 p.m., ABC 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

"He's the first big free "It was one of the tough­been on the disabled list
Associated Press 

agent we've had in est decisions he's ever had since making his major awhile." to make," said his agent, league debut with Atlanta
NEW YORK 
Glavine was believed to Gregg Clifton. "There in 1987.
For more than a decade, have gotten a $35 million wasn't really one thing Braves president StanTom Glavine helped put contract with a vesting that decided it. He just Kasten, who was attendingthe Atlanta Braves on top. 
option for a fourth year made a decision." an Atlanta Hawks game atNow, he'll try to topple that could make the deal And the Mets couldn't be Philips Arena, declinedthem. 
worth $42.5 million. happier. comment.
Glavine, the most 
Glavine, 36, had spent "It's a heck of a signing Glavine did not return asought-after pitcher on the his whole career with the for us," gushed pitcher Al telephone message left at
open market, reached 
agreement with the New Braves, winning two Cy Leiter. his home. York Mets on a three•year Young Awards and posting "He's a future Hall of "Although we were dis­contract, his agent said five 20-win seasons. Farner and he might be the appointed to hear that he Thursday night. But their NL East rivals, last guy to win 300 games. has opted to sign with the 
The Associated Press the Mets and Phillies, I'm looking forward to Mets, we appreciate the reported that the deal showed much more inter• learning a lot from him." opportunity we had to try includes a vesting option est in the left-hander than The Mets said the deal to sign him," Phillies gen­which could make the deal his old team. So it came was subject to Glavine eral manager Ed Wade worth $42.5 million. down to a choice between passing a physical next said in a statement. 
"Unbelievable," Mets New York and Monday. That shouldn't be Glavine was 18·11 with a pitcher John Franco said. PhHadelphia. a problem -he hasn't 2.96 ERA this year. 
IN BRIEF 

Arizona tight end arrested Arizona's 52-41 victory over goals and assists in the league, is for marijuana possession California this season, a week after "scandalous, frivolous, vexatious and A University of Arizona football Mackovic had criticized his play. an abuse ofjudicial process." 
player has been arrested on felony A passenger, Max Necochea, 22, of The association said such awards drug trafficking charges after he was Mission Viejo, Calif., also was arrest­are based on independent votes cast stopped in Ulinois wilh 87 pounds of ed on drug and unlawful use of by a league committee of 10 coaches 
marijuana. weapons charges. Police said the and team members. Steven Croteau 
Junior tight end Justin Levasseur marijuana has a street value of about received only one vote. was pulled over for speeding Tuesday $150,000. Despite the statement, Michel morning by a state trooper near Croteau is not dropping his lawsuit. Geneseo, about 140 miles west of Hockey _player's father will "This is not about a trophy," Michel Chicago, police said. The trooper then not pull fawsmt Croteau said. "This whole thing is found the marijuana and arrested The New Brunswick Amateur about a big organization that just Levasseur on drug possession and Hockey Association filed a statement doesn't listen to people. They just do trafficking charges. in court Thursday calling a father's what they want and if you go against 
Levasseur was a part of a late-sea­lawsuit against the league scandalous them, they're so strong they make son controversy involving Arizona and frivolous. you look like a fool." coach John Mackovic, who admitted Michel Croteau, the father of 16-Steven led the bantam league last 
to berating the player during a game year-old bantam hockey star Steven season with 45 goals and 42 assists in against VClA on Nov. 9. Croteau, is suing the NBAHA for 27 games. Lucas Martin, who won the Levasseur said Mackovic called him $300,000 in psychological and puni­MVP award, was fourth in the league 
"a disgrace to his family" and "an tive damages because his son failed to with 21 goals and 39 assists. embarrassment to the team." win the league's most valuable player Steven has been suspended from Levasseur, a 22-year-old from award. play because of the lawsuit. 
Antioch, Calif., led all Arizona tight The statement said Croteau's com­Michel Croteau said the hockey ends with 11 catches for 143 yard.s. plaint about his son failing to win the association never had the courtesy to He caught two touchdown passes in MVP award, despite having the most explain certain decisions. 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, December 6, 200L 
ND WOMENS SWIMMING 
Irish aim for repeat performance against Pitt 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports W ricer 
Boasting senior leadership and quality individual efforts, the Notre Dame womens swim­ming and diving looks to build on its 3-1-1 s t a r t Saturday against Pittsburgh. 
Last year, the Irish defeated the Panthers in the season's opening meet 223­27 by winning 14 of 16 events. 
Graduated seniors Carrie Nixon and Kelly Becking led the 

NCAA 
continued from page 28 
ning streak is the second longest active streak in the country. The Cougars qualified for their first NCAA Tournament by winning the Southern Conference. Outside hitter Stephanie Ballard leads the Cougars averaging 3.91 kills per game. 
If the Irish win, they will play the winner of the other first round contest between Michigan State and George Mason (22-7) at 4 p.m. on Sunday. Last year, the Spartans (19-11) eliminated the Irish in East Lansing, Mich. in the first round of the NCM Tournament. 
With less than 24 hours between matches, Brown and her staff are ready to play either opponent should the Irish beat the Cougars. 
"As a staff, we have looked ahead to George Mason and Michigan State. With the team, we are really focusing on Charleston," Brown said. "We have seen tape of both, and we are preparing to play again Sunday. We think Charleston will give us a good match, but we want to be prepared to play on Sunday." 
Ice 
continued from page 28 
one of the worst records in CCHA play, have played extremely well as of late. In its last two games, Bowling Green got an overtime 
win against "I think we're excited to mance was a 2-1 Michigan win over Miami
play at home again. " 
State and a of Ohio back on tie with Nov. 9. sixth­Morgan Cey ''I think we're ranked Irish goaltender excited to play at 
Michigan. 
T h e Falcons are led offensively by defenseman Kevin Bieksa, who has scored three goals and col­lected seven assists. Forward Mark Wires leads the team with five goals. 
In goal. sophomore Jordan Sigalet has been the most impressive starter, with a goals against average of 2.74 and a .926 save percentage. He was also between the pipes for the Falcons' win over Michigan State and the tie with Michigan. 
The Irish have been success-team, taking four and three races, respectively. Still, it was the performance of underclass­men that caught not just Pittsburgh attention, but all opponents' eyes from that first meet onward. 
Then-freshman Brooke Taylor won the 1,000-yard freestyle, then-sophomore Lisa Garcia won the 200 freestyle and then­junior Amy Deger won the 200 butterfly. Other team members won events impressively in a dominant performance. 
Fast forward about one year. 
In the womens' previous com­petition at tho Minnesota Invitational two weeks ago. the Irish finished fourth with 500.50 points behind host Minnesota (696), Missouri (676) and Wisconsin (652). Junior Lisa 
Notre Dame hasn't ·played since defeating Miami 3-1 to win the Big East Championship on Nov. 24. · When the Irish face the Cougars, 12 days will have passed since Notre Dame's last match, but Brown isn't concerned about the long lay­off. 
"I think it is really good for us, both mentally and physi­cally," she said. "It was good for us to have a couple of days off in between Thanksgiving. We aren't going into the Tournament fatigued." 
In August, the Irish set a goal of moving past the first weekend of the NCAA Tournament. They are ready to take that step at home this weekend. 
"It is definitely a big goal. It is something we have talked about since the team got together on the first day of practice," Brown said. "We have to be very careful to take it one step at a time. We are just looking at Charleston on Saturday and are hoping for the opportunity to play Sunday. 
"We need to take each day and each match one at a time." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
ful against the Falcons lately with a record of 7-2-1 in the last ten meetings between the teams. Last season, the Irish went 3-1 against the Falcons, including winning both games at home. 
After a 1-3 road trip, the Irish are excited to be returning 
home, where 
their last perfor­
home again," 
Cey said. "Our fans pack the rink for us and we can play with that extra effort to come out with the win." 
The Irish will need to make the most of their home ice advantage. Following the Bowling Green series, the team's next seven games are on the road, with the next home matchup not until Jan. 17 against Yale. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

diving team remembers the result of last year's meeting with Pittsburgh. The Irish are concentrating on not losing focus. 
"Pitt has a new coach, and I know they have been swimming better than they did last year. but we should still win," Cavadini said. 
The meet is scheduled for 2 
p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Garcia was the only member of the Irish team to win an event, capturing first place in the 200 butterfly with a time of 2 min­utes, 1.53 seconds. Senior Katie Cavadini said Garcia has been one of the team's most reliable and consistent swimmers so far this season. 
Tri-captains Cavadini, Amy Deger and Heidi Hendrick lead a squad with key contributors coming from every class and every team member, like Taylor, sophomore Kelli Harton and other-s. 
Cavadini brings excellence in the distance freestyle races, Deger swims the butterfly and individual medley and Hendrick is the fastest the Irish have in the 100 and 200 freestyle. These three seniors, along with other experienced swimmers on the team, are leading the team this season. 
"Upperclassman leadership in Danielle [Hulik] and Laurie [Musgrave) and others really helps with our success," said Cadavini. 
The womens swimming and 

~ ill1ec1r VlllcJZ1Bi cf 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
)1\)J ~ ml ~ ~ ~ wi1 mra m_m 11r11 rw
,c;v 

Notre Dame Invitational 

Thursday -Saturday ALL DAY!! Rolfs Aquatic Center 


**GOLD GAME on Friday -Finals begin at 6:30 PM FIRST 100 FANS RECEIVE A FREE ADIDAS T-SHIRT 
~­
Friday, December 6, 2002 page 25
The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles have high hopes for home tourney 
By HFATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend will be a true lest for the Saint Mary's bas­ketball team as the Belles host the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic. 
Joining Saint Mary's in the tournament arc the University of Chicago (l-3), 2002 Division Ill NCAA Tournament qualifier Savannah College of Art and Design and Rose-Hulman (1­
4). 

The Belles started the sea­son off strong, despite losing their first two games to Franklin College (63-86), and 
Hanover  (67-81),  at  the  
Franklin  College  Tip  Off  
Tourney.  

The Belles picked up their first victory of the season at home on Nov. 26, with their 67-42 victory over Manchester College. They enter this week­end's tournament on a positive note, as they hope to expand on their first home win. 
Despite the mixed results, ath­letic director Gregg Petcoff feels the team is meshing very well. 
"This team is playing very well thus far, despite the two losses.ff Pctcoff said. "When the subs go in, they don't miss a beat. Our expectations are rising, as we continue to win more games each year." 
Looking to build on their upset of Kalamazoo in their final game last season, the team is still adjusting from the loss of last year's seniors as 

lrlsh forward Dan MIiier passes the ball off In Notre Dame's 92-71 victory against Marquette Monday. MIiier will compete against his former Maryland teammates Saturday. 
TAKE TEN: 
Action to Prevent Childhood Violence in South Bend 
well as one player studying abroad this semester. 
With only ten girls on the team, coach Suzanne Bellina knows each player needs to play well for the Belles to be successful. 
"We are an extremely bal­anced team. Top to bottom, we are very strong," Bellina said. "This year's seniors want to go out on a high note, and the young players want to turn the program around, beginning with this year." 
Saint Mary's faces Rose-
Miller 
continued from page 28 
over two years ago, Miller remained in close contact with his former school. He still has old Maryland athletic gear boxed up in his house at home along with his Final Four ring. However, he is missing the national championship ring the Terrapins won last year without Miller's help. 
Needless to say, Saturday is a game he's been waiting to play for a long time. 
"It's a game I've had circled for a while," Miller said. "But I can't get too excited about it, I can't get to high about it. I have to go out and prepare for it like any other game." 
Easy for him to say. Even without the emotional connec­tion, the defending 

and experi­
enced. 

But that was part of the rea­son Miller left in the first place. 
A McDonald's All-American coming out of high school. Miller barely received the chance to star with the Terrapins. His best season came his sophomore year, when he earned the team's "Unsung Hero" award after starting all 34 games. 
But the next year, he aver­aged 18 minutes a game and 
4.8 points a game as Maryland's other stars led the team to its first-ever Final Four. Feeling uncomfortable, Miller decided to switch schools. 
He didn't have to look very far. Greg Miller, Dan's older brother, played at Delaware under Brey, and Miller was well acquainted with Brey's coaching style. Plus, the chance to earn a Notre Dame degree helped convince the 6­foot-8 forward to don an Irish 
, uniform. 

· "It was definitely difficult," 
1 Miller said. "I was leaving behind my teammates and friends to enter a new situa­tion. But my teammates and coaches at Notre Dame helped me along, and it was a great transition for me." 
Brey normally doesn't like accepting transfer players who can play for only one year. But the Irish coach looked down the road and saw the Irish would be both thin and inexperienced after David Graves, Ryan Humphrey and Harold Swanagan graduated. 
C c :; T [ R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Talk It Out .. . Walk It Out .. . Wait It Out .. . 
Volunteers also W<'komc! 
f'kase Co11trn.:L Kim or Bill at T.1ki.:T,·11. I (11•ml.ulu Or cull us at 
()}4-9424 
1{ 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY LEARNING 
C NTF.R 
1 Credit Social Concerns Seminar: Spring 2003 
Team with fellow students and help schools in South Bend STOP Violence before it happens 
• This ONE-CREDIT COURSE focuses on issues of youth and violence in South Bend schools. 
• 
Participants will learn ways to help reduce violence while having fun interacting with childi-en in area schools. 

• 
Participants become members of the Take Ten Team, spending I hour per week in l heir schools, attending training sessions, and 1 -2 evenings per month discussing their experiences of promoting Take Ten. 

• 
Readir.gs for the one-credit course supplement training, and reflection addresses the Church's role in preventing violence in our society. 

• 
Registration ends January 29, 2003 


For an Application or more Information, please contact 
.ray Caponigro at 631-942:i Caponigro.2@nd.edu 

Hulman at 8 p.m. Tonight's winners play Saturday at 3 
p.m. Bellina is excited about the weekend's opportunities. 
"We want to win the tourna­ment. It is our home court, our tournament, and we always want to win it, but we never have," Bellina said." I think we have a great chance to win this year. We will just have to give 100 percent effort." 
Contact Heather Van Hocgarden at hvanhocg@nd.edu 
Bringing Miller in, even if it was just for one year, would help give the youthful Irish stability and leadership. 
"Chemistry wise, you have to make sure it's a fit," Brey said. " ... But Dan has the respect of his teammates in practice, he earned it in prac­tice last year, and he's a big asset with our young players." 
Although the NCAA required him to sit out last season, Miller spent the season improving himself as a player and spending more time in the weight room. He challenged the rest of the players in prac­tice even as he prepared him­self to fill in for the Irish the next season. 
Even though the season is seven games young, Miller is already well on his way to becoming the impact player the Irish hoped he would be. His leader­ship has 
taken some

national cham­"It's a game I've had 
pion poses a of the bur­
circled for a while. " 
difficult chal­den off Brey lenge for the and tri-cap­Irish. They're Dan Miller tain Matt deep, talented Carroll and
Irish forward 
his pres­
ence on the 

court gives the Irish tremendous matchup advantages. 
Come Saturday, the Irish will need Miller to continue his early-season play if they want to win. After playing Maryland on Saturday, the Irish will face either Texas or George Washington on Sunday. 
But for now, Maryland is in the spotlight. 
"'The focus is on Notre Dame and Maryland, not Dan Miller and Maryland," Brey said. "But he understands that and I want him to keep playing the way he's playing." 
Miller still keeps in contact with his former teammates. He speaks to guard Steve Blake, one of his best friends on the team, almost twice a week. In fact, Blake called Miller to congratulate him after the Irish knocked off No. 10 Marquette earlier this week. 
But come Saturday. any friendly feelings Miller has toward his old teammates will disappear even beforn he takes the court wearing a dif­ferent uniform and sits on a different bench. 
"We 're still good friends, there's no hard feelings or anything like that," Miller said. "But once the game begins, once its out on the court, we know we're out there to win. We're going to go hard at each other." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asouk.up@nd.edu 
page 26 Friday, December 6, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 

By KA TIE McVOY 
Associate Sporn Editor 

It will have to be a new Notre Dame team that takes the floor on Saturday. 
The unfocused Irish squad that was on thin ice against Valparaiso on Wednesday will 
certainly fall "We haven't executed in change from through if it 
the last two games. the usually 
can't focus and defensively
We've got a lot ofwork to
cool off the Sun focused team. 
do.,,

Devils. "I think So what do what hap-they need to pened is they
Muffet McGraw 
fix? lost their best
Irish coach
"Everything," 
coach Muffet McGraw said. 

Arizona State is off to it.s best start in the last 10 years. The Sun Devils have been on fire, beginning with a 5-0 record, including an upset against No. 14 Georgia Monday. In addition, the Sun Devils are looking to add a 14th win to their record-set­ting home winning streak. 
The Irish don't look as hot. 
In its last two games, Notre Dame has not been executing effectively on offense. Although it's been shooting nearly 58 per­cent from the floor, the offense has not been as effective as McGraw would like. 
"We haven't executed in the. last two games," McGraw said. ''We've got a lot of work to do." 
Offensively, that work will have to focus around playing against a man-to-man defensive scheme. The Sun Devils defense, ranked first in the Pac-10 last season, has used its man-to-man scheme to shut down opposing offenses. The Sun Devils are giv­ing up an average of 62 points per game, more than 13 points less than their scoring average of75.8 points per game. 
But the good defense isn't what is most surprising about this young Arizona State University team. The Sun Devils are playing without two of their best players. Junior two-year starter Betsy Boardman left Arizona State University and sophomore forward Alexis Tate suffered a season-ending knee injury. Despite it.s losses, Arizona State is on fire offensively. 
Led by freshmen standouts Jill Noe, Kristen Kovesdy and Amy Denson, the Sun Devils are shooting 45 percent from the floor and 42 percent from behind the arc. That's a 
player and 
they've all stepped up," McGraw said. "So they're all contributing a little bit more than they did before." 
What may be more important is how the Sun Devils play offen­sively. Where the Irish have not executed as much as McGraw would like, the Sun Devils have run a patient, mistake-free offense. 
"Offensively, they don't make mistakes," McGraw said. "They don't beat themselves. They just kind of take their time." 
The Irish will have to focus to remove the mistakes from their game. Although they only had two days of practice to fix Wednesday's mistakes, McGraw is sure two days is enough. 
"It's a lot of mental stuff,"• McGraw said. "They just need to focus and get in their heads that they're going to get on their game." 
Tip-off is Saturday at noon. 
Note: 

Saturday's game is part of the AstraZeneca Hoops for the Cure Classic 11. Arizona State will be playing host to the second annu­al tournament that benefits breast cancer research, treat­ment and education with dona­tions going to the Susan G. Kornen Breast Cancer Foundation. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

ND 
6 ~i-~a, · i ft," 
CorI~er 
Bazaar! 
Your chance to make any of the projects you might have missed this semester! 
Friday, December 6, 2002 9:00pm •
11:00pm in the LaFortune Student Center 
Dooley Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 
or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
If you're a Windows 2000 or Windows XP user who logs on to a Notre Dame net­
work domain and you plan to take your computer home to use over the holidays, please 
follow the steps listed here before you take off for Christmas break. Else, you may not be 

able to use your computer while away from campus. It isn't necessary for Macintosh users to take these precautions. 
When you get home 

Use exactly the same log-on procedure in Step #2 for logging on to your computer when you get home. 
Ifyou don't follow this procedure If you don't follow this procedure, your computer may lock you out, and you won't . have access to your files and applications until you return to campus and log on to the network again. 
(1) 
(3) 
.Physically connect (via wire or wireless) the computer you'll take home to the Notre Dame Network. 
Log on toyour networkdoniain using your AFS ID. But use the format jdoe@ND.EDU (ND.EDU must be in uppercase) instead oftheformat you usually use, such as jdoe. 
Enter yourpassword, an~f.~lt.. on. 

For more information, go to the OIT home page, www.nd.edu/~ndoit, or call the Help Desk at 1-8111. 
Bloffice of Information Technologies 

Friday, December 6, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FATOO 
rJ I 
02002 Tribune Modlo Sorvioe,, Inc. 
All Alghl1 Reaarvod 
MYMUR j 
tFEEDAC I

I 

www.jumbla.com 
MAGITS ~ 
rI J J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
THIS WAS Bl::­TWl::f=N THE= 5AL.E5­MAN AND HIS GOOD CUSTOMER, 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: (XI I I IX JTHE ( J I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' I Jumbles: HELLO SIEGE PRIMED EIGHTY S Answer: Whal Junior turned into alter he saw the mon­ster movie -A"LIGHT" SLEEPER 
Stumped? Call 1-900-776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 
album 48 War 30 Butcher's 39 Goes over 49 Film role played

HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Don King, Janine Turner, Steven Wright, Dave Brubeck, Wally Cox Happy Birthday: Delegate the work this year. It may be hard to say no to others, but also necessary if you want 10 accomplish your own goals this year. Make concessions so that you can do the besl job possible. Your numbers are 10, 14, 22, 31, 36, 40 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Delays or problems are likely while in lransit. Be prepared to compensate for these dilemmas. Don't even bother trying 10 get any last-minute tasks done today. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The paperwork you wanted to tie up will cause frustrations for you. Do what you can and don'I stress yourself out. Be satisfied that you can complete some of the projects you are working on. Slay calm. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Business partnerships can be prosperous. Pamper yourself and don't be afraid to make some changes. Pick up last minute items that you've been meaning to purchase. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Social activilies thal include co-workers will be informative. Be sure to participale. Make sure you talk to friends or relalives who have not been too well this past year.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can expect to face changes. You should get some recognition for all that you've done. Someone in your life may be putting some limitations on you. Look at your situation objec1ively. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't try to get someone you care aboul to do things your way. This person will resenl it and you will make matters worse. You can make major accomplishments if you mingle with people who are in the same industry.***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Travel will be in your bes1 interests. You will find that getting together with friends or meeting new people will bring mental stimulation and inspiration. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Look into the possibility of taking a trip for business or pleasure. Make arrangemenls 10 get together with people you don't get to see very often. Keep your eyes open for a moneymaking opportunity. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make sure you check business deals out thoroughly before signing anything. Don't forget about your obligations to family. Educational pursuits should be considered. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Presenl your ideas to someone who may give you financial support. This is an excellent lime 10 see your plans finally come to fruition with the help of someone who believes in you. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Difficulties with others may put you in an awkward situation. Keep to yourself and do whal needs to be done. Your lowered vitality may push you to give up if the pressure is loo great. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Mingle with the movers and you will make major gains. You can charm established individuals into considering your ideas. Be attentive to your partner and the tables will turn. **** Birthday Baby: You will be the one to whom everyone turns for advice, direction and support. You will tell it like it is and your honesly will be appreciated. You will stand tall and make those who love you proud. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE  -- 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Words after a 
digression 
10 End piece? f 4 2001 Grammy­winning band for the album 
'Kid A" 15 Court figure 16 Its flag is a red 
stripe over a 
while stripe 17 Angle measurement 
symbol 18 ·-goes" 19 Collectors' 
locales 21 Reason to prolong play 22 Dura Lube alternative 23 1958-71 political inits. 24 Excited, with ·up" 25 Expose, to poets 
26 Hardly heavy­footed 27 With 15-Down, low 28 Bungling 31 Maintain 32 Shiver-inducing 33 Mantel piece 34 Simmers 
35 Al-_ 36 Works with a plane 38 Bewhiskered 
trash collector 39 Banquets 40 Publisher 
Ballantine 41 Near Eastern 
honorific 42 Farone 43 Coll. major 44 38-Across 
catcher 47 It's named after 
an opera star 50 Novelist Duun 51 Artemis slew 
him 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Semiramis's 
subjects 54 Some sneaks 55 "Let me show 
you how it's done" 56 Big game 57 Like some municipal bonds 
DOWN 

1 Slap target, sometimes 
2 Where John McCain was shot down 
3 Plank on a pitcher's mound 4 Laughfest 5 Long stretch 6 Like some appetites 
7 The Greek poet Babrius versified his stories 
8 Fly (through) 9 Humphrey Bogart's "High Sierra" co-star 10 First Holy Roman emperor 
11 He wrote to his "Immortal Beloved" 
12 Talked about 
13 Browning pieces? 15 See 27-Across 20 'Oliver!" 
composer 
22 W.W. I plane 
25 "Thirtysome­thing" actor 
26 "The Alchemy of Finance" author George 
WILLSHORTZ 


exhibition 

37 Photo in an old 46 Image maker 29 Much the same 
offering by Skippy
31 Rate _(be 43 Robert perfect) Devereux's 50 It rises in the earldom Ardennes
32 Popular typeface 

44 Something 53 Stretch out, in 34 1970's hairdo staked Scotland 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaminghcwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­
Address------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


PORTS 
Friday, December 6, 2002 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Looking to take the next step 
Irish host first 2 rounds ofthe NCM Tournament and look to 
..... 
get past the second round for the first time since 1995 
rounds of the NCAA

ByMATTLOZAR 
Tournament. 

Sports Editor 
Instead of having to travel to an opponent's unwelcoming gymnasium, the Irish will beSince 1995, the Irish have

--
won 150 matches, including able to play in the friendly an 87-4 regular season con­confines of the Joyce Center ference record. They have also where they have won their won six Big East regular sea­past 35 matches. 
son titles and six Big East "I think it is a great situation tournament titles. for us, and we are excited to 
With all those victories and be hosting," Irish coach champi-Debbie onships, the Brown said.
"/ think it ·s a great 
"I think it is a 

volleyball situation for us. and we big advantage psychologi­
Notre Dame 
team hasn't are excited to be 
been able to cally because
hosting.,.
do something we feel more that seems 
comfortable simple for a Debbie Brown h e r e . team experi­Academic
Irish coach 
encing so pressures are lessened
much success 
-win two consecutive games since the team isn't missing in the NCAA Tournament. classes for a day of travel. We But this year might be dif­probably sleep better in our 
ferent. 
own beds." 

-
After qualifying for their Notre Dame (23-7) hosts the 11th straight NCAA College of Charleston (29-5) in Tournament by winning the a first round match at 6 p.m. Big East Tournament two Saturday. This will be first weeks ago, the Irish were meeting between the Irish and 
awarded the No. 16 seed in the Cougars. the NCAA Tournament. More 
Charleston's 22-match win-importantly, the Irish were named a host for the first two see NCAA/page 24 

MENS BASKETBALL 
Miller to face former Maryland teatntnates 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Had Mike Brey have known,
-
he never would have agreed. Had Brey known he was going to receive a senior transfer from Marvland, he never would have given a ver­bal commitment that pitted the Irish and the Terrapins against each other. Had Brey known Dan Miller would step on the same court Saturday wearing a different uniform than the players, he never would have said the Irish would play in the BB&T Classic. But Brey gave his word two 
years ago he would play in the tournament this weekend, six months before Miller trans­ferred from Maryland to Notre Dame. So Saturday at the MCI Center, Miller will be reunited with his former teammates on the court for the first time since he left the Terrapins. 
"Quite frankly, if we knew we were getting Dan Miller, we would never schedule this gam~." Brey said. "I don't think.overall it's a healthy sit­uation, but he's a fifth-year senior, he's in his niche out there, and I think he's excited to go back." 
Although he left Maryland 
see MlLLERJpage 25 
HOCKEY 

Irish play host to Falcons 
said that he believes the team Irish, and that weakness was 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 

is looking forward to the exposed in the second game of 
Sports Writer 

Bowling Green series as a way the Alaska-Fairbanks series. to regain The Irish lost 5­The Irish hockey team hopes a little 4 and allowed to give their fans an early respect four power play
"/ think there's a little
Christmas present as Notre among its goals.
more motivation {for this 
Dame takes on Bowling Green CC HA "Last time we in a two-game series that will peers. series]. We know we're a had a bit of be the last home games for "I think rough luck on
top team in this league." 
the Irish in 2002. there's a special teams," 
The Irish (5-6-2, 4-6-0 little Cey said. "We've CCHA) will take on the m o r e Morgan Cey been working on Falcons (3-8-1, 1-7-1 CCHA) motiva­Irish goaltender it in practice and Saturday at 7.:05 p.m., and tion [for are going to be again on Sunday, at the t h i s ready for scheduled time of 5:05 p.m. seriesj," he said. "We know Bowling Green, who despite 
Notre Dame is coming off a we're a top team in this their record are a good team. heartbreaking trip to Alaska­league. It's hard to lose two We're going to have to be on Fairbanks, in which the Irish games that we thought we the top of our game for them." 
fell in both games by one-goal should have won." The Falcons, despite having deficits. Special teams have been a 
Irish goaltender Morgan Cey recurring problem for the see ICE/page 24 

ND WOMENS BASKETBALL  ND WOMENS SWIMMING  SMC BASKETBALL  
Notre Dame at Arizona State  Pittsburgh at Notre Dame  Saint Mary's Roundball Classic  
Saturday, noon  Saturday, 2 p.m.  Friday~Saturday  
The Irish, coming.off a narrow 74-68 victory over  The Irish, 3-1-1 on the season, look to con­ Saint Mary's hosts the University of Chicago,  
Valparaiso, take on the Sun Devils in the Hoops for  tinue  their  winning  ways  against  the  Savannah College of Art and Design and Rose­ 
the Cure Classic II. The ninth-ranked Irish look to  Panthers. Last season, the Irish came away  Hulman College this weekend. The Belles are 1-2  
remain undefeated on the season.  with a solid victory from Pittsburgh.  on the season.  
page 26  page 24  page 24  





