
Hawaii Club brings sunshine home
PARTLY 

Wednesday

Scene takes a look at the festivities of the Hawaii 
CLOUDY 

Chili's annual lu'au featuring music, dancing, food.and entertainment. 

APRIL 10,
HIGH 64° 
Scene . page 12
LOW39° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Sen,ing Notre Danie and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 120 



Congress keeps Fox home 
. Mexican Senate's decision to limit leader's trip to U.S. 
could affect ND 
graduation in May 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
The Mexican Senate has ordered President Vicente Fox not to travel to the United States or Canada on the basis that Fox's pro­posed trip for next week would not be an official visit, the Associated Press reported. 
For the first time in histo­ry. the Congress has stopped a Mexican leader from leav­ing the country by a vote of 71-41. Fox would have trav­eled to various Canadian cities, as well as San Francisco and Seattle with the goal of strengthening economic and political ties between Mexico, Canada and the U.S. and showing support for Mexicans abroad. 
Fox, slated to speak at the University of Notre Dame's commencement in May, has recently encountered resis­tance from Mexican legisla­tors who are skeptical of Fox's close ties with the United States, the Associated Press reported. 
"Let's not confuse things," Senator German Sierra of the Congress' majority 


Malloy speaks out on college alcohol abuse 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
Just in time for National Alcohol Screening Day on Thursday. University President Father Edward Malloy shared findings on the risks of college drinking f r o m research by t h e National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) Tuesday morning at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. 
Malloy, along with three other panelists involved in alcohol research, released a study by the NIAAA's Task Force on College Drinking titled "A Call to Action: 


Changing the Culture of Drinking at U.S. Colleges." The task force concluded that drinking by college students ages 18 to 24 contributes to an estimated 1,400 student deaths, 500,000 injuries and 70,000 cases of sexual assault or date rape each year. 
The study also reports that a quarter of students in the 18­to-24 age group have driven while under the influence of alcohol in the past year. Also in the same age group, 400,000 students reported having had unprotected sex as a result of drinking. 
Malloy, who co-chairs the NIAAA, which is part of the National Institutes of Health, has also chaire<l. three other separate studies dealing with alcohol behavior in colleges. 
"This has been an area that he's been interested in and active in for a number of years now," said University 
see MALLOY/page 4 
Institutional Revolutionary Party, which is in opposition to Fox's National Action 
see FOX/page 4 

HTTP:/!OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
North steps down as ResLif e director 
at Drake University in Iowa 
By GRACE ARREDONDO 

but found she wanted to be News Writer 
closer to Ohio, her family and her home. 

After faithfully completing Soon afterward North six years at Saint Mary's, accepted a job at Saint Dana North, the director of Mary's moving her within Residence Life will be leav­three hours of home. ing the Saint Mary's commu­North first came to Saint 
nity at the end of the year to accept the position of assistant dean of stu­dents at Wittenberg University i n Springfield, Ohio. 
"The rea­Mary's to fill the position as

"The reason that I 
a hall director decided to take the job for two years. She found her­
is because it is closer to 
self looking for 

my home and family." something more, so she applied for
Dana North 
assistant

Saint Mary's director of 
director of 

Residence Life 
Residence Life. 

son that I decided to take the job is because it is closer to my home and family," North said. "A lot of factors went in to the decision. Six years in the residence life field is a long time to stay in one position. I am not mad at anyone nor have I had a bad experience with anyone; it was simply time for a change." 
North finished her degree training at the University of Ohio. North then took a job 
She accepted 
the job and held it until her promotion to the director of Residence Life a few short years later. 
During this time, North successfully managed to change the programming model from the wellness model to the present-day model found in the residence halls at Saint Mary's. 
"I changed our program­ming model; it now reflects our mission statement, [a 
see NORTH/page 4 

ND senior heads Me~ner CaIDpaign 
By LIZ KAHUNG 
News Writer '' 
While most Notre Dame seniors are giving into "senioritis" and letting up in their studies, senior Katherine Bensen-Piscopo is putting in 60 hours per week as campaign manager for Congressional hopeful Mark Meissner. 
Bensen-Piscopo thought she was done with politics last summer and stayed in South Bend to work at Lula's Cafe. But after some support­ers came into the cafe and spoke with Bensen-Piscopo, she was persuaded into meeting and speaking with Meissner. She joined Meissner's staff that summer and by mid-semester last fall she was named campaign manager. 
Community activism and politics have always been present in Bensen-Piscopo's life, with grandparents and parents both actively involved in party politics. 
"In the second grade I gave all my allowance to a cam­paign. I guess I didn't know any better," Bensen-Piscopo said. 
Soon Bensen-Piscopo wasn't just giving money but also giving her time. In the summer of 1999 she began working for the Washington State Democratic Central Committee as the Development Coordinator. She returned during the fall, winter, spring and the fol­lowing summer. By the sum­mer of 2001, Bensen-Piscopo wanted to have a somewhat relaxing vacation with a flex­ible job that would allow her to take time off to travel. She found herself bored, and the opportunity to work for Meissner's office intrigued her. 
As campaign manager, Bensen-Piscopo coordinates volunteers, manages lists, coordinates events, commu­nicates with the media and manages the website -the task she is most proud of because she taught herself to create and manage a Web site the past summer. 
In addition to these duties, Bensen-Piscopo does a great deal of grassroots campaign­ing, going door-to-door and accompanying Meissner to speeches and events. 
"I try not to speak for Mark and let him represent him­self," Bensen-Piscopo said. So too are U.S. Sen. Evan Bayh, D-IN, and U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer, D-3rd, where Meissner worked as a region­al director and aid respec­tively. The two representa­tives chose not to publicly support Meissner until after the May 7 primary so voters may decide for themselves. 
"Mark Meissner is the best candidate for the job and will be an excellent representa­tive," Bensen-Piscopo said. 
Part of Bensen-Piscopo's motivation in joining Meissner's .staff was his com­mitment to the area. "He is one of the most genuine politicians I've ever met, if not the most. He really cares about people here and has a solid investment in this 
sec CAMPAIGN/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, April 10, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The benefit ofscandal 
I don't think I'm going out on a limb assuming that most of you have probably heard about the recent problems the Catholic Church has been experiencing or by assuming that we all want to see a constructive solution to the problem. Oh, wait a minute, actually I am. After reading Johnny Burn's Tom Haight dissertation Monday, I was reminded why this whole problem has become so Assistant Ad noteworthy: people like him Design want to forget about it and Manager give the Church a rest. 
The truth is that this is no 
small problem to brush away. It is being given 
massive amounts of media attention for good rea­
son: namely that it is possibly the largest and 
most well-deserved scandal in the history of the 
Church. In his rigorous defense ofthe Catholic 
faith, however. Burns kindly offers excuses ­
that's right, excuses -for the Catholic Church. 
His defense of Catholicism amounts to listing 
reasons why it is popular to bash the Church and 
likens the recent scandal to being just so much 
wood on the fire. I hate to be blunt, but this is just 
plain wrong. Comparing the unpopular require­
ments of a rigorous faith to the molestation of 
children is tragically misguided, even ifit is for 
the purpose of exonerating the Church. 

I contend that there is absolutely, positively no reason for the media to lay off the Catholic Church. As a matter of fact, its recent coverage of the problem has had a positive effect on the Church and is the only way for beneficial change to occur when dealing with an institution such as the Catholic Church. 
Since the scandal has broken out, the archdio­cese in Boston has suspended several priests from performing the sacraments or identifying themselves as priests. Further, it has actually cooperated with law enforcement agencies by turning over names to them in order to facilitate investigation. Some devout Catholics are certainly outraged that the Church has given up some of its own, but consider this: Men who molest children cannot be any further from God and have no place in the Church. Can you disagree with a clear conscience? 
Having established this, we are led to ask why this reflects poorly on the Church. The answer is simple and deeply disturbing. The Church has been sheltering these men for decades, knowing full well the things they have done. Its policy of brushing things under the carpet to prevent scan­dal has only built the dam higher and higher, and it has finally burst in an immense wave of scandal and shame which will rightly drench the Church for years to come. 
And this is a good thing. 

It is good because the Church finally admitted there is a problem. It is good because the Church is finally taking steps to see justice done. It is good because the Church cannot afford to and will no longer shelter these criminals. It is good because the Church will do whatever necessary to prevent such men from joining it or being in its ranks in the future. 
The scandal has made the Catholic Church a better institution. Disagree with me. I dare you. 
Contact Tom Haight at THaight.4@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest scu,dards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. rfwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Ob,crvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frid2y except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Alsodaml Press. All reproduction riglm are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Wednesday . Booksigning: "Duck on a Bike," David Shannon, Notre Dame Bookstore, 10 a.m.  Thursday . Screening: "All About You" (2001), Christine Ashford-Swanson '94 and Michael Swanson '93, Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library, 7 p.m.  Friday . Lecture: 'The Woman on the Road: The Homeless Woman in Modern Irish Drama," Mary Trotter, IUPUI, Room 1125, Flanner Hall, 3 p.m.  Saturday . Workshop: Opera performance, Moreau Little Theatre. 7:30 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire repons
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Syracuse hosts mother of murdered gay student 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
said Shepard as she prefaced her 
Judy Shepard urged individJ1als to speech. channel their commitment and effort While hesitant at first to make to personal, worthy causes in a Matthew a martyr for the gay rights 
· speech Monday in Goldstein movement, both Judy and Dennis Auditorium. Shepard, Matthew's father, decided Whether an individual feels pas­that it would be unfair to hide sionate about the gay rights move­behind Matthew's story when they ment, AIDS awareness. spousal knew their cause demanded national abuse or the homeless epidemic attention. "l don't want this to hap­plaguing America, it is most impor­pen anymore. I want this to stop," tant to remain involved, said she said. Shepard Crimes Begin With Discrimination" The Matthew Shepard Foundation "Do something that speaks to you described various crimes motivated was created in order to "make some­
in a way that nothing else will," she by discrimination thathave occurred thing positive out of something so said. Shepard is the mother of nationwide, particularly on college devoid of humanity," Shepard said. Matthew Shepard, the gay University campuses. Audience members visibly wiped of Wyoming student who was beaten Though she said she used to be a away tears as Shepard began her to death in 1998. A large screen was shy, private person, Shepard said speech by reading from her victim set up in the front of the auditorium. she is now a woman who has a lot to impact statement, which she origi­
As audience members filtered say 'Tm not a professional speaker, nally delivered in a courtroom on through the doors, slides titled "Hate I'm a mom. I'm a mom with a story," April 5, 1999. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for da time conditions and hi temperatures 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Wednesday, April 10. 
j 
FRONTS: 
........ ......... ......,,. 


Cl 2002 AccuWeather, hlC, COLO WARM S'fATIONAR'r' 
~oo,: 

® © B ~ CI] ~. ~. EJ. 0 @kb 
High Low Show•r• R ¦ ln T...torm• FlurriN. Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
\l1a A~lodPres-, 
-

Atlanta 75 53 Las Vegas 85 60 Portland 59 47 
Boston 59 41 Milwaukee 52 42 St. Louis 72 47
,,\@,~~~~ (f ~ 4 

Chicago 58 42 New York 65 41 Tampa 85 65
51,ows,s T-slOllllS Rain Flurries Snow Ice SuMy Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
TEXAS A&M 
Rice sets U.S. sights on Iraq 

COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
America's day of reckoning with Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein is coming soon, National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice said Monday at Texas A&M University, hinting that the White House is leaning toward military action to topple Hussein. "Sooner or later the world will have to come to terms with this dangerous man who is acquiring dangerous weapons," Rice said. "The status quo isunacceptable." Although President George W. Bush has not decided to use force against Iraq, Rice said "all options are on the table" if Hussein does not begin allowing United Nations weapons inspectors into the country. Hussein's track record of aggression and brutality makes Iraq's efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction a particularly urgent threat to national security, Rice said. She also dismissed Iraq's announcement that it would stop sell­ing oil for 30 days to protest Israeli incursions into the Palestinian-controlled West Bank. The interruption in world oil markets will hardly be noticeable. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
AUAP honors NYU's abroad appeal 
NEW YORK 

In a recent ranking, the American Universities Admission Program (AUAP) named New York University the top American undergraduate university for interna­tional students because of a "tidal wave" of interest from students abroad, an AUAP official said. The ranking comes only weeks after an announcement from NYU officials that international students would be subject to more scrutiny at the University, including stricter immi­gration reporting standards. Despite the changes, NYU managed to beat out a wealth of Ivy League schools for the top spot. The study was put together by the AUAP, a business started in 1995 that offers counseling and assistance to foreign students applying to American uni­versities. The organization also claims to be the only one of its kind that ranks American universities specifically for international students. This is the first time since the rankings began that Harvard University, now tied for second with Columbia University, has not been ranked No. 1. 
Houston 77 57 Philadelphia 65 42 Washington 66 45
V'ia Asaocialed Pren GraphicaNet 
.. __ ... ,, ___ _ 

Wednesday, April 10, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

(1)  an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second  
major, and  
(2)  an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests,  

then PPE wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, Roos. l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos or Professor O'Connor. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 11. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 



It's a Promo-Party at 

,_. ;'.·.~:~-£ 
--··... ~.--:~-~-:t}:· Jr -~* ~:;-": 

·1-1··"'"''··',. 

••. ,•:ft,,.,.,~; •. ' 
Tonight, one of your.favorite beverage companies is throwing a party to introduce their new 
product. That means 

GIVEAWAYS -PRIZES &: REALLY CHEAP SPECIALS 


So come out for the fun and get some free stuff. 
As always, you must be 21 years old with a valid ID to enter. 


Po.lice rule ND prof Cushing's death suicide 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
The March 29 death of Notre Dame physics professor James Cushing was a suicide, police said. 
Two neighbors found Cushing, 65, dead in his South Bend home in the 200 block of East Angela Boulevard about 
10:30 a.m.. according to Capt. John Williams, public informa­tion officer for South Bend police. Investigators also dis­covered a note in the home, Williams said, but he would not specify the letter's content. 
Cushing had been receiving treatment for depression, Williams said. 
A 36-year professor at Notre Dame, Cushing was an interna­tionally renowned physics scholar. He specialized in the history and philosophy of mod­ern physics and taught in both the Philosophy and Physics departments at one point in his career. 
Cushing had planned to retire from Notre Dame at the end uf the academic year. 
A memorial service for family and friends was held April 3 at Clay United Methodist Church in South Bend. A campus memorial service is scheduled for April 21. and University offi­cials expect to release the loca­tion and time of that service soon. 
Cushing is survived by his wife, Nimbilasha, and two adult daughters. 
Family members could not be reached for comment. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 






Hagopian to lead Kellogg Institute 
Special to the Observer 
Frances Hagopian, associ­ate professor of government and international studies at Notre Dame, has been appointed director of Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies. She succeeds Scott Mainwaring, director since 1997. 
Hagopian studies the com­parative politics· of Latin America, with an emphasis on democratization and the political economy of economic reform in Brazil and the Southern Cone. Her current research focuses on economic liberalization and politicaJ representation in Brazil, Argentina. Chile and Mexico. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1999, Hagopian earned her bache­lor's degree from Brandeis University and a doctorate in political science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
She is the author of "Traditional Politics and Regime Change in Brazil." 

which was named a Choice Outstanding Book in Comparative Politics, as well as several articles on democ­ratization which have appeared in World Politics, Comparative Political Studies, and other journals and books. 
Hagopian has held fellow­ships from the Center for Latin American Studies and the Howard Heinz Endowment of the University of Pittsburgh, the Social Science Research Council, the American Council of Learned Societies, and Fulbright-Hays. She previously taught at Harvard University, Tufts University and MIT. 
The Kellogg Institute is widely known for its interna­tional faculty and their research on democracy and development. especially in Latin America. 
The institute attracts out­standing faculty, students and visitors to Notre Dame and sponsors international con­ferences, research fellow­ships, public lectures and cul­tural events. 
MILLER GUITAR 



surnrner02 
ACADEMY 
Now enrolling 
255-9343 

Training that builds confidence & musical knowledge, through the joy of music. 
Classes taught by notre dame guitar instructors Stephen and Joellen Miller 
Also Special Children's programs 
MillerGuitarAcademy .com 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 10, 2002 
said Malloy in a Notre Dame press release before the news
Malloy 
North

conference. "And I've lived in continued from page 1 college dormitories for much continued from page I 
of my adult life, so I know spokesperson Dennis Moore. firsthand the impact irrespon­
life of intellectual vigor,Malloy spoke to the National sible drinking has on the qual­
aesthetic appreciation, reli­Press Club's audience in a 10-ity of residential life." 
gious sensibility and social minute presentation highlight­The NIAAA task force's 
responsibility] so that the • ing the drinking culture that study showed that drinking 
resident advisor's do all of has emerged on college cam­rates are highest among 
the programs in the sec­puses. The other panelists incoming freshmen, males 
tion." included Raynard Kington, and members of fraternities 
Assistant Director of acting director of the NIAI\.A; or sororities, and athletes. 
Residence Life Jerry Madsen Ralph Hingson, associate dean According to the research, 
is happy for North. for research at the Boston students in two-year institu­
"She is going on to green­University School of Public tions, religious schools, com­
er pastures, so my blessingsHealth: and Mark Goldman. muter schools or predomi-· , 
go to her," said Madsen. director of nantly or 
"Dana is a great administra­the Alcohol historically 
tor. and she has left us in a n d "Although a minority of black col­
great shape, but of course Substance leges and 
when there is leadershipA b u s e universities
college students engage in 
change [in any department]
high-risk drinking. all

Research drink the 
there is going to be some 
Institute. students ... suffer from the least. 
adjustment." "All you f n
negative consequences of
have to do is response to
alcohol abuse. including
look at a the study's 
Contact Grace Arredondo at

couple of assault. vandalism and findings, the 
.arre9847@saintmarys.edu. 

CHRISTINA REITANO/The Observer University President Father Edward Malloy meets with Sen. Dick Lugar, R-lnd., Monday during a Washington trip to dis­cuss a study on alcohol consumption by college students. 
cable televi­sion chan­ traffic accidents."  task force has created  
nels  that  a  3-in-1  
cover spring  Father Edward Malloy  Framework  
break, where end­ University president  to help aca­demic insti­ 
less groups  tutions  
of drunken  establish  

students get up and say Tm prevention programs to help having the greatest time students deal with alcohol here,' and then you recognize problems. Among the exam­on the basis of these statistics ples for ways to effectively what the fallout of the great deal with campus alcohol time is,'' the Associated Press issues in a promising way, the reported Malloy as saying. 3-in-1 Framework suggests 
During Malloy's trip to enforcing minimum drinking Washington, he also met with age laws, reinstating Friday 
U.S. Sen. Richard Lugar, R­classes and exams and Ind., later Tuesday to discuss Saturday morning classes, his work to reduce drinking expanding alcohol-free dorms, among college students. regulation of alcohol sales and 
"Although a minority of col­enforced discipline and "Safe­lege students engage in high­Ride" programs. risk drinking, aH students and The complete study of the their parents, faculty and task force is in this month's members of the surrounding issue of the Journal of Studies community suffer the negative on Alcohol. consequences of alcohol abuse, including assault, van­Contact Helena·Payne at dalism and traffic accidents,'' payne.30@nd.edu. 
.• . l

f11 11 

PROPERTlES 


iillliiflllitl~I
Cal-l-t1l1J, D1il1es-are., ... ···• T 
,...,, ·r .., geingJust! 
.......• ...·••·······-·· 

Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 274-9955 Voicemail: 674-2571 
Fox 
continued from page I 
party, told the Associated Press. "It's not an official visit. It's not a state visit. It's considered a private visit." 
Although there has been no sign that this recent incident will affect Fox's May 19 Commencement trip, this lat­est vote has presented itself as a new issue in U.S. foreign affairs while increasing the rift between Fox's adminis­tration and lawmakers. 
"It sounds like a complicat­ed political situation," said Notre Dame spokesman Dennis Moore, who said he had not yet anticipated any obstacles to Fox traveling to the University next month. 

"We'll have to see what happens with all of this," said Moore. 
He said he wasn't aware of any prior occasions when a scheduled Commencement speaker was not able to come. 
"When someone agrees to come, we assume that that person will come," Moore said. 
At this point, Moore said the University has not con­sidered an alternative speak­er. 
"There's not a uniform backup plan, and that's something we would have to look at by a case-by-case basis," he said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
rt.£ NotAE DAME D1pntM1NT of Music PRu111n 
Wo•h l,y; N,di, Boul'"G'" LudwiG VAN 8rtfflovn CiA111-CARlo Mr,unti 
; A111d du woald p,u,.iut of; CoNC:tAT Duo 

~Y coMpon• ••d NO P••"""" of Mu,ic: E,~., H•iMo 
Tkur.daJ, qJriL 111 2,002 
7:3oym1 Sf.n,i,tx/,err5 Gl'l{ttittJrfl(m, S1tifeM1tJt1tm. if!Art 
admJ.J':ion ii rFrtt 




ATION 
Wednesday, April 10, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Botswana fighting AIDS epidemic: 
Botswana had to start distributing medicine to patients with the AIDS virus because it has one of the highest infection rates in the world and its skilled work force is dying off, President Festus Mogae said Tuesday. This African nation is the first country on the con­tinent to commit to a widespread program through its public health system. 38 percent of its adults are infected -the highest rate in the world. 
Countries pushing U.N. resolutions: 
Arab nations pushed for a new Security Council resolution Tuesday condemning lsrael's defiance of the council's demand to withdraw its troops immediately from Palestinian cities. but the United States said it would veto the resolution if necessary. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Racial lawsuit set in Cincinnati: 
A settlement in a lawsuit accusing Cincinnati police of harassing blacks received final approval Tuesday from the last of the groups that needed to sign off on it. All 27 represen­tatives of the American Civil Liberties Union in Ohio who voted supported the deal, said Scott Greenwood. the chapter's general coun­sel. The ACLU was the fourth and final party to approve the settlement, which was reached last week. Rejection by any of the parties could have sent the year-old lawsuit on to trial. 
Priests removed from parishes: 
22 priests in the Cleveland diocese have either been removed from their parishes or forced into a leave of absence, regarding sex­ual misconduct allegations. Elsewhere in he country, Rev. Komlan Dem Houndjame of Togo, Africa, will be taken from a treatment center to stand arraignment in Michigan. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
St. Joe County reviews pensions: 
The St. Joseph County Police Pension Committee on Monday voted to order the pen­sion program's actuary to adjust the benefits of some retirees by May 1. The committee voted unanimously to review the depart­ment's adjusted pension benefits following a ruling by a LaPorte County judge that declared an earlier pension formula was ille­gal. Pensions have been a divisive issue among some members of the department. An Indiana State Police investigation will deter­mine whether pensions were miscalculated. 
Market Watch April 9 

Dow 
10,208.67 -40.41 

Jones 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEM$ (CSCO) -8.41 -1.36 14.82 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -3.48 -1. 21 33. 59 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -4.47 -0.38 8.12 wORLDCOM INC (WCOM) -10.40 -0.63 5.43 INTEL CORP (INTC) .., -4.91 -1.47 28.46 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 
Chinese President Jiang Zemin faced pressure over his country's human rights record Tuesday as he held talks with Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and other German lead­ers here on issues from economic relations to cultural exchanges between the two countries. 
With human rights activists hold­ing demonstrations across the German capital. Schroeder's gov­ernment presented the Chinese del­egation with a list of prisoners in China prepared by Amnesty 


Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS Iraq's decision to suspend oil exports until Israeli troops withdraw from Palestinian territories will exacerbate financial prob­lems facing the U.N. humanitarian aid program in Iraq, the United Nations said Tuesday. 
Halting exports will result in an estimated rev­enue loss of $1.3 billion for the oil-for-food humanitarian program which is funded by Iraqi oil revenues, according to the U.N. Office of the Iraq Program. The program was already facing a rev­enue shortfall this year as Iraqi oil exports slumped by about 25 percent because of what Iraqi offi­cials say is a controversial pricing policy instituted by the U.N. committee moni­toring sanctions on Iraq. Iraq announced Monday that it was halting its oil exports through the oil­for-food program for 30 days or until Israel pulls out its troops and tanks. 

As a result of the announcement, the U.N.'s Iraq Program projected total revenue generated by _tiil sales during the current six-month phase .of the oil-for-food pro­gram at $4.2 billion, down 
from an early estimate of $5.5 billion. The current phase ends on May 30. Because of the expected loss of revenue. the oil­for-food program is now $3.6 billion short in funds to purchase humanitarian goods already ordered by Iraq, the U.N. program said. 
Under an exemption to sanctions, the program allows Iraq to sell unlimit­ed amounts of oil to buy humanitarian goods for its civilians. 
President Bush, aides said Tuesday, was not seriously considering more dramatic action such as gasoline tax cuts or the use of oil reserves to respond to increasing 
demands  and  raising  
prices.  
"We  need  to  be  less  
dependent  on  foreign  

sources of crude oil," Bush said at a Connecticut GOP fund-raiser. "It was made pretty clear the other day when Saddam Hussein stands up and announces he's going to try to organize the oil boy­cott." 
Iran and Libya have expressed sympathy for Iraq's call, but .other oil­producing countries have publicly declared that they won't take part in any embargo. The Israeli occupation is causing upheaval in the world's oil markets. 

Zemin pressured on human rights 
International. German oflicials said on condition. of anonymity. 
President Johannes Rau also raised human rights during his meeting with Jiang, Rau's office said. 
Chinese officials said Jiang had pledged China's commitment to uni­versal human rights and a push to improve the situation in China. There are "tireless efforts" to improve human rights there, said Kong Quan, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry. 
German human rights groups and left-wing lawmakers have pressed Schroeder not sweep the issue of human rights aside in favor of 
improving business links with China. 
Protesters held scattered small demonstrations against torture, the death penalty and discrimination against minorities in China in Berlin Tuesday. 
Hours before Jiang's arrival Monday, about 250 supporters of the Falun Gong meditation sect. which is banned in China, demon­strated in midtown Berlin, accusing China of "state terror" against the group. 
German officials insist the goal of better human rights is also served by supporting economic and politi­cal reform in China. 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS \XTednesday, April 10, 2002 · 
WEST BANK 
Suicide bombe.r attacks commuter bus, kills 8 

Associated Press 
JENIN 

A Palestinian suicide bomber blew up a commuter bus in northern Israel during rush hour Wednesday morning. killing at least eight people. The attack came a day after 13 Israeli soldiers died in a refugee camp ambush, the biggest blow yet to the army in its campaign to crush 
Haifa to Jerusalem injured at least 14 people, medics said, and brought more horror to the northern port city. which has been the scene of frequent attacks. 
The explosion went off near Kibbutz Yagur, a communal farm just east of Haifa and about 15 miles from the West Bank. 
Hours before the bus bomb­ing, Israeli forces opened the 13th day of their campaign with a predawn attack on a refugee camp in Nablus, the West Bank's largest city. 
Smoke could be seen rising from the camp as the area was pounded with artillery fire. heavy machine guns and dozens of missiles fired from helicopters. 
CaD1paign 
continued from page 1 
area," she said. 
Besides finishing up exams and looking forward to gradu­ation, Bensen-Piscopo has her eyes set on May 7 as the pri­mary election. She's confident that Meissner will emerge among four other Democrats running and anticipates stay-
Fighting also continued in a refugee camp next to the northern city of Jenin, where militants who say they would rather die than surrender have battled Israeli troops in a war­ren of narrow alleyways. Troops were firing mortars into the camp early Wednesday and bulldozers were demolishing homes, Israel Radio reported. 
The skir­
mishes came 
"This is a battle for one day after 

Palestinian 
militants in

militants in survival of the Jewish 
the Jenin

the West people, for survival ofthe 
camp deliv­

Bank. 
state ofIsrael." ered the

The suicide 
bloodiest

bombing on 
blow yet to

an express Ariel Sharon 
the Israelis

bus from 
Israeli prime minister 
since the 
offensive 
began. Thirteen soldiers were killed in a carefully timed double ambush Tuesday. 
A military spokesman said a rapid series of blasts went off in the alley -one of them det­onated by a suicide bomber ­and collapsed part of a build­ing on several soldiers. Another soldier was killed in later fighting in the camp. 
Defying U.S. demands that Israel wrap up its campaign without delay, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon vowed "Operation Defensive Shield" will go on until it the army completes its mission: "the destruction of the infrastructure of the terror groups." 
"This is a battle for survival of the Jewish people, for sur­
ing on full-time until the gen­eral election in November. However, she will be moving on after the election, hoping to campaign more and travel to other states. 
She said, "That's the great thing about politics -there's almost always a job anywhere in the country." 
Contact Liz Kahling at kahling. l@nd.edu. 


by BERTOLT BRECHT 
TRANSLATION BY DAVID HARE DIRECTED BY GUEST ARTIST HOLGER TESCHKE 
For more information, please visit www.nd.edu/~ftt/mainstage.htrnl 

viva] of the state of Israel," 
Sharon said on Israel TV. 

There were signs, however. that U.S. efforts were having an effect. Earlier Tuesday, Israel pulled out of Tulkarem and Qalqiliya. two of six Palestinian towns it has occu­pied; troops remained in Nablus. Bethlehem. Jenin and Ramallah and several villages. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, due to arrive in Israel late Thursday, said he was optimistic his mission could bring a truce and lead to nego­tiations. Speaking in Cairo. Powelt-said he would meet Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat as weti as Sharon and said the United States was willing to deploy observers to ­monitor any cease-fire. 
Israel had said it would keep Arafat isolated in his Ramallah headquarters, where he has been confined since the West Bank campaign began. But Israeli officials said Tuesday they would not prevent Powell from meeting the Palestinian leader. 
Israel launched its offensive on March 29 to crush militias after a series of Palestinian suicide bombings. 
At least 124 Palestinians and 25 Israeli soldiers have been confirmed killed during the incursion, according to Palestinian medics and the Israeli army. The toll was expected to rise; there were reports that dead Palestinians had not been brought out of some areas, especially in the Jenin camp. 



Student can cash checks in the Dome. 
Check cashing services are available to students, free of charge, in the Cashier's Office, located in 121 Main Building. The office is open Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Students may cash: 
Personal checks to be cashed must be written by the stu­dent's parent, sibling, or grandparent. Checks from other students cannot be cashed, though students can cash checks they wrote to themselves. Students may also cash payroll ch.eeks, whether from the University or from employers at home. There is a $200 per-check limit. Photo ID is required to cash checks. 
For more information, call Cashier Services at 631-4615. 
C • • • • • • 
Wednesday, April 10, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Kauffman entrepreneurial internship expands 

By MEGHAN MARTIN News Writer 
In keeping with the Notre Dame tradition of blending practic,al skills with social responsibility, the Mendoza College of Business has launched its second annual Social Entrepreneur Intern Program through the University's Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. 
Although officially sponsored by tho College of Business, the pro­gram is open to students from every college and major, drawing participants with such diverse interests as government and the performing arts. 
The fusion of real-world experi­ence with community involvement lies at the heart of the program, conceptualized by t.he Gigot Center as a part of the nationally competitive Kauffman Internship Program. Only 15 to 20 universi­ties are awarded Kauffman grants for their self-designed internship series annually, and Not.re Dame's program has con­sistently received the financial backing to facilitate its success and offer a stipend to each partic­ipant. 
Central to this success is the Gigot Center's unique approach to the internship experience. 
"It's one way to bring social awareness to the business school." past participant Jeffrey Stuffings said. Last summer, Stuffings worked with the staff of the Broadway Christian Parish in the south neighborhoods of South Bend. 
"I worked with some neighbors of the community and helped them start their own businesses," he said, detailing a job that entailed everything from obtain• ing startup capital to marketing the business once it was made public. 
Primary among the goals of the program's administrators is to provide participants with the experience of a true social entre­preneur, which, to program director Jim Faulkiner, entails allowing students to dive head­first into the organizations with which they work. 
"Our unofficial slogan is 'Throw them in the deep end,"' he said, which emphasizes the Gigot Center's goal to give its partici­pants tasks that a typical intern would never do. 

"We want students to be able to do the crummiest jobs in the busi­ness and the best jobs in the busi­ness at the same time," Faulkiner said. He noted that. as they begin to build their businesses, entre­preneurs are forced to perform all levels of menial and specialized tasks, from sweeping the floor to creating an advertising campaign. 
Part of the Gigot Center's unique process requires that each participant "sell" the concept of the program to the organizations which they have an interest in working ½ith. 
"This, we feel, is part of being an entrepreneur," Faulkiner said 
Unlike many institutions of its kind, Kauffman staff members do not place students in specific posi­tions or organizations. 
"Starting with this year, we're relying more and more on helping the students find their intern­ships," Faulkiner said, stressing the significant role that such a Stuffings said, adding that it was the social service aspect of the program that won him over. He soon found that the opportunity would afford him much more than just a summer job. 
"I got an appreciation for South Bend ... now I feel like I have a connection to the town," he said. "I was constantly meeting people who were not at all like me, and I gained a little more perspective on things." 
Although Stuffings has no inten­tion of shifting his major from government to tho College of Business, his experience with the Kauffman program has fueled an involvement in the upcoming Social Venture Plan Awards spon­sored by the Gigot Ceriter. As a part of this endeavor, he is com­peting with a number of current students and alumni who have submitted social venture plans in an effort to garner $10,000 in cash and services. 
Springing from his encounter with the community last summer, Stuffings has conceived the plan for what he calls "Broadway Gardens," a greenhouse co-oper­ative in which neighbors grow herbs and vegetables to sell to local restaurants. His project is also part of the three-credit fol­low-up class that all Kauffman entrepreneur interns are required to attend in the academic year fol­lowing their summer experience. 
On April 26 at the Social Venture Awards, Stuffings and his competitors will vie for the ulti­mate entrepreneurial prize: capi­tal and backing, through which they will be able to see the mani­festation of what can happen when social consciousness and entrepreneurial skills collide. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu. 

search will play in the student's future, especially after gradua­tion. 
The first question Faulkiner, as the program's adviser, asks each student is "What do you love to do?" From there, they begin to undertake such indispensable endeavors as family networking, contacting the president of their local alumni club and conducting Web-based Google searches. 
By doing so, participants are able to find those internships that cater to their personal interests and preferences. 
Current participant Mary Godwin, for instance, decided the performing arts were her passion. After conducting a search under Faulkiner's advising, she found a perfect match and is now in the process of negotiating an intern­ship with the Manhattan Theater Project in New York City. 
"That's what she found when she thought about what she loved," Faulkiner said. 
Godwin; as a member of the growing minority of women involved in entrepreneurial ven­tures, is also one of the audiences that the Kauffman program has made it a goal to target. 
"This is designed to encourage women and minorities," Faulkiner said. "One of the things we want to do is especially get the word out to women that there really is a place for them in busi­ness. Starting your own business is a key to economic success." 
Although promoting economic success is a significant element of the learning process that goes hand in hand with the Kauffman program, exploring new avenues of interest is also an area of strong emphasis. 
"I wanted to do some kind of service work over the summer, and when I heard about this busi­ness program, it wasn't for me," 
\.\ LEAN POCKm l 
Brand Stuffed Sandwiches 
'-\.CROISSANT POCKETS• 
Brand Shtffed Sandwiches 
1 MFG, COUPON I EXPIRES JULY 10, 2002 
Save SO~,
HOT POCKETS®, LEAN POCKETs«', CROISSANT POCKETS'"s,.,dSlufftdS..odwidw, 


11 
11824 
CONSUMER: Coupr41 good 0~ on produd mchcaled Lml one coupon per pur• 
1111 11
chase 'Jrjd where regula1ed pmhibH~. or Halli:ired. reproduced, or transferred. Censure pays sales tar_ RETAILER: Chef AJT\erica wfl 1ei/OOUl'5e you for the face -pko $.06 handling f submlk>l • c<lfflpiao<o wilh Ch,! America, k-.. Co<,pon l'oicy Moll to et,,t America. CMS Depa,,""" 4J695, Dal Ro, TX 18840 Coupon 

Pola:ya,•libie,isameiiddrass.CashvauelilllOOII, 5 4 695 300 0 o (8100 Q 11824
L ________________________ J 


page 8 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, April I 0, 2002 
Study: fish oil good for -women's hearts, not just men's 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Women can significantly reduce their risk of heart dis­ease by eating fish at least twice a week, researchers say in a study that found benefits similar to those previously seen in men. 
It is one of three studies published this week bolstering evidence that fish oil is good for the heart. 
The study of almost 85,000 women found those who ate fish two to four times weekly cut their risk of heart disease by 30 percent, compared with women rarely ate fish. Women who ate fish five or more times weekly reduced their risk 34 percent. 
Past studies showed similar benefits for men, but this 
"ft was very important to 

was the Similarly, first to confirm that the beneficial a study of men with
l o o k effects offish are also 
specifically no history
tied to women. " 

at the of heart 
effect in disease ­women, Frank Hu published l e a d i n
assistant professor of nutrition 

researcher Thursday's
in the Harvard School of Public Health 
N e w

Dr. Frank Hu said. A study last year found that women who ate fish two to four times weekly cut their risk of ischemic, or clot-related, strokes by 48 percent. 
"It was very important to confirm that the beneficial effects of fish are also tied to women," said Hu, assistant professor of nutrition in the Harvard School of Public Health. 
The findings were published in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association. 
The findings add to the rapidly growing evidence of the health benefits of omega-3 
fatty acids, which are especial­ly plentiful in dark, oily fish such as mackerel, salmon and sardines. 
Researchers examined 16 years of data on 84,688 partic­ipants in the Nurses· Health Study. The women were ages 34 to 59 and had no sign of heart disease at the outset. In the following 16 years, researchers documented 1,513 cases of heart disease, includ­ing 484 deaths and 1,029 heart attacks. 
While eating fish reduced the risk of nonfatal heart attacks, it appeared even more protective against sud­den death from heart failure. 
Besides preventing clotting -much as aspirin can ­omega-3 fatty acids help pre­vent irregular heartbeats, which can lead to sudden 
death, Hu 
said. 
England 
Journal of Medicine -found that those with the highest blood levels of omega-3 fatty acids were more than 80 percent less likely to die suddenly from heart disease. 
The 17-year study involved 94 men and was led by Dr. Christine Albert, a cardiologist at Massachusetts Gener-al Hospital and an epidemiologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital. 
Mounting evidence about omega-3 benefits proves it is important for people to main­tain a healthy diet that includes fish, said Dr. Sidney Smith, chief science officer at the American Heart Association. The association recommends two servings of fish a week. 

"It does appear that a diet rich in fish and omega-3 has benefits beyond taking an aspirin a day," Smith said. 
Neither study took into account the consumption of fish oil supplements. But a 
study in Tuesday's issue of the journal Circulation suggests that fish oil supplements reduced sudden cardiac death by 42 percent in the three months after patients had a heart attack. 
Researchers stressed those findings must be confirmed, and the American Heart Association said it will not rcc­ommend supplements until 


COURSE OF NATURE 
Superlcala 

there is more evidence. 
Some types of fish can con­tain high amounts of' mercury. A study released last year by the Food and Drug Administration said pregnant women and those who might become pregnant should not eat shark, swordfish, king mackerel or tilefish because the mercury could hurt a fetus· developing brain. 

---··= ..,,... 
.EDROOTIlir~.U 

RUSTED ROOT 
We/com• To My Party 
·J·T 

~====;;.;....:.' 1399 

PATTY GRIFFIN 
1000 Kisses 


Student Office Assistant Position Open in the Office ofStudent Activities for 2002-2003 

Applications are now available and can be picked up at 315 Lafortune in the Student Activities Office 
Application Deadline: Friday, April 26 

Call Carol at 631-9314 with any questions 
T 
1399 



MEDINPLAY® 
Your Entertainment Superstore For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Selection, pricing and spac:ial offers may vary by store and onlinlt. 
808442 11859 Sale end, April 20, 2002. www.mediaplay.,om 
' 1 ' ' ' ' , l.'' , • ' 

White House monitoring oil troubles 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush on Tuesday used the Iraqi oil embargo to promote his stalled energy plan, but aides said he was not seriously consider­
ing more dramatic action such as gasoline tax cuts or the use of oil reserves to respond to price increases. 
"We need to be less dependent on foreign sources of 
crude  oil,"  Bush  Bush  
said  at  a  
Connecticut  GOP  

fund-raiser. "It was made pretty clear the other day when Saddam Hussein stands up and announces he's going to try to organize the oil boycott." 
The administration predicts that drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge could yield as much as 
1.3 million barrels of oil a day. or 20 percent of the nation's domestic produc­tion. A bill approving the drilling is stalled in the Democratic-controlled Senate. 
''You know my opinion about Saddam; the world's not going to follow him," said Bush, a former Texas oilman. "But it just goes to show how important it is to diversify our supply away from places 1ike_ Iraq." 
Secretary of State Colin Powell, trying to broker peace in the Middle East, also said there was no emergency and he was confident other nations would make up any shortfall due to Iraqi action. 
The administration also is monitoring with some concern the situation in Venezuela, where a strike has nearly shut down one of the world's largest oil 
Wednesday, April 10, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Iran and Libya 'We need to be less dependent on ANWR drilling have expressed if Republicans
foreign sources ofcrude oil. " 
sympathy for don't, just to Iraq's call, but demonstrate other oil-produc­George W. Bush that the pro­ing countries have president posal doesn't 
refineries, officials said. 
They said a range of options are at Bush's disposal. from tapping oil reserves in the short-term to pressing Congress to allow drilling in Alaska. However, administration officials said none of those options would be consid­ered seriously unless oil prices take a dramatic jump. 
Gasoline prices, which have risen steadily since February. jumped more than 8 cents per gallon in the past two weeks. A dramatic increase could slow the economic recovery and cause voters to blame the White House, though it might help Bush's case for more drilling, according to senior Republicans and administration · officials. 
publicly declared that they won't take part in any embargo. Signs of a possible Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian territories restored calm to world oil markets Tuesday. 
Bush advisers said the president would not be inclined to tap oil reserves or promote a reduction in gasoline taxes -two options he rejected or dismissed during the presidential campaign. 
President Clinton tapped into the reserves during the 2000 campaign, a move that drew criticism from Bush's campaign because it was viewed as an attempt to boost then-Vice President Al Gore's prospects. At the time, Bush said reserves should not be drawn from unless there is an emergency --and an administration official said Tuesday that seasonal price fluctuations are not nor­mally considered emergencies. 

As for the gas tax, Bush did not join Republican lawmakers who clamored for a reduction as gasoline prices rose during the presidential campaign. He said then and, aides said, believes now that the money is needed for roads and other infrastructure. 
In an interview with the Wall Street Journal published Tuesday, the presi­dent did not rule out tapping the nation's strategic petroleum reserve or reducing gasoline taxes. 
"We'll look at all options" if the Iraqi threat creates a problem, he said. Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., said Tuesday that Democrats 
may offer an 
amendment on 
have the sup­
port of 60 sena­

tors needed to break a filibuster. 
Daschle said Iraq's decision to cut off oil exports should prompt Congress and the administration to reconsider their opposition to compelling automakers to produce more fuel-efficient cars. 
Sen. Larry Craig, R-Idaho, said Republicans could introduce an Alaska drilling amendment this week with the idea of not holding a vote on it until next week. 
"There are people in our caucus who would prefer to not have to vote on it," Craig said, acknowledging that drilling supporters have only between 49 and 54 votes. "But it's important that we send a clear signal to the American peo­ple, that we took up the issue and dealt with it." 
Andersen employee pleads guilty 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

The Arthur Andersen auditor who oversaw Enron's books pleaded guilty Tuesday to order­ing the shredding of Enron docu­ments and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in a deal that could break the scandal wide open. 
Former partner David Duncan pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice. admitting he tried to thwart an Enron investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
He is believed to be the first person in the Enron case to strike a deal with federal prose­cutors. 
"Documents were in fact destroyed so that they would not be available to the SEC," he told 
U.S. District Judge Melinda Harmon, reading from a state­ment. 
The charge carries up to 10 years in prison and hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines. Attorneys did not release details of any agreement on the sen­tence. Duncan remains free until his sentencing on Aug. 26. 
He had no comment as he left the courthouse. His attorney, Sam Seymour, said: "He's contin­uing his cooperation, as we've said all along." 

Dollars for Innovative and Creative Entertainment 
Attentions Student Leaders! 
Apply to -for cam.pus
receive up to $2000.00. 
events on Thursday4' Frid1ty or Saturday nights through the DICE Program.. 
• 
The DICE program offers funding for student groups to plan late night and weekend programs for the entire campus. 

• 
Groups can receive up to $2000.00 for each approved event. 

• 
Events are limited only by your imagination. 

• 
Applications and DICE guidelines are available online at 


www.ndedu/-sao/dice and outside the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. 
Applications are due April 15.. 2002 

If you have any questions please contact Karen Alkema in the 
Student Activities Office at 631-7308. 
< < '' •• ' i ~ • t 1 ' I ,' ' "' ;. ~ f I l ,. ·• • ~ I \ • 1 f.....:J. j ,j I ' 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, April 10, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Bo, Q. Not« Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dirung Hru.l, Notte Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR BusINFSS MANAGER Kate Nagenga..st Kevin Ryan 

J\.sST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR, Helena Payne VIEWPO!Nr EDITOR: Lauren Beck S1•otn-s EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENF. EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR; Shc:.ila Egu PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Willi•m• GRAPHICS EDITOR; Andy Devoto 

A.DVER11SING MANAGER. Matt Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER, Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINlSTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori lewalski DEVEWPMENT MANAGER; Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX. ..................... .......................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu · EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ED!TOR/AssT. ME....................631-454I BUSINESS 0FflCE........................................631-S313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim.l@nd.edu SPORTS............. , ................................. .........631-4543 observer .sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE... -....................................................63.1-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARts ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOT0......................... ,..............................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!Jobserver.ndedu foe daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint .ds 
cial campus coverage 
an:hives to seorch for 
about The Observer 
to meet the editors and
articles published after 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in princ and online by the srudents ofche University ofNoue Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofche administration ofeicher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofche authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Q~,tions "garding Observerpolicies ,bouldbe dirt:ct­~d to F,diror in ChiefJason McFa.,ky. 

As we all know, college is a bewil­dering and fascinating institution that we all struggle through in some way or another, trying not to hurt our­selves and most of the time, anyone else. It has become a rite of 
Joe Larson
passage in the United States for any high school 
Principles of
senior who can spell his own Jdiocracy name to attend a post-secondary university in order to, if not anything else, just kind of delay the inevitable and hang around kids his own age for a little while longer. 
We are all extremely fortunate that this is the case and are lucky we all grew up in a time when we don't have to go to the army or start working in our fathers' bakeries after high school graduation. Instead, we get to move out of our parents' houses and go to college, which means we take classes and immerse ourselves in college cul­ture. 
Now. college culture, if we can call it that, isn't necessarily the most mature and adult establishment in our generation's milieu. but as much as Father Poorman wants to control what we call "culture," it is a preva­lent and important part of our age group's development. 
The title of this column is "Principles of Idiocracy." We, my friends, are the idiots that make up the idiocracy. You may not consider yourself an idiot. You are. We all are. 
Think about the absurdity of college living as it stands. I bet half this cam­pus doesn't get out of bed until after 12 p.m. 1 bet even more of the stu­dents here don't actually go to bed until at least one or two in the morn­ing. And that's just the beginning. 
The main "job" students have is their schoolwork. Our "job" is to go to class and learn things, and if we're too tired or hungover we have the option of simply skipping class. There are not really any serious repercus­sions for it. Unless you're taking Attendance 101, your attendance grade is probably only a small frac­tion of the actual grade you're going to receive for the class. I'm not con­doning skipping class here, but think about it. If you skip class once, what happens to you? Absolutely nothing. Most professors give you three skips, no questions asked. For three classes out of the 12 weeks you have in the semester you are totally allowed to skip work without notifying your employer and nothing happens to you. How absurd is that? 

And that's just class and stuff. Poorman and his supporters are right. College students drink a copious amount of alcohol. Really, we do. When you go to a bar or a party around here, there are certainly a lot of drunk people walking around. But, doubters and naysayers, this is the point. 
College is the only time when drink­ing copious amounts of alcohol is not only socially acceptable. but encour­aged. And subsequently rewarding because people think you know how to party. 
We are young people who are no longer living with our parents any­more. Everything is taken to the extreme. College is the first time in young people's lives when they are finally and totally in charge of them­selves as people. Not as real people, because most of the time they're not flipping the bills or taking care of the serious and less fun things, but as col­lege students they are in charge of themselves as social entities. This is why college is a time for young adults to be a little wacky and even a tiny bit reckless within the boundaries of safety. 
It's like the first time you try to ride a bike. I don't think anyone ever just jumped on their first BMX and rode it around the block without any imper­fections. You either fell down or used training wheels or were made fun of so much by the other kids in your neighborhood that you had to learn how to ride. But you learned, didn't you? It took time and practice, but you learned how to ride the bike. And once you learn, you can pick it up again any time, right? 
Well, if that's what it takes to ride a bike, why should it be any different for someone learning to be an adult? After my high school graduation am I supposed to be magically transformed into a fully functional. bill-paying, wholly responsible adult? Hell no, I'm not. 
College is a place where people are allowed to try things and experience things that they haven't before. And, as the person grows and learns from his mistakes, only then can he become an understanding and competent adult. Wisdom is gained through knowledge, and knowledge comes from screw-ups. 
This is why college kids are so wacky. They're trying to figure stuff out. And that's also why it is wholly detrimental to the development of the students here to be stifled by rules that do not allow them to think and act for themselves. 
Joe Larson is senior English and history major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He would like to invite any ofyou who have read this column and don't find it entirely annoying to Lafortune Ballroom on Thursday at 7 p.m. for two original one-act plays. Joe wrote and directed the first play, entitled "The Common Room." in which four freshmen males discuss beer. freshmen females and Sega. Contact him atjlarson@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Sheila Egts Laura Kelly Van Giles Graphics 

Jill Maxbauer Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 

Matt Lazar Rachael Viewpoint Protzman Teresa Fralish Lab Tech Angela Campos 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame publicly address the recent cases of sexual abuse involving the Catholic Church? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Creative minds have always been known to survive any kind ofbad training. " 
Anna Freud writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April I 0, 2002 page 11 
ND must respect employee rights and concerns 
Working in Notre Dame Food Services for two and a half years allowed me to meet many of the workers who cook and prepare our food. clean tables, wash dishes, take out trash, mop floors and clean what we drop-among Paul Graham 
many other things that you would be disgusted by if you 
Another

realize what peo­
Perspective

ple do for a wage. I've met their fami­lies; they tell me about their children, their troubles and what's been going on lately in their lives. 
Through talking with workers, I've dis­covered that many have complaints about their treatment here. Many com­plaints are alarmingly similar. not to mention troublesome. 
They have trouble paying hospital bills: they can't go to a dentist without worry­ing about the cost; they have no control over their work schedule. Many workers complain to me about the wages, the hours, the lack of benefits, the conditions and the management -just to name a few things. In many cases, they feel mis­erable when they are at work. 
Due to the fact that Notre Dame is a Catholic university, these complaints are disturbing. The Church has a tradition of over 100 years of Catholic Social Teaching (CST), which is official Church teaching regarding many social issues. This tradition includes assertions about the right of all laborers to earn a living wage, to join unions and to bargain col­lectively. According to these teachings, work is a valuable part of human life. More importantly. the dignity of each person must be valued above capital and profit. 
Notre Dame prides itself on its Catholic identity: therefore, CST should be an integral part in every aspect of University life. So, why is it that the workers here earn just over the poverty level, are overworked, feel as if they are not allowed to organize 
and generally feel that  \.  
they are treated poor­ \..  
ly?  
According to CST,  
Notre Dame must  
pay its workers a  
living wage,  
whether they  
clean, cook or  
answer  
phones.  
Neither the  
market nor  
their position  
should influ­ 
ence the defini­ 
tion of their  
value.  
The average  
campus worker  
is classified either  
as level two or  
three, based on the  
type of work. A level  
two worker earns, at  
minimum, $7.72 per hour.  
At 40 hours a week, every  

week, that worker will earn only $16,057.60 annually without time off. Human Resources' pay philosophy states that "the rate of pay for staff positions is based on the relevant competitive mar­kets as well as on the level of responsibil­ity of the position." In CST the dignity of all labor is more important then the mar-wages. 

In a memo to the 
Progressive Student Alliance, 
Notre Dame recently declared that "the University does recognize the dignity of each of its employees and does respect the right of employees to organize and form unions." 
Yet the history of this school has shown otherwise. In 1977 groundskeepers advo­cating unions and involved in the union­izing drive were fired. This clearly con­tradicts the papal encyclical "Gaudium et Spes" which condemns anti-union action and claims that "among the basic rights of the human person must be counted the right of freely founding labor unions ... without risk of reprisal." Notre Dame's history and the current condition of cam­pus labor demonstrate a substantial dis­crepancy between what it claims and the present situation. 
The University's mission statement refers to its Catholic identity five separate times. Therefore CST must be an impor­tant aspect of Notre Dame, essential in every dimension of the University. Consequently, in keeping with its own tradition, Notre Dame must do everything possible to respect its employees. This can even go as far as encouraging union­izing. Pope John Paul II said that unions "serve the development of an authentic culture of work and helps workers to share in a fully human way in the life of their place of employment." 
Ask workers around campus if they would like a living wage. Talk to workers about their working conditions. Get to know those who support us daily. Their lives are just as valuable and important as ours. Look at them as our mothers or fathers, brothers or sisters. Then ask if they deserve more. Could you do more? Could Notre Dame do more? 
Paul Graham is a junior sociology major with a minor in Catholic social tra­dition. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
False humanism ignores true victims 

Brodie Butland's April 8 letter warrants some serious scrutiny. Its most noticeable flaw, however, is its insensitivity. 
Mr. Butland undermines the victimization of sexually molested children. He refers to this violence as "just a few priests in Boston [being] a little overactive with children." Whether this reference was a careless mis­take, a very unfortunate slip of the pen (one of those which speaks volumes about the character of its author), or a dull-witted attempt at a euphemism, I can't be sure. But ifwe possess any capacity for empathy, we can be sure that whatever it was, it was cer­tainly not an innocuous statement. 
Was it a joke, an invitation to laugh about something that plays on our nerves? Or is Mr. Butland guilty of comedic narcissism? Does he so value the egoistic benefits of his own humor that he would underrate the vic­timization of these children? Mr. Butland invites us to make light of the agony of these children in order that we might see the "real issue:" "the fact that the Vatican has cov­ered the whole ordeal up for decades." 
One thing, Mr. Butland: I suspect that the real issue for these children both presently and in the future will be something a bit more personal. The real issue for them will he sexual molestation -their sexual molestation. It will be very concrete, you see; as children, they'll rage at such a betrayal of trust, and as adults. they'll curse it out in therapy. Day by day, night by night, minute by moment by second -there Will be no forgetting. 
"Overactivity," you say, just "a little." 
Let's focus on the real issue: the way we've gotten so wrapped up in our causes that we grant them priority over individual persons. So we make a little joke here and there, pat the kids lightly from behind and move on to bigger and better things: "real" issues like getting the Vatican to acknowl~ edge "covering up the whole ordeal for decades." 
Meanwhile, we'll make light of their sexu­al molestation and make them poster-kids for our causes. Brave causes, causes that are bold and noble and protest for children but only insofar as they are.stories -stories that give credence to our cause. Would you say instruments, Mr. Butland, for the advancement of the real cause? 
. The truth is that Mr. Butland's cause, holding the Vatican responsible for what he calls the "covering up" of similar incidents, is undercut by his dismissive attitude toward the very children that he believes the Vatican has wronged with its actions. 
This is the peculiar breed of "humanism" that's all the rage these days -go grab your picket signs. 
Kelly Fabrega senior Welsh Family Halt April8,2002 

Challenge, but do not attack, Church leaders 
In response to the April 9 letter "Give the Church a rest," I have a few quick points for Johnny Burns to consider. 
First of all, the decision by the Church's leaders to cover-up the crimes in Boston and other places was not "an impulse judgment error." Using the word "impulse" implies that the decision was quick and not thought out. Due to the serious nature of the crimes, making such a snap decision would have been grossly immoral, but in reality the decision to cover-up the crimes was not impulsive. It was sys­tematically carried out for years. So can the leaders of the Church be blamed for covering up these scandals? The answer is yes, not perhaps. Anyone willing to give the Church leaders a pass on the cover-up is the one who is "ignorant and often afraid." 
Secondly, we, the members of the Catholic faith, are the Church, not just the members of the priesthood. The priesthood may act as leaders of the Church, but all Catholics make up the Church. So when Catholics are challenging the actions of the priesthood they are not attacking the Church. They are challenging their leaders who have obviously failed. We are not dwelling on the shortcomings of the Church; we are holding our leaders responsible for their actions. 
Doesn't the fact that the Church is calling for its leaders to take responsibility for their crimes and accept punishment prove that the Church as a whole has a deeper understanding of their faith than the leaders who committed and enabled crimes against innocent Church members? Don't the calls for investigations and reforms of the priesthood prove the Church has a better understanding of how the priesthood should act than some· of the priests themselves? 
Mark DeBoy 
class of ·oo April 10. 2002 

J ' • I
'. t. > -, • ,I 
, •• , t l J, , , 

ByJULIE BENDER 
Scene Writer 
l.n the murky depths of April in South Rend, every­one could use a little warmth, sunshine and celebra­tion to cheer things up. The Hawaii Club is bringing just that to Notre Dame's campus this. Saturday evening. 
This year's annual Hawaii 
there are many cultural' differences, from the music and sports that are played to the role of religion in people's lives. 
"Not that one culture is superior to another, but in Hawaii people are more liberal and more diverse," August said. "Here there is a strong base of morality and Catholic presence." 
Offering support during this adjustment period is one of the Hawaii Club's goals. "The club is very tight­knit and the older students really help 

THE 
OBSERVER 


CENE
11l 

page 12 Wednesday, April 10, 2002 
you to get acclimated,'' said August.Club lu'au is "It's a really big shift coming here, and 
armed with an the club really helped ease the transi­
ethnic feast 
tion." 

that is sure to Yet not all the members of the club 
tantalize the 
are from Hawaii; a large section of the taste buds and 
club is made up of roommates and 
real Hawaiian friends eager to learn about and share entertainrnent in the Hawaiian culture. Similar to the 
to enjoy. 
state of Hawaii, it is a very diverse 
For several 
group.

months now, 
Every year, the Hawaii Notre Dame's Club's most anticipat­
own Hawaii ed event is the 
Club (known 
lu'au. It is an 

as Na Pua Kai 
annual sell-out, Ewalu, which 
earning the 

means "the 
"Ethnic Event 

flowers of the of the Year" 
sea") has been preparing for this event. With about 50 active mem­bers, the club is a vehicle for Hawaiian students to share their culture and bring a little of the flavor from their island to Indiana. The club also serves as a sup­port system for students from Hawaii who are living 5,000 miles from their home. 
"Coming to the Midwest was definitely a culture shock," said freshman Sam August. "Not only is the physical environment totally different here, but the people are different too." 
For freshman Teresa Tumbaga, the biggest change was the weather. "I miss the sun," Tumbaga said. "There are days here where there is no sun at all. I have a much better appreciation for the warmth now." 
The upperclassmen in the club help the freshman with the transition right from the beginning of the year. One event the club held this year was a shop­ping trip for winter clothes to prepare for the frigid South Bend winter. Between Hawaii and the Midwest, 
award last year. The Hawaii Club itself won the "Ethnic Club of the Year" award last year as well. 
Club members have been fundraising all year to put on the lu'au, but no profit is made from the actual event. In fact, the club actual­ly loses money in an effort to keep ticket prices down for the guests. 
"The tu'au isn't about making money," said Malia Lam, Hawaii Club co­president. "It's about shar­ing the Hawaiian culture 
with t h e Notre D a m e community." 

This year, as in years past, the event will draw its show straight from Hawaiian culture. In addi­tion to the traditional Hawaiian feast, the lu'au will showcase a hula dance performed by members of the club. 
Perhaps the most recog­nizable tradition from the islands, the hula dance has its origins dating far back into H.awaiian history. The hula is more than a dance; it is a means of communica­tion between the dancer and the viewer. The fingers and feet of the dancer move in specific ways to tell sto­ries to the audience. 
Historically, tho hula relayed tales about all aspects of human life, including birth, death, war and even surfing. However. with the 1820 invasion of Westerners onto Hawaiian 
Members of Notre Dame's Hawaii Club gat Haunani Reilly '01 demonstrates the traditi 
soil, the hula became extinct for 76 
years. Americans thought the hula 
dance was primitive and vulgar, so it 
was prohibited, as was the Hawaiian 
language itself, from being taught in 
schools on the island. 
The dance did not disappear complete­
ly, however. Thanks to Hollywood and the 
American entertainment industry, the hula 
has become a symbolic representation of 
Hawaii. Extensive tourism has also done its part 
to make the rich history of the hula available to all Americans. Only since the 1960's have Hawaiians been rediscovering the true nature of their roots that were submerged in the past for so long. 
Interestingly, many of the Notre Dame students from Hawaii learn more about their native culture here in Indiana rather than back home. For example, most of the students had never hula danced or prepared eth­nic foods before they went away to college. or all the club members, only two had significant experience with hula dancing before coming to the Midwest. 
"It's funny -I had to travel 5,000 miles away from home to learn about the culture I grew up in," said August. "The club really gives you a better apprecia­tion for life back home." 
Although Tumbaga knew a little about hula dancing before coming to Notre Dame, she still learned things about her culture back home. 
''I've never Tahitian danced before, and that is what we were being taught for the lu'au," said Tumbaga, describing the Tahitian dance as "the dance you see those dolls do. where their hips swing back and forth." 
Through their annual lu'au, Notre Dame's Hawaii Club takes this culture and literally lays it on the table for all the campus to experience. One of the most anticipated parts of the lu'au is the traditional feast. Blending ancient Hawaiian culture with some modern 

,. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


tl 
Wednesday, April 10, 2002 page 13 

relax and enjoy the evening's entertainment. This year's theme of the lu'au is "Holoholo Kakou: The 2002 Lu'au," which roughly translates to "let's go" in English. Following this idea of energy and movement, many of the dances will have to do with methods of transportation, like canoeing, horseback riding or riding a train. 
Given all the work that goes into the preparation for this event, the hula is con­sidered one of the highlights of the lu'au. Far from a fem­inine art, as it is often por­trayed, the hula is actually a universal form of dance made up of couples, all men or all women. Showing the results of many weekend practices. club members who have been taught by kumu hulas -teachers of the hula -will be perform­
Photo courtesy of Malia Lam 
ing about 10 dances in the 

Once considered primitive and vulgar by Americans who first encountered
traditional manner. 

~ative Hawaii~n culture, the hula has enjoyed a resurgence in popularity, due
"We've been practicing 

m part to tourism on the islands. Members of the Hawaii Club present a hula
informally on the weekends, but this week we've been dance during the 2001 lu'au. (L-R Carla Torres '02, Nani Au '01, Tiffany practicing more and more as Monroy '01, Jacqueline Schmidt '01) the lu'au gets closer," said 
you're there with everyone, you can pretend you're inJosh Kaakua, one of the kumu hulas. 
Hawaii again. It's great to teach others about the cul­
"This past week we've been putting a lot more time 
ture; overall, it's a great bonding experience." 
in to get ready," said Tumbaga, who will be partici­
For those who want to join in the festivities, thePhotos courtesy of Malia Lam pating in the dancing. "My parents are sending out 
lu'au will be held Saturday at 6:30 p.m. in the
for last year's lu'au, "Rhythm of the Islands." (above) flowers and ti leaves for our costumes. The final show 
Lafortune Ballroom. Just follow the scent of the smok­
I Hawaiian dance form of the hula. (left) will be pretty good." 
ing pig and the sound of the gentle strumming of the 
In addition to the dancing, traditional music will 
ukulele. It's an opportunity to experience some
also be featured throughout the night. During the
day flavor, the club has been selecting recipes and Hawaiian culture and maybe even a chance to get
meal,· club members will be singing and playing the
preparing ethnic foods for Saturday's event. 
your hula on.

ukulele for the enjoyment of those eating. Karen
The main dish will be a kalua pig, which entails 
Keawehawai'i, a well-known singer on the islands and
much preparation before feasting. Traditionally, a 
mother of one of the club members, will also perform, 
kalua pig is placed into an imu {a hole dug in the 
along with Station One, winners of Notre Dame's Nazz 
ground), and is smoked with spices and other delica­Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu. 
festival. The band has ties to the south Pacific through 
cies for a number of hours to ensure perfect flavoring. 
its lead singer Laurence .

Of course, due to campus regulations, digging a hole 
Santiago, who is

in front of the main build-from Guam, and
ing to smoke a pig isn't through Peter and
exactly permitted, so the 
"[The lu 'au] is about David Miller, whose

club has to make do with 
what they have by attempt­sharing the Hawaiian father is from 
Hawaii.

ing to smoke the pig in an culture with the Notre The true spectacleoven. 
Dame community. ... of the night, howev­

Many other ethnic foods will be served as well: When you're there with er, promises to be 
when audience

shoyu chicken, which is everyone, you're in 
members are calledsimply soy sauce with 

Hawaii again." up onstage to par­

chicken as derived from take in the dancingJapan; poi, which is taro and music them-roots; lau lau pork, a dish Malia Lam selves. An annual
of pork and spinach Hawaii Club co-president 
event, guests of the wrapped in ti leaves; and 

lu'au are selected

lomi lomi salmon shipped 
and taught how to

to Notre Dame straight from Hawaii. White rice, the dance the hula. The rest ofllawaiian starch served with every meal, will be also the spectators vote on whichbe av?:ilablc, alo~g with fruit punch with a distinctly audience member gives theMawanan taste. For dessert, traditional treats such as best performance by meanshaupia, which is coconut jello, and coconut cake will of applause. 
be served. 
When asked to name theFood preparations for the event have been going on best part of the lu'au as anall week. "A lot of work goes into [the dinner]," event, Lam said it was moreTumbaga_ said. "We've been shredding the pork by than the feast or the danc­hand. which takes a lot of time. Also, preparing the ing. "It's the preparation ­

desserts and other foods has been tedious too. It's all Photo courtesy of Malia Lam 
the club pulls together in the 

a lot of fun though -we're having a great time doing Contrary to its stereotype, the hula is not Just a dance performed by women,
final weeks and works really

it." 
as members from the Hawaii Club exhibit. (L-R Kahele Naeole '04, Lauence
hard," said Lam. "When

After gorging in the feast comes time to sit back, 
Santiago '04, Augusto Camara '01, Chris Lagos '04) 


-----------------1 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 10, 2002 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Bookstore teams stack up to tough competition 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spores Writer 
The winner of Bookstore Basketball XXXI may have to travel the toughest path to the title in tournament history. 
From top to bottom the top, 32 teams in Bookstore Basketball XX.XI stack up as one of the strongest fields in history, according to head commissioner Brian Clemency. 
"This was one of the toughest years to rank the tournament," Clemency said after releasing the name of the top-32 teams Tuesday. 
Bookstore commissioners usu­ally have 20 to 25 ''rank-eligi­ble" teams to consider for the top 32 spots. "Rank-eligible" teams are those teams that either return proven Bookstore players or have several football players or a senior men's bas­ketball player. This year there were nearly 40 such teams and only 32 spots to rank them. 
"Usually by the time we get to 20, we have to start reaching for teams," commissioner Al Vitter said. "But this year there were a whole bunch of teams that could fall between 15 [and] 32." 
black J.A.C.K.S. emerged from the pack of quality teams to earn the No. 1 seed. Clemency said this was the best team he had ever seen in his four years at Notre Dame. 
"This could be the most stacked team in the history of Bookstore Basketball," Clemency said. 
The team features two mem­bers of the 2001 Champions, Nylon Strokers, in Vitter and senior football player Courtney Watson. Vitter was also named the MVP for the 2001 tourna­ment. 
To this solid core, Vitter and Watson added former basket­ball walk-on John Hiltz. Hiltz, a former member of Versatility, led his team to the semifinals last year and the finals in 1999. He was also named second­team All-Bookstore in 2001. 

After being rivals last year, Hiltz and Vitter decided to team up for their senior years. 
"We had just decided fresh­man year that we were going to play together as seniors," Vitter said. 
Kevin Muempfer, a 2001 first team All-Bookstore from Five Reasons Your Girl Left You, and Sean McCarthy, a 2001 third team All-Bookstore from the Majesties, round out the top team. 
No. 2 Adworks All-Stars fea­tures three football players ­Carlyle Holiday, Abe Elam and Justin Tuck -in addition to Brian Ostick and Jason Sullivan who each earned All-Bookstore honors as members of Please Call Us Bosephus in 2001. 
"They are all phenomenal athletes and great basketball players," commissioner John Moraveck said. 
No. 3 Project Mayhem returns four starters from their final eight 2001 squad including Luke Mueller, a former Division I player at Eastern Illinois. 
The fourth-ranked Splitters return four players from last year and picked up Matt Wolbeck from the Majesties to form a strong squad. Wolbeck earned the dubious honor of the Hoosier Award last year as the player who shoots the most but makes the least. 
No. 5 mmm ... Cheese played as the Freeballers last year and returns all five players. Last year they upset Tony Fisher and Coco Butter. 
Other notable ranked teams include No. 6 Big Bry Grill, which is made up of many play­ers from Coco Butter, No. 13 Nunc Dimittis, the seminarian team, and No. 11 We Get Wet, an all-freshman squad. 
"They have been at Rolfe's non-stop," Vitter said about We Get Wet, which includes four high school basketball players. "They are very talented. They earned our respect." 
We Get Wet hopes to follow in the footsteps of previous fresh­man surprise teams like Versatility in 1999 by making a run deep into the tournament. 

"We'll definitely make a run," We Get Wet captain Justin Funk said. "We were all kind of defensive stoppers in high school. We are smaller than the top-10 teams, but we play tough defense." 
Commissioners believe they have identified the best 32 teams in the original rankings but know there will be plenty of surprises in the early rounds. They will re-rank the teams on April 24, when only 16 teams remain. 
"You have to make your most educated judgment possible," Clemency said. "But the re­ranking is always a better seed­ing because you have seen peo­ple play and know what they can do." 
Play begins Thursday with the preliminary rounds. Preliminary and first-round games continue through Tuesday. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
-
1. black J.A.C.K.S. 
2. 
Adworks AU-Stars 

3. 
Project Mayhem 

4. 
The Splitter& 

5. 
mrnm ••• Cheese 


6. Big Bry Grill 
T. Lu~y Boy 
8. 
S.P. Shockers II 

9. 
Morning Wood 

10. 
5 Degree Guarantee 


11. We Get Wet 
12. 
Team Boat Club 

13. 
Nunc Dimitts 

14. 
The Linebacker Lounge 

15. 
Team Truth 

16. 
Gurley Leap 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip. Other worldwide destinations cheap. Book tickets online www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 
CHILD CARE/near UP mall/well­behaved daughter -15/son­9Hours&live-in with own bath/bed option6/10-8/15call243­122Bafter6:00. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Necklace w/ gold+diamond cross in West Quad area. Call 4­1640 
Lost: Necklace w/ gold+diamond cross in West Quad area. Call 4­1640 
Lost: Necklace w/ gold+diamond cross in West Quad area. Call 4­1640 
Lost Necklace with gold + diamond cross. Near West Quad area. Call 
4-1640 
WANTED 
Summer Employment for College Student. Care for 11 and 9 year old. Fun, relaxing summer. Good pay. Hours 9am-5pm. Please call Lisa 631­9947. 
Portrait Photographer. Available 30· 40 hours per week 1 to 3 years experience working with high school seniors? Fine arts education? Enjoy career opportunity with award winning stu­dio? Call Priscilla 1-800-844·5725 Ext 124 
Reliable businessman looKing to rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home lor9 to 12 months or longer. ASAP. Call Tim 574-250-8552. Lv. message it nee­essary. 
Looking for single Castle Point roommate coming summer and/or fall. Free high-speed DSL internet currently $323 per month + utils. Call 574.277.9322 if interested. 
FREE 1 BEDROOM APT FOR THE RIGHT GRAD STUDENT IN EXCHANGE FOR 21 HRS/WK LEASING APTS AND OFFICE WORK. SOME WEEKENDS. IMMEDIATE OPENING YEAR ROUND. GEORGETOWN APART­MENTS 272-7286. 
Dependable caregiver for Sunday mornings infant & toddler nursery. Must have references & transportn. Resume to Secretary,FPC,333 W.Colfax, So.Bend 46601 
3 law students seeking 4th room­mate for next year. House has AC, washer/dryer, dishwasher & is close to campus. $300 a month. Please call 315­4185. 
FOR SALE 
Couch, loveseat, and recliner. $450 or best otter. Less than a year old. Perteet condition. 233-0360 
4 Paul Mccartney tickets, seated together-4/11/02-Chicago. WIii sell for cost. Sec 216, Row 3,Seat 15· 
18. Call Cathi 284-4805(W) or 256­2198(h). 
HONDA, 92, VG cond. 126K miles. Red 2-dr hlchbk. 41 mpg. $2900. 1­4906day, 233-6581 eve. 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 
272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com 

MMMRentals.com 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bed­room cottage..cute.. DAVE 291 • 2209 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 
3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM­PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 272­6306,292-6717 
3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. CIA. Security system. Close to campus. 616-699-5841 
Nice 3-4 bdrm, 1.5 bath, C/A, gas heat, W&D, fenced backyard across from park, VERY SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD, fireplace, 2 car garage $1050/mo+dep. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038 
1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath house with lots of updates OW/wash/dryer inc. Walking distance to campus. Spacious yard for tailgating, recre­ation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec or $325 ea for 5+ Call 277-8450 or email house@newwebtech.com 
short/long term 3 mo. max. Matt 631-2000 3-11 pm M-F $250/mo. 1/2 mile to ND 
Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. Garage. Must See! Call Tammy (616)684-1049. 
4&5 Bdrm, W&D, CLOSE. ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255-8403. 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? 1999 ND Alum has 2-2BR/1BA Apt for rent in BUCKTOWN, ALL NEW, Hwdfl, Exp Brk Wis, Fplc, AC, New Apl, Dishwshr, Lndry, Jacuzzi, Deck, Gar Spee Avl, No Pets, $1,395, 773-791-5810 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA. NICE HOME NORTH OF ND 2773097 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9 people) 2) medium (3-5 people) 
Call Bill at 
532-1896. 

Room for Rent in Private Home Shared kitchen.living room.bath­room $250/month (616)684-8877 Angela Bennet 
APT. 2 bedrooms, 2 full baths. Lots of furniture included. Close to cam· pus. $800/month; min. one-year lease, starting in August. Grad student{s) preferred. 243-2770. 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For more information, 
see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
OFFSET PRINTING available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student center Call for a 
quote: 574-631-COPY 
Free Pickup & Delivery 
GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS 
by local PGA professional. 
Call Dick at 276-9670. 
Recycle your Observer today! 

------------------------------------------------. ---------------.. -----------1 
Wednesday, April 10, 2002 page 15
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The 2002 Natural Law Lecture 
The Moral Foundations of Private Law 
James Gordley 
Shannon Cecil Turner Professor of Jurisprudence 
University of California at Berkeley School of Law 
Thursday. April 11, 2002 4 p.m. 
.. 

Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
. . ' . 
• 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April I0, 2002 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish combine for no-hitter 
By MRON RONSHEIM 
Sp<>rts Writer 
In the first game of Tuesday's doubleheader against Valparaiso Steffany Stenglein and Carrie Wisen combined for their first col­legiate no-hitter. The Irish (18-12) extended their win­ning streak to 10 games and defeated the Crusaders 4-0. 
"That was nice," Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf
-said. "I am sure they enjoyed it. They really need that with a big weekend coming up." Stenglein pitched the first three innings. while Wisen pitched the last four innings for her sixth victory of the season. Both pitchers had five strikeouts and two walks. Wisen and Stenglein pre­sented different styles for the Crusaders. Stenglein used her rising fastball to dominate the Valparaiso hitters, while Wisen used a great changeup to keep the batters guessing. It is the 29th no-hitter in Notre Dame softball history and seventh combined no­hitter. The last no-hitter thrown by an Irish pitcher was on April 25, 2001, by Christian Schmidt in a 1-0 victory over the University of Toledo. The Irish pushed all four of their runs across the plate in the third inning. Back-to-back singles by center fielder Jenny Kriech and third baseman Megan Cioli put runners at the cor­ners for shortstop Andria 
Bledsoe. Bledsoe responded by hitting the first pitch she saw over the center field fence for a 3-0 lead. 
The homeru,n occurred because of a mistake -a missed sign. 
"It was supposed to be a take, but I swung anyway," Bledsoe said. 
Even though Bledsoe 

down the right field line to drive in two runs. After a walk to Kriech loaded the bases. Cio)i's sacrifice fly brought home a run and all Irish base runners moved up one base. Bledsoe then followed with a two-run sin­gle to finish the Irish scor­ing. 
Even though the Irish 
missed the sign, Gumpf was happy about the end result. 
"That was take," Gumpf said. "Since she hit the ball out. I will take it. Anything else 
would  have  
made  ·me  
angry."  
The  Irish  
would  add  

another run on Wisen 's double that scored first 
"We didn't do a lot of little things. We didn't run the bases very well in thefirst game. In the second game we were a lot better at that. I think we didn't adjust too well when we were at bat in the second game. We have to make sure we do the little things. " 
Deanna Gumpf Irish head coach 

h a v e played well over the last f e w weeks, there are still a few a r e a s where they are looking t 0 improve. 
" W e didn't do a lot of the little things." Gump f said. "We 
baseman Lisa Mattison. 
Wisen continued her strong pitching perfor­mance in the second game with a one-hit shutout lead­ing to an 8-0 victory. Wisen (7-4) would not give up a hit until the fourth inning. 
By that time, though, the Irish already jumped out to a 2-0 lead. In the third, Cioli and catcher Jarrah Myers hit back-to-back RBI singles to give the Irish the lead. 
In the fourth, the Irish put six runs on the board. Irish designated player Annie Dell'Aria lined a base hit 
didn't run the bases very well in the first game. In the second game we were a lot better at that. I think we didn't adjust too well when we were at bat in the sec­ond game. W.e have to make sure we do the little things." 
The Irish will continue their home stand with a non-league game, against Purdue on Thursday and they resume Big East play Friday against Connecticut. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronsheim@nd.edu. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame falls by 1 to Ohio State 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 
With just 56 seconds left in the game, the Irish women's lacrosse team still had a chance. But Ohio State's Shannon Wilson ended Notre Dame's comeback by scoring her second goal in four minutes to defeat No. 9 Notre Dame 12­11. 
Both of the losses for the 8-2 Irish have been by one goal. 
In their loss to Ohio State, the Irish fell behind early. The No. 15 Buckeyes scored six consec­utive goals to make it 7-2. The Irish came out of their slump quickly and rallied to take an 8-7 lead. 
Anne Riley and Lauren Fischer, who both had three goals on the day, countered the second Ohio State run to make the game 10-10. Wilson's two unassisted goals in the last 
4:42 put the game out of reach for the Irish. 
The game was one of individ­ual offensive achievement, with six players scoring 20 of the 23 goals. Ohio State's Megan Mirick scored six, while Notre Dame's Danielle Shearer fin­ished with four. In addition to Shearer, Riley and Fischer, Meredith Simon recorded an Irish goal and two assists, and Natalie Loftus had two assists. 
Fischer started the scoring on a pass from fellow sophomore Simon just 25 seconds into the game. 
Mirick responded with her first of the day, making the game 1-1. Riley, who has 

steadily shown improvement this year after switching posi­tions. countered the goal and reclaimed the lead for the Irish. 
Then OSU went on a scoring tear, netting six goals in 11 minutes, with three coming from Mirick. 
Simon finally stopped the scoring run with 10 minutes left in the first half. 
Shearer, not to be outdone by Mirick. put in two quick goals and combined with Riley's sec­ond of the day to bring the Irish within one, 7-6, at the end of the half. 
The first 10 minutes of the second half was dominated by stingy defense. but Shearer scored two goals to give the Irish the lead 8-7. 
Mirick struck again on a free position goal, and Ohio State got two more goals to retake the lead. 
With the score 10-8, Fischer and Riley scored off passes from Loftus and Simon to tie the game at 10. 
The game was scoreless for five minutes until Wilson scored her first goal of the day to put the Buckeyes up one. Wilson did it again with 56 sec­onds left to finish off the Irish. 
Fischer's goal with 36 sec­onds to play gave a flash of hope, but the Irish could not find the net again before time expired. 
The Irish face two more ranked opponents this week­end, No. 6 Duke Friday and No. 12 Yale Sunday. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolemal@nd.edu. 
START HERE. Ga PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in pro sports. 

www.STARTHEREC3 . PLACES.COM/B1Z7 
Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
Wednesday, April 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

Now Hiring 
Student Program Assistants 

The Student Activities Office will be hiring 3 Program Assistants for the 2002-2003 school year. Program Assistants responsibilities include: 
Learn the program planning methodology and implement programs using a standard process Coordinate, produce and staff weekly, campus-wide week­end programs including Crafting Corner., Tournaments and Karaoke Support Student Activities Office events/activities Coordinate special projects for the Student Activities Office Provide administrative assistance to Student Activities staff members, as needed.· 
This position is a stipend position and requires 7-10 hours per week. Applications are available outside the Student Activities Office located at 315 LaFortune. For more information contact Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631-4602. 
NEW COURSE OFFERED BY EAST ASIAN LANGUAGUES & LITERATURES 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall 631-8873 Literature course taught in English Call number 5766. LLEA 387 01. THE CITY IN MODERN CHINESE FICTION Cross-listed. ANTH 387E, ENGL 315B, GSC 387 Prof. Sylvia Li-chun Lin MWF 1:55-2:45 Beijing, Shanghai, Taipei, Hong Kong, Chicago, New York.... Glittering and enticing! Some say big cities are full of evils and corrupting power, and yet all find it irresistible. Examining portrayals of cities in fictional works, this course explores the Image of the city in 20th-century China. Urban sights, sounds, intrigues, and worldly dramas are captured in stories that inform and sometimes shock the unwary visitor.  
Write sports. Call 1-4543 today.  

FENCING 
Irish finish 6th at world championships 
Special to The Ohsc,rver 
Three members of the Notre Dame fencing program con­cluded competition with the 
U.S. team at the World Junior Championships, with the United States posting an impressive sixth-place finish in the overall team standings after registering several note­worthy finishes in the earlier individual events. 
Notre Dame's three U.S. competitors represented the most from any college team, with the 18-fencer U.S. junior squad including just four other collegiate fencers -two from Ohio State and one each from Stanford and Yale. 
Notre Dame sophomore fencer Kerry Walton -fresh off her stunning first-place showing at the NCAA Championships -took home the bronze medal at the World Junior Championships, becom­ing just the second U.S. fencer ever to earn a medal in any level of women's epee World Championship competition. 
Walton, who also competed at the 2000 World Junior Championships, is just the sec­ond Notre Dame fencer ever to medal at the World Juniors 
----------------------------------•. (while at Notre Dame) and the
first to do so in more than 25 years -joining men's epeeist Tim Glass in that distinction. 
Walton and her mother Yvonne were featured in the April 2 edition of USA Today, as the first parent-child combi­nation ever to compete concur­rently for U.S. fencing in the World Championships. 
Walton joined her brother Forest, who finished ninth at the 2001 NCAAs as the first brother-sister combination ever to earn All-America hon­ors in the history of Notre Dame fencing. 
A 4-2 record in the pool 
competition allowed Walton to advance, Her first bout was a 15-7 win over 15th-ranked Daphnee Cramer of Switzerland. In the second round, Walton defeated No. 11 Marisea Baradji-Duchene of France 15-10. 
In the round of 16, Walton knocked off the world's No. 2­ranked fencer and the 2001 World Junior silver medallist, Britta Heidemann of Germany, 15-9, before rallying from a 7­4 deficit to edge 99th-ranked Panayiota Lionti of Greece, 15­14, in the quarterfinals. Eventual gold medallist Ana Branza of Romania, ranked 37th, then beat Walton in the semifinals, 15-9. Walton becomes just the eighth U.S. women's fencer in any weapon -and second in epee -to post a medallist finish at the World Junior Championships. 
In women's epee team com­petition, Walton helped the 
U.S. squad finish ninth overall, with a 45-34 loss to Ukraine in the round of 16. 
Notre Dame freshman women's foilist Andrea Ament finished 44th on Saturday in the individual competition before helping the U.S. women's foil team reach the round of 16 on Sunday, with the United States losing a tight 45-40 match to Romania, while finishing ninth overall. After advancing from the pre­liminary polls in the individual competition, Ament then lost a 15-8 bout versus Hungary's Szilvia Jezenszky in the round of 64. 
Another Notre Dame fresh­man foilist, Derek Snyder, was a member of the U.S. men's foil team that finished 19th in Monday's team completion, losing a close 45-39 decision to Korea in the round of 32. In the individual foil event, Snyder finish 45th. 
TAKE 

PORTUGUESE 
AT ND 
AND STUDY ABROAD IN BRAZIL 
Course Offerings for 2002-2003 
• ROPO l l l-112F: Intensive Beginning Portuguese I & !I ( Fall/Spring: sequence fulfills the language requirement) 
• 
ROPO 121-122: Portuguese for Spanish Speakers l & II (Fall/Spring) 

• ROPO 201: Intermediate Portuguese (Fall) 
• ROPO 202: Advanced Portuguese (Spring) 

• 
LLRO 180J: Brazilian Film & Literature in Translation (Fall) 

• 
ROPO 44 l: Immigrant Voices in Brazilian Literature (Spring) 


University of Notre Dame Dept. of Romance Languages & Literatures Portuguese Language Program Director: Isabel A. Ferreira Tel. 631-0460 E-mail: ferreira.5@nd cdu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 10, 2002 
Stenglein 
continued from page 24 
attend Notre Dame was born watching those games. When the opportunity to pitch for the Irish was presented, Stenglein jumped at the offer. 
"It's always been a dream to come here for me. I remember my family -we are big-time Catholics -we would watch the football games. We would do the fight song," Stenglein said. "When I found out I was being looked at and they had an interest in me, it was my No. 1 choice." 
StengJein received a with­drawal from Southern Mississippi after learning of the coach's departure. She had to sit out a year to offi­cially transfer to Notre Dame. During her off year, Stenglein attended Golden West Junior College in Huntington Beach, Calif. 
Raw talent 
During her senior year at Marin High School, Stenglein ranked third in the nation in strikeouts. She was able to overpower the batters and not have to worry about scouting reports. When Stenglein arrived at Notre Dame, her ability was not enough to get batters out. 
"In the fall, we broke down Steff's mechanics and taught her the basics," said Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf. "She came in with a lot of raw talent. She is a work in progress, but if she continues to work hard, she could be very good." 
Awaiting Stenglein in her first collegiate game was a match-up against Jennie Finch and the Arizona Wildcats. Coming into the game, Finch, the 2001 nation­al Player of the Year, had won 45 straight decisions. Stenglein lasted only 3 1/3 innings, yielding three runs and five walks. 
"It was against the defend­ing national champions," she said. "It was very nerve­wracking, of course. But I wasn't as nervous as I thought I was going to be going into that game." 
In her first 14 innings pitched, Stenglein walked 20 batters. The adjustment to college softball had not only improved her mechanics but also her mental game and team reliance. 
"In high school, I thought, 'I can do it all. I'm going to strike them out. I'm going to get them out.' Here, you have to rely on your defense more," Stenglein said. "It is a lot more mental, because I think so much more here than I did in high school. Knowing the hitters better, knowing what pitch to throw." 
Captain Jarrah Myers has helped Stenglein become more comfortable on the collegiate level. As her catcher, Myers knows close games can affect a freshman pitcher's mindset. 
"Steff came in as a winner. She knows how to win," the 
Contact Ben @ NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmann@hotmail.com 
senior said. "We worked together on her mechanics to help her in those tight situa­tions." 
Climbing to the top 
After a rough start to the season, Stenglcin has regrouped and is now the ace of the staff. On the year, she has worked 123 2/3 innings and has a 2.15 ERA. During Notre Dame's current 10­game winning streak, Stenglein has struck out 43, walked 17 and given up only six runs. Stenglein has also won her last four decisions to improve her record to 11-8. Gumpf attributes the improve­m en ts to Stenglein 's hard work. 
"Steff is stronger, her mechanics arc better and her pitches move better," Gumpf said. "I expect her to be better and better every day she com­
petes both  physically  and  
mentally."  
Myers  also  notices  the  
improvement.  

"Steff's improvement is tremendous," said the senior captain. "She is a much better pitcher with her ball move­ment. At the beginning of the year, people were concerned about the amount of walks, but the stats speak for them­selves now.'' 
Stenglein knows personally she is a better pitcher through the experiences of her first college season. 
"I've improved a lot more with Coach and Jarrah Myers helping me out, just my atti­tude going into the game, knowing that I can beat the hitters," Stenglein said. "Knowing it's just one pitch at a time. Not worrying about things and knowing that my defense will help me." 
Future expectations 
Coming in with so much ability, Stenglein needs to continue her hard work and dedication to softball in order to achieve her maximum potential. 
"Steff has the capability to be one of the best ever at Notre Dame," Gumpf said. "Is she there yet? No. But, if she continues to work hard, as she is now, then she could be." 

In her first eight weeks of collegiate competition, Stenglein has not had one standout moment to define her season. But being on the team is good enough for her. 
"Being on the team, [is my] No. 1 [accomplishment!, play­ing with these girls," Stenglein said. "I think how we are starting off really well in Big East. So far we are [undefeated] in Big East, that's great. I don't think I have had one moment stick out yet, but I'm hoping it's going to come in the next two months." 

Contact Matt Lozar at BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer mlozar@nd.edu. 
Steffany Stenglein winds up in a game earlier this season. 
Meet the Author 
Join Author 
Professor Khalil Matta, Ph.D. 
Thursday 

April 11th 
7:00 pm 
,n the 
Hammes 

Notre Dame Bool<store 
Invest 
foolishly 
Confessions ofabusinessprofessor 
Khalil F. !latta, Ph.D. 

for a book talk and 
signing 

HAMMES 
.NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstoro.com 
UNIVERSITY 0£ NOTRE DAME 
!CAREER SEARCH CJJY rouA 
"l-fow to find a Job or Internship" TliE CAREER CENTER 
• 
•ATLANTA •BOSTON •Cl-f/CAGO 

Aprilf Ph1 2002 
•

500 T.heCRC 
6:00 Tke CRC 6.-50 
The CRC 

SIGN~UP W'lllf BR,UCETKIBBE.-k,;k.be.l@adedu More Inlonna.tio11: ca.reerce11ter.11d.edu 


' ' . ' ' ' ' 

Wednesday, April 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOFTBALL
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Pizza was the last thing on anyone's mind 
So when you saw that men's NCAA Tournament draw for the first time about a month ago, with Duke looming just above Notre Dame on the bracket, what did you think? 
Maybe: "Well, making it to the sec­ond round means some­thing," or the infi­nitely more elo­quent: "Well, the Irish can beat Charlotte, but then ... then, it's friggin' Duke!" 
I know both crossed my mind, and a big part of head coach Mike Brey's job involved making sure his players didn't adopt that gut reaction of basketball fans everywhere. 
"Every timeout," Brey said,"... I was into our guys hard about, 'We're going to Lexington, we are advancing, we're gonna play in the Sweet 16.' I think they needed to hear that because there was a little bit of, 'Man, we didn't think we'd be up seven. Maybe we'd be down six or within striking dis­tance.' 
"The psychology of that part of 

Ted Fox 
Fox Sports ... Almost 
the game was huge.'' 
Of course, the Irish lost that second-round game to the Blue Devils 84-77 as Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski continued his domi­nance against bis former assis­tants. But Brey, now 42-21 at Notre Dame, is becoming less and less a "former Coach K assistant" and more a name that stands alone as the Irish reappear in the national hoops consciousness .. 
"I basically wanted to kick his [butt] for two holirs on Saturday, and he wanted to kick mine. I love him, he's a good friend. We'll hang out and have a pizza and stuff this summer. but I wanted to kick his [butt], and he wanted kick mine," Brey said. 
Someone find me the Tool Man so we can have an "Ar, Ar. Ar" grunt after that. Who wouldn't want to come play for this guy, especially after his team went toe-to-toe with Duke in front of a national audience? 
"I was excited when I saw the brackets flash up that way," he said, "because I thought it was an opportunity for us to shine ... and put our program in new compa­ny. 
"The opportunity and compet­ing well, given how poor we've been in the '90s, helped us. So I didn't look at it like, 'Oh, man, [we're] going to play Duke in the second round.' I'm thinking, 'If we can get past Charlotte, what an opportunity.'" 
Notre Dame didn't fully seize that opportunity, as another team from Indiana did against Duke in the next round, prompting Brey to tell his wife: "They got our darn win -that was ours." 

But it's hard to get down about that loss and not get psyched for next season already, even when it's only April. Basketball News and Basketball Times have named point guard Chris Thomas Freshman of the Year and Brey is ready to put him in with some more elite company. 
"He's the best [point guard] I've ever been around," Brey said. "He's better than [former Duke standout Bobby] Hurley. His feel for the game, his shooting, is bet­ter in that sense, and his maturity and his poise for a freshman ... that was the impressive thing. 
"I think what really helped Chris, and he alluded to this ... when you start a game with those three guys [pointing to pictures of David Graves, Ryan Humphrey and Harold Swanagan] and Matt Carroll, it helps you because you've got some men around you out there. 
"But ... I think as he turns toward his sophomore year, he's one of the best guards in college basketball. And the neat thing is ... he's got his feet on the ground, and he knows he's got to get stronger this summer, and he knows he's got to work on things." 
After last season, the great speculation around Irish basket­ball centered on another great player, Troy Murphy, and whether he would turn pro. Once he did, speculation moved to guessing what kind of season Notre Dame would have. 

Twenty-two wins later, and coming so close to what would have been a huge No. 23, Notre Dame men's basketball is once again, in the words of Brey, look­ing like a "program" with a main­tained level of success. 
That doesn't mean things are supposed to come easy now. 
"We lose a lot," he said. "I slept better over the summer even though we lost Murphy and Ingelsby because we still had a lot of maturity on the team. When you lose three guys like that [Graves, Humphrey and Swanagan]. I'm a little more con­cerned. 
"You know, I get back to, where will we be picked in the West Division? Probably third or fourth, again. Every time we're picked there, we've been pretty good from there. I think this group will go into it ... [looking to go] back to the NCAA Tournament a third year. That's gotta be our goal." 
Now, I can't speak to how young guys will step in for the departed seniors or how much bulk Chris Thomas will add. 
But with this whole program's newfound attitude, I don't think they'll have to say someone else got their win too much longer. 
Contact Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. 
Belles unable to play 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
Rain and snow have 

plagued the Saint 
Mary's softball team all 
season, and Tuesday's 
game was no exception. 
The Belles were forced 
to reschedule their 
afternoon doubleheader 
against the Calvin 
Knights to Wednesday 
after Monday's heavy 
rains. 
The Belles will face 

the Knights at 3:30 
p.m. today. 
Other MIAA softball teams wi-th games scheduled Tuesday were also cancelled. Alma will now travel to Holland, Mich., to play Hope. Kalamazoo's match against Adrian was also cancelled, although a make-up date has yet to be scheduled. 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
SEMINAR 

VVEDNESDAV, APRIL 10, 2002 1 02 DEBARTOLO HALL 
ELIZABETH FEEHAN, SENIOR MANAGER OF CAREER SERVICES (AIChE) 
PRESENTS 

STRATEGIC NETVVC>RKING 
Savvy professionals recognize networking as more than just a job search tooL During this seminar you will develop an expanded appreciation of networking as an essential sill in your career toolkit and learn practical vvays to build and nurture a network that is mutually beneficial to you and your contacts_ 
GETTING STARTED IN A NEVV JOB 
VVhether you are taking on a summer assignment. your first job after university, or moving to a new position. in this interactive session, you vvill pick up practical and actionable tips that will separate you from the competition_ You will become more adept at anticipating the usual, handling the unexpected, and planning your future 
moves. 
3:30PM STRATEGIC NETVVC>RKING 
4:30PM RECEPTION 

5:00PM GETTING STARTED IN A NEVV JOB 
About our Presenter: 
Elizabeth Feehan,, Senior I\Aanager of Career Services at the Arnerican Institute of 
Chemical Engineers, has more than 25 years of career development and counseling experience in corporate, academic and consulting environments_ Over the years, she has partnered vvith hundreds ofstudents,, young proFessionals,, and senior 
executives in developing and executing successful career plans. A /\/lath rnajor in 
college,, Betty has a IV/aster's degree in Counseling Psychology_ 
GS'• 
..r,uh~.,.-•lt1,t,,tt, hhl,-io

Sponsored by The Career Center-Graduate Student Services and 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 10, 2002 

Tennis 
continued from page 24 
just part of it, the physical part today." 
Before the match even began you could feel the rivalry. The tennis courts, usually occupied by quiet fans and quiet players, was full of yells from both sides of the court. Knowing how much Tuesday's match would be a head game, both teams spent the time prior to the first serve trying to psych out their opponent. 
The Belles took control of their mental game, and their physical game fell in line. 
"It's always [good to get a win]. [Hope] is a class act," said head coach Dee Stevenson. "[The Belles} are smart players, they know what they have to do on the court." 
The battle between the con­ference rivals manifested itself in the final match. Even though Saint Mary's had already clinched the win, taking six of the eight matches that had been played, everyone was focused on the No. 3 doubles match that was in the second set. 
Sophomore Kris Spriggle and junior Angie Sandner had got­ten off to a good start, winning the first set. But early in the second set, Hope's Dee Clause and Megan McDowell were making a comeback. The Flying Dutch had taken four games, and the Belles had only taken onP. 
But some carefully placed shots by Spriggle and Sandner allowed them to even the set at four and eventually pushed the Belles ahead. They won the set and took home a 2-0 match vic­tory to give the final 7-2 score. 
The win at No. 3 doubles gave the Belles a clean sweep in doubles after Ryan and Kaitlin Cutler took home a solid 6-4, 6-1 victory at No. 2. 
That doubles win was a little bit of payback for Ryan, who dropped her No. 5 singles match to Springer. For the junior, who hadn't lost since her freshman year, Springer provided tough competition Ryan hadn't faced in a while. 
"I definitely wasn't playing my game," Ryan said. "I think that she's a very, very talented player and without giving excuses for my match, I'm skeptical as to why she's play­ing the fifth spot." 
Sandner suffered the only other loss of the match, drop­ping No. 6 singles to Clause, 6­0, 3-6, 6-1. Jeannie Knish, Cutler and Spriggle won their matches at No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4 singles, respectively. 
The win moved the Belles record to 5-0 in the MIM and dropped Hope to 1-1 in the con­ference. The Belles have a week-and-a-half break before facing DePauw April 20. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of,Music Series presents 

~benb:MUSIQVE 
Concert XVIII: Antiphonal Chant of the Middle Ages 
.fl7JB ~cbola iflustcorum 
Alexanqer Blachly, director 


Wed., April 10, 2002 
9:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public 
For more information, le~se call (S74) 631-6201 or visit htt :/ lwww.nd.edu/ ...... con oers 

Congregation of Holy Cross 

lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Attention sophomores! 
It's Your Turn To Organize & Run 

Junior Parents!) Weekend 2003 
We are currently taking applications £or all positions~ including Chair & Vice-Chair. 
Applications are available outside the JPW OCf'ice at 214 LaFortune. Applications are due Monday., April 15th• 
Please contact JPW at Jpw@nd.edu f'or more inf'ormation. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
·------------------------------------­Wednesday, April 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applications for the position of Admission Counselor As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff. the Counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, ~ig.h school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. Responsibilities include ex.tensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evalllation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities, including the possibility of diversi(y recruitment, will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for EnrollmenL Candidates should possess a bachelor":. degree and familiarity with all a~pects of student life at Notre Dame. Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm. diplomacy and \he willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings.· Preferred start date is July I. 200'.!. Apply on-line via Human Resources web site or submit resume, cover letter and reference information by Wednesday, April 17, 2002 to: Admissions Counselor Job# 2007-077 Department of Human Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556  
;European Area Studies Minor Widen your horizons beyond the limits of individual disciplines through a cross-disciplinary perspective. Choose a European Area Studies Minor. Formerly known as the Western European Area Studies Program, this minor now includes the study of East-Central Europe as well as Western Europe. All the East-Central European states are now under considerations for inclusion in the European Union . Students will study the politics, history and culture of these areas as well as the language of a particular country. The European Area Studies Minor is tied closely to the Nanovic Institute for European Studies that provides two summer study grants/internships for East-Central Europe and three summer study grants for Western Europe. This program is recommended for students who wish to study abroad and who wish to pursue a career in international politics, business or the foreign service. Students completing the Area Studies Minor will receive an European Area Studies certificate at graduation. · Students participating in the European Area Studies Minor must complete the following requirements: 1. The student must take at least four area studies courses (12 hours) distributed over three different departments. A list of'recommended courses can be obtained in the Nanovic Institute. These coun;es will not be counted toward other requirements; 2. The student must take and pass at least two semesters of a European language or demonstrate proficiency in a European language; 3. In the senior year, the student must complete a supervised area studies essay. The research and writing may be extended over a two semester period. Students will work closely with a faculty member they have chosen to direct the essay. Students must receive the approval of a faculty member to direct the essay. For more information on courses contact: The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 419 Flanner Hall, 631-5253.  
Want to write sports? Call Chris Federico at 1-4543.  


ANDY KENNA/The Observer 

Freshman Martin Vergara throws a pitch in the Irish 5-4 win over Western Michigan. 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
high fastball. Vergara then walked second baseman Steve Horn but got a fly-ball out to right field from the next batter to avoid any more trouble. 
With the Irish ahead 1-0, the Bronco hitters finally got to Vergara in the third, scoring four runs on three hits while drawing four walks in the inning. 
Duff came into the game for Vergara with the bases loaded and two outs and induced a first-pitch ground ball from shortstop Adam Rosales to end the threat. 
The Irish chipped away at their three-run deficit in the bottom half of the third. First baseman Joe Thaman led off the inning with a single to left, taking second on the left field­er's error. A bunt single by cen­ter fielder Steve Stanley moved Thaman to third, and he would score on sophomore Steve Sollmann's double play ground­ball. 
Notre Dame added one more in the fourth by way of Bushey's RBI sacrifice fly. 
Even though the Irish strug­gled to score for most of the game, the team will be able to take away much from its hard­fought victory. 
"We needed a win like that today," Mainieri said. "You love to just take the lead in the first inning and cruise to victory, but when you fight from behind like that and win it late, it does unbelievable wonders for your team's spirit and camaraderie." 
The Irish return to Frank Eck Stadium Thursday, when they host Big East rival Pittsburgh for a doubleheader starting at noon. 
Notes 
. 
Senior co-captain Steve Stanley went -2-for-4 against Western Michigan Tuesday to pu~h his team-leading batting average to .449. In 115 at-bats this season, the four-year starter has struck out only three times. 

. 
The Irish bullpen has not allowed a run in its last 19 innings pitched and has given up only two runs in its past 11 games for an ERA of 0.48. In that span, opponents are hit­ting only .182 against Irish relievers. 


Contact Chris Federico at federico.2@nd.edu. 

page 22 
FOOTBALL 
Wide receivers thrust in the spotlight 
By KATIE McVOY A>sociare Sports Editor 
Following the announcement that Tyrone Willingham would lead the Irish. Notre Dame wide receivers found themselves in the spotlight -a group that had been focused in the past on blocking, taking an occasional pass to mix things up and, in general, promoting the option-oriented offense. · 
But on Tuesday at practice, it was obvious that things had changed. 
With Willingham's new offen­sive scheme, the wide receivers will find themselves back on the receiving end of two things ­national attention and the pass. And although it may seem like a big change for the team as a whole and the receivers in par­ticular, they're ready. 
"I was a receiver when I came here, so my mentality is make ·a play, that's it," said flanker Omar Jenkins. "Running, block­ing, I mean, I'm still going to have to block so changing my mentality wasn't difficult because it's still playing ball." 
That kind of mentality, one that puts the focus on being ready now, is just the kind of mentality wide receivers coach Trent Miles is looking for. He understands that his team is going to be spending the next three weeks learning, but that doesn't mean they cannot be accomplished right now. 
"I'm going to demand that they he good right now," Miles said. "If they're not, at least they're working towards it and they know what to expect from me. I'm never going to give them a way out, never going to give them an excuse. If they don't have a good practice, I don't expect them to settle for that, to just put it off as if 'I'm only learning.' Let's go out there and expect to be good right now." 
An experienced coach with inexperienced teams, Miles had a similar challenge at Stanford. His group last year had as its most experienced player a 13­catch veteran. The Irish, with their limited game-time experi­ence, present the same kind of challenge, and Miles thinks he has the kind of group that can meet that challenge. 
"I feel very good about what we've gotten out of them, and I think we communicate well together, and 1 feel very good about the fact that they're good and they're a good group of men." 
Returning wide receivers 

Jenkins, Arnaz Battle, Ronnie 
Rodamer, Carlos Campbell and Matt Shelton had limited game experience in passing situations last season. Notre Dame's offense was one that used the run -quarterback Carlyle Holiday was a leading rusher. Now the receivers have some new things to focus on. 
"We want to learn the offense, get everything down and just get in shape," said Rodamer. But Miles was more specific in his goals. 
'Tm a fundamentals and tech­niques coach, so basically I'm going to spend a lot of time teaching them techniques and fundamentals," Miles said. "I coach scheme. Don't get me wrong, we're going to spend a lot of time on our scheme, but for the most part, right now I have to teach them techniques. fundamentals and scheme." 
Part of that scheme will be creating explosive plays. Long passes and long runs will become part of the Notre Dame offense, and although some nat­ural talent. helps, that offense will be trained to make it habit. 
"We always teach what we call 'finish,"' Mile said. "There are certain people that play football that are just naturally explosive but you can also be the kind of guy that learns how to be that way by your work ethic. They're hard workers, and we always preach finishing down the field, running after the catch, just catching the ball and stopping and always making a move." 
With the returning players having limited experience in the offensive style Miles is coaching and with two incoming freshmen who were recruited as wide receivers, the position is wide open. Miles thinks that is a good thing. 
"We have the mentality that if something happens to one guy and some other guy goes in there, we don't expect it to fall off; we expect the level to stay the same," Miles said. "So we don't expect any kind of drop, and it doesn't matter who's the quarterback or who's receiving. They're all expected to do it." 
And three days into practice is too early to pinpoint anyone as the go-to guy. 
"Too early, too early," Miles said. "I think they're all trying hard; they're all every now and again making mistakes." 
Regardless of who will be step­ping out onto that field in the fall, the wide receivers are glad to be back in the action. 
"How can I not be happy about that?" Jenkins said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 10, 2002 

-··---------­

Wednesday, Ap,il JO, 2002 page 23
n,, Ob,-n,n-. TODAY .. 
========================================================================================================== 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
I SWEAR, I HECIC, I'D COULD STilANGLE PUMMEL, WHOEVER WROTE MAIM, AND 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  32 Abbey Theatre  64 Chicken  
Possible title for  playwright  66 Winglike parts  
this puzzle  34 Alive with talk  67 Singer Tucker  
5 1990-92 French  38 One reggae fan  68 French 101 word  
Open winner 10 Cattle rancher's tool 14 Long, for short  to another 39 Santa 41 "Sprechen _ Deutsch?"  69 "Doggone if 70 Provide with funding 71 New Look  
15 Ready to joust  42 The Rock  designer  
16 Ashcroft's  45 Broadway  
predecessor at Justice 17 Gulf port 18 Earl Hines, familiarly 19 Promise. e.g. 20 Noted celebrity photographer  producer Liz, Tony winner for "Elephant Man" and "Amadeus" 48 Let off 50 Monteverdi opera 51 Hive's head  DOWN 1 Doc bloc 2 "I did it!" 3 Big bovines 4 Showy annuals 5 Not so chancy 6 Phrase of  
23 Cross letters  54 "Alfred"  inclusion  
24 Fake drake  composer  7 For dieters  
25 Switch from  56 Omette  8 K-12  
plastic to paper?  Coleman genre  9 Try  
28 Digital document  62 Dancer's dress  10 Nugget for  
outputter  63 HCI and others  Franklin  
11 Excavation find  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  12 "Takes ­know .. ."  
13 Lulu  
21 "Where's  
Daddy?"  
dramatist  
22 Ancient concert  
halls  
25 Alitalia  
destination  
26 E.P.A. concern:  
Abbr.  
27 Court seat  
29 Indian com  
30 Computer key  
abbr.  
31 David Bowie  
genre  



35 B-2 letters 

55 Further shorten, 60 Tubes on the 36 Fan mag maybe table 
37 Paradoxical 57 Box office take 61 Goose egg

Greek 

58 Open _of 40 Basketball worms 65 Part of a chap. coach Holman 43 Fifth and others 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are44 Fair spot available by touch-tone phone: 46 And, e.g.: Abbr. 
1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 47 Sounded old 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 49 Cool cat best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 51 Oil-rich land years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 

It X y~ st~J \.e-re ().,,;; ~to-re. tt+ ii +or o.. tvLi\Q., ~\-e:11 tliilt I t"Ow W~r.t T'm dOi/\5­('n~ 'f'I\ ('.'!;.ti Cl fh8J..c,";c, 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 2002 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Chuck Connors, Omar Sharif, Clare Boothe Luce 
Happy Birthday: Your career will 
take extraordinary turns this year. 
You will slowly but surely achieve 
the financial success you've been 
seeking. You will likely have an inter­
est in different cultural backgrounds 
and traditions. An interest in children 
will lead to great interaction with 
younger people this year. Your num­
bers are 10, 14, 24, 31, 36, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The 
key to getting ahead will be getting 
along. Greater involvement with ml­
leagues will result in a better working 
atmosphere. You can build on your 
friendships but don't get intimately 
involved with someone you work 
with.COO TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Don't be surprised if a longtime friend has his eye on you. Your involvement in worthwhile groups will result in greater interaction with interesting individuals. OCl00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Think before you speak. You may not 
be that easy to get along with. Ifyou 
are unwilling to deal with others fair­
ly you can expect to accomplish very 
little today. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22}. You 
have such an interest in tradition that 
you should make an effort to delve 
into the groups in your mmmunity 
that offer cultural information. You 
need to put some excitement back 
into your life by interacting with oth­
ers. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your interest in the financial matters of someone else will lead you to offer help with his or her personal papers. Be careful not to be insensitive to his or her emotional needs especially. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): It is 


best to help others today instead of putting too much onus on getting ahead professionally. The harcler you by to do so the more likely it will be that someone will stand in your way. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Although you can handle a lot pro­fessionally today you will still have a tendency to take on too much. Your empathetic nature will make it diffi­cult to say no to people in dire need ofyourhelp.000 
SCORPIO (Od 23-Nov. 21): You may be mnfused about your person­al life but when with friends, your intellectual charm will win you the popularity you've been looking for. You can make money if you promote yourself. 000()0 
SAGITTARIUS (No" 22-Dec 21): The best way to make money will be to invest in yourself. Don't let anyone put demands on you or hold you back. You must speak up for yourself and do what you feel is the right thing to do. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 1his is a great day to focus on part­nerships and relationships. Get your thoughts out in the open and clear up any misunderstandings. The clearer you are about the way you feel and what you expect from other people the better. OCl00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You1l have lots of unique ideas that should lead to advancement or at least recognition for your contribu­tions. Mix business with pleasure but don't overspend in the process. 
OCl00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be a little confused at an emo­tional level. Too many opportunities and not enough time will make your choices difficult today. An older friend or relative may ask for assis­tance. 000 
CUNNINGHAM 
~e ~o.~ M id& !vl..c.\ 1-e ii doij· TM tt.lli"j c. 
l'l'lec~MiC. 
EUGENIA LAST 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Birthday Baby. You will want the best of everything. You will be artistic, creative and outgoing. You will enjoy entertaining and sports, a competitive player in each. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromale.com.) 
© 2002 Uni\'ersal Pl'l.'SS Syndicate 

Notre Dame Softball 
vs. 9
Purdue 
Thursday, 5 pm Ivy Field 

.-· 
-
-
.;, 
j 
'oTHf

Campus Sports Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Fox Column, p. 19 
. Football, p. 22 
. 
SMC Softball, p. 19 . Fencing , p. 17 

. 
Bookstore Basketball, p. 14 . Women's Lacrosse, p. 16 

. 
ND Softball, p. 16 



PORTS 
Wednesday, April 10, 2002 
ND SOFTBALL 
Change of plans 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
As Steffany Stenglein signed a national letter of intent to play softball at Southern Mississippi in 2000, she thought she signed away See Also her lifelong 
"Irish combine

dream of going to for no-hitter" Notre Dame. 
page 16 

But when the Southern Miss head coach left the pro­gram. Stenglein asked the school for a release from her scholarship. During her search for a new school, Notre Dame expressed inter­est, and she realized her dream was about to come
-true. Today. the freshman pitcher is No. 1 on the Notre Dame staff and has enough raw tal­ent to become one of the greatest pitchers in Irish his­tory. 
Dream Comes True 
Coming from a Catholic background, Stenglein and her family watched Notre Dame football on Saturday afternoons. The dream to 
see STENGLEIN/page 18 


BASEBALL ., 
Rally in 9th inning sparks victory 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Spotts Editor 
It seemed as if Western Michigan had Notre Dame's number. In fact, it looked like the Broncos would upset the Irish Tuesday for the third consecutive time in three years. 
But then an unheralded sophomore stepped to the plate with the Irish down 4-3 in their last at-bat. 
With third baseman Andrew Bushey on second base and one out, shortstop Javier Sanchez -in the every-day lineup because of season-end­ing injuries to freshman infielders Matt Macri and Matt Edwards -crushed a double over left fielder. Andy Roy's head for the tying run. The next batter, designated hitter Matt Bok, singled down the left field line to score Sanchez for the game-winner. 
"My role this year has been to contribute any way I can," Sanchez said. "Today. I came up with a big hit. I do it for these guys in the dugout. Some of these guys may not do it in the late innings, but they do it earlier on. It's a total team effort." 
Sanchez had only 13 at-bats last season as a freshman but has filled a huge need this year with some timely hitting. In the 10th inning of Notre Dame's 10-6 victory over Big East opponent West Virginia earlier this year, Sanchez hit a two-RBI double to give the Irish the lead. 
"Javy [Sanchez] has been playing unbelievable for us," coach Paul Mainieri said. "He's shown us that he can do some great things. He made some big plays today, and he got the big hit there in the last inning." 

Tuesday's game was only the most recent installment in a series of tough games between Notre Dame and Western Michigan. 
The Irish were defeated 11-7 by the Broncos two years ago and then dropped a 7 -6 game last season at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"We always seem to play some great games with Western Michigan," Mainieri said. "Ever since I've been here, we've played them close." 
The story for most of the game was the continuing dom­inant pitching of the Irish bullpen. Relievers Drew Duff and Ryan Kalita contributed 6 1/3 innings of scoreless work, allowing only five hits, while fanning seven batters on strikeouts. 
"[The bullpen] has been phe­nomenal," Mainieri said. "Our pitching overall lately has been phenomenal." 
After some early-season troubles, the Irish relievers have locked down recently, allowing only two earned runs in their last 11 games -a span of 38 innings. 
Irish freshman Martin Vergara got the start on the mound and cruised through the first two innings, retiring the first five batters he faced before hitting left fielder James Galla in the face with a 
see BASEBALL/page 21 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles earn 7-2 victory 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
It was a benchmark day for senior Annie Knish as the Belles laid low the Flying Dutch of Hope College 7-2. 
As Knish stepped off the court at the end of her No. 1 doubles match she was smiling for more than the fact that her team had clinched a victory against former M IAA tennis powerhouse .Hope. The senior, four-year player was smiling because for the first time she could add her own point to the team's win with her first indi­vidual win against Hope. 
''I've never beaten Hope, ever," Knish said. "This is my first time beating Hope, let alone at No. 1 singles so it was a great day. It was one of the best matches of my college career." 
Last season, the Belles made MIM history as the first team besides Hope to win the confer­ence title. But that win came without a victory at the No. 2 singles spot, where Knish was playing, and the No. 1 doubles spot where she teamed with Natalie Cook. 
But this year the results were different. Knish already had one win under her belt against Hope's Emily Reeves when she stepped off the court after her No. 1 singles match. That 6-3. 6-4 victory was augmented when she teamed with younger sister Jeannie to defeat Jennifer Coleman and Stephanie Springer at No. 1 doubles. 
"The last couple of confer­ence matches I've been getting some W's for the Belles, and it feels good because I feel like I'm actually contributing," Knish said. 
Knish led a Belles charge that started by knocking out Hope's confidence in singles and then cleaning up with three straight• doubles wins. Against Hope, which is the only other con­tender for the MIAA champi­onship, playing tennis is only part of the battle. 
"In singles we just crushed their confidence, and that was the name of the game," said junior Elisa Ryan. "Tennis was 
see TENNIS/page 20 
. ND Softball vs. Purdue, Thursday, 3 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Baseball vs. Pittsburgh, Thursday, 12:05 p.m.

s RTS 
. Women's Lacrosse vs. Duke, Friday, 4p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Tennis vs. Kentucky, Saturday, 1 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
' 
r 


