
VOL. XXXVII NO. 51 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Local races upset two Republican incumbents 
• Republican Chocola takes Congressional seat in close race 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
When St. Joseph County polls closed Tuesday evening it signaled not only the end of pervasive negative advertis­ing spots on local television stations, but more significantly, the election of thrne new local leaders. 
Hepublican Chris Chocola defeated Democrat Jill Long Thompson in a heated race for Indiana's new 2nd District Congressional seat with 50 percent of the vote to Thompson's 46 
percent. The race was one of national signifi­cance as indicated by President George 
W. Bush's two visits to South Bend ­first on Sept. 5 when he raised 
$650,000 f o r Chocula's campaign and again 1 a s t Thursday. According to The South Bend Tribune, Chocola's campaign spent about $1.8 million while Thompson spent $1.2 million. 
In the race for county prosecutor, 
however, Democrat Michael Dvorak's triumph over incumbent Republican candidate Christopher Toth came with a greater margin of victory. Dvorak 
earned 61 percent of the vote to Toth's 39 percent. 
Before Tuesday's election, Dvorak served as state repre­sentative 
for District 8 in the House for 16 years. He had received endorsements from the St. Joseph County Fraternal Order of Police and The South Bend Tribune. 
During Toth's tenure as county pros­ecutor he was involved a number of prominent cases, including pretrial hearings for four former Notre Dame football players accused of raping a Notre Dame student last March. Dvorak will now be responsible for continuing prosecution of these cases when the trials begin early next year. 
In an upset victory, Democrat Frank Canarecci also defeated incumbent Republican Rick Seniff for St. Josephy County sheriff. Canarccci received 51 percent of the vote over Seniff's 49 percent. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at nagengast.3@nd.edu 


"Return to Glory" campaign continues 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Hiding on the heels of the successful The Shirt cam­paign, sweatshirts and long sleeve T-shirts will be offered with this year's "Return to Glory" slogan. This is the first year that the project encom­passed products other than the standard fundraising t­shirL 
A national demand for this merchandise started as the Notre Dame football team began its winning season. The print and television media have helped to expose Irish fans nationwide about The Shirt campaign and the bene­lits the student body receives from shirt sales. To date, 104,000 shirts were printed and 90,000 were sold. 
Courtney Schuster, presi­dent of The Shirt committee, said. "Success should be attributed to the green color, the (Irish} season, Coach Willingham's support of "The Shirt" project and the over­whelming statement students made by wearing The Shirt at the first home football game." 
Student Activities, the Athletic Department and the Hammes Bookstore worked along side each other on the venture. 
"Without their support, the project would never have been this big," said Schuster. 
Yet, the new initiative involving the sweatshirts involved both the Athletic Department and the Bookstore more due to finan­cial risks. 
Since 1997. the Bookstore was guaranteed a sell out of the shirt. This assistance gave Student Activities a financial guarantee on its investment whether or not The Shirt actually sells out. 
Because this agreement applied only to the first order of' The Shirt each year, Student Activities was finan­cially liable for any losses they incurred during future 

GREENE/The Obseiver The Sweatshirts, on display at the bookstore. Due to the success of the annual The Shirt campaign, long sleeve T-shirts and sweatshirts with this year's "Return to Glory" slogan are avallable at the bookstore. Student Activities, the Athletic Department and the Hammes Bookstore are working together In the venture. 
orders of The Shirt. Members activities has made an incred­
on the fman­ ible amount  
cial  man­ "Student activities made  above  and  
agement board did not want to assume this  an incredible amount above and beyond what we expected."  beyond what we expected from the  
risk  so  project this  
Student Activities was unable to invest fur- Courtney Schuster president of The Shirt committee  year." A new agreement w a s  
ther funds in  reached  
the project.  once  the  

Schuster said, "Student original 44,000 shirts sold 
out. which allowed Student Activities to receive money for student organizations, although the percentage is much smaller. The Athletic Department and Bookstore both authorized funds to con­tinue the project because they were willing to assume the risk if the shirts do not sell out. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
NDSP cracks down at BC game Saturday 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
As colder weather approaches Indiana, local police are watching out for students who plan to smuggle alco­hol into the Notre Dame football Stadium. Saturday's football game against Boston College resulted in more than 80 citations and six arrests, which are all being passed on to the St. Joseph County prosecutor's office. 
"In colder weather we know that people wear bulkier clothing," Johnson said. "It's a little bit easier to smuggle in alcohol in November than it is in August in shorts and a T-shirt." 
The six arrests are the most at any game this season, said assistant direc­tor Phil Johnson. Because NDSP wants to maintain a "family, friendly environ­ment" in the stadium, it has teamed up with St. Joe County and South Bend police to combat minor consumption of alcohol, disruptive behavior and litter­ing during football weekends. 
"We have zero tolerance of alcohol in the stadium," Johnson said. 
Half of the arrests were made there Saturday. Johnson said the alcohol enforcement team kept students from starting bonfires Saturday. 
"The presence of the police officers before and after the game helped pro­mote a safer environment," he said. 
Over the years, the Catholic pigskin rivalry has attracted RVs loaded with thousands of Eagles fans from Massachusetts to the Notre Dame cam­pus, but NDSP says that it has become more than a football game. 
"In the past, there have been prob­lems," Johnson said. 
On Saturday, the citations and arrests went primarily to BC students, although some went to Notre Dame students as well. 
While the spirit of rivalry between Rutgers and Notre Dame is not as strong, Johnson said the police task force would be in full force for the Nov. 23 game. 
"Although our alcohol enforcement team will be working for the Rutgers game, we don't expect the same level of activity," he said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne,30@nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 

How 'bout that dance? 

In the spirit of the SYR tradition, I've decided to go completely random. Without even the help of a dog book to guide me, friends to set me up or actually resorting to finding a date myself, I'm leaving it up to the gods Justin Krivlckas above and the few out there who 
Assistant
actually read the 

News Editor 
Inside Column to decide for me. 

Most students have experienced the random dance. A friend may tell you that he knows someone who knows someone who needs a date, and it ends up being you before you even hear about it. Or per­haps you are the one who needs the date. A quick glance through a dog book and some smooth talking can procure you a date the day of a dance. Yet, if worse comes to worst and you end up going solo, being that guy who hits on a friend's date all night long is always looked upon in high esteem. 
To me, it seems that going with a completely random person to a dance might be a fun thing to try out because it's always a little interesting to meet someone new. Besides, I'm killing two birds with one stone. Not only do I get an idea for an Inside Column, but I can also make a com­plete fool ofmyself in the process. 
There are several benefits to going random. If the person you're with sucks. then it's acceptable to saunter away without an excuse or remorse. Telling a friend he or she sucks usual­ly dissolves any bond you may have with him, but with the random date, you'll never have to talk to him or her again. Avoiding eye contact on the quad is the greatest inconvenience you may incur. But then again, there's always the possibility of things actual­ly being fun. You may meet someone or a group of interesting people that you would never have known before. Plus you may find some new friends to replace the ones you told about their suckiness at the last dance. 
If there's one thing I know about life, it's that you have to go out on a whim sometimes to make it interest­ing. The daily grind is boring. I hope to turn a routine formal into an amus­ing and memorable occasion with a little random zest, and these types of experiences are what make life enter­
taining. 

Also, girls out there, remember three things. For starters. no one reads the Inside Column. Scene and Sports sucks the life out of page two so I don't think I'll be getting many responses. Number two: Don't think I'm some creepy dude. This is just a way to try something different and have a good story to tell when you're toothless and grey. But, lastly I'd like to point out I don't think l suck and that alcohol is a great icebreaker in these situations. 
Think over the proposal, and if you're interested for this Saturday just drop me a line. For all others who have dances this weekend and in the future, give the random way a try. You just may have the time of your life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Justin Kri1Jickas at jkrivivk@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make miscakcs. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct ow error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Ball bombings hit close to home 
Notre Dame stu­dent studying in Australia react to Bali bombings. 
page 3 

WORLD& NATION 
Elections shake things up 
Republicans win control of the Senate and gain seats in the House. 
page 5 
BUSINESS NEWS 
SEC increases charges for WorldCom 
The government expanded the civil fraud charges against WorldCom. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Chivalry is in recession 
Viewpoint columnist, Jacqueline Browder, ponders what happened to chivalry. 
page 10 
SCENE  SPORTS  
Italian or  Irish prepare  
Mexican?  for Midshipmen  

Scene food critics Irish prepare for review Tosi's the Midshipmen Italian Restaurant option offense. and Fiesta Tapatia. 
page 12-13 page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Prosecutors review case 

The case of a suspicious person, who was seen trespassing at Fischer Graduate Housing on Oct. 20 will be reviewed by the prosecutor's office for criminal charges. 
Football brings citations 

NDSP issues 83 state citations for violation of state liquor law and made five custodial arrests for viola­tion of state liquor laws on Nov. 2. 
Roommates play bike prank 
A student reported his bike was taken from outside Carroll Hall, on Monday. The student later notified NDSP his roommates had hidden his bike as a prank. 
Individuals try to burglarize 
Mendoza 

Individuals attempted to burglarize the Mendoza College of Business between 4 p.m. Friday and 7:50 a.m. Monday. 
NDSP retrieves golf cart 

An abandoned golf cart was found in the Cl student south parking lot and was brought to NDSP. 
Compiled from NDSP blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Split pea and butter­nut squash soup, Szechuan chowder, pepperoni pizza, hamburger on bun, french fries, grilled cheese sandwich, bean and quesadilla, turkey tetrazzini, french fried onion rings, broccoli spears, pasta salad with basil vinai­grette, sugar cookie, lemon bars 
Today Dinner: Split pea soup, Szechuan chowder, pasta with Italian sausage casserette, hamburger on bun, french fries, grilled cheese sandwich, veggie reuben, roast fresh ham with au jus. southern style chicken and dumplings, spicy eggplant with garban­zo beans, chocolate eclair 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

. 
Free 11 u shots, Concourse llesburgh Library and LaFortune Student Center, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

. 
Lord of llrn Hings Party, Hammes Notre Dame Bookstorn, 7 p.m. 

. 
Lecture: "Suffer the Little Children? The Psychological Impact of Political Violence," Ed Cairns, llesburgh Center, 7 p.m. 

. 
Senate: Freshman Orientation Survey and Sexual Assault Awareness Poster, Notre Dame Hoom Lafortune, 6 p.m. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Student Diversity Board Meeting, IICC/#304 SGA Board Hoom, 12 to 1 p.m. 

. 
Horne Program Me,eting, Carroll Auditorium, 7 to 9 p.m. 

. 
Social Work Event, IICC/#303, 1 to :1 p.m. 




WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Penne with gorgonzola, pastaria pesto sauce, fresh corned beef, boiled cabbage, peas and carrots, apple crisp, cheese strata, Italian risotto, spinach, grits, scrambled eggs, sausage patties, cinnamon bread french toast, potato triangles, grilled turkey sand­wich, crinkle fries, chicken macadamia, taco sticks 
Today Dinner: Southern fried chick­en, collard greens with ham hocks, corn, apple crisp, quiche lorraine, rotini with vegetables, baked herbed zucchini, yellow rice with raisins, stir-fried gar­licky kale, Szechuan vegan noodles, spicy colache, honey-mustard chicken 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Four-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, herbed noodles, sugar-snap peas with sesame, lemon­lime chicken breast, haddock with herbs. roast turkey breast, curried veg­etable rice pilaf, stuffed cheddar pota­toes, sloppy joe, crinkle fries.Japanese ginger chicken tenders, arroz con queso 
Today Dinner: Cherry turnover, peas and pearl onions, vegetable rice casse­role, grilled redfish, broccoli-rice casserole, Italian-blend vegetables, chicken-fried steak, rotisserie chicken, couscous with vegetables , apple crisp, cheese sticks with spaghetti sauce 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
IX 
w 
:c 
ti 
3: w 
..J 
c( 
(.) 





0 

...I HIGH 46 HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 31 LOW LOW LOW 
42 
30 

48 37 
54 44 

Atlanta 56 / 40 Boston 48 / 38 Chicago 48 / 34 Denver 53 / 34 Houston 66 / 42 Los Angeles 75 / 55 Minneapolis 42 / 31 New York 54 / 40 Philadelphia 56 / 40 Phoenix 84 / 58 Seattle 58 / 48 St. Louis 50 / 38 Tampa 81 / 56 Washington 58 / 42 

Wednesday, November 6, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 




Bali bombings continue to make waves 
. ND students down under react to Bali attacks 
By LAUREN BECK 
New• Wrim 
For Notre Dame students studying abroad in Australia. the bombings in Bali last month hit close to home. 
Although no Notre Dame stu­dents were at the scene, juniors living in Perth and Fremantle said they were stunned by the Oct. 12 terrorist bombings of Bali nightclubs that killed near­ly 200. 
"I was really scared because it was so close to us," said Jen Guinan, who is studying in Perth. just south of Bali, at the University of Western Australia. "You start to feel safe some­where. and then you realize that you really aren't." 
Many students have friends who know people injured or killed in the bombings and have participated in relief efforts for those affected, Guinan said. The University of' Western Australia organized iis own drive. 
Students were also struck by how the Bali bombings were reminiscent of the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States. 
"They were definitely a reminder that this situation isn't over and won't be for a long time," said Carolyn Cornell. a student in Perth. 
Paul Cusick, a student at Notre Dame's Fremantle cam­pus, located not far from Perth, said he saw similar motives in the attacks. In both cases, ter­rorists sought to kill civilians to make a political statement and to undermine values and morale. 
The United States recently designated Jemaah Jslamiya, the extremist group believed to be responsible for the bomb­ings. a Foreign Terrorist Organization. As investigators linked Jemaah Islamiya to AI­Qaed a, some students ques­tioned what the bombings meant for the international struggle to eradicate terrorism. 
"When I found out about the bombing I guess you could say I was disappointed. It took away all of my hopes that the terror­ist situation would start to improve," said Guinan. 
Many saw the attacks as a rallying cry for nations to come together in the war against ter­rorism. 
"When I found out about the Bali bombings it confirmed what many of us already knew: that Americans aren't the only target. These terrorists seek to destroy all people who are from countries that believe in the values of religious freedom, democracy and liberalization. They seek to destroy civiliza­tion, and the civilized world must be united and defeat them," said Cusick. 
The attack on Bali has affect­ed vacation plans, as students have decided to avoid traveling to Indonesia. Bali was a popu­lar spring break spot for stu­dents in the Australia program because of close proximity and low costs. 
Cusick said while he never planned on traveling to Bali, many of his friends have changed their plans. "I am sure the tourism industry in Indonesia will take a big hit due to the bombings and the fear they created in the minds of many Westerners," he said. 
Students in Perth recently received a public announce­ment via e-mail from the U.S. Consulate in Australia, warning 
U.S. citizens abroad that acts of terrorism could possibly occur in other Southeast Asian coun­tries that Westerners frequent. 
Cusick added that. unlike Australia, Indonesia has failed to cooperate with the U.S. war on terrorism and has proven it cannot eliminate terrorist cells within the nation. "I don't think Indonesia is as safe," he said. "Geographically, Bali is just north of Australia, but I think Indonesia is in many ways a world away, politically and cul­turally." 
Students studying in Australia next semester are not allowed to travel to Bali. 
While students will avoid lntlonesia for the time being, they said they generally fell safe in Australia. 
"I have told myself though that I can't live in fear all of my life," said Guinan. "I can be careful and make smart choic­es, but I am not going to run my life based on what 'could hap­pen."' 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu 
. Indonesia detains 2 in Bali bombings 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA, Indonesia 

Indonesian authorities detained two possible suspects in the Bali bombings that killed nearly 200 people last month. the national police chief said Tuesday. 
One man was detained Tuesday in the capital. Jakarta, Gen. Da'i Bachtiar t o I d Indonesia's 
old man identified only as Zulf'an was detained in North Sumatra after he used a fake identity card. Prasetyo said he resembled one of the sketches. 
The suspect taken into cus­tody in Jakarta was not fur­ther identified. 
Meanwhile, the U.N. office in downtown Jakarta was briefly evacuated after a telephoned bomb threat. No bomb was found and workers returned after about an hour. 
The latest arrests come less than a week after police released the sketches and 
launched a 
nationwide

''They resembled the
parliament. manhunt. 
Another was sketches and one ofthem About 120 taken into has a criminal record." detectives custody and intelli­Monday in gence offi­
Da'I Bachtlar
the city of cers from Medan on general Australia, 
Sumatra island. 
The men resemble two of three suspects depicted in composite sketches based on witness accounts after the Oct. 12 blasts. Bachtiar said. 
"They resembled the sketch­es and one of them has a criminal record," Bachtiar told lawmakers. 
It was not immediately cer­tain whether the detainees would be positively identified as suspects. Last Thursday. police arrested another man because he resembled one of the sketches. but released him. 
National police spokesman Col. Prasetyo said a 28-year­the United 
States, Britain, Japan and other coun­tries are working on the case with Indonesian investigators. 
Although no group has claimed responsibility for the blasts, the regional terrorist network Jemaah Islamiyah has emerged as the prime sus­pect. 
Police have detained Abu Bakar Bashir, the group's alleged spiritual leader, but he has not been declared a sus­pect in the Bali blasts. 
Bashir is being held in a police hospital in Jakarta. and doctors said the 64-year-old cleric is too sick to be ques­tioned. 

HOW FAR CAN YOU GO? 
Morgan Stanley Invites You ... 
INSTITUTIONAL EQUITY 101 Morgan Stanley, aglobal leader in financial services, is looking for people with apassion for the financial markets. 
Equity Sales and Trading provides institutional clients with avariety of services related to stocks, research, derivatives and convertibles. As asales person, sales trader or trader, you'll face the challenge of assisting clients with their portfolio strategies, 
uncovering investment opportunities or committing the Firm's own capital in an atmosphere of constant change. 
How far can acareer in the financial markets take you? Morgan Stanley is the place to find out. Whatever your aspirations, we can give you the tools and the opportunities to achieve them. We invite Juniors and Sophomores to attend. Learn about our Summer Analyst opportunities. 
Come meet us: Thursday, November 7, 2002, 6:00 p.m. DeBartolo Hall, Room 131 
Morgan ~ Stanley 
Morgan Stanley is an Equal Opport1111ity Employer cornrnitted to wo, klorce diversity. <l'.1 1002 Mor~an Stanley 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
ISRAEL 


Israel calls for early elections after breakup of coalition 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
A reluctant Ariel Sharon on Tuesday called early elections for Jan. 28 after the breakup of his fractious coalition, sending Israel into a tempestuous cam­paign that threatens further instability in the Mideast at a time of a possible confrontation with Iraq. 
The surprise move also brought Sharon's archrival for Likud leadership, Benjamin Netanyahu, back into govern­ment as temporary foreign minister. Netanyahu said he will challenge Sharon for the party leadership in a primary Hussein is thrown out," to be held within weeks. Netanyahu told Israel TV. "I 
The winner of that struggle think that will be possible." will face the Labor Party leader The dramatic political devel­in the general election. One of opments underscored the the issues on the table then growing political volatility in will be how to approach the Israel, which has had five Palestinians, whether to prime ministers in seven years. emphasize negotiation or war Sharon's coalition lasted only and whether to expel Arafat. 20 months, despite his aim to 
On Tuesday, Netanyahu reit­hang on until next October, the erated his long-standing view that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat should be expelled and said the explusion could come originally scheduled election date. 
Sharon flip-flopped over 24 hours, saying Monday it would be irresponsible to hold early elections, and announcing Tuesday he was dissolving par­liament because he was unable to set up a stable coalition after the departure of the moderate Labor Party. 
during a U.S. strike against "INDIVIDUALS SHOULD FREE THEM-Iraq. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Harvey Pitt resigned under pressure Tuesday night after a series of political missteps that embar­rassed the Bush White House just when it needed to shore up investors unnerved by account­ing scandals. 
In a letter to President Bush, Pitt said "the turmoil surround­ing my chairmanship" had made it difficult to stay in the job. "Rather than be a burden to you or the agency, I feel it is in every­one's best interest if I step aside now, to allow the agency to con­tinue the important efforts we have started." 
The White House quickly accepted his resignation. 
Three administration officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the White House welcomed the resignation of a regulator who had created a host of political problems for Bush in the run-up to Tuesday's midterm elections. Pitt's troubles had been seen as weakening the SEC at a time when the market was reeling from corporate debacles, including Enron. WorldCom and Global Crossing, and the economy was fragile. 

Sharon accused Labor of "political caprice" by bolting over Sharon's refusal to cut funding to Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Palestinian reaction was muted. "We hope the Israeli people will elect a government that can deliver peace," said Cabinet minister Saeb Ereket. 
., 

SELVES FROM EVERY FORM OF SLAVERY­
"I think the most appropriate time will be when Saddam SLAVERY TO PEOPLE, SLAVERY TO OPINION, SLAVERY TO 
THE ADMIRATION OF OTHERS. 

BUT AFTER HAVING FREED THEMSELVES, THEYSHOULDBECAREFULNOTTOBECOME SLAVES TO FREEDOM."
Pitt resigns frotn SEC 
·~ Chinese -American Restaurant:ft-W~I and Cocktail Lounge -·· , ,
~~ Autherilic Si.echuan, Mandarin n,1~ . · 
• Hunan Cuisin~ , 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 ' Dinner:. starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
-::.L. 





GREAT\VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 

I 
f 
' 
[ 
Stay ahead of the curve 

At_ Citadel, we work every day to gain an edge in the global financial markets. With world-class analytics, risk management capability, state-of-the-art technology and a global footprint, we see what others cannot see. 
Founded in 1990, Citadel is an internationally recognized alternative investment firm, excelling in global relative value, event driven, and fundamental investment strategies. 
Determined, focused, and passionate about winning, our team members capitalize on their expertise to identify and seize market opport_unities. At Citadel you will learn and grow exponentially. You will be challenged to see further and achieve more. 
Stay ahead of the curve. Create the furt.:re. 
¦ ¦ ¦ 

CITADEL 
Citadel Investment Group, L.L.C. 

Opportunities for university graduates include positions in: 
• 
Investment Management, Research and Trading 

• 
Quantitative Research 

• 
Information Technology 

• 
Accounting, Finance and Operations 



If you are interested in a career with substantial opportunities, we encourage you to learn more about Citadel by visiting our website www.citadelgroup.com 
We are accepting resumes via Notre Dame University's IRISH e-recruiting system. The deadline for resume submission is Wednesday, November 6, 2002. 




NATIONAL ELECTIONS 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
GOP takes Senate and keeps House 
hard for the Election Day tri­
Associated P rcss 
umph. and there was no doubt­
ing its sweep. It was only the 
Hcpublicans swept to control third time in a century the of Congress early Wednesday, president's party improved its takin){ lhe Senate from the position in the House at Democrats and solidifying their midterm, and the first time for grip on the !louse in historic Senate gains in two decades. gains midway through Tho GOP seized one Senate President Bush's term. seat in Georgia, where Rep. 
In a marquee governor's Saxby Chambliss defeated Max race, the president's brother, Cleland, and another in .Jcb, won four more years in Missouri, where former Rep. Florida. Jim Talent ousted Jean 
"Wow, what a night," exulted Carnahan. Elizabeth Dole of North And the Republicans success­Carolina, one of seven newly fully defended open seats in elected Ilcpublican senators. New Hampshire, where Rep. 
With three Senate races yet John Sununu triumphed, and to be settled, Republicans had in a string of Southern states, 50 seats, enough to .l{uarantee the president's Texas among control on the basis of Vice them. President Dick Cheney's tie­In Louisiana, Republicans breaking vote. forced Democratic Sen. Mary 
Hepublicans easily turned Landrieu into a December back the Democrats' challenge runoff. in the !louse, fashioning a With the polls closed across majority for a fifth straight the country, two races were too election and assuring II!inois close to call. In South Dakota, llcp. Dennis Hastert a third Democratic Sen. Tim Johnson term as speaker. battled Rep. John Thune. In 
The trend pointed toward Minnesota, former Vice single-digit GOP gains -and a President Walter F. Mondale possible turnover in ran against Norm Coleman. Democratic leadership. Democrats won governor-in Georgia and South Carolina. ratings of any president in Democrats needed to gainOfficials said Hep. Dick ships in Pennsylvania, Democratic chairman Terry modern history," McAuliffe seven seats to win control of 
Gephardt of Missouri would Michigan, Illinois and McAuliffe, no fan of the presi­said. the House. Instead, Democratic decide within a day or two Wisconsin, a string of dent, said the Republican suc­The night was not without Rep. Karen Thurman fell in whether to seek a new term as Midwestern states long in GOP cess was due in large measure GOP campaign casualties. Florida, and GOP Reps. Nancy leader, and two of the officials, hands. But Rep. Robert Ehrlich to Bush's standing. "I think I Arkansas Attorney General Johnson in Connecticut, speaking on condition of became the first Republican pin a lot of it on that this is a Mark Pryor defeated GOP Sen. Charles Pickering in Mississippi anonymity, said he was unlike­elected governor of Maryland president who has had very Tim Hutchinson, and eight­and John Shimkus in Illinois ly to do so. in more than three decades, high approval ratings. He's had term Rep. Connie Morella was dispatched Democratic incum­President Bush campaigned and Democratic incumbents fell the longest sustained approval defeated in Maryland. bents in head-to-head contests. 

Voter News Service abandons national exit polls 
A,socia tcd Press 
NEW YORK 

Voter News Service was forced to abandon state and national exit polls designed to help analyze Tuesday's midterm election results and also saw its vote-counting operation slow to a crawl. 
The failures were a major setback for VNS -a consortium consisting of ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, Fox and The Associated Press. VS had completely rebuilt its sys­tem in response to the 2000 election, when television networks twice used its information to make wrong calls in the decisive Florida vote for the presidency. 
COBS, CNN and NBC complained that vote totals were coming in so slowly that they stopped using the VS count. Instead, they relied on a backup opera­tion provided by the AP. 
The exit poll information was intended to help media organizations explain why people voted as they did. But because of technical problems, VS said it could not guarantee the accuracy of its informa­tion and did not release it. 
"We're disappointed that VS wasn't able to provide this material," said Jonathan Wolman, senior vice president of The Associated Press. "Polling place interviews provide an invaluable glimpse at voters' mood and priorities." 
As in the past, AP was calling election winners in a process that involves an analysis of the actual vote returns, Wolman said. "Our emphasis is on accu­racy and we're confident we'll provide a strong service tonight." 
In addition, AP reporters around the country conduct their own interviews with voters on Election Day to gather quotes to enrich their stories. This mate­rial, though not a scientific survey, helps give readers some insight into how indi­vidual voters made their decisions. 
The consortium did have limited infor­mation from the exit poll surveys that gave its members guidance in projecting winners for individual races. 
The VS exit poll was of particular importance to broadcasters and 19 newspapers, including The New York Times, Washington Post and USA Today, that had contracted with the consortium to receive that information to report on Election Day trends. 
VS' separate vote-counting operation started the evening well, but an auto­mated system overloaded and caused delays, said Ted Savaglio, VS executive director. 
"It's functioning and it's running, but it's not running at peak efficiency," he said. 
At midnight, he said, "We're catching up." 
In response to the 2000 problems, VS agreed to provide to all of its members other vote counts conducted by the AP. COBS and NBC said they were using the AP numbers exclusively. AB said it was using both vote counts and had no com­plaints with this part of the VS opera­tion. 
ELECTION NEWS BRIEFS 
Surprises in governor races across nation: 
Republicans won two marquee governors' races as Florida Gov . .Jeb Bush turned back a massive Democratic effort to unseat him and the GOP ended Kathleen Kennedy Townsend's bid for Maryland gov­ernor. Democrats, in turn, broke the Republican hold on industrial swing states including Illinois, Michigan and Pennsylvania as the parties struggled for control of a majority of executive mansions. 
President Bush phones GOP winners: 
President Bush took heart Tuesday in the success of some candidates among the hordes of Republicans for whom he had aggressively campaigned. Not long after polls started closing, Bush began dialing up winners, starting with his brother, Jeb, who won re-election as Florida governor in what the president called a "big victory·· said White House press secretary Ari Fleischer. 

Women achieve gains in Congress: 
Elizabeth Dole became the first female senator from North Carolina on Tuesday. Another well-known female Republican, Katherine Harris, won a Florida House seat by defeating Democrat Jan Schneider, a friend of Clinton. Two Democratic women, Kathleen Sebelius in Kansas and Jennifer Granholm in Michigan, won their governor's races. 
Talent beats Carnahan in Mo. battle: 
Republican Rep. Jim Talent snatched a key Senate seat from the Democratic column on Tuesday, oust­ing Sen. Jean Carnahan -the widow appointed to the position two years ago after her candidate hus­band died in a pre-election plane crash. Talent, as winner of the special election, will be sworn in this year and become eligible to vote during a lame-duck session of Congress. Congress. "I have just called Mr. Talent and conceded," Carnahan said. "You fought courageously against overwhelming odds." 


Largent loses Okla. governor's race: 
Pro Football Hall of Farner Steve Largent was beat­en in the Oklahoma governor's race Tuesday, edged in an extremely tight vote by an opponent who was practically a political unknown six months ago. Largent did not concede defeat late Tuesday night to Democrat Brad Henry as he addressed support­ers. 
Coleman, Mondale vie for Senate seat: 
Former Vice President Walter Mondale tried to reclaim his old Senate seat Tuesday after a light­ning, six-day campaign against Republican Norm Coleman that began when Mondale agreed to stand in for the late Sen. Paul Wellstone. With 48 percent of precincts reporting, Coleman led Mondale 51 per­cent to 46 percent, or 330,702 to 311.447 votes. The veteran Democrat was unconcerned by the num­bers: "Some of the best looking precincts you ever saw in your life have yet to report," he said. 

Wednesday, November 6, 2002
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
ND gears up for French week celebration 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Ass.iscanr News Edicor 
In celebration of French lan­guage and culture, organizers of Notre Dame's annual National French Week planned a series of events beginning today that focus on promoting a greater cultural awareness of French issues among American students. 
While au events are open to the entire Notre Dame community. organizers of the program designed evenf.s specifically with students in mind, said Catherine Perry. main coordinator for French Week and associate pro­fessor of French at the University. 
"I think all of them have an initial value for students and the University generally," Perry said. "[fhe week) 'Will enrich awareness of European values and prob­lems." 
The week, which is co-spon­sored by Le Cercle Francais, Notre Drune's student French chm, kicks off with a lecture by Indiana University professor Emanuel Mickel, a specialist in the area of 19th century French studies. The talk, entitled "The Other and the Enemy; Great Fears in Medieval French Literature and Qvilization," takes places at 4:30 
p.m. today in the Hesburgh Library. "It has to do with the sense of threat people had iu the Middle Ages," said Perry. "It's pretty appropriate in light of recent events." 
The week will continue on Friday with the induction of new members into Pi Delta Pi, Notre Dame chapter of the French National Honor Society. 
Eric Vincent, billed by organiz­ers as the "James Taylor of France" will give performances on Sunday from 7:30 p.m. to 10:30 
p.m. and on Monday from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. After his performance on Monday, Taylor will present a workshop about his travels and music composition. Vincent. who lives on a boat on the Seine River in Paris when not traveling, recently released a new album, Chanson Francaise. 
According to organizers, Vincent's performances and work­shop will provide students and the campus community will a strong sense of French song and life and a greater international perspective on foreign culture. "[Vincent] has traveled all over the world," said Perry. "I think his experience with other cultures is going to be very interesting to hear [about}." 
The event will conclude next Thursday, Nov. 14 with the show­ing of a French language film, Mauvaises Prequentations, or Bad Company. at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The film's director Jean-Pierre Ameris, will also be on hand to help present the film. "He's com­ing from Paris just for us," said Perry. 
The film, which is part of a larg­er film series sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, focuses on contemporary adolescent issues in France. "It's about the teenage experience in France," Perry said. ·The movie i_<; a bit controversial so it should stimulate a good discussion." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 




NAGPS honors former leaders 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
The National Association of Graduate-Profesffional Students will recognize past achievements of Notre Dame's Graduate Student Union during the organization's annual awards dinner at Washington University on Saturday. 
GSU is slated to receive The Graduate and Professional Organization of the Year award at the national level. Former GSU president Gabriela Burgos will receive an award for outstanding service at the national, local and state levels and the Healthcare Committee will receive a national award for its work in improving the healthcare of Notre Dame's gradu­ate student community. 

"As a graduate student I am very grateful and proud of the work that Gabriela and the GSU did for all of us last year," said current GSU president Ton Dale. "It is nice to see them recognized by the national association." 
Awards given by the NAGPS are based on an application graduate and professional organizations complete. After witnessing GSU's accomplishments la.5t year, regional NAGPS coordinator Chris Mushrush encouraged the organi­zation to submit an application for nominations. 
Burgos was notified last month via e-mail by Jackie 'fy.,on, NAGPS program coordinator, on the orga­nization's awards. 
NAGPS is a national graduate student association formed in 1986. The organization will present all the awards during its 17th annual con­ference at Washington University. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
~ ­
!.9JI:­

' ~:.. \IJ.: :·:.~.. ','? '·•--~':.,,,::~.·-· ·,,· ' '' ~"''\,~...:.....-,. TM Northern Indiana Workforce lnvestm•nt Board Is proud to present Its annual: 
Economic Forecasting Summit 
Featuring marketsrraregirrs: 
Terry Savage, Chicago Sun Times 
Robert Stovall, Clemente Capital, Inc. 
Scott Malpass, University ofNotre Dame Carol Stone-, Nomura Securities International Richard 01iehaus, Oriehaus Capital Management Inc.. 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 South Bend Century Center 120 5. Joseph Street South Bend,. Indiana 
$20 inck.ldes £ontJnental breakfast 
For registration information call 574•239·2380 x 234 
or e-mail niwib@ntwib.com 
Sponsored hy 

0 Investment Services UNlVERSITY OF NOTRF.. DAMf. JobWorks 
MENDUZ.,\ C:01 Ll':CE Of Bl'SIN£SS 







Fremantle, Australia 
''the land down under'' 
Application Meeting 
Thursday, Nov. 7, 2002 
5:00-6:00 PM Room 107 DeBartolo AL & BA Majors 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 Apply On-line: WITTV.nd.edu/,-..;intlstud 

Wednesday, November 6, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 5 
Dow Jones 

8,678.27 ~ +106.67 

NASDAQ 

1,401.17 ~ +4.63 
S&P500 

915.39 ~ +7.05 
AMEX 

832.64 
+0.47 
NYSE 

485.80 +3.58
~ 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSIB-'6 (CSCO) +3.09 +0.38 12.69 
~100 IN.:€( (<m) .Ji :::15:;:z1:::::m:l~!!i•ll!i:ii!!!i 
INTEL a:RP (INTC) -2.13 -0.4018.35 
suN .MICRosrim~~·••·t11,·1~IB:1:1:111·•!1:1r~:11I::1:1111::11 
APPLIED MATERIA (AMAT)-3.89-0.6415.81 
IN BRIEF 
Global diamond trade restricted 
Governments and the diamond industry reached a worldwide accord on Tuesday to stop trade in diamonds from conflict zones, but campaigners complained it lacks the mus­cle needed to stamp out a main source of funds for civil wars in Africa. 
Starting Jan. 1, batches of exported rough diamonds must be accompanied by govern­ment certification that they do not come from territory held by rebels. No gems can be imported into another country without the cnrtilicate. A purchaser can demand a retail­er prove the origin of diamonds on sale. 
Anyone who breaks the rules, whether a private exporter or importer, would lose their trading license. Exporting countries that fail to respect the deal also would be barred from selling diamonds and could face international sanctions. 
David Vitale resigns as BOT head 
The president and chief executive of the Chicago Board of' Trade has resigned, effec­tive immediately, the exchange's board of dir1ictors said Tuesday. 
The directors accepted David Vitale's resig­nation and named executive vice president Bernard \V. Dan to replace him. Dan, 41, was president and chief executive of Cargill Investor Services Inc. before joining tho Board of Trade in 2001. 
Carol 13urkc, executive vice president and general counsel, was promoted to executive vice president and chief of staff. 
International steel eyes Bethelehem 
International Steel Group said Tuesday it was investigating whether to make an offer to buy all or part of bankrupt Bethlehem Steel. 
Hodney Mott, chief executive of ISG -a rocontly f'ormed. privately held company based in Cleveland -said Bethlehem Steel granted it exclusive rights for 60 days to look into a possible acquisition. 
SEC ups WorldCom charges 
. Government expands civil fraud charges 
Associated Press 
WASHfNGTON 

The government on Tuesday expanded its civil fraud charges against WorldCom and the compa­ny raised its estimate of inflated earnings to more than $9 billion in one of the most stunning accounting scandals of the past year. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission announced that it had broadened the scope of its civil fraud charges, origi­nally filed against the tele­co m company in June, to include an additional charge and to allege that WorldCom misled investors starting at least as early as 1999, years earlier than previously alleged. 
WorldCom is in settle­ment talks with the SEC. The nation's second-largest long-distance carrier, which is operating under bank­ruptcy court protection, said it told the SEC during those discussions that, based on "very preliminary reviews" of its accounting, it expects an additional earnings restatement that could bring the total hole in its books to more than $9 against WorldCom and sev­charges. They are expected ruptcy report concluded billion. eral former top executives, to provide evidence against that the company took 
WorldCom announced $4 the Justice Department has Sullivan. "extraordinary and illegal billion in financial misstate­been conducting a criminal Clinton, Miss.-based steps" to paint a rosy pic­ments in late June, shock­investigation and has WorldCom, which owns ture of its crumbling ing a market already buffet­recently brought criminal MCI Communications, is finances and committed ed by the revelations of charges against company second only to AT&T in the accounting fraud that likely accounting irregularities at executives. long-distance market. It exceeded the more than $7 Enron. That estimate was The company's former also has considerable billion already disclosed to 
later raised by the company controller, David Myers, Internet holdings. investors. to around $7 billion. and its former chief finan­As of July, the company Richard Thornburgh, a 
The company took pains cial officer, Scott Sullivan, already had laid off 17,000 former U.S. attorney gener­Tuesday to reassure cus­were arrested in August. of its 80,000 workers. al appointed by the bank­tomers that the additional Prosecutors alleged the two The new charge added by ruptcy court to examine restatements "have no directed employees to falsi­the SEC on Tuesday alleges WorldCom's finances, also 
impact on its ability to con­fy balance sheets to hide civil fraud in connection sternly criticized the com­tinue to provide service" or more than $3.8 billion in with public offerings of pany in the report for mak­to emerge from bankruptcy expenses, causing WorldCom securities during ing more than $1 billion in protection, which it expects WorldCom earnings to be the time of the alleged loans to the firm's founder to do in mid-2003. overstated by $5 billion. accounting violations. and former chief executive, 
In a statement, WorldCom Myers pleaded guilty in The SEC also added new Bernard Ebbers. 
said it still has more than federal court in Manhattan allegations that WorldCom Ebbers has not been $1 billion in cash and in September. Sullivan has violated federal laws charged with wrongdoing. access to untapped credit of denied any wrongdoing. regarding internal financial Prosecutors have been col­
$1.1 billion. Three other WorldCom controls and record-keep­lecting evidence to deter­While the SEC has pur­executives have pleaded ing. mine what he knew about sued civil fraud charges guilty to similar federal On Monday, a new bank-the fraud. 

Webster may quit oversight board 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Former FBI and CIA chief William Webster, whose appointment to head a new accounting oversight board ignited sharp debate, is considering stepping down amid the controversy that has also ensnan~d Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Harvey Pitt. 
Webster said he will step aside if he decides he can't be effective heading the board mandated by Congress in response to the wave of corporate accounting scandals, according to published reports Tuesday. 
'Tm not the only one that can do this job," Webster told The New York Times. "If I conclude my ability to serve impedes on the ability of the board to function, I will step aside." 
'Tm watching very carefully to see if all this activity is impeding my ability to act effectively," he told USA Today. "When I reach a conclusion as to whether that effectiveness would be impaired. I'll act." 
Webster did not return calls on Monday and Tuesday from The Associated Press. 
The debate over Webster's appoint­ment has created new problems for Pitt. head of the SEC. He is in trouble with the White House and is facing investigations into whether he con­cealed from his fellow commissioners information about Webster's watch­dog role at U.S. Technologies before they named him to head the new board. 
Webster headed the audit committee of U.S. Technologies' board of direc­tors when it fired the company's out­side accountants last year. Washington-based U.S. Technologies now is considered insolvent and faces fraud accusations. 
White House press secretary Ari Fleischer, traveling with the president on Air Force One, declined to com­ment further on Pitt and how the growing controversy over Webster reflects on his leadershipB of the SEC. 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
FRANCE 
Eight arrested by French in Tunisia bombing 
Associated Press 
GRENOBLE 

French anti-terrorism judges ordered the arrest Tuesday of eight suspects in a deadly Tunisia synagogue bombing that authorities have linked to the al-Qaida terrorist network. Among those detained were the parents and brother of the suspected bomber. 
Nineteen people, including 14 German tourists, were killed when a truck laden with gas tanks exploded outside the Ghriba synagogue on the Tunisian island of Djerba. 
French Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy said in a statement that documents seized during the arrests Tuesday near the southern city of Lyon appeared to be directly related to the April 11 explosion. 
French authorities believe the driver of the truck was a Tunisian identified as Nizar 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN Lawmakers approved a new law Tuesday that gives law enforcement officials more power to intercept and moni­tor private telephone calls and e-mail. 
Justice Minister Penuel Maduna said the legislation was needed to fight organized crime, but critics argued that it is flawed, infringes on the rights to privacy and open to abuse. 
The law was approved in the National Assembly in September. Lawmers in the National Council of Provinces -Parliament's lower house -approved it unanimously. 
Snooping by government officials is a touchy subject in South Africa because during apartheid, security forces had carte blanche to tap tele­phone calls and intercept pri­vate correspondence. 
A 1992 law restricted the practice. Among its provi­sions were that a judge authorize any telephone tap­ping. 
But the justice ministry said the existing law made it too hard to pin down evidence against crime bosses, who act through intermediaries. The interception of communica­tions had become integral to combating crime, Maduna said. 
The new law still requires judicial approval for tapping phones, but exceptions may be made in "emergency situa­tions" or when a person's life may be in danger. 
Kimani Ndungu, head of an Naouar. He is believed to have Interior Ministry said. carried out the attack with an The suspects were taken unidentified accomplice who into custody in Lyon for ques­

also lived in  tioning  by  
the North African coun­try.  "We have nothing to hide, we're just looking for the  agents from France's counterintel­ 
Naouar  is  truth."  ligence  ser­ 
thought to have died in the explosion, but officials  Walid Naouar brother of Nizar Naouar  vice. Under France's tough new anti-terror­ 

have not said what hap­pened to his alleged accomplice. 
Among those detained Tuesday were Naouar's par­ents and his brother, Walid Naouar, 22, according to Lyon prosecutor Christian Hassensrat said. 
Three other people close to the family were also detained. 
France's leading anti-terror­ism judges, Jean-Louis Bruguiere and Jean-Prancois Ricard, ordered the arrests as part of an ongoing investiga­tion into the attack, the 
SOUTH AFRICA 
Lawmakers O.K. snooping law 
anti-censorship unit at the Freedom of Expression Institute in Johannesburg, said the provision was unclear and gave wide-rang­ing powers to the security forces. 
"Our view of the bill is that its unconstitutional," he said. "It takes away the right to privacy and to freedom of expression ... and needs to be challenged. It's going to inter­fere very grossly with media freedom in South Africa." 
The Media Institute of South Africa has voiced objections to the law, saying people would be reluctant to talk to journalists for fear of their conversations being tapped. 
ism law, authorities can hold the suspects up to four days with­
out charging them. 

Police in Lyon said it was too soon to determine if the family played any role in the attack but their arrests had been planned for some time because of their "peripheral interest" to the case. 
At the time of the attack, members of the Naouar family said they were shocked at their relative's alleged con­nection to the explosion. 
"We have nothing to hide, we're just looking for the truth," Walid Naouar told The Associated Press in a tele­phone interview a week after the attack. 
Walid was later detained by French border police at the Lyon airport for lacking prop­er French papers. Ile was threatened with expulsion to Tunisia, but the process was halted because of a technicali­ty. 
The Ghriba synagogue is believed to be the site of Africa's oldest synagogue ­one believed to have been built about 2,500 years ago. 
1-~ I • Annual Percent~e Rst~: Raies·~ -~a: 5,60~APR are ~alid for various financing terms on new and used vehicles. Rates are subject to change without . 
notice. Certain r tricttons may apply. Thts offer 1s not valid for refinances of existing Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans. Independent of the University. 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE
T O W N H O M E S 
DO YOU KNOW THAT APARTMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE 2003-04 YEAR? 
•4 
AND 5 BEDROOM TOWNHOMES­SPLIT THE RENT 

•3 
FLOORS TALL/PATIO AREA 

•CENTRAL 
AIR/CABLE HOOK-UP 

•STOVE, 
FRIDGE, DISHWASHER 

•WASHER/DRYER 
IN EACH UNIT 

•6 
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 

•ADT 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 

•24-HOUR 
MAINTENANCE 

•6 
BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 


CALL TODAY FOR APERSONAL WALK-THROUGH! 
5 7 4-234-9223 
TCLARK@CBRESB.COM 
"BEST VALUE PER STUDENT" -ONLY $281 PER STUDENT FOR A 5 BEDROOM PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. 
Whether You're looking For A Brand New Car. Or ANew-To-You Car, 
.~.·W8 C1nHelp5,WlthoBatas'¾a:"As
5 

C  N  ¦  --~-­ 
,"i\,,._:' . ~~ "iJl!III ,_'·,,_:j ....._,,:· '-~:}••if~,t'  
·  UNION 800/567-6328  

www.ndfcu.org 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
Thousands remember Jam Master Jay 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Pallbearers wearing white unlaced Adidas carried the cof­fin of slain Run-DMC star Jam Master Jay from a funeral ser­vice Tuesday at which he was remembered as "the embodi­ment of hip-hop." 
A funeral cortege of white stretch limousines and luxury SUVs was lined up outside the Allen A.M.E. Cathedral in the rapper's native Queens. Inside. bandmates Joseph "Run" Simmons and Darryl "DMC" McDaniel eulogized their 
friend, whose real name was collar. "He just couldn't leave 
Jason "Jay" Mizell, as a great without drama." man and ground­breaking "Jam ·Master Jay was not a musical 
thug. Jam Master Jay was 
force. 

not a gangster. Jam Master 
"Jason helped Jay was a unique individual. build hip­
... He was the embodiment of 
hop, and his 
hip-hop. ,.
job is fin­ished," said Joseph Darryl "DMC" McDaniel Simmons, 
rapper 

now an ordained minister, wearing a broad­A who's who 
T h e 
funeral 
came six 
days after 
Mizell was 
shot to 
death in his 
Queens 
recording 
studio bv a 
masked 
assaiIant. 
No one has 
b e e n 
charged. of hip-hop 

brimmed black hat and clerical attended the service. LL Cool J, 
B·.·.·.·.. • ..···... '.·.··...
..m•···
B,·®
_--.;-·: . _.:::: :::{ .·__ . . ,,· ....,. :: 
:,. _,:: '· :­
DERYWEDIESDIY 

Standard Mixed Drinks All Night Long This place tocks~! 100 N. Center St (lhe 100 Center) 
MishmNaka -(674) 269.«7522 
MUST BE 21 WITH VALID ID! 
Chuck D of Public Enemy, Queen Latifah and hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons, the brother of Joseph Simmons, were among the mourners. Many in the church and among the crowd outside wore the white Adidas and black leather that Run-DMC turned into a fashion trend in the 1980s. 
As DJ for the pioneering group, Jam Master Jay had worked the turntables as Simmons and McDaniels rapped a string of hits over nearly 20 years. 
McDaniels brought the over­flow crowd of 2,300 to its feet with his eulogy, getting in a dig at anyone who would call the slaying just another example of rap violence. 
"Jam Master Jay was not a thug," McDaniels said. "Jam Master Jay was not a gangster. Jam Master Jay was a unique individual. ... He was the embodiment of hip-hop." 
Surrounded by more than a dozen funeral wreaths ­including one in the shape of twin turntables -McDaniels then rapped from the band's song "Jam Master Jay," with the audience joining in at the end to shout out the slain DJ's name. 
A heavy police presence included officers on surround­ing rooftops. 
Elsewhere, police continued to search for the man who put a single bullet in the 37-year­
old  Mizell's  head  last  
Wednesday.  
Mizell  was  married  with  

three children, and had cam­paigned against drug use. He was a role model for many in the neighborhood where he grew up and met Simmons and McDaniels, and his violent death puzzled family and friends. 
"Let's try to work for the good that Jay was working toward," said McDaniels. "Peace for everybody." 
Among the group's hits were a collaboration with Aerosmith on a remake of "Walk This Way"; "It's Tricky"; and the sneaker homage "My Adidas." 
Mizell's body had been brought to the church in a white, horse-drawn carriage encased in glass. 
After the 90-minute service, it was taken for burial at a Westchester County cemetery. 
Sharon Osbourne rethinks 
M1VshovV 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

If she had to do it over again, Sharon Osbourne says she wouldn't have invited MTV's cameras into her home. 
At least, that's what the can­
cer-stricken matriarch of tele­
vision's favorite dysfunctional 
family told ABC's Barbara 
Walters when she talked to her 
earlier this fall. 
Osbourne said, in an inter­view to air on a special "20/20" edition Wednesday. that she's calling it quits after an upcom­ing, IO-episode season is through. "We can't do it any­more," she said. 
When ABC released those quotes on Monday, an obvious­ly concerned MTV President Van Toffler called Osbourne. He said she told him: "You know you can't believe every­thing I say." 
Through MTV, Osbourne then released a statement say­ing she intends to fulfill her contract, which calls for 20 episodes total. 
"l love my MTV," she said. 
MTV's second season of "The Osbournes" begins Nov. 26. The first set of episodes drew record ratings for the network this spring and made aging heavy-metal star Ozzy Osbourne and his family household names. 
Sharon Osbourne, who is fighting colon cancer, told ABC that the show has "changed us all so much." Her teenage chil­dren now have lawyers and business managers, she said. 
"Because it's a moment in time, when we were innocent to it all, we went in feet first and you can't recreate that," she said. "Yes, now, this series, people will see what the first series has done to our lives and it will take people to the next stage. But after that, it's over." 
The family hasn't exactly shunned the spotlight. ABC said Monday that Ozzy, Sharon, Kelly and Jack Osbourne will be hosts of the American Music Awards on Jan. 13. Daughter Kelly has recorded her own CD that's due out soon. 
theclogstore.com 
1·800-948-CLOG 

O
THE 

BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norr, Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie McKenna 
SAJNT MARYS EDITOR Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lucz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTR0LLER: Lori Lew..Jski 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 
FAx ...... . . . ..... . . .... . . . .... . . . . .... . . .. ... .. . . ....... .... 631-6927 
ADVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63I-53I3 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.ohsnews. l@nd.edu 
Vll,WPOINT ................................................. 63I-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARl:"s............................................. 63I-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web sire at http://obsm,er.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assis rant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Que,tiom regarding Observer policies should bt direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oru.crvcr (USPS 5,9-9 240) is publi1lu:d Mond.i.y through Friday e,r.a:pr during o:.i.m ;md. v;¥;arion pttiodl. /.. iuhM:riprion m The ObK'l'llet it SlOO fur one academic year; 155 for onctiemener. 
ilic OhM:rvn l6 puhli,hl"d u: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaU Send •ddras rorrc:tinns ro: Nmn-DmK", l!'J 46",56 The Ohsc:rYu 
r.o. e.. Q 

/li:ri<,Jic ,d poitJt,<t: pad alt None Damc Nocrc Dame, IN 46556-0779 ;mJ add.irionai ma.ilingoffica. 
The Oi:uc:rvcr U a manhcr of lhc Anou;ao:d. lirm. Ail rcprodu-i.:1'1on ,ighn .r~ mer~. 

Chivalry isn't dead 
. ' . . .
1t s JUSt 1n a recession 
In dating, whatever happened to our manners? 
Chivalry isn't dead. It's just in a recession -like the economy. These days, it seems that being wined and dined has gone . 
from a quiet Jacqueline dinner for two Browder at the local Italian restau­
Happily

rant to a night 
Ever After 

of Boat Club and Borracho Burrito, and the obligatory phone call two days prior to said date has turned into a beep­ing voice mail at 8 p.m. on Friday night. 
Instead of being swept off our feet by someone tall, dark and handsome, (or, for that matter, petite, blond and busty) most of us are instead left sweating on an overly crowded dance floor next to a short, pasty townie, often hoping that we leave with the same person we arrived with. 
It's not that people don't have any manners or that all of the gallantry and graciousness we read about in medieval romances has disappeared completely. We're all programmed to say please, thank you and other phrases that indicate general polite­ness in certain situations. However, when it comes to dating, we all seem to have forgotten our good manners. 
Yes, times have changed. Men don't often throw their coats over muddy puddles and women don't usually wait until the third date for a goodnight kiss. The occasional opened door has even become cause for celebration. The dating world has changed and the rules of dating have changed right along with it. These days, cool, casual and noncommittal seem to be the new rules of engage­ment when it comes to relationships. It's as if Urban Outfitters has become the official sponsor of the dating world. 
We don't go out on dates. We hang out. We don't get asked out. We get asked in. We share meals -at the dining hall. We start our evenings around midnight and at the bar. 
All of this can he good, but not nearly as exciting as a real, quality may-I-pick-you-up-at-seven-o'clock date. It's the equivalent of the single ring, on-campus phone call. We know where it's coming from before we even answer the phone. 
However, it's not that there has to be a formulated structure to make a relationship work. People are going to meet and mate no matter what the circumstances. They'll also have great relationships that make even the most skeptical bystander a believer. Dating, and all of the man­ners and etiquette that go with it, is hardly non-existent. It's just merely become an afterthought. 
Of course, men needn't take all of the blame. The fairer of the sexes has their own part in this uphill march toward modern courtship. Now that it is not only acceptable but encouraged for a woman to ask a man out, split the bill and buy her own drinks, men don't have to try as hard. They don't always need to pull out all the stops because women don't demand the same commitment in their relationships anymore. It's not so much that men have changed, it's more that women have. 
Rather than waiting for a white knight, a woman is often expected to shed any kind of damsel in distress image, maintain independence and keep her emotions in check. It's not that men are incapable of giving women attention and commitment. 
They are. However. women are not 
as encouraged to expect it which 
makes dating all that more compli­
cated and difficult. 
That said, if there isn't the same 

obligation to take a person out on a 
respectable date as there used to be, 
why worry about it at all? Well, 
because chivalry, and all of the 
romantic notions that go with it, is . already on the rise and without it, 
it's hard to imagine that there could 
be as many happy endings. 
Women need to demand good dat­
ing manners in their relationships. 
They shouldn't deny themselves the 
opportunity to have someone take 
care of them, just as men should not 
let that same opportunity pass them 
by. It's a wonderful thing to have 
someone to care for us, no matter 
how independent we may be. It's not 
medieval, nor is it inconceivable. 
After all, great love and commitment 
are just as real and possible in this 
century as they were when dates 
arrived at our door on horseback. 
Yes, the rules, along with the 

times, have changed. Women aren't 
as likely to expect the shining knight 
to ride up on his white steed and 
men don't expect to find a damsel in 
any kind of distress. However, when 
the occasion to use our good dating 
manners arises, we should take it. 
Even if it is just holding the door 
open at Borracho Burrito. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior 

American studies major and journal­
ism minor. Contact her at jbrow­
der@nd.edu. Her column appears 
every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not nec­
essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Meghanne Bryan Kronk 
Downes Mark Zavodnyik Laura Coristin Joe Hettler John Fanning Scene 
Viewpoint Sarah Vabulas TeresaFralish Lab Tech Graphics Claire Kelley Mike Harkins 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Did you obtain an absentee ballot to vote in the midterm elections? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What you do speaks so loudly that I cannot hear what you say. " 
Ralph Waldo Emerson writer 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Be thankful for the 
right to protest 
A quick question to all the sidewalk artists providing us with such novel reading material on 0L1r ways to class: Have you forgotten that you only have the right to scribble your half-witted slogans because our military has fought many wars to preserve it? Or are you too concerned with choosing the most eye-catching colors ofchalk? 
I am not going to say that fighting this war against Iraq is or is not correct, but I would like you to realize that this war is going to happen and choosing not to support it, or worse, to con­demn it, will only make your idea of peace that much harder to attain. 
My brother is a Second Lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps and will report for his final offi­cer training in three weeks before being stationed overseas. He visited the campus this week­end and I helplessly watched his eyes fall over each anti-war message. 
llis response? He is proud to serve to protect your rights. And believe me, I am immensely proud of him, yet discouraged that his noble commitment to service -the same commitment so many of our peers make through ROTC -can be wrenched into something ugly by a group of naJve. chalk-wielding hypocrites. 
Your rights and well-being, whether you believe it or not, are being threatened and our mili­tary will not only freely defend you. but will prevail to your cheers or jeers, whichever they may be. Please exercise maturity and sensibility when choosing to act on your First Amendment rights, or perhaps someday you may not have the option. 
Matthew Sullivan 
sophomore Stanford Hall Nov. 5 

University must rethink pep rally experience 
All right. Enough is enough. Whether there is one home game left or an entire season, something must be done to change the pep rallies. Things have gotten a little out of hand. Every pep rally swings me back and forth from swearing I will never go to another pep rally to inspiring me to grab the person next to me and yell "I love ND!" There are just too many unpleasant aspects of these pep rallies. 
My suggestions: Censure the leprechaun. This is long overdue. Isn't there a point where someone says, "Hey, Dressing up like Abraham Lincoln is a really, really bad idea." Don't people have to approve these ideas? Fire them. Even bring in that inflatable thing back as the full-time leprechaun. At least he doesn't inspire hatred of little green men in 
me. 
Chuckie, Chuckie. Chuckie. You know, com­pared to last year, I'd take Chuck Lennon over that Taylor Richards guy any day. However. there's still room for improvement. First off, Chuckster. you've got to try and control your own pep. This includes not injuring our foot­ball players with flying helmets. This is a con­cussion waiting to happen. And yes, we all get excited when we chant and cheer. We just don't blurt that excitement into the JACC's sound system at wrong points in the chant. Still, Chuck is a likable guy. Struggles some­times, runs out of things to say often, but like­able. Just stop thanking us for having you back. Actually, everyone should stop thanking us for having them back. Since when did we gel a choice? 
Student speakers. Sure, dressing up like a firefighter is a great idea. Everyone loves fires. 
Porn Squad. OK, who doesn't like the porn squad? I'm just confused. What else do these people do? In fact, I've never seen a member of the porn squad outside of a pep rally. It makes you wonder. 
What's the deal with constantly bringing up bad past memories? Let me preempt this by saying I don't believe in luck or "jinxes." Yet, I'm still compelled to yell "Stop jinxing us! You'll ruin everything!" five or 20 times dur­ing a pep rally. I mean, what happened to tak­ing a step at a time? Do we need to bring up games a month away or bad memories from 10 years ago? I've been waiting for the lep­rechaun to make a speech about how healthy our team's hamstrings have been. Can't you just see something like this happening? The leprechaun, dressed like Socrates for some unknown reason, starting his speech with "No one's broken his xiphoid process, thus causing internal damage, eh Carlyle? Go Irish!" 
Celebrity speakers. I think we need more of these. In fact, start paying people or gjving them free tickets or something. There are enough Notre Dame celebrity fans to get them here. This is a no lose situation. Everyone feels good about celebrities. Who wouldn't want to hear a celebrity gjve a speech about how great their school is? I'd take celebrity speakers over more student speakers any day. Look at how much we're hurting. I think the safety message guy and the voicemail ladies got some of the bigger ovations all year. 
When you come right down to it, I guess the only reason I still go to the pep rallies is to hear Ty speak. In fact, I'd even go so far as saying hearing Coach Willingham speak is generally the best part of my week. Still, I'm sure no one else would appreciate my new Tyrone Willingham hour-long pep rally speech idea, I guess we'll have to leave this part of the pep rally alone. 
I know that people are going to jump on me for criticizing people and offering no real solu­tions, but we've had glimpses of great pep ral­lies all year. Like that guy from Siegfried that gave an awesome student speech a few weeks ago. We need more of him and less chair kick­ing or firefighting. Thero are too many times when excitement builds only to be torn down by stupid comments or awful skits. Maybe we need more student involvement, but that's only a small part ofit. Whoever runs these things. please take note ofthe students' reac­tions, try to find people and concepts that don't elicit groans or boos weekly, and for the love ofGod, think before you put these pep rallies together. 
Brian Agganis 
sophomore Knort Hall Nov. 5 

ND football: Blinded by the green 
Since such a big deal has been made about the green jerseys the Irish donned for Saturday's game, I feel the need to share a couple of my own observations about the situation. 
l believe that most people missed the significance of the green jerseys. I have overheard many students talking about how we should only be wearing the special jerseys in a big game. Of course, this depends on what constitutes a big game in one's mind. I think a common miscon­ception is that a big game must be one which decides the nation­al championship or one which pits Notre Dame against one of the top-ranked teams in the country. While these circum­stances can define big games, they do not serve as an exclusive definition. 
Notre Dame had spent the pre­vious two weeks on the road 
playing highly ranked and much, as Coach Tom formidable opponents. O'Brien said, then why The victory against was Boston College Florida State was only able to muster the climax of the 77 passing yards season thus far, and just 184 as it apparently yards of total proved to much offense, well of the disbe­under their lieving country season aver­that the Irish ages? Why did were indeed they allow the "for real" and Irish to accu­every bit as mulate 357 good as their yards and ranking reach the red would attest. zone 6 times? 
Thus, the The outcome Irish were rid­of the game ing the ulti­had very little mate high of to do with highs. They Boston College were due for an playing well. emotional let­As Willingham down. coming may have feared, home after a tough it was his players' road trip to play a own overconfidence far Jess daunting and loss of focus opponent in Boston which led to 7 fumbles, 
College. Coach Willingham was very much aware of the pos­sibility of a relaxation in focus. This is why the players entered the locker room after the Florida State game to find "Beat B.C." scribbled on the chalkboard. This is why they watched a video of the 1993 loss to the Eagles on the way back to South Bend. This, I believe, is also why they wore the green jerseys on Saturday. 
In order to be champions, a team must not only possess great skill, but it must also exhibit intense focus on the task at hand. No matter how tempting it is to look at the future, they must take the season one play at a time. Notre Dame has been play­ing by that philosophy all season, but Willingham was aware of how tempting it would be to look past Boston College now that his players had essentially complet­ed the most difficult portion of the schedule. 
By having his players wear the green jerseys, Willingham was attempting to inject some "artifi­
cial" focus into their system to compensate for the inevitable 
loss in focus after the Florida State win. He attempted to show his players that this game was indeed the biggest game of the season, not for their skill level, 
but for their focus level. 
Wide receiver Omar Jenkins hinted at this point when asked about the green jerseys. "When we came back in the locker room after warm-ups and we saw the green jerseys, everyone was ready to play and it helped us get focused," he said. Obviously, the players didu't quite focus enough. Nevertheless. the deci­sion to wear green jerseys was a wise one by Willingham. 
The argument that wearing the green jerseys caused Notre Dame to lose is a ridiculously unsound one. If the green jerseys 
excited the Eagle players so 
2 interceptions and a botched field goal. It was their lack of focus which caused them to fail on scoring opportunities after traveling the length of the field time and time again. 
You can blame the outcome of the game on just about anything you want. You can blame it on the referees missing the touch­down call in the corner of the endzone. You can blame in on the unwise decision by Pat Dillingham which led to the sec­ond Boston College touchdown. You can blame in on the cold weather. But for heaven's sake, you should know better than to blame it on the color of the Irish jerseys. 
And amidst the unbelievable season that Notre Dame is hav­ing, you should also know better than to blame it on Coach Willingham. 
David Murray senior Stanford Hall Nov. 5 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 12 Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
Michigan's Pre111ier Italian 
Tosi's Italian Restaurant, despite the drive, alluring to all 
By EMILY HOWALD 
Assistant Scene Editor 

The meal . .. excellent; the service ... decent; the drive ... somewhat painful. Tosi's Restaurant is a great place to go if you have an extra hour and a half to spend, because that is the travel time, there and back. 
The small, quaint hideaway is located in Stevensville, Mich., and is not an easy place to find. It is hidden within a resi­dential area, and although the area is truly beautiful, it makes the challenge all the greater in attempting to find the restaurant. 
One mustn't forget, however, the meal was quite exceptional. It recounts an Italian proverb on its menu stating, "The trouble with Italian food is that two or three days later you are hungry gain." And this is truly the case. The meal leaves one incredibly filled. 
The menu consists of a wide variety of traditional Italian meals, but there are also choices for those who shy away from pastas and tomato sauces. 
The appetizer selection is geared more toward the Italian lover, but was very tasty, nonetheless. Appetizer prices ranged from $6 to $8, but were well worth it. 
All dinners come with a soup or a salad, and there were additional ala carte selections. The traditional style Caesar salad had a bit of an Italian bite to it; however, it added interest to the ordinary Caesar taste. 
There is a large selection to choose from on the menu, 10 pages to be exact. There are meals of chicken, pasta, lobster, veal, rabbit, steak. pizza and much more. The menu is separated by prices and selection choices. For example, it will state Pasta and then list all the pasta dishes that are $15 and then proceed on to list the $16 dishes. 
Some meals are available with garlic mashed potatoes but they can be sub­stituted with spaghetti or a mashed potato. 
There are 10-inch pizzas available that are prepared in Tosi's traditional wood-burning brick oven. There are a variety of different types of pizzas and all of the pizzas are $10. 
The service was moderately fast, which is appropriate for a higher scale restaurant, and the environment seemed friendly, but romantic at the same time. It was quiet, which allowed for intimate conversations, yet there appeared to be more of a livelier envi­ronment in the bar area. 
The decor was very Italian with many accents in red. It almost felt like a gar­den on the inside of the building, with many vines and dim lighting filling the restaurant. 
The outside appeared almost cottage­like on the approach. The exterior was filled with flowers and gardens and one can assume that during the warmer seasons, the entire outside is in full bloom. 
There was a veranda that can be used for weddings and receptions. It was set overlooking another beautiful garden in the back. The Saraceno 


Coutt~y of www tosis.com 

The Tosl's Restaurant main dining room, ready for patrons to dine on the fine Italian cuisine and the selection of wine from all over the world. 
Veranda appeared to create a very romantic and beautiful setting, but again, can only be utilized during the warmer seasons. 
The restaurant was renovated in 1998 by new owners, in an attempt to expand the upper levels. 
The restaurant's roots go back to 1938 when Anthony Tosi and his wife, Henrietta, opened a small summer resort in Stevensville to serve the Italian community of Cicero, Ill. It began with "Grandma Tosi" cooking meals for resi­dents at the resort over hot coals. Her son, Emilio, saw a great future in his grandmother's cooking, so in 1948, he opened Tosi's Restaurant. 
It began as a full-fledged eating estab­lishment that had room to present 100 dinners. The restaurant then expanded in 1955, 1960 and 1964 under Tosi's direction. The seating capacity increased from 100 dinners to its pres­ent 280. 
The menu began with featured din­ners by Grandma Tosi and then Emilio Tosi himself added more dishes to the menu. 
Emilio Tosi also partook in much of the decorating of the new renovation, bringing back from Italy many antiques and various works of art. The restau­rant is now fully decorated with tradi­tional and classic Italian artwork. 
The restaurant is also widely known for its superb selection of wine. Tosi's currently maintains a wine cellar with over 120 different wines from all over the world. 
ln 1997, Tosi's was one of the only 2,052 restaurants worldwide to be listed in Wine Spectator magazine's 1997 Annual Guide to Great Wine 
Lists and Distinguished Dining Establishments. 
Tosi's Restaurant maintains that "it specializes in northern Italian cuisine and is widely renowned for the consis­tently high quality of its food and drink, warm hospitality and authenticity of its Italian dishes." Presently, the restaurant appears to maintain all that they claim. It operates on the credo of their founder, who said "choose only the finest basic ingredients to prepare your cuisine, service it efficiently in a pleasant atmos­phere and love your fellow man." 
The restaurant is a unique experience and does present an exceptional meal with amazing surroundings. It is a true Italian restaurant with creative and authentic dishes, and pleasing service. However, it does take up a great deal of time with the travel. 
In 1965, Tosi's was named by Time Magazines as "one of the 22 restaurants in the United States well worth the trip." The only question is one that will have to be personally answered, "Do you real­ly have the time just for a good meal?" If you do, then Tosi's is the place to be. 
Find out more at www.tosis.com. 
Contact Emily Howald at Howald.2@nd.edu 
I 

--------------, 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 page 13 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Fiesta at the Tapatia 
Fiesta Tapatia right in Mishawaka is authentic Mexican food at its best 
without all the expense 
By SARAH VABUlAS 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Real Mexican right In South Bend 
Upon passing Fiesta Tapatia. one might think that the restaurant is fast food, Mexican style. In a sense, it is. Close to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's this sit-down Mexican restaurant serves good Mexican food, without a long wait. 
On the corner of McKinley Avenue and Main Street in Mishawaka, Fiesta Tapatia is a must when craving Mexican. Skip the Taco Bell and spend that money on quality Mexican food. 
The Experience 
Upon sitting down, the waitress imme­diately brought over chips and salsa, while also taking the drink order. The service was excellent. The waitress made sure that our food was properly prepared and drinks adequately filled. She kept a smile on her face all the while. For those Spanish scholars at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, eating at Fiesta Tapatia presents a wonderful opportunity to practice the Spanish vocabulary professors teach in class. Many of the waitresses do not speak English very well, but if anything, this food proves authentic for that reason. 
One comes away from the restaurant relaxed and not feeling like he or she was rushed into leaving the restaurant prematurely. 
Many families, both Mexican and American, were dining in the restaurant with many high school or college stu­dents, giving a warmth to the experi­ence as well as exemplifying the diverse population base of the restaurant. 
The Cuisine 
The chips and salsa that initially came were a great start to the meal. The salsa was rich and spicy, even for the non-salsa enthusiast. As a classic at any Mexican restaurant, the cheese dip had an extra flare of spiciness, making it more desirable, with a need to refill the basket of warm chips. 
The food came out about five minutes after the waitress took the order. The quickness of the restaurant to bring out the food made the experience more enjoyable. 
The Menu 
The menu encompassed the typical Mexican appetizers and entrees found at most restaurants, however, were not outrageously priced. The average price of an entree ranged from $5 or $6 to $8. These prices are affordable for the college student population. 
From tacos and enchiladas to burri­tos and nachos and even quesdillas, any patron can find his or her favorite Mexican dish to satisfy the craving. Whether it is chicken or beef, soft or hard tacos. the choices begin here. 
And if a single dish cannot be decid­ed upon, a combination platter with a few different favorites is always an option to compromise for indesiveness. As always, Spanish rice and other tradi­tional side dishes come with many of the main dish choices. 
One of the unique aspects of Fiesta Tapatia is the selection of drink choices ranging from soda to Mexican fruit juices to alcoholic beverages. The alco­hol will jump the price up, but for some, it enhances the experience of a Mexican restaurant. Upon looking around the restaurant, many people appeared to be drinking the native fruit juice blends since it seems that they can only be found at a Mexican restaurant. 


Lunch specials are also a choice when dining during the right time of the day. Enjoy the excellent food, while not breaking the bank if the dining hall just isn't providing satisfaction. 
The Atmosphere 
The ambiance of the restaurant was lively, with Latin-American music play­ing to pump increase the the color of the walls and the atmosphere from the artwork. Many of the patrons in there were also of Latin American heritage, adding to the authentic feel immediately perceived when one walks through the door. 
Decorated with tapestries, paintings and pictures of Mexican descent, the restaurant gives the patron a feeling of being warped to Mexico to dine for the meal. The bright, bold colors brighten 
up the dining room to aid the patron into the authentic feeling emanating from the restaurant and its employees. All of those qualities combined provides a unique experience of Mexico right near campus. 
Party At Fiesta Tapatla 
Fiesta Tapatia would be a great place to throw a party. The atmosphere is perfect and the prices just right to invite a bunch of amigos and fiesta down. 
For authentic Mexican minus the big bucks, check out Fiesta Tapatia and enoy the food as well as the atmos­phere. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
.-page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
McGrady, Hill outduel Webber and Kings, 125-121 
Miller. 3:30 left, fans began chanting,
Associaccd Prcss 
"Obviously. you don't make "Beat, L.A." and saluted the that call at the end of the Cavs with several standingORLANDO, Fla. 
game," Jackson said. ''If I'm ovations.
After five games, Tracy 
Tracy McGrady or Grant Hill With Shaquille O'Neal miss­McGrady already has a strong or any marquee guy, I'm guar­ing his fifth game while recov­feeling about where he and 
anteed they're not going to ering from off-season footGrant Hill can lead the 
call a charge." surgery, the Lakers had noOrlando Magic. 
Darrell Armstrong made two inside game and only BryantMcGrady broke the 40-point free throws to put the game as an offensive threat.
barrier for the second straight out of reach with six seconds Bryant finished with 15
game, scoring 41 Tuesday 
left. points, 13 rebounds and ninenight as the Magic held off a Chris Webber had 23 points assists in 40 minutes. He justSacramento rally and beat the and nine assists for the Kings. missed becoming the firstinjury-riddled Kings 125-121. 
Peja Stojakovic scored 21 and player since Grant Hill in 1997 "I see something good with Doug Christie had 21 before to have three straight triple­
this team in the playoffs. I fouling out for Sacramento, doubles.
really think this is the team of which has lost two of the first The ·7-foot-3 Ilgauskas,the East," McGrady said. "Last three games on a four-game whose career has been side­
year, I was hoping that we 
road trip that ends Wednesday tracked by foot injuries,were going to be a good team. 
night in New York. showed why if he staysThis year, I truly believe we're The Kings, in the midst of healthy he could be thea good team. Having Grant playing four games in five Eastern Conference's top cen­back is really helping our con­days. only dressed eight play­ter.
fidence even more." 
ers. Vlade Divac and Scot Ilgauskas showed off an
McGrady, coming off a 4 7 ­
Pollard sat out with strained assortment of power moves
point performance in a road lower backs, Mateen Cleaves underneath and a soft touch
win at Milwaukee, made 15 of was out with a foot strain and from the outside while work­
27 shots and also had eight 
Hedo Turkoglu was not in uni­ing against Samaki Walkerrebounds and seven assists for form because of food poison­and Soumaila Samake. 
the Magic, who are off to a 4-1 
ing. And as the Cavs' big man
start for the first time since The goods news for dominated, the Lakers' big
1998-99. 
Sacramento was that Webber man sat helplessly on theHill. who sat out the second returned to the lineup after bench with his arms crossed.
half of Saturday's victory over missing three games because Davis' three-point play and athe Bucks after feeling pain in of a lower abdominal strain. 3-pointer by Bimbo Coles
his surgically repaired left 
helped the Cavs open a 73-60
ankle, had 21 points in 33 
lead with 11 :03 left, and as
minutes while showing no Cavaliers 89, Lakers 70 
the Lakers misfired from the
signs of being hampered by Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 
field, Cleveland built its lead
the injury that sidelined him 23 points and the Cleveland 
to 82-64 with 5:54 remaining
most of the last two seasons. Cavaliers won their home 
on Ilgauskas' final basket. 
The six-time All-Star shot 9-opener Tuesday night with an 
The Cavs are carefully moni­
of-13 and even surprised some 89-70 victory over the Shaq­
toring his minutes, and coach
of his teammates by dunking less Lakers. whose point total 
John Lucas pulled Ilgauskas
in a game for the first time was the franchise's lowest 
with 4:53 to play and
since early last season. since moving to Los Angeles in 
Cleveland comfortably ahead
"That felt good," said Hill. 1960. 
88-66.

who had three slams. "Each Ricky Davis added 24 points 
Miles fed Davis for a one­
week I'm doing something and Tyrone Hill had 1 7 
handed, alley-oop dunk to key
new, and that's good. The rebounds for the Cavs, who 
a 10-2 run that built
main thing is that we won. dazzled a crowd of 19,833 -With the game tied at 77, The Heat lost guard Travis 
Cleveland's lead to 61-51 in
We're 4-1. It doesn't matter if including high school phenom Miller lobbed a perfect pass Best to a right ankle sprain in 
the third quarter and got Cavs 
we won by 20 or by four, we LeBron James -by blowing above the rim for Jermaine the fourth quarter. Best, play­
fans as pumped up as they've
still got the win." out the three-time defending O'Neal, whose dunk put the ing against his former team,
been in four years. 

Bobby Jackson scored 16 of NBA champions. Pacers ahead with 50 seconds scored 16 points in 32 minutes 
Without Shaq to worry
his 26 points in the fourth Previously, the fewest points left. Miller then blocked a shot before landing awkwardly
about, Ilgauskas began to take
quarter, keying a rally from a the Lakers had ever scored in by Eddie Jones, whose strong with 10:26 left. Grant finished 
charge midway through the
109-91 deficit in the last 8:25. a game since moving from play helped Miami rally in the with 18 rebounds, 13 of them 
second quarter.

The guard, starting because Minneapolis was 74. Los fourth quarter. in the first half. Jones had 17 
He scored 10 straight points
Mike Bibby is out with a bro­Angeles shot just 32 percent, Miller finished out the scor­points, and Butler had 14. 
in one stretch, hitting a nice
ken foot, scored seven straight including 4-of-20 on 3-point­ing for the Pacers by hitting a The Pacers snapped a 67-67 
12-foot hook shot and fade­
for the Kings to trim Orlando's ers. pair of free throws for an 81-tie by reeling off 10 straight 
away jumper to cap his run.
lead to 122-121 with just Darius Miles, making his 77 lead with 22 seconds left, points with just under five under a minute to go. home debut after coming to then adding two more for an minutes to play. Jones then hit 
After Pat Garrity made one Cleveland in the Andre Miller Pacers 83, Heat 79 8 3-79 margin with 12.5 sec­a 3-pointer, a jumper and of two free throws for a two­trade, added 13 points and Brad Miller scored 28 points onds left. another 3-pointer to pull point Magic lead, Jackson told the crowd afterward, and made key plays on both O'Neal scored 22 points and Miami to 77-75, and Brian drove the lane for a tying "We're going to surprise the ends of the floor in the final added 13 rebounds as the Grant hit a pair of free throws layup that was waved off as he world and make the playoffs." minute Tuesday night to help Pacers, playing without the as the Heat answered with was called for an offensive After Davis' reverse dunk the Indiana Pacers to an 83-79 injured Reggie Miller (ankle), their own 10-0 run to tie the foul for crashing into Mike put Cleveland up by 20 with win over the Miami Heat. improved to 3-1. game with 1 :50 remaining. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including al! spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, INVESTORS NEEDED. WILL PAY Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from 1-bdrm apt. in downtown South UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! 10% INTEREST $100,000 INCRE· Noire Dame • Perteet tor Football Bend. $395/mo plus dep. Call 233· not go it alone. If you or someone 
NOTICES Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. MENTS. 100°/4 SECURED WITH Weekend Resort in Union Pier on 5285 or 220-2964. you love needs confidential support Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234· REAL ESTATE. Lake Michigan. Most units or assistance, please call Sr. Mary 7007 endlesssummertours.com CALL 574-675-0960 OR email at rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7B19. For 
'ACT NOW! Guarantee the oest investors@surfbest.net more information, see our bi-weekly
TICKETS

spring break prices! South Padre, Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 HOUSES FOR RENT FOR ad in THE OBSERVER. Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, per day. No experience necessary. 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896 Acapuloo, Florida & Mardigras Call 1866.291.1884ext U187. N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS
FOR SALE

TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, 3-Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. check our prices. 273-3911. Americas #1 Student Tour Operator EARN$$$. Group Disoounts tor 6+. COACH: Need Jr.High boys basket• Garage, alarm system, A/C. Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free 1 888 THINK SUN ball coach:resPQnsible and depend-Avail.immed., $650/mo. Call 220· WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST Information/Reservations 1-800­( 1 888-844-6578 dept able student or grad student lo LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO 0499. PRICES PAID 251-1570 648-4849 or 'illi.W. Sllil[a'li:I i;;arn 2626)/Ytw.l!l lillCillllbC!lik!lila:WJlllS C coach 7-8th grade reserve basket-FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. Qll) ball team, Nov 5-Feb. 20, tor south NON-RENTAL. NEWLY AEMOD-HOUSES FOR RENT FOR ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST WE STILL LOVE YOU, TY & COM· 
side private elementary school ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. PRICES 289-9280 PANY. BEAT NAVYIII ••At Last Spring Break.. located near Scottsdale Mall on $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
Book now Free Meals, Miami Street. Musi be available for NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR LUV YA NAN· GET BETTERI Parties,Drinks,2 Free practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20-SUBLEASE AVAILABLE-fully fur-SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash• 3:15. Game schedule varies with 9· nished 2 bdrm apt avail. spring Kronkdawg and Ace getting Sports
FOR RENT

tours.com 10 games beginning after school at semester or from Jan-Aug 03, w/d ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-out of here early tonight. 1800426TT10 4 or 5 pm. Paid position. Call 291-incl, DSL, heated parking garage, 4 ED AM 232-237B PM 288-2726 4200 to apply miles from ND & localed on bus Is it possible to have a 'case of the All size homes available for 2003-route, $950/mo (util. incl.) call 234-Mondays' on Tuesday night? WANED· OLD NOTRE DAME 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 4536WANTED YEARBOOKS. CALL 233·1296. 'fiY'fJJ. mmmr:eotals t.Qm PERSONAL ...and I'm spent 


Wednesday,.November 6, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cano, Angels fight over Rally Monkey movie 

2000, when 
As.ociateJ Press the Angels, 
losing to the 
ANAHEIM, Calif. S a n 
The World Series champion Francisco Anaheim Angels aren't about G i a n ts , to let anyone monkey around needed a with thnir mascot, especially boost. wlwn it comes to a movie. The opera-
1.arry Cano, an executive tor of the producer of the ·1983 film video score­"Silkwond," views the Rally board in Monkny as a perfect role right-center model for kids and wants to field played make a movie featuring the a clip from crowd-pleasing primate. the movie 
Cano has liled both a trade-" A c e mark application for the term Ventura: Pet "Hally Monkey" and a script Detective" ln!atmcnt with the Writer's that showed 
Guild of America. a capuchin monkey jumping 
There's only one problem. up and down. 
The Angels and Major Fans went wild, the team I.Pague Baseball say they have won and a tradition was born. prior rights to the name, and Until this year, the monkey have alrnady begun to enforce restricted his appearances to tlrnm against others looking to inside the stadium. make a buck from the mun-Hut as the Angels moved key. closer and closer to the base­
"Th o more fact that some-ball playoffs, the monkey body filed for trademark reg-made his way to T-shirts and islration does not give them other items. any special legal status," said "The Rally Monkey started Hick Schlesinger, an attorney out as a whimsical, lightheart­for the Angels. "Our position ed in-stadium promotional is that 'Hally Monkey' is a pro-vehicle," Schlesinger said. t(\cted trademark of the "It was not intended nor was Angels and has been so since it ever expected to be some­W(\ first used it in the fall of thing you could make money 
"The Rally Monkey started out as a whimsical. lighthearted in-stadium promotional vehicle. It was not intended nor was it ever expected to be something you could make money offof" 
Rick Schlesinger attorney representing Anaheim Angels 
off of." 

Cano grew up in Anaheim and says he is a lifelong Angels fan. He views the mon­key as a fan phenomenon with an inspiring message for kids. 
"Never give up, do the best you can. come from behind ­it's just a fantastic film idea," 
Beach, declined to be inter­viewed. 
Intellectual property experts say Cano has little chance of enforcing his trademark appli­cation against the Angels. 
"You cannot hijack a trade­mark by filing an application against the rightful owner," said Alfred W. Zaher, a trade­mark attorney at Woodcock Washburn LLP in Philadelphia. "This person is trying to obtain a right he hasn't used." 
The Angels say they don't want to enforce their rights with too heavy a hand and be seen as bullies by the fans 
said William Levin, an intellectual property attor­ney in Laguna Beach who represents Cano. "As far as we know, no one has used the Rallv Monkey as a trademark before he filed his applica­tions. It's a fan phenomenon." Cano, who lives in Newport 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

The Seattle Mariners cut their list of managerial candidates to four finalists Tuesday: former Chicago Cubs manager Jim Riggleman, former Colorado and Detroit manager Buddy Bell, Baltimore bench coach Sam Perlozzo and Arizona bench coach Bob Melvin. 
"We think they each have the ability to communicate and moti-
W~MtN ~NLt ~..~~LL r~v,~N~Murr 
fRmAi1 Nov, 8p 8:~0PM 
ND EXPl<ESS 


Sl6N Ur H ND faPliiss SPoNSOl~lD ~y TUt Sfl/OEtff kCTIVlliS 0fFIC£. 
vate. That's two of the things we're looking for," general man­ager Pat Gillick said. 
\,Vhile he didn't rule out addi­tional candidates, Gillick suggest­ed the process was winding down. 
"We're probably not going to contact any more candidates," Gillick said. "I wouldn't say this is etched in stone. but I can say one of these four might be our man­ager. I can't say 100 percent, but there's a good likelihood." 

. Producer thinks Disney-owned team's promotion would make good role model for children's movie 
2000." 
Not to mention the fact that The Walt Disney Co., which owns the Angels, might want to make its own Rally Monkey movie someday. 
The monkey with seemingly miraculous pow11rs first made his appearance on June 6, who made the Rally Monkey famous in the first place. 
"There is a common miscon­ception that we are trying to corner the markets on mon­keys," Schlesinger said. "You can always buy a stuffed mon• key. Whether you buy it from us or at a local store, we wel­come it. What we are trying to protect is the use of the term 'Rally Monkey.'" 
Mariners cut list of manager candidates 

------·----------------­
page 16 The Obmver . SPORTS Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
MLB 

Ripken takes name off list 

DEMO TAPES AND APPLICATIONS ARE 
DUE 
FRIDAY 11.8.02 


201 
:LA FORTUNE 

Discover... ll1e power, lite feehng, 
ll1e secret 



Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Cal Ripken Jr. is too busy to take on a front-office job with his former team, the Baltimore Orioles. Ripken on Tuesday withdrew his name from the list of candidates to become the Orioles' vice president of base­ball operations -a title that is tantamount to general manag­er. 
Ripken, who played with the Orioles from 1981-2001, held informal discussions with Orioles owner Peter Angelos about the VP job. But the future Hall of Farner ultimately decid­ed the time wasn't right. 
"I removed myself from con­sideration because, as exciting as the opportunity is, I am heavily involved with my youth initiative, the project in Aberdeen and the Cal Ripken Sr. foundation," Ripken said. 
"I discovered during the pro­ceedings that for me, the timing just wasn't right," Ripken con­cluded. 

Former Orioles pitcher Mike of Aberdeen, Md., the former Flanagan, Detroit Tigers assis­Orioles' infielder has a keen tant general manager Al Avila knowledge of the Baltimore and former Montreal Expos franchise and its farm system. general manager Jim Beattie Also, Ripken recently spoke .are among those still consid­fondly about seizing the GM job 
ered to be candidates for the job. "I discovered during the 
E a c h 
proceedings that for me,
hopes to 
the timing just wasn't
take over for Syd right." Thrift, whose con­
Cal Ripken Jr

t r a c t 
expired retired Oriole player after this season. 
Although the Orioles have not certainly would look at that. ... announced Thrift's dismissal, The Orioles are my first Angelos has made it clear that choice." he wants someone different to Ripken, however, is tied up in turn around a franchise coming the promotion and development off its fifth straight losing sea­of youth baseball. He's also son. developing a Little League com­
Ripken seemed to be a viable plex in Aberdeen, and is eager option. Although he has no to make up for the time he front-office experience beyond missed being with his family overseeing the operations of his during a lengthy baseball Class A team in his hometown career. 
with the Orioles. 
"I don't want to manage right now, and coach­ing doesn't appeal to me," he said. "But if there was a job that I could shape a baseball organi­zation or help shape a baseball organization. I 
Jlrnrs,l1t.11 10 tnn fd(lau. sah1rJag 7::10 JHn, 10 pm Jebfirfolo 101 $3 


Wednesday, November 6, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

-
. ~; . 
):tt;;~f:i'.~? 
r·.: 
1.,,.· 
,._ ~ ~;i~\~'.
J, > •• 
··r.~~!1,,11!• " . 
• _,,r~; 
I .~f 
.dj_,,,,} I 
·;,I. 

VOTED NUMBER ONE IDEAL EMPLOYER. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers was voted the number one ideal employer in the 2002 Universum Undergraduate Survey of more than 4,000 business students and the number one recruiter in our profession in the 2002 Emerson Company Campus Recruiting Survey. 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere. 
Look beyond the numbers. 
C 2002 PricewsterhouseCoopers LLP. PricewaterhousaCoopers refers to the U.S. frm of PncewaferhouseCoopers LL? and other members of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopars organization. We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Oppcrtunity Employer. 
-
page 18 The Ob,erver . SPORTS Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
NFL 
With Holmes' knee OK, Chiefs climb AFC West standings 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. For the Kansas City Chiefs, it was a very good bye. 
While getting everyone healthy and refreshed during their week off, the Chiefs had tlle added pleasure of moving up in the AFC West standings when Oakland and San Diego lost. 
But perhaps most encour­aging was the doctor's report on Priest Holmes' sore right knee. 
An MRI exam indicated nothing seriously wrong with the NFL's leading rusher. 
"They found out absolutely nothing wrong. It relieved Priest's mind that he was all right," coach Dick Vermeil said Tuesday. "Obviously, he's been hit a few times and he's going to have some sore­ness. By Wednesday on the practice field he'll be ready to go." 
Holmes. the NFL rushing champion a year ago, leads the league with 857 yards and was selected the NFL player of the month for October. 
Holmes has had knee prob­lems before, both in college and the NFL. 
Vermeil said the latest trouble was not related to past injuries. 
"He had a little fluid accu­mulate in the back muscle, not the knee joint. That little fluid pocket was rubbing against the tendon. You could feel that move a little bit," Vermeil said. "So he wanted that checked. It has nothing to do with the struc­tural organization of the knee in any way." 
Vermeil also said wide receiver Marvin "Snoop" Minnis would be activated this week. 
Minnis has been sidelined · with a sore foot he injured during an offseason workout. 
Vermeil said no determina­tion has been made who will be released to make room for Minnis on the 53-man roster. 
Oakland's loss to San Francisco and San Diego's blowout loss to the New York Jets last Sunday moved the idle Chiefs a half-game up on their rivals and heightened their chances of contending for a playoff berth. 
The Chiefs still have games remaining against all three AFC West rivals. 
Oakland's fourth straight loss leaves the Raiders tied with the Chiefs at 4-4; 
Dolphins' Rosenfels tnay start Sunday 
Denver and San Diego are 6­2. 
"Being 4-4, all it does is give us a chance," Vermeil said. 
"There have been 26 teams in the last four years go into the second half of the season 4-4. Seventeen of them did not qualify for the playoffs. Nine did. It just puts us in the hunt, that's all. We can't become what we want to be by remaining what we are." 
The timing of the off week was even perfect, coming at the exact middle of the sea­son. 
"I know they didn't do it on purpose in the league," Vermeil said. "But it worked out real good for us. We think it's a positive how everything has worked out." 
To their added fortune, the Chiefs had a week to get 
healthy before meeting the San Francisco 49ers. who Vermeil believes may be the toughest team on their schedule. 
"If we don't play well, it won't be because we had a bye the week before we played a real good football team. lt should be to our advantage, and that's the way we're looking at it," Vermeil said. 
Explore the role of quality teaching and the future of higher education 
with 

Lee Shulman 
President Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching 
7:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 7 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

Shulman's address is open to the campus community. 
Sponsored by The Provost's Office, First Year of Studies, the Kaneb Center, the Graduate School, University Libraries, the Institute for Educational Initiatives and the colleges and schools of the University. 
Senior Class Council Presents its 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. 

With five snaps under his belt, third-stringer Sage Rosenfels is the Miami Dolphins' most experienced healthy quarterback, and he may make his first NFL start by default Sunday against the archrival New York Jets. 
Ray Lucas is questionable for the game against his former team because he bruised his right shoulder during the sec­ond quarter of Monday night's 24-10 loss at Green Bay. He left the game and Rosenfels went 0-for-3 in his first NFL appear­ance before Lucas returned and played the entire second half. 
An MRI exam of Lucas' shoulder Tuesday showed no tears or broken bones, and it's uncertain whether he'll be able to practice this week, coach Dave Wannstedt said. 
"He was hurting pretty good this morning," Wannstedt said. 
Lucas again struggled in his second start replacing Jay Fiedler. who is expected to miss at least two more games with a broken right thumb. But the performance was an improvement on Lucas' six­turnover showing two weeks earlier in a loss to Buffalo. 
"Ray was playing well enough to give us a chance to win," Wannstedt said. "We obviously didn't help him." 
Lucas went 22-for-39 with two interceptions, including one returned 89 yards for a touchdown by Darren Sharper. Many of his 198 yards passing came after Miami fell behind 24-0. 
The only other quarterback 

on the roster is journeyman Dave Dickenson, who has never played an NFL game. The Dolphins don't plan to sign another quarterback and will go with Rosenfels if necessary, Wannstedt said. 
"If he has to play, the other guys have to step up," Wannstedt said. "That would be my approach: 'Let's give the guy a chance.' We have to step up on defense and be smart on offense." 
SIGNATURE EVENT 
Alulmni-Senior Club Wednesday November 6th 
9pm-2pm 
SENIORS, wear a white t-shirt! Come armed and ready to sign your name on classmates' shirts! We'll provide markers! 
MIDNIGHT CONTEST The person with the most number of signatures by 12:00 am wins $100 in Domer Dollars! Think of the possibilities! 
Take advantage of the Alumni-Senior Club facility before it closes in December! See you there! 
Must be 21 with valid ID/Alumni-Senior Club entrance fee of $2 

Wednesday, November 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
-
Jose Canseco, brother plead guilty in bar brawl 

No job is more important. 
Be an ACE teacher. 
ACE Information Night 
This Thursday November 7 th 7:00 LaFortune Ballroom 
sentence. 
They would have no police record from this case if' they do so. 
The brothers turned down a plea agreement in August that would have given them longer probation periods. 
Jose Canseco hit 446 home runs, was a six-time All-Star and was the 1988 AL MVP. 
He retired in May, finishing his career as a .266 hitter with 1,407 RBIs and 200 stolen bases in 1,887 games with Oakland, Texas, Boston, Toronto, Tampa Bay, the New York Yankees and the Chicago White Sox. 
-
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

.Jose Canseco and his twin brother pleaded guilty Tuesday to charges they beat up two men in a nightclub fight. agreeing to probation and community service but avoiding prison time. 
The Cansecos made the deal while their trial was in jury selec­tion. 
Jose Canseco. 26th on the 
,G,3/_u::,,.;:=_ 
~dent, fac.u\1-i, fuaff and fami\'f 
• Te.nnif> Clinic. 
Tuesday, November 12 
5:30 PM -7:00 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke Analysis & Playing Situations 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet ennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed pen to All Notre Dame Students, Faculty, Staff 
and their families. 
career home run list. and his brother, former big leaguer Ozzie, also will have to attend anger management classes . 
Before the deal was approved. Circuit Judge Leonard E. Glick questioned Jose Canseco. 
"If you want to go to trial, you'll get a lair trial. But you'll be gam­bling with your life and other things," Glick said. "But if you want. let's get this thing behind us. Do you want to accept the plea?" 
Canseco replied; "I do." 

Jose Canseco agreed to three years' probation, 250 hours of community service and the anger control classes. 
Ozzie Canseco must complete 18 months' probation, 200 hours of community service and the anger classes. 
The brothers were involved in a fight in Miami Beach on Halloween 2001. 
Jose Canseco had faced up to 31 years in prison, and his broth­er faced up to 17 years. 
Jose Canseco told police that one of the men groped a woman who was a companion of the brothers. 
Police said Jose Canseco grabbed one man by the neck, punched him and broke his nose. 
Canseco admitted pushing the first man but denied hitting him. Police said the man needed 20 stitches in his lip. 
Jose Canseco pleaded guilty to one count of felony aggravated battery and two counts of misde­meanor battery. 
His brother pleaded to one count of felony battery and one misdemeanor battery count. 
"It was very, very difficult for them to accept making a guilty plea," said attorney Angel Ruiz, who represented Jose Canseco. 'They did it because of the possi­ble dark consequences to their family and children." 
Ruiz said that while no civil suit has been filed by three vie­
tims, they expect litigation. "This will all be about money," Ruiz said. 
The state dropped one felony aggravated battery count for Jose Canseco and one misdemeanor battery charge for his brother. 
Prosecutors said it was a fair result. 
"We treated them like any other citizen of Dade County in a similar situation," state attorney Jonathan Granoff said. "But if it went to trial, we could have proved our case. We had multi­ple independent witnesses." 
Glick withheld judgment in the case pending completion of the 
-
AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, November 6, 2002 


around the dial 
NBA 

KINGS AT KNICKS, 7 P.M., ESPN CELTICS AT BULLS, 8:30 p.m., FOXCH, WOMEN'S TENNIS HOME DEPOT CHAMPIONSHIPS, 8:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


out total. cy, hard work and dedica­sons since signing with the
Associated Press 

Johnson was a unani­tion, and my teammates Diamondbacks as a free 
mous pick over Arizona being very supportive offen­agent, earned his first Cy 
NEW YORK teammate Curt Schilling, sively, defensively and in Young with Seattle in 1995. 
Randy Johnson won yet winning a record-tying the bullpen." "I've got them in my another Cy Young Award fourth straight National Schilling was runner-up office, and they're displayed and then he teed off. League Cy Young and fifth for the second straight sea­nice," he said. 'Tm a very 
No, not on baseball. The overall -one short of son, getting 29 second­simple person, and I work Big Unit was getting ready Roger Clemens' record. place votes and three thirds hard, and I push myself, to play Pebble Beach Golf The Big Unit, who will for 90 points. Atlanta closer and this is the reward." Llnks when his latest honor earn an additional $4 mil­John Smoltz was third with Jerry Colangelo, the was announced Tuesday, lion because of the award, 21 points. Diamondbacks managing and rather than delay his received all 32 first-place Johnson matched Greg general partner, signed round, Johnson grabbed a votes and 160 points from a Maddux (1992-95) as the Johnson hoping the left­cell phone and talked about panel of the Baseball only pitchers to win four hander's best days were his fastballs and sliders Writers' Association of straight Cy Youngs and ahead. while deciding among America. became the NL's 11th "He's just done an incred­woods and wedges. "The big picture, obvious­unanimous winner, the first ible job. He's an extraordi­
"I'm trying to make a putt ly, is to get to the World since Maddux in 1995. nary individual," Colangelo on No. 2 right now," he Series. If you remain con­Johnson and Schilling said Tuesday. "He has a said, the California coast off sistent and have a good became the first pitchers to tremendous work ethic. to his side. year, it's kind of a bonus," finish 1-2 in Cy Young vot­The fact that he's been able 
No doubt, his score Johnson said, referring to ing in consecutive years. to maintain this intensity Tuesday was far lower than the award. "This has come Johnson, who has won level for as long as he has his perennially high strike-from maintaining consisten-the award in all four sea-is amazing." 
IN BRIEF 

FSU's Jones out for season "It's not good," Florida State of hamstring injuries that ends your 
Florida State's Greg Jones, the coach Bobby Bowden said Monday. season," team physician P. Gunnar leading rusher in the Atlantic Coast "It's such a shame he was having Brolinson said Tuesday. Conference, will miss the remainder such a good year. That's football, I Jones scored on a 3-yard run on of the season with a torn ligament guess.'' his first carry against Pitt and was in his right knee. Jones' injury is the second major injured on his second carry. He has 
An MRI on Monday showed that charge in Florida State's starting 708 yards rushing and nine touch­Jones tore his anterior cruciate liga­offensive backfield in the past week. downs this season. ment and injured his medial collat­Lee Suggs, the other part of the eral ligament in the Seminoles' win Virginia Tech RB Jones will Hokies' dynamic tailback tandem, over Wake Forest on Saturday, team miss two games should get most of the running trainer Randy Oravetz said. Virginia Tech tailback Kevin Jones duties Saturday against Syracuse, 
"Looking at it (on Saturday), we will be out for two to four weeks coach Frank Beamer said. The just had a bad feeling," Oravetz with a strained left hamstring. third-string tailback is freshman said. An MRI exam showed the sopho­Mike Imoh, who has played sparing­
The 240-pound junior tailback more suffered a "mild to moderate" ly this year. from Beaufort, S.C., averaged 104.2 tear, with damage mostly to the 'Tm excited," Suggs said. "I have yards a game, running for 938 muscle and not the tendons, during to get my mind and my body ready yards and eight touchdowns. The the eighth-ranked Hokies' 28-21 for being back there the whole 17th-ranked Seminoles (6-3, 5-0 loss to No. 22 Pittsburgh on time." ACC) travel to Georgia Tech (6-3, 3-Saturday night. Suggs needs 44 yards to reach 
3) this weekend. "It's not one of those blowout kind 1,000 yards rushing this season. 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
-
WoIDen 
continued from page 24 
together for us. Each of us said to ourselves that we're not going to let this slip by," added forward Amanda Guertin. "We still had five games left to turn the season around. We started treating each game as a playoff game, and we played much better." 
By winning four of its last five games, the Irish not only virtually assured themselves a spot in the NCAA Tournament, but may have also earned the right to host a first round game.With its late season flourish, the Irish rejoined the NSCAA/Adidas top-25 and finished second behind Purdue in the Midwest Regional Power Rankings. 
"I couldn't be more proud of this team," said Waldrum. "People don't really under­stand how much injuries real­
CUST()ivl[R SURVhY 
w-ln a $50 qift ccrHficafe 
SUB Movies needs your help. Please fill out the survey below and return it to the Student Union Board Office (201 Lafortune) to win a $50 gift certificate to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Movie Days: 

If movies were offered EVERY day, when would you most likely attend: Top three days: 
Movie Times: 

What would the ideal movie time be for you to go see a movie? Top three times during the week: weekend: 
Where have you been? 

I do not go to the movies because: (rank 1-6, 1 is most important reason): I don't like the days I don't like the times I am not aware that there are movies playing I do not like the movies that are shown I don't like the location (101 Debartolo) of the movies Sound and/or picture quality is poor 
Other comments 

-----------------------------------------------~~----------­
Thank you! 

NO\V 111HING! 
SUB Movies is hiring Movie Workers! Joint our team and make greaty money in a fun, stress-free atmosphere! Contact Jan at 1-775 7 for deta ii. 
As Senior VP of Financial Planning at a major movie studio you could: 
O.K. ~a $93 million bud et 
Hire 7,500 extras 
ly decimated this team. We could've easily had a losing season, but we never gave up on ourselves." 
While the Irish certainly wish they were participating in the Big East Tournament this weekend, the three-week lay-off between the end of the regular season and the begin• 
ning of the NCAA Tournament may be exactly what the team needs. The Irish hope the long break will give injured players such as starting midfielders Randi Scheller and Ashley Dryer the opportunity to fully recuper­ate from nagging injuries that slowed them down at the end of the season. The extra time will also allow the Irish's new starting defense of Kim Carpenter, Melissa Tancredi. Catherine Sigler, and Candace Chapman to grow more comfortable with one another. 
"While obviously we'd like to be competing in the Big East Tournament right now, this three week lay-off may be a blessing in disguise," said Waldrum. "With all of the injuries we've had this season, the most important thing for us is to be healthy heading into the NCAA Tournament." 
The two main concerns with a three-week layoff are main­taining the intensity level and simulating game conditions, but Waldrum is optimistic his team will not lose focus. 
"Three weeks is a lot of' time. Last week, we took the week off from soccer and just focused on strength and con­ditioning. The next two weeks, we feel like we will really be able to prepare for that first round game. On one hand, you worry about losing continuity, but I think we'll be fine. We've always trained against a group of guys on campus. This will give some opportunities to scrimmage against somebody other than ourselves.•· 
While Notre Dame will not 
find out who their first round 
opponent will be until this 
Monday, the Irish are confi­
dent that all of this season's 
adversities coupled with an 
extremely difficult schedule 
have made them tournament 
tough. At this point, the Irish 
are more concerned on focus­
ing about their own play than 
worrying about their future 
opponents. 
"We've faced so many dif­ferent situations this year from being up big to coming back from huge deficits," said Guertin. "We've had one of the most challenging sched­ules in the country, also. Hopefully, all of these experi­ences will come into the play in the tournament." 
"There really isn't one dom­inant team out there. We can compete with anyone," said Waldrum. "The adversity and the injuries have only made us a better team. Anything that could go wrong, we've seen before. I really think we will do well in the NCAA Tournament so don't give up on us yet.'' 
Notes 
. Amanda Guertin was named the Big East Offensive Player of the Week for the second time this season. Guertin had two assists in the Irish 's 6-0 shutout victory over Syracuse on Friday October 25th. Two days later, Guertin set an Irish record with the third overtime goal of her career to give the Irish a 1-0 victory over Boston College. 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 

Start here. Go places. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication. and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
Start going places with a Summer Dream Internship. Register online today and complete your application by 2/01 /03 to compete for one of two $5,000 paid internships. Eight other students will receive cash value awards of up to $1,000.* 

How do you get a job like this? Start today. 
Apply for a Summer Dream Internship at: www.StartHereGoPlaces. con1/biz2 

"Contes1 Rule:;: complete rules can be found on the Co'legeClub.com Web site. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. Contest entry period runs 10/0i/02-2/01/03 and is open only to legal residents of t~e 50 United States. eighteen (18) or older at time of en11y e111olled ;n a lull/pan-time accredited college or university, and is sub1ect to 1he complete Contest Officia! Rules. Entries may_ be submitted on the StartHereGoPlaces.com Web site located at www.StsnHereGoPlaces.com or o_n the College Club.com Web site located at www.Col!egeClub com Al! eniries become the property of Sponsor. as defined in the complete Contest Official Rules. Employees and family members of Sponsor not e!igible to participate Sponsor 1s not responsihle for t~chrnca! or other malfunctions. lost or unavailable network connections. or failed electronic communications that may occur i11 the processing al.the entries. The authors of the two t2i Grand p,;ze winni119 essays wil! each receive their choice of one ol the ··summer Dream Internships" provided by Sponsor. which includes five thousand dollars ($5,000) to be paid over the course 01 the ,ntemship. The Grand Prize is not transferable. e~cept by Sponsor. who may substitute prize wi(h a prize of equal v;;lue or opportunity No cash or pnzc subst,tution is ai'owed and other restrictions apply. l'he authors o! the three (3) winning Runners-Up essays will receive one thousanri dollar (Si.ODO) gift checks. The authors ot :he five (5) winning Honorable Mention essays will receive five hunJ1ed collar ($500) gift checks. Vo,d where prohibitea. Winners will be responsible for any and all taxes. Sponsor: The Amer'can Institute 01 Certified Public Account3nts. 1211 Avenue of the Americas. New Yurk. NY 10036-8775; Col!egoClub.com. a division of Stwdelll Acvant2ge. Inc.. 2035 Corte Del Nagai. Suite 200. Carlsbad. CA 92009. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 6, 2002
-
FOOTBALL 
Handoff drills dominate Tuesday's practice 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
It was no surprise at Tuesday's practice that the Irish spent time working on hand offs. 
Following a seven-fumble performance against Boston College Saturday. attention seemed to be focused a little more on the running backs working on handoff drills in practice. 
However, the Irish always work on protecting the football in practice, offensive coordina­tor Bill Diedrick said, and that was part of the reason why the multitude of fumbles were so disconcerting. 
"It was such a surprising shock on game day," Diedrick said. "It's a fundamental thing we work on every day, but we'll get it straightened out." 
Diedrick hinted that after looking at tape, he was able to identify the problem. But if he knew, he wasn't telling. 
"We got it straightened out," he grinned. 
One of the major problems Saturday appeared to involve the handoff exchanges between quarterback Carlyle Holiday and the Irish tail­backs. But Diedrick said that a fumble taking place on an exchange was no different than one that occurred after a defender stripped the ball. 
"A fumble, if it happens at the point of exchange, then you have two people that are responsible," he said. "If it's running when it's stripped, then it's a procedure drill about protecting the football. I wouldn't say one is worse than the other." 
Powers-Neal ready to go 
Irish tailback Rashon Powers-Neal, sideline with a leg injury since the Pittsburgh game, might finally be ready to play against Navy Saturday. 
And for Powers-Neal, the chance to get back on the field can't come soon enough. 
"It's real tough, it's one of the most difficult things I had to go through, not being able to help out my teammates," he said. "[t wasn't so bad against Florida State, but last game it was tough to watch how things took place. You really want to get out there and just do what you can do." 
Powers-Neal originally hurt his leg against Pittsburgh when he was hit hard in the thigh. He tried to play through what doctors called a deep thigh bruise in practice the next week, but that only start­ed a chain reaction of injuries that have kept him out of action ever since. He could have returned last week, but in practice, his health kept oscillating back and forth, and coaches decided to hold him out of Saturday's game so he would be stronger as the sea­son wore on. 
'Tm back to where I need to be, and ready to produce and contribute to the team," Powers-Neal said. "The way I felt today, I should definitely be ready to play this week." 
Locker room damage? 
Following their win over 

Notre Dame Saturday, some would not discuss what dam­Tuesday's press conference or Boston College players report­age, if any occurred, nor after practice. edly damaged the visitors' would they say how much locker room in Notre Dame repairs might cost. Stadium. Tyrone Willingham did not Contact Andrew Soukup at 
However, Irish officials comment on the issue at asoukup@nd.edu 
Loosen 
up! 


O)()W 1>.:,,,>1 • Co,r"'J~X 0}1m JOE !WtfR CO.. LLC 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  37 Henry of "Fail­ 67 Stereotypical  
1 Skein formers  Sate"  hunchback  
611 may be checkered  39 "Olympia• painter Edouard  68 Any "Seinfeld" episode, now  
10 Having no depth 14 Shrimp's kin 15 Emmy winner Falco 16 Seer's garb  40 Reason tor bad performance reviews? 43 ___._ Martin (car) 44 Inventor Howe  69 Word before a discounted price 70 Darkroom images, for short 71 Ore carriers  
17 Splendor of Leeds's river? 19 March 17 slogan word 20 Fax user 21 Bygone comic strip 23 Part of Q.E.D. 25 "So's old man!"­26 Chest muscles, briefly  45 I.C.U. hookups 46 Places for fans 48 Easy threesome? 49 Coffeehouse performer 50 Capt.'s inferiors 52 • small world!" 54 Old Buicks 59 High spirits  DOWN 1 Transcript figs. 2 Ashtabula's lake 3 Pull down 4 Ingmar and Ingrid Bergman 5 Bitter-_ (die­hard) 6 Dispenser candy 7 Wood-dressing tool  ----­ 
29 _long way  63 In a dead heat  8 Like a river  
(last)  64 General issue  bottom  
31 Holiday Inn rival  tacegear?  9 Be about to fall  
36 Turkish bigwig  66 Receipt stamp  10 Tough journey  
11 Sported  

--,-------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-~-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
-

YEAPE I 
INGALD 
. 
WHY THE= FISH£=R­
I (J 
MAN DE=CIDIW TO 
WWW.jumble.com 
QUIT HIS JOB.

IFEWURC) I () 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
term the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 
IT 

r x rJ A "( xr xJ' 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: AGILE PAPER SCROLL CALIPH Answer: What the cruise liner turned into when they were overcharged-A "CLIPPER" SHIP 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO, 28 -To order, ••nci yQ1,1r name, ¦dd:"9•• ¦od $5.96 ¦ nd n,¦ ka check ~y•bl• to Tribune Medi• Sarvlcea, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 6068~:130. 
12 Passing
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
mention? 13 Item for an Puzzle by Fred Plscop insurance 
34 Dig deeply 54 Auction vehicle, 58 Urban problem
examiner 
35 Alamogordo often 60 Pound of 
18 Catherine of event 55 Turgenev or literature
22 A Musketeer 
37 Touch lovingly Boesky 61 Squalid digs 
24 1,000 kilograms 26 Half a 60's 38 Out 56 Prop for Salome 62 Burns and Allen: vocal foursome 41 Potential heir 57 Race place, Abbr. 
27 Cast out 42 Statement of familiarly 65 Soph. and jr. 28Magna_ what's known, in 30 _ Rogers St. legalese 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Johns 
47 Muscle problem 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
32 1960 World 
49 W.W. II tank 1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Series hero, familiarly 51 One giving Annual subscriptions are available for the 33 1/22/44 marching orders best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 beachhead 53 Sudden burst years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
....
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sally Field, Maria Shriver, Etha1 Hawke, Ray Conniff 
Happy Birthday: Your strategy must be well thought out this year. You have: lot to offer, but someone is wearing you down, leaving you too exhausted t< pursue the very things that will lead to your success. Set your priorities an( follow the direction you feel is most important. Your numbers are 9, 14, I9, 28 32,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't trust others with your personal papers Keep information close to your chest. You must be sure not to donate mon than you can really afford. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your high energy should be spent pleasing you mate. You should have a heart-to-heart talk with family ancl fine! out exact!) what the froblems are and how you can help. *** GEMIN (May 21-June 20): Your abilities and your talents are in sync witl ­the work requirements. You should be able to make notable contributions tha will help you win points with employers. Concentrate on your career.***... CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make some quallt~ purchases today Don't be afraid to call old fnends and find out what they re up to. You ca1 make physical changes that will enhance your appearance. **jLEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't bother trying to hide something from you mate. Be honest and clear the air. If you feel there is a chance of violence, hav, a friend go with you. It may be time for some soul-searching as far as you relationsliip goes. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make financial gains. Let only those yo1 trust in on your intentions. Allow yourself to enjoy what you have created, anc don't feel guilty. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You can make career moves or receive mon responsibility and higher pay if )'.OU put forth an effort. Your performance wil create new opportumties. You will find that the self-improvements you've bee1 working on are showing results. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will find that you have gained popularit1 and respect. Now you can rely on the strong force of allies you've establishec to take over some of the less critical jobs. They are ready, willing and able tc support your vision and help manifest it. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may want to start your own business but don't quit your present job. Work longer hours until you can suppor y_ourself. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can meet new partners if you attenc community meetings. Your interest in the area that surrounds you will put yo1 
....
into a leadership position. Your ability to take charge and to focus the grou1 will be extremefy attractive to others. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't get involved in idle chatter or dilemma: that are none of your business. Someone afraid to speak his or her mind cai easily drag you into a precarious position. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get together with people who are wel informed in areas you have an interest in. It will be beneficial for you. Don' make promises you can't keep. Try not to say anything negative about others 
** 

Birthday Baby: You will be a little wanderer. You will be curious abou everything. You will be powerful in all that you do and a real team player willmg to go the distance in order to contribute your utmost 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

-
PORTS 
Wednesday, November 6, 2002 
WOMENS SOCCER 
Irish climb back into national spotlight 
ByJOE LICANDRO 
Sports W ricer 
After a 3-1 home loss to Purdue on Oct. 8 the Notre Dame womens soccer team hit rock bottom. 
Only two days earlier, the Irish were mathematically eliminated from Big East Tournament play after a 3-0 road loss to No. 6 West Virginia. After losing to the Boilermakers, the Irish had dropped four of their last five games. 
To make matters worse, the Irish string of injuries was only getting worse. Midway through the second half of the Purdue game, starting defend­er Gudrun Gunnarsdottir suf­fered a season-ending foot injury. Gunnarsdottir's devas­tating injury left the Irish with only one original starter in their defensive backfield. 
The prognosis for returning to the NCAA Tournament looked bleak. After all, the Irish only had a modest record of 7-6 and they could not even participate in their conference post-season tour­nament. Notre Dame's sched­ule did not get any easier either. Their next two games were against two top-15 teams in Connecticut and Michigan. In fact, all of Notre Dame's five remaining games were against 2001 NCAA 
Tournament teams. 
Other teams would have packed it in at this point or would have just gone through the motions the rest of the year and looked forward to next year. 
But the Irish showed they are not like most teams. Notre Dame worked its way back onto the NCAA Tournament radar screen by defeating No. 9 Connecticut 3-1 and No. 12 Michigan 1-0. They dropped their next contest by a narrow 3-2 margin to Brigham Young, but rebounded with a 6-0 shutout win over Syracuse and a 1-0 overtime road victo­ry over No. 24 Boston College to finish the regular season with a record of 11-7. 
"This might sound like a cheesy or corny answer, but the character of our players really came through," added Irish head coach Randy Waldrum. "There were at least three points in the sea­son where it would have been easy to give up and pack it in. Coming back from the West Virginia game, we could have really checked it in. Even though we lost the next game to Purdue, we played really well and realized we could compete with anybody." 
"After the Purdue game, things really started coming 
see WOMEN/page 21 

FOOTBALL 
Options abound as Irish prepare for Midshipmen 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer  lar wishbone-style option attack, the way they execute that offense is  a game, an offense that the Irish aren't taking lightly. "We have the  thing in his power to make sure the Irish stay focused on Navy this week. Despite the fact that  especially considering that many of the wounds from Saturday's loss are still fresh. What he  
Air Force was an option team. Notre Dame shut them down. Navy is an option team. Notre Dame should easily shut them down, right? Not quite, according to the  very different. For exam­ple, Air Force relied heavily on their quar­terback,  "I was in meetings all day with Coach [Greg] Mattison and I was asking. 'Well, we did this  luxury of saying we have defended the option once this year. But it will come at us in a  the Midshipmen only have one win and a defense ranked 109th in the nation, he knows that if the Irish aren't adequately pre­pared, they could slip. The challenge, then, for the  intends to do, the Irish coach said, is keep the Irish focused on what goals the team can accom­plish by the end of the season, while still adopting the one­game-at-a-time philosophy that  
Irish. As Notre Dame prepares to take on 1-7 Navy Saturday, coaches are quickly finding they  while Navy tends to spread the ball around  for Air Force, is it the same? He said, 'No, no, it's not the same. Ifwe do  little different package, and they will do things a little  coaching staff comes in finding a way to motivate the Irish to play hapless Navy. "It's not the team you play as  has characterized his squad all season long. "I want them to win the next weekend," he said. "I mean,  
have to help the players unlearn many of the defensive schemes that were successful against the  much more. T h e Midshipmen  this, we're going to get beat.,.  bit different," Irish coach T y r o n e  much as what you expect out of yourself," Willingham said. "Just wanting to win should be  that's it, OK? Whatever it takes." Meanwhile, Campbell has a few ideas of his own on how to  
Falcons three weeks ago. "I was in meetings all day today with coach [Greg] Mattison and I was asking,  blocking schemes are radically dif­ferent, as  Darrell Campbell defensive lineman  Willingham said. "What will be my greatest concern is that  enough to want to play your best football." Saturday's game, which will be played at Ravens Stadium in  get over Saturday's loss to Boston College. "I just want to go out and win," he said with a ferocious  
'Well, we did this for Air Force,  well,  and  we don't take  Baltimore, will be the first  grin, "and there's no better team  
is it the same?"' defensive line­ Navy tends to add a few more  that fact for granted  -that we  opportunity for the Irish to  to do that against than Navy."  
man Darrell Campbell said. "Be said, 'No, no, it's not the same. If we do this, we're going to get beat." While both teams run a simi­ subtle aspects to confuse unpre­pared defenses. The result is an offense ranked fourth in the nation in rushing, an offense averaging 391 yards  have played the option ­yet pay great attention to detail because this will be a different package and successful package." Willingham is doing every- bounce back from their first loss of the season. Willingham acknowledged Tuesday he has to be careful how he approaches his team,  Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu  

en IU NBA 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
After fumbling the ball seven 

Former player Jose Canseco and 
Director Larry Cano and the
t-
c.) Magic 125, Kings 121 
z 
times during Saturday's loss to 

his twin brother Ozzie pied guilty in 
Anaheim Angels are disputing
Cavaliers 8~: Lal<ers 70
s 
Boston College, the Irish focused on 
a Miami court to assault charges 
whether or not the Rally Monkey
Pacers 83, t1eat 79 
handoffs during Tuesday's practice. 

stemming from a fight in a Miami 
can be used to make a children's
C) c.:, 
nightclub last Halloween. 
movie.

·-·· 
a. cc ~ 
page 22

page 14 
page 19 

page 15 
I en 








