
Gold medal winner
SUNNY 
Tuesday 

Ryan Adams, a new musician on the indie rock scene, 
wowed audiences during his recent concert in Chicago. 
HIGH 46° 
JANUARY 22, 
Scene . page 12

LOW 36° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 71 

CLC aims to aid students, school 
By JASON McFARLEY News Ediror 
A forr'flf'r studi>nt on a recent visil to the University told Kn()tt Hall rector Brother Jcromu Meyer that as a Notre Dame undergraduate, he felt like a misfit. 
"He came from a different financial and ethnic back­ground than most students," Meyer said Monday at a Campus Life Council meeting. "lie said he felt like he never belongf'd.'' 
Meyer's comments were the springboard into a discussion that led CLC members to form task forces targeting commu­nity-building and diversity awarPness and communication hPtwPen studPnts and admin­istrators. 
At the group's first meeting of the semester, thoughtful discussion of somewhat sensi­tive issues brought the council to a consensus to create the new task forces. 
"Part of our job is to ensure that everyone feels as comfort­able as possible," said Daly Barnes, the Coalition Council representative to the CLC. "If people feel like they're not fit­ting in because of their cultur­al differences, then that's something we need to address." 
Jesse Flores, a Student Senate representative to the council. said Notre Dame stu­dents are uninterested in learning about people different from themselves. Attendance of multicultural events is rou­tinely low, he said. 
"There's not that sense of a university where there's a free flow of ideas -on the macro level. I see it more in individ­ual pockets," Flores said. 
Members suggested that the trend was related to students' focus on personal -rather than community -goals. 
Notre Dame officials annual­ly admit classes of students whose test scores and academ­ic achievement surpass the previous class' success, Pangborn Hall rector Heather Rakoczy said. 
"l start to worry that as scores go up, we're getting more individually focused stu-
BOG hears tech presentation 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Keith Fowlks, the new head of Saint Mary's department of information technology, dis­cussed his plans to improve technology at the College during Monday's IJoard of Covernance meeting. 
The first item of business on J;nwlks' list is to try to get a bigger bandwidth for the College. 
"They block some of the mp3 sites when too many people are downloading music files and other people can't get informatiou because the bandwidth is all used up.·• Fowlks said. "We are trying to find a bigger pipe, but it will cost more money." 
Fowlks asked for the stu­
dent government's aid in dis­covering other areas in which to make improvements, but also had a few more ideas of his own. 
"This time in five years, you will have subnotebooks in front of you for taking notes," Fowlks said. "It's a constant journey, and we never reach a finishing point. What I want to do is not necessarily a technological college. What I want to see is an educational mission driving information technology." 
"Technology should be edu­cationally driven." 
Saint Marv's, a traditional liberal arts ·college, is head­ing towards being a more comprehensive college, according to Fowlks. The College is offering more voca­tional degrees and programs such as nursing, computer science and business in addi­tion to the traditional degrees in history. music and English. 
"Saint .Mary's is doing some things I'm really excited about," Fowlks said. 
Fowlks brings 10 years of experience as head of int'or­rn a tion technology at Hanover College. He is a graduate of the University of Texas with a masters in information svstems and an MBA in ec~nomics and finance. 
In other BOG news: 
. After a fairly successful financial year, BOG has money to burn. Members dis­cussed using the money for rnpairs to showers in various 
see BOG/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

dents and not community­focused students," she said, noting that admitted students who were more community­minded would also be interest­ed in multicultural affairs. 
David Moss, assistant vice president for student affairs, told members thatthey sh()uld determine what steps other Notre Dame organizati()ns are taking to address diversity issues. "It would be unfortu­nate if we basically re-did something that was already being done," he said. 
One such effort to publicize and boost attendance of cam­pus offerings is a comprehen­sive University calendar that lists all campus events for a given month, according to Brooke Norton, student body president. 
Norton, who is also CLC chair, took care of housekeep­ing matters Monday, outlining the agenda for the group this semester. 
"My goal is to really work on things that will benefit the stu­dents and the school," she said, adding that she wanted to use resources available to 
see CLC/page 4 

SMC candidates begin campaigns 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 

Candidates vying for· the top two positions in student gov­ernment officially start their bids for office today, as the 2002 election officially gets underway. 
Two tickets will campaign this week running on a variety of issues, ranging from extending dining hall and library hours to increasing the capabilities of detex cards and making student government more accessible. 
Candidates have from noon today until 5 p.m. Friday to get their platform promises across to students -leaving student politicians only three and one half days to hit the campaign trail. 
"It's not hard to know the majority of your class or even 50 percent of the student body because the school is so small," Crawford said. 
Campaigning on the theme "Getting the Job Done," Kim Jensen will run for president with vice-presidential candi­date Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl. 
The pair has identified con­tinuing Saint Mary's Pride, making Student Academic Council available to students, working to add a study day to the academic calendar, 
see ELECTIONS/page 4 
GEORGETOWN HANDS IRISH ANOTHER HOME LOSS 


page2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, January 22, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 

Like a hot knife through butter... 
I'll tell you what is disturbing. I was recently sit­ting in my study room, which is a good 10 degrees colder than the hallway, freezing my (expletive) off when I looked up and noticed that my roommate had turned the air conditioning on high. Was I irritated? Yes. But was I shocked? Sheila Egts 
Not particularly. 

I take Nicole's stupidity with a grain of salt and Copy Editor remind myself that she is the girl who walked out of the dining hall with a life-sized cardboard Tony i.he Tiger. Then she dressed up like him and spent a week telling everyone about her new boyfriend named Tony. 
This is also the girl who smuggled a bottle of wine from Olive Garden, drank the whole thing on a Sunday night, and blamed her stomachache and vomiting the following day on the swordfish dish she had for dinner. 
Her drinking problem, however, did not end with the encounter with a full bottle of wine. She continued to have issues the next day when she chugged three or four doses of Maalox straight from the bottle that she got from Health Services. This was supposed to stop the vomiting but only made it persist for the rest of the week. 
During this week, I might add, she actually attended only three out of 12 classes. l found myself lying repeatedly to cover for my absentee roommate with convincing stories about her get­ting unexpectedly attacked by vicious porcupines. 
Despite the excessive absences, Nicole boasts an impressive (and misleading) 3.51 grade point average after her first semester course load of 18 hours. I am in awe of this simply because I witnessed her compose every paper that she turned in on zero sleep mere hours before the deadlines. I tremble at the thought and bow down before Nicole for her fine-tuned study habits. 
My point? My roommate is not the type of person who can really afford to have another hole in the head. Nonetheless, our weekend escapades included a trip to the Half Pint Tattoo Parlor in Niles, Mich. so Nicole could pierce her nose. While Nicole got an unnecessary hole in her face, I got a whole new perspective on the world of tattoos and piercing. 
Nicole's actual piercing artist, Mikey. was Uke a surgeon with his task. He began professionally by calming the patient and telling Nicole not to worry because the needle was sharp enough to cut through her nose cartilage like a hot knife through butter. In other words, very little pres­sure would be applied. 
This comment scared me to the point that I almost pooped on myself, so I went to the bath­room to splash some water on my face and calm my nerves. The bathroom at the parlor contained high-quality reading material including Maxim, Stuff and other notable adult male literature. 
By the time I returned, Nicole had the "nostril screw" inserted through her nose and had only shed one tear. Mikey, also a sensitive guy who enjoys long walks on the beaches of Indiana, was kind enough to wipe away her tear. For this reason, Nicole has fallen madly in love with him and sits around waiting for him to call. 
Not surprising, the tattoo parlor experience left me slightly more disturbed than sitting in an air­conditioned cubicle in the middle of winter. But, it was eye opening ... and I can appreciate that. 
My advice to those who are sheltered as I was before this break-through experience is simple. Take the trip to Half Pint Tattoo Parlor. Ask for Mikey. And no matter what he says, don't let him pierce your labret. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
An announcement in che Jan. 2 l edition of the Observer incorrectly lisred the location ofWednesday's lecmre, "President Bush and the War Against Terrorism." The lecrure is at 4:30 
p.m. in rhe Hesburgh Center Auditorium, The Observer regrets rhe error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misiake, please contact us ar 631-454 l so wr, con correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Mond•y ,hrough Friday excepr during exam and v,c,uion periods. The Obs,rv,r is• member of rhc As.ociarcd Press. All reproduc<ion righrs are reserved. 
"I hadn't run in 45  "/ know it's going to  "I wanted to show the  "Let me tell you I've  
years. My biggest  sound Pollyanna, but  women's basketball  studied Japanese and  
challenge was coming  maybe it's divine  team in a light that  it's not so easy to  
up on 85 years ofage  intervention, but we  people aren't used to  learn. We never had a  
in May."  got the right guy. I'm  seeing us in."  Japanese professor as  
convinced ofit."  good as Minamiki. "  
Father Theodore Hesburgh  Karen Swanson  
Notre Dame  Kevin White  women's basketball player  Father Theodore Hesburgh  
president emeritus  athletic director  on the team calendar  Notre Dame  
on carrying the Olympic  on hiring Tyrone Willingham  president emeritus  
torch  on the late Father George  
Minamiki  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Track members reach settlement on Title IX lawsuit 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. Arceneaux, who sued Vanderbilt Attorneys representing Vanderbilt alleging Title IX discrimination in his University have reached a settlement salary. That case is scheduled to go to
,r7

agreement with attorneys for seven trial March 5. current and former members of the VANDERBILT.. The complaint in the students' case women's track and field and cross­alleges that tho teams were discrimi­
y·

country teams. The settlement stems nated against in the form of coaching from a lawsuit filed in May 2000 by salaries, number of coaches, facilities Colleen Byrne, Shelley Dove, Tara and scholarships. The plaintiffs sought Gregory, Kelly Howisey, Kylene ues to violate Title IX and its imple­"increased opportunities" and actual. Kownurko, Cynda Merse and Lauren menting regulations by denying its compensatory and punitive damages. Price -all current or former mem­female students equal educational "Men wouldn't get better textbooks bers of the Vanderbilt cross country opportunities through its failure to in biology class, and they shouldn't get and track and field teams -alleging provide equal benefits for women in better athletic facilities," Frensley Title IX discrimination. varsity intercollegiate athletics," said. 
Title IX, a component of the alleges the complaint filed by Charles The two sides reached a settlement Education Amendments of 1972, pro­Ray and Chip Frensley, the attorneys in December of last year, but the for­hibits discrimination on the basis of representing the seven student-ath­malities of the agreement were not sex in any educational program letes. finalized and released to the press receiving federal funding. Ray & Frensley also represents for­until Wednesday. 
"Vanderbilt has violated and contin-mer Vanderbilt track coach Paul Vanderbilt Hustler 
UNIVERSITY OF EVANSVILLE 
Arab students return to campus 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. 
All but one of the 17 students attending the University of Evansville from the United Arab Emirates who left after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks have returned for spring semester. The students returned to their country soon after the attacks due to their families' concerns for their safety, after news reports linked Arabs to the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, D.C. Sophomore Fahed Al-Hammadi returned to the United Arab Emirates after phone calls from worried family members increased from once a week to three or four times a day following the attacks. "My family thinks of the 
U.S. as they see it in the movies," he said. "They thought because they heard of some Arab people being harassed, it was happening to me here." Although no threats or acts of violence were made against him personally, he did notice a marked dif­ference in the way others looked at him and other Arab students, Al-Hammadi said. 
The Cresent 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Cuts likely in higher ed funding 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
With the state facing an estimated deficit of $900 million, funding for Michigan public universities for the next academic year is expected to remain low and could even be cut. The amount of funding the University of Michigan receives ui;;ually determines tuition for that year. When State Treasurer Doug Roberts met with the directors of the House and Senate fiscal agencies Tuesday to make revenue esti­mates for the coming fiscal year, they predicted fiscal year 2003 revenue would drop 0.4 percent from 2002. State Budget Director Don Gilmer will make Gov. John Engler's budget presentation to the Legislature Feb. 7, and indications are that higher education funding will be cut. "(The governor) doesn't think there will be a department in state government that will not face cuts," said Engler spokesman Matt Resch. When asked if that included the state's univer­sities and colleges, Resch added, "Everyone needs to be prepared to tighten their belts." 
Michigan Daily 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon,Tuesday, Jan. 22. 20 · es separate high t 
....,....... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY
o 2002 AccuWHther Inc, 

®-··© D D Cil . . EJ '·~·,. 
High Low Showe,-Rain T•1tonna Flurrle• snow Ice Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Anoc1•t«I Preu 

Atlanta 60 54 Las Vegas 53 33 Portland 44 36 Baltimore 48 34 Memphis 63 54 Sacramento 51 33 Boston 41 31 Milwaukee 42 34 St. Louis 53 42

4-~-~Q.GQq ~u 
Chicago 47 34 New York 46 34 Tampa 81 61 
Shc""'rs T-stomis Rain Flunies Snow /co Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 74 64 Philadelphia 47 34 Washington, DC 49 38
Via A.ssocialed Pl9ss GraphicsNel 


Tuesday, January 22, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 



Chicago fire kills 1, injures 8 
As•ociatcd Press 
CHICAGO 

A fire sent flames shooting out windows of a high-rise apartment building early Monday, killing one woman and injuring eight firefighters. 
The cause of the fire on the 14th floor of the 47-building was not immediately deter­mined, Fire Department spokesman Patrick Howe said It broke out around 12:30 a.m. 
"The fire had vented itself through the windows and 
r.ame roaring out the door and got the firemen right in the doorway," fire Commissioner James Joyce said. 
Tho victim was a woman in her SO's. the Cook County medical examiner's office said. Investigators were still working to identify her. 
Three firefighters were treatPd in a hospital for burns and upgraded to fair condition Monday afternoon. a Fire Department spokPsman said. Five others were treated and released. he said. 
The building, on Chicago's near north side, has 407 
apartments and is home to about 800 people. 
Carol and Ron Shapiro were among the residents who escaped, walking down stairs from their 34th-floor apart­ment. 
"The problem really was not knowing whether we were supposed to go up or down," Carol Shapiro said. "We were not getting any messages or bearing anything. It was smoky, but people were look­ing out for the people behind them and the people in front of them. Neighbors were incredible." 
Aid pledge~ exceed estimates 
Associated Prcss 
TOKYO 

A two-day conference on aid to Afghanistan closed Tuesday with pledges of more than $4.5 billion, but oflicials warned the challenge now is seeing the money gets to where it needs to go. 
Organizers. in a final state­ment, said more than $4.5 billion in aid had been pledged by the close of the meeting Tuesday. Of that, more than $1.8 billion was earmarked for the current year. The rest would be dis­tributed by the donors over the next several years. 
The United States, Japan and the European Union opened the meeting by offer­ing about half of the more than $2.6 billion in pledges, which will go into effect at different times. 
But other contributions were smaller. such as $5 mil-
TEACH CALLS 
lion promised by Turkey. Some countriPs gave no fig­ures at all. At least 25 coun­tries indicated they would contribute. 
Few details were given about the rules for spending the aid money. Often, donor countries require their aid be used to buy goods from com­panies in those countries. Private aid groups have expressed concerns about such conditions. 
"I regard it as a very, very good start," World Bank President James Wolfensohn said Tuesday. "I think the important thing is to get things moving forward in an atmosphere of uncertainty." 
According to the final state­ment. the money was offered on the condition that all Afghan ethnic groups would make an active contribution to the goals of reconstruction and reconciliation. 
An initial needs assessment prepared by the World Bank 
·t ., .••••• , ·•'i ..,.,-.,,•, 
'': , • .L ,·· ,,,••·.1•tft ...._... 
._: '··. -~-ii'·; _.::· . ,.''.:.... 
,~1.-.,"'.',,•.~~--,.. ··_,;. • 
\;~~;~ .:::·-~:,:·:·,;.,i:.· .;,:~:,f 

•i; -'..:,...-.~ ••
•· .·-'i' '\~ .,T" J. . ·i, , 
and two other international organization estimated that $1.7 billion would be needed to pay for the first year of reconstruction. 
"We all know that it's going to be tough to makP sure that the money gets to tho place that it should go," Wolfcnsohn said. "But I think with a prop­er transparent system, with a lot of auditing. with account­ing. there's a fair chance that we'll get most of the money where it's supposed to go." 
Briefing reporters Tuesday, a senior U.S. delegation offi­cial agreed that pledges in Tokyo for the first year "exceeded expectations." 
He added, however, that managers of the global aid drive would have to lean on some countries to give more. 
Donations fell short of the $10 billion, five-year goal that was floated by L'.l\J. Secretary-General ·Kofi Annan during his opening address Monday. 
... 
~'>llti 
~·o11:0a'ti.l:,', i,w/, ·"'1 ,,._.;_.., , ... ~.1i}1.i..'i'"""".., ~;,·"')P't'."t ~ 
,,, ""-~..?!...11 -. -­.,.. ,• .--::· ' -'£.:!~-:; ~--~·•;~?..;..,·

..1..J, ~-•"<i•
••.•. ·,r,_,;..... _, ..,_... ,.:,•• 11.. , .......1. ~•• I t ~ "~ •> ,• ""'l',,.... ..,.., ,,-, -..: ;-...."L·•o> 1,, .. ; • .~' ,, ,h«l•,,<...,~. 
· .,,,.,.... .,.•.•. It'"" ._;.,,_,. 1,,.,,.,.;~r.+,mLll, ;·;,::;,..:;"t:;!-:;.':i',;'.
tti-,, .. ,,,_,,.,.,_, ,,( 

FOR AMERICA IS THE NATIONAL CORPS THAT .;,.,r1, 1.,-..,.._,1 , . .i. wn,\r~-.;J:,..""'f? 
...............ar,1••"·•""' 

UPON ourstANDING AND DIVERSE RECENT 
COLLEGE GRADUATES TO COMMIT TWO YEARS TO TEACH IN URBAN ANO RURAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND BECOME LIFELONG LEADERS IN ENSURING THAT All OF OUR NATION'S CHILDREN HAVE AN EOUAL CHANCE IN LIFE. 
No pr!ViMlS ed6ta\1on tOUISl!'IIOI~ 1equired. foll tea<hel <alaty and beoelils. 
TEACHFORAME~ICA 
www.teachforamerica.org ...i,._ 
~.:: _1 \.: .::~!~· ·~ 

. ...~.,•r • • ,., ,, ·11.­
.,.~.... ' .........,.. ,,. ' .._....... ,.. ·-· -­
' ..., ...,_ ·.. ~ . '',-.,...,-• ....., 
~....... 'l'"l" ... ~·-.,.,.,.,1-t,• ~· 
., .............. 

. , " •.ltr, 



Student film festival kicks off Thursday 
This Time, You'll Watch Me OnBy MEGAN HARNEY You, auditioned 15 women for 
News Writer 
her lead role, won by Notre Dame sophomore Julia This Thursday, the 13th 
Dickinson. 

annual Notre Dame Student "[filmmakersI didn't neces­
Film Festival will premiere in 
sarily limit themselves to actors the llesburgh Library between the ages of 18 and 22,"
Auditorium. 
said Moran. 
All of the films shown arc the Moran said that a student film 

projects of students in the Film, undergoes extensive revisions. 
Television and Theatre depart­
Many students went through
ment's film and video produc­
eight to 12 drafts of a script, but tion classes. For the advanced 
spent the majority of their time 
classes, one film project domi­
editing the film. nated most of the semester. In 
"Editing is definitely where the beginning and intflrmediate 
everyone has to work the hard­
courses, students produced 
est," said Matt Reilly, co-direc­
approximately tor of 
four smallu 
Lament, projects during 
estimating
"[These films] are
the same time that he and 
period. This supposed to challenge 
f e l I ow 
weekend's fes­
the viewer. " director 
tival will 
B r e n t 
include a mix 
Buckman 
from all levels. Ted Mandell 
spent 100 While FTT m professor to 120 
professor Ted Mandell said that each film is original in theme and subject matter, one commonality these films share is "the quality of filmmaking (which] keeps getting better and better as the students learn from their peers." 
The professors are "extremely involved in the process from an advisory role," said Mandell, but do not censor or restrict student ideas. 
"[These films] are supposed to challenge the viewer," said Mandell, adding that the films are intended for mature audi­ences. 
The student filmmakers who produced these short films were responsible for every aspect of production, including writing the scripts, casting, filming and editing. Some held auditions, seeking the help of students and South Bend residents for roles. 
Maggie Moran, director of 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 

Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 

9-BALL 

hours on 
this step. 

While the course gave students access to and experience with high-tech production equipment, much of the work was done on their own time. These filmmakers also had to fund their own film stock and processing, which could run as high as $900 per project in the advanced classes. Working in pairs definitely helped keep the cost down, Mandell said. 
"Working with film you have such a small window to get it right because of costs and because of time restraints," said Moran. 
"Some students might say it's the hardest thing they've ever done at Notre Dame," Mandell said. 
The festival runs Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Monday nights. All 13 of the featured films, which individually run from three to 15 minutes in length, will show twice each evening at 7:30 and 9:45 pm.. Tickets, which annually sell-out, are on sale at the Lafortune Box Office for $4 each. 
Contact Megan Harney at mhamey@nd.edu. 


BILLIAR·D 

TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY~ JAN. 25 8:30pm at 
ND EXPRESS 
Lower Level. LaFortune (Open practice begins at 8:00pm) 
Prizes: 
$225 \North of gift certificates from BEST BUY. 
Sign up at ND Express. Limited space so sign up NOWI ,(Must present 1.0. when registering.) 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 22, 2002 

a student bulletin board to the Web site so students can

Election 

place advertisements in 
continued from page 1 absence of all-school e-mail ------------access and add Munch improving dining hall food Money for off-campus stu­and advancing detex card dents. They also want to add capabilities as priorities in call waiting and caller ID to their platform. The tickeL Lhfl phone systems and pro­also promises to work vide a salon for campus. toward making student gov-The student body will have ernment offices accessible the chance to ask questions and developing stronger of the tickets at Wednesday's relations with students aud "l\fop,t tlrn Candidates" Night faculty in the platform state-at Haggar College Center in ment. the Chameleon Room at 7 
The second ticket, running p.m. on thf' theme "More Access. Voting,, wi.H occur on More Security, Less Worries" Monday in the dining hall is composed of Caroline during mealtimes. All stu­Coughlin for president and dPnts, including seniors and Jeanna Winchester for vice-students traveling abroad president. next year, may vote. Off-
The ticket's platform campus students can vote in promises to extend library the off-campus student hours on weekends and dur-lounge. ing midterms and finals, extending dining hall hours. Sarah Rykowski decreasing student parking contributed to this report ticket fines and adding study days. They also aim to 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
increase the accessibility of Information Technology, add 
gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 

Club. Torie Cox, the Student Academic Council represen­
BOG 

tative for the Biology Club, requested and was granted
continued from page 1 

reimbursement for some of dorms, bathmats and new the activities put on by the vacuum cleaners. Biology Club's week last 
November. 

. The Board stressed their desire for further attention to the arts on Saint Mary's campus. Student body vice president Kristin Matha addressed members of Thespians Unplugged who recently attended the Irene Ryan National Scholarship Foundation competition. 
"We don't often recognize 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at 
leaders of your sort," said 
ryko2948@saintmarys.edu.
Matha. "We commend all of you for being nominated or attending the competition." 
The members who went to the competition told the Board they were planning a demonstration of some of the things they learned at the competition. 
. BOG also granted requests for further funding to repre­sentatives from Thespians Unplugged and the Biology 




r------------------------, 

January Super Special! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza $7.99 (with coupon) Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1.49! 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! We Take Visa & Mastercatd! Expires 2/2/02 

communication, especially senior staff in the Office of from the standpoint of the tail­Student Affairs was looking
CLC 

gating situation," Tim forward to receiving survey continued from page 1 Jarotkicwicz of the Judicial data from the task force. 
Council said about administra­her as student body president tors' crackdown on tailgatcrs . Norton said Father Mark to assist the council's task last fall before home football Poorman, vice president for force work. games. student affairs, offered to 
The creation of the latest speak and answer questions at
In other CLC news:

task forces means the CLC is an upcoming CLC meeting. now working on five areas of 
. Jarotkiewicz, who chairs the 
campus life: off-campus living, . To accommodate two mem­
off-campus living task force,
airohol USP, social space, com­bers' schedule conf1icts, council 
reported that a housii1g survey
munity-building and student­meetings may be held an hour
last month generated more
administration communication. earlier in the future. The
than 2,600 undergraduate
Members approved formation change would shift the meeting
responses. He expected results
of a communication task force time to 3:30 p.m. every other
to be available soon.

to examirn~ perceived tensions Monday.
"It was very successful.
between students and 
[Responses] kept comiug in like 
University otficials. Contact Jason McFadey at
you wouldn't believe," he said. 
· "The real issue has to do with mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Moss told the group that 


OH Campus 
J~iorl'aMttWeekfflb SpedAl fcbruat1ft4-l7,2001 
Come early; stay late, same price! 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $60.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four n~hts. Rooms are availabie Thursday through SL11day. 
For reservations cali 574-631..7512 or 
574-631-9436 



fR 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

Job market got you down? 
Looking for a Summer Internship? 
-;, 


Here's an idea! 

Try a Summer Service Project Internship 
find out how you can ... 
;,.. Spend eight weeks in one of 120 sites nationwide 
. 
Benefit from hands-on learning and leadership experience 

. 
Earn a $2900-+ tuition credit (with Americorps funding) > .A.ND give eight weeks of service to people in need 


Come to the Center for Social Concerns to find out how you can be involved... 
(LAST INFO SESSION!) 
Tuesday, January 22 2002 at 6:30p.m. 









ATION 
Tuesday, January 22, 2002 COMPILE)) FROM THF. OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russia shuts down TV station: 
Russia's media minister took the country's largest independent television station off the air Monday. after its journalists reneged on an agreement to cut tles with its outspoken owner. The months-long legal battle over TV6 has revived concern about media freedom in Russia, and its disappearance from the air­waves is likely to put new international pres­sure on President Vladimir Putin. 
South Africa to get AIDS drug: A key AIDS drug, which reduces the chances of HIV­positive prngnant mothers transmitting the virus to their d1ildren at birth. will be made available in Souih Africa's most AJDS-stricken province. The drug. Niwirapine, is approved by the World Health Organization. and studies show it can reduce the rate of mother-to-child IIIV infections by up to 50 percent. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Victims of helicopter crash named: 
The Pentagon released the names of the two Marines killed and the five injured in a heli­copter crash Sunday in Afghanistan. Staff Sgt. Walter F. Cohee III. 26, from Mardela Springs, Mar., and Sgt. Dwight J. Morgan, 24, from Mendocino, Calif. both died in the crash. The men were assigned to Marine Heavy Helicopter Squadron 361, which is part of the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing based in Marine Corps Air Station. Miramar. Calif.. 
Brown pelican making comeback: 
Federal wildlife officials say they are drafting a proposal to take the brown pelican oIT the endangered species list in Louisiana -the Pelican State -and Texas, some 40 years after the bird was nearly wiped out by DDT. The pesticide DDT caused them to lay eggs with shells too thin to protect developing embryos. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Walking pneumonia on the rise: 
Health officials suspect a rise in cases of "walking pneumonia" in central Indiana this winter may be part of a cyclical pattern for the illness. Some doctors believe mycoplasma -the illness' formal name -may be more prevalent than ever before in central Indiana, although it is difficult to be certain because doctors and hospitals are not required to report cases to the government. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates there may be as many as 2 million cases of walking pneumonia annually nationwide. 
Market Watch January 18 

Dow 9,771.85 -78.19 Jones
%5~~~ • ~'.Y,;fE,i: 
AMEX: 830.64 -4.58 NASDAQ: 1,930.34 -55.48 NYSE: 576.19 -3.07 S&PS0O: 1,127.57 -11.31 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -2.67 -1.06 38.59 TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) +3.05 +1.38 46,45 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.02 -0.25 12.12 KMART CORP (KM) +11. 54 +0.18 1. 74 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.23 -0.63 18.85 
COLOMBIA 


Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
Colombian President 
Andres Pastrana, show­
ing a new toughness, has 
wrested his first major 
concessions from leftist 
guerrillas in three years 
of peace talks. 
A series of eleventh­
hour accords, culminat­
ing Sunday with a mutual 
pledge to seek a cease­
fire by early April, has 
also opened a larger 
international role in the 
country's acrimonious 
peace process. 
The latest deal was 
struck after nearly two 
weeks of heightened 

troop maneuvers around the main stronghold of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia ­and intense mediation by 
U.N. and other foreign envoys. 
On Monday, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan called the accord "a promising roadmap for peace talks." 
The agreement propels the government and the FARC into internationally monitored negotiations for the first time since the peace process began in January 1999. 
War-weary Colombians are hoping it will bring a reprieve in a 38-year-old 
guerrilla conflict that kills some 3,500 people annually and has driven millions from their homes. 
Daniel Garcia Pena. a former government peace negotiator, called the agreement a "qualitative leap" in the peace process and said Pastrana had regained his stature in the public's eye. 
"Only a few days ago, it seemed the peace process was an imposition of a fortified guerrilla group over a weak president, and I believe that has changed today," Garcia Pena said in an interview. 
Horacio Serpa. the leading candidate in May's presidential elec­tions from the opposition Liberal Party, cautioned against rejoicing until there are more tangible results. "It's the best agreement reached to this point, but it's not a panacea," Serpa said. 
In Sunday's accord, signed in a rebel-held vil­lage, the FARC and the government set an April 7 deadline for coming to terms on a cease-fire. 
The rebels agreed to discuss a halt to kidnap­pings-a major FARC income source -as part of the truce. 

Enron scandal worries ,: Bush advisers 
are, they are creating the impres­will be a potent political issue. 
Associated Press 

sion that there's something to White House officials hope 
WASHINGTON hide," said Joe Lockhart, a veteran Bush's State of the Union address 
President Bush's advisers, fear­of scandal-control strategy as Jan. 29 will shift focus from Enron i.ng the Enron Corp. bankruptcy press secretary to President to his domestic policy agenda, the controversy could divert attention Clinton. war on terrorism and efforts to from his second-year agenda, are Nearly two-thirds of Americans prevent future attacks. debating what to do about a politi­-63 percent -believe the Bush But some Republicans outside cal problem they helped create. administration isn't telling every­the administration say that won't 
From the first belated disclosure thing it knows about its relation­be enough. They're pushing for that the energy giant sought help ship with Enron, according to a more disclosures and an internal from Bush's team, the White House recent CBS News poll. investigation. Bush spokesman Ari has helped fuel the story by refus­With the Enron story gathering Fleischer has said the White House ing to release some details and steam, Republicans are divided will not try to determine which offering others in dribs and drabs. over how to respond, and administration officials had con­
"Whatever the underlying facts Democrats are split on whether it tacts with Enron executives. 
• -._. -·-.._ --s. ..,_ .._ .._ .., -..... ~ ., a. .., • ... A _... •" ,._ ..,. -,, ,. ., "' .. ,. ., • • • -!' 
-...... i .. 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, January 22, 2002 
IRS may 
•
review 
income tax collection 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
The Internal Revenue Service uses banks to collect tax payments because it's sup­posed to be an efficient way of getting money into federal cof­fers quickly, with less hassle for the government. 
But ever since some 71,000 checks worth $] .2 billion went missing at Mellon Financial's operation in Pittsburgh last year, there has been plenty of hassle: new security mea­sures, an investigation and now a Senate committee's request that the U.S. comptrol­ler general review the security of the entire system. 
There's been no indication anyone tried to steal anything at Mellon. In this .case, the cul­prits might have simply felt overworked and decided to dump returns into a storage room. 
Members of the Senate Finance Committee say that created an intolerable sifoa­tion, spokesman Mike Siegel said. The committee has asked the General Accounting Office, investigations arm of Congress, to look at what's known as the IRS lockbox sys­tem. 
"We're relying on the quick response of the IRS to make sure there's not a replay of what occurred last year in Pittsburgh," Siegel said. 
While many taxpayers might not know it, the IRS maintains contracts with four financial firms -Mellon, Bank of America, FirStar and Bank One -to operate lockbox cen­ters in 10 locations across the nation. When taxpayers owe the government money, their returns and check go to one of these bank centers. 
That way, the check can be credited to the government's accounts quickly, said Ken Carfine, cash management director at Financial Management Service, the Treasury Department's collec­tion and disbursement arm. 
At the height of tax time in April, Mellon's Pittsburgh operation was processing, on some days, more than 80,000 returns from parts of New York and New England, with checks totaling millions of dol­lars. 
To handle the load, some 600 workers processed returns, extracted checks and keypunched information into computers. Temporary work­ers were hired, with an eve toward hitting FMS' target completion date for the peak filing period, April 29. 

(Protect Your Asset & Privacy 
With an affordable International Trust and build wealth at the same time. plus help St. Johns Center Call 1-888-437-0077 


It used to be the end of a great night. It could soon be the start of a great day. 
FORTUNE• At Ernst & Young, we believe that when you
100. BEST wake up in the morning, you should be excited fg~ctll~I~ about the day ahead. The challenges of the workplace should keep you stimulated, your capabilities should be stretched, and your horizons continually 
broadened. Because only when our people grow, both professionally and personally. do we wow as a company. Oh happy day! 

ey.com/us/careers i!} f RNST~~ YOLJNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 




Tuesday, January 22, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
MEXICO 
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 
Officials probe
PRI faces corruption 
headed by PR! member Carlos

A•sociatcd Press 
Homcrn Deschamps, of laun­
dering oil money for the presi­
MEXICO CITY dential campaign of Francisco 

Just as Mexico's former rul­Labastida, the PRJ candidate ing party tries to make a come­who lost the 2000 election. A back, federal investigators say representative from the union they have uncovered a high­did not return messages lewil corruption scheme it used Monday requesting commPnt. to power its political machine. Also implicated Saturday was 
The investigation of $120 mil­former Pcmex director Rogelio lion allegedly laundered from Montemayor, the former PRI the state-run oil company could governor of Coahuila state who damage the Institutional was accused of helping illegally Revolutionary transfer Party's efforts funds into to cast itself the union's
"We have a duty to our 

as a new, b a n k
followers to win the

reformed ar.count and organization confidence of the people." pass on the that has money to purged cor­the PR! in a
Roberto Madrazo 

ruption from complicated
former governor

its ranks. series of 
The party, known as the PR!. lost its first presid1rntial election ever in July 2000 to Vicentti fox, ending 71 years in power. Since then, it has been trying lo win back Mexkans to help it elect a new leader and chart a course as an opposition party. "What happens to the PRI, happens to you," radio advertisements declare. 
Given the latest scandal, that might not be too appealing. On Saturday, federal prosecutors said they had frozen the bank accounts of nine current and former executives of the state­run oil monopoly, Pe troleos Mexicanos, or Pemex. as well as an account controlled bv the oil workers union, for allegedly funneling money to the PRI. 
After monitoring more than 100 cellular and home phones, officials accused the union, 
transfers involving 
U.S. and Mexican banks and phony raffles for party mem­bers. 
The accusations were not exactly a surprise. Pemex had long been suspected of funding Mexican politicians 1.1nder PRI rule. 
"It is something that has existed as a fact of Mexican pol­itics and of presidential elec­tions," said George Baker, director of Mexico Energy Intelligence, an industry newsletter. "What's new about it is not the fact, but the thought that it's going to be talked about and even investigated." 
The challenge for the govern­ment will be how far to carry the investigation in a political system where nearly every politician and political entity likely benefited from illegal 
funds, Baker said. "Who hasn't received 5120 

aid organizations 
million from Pemex?" he quipped. 
PIH President Dulce Maria Sauri denied the party used Pcmex funds for its campaign and accused the Fox adminis­tration of launching thf' investi­gation to help justify what she says are its plans to privatize Pemex, with the world's sev­enth-largest proven crude oil resPrves. Fox has said he wants more private investment -not privatization -fur the compa­ny. 
The probe could affect the Feb. 24 race for the PRI's lead­ership, in which Roberto Madrazo, former governor of the oil-rich state of Tabasco and a Labastida rival, is run­ning against I.abastida ally Beatriz Paredes. 
Madrazo encouraged the gov­ernment to investigate. saying corruption has no place in the new PRI.
•·we have a duty to our fol­lowers to win the confidence of the people," Madrazo said. He called on the PRI to rid itself of "the old vices that hurt the party, like corruption." 
Paredes cautioned Fox against trying to destroy "one of the country's biggest political forces," the PRI. 
"The Mexican people want clarity in this case, not to enter into some kind of mudslinging game," she said at a news con­ference Monday. 
Fox replaced Montemayor with Raul Munoz Leos when he took office and directed the new Pemex chief to clean up corrup­tion. Munoz Leos said he had "no opinion" on the case. 

Associatcd Press 
SARAJEVO 

The arrest and extradition of six Algerian terror suspects ­five of whom worked for Islamic humanitarian organi­zations -has the Bosnian government and Western intel-· ligence agencies taking a hard look at some 120 aid groups operating in the Balkan coun­try. 
Officials want to know whether the groups, which poured in to help the Muslim country recover from its dev­astating 1992-95 war, are legitimate aid organizations or fronts for terrorists plotting new attacks against U.S. inter­ests. 
The issue is a delicate one for Bosnia, which is still strug­gling to recover from its dev­astating l 992-95 war and depends heavily on outside humanitarian assistance. Officials are torn: They want to ensure agencies aren't shel­tering terrorists, but they're anxious to avoid offending legitimate charities. 
"They definitely deserve our attention," Ivica Misic, Bosnia's deputy foreign minis­ter and the head of the gov­ernment's anti-terrorism team, told The Associated Press on Monday. 
"There are so many of them in Bosnia. I believe there is reason for us to review this problem of their presence, actually review some of their staff, but without prejudice, of course," Misic said. 
Humanitarian groups have come under renewed scrutiny
If you were a Notre Dame professor, since the arrests in October of six Algerians that U.S. authori­
ties said posed a significant
what would you say in your... 
Campus Bible Sruay (CBS) Paxr II 
EveRy Tuesoay ar 7:00 p.m. 114 CoLeman-MoRse ConpeRence Room 
Alf students are invited to attend Bible Study every Tuesday through the semester beginning January 22, 2002. 
All sessions last one hour. 
Bring your own Bible and a friend. 


and credible threat to American and other Western interests in Bosnia. 
Despite violent protests and allegations from human rights groups that authorities lacked hard evidence against them, Bosnia last Friday turned the suspects over to U.S. custody. They were sent to Afghanistan over the weekend en route to the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. They would become the first terror sus­pects from outside Afghanistan to be held there. 
One of the men. Bensayah Belkacem. was arrested on the strength of foreign intelligence reports that he allegedly made telephone calls to an aide of al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. The others, Mustafa Adir, Sabir Lamar, Muhamed Nehle, Lakdar Bumedien and Budclah Hadz, were rounded up after British and U.S. offi­cials in Bosnia briefly closed their embassies in Sarajevo, citing credible security threats. 
After their arrests, the U.S. Embassy in Sarajevo expressed concern about "sus­pect activities" at the humani­tarian organizations. 
Lamar worked as an admin­istrator for the Saudi High Commissioner for Aid to Bosnia, a group founded by Saudi Prince Selman bin Abdul-Aziz that claims to have spent more than $600 million providing assistance to Bosnian Muslims during and after the war. 
Its Sarajevo headquarters is a $9 million complex consist­ing of a mosque that accom­modates 5,000 people, modern classrooms for Arabic studies and computer science, as well as a library, restaurants and a sports hall. 
Last Lecture? 
''Teaching at the Margins'' 
presented by 
David F. Ruccio 
Associate «, Professor of Economics Kellogg Institute Fellow 
Wednesday~ January 23 7pm St. Ed,s Hall Lounge 

For further information contact: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc 631-4616 or Campus Ministry 
631-7800. 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED!!! 

SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
and ST. EDWARD'S HALL 
page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Searching for Service??? 

1..earn about the many 1vtrys to get involved in service activities through community organizations and campus clubs. 
Find out more about: AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist* Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County* Robinson Community --•Leamin,g Center * Center for the Homeless * Chapin Street Clinic * Logan Center * La Casa de Amistad * South Bend Community Schools* Charles Martin Youth Center/South Bend Heritage Foundation* And many more!!! 
Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs Spring Break Seminars -March 10-16, 2002 (All applications are available at the CSC. Application Deadline: January 30th, 10:00p.m.) Information Sessions: January 28th@ CSC, Rm. 124 at the following times: 
A 
~ 5:30p.m. 
Holy Cross Mission Seminar 
Applications are also available at Campus Ministry. A week-long immersion into the Latino parish of Nuestra Senora de Soledad. March 9-15 
~ 6:00p.m. 
L'Arche Seminar 
11iis seminar centers around 
travel to a L 'Arche community 
in Toronto, Canada to share 
commwzity life with people 
with developmental chal­lenges. Students drawftvm the philosophy ofJean Winier and 
various spiritual wn'tings to 
augment this participatory 
learning experience. 

6:30 p.m. 
Migrant Experiences Seminar 
This seminar offers a unique 
immersion into the lives of 
migrantfannworkers in Flonda 
during the spring harvest. 
Student.s pick tomatoes in the fields (donating their wages), 
live with migrant families, 
assist agencies that serve 
migrants, and meet with 
community leaders. 

rlJ 
7:00 p.m. 
Appalachia Seminar 

Students explore religious, 
social, political and 
environmental issues in five states in the Appala­
chia region. More than 
15 service-learning sites 
are available. 

7:30 p.m. 
Washini:ton Seminar 
How are we, as Christians, called to live and work in the world? Through use of our nation's capital, students will explore this question, by visiting a monastery and several Catholic public policy organizations. 
Visit these seminars' tables at the Social Concerns Festival this Thursday evening (at the CSC from 7 to 9 p.m.) for more information! 
I
-
-Summer Service Project Internships: The final information session for the 2002 Summer Service Project Internships will be 
I 
TONIGHT, January 22nd 6:30 PM at the Center for Social Concerns. Come and hear from others who have had this eight-week 
____ experience, find out the requirements -It is a Course! -Theo 360. $1900.00 Scholarship Hispanic Leadership Intern Program (HLIP): Applications available @ the CSC and are due February 15, 2002. An 8-week long summer ·nternship. Interns are exposed to, and experience Latino communities in metropolitan Chicago where they serve as leader and student of community. 
ENCUENTRO CHICAGO 
Applications available at the CSC and Campus Ministry. Join us for a weekend immersion into the Mexican immigrant community of Pilsen in Chicago. February 23-24. 
Applications due February 8, 2002. 
Current Volunteer Needs: 
TutorinnlChiJdren Activities 
iiL 

SENIOR TRANSITION PROGRAMS *Senior Service Retreat -February 8-9 Sign up this week at the CSC or Campus Ministry *Interviewing Workshop For Post-Graduate Service Programs -Jan. 23 -5:00p.m. @ CSC MJ Adams from ACE and John Pinter from Holy Cross Associates will present helpful hints 
in preparation for upcoming interviews with all post-graduate service programs. 
Volunteers needed to help with homework and provide recreational activities for 3 boys aged Rebecca Pett· 15, 13, & 10 living at the Catholic Worker House (located on Notre Dame Ave. & Cedar). Weekdays ~~ anytime between 4-7 pm and anytime over the weekends. Volunteers asked to make consistent weekly commitment. '------.. 

Volunteer to Work with Autistic Teen-Kathy Coleman-272-1160 
She is searching for someone to spend time with her 13-yr. old son Matt, who is a high functioning autistic teen who loves sports, nintendo and animals. He is having trouble making friends at school and needs some companionship. Tutoring/Recreation with Teenagers -Please call 282-2209 if interested 

Interested in u b 
C r an Issues and Co 
ome Hear the E .
Gang Me.....be Xperiences of Brother Bill and g u.1 rs from Chicago ang memb . • 
< 

Saturday Jan ers will be at the CSC 
' 
F 
Tutor for Eleven-year-old -Julie Dawson -329-9756 (cell) -232-0895 (home) Hoping to find a tutor, preferably female, to work with her daughter Brianne, who attends St. Joe grade school, especially needs help in reading comprehension and math. A location on campus can be arranged. Tutor for High School Junior -Yolanda Carson -234-1949 She's looking for a tutor for her daughter who is a Junior in H.S. She is being recruited for college basketball, but needs some help with Algebra and English to keep her grades up, she can meet with the tutor on campus. Mentor for 13 yr old at Madison Center -Barbara Burkett or Jerri Dunn -651-1255 Looking for a male mentor to spend some quality time with a 13 yr old boy who needs a positive role model in his life. Time commitment involves meeting with him weekly or biweekly. Spanish Speaking Volunteer for Preschooler -Marissa Runkle -(219) 289-4831 ­marissar@logancenter.org 
A four year old Hispanic little boy needs someone who speaks Spanish to play with him his preschool which is a short driving distance from campus. Volunteer for Preschooler -Marissa Runkle -(219) 289-4831 -marissar@logancenter.org A 3-yr old boy needs a student volunteer to be with him as he plays at Edison preschool close to campus. The student will direct him in meaningful play. Please be available 9-10am Tuesdays 
Other Volunteer Opportunity Logan Dance -Marissa Runkle• (219) 289-4831 -marissar@logancenter.org Dance the night away on 1/25 from 7-IOp.m.w/ Logan Center adults who have developmental disabilities. Pick ups (outside): 6:30pm LeMans, 6:45pm P.W. Circle, & 6:50pm O'Neill 
~ 

~~ Vehicle Training Information 
Important CSC Vehicle Driver Update 
CSC Driver Authorization Certification cards issued prior to January 2002 will no longer be accepted! Only the actual driver of a vehicle may submit a request for use due to policy and procedural changes for CSC vehicle drivers. 
ALL STUDENTS WHO PLAN TO DRIVE CSC 
VEHICLES (bei:innini: January 21, 2002) MUST 
ATTEND ANEW INFO SESSION THIS SEMESTER! The following hour-long sessions are the ONLY sessions that will be offered at the CSC this semester: January 22, 5:30 -6:30 p.m. January 27, 6:30-7:30 p.m. January 31, 8:00 -9:00 p.m. February 3, 6:30-7:30 p.m. March 3, 6:30-7:30 p.m. 
There is ,w need to register. Bring pen and drivers license to session. Questions? e-mail: cscvans@nd.edu 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvo1s@nd.edu.*** 


Tuesday, January 22, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
INDIA 
12 civillians killed in Kashmir raid 
Associated Press 
JAMMU 

Twelve civilians -including eight children -were killed in a raid on a remote village in Indian-controlled Kashmir Monday, and police said they suspect a Pakistan-based Islamic militant group. 
It was the deadliest attack since Pakistan started clamping down on the rebels. 
Two women and a man were wounded when the attackers surrounded Salwa village in the Punch district, about 135 miles northwest of Jamrnu, the state's winter capital, said Ashok Suri, the state's police chief. 
The attackers forced their way into the house of villager Zakir Hussain, a Muslim. and started firing indiscriminately, Suri said. 
The eight dead children ranged in age from six months to 12 years. Also killed were two men and two women, officials said. One of the women was Hussain's wife. who was nine months' pregnant with twins, they said. 
"It is still not clear which group has done this, but one of the pro-Pakistan groups active in the area are definitely behind this massacre," Suri said. He gave no reason for his suspi­cions. 
"The motives of the killings are not known. We are investigating. It's a remote village," Suri said. 
He said the villagers could 
. have refused demands from the militants to provide food and shelter, or the militants might have thought the villagers were police or army informants. In another incident, police said two militants were killed Monday in an encounter with tho Indian army in Chamalvas in Doda dis­trict, 110 miles north of Jammu. Both were identified as top activists of the Jaish-e­Mohammed militant group. Five army personnel were injured, two of them critically, they said. Army spokesman Lt. Col. Mukhtiar Singh said a top Hezb­u1-Mujahedeen commander, Ghulam Mohammed Gani, was killed Sunday night in Ilathipora, 60 miles north of Srinagar, in an exchange of gunfire with an army patrol. Pakistan's government started a crackdown a week ago on Islamic militants based in its ter­ritory, and banned several of the groups that are fighting in the Indian-controlled portion of Kashmir to win independence or merger ·with Pakistan, including Jaish-e-Mohammed. 
BALLET 
., INSTRUCTOR 

Donald•Stikeleather -Instructor of Ballet, Modern and Jazz Dance -Guest Performer in the Midwest -Eleven Years Collegiate Teaching Experience 
Classes Meet: Beginner ($39)  -Choreographer Sundays Wednesdays  1 :00pm-2:30prn 6:30pm-7:45pm  
Advanced ($39)  Sundays Wednesday  2:30pm-4:00pm 7:45pm-9:00prn  
Pointe ($10)  Sundays Wednesday All classes meet at the RSRC  4:00pm-4:45pm 9:00pm-9:30pm  
Information Meeting Sunday, January 27 1:00 PM -RSRC Act. Rm. 2  

Sign-Ups Begin Monday, January 28 at 8:00 am Fees are due at time of registration Space is Limited Classes Begin Wednesday, January 30 
Open to oll Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, retirees ond their spouses. 



m ·.w 
Information Meeting Sunday, January 27 RSRC Activity Room 2, 1:30 PM 

Classes Will Meet : Beginner: Monday 6:30-7:45 pm Thursday 7:00-8: 15 pm Advanced: Monday 7:45-9:00 pm Thursday 8:15-9:30 pm Register in Advance at RecSports The Fee for the Class is $39.00 Sign-Ups Begin Monday, January 28, 8:00am Classes Begin Thursday, January 31 Space is limited Open only to Noire Dame students. staff and faculty and their spouses. Please call 1-6100 with any questions. 
Allies take more active role 
. Countries are now eager to join war in Afghanistan 
Associated Press 
MACDJLL AIR FORCE BASE. Fla. 
America's allies in the war on terrorism are beginning to play a more prominent role in Afghanistan -Canada, for example, is sending 750 com­bat troops. But here at the headquarters of the U.S. gen­eral who runs the war, the international partners keep a low profile. 
Gen. Tommy Franks, com­mander in chief of Central Command, often mentions that more than 20 countries have military representatives at his headquarters to consult on the war's progress and coordinate actions. 
They operate from biegc­and-green mobile trailers ringed by a chain-link fence in a parking lot dubbed "Coalition Village." Armed 
U.S. soldiers stand guard. Some, like NATO allies Britain, France and Turkey, as well as longtime U.S. part­ners Australia and South Korea, fly their national flags. 
A Central Command spokesman, Marine Corps Maj. Brad Lowell, said 25 countries are represented here, but Central Command will not publicly list them. Lowell said it's up to the gov­ernments to talk about their role in the anti-terror cam­paign, including their pres­ence at MacDill. 
Some do. Some don't, apparently fearful of a politi­cal backlash at home. 
"They are all making a 

major contribution," Franks said in an Associated Press interview last week. 
Canada announced Jan. 7 that it will send 750 combat troops to Kandahar airport to join at least 2,000 members of the U.S. Army's 101 st Airborne Division, and Germany last week dispatched 70 soldiers as peacekeepers. Earlier this month six German navy ships set off" for patrols off the Horn of Africa to help the United St.ates cut off potential escape routes for terrorists fleeing Afghanistan. 
Last week, Jordan began operating a military field hos­pital in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif. 
The nature of the war in Afghanistan is different from previous U.S. conflicts, and so, too, is the role of allies. In the 1999 air war in Kosovo, for example, 14 NATO member countries contributed a total of 327 aircraft. It is telling that the operation was dubbed "Allied Force," and that the war commander, Gen. Wesley Clark, ran it from his NATO command headquarters in Belgium. 
The 1991 Gulf War also fea­tured heavy combat contribu­tions from a wide spectrum of countries, including Egypt. 
To dissuade people from thinking the war in Afghanistan is strictly an American undertaking, Franks and the Bush adminis­tration have been eager to highlight the coalition's con­tributions. Now that the most intense combat appears to be over, more countries are becoming involved inside Afghanistan. 
"It's an evolution of the 

operation that we're seeing," said Commodore ,J.J. P. Thiffault, Canada's senior rep­resentative at MacDill. His government has contributed several warships, two mar­itime patrol aircraft and one cargo plane. The 750 combat troops are to go to Kandahar in mid-February, he said. 
As in most of America's overseas conflicts, Britain is the most prominent and pub­licly supportive ally. 
British Air Vice Marshal 
G.E. "Jock" Stirrup arrived at Franks' headquarters on Sept. 17, six days after the terrorist attacks and weeks before President Bush launched the 
U.S. military campaign in Afghanistan. 
Britain has about 4,000 troops in and around Afghanistan, including ground forces working with U.S. spe­cial operations troops. It flies surveillance, reconnaissance and refueling aircraft in the area and has warships in the Arabian Sea. Britain also is leading the International Security Assistance Force in Kabul that is meant to stabi­lize the capital area while the 
U.S. military operation contin­ues. 
British submarines launched cruise missiles into Afghanistan in the opening hours of the campaign. 
ln an interview just days before he returned to London. to be replaced at MacDill by Lt. Gen. Cedric Delves, Stirrup · said that as commander of British forces it was essential that he be present here rather than rely on telephone or other long-distance means of communicating with Franks and his staff. 
"Command is a personal issue," Stirrup said. 
Keenan Revue 
2002: APalindrome Revue 
Show Dates: January 31, February 1 and 2 
No lines more than an hour ahead of time. Two tickets per ID, one ID per person. 
Tickets are FREE! 
Ticket Distribution 
Saint Mary's College 
Wednesday,January 23 3:30-4:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Lobby 
Notre Dame 

Thursday,January 24 3:00-4:00 p.m. JACC-Gate 10 



OTHE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, January 22, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nom Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining H,ll, Nmrc Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSIN.l:SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Pe-ters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarlcy VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadrer SC.ENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAJNl' MARY'S ED!l'OR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
AD\/l'RTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer An DE.~IGN MANAGER: J\Jcx Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAl'OR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turncr CoNTR0lLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHIC-5 EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
0ff!CE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0........, ..... 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERllSING.....................................63 I -6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS................................................ ..........631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sporu. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 . 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMIN!STRAT0RS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obreroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporu, feamres and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated rress. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly srudem reviews 
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rates of print ads 
about The Observer
archives co search for 
to meet the editors and 
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free e,cpression'-/,fail opinions thro;igh letrer~.is ensqwags<J;,. Leners to che Edirnr mt1.1t be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies .1houldbe direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 


GUEST COLUMN 

WTC monument should honor courage, not race 
SAN MARCOS, Texas 
Diversity is a wonderful thing. It enriches our society and lends depth to our culture as a nation. Like all good things though, it can be taken to extremes and lose its meaning. Staff Editorial 
Such is the case with the proposed memorial statue 
The Daily
for the New York 
University Star 
firefighters killed in the Sept. 11 attack. 
The statue, which is loosely based on the now famous photograph of the firefighters hoisting the flag over the rubble of Ground Zero, features one white, one black and one Hispanic firefighter. 
This is contrast to the photo where all three of the firefighters were white. 

It could be argued that the symbolic nature of the statue outweighs the his­torical significance, but the enumera­tion of only three races when people of many other races not represented died can be seen as somewhat insulting. In order for it to be truly representative, all other races must be displayed. And there lies the problem. 
It is also insulting to the three fire­fighters who raised the flag over the ruins. Should their place in history be denied simply because they happen to be white? 
Tragedy knows no race or color and death visits everyone equally, espe­cially on that day. While the intentions of the designer were good, the statue ceases to be a memorial and becomes a monument to political correctness. 
What becomes lost in all of this is white, black, Hispanic and Asian peo­ple didn't die simply as members of their race. They died as Americans who selflessly gave their lives for their fellow man and woman. This tragedy never needed to be about race. 
What is needed is a monument that takes courage and dedication into account. Let us remember what those brave men and women did, not what color that they happened to be. 
This editorial first appeared in Southwest Texas State University's newspaper, The Daily University Star on Jan. 17, and is reprinted here cour­tesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this article represent those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Golden Globe choices 
too formulaic 
I refuse to watch the Golden Globes ever again. I can't believe that "The Lord of the Rings" didn't win anything on Sunday night. The critics still don't seem to care about beauty, truth or technical achievement. 
Instead, thev voted for the formulaic, tedious "A Beautiful Mind." I find fr ironic that the producer of"A Beautiful Mind" claimed that he wanted to "educate" the world about the problems that Prof. Nash faced, when the movie is so factually incorrect about Nash's relationship with his (now ex-) wife, his own problems and schizophrenia in general. 
"The Lord of the Rings" remained mostly true to a time­lcs!'> and bcal.itiflI! story (nevermind the gratuitous addition of Liv Tyler's screen time and the bAlow nveragc sr:ore) nnd took an unprecedented amount of care to creato. It took the collaboration of a host of underrated actors (not just a cou­ple sexy Hollywood stars), several computer geniuses, some inventive directing and seamless cinematography. 
Moreover, it waxed poetic about power, evil, morality and our obligations to society, to nature and to ourselves. I think all movie critics have a conspiracy to recognize sac­charine love stories over epics (for example, "Shakespeare in Love" over "Saving Private Ryan"). What a bunch of pan­sies. 
Andrew Malahowski 
third year law student Fischer Graduare Residences Jan. 21, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Scott Brodfuehrer Sheila Egts Elizabeth Lee 
Sports 
Katie Hughes 
Viewpoint 
Lori Lewalski 
Scene 
Sam Derheimer OuisScott 
Graphics 
Jimmy Atkinson 
Production 
Jeff Baltruzak 
Lab Tech 
Amanda Greco 
POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Do you plan to participate in activities 
"Anyone in any walk oflife who is content
celebrating Martin Luther King, Jr. day? 
with mediocrity is untrue to himse{fand the American way. " 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
General George S. Patton 
U.S. general 

--------------~-------------­
OTHE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, January 22, 2002 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Clearing up cloning misconceptions 
I yearn for the day when I can have a lab on a hill and create lots of me. That won't happen though. I wanted to make a few points about the cloning issue, touch upon a few random ideas and hopefully clear up some misconceptions. 
Effects of genetics and those of the environment. Genetics accounts for only about 30 percent of who we are. People have been putting too much emphasis on genetics. It only predisposes us to certain attributes. The environment plays a much larger role in determining who we are, how intelligent or lazy we become, what we're afraid of.and whether we believe Bob Davie is an attractive man or not. 
Cloned humans are not zombies (except maybe Bob Dole). Humans will not be harvested for their organs. If you were to be cloned, the person who would develop from that cell would be its own person. It would be as if you had 
a. twin brother or sister that just hap­pened to be 21 years younger than you. Humans will not be raised and slaugh­tered so little Johnny can have a new lung. 

GUEST COLUMN 
Give John Walker Lindh credit 

FORT COLLINS, Colo. We should give John Walker Lindh just a bit of credit. 
The American-turned-terrorist, cur­rently facing a life sentence for his involvement with the al Qaeda ter­
Staff Editorial 

rorist organization, is certainly an 
Rocky

American enigma. Why maintain citi­Mountain zenship in a nation Collegian that you despise? But the optimistic folks here at the Collegian have feel is wrong? 
This campus is certainly home to those who are willing to do such things; we have study abroad programs and internships; we have ROTC programs that train students to take up arms for this country. Some of us are doing what we feel will make the world better. But how many apathetic students are there on this campus searching only for a large bank account? At least Lindh looked for success in his achievements and not his wallet. That's at least some­thing, right? 
But let's not take this too far. The 

found something useful in his story. Sure, he is a terror­ist, he will probably 
------=~ 

spend the rest of his life in a prison cell (and he most probably should). but at least the guy felt that he had some­thing worth fighting for, which is something many 20­year-olds don't experi­ence. 
The Collegian editorial board in no way sup­ports the choices that Lindh made, just as we do not feel that he 
should receive any slack from the gov­
~--,, .. , . ..,,, ~.,,. • · · 
~~,.:-'1· 

ernment due to a pos-· ··-1 • sibly misguided youth. .,, ,· But we want to point out that the guy did something that many young people never quite get around to doing. Lindh found a cause, something that gave his life purpose. 
How many of us can say the same? 
How many young people can say that they are willing to travel halfway around the world in order to learn more about a cause? To take up arms against something that we in our hearts 
• . .. ,. -
guy, after all, is a terrorist. While here we note his desire to cause change, we also note that we abhor the decision to use death and destruction as a political tool. Terrorism is never a useful answer, although, as one board member quoted a political sci­ence pro­fessor, "One man's free­dom fighter is another man's ter­-rorist." It is clear to us that Llndh is the latter, but the .. · ,., ;-positive in this '~_,i,~;:? story is w~rth 
·-,•--; ­
·.. -~--some attention, too. Lindh made a com­
mitment to change. It is a travesty that he made the wrong decision. 
This editorial first appeared in Colorado State University's newspaper, the Rocky Mountain Collegian. on Jan. 
18. and is reprinted here courtesy ofU­WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those o/The Observer. 

When does human life begin? Cellular life and human life are distinct. Our variety of emotions, higher-level cogni­tive thinking and our concept of the self makes humans unique from any other animal. And in order for us as humans to have these abilities, the neurons of our brain must form a highly-ordered structure. But this docs not begin to happen until. at the earliest, about the second trimester (at about three months). The embryo before this time can not be human life as we imagine it. 
But the embryo has a soul, you say. An organism in the four-or eight-cell stage of development does not have a soul. At this stage, one cell could break away from the mass and form its own, geneti­cally identical individual (for more on the embryo not being human, I suggest reading Lee Silver's "Remaking Eden"). 
I have much more to say but I think that stirs up enough hostility for now. 
Shane Hudnall 
senior 
Sranford Hall 
Jan. 21, 2002 


King ideals change nation 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. 
Monday morning many students will sleep late, lounge around, catch episodes of soap operas or talk shows and spend the day taking a break from the return of school commit­ments. 
However, for Staff Editorial more than 34 mil­lion African-Americans in the 
The Arkansas
United States, 
Traveller

Monday will be a day to celebrate the life of Martin Luther King Jr. and his work in civil rights. Members of the African­American population are not the only citizens of this nation who should be concerned about freedom, though. 
With the terrorist al.tacks of Sept. 11, and the resulting U.S. war on ter­rorism, citizens have felt the threat of losing their freedom. The terrorist attacks that day made all Americans feel alienated and lost in their own " country. People were not sure what to do, how to react or where to turn for help. 
One of the most powerful and respected nations in the world sud­denly had its civil rights threatened by a group of terrorists. 
However, this attack has united the country in many ways. People of all races came together through their suffering and the ensuing period of recovery. They continue to unite in the battle against future attacks. The sense of patriotism in this country rose dramatically with merchants finding their stock of American flags 
insufficient to cover the fanatical 
demand that the attacks inspired. 
So on a day when Americans can once again unite under the idea of celebrating unity and triumph over oppression, why would anyone choose to overlook the occasion as just a chance for a three-day week­end? 
Instead, it is time to take a walk in King's shoes and reach out to help fellow Americans. King once said, "Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that." 
So when Monday morning rolls around, take a moment to think about what you can do to help, and spend the rest of the day doing it, honoring King's memory in the process. But remember that to be effective, humanity and civility cannot be turned off at the end of the day. They must persist all year in every action, every word and every deed. Only then can the nation truly be united. 
King knew it would take time to change attitudes, to truly bring this great nation together. And now, more than 30 years after his death. it seems the time has come. 
This editorial first appeared in the University ofArkansas's newspaper, The Arkansas Traveller, on Jan. 18, and is reprinted here courtesy ofU­WIRE. 
The opinions expressed in this arti­cle are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
~HE 
vnSERVER 


CENE.
music 
page 12 
Tuesday, January 22, 2002 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Adams, Williams demonstrate worth in Gold 
touch. versions in terms of power, Sticking to the Grammy "Get Right With God" provedBy SEAN T. McLAUGHLIN Wasting little timfl, Adams speed and intensity. Award-winning Car Wheels to be real highlights. As the Scene Music Critic roared into a sped-up version The standout moment On A Gravel Road, and her night drew to a close, 
of "New York, New York." involved Adams copping Mick latest release, Essence, Williams capp.ed the show 
Ryan Adams and Lucinda Aside from "When the Stars Jagger poses and allowing his Williams dis­
with the Essence's Williams record under the Go I-Hueff and "Touch Feel and roadie to play guitar during played a grace best trac:k, same label, Lost Highway Lose," ,\dams eschewed most the Rolling Stones classic and touch that a "Lonely Girls." Records, and are widely con­of his slower, 
"Brown Sugar." Shelby Lynne or Although she sidered two of the best song­acoustic-oriented The consummate Sheryl Crow faded into the writers in contemporary material and showman, could only dream dark confessing American music. Luckily, decided to rock Adams' hour-long for. that, "sparkly both decided to end their out. set left the near­Rolling through rhinestones, respective tours together at Other than capacity crowd tight versions of sparkly rhine­
the Riviera Theater in Heartbreaker's begging for more. " M e t a 1 stones. sparkly Chicago on Dec. 8, 2001. "To Re Young (Is Williams closed Firecracker," rhinestones .. Adams opened the show, To Be Sad, Is To the show. and her "Hight in Time," shine on lonely sporting dark sunglasses and Be Highl," Adams subtle delivery "2 Cool 2 To Be girls." Williams
Williams 
a militant all-black outfit that concentrated on hinted throughout 4-gotten," "Car need not worry. resembled Johnny Cash­the faster tracks that Adams prob­Wheels On A Both she and meets-Pub1ic Enemy extra off his latest ablv should have Gravel Road" and "Joy," Ryan Adams confirmed that
Adams

circa "Apocolyse 91: The release, Gold. played second. Williams simply did what she they're worth far more than Enemy Strikes Back." Having Songs like Nonetheless, does best; she played great their weight in gold. Darth Vader's theme song "Firecracker," "Nobody Girl," the woman that Time songs. from "Star Wars" blare over "Rescue Blues," and "Tina Magazine recently crowned as The slower, more introspec­the P.A. as the band strolled Toledo Street Walkin' Blues" "America's Best Songwriter" tive tracks off Essence also Contact Sean McLaughlin at onstage was also a nice far outmatched their studio did not disappoint. came across well. "Blue" and smclaugh@nd.edu 
CONCERT REVIEW 

Weezer headlines diverse rock show 
For a band that started out playing to crowds that sive comeback from 
Jimmy Eat World,
By TOM O'CONNELL could be counted on two hands, a 10,000 seat arena the brink of obscuri­

Tenacious D and Weezer
Scene Music Critic 

gives the music a much different feel. Though they ty. Following their 
Kalamazoo. Mich.

used a backup band for their album, Tenacious D have popular self-titled Early last month in Kalamazoo, Mich. three very dif­always played their concerts alone, just two men with first album, Weezer 
Dec. 6. 2001 

ferent bands played to a sold-out crowd of almost acoustic guitars, often talking to and interacting with front man Rivers 10,000. Jimmy Eat World, Tenacious D and Weezer -the audience. While this was definitely an intimate Cuomo experimented 
Tenacious D Set 

in the middle of their small cities tour -were all pro­feeling in the smaller venues, it loses something in a with the second 
Flash moting their recent albums. This tour was important bigger place. album Pinkerton, 
Wonderhoy for increasing fan bases for the band that just became As an underground oddity in the late 1990s, part of writing 10 deeply 
Trihute famous, the band that just debuted, the joke of Tenacious D's HBO come­personal and emo­
Saxaboom 

and the band that made the come-dy show was that the self-proclaimed tional songs about 
Inward Singing

back. · "Greatest Band on Earth" had no love, longing and
Back after five years, 
Karate

Jimmy Eat World is a veteran audience. With thousands of scream­loss. 
Kyle Quit
Weezer seems ready

. group of fringe emo rockers whose ing fans to handle at every show, it When the album 
Dio

recent album Bleed American and to continue building seems that they are trying to take the failed, · Cuomo 
Cosmic Shame

hit single "The Middle" impressed what they started joke in a new direction. became a recluse, The Road critics and shot them to mainstream From a small interactive show, they and it took five years
seven years ago. 
Chop Suey

stardom. They opened the show with now seem to lecture to their audience before he came back a lot of in-tensity and quickly got the about the ups and downs of being a with a third album. 
Summer of '69 growing crowd energized. The all general admission rockstar. And while good to see that they are trying to Finally out of their 
Socks show brought many people down to floor level, making stay fresh and adapting to their new situation, the old haze, Weezer is tour­
F*''* Iler Gently for an extremely tight squeeze for those trying to get to 0 is gone, and die hard fans now have to share them ing again and not a 
Double Team the front. After 45 minutes of intense rock, Jimmy Eat with a growing crowd of people who only hold a mild minute too soon. World left the stage and Tenacious D came on. interest. The new songs have 
Weezer Set 

With an enthusiastic crowd chanting "We want the Regardless of the size of the crowd, Tenacious D still the fun energetic feel Island in the SunDJ" it was obvious that Tenacious D, comprised of knows how to rock an audience. Playing their old of the first album, 
Garage

singer/guitarist Jack Black and lead guitarist Kyle favorites like "The Cosmic Shame" and "Rock Your but many fans were 
Illue Moon

Gass, are on their way to becoming full blown rock Socks" they explain to the audience why they were disappointed that the 
Crah

stars. Their self-titled debut album, combined with chosen to have such talent and why not everyone can band played only one Tires of Sex
lead singer Jack's successful acting career, is helping kick the amount of ass they do. The highlight of the song from Pinkerton. to add momentum. show was their discussion on current rock music that Weezcr's fan base 
Change the World led into covers grew substantially 
Smik of' System of a during their five year 
~ly Name is Jonas Down's "Chop hiatus, largely due to 
Photograph Suey" and Napster and the abil­
Undone (The Swellter Song) Bryan Adams· ity to gain access to 
Don't Let Go "Summer of their live and rare 
Say It Ain't So '69." A solid recordings from 
!lash Pipe 

hour of Pinkerton. 
Only in DreamsTenacious D Still, their live per­ended with formances have not 

Encore:

"Double suffered. Ending the 
13uddy IIolly

Team," the main set with onA of Surf Wax America
classic song of their most loved the seduction songs, "Only In of a Dreams," Weezer "Backstage gave their fans a great finale. Betty." Back after five years, Weezer seems ready to contin­
Since the ue building what they started seven years ago. With a summer of new album due out this year, they are set to reaffirm 2001, Weezer their status as a great rock band.
Photo counesy of www tenac1ousd.com Photo courtesy of www weezar com 

has been stag­
Jimmy Eat World, Tanacious D and Weezer bring a variety of rock 'n' roll sounds and 

ing their mas-
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu
styles together for one of the most eccentric and stellar rock shows of the year. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE. 
rflUSlC 
Tuesday, January 22, 2002 page 13 

FEATURED COLUMN 
The death of rap and other musical observations 
So it's the beginning of a new year.  some new prerequisite that before get­ If it's Travis and Coldplay  
And this is the first music spread of  ting a record deal. every new rapper  you can't get enough of, then  
2002. Ah, the possibilities.  must place the word "Lil'" in front of his  check out the latest Brit-pop  
It's tempting at this point to attempt to  name'l  Lil' Row Wow, Lil' Wayne, Lil'  import, Starsali.or, a band  
foretell the acts that will dominate the  Kim, Lil' Mo, Lil' Romeo, Lil' Ric, Lil'  desperately attempting to  
music scene this  Trov, Lil' Zane, Lil' Keke, (seriouslv, is it  distinguish itself from, well,  
coming year, as if I  just· me, or is there something ridicu­ Travis and Coldplay.  
\Vas Miss Cleo or  lously wrong here?) Lil' Cease, Lil' Zane,  Other rockers on the rise  
something. and I  Lil' Jonny and last hut certainly not  include alt. country sensation  
suppose I will. a lit­ least, Lil' Jon and the Eastside Boyz.  Ryan Adams, former  
tle, but I think we  Can't forget Lil' Jon and the I:iastside  Basehead DJ and keyboardist  
can have even more  Boyz, that would just be a travesty.  Citizen Copo (Clarence  
fun just by taking a  Ugh.  Greenwood) and the young  
look at what's sitting  Thankfully, some hip-hop artists hold  punkers SavAs the Day. Each  
around oul there  themselves to a slightly a higher level.  has their own unique style,  
and f'\Valuating just Sam Derheimer  The Dilated Peoples' newest album,  untarnished ­ as of yet ­ by  
what is so god­ Expansion THam, is a landmark of mi<'  the alluring yet deadly siron  
awfully wrong witl1  skill and "musical mastery.~ Opening for  song of the TRL monster.  
it Assistant  Jurassic 5 on their latest tour, Dilati>d  Pop is. well, pop is what it  
On that note, we Scenp, Editor  are slowly exposing the country to true  always has been. Rock might  
might as well start  hip-hup talent. Individual artists like  be fighting back, bul for now,  
off with the most  Alicia Keys and Angie Stone are also  pop still rules.  
glaring of eminent  striving to bring a bit of respect back to  A new season of "Making  
disasters-to-be: Bubba Sparxxx. In his  a severely damaged genre.  the Band" will keep the guys  
best effort to remain directly in Dr.  Let's just hope Bubba Sparxxx gets  in 0-Town famous for least  
Dre's shadow, famed hip-hop producer  shot in one of those horrific drive-hies r  another 10 minutes. And as  
Timbaland went out and found a white  hear are so common to the ghetto-rav­ long as Britney continues to  
rapper of his own, Warran Anderson  aged streets of La Grange, Ga. before he  shamelessly flaunt every­ 
Mathis, a.k.a. Bubba Sparxxx. But  can ruin everything.  thing her momma gave her,  
Bubba ain't no Eminem. In fact, if we're  Rock on the other hand, is still recov­ she'll have the funds to sup­ 
going to be honest, this fat whiteboy from the rural south could single-hand­edly be the death of rap music. Vanilla Ice may have brutally wounded rap  ering from the utter beating it's received at the hands of pop music the past fevv years. But as Fred Dursk is finally removed kicking and screaming from  port bo Justin Timberlake long after his buddy Joey finally snaps after eating one too many of Chili's baby-back  Photo courtesy of www.bubbasparxxx.com Bubba Sparxxx could be the bullet to the head of rap music. Rap has survived embarassments like MC Hammer and Vanilla Ice, but Bubba?  
once, but with rhymes like, "Y'all don't  the rock spotlight, we're going to see the  ribs (N'Sync are the new  
know me at all/ I say the same things but slower than y'all," Bubba is going to send rap straight to its grave. If any readers out there like Bubba and enjoy his music, and I have offended them with my bias, close-minded, hate speech, then I apologize, and I have just  scene open up and welcome bands with actual talent and sincerity. Thanks to the spotless production of Drearnworks Records, emo rockers Jimmy Eat World have been polished and dubbed "radio­friendly," and seem ready to take the rock world by storm. After years of liv­ Chili's spokesboys), and goes on the brutal killing spree we all know he has in him, finally putting an end to awesome selling power of their "boy" band. But if you're still waiting to find out who's really going to be hot this year,  a good time listening to their latest sin­gle, that's what its all about. Who you listen to isn't nearly as important as whether or not you simply enjoy the music. And never let music snobs (like myselO tell you otherwise.  
one question for you: does it hurt when people make fun of the fact that your parents were related before they got married? Its not like rap has been doing itself any favors lately either though. Is there  ing underground, bands like Incubus and Hoobastank are quickly making LA. the new Seattle. Their melodic grooves and intense rock spirit may just be strong enough to fight off the pounding headache that is pop music for good.  then you've missed the entire point of this column. When it comes down to it, it doesn't matter what you listen to, as long as you enjoy it. So what if Blink182 could be out played by an epileptic 12­year old with only one arm? If you have  Sam Derheimer can be contacted at sderheim@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer.  

NEW 
Concrete"lllo·· 
. -.. <ii:~-t ..·: ..~_><::._..-·· 
Bad ReH9ici1J' 
Blue .six ~, · Ala11.•· 
1-~"'ua:~y-::~s:~=: 
The Chem•cal~:-•1..,.,,:1',·:.«--•:.'.Y(l,ll,i!,$::t ;,:,~; Cra.•k•r,:•:f'.P..... •~·:··.· ·......... ·· 
Teenage ,an..-.b:--·Hotrclyt, · · ..·· ..•.· .. 
L~., H'....k··· .. ·-"·Pl-...wn···•--:·'' ,.,.. C ............ ,. t.a·n•·.iii,....-.<A;iiii;"'...w.o•t;:(
¦ .... e e · :... . !11!111,,.... :••J.,.e:,. . ."""•.,.., ,,,, '<'"f}'
.. Clliu 
0
Njne...•1n··c·---··¦·a···11-s~:;..:•ilve····•:•'1•1·9'•--'l;:•>t.:'"P
.. . •• . ' ,-: : :"•·· . . . •. ,........: /f.¦(......~:;:~,,.,.p
co111c1:Have:aeen, .., KRS-one .~;sp•rttualyllindeil . ·. 
»x<r ,,n, .,,:: 
New York Dolls~... ~m,·P•••Wiill<Love<· ·.:):;
.•·HIIFDN-Bo"5• '\~;: .. "-.K"·'''.""" ~-;,~::::;: 
Sneaker:Pi111a.;.•Blooel'S .::<:::~·'" ·.~' 
. ' ' ,. . .,· '., ',... -•. .' ... ' _, ~-.·, ·., .:::.:,(:i; 
~-..,·
,ii;,. 
Coft 



~-----------~---­
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 22, 2002 
-

Wo01en 
continued from page 24 
team dominated that battle. The Irish had 33 rebounds to the Huskies' 51. 
"The defensive pressure was just outstanding," McGraw said. "I mean, peo­ple talk about their offense, but I think the thing that really makes them a great team is their defense." 
That defense kept the Irish from taking more than one look per possession and made sure those looks didn't result in a score. The 53 points the Irish scored marks their second-lowest number of points scored this season and the 29 percent shooting percentage from the field in the first half fell well below the Notre Dame season aver­age. 
After allowing the Irish to stay within two in the first four minutes of the game (4­2}, the Huskies allowed only three Irish points in the next eight minutes while they grabbed 18 themselves. 
"Our defense definitely won the game for us tonight," Sue Bird said. "I think that was the key factor. We got them down." 
"We just really wanted to do a good job to get them out of their game early," Williams said. "Make them do things they're not used to, penetrate, switch directions, get them out of their game. I think we did a good job of it." 
The Huskies did a particu­larly good job shutting down Ratay and Batteast, who have been the leading scorers for the Irish in all but one game this season. 
Battcast totaled only six points in 21 minutes of play. The freshman, who was used as the go-to player early in the game, fell under the pressure of the intense Connecticut defense. 
"I don't think she started the game very well," McGraw said. "Jackie, I think, felt a little bit of pressure. I mean, we went to her very early. We probably should have let her get into the flow of the game and gone to a more veteran player." 
Even the veterans felt the pressure of the aggressive Huskies. 
Ratay, who has recently been scoring more than 20 points a game, was held to just nine. Last season, while the Huskies focused on All­American Ruth Riley and 
point guard Niele Ivey, Ratay worked her way to being one of the best 3-point shooters in the country. 
But on Monday, Connecticut could focus its a.ttention on her. 
"This year, they're focusing in more on her and you can see the strain that it's taking on her game," freshman Kelsey Wicks said. 
While the Connecticut defense was busy keeping Notre Dame out of its game, the Husky offense was all over the court. If Williams or Cash couldn't get a good look inside, Bird was waiting out­side to hit a 3. 
"They have a lot of differ­ent weapons and a lot of dif­ferent options," Ratay said. "If one's not working they can go to the next one and the next one and the next one and it goes on and on." 
The Huskies grabbed 25 points on second looks, scor­ing on almost every offensive rebound. 
The Irish loss margin was 13 points less than the aver­age Husky opponent. Connecticut scored 10 fewer points than their season average of 90 points per con­test. 
While Ratay and Ratteast struggled offensively, Wicks had her best game of the sea­son, scoring a team-high 16 points, seven more than her previous career-high of nine. While all six freshman faced the biggest crowd and most talented team they've seen, Wicks was able to lead her team in scoring. 
"I think a freshman coming into this environment and you don't know how they're going to react, "McGraw said. "Kelsey really stepped up." 
On the defensive end, Le'Tania Severe and Amanda Barksdale both had solid games for the Irish, and Batteast picked up where her offense left off. Severe grabbed four steals during the game while Batteast added three blocks to Barksdale's six. 
With those positives playing in the backs of their minds, the Irish can see themselves being contenders the next time the teams face off. 
"We'll be back, " Wicks said. "We'll play them again and I think that we'll be a much better battle the next time." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo568S@saintmarys.edu. 

A01stadter 
continued from page 24 
"This whole season is preparation for the future," McGraw said after the gamP. "Everything we do is prepa­ration for next year, and this is going to be a very good team next year." 
Then she paused for a sec­ond, not wanting to throw the current campaign to the wayside. 
"We're going to be a very good team this year," she added. 
Maybe so, because with the learning curve this team has exhibited since early December, they could be quite good by early March. 

"We're young. We're
Back in early Wicks, December, still growing. And ifwe coming off Notre Dame the bench
continue to develop,
met then-No. to score a
we're going to be so
19 Michigan on team-high 
a neutral court much better next lime." 16 points in in Grand 27 minutes. Rapids and The
Kelsey Wicks 
looked con­Wyoming fused and native
freshman 
on Batteast and Alicia Ratay? That would be Allison Bustamante, a fresh­man. 
Oh yeah, sophomore point guard Le'Tania Severe, the only true point guard on the roster and the slasher and defensive whiz who best resembles Niele Ivey, counts as a freshman here too after averaging less than five min­utes a game while nursing leg injuries last season. 
And Monday, the kids showed glimpses of gn,at­ness against a UConn team that's obviously the best in the country. They may have lost by 27, but No. 2 Tennessee and No. 3 Oklahoma could barely stay within 20. 
First 
there was 
intimidated, falling 78-63 and shooting just 37.3 per­cent. 
After that game I wrote a column suggesting that for this team to compete this year, the freshman must contribute -now. Some people told me I was expect­ing too much from a group of 18-year olds who had never played together before. They told me to give the kids time to develop, to learn to play with one another. 
Well I don't expect a repeat championship this year, but after watching this team mature over the last six weeks I'm sticking to my guns, and here's why: 
This team's best athlete, a player who can beat offenses inside and outside with moves that arc physically impossible to defend, is a freshman: Jacqueline Batteast. 
This team's best scorer in the low post, the one who can give the Irish an edge in rebounding and second­chance points, is also a freshman: Teresa 13orton. 
The one player who can come into a game and com­pletely alter a defense with her ability to play all five positions? You guessed it, freshman Kelsey Wicks. 
And the shooter who can punish a team for zeroing in didn't seem 
to notice the All-Americans in her face, the loud, nearly-capac­ity arena or the offensive struggles of her teammates. She just put 14 shots up, saw half of them go in and helped the Irish keep the gap under 30. 
"Pretty much the open shots that I had I was like, 'Oh, it's open, I'll just shoot it,"' Wicks said. "I like to keep things very simple. I don't think too much, I just play." 
That's an attitude also exhibited by Bustamante, who was forced into her first minutes at point guard when Severe picked up her fourth foul early in 
the second half. The Miami native collected three assists to only one turnover, keep­ing the offense in flow while learning on the fly. 
And Batteast, who made only two of 10 shots, had a valid excuse. A front court featuring three future WNBA players was told to focus in on her. But while she strug­gled to put the ball in the basket, she didn't carry her struggles over to the defen­sive end, picking up a steal and three blocked shots while helping to hold Swin Cash to 4-14 shooting. 
As for the sophomore, Severe, she only collected four steals and seven assists against Sue Bird, a Naismith Award candidate and undoubtedly the best point guard in the country. 

So what do the Irish still need to do this season? For starters, take something away from every game. On Monday, the Irish played together for the first time in front of a hostile environ­ment and ESPN cameras. 
"You come into a game like this, it's preparation for the Big East tournament, for the NCAA tournament," McGraw said. "It's a big game atmosphere. The crowd is tremendous." 
The youngsters also need to take a cue from Wicks and remain unflustercd, no matter what the surround­ings. This team is undefeat­ed at home, but just 2-6 away from the Joyce Center. 
"I think maybe just men­tally when we're faced with the hostile environment of somebody else's house, we haven't had that killer instinct where we respond with the fierceness that you need to be a competitor," Wicks said. "I think that's kind of cost us a little bit, but we are developing and we're getting a lot better." 
Each player also needs to settle into a role within the team, as they have begun to in recent weeks. McGraw pointed out Sunday after­noon that although the Irish go 10 deep in their rotation, teams with a solid core of veterans like UConn have the advantage of knowing how each teammate moves and thinks. 
And last, the team needs to remain positive. After Saturday's home game against Virginia Tech, it wouldn't be overestimating the Irish to expect them to win out the Big East season. But even if they don't, they need to remember that there's only one senior on this year's roster. After all, the Irish were only 11-5 through 15 games in 1997­98, Riley's freshman year and Ivey's first full season. 
"We're young. We're still growing. And if' we continue to develop, we're going to be so much better and it's going to show the next time," Wicks said with a smile after the game. 
Smart kid. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nd.edu. The views of this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 3 cents per chara, ter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Watch outside of South Dining Hall on Monday, Jan. 14. Call Claire 634-3677 to identity. 
FOR SALE 
GET CHEAP TEXTBOOKS! Search 
16 bookstores with 1 click! S&H and taxes are also calculated. <http://www.bookhq.com/>http://ww w.bookhq.com/ 
Observer Valentine classifieds. They are much classier than roses -cheaper too. 
WANTED 
Do you miss your family pet? 
Consider becoming a FOSTER or VOLUNTEER for the cats and dogs at PET REFUGE, a no-kill animal shelter just 10 minutes from cam­pus. Please visit www.petrefuge.com, e-mail webmaster@petrefuge.com, or call 256-0886. 
FOR RENT 
Why live in crowded houses? Have your own space, privacy & security. Mar-Main Apartments 233-2098 
3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage, fenced yard, NC, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
New 3-4 bdrms, 3 bath homes lea-luring fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck, 2·car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232· 4527 or 616-683-5038. 

nice homes north of ND [close] for next school year ideal for 3-8 stu­dents great area 2773097 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
3 Bedroom House Close to Campus $595.00 per month Call 233-1440 
PERSONAL 

Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1 ·800-648­4849 www.ststravel.com 
Mike Lanes lonely hearts club band 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. II you or someone you lo\/e needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Buy a special red Observer Valentine's classified for your sweetheart -just 3 cents per char­acter. Tell the special people in your life how much you love them for just a few pennies. 
Please recycle The Observer. The Earth appreciates it. 
Want to write for the best college newspaper in America? Call The 
Observer! 
News: 1-5323 Sports: 1-4543 Scene: 1-4540 
The Observer is currently accepting applications for 2002-2003 Editor­in-chief. Drop off applications in The Observer's office, located in the Basement of South Dining Hall. 
Observer classifieds -they're the bestl 


The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Salvador's OT goal propells Blues past Bruins 
Benoit Hogue scored on a his second of the game with allowed one goal on three shots Morozov, a streak scorer most 
Associated Press 
backhand through the legs of 2:33 left on an assist from Sopel before being replaced by of his career, has five goals in 
Johnson at 7:03 of the third to as the Canucks beat Carolina Skudra. three games since moving onto
BOSTON 

give Boston a 3-2 lead. It was for the second time in nine Vancouver went up 3-1 early Lemieux's line shortly after the
The St. Louis Blues are mak­
Hogue's first goal since the days. Vancouver handed the in the second on a rebound goal Penguins' owner-player
ing other teams take notice as 
Bruins acquired him from Hurricanes their worst loss of by Jan Hlavac that chased returned Jan. 12 from a two­
they climb the standings in the 
Dallas on Jan. 12. the season, 7-1, on Jan. 12. Arturs Irbe after he faced a bar­month layoff with a hip injury. 
Western Conference. 
Boston has converted one of Brendan Morrison had three rage of 22 shots in 25 minutes. "l like to play with Mario ­
Bryce Salvador scored off a 
its last 30 power-play opportu­assists for his second three­Less than six minutes later, he's unbelievable," Morozov 
pass from Keith Tkachuk with 
nities but has 24 goals in its last point game of the season as Mattias Ohlund beat Barrasso said. "I only need to be open,
2:12 left in overtime Monday as 
five home games. Vancouver snapped Carolina's from the slot to give the and he gets me the puck."
the Blues' set a franchise record 
"We weren't doing the things three-game unbeaten streak. Canucks their second two-goal The Penguins, who recently
with their ninth consecutive 
that made us successful in the Erik Cole and Bales Battaglia lead of the second. had won only twice in a 16­
win, 4-3 over the Roston Bruins. 
first period," Bruins forward scored within a span of 2:42 Goals by Ron Francis and game stretch, have been a much
"It's quite an achievement for 
Bill Guerin said. "If we have a midway through the final period Battaglia pulled Carolina within different team with Lemieux in
us," Blues goalie Brent Johnson 
2-0 lead, the game should be in as the IIurricanes overcame 3-1 one twice in the period. the lineup. winning their last
said. "Tkachuk has been the key 
the bag." and 4-2 Vancouver leads to go Todd Bertuzzi extended his three -including the final two
because he is such a force and 
Sergei Samsonov gave the up 5-4. point streak to nine games games of a western Canada
controls the play.·• 
Bruins a 1-0 lead· after he con­Hut Sopel beat Tom Barrasso when he scored his 14th less swing that ended with a 1-0 win
St. Louis, which won for the 
verted a pass from Glen Murray just 22 seconds after coinciden­than six minutes in. Saturday at Edmonton. Lemieux
first time this season when trail­
and knocked the puck past tal minor penalties to Jeff has eight points during the win­
ing after two periods, swept the 
Johnson at 7:47 of the first peri-O'Neill and Matt Cooke to tie it ning streak.
home-and-home matchup Penguins 5, Flyers 2
od. -with 7: 59 left, then added his "Philly's one of the best teams
against the Rruins, winning Mario Lemieux has needed
Tkachuk tied it 2-2 for SL fifth of the season 2:16 later on in the league, but we're just a
both games in overtime and very little time to make the
Louis when he redirected Al anotlrnr shot just inside the blue much better team with Mario,"
improving to 10-2 in its last I 2 Pittsburgh Penguins a whole lot
Macinnis' shot from the blue line. Penguins goalie Johan Hedberg
games against Boston. better.
line and beat Dafoe inside the Meanwhile, Carolina's Ron said. "He's giving us the confi­
"They have won nine in a row Aleksey Morozov, finding his
right post at 2:36 of the third Francis had three assists to give dence to be good." 
becaUSf! they have that feeling," scoring touch now that he's 
period. him 1,168 for his career and Hedberg stopped 22 of 24
Bruins coach Robbie Ftorek playing on Lemieux's line, had
Pavo! Demitra cut the lead in move within two of passing Ray shots in his first career start
said. "They ar~ hungry around two goals and Lemieux set up
half for the Blues with 2:49 Bourque for second on the against Philadelphia, which
the net and have the mentality four of Pittsburgh's five goals as
remaining in the second. NHL's all-time list. drafted him in 1994 but never
that they will score all the the Penguins ended the
Demitra and Tkachuk have Cole tied it with his 13th of promoted him to the NHL.
time." Philadelphia Flyers' eight-game
combined for 17 points in the the season ,vith 14:40 left as he Lemieux got the Penguins
Salvador took a drop pass winning streak with a 5-2 victo­
last five games. chased his shot from the right started by setting up Michal
from Tkachuk and sent a slap ry Monday night. 
Joe Thornton, who entered as wing that was blocked by the Rozsival's go-ahead goal at
shot past Byron Dafoe. The The Flyers, winners of 14 of
the second-leading scorer in the Vancouver defense and stuck it 12:38 of the first. Rozsival took
Blues' Mike Keane had tied the their previous 16, were denied
NHL, had an assist for the by Peter Skudra, who was out of Lemieux's pass in the right cir­
game with 3:40 loft in regula­their first nine-game winning
Bruins that raised his total to 52 position trying to poke the puck cle and put a wrister on net that
tion. streak since April 1995 despite
points. out of the slot. eluded Boucher, who has
Tkachuk has figured in on six Ruslan Fedotenko's two goals. 
Battaglia took a perfect cen­allowed at least three goals in
of St. Louis' last seven goals, as "It came to a screeching halt,"
tering pass from Francis less each of his last six starts.
well as the Blues' last four Canucks 7, Hurricanes 5 Flyers forward Keith Primeau
than three minutes later for his "We gave him (Lemieux) a lot
game-winning goals. Brent Sopel scored twice from said. "We've had spells where it
16th before the late rally by the more room than a guy like that
"I always get up for the 55 feet during the final 7:59 as didn't look like we had our feet
Canucks, who have scored 32 should have against our team,"
Bruins because they are my the Vancouver Canucks blew a moving, but tonight it was for
goals in their last six games. Flyers forward Mark Recchi
hometown team," Tkachuk said. pair of two-goal leads but ral­the whole 60 minutes. It caught
Dan Cloutier, tied for fifth in said. "You give Mario Lemieux
"We feel we can take over a lied to beat the Carolina up to us."
the NHL with 19 wins, was lifted that much time, he's going to 
game and dictate what's going Hurricanes on Monday night. The Flyers never seemed to
midway through the first after find people and make plays."
to place." Trevor Linden sealed it with catch up to Lemieux as the
injuring his left ankle. He Mostly he found Morozov, who 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
p 


lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

Penguins opened a two-goal 
made it 2-0 early in the second, 
lead against backup goalie 
lifting in a backhander during a
Brian Boucher, lost it briefly in 
scramble in front of the net
the third period, then regained 
after Boucher turned aside a
it on goals by Morozov and 
couple of shots: Morozov later
Robert Lang 48 seconds apart. 
added an assist. 
SUMMER 2002 ABROAD 
with 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 

j 
itt 

Europe • Asia • Africa Australia• South America 
Division of International Programs Abroad Summer Programs 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
(800) 251-9674 DIPAsum(illsummail.syr.edu http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa/summer 

Mets land Burnitz in 3-team, I I-player deal 
Associaied P rcss 
NEW YORK 

The New York Mets pulled off a three-team. 11-player trade Monday night, acquiring Jeromy Burnitz from Milwaukee and sending Glendon Rusch to the Brewers and Todd Zeile to Colorado. 
The Mets completed an off­season overhaul of their offense, getting the slugging outfielder they had been seek­ing. Burnitz will fit into a line­up with newcomers Roberto Alomar, Mo Vaughn and Roger Cedeno. 
New York also received pitcher Jeff D'Amico, infielder Lou Collier. outfielder Mark Sweeney and cash from Milwaukee. The Mets got minor leaguers Ross Gload and Craig Bouse from Colorado. 
The Brewers, who saved money by dealing Burnitz back to his original team, added a left-handed starter in Rusch. They also obtained outfielder Alex Ochoa from Colorado and infielder Lenny Harris from New York. 
The Rockies filled their third base hole with Zeile. They also got outfielder Benny Agbayani and cash from the Mets. 
GMs Dan O'Dowd of Colorado and Dean Taylor of Milwaukee have a history of making big deals. They took part in a four-team, nine-play­er swap on Dec. 13, 1999. 
In that deal, the Rockies got third baseman Jeff Cirillo and pitcher Rolando Arrojo, Tampa Bay got third baseman Vinny Castilla, Milwaukee acquired catcher Henry Blanco and Oakland got a minor lea­guer. 
This is the biggest deal since December 1994, when Houston and San Diego pulled off a 12-player trade -the most players dealt in the past 44 years. The Padres got out­fielder Steve Finley and third baseman Ken Caminiti and Houston got outfielder Derek Bell. 
After going to the World Series in 2000, the Mets went 82-80 last year, finishing with the fewest runs in the majors. They were second-to-last in average and homers in the NL. 
Burnitz adds another big bat to a lineup that returns Mike Piazza and Edgardo Alfonzo. Burnitz, who played two sea­sons with tho Mets, hit .251 with 34 homers and 100 RBIs last season, although he struck out 150 times. 
The Mets only had 40 home runs from all of their outfield­ers in 2001. 
D'Amico was 2-4 with a 6.08 ERA in 10 starts for Milwaukee last season. He missed four months because of an arm injury and had surgery July 2 to decompress a nerve in his right arm. D'Amico was one of the top NL pitchers in 2000, going 12-7 with a 2.66 ERA. 
After acquiring lefty Shawn Estes from San Francisco last month, the Mets had an excess of left-handed starters. Thev also signed free agent Pedro Astacio last week. 
Rusch went 8-12 with a 4.63 ERA last season and joins a Milwaukee rotation that will probably include Ben Sheets, Jamey Wright and Ruben Quevedo. 
Ochoa hit .276 with eight homers and 52 RBIs last sea­son for Colorado. Harris has the most pinch hits in baseball history, breaking Manny Mota's record with his 151st on the last weekend of the sea­son. 
The Brewers wanted to shed the free-swinging Hurnitz, who will make $6.5 million this season and $11.5 million in 2003. The Brewers became the first team to finish a sea­son with more strikeouts -an all-time record l,399 -than hits -1,378. 
Zeile, who will make $6 mil­
~i:ts. 119=5010
-
~; .......... .._.......... .,....
e) short b.n,i.:r c-u. tl!lil 
~oID.elt:1../melt:I.. :l'.o:r t:;:r n,i.lt:I.. i.lt:I..g; c:t.n,ss es 
Must Present This Ad Before Services Are Performed 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. 

$·' 1· o 
· · 
interested in joining Student Union Board this semester? we are now accepting applications for 
multicultural 
programmer 
e-mail us at sub(a)nd.edu call 1-7757 or stop by 201 LaFortune to pick up an application. applications due monday january 28 
don·t forget to add ndSUBinfo 
to your IM Buddy list and check our away message 1 , J~~; ~,~} ..:. ~:.··. :,:...~~-..:;__-' 

lion this season, fills the hole at third created when the Rockies dealt Jeff Cirillo to Seattle. Zeile played first base in his two seasons for the Mets, but Colorado has All­Star Todd Helton entrenched there. 
Zeile hit .266 with 10 homers and 62 RBIs last sea­son. lie underwent arthro­scopic surgery on his right elbow in November, but is expected to be ready for spring training. 
Agbayani, who will probably be a reserve outfielder with the Rockies, hit .277 with six homers and 27 RBIs last sea­son. 
The other players the Mets acquired will probably be backups or stay in the minors. Collier batted .252 with two homers and 14 RRis last sea­son. Sweeney hit .258 with three homers and 11 RBIs in 89-at-bats in 2001. 
Gload, an infielder-outfield­er, hit .297 with 15 homers and 93 RBIs for Triple-A Iowa last season. House, a right­hander, went 2-2 with six saves and a 4.45 ERA for Triple-A Colorado Springs in 2001. 

JPW JPW JPW 
lfflNTIONJUNIOI!!! 
MANDATORY SEATING REGISTRATION: 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23 1:00 -6:00 PM CCE, MCKENNA HALL THURSDAY, JANUARY 24 i2:00 -4:00 PM CCE, MCKENNA HALL 
ROOMS 102-104 IN THE CCE, MCKENNA HALL 
ANY QUESTIONS? E·MAIL THE JPW OFFICE AT: jpw@nd.edu 
JPW JPW JPW 
R•
s 


XXXI 
COMMISSIONER APPLICATIONS 
Applications Due Friday, Jan. 25 
Pickop an application at the StudentActivities Office at 314 La.Fortune and sign up for an interview. 
Checkout the website for moN' Jnf"o: www.nd.edu/~bkstr/ or Email us atbkstr,l@nd.edu 

Tuesday, January 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Bettis set to play in AFC Championship 
A•sociated Press 
l'ITTSHUHGH 

fornmP Bettis said Monday he is certain be'II return from a seven­week layoff to play in the AFC championship game. He's also sure about something else. 
No morn needles. 
Bettis. the Pittsburgh Steelers' Pro Bowl running back. said he realiz£>s it was a mistake to get a painkilling shot just before Sun clay's Al<C playoff game against Baltimor1•. Th<~ injection apparPnt­ly struck a nerve and caused one of Bettis' legs to go numb, prevent­ing him from playing. 
The Steelers went on to heat the defending Super Bowl champion Havens 27-10 without him, and thny would be l'avured to beat Ne\'\ England in the AFC championship ganw l'Vt>n if' he d0<isn't play. 
llowHH:r, BHttis insists he will play, saying. "I could have played about 5 or 6 o'clock (Sunday) after the shot worn off." 
Amos Zcrcouc ran for 63 yards and two short touchdowns as Bettis' replacement, hut Bettis' presence would give the Steelers a dilTicult-to-defond asset that per­fectly accompanies their dramati­cally improvnd passing offense. 
Before Im was hurt Dec. 2 agains l !\,l in II esola , Be tl is was averaging nearly 100 yards per game through 11 games. 
0
"lll\ 1! definitely be thn freshest man in lhn playoffs when he comes back," offensive tackle Wayne Gandy said. "For a man like him who is driven. who already is a hard runner, if he gets a chance to play Sunday, he'll be running 100 miles per hour." 
Tho Steelers will take Bettis' cus­tomary 100 yards. 
Bettis said he's taken painkilling shots before without a rnaction, and he has no idea why Sunday's injection went so wrong. He insist­ed he didn't need the shot hecause he reinjured himself. 
"I knew there would be a lot of pain associated with the injury and I just wanted it to feel better," he said. "The scar tissue still has to tear. and it is nowhere near as strong as regular tissue, so there's going tu l.Je pain. 
"It's nothing that will keep you from playing. it's just something vou have to deal with... · Gandy estimated about half the Steelers get painkilling injections before a game. but said most get nothing more than the equivalt>nt of three to four over-the-counter painkilling tablets. 
·"It's nothing but liquid Advil. but it doesn't tear up your stomach," he said. "You have to understand it's a game of pain. It's a hard. reckless game, and it (the shot) is really just to-smooth those little irritating things that come up." 
The Steelers got some welcomed medical news Monday when an MHJ exam showed no ligament or cartilage tear in linebacker Earl Hulmes' sore left knee. Holmes also expects to play Sunday. 
"The doctor said it will be sore for a couple of days but, other than that. everything came back great," said Holmes. the Steelers' leading tackler. 

Heavily favored Steelers not blowing off Patriots 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGII 
As the heavily favored Pittsburgh Steelers wrapped up a midweek practice before the AFC championship game seven years ago. an unfamiliar noise echoed through their Three Rivers Stadium offices. 
BOOM-thwacka! BOOM-thwacka! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! 
The blaring boom box emanating from a meeting room -what kind of film session was this'? -brought curious club officials scurrying out of their offices. Even coach Bill Cowher poked his head into a hallway and wondered what was going on. 
Inside. a dance choreographer was reviewing dance steps, with a musical accompaniment, as 20 players rehearsed a Super Howl video. Several other players also were tinishing up Super Bowl-related rap songs. 
That same week. many players talked about the difficultly in securing hotel rooms and airplane tickets in Miami for their fami­lies. And dAfensive end Ray Seals predicted that title game opponent San Diego wouldn't even score. 
Amid the distractions and dance steps, the red tape and the video tape, the Steelers forgot one thing: win the football game. 
The Chargers, one of the biggest under­dogs in AFC title game history, seized on the Steelers' brazen overconfidence and used it for motivation in beating them 17 ­13. 
"Nobody gave us any respect or any chance," Chargers defensive end Reuben Davis said. "We had to put up with that stu!T about them making a rap video. Well, now they have six months to practice their dancing. They should be pretty good dancers in six months." 
Now, these Steelers -only linebacker Jason Gildon remains from that 1994 team -performed a different kind of dancing Monday. They sidestepped any comparisons to such mistakes in judgm,rnt by past teams, and promised not to be overconfi­dent for Sunday's AFC championship game against New England. 
Just like that 1994 team. the Steelers are coming off an emotional playoff victory over a big rival they played two times previously -then, it was Cleveland, now it is Baltimore. 
Just like that 1994 team, the Steelers were big favorites in the AFC title game against an opponent they know little about. Just substitut(~ New England for San Diego. 
The Steelers talked Monday about the Super Bowl, but only because they will leave for New Orleans within hours of Sunday's game if they win, and Cowher needed to review logistical matters. 
"It doesn't take a lot to get you ready to play this game," running back Jerome Hettis said. "You're playing for the opportu­nity to go to the Super Howl. That's what you wait your whole life for." 
Four years ago, Bettis played on the last Steelers team to lose the APC championship game at home. But with John Elway quar­terbacking the Broncos. that 24-21 loss wasn't nearly as unanticipated as the San Diego upset. 
Now, several Steelers said this team is too focused and driven to get involved in atten­tion-distracting diversions such as music videos. 
With 13 regular season victories and another in the playoffs, this is the first Steelers team to win 14 games since the 1979 Steelers won 15 games and the Super Bowl. 
"This team, all year, we show up to play," offensive tackle Wayne Gandy said. "I don't think there will ever be a lack of intensity or motivation. We lost a couple of games, but it wasn't about whether we showed up to play. It's never been about a lack of effort." 

is currently accepting applications for the 2002-03 term of 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is eligible to apply. Applicants should have a strong foundation in print journalism and skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop. 
Applicants should submit an eight or more page statement detailing what he or she wishes to accomplish in the term. Applications are due to Mike Connolly by Thursday, Jan. 24 at 5 p.m. Any questions about the application or application procedure should be directed to Mike Connolly at 631-4542. 
page l8 
Men 
continued from page 24 
came via offensive rebounds as the Hoyas opened up a 16-8 lead five and a half minutes into the game. Georgeto'hn extended their lead to 37-20 with a little more than six minutes to go in the first half before Carroll drained his first 3-pointer of the game. Notre Dame continued to fight their way back into the game and cut Georgetown's lead to 44-33 at halftime. 
Both teams exchanged bas­kets throughout the first nine minutes of the second half until 
Sweetney hit a jump shot in the lane starting a 7-0 Hoyas run that extended the Georgetown lead to its biggest of the game, 70-52. 
But Notre Dame refused to quit. cutting the lead to seven points with 1 :06 left in the sec­ond half on a Carroll 3-pointer. 
Unfortunatelv for the Trish, that would be iis close as they would get. 
After Kevin Braswell missed a free throw on the ensuing pos­session, Sweetney apparently reached over Carroll for the rebound and got fouled while attempting a put back. Brey immediately left his coaching box, stormed to half court and after yelling at the official, received his first technical foul as Notre Dame's head coach. 

"I thought [calling the foul on Sweetney] would have been a nice statement by a good offi­cial," said Brey. 
That incident was not the only controversial call that the offi­cials made during the game. In the first half Jere ~acura and Harvey Thomas engaged in a scuffle yet no foul was called. Later in that half Thomas insti­gated a pushing match with Cornette with both players receiving technical fouls for the incident. 
The Irish have now lost three straight and dropped to below .500 in Big East play at 2-3. Brey feels the Irish must rebound quickly if they hope to make a run at the NCAA tour­nament. 
"We are going to try and get this home thing down, " said Brey. ''Our crowd has been fab­ulous these last couple of games. We are going to keep on plugging [so] don't give up on this team yet." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
Want to write Sports? Call 1-4543 

The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 22, 2002 
Soukup 
continued from page 24 
Hoyas simply out-rebounded, out-muscled, out-hustled, and out-scored the Irish. 
His replacement in the starting line-up, Jordan Cornette, actually playAd pretty well. But he spent most of the game matched up against Hoya bulldozer Mike Sweetney. 
Swcetney is 6-foot-8, 260 pounds. Cornette is about 40 pounds lighter. A trash can would have a better chance stopping a garbage 1.ruck. 
Swanagan's absence hurt Humphrey, too. Every time he got by one of Georgetown's mammoth big guys, another would appear in his face. No wonder he shot 8-for-22. His gold-toothed teammate wasn't there to draw one of those bodies away. 
Cornette didn't played badly. In fact, he played fairly well.. 
But he just isn't Harold Swanagan. 
"It hurt a lot," Humphrey admitted. "They just kept bringing guys ... Jordan's about 180. I'm not too far behind. It was physical." 
Rebounds that Swanagan would usually grab ended up floating into the hands of a Georgetown player. The Hoyas tapped away loose balls without Notre Dame's gritty big man diving on the floor. As the game wore on and as the man who plays first and talks second sat on the bench, the Irish seemed to lose intensity and focus. 
"When you're missing a guy like Swanagan," Georgetown head coach Craig Esherick said, "you're clearly not at full force." 
Want to know how impor­tant Swanagan is? With 4:22 
left in the game. Humphrny 
hit a turnaround jumper to 
bring the Irish to within nine 
points. Immediately, the 
Joyce Center came roaring to 
life -yes, even the stodgy 
alumni in the t:ourtside scats 
managed to stand up -and 
the Irish mounted their only 
serious run of the second 
half. Georgetown point guard 
Keith Braswell drove through the lane and threw up a shot that Cornette slightly deflect­ed. Humphrey tipped the ball away from the basket, and the Joyce Center exploded. 
But they settled down pretty quickly when Georgetown's Gerald Riley flew in untouched from the weak side -we<J,k because Swanagan wasn't in the game -leapt into the air, and tipped the ball off the backboard and through the basket. 
Forget about a simple blow to momentum -Riley dropped an atom bomb through the net that silenced the Joyce Center and Notre Dame's comeback hopes. 
Had Swanagan been in the game, there's no way Riley would have been even close to thfl baskflt. Notrn DamA's Mr. Hustle would have plant­ed his body right in front of the Hoya, and the Irish rally might have continued. 
But he wasn't five feet from the basket leaping for the ball, he was standing on the sidelines in dress shoes as the ball was tipped around. And as Riley floated to the basket, Swanagan even hopped a lit­tle, as if he could stop Riley from 70 feet away. 
Too bad he couldn't. He wasn't in the game. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. The views in this column are those of the author and are not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Breen-Phillips 

Tuesday, January 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
No lead is safe for Rams' head coach Martz 
of coach Mike Martz never let­three-step drops and easy

As~ociated Press 
ting up. handoffs meant almost no risk ST. LOUIS Martz criticized himself of injury, so why make a 

The St. Louis Rams were Monday for leaving Faulk in. change? leading by 28, the clot:k was "Marshall shouldn't have \\"hile Warner had what for winding down, and Kurt been in there," Martz said. him was a mediocre game ­Warner had a sore back and "That's a bonehead mistake 18-for-30 for 216 yards with ribs. on my part." two touchdo,vns and one 
And ynt. there were \Varner But he had no regrets about interreption -the Rams' and Marshall Faulk. still out Warner running the show all revamped defense was on tlw field right to the finish the way as the Hams (15-2} superb. It had its biggest da.y of Sunday's 45-17 playoff vic­adv,mcBd to the NFC champi­in several seasons. making six tory over the Green Bay onship game for the second interceptions, including three Packers. time in three years. Martz's returned for touchdowns. 
It's just the latest example justification: Quick throws off Martz said Im wanted to leave 
Class of 2002 
The Dome Yearbook needs your CANDIDSI 

We are now offering $10 for the top ten photos submitted. so let us see your favorite shotsI ­
When submitting your pictures, please be sure that your name and the names of those photographed is written on the back of each shot. Pictures will be returned to you in the spring. Drop them in the envelope on the Dome 
office door in the basement of SDH or in the 
box at the Lafortune Information Desk. 
'EAAT}VLKQ 

SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 

COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOESN'T HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS. (For Arts & Letters students we will support any language except French, German, Italian or Spanish) 
For details and application forms, go to: 
http://www/nd.edu/---sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies ­(154 Hurley Building· Ph1-5203) 
application deadline: 3/8/02 

Sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Provost for International Studies and the College of Arts and Letters 
Warner in so the Rams would have a better chance of hold­ing on to the ball, allowing the defense to rest late. 
Earlier in the season, Martz had other reasons for not emptying his bench. 
. 
He left everybody in to pre­serve a 35-0 shutout over the Lions in October. 

. 
When the Hams clinched the NFC West, he wanted starters on the field at the end even though they beat the Colts 42-17. 


The Hams beat their oppo­nents by an average of 31-17 in the regular season. They also whipped the Dolphins by 32, the Lions by 35, the Panthers by 34, and the Falcons by 29. 
That should have opened the door for backup quarter­back .Jamie Martin and back­up running back Trung Canidate. 
Instead, Martin threw only three passes in the regular season, and Canidate got most of his 441 yards rushing when he started two games while Faulk was out with a bruised knee. 
Canidatc didn't get any car­ries in four of the last five reg­ular-season games, and he used mostly on kickoff cover­age against the Packers. 
"Everybody got out of there safe," wide receiver Torry Holt said. "I never try to ques­tion our coaching. I'm a play­er, I get paid to play, he gets paid to coach and that's that." 
Given the opportunity, Holt said he wouldn't want to be in there at the end of a blowout. 
"I would love to be done for the day, let's be honest," Holt said. "With this defense, we can chill out." 
Attention All SMC Students: Do you have questions or concerns for your future Student Body President &Vice President?? Then come to: 
Meet the Candidates On Wednesday, Jan. 23rd at 7:00pm 
In Haggar Parlor Sponsored by saint mary's college board ofgovernance 
Cross Country Ski Clinics 
Saturday, January 26 • 1 0:00am 
Deadline-January 24 Saturday, ,February 8 • 4:30pm Deadline-February 6 
Clinics held at Notre Dame GolfCourse Register in Advance at RecSports Cost is $9.00 Includes Rental 
Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
R-~­


Tuesday, January 22, 2002 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Bender leads Pacers in first career start 
quarter and sent the Knicks to
guys to get on the floor and trying to make the jump from to," said Allan Houston, who 
high school to the NBA, are scored 11 points on 5-of-15 their most-lopsided loss since
Associated Press make plays and make mis­
Indiana beat them 131-86 on
takes," Miller said: "It's a fine still trying to find their way -shooting. 
"Our starters need to step up Feb. 20, 1980.
CHICAGO line. You still want to be able just as Harrington and Bender Jonathan Bender got a to win games." were several years ago. and make the right changes Davis, who also had nine 
chance to start and showed the Ron Mercer led Chicago with Chandler was scoreless in 13 and hold ourselves account­assists, did not play at all in talent that makes him a big 18 points and Ron Artest added minutes and Curry had three in able," he said. "This was the the fourth quarter. Neither did part of the Indiana Pacers' 16. The Bulls had 25 11 minutes. worst we represented our­Davis Wesley or Lee Nailon, future, turnovers, 15 in the second selves since I've been here." who each scored 16 points. Bender played a career-high half. Hornets 111, Knicks 68 New York shot a season­Elden Campbell added 13 
46 minutes, scoring 18 points "When someone is out in the As if a season of brutal bas• worst 30 percent. points, Jamaal Magloire had 12 and grabbing a career-best 10 league, it always seems some­ketball wasn't bad enough for "I can't tell you what it is but and Bryce Drew 10 for the rebounds, as the Pacers one ·steps up." Chicago's brad the New York Knicks, now bad basketball," Jackson said. Hornets, 
snapped a five-game losing Miller said. "Bender stepped they're being humiliated, too. "Top to bottom it's just bad." Kurt Thomas led the Knicks streak Monday by beating the up today. I'm not sure they In their most-lopsided home The Knicks' prnvious worst with 16 points and Othella Chicago Bulls 93-81. missed anything without loss ever, the Knicks fell to the home defeat was a 132-93 rout Harrington added 14, 
"I thought I'd be further Jermaine O'Ncal." Charlotte Hornets 111-68 by Milwaukee on April 10, "We just couldn't get it done 
1987. New York had not out thr,re today," Thomas said.
along right now, hut I have to Bender, starting his second Monday for their eighth he patient with myself," said straight game with O'Neal straight defeat. dropped eight in a row since "It was the worst game I have 
Render, in his third season sidelined by injury, scored 16 "It's an embarras:;ment," Dec. 5-20, 1986. ever been a part of." since going directly to the NBA first-half points and gave point guard Mark Jackson said. "Latrell and Allan must play al a certain level for us to win. Supersonics 109, 76ers 98
from high school. Indiana a 50-44 lead when he By the end of th!~ game, "I guess you could say it was hit a 3-pointer from the deep which saddled the Knicks with We mav have to make some The Seattle Supersonics my best game." corner just before the buzzer. their longest losing streak in changes in the lineup," Chaney couldn't miss. At least it 
Reggie Miller scored 20 Indiana took a 69-61 lead 15 years, several players on said. seemed that way. points, Al Harrington -in his after three when Austin the bench had towels covering Baron Davis scored 24 The Sonics set a team record fourth season after going from Croshere hit a 3-pointer with their heads. points. leading six Hornets in by shooting over 66 percent the preps to the pros -added just under a minute left and Coach Don Chaney didn't like double figures. and, behind Gary Payton's 28 
18 and Jalen Rose had 12 of H.arrington converted a thrne­what he saw. "Usually we let teams right points, beat the Philadelphia his 16 points in the second point play with nine seconds "I thought they threw in the back in the ballgame," Davis 76ers 109-98 Monday. half. remaining in the quarter. towel. I thought they gave up," said. "Today, our defensive "We were in a rhythm with "It takes sacrifice and it's a ltose's steal, driving layup he said. intensity was there the whole everybody shooting the ball process," Rose said of blending and free throw for a three­Latrell Sprewell was score­game." well," Payton said. the young players with the vet­point play and another jumper less on O-for-9 shooting as the The blowout began early. Allen Iverson led the Sixers 
Knicks were held to their low­The score was tied at 11 when with 38 points, and became the
erans. bv Croshere made it 80-65, 
"There is an adjustment peri­c~mpleting the 17-4 run. est point total of the season. the Hornets broke away with a eighth player in Philadelphia od and you've got to humble Chicago mounted a mini-rally The only other time in his NBA 22-0 burst. history to score 10,000 career yourself. You've got to swallow to get within nine, but Rose career he failed to score was Charlotte led 39-19 after the points. your pride and understand sank a 3-pointer and on Nov. 9, 1995, when he first quarter, then held Kew The Sonics shot 41-of-62 in there are better days ahead." Harrington hit two baskets as missed all seven shots while York to only 14 points in the ending the Sixers' four-game 
second period and took a 60-33 winning streak. Seattle's previ­
Miller, who didn't play in the Indiana increased its lead and playing for Golden State 

fourth quarter, agreed. regained control. against Atlanta. halftime advantage. ous best was 64. 9 percent "The only way this team will Bulls' rookies Tyson "I don't think we're treating The Hornets extended their against Houston on April 13, get better is for the younger Chandler and Eddie Curry, also the job as seriously as we need lead to 43 points in the third 1996. 
i 
I 
I. 
I 
A memorial Mass for Rev. George H. Minamiki, S.J. 
Associate professor emeritus of classical and Oriental languages and literatures 
will be celebrated Wednesday, January 23 at 5:15 p.m.in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Rev. Jerome Neyrey, S.J. will preside. 
Father Minamiki, a priest of the Japan province of the Society of Jesus and a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1968, died January 4 of a heart attack in Los Angeles, where he was visiting fat!lily. He was 82. 
Father Minamiki taught Japanese at Notre Dame and for more than 20 years served as coordinator of the University's Year-in-Japan program. Before coming to Notre Dame, he spent 11 years as a teacher and admin­istrator in Jesuit high schools in Japan, the last six as headmaster of Hiroshima Gakuin. 
Father Minamiki, who received his doctorate from Notre Dame in 1977, was graduated from Loyola University of Los Angeles, his hometown, with a bachelor1s degree in philosophy and held graduates degrees from Gonzaga University and Alma College. 

'! 
Tuesday, January 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Willingham will win the Notre Dame way 
Just in case you were caught up in the nail-biting BCS season, with 13 points down being the closest any of the losing teams ever finished, Tyrone Willingham was named Notre Dame's head football coach on Jan. 1. 
It turned out that throwing me out of a fictitious sleigh in a column right before exams isn't the only thing for­mer Notn~ Dame coach George O'Learv hasn't done. • 
Calling him a 'for­mer Notre Dame coach' doesn't even sound quite right, does it? I mean, how long was he here'? Five days? 
I may not have always been waving the banner of the Bob Davie Fan Club, but he at least earned the right to be called a Notre Dame head football coach through five years of hard work. 
What we had on that Friday that finals kicked off was a muffed snap, a shanked punt. More embarrassing than a 5-6 season or a 41-9 bowl loss could ever be, the University of Notre Dame, one of the proudest academic and athletic institutions in the coun­try, got duped by a trick play. 

Paid attendance that day? The entire sports world. · 
As a community, whether student or student-athlete, the best tradition in all of sports had become a sports page laughing stock. 
We thought that possibly Jon Gruden would be our Pauly Shore, albeit with considerably more grit. and instantly stop all laughter from any team that even thought of pJaying the Irish. 
Well, the laughter has stopped, and Gruden is still the coach of the Raiders. 
Athletic director Kevin White did indeed get his coach from a program in California but from a college near Oakland. 
At the press conference to announce his hiring, Willingham talked of the effect Notre Dame had on him when he was a child, saying: ' ... initially I developed a longing, some type of desire, some type of motivation to be at this place when I watched those [Notre Darnel highlights on Sunday, LhaL something ticks, something spe­cial was there.' 
That same attitude was what endeared Gruden to most of the stu­
... 
:} 
dent bodv. 

While \•\lillingham's accomplish­ments at Stanford during seven years weren't drastically different from Davie's five years under the Dome, he now has tho added resource of the Notre Dame name -the place syn­onymous with big lime college foot­ball. 
At least it should be, and it still can be. When asked if the Irish can still be a perennial top ten team, Willingham wasn't waylaid by tough academic standards or a tough schedule. 
Instead, winning is not only his goal, but a requirement. 
"That's why I am here: to reach that level of excellence that this university has always had. I believe it can be accomplished, and that's why I am here," he said. 
He echoed that sentiment at halftime of the men's basketball game on Saturday, in between receiving rau­cous support from the student section and a lone guy simply yelling ouL "Beat Michigan!" 
Describing the hiring of a head foot­ball coach as "better late than never" appears to be as appropriate here as anywhere. It Look them a little while, with a blown play along the way, but, by all accounts, Notre Dame got an excellent man for it~ most high profile job. 


While he was accepting that job on the first day of 2002, one thing Willingham said stuck with me. 
"There is no question that this is the most high profile university in this country," he said, "and with that, it brings [al bright light. But I have always said to my wife that if you are doing the right thing it does not mat­ter how bright the lights are or how many lights, but if you are doing the wrong thing, it only takes a flash­light." 
After the past few seasons, people have said that Notre Dame can't win again by having such high standards. Some have suggested these standards should be lowered, others, perhaps, that the great Irish tradition should be allowed to lapse. 
Tyrone Willingham, a man who comes to South Bend with a better record than either Ara Parseghian or Dan Devine did, stands in direct oppo­sition to both of these schools of thought. 
Notre Dame will win, and win by its standards. That's the only way it can be here. 
Contact Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The views ofthis column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
OPERATION 

MAKING A DIFFERENCE PIECE BY PEACE 
FROM THE INSIDE OUT An Expression of Self through Dance, Poetry and Music Tuesday, January 22 La Fortune Ballroom 6:30-8:30pm 
Spomored by: Campus Mini.nr,i. Center for Socaal Concerns, Multicultural St~d1;nt Programi and Service,:, and OJfke ol the Preddent 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 22, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Nixon: I'm loving swimming again 
connects the shoulder near the rotator

. Sidelined by injury 
cuff -tore. She sat on the sidelineslast season, fifth-year while her teammates won their Iifth Bigsenior powers past East title and traveled to compete at 
NCAAs.

personal records 
Nixon has been an integral member of 

the women's team since arriving at Notre By NOREEN GILLESPIE Dame. As a junior, Nixon earned the Dig Sports W ricer East Swimmer of the Year award and 
placed fourth at NCAA Championships, 

Hitting the wall with one hand, Carrie the highest finish of any Notre Dame Nixon finished the 100-yard freestyle, swimmer. took off her goggles and turned around She and Irish head coach Bailey cautiously to look at the scoreboard. Weathers have approached this season 
Illuminated by yellow glowing num­cautiously -and the results have shown. bers, the board delivered good news: Nixon has placed consistently at the top 5l.11 seconds, good enough for first of both the sprint freestyle and sprint place. butterfly events all season, posting times 
lt was her third win of the weekend, as that don't evidence she ever left the pool. she powered the Irish women's swim­"We're trying to be a little more careful ming and diving team to wins Saturday with her." said Weathers, noting that against both Illinois and Iowa in the Dual Nixon came through the critical period of Meet Invitational held at Rolfs Aquatics winter training without a problem. Center. "She's been prepared well, and she's a 
It's the fastest Nixon has been at this little morn focused." point in the season since she began her But that wasn't the case during swimming career at Notre Dame. A fifth­October break training in Florida, when year senior, Nixon returned to the pool she had to spend a lot of time on the kick this year after sitting out last year board, resting the shoulder that wasn't because of a shoulder injury -but has quite healed. realized her injury might have been "In Florida it was a lot of stop and go," more of a blessing than she'd ever Nixon said. "But doing so well down in thought. Honolulu was a big part of building my 
'Tm loving swimming for the first time confidence." 

Notes Lisa D'Olier won the 200-yard butterfly. 
in awhile," Nixon said Saturday. after Doctors have given her a clean bill of . Several Irish swimmers walked away . Senior Heather Mattingly broke herlogging wins in the 100-yard butterfly. health, even though she cites "some flex­with big wins on the weekend. own school record for 11 dives on the 3­100-yard freestyle and as a member of ibility issues" as lingering evidence of Sophomore Marie Labosky claimed wins meter board. finishing the event with athe 200-yard medley relay and 400-yard last year's injury. But looking towards in the 400-and 200-yard individual med­score of 531.80. She also won the 1­freestyle relay teams. "I love training, post-season, Nixon focuses not on the ley. Senior Kelly Hecking won the 100-meter event with 291 points.
love going to meets. I'm loving the past. but on the future. 
yard backstroke, and freshman Kelly
process ofit more and more." "In general, I'm 100 percent healed at Barton won the 1,650 f'reestvle.
Nixon underwent surgery last fall this point," she said. "Any pain is mini­Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
Sophomore Laurie Musgrave won ·the
when her labrum -the soft tissue that mal compared to that." gill0843@saintmarys.edu.
100-yard breastroke, and sophomore 



NELLIE WILUAMSfThe Observer A Notre Dame swimmer plows through the water during last weekend's Dual Meet Invitational. · 
Coleman-Morse Center • 6 3 1 -7 8 0 0 
E---d-av_______ 
Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration 
From the Inside Out: An Expression of Self through Dance, Poetry and Music 
6:30-8:30 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director 
Confirmation Session #8 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday-Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
1nesdav 

Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration 
Speaking the Truth 
A Fireside Chat with Student 
Leaders and Others 
7:00-8:30 p.m. 
Coleman-Morse Center 
Student Lounge 
Coffee at the Co-Mo 
8:00 p.m. Lounge, Welcome Center 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 


1. dav Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration 
Making a Difference Piece by Peace The Peace Quilt: Tied Together in the Single Garment of Destiny Prayer Service 
7:00-8:30 p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
San Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Crypt 

dav 
Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Freshman Retreat #39 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Coro Primavera Retreat 
Angela House 

Latino Student Retreat 
El Encuentro Con Nuestra Fe Five Pines 
807 Mass 

8:00 p.m. Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 

Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 

Learning to Talk About Race Pre-Retreat Plunge 
February 1-2 Retreat 
5:00 p.m. Walsh Hall Basement 
MBA Mass 

7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
7:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Hammes Student Lounge 


Tuesday, January 22, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

RYAN

TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 
-n~IN6'S '(ou l:>DW'T WI\WT ,o \-\El>,~ F~OI"\. '(ouR. C.~£1-'\ L.-t-.~ Pl>-.'RiWE.:R, 


~0­~l)U doi1·~ ~o.ve °"'1 tri~dr, 

0 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
-", 


---------------~--~-------~-~--------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Cowboy bucker 60 One who tries 1 Place to kick an 32 Jackie O's man 
to sell a political addiction 
slate?

33 Shoelace 6 Manager-of-the-problem 63 007 creator Month, e.g. Fleming
35 54, in old Rome 

11 Auction action 64 White heron 
36 Doesn't quite tell 

14 Big game venue 65 Slowly, in music 40 Batman and 
15 Like Peary's 66 Rapper Dr. _
Robin, e.g. 

exploration 67 Loamy deposit 
41 Feds16 Prefix with therm 

68 Rocker John 17 One who 43 Poppycock 
switches political 44 Board for nails 
DOWN

affiliation? 
46 Red, white and 1 Engrossed19 "I didn't know blue, for 2 Historical times 

that!" 
Americans? 20 Mao _-tung 3 "Take one!" 
50 Read 21 Oases' features electronically 4 Colony crawler 
22 Big name at Indy 5 lV series set on
51 Up to it Malibu Beach24 Genesis event, 

52 Funt of "Candid 

with "the" 6 Harlem theater 
Camera" 

25 At the summit of 7 Winter wear
54 Tax cheat's risk 

26 Convention 8 Matterhorn and
56 Little piggy 

writer's others footwear? 59 By way of 9 Sally Field's "Norma " 1OLongtime radio 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
advice-giver 

CA 
-=-+-=+~:::+:::-i 11 Profligate -:::-i~~~::1 12 Visionary's 
words 13 Go-getter 18 Ill-gotten gain 
f-,-+~::-t 23 Breakfast area .,,,.+..,.+~;.;.flll!ll .,.,+-....,,.,1-=i 24 Word before mail or tail 25 Where 37-Down is 26 Groom oneself 
-,-+=+~.;;.fl-..;~;;+;~ 27 Parking place? 28 Wretched 
>-:--:1'~:-;1'";:;1 
29 Lady's title 30 Whiskey drinks 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Puzzle by Denise Neuendorf 
31 Common lunch 49 Passing notice 56 Pitched item 
0rder 52 Enthusiastic 57 Not fooled by34 Kind of poodle 
53 Pinocchio, at 58 Berkshire37 Land on the times school 
Strait of Hormuz 54 Field measure 61 "Where did 38 " ... a lender wrong?"
55 Luaube" instruments 62 Salon stuff 
39 Betraying 42 Likable 45 Larry and Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Curly's chum are available by touch-tone phone: 47 Place for a vase 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

48 Starfleet Annual subscriptions are available for the Academy best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 students years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester. 
Name Address------------------­
City _______State ____ Zip______ 
HOROSCOPE 
THIS DAY: B.B. King, Lauren Bacall, Marc Anthony, David ~~perfield, Susan Ruttan, Peter 
Happy Birthday: This year, choose wisely in all aspects of your life. Changes can happen if you take the initiative to direct your future. Set goals and param­eters; then follow through. Con­centrate less on living for others and more on you. Your numbers: 7, 15, 18, 24, 26, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
You have the ability to take con­trol and make decisions. Your competitive drive will help you gain ground and position your­self strategically. The greater the challenge, the more you'll thrive. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Love and romance are apparent if you get out and mingle. Don't expect family to be pleased with your decisions today. Listen to advice but do what is best for 
you.00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your humorous outlook and quick wit will impress new acquaintances. An envious indi­vidual may challenge you to a debate. Remain calm and you'll outshine him or her. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Personal relationships may be be your goal. Plan activities that are conducive to romance. If you are in a relationship, spend intimate time together -and if you are single, meet new people. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be entertaining at social func­tions and draw attention with your dramatic style. However, it may not be the kind of interest 

Birthday Baby: You' re a straight shooter with integrity, but will always consider others anJ approach them diplomatically. Your strong character will be admired and lead to many opportunities throughout life. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
EUGENIA LAST 
V ll{L;U \Aug. ;;:;,-:.ept. :.::.1:1: Secret enemies will be eager to spread rumors. Be prepared to counterattack. Problems with authority figures will arise unless you play by the rules. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Stick to a set budget today. You don't need to pay top dollar to have fun. Volunteer work will bring satisfaction instead of an empty wallet. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

-
Jealousy may cause problems in a usually good relationship. Be sure you have all the facts before deciding to accuse your partner of something that he or she didn't 
do.000 SAGfITARIUS (NO'lt 22-Dec. 21): 
You need some excitement in your life, and meeting new peo­ple in exotic destinations will cer­tainly satisfy your needs and your desires. Travel in pursuit of pleasure and knowledge. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A secret love affair, though entic­ing, would bring bad along with the good. Listen to the advice given by those with experience and save yourself a lot of grief. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Expect opposition if you won't allow someone to have his or her own way. Your two choices are to strike out on your own or bend to this person's whims. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You won't be able to hide the way you feel and will have to dis­cuss pressing issues, which could result in personal changes. It's time to make new friends who won't remind you of past mis­takes. 00 



O
THE 

Campus Sports 
BSERVER National Sports 
. 
ND Women's Swimming, p. 22 . NFL, pps. 17, 19 

. 
Column: Fox, p. 21 . Baseball, p. 16 


. NHL, p. 15
PORTS 

Tuesday, January 22, 2002 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Different team, different result 
. Huskies blow out Irish in rematch of NCAA Semi-final game 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Spores Editor 
HARTFORD. Conn. 

In front of more than Hi,000 fans at the Hartford Civic Center, the Irish suffered the same fate everyone of the Connecticut Huskies' opponents has suffered this season. 
In 40 minutes of play. the undisput­ed No. 1 team in the country hit hard on offense and even harder on defense and came home with another double digit victory as the Irish fell 80-53. 
"They're just outstanding," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "You watch them on tape and you know they're good, and then you see them in person and they're really con­vincing, really from the defensive pressure and their offensive capabili­ties." 
Despite solid efforts from some young Irish players. the Huskies, who remain the only undefeated team in college basketball (21-0, 7-0), out­shot, out-rebounded, and, ultimately, outran the Irish (10-7, 4-2}. Four Connecticut players -Sue Bird, Tamika Williams, Swin Cash and Asjha Jones, hit double digits in scor­ing while holding Notre Dame's two leading scorers -Alicia Ratay and Jackie Batteast -to less than 10 apiece. And when it came to rebound­ing, there was no question which 
see WOMEN/page 14 


. Youngsters show promise despite 2 7-point loss 
HARTFORD, Conn. 

The 16.294 Husky sweatshirt­
wearing faithful who made it to the 
Hartford Civic Center Monday after­
noon probably thought that they saw 
the price Notre Dame is paying after 
topping UConn 
twice in three 
tries en route to a 
NCAA title last 
season. 

And I'll bet the 
kids all around 
the country sit­
ting in front of 
ESPN on Martin 
Luther King. Jr. 
Day thoroughly 
enjoyed the high­
speed acrobatics 
Sue Bird and 
Tamika Williams 
performed at 
Notre Dame's 
expense. 
But me'? I looked at the game 
through my crystal ball and I saw 
next season's Big East champion, 
and I don't mean the team with the 
guy running around in the dog suit. 
No, I'm not kidding. The Irish 
might be 10-7 after the 80-53 
Huskies win, but even in the loss 
they showed the talent and versatili­
ty a team needs to win these days. . And Irish head coach Muffet 
McGraw saw those same things. 

see AMSTADTER/page 14 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hoyas physically dominate in 83-73 win 
. Sweetney picks up double-double, plows through Irish defense 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Write, 
With Harold Swanagan unable to play due to a re-aggravated left ankle sprain, the Georgetown Hoyas pushed and bul­lied their way to an 8 3-73 victory against an undersized Notre Dame team Monday night. 
Without Swanagan's presence the Hoyas three big men -Mike Sweetney, Wesley Wilson and Courtland Freeman -controlled the offensive and defensive hoards as Georgetown out-rebounded Notre Dame 54-41. 
"When you're missing a guy like Swanagan I think you're clearly not at full force," said Georgetown head coach Craig Escherick. "I thought we made them shoot tough 3s the whole game and I thought Courtland [Freeman]. Wesley [Wilson] and Mike [Sweetney] played as well as they've played all year." 
Sweetney, who was averaging 19.4 points and 9.4 rebounds per game com­ing into the contest, led both teams with 21 points and 16 rebounds. Wilson and Freeman each had 11 points and seven and six rebounds, respectively. 
"Georgetown came in very ready to play today," said Irish head coach Mike Brey. "They're certainly the most physi­cal team we have played all year. They just do a good job ofjust taking up space in the lane and making it look like there's not a lot of room in the half court." 
Jordan Cornette started in place of Swanagan but gave up 40 pounds to the hefty Sweetncy. Despite this weight dif­ference, Cornette shot 5-of-8 from the field and ended up with a career high 11 points. Ryan Humphrey led the Irish with 19 points and 11 rebounds while Matt Carroll added 17 points, including three 3-pointers. 
Yet the Irish were victimized from the start by lack of size and weight inside the key. Sweetney's first two buckets 
see MEN/page 18 

. Swanagan's presence sorely missed 
Only when Harold Swanagan parks himself on the bench instead of under the basket do you realize just how much you miss him. 
You miss his shut-up-and-play attitude, the way he leads by exam­ple and the pres­ence he provides on the court. 
You miss his unselfishness, his hustle, his size and his heart. 
You miss the screens he sets that spring perimeter shooters free, the posses­sions he saves by chasing the ball from the rim to the floor, the rebounds he gets when tag-team post partner Ryan Humphrey is busy try-ing to block shots. 


Mike Brey has joked that if his star point guard is feeling tired, he can give the freshman a massage to get him ready to play. But what he really should be figuring out how to fix his gritty forward 's bum ankle. 
"At some point, you're kinda putting super glue on it on it all the time," Brey said."... Yes, this was a big game, but we had to give it a shot without him and get him healthy." 
Forget the super-glue -Brey should look into a titanium ankle replacement. Because when Swanagan's injury keeps him out of the game, like it did Monday night, the Irish are a completely different team. 
"I thought it was a total, physical, mismatch," Brey said. "We wern hanging on for dear life just because of the physicalness of it." 
llad Swanagan played last night, the lloyas and Irish would have been a pair of evenly matched teams. But with Swanagan out of the lineup, the 
sec SOUKUP/page 18 
. SMC Basketball at Kalamazoo, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Hockey at Miami (Ohio), Friday, 7:30 p.m.

SPORTS 
onHnc 

. Men's Basketball vs. Seton Hall, Saturday, noon AT AGLANCE . Track vs. Michigan State, Saturday, 6 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/~observer 


