
VOL XXXVIII NO. 23 
Bishop stresses active approach in her State of the Union address 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Assismm News hliror 
In her Stat,: of tho Student Union addrnss, Student Rody Prnsident LiLby Bishop announrPd that the studf'nt union is founded upon the idr:a of making a ditfornnce on W nd n esclay. 
Bishop said lrnr staff has taken the proactive approach and worked with the adminis­tration this summer over the alcohol, dance and tailgating policy annou11ct'd by Fr. Mark Poorman last spring. 
"There is no doubi in my mind that we are on the righ't path, and that the state of the union is strong." said Bishop. 
Last ypar Bishop said the studrnt union was at a cross­roads betwcH1n the apathetic or proactivP approach with rPgards to thn policins out­li1wd in Poorman·s letter. 
"Tlw gDals that have been accomplislwd in just this first month an, not just the re11et­tion or a month's hard work. but exu•nsivc\ µreparation and planning that happened over the\ summ(,r,'" said Bishop. 
Bishop said lhe strength of tlrn studr-nt union ran be sr-cn in this Saturday's r:ampus wide cultural fair as rlubs and organizations worked together 
to organiw iL 
In tlw fall Hoard ot' Trustees report, Bishop will discuss improving rPsidentiality long trrrn. 
Bishop wants the student union to use its arcornplish­mrnts to carry on the momen­tum throughout the school year and said the student union must lead. 
"I think a good leader inspires peopl8 and to be an energetic leader you must not set limits for yourself. We 

ADAM MIGLORE/The Observer Student Body President Libby Bishop announces her vision for the student union at Notre Dame. Bishop said it is important to continue the current momentum for student involvement. 
have to look at what's been 
accomplished and not tet the Contact Meghanne Downes at momentum die," said Bishop. mdownesl@nd.edu 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
OIT official unveils ne-w-long-term goals 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Assistant News Editor 
At Wednesday's Senate meeting, Gary Wishon, chief informaiion officer and associate provost, discussed recent structural changes and technological improve­ments within the Office of Information Technologies. 
OIT completed a major structural reorganization, and actions arc being taken to mitigate the call load and problems with the 0IT help desk, sai.d Wishon. "The goal is that these calls don't reach the help desk because the structure and programs will have increased in strength," said Wishon. 
Long-term strategic plan­ning goals include a man­dated laptop program and cable television access in dorm rooms. 
OIT is reviewing the possi­bility of expanding wireless opportunities on campus. "We have begun a modest deployment of wireless technology. I say this is gradual because there is no strong academic imperative to bring it to the class­rooms," said Wishon. 
LaFortune, Hesburgh Library, the Law School and the College of Business Administration arc equipped with wireless technology. This technology would not be a replacement for Local Area Networks, but would be beneficial for extending the network to areas where LAN is not operable. 
The executive MBA and ACE programs utilize dis­tance learning technology, using computers and the internet for class work, and it is possible it will be incor­porated into other academic areas. 
"Degree to which the University employs distance learning as a fundamental strategy has yet to be men­tioned, but it is something I would expect the University's strategic plan­ning committee to he dis­cussing," said Wishon. 
Wishon said it is not the job of orr to be a policeman of the honor code or the~ responsible use policy. 
"We are not in any way preventing anyone from sharing any files. I don't envision a set of circum­stances that would cause us to change our policy," said Wishon. 
Students are not blocked from certain Internet sites, said Wishon. A package shaper is used to set an upper limit of how many file transfers can occur. 
Wishon said H and I drives are accessible only on Windows XP and 2000 due to the quick overturn in technology. 
"One of the challenges in this business is keeping up with the pace of change. The various programs and operating systems that show up on campus creates a too complex system. Sometimes complexity is too great for us to handle and at some point we will have to call it quits with the older operat­ing systems," said Wishon. 
Windows XP is available at a discounted price for students at OIT, Wishon said. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 



New catalyst project puts Saint Mary's in motion 
By EMILY FORD News Writer  ing at their work. To both imag­ine new possibilities and get real concrete about how we get  an article by Anne T. Sweetser, "is a methodology to help groups of people anywhAre analyze  about long-term solutions to the areas' social problems and those of greater society.  on about 20 women from the community, 10 members of fac­ulty and staff and five students  
there; in the process of doing  their communities and make  "This isn't about Saint Mary's  as participants in the trip during  
The  Center  for  Women's  that to have kind of created a  decisions about future actions."  saying, 'We're going to go out  the week of Oct. 19. However,  
lntercultural Leadership at Saint  support community as we move  The key to PLA is the recognition  and start a domestic violence  Bazata will accept more stu­ 
Mary's is sponsoring the Catalyst  on with  our work. And so the  that the local  shelter  or  dents if space allows. Both the  
Project, an PXpNiment that will link students and staff with women leaders in the communi­ty,  Catalyst Project is an attempt to combine those things." The project begins Thursday with a workshop by Juaniia  inhabitants are the experts of their situa­tion and that  "It's meant to be a very hands-on process and a process that creates a  we're going to start a home­less feeding center.' It's  community members and stu­dents are required to complete an application by Oct 4. The trip is worth $600, according to  
Bonnie Bazata, director of community connections in CWIL, contemplated how to integrate  Campos, an expert in the Participatory Learning in Action (PLA) model of research, evalua­ they must be involved in all plans and  voice for everybody in the room.,,  about how do we support these people  Bazata, and participants only have to pay a $50 registration fee. There is financial assistance  
the two communities and create  tion and planning. Participants  actions  for  who are doing  available for the fee. Each appli­ 
a forum for women leaders. "One of the things that is often missing for women leaders,"  will have the chance to not only li>arn about PLA but will bi> able to apply it while meeting with  change.The next step Of the  Bonnie Bazata director of community connections  these great things in our community,  cant is asked to prepare person­al statements regarding their leadership activities and what  
said Bazata, "is an opportunity  other leaders.  Catalyst  learn  from  they hope to gain from the expe­ 
to step outsirle an incredihly  "lt's meant to be a very bands­ Project  is  to  them  and  rience.  
busy and often stressful environ­ on process and a process that  apply the principles of PLA on a  make the connections back to  "I think I'm really looking for  
ment. and reallv reflect on what  creates a voice and participation  six-day excursion into communi­ Saint Marv's," Bazata said.  people who are passionate about  
they're doing a;1d to reflect with  for everybody in lhe room,"  ty change projects in Ohio and  This  • learn-by-example  coming and who feel a commit­ 
other women leaders, to have a  Bazata said.  Tennessee. Each destination is  approach will even occur during  ment to making a difference in  
kind of guided process for look- The PLA model, according to  designed to facilitate discussion  travel time, since Bazata plans  the world and are excited at the  
see CATALYST/page 6  

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, September 26, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Payday is here 
Sometime during the past summer. a letter probably arrived in your mailbox telling you that you qualified for campus employnumt through the Work Study 
program. As far as  
I know these let­ters are worthless  Justin Krivickas  
because it seems  
like everyone get<;  Assistant  
a similar letter and a brochure telling  News Hditor  
them of the enor­ 

mous benefits of worklng in the Dining Hails. Or so I thought. 
½'hen you arrive on campus, Reckers, LaFortune and Co-Mo hound students to apply for employment ranging from making sandwiches to tutoring. Beyond this ba1Tage. word begins to spread that you can work in the South Bend commu­nity. away from the typkal campus job. Although this sounds enticing, remem­ber that with everything in life, there's a <:atch. You nf'ed Federal Work Study not the typical Work Study everyone else receives. 
Apparently Federal Work Study is harder to come by than what the University hands out to us. Also once you do get il you don't always get to keep it. Your eligibility changes from year to because it is determined from the infor­mation you provide on your FASFA forms each year. 
I know service in the community shouldn't be based on getting a paycheck at the end ofthe day, but it is a great incentive for college students. Time is valuable, and if you have the opportunity to get a job on campus versus trying to volunteer a few miles away, most people wiU take the paying position that's close. 
In a paying community outreach posi­tion. students get the opportunity to help in the South Bend area for a substitute for customary campus employment. Although some will argue these positions should be to mainly to feel good about yourself and not pay, remember that stu­dents are inherently poor and a paying position is necessary for most students. Work Study positions in not for profit organizations in the community allow students to have the best of both worlds: helping others and getting paid for it. 
There are students that volunteer actively in the community without wor­rying about money. These students should be congratulated for their sacri­fices to make a difference in the commu­nity. If you can fit time in your schedule I'd actually recommend volunteering for a semester and see how you like it. Volunteers are the real troopers out there and deserve all the credit they are given. The Center for Social Concerns is an important link on campus and every student should participate in one of its various programs to help the South Bend communitv. 
If. on the other hand, you are looking for a position that can function as both a job and community service activity see if you qualify for Federal Work Study. 
Unfortunately eligibility for Federal Work Study changes from year to year and many students don't even qualify. If you do though. please consider taking advantage of it and check out the pro­grams available. Working within a com­munity service organization can be an awarding activity, and getting a pay­check is merely one of the many bene­fits you'll receive. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of ThP Observer. 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards ilSelf as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highesr standards of journal­ism Jr all rimes. We do, however, recognize char we will mah, mistake,. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4'\41 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Group discussion analyzes Catholic identity at SMC  Palestinians call off talks, Israel continues siege  Homestore execs plead guilty  Out there doing the romance thing  Movie reviews  Enduring talent  
Ideas of Catholicism and what it should mean to Catholics were debated in a panel.  Tension in the Middle East contin­ues to hold steady as both Israel and Palestine refuse to meet each other's demands.  Three executives from the largest Internet-based provider of real eastc listings plead guilty for fraudu­lent inflation of earnings.  A columnist takes an in depth look into the dating scene and what the opposite sex is real­ly thinking.  Scene critics take a look at movies "Barbershop", "Trapped" and "One Hour Photo" and rate them.  Junior Todd Mobley leads the Irish Cross Country team as the No. 1 runner.  
page 3  page 5  page 7  page 12  page 14-15  page 28  

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. Lecture: "The Horizon or Poacobuilding: The Strategic Challenge of Post Agrrement Change," John Paul Lederach, 
4: 15 p.m. at the IIesburgh Contor 
. Concert: Bio de Janeiro Charo Band,5:30 p,m. at the South HPnd Hegional Museum of Art 
. Movie: 5J'uzhou River, 7 p.m, at the Hesburgh Library, Carey Auditorium 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ SMC 
. 
Immunization Clinic 1 p.m.-7 p.m. in the Welsh Parlor 

. 
Board of Governance Focus Group 6:00 p.m. at the North Wedge Room 

. 
Junior Class "Must Sec TV" Night 6:30 -10 p.m. in the Little 


Theatre 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, boiled tri-color rotini, turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach cheese tortellini, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, whipped potatoes, cut corn, peas, spinach, garden quiche, beef tips and mushrooms, boiled kluski noodles, chicken enchilada 
Today's Dinner: boiled mostaccioli, sausage pizza, calzones, plain rice, turkey gravy, lima beans, eggplant parmesan, swiss steak, grilled salmon fillet, shrimp poppers, pork tempura, chicken taco, beef fajita 
South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Boiled thin spaghet­ti, boiled shells, boiled tri-color rotini, turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach cheese tortellini, , whipped potatoes, cut corn, peas, spinach, broc­coli, hamburgers, rice, cereal, fries, chicken sandwhich, salad, bread sticks pepperoni pizza and cheese pizza 
Today's Dinner: Boiled thin spaghet­ti, boiled shells, boiled tri-color rotini, turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach cheese tortellini, • whipped potatoes, cut corn, broccoli, hamburg­ers, rice, cereal, fries, chicken sand­which, salad, bread sticks pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, peas and spinach 
TODAY TONlGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
w 


!« % 
w 
~ 
...I 
< 
(,.) 




_,0 HIGH 70 HIGH 63 HIGH 58 HIGH 58 LOW 58 LOW 49 LOW 38 LOW 37 
WHAT'S GOING 
Car accident reported 
NDSD responded to a two car accident in tho Moreau Seminary parking lot on Tuesday. There were no injuries reported. 

Property lost in Stepan Fields 
A student reported losing his cellular phone and a set of keys in Stepan Fields on Monday. 

Car towed in Main Circle 
A visitor vehicle was towed for a parking vio­lation in Main Circle on Tuesday. 

Bike found by NDSP 
An abandoned bike was found near Stepan Chemistry and brought in to NDSP for safekeep­ing on Tuesday. 

Kontrol Kards lost 
On Tuesday. an employee reported losing her Kontrol Kard at an off campus location, and a University retiree reported losing his Kontrol Kard. 
Information compiled from the NDSP Crime Blotter 
Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chefs pasta, Italian Ratatouille, spinach and jack cheese quesadillas, vegetarian pinto beans, corn muffins, szechwan pork, grilled beef salad wrap, steak fries, chefs veg­etables and pizza 
Today's Dinner: Sauteed lemon crepes with vegetables, steamed broc­coli, baked potatoes, fresh acorn squash, ice cream, pasta, meat balls, assorted sauces, cheese garlic bread, sauteed mushrooms, baked mosaccioli. fried chicken, baked chicken breast, macaroni and cheese and chefs vegetables 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
~

~ 
HIGH 63 HIGH 70 LOW 45 LOW 48 
Atlanta 76 / 69 Boston 68 / 56 Chicago 71 / 52 Denver 64 / 44 Houston 90 / 66 Los Angeles 90 / 62 Minneapolis 59 / 40 New York 69 / 62 Philadelphia 74 / 61 Phoenix 101 / 76 Seattle 74 / 49 St. Louis 72 / 52 Tampa 87 / 77 Washington 69 / 63 
Thur~d.iy, September 26, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Group discussion analyzes Catholic identity at SMC 
By NATAUE BAILEY 
Nt'w, Wrir.-, 
A group discuss('(! Catholic idt,nlily W,·d1rnsday at Saint \1arv·s. 
It ·was a conversation Monika ll!'llv,;ig br.ga11 last w1-H,k tllat was rPkindlNl in a panrl discus­sion. Tlw rnnvt>rsation was an opportunity for tfw Col!Pge com­munity to gather and disn1ss hopPs and <·oncPrns about Uw CatlHllir ic!Pntity or Saint Ml.Lry's as a lilwral arr-. col11\gP. 
Tlw group discussion was pro­1wlkd by SPV<·ral people seP>ing as "convt>rsation starters" who pr1•sPnt1•d short commPntariPS. 
Tlw pa1wl of' convPrsation sturU'rs included: Fatlwr Brian DalPy, professor in the Notrr. Danw Tlwology l>Ppartm1mt and 1·rprrsentativP or thr Catholic Common Ground Offtre in !\ew York City: Ten•nci-1\tfartin. pro­fossor in tlie Saint l\1ary's Beligious Studies and Philosophy ckpartmcnts; Joanne Snow. associalte profossor in tlrn Saint Mary's Mathematics Departnwnl; Jo Ann MarKcnzie, 1969 alumna and director of pla111wd giving developnrnnt at Saint Mary's; Jennifer Stark, a sec:ond-yBar nursing major at Saint Mary's; and Sister Linda Kors, dirnctor of S.U.R.V. Center at Saint Mary's. 
Martin outlined what he thought it meant to br. ideally Catholic. 
"To b•i Catholic calls people to bP inclusive, to put an emphasis on what we have in common, not on what makes us distinct ... To be Catholic means we resist frozen unchanging ideas ... To tw Catholic mr:ans we us reason ,ls an ally ... To be Catholic means we are called to live as Christians," Martin said. 

Daley believed these specifica­tions to he beyond the ideal. 
"Catholic colleges and univer­sities need to emphasize applied learning to make the world just; to many this is an ideal but in a Catholic university, this is essen­tial," Daley said. 
Daley also emphasized the importance of humility in the elitist and pompous environ­
ment that surrounds academia and scholarship. Martin's sug­gestion was to, "Dare to look at the dark side in order to see and appreciate the light." 
By examining what role her Catholic faith plays in her daily work, Snow answered the ques­tion posed by Daley, "Is a Catholic college or university any different from other col­leges and universities?" She concluded that the content and philosophy of her classes would remain unchanged were she to teach at a public institution. 
However, she listed three areas in which the Catholic identity of Saint Mary's supple­
ments her professional career. 
"My life is whole here. At Saint Mary's there is an inte­gration of experience that comes from no separation between faith and work." 
As a Catholic member of the faculty at Saint Mary's, Snow said she feels an obligation to integrity, respect and forgive­ness. 
"This college can only call itself Catholic if its Catholic members practice their faith ... Seeing young women receive a Catholic education at this col­lege gives me hope for the future," Snow said. 
MacKenzie addressed the 
identity problem that can come from shaping women at a Catholic women's college. 
''What does it mean to be a practicing Catholic woman? I am an educated lay person, wife, mother and sexual being, not really somebody the Catholic Church is interested in hearing from," MacKenzie said. 
Stark said Saint Mary's has fostered her Catholic identity. 
"Once I came to Saint Mary's, 1 learned that my faith is my choice," Stark said. 
William Svelrnoe, Saint Mary's history professor. com­mended the exploration that students are able to do on cam­pus. 
"Coming from a fundamen­talist Protestant background, the atmosphere here is refresh­ing and free. I appreciate the ever-present symbols but lack of forceful religion. This gives students the opportunity to explore and grow in their faith,'' Svelmoe said. 
Kors did a survey asking stu­d en ts what it meant tu be Catholic, and the majority of the students who responded said that the ability to dialogue about faith is key at a Catholic institution. 
Sister Elena Malits agreed. 
"If we cannot discuss funda­mental issues of who we are and what we do, where can we go?" Maltis asked. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill 407@saintmarys.edu 

ATTENTION There's still time to sign up for a weekend of adventure. Go to Room t t 1 of the CoMo by midnight on Thursday, bring some friends, fill out


GUYS: 

an application, pay 25 bucks and you're in. If you're wondering what
ROAD TRIP exactly we'll be doing on the SRT, just think "Outdoors Adventure." 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, September 26, 2002 


Hoops Classic to help child 
. Proceeds to benefit law student's daughter with brain tumor 
By STEPHANIE SELLINGER 
News Wrir~r 

Law students am teaming up on the court Saturday to aid the ailing daughter of a class­mate. 
The Student Bar Association of the Not.re Dame Law School will sponsor the Doan Link Hoops Classic. While the event is traditionallv held in the spring, this year\ 3-on-3 tour­nament has been moved to the fall with a new cause in mind, 14-montb-old Betsey Greenwood. 
Last May, doctors diagnosed Betsey, daughter of second­year law student Adam Greenwood, with a brain tumor. All proceeds from the tournament will go directly to the Greenwood family to help pay medical expenses to treat her ongoing condition. 
"The faith and courage that Adam and his family have demonstrated have been both inspiring and humbling," said Bryan Wise, president of the Student Bar Association. 
The tournament will begin Saturday at 10 a.m. at the Hammes Bookstore courts. The registration fee per team is $15, and there will be both a mens and a womens division. Teams can sign up at either dining hall or 244 Dillon Hall through Friday afternoon. Winners will receive prizes. 
The Student Bar Association is also collecting donations in the Law School and in the din­ing halls Friday. 

Jason Linster, a second-year law student and athletic com­missioner of the Student Bar Association. came up with the idea for the tournament this summer. Moved by his class­mate's e-mails, petitioning his fellow law students for prayers. Linster recognized the tournament as a way to raise awareness among students and to have fun. 
"I couldn't think of a better person to help than Adam Greenwood," Linster said. "Through this whole thing, he has been so strong despite it all -always smiling to you in the hallways and asking how you're doing. I think it is his faith in God that has helped him to stay so optimistic Ile is truly an inspiration to all of us." 
More information about the Dean Link Hoops Classic is available at 631-8011 or jlin­ste@nd.edu. 
Contact Stephanie Sellinger at sselling@nd.edu 


US News rankings: Solid or empty statistics? 
Associace<l Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 

At a back-to-sc:hool press conference in August, interim University of Alabama President Barry Mason dis­missed the importance of the newly released Princeton Review college rankings, which piqw~d local interest by ranking the University as the nation's third-best party school. 
Mason said he'd like the University's focus to be on academic rankings "that have meaning," not student surveys with "flawed methodology" like Princeton Review's. 
Last week, Mason said he was "pleased to announce that for lhe second consecutive year. the University of Alabama has been named among the nation's top 50 public universities by US News & World Heport." 
The University tied with Ohio University, tho University of Massachusetts. the University of New Hampshire and the University of Vermont for 45th place among public colleges, up from last year's rank of 48. For the second consecutive year, US News placed the University in its second of four tiers of national research universities with sig­nificant doctoral programs. Most of the Southeastern Conference's member schools. including Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Auburn, fall into this category. 
The US News rankings are a source of pride for many fac­ulty members and administra­tors. who see them as confir­mation of a job well done. Margaret Garner, a professor in the department of family medicine, said she thinks the University's recent move up the US News rankings --it was listed as a fourth-tier school as recently as the mid-1990s -shows that people around the country are finally noticing the good job the University has been doing for a long time. 
Cathy Andreen, the University's director of media relations, said she was extremely pleased that the University was ranked among the top 50 public schools and that the rankings were "a wonderful reflection on our faculty and students' dedica­tion." 
"It reflects the hard work our faculty and students put into academic endeavors." Andreen said. 
20tl}1Annual Dorner Run 
0 :z 
A BP1wt1t fur l\lutn• Oanrn Pru~t,ite Awure11P.s~ Cm1r.H1 Edui:at1011 
~•.,,., -,~~­
Saturday, September 28 11 :00am 
ALL Ntw RACtCOUR~t! 
3 & 6 mile runs, 2 mile walk Pancake Breakfast Register in advance at RecSports $6 in advance, $7 day of the race CaH 1-6100 for more infonnation 
But are lhe rankings as sta­tistically sound as US Nf'ws claims? It depends on w·hom you ask. 
A brief history 

U.S. News started publishing college rankings in 1983, and its initial methodology was simply to ask university presi­dents to rank the top fiv1~ col­h~ges in C'ach cat<>gory (nation­al doctoral, liberal arts, etc.). In 1988, according to a University of (:hicago Magazine report, US News brought in a statistician to develop a more scientific for­mula by which colleges could be ranked -but 11red the sta­tistician after her formula placnd a small seminary at the top of the list. US News hired a second statistician, who came up with a methodology that placed Yale University on top. 
The editor responsiblo for the issue, Mel Elfin, was quot­ed in the Washington Monthly as unapologetic about his determination to get the Ivy LeaguP schools on top of his rankings. 
"When you're picking the most valuable player in base­ball and a utility player hitting .220 comes up as the MVP, it's not right," he said. 
Since then, Harvard, Yale or Princeton has occupied the top spot every year but one _ 1999, when California Institute of Technology came out on top. 
After that issue, US News recalculated its formula to de­emphasize per-student spend­ing, an area in which Caltech enjoyed a significant advan­tage. Since then, Harvard, Yale and Princeton have enjoyed another uninterrupted run on top. This year's edition lists Princeton first, Harvard second and Yale third. 

One pollster's perspective 

As the coordinator of the University's Capstone Poll, which conducts local surveys and offers survey consulting services, Michael Conaway is used to dealing with survey data. But Conaway said he was frustrated by the lack of explanation US News provided along with its data. 
"What's more notable about their Web site and report is what they don't say," he said. 
Conaway said neither US News magazine nor its Web site seemed to explain how it arrived at the current ranking system, or why certain cate­gories were given greater weight than others. 
"I did not find any explana­tion on the Web site as to the reasons they included certain components and not other possible ones or why they weighted the selected compo­nents they way they did," he said. 
A quarter of the ranking was based on peer assessment, but Conaway said he wondered why the assessment was restricted to higher-level administrators. 
"Why would you only talk to presidents, provosts and deans of admission?" he said. "Why not, say, department heads?" 
Another component Conaway wondered about is the measure of "graduation rate," which accounts for 20 percent of US News' ranking. 
"What does your 'graduation rate' tell you about the quality of your graduates?" he said. "It tells you that they graduat­ed." 
As an alternative measure. Conaway suggested counting the percentage or new acade­mic hires from each school's recent graduating class to give some idea of whether a school is producing quality graduates. 
But Conaway acknowledged that coming up with a perfect ranking system is a nearly impossible task. 
"I don't mean to demean their effort. I think they've made a great effort," he said. "And they do tell you that the ranking is just a guide --but who's going to remember that caveat? How could they possi­bly pass up the drama atten­dant to announcing the num­ber one school? 
"But sometimes, some num­ber actually isn't better than no number. You don't know what this composite score means, because they won't tell you." 
One pollster's perspective 
In 1997, US News commis­sioned the National Opinion Research Center to write a report on the college ranking methodology. Its first criti­cism of the US News system was its refusal to acknowl­edge that "non-traditional students" -students, often found on urban campuses, who take classes for personal enrichment with no intention of obtaining a degree -can skew the rankings. 
"We note, however, that the US News ratings are developed for traditional stu­dents entering college shortly after high school: that is. stu­dents 18 to 24 who attend full time and may have applied to and chosen among several institutions." the report said. 
"Thus, this discussion is about criteria for such tri-trli­tional students. We believe it is impossible to rate institu­tions with the same set of indicators for both traditional and non-traditional students. As th,~ proportion of non-tra­ditional students attending higher education institutions grows, US News might want to consider developing a sep­arate rating system and pub­lishing a separate guide for nontraditional students." 
At a UA System Board of Trustees meeting last year, Vice Chancellor of Academic Affairs Charles Nash presented graduation statistics showing the University's rates to be far above its sister institutions. Sixty-onP percent of the University's 1994 entering class graduated in six years or less, compared to 39 percent at the University of Alabama in Huntsville and 34 percent at UAB. 

We Deliver 



7 days a 

week 
2.99 for Lunch 
7.49 for combos 
Asian Market will be coming soon! 
-

ASIAN PACIFIC STUDENTS YOU ARE INVITED! 
THE ASIAN PACIFICALUMNI OF NOTRE DAME BOARD OF DIRECTORS OULD LIKE TO MEETWJTHYOU FOR LUNCH CONVERSATION. PLEASE STOP BYTHE NOTRE DAME ROOM ON THE 2ND FLOOR OF THE LAFORTUNE CENTERTHIS COMING SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 281 FROM NOON UNTIL 1:30 PM 






WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 26, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
ISRAEL 
Palestinians call off talks, Israel continues siege 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Palestinians called oIT talks set for Wednesday to end a week­long Israeli siege of Vasser Arafat's office in the West Bank town of Ramallah, complaining that Israel would not allow intcr­nation al negotiators to meet Arafat first. 
Israel maintained its grip on the ravaged compound while casing curfew restrictions in other parts of Ramallah, defying a U.N. Security Council resolution and pressure from the United States, Europe and the Arab world to pull back. 
One consequence of the siege is a halt to efforts to reform Arafat's regime, said a top offi­cial, Mahmoud Abbas. Abbas. also known as Abu Mazen. is Arafat's deputy and has been mentioned as a possible prime minister if the Palestinians decide to appoint one to take over some of Arafat's duties in the frame­work of reforms. 
But Abbas said there can be no talk of reforms "while our presi­dent is under such cruel and unprecedented aggression." Abbas told The Associated Press that he has been meeting with other reform-minded Palestinians, but they have dis­cussed only how to end Israel's siege. 
Israel, Europe and the United States have joined many Palestinians in demanding reforms in Arafat's unwieldy and corrupt regime. 
Israel sent tanks and bulldoz­ers into Arafat's compound last Thursday atler a Palestinian sui­cide bomber blew up a Tel Aviv bus. killing himself and six other people. 
On Monday, the U.N. Security Council passed a resolution demanding that Israel end the siege, pull its forces back toward the lines they held before vio• Jenee erupted two years ago, while condemning attacks on civilians and calling on the Palestinians to put those respon­sible for terror attacks on trial. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said Israel cannot carry out the resolution "because the other part will not be fulfilled," charg­ing that Palestinian security forces are not stopping militants from carrying out attacks. 
White House press secretary Ari Fleischer was asked at his daily briefing with reporters whether Peres· refusal of the Security Council demand to end operations around Ramallah and withdraw from Palestinian cities could be compared with Saddam Hussein's defiance of U.N. resolu­tions. 
"I think you have to be very careful when you equate Iraq with any other nation, and say 
AFP Photo 

Palestinians hold candles and posters of Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat in Almanara Square during a demonstration against the siege of Arafat's compound Wednesday in the West Bank city of Ramallah. The Israeli anny still maintains soldiers around the Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat's compound. 
Israel and Iraq are the same, not hurt the cause of reform in Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, like Peres when they are not," Fleischer the Palestinian Authority. The a member of the moderate Labor said. "The president does feel president has spoken out about Party, set a different condition for strongly about the need for Israel that directly in opposition to ending the blockade, demanding to listen and to heed the call and Israel." the surrender of 19 terror sus­to make certain that its efforts do Israeli Defense Minister pects in Arafat's office. 
IVORY COAST 
Ainerican children evacuated frotn rebel uprising 
Associated Press 
YAMOUSSOUKRO 

Waving U.S. flags and shouting "Vive la France!," American schoolchildren escaped a rebel-held Ivory Coast city under siege Wednesday, as U.S. special forces and French troops moved in to rescue Westerners caught in the West African nation's bloodiest uprising. 
The evacuation came amid concerns that a full-scale battle could envelop Bouake, a cen­tral city of half-million residents. "We're run­ning out of everything," said one frightened Ivorian woman, reached by telephone. "We are scared." 
U.S. and French troops moved into Bouake Wednesday to safeguard Westerners caught in a six-day uprising after a failed coup Sept. 19 in which at least 270 people died. With insurgents holed up in Bouake and the northern city of Korhogo, President Laurent Gbagbo has pledged an all-out battle to root out rebels in what was once West Africa's most stable and prosperous country. 
The 191 Americans evacuated from the school were escorted by the French military to an airfield in Yamoussoukro, where U.S. C-130 airplanes will fly them to Ghana Thursday morning, Pentagon officials said. 
U.S. special forces spilled out of two C-130 cargo planes that touched down in Ivory Coast at midaftemoon from a staging point in neighboring Ghana. Plane ramps came down and U.S. forces secured the tannac of the for­est-lined airstrip in Yamoussoukro, clearing the way for Hurnvees that crune rolling out. 
American soldiers humping duffel bags and metal boxes rapidly set up a post at the strip, a base for French troops who arrived earlier to move in on behalf of Yamoussoukro's foreigners. American offi­cials would not say what the soldiers were going to do next. 
About 300 Americans live in Bouake, Ivory Coast's second-largest city, which has been cut off from water, electricity and food since last week's rebel takeover. 
"Our idea is to get as many out as possi­ble," Richard Buangan, a U.S. diplomat help­ing to coordinate at the staging area, said of Americans in Bouake after another night of firing outside the International Christian Academy on the city's outskirts. 
About 100 well-armed French troops reached the whitewashed compound of the mission school at midday. "Everyone there is ecstatic," said Neil Gilliland, speaking by tele­phone from the affiliated Free Will Baptist Missions in Nashville, Tenn., minutes after the troops arrival. 
The school houses 200 teachers, and chil­dren ages 5 to 18 of missionaries based across Africa. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Pope to address Italian parliament: 
Pope John Paul II will address a joint session of the Italian parliament in November. a step seen as a his­toric reconciliation between church and state in Italy. The Vatican said Wednesday that John Paul will speak to the lawmakers Nov. 14 at the invitation of the heads of the two houses of parliament. Popes used to rule Rome, but the temporal power of the Roman pontiff.<; ended when Italian troops entered the city in 1870 through the Porta Pia gate. 
N. Ireland 'Good Friday' accord threatened: 
The threat by Northern Ireland's major Protestant party to shut down the joint Catholic-Protestant govern­ment in January makes it more difficult to advance the peace process, a senior U.S. official said Wednesday. David Trimble, the Protestant leader of Northern Ireland's unity government. made the threat last week­end. He said the Irish Republican Army had to demon­str:ate it has renounced \dol1mce .within four .months. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Tropical storm drenches Louisiana: 
Tropical Storm Isidore drenched the Gulf Coast on Wednesday, swamping parts of New Orleans with thigh-deep water and chasing tourists and resi­dents inland as it swirled toward land with a potential 20 inches of rain. By evening, the center of the sprawling storm was 215 miles south of New Orleans and moving north at 12 mph. 
Bush to send envoy to North Korea: 
President Bush, despite deep suspicion of a coun­
try he considers part of an "axis of evil," will soon 
send an envoy to North Korea to reopen security 
talks with Pyongyang for the first time in almost 
two years. The decision was reached after two 
days of talks earlier this week with North Korean 
officials. Bush notified South Korean President 
Kim Dae-Jung of his decision during a telephone 
call on Wednesday. Officials said the envoy will -travel to Pyongyang.at an early date. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 


Mom accused in beating visits daughter: 
A woman caught on a South Bend department store surveillance tape repeatedly striking her 4-year-old daughter visited with the girl for about 95 minutes on Wednesday. The visit was Madelyne Gorman Toogood's first chance to see her daughter, Martha, since the girl was placed in foster care after Toogood was charged Saturday with battery of a child. A sched­uled visit Tuesday was canceled because Martha was 
ill. Toogood and her husband, John, visited Martha together Wednesday. She was teary-eyed as she left afterward. "Yeah, she looked good," John Toogood said as he got into his car outside the Thomas N. Frederick Juvenile Justice Center. His wife did not say anything, other than to urge her husband not to talk with reporters. Toogood, 25, has said she hit her daughter in the head and back and pulled her hair but did not punch her. She has pleaded innocent to felony battery of a child, though her attorney says he is hop­ing a plea agreement can be reached. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 26, 2002 
Survey raises concerns and prompts changes 
By ERIN BRADY News Writer  faculty replied in favor of the dean's reappointment, while a minority of tenured faculty  a summary of the meeting, Roche described salary as the College's first  tices," said Roche. He also included ideas on how to improve his  dents think we're doing our job well. We strive to make our office a friendly and accessible  
Praise for assisiant deans along with issues concerning staff morale and salary were  supported it. One of the major concerns brought about by the survey is that of salary fairness and the  priority and i1Hroduced thi> idea of creating an  "We strive to make our office a friendly and  accessibili­ty and visi­bility to members of  place, and we like to think or our main task is creating possi­bilities," said Preacher. Roche concluded his first  
among the highlights of the results of an Arts and Letters survey conducted last April. The College sent out the sur­vey to faculty, staff and stu­dents in search nf opinions regarding the department and the reappointment of Arts and  dean's advocacy Clf pay based on merit. This item was ranked among the lowest on the facul­ty survey. receiving a "poor to low" mark. Staff results reaf­firmed this sentiment, placing the statement "I believl' salary increases are based on merit"  ad hoc Faculty Review and Compensation Committee. "Ideally, the Committee will develop a  accessible place, and we like to think our main task is creating possibilities. " Ava Preacher associate dean  faculty, staff and the student body. In addi­tion, both faculty and students  five-year term last spring and was reappointed for a second, based on the survey results, interviews with department chairs and other faculty and based on written comments and letters.  
Letters Dean Mark Roche.  in the "strong disagreement"  formal  pro- gave  high  
In a summary of results from  category.  posal of some  rankings to  
the faculty, high opinions were  In a faculty meeting on Sept.  kind that may help address  associate deans Ava !'reacher,  
given of the Dean's efforts to recruit and retain tenured fac­ulty. A majority of untenured  4, Roche address1~d issues con­cerning salary, Notre Dame's "ethos" and his accessibility. In  some of the lingering concerns faculty have about salaries as well as integrate the best prac- Jennifer Nemecek and Dorothy Pratt. "We were pleased that stu- Contact Erin Brady at ebradyl@nd.edu  

Catalyst 
continued from page 1 
opportunity to ineet women leaders in the community," Bazata said. 
Social work major Laura Porto wants to be a part of the Catalyst Project as a way to expand her work in social issues. 
"I decided to become involved following a summer internship, dealing with several social and economic justice issues ... This break is going to be a continua­tion of this summer, building upon what l and others know, bringing it back to our campus and our communities. As a social work major or any major on campus, you need to under­stand how your own profession contains an impact in your lifo as well as the immediate com­rrrnnity and the larger society. You can make a difference," Porto said. 
Saint Mary's student Jen Hernandez is also looking for­ward to the possibility of making a contribution to the greater good. 
"I'm looking to make sure that we affect each other in a posi­tive and dynamic way that cre­ates a support of and for all women ½ithin all of our commu­nities ... We are going to be associating, working side by side with, and expressing ourselves with some amazing women from our community, this institution and our guests. I'm looking for­ward to rolling up my sleeves and expanding my mind within this project," Hernandez said. 
To help unite all the women, who come from various fields and ethnic backgrounds, each participant will be assigned a role for the trip as facilitator, evaluator, documenter or orga­nizer. These tasks will ensure that everyone has an equal opportunity to share the respon­sibilities of recording the trip's events, running workshops and evaluations. 

Bazata hopes the project will live up to its name. 
"It's not the doing of the action, but it's the causal effect that creates an action ... because we're trying to make that space in which after that experience, really great things happen." 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6S04@saintmarys.edu 
Want to " write for Observer NevVs? Call 1-5323. 
THERE'S SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE THIS WEEK AT ~IE~ 
TI1e sweetest TI1tll\,g Braveheart 



tlt\uys._3/:2G 1.0 -pV\,{, fy[_!j/2J1-.§ Seft_!j/:2.g> 7"":30 .§ 1.0 -pV\A.. ~btt 1.01. 
13 

thurs 9/26 10 pm fri 9/27 & sat 9/28 7:30 & 10 pm 

Thursday, September 26, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 25 
Dow Jones 
7,841.82 +158.69 



NASDAQ 

1,222.29  t­ +40.12  
S&P500  
839.66  
 +20.37  
AAfEX  
824.16  ft  +8.56  
NYSE  
455.08  t­ +9.70  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +3.99 +0.84 21.87 
~~~g:::!~ll~~il!lll~~~~l~lii!ll!l:!!!~l~lliill:·················
.,,,,/''' 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +6.00 +0.86 15.20 
soi'.Ifi' ....J:!l:sllJ:I:le!~:iJ1:IB!liw!ei!:llillla
..... ' .• .,.:: •..• : •• -.-..... :-:-:-:->:-:-:.:-:-:-:-:-:;:~:••::::•::::;:::-•::::::-:-:;:::;:::::;:;:;:;:.:::;:-:.'.·'.·:•:-:-:-:.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:;:;:•:<;'..'.•:;:;:%::•:::-;.:;: 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +7.38 +0.59 8.59 
IN BRIEF 
United unions agree to cut wages 
United Airlines' union leaders said Wednesday they are ready to allow the finan­cially struggling company to cut labor costs by $5 billion over five years. but would not agree to $9 billion over six years as the carrier had sought. 
One union official said the employee propos­al includes "significant savings from manage­ment" but he did not offer specifics. 
The proposal by United's five employee unions came in response to a United recovery plan announced last month that included $1.5 billion in annual labor cost savings. The unions said their recovery plan will allow the carrier to improve its annual profitability by $2 billion or $3 billion. 
A coalition of United unions delivered the proposal late Wednesday to Glenn Tilton, chairman of United's parent, UAL Corp. The group did not release its plan. 

Protesters vow to shut Down D.C. 
Protesters are pledging to shut down the nation's capital Friday with demonstra­tions that will "disrupt traffic and convey a symbolic message" against capitalism and war. 
The protests are a prelude to even larger demonstrations planned for the weekend during meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. 
The FBI issued a warning this week that computer hackers may conduct "cyber protests" during the financial meetings. 
"A small group that intends to disrupt the meetings with a physical attack may use cyber means to enhance the effects of the physical attack or to complicate the response by emergency services," the agency said in a statement. 
The Anti-Capitalist Convergence, a group that wants to abolish the global financial institutions, said Wednesday that they would hold several nonviolent demonstra­tions during Friday morning's rush hour. 
Homestore executives plead guilty 
. Executives guilty of fraud, inflating earnings 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Three former executives of Homestore.com, the nation's largest Internet­based provider of residen­tial real estate listings, have agreed to plead guilty to fraudulently inflating company earnings, Attorney General John Ashcroft announced Wednesday. 
Two former executives of I-lomestore.com Inc. chief operating officer John Giesecke and chief financial officer Joseph Shew agreed to plead guilty to conspiracy to commit secu­rities fraud. Giesescke also agreed to plead guilty to wire fraud and former vice president John Desimone will plead guilty to insider trading charges, Ashcroft said at a Justice Department news confer­ence. 
"Our actions in this case in particular stand as a warning to corporate exec­utives: the Department of Justice will pursue allega­tions of corporate fraud, regardless of the size or the prominence of the company under scrutiny," Ashcroft said. "We will prosecute those individuals and com­Association of Realtors. Homestore entered into Homestore included that in panies that seek to take Earlier this year. an agreement with AOL its financial statements. advantage of the informa­Homestore said it had over­Time Warner Inc.'s The scheme was carried tion technology boom in the stated revenue in the first America Online unit in out by causing fraudulent economy to steal other peo­three quarters of 2001 by which Homestore agreed to entries to be made in the ple's money." as much as $95 million. refer companies to AOL for company's records, mis• 
Earlier, Giesecke's The company has purchase of online adver­leading outside auditors, lawyer, Jan Handzlik, con­changed its management tising, a government source Ashcroft said. In addition, firmed that his client will team and the firm is coop­said. AOL then agreed to he said, the company filed plead guilty to the charges. erating with the investiga­purchase online advertising false financial statements 
Giesecke is "deeply sorry tion, Shew and Desimone from Homestore, depen­with the SEC. for his conduct and he also have agreed to cooper­dent on the amount of Giesecke, Shew and intends to fully cooperate ate with the investigation. advertising purchased by Desimone, along with other with the government," Giesecke and Shew, Homestore's referrals, said high-ranking officers, exer­Handzlik said. The lawyer together with other high­the source, speaking on cised stock options, the said no plea agreement has ranking Homestore officers, grounds of anonymity. source said. been reached, but his client were part of a scheme from The government source Conspiracy to commit hopes his cooperation will March to December 2001 said that Homestore paid securities fraud and mail lead to favorable consider­to defraud investors and about $48.9 million to com­fraud each carry a prison ation when he is sentenced. the Securities and panies in 16 transactions. term of up to five years, 
Homestore, headquar­Exchange Commission by Those companies then paid while insider trading is tered in Westlake, Calif., manipulating Homestore's some $45.1 million to AOL punishable by up to 10 ran a network of realty­reported revenues to make for online ads. years. related Web sites including them appear greater than Homestore included The SEC also has filed a Realtor.com, the official they actually were, about $36.7 million in rev­civil securities fraud action Web site of the National Ashcroft said. enue from the scheme and against the three. 

Economists weigh impact of war 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The rising drumbeat of war against Iraq is taking a toll on the U.S. econo­my. Oil prices are climbing, consumer confidence is falling and Wall Street is suffering stomach-churning days. 
With the economy still struggling to emerge from last year's recession, there is growing concern that the potential adverse effects from a war with Iraq could push the country into another downturn. 
Much will depend, economists say, on how the fighting unfolds. A quick 
U.S. victory, they believe, would likely translate into a quick retreat in oil prices. And the end to the uncertainty over the war's outcome should help bolster consumer and business confi­dence. These developments probably would mean an invasion of Iraq would have little long-lasting effect on the U.S. recovery. 
But if a war with Iraq takes longer than the quick victory in Afghanistan or if the U.S. invasion provokes ter­rorist attacks in this country or a cut­off in oil supplies, the economic impact would be much more severe. 
"There are many dark scenarios one could construct that would have a much greater debilitating impact on the economy," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. 

"The military action could get bogged down or the U.S. invasion could send the rest of the Middle East into turmoil or incite increased ter­rorism in the United States," Zandi said. 
Economists note the sobering fact that America's last four recessions were triggered in varying degrees by problems in the Middle East. U.S. downturns in the mid-1970s and the early 1980s were caused by sharp spikes in oil prices. And a big jump in the price of oil triggered by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait was a prime cul­prit in the 1990-91 recession, which doomed the re-election chances of President Bush's father. 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, September 26, 2002 
U-WIRE 
Survey reveals conservativism of younger generation 
By KIM-MAI CUTLER Daily Californian 
BEHKELEY, Calif. 

Young adults have more conservative views about reli­gion and abortion than their elders, a University of Calif'ornia-Berkt>ley study released Tuesday stated. 
The study, which inter­viewed more than 1,000 ran­domly chosen Americans nationwide of diffen~nt age, ethnic and gender groups, assessed the political opinions of different generations. 
The study noted a signifi­cant difference in opinions on abortion between Americans youths ages 15 to 22 and adults ages 27 to 59. Forty­four percent of youths ­compared to 34 percent of adults -supported govern­ment restrictions on abor­tions. 
Increased media attention to abortion may be rnsponsi­b I e for the difference, said Douglas Strand, the study's project director. Additionally, conservative groups in recent years have pressed for more coverage of abortion issues, he said. 
"Youths view abortion in a different light," said UC Berkeley student Bret Manley, president of the Berkeley College Republicans. "The debate has changed. lt's a more prominently displayed issue in politics than it proba­bly was before when our par­ents were growing up." 
The discrepancy may also be because of a difference in the availability of abortions, since many states restricted abortion prior to the obtain." 

Youths also supported school prayer and federal aid to faith-based charities more than adults. 
Sixty-nine percent of youths approved of school prayer at official school activities, I 0 percent more than adults. 
In addition. two-thirds of young adults supportcid giving federal aid to faith-hased charities, while only 40 per­cent Of adults 
Supreme Court's  ':4 lot ofadults already  approved of such fund­ 
1973 Roe  v.  had an attitude about  ing.  
Wade deci­sion that legalized abortion.  these issues. Young people, not having formed an attitude, might be more  S o m e researchers said the difference  
"Younger w o m e n  likely to be swept along."  could result  be a of  
were  far  increased  
less  con- Merrill Shanks  activism by  
e  e  r  n  e  d  political science professor  conserva­ 
about abor­ tive  rcli­ 
tion  rights  g  i  O  ll  S  

than older women in the last groups while young adults election," said UC Berkeley develop their political views. political science professor "The younger people (sur­Bruce Cain. "And that's veyed l grew up at a time because younger women did when we had more religious­not live during the era where right messages," said UC abortions were not as avail­Berkeley political science pro­able. Perhaps people feel fessor Merrill Shanks, who abortions are too easy to helped conduct the study. "A 
lot of adults already bad an ities getting involved. and attitude about these issues. often those are tied to reli-Young people, not having gious-based organizations," formed an De Simone attitude, said. might be "Our _generation seems to The study's more likely findings may
support the idea ofthe 
to be swept reflect
community getting 
along." changes in 
Although involved, and often those demograph­y O U 11 g 
are tied to religious-based ics through 
adults sur­which immi­
organizations.''
veyed said grant U.S. t h e y minorities approved Tom De Simone with strong 
or federal religious
Cal Berkeley Democrats
funding of backgrounds religious-have flour­b a s c d ished, Cain organizations and school said. prayer, they were less likely "There may be more appeal to at.tend religious services for conservative social posi­regularly or to consider reli­tions for whatever reasons, gion a guide in their daily life including changing social than adults surveyed. composition," Cain added. 
But the younger genera­"There may be more sympa­tion's support for federal aid thy for conservative opinions to faith-based charities may than for the baby boomers not be because of religious who are in the power." reasons but instead because The long-term goal of the 
of the youths' increased civic stu<ly is to create a continuing 
awareness and activism. said survey to evaluate change in UC Berkeley student Tom De political opinion and how peo­Simone, president of the Cal ple react to political leaders Berkeley Democrats. over time, Shanks said. 
"Our generation senms to The study was released by support the idea of th1~ com­UC Berkeley's Survey munity getting involved, char-Research Center. 

Thursday, September 26, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
U-WIRE 
Monday 111arks 40 years of integration at U. Mississippi 
By ERIN M. SMITH Daily Mississippian 
OXf-OHD. Miss. 

James Meredith wasn't the first who fought the University of Mississippi to open its doors. 
Eight years prior to MerPdith's sur.cessful integra­tion, Mississippi civil rights leader Medger Evers tried to enroll in th<' univorsitv's law school. • 
He applii>d in reaction to thi> landmark 1954 Supreme Court case. 
In Brown v. Board of Education, the high court ruled that public school sPgn'lgation was unconstitutional. The uni­versity, however. did not com­ply with th!' Supn•me Court's 9­0 decbion. 
"DespitP the court's dPdsion. political lPadcrship was opposed to Ithe desegregalion of the univPrsityl." said Charles Wilson. director of the Center f'or the Study of Southern Cultun'. "Thev relied on the legal doctriue ·of state sover­

• .. . il. . ·':\ 
,;: •.~.(_·, 
ORCHf~TRA 
:,.__-;;;~ ,~\ •t ,J-n :ft , i 

~1 "')f) ,~ J .· . · : ·'. -frC-~ept21, ioo,~f M§jjff"3 O'Llu~ lin Huditorium ·]00P.,m.-, ~~~~i ,~1_1 ~jnt~~~,Box Office at 11~!~.&i~lifi~? 
eignty." 
Mississippi's leaders during the lime believed states ulti­mately held the right to control flducation and flducational mat­ters. It took federal troops in 1962 for t.he st.ate to n~cognizc the sovereign power of the national government, Wilson said. 
"(Meredith) was not the first," Wilson said. "He was the end of the long process of trying to desegregate the university." 
Gerald Walton, who was an undergraduate in 1954, saw this process unfold. 
"Most people in ·54 realized that [integration] was going to happen sometime or the othl'f." Walton said. 
When the school desegregat­ed in 1962, Walton said he was pleased to see change. 
"The university is better because of its diverse popula­tion," said Walton, a now retired English professor. 
Meredith and Evers were not the only black Americans who struggled to integrate public flagship universities during the 1960s. Others across t h e 

South made headlines. One shattering glass everywhere, such person was Charlene Hunter-Gault said. They contin­Hunter-Gault, the first black ued to harass Hunter-Gault and woman to be admitted into the Holmes, but the taunts did not University of' Georgia. Hunter­deter the two students, she Gault. with said. fellow black "For those student "IfMeredith wouldn't unpleasant 
Hamilton have enrolled. it would things that 
Holmes, happened 40
probably be a good

entered lhe years ago university in university, but I wouldn't were mere 
the fall of side bars to
be here." 

1961. what was a "Fortunately triumph, and 
Tommie Barlow

for us, we not ours never once U. Mississippi sophomore alone, but all regretted the those people, decision to black and come here -not even when white, who helped to open wide [Holmes] would leave class and the doors to this institution and get to his car and find the air subsequently to the state," had been let out of his tires," Hunter-Gault said. "It was said Hunter-Gault in a January indeed a triumph over the 2001 speech commemorating racism that had ruled the day." the 40th anniversary of UGA's One night at the university, desegregation. she said she remembered "1 would go for days on end receiving a strange phone call. without having a human "I was summoned to the exchange in a dormitory of 200 phone in the hallway and a girls, many of whom used to voice on the other end identi­take turns in the rooms above fied himself as James H. pounding the floor until late Meredith, who had just deseg­into the night." regated the University of 
The students heaved a brick '.½ississippi, not without vio­through her dorm window, lence far more extreme than that which greeted [Holmes] and me," Hunter-Gault said. "By this time, I was used to the more benign tricks of those who still didn't want us [at UGAJ, so I assumed this to be one." 
Hunter-Gault told the voice if he was truly Meredith, he had to prove it. 
Instead of hearing a voice on the other end, she heard the faint sounds of gunshots. 
"Then I heard the voice again. 'Convinced now?' he asked," Hunter-Gault said. 
The gunshots she heard were of the ensuing riot outside where Meredith was held. Two people were killed and ovp,r 200 National Guardsmen were wounded that day almost 40 years ago. 
Monday will mark 40 years of integration at the university. All students, faculty and residents of Oxford, Miss., can attend the various activities planned throughout the day. 
"If Meredith wouldn't have enrolled, it would probably be a good university, but I wouldn't be here," said Tommie Barlow, a sophomore English major from Moss Point. "I came to the university for the diversity." 

DNA testing rules out suspect in 20­year-old Southern Illinois U. lllurder 
By PHIL BECKMAN Daily Egyptian 
CARBONDALE, Ill. 
Convicted murderer John Paul Phillips was eliminated as a suspect in the 1981 murder of an Southern fllinois University student after a test showed that his DNA did not match DNA found at the scene, Carbondale police said Monday. 
On Oct. 30, 2001, Carbondale police officers supervised the exhumation of Phillips body at the Rose Hill Cemetery in Marion. A portion of Phillips' leg bone was taken from the remains and was sent to the Illinois State Police DNA Lab in Springfield. 
"From the police department's standpoint, since his genetic code does not match the evidence, and we strongly feel the evidence was left by the suspect, this eliminates him as a suspect," said Carbondale Police Sgt. Paul Echols. 
Susan K. Schumake was raped and murdered on Aug. 17, 1981. Her body was found in a wooded area between U.S. 51 and the Illinois Central Gulf railroad tracks near a trail the students at the time called the "Ho Chi Minh Trail." Schumake was 21 and a senior in radio-televi­sion. 
Now, Echols said, police will research the case file to look for other possible suspects from the original investigation. 
Spiritual Blast featuring Bebo Norman * Stepan Center * Thursday, September 26 7PM til Midnight (Doors Open at 6 PM) FREE Admission and Refreeshments 


Brought to you by the Cl.;1ss of 200S with the Cl,i;1SS of 2006, Student Government, Iron Sharpens lron aind Campvs Ministry 
Carbondale Police Chief !LT. Finney said if leads are developed, the police department will dedicate manpower to them. 
"We will do that on murder cases," Finney said. "That's never a question. We'll do what we have to to get them solved." 
Among the possible suspects was a man who was a drifter at the lime and was questioned by police in con­nection with the Schumake murder. Echols said Carbondale police have kept an eye on him during the years and know where he is. Echols declined to give his name since the man remains a possible suspect. 
The DNA sample left at the crime scene was also tested against others in the database and no match was 
found. Echols said now that it is known that the person who left the genetic material at the crime scene is not in the database, this eliminates many potential sus­pects. 
Phillips' DNA will also become part of the Illinois DNA database and will be accessible by law enforcement agencies across the nation. 
With the expansion of the DNA database to include all felons, as the years go by, the DNA profile from the crime scene will be compared to other samples that are added. 
Phillips was convicted of the 1981 murder of Joan Wetherall and sentenced to death in 1986. He was charged after confessing to a cellmate in l 983 that he had murdered Theresa Clark, Kathleen McSharry and Wetheral. 
Phillips died of a heart attack in 1993 while on death row and was never charged in the Schumake case. 
Police said evidence collected from the 1976 Mcsharry murder was insufficient for DNA profil­ing and thus were not able to determine if Phillips was con­nected to the murder. Finney said Phillips remains a suspect. 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 26, 2002 

Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
Freshman•Retreat #43 
(November 8-9, 2002) Septemer 30-November 4-sign-up dates 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
L 
Spiritual Blast 
6:00 p.m.-12:00 midnight Stepan Center Sponsored by Sophomore Class 
flfLav 
Freshman Retreat #42 
Friday through Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #72 
Friday through Sunday Fatima Retreat Center 
Sophomore Road Trip #2 
Friday through Sunday Buses leave 4:00 p.m. Return Sunday by 1:00 p.m. 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
-..av 
RCIA-Session 10:00 a.m.-11 :30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
........
·sdav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #2 
7:00 -8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00-11:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

The Challenge of Christian Unity at Notre Dame 
Catholic means Universal 
¦ by Jemar Tisby '02 Intern, Campus Ministry 
After five years I can now sit with my hands folded calmly in my lap during mass. No more fidgeting as others around me engage in the Catholic ritual that ends with, ''In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen_" 
I don't have a problem with making the sign of che cross to open and dose a prayer anymore. There's nothing theologically unpalatable about this particular practice. It's just not something that I do. I'm Protestant and in my tradition we don't do the sign of the cross. 
Ifyou're Catholic it might be difficult to imagine just how inaccessible and intimidating rhis place can seem to people of other faith traditions. But, for instance, going to Mass freshman year used to be one of the most unsettling experiences of my life. Not only did I feel ignorant for lagging a step behind during che unfamiliar liturgy, but the Mass brought to life all the troubling doctrinal issues that divide Catholics and Protestants. Wht'.ther it was praying for intercession from saints or rhe be­lief in trans-substantiation, Mass stood as a mono­
May they be brought to 
lith of the mysterious and impenetrable Catholic complete unity to let the world culture of Notre Dame. I knew chis place was Catholic and I chose to come here_ I even received
know that you sent me and have 
my undergraduate degree last Spring and I'm still loved them even as you have here_ 
True, Notre Dame is unabashedly Catholic and 
loved me. 

no Protestant I know is trying to change thac. De­spite its denominational affiliation, simply put, Notre Dame is a spiritual place. It provides an en­
~ John 17:23 
vironment where people who are interested in nour­
ishing their spirit can do so. The Grotto is a prayerful place 
for me even with the statue ofMary in the corner_ The chap­
els in each residence hall provide a great location for reflec­
tion, and most of all, the fact chat Jesus Christ is a ready name on the lips of nearly everyone here makes Notre Dame a place where a vibrant faith life is possible for anyone. 
And Notre Dame is now beginning to take even more initiative in ministering to its Protestant students. A few weeks ago the Office of Campus Ministry hosted for the first time an event called "What if I'm not Catholic?"-An Information Kick-off for Protestant Students. This event brought together several non-de­nominational or expressly Protestant organizations like Iron Sharpens Iron and the Baptist Collegiate Ministry to share information about what they do and provide resources for Protestants and other interested students. Interfaith Christian Night Prayer, launched four years ago, is Campus Ministry's explicit effort to bring Catho­lics and Protestants together and provide a common place for prayer, praise, and worship. The University also hired me, a Protestant, to be on the Campus Ministry staff as an intern this year. The significance of these moves can hardly be understated as they represent a tangible and aggressive effort toward openness, dialogue and diversity within the Christian community on campus. 
So Notre Dame has made an effort co address the needs ofits Protestant students, and it has done well in my opinion. But the worst thing that Notre Dame could do now is to believe that it has done enough. We're just getting scarred. There are still few forums in which students can formally engage in dialogue between Protes­tants and Catholics, there still aren't nearly enough Protestants engaged in Campus Ministry or faith life in the residence halls, and there are still far too many Protestants who are unable to access the spiritual stream running through Notre Dame and so their faith withers and dies. 
The responsibility for facing this challenge does not rest solely in the hands of the University. Protestant students, too, must go beyond their normal boundaries and explore the Catholic tradition, if only to find out more about the environment in which they have chosen to live and study. But Notre Dame's challenge is to find a way to minister to all its students and tap into the vitality of their traditions as a way to breathe new life into the campus and sustain the spiritual lives ofall. Indeed the real challenge at Notre Dame is co remember that catholic means universal. 
Twenty-sixth ¦ Basilica of the Sacred Hean ¦ Around Campus
Sunday of 

Saturday, September 28 Sunday, September 29
Ordinary Time 

5:00 p.m. Spanish Mass 
Rev. Richard S. Bullene, c.s.c. 

1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel
Mass Schedule 
Sunday, September 29 Law School Mass
10:00a.m. 
5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel
Most Rev. John M. D Arcy,D.D., S.T.D. Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend 

MBA Mass 
11:45 a.m. 
7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Chapel
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, c.s.c. 

¦ Slnlav'sScrillbnllealQls 1st Reading Ez 18: 25-28 2""' Reading Phil 2: 1-11 Gospel Mt 21: 28-32 

page 11

Thursday, September 26; 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
NORTH KOREA 
In policy shift, U.S. will open doors to talk to North Korea 
Associated Press 
WASl-l!NGTO'.'J President Hush will send a 
One of our job requirements includes uhe·ipP VCH ws2if"
Os,, 4~ ~,:::-1 .I Ji.Jff ~> 
,•.!.ti£\<: 
ey.com/us/careers 
senior American diplomat to North Korea early next month, the White House said today, ending 20 months of internal 

debate on whether to open talks with a country that Mr. Bush lumped with, Iran and Iraq as part of an "axis of 
How can you grow as an individual if you're being forced into amold? At Ernst & Young, we empower you to push the boundaries. We offer the chance to generate creative ideas that really count. On our teams everyone has arole to play and something to contribute, so not only do you have avoice but you can make adifference with clients and co-workers alike. Break the mold. 
~1/ fRNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
evil." 

The announcement, which came only days after a visit to North Korea by Japan's prime 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
TO WORK FOR~ 
minister, Junichiro Koizumi, was a significant change of strategy for the administration. which had ended similar nego­
tiations pursued with North Korea by President Clinton shortly before he left office. 
The administration has for 
months been signaling a readi­
ness to reopen talks at a 
senior level; the official travel­
ing to the North will be James 
A. Kelly. an assistant secretary of state with long experience in Asia. But the trip was delayed after a North Korean incursion into South Korean waters in June. 
Administration officials say 
they intend to have a wide­
ranging discussion with North 
Korea that will cover its mis­
sile production and exports, its 
huge array of conventional 
weapons within reach of South 
Korea and its history of 
repression. There will 
undoubtedly be revived talk 
about its nuclear program. 
which has been frozen since 
1994 under an agreement 
with the United States. 
The timing of the White 
House announcement was sig­
nificant, because the stance on 
North Korea contrasts so 
sharply with Mr. Bush's 
approach to Iraq. 
Administration officials have 
gone to some lengths in recent 
weeks to explain why they 
think diplomacy can work with 
Kim Jong 11 of North Korea but 
not with Saddam Hussein. Like 
Iraq, North Korea has an 
extensive nuclear program, 
chemical weapons, links to 
terrorism and a history of 
shell games with nuclear 
inspectors. 
Moreover. the Central 
Intelligence Agency has esti­
mated that North Korea has 
produced enough fissile mate­
rial to produce at least two 
nuclear weapons; so far the 
agency has concluded that 
Iraq does not have the materi­
al to produce a nuclear device 
but could obtain it in coming 
years. 
The White House made the 
announcement after Mr. Bush 
talked by telephone to 
President Kim Dae Jung of 
South Korea. who had urged 
the United States to make such 
a move more than a year ago. 
Mr. Bush rebuffed President 
Kim at the time, saying he did 
not trust the North Korean 
leader. The rebuff was an 
early victory for hawks in the 
administration, who argued 
that North Korea would never 
fulfill its commitments. It was 
also an early defeat for 
Secretary of State Colin 
Powell, who argued that there 
was little risk in picking up 
where Mr. Clinton had left off. 
Now, 20 months into his 
presidency, Mr. Bush appears 
to be doing exactly that, 
although the Whitr House 
insists that the talks will be on 
a much wider range :of issues 
than Mr. Clinton was' attempt­
ing. 
"The two leaders agreed that real progress with the North depends on full resolu­tion of the security issues on the Korean Peninsula." Ari Fleischer, tho White House press secretary, told reporters today. The State Department said lower-level meetings with North Korean officials at the United Nations this week had paved the way for the trip. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, September 26, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bm: Q. N,mc Dame. If\'. 4G556 024 Somh Dining Hall, Nom: Dame, IN 46556 
ErnTOR lN CUIEF Jason Mchrlcv 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Kare \IJgengast Kevin Ryan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIUNS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne V/E\Ji'POINT EDITOR: Lauren Reck SPURTS EDITOR: Chns l'ederico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EunoR: Nellie William, GRAPHICS EnlToR: Karie MrKenm 
ADVERTISING MA.NAGER: Marr Lurz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Gor~n SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Kicto CONTR0I.l.ER: Luri L:walski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO ...........631-747] FAx............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF .......................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME................... .631-4541 BUSINESS OFF!CE........................................631-53]3 NEWS... .........................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIE~'POINT .................................................631-5 303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE....................................................... ..631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at hrtp:!lobseroer.ndedu for daily updare.s ofampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudenrs ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial concem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsen•erpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tm' Oln,_"fvt'r tL'SPS 599 2--400"1 h· ruhJj,;,~t'J Momb~ :h-r-011~h Fritby r:>u,...rr durin~ c~an> ,md v,1c.11ion pc:rimk A M!hscriprinn to The Obsrncr i1 S)00 t0r ont' :1e1demic year; S)5 tor unc 'it'1ne.rcr. 
The Oh~n·n i'I puhlhhit'J Jt. ['t >STM:\STE.R 024 ~cn11li l),llillf, H.1\l )'..;om; D:irnc. 1:S -t6'5%-n7r) Th< Ob.1m•l'r 
l't>riudkJI !l<Nagot" p.1id ,1r ~nm· D.tmc P.O Bol: Q -tJlti .1JJ,1ion,1I m:ti11nl!. otlic~ 0l4 So:.trh Oinini; H.,ll \/urrc-Dami:, JJ\,j 4(,S'i6~077() 
The: {)\,.cn:cr 1, ., mcn1hc, nl d11.: ,h-.Ki.m:ti l'r,:,1 AH lc-['t,...it1.;,in11 rii!,.hr, .m: ri:.wr.•,·,I. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Justin Krivickas Andrew Soukup Sheila Flynn Charee Halloway Sarah Nestor Rachael Protzman 
Viewpoint Scene 
Kurt Bogaard C. Spencer Patrick McElwee Beggs 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Chris Naidus Christina Reitano 


I'm back in that spot that we young adults doing the dating thing get into, that spot ,vhere, because of the stupid or insensitive or sometimes perfectly­acceptable-to-everyone-but-you, actions of one member of the Marlayna opposite sex, you 
Soenneker 
are bitter at everyone of that 

Here We Go
gender. 

Yes folks, I have Again been out there doing the romance thing. As usual, someone had to get hurt, and this time it was me. 
Anyway, I don't want to dwell too much on my new-found distaste for the male gender. But over the course of this last relationship (which was not with an Notre Dame guy, but a guy back home, so don't worry that I'm embarrassing some poor Domer), I did notice several major differences between the way women and men go at this whole romance thing. 
ln the beginning: 

Girl: Th~t guy is sort of cute. I hope he's tough on the outside and plays sixteen sports, loves cars and volun­teers as a firefighter in his spare time. (A friend pointed out to me this summer that all girls want to sleep with firefighters. l had never thought of this, but so far I've yet to find a girl who doesn't think about it, cock her head to one side and then say, "you know, I kind of do.") But on the inside l want him to be sensitive, write poet­ry and love huge romantic gestures. Do you think he could be my soul mate? Maybe he's the one I've been looking for my whole life1 
Guy: She's hoL 

Getting to know each other (the important things): 
Girl: He's nice to children and pup­pies. His mom seems really nice, and he calls her every week. He helps old ladies across the street, and he was an Eagle Scout. We have similar polit­ical views, and we're the same reli­gion. Our morality is pretty much identical, and our life plans dovetail perfectly. 
Guy: She owns a Play Station. 
The physical part: 
Girl: We're connected on this spiri­tual level, and when we're "together" it's about so much more than making out or sex. It's about love, expressing that love and genuinely caring about another person and wanting to share yourself with them. The physical part is barely even important; it's that spiritual and emotional connection that we both value so much. 
Guy: Dude, I'm scoring. 
View of the other person: 
Girl: [fo must be so complicated. He seems so simple, but no one can real­ly be this simple, so he must be very complicated and trying to shield me from it. But I can take it. I want to get closer to him, so I can see his inner complicatedness. 
Guy: Why are girls so freaking com­plicated? What is wrong with them? She says this and she means that. She wants something but won't tell me what. And if I hear her say, "If you don't know or can't figure it out, then it's not even worth it to tell you one more time." 
Once it gets comfortable: 
Girl: Oh, him again. 
Guy: Oh, her again. 
At the end: 
Girl: Jerk. 
Guy: Shrew. 
After the breakup: 
Cuy: "What do you mean, I shoulctn·t still be in love with my ex and getting with someone else?" 

As soon as men get single, no mat­ter how broken-hearted they may be, they immediately start looking for someone new. They don't seem to feel like there's any great need to get over one girl before starting something up with the next. It amazes me that the gender that produced Galileo, Newton and Einstein cannot seem to see any connection whatsoever between feel­ings and dating. 
Girl: "What do you mean, I don't have to stay single until I can no longer remember his name?" 
Women, on the other hand, obsess over the relationship until they have figured out everything that went wrong, how they could have (should have} fixed it, what they have learned from it and drawn every other possi­ble bit of perspective out of the old relationship. Then and only then do they start to look at other guys, but they still have to go through the "he doesn't do Y like X, he doesn't look like X, I miss X" stage. I'm somewhat amazed that women date more than once in their lives. 
So that's my incredibly stereotyped view of dating from the perspective of both sexes. This column is all part of my new attempt to anger as many people as possible. The Wyoming arti­cle wasn't very broad, and if I tried to do this on a state-by-state basis, I could be writing until I was 25. 
So I figured I'd take on both gen­ders at once and take care of upset­ting pretty much everyone. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a senior psychology major. Her column appears el'ery other Thursday. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you support a preemptive U.S. strike on Iraq? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Life is something lo do when you can't get to sleep." 
Fran Lebowitz writer 

oss~RVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 26, 2002 
page 13 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defending the value of cell phones 
Features help personal relationships 
In rnsponsn to Amy Chamber's heartfelt plea in Wednesday's issue of The Observm· to campus cell phone users to please just shut the darn things off and talk to each other (which is a good idea by the way). I will say that at some point in her near future. Ms. Chambers will learn that a cell phone will be one of the few ways left to continue some of her personal n~lationships. 
Wlrnn I graduated. coll phones were around. but not vnry popular on campus. Snrvicc was always horrible until recently, and pnopln didn't need them then for sonrn rnason. Most of my cell-phone-car­rying friends wr,re film majors, taking calls in class and acting like they were alrnady New York chic or Hollywood glam. But now cell phones are the craze in evf'ry walk of life. It makes sense. Tlrny'rn cheaper now, offer tons of options from free long-distance to built-in digital cameras and most importantly, a cell phone bP.cornes your best friend after graduation. 
Snriously. 
Out of c;illnge and living in Los Angeles, a city whcrn cell phones probably out­number humans, I'm two time zones away f'rom the majority of my closest friends. It didn't takn me long to realize that staying close with my best friends from Notre Danw would require a necessary evil: the cell phone. 
I didn't like coll phones either when I was in collngP. I didn't get the need to be "on-call" to the world 24 hours a day. And those ring tones -cut off my ears. But what was once an annoyance, I now Pmbracc. Be it a quick call to offer me nxtra work, my buddy letting me know we're meeting at the Cat and the Fiddle in Hollywood or one of my former room­mates calling to see how life is on the other side of the country, my cPll phone keeps me in touch with my friends and I never have to worry about missing a call or one of my roommates fumbling a mes­sage. 
Yes, I'm one of those annoying people who takes his calls at restaurants and walks down the street checking mes­sages, surfing the web and calling three people a minute. God for­give me, I actually enjoy the sound of a cell phone ring­ing. And for the record, rnirn~ plays Radetsky's March. 
While those without cell phones will not understand this next sentence, here it is. A cell phone is a won­derful thing and contrary to pop­
ular belief strengthens per­sonal relation­ships in this world of cross­country friend­ships, job-trans­fers and chasing the American dream. 

When you hear your phone ring and upon checking the caller ID you see that it's that one person, two time zones away, whose voice always makes you smile ... well, you'll see why a cell phone is such a good thing to have. I should make sure mine is on, just in case one of my friends is trying to call. 
Jeremy Sony 
class of 'OJ Los Angeles Sepe. 23 
Another way to follow football 
The fabulous invention of the cell phone saved about 100 Irish fans in Atlanta on Saturday. It rained in Atlanta on Saturday; some may say that it was the second corning of the great flood. The Notre Dame club of Atlanta gathered at the Wing Factory, as it has every football Saturday for years. The crowd was excited as the Irish were poised to finally end the curse of Bob. However, with under five minutes to go in the game, Mother Nature took over and the torrential downpour 
caused the satellite to go out. We were left in darkness. The radio broadcast was incoherent, thanks again to the weather. Alas, the cell phone became a vital tool. 
People throughout the crowd actually used some of their weekend minutes and called friends who could give the play-by-play. My friend Rachel announced the Spartan touchdown and we became downtrod­den. 
Seconds later, another club member screams out that Battle has the ball and is running. "Thirty, 20, 10, touchdown!" was the cry from the crowd 
not really knowing if he had scored or not. The cell phone friend confirmed the score. The place erupted in cheers and spilled beers. I decided to get in on the mix and whipped out the Samsung with Sprint PCS service. I called a friend who was waking up from a mid-game nap and had her call the final 2 plays. Within seconds, I yelled that we had intercepted the ball. "Interception!" 
roars through the crowd and smiles enter every face. Hugs and tears, Fight Song and Alma Mater 
go on for the next half hour or so. 
It didn't matter that we were manv miles and states away, or that we didn't even get to see the end. We had our cell phones! More importantly, we had the spirit of Notre Dame in a small restaurant in Atlanta. We had friends in other parts of the country a phone call away to help us see how far the Notre Dame family extends. We had excitement and passion about Notre Dame football. Notre Dame is not just in Indiana. Thanks to nationwide long distance and unlimited weekend minutes, Notre Dame is in the hearts of the masses all over this great big, 4-0, undefeated, top 10 world. 
John L. Morris 
class of'02 Marietta, Ga. Sepe. 23 

Examining the consequences of birth control 
In her Sept. 18 article, Amanda Rubio claims to know enough about the pill to teach us all "a little health lesson." r strongly disagree. In fact, I think she is misinformed on this topic. That does not come as a surprise to me since most of the information women's health doctors put in females' hands is very pro-choice, biasml and restricted. So I will take it upon myself to teach you an accurate health lesson using informed sources on the pill. 
The pill tricks a woman's body by imi­tating the hormone levels of estrogen and progest1-irone she naturally has at differ­ent times of the month. According to Paul Weckenbrock. R. PH., the pill is supposed to supprPss ovulation by interrupting the release of pituitary hormones which usu­ally stimulate a woman's ovaries into releasing an egg each month. If an egg escapes (which occurs in 2 percent to 10 percent of cycles of women taking the pill) and becomes fertilized, the progestin in the pill inhibits its implantation in the uterus. 
It does this by "causing the inner lining of the uterus to become thin and shriv­eled, unable to support implantation of the embryo," according to Weckenbrock. 
Progestin thickens the mucus in a woman's cervix so that sperm migration becomes more difficult. Progestins also work to "lower the efficiency with which the fallopian tubes propel eggs from the ovaries toward the uterus." Lastly, the pill stops a pregnancy by causing the corpus luteum (the empty egg sack) "to function inadequately, allowing the lining of the uterus to be shed before the embryo can successfully implant." The embryo dies because of its improper environment and it is "menstruated" out "without the woman ever knowing that she had just indirectly killed a human life. 
Ms. Rubio should not he so astonished at the "claim" that the pill causes abor­tions. In fact, even pro-abortion advocates have no trouble admitting the pill's abor­tifacient characteristics. 
In February 1992, writing in opposition to a Louisiana law banning abortion, Ruth Colker, a Tulane Law School professor, wrote, "Because nearly all birth control devices ... operate between the time of conception ... and implantation ... the statute would appear to ban most contra­ceptives." 
How come you've never heard about this? It's because the pill manufacturers are not so concerned with how the pill maintains its effectiveness, but if it does and what kind of medical side e:ITects the pill has. 
If the pill is used correctly and without other medications that interfere with the hormones, it may be 99 percent effective. But in practice, "between 1.9 percent and 
18.1 percent of women will experience an unplanned pregnancy in the first year of using the pill," due to reasons listed above, according to Weckenbrock. Is this what you call safe sex? 
Better yet, just take a look at some of the side effects of the pill. Even though the "eflects are dose related and not every woman will experience them," the following risks are still present: blood clots, fatal heart attack and fatal brain hemorrhage, high blood pressure, breast cancer, cervical cancer, liver tumors and skin cancer. People who take the pill have two times the risk of a fatal heart attack as compared to those not taking the pill. 
Smokers have 12 times the risk. Other symptoms and irregularities include: spot­ting, migraines, vaginal infections, tempo­rary or permanent blindness and possible infertility. In extreme cases, "there are 
7.9 pill-related deaths per 100,000 women aged 15-44." 

Weckenbrock tells us that, as for con­dom use during intercourse, "studies have shown a condom failure rate of 10 to 33 percent for preventing pregnancies .... But disease can be transmitted any time of the month ... and industry officials admit condoms have holes 50 to 500 times the size of the HIV virus. In fact, the government withdrew a $2.6 million grant to study condom effectiveness because of the number of condom users who could become infected in such a study." 
In addition, condom manufacturers allow 0.4 percent of any given batch to be defective, before a recall is ordered. 
So before you take advice from Ms. Rubio on how to avoid unwanted preg­nancies and disease by taking the "right forms of contraception," make sure you get ihe real facts (and consequences) before getting some. 
Arina Gorssu freshman McGlinn Hall Sept. 23 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 14 
Thursday, September 26, 2002 

MOVIE REVIEW 
'Barbershop:' the black man's country club 
By CHRISTOPHER COOPER .Scene Movie Critic 
The new comedy "Barbershop" by first­time dirnctor Tim Story is a refreshing movie that deals with many issues plaguing African Americans while also keeping things positive. It does a wonderful job blending humor with a deeper meaning and tht> vit>wer definitely comes away feel­ing good. 
''Barbershop" stars Ice Cube as Calvin. the owner of a 
cuss everything from Hosa Parks and repa­rations to the distressing state of the black community and the need for people to just sit around and discuss their problems instead of turning so quickly to violent mP.ans. Them wi>re some great moments in this movie in which characters learned from each other that there is more to life than money. NamPly, them is the happiness that comes from lrnlping your fellow man. Calvin. in particular. learns this lc~sson the hard way. 
In the beginning, "Barbershop" begins 
slowly, but it does a 

black neighbor­wonderful job of hood barbershop "Barbershop" tying everything who dreams of 
together in the end. owning a record The shop is full of a studio. Ile sells his great cast, and thP. beloved barber­interplay between 
Director: Tim Story

shop to a local loan members and the 
Writer: Mark Brown

shark for $20,000 stories they tell is 
Starring: Ice Cube, Cedric the Entertainer

under the stipula­superb. This shop is 
and Eve

tion that it remains a barbershop. The unscrupulous usurper has other ideas and plans to install a gentlemen's club instead. When Calvin realizes his mistake. he must pay back dou­ble the price by the end of the day. 
Like another of the former rapper's flicks, in "Friday" the main character has to take care of business by the end of the day or risk losing everything. The addition of the talented stand-up comic, Cedric the Entertainer, makes this a fun movie to see with just about anyone. 
One great thing about this film is the way it brings to light different issues that blacks have dealt with over the years. They dis-especially great in 
that it shows the 
viewer a bnttcr side of the black community that is not too often shown in the media. The comedy is a riot, and director Story does a great job keeping the humor going throughout the movie without compromising tlm truer sense of the movie. 
One quote from the movie, "The barber­shop is the black man's country club" is true in so many ways. It is a place the com­munity ha.<; revolved around over tlm years, one that is always full of men, young and old alike. A place where you can Ir.am so much from your elders and socialize with people in the community, the barbershops arc more than just a place to get a trim. 
Granted, "Barbershop" presents many aspects of the business in a glorified light; however, it does a fantastic job or also reminding the viewer that places like this are rare in this day and age. It is always nice to watch a movie and be reminded of childhood. 
This movie might not be for everyone. Unfortunately, not everyone is open to enjoying the humor and the story this movie presents to the viewer. Ilowever, this movie can be enjoyed by anyone if they give it a chance and view it with an open mind and realize that it presents a side or black culturn they may not be used to see­ing -the good side. 

Contact Christopher Cooper at cooper.42@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Trapped' in an unmotivated film 
By SHAWN NEWBURG Scene Movie Critic 
"Trapped" is a tale of two movies. It starts off being extremely engaging with 
strong acting and gripping action, but then 
the film then slides off into an action-domi­
nated ending with unwarranted explosions 
and gun fights. The story, adapted from the novel "24 
I-lours," follows the kidnapping of a wealthy family's daughter. A sup­posedly foolproof plan is set in motion whereby three kidnappers will get the money and the family will be brought back together within 24 hours. Will and Karen Jennings (Stuart Townsend and Charlize Theron) livo a privileged life with tlrnir daughtf'r Abby (Dakota Fanning). When Will is a away at a conference, tho robbers. led bv the diabolical Joe Hick0y (Knvin Bacon), make i!wir move. Ono of I.he robb11rs, Marvin (Pruitt Taylor Vince), takes the child to an iso­1atf' d cabin whilo Jop stays with Karnn and sets th<' n111sorn plan in motion. Al tho confer­nncn, Will is hold in his room by Joci's wife, Cheryl (Court,rny Lovel. As the story d(wclops. the audienc,i learns there is more to the kidnapping than just getting the money. 
The acting in this film is, for the most part, excellent. The three sets of couples are established well and set up really great scenes. The dichotomies between each of the three sets of couples establish great dialogue and on-screen chemistry. The scenes between Theron and Bacon are incredible. They play extremely well off each other and help develop an interesting subplot. The tiny Panning on screen with the enormous Vince was made morn inter­esting by the differ­ences in their char­

acters' personali­"Trapped" tangents start to ties. 
fray off the film 
Marvin is an near its end. which extremely shy, is abrupt and incon­thoughtf'ul, emo­clusivo. tional hut dim-wit­Director: Luis Mandoki Overall, this film ted and easily fraz­Writer: Greg lies is actually very zIcd man while Starring: Charlize Theron, Kevin Bacon and engaging. Thc first 
end when Will recklessly endangers the lives of dozens of people in order to crash­land a plane on a highway. It seems that the directors could not find a way to end the film and came up with an action­packed chase scene with tangents flying off all over the place. The f'BI is brought in, but then asked to leave, then asked to come back and help. A helicopter tracks the movement of Karen and Joe, but we do not know who is flying it and where they came from. Too many unexplained 

Abby is a quick Courtney Love thinker and cool­lrnaded. The same sort of rolationship exists between Townsond and Love. Will is very cool and quick, while Cheryl is emotional and easily upsl't. The acting throughout the first half of tlw film betweon each of those couplos helps drive a fairly slow plot 
011c0 the plot starts to dcvP.lop further, Urn movin starts lo degrade. Each of" thn couples is trapped in a certain location. When they leave these locations as thn kid­napping and ransom plan start to fall apart, the movin does as well. What is at mm point a psychological thriller hncomes a run-of-the-mill action film. 
The worst part of thc lilm comes noar the hour of the film has 

viewers on the cdgo 
of' thnir seat waiting for what will happen next. guessing th11 entire lime. Unfortunatdy, it then changes into a typical action sequence that. is pre­dictablo and unmotivatml. Acting perform­ances are well done. and the film is visually int1iresting. 
In a wc<~kend with other rclr)ascs b<1ing horrid !lops. "Trapped" was probably the one uncxpncted bright spot. 
Shawn Newburg at newburg.l@nd.edu 

Thursday, September 26, 2002 page 15 
THE ARBITER OF TASTE 
'One Hour Photo' is not worth the time 
"One !lour Photo'' is a film about superficiality and because of its over simµlified style, superficial is exactly what the film ends up being. 
Sy Parrish (Hobin Williams) is an employeP lrnhind tlw count('r of' a SavPmart's une­hour photo servic0 with a pPrl'enly proresspd grin. We first begin to g!'t to know him as IH1 snn1•s tlw various customers at his 
COlllltfH. 011P Cl!S­
lomer in particular is a 1,voman. Nina Yorkin (Conni<' NinlsPnl. with her son Jakob. WP rPalizP tlw l'amilv's signit'inlll<'P ""h/n shP asks l'or two prints of' Jakob's birthday party photographs and Sy sl'ratrlws down "3." 
llow<'V1'r, Sy still seems as demure as lw looks until we follow him home to S<'!' his sparsPly furnislwd apart­nrnnt. TlwrP, spotlighted on thP wall of' his living room, is a huge pho­tomontag<' of tlrn family beginning about IO yPars ago wlwn Nina and her husband, Will (Michael Vartan}, first 11wt. Tlw photo ass<'mblagc tells us two important things: obviously Sy has a sppcial obsession with the Yorkins and as th1i camera scans the individ­ual photographs. right down to the lwather gray chunky-knit sweaters, thf\ Yorkin 's life is seemingly as pic­turP-perfort as the advertisements in a .I.Crew catalog. 
All seems f'ine, outside of a reverie sequence Sy has of being a part of the York in family, until Sy loses his job ovAr the missing prints that decorate his living room and decides to visit .Jakob at soccnr practice to give him a gift. In the snapshots, he finds evi­dPJH'.I' or a woman in Will's life. The action nscalatns to the stealing of a possible murder weapon, a police chase scPne and a final resolution that is surprising if' not satisfactory. 
"One Hour Photo" begins with the snapshots of' Will's birthday celebra­tion. As we arc shown the: brightly col-

Anne Hamilton 
Scene Movie Critic 
ored snapshots of kids playing on a red Fisher-Price slide and big birthday balloons in all of the (and only Urn) must basic sbades of the primary colors, Robin William's voice narrates for us: "ff pic­tures have anything to say. lt' s this: l was here, I existed. I was young and happy and someone rar<'d r:nough about mr: to take my picture." 
The photos an! strik­ing in their bold colors and smiling faces. but after two or three one gets the knee-jerk reaction of someone who has read an exces­sive amount Kafka's short stories: This is too perfect be rnal and far too cliched to be at all interesting. 
Sy-tlrn-photo-guy. is a character that when coupled-with his role in "Insomnia," marks a drastic change in Hobin Williams' career. Ile is dark, mysterious and difficult to understand -a far cry from previ­ous Williams' films such as "Bicentennial Man," "Flubber" and "Mrs. Doubtfire." 

Williams, however, will still always be Williams more than he is the charac­ters he intends to play and his per­formance in "One Hour Photo" is no exception. Williams only recycles the acting and techniques that served him well in the past. The problem is that the nevv roles he is attempting require from him new thought and new tech­niques and Williams turns out to be somewhat like a puppy who has already shown you all his tricks. 
Other let down are the potentially good cinematography and score that simple do not deliver. Composers Reinhold Heil and Johnny Klimek obviously have the ability to assemble 


"One Hour Photo" demonstrates Robin Williams' ability to play the same not-funny character 
over and over again. 
a good score, but the music in this film is as monotone and without emo­tion as the scenes are monochromatic. Cinematographer Jeff Cronenweth who also did "Fight Club" and "K-19," curbs his usual visceral style for a much more plastic feel. 
Plastic, is in fact the adjective I would use to describe this film in a nutshell. The entire film, from its script to color scheme, feels as if it were constructed out of Legos. The be interpreted as expressing an inter­esting socio-economic class commen­tary. Nothing in the film is older than a year or two; no loved, dirtied or familiar objects make an appearance. Jakob's room is littered with toys, all plastic action figurines, lying like casualties of a strange misunderstood battle on the beige carpet. Also, well captured is the absurdity of depart­ment stores. The florescent lights buzz 
above the rows of 
products, com­

storyline is utter­puter supplies
"One Hour Photo"
ly unbelievable, standing across and its charac­
the way from cos­ters are without metics. Lines of depth. No one stuffed blue teddy ever gives area­bears, which
Director: Mark Romanek

son for whv Will would alone seem
Writer: Mark Romanek

cheats on his soft and needed,
Starring: Robin Williams, Connie Nielsen,
wife or why Sy is but in a line of 20
Michael Varian

in his mental state. 
Writer and director Mark Romanek, whose past experiences are limited to Nine Inch Nails and Madonna music videos. actually manages to be insulting to his audience and this is due to the over structured naturP of the film. Williams, at one point, explains to his audience that the etymology of the torm "snapshot" which was first used by an 19th century Englishman to describe shots taken at pheasants without aiming. Ile then holds our hanrls explaining furthrr that, '"snap­shot,' then, was originally a hunting term." I laughed aloud in the theater at this. There is such a thing as explaining too much to the audience. 
The film tries to raise a few ethiral questions concerning whether thn Pnds Williams' character achieves jus­
tify the way in which he achieves 
them. but the points are as artificial 
as the environments inside the 
Savemart where he works. 
The cinematography however, could copies all sitting 
on the same shelf 

above pink ones of their same kind, loose somehow what it was that makes the childhood toy rlear. 
"One Hour Photo" is not an awful film, but it is certainly not a good one. It fits into that tepid gray twilight of films that have nothing great or terri­ble about them and it will most likely leave you untouched and unaffected. 
If you want to sec a film with Hobin Williams in an unusual role you are better off renting "Insomnia," and if you want to sr:e a film in theaters you will probably better enjoy one of the many others coming out this fall. 
The opinion::; expressed in this col­­umn are those of rhe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Anne llamillon is in the market for a helper monkey, if any one has one to spare <f knows where to gel one con­tact her at hamilton.56@nd.edu. 
,.,.. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 26, 2002 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Jones hits three homeruns in Braves' win 
Associated Pre.s 
PHILADELPHIA 

Andruw Jones turned to hit­ting coach Terry Pendleton in batting practice, told him he would hit a homer on each pitch in his next round and proceeded to do it on four of five swings. 
Then he almost did it in the game. 
Jones hit three homers, then was left on deck before getting another chance to bat as the 

Atlanta  Braves  beat  the  
Philadelphia  Phillies  7-1  
Wednesday night.  

«1 didn't feel that well in hat­ting practice. I just said it," Jones said. 
It was Jones' first three­homer game in a six-year career. He has 11 multiple­homer games lifetime, includ­ing five this season and three this month. 
Jones didn't get an opportu­nity to hit a major league record-tying fourth homer when Chipper Jones grounded out to end the ninth inning with runners on second and third. 
The last Braves player to hit three homers in a game was Jeff Blauser against Chicago in 1992. 
"I didn't think about it," Jones said of not getting a chance to go for his fourth horner. 
Jones tied it at 1 in the sec­ond inning with his first homer and made it 3-1 with another solo drive in the fourth. He hit his 35th homer, a two-run shot in the eighth. 
"When he's right on, there's none better," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. 
Damian Moss (12-6) allowed one run and five hits in 6 2/3 innings to win for the sixth time in seven decisions. 
The NL East champion Braves moved five games ahead of Arizona in the race for home-field advantage throughout the playoffs. 
Philadelphia, seeking its sec­ond consecutive winning sea­son for the first time since 1982-83, fell to .500 with four games remaining. 
Phillies rookie Brett Myers (4-5) gave up four runs and six hits in five innings. 
"He hit everything tonight," Myers said of Jones. "He was locked in. He hit good pitches and bad pitches." 
St. Louis 6, Arizona 1 
Two fastballs in bad places Wednesday were the differ­ence between a Curt Schilling gem and another late-season disappointment for the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
Schilling. a 23-game winner, struck out 12 and was flawless except for a Ione walk in six of his eight innings. But-two-out, three-run home runs by Scott Rolen and J.D. Drew gave the St. Louis Cardinals a victory and a sweep of the three-game series that is a likely preview of the first round of the play­offs. 
"With Schilling pitching, I was worried about a no-hit­ter," Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said. "He looked like he was going to no-hit us for a while. But we had just two great swings of the bat." 
The sweep left the Diamondbacks and Cardinals with identical 94-64 records with four games remaining in the regular season. The record is important because the teams appear destined for a hest-of­5, first-round playoff meeting, and the team with the best record gets home-field advan­tage. If they remain tied, the Cardinals get the nod based on their 4-2 season series record against Arizona. That would mean the first two games and a fifth, if needed, in St. Louis 


The Cardinals have won four in a row, eight of nine, and 18 of their last 21. Arizona has lost a season-worst six straight. 
Garrett Stephenson (2-5) struggled to throw strikes ­walking five and striking out two, but gave up just one hit in 
five  innings.  He  threw  96  
pitches,  just  51  of  them  
strikes.  

Stephenson missed most of the past two seasons with injuries, and had been largely ineffective when he did pitch this season, entering the game with a 6.08 ERA. He won 16 games for the Cardinals in 2000 but is uncertain for the playoff roster. 
Schilling (23-7) was making his final start of the regular season. He has 315 strikeouts, second to teammate Randy Johnson's 326, and just 33 walks. 
Schilling was 21-4 on Aug. 
21. But over his last seven starts, he is 2-3 and has allowed 28 earned runs in 50 1/3 innings. He gave up a sea­son-worst eight runs in 7 1/3 innings in his previous start, a 9-4 loss at Colorado last Thursday. 
"It's the time of year where you've got to pitch well," Schilling said. "They did, we didn't." 
Arizona's lone run came on Matt Williams' home run, his 10th, in the sixth inning off Jeff Fassero. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES WANTED 

CJs Pub See whats happening $250 a day potenliaVbartending. www cisoub com Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals PART-TIME WORK $14.05 base-Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations appt. Flex. around classes. We Most Reliable www.sunsolash-train. All majors. Gust. service & ~1-800-426-7710 sales. No door-to-door telemarket­
ing Build resume. Internships. cond. ~-l'iQlkfQrstud!lnts i;Qm apply.,Yl'il'i l'.!'.QrkfQrslud!l!:Jll> CQ!Il 574-282-2357 574-282-2357 
Sports car.SB Mazda RX7.Runs #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, great,no rust. $3,950 o/b/o. Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! 291-4048. Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. 
Free Parties & Mealsl 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com 

LOST & FOUND 
Make $320 Weeki Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest 

lost: Platinum wedding band with commissions. Travel Freel 1-800· gold edging-Michigan weekend-SUNCHASE ext. 123. WWW,SUN-Alumni Hall/Circle, or on the walk !:.t::le.~i;~M from Angela/St. Louis to Alumni Hall along ND Ave Engraved : AKO Earn extra money evenings sched­&JD 11-18-00 If found please con-uling appointments and making tact me al customer calls for local State Farm James.Dougherty@accenture.com agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights,
.... 
or 1-972-679-eno. you choose from TuesdayThursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must be enthusi-REWARD astic with great telephone pres­
ence. Fax resume to 574-232-9984. FOUND: PRESCRIPTION SUN­GLASSES IN ANTHONY TRAVEL FOOSBALL· high level players IN LAFORTUNE. STOP IN TO wanted. Play for tun or $$$. Will CL.AIM AT FRONT DESK. also teach. Call D 257-4441. 
. . . .. .. .. ,........... -.................... 

WANT TO BUY: "The Shirt'' -Will pay premium price! If you have an extra to sell, please call 219-926· 3986. 
Chick-fil-A at University Park Mall is currently seeking high caliber indi­viduals to till Leadership roles days & nights. Flexible schedule, no Sundays, free meals, $9 per hour. Contact Kathy Wonderly @ 272­2247. 
FOR SALE 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. ND. Basement, garage, safe and CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. private. $640/mo. Great location • 
PERSONAL 

1122 Woodward Ave. Call 360­DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW 2500 LEASING FOR 2003-2004 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do SCHOOL YEAR · WELL MAIN-not go it alone. If you or someone TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM-you love needs confidential support
TICKETS

PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 &10 BED-or assistance, please call Sr. Mary ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please more information, see our bi-weekly SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF check our prices. 273-3911. ad in THE OBSERVER. ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS ­CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME Give adoption a chance ... we are FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER GAME. happily married and need your help (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955. CALL JACK 674-6593. in starting a family. Will provide a 
(574)674-2471  lifetime of love, laughter and end- 
Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­ less opportunities. Call our attorney  
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast  8048 or astrog999@aol.com  toll free at 866-215-2229.  
FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  has space available for football/par- 
NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST  ND grad with Ph.D. doing child  
ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  hot breakfast, $80-$115,  PRICES PAID 251-1570  care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home  
$99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  near campus. 234-8004  
Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487.  ND TICKETS FOR SALE  
HOME FOR SALE Great family  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
home with room for a home office  ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT ­ LOWEST PRICES  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
close to Notre Dame, SMC, 4 bed- WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM- Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  
room, 3 bathroom, eat in kitchen,  PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES  289-9280  Information/Reservations 1-800­ 
formal dining and living room, sun  UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL:  648-4849 or '!l'll'!Ul:ilCil'l!:!I.QQffi  
room and finished basement Call  leopei@hotmail.com  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  
Dan-Remax 1st,  SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  The Observer would like to officially  
574.273.9547 or  Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential  thank Dan Pelner for his brilliant  
dan@cdkhomes com  (Jamison) condo 11/26-5112 Call  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT- plan to include the Dining Hall  
Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607•  ED  menus on page 2 .  
723-7363  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  

FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com '!i!ftYi. rnwrn~alal:.,@m 
my midget and her shirtless friend Spacious Condo for Rent: 2 BR &2 ND vs. USC lix and Hotel, Irish Fest should enjoy tomorrow's inside col-bath, freshly painted &carpeted, in CAI NDCOC.com Beat SCI urnn. walk to campus, w/d, microwave, DW, fireplace, clubhouse & pool. WANTED: 2 tix for BC game Dils, a suggestion for mandatory 
fun: Show up at the basement of Call 317-261-0190 Call Colleen, 4-2607. SDH and rescue me. 
Thursday, September 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Angels lose, clinch playoff spot with Oakland win 

Rangers added another run on
Associated Press 
a bases-loaded walk. Anaheim has Jost seven of its ARLINGTON, Texas last nine games. dropping 31/2Even if the Anaheim Angels games behind Oakland with

clinched a playoff spot late 
four games left. Boston wasWednesday night, there were eliminated from the wild-card no plans for a celebration. 

race after a 7-2 loss at

The Angels missed another 
Chicago, leaving Seattle as thechance to get into the postsea­only team that could keep the 

son on their own when they 
Angels out of the postseason.

lost their fourth straight 
"We're still in the driver's 

game, 4-3 Wednesday night at 
seat," said Angels managerTexas. It was the third Mike Scioscia. "We haven't

straight game they would have 
paid attention to what other
clinched with a win. 
clubs have done all year.

But they could still get into 
We're not going to start

the playoffs for the first time tonight."
since 1986 if AL West-leading 
The plastic sheeting had

Oakland won later Wednesday been completely removed fromnight at Seattle. 
the Anaheim clubhouse and

"If the Mariners lose and we 
there was no sign of any

make the playoffs, that's a champagne.
great thing," said Angels 
Players were leaving quick­

pitcher Jarrod Washburn. 
ly, with the Oakland-Seattle

"But we're not going to cele­game unavailable on the tele­brate on a night we lost." 
vision there.

Rafael Palmeiro led off the bottom of the eighth with a tiebreaking homer and the New York Yankees 4, 

Learn More About GE and GE's Financial Management Program. 
ALL M4JORS WELCOME Refreshments Will Be Served 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2002 1:DO PM -4:00 PM CAREER RECOURSE CENTER 
114 FLANNER HALL 


Tampa Bay 3 
With the fans on their feet and heavy metal music blar­ing, Mariano Rivera came out of the bullpen to close out a ballgame. 
It's starting to feel like October at Yankee Stadium. 
Rivera got his first save in more than a month and Alfonso Soriano hit a tiebreak­ing double as the New York Yankees beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays Wednesday night. 
'Tm ready to go to the play­offs," Rivera said. "Today felt good. I'm giving everything that I've got. I'm not holding anything back. What you see is what I've got." 
The Yankees, with the best record in baseball, reached 100 wins for the first time since 1998 and the 16th time in franchise history. 
New York won for the 16th time in 22 games to move a season-high 42 games over .500. 
"Quality year," manager Joe Torre said. "When you change as much personnel as we have from last year, and to have it meld together like it has, and with the pitching staff beat up at times, I think it's coming together at the right time." 
Roger Clemens recovered from a rocky start to retire 14 of his last 15 batters in his final tuneup for the playoffs. The Rocket figures to start one of the first two games of the AL division series next week at Yankee Stadium. 
Jeff Weaver (11-11) pitched three scoreless innings for the victory, his first ever in relief. He gave up a leadoff double to Randy Winn in the eighth, but retired Aubrey Huff, Ben Grieve and Toby Hall to pre­serve a one-run lead. 


• We bring good things to life. 
www.gecareers.com/notredame 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 26, 2002 
RYDER CUP 
Controversy emerges over Europeans' slow play 
Associated Preas 
SUTTON COLDFIELD. England 
Let the gamesmanship begin. 

After Europe's Ryder Cup players kept the wrong American waiting Tuesday, it became apparent this week's matches may not be played with jolly good thoughts on both sides after all. 
The matches that were sup­posed to restore civility to the Ryder Cup were still days away, yet members of each team were already a bit on each other's nerves after Tiger Woods and his foursome picked up and played through. 
European captain Sam Torrance offered the Americans a halfhearted apology for the slow play. But, after Woods' group skipped some holes to go ahead of the Europeans, Sergio Garcia wasn't sure the right team was apologizing. 
"We have all day. We don't need to hurry," Garcia said. "It's only six matches playing out there. Just enjoy the day. You're not going to get many like this." 
The crowds lining the fair­ways watched puzzled as Woods and his foursome picked up their balls from the third fair­way and went to the eighth tee where no one was in front of them. 
It may have been just a bor­derline breach of golf etiquette, but it was sure to give the British tabloids enough fodder to fill the days before the real play gets underway on Friday. 
"There was no ill intent," Woods insisted. "There was no disrespect at all. We went on and played and we came back and we played those holes." 
Woods, who likes to get his practice rounds over with quick­ly, might have guessed that would not be the case in Tuesday's first practice session. 
Not only was his group sent off behind three European four­somes, but the foursome in front of him included Garcia and the notoriously slow Bernhard Langer. 
Woods was antsy as he stood waiting in the third fairway along with playing partners Paul Azinger, Stewart Cink and Mark Calcavecchia for the Europeans to finish up on the green. 
"We play at a faster pace, 
. plain and simple," Woods said. "I saw Bernhard and the guys lining up putts on the third hole. We definitely don't do that, especially on a Tuesday. So we hopped over." Azinger said the decision to skip some holes and get ahead was made in the third fairway when it looked like the practice round would drag on all day. "We didn't see any harm in cutting over, rather than staying behind them all day," Azinger said. "They maybe prepare dif­ferently than we do. It's not that big a deal. we didn't hold any­body up and off we went." Torrance offered the Americans an apology of sorts as they came off the ninth green, but said he wasn't terri­bly concerned about slow play. "You've got to understand it's the first practice day," Torrance said. "I think the mistake was putting the two teams out directly behind each other; there should have been a half hour gap." Torrance might have seemed a bit embarrassed because he and American captain Curtis Strange earlier had set the first "slow play" policy for the match­es themselves. That came in the wake of six­hour matches at the last Ryder Cup, where one lasting image was of Padraig Harrington walking 150 yards up to the 17th green to check out the hole location. 

Team play concept challenges Mickelson 
Aasociated Press 
SUTTON COLDFIELD, England 

Phil Mickelson, golf's ulti­mate gambler, had no choice but to play it safe. 
He pulled a mid-iron from his bag Wednesday morning as he stood on the 10th tee at The Belfry, which has a repu­tation as one of the most excit­ing par 4s in Ryder Cup histo­ry. The gallery groaned and pleaded with him to go for the green. 
"It's not my fault," Mickelson said with a shrug. "Get them to move the tee up and it might be different." 
Fat chance of that happening this week at the Ryder Cup. 
In a decision that will reduce the 311-yard hole into a wedge-and-putting contest, European captain Sam Torrance wants the 10th to play its full length for all five of the Ryder Cup matches. As captain of the home team, Torrance gets to choose how the course is set up. 
''I'm really disappointed," said Paul Azinger, one of four Americans who has played a Ryder Cup at The Belfry. "I think it's a mistake, quite frankly, because the 10th hole had a lot of history. Traditionally, I would say 80 percent of the players could go for that green. Now it may be 20 percent." 
Azinger is part of an even smaller percentage -zero. He took two cracks at it and only got near the green when his ball took a few fortunate bounces off the trees. 
What makes No. 10 such a great hole, especially in match play, is that players can choose to go for the green and have a chance at eagle. 
The punishment is severe if they miss. The green is pro­tected by a pond in front, a stream to the left, bunkers to the right and tall trees all around. 
And while 311 yards from the tips doesn't make it impos­sible, the back tee has been shifted to the right so that players have to go over a clus­ter of trees or try to shape their tee shots from left-to­right into a prevailing wind. 



Thursday, September 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Arbitrator rules in favor of owners 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

An arbitrator handed the NBA a victory Wednesday that should help keep team payrolls down, ruling that the 29 own­ers can redistribute luxury tax and escrow funds any way they please. 
The players' union filed a grievance in August, arguing that the league's plan to with­hold funds to high-spending teams amounted to circumven­tion of the collective bargaining agreement. 
"The NBA bargained for the right in the CBA to decide how the escrow and tax money would be used," NBA general counsel Rick Buchanan said. "We are pleased that the arbi­trator enforced the terms of the agreement." 
At issue was what happens to moneys collected from the escrow and luxury taxes. 
Under the escrow tax, players last season began having 10 percent of their salaries with­held because they were collec­tively receiving more than 55 percent of basketball-related income. Of the $154 million col­lected, about $23 million was returned. The remainder was divided among the 29 owners. 
In the upcoming season, teams with payrolls exceeding $51 million-$54 million (the exact amount will not be known until next summer) will have to pay a dollar-for-dollar luxury tax on the overage. That money would then be redistrib­uted to teams that did not exceed the threshold. 
In addition, those high-spend­ing teams would be eligible to receive only a portion (70 per­cent in 2003, 40 percent in 2004, zero percent in 2005) of the escrow money. 

Cuban gets inarried 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, one of the coun­try's wealthiest bachelors, is off the market. 
Cuban was married Saturday to Tiffany Stewart in Barbados. 
"We are still happily married and having a blast on our hon­eymoon," Cuban said late Wednesday in an e-mail response to The Associated Press. 
The private ceremony was to have been held in Jamaica, but the uncertainty about Tropical Storm Isidore prompted the move to Barbados, event plan­ner Russell Holloway said Wednesday. 
About 20 family and friends attended, Holloway said. 
"It was a very traditional, very elegant, beautiful wed­ding and reception," Holloway said. 
It's the first marriage for both. according to Holloway. He declined to say where the newlyweds are spending their honeymoon. 
Cuban was ranked 149th on this year's Forbes annual list of the 400 richest Americans. The magazine listed his net worth at $1.3 billion. 
B:ach:ata • S:a~b:a 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
U.S. w-ins World Cham_pionship 

Associated Press 
NANJING, China 
The United States women's basketball team continued its world domination -some­thing its male counterparts couldn't do. 
With a 79-74 win over Russia on Wednesday, the United States won its second straight Women's World Basketball Championship. The title came just weeks after the 
U.S. men's team finished an embarrassing sixth in the World Championship in Indiana. 
The victory was the 19th straight in championship play for the American women, who have not lost a game since 1994. 
Tournament MVP Lisa Leslie scored 17 points in the final, hitting two crucial free throws and a key jumper late in the fourth quarter to seal the vic­tory after Russia came within 

one. Leslie said the win restored 
U.S. pride after what hap­pened to the men's team. 
"I think we have redeemed them. But we have all learned a big lesson from the men," Leslie said. "We just can't get complacent." 
The gold medal was America's seventh, the most in the championship's 49-year history. The former Soviet Union is No. 2 with six golds. 
Australia won the bronze Wednesday with a 91-63 win over South Korea. Lauren Jackson led Australia with 31 points. 
U.S. 
coach Van Chancellor stopped short of proclaiming a 

U.S. 
women's dynasty. But he said his team had one of the best defenses in championship history, holding opponents to an average of less than 60 points per game. 


"I think it's the best defen­sive team the United States has ever had," Chancellor said. 
The win for the United States was tighter than expected. Russia rallied in the fourth quarter, making the final the closest game of the tourna­ment for the Americans. The United States won their previ­ous games by an average of more than 30 points. 

Russia trailed 71-70 with 
3:30 remaining in the fourth quarter. But Leslie put the game out of reach with her free throws and jumper. 
"It was a big jumper for us," Leslie said. "And from there, our momentum changed. Defensively, we were able to jump on them, and I think we held the lead from that point on." 
Sheryl Swoopes led the United States with 18 points. Leslie said Russia got as close as it did because she and Swoopes were tired after the 11-day tournament. 
"I think fatigue really caught up with us," Leslie said. "Yesterday. I played 38 min­utes, and I just felt like I was tired from the beginning. Our shots were a lot shorter than usual. Sheryl and I probably missed more shots than we have all tournament." 
Leslie was benched in the second quarter after picking up her third foul. But Tamika Catchings stepped in, scoring 14 of her 16 points in the first half. The United States took 48-35 lead into halftime. 
Law Fair Friday, September 27 11:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Joyce Athletic &Convocation Center -··y. +....;.JJI..,_... Representatives from approximately 60 law schools will be available to answer questions and to distribute application materials and bulletins.  


.. • .... 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 26, 2002 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Clarett's 

return 
probable 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Freshman tailback Maurice Clarett should be back in No. 6 Ohio State's lineup Saturday for its Big Ten opener against Indiana. 
Clarett, who gained 471 yards in Ohio State's first three games, had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee last week. He missed the Buckeyes· 23-19 win over Cincinnati. 
Coach Jim Tressel said Clarett did some running Monday. 
"It'll be interesting to see how far he comes today," Tressel said Tuesday. "Our trainers told us today they would call him 'probable.' Obviously, we'll see how 'probable' that is as it goes." 
Against Cincinnati, Lydell Ross gained 130 yards on 23 carries. 
"I wanted that 100-yard game right off the top. I wanted to break 100. I wanted to make an impact on the game, which I did," Ross said. "I hadn't been able to get my rhythm going into the first three games. That was my chance, that was my opportunity." 
Washington may start freshman QB 
Associated Press 
PULLMAN, Wash. 
Washington State coach Mike Price has been here before -faced with starting a freshman quarterback in mid­season. 
As he did with Drew Bledsoe and Ryan Leaf. Price may have to go with a freshman when the Cougars (No. 18 ESPN/USA Today, No. 16 AP) travel to California on Saturday for the Pacific-10 Conference opener for both teams. 
Starter Jason Gesser has a dislocated rib on his right side and backup Matt Kegel has a bruised left knee that limits his ability to run. 

That means freshman Chris Hurd will take most of the snaps this week from the Cougars' No. 1 offense, while Gesser and Kegel take time to heal. 
Gesser did not practice Tuesday and Kegel saw light duty while Hurd took a crash course in Washington State's spread offense. 
Price would not say for sure whether Hurd, a 6-foot-2, 220­pou n d quarterback from Antioch. Calif .. would start. 
"I feel we're going to go into this game anticipating that Chris Hurd will be our starter and go practice that way. Jason and Matt ... can get by with missing a couple of days of practice, where Chris can't." 
Hurd could get fewer snaps later in the week if either Gesscr or Kegel returns. Price said. 
Bledsoe and Leaf went on to set records at WSU before leaving for the NFL after their junior years. 
"Chris was very calm and did an excellent job last week," Price said. Hurd com­pleted five of six passes for 44 yards in Washington State's 45-28 victory over I-AA Montana State. 
Even if Gosser and Kegel are able to return, Hurd. a north­ern California native, likely will be in the game at the school where his father once coached track and field. 
"So maybe this game means a little bit more to Chris Hurd than any other game." Price said. 
Gesser and Kegel "are on kind of a day-to-day, wait­and-see mode right now." the coach said. 
"I wish all of our players would have the same inspira­tion that these two guys are showing. because they're going to play. They're going to find a way to play," Price said. "If they have to play through pain, they're playing. 
"They're definitely not pri­madonna quarterbacks." 
Miami DE ready to return to lineup 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES. Fla. 
Miami defensive end Jerome McDougle practiced with the first team Tuesday, regaining his starting position with the top-ranked Hurricanes. 
McDougle, a 6-foot-4. 271­pound senior, missed most of the preseason and the season opener with a partially torn chest muscle. 
He played at Florida on Sept. 

7. but was listed as a backup behind Cornelius Green. 
After watching his perfor­mance against Boston College on Saturday, coach Larry Coker felt he had to reward McDougle. 
"He was one of our defensive players of the week that we wanted to recognize," Coker said. "He had seven tackles, two assists, one sack, four quarterback pressures and three quarterback hits. So he's first team." 
After transferring from Hinds (Miss.) Community College, McDougle stepped in for an injured Green last sea­son and started every game at left defensive end. He finished with seven sacks and 48 quar­terback hurries, and was named a preseason 2002 Outland Trophy Candidate. 
But individual accomplish­ments. including starting, are secondary to McDougle, who says that all eight linemen in the rotation are capable of being first-team. 
"It's all about the team, it's not really about me," McDougle said. "When I play hard, I'm really playing for my brothers on the team. so all of us can have a good season and have good games." 
Starting running back Willis McGahee left practice early because a player stepped on his foot and popped a blister. Coker said the problem wasn't serious. 
Miami is off this weekend. 


Thursday, September 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Dorsey still peeved about BC's cheap shots 

Associated Press 

CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
Ken Dorsey complained about Boston College to his teammates, his coaches, even the referees. On Wednesday, the Miami Hurricanes quarterback stated his case publicly. 
Dorsey was hurried repeated­ly, sacked once and knocked down several times in top­ranked Miami's 38-6 win over the Eagles on Saturday. Four days later, he said many of the hits were cheap shots. 
"They're not a bunch of choir boys," Dorsey said. "This was Boston College's scheme: Run the ball the entire game to try to keep our offense off the field. And when we're on the field, they're going to blitz and try to hit me any way possible -late, on time, whatever. 
"And they'll twist a knee at the bottom of the pile. They'll do anything. That's what they did and that's what I expect basical­ly from every team -to try to get hits on me and take the offense out of rhythm." 
Dorsey tempered his remarks later Wednesday. 
"In the course of a game, a lot of things happen, and that's just part of the game," Dorsey said. 'Tm definitely not calling them dirty. I have a lot of respect for what they've done." 
On a few plays, Dorsey was tackled after he released the ball and then he started jawing with Boston College defenders. He refused to discuss the hits and his reactions after the game, but changed his mind Wednesday. 
"It's a very emotional game," he said earlier. "If you don't play emotional, then you're not enjoy­ing yourself. I'm sure there are times when guys start yapping at me and I'm not going to sit there and take it. I never go out and look for it. I never go out and start yelling at a guy on the other team just to yell at him." 
Dorsey said he needs a reason. He had a couple against Boston College -the team that inter­cepted him four times last sea­son and nearly derailed the Hurricanes' national champi­onship. 
"I just hate Boston College, to be perfectly honest," he said. 
Dorsey was 13-for-26 for 202 yards with two touchdowns against the Eagles on Saturday. 
Miami quarterbacks coach Dan Werner downplayed the late hits but said he noticed Dorsey was more revved up than usual. 
"He was a little feisty," Werner said. "He told me there was a lot of jabbering. Of course, he made it sound like it was coming from the other side." 
Boston College coach Tom O'Brien said Wednesday he had not heard any complaints from Hurricanes coach Larry Coker. 
"If coach Coker had an issue with how the game was played, I'm sure he would give me a call and I would discuss it with him," O'Brien said. "Otherwise, the Miami game is history. We have respect for Miami and wish them well. We're concentraling on Central Michigan." 
We'll save you a seat 
on New Year's Day. Colorado QB requests transfer 
Associated Press 
BOULDER, Colo. 
Colorado quarterback Craig Ochs, who announced on Monday he won't play again this season after suffering his third concussion in a year, is request­ing a transfer to the University of Montana. 
Colorado head coach Gary Barnett said on Wednesday that 

Audition to win a guest appearance New Year's Day on ESPN College GameDay. 

Just create a 60-second audition tape showcasing why 
you're lhe ultimate college football analyst. Create your tape at participating Best Suy s!ores or al home. For additional ways ta audition and rnore info, visit: 
Discovercard.com/Gameday 
Montana had asked him for a release, which would allow Ochs to play elsewhere. 
Barnett has said repeatedly he would not stand in the way of a player who wants to transfer. 
Montana coach Joe Glenn did not return telephone calls. No telephone number was available for Ochs. 
Ochs suffered his third con­cussion in the past year on Sept. 

uru•DAYS 10!30 A.M. n 

di 81u,,,,,,ccu« ofc/l'ottcaJ)-~ qlndtd'fan. 
DISCOVER" 
0
CARD 

TODAY September 26--8 PM 
Na l)lrdw neCIS5afY. (on1es1 rum 8/31/02-11/V02. Open lolego!U.S. resifan!S, 18DI oldt1.F01 Pfize ~"lllm, ii.dgflgrrilerii, 911l!Jyfcrm,offic'lll1uksoOO ful detuik, riw iiKove1tllld,tom 01 le9 the ofooal rules ovolalH al porli.~Mil BesfBIIV slor11s. Yoil ill l'u«fo h:o ond he fl'Ohililld. 
Lafortune Ballroom FREET
We can help you audition. 
cmne. checron.r.:1ou,:favor£te, {:;U(!j'S clonn! 
Create your auditioh tape at the GfB·: SOUTH BEND Best Buy store 
gJi<sM-3,1',_;t ;ta, tljfsM-grlf
• Saturday, September 28 
9W'~hl ~JJ, li\v'ill 9W'eei
• Sunday, September 29 TurnOntheFun 
......,...... 

7. He has missed the last two games, 
In an announcement that stunned Barnett and offensive coordinator Shawn Watson, Ochs said Monday he was with­drawing as a student and was relinquishing his athletic schol­arship, and also was applying for a medical waiver redshirt for the 2002 season. 
While insisting that extensive medical tests were normal, Ochs said in a statement he wanted to "re-evaluate my options for returning to play football next season." 
The reevaluation process apparently didn't take long. 
Barnett received the release request from Montana during Wednesday's practice. 
"They are asking us to waive a one-year residency requirement. What it basically means is he wants to transfer to Montana," Barnett told said. 
"The release gives permission for a player to talk to another school and receive a scholarship from that school." 
It wasn't known if Ochs was interested in transferring to any schools other than Montana. 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion! 
(574) 674-0022 Fax(574)674-0033 
ND themed baskets are our specialty! 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 26, 2002 
NFL 



looking for som bing to do this Thursdav night??? 
j 

,,, 1 
J 
Make $320 Week! Sw,chase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions av~lable now. Largest commissions Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext.123 
WWW.SUNCllASE.C!Y.vf 
Faulk practices; may be ready for Sunday 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Marshall Faulk practiced with the St. Louis Rams on Wednesday, a sign that the running back could be ready to face the Dallas Cow boys on Sunday. 
The team, which will be try­ing to end an 0-3 start, didn't have any immediate news on results of an exam on Faulk's strained neck, however. 
Before practice, coach Mike Martz said he was hopeful that team doctors would clear Faulk. 
"He doesn't have any neuro­logical problems in terms of numbness, so they felt good it may not be a disc issue," Martz said. "He feels much better, so hopefully we'll have him." 
Faulk, who was injured when upended by the Bucs' Derrick Brooks in the second quarter of Monday night's 26-14 loss in Tampa Bay, was scheduled to undergo the exam on Wednesday. It had been sched­uled for Tuesday. 
He has been listed as ques­tionable, but teammates expect Faulk to play. Rookie Lamar Gordon, the team's third-round draft pick, would start if Faulk can't go. 
"I think he will," Gordon said. "He's going to get all right and play, but I'm going to be ready just in case." 
Fullback Chris Hetherington said Faulk was a "tough guy." 
"He's played through a lot of injuries and he wants to be out there more than anybody," Hetherington said. "I think they're a little hesitant about putting him back in because we need him for the long haul, but he seems ready to play." 
Quarterback Kurt Warner believes the Rams would be fine with Faulk or Gordon, who scored on a 21-yard run Monday against the Bucs. Gordon has moved ahead of Trung Canidate, the team's first-round pick in 2000, as the backup to Faulk. 
"We'd all want No. 28 in there if we can," Warner said. "But we want the best thing for him and for this team. 
"Either one of those guys, I'm excited about having them back there." 
Faulk has scored a touch­down in nine consecutive games, two shy of the team record set by Elroy Hirsch in 1950-51. 

Martin sidelined by ankle 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 

The New York Jets want to get physical, even if their best player is a physical wreck. 
There's even a chance run­ning back Curtis Martin will be held out of Sunday's game at Jacksonville with a sprained left ankle. Martin, off to the worst start of his career, has struggled since hurting the ankle late in the first half of the season open­er -New York's only victory in three games. 
While Martin says he is improving and will be ready for the Jaguars, coach Herman Edwards said Wednesday he is toying with the idea of resting him. 
"Sure is," Edwards said when asked if sitting down Martin was a possibility. "I don't know yet, let's see how the week goes on. 
"I thought about it a lot. It is hard to do, but then again it is not hard to do if it is the right thing to do. I am teetering. He is 
Woodson's backup excited 
Associated Press 
AlAMEDA, Calif. 

Phillip Buchanan's college teammates assured the Raiders rookie he would start Sunday in place of injured Pro Bowl comerback Charles Woodson. 
Coach Bill Callahan just made it official Wednesday. 
Buchanon, Oakland's top draft pick this year out of national champion Miami, will start at left corner Sunday against the Tennessee Titans. 
The Raiders have said Woodson will miss up to six weeks with a fractured right shoulder, which he hurt against the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sept. 15. 
Two of Buchanon's Miami buddies will be in the Coliseum seats to watch his first defen­sive start. They're staying with getting better, but he is not where he should be. Ile is a tough guy, but what he has is a tough deal. Most guys would not even be practicing, they would not have come back thb fast, no way." 
Martin did not practice Wednesday and admitted that during last Sunday's loss at Miami, the injury "was as painful as I think it could be." 
"For me, it's wasting time if it isn't going to get better," he said. "I'd be willing [to sit out] if I knew it really would help me and would make a world of dif­ference." 
Martin has 54 yards on 24 carries. The Pro Bowl runner never has gained less than 1,150 yards in each of his seven NFL seasons and is coming off his best year (1,513 yards). 
Not that anyone else on offense is accomplishing much, which is why Edwards is eager to get back to the punishing style he believes serves the team best. 
But can they do so with 
him for a week. 

"I've been preparing the same way," Buchanon said, revealing a slight smile as he spoke of his new role. "Everybody is going to trust me to do my job, and I'll do the best I can." 
Callahan announced the deci­sion during a team meeting. Buchanon and veteran Terrance Shaw were audition­ing for the spot for the past week, Callahan said. 
"I didn't smile that much," Buchanon said of his reaction to the news. "For me, it's another step. I need to take care of business. ... Those are big shoes to fill. Woodson has made a name for himself." 
The 5-foot-10, 185-pound Buchanon made 88 tackles in 32 games for Miami, and also scored touchdowns on an inter­ception, fumble and punt Martin on the sideline and LaMont Jordan carrying the ball? Edwards would prefer not to take that approach, but he will do it if necessary. 
"If I make that decision, it is done," Edwards said. "He will be OK with it. What is best for him is best for the football team. Let's see how the week goes. 
"It was just a bad ankle sprain. The sprain that he has is usually three weeks. I-le came back in 3-4 days. And with the position he plays, he is a sitting target. If a running back can't go full speed it is tough." 
If Martin is limited or side­lined, second-year player Jordan will get the bulk of the work. Jordan barely has seen any action as a Jet, although he did play the second half in the victory over Buffalo. 
Jordan is more of a power back than Martin, although he does have speed and some elu­siveness. What he lacks, mainly, is experience, something he isn't likely to get much of when Martin is fit. 
return. 

He's been playing on special teams for the Raiders (2-0), averaging 9.8 yards per punt return. 
Callahan has confidence in Buchanon. 
"That's why we drafted him, because he is a cover corner and he has athletic ability and he is a weapon on the field who can produce a big play on the field at any time," Callahan said. 
Buchanon has been in a simi­lar position before. As a sopho­more at Miami, he filled in for injured corner Leonard Myers. And everything went well -he had 10 solo tackles and four pass deflections against Florida State. 
"I was thinking about that last night," Buchanon said. "That was the first game I started at Miami." 
Thursday, September 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
MLB 
Brewers' top executives swept out of town 
Selig-Prieb and general manager Attorney Ulice Payne, a former missioner Bud Selig, remains "I want to personally apologize 
Associated Press 
Dean Taylor on Wednesday. state securities commissioner, with the team in a newly created to our fans for the failings of this 
The team held an evening takes over for Selig-Prieb as team post as board chairman, but season," Selig-Prieb said at the 
MILWAUKEE news conference at Miller Park to president. Doug Melvin, a former Payne will make day to day deci­news conference. 
The Milwaukee Brewers, com­announce the top-level shakeup, general manager with the Texas sions. She said she told the board of pleting their worst season in the which first was reported on the Rangers, will be the new general The team said Selig-Prieb directors a few weeks ago of her 34-year history of the franchise, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel's manager. wished to resign from her day to decision to step down but 
replaced team president Wendy Web site Wednesday afternoon. Selig-Prieb, daughter of com-day duties with the Brewers. 
,_ ............. ·•·· . .. . -............ ·• 
You're the Homecoming chairperson. · All you have to do is organize 10,000 students, 20 events and 1 parade. 
They've "'1\ COl.\lo\tilo\~ ""' yol.\. Which i.s why SPEAKERPHONE yol.\ \\ee~ t-leictel's ~i~it"'l w"'lkie+"'lki.e WIRElfSS WEB ACCESS t!e"'tl.\v-e. It lets yoi.,. ~et v-i~ht thv-01A~h 
AOL1 INSTANT NESSENliER'" service 

with the plAsh ~ "' \:>l.\H-olo\. Th"'t 1Me"'"'s
TWO-WAY MESSAGING 

JAVA'" GAMES & APPLICATIONS 1to ""'isse~ c"'lls, voice IM"'il ov-pho1te t"'~· 
DIGITAL CELLUU.R 

<5tc:,,.y i.1t co"'t"'ct with evevyolo\e t!v-01M 
the Flo"'+-CoiM1MiH-ee ¼-o ¼-he Al1A1Mlo\i 
Co""-iMiH-ee, wi.thol.\t ""'issi.lo\~ "' ~e+-"'il. 
"low yo1A1ve v-ec:,,.J..y-Bv-i."'~ It. 
"low's "' ~ve"'t th...e to ~e+-"le,ctel: "'11 "loh-e D"'""'e stl.\~e"'ts ~e+­
"',o,:·~lSCOl.\\\¼-01,\ "'"'Y YO\t"e
i'fOc 

pl"'"' Cl.I\~ $\oo• o.P.P "'"'Y pv.Olo\e. ,oJ."'y the J.i~i+....I wC1.l~ie+....l~ie 
.,.-c,'l;)l,\y:
wov1-cs oVev-seve.-....1h~"IJ.v-e.:A lo'\iles. .w,.·.,.•. ,.,, .•••••., . A"ltA T-0\W\Cvvcw, "l<'l+iO"lwi.:Ae. • 80 to \\e>Ctel.co1M/iv-islt\-shA~e\\t. • c01.ll toll-Pv-ee l-877-50,-2<'f2'. 
# CO\\toi.ct j{)t,,\ (OIMIMl.\\\lCOl.tiO\\S
1:~·,i NExrEL: 
O\t 574-2.43-38'18' 
delayed the announcement. 
"The last thing that this club 
needed was another issue," she 
said. 
She called it an exciting day, 
with Payne and Melvin taking 
over. 
"We're going to have fun with 
this;" Melvin said, adding that he 
would challenge the team's 
scouts to go out and find the best 
talent available, whether they be 
late-round draft picks or poten­
tial comeback of the year players. 
"We have to change the mind­
set here, and that's my goal as 
general manager," he said. "We 
have to start thinking that we do 
have a chance." 
Payne. a former Marquette 
University basketball star, is a 
managing partner of the 
Milwaukee office of Foley & 
Lardner. He has no baseball 
experience, but is the chairman 
of the Bradley Center Board and 
brings a background in business 
and politics. 
He was on the Marquette team 
that won the NCAA champi­
onship in 1977 -Al McGuire's 
last game as Marquette coach. 
Payne said he took the job to 
help the team and the city. 
While he doesn't have all the 
answers on how to fix the team's 
problems, 'Tm going to take this 
challenge quite seriously," he 
said. 
Taylor, who scheduled a news conference later Wednesday night, was hired as Brewers gen­eral manager in 1999. His con­tract runs through the 2003 sea­son. 
Melvin was Rangers general manager from 1994 until he was fired on the last day of the 2001 season. 
The Brewers were 55-102 before Wednesday night's game in Houston. The previous worst for the Brewers was in their first season in Milwaukee when they went 65-97 in 1970. The previ­ous franchise worst was when the team was the Seattle Pilots and went 64-98 in 1969. 
The Brewers have 10 straight losing seasons and haven't been to the playoffs in 20 years. Attendance at games dropped this year by 841,000 fans. 
Payne also is a member of the Greater Milwaukee Committee, a civic organization. During the debate over construction of Miller Park, the group lobbied on behalf of the Brewers. Payne also is on the board of directors of Journal Communications Inc., which publishes the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. 

FRIDAY 9/27 -7pm Saturday, 9/28 -12pm ND vs. UConn Warren GolfCourse *FREE I-shirts to the first 500 fans* 
COME PACK THE 18TH GREEN! 
SUNDAY 9/29 -2pm ND vs. St. John's **FREE Papa John's pizza and t-shirts to the first 100 fans**

*FREE volleyballs to the first 250 fans* ~ 
lic'1U"':J,1~~~/.~;1;~'1lJ 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 24 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, September 26, 2002 

·•t•••ittil1<•''tt••·•·••·1~iat.a4{ ..••.•.•.•ki.....·•·······~'llll~t/:/lliI!lili!• 
¦=r,.w111-,.c:;1!Lii¦I 
••••••:•,ilm:••••·••• •::••· ••r:ii!IIII:!ir1~IIlI!ii~ il~IlIIIl:;liII:I '.
:tfl11fDII 
~........,,n 
~..­
.~ 


around the dial 
Major League Baseball Braves at Phillies 6:00p.m., TBS 

College Football Florida State at Louisville 6:30p.rn.,ESPN 
Major League Soccer First-Round Playoff Game 6:30p.m.,ESPN2 
NFL 


Dana Banwer. a deputy to charge anyone with," he pline. Allowing Moss to 
Associated Press 

attorney for Minneapolis, said. "It wasn't his." start on Sunday is "an said each charge carries a Moss, who has a history of appropriate course of MINNEAPOLIS maximum penalty of 90 trouble on and off the field, action" based on the lesser 
Randy Moss walked out of days in jail and a $1,000 had been arrested on suspi­charges. jail whistling, charged with fine. She said Moss will be cion of assault with a dan­'Tm still disappointed," two misdemeanors instead arraigned Oct. 2. gerous weapon, a felony. Tice said. "This doesn't of a possible felony for Police said they found a He whistled as he left jail change the fact that we've allegedly pushing a traffic small quantity of marijuana and walked through a pack been dealing with this for officer a half-block with his in Moss' car, an amount of reporters. the last 24 hours, that I car, and the Minnesota that would qualify as a petty "You'll hear my side slept very little last night Vikings announced their misdemeanor, but no later," Moss said. "I was and I ate a half a jar of star receiver would start charge was immediately treated bad." Maalox." Sunday against Seattle. filed. Attorney Joe Friedberg A source within the 
Moss was released Moss' agent. Dante led Moss to a nearby car Vikings organization told Wednesday from the DiTrapano, said the mari­that drove him away. ESPN Wednesday night Hennepin County jail after juana didn't belong to his Head coach Mike Tice that the team will fine spending the night. He was client. "Somebody appar­said Moss would be disci­Moss the maximum charged with careless dri­ently said there was residue plined for missing part of amount league rules allow, ving and failure to obey a of marijuana in the ash Wednesday's practice, but as much as $50,000, as a traffic officer tray. which wasn't anything he did not reveal the disci-result of his arrest. 
IN BRIEF 

Jordan Expected to Play Hughes, a free agent from Golden Central champions hope to com­This Season State. plete the deal and announce it this 
Reiterating what he first Earlier this week, Jordan told weekend. two baseball sources announced a year ago, Michael the Chicago Sun-Times: ''I'll play with knowledge of the negotiations Jordan is expected to issue a state­as long as I love the game of bas­said Wednesday night. ment later this week confirming he ketball. ... I never thought I'd play Rolen hit a three-run homer will play a 15th NBA season. again, but I still love the game." Wednesday as the Cardinals beat 
Jordan signed a two-year con­Arizona 6-1 at Busch Stadium. The tract with the Washington Wizards Rolen close to $90 Million Diamondbacks. who have already when he ended his second retire­Deal clinched a postseason spot, could ment. Despite missing 22 games Scott Holen, headed to postsea­meet St. Louis in the first round of with knee problems last season, he son play for the first time in his the playoffs next week. said he planned to fulfill the con­career, and the St. Louis Cardinals Rolen has 30 homers and 108 tract if he felt physically able. are close to finalizing a $90 mil­RBIs and is hitting .267 this year. 
Jordan has said he would make a lion, eight-year contact, sources He's been surging lately, helping "last-minute" announcement about told The Associated Press. the Cardinals win 18 of 21 games his playing status. The Wizards The St. Louis Post-Dispatch first to clinch the division. open training camp next Tuesday reported the length and value of Holen declined to comment to in Wilmington. N.C., where Jordan Rolen's possible contract. The AP on Wednesday. grew up. Traded from Philadelphia to the One of Rolen's agents, Seth 
Coach Doug Collins has said the Cardinals on July 29. Rolen was Levinson, was in St. Louis on Wizards plan to use Jordan off the eligible for free agency after the Wednesday. Two of Rolcn's other bench for the first time in his season. agents, Sam Levinson -brother career. He would play in the back­But the All-Star third baseman of Seth -and former major court behind Jerry Stackhouse, quickly embraced his situation in league infielder Keith Miller were who was acquired in a trade with St. Louis, and wanted to stay with set to travel to St. Louis for fur­the Detroit Pistons, and Larry the team. Rolen and the NL ther talks. 
Thursday, September 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 

ANDY KENNNThe Observer Senior Rafeal Garcia kicks the ball in a previous game. The Irish will face No. 2 St. John's tonight. 

Men 
continued from page 28 
the Big East) lost to No. 24 Bradley, 3-2 on a week ago while the Red Storm (5-1-1, 2­1-0) lost to Boston College, 2-1 on Sept. 1. 
Tonight's match will also be a huge test for the Irish offense, as the Red Storm, in its seven games this season, have allowed only three goals and have already tallied five shutouts. The Red Storm's 
0.41 goals against average 
ranks fourth nationally. 
Braun will lead the Irish offensive attack for the Irish, having already scored six goals in seven games. Riley. Boughen, Greg Martin and Justin Detter have all scored two goals for the Irish. 
Despite the advantage the Red Storm appear to hold on paper, Clark thinks his team is up for the challenge. 
"[After doing so well against Providence], we've got to take it to the next level," Clark said. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at blcro­nk@nd.edu 
LOGAN Center needs your ticket!

~ 
LOGAN 
Allow a person with a disability to attend the game on 
October 12th -ND vs. Pittsburg 
.....~ 
~ liiiil II' 

Tickets should be donated by Friday, October 4th • Call Lauren at 634-0892 or Marissa at 289-4831 Email: marissar@logancenter.org or Lflynnl@nd.edu 

record-setting 4x800 team. Sometime during the transi­
Mobley 
tional summer between high school and college, though,
continued from page 28 
Mobley lost a little of his grit. "I didn't help myself," Mobley 
now," Piane said. In a sense, he was groomed in high school for collegiate run­
ning. 
"My high school coaches geared my training towards developing later on," Mobley said. 
He realized that he wanted to run beyond the walls of Walled Lake High while he was a sophomore, but at the time he had no idea at what level he would run in college . 
That same year Mobley nar­rowly missed making the All­State team. 
"That just kind of drove my determination to focus," he said. After that disappointment, he stepped up his training the follow summer and finished sixth in the state his junior year . 
During his senior year of high school. Mobley finished second in the state cross country finals and was part of the school said. "I knew that it'd be a little higher mileage and that the intensity would be a little greater [in college)." 
Because of his lack of prepa­ration, he came in somewhat out of shape, he admitted. 
"He didn't run really well early on in his cross country career," Piane said. "That was a bit of a surprise." 
Ultimately, his trademark dedication overcame this obsta­cle, and soon he was on the traveling squad with a team that had its sights set on a national championship. Mobley finished fourth for the team and 99th overall in the 2000 NCAA championships.. 
"Coach said if you make top 100 as a freshman, you've run well," Mobley said. 
"He's mentally very tough," Piane said. "He's committed. The kid knows what he wants and he's going to go after it._ 
the rerun· filtti series 
proudly presents 2 late nightshowinQs. back on the big screen. ereven pm each nite tickets only 3 dollars 

Each weekend a new rerun film including titles like Gremlins, Full Metal Jacket, Evil Dead 2 & Raiders! visit our website at gkctheatres.com for more. 
Great Japanese food


Mll<A, 
A JAPAliE:H: H'ITAUVil'\T 
at great prices.

<...arry Out and Din(:' In 
Cleveland Come join us for our lunch specials! 
402 US 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 
Early Bird Dinner 

(219) 272-2535 
S1.50 off for Students 

He's going to get it done." 
Mobley intensely focused on 
improving himself the next 
summer, just as he did after 
missing the All-State team in 
high school, and he completed a 
sophomore season that earned 
him the All-American honor. 
"[Becoming an All American] 
was something I wanted to get 
done in college," Mobley said. 
"It feels good to get it done my 
sophomore year. My grandpa 
always said he wanted an All­
American in the family. I've had 
some cousins and brothers who 
fell short, so it was good to 
finally get it out of the way 
because I'm one of the 
youngest." 
Now that he has accom­
plished that goal, the Sorin resi­
dent and math major has 
another task -helping the Irish 
succeed despite the losses they 
incurred due to graduation. 
"Losing Shay was a big blow," 
Piane said. "Anytime you lose 
someone of that caliber, it can't 
be positive." 
"[The loss] has really woken up everyone else because we realize we can no longer fall back on those guys," Mobley said. "Everyone came into the year knowing that they had a shot at varsity. I think it's really helped our depth. Many of the guys have really stepped up and challenged the people above them." 
The challenge posed by the younger runners may be friend­ly, but it encourages the veter­ans to be alert. 
"I don't really want to lose to Tim [Moore]," said Mobley, with a laugh, of the current Notre Dame freshman who ran against Mobley while they were both in high school. "I know he's really good, so I want to hold him off as long as I can." 
Piane and the rest of the team have confidence in Mobley. 
"He's going to do fine," the coach said. 'There's no doubt in my mind that he'll have a very, very successful year. The other guys on the team respect him to the nth degree, because they know that he works extremely hard and races extremely hard. They really do respect him." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlind­sle@nd.edu 

... page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 26, 2002 
Holiday 
continued from page 28 
Stanford. 
Even Holiday himself doesn't know when he'll be back. He's busy getting treatment whenever he can and trying to maintain his focus even as Pat Dillingham and Chris Olsen take his snaps in practice. 
Although Holiday's injury damaged his non-throwing shoulder, the Irish quarterback still hasn't tried throwing the ball since he left the game in the third quarter against Michigan State. 
"I haven't really tried to move [my shoulder] around that much, but there's really no pain," he said. "After the game, it started to heal quickly and right now I'm not really feeling any­thing. But at the same time, it hasn't been tested so you can't really tell right now." 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said Sunday Dillingham would work as the starter until Holiday is healthy again. Now. Holiday spends practices trying to give advice to Dillingham, who has only played 20 minutes, and Olsen, who is running the Irish offense for the first time since fall camp. 
"Pat did a heck of a job in the Michigan State game at the end and that just gave him a lot of learning experience. Right now he's doing a good job at practice, he's really execut­ing," Holiday said. "I really just have to start to really help Chris out there a lit­tle bit more. He's getting thrown out there into a world he really hasn't been before. I just have to try to build their characters up a little big and keep them motivated." 
Holiday himself is eager and ener­getic. In fact, he vowed after the Michigan State game he would return in time for Notre Dame's game against Stanford. 
Last year, when Holiday got hurt, his confidence was visibly shattered. He was knocked out of at least three games, the worst being the second-to­last game of the season at Stanford, 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Knights gallop past Belles 
TINA REIT ANO/The Observer Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday uses Notre Dame's open date to recover from arm injuries sustained during the lrish's win over Michigan State. Holiday hopes to retum as soon as possible. 
when he completed just 1-of-16 passes. 
This year, the only thing keeping 
Holiday down is the fact that he can't 
be on the field practicing. He's still 
upbeat, energetic and is still a vocal 
leader on the offense. 

"This team has a lot of potential, and 
we can go a long way," Holiday said. "I 
just feel so much more positive this 
year because of our record and the 
way things are going right now." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's volleyball team continued its tough losses to league competi­tion falling to second-place Calvin in three games. The Knights proved to be the more solid team and the Belles couldn't overcome their slow start. 
"l think that we took too long to warm up, but then we really came back and fought hard but it was too late," sophomore Bridget Wakaruk said. 
The Belles are now 0-5 in MIAA competition. 
The Knights, 5-1 in league competition, came out with a solid offensive attack. They totaled 39 team kills to Saint Mary's 22 and finished with a team hitting percentage of .239. 
"They were great hitters and passers," Wakaruk said. 
Calvin's serving wasn't bad, either. As a team, the Knights dealt out 14 aces in the three-game match, with Cassie Christopher hitting five of them. 
After falling hard in game one 30-12, the Belles seemed to find their sea legs and put up more of a fight against the Knights. They fought to within seven in game two, falling 30-23 and came as close as four in the 30-26 loss in the final game. 

The Saint Mary's defense had its work cut out for it, recording 5 7 digs despite the Calvin vic­tory. Jenny Wilkins led the defensive attack with 15 digs while Michelle Gary added 12. 
Wakaruk led the Belles offensive attack with 12 assists. 
Saint Mary's will have only a few days to rest before taking on even tougher competition. On Friday the Belles will face of against the undefeated Alma Scots. The Scots, who have a 6-0 record, are ranked first in the league and promise to be a real challenge to the young Belles. 

Prior to Friday's match, Saint Mary's hopes to improve on its serve defense. The 14 kills it allowed against Calvin will get the team into serious trouble against a team as solid as Alma. 
"[Our serve defense] just hasn't been working," Wakaruk said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5065@saintmarys.edu 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Welsh looks to bounce back from loss against PE 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER, LISA REIJU­
lA, HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
and ERIK POWERS 
Spores Writers 
For the past three years, Welsh has been the team to beat in interha11 football. 
That shouldn't change this year, as the Whirlwinds attempt to win their fomih straight title. 
"Everybody's kind of out to get us, but we just try to play one game at a time," said senior Whirlwinds captain Vanessa Llchon. 
But now, the Whrilwinds have to bounce back from a loss. Sunday, the Babes of Breen-Phillips put a chink in the seemingly invincible Welsh armor, defeating the Whirlwinds 12-9. 
"We know that on any day we can be beaten," Llchon said. "We are going to come out firing [Thursday]." 
Welsh (2-1) faces a Pasquerilla West (1­
1) team Thursday that is brimming with confidence after avenging an opening 27­0 loss to Breen-Phillips with a 12-0 shutout of Farley Sunday. 
"We're a lot more confident now," said Purple Weasels captain Leslie Schmidt. "We know what's going on on the field. We just feel more together all around." 
Schmidt lauded two freshmen as help­ing the team's success, Alyssa Howell at running back and wide receiver/line­backer Heather Van Hoegarden. 
Perhaps the best defensive performer for PW is sophomore safety Lindsay Lichtenberg, who had four interceptions against Farley. 
"[Those three] are very effective both on offense and defense," Schmidt said. "Welsh throws the ball and runs the ball really well, but we're going to be ready for anything." 
Last year, the Purple Weasels played the Whirlwinds in both the regular sea­son and the first round of the playoffs. Both resulted in defeats for the Purple Weasels. 
"l don't know what our team's potential is, but we improved greatly from our first to second game and are expecting equal improvement from our second to third," Schmidt said. 
With almost the entire Whirlwinds' starters returning from last year's cham­pionship team, Llchon and the rest of her team are confident of Thursday's matchup as well. 
"I think our strength is in our defense and our depth," she said. "We feel that we can field two teams on both offense and defense and that if someone gets hurt, another player can step right in." 
Lyonsvs.cavanaugh 
As the ubiquitous Cyndi Lauper song goes, sometimes girls just wanna have fun -and for Notre Dame women, that means football. For the girls on Lyons' interhall team, playing together is just as important as their record. 
The Lions hope to keep on having fun when they square off against Cavanaugh. 
"We're having a lot of fun," senior cap­tain and quarterback Sarah Jenkins said. "We don't practice that often, but our defense is solid and our offense is work­ing well." 
The Lions (1-1) fell 18-8 to Pasquerilla Ea5t in their season opener but rebound­ed two days later with a big 19-0 win over Howard. 
The d.ilierence betvveen the two games for Lyons was defense. That unit will defi­nitely be tested Tuesday at against Cavanaugh. 
Undefeated at 2-0, Cavanaugh boasts an experienced team with a roster full of returning seniors. The Chaos opened their season with a win over the Pyros by an impressive score of 28-0. A strong 30­6 vict.ory over the Shamrocks of McGlinn came two days later. 
"We are just going to keep our same game plan and try to keep up the good things we've been doing," Jenkins said. 

Farley vs. Badin 
Last year Farley and Badin were not in 

the same division but the Jack of recent 
history between these two teams hasn't 
taken away the importance of Thursday's 
game. Farley's Finest are looking for their 
first vvin of the sea.son while the Bullfrogs 
of Badin look to surpac;s the . 500 mark. 
Farley captain Nikki Parker wa.c; confi­

dent about her team's ability, despite 
their 0-2 start. 
"Badin is a small dorm," she said. "We 

should be able to win." 
Badin, however. had a different plan, coming off a 19-6 trouncing of Walsh on Sunday. They are led by veteran quarter­back Erin Zachry, linebackers Betsy Schroeder and Cindy Adimari and safety Jen Carter. 
'This year's team is very solid. very strong," Schroeder said. "We have had a couple key acquisitions, and we haven't missed a beat since last year." 
Badin's returning players should give Farley some trouble, as they come off a tough 12-0 loss to Pasquerilla West. They will have their work cut out for them Thursday. 
Parker also acknowledged that Farley had work to do. "We just need to concen­trate and make our plays a lot sharper," she said. "Defensively, we need to stick on our man and play together." 
However, the Bullfrog defense will not make it easy for the Finest. The Bullfrogs are led by Schroeder, Adimari and Carter, who combined for nine tackles in the last five minutes of Sunday's victory. 
For their part, the Bullfrogs aren't tak­ing Farley lightly. 
"I am optimistic about the rest of the season," Schroeder said. "However, even though Farley is 0-2, we don't want to look past them. We just want to take it · one game at a time. 
Bree~Phillips vs. Walsh 
Most teams with a winning formula attempt to refrain from experimentation. 
But Breen-Phillips is not like most teams. After earning the No. 1 seed and a first round bye in last season's playoffs, the Babes scrapped their offensive play­book for a system with greater simplicity. 
They look to bring that offensive attack and an undefeated record to bear against Walsh tonight. In the new Nameless Wonder offense, quarterback Atasha Totter will have her choice of able receivers Kelly Deckelman, Lindsey Walz, Cat Peer, Tricia Keppel and Lauren Ohlenforst. 
The role for the receivers is straightfor­ward -go out and catch the ball. 
Breen-Phillips has allowed only nine points this season, an impressively low total for a sport usually dominated by gaudy offensive displays. The true strength of the Babes might lie in their defense, namely their intimidating defen­sive line. 
'They're pretty scary, l think," Babes co-captain Tricia Keppel said. "They strike fear into their opponent." 
The defensive line is anchored by Potter and Ohlenforst. Should anyone catch the ball, however, co-captain looming line­backer Kelly Landers will lurk into the secondary. The Wild Women of Walsh have yet to secure either a win or offen­sive consistency. 
Against the undefeated Babes, they will have their work cut out for them. But Walsh has thrived under similar circum­stances before, knocking Breen-Phillips out of the second round of the playoffs with a stunning victory. 
This time, however, the Wild Women will not have the element of surprise. 
"We took them too lightly" admitted Keppel. " It won't happen again this year." 
Contact Justin Shuver at jschuver@nd.edu, Lisa Reijula at reiju1a.2@nd.edu, Heather Van Hoegarden at hvangoeg@nd.edu and Erik Powers at powers.44@nd.edu 
_j 

----------, 
' 
Thursday, September 26, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD CLARE O'BRIEN 

JUMBLESCHOOL DAZE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

fni'jn:\fl }~ ~ THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME ~ ~ ~~~ by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
BUDOT 
tXJ 

Q2002 Trbune Madia Servicee, Inc. All Righlrl Reserved 
YERNT 
j tNIMPED 

t

JACK MONAHAN 
-_,.
HAPPY TOWN 
www.Jurnble.mm 
STYJUL j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rxx II 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A:r r r x Jrn "t xx xJ"
IN 
(Answers tomorrow) 

" 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: OCCUR TRUTH ADAGIO FAMISH Answer: What he showcased when he built his boat ­HlS"CRAFT" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 30 -To order, ••rid your name, ¦ ddreH and $6,45 ¦ nd make eheck payable to Tribune Media Sorvlcea, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 



EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 27 Place with a 60 N.Y.S.E. relative feed trough 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON'IHIS DAY: Mary Beth Hwt, Olivia Newton-John, Gea-gc
1 "No_!" 61 Falco of "The 
Gershwin, Kent McCord

(slangy reply) 28 Formally Sopranos" 
Happy Birthday: Although you will attract a lot of attention this year, you will also be
approve 
62 Pass, as time 33 Well-nigh

5 They go back inclined to make poor choices and to act abruptly. Think before you take action and tl1us 
and forth to 63 Difference of avoid difficult circumstances. Your de<lication and loyalty to othel~ will be rewarded This work 34 Full scale? opinion i~ a year IO expand your friendships and 10 rekindle or tx:gin anew romantic relationship. 9 Suit 35 Overly 
Your nwnbers are 2, 15, 28. 32, 37, 44
64 Convinced

sentimental ARmS (March 21-April 19): Finish up some of lhe projec1S that you left hanging. If 14 "The Labors of 
you show a little enthusiasm, you will spark initiative in others. New relationships can
36 Remission ofHercules· 

develop today. --lrt---k
big toe DOWNpainter Guido 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 11,ill want to make some special plans for yourscli
inflammation? 
1 Light dispersers

15 Off ramp and someone you enjoy tx:ing with. Talk about the way you feel or what your intentions 
38 Strongly hopes 

2 Extremely are. Don't let distance stop you. tt* 
16 Susan Lucci's 
40 Mountain airs popular GEMih'I (May 21-Junc 20): Work on yourself and your environment Put aside any
Emmy role 
differences you might have wilh others and look to the future optimistically. Rid yourscli
41 Tot's recitation 3 Like some salad 

17 "That's clear to ofthe ix:ople holding you back. *** 
42 Latke ingredient dressings

me" in beat-CANCER (June 21-July 22): Tty to do things yourselfand you will gain greater n;spect4 One with a
speak 43 Hair knot A little channing chatter coupled with hard work should cinch the deal you are trying to 
closed heart 

18" Lisa" 46 In this way make.**** 5 Rest area sight LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be feeling a little wicenain about your WOik and yow
48 Call from a ward

19 "Santa Fe position_ Don't make a decision based on hearsay. You will tx: inclined to take things out
6 Bit of a nerve

Songs" 50 Quantity for a ofcontext ** 
composer European 7 Annex VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Meeting and intenK'ling with people who have a different pastry chef?
20 Photo session perspec:tive on lite will open your eyes to all sorts of possibilities. Sign up for any courses
8 Principal 

at a farm? 55 Ordinary writing that may bring you that additional knowledge. ***** 
9 1960's best-

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone who can't 11.c'llldle something by himself may call
57 Uncivil

23 Rental period selling author Puzzle by Manny Noaowsky 
upon you for help. Take the time to sort out your personal thoughts. C.onfusion may have 
58 Pest Eric

24 "You bother 32 "The Grapes of 39 Slugger's stat. 47 War horse been an issue in the past but now you can move f01Ward. *** 59 Lake crosser 10 Kind of zone Wrath" star, 49 Recommends SCORPIO (Oct.23-Nov. 21): Trouble nny be lrcwing ifyou an,--n't willing to compumisc.
42 Gambler's1940 You can expect to face opposition or even rejection ifyou are possessive or insecw-e. Take
11 Grp. at a station desire 51 Great times
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE oo a little more responsibility. ***
34 Tough time to 43 Godfather
.................. 12 Cap material 52 Cut of beef 
SAGTITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Although you should tx: able to accomplish a lot
farm portrayer
1-::-t:+:~ 13 Tufted topper 53 Proposal ttxlay. someone you work with may try to get you to help do all !he work_ Stick to your35 "Bye now" 44 Label on a own job. Avoid getting involved in gossip. *** 
21 Violent 54 Vaccinator's call 
street-corner 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Social activity should tx: high on your list. but it
36 Resolvestruggles 

box 55 iMac 
shouldn't oo;t you too much. You mU!.t be careful n«to o~-erexletXI your.,elf with expen,ive
37 Pick up competitors
-.11111,..;..,.;;~~ 22 In the least 45 Like Russian entertainment, shopping or gambling. **ti* 38 Mate dolls 56 Blame AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Peb. 18): This is not the best day to bring up personal issues with
25 Break of a sort 

loved ones. Get out and enjoy yourself with friends who won't put limitations or demands 
26 An encouraging 

on you. You will come across a wonderful idea today.**
word Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Yoo may want to travel for business today, but you can
phone: 1-900-289-CLUE (2583). $1.20 per minute.
29 Sandburg poem probably acromplishjustas much overtheplme. Don't add to your expenses llllll=iri.ly.
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
-+-+---t • Window" 

Plan to get together with friends or neighbors. **** 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You will tx: changeable and hard to predict throughout your life. You
30 City whose Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

will be full of wonderful ideas. You will do everything with gusto, always wanting to
name means past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).
·eastern capital" outdo and outpe1fonn whatever competition you face.
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at a,troadvice.com. eugeniala,Lcom, a,b-oniate.oom_
EN 0 31 Dimwit nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
COPYRIGHT'.!002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
r--­
' 

PORTS 
Thursday, Seprember 26, 2002 
MENS SOCCER 
Irish face uphill battle against No. 2 Red Storm 
Irish have only beaten the Hed Storm Erich Braun and Luke Roughen each
By BRYAN KRONK 
once -a 1-0 victory at Alumni Field scored twice while Chad Hilev added 
Sports Wrirer 
in 2000. The Bod Storm have beaten three assists, Irish coach Bobby Clark the Irish six limHs. most recently in would like to SH0 the same produc-No one ever said that playing on last year's Rig East tion from his team the road is easy. tournament at this weekend. Faring the No. 2 team in the coun­Storrs. Conn. "{After doing so well "Chad's been play­try at a place where throy have nrover 
"We've got two aqainst Providence}. ing phenomenally," won. the Irish mens soccer team very tough games Clark said. "lfo
we've got to take it to the
faces an uphill hattle against St. 
coming up, possibly scored a goal againstJohn·s tonight. against two of the next level." Bradley and had a 
Tonight, the No. 10 Irish lake on 

teams !St. John's, goal and an assist second-ranked St. John's in a pivotal and Sunday's [against rurmanl. Ile
Bobby Clark
Big East matchup at brand-new match at Rutgers! has had quite a lot of
Irish coach
Helson Stadium in Jamaica. N.Y.. at who will be looking assists lately ... ho's
" 
7:30 p.m., kicking off a Hi-day span to win the [Rig doing very well." in which the Irish play four of their East]. so we need Hoth teams enter five games away from Alumni Field. to now take this on the road," Clark the match with just one loss on the 
The Irish have never beaten St. said after Sunday's win against season, as tho Irish (4-1-2, 2-0-0 in Jnhn 's away from Notre Dame. In Providence. After Sunday's offensive fact, in their 10-game series. the spectacular for the Irish. in which 
see MEN/page 25 


CROSS COUNTRY 
.... 
Enduring talent 
Mobley leads Notre Dame as All American 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spors Writer 
Imagine going out to the track and running a milo in. say, four minutes. 48 seconds. 
Then imagine immediately topping that off with a slower-paced four-mile run. And after that, run another mile. this time in, say, 4:31. Then take a break. but don't get too comfortable, because you still have 1,000 meters to run on the track. 
If vou think that sounds particularly challeng­ing, ·consider that this is junior runner Todd Mobley's favorite workout with the Irish cross country squad. 
"It's all about being tough and having endurance which are my strong suits," said Notre Dame's No. 1 cross country runner. "I like work­outs like that" 
His ability to endure, and enjoy, the challenges of running for one of the nation's top programs has enabled him to reach All American status. Now, with the graduation of fellow All Americans Ryan Shay. Luke Watson and Pat Conway, Mobley is at the helm of the lrish runners. 
Mobley has already led the Irish twice this sea­son, most recently helping the Irish win the National Catholic Championships at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. His success is no surprise to the Irish, who knew what they were getting when Mobley first got to South Bend as a fresh­man. 
"He was one of the better kids coming out of high school," said Irish head coach Joe Piane. Mobley, while at Walled Lake Central High in West Bloomfield, Mich. was a state runner-up and advanced to the prestigious Fout Locker Championships, an annual showcase of the nation's top 32 high school cross country runners, 
"We anticipated him being as good as he is 
see MOBLEY/page 25 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Junior Kevin Richards advances with the ball in a game earlier this season. 

FOOTBALL 
Holiday stuck on sidelines 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

Lif'e is tough for Carlyle Holiday right novv. 
With his arm in a sling and his pads in his locker, Holiday can only watch lrnlplessly from tho sidelines on tho practice f'ield as he tries to recover from the injury lw sustained against Michigan State. 
"Watching practice, it sucks. It's the boringest thing ever," he said. "But that's just how it is [when you get hurt], every­body feels like that. But at the same time you've got to sacri­fice. You can't get out there an.cl try and risk going out there too early and having something else happen." 
The open date couldn't have come at a better time for the Irish and Holiday, whose sta­tus is still listed as week-to­week. The Irish have not revealed the specific nature of Holiday's injury nor when he is expected to return. In fact, Holiday probably won't prac­tice at all the rest of this week and the coaches will evaluate his status next week to see if he'll be ready to play in time for the Oct. 5 game against 
see HOLIDAY/page 26 

CROSS COUNTRY 
FOOTBALL
SOCCER 
w 
c.) Notre Dame at St. John's 

s 
All-American junior Todd Mobley leads the Irish 
Notre Dame quarterback Carlyle Holiday uses the 
cross country team. Mobley has led Notre Dame 
Irish's open date to recover from injuries sustained 
Today, 7:30 p.m. 

twice this season and looks to continue. 
during the win over Michigan State. 
The No. 10 Irish will battle against No. 2 St. John's
CD 
page 28
in a pivitol Big East matchup. 

page 28
c:c 
page 28
!:c 











