
Bush to speak in South Bend today 

ANNE KELLEY/The Observer Chidren on the prowl for goodies pause to pose during their trick-or-treating trip to campus residence halls on the eve of Halloween 
NDTV broadcasts first show, vies for club status 
at South Bend Regional stumped for Chocola, who is ing the airport visit that South Bend to support
By JASON McFARLEY 
Airport. Bush will go immedi­in a close race for Indiana's included the president raised Chocola in the past two years.
News Writer 
ately to a rally at the ATA 2nd District seat. Chocola nearly $650,000 for Chocola He attended an airport rally Connection 
faces Democrat Jill Long and the Indiana Republican in October 2000, when he was 
President Bush returns to hangar, Thompson in the election Party. campaigning for presidentSouth Bend today for the sec­where he Tuesday. No fund-raiser is planned and when Chocola was in ond time in two months, this will give Bush, who is making cam­for today, and Bush will leave tight congressional race time a Halloween visit to b r i e f paign stops across the country the city within a few hours to against incumbent Tim scare up last-minute support this week to swing tight con­campaign for a candidate in Roemer. for Republican congressional tests the Republicans' way, is another state. In May 2001, the president
~;Fif~~oig !
candidate Chris Chocola expected to urge 2nd District As in his previous hangar delievered Notre Dame's com­before next week's general B u s h voters to elect Chocola to speech, the president is mencement speech.election. appeared at Bush Congress. In his September expected to talk today about 
The president is scheduled the same rally speech, the president did the economy and the war on to arrive aboard Air Force site Sept. 5 not publicly endorse Chocola. terror. Contact Jason McFarley at One between 1:30 and 2 p.m. for a rally where he also A private fund-raiser follow-It is Bush's third visit to jmcfarle@nd.edu 


University creates new vehicle pool 
. System attempts to change off-campus transportation 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
In an attempt to provide more ser­
vices and increase usage among stu­
dents and staff, the University has 
created a new vehicle motor pool 
over the summer as part of the 
Transportation Services department. 
"This is an honest attempt to address some long-standing con­cerns about providing safer and more reliable vehicles for all users of University vehicles," said Jim Paladino, associate director for pro­gram and resource administration at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The new motor pool, which was created at the start of this school year, transferred all of the vehicles, including cars, minivans and 12 pas­senger vans, owned by the CSC to the new pool under the control of Transportation Services. 
Any Notre Dame student or staff member now has the option to request use of Transportation Services vehicles for University busi­ness. Groups or departments on campus can now rent vehicles at the rate of $35 per day for a mid-size car and $50 per day for a van, a cost that officials feel is fair compared to other car rental services. 
"The price is extremely competi­tive. [and] the vehicles are clean and ready to provide safe and reliable transportation," said Marty Ogren, manager of Transportation Services. 
While some of the older vehicles previously in the CSC's vehicle pool were removed from service, the University also purchased new vehi­cles to add to the motor pool and has access to others as well. 
"We have 12 University-owned vehicles available for rental," said Ogren. "In addition we have on-site vehicles from a local car agency." 
The campus department most affected by the new system has been the CSC and the large number of service groups and comm unity­based learning classes and seminars operated through the Center. While 
schedulers at Transportation 
Services have been able to accom­
modate most of the CSC's vehicle 
needs, the CSC must now pay a 
rental fee for vehicles it previously 
owned. "The long term cost issues 
are a huge concern for the CSC," 
said Paladino. "The University has 
been good about making this first 
year somewhat affordable." 
In addition to increased budget 

costs, other groups have been affect­
ed by the new definition of which 
clubs are permitted to able to use 
vehicles at no cost through the CSC. 
"The Center has needed to be 

more discriminating in its definition 
of what constitutes service ... activi­
ties," said Paladino. "[It's] difficult to 
inexpensively accommodate some 
social justice activities where stu­
dents would routinely be able to use 
a few vans at no cost ... now must 
raise funds." 
Last year, administrators recog-/ nized the need to centralize all the vehicles owned by various depart­ments of the University and stream­line the process of using them. Over the summer, a committee worked to determine the best way to organize a new vehicle system. 
"They recommended that we could best use our vehicles by mak­ing tern available to multiple groups of users rather than have vehicles dedicated to one group," said Ogren. "While we realize that certain departments need dedicated vehi­cles, the goal is to use our University vehicles in the most efficient manner possible. 
Overall, students using vehicles through the new system say the changes are welcome. "The cars are in a lot better condition," said Molly Savage, president of Circle K. Savage said the CSC has been help­ful in allowing Circle K to request vehicles centrally through the club so that members do have to obtain vehicles individually. 
Danita Altfillisch, secretary of the Special Friends Club, said the new motor pool has helped to streamline the process of using vehicles for ser­vice activities. "It's easier than it has been," she said 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralsih@nd.edu 
TRICK OR TREAT 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 

After seven months of planning, the first cable access show produced by Notre Dame students will air this evening. 
The show. titled "New Dimensions Television," will fill Channel 3's 5 p.m. time slot with five segments intended to appeal to Notre Dame students and the South Bend community. 
The segments include an interview with head football coach Tyrone Willingham, a spotlight on the Notre Dame Marching Band, a news segment on the Senate race between Republican Chris Chocola and Democrat Jill Long Thompson, a short polit­ical film produced by senior Brian Bircher and a roaming reporter segment that inter­views people tailgating during the Stanford football game. 
Bircher, who also conducted the interview segment with Willingham, said he antici­pates that he and other interviewers will 
talk with a wide range of people on campus. "We hope to keep it interesting and excit­ing throughout the year," he said. 
After the first round of production, Chamberland said the show is ready to air, but the process to get to this point was chal­lenging. 
"It was sort of like walking through a very large room with the lights off," he said. 
NDTV's four executive producer are senior Alex Grunewald, juniors Liam Dacey and Lance Johnson and sophomore Chris Chamberland. They, and the 50 to 60 stu­dents who are also helping with the show, are hoping that NDTV becomes popular with students. 
Even more importantly however, the NDTV producers, whose show is currently unaffiliated with the University, want to become a Notre Dame student-broadcasting club and get more funding. 
Chamberland said much of the show's 
see NDTV/page 9 


Thursday, October 31, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Be thankful your vote counts 
In less than one week, millions of Americans will go to polls across the country to elect the 108th Congress and hundreds of other state and local offi­
cials.  
The week before Notre Dame and  Teresa Frallsh  
Saint Mary's went  
on fall break, mil­ Assistant  
lions of Iraqis also  News Editor  
went to the polls.  
But the elections in  

this backwards country were somehow very different than next week's American election will be. 
The ballot looked somewhat like this: "Saddam Hussein" was printed at the top, and then voters had the option of checking "yes" or "no." Surprisingly enough, the incumbent Iraqi president (or corrupt authoritarian dictator, as some might call him) was re-elected by 100 percent of voters with 98.2 percent of Iraq's electorate participating. 
Of course, voting is compulsory for all males over the age of 18. One also has to wonder how many of that 1.8 percent haven't suddenly disappeared from their homes. Obviously these elections were completely rigged and totally unfair by anyone's standard. 100 percent support? I'm willing to bet there were armed guards waiting outside the voting booths for any Iraqi who dared to vote "no" on their ballot. Or the government may just have simplified matters by not even both­ering to look at the ballots at all and sim­ply declaring that voters gave Saddam 100 percent support. 
Notice the difference between the American elections and the Iraqi sham of an election? 
Contrasts like these are precisely what make it so difficult to listen to people who like to characterize the United States as "imperialistic," "oppressive," "exploitative" or any of the other fun adjectives the pundits are throwing around lately. 
Why is it that we can so easily forget and seem to take so much for granted all the freedoms that the American system of government allows us? Frankly, I'm sick and tired of hearing all the outra­geous criticism that's been leveled at our country in the last few weeks. 
Sure, America has had its share of bad leaders and poor decisions. The last presidential election was a prime exam­ple of the electoral process gone serious­ly wrong. Maybe the United States shouldn't become involved militarily in Iraq. 
Don't get me wrong, I'm not an arbi­trary supporter ofany action the U.S. government wants to take and I think open political debate is one of the most important freedoms American citizens have. 
But when you criticize your country. don't forget about the millions of people in the world who can't say a word against theirs. Don't forget that you live in one of the freest countries in the world. Be thankful that, when you go to cast your vote next week, you will likely see more than one candidate on the ballot and you probably won't have to confront armed guards outside the voting booth. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Teresa Fralish at fralish@nd.edu 
CLARIFICATION 

In Chris Federico's "Hurling: the fastest sport on Earth," it was reported that rosters for competitive teams are filling. The hurling program is a cultural division of the Gaelic Society and is not competitive in any way. There are no rosters or squads and it is not an athletic club. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Political Science department creates new program Notre Dame's Political Science department recent­ly established a new program in American Democracy.  Mondale announces his run for Minnesota Former Vice President Walter Mondale has declared himself ready to run as a last minute fill-in for late Sen. Paul Wellstone.  Club spends fall break traveling Finance club mem­bers visit Chicago and New York to gain real world experience.  Irish are lucky in just one way: Willingham Guest columnist Joe Licandro gives Irish coach Tyrone Willingham the praise he deserves for his successful season.  Nine disturbing flicks Scene has made a list of nine of the most frightening and disturbing films ever made and examines each of these classics.  Finishing the job Sports examines the Irish defense in the last minutes of the Florida State game and what adjustments are needed when they face Boston College.  
page 3  page 5  page 7  page 11  page 12  page 24  

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 

. 
Lecture: "Can anyone believe in God and Galapagos?" with Edward Larson, 4 p.m. in room 214 DeBartolo Hall. 

. 
Movie: "Monsoon \Vcdding," 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium, llesburgh Library. 


. 
Lecture: "NAFTA: The hu'man face of trade," 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium, llcsburgh Library 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Psi Chi meeting, 6 p.m. Hagger College Center in the Welsh Parlor. 

. 
HIIA Meeting 6:30 p.m. at the Hagger College Center room 304 SGA Board Hoom. 

. 
SAC meeting 8 p.m. in the Hagger College Center in room 304. 


WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
6-month--old bike case cracked 
A bike reported stolen on May 7 was recovered off-campus and released to the owner on Tuesday. 
Citations issued by NDSP 
NDSP issued two University citations for minors in possession of alcohol while near Holy Cross drive on October 27. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Man arrested for dru.nkenness 
NDSP arrested Gerard Quinn, 21, of Mishawaka for public intoxication on October 28. 
Gate arm damaged 
NDSP issued a University citation for damaging the gate arm on Saint Mary's road on October 
28. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Information compiled from the NDSP crime blotter 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, tri-color rotini, mostaccioli, pastaria meat sauce, vegetable lasagna, pepper­oni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza. four cheese pizza, cherry turnover. Texas chili, cream of broccoli soup, tomato soup, chicken and dumplings soup and southern fried chicken 
Today Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, tri-color rotini, mostaccioli, vegetable lasagna, pizza, Texas chili, tomato soup, chicken and dumplings, grilled pork chops, broccoli rice casserole, cherry crisp, California blend vegeta­bles, baked potatoes, jasmine rice, but­ternut squash and chinese noodles 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni, supreme pizza, pretzel sticks, pasta pri­mavera, spinach, chicken & dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, london broil teriyaki, garlic mashed potatoes, philly steak sandwich, steakhouse fries. onion rings and sweet and sour chicken 
Today Dinner: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni, supreme pizza, pretzel sticks, noodles romanoff, mixed vegetables. roast beef, turkey broccoli bake, pork loin with apples, cherry crisp, grilled veg­etables, blaz'n sea nuggets, steak­house fries and onion rings 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a: 
U.I 
::c 
~ 
U.I 
3: 
..J 

. 



ct 
(.) 
*** 

..J 0 HIGH 42 HIGH 41 HIGH 35 HIGH 38 LOW 38 LOW 33 LOW 23 LOW 22 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Smoky southwestern minestrone soup, cream of chicken soup, cheese pizza, spicy thai chicken pizza, cool ranch turkey loafer, hot dog, french fries, taco salad, Mexican rice, stewed tomatoes, grilled vegetables, rocky road cookie, coconut fruit squares and fruited gelatin with banana 
Today Dinner: Smokey southwestern minestrone soup, cream of chicken soup, cheese pizza, spicy thai chicken pizza, shells with Italian sausage casserette, fried cod sandwhich, grilled three cheese sandwhich, meat loaf, green peas, carrot cake with cream cheese frosting and rocky road cookie 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 44 HIGH 48 LOW 30 LOW 35 
Atlanta 60 / 42 Bost~n 46 I ~5 Chicago 42 I ~7 Denver 36 / 23 Houston .68 / 50 Los Angeles 70 / 56 Minneapolis 34 / 18 New York 50 / 43 Ph1ladelph1a 50 / 36 Phoenix 79 / 56 Seattle 52 I 36 St. Louis 48 / 36 Tampa 81 / 62 Washington 51 / 39 
.. 

Thursday, October 31, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
have or have not participated
By MELISSA LOU 
in the political systems and 
News Writer 
how well they were included and leadership in public poli­
Notre Dame's Political cy by analyzing the role of Science recently established people in making politics a new program in American work. Democracy that seeks to The program will serve increase understanding of undergraduates by supple­democratic politics and policy menting their education making within the United through panels that help Sates. improve their knowledge of 
The director of the pro­the subject. For graduate stu­gram, Christina Wolbrecht, dents and faculty members, hopes it will help raise the the program will improve profile of the work already research capabilities and fos­being done at Notre Dame in ter greater interaction with American politics. colleagues at other universi­
Wolbrecht pointed out that ties. the idea behind the program The program is not intend-
is to  encour­ ed to be an  
age research  addition to  
as a way of facilitating teaching. "It is all  '1The program] focuses exclusively on politics in America and compliments  the existing American Studies major,  
about teach­ing." she said. "The  studies begun by the Kellogg Institute. ,.  w h i C h broadens the range  
more  we,  as  of studies  
faculty, improve our research, the better teach­ Christina Wolbrecht American Democracy program director  by includ­ing litera­ture, soci­ology and  
ers we become; the  history. "[The  

more interaction we have program] focuses exclusively with students. the better our on politics in America and research goes. For all this to compliments studies begun by occur we need to improve the the Kellogg Institute, with vibrant intellectual life of this their studies on Democracy 
campus. This is what our around the world and Latin program is about, fostering America, and the Kroc discussion within this field." Institute, with its studies on 
The program focuses on the the role of democracy in the politics of democratic inclu­world," Wolbrecht said. sion by studying groups that On the short term, the 
SMC holds alcohol
Political Science creates program 
awareness week
agenda includes founding fel­lowships, hosting visiting fac­ulty members and confer­ences. Long-term goals include organizing special­ized conferences, speakers. graduate student workshops designed to help students present their research and working paper series that will publish works in progress. 
Wolbrecht speculated the program could someday sepa­rate from the Political Science department and become an independent 
Institute affiliated  to  the  
department,  such  as  the  
Kellogg Institute.  

She also plans on instituting thesis prizes for undergradu­ate students as well as gradu­ate level awards, in addition to hosting conferences and panel discussions on a regu­lar basis. 
The Political Science department inaugurated the new program by hosting a conference on the politics of inclusion over fall break. " 
This meeting, and others like it, help to connect our faculty and students with work being done outside the University. It was an exchange of ideas between all of the groups present," said Wolbrecht. 
She added that the program might publish and edit a book based on the papers present­ed and the conference last week. 
Contact Melissa Lou at lou. l@nd.edu 

By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 
In an effort to educate Saint 
Mary's students about the dan­
gers of alcohol and the policies 
of the College, the Residence 
Hall Association organized a 
week of alcohol awareness 
events. 
The College has sponsored 
alcohol awareness events in the 
past but it had been several 
years since students have orga­
nized events for themselves. 
"This is the first year it has 
been done in awhile, but with 
all the alcohol problems on 
campus and the changes in 
Notre Dame's policy, we though 
this was needed," RHA presi­
dent Jillian Kamaski said. 
Saint Mary's alcohol policy is that anyone 21 or older may consume alcohol in their dorm room, but anyone under the age of 21 is not allowed to be present if alcohol is in the room. Students are allowed to drink alcohol in their rooms only if they do not disturb other dorm residents. When alcohol is present, room residents and guests must be prepared to present proof of their age. 
Saint Mary's students visiting Notre Dame or Holy Cross College must adhere to the poli­cies of the institution they are visiting. Information on Notre Dame policy violations is shared with the Saint Mary's judicial coordinator, who han­
dies investigation of any viola­
tions. 
One of the purposes of the 

awareness week is to make 
sure that students of legal age 
remember that this does not 
give them the right to abuse the 
privilege of being able to drink 
on campus, but to be conscious 
oftheir decisions. 
"There are a lot of people who have gotten in trouble for drinking, because many stu­dents don't know the drinking policies," RHA health aware­ness chair Lauren Hofer said. "They think that because they're 21 they can do whatev­er they want. but that's not true." 
Today in the dining hall. RHA will have Fatal Vision Goggles available for students to try on. The goggles stimulate what it feels like to be intoxicated and then a series of sobriety tests will be given. 
Students who participate in the designated driver bracelet program on Friday or Saturday night will be entered into a raf­fle. 
On Sunday, RHA will finish the awareness week at 7 p.m. in Carrol Auditorium, with the movie "28 Days," followed by an open discussion on Saint Mary's alcohol policies. 
Saint Mary's policies regard­ing alcohol can be found in the student handbook. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 



Saint Mary's holds women's health forum 
Cavanaugh, practicing nurse in Panel members additionally dents engaging with the panel Healing assisting with clinical By NATALIE BAILEY Health and Wellness, said. fielded questions about gynecol­and to get their questions management and medical News Writer Melissa Peters, graduate of ogist visits, proper body weight, answered. I thought it was a direction; Melissa Peters, breast 
Saint Mary's and LeMans Hall diet, osteo-huge success cancer survivor; Anna Uhran­"You really need to know how Director, shared her experience porosis, and and I am sure Wasierski, a certified Dietitian;
"To have balance is the 
important it is to love yourself," with young illness in her battle other common that Health and Cynthia Reese, a nurse practi­Dr. Patricia Kelly-Holms said, with breast cancer at 28. Peters issues in bottom line and it is Wellness and tioner specializing in women's setting the tone for the went for an exam in September. women's SOB will carry health; Renee Donovan, a
something that you have 
Women's Health Forum fountl a lump through a self health. this on after senior at Saint Mary's whose
to seek out.·· 
Wednesday night at Saint exam in December and was Student the success of mother was diagnosed with Mary's. diagnosed with stage-two Diversity tonight," said breast cancer recently and Over 60 students gathered to breast cancer in January 2001. Board and Dr. Patricia Kelly-Holmes Ann DeCleen, Cyndie Horton-Cavanaugh, who hear panelists speak and ask Peters' illness and treatment Health and the primary is in her 16th year working in
panelist
the experts their health ques­completely changed her life. Wellness organizer of Health and Wellness Services at tions. The women were encour­Not only did she move back planned this the event. Saint Mary's. aged to take an active role in home, undergo ten months of event to draw students into Panel members included: Dr. their health life in these early, chemotherapy and radiation needed dialogue with experts in Patricia Kelly-Holms, who seemingly healthy college treatments but she also learned women's health fields. serves as associate dDirector at Contact Natalie Bailey at years. more about the other people in "I really wanted to get stu-Memorial Center for Integrative baill 407@saintmarys.edu 
"To have balance is the bot­her life. tom line and it is something "My illness gave me the that you have to seek out," opportunity to learn how many TONIGHT Kelly said. people cared for me that many 
people do not have," Peters The United Steelworkers of America and the Higgins Labor Research Center invite you 
Most panelists emphasized 
to the 25th annual Lloyd McBride Lecture, presenting... 
the resources Saint Mary's stu­said. ,"'~~~~~ dents have while at school. Peters advised students to do "Go visit Health and Wellness monthly self-exams and to team 
t1~ 


up with a friend to help remind l\~~~
even when you are healthy to ·91,._ ·_.,~1~~.~-""""'.....,
.,,,\\~,,~"'

learn how to stay healthy. We you to do these important have a nutritionist, a massage exams. 
therapist, we will teach you "If I had not done my monthly REP. MARCY KAPTUR how to give a self exam and exam I may not be standing 
Congresswoman from Ohio 
much more," Cyndie Horton-here today," Peters said. 
''The Human Face ofTrade"
The final deadline for submissions to the fal I issue of The Juggler, ND's student 

Thursday, October 31 
literary/art/design 
8:00 p.m. in 
. .
magazine, 1s 

102 DeBartolo Hall 
TOMORROW, 
Friday, November I. 

MARCY KAPTUR is an outspoken advocate of workers' rights in 
international trade agreements. Out of the 75 women who number 
Submit written entries to the box outside the 
Scholastic office in the basement of South 
among Congress' 535 members. she
Dining Hall or email them to juggler@nd.edu. 
is the senior Democratic woman and
No entries of more than 2,500 words, please. 
is the ranking Democrat on the 
Submit artwork to Robert Sedlack in 21 2 Riley 
Agricultural Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee.
Hall. Supply slides for 3-D work or pieces larger than 11" x 17". 


.. J ~ 
'•:·~lt::bi , Ml!• 
Corporate Vice President and GE Healthcare Industry Executive 

The Future of Engineering Applications in Medicine Friday, November 1 • 12:50 to 1:40 p.m. DeBartolo Auditorium, Room 101 

Thursday, October 31, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Mondale announces his run for Minnesota Senate 
Coleman. Mondale had 47 per­
Associated Press 
cent support to Coleman's 39 
percent in the poll of 639 likely 
ST. PAUL, Minn. voters, which was conducted 
Former Vice President Walter Monday and had a margin of Mondale revisited his political sampling error of plus or minus past Wednesday and declared 4 percentage points. himself ready to run as a last­"Paul cannot be replaced," minute fill-in for late Sen. Paul Mondale wrote in his letter. "No Wellstone. one can. But his passion for 
Party representatives were Minnesotans and their needs expected to make Mondale's can inspire us to continue the candidacy official at a meeting work he began. More than ever, in the evening. the ordinary working families 
"It is with a heavy heart but a in our state need a voice, and I great hope for the future that I will fight for them." will pick up the campaign A rally was planned for where Paul Wellstone left off," Thursday morning to launch a Mondale wrote in a letter to the five-day sprint of a campaign. state party chairman. Coleman wasn't waiting. 
Democrats were jubilant. Taking aim at his new oppo­Mondale, 7 4, was seen as their nent, he flew to three best shot at keeping Wellstone's Minnesota cities and launched seat, and Wellstone's two sons new TV commercials had asked him to make the run. Wednesday. 
"They knew that Paul would "The challenge for the vice want someone of integrity and president is what is his vision honesty and character to finish for the 21st century, how does this race off," said Jeff Blodgett, he expect to get it done," Wellstone's campaign manager. Coleman said at a campaign "Fritz Mondale was the only stop in International Falls. Former President Bill Clinton and his wife Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton greet Walter Mondale one on that list." "Nobody hands you anything." at the public funeral for the late Minnesota Senator Paul Wellstone. Mondale announced that he 
Wellstone was killed along Republicans pressed for 
will run in Wellstone's place against GOP candidate Norm Coleman for the Senate seat. 
with his wife, daughter, three debates between Mondale and campaign staffers and two Coleman, but it was unclear 
the crowd to win Tuesday's dent, instead of a Democrat, to the party has asked broadcast­pilots in a plane crash Friday whether Mondale would agree. election for Wellstone. finish Wellstone's term. He ers that covered the service to 
in northern Minnesota. Meanwhile, organizers of "It probably would have been later backed off that, saying give Republicans air time "for A statewide poll released Tuesday night's memorial ser­
best not to get into politics and only that he was looking at his the sake of basic fairness." Wednesday by the Star vice for Wellstone said they elections in the way it was options. Meanwhile, Minnesota's sec­
Tribune of Minneapolis showed regretted the overly partisan done," Blodgett said. State GOP Chairman Ron retary of state has said that Mondale inheriting the slight tone. Several speakers, includ­
Gov. Jesse Ventura left the Eibensteiner called the 3 1/2 -counting the revised election lead Wellstone had recently ing Wellstone's sons and Sen. memorial angry and said he hour service "raw hardball ballots is certain to delay the 
opened over Republican Norm Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, implored planned to appoint an indepen-political campaigning" and said results in the Senate race. 

ISRAEL 
Resignations cause Israeli coalition government's fall 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's broad­based coalition collapsed Wednesday when Cabinet ministers from the moder­ate Labor Party resigned in a dispute over funding for Jewish settlements, threatening to push Israel into a bitter election. 
The crisis ended an uneasy 20-month "unity government" formed as a com­mon front against the Palestinian upris­ing, and could sabotage U.S. efforts to win support for a peace plan. 
Sharon told parliament he would con­tinue to lead the country, suggesting he would try to govern with a narrow coali­tion of far-right and religious parties rather than call early elections. 
The crisis was precipitated by Sharon's rejection of Labor Party leader Binyamin Ben-Eliezer's demands to cut $145 million in funds for Jewish settle­ments in the $57 billion 2003 state bud­get. Compromise proposals failed and Ben-Eliezer resigned from his post as defense minister, followed by the rest of Labor's Cabinet ministers. 
Under Israeli law, the six resigna­tions only take effect within 48 hours, leaving room for last-ditch maneuvers -but politicians from both sides pre­dicted Sharon's broad-based coalition was at an end. 

"We must fight terror, but this is the day when we have to present a diplo­matic horizon," Ben-Eliezer said, refer­ring to peace talks with the Palestinians. "The prime minister is unable to present a diplomatic horizon." 
Critics accused Ben-Eliezer of partisan politics, noting that in polls ahead of Labor's Nov. 19 leadership primary he trails two more dovish challengers, and leaving the government over a settle­ment dispute could boost his standing. 
"It's the height of irresponsibility," said Education Minister Limor Livnat of Sharon's Llkud Party. 
The budget was put to parliament after the Labor ministers resigned, and it passed with the support of parties out­side the coalition -as expected -by a 67-45 vote; it must pass two more read­ings in coming weeks before it is final. 
Several officials involved in the last­minute talks said Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, who led Labor for much of the past two decades and has been a key supporter of the unity government, tried to persuade Ben-Eliezer to back down. Peres then resigned along with Ben-Eliezer and four other Labor Party ministers. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russian government admits using gas: 
At the Kremlin's urging, Denmark arrested a key aide to Chechen leader Aslan Maskhadov in the deadly raid on a Moscow theater and other terror attacks -further evidence of Russia's success in isolating a rebel movement whose envoys were once received in capitals around the world, including Washington. Russia also acknowledged for the first time Wednesday that the powerful opiate fentanyl was used in the rescue operation that killed at least 117 hostages. 
Belarus officials find mass WWII grave: 
Authorities discovered a mass grave on a military base with the remains of up to 12,000 people killed during World War II, defense officials said Wednesday. The grave is in the town of Slutsk, nearly 60 miles south of the Belarus capital of Minsk, said Leonid Zakharenko, press secretary for the defense ministry. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Jeb Bush pressed to release Haitians: 
A congresswoman pressed Gov. Jeb Bush on Wednesday to ask his brother, the president, to order the release of 200 Haitian immigrants detained in Florida after they jumped off a freighter and waded ashore. The Republican gov­ernor was confronted during a campaign stop by Rep Carrie Meek, D-Fla., who said the Haitians should be treated like Cuban immigrants. 
Oklahoma teen faces murder charge: 
An Oklahoma teenager was charged with murder Wednesday for a shooting rampage last weekend that left two women dead and eight people wounded. Daniel Fears, 18, did not speak during his arraignment and the court entered an inno­cent plea for him. Authorities say Fears began shooting Saturday evening after a neighbor chas­tised him for driving recklessly near small chil­dren. 
Powell strict with UN on U.S. Iraq policy: 
As U.N. deliberations on Iraq dragged on, Secretary of State Colin Powell decJared Wednesday the United States would not permit itself to be "hand­cuffed" by the world organization. "At no time will the United States foreclose its ability to act in its interest in accordance with its constitutional obliga­tion to protect the nation and protect the people," Powell said. 
Further questioning of snipers stopped: 
Questioning of the two sniper suspects was halted when federal agents took custody of the pair, possibly preventing investigators from obtaining information about the shooting spree, a local law enforcement source complained Wednesday. Maryland U.S. Attorney Thomas DiBiagio disputed that, saying nei­ther suspect was "yielding any useful information." He also said federal law required they be taken before a federal magistrate once they asked for a lawyer. 
Lecture addresses child militants 
The change was not easy. By MAIT BRAMANTI however. Human Rights News Writer 
Watch encountered stiff resis­tance from the U.S. govern­Human rights activist Jo ment, which allows 17-year­Becker spoke at the Hesburgh olds to enlist in the armed Center Wednesday evening forces. Becker accused the about the modern prolifera­U.S. of having "a poor record tion of children in combat. on human rights." She went Becker, director of the on to bash U.S. policy as "tak­Children's Rights Project for ing an increasingly unilateral 
Hu man Rights Watch, described the exploita­tion of chil­dren as sol­diers in dozens of countries around the world. The lecture, entitled 
school, along with 139 class­mates. Rebel forces took the children to southern Sudan, and forced them to undergo military training. "Girls often fare worse 
approach" 
to interna­
tional

"Girls often fare worse 
treaties,

than boys in these including situations . .. those deal­ing with children's
Jo Becker 
rights.

director of the Children's 
Human 

Rights Project Rights Watch has also been working 
in supporting children's rights."

"Children are 
Becker

vulnerable, easy targets went on to for recruiters. ,, praise the late Sen. P a u 1
Jo Becker 
Wellstone director of the Children's (D-Minn.) as 
Rights Project "our first, 
than boys in these situations," said Becker, noting that Charlotte became pregnant as a result of her frequent rapes, and nearly died during child­birth. She remains in rebel captivity to this day, five years after she was conscripted. 
Horrifying scenes like this are all too common in today's wars, for several reasons, Becker said. "Children are vulnerable. easy targets for recruiters," she added. In addition, children are more likely to follow orders without question, even to the point of committing atrocities. In some instances, "children were forced to participate in the massacre of villagers and the destruction of villages." Becker said. Becker also attributed the increase in child soldiers to the changing nature of war. Modern wars are more likely to be within nations, rather than between them, "blurring the line between civilians and combat­ants," she said. 
The Children's Rights Project has focused on helping to change international law to protect children from compul­sory military service. While the Geneva Conventions state that the minimum age for par­ticipation in combat is 15, Becker's organization suc­cessfully lobbied the United Nations to draft a treaty declaring that no one under 18 should be forced to fight. 
best, and most power­ful ally" in office. 

Wellstone was killed last week when his plane crashed while on a campaign trip. 
The Henkels Lecture Series on "Children, War, and Peacebuilding" is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 
International students seek voice 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
Connie Peterson Miller, assistant director for international student services, spoke at Wednesday's senate meeting about the role of international students at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame hosts over 1000 sru­dents from about 100 countries. Only a fourth of these students are undergraduates. Miller said these students bring a mix ofdiverse cul­tures to Notre Dame, increasing the campus' overall quality of life. 
The International Student Services office seeks to serve inter­national students, scholars and their families, said Miller. The office sponsors various programs to ease the students' transitions such as Conversation Circles/Writing Labs and Conversation Exchange Partners, which strengthen their grasp ofthe English language, said Miller. 

International students wish to seek representation on campus and familiarize themselves with the culture. "They want to know the thrill, chills and spills of the American culture such as how to get a driver's license," said Miller. 
Many of these students strive to maintain and display their own culture while they are here on campus. Miller said many interna­tional students come to the office 
Dollars for Innovative and Creative 
Entertainment 
Attentions Student Leaders! Apply to receive up to $2000.00 for campus events on Thursday, Friday or Saturday nights through the DICE Program. 
• 
The DICE program offers funding for student-groups to plan late night and weekend programs for the entire campus. 

• 
Groups can receive up to $2000.00 for each approved event. 

• 
Events are limited only by your imagination. 

• 
Applications and DICE guidelines are available online at www.ndedu/'·sao/dice and outside the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. 


Applications are due November L 2002 
If you have any questions please contact Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631·7308. 
for counseling aid or because they feel isolated or lonely. ''They would like to have a voice, even though it is small," said Miller. 
In other Senate News: 
. Senators decided to table the election of a Senate representative to the University Committee on Llbraries because senators wished to review their schedules before making a commitment. This com­mittee handles such issues as the library budget, the recent increase in the price ofphotocopies, and the selection of materials that are available to students. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes@nd.edu 


"Law, Human Rights and Children in Armed Conflict," focused on remedies for this modern phenomenon. 
According to Becker, some 300,000 children under age 18 are recruited, many by force, to fight for governments and rebel groups in countries like Sierra Leone, the Congo, Burma and Colombia. Becker told the story of one particu­lar child, a Ugandan girl named Charlotte, who was kidnapped from her boarding 
domestically to lobby Congress for policy change. The group aims to convince lawmakers to withhold for­eign aid from governments who fail to ban the use of child fighters. HRW recently convinced legislators to ear­mark $3 million in Colombian aid for the "counseling and reintegration of former child soldiers," Becker said. She also hailed the Democratic caucus in Congress as "more interested [than Republicans] 



i~,~J/l 
._<_,. .·.! 
', -~~-\;~:!,. ~ 
;:.:'~rTi-lURSDAY OCT. 31 DEBARTOLO 101 SPEAKER AT 8 PM MOVIE AT 10 PM $3 FOR BOTH 


·H_FOOD BETWEEN SPEA N _,MOVIE ·:il~~ -~;$:~ow ·=='-"----__..._--'--__~...,.. R_~T..,7:30 A~D 10 P'Ufl 

Thursday, October 31, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch October 30 
DowJones 

8,427.41 ~ +58.47 
NASDAQ 

1,326.73 
+26.19 890.71 +8.56 
811.91  +6.26  
NYSE  
475.45  
 +3.96  
TOP  5 VOLUME  LEADERS  

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDX (QQQ) +2. 68 +0. 64 10. GE 
iiii::~iiliiiili~j~j,ii~lii~i~iiliii~~'i'°l1ii~if.iliiiii1:~iii~ 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.60+0.59 16.4E 
,~1:Im1¦1iimm1IIl1i1•:1:11~1~it1111i:~11i1111:~111 
LUCENT TECH (LU) +18.81+0.19 2.6~ 
IN BRIEF 
Boeing decides to layoff employees 
Boeing Co.'s Shared Services division, which 
handles computing, telecommunications, 
building maintenance and other in-house jobs 
for the aerospace company, plans to cut 1,200 
to 1,500 jobs in the next six months. 
The cuts, which will come through layoffs, attrition and eliminating contract workers, amount to nearly 9 percent of the Bellevue­based division's work force, spokeswoman Barbara Murphy said \Vednesday. Most of the unit's employees work in the Puget Sound region. 
The reductions come on top of the 30,000 jobs that Boeing plans to eliminate by the end of 2002 due to slashed commercial jet pro­duction and the weak airline market since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Boeing chairman Phil Condit said earlier this month that Boeing will continue to reduce its work force over the next 18 months, but the company has not released a target figure. 
Groups try to block WorldCom bids 
Nine labor and advocacy groups have unit­ed in an attempt to block WorldCom Inc. from winning future government contracts. 
The groups sent a letter to the General Services Administration Wednesday urging the government to suspend WorldCom from bidding on federal contracts. 
"WorldCom's behavior has harmed both the telecommunication sector and the larger U.S. economy and it should be punished for its actions." the letter said. 
Enron raises $3.3 million in auction 
Enron Corp. raised $3.3. million with its two-day auction to help pay off creditors. 
The bankrupt former giant energy trader will hold another auction in December, fea­turing items similar to the 10,000-plus arti­cles auctioned during the initial sale, Enron spokeswoman Karen Denne said Wednesday. Proceeds will be placed in an escrow account for distribution to creditors. 
Club spends break travelling 
• Finance Club visits New York, Chicago 
By LESLIE FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
The Finance Club of 
Notre Dame spent fall 
break in New York and 
Chicago meeting with 
investment bankers from 
some of America's top 
firms. 
Although Lee Svete from 
the Career Center helped 
to set up some of the meet­
ings, Finance Club Vice 
President Tom Kolinski, a 
junior finance major, pri­
marily planned the trip. 
The Finance Club's annual 
trip gives potential finance 
majors a chance to talk to 
recruiters, learn about 
possible careers in finance 
and gain learning experi­
ence as well as an in depth 
understanding of how 
investment banks work. 
"I think that this [the trip] provides more experi­ence to members in a week in New York and Chicago than most clubs could provide in a year of weekly meetings at Notre Dame," Kolinski said. 
Senior Grant Kreizenbec agrees, "It was great expo­sure to see finance in the real world rather than just from a book." 
Kolinski would like to bring in more speakers this year, to help further the first hand experiences of the Finance Club. The purpose of the club is to educate through meetings and interactions with those in business in order to bet­ter understand what 

careers in finance are all She said, "The most Mutual Financial Services. ogy division of the Lehman about. The Finance Club interesting part was actu­The students then flew to Brothers investment bank, centers on their annual ally seeing firsthand all the New York and joined a members of the NBC/GEtrip, which is offered by activity that goes on in the group of MBA students on Financial Managementemail to all finance majors, financial powerhouse of their financial excursion. Program. They then met although others are wel­New York. And almost They met with business­with employees of the 
come. 

every company had a fel­men affiliated with Federal Reserve Bank of 
Junior Marie Kochert is low domer in there." Leverage Finance Group of New York and salesmen a marketing major who The sixteen juniors and Bank of America Securities and traders from the equi­heard about the trip seniors began their trip in and investment bankers ties and fixed income divi­through her roommate, Chicago, where they met from Citigroup/Solomon sions of Morgan Stanley. but still feels she gained with representatives from Smith Barney. Also the club good experience from the Goldman Sachs Investment members and MBA stu­Contact Leslie Fitzpatrick at 
trip. 

Bank and Northwestern dents met with the technol-lfitzpat@nd.edu 

Tommy Hilfiger to close 37 stores 
About 500 people -about 7 5 per­strong performance of its Tommy
Associated Press 

cent of them part-time workers -Hilfiger Europe division. For the 
NEW YORK will lose their jobs, according to Ruth three month period ended Sept. 30, 
Tommy Hilfiger Corp., hampered Pachman, company spokeswoman. the company reported earnings of by declining sales in its menswear Shares plummeted nearly 20 pe·r­$61 million, or 67 cents per share, and children's wear, warned that cent, or $1.85, to close at $7.50 each compared with $47.9 million, or 53 earnings for the second half of its fis­on the New York Stock Exchange. cents per share a year ago. Analysts cal year will be well short of Wall "After a good July, sales softened surveyed by Thomson First Call Street expectations and announced in August and weakened further in expected 59 cents per share. plans to close most of its U.S. full­September," said chief executive offi­Sales were virtually unchanged at priced retail stores. cer Joel Horowitz. Although the $546.5 million, compared with 
Thirty-seven of the company's 44 trend stabilized a bit in October, he $546.4 million in the year-ago peri­
U.S. specialty stores will be shut said he anticipates that the company od. down following the holiday season, will face the pressure of discounting The company's wholesale segment in part to concentrate on growth merchandise more heavily than was down 2.9 percent. Within the opportunities in Europe, officials said anticipated to entice customers to division, sales for women's clothing Wednesday, even as they announced buy. was up 2.6 percent, while menswear better-than-expected second quarter The fashion company posted a 27 sales declined by 8.4 percent and its results but offered the gloomy fore­percent increase in second-quarter children's wear business was down cast. earnings buoyed by the continued 0.7 percent. 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 31, 2002 
it,12002 Pncev.-aterhouseCoopers LLP. Pncewat.,rhouseCoopers refers to th., U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and other members of tlie worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organization. We are proud to be an Atf1m1ative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
? , ., ' ...,.-~~~" •v :.""' """ 
,:R/{lcEWATfRl!f>UsF@,PE!JS I 
' . .,,fif'Jr• '" 
VOTED •1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 

Help us help companies determine how import taxes, manufacturing costs and labor will affect their prof its, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 

Thursday, October 31, 2002 page 9
The Observer . NEWS 

HAITI 
Haiti turns to spirits for help in crisis 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRJNCE 

Shaking bundles of pungent leaves and swaying to a frenzied drum beat, hundreds of Haitians flock to a temple to beg the spir­its for U.S. visas and lucky lot­tery numbers. 
At a time of deepening poverty and despair, many people in this Caribbean country see only one way out. 
"Voodoo is Haiti's only hope," says Solange Patrice, a 19-year­ol d street vendor who took Wednesday off to make meager offerings of coins and candles at a voodoo temple. "We have willing to risk your life to make it to the United States." 
On Tuesday, more than 200 Haitians did just that, jumping from a ship that ran aground in Miami with the Coast Guard in pursuit. 
The journey was one of hun­dreds each year by Haitians who brave the sea in rickety, over­crowded boats. Dozens have died in such attempts this year. And unlike Cubans who reach dry land, Haitian migrants usu­ally are returned home. 
"We are all desperate," said Marie Pierre, a 35-year-old ven­dor in Port-au-Prince's chaotic marketplace who sells leaves, candles and moonshine as offer­
The government blames the situation on the lack of interna­tional aid, suspended after the Lavalas Family party of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide swept flawed elections in 2000. Two years later, the country is locked in a political stalemate. Two-thirds of work­ers are unemployed and crime is on the rise. 
Until foreign aid is restored, people will continue to flee to 
U.S. shores, said government spokesman Mario Dupuy. 
But even in the best of times, Haiti is a country of scant resources, with much of its arable land ravaged by decades of deforestation. 

several hooks on the religion that evolved in the 17th century when the French brought slaves to Haiti. "When people feel abandoned, that desperation manifests itself in voodoo." 
On Tuesday at the Desermite temple, songs asking the gods for U.S. visas and lucky lottery numbers reverberated against the concrete blocks as believers stomped their feet. Some fell to the ground, believing they were possessed. 
"Open the door for us if it is closed!" worshippers wearing brightly colored satin scarves sang in Creole as they waved white candles. 
Practitioners believe in a 
voodoo priest or houngan. "Even though they don't have much to give me or the spirits, we will keep praying. We have to." 
Voodoo, or Voudou, as prefer­rd by Haitians, only became rec­ognized as a formal religion in 1987, under a new constitution that recognizes the rights of all religions. But this fusion of West African beliefs has long been seen as a path toward emanci­pation. 
In ·1791, an escaped slave named Boukman gathered thou­sands of followers in the forests of northern Haiti and sacrificed a wild boar. He pledged that with the spirits' help, he would 
nothing else -unless you're ings to the spirits. 

In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mission. The mission was to provic!e a personal, caring, educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year institution of their choice. 
Holy Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fundamental mission. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
Our mission is what has made us successful. So while many things change, our mission is one thing that will not. 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 • 574239-8400 • FAX 574-233-7427 • www.hcc-nd.edu 
FrLgVlt Fest 

rtaLLowee~ fl.{ . 
~ Pump~i~ PaL~tL~g 
~ wor~ wi.tvi tl1t scaveVvger Hu~t! 
~ otvier good Les!! 




For people who make do on supreme God and spirits who liberate his people and free less than a dollar a day, voodoo link the human with the divine, Haiti. understandably has strong and who are petitioned by offer­After 10 years of bloodshed, appeal. ings that include everything slavery ended and Haiti became 
"Voodoo has always been from rum to roosters. the world's first black republic, about survival when hope seems "Every day we make offerings making Boukman a hero and lost," said Laennec Hurbon, an and people come to see me," giving special prominence to the anthropologist and author of said Exilien Francois, 75, a religion. 
: Univers·ity Resources : NDTV 
. : 
continued from page 1 
: 
for Gay, Lesbian, & •• •• •• production has come out-of­
• Bisexual Students •• pocket. The four executive pro­
• 

• ducers also received broadcast
•
• THE STANDING 

• guidance from Film, Television
e COMMITTEE ON 
·---­
e GAYANDl..raalAN 

• I and Theater professor Christine 
• STUCICIIT Hu::n• 

•
• • Becker . 
•
• "We have very limited fund­
• •• The Standing Committee on Gay and • ing, that being zero,"
• Chamberland said. "It's been a
• Lesbian Student Needs •
• • lot of trying to piece together 
• (Confidential infonnation, education, and resources) •• what little resources we have."
• 

Contact-Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • 
In addition to the issues of 
•..•• members (see web sitefor student contact info.) •• 
attracting an audience and get­
•
• • •• ting official University club sta­•• Office of Campus Ministry tus, the group has yet another
•
• • hurdle to jump: the limited
• (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students •
• • cable access on campus for stu­
• and their friends; pertinent library resources in
• • dents.
• 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) •
• •• Currently, students only have
Contact-Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Stee1e.31@nd.edu
• • cable in the residence hall
• •

• • lounges, but NDTV producers
• 

Unive_rsity Counseling Center have been hoping for cable in •• • • · (Individual counseling) •• • the dorm rooms so that stu­dents will have better access to
• Contact" Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen
• • the program . 
•• Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu •• • "That would be great for us,"
• Chamberland said. "That would 
•• For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsn' •
• • cause a lot more students to
j 

•
• watch." 
•• • • Until then, students can catch episodes of "New Dimension Television" with hosts Tony Easterlin, a sophomore, and
_'.,;~;:..~-,fEsr~ YOUR WJTSll! 
junior Cheryl Turski Thursdays 
~~ \_·. -­
at 5 p.m. with new episodes 
,.. Unlv~~sily ~f Mohe D&mis every other week and re-runs 

late Tuesdays. For more information, visit the NDTV Web site at
CQLLEG[BOWL 

www.ndtv.net. 
Compelitlon Information 
Colleqe Bowl Is l question lnd answer q•me belween 2 lums of 4. Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu
The questions cover all subjecls (similu to Tr/rialPvrsutfJ. 
flrsl Round: Mondays. nov. 11 Er 18 6pm-12mid nohe Dame R.oom~ 2nd floor Laf oriune 
llee3lsh&t10n Deadline, Thursday, november 7. 5,00pm Cosh FRff!! fIUfll fllffl! fllff!I 

W1nnlr.g Tum, Will conpelc •q1.ln$I olher $Chools Iron llllnol$ 5 lndl&Rl 11 lhe Re~lonal fln&I held In februuy hcr.i on call\pU$, Winning Tn11 Q R.unaer Up Tcuh nll\C$ pl&eed on l perl\anenl pl1qH dl$pl1yed In L,forlune Sludenl Cenler. 
lteqlsler al lhe La.forlune lilormliion Desk. Ma.in Lounqe. La.forlune. 
for more d.eb,lls, u.11631-8128 or em&II fulcher.4@nd.edu. Sponsored by the Student Adlvllles Office. 
Spa.ce is limlled, so sl<3n up a.s soon a.s possible! 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Thursday, October 31, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  Bus,~ MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  
NEWS EDITOR:  Helena Payne  
VIEWPOINT EDITOR:  Lauren Beck  

SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROllER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 
MANAGING EDtTORIAssT. ME.................... 631-4541 
BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT............................................. ....631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Obseroerpolicus should he direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob,...,,, (USPS 599 240) ;. pubh,hcd Monday through Friday accp< during c:xam iUld vac.uion periods. A suhscription tn The OblCm:r is S100 for one acWffijc yc.v; SSS for ORC' ,c-mnt.cr. 
The Ohw,n,cr i, publi,hcd ai: POSTMASTER 024 Soud, Dining Hall Send addrn, corrcc llom to: Nocn, Dame. IN 46556 The Obottv,r 

P.0,ll<>xQ Pcrtod.ical po4cagc paid at Notre Damcc Not,c Dame, IN 46556-0779 .and additional mailing offices. 
The Oruervc:r iJ a m-emb.er ofthe Auoc.iated Press. All rcprodu.ction righu att reserved. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Advocate a just wage for workers 
It was with considerable disgust that I read John Litle's Oct. 18 column, "Workers have one right." Particularly appalling was Litle's generalization of low-wage workers as disloyal employees underpaid because of their inability to maintain steady employment. That Litle must resort to such senseless stereotyping is indicative of a frightening ignorance of the real­ities of low-wage employment in this country. 
Had Litle taken the time to actually speak with employees prior to tackling the issue of workers' rights, his outlook would, one hopes, be far different. This very campus could have pro­vided him ample opportunity to pursue this interaction. Every day hundreds of underpaid men and women labor to create the environment we too often take for granted at Notre Dame. 
Whether it be by maintaining our beautiful grounds or by preparing meals in the dining halls, these dedicated individuals daily contribute to our college experience and should be con­sidered our brothers and sisters in the Notre Dame family. Yet. in spite of this, many Notre Dame employees earn hourly wages well below what would be required to rise above the poverty line. Is it just that the employees of a Catholic universi­ty can work full time and still remain unable to fully support themselves and their families? It is with this thought in mind that I ask all members of our campus community to demon­strate support for Notre Dame workers. We should all take the time to share with them our appreciation for all that they do and our willingness to stand with them in the fight for better working conditions. 
Christian McNamara 
junior Morrissey Manor Oct. 30 

Wondering if 'real life' is something worth working for 
(I realize it's probably against the rules to begin a column with parenthe­sis, but we here at Marlayna Inc. are about nothing if not thinking outside the box. I just wanted to let you, my wary readers, know that while this col­Marlayna umn does involve Soenneker the facts that I am a senior and I am 
Here We Go
graduating, it is not one of those tear­Again ... jerker, oh-my-God­1-just-went-to-the-bathroom-in-O'Shag­for-the-90th-to-last-time-ever columns. My column is relevant to everyone and intended to be moderately humorous. Or perhaps it is meant to fill up space. You make the call.} 
So I'm graduating in December. "Why?" you all cry, aghast at the idea that any human being in their right mind would ever choose to leave Notre Dame before they were dragged kick­ing and screaming away. 
There are a number of reasons for this choice. One of the big ones is that it will save my father a chunk of money. Another is that it will give me some time off before graduate school. 
The main reason, however, is that at the age of 21, I have lost all drive and ambition. My greatest desire six days out of seven is to spend the entire day on my couch and never change out of my pajamas. On the seventh day, I want to go to a Notre Dame football game. That's it. I don't want to go to graduate school. I don't want to become a wildly rich or fantastically successful psychotherapist. I don't want to go to class or work or even out for coffee. 
People keep asking me what I am doing next year. I have this nice story about wanting to get a Ph.D. and go on to be either a therapist or an academic. In all honesty, I can't think of anything I want to do less than go to school for five more years. unless it's go out and get a job. 

The idea of doing one thing for the rest of my life boggles my mind. I've been doing this education thing for my entire life so far, and I'm pretty well sick of that. I don't want to do it any­more. I also don't want to do something else. I want to do nothing. 
I mean, look at what real life has to offer. I'll go to grad school, and my 
parents will stop giving me money on a regular basis. I will accrue more student loans, which people will want me to pay back at some point, along with the $25,000 I already owe for my Notre Dame education. 
I will eventually buy a house, and someone will expect me to pay a mortgage for 20 years. I will take out a second mortgage after 18 years to pay for my kids' college educations at Notre Dame, and someone else will expect me to pay that back for another 20 years. 
In the meantime, I'll marry some guy who seems great until he leaves our reception early to play PlayStation. Next come the kids, which will involve teething, colic and poopy diapers. They will get older. and I will panic constant­ly about them. Where are they? Are they being raped or murdered? What was that substance they just ingested? 
They'll go off to college; I'll be left with my spouse, to whom I haven't said a full sentence since the kids were born. We'll find that not only do we have nothing left in common, we also can't remember who we are, either. We'll take up sleeping 14 hours a day for lack of anything else to do. 
Being good Catholics, we'll stay mar­ried and continue our lives of non­speaking. telling ourselves it's a com­fortable silence. My kids will never come home, except to hit me up for money. and I will have new sympathy for my parents. 
Speaking of my parents, they'll be ready to go into nursing homes at this point. As they are divorced, I may have 
upwards of four parents to take care 
of. They'll suck up money like morphine, leaving me a measly $5.23 to 
inherit, before taxes, which I'll spend on my kids anyway. 
My spouse and I will finally pay off our house, only to 
realize it's too big for us. We'll move to a smaller apart­ment and retire, plan­ning to travel. Instead. both of us will be struck by 

cancer, that disease that kills you if nothing else does first. The kids will put us in homes and we'll die there. Alone. 
So that's what I have to look forward to in life. None of that looks that great to me. I'm not sure the real world is all it's cracked up to be. In fact, I'm pretty sure it's not. Why would I want to do this? Why would I willingly take the necessary steps? \Vhy would I not just live on my couch? · 
Seriously, I want to know. 
Marlayna Soenneker is a senior psy­chology and theology major who would like to say hi to the folks in Adolescence who requested it. Now they are famous. She will also be accepting paying offers to do nothing at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Justin Krivickas  Joe Hettler  
Sarah Nestor  Rachel Protzman  
Joe Trombello  Charee Holloway  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Kristin Yemm  C.Spencer  
Patrick McElwee  Beggs  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Chris Naidus  Allison Nichols  

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

In which bowl game will Notre Dame play? Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We must believe in luck. For how else can we explain the success ofthose we don't like?" 
Jean Cocteau French artist and writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, October 31, 2002 page 11 
Irish are lucky in just one way Willingham 
All those announcers and "so-called" expert college football analysts like ESPN's Kirk "Herbie" Herbstreit are right -Notre Dame is lucky. 
No, rm not talking about Notre Dame's undefeated 8-0 record. Notre Dame really is that good. But don't take it from me. After all, I'm just a lowly college sports writer for The Observer, who cer­tainly does not have the same insightful wisdom as college football gurus like Herbie, who com-· mented this week in his column on ESPN.com, "[Notre Dame] was fortu­nate to catch some breaks over its first six games." 
I certainly do not have the same extensive knowledge of the game as Herbie's fellow ESPN columnist, ex­Pittsburgh head coach Mike Gottfried, who predicted Notre Dame's "string would end this weekend against Florida State. In my opinion, Notre Dame is not even in the same ballpark as Oklahoma and Miami." 
Is that so Mike? Hmmm. The Irish crushed the 'Noles 34-24 on the road last Saturday. Had it not been for a few garbage touchdowns at the end of the game, the Irish would have won the game by a whopping 24 points. 
But I guess it wasn't luck. Mike, when Miami needed Florida State kick­er Xavier Beitia's last-second 41-yard field goal to sail wide-left in order to squeak out a one-point victory at home. I guess ifs not worth mention­ing that FSU had a week off to prepare for Notre Dame, either. 

I certainly don't have the same abili­ty to predict the future like those odds­makers in Vegas either. After all, they only picked the Noles as a ridiculous 
10.5 point favorite over the Irish. 
On second thought, maybe you shouldn't take it from the experts or odds-makers either. Just take it from some of Notre Dame's recent oppo­nents. Just ask Florida State running back Greg Jones or Air Force quarter­back Chance Harridge how tough Notre Dame's defense is. Or better yet, why don't you ask the Air Force defen­sive line or the Florida State secondary if Notre Dame's offense is really as anemic as Herbie and the rest of his buddies claim it is? 
Back to my original point -I am not really a superstitious guy. I rarely read my horoscope, but I will be the first to admit that Notre Dame is lucky for one reason and one reason only. The Irish are lucky to have Tyrone Willingham as their head coach. Call it fate or divine intervention, but had it not been for the George O'Leary resume fiasco last December, Tyrone Willingham would still be the head coach at Stanford and Notre Dame would not be undefeated right now. 
Even if Notre Dame were to lose the rest of their games this year, Notre Dame is lucky to have Willingham as 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Terming Saddam 'huggable' reveals an utter lack of taste 
I am deeply offended by Joe Muto's Oct. 30 column, "Questioning presi­dent's leadership on action in Iraq." Muto has chosen to express his opinion on the probable war with Iraq. His defense of his position is one thing, but to declare Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein "huggable," indeed. to call him a verita­ble "Clark Gable ... [who] gassed his own people," shows a complete lack of taste. His declaration of Saddam Hussein as the "most adorable" of 20th century despots simply perpetuates his ignorant, crass attitude. 
After all, how can he claim Hussein's superiority over such lovable figures as Josef Stalin? With his big fuzzy trench­coat, those goofy eyes narrowed in tyrannical madness, and oh, the mus­tache! The Yalta conference pictures convey a dictator as cuddly as Santa Claus, only I suspect that had you sat in his lap and told him what you wanted for Christmas you'd have been shot or dragged off to a camp (and shot). 
But of course, who can possibly over­look the cuddliest of the evil, Hitler? With his squat, beady eyes, over­trimmed hair and a mustache to put Stalin to shame, Hitler comes across as a sort of ceremonial teddy bear for the Third Riech. Nevermind the khakis ­let's face it, the man was always busi­ness casual. That takes chutzpah, and I think Muto isn't giving the brutal terror­izer of Europe and the murderer of mil­lions the credit he deserves. Just watch some old footage. As thousands of enraptured German soldiers gaze at their fearless leader's stomping and furious hand gestures, try to resist the urge to give ol' Adolf a big hug. Go on, just try. 
How Muto can possibly overlook these lovable dictators in favor of bland old Saddam is beyond me. Memo to Muto and Hussein: That beret is so Cuban Revolution. You'll never wear it like Che; who are you kidding? 
I do wish Muto hadn't restricted the field to dictators of the last century, though. After all, where can you find a dreamboat despot like Julius Caesar? Women wanted him, men wanted to be him. senators wanted to kill him. Veni. vidi, vici, indeed. 
At any rate, I think it's clear that if Muto thinks he's got a finger on the pulse of world leader fashion, he's got another thing coming. Poor Saddam is in need of more than a regime change -somebody give that boy a new wardrobe. 
Peter Scott 
sophomore Carroll Hall Oct. 30 
its head coach. 

Is there anyone else you would want representing your University? Is there anyone else who handles praise with the same degree of humility as Willingham? Is there any­one else who handles the media scrutiny and the pressure of being a head­coach better than Willingham? Is there a greater class act in college football today? 
The answer to all of these questions is no. 

Before this season started, many of the "so-called" experts said Notre Dame would be lucky to have a win­ning record. Many of the pre-season magazines predicted the Irish would finish no better than 40th in the country. They all said Notre Dame did not have the talent and the personnel to com­pete for the national championship anymore. 
As it turns out, all the Irish needed was a coach who could motivate them to maximize their potential. 
It turns out the "so-called" experts 
were dead wrong, but who really cares 
about them anyway? It doesn't really 
matter that the "so-called" experts don't believe in us. Willingham believes in his players, and his players believe in them­selves. There's nothing lucky about that. One other 
thing-I never really believed in 
destiny before this season, but I do now. The Irish certain­ly are not 
lucky to be 8­0, but I think I speak on 
behalf of the entire student body when I write that we are all lucky to attend this University during Notre Dame's "Return 

to Glory." Thanks guys. It truly has been a privilege and a joy to cheer for you every Saturday. 
Joe Licandro is a junior political sci­
ence major. Contact him at 
Licandro. l@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
Football team represents University with class 
Saturday, I was reminded why I love Notre Dame football, and perhaps even Notre Dame itself. I was watching the game at the gym while I worked out. After one set, I walked over to the television above the exercise bikes, and my heart sank. A few Florida State players were jumping around like it was Christmas, Mardi Gras and their birthdays all rolled into one. I figured Florida State had just scored a 1O-point touchdown. Turns out one of them had just knocked down a pass, on second down. Not a real spectacular play, either. it kind of came right to him. 
Later in the game, I had another experience like that I finished a set, came over to the television again and saw some ofthe guys in gold helmets trudging back to the huddle. Must have been a loss on the play, or a penalty. Not quite. The Notre Dame tailback had in fact just gotten a first down, running about 15 yards through a gaping hole, then plowing over some defensive backs for good measure. 
Then of course there was the delightful spectacle, right before the game ended, of the Seminole receiver spinning the ball to the ground after making a decent catch, though his team was down 24 points and less than two minutes remained. 
We may argue whether Notre Dame truly dominated Florida State in various statistical categories, or whether the score reflected more of that Irish luck we all are coming to love so much. What we cannot doubt, however. is that the men in the white jerseys totally dominated the opponent in one special area ­class. I truly wonder whether Notre Dame was able to wear down Florida State in the second half because of all the celebrating the Seminoles had done. I got tired just watching some of it, and I did not even see most ofthe first half. 
They say a team is a reflection of its coach, and when I see Tyrone Willingham, and then watch his team, I know it is true. I would say he should run for President, but I would like to keep him for Notre Dame. We should all be proud of how our team plays and represents us so well, and not just of how good they are at winning. 
Tom Hanrahan 
class of'99 Oct. 28 


BSERVER 


page 12 Thursday, October 31, 2002 

Scene takes a look at nine of the 
Scene Staff Report 
Each Halloween, Hollywood offers up the same formulaic "nubile sorority sisters in haunted house take sensu­ous showers and then walk into the dark basement one by one with their necks exposed" rubbish for mass con­sumption. But years after the latex vil­lain who can be shot, burnt. smashed, pureed and launched into space, and then magically reappear in front of a scantily clad heroine with supple, heaving breasts is left in the land of late-night Superstation specials, the truly terrifying movies of our day will live on. 
The Scene staff has assembled an all-star scream-a-than of nine of the most disturbing movies of all time, presented in no particular order. So, grab some rentals, grab some popcorn and grab your significant other (or a reasonable facsimile) and cuddle up as you have your mind blown. 
"The Bad Seed" (1956) 
Long before the Columbine massacre forced Americans to re-evaluate their misplaced faith in the idea that chil­dren are innocent by nature, the coun­try's cinema had already seen the dark side. "The Bad Seed" is one of those movies that elicits a horrified gasp from those who have had the misfortune to see it alone late at night. 
Based on the Maxwell Anderson's play of the same name, the 1956 movie looks like it belongs on a stage show more than the silver screen. But "The Bad Seed" doesn't need chalk­board-scratching violins or claustro­phobic camerawork to keep it audi­ence awake at nigh. Its concept is so dark and chilling, it doesn't need any sort of traditional scares. 
When a local boy dies mysteriously on a school picnic, suburban house­wife Christine Penmark goes to com­fort her picture perfect daughter Rhoda who was the boy's classmate and winner of a penmanship medal that Rhoda coveted. But Rhoda's per­turbing coolness when confronted with the issue is brought to a head when Christine discovers the penman­ship medal in her daughter's posses­sion. Slowly, Christine must question whether her sweet and innocent daughter could really be a bad seed. 
"The Bad Seed" takes a dark look at the nature versus nurture argument and asks some questions that are so horrific that the answers seem unfath­omable. 
~C. Spencer Beggs 
"Eyes Wide Shut" (1999) 
Evil has no face in Stanley Kubrik's last and most stunning film. Based on Arthur Schnitzler's provocative novel "Dream Story," "Eyes Wide Shut" fol­lows the beautiful but troubled couple, Dr. and Mrs. Harford (Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman), through two nights of mystery and madness. Confronted with his wife's darker side, Dr. Harford embarks on a sexual odyssey, which takes him to the edge of Hell and back again. 
The slippery slope Harford dances upon culminates in a visit to "The House" -a place where beauty and magic are coupled with sacrifice and death and is far more chilling than 

any haunted one could 
be. 

The terror in this film is found within the liv­ing and lies always behind masks and with­in dreams. Audiences will not be able to name the thing that frightens them most in "Eyes Wide Shut," which is what makes this hlm a stylishly dis­turbing masterpiece. 
~Anne Hamilton 
"The Exorcist" (1973) 
"The Exorcist," directed by William Friedkin, is enough of a pop culture staple that it is often considered too simple or cliche to be truly disturbing. A 12-year old girl (Linda Blair) is possessed by the Devil and her dis­traught movie-star mother (Ellen Burstyn} calls a priest (Jason Miller) to save her. Cue infamous pea soup and head-spinning special effects. 
This view, however, does a great disservice to what's actually a very subtle story. "The Exorcist" bal­ances its unrelentingly horrific inten­sity with the mature acting of its stars and a veteran supporting cast includ­ing Lee J. Cobb and Max von Sydow. Partly because of that intensity, it is easy to miss the importance of almost every detail: the girl's passion for art, the divorce and the mysterious silver medallion. "The Exorcist" is a great film that was overrated for so long it has now become underrated. 


~Jack Watkins 

"Requiem for a Dream" (2000) 
Darren Aronofsky's "Requiem for a Dream" is a hauntingly beautiful look at the lives of drug addicts. Shot to reflect the mental states of its charac­ters, "Requiem for a Dream" varies between soporific ecstasy and tortur­ous agony. The movie follows the down spiral of four addicts whose sto­ries are intertwined but are not dependent upon one another. 
The disconcerting aspect of "Requiem for a Dream" is the way that it relates the desire for a high from drug addiction to the same tendency in sober life from another source. The payout is neither as big as the junkie needs nor as long as he requires. 
"Requiem for a Dream" is unsettling to the point that it makes one question whether the ideals toward which we direct our everyday efforts are ulti­mately as futile as those of the movie's characters. 
The grip Aronofsky's hypersensitive filming at once drifts the audience through a drug-induced fantasy and then slams them against a hard-edged reality. The movie is composed and plays like a symphony dedicated to the final destination of a futile life. 
-C. Spencer Beggs 

"Dlabollque" (1955) 
According to film lore, Alfred Hitchcock made "Psycho" to prove he 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, October 31, 2002 page 13 

Cl IINIEIMIAI 
most unsettling movies ofall time 

could compete with Henri-Georges Clouzot, director of "Diabolique." A French film made in 19 55, "Diabolique" is in some ways a typical suspense film of its period: a slow start, gradual increase of tension, a fantastic climax and a major plot twist. 
"Diabolique" is about Michael Delasalle (Paul Meurisse), a sadistic boarding school principle who is mur­dered by his wife Christina (Vera Clouzot) and his mistress (Nicole Horner). The women dump his body in a pool. But when the pool is drained, no body is found. 
Christina becomes convinced that Michael is haunting the school and will somehow get his revenge. Is there a ghost or is it merely her guilty con­science? Vera Clouzet, the director's wife, is magnificent as a woman hav­ing a nervous breakdown, giving this suspense classic the punch to put it at the top of its genre. 
-Jack Watkins 
"Death and the Malden" (1994) 
One stormy evening, Gerardo Escobar's car breaks down. A mysteri­ous stranger {Ben Kingsley) takes him home and Gerardo invites him to sleep the night on the couch. That evening, Gerardo's wife, Paulina (Sigourney Weaver) overhears the men's conver­sation and is convinced that the man who picked up her husband is the same man who tortured and raped her while blindfolded 15 years before. She wants revenge. The only trouble is that she has never seen his face before. 
Roman Polanski's "Death and the Maiden" is a supremely elegant and 
disturbing film. Kingsley and Weaver are two brilliant actors and give some of their best-ever performanc­es. Based on the play with the same title, the film is beautifully uni­fied. The plot is cen­tered on one subject, at one location and in one night. "Death and the Maiden" is a must-see for audiences interest­ed in the darker and more complex side of humanity. 
-Anne Hamilton 
"Eraserhead" (1977) 
David Lynch's first fu-ll-length film, "Eraserhead," thrusts the viewer into a night­marish world of strange worm crea­tures, bleeding dinners and mutant babies. Made over the course of five years due to extreme budget limita• tions, "Eraserhead," is not for the purveyor of blood-and-guts or spe­cial effects wizardry. Lynch relies instead on a sparse script and an 
eerie soundtrack to create a sense of 
unease that becomes terror in the cli­
max. While most horror films choose 
some kind of alien power or social 
deviant as the focal point of the hor­

ror, Lynch's targets are closer to home: he makes marriage, family and work horrifying. Parenting in particu­lar is made horrific through the agency of the sinister mutant baby. "Eraserhead" is best understood as a dream filled with Freudian imagery of death and sex. It is full of bizarre characters and seemingly inexplicable symbolism, making it a dark and uniquely disturbing film. 
-Jack Watkins 
"Walt Untll Dark" (1967) 
When Susie Hendrix (Audrey Hepburn) is given a mysterious doll by her husband with instructions to hide it, the recently blinded woman is sud­denly thrown into a sordid world of crime. What Susie doesn't know is that the doll contains within it thousands of dollars worth of heroin. Throughout the course of the day, Susie falls vic­tim to the deceptions of people trying to get back the doll. She finds that the only way to ensure her survival is to "wait until dark." 
Hepburn gives one of her most intel­ligent and beautiful performances ever. The film's use of dramatic irony is what makes it both great and terri­fying -most of what takes place is known to the audience but not to Susie. "Wait Until Dark" is a classic thriller that is sure to keep audiences on the edge of their seats until the final scene. 
-Anne Hamilton 
"Session 9" (2001) 
In a somber New England town, a team of asbestos removal experts is hired by the local government to pre­pare an abandoned state mental hos­pital for renovation. In a burst of con­fidence the team declares that they can complete the job in a week. 
The team leader, Gordon (Peter Mullan), cobbles together his crew, along with a newcomer. But, the strain of the job along with the group's injured past relationships and the dis­concerting ransacked hospital quickly leads the group to become separated and self-interested. 
Most notably, Mike (Stephen Gevedon), stumbles upon nine audio recordings of repression therapy ses­sions with a deeply disturbed young woman who has everything to do with the hospital's history. But as Mike slowly listens to the session, the atmosphere of the hospital takes a dark turn and bizarre occurrences begin. 
"Session 9" says more by using the things that are not explicit in a scene to get a reaction from the audience than clubbing them over the head with something overtly scary. The movie slowly boils over with angst, and by the end, audiences will most likely feel physically nauseated. 
Even so, most viewers will have trouble describing exactly what is so disturbing about "Session 9," but that's OK, because they probably won't want to talk about it anyway. 
-C. Spencer Beggs 

Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu, Anne Hamilton at bamilton.56@nd.edu and Jack Watkins at watkins.35@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 31, 2002 

NBA 
Wizards lose to Raptors, Jordan misses dunk attempt 
Associated Press 
TORONTO Michael Jordan played so poorly he got laughed at. 
Morris Peterson scored 20 points and Jordan went score­less in the second half -and even missed a dunk -as the Toronto Raptors opened their season with a 74-68 victory over the Washington Wizards on Wednesday night. 
Jordan. coming off the bench, scored just eight points in 25 minutes. After missing two free throws with 4:06 left, he missed a breakaway dunk as the ball clanged off the back 
rim. The crowd laughed  at  
Jordan.  who  turns  40  in  
February.  

The \,Vizards, down by 12, never recovered. 
'Tm pretty sure everybody is going to look at the one play," Jordan said. "I felt like I exploded pretty good. I got hit on the knee, but I still should have finished it. Other than that I felt good." 
Jordan finished 4-for-14 from the field. 
''I've never seen Michael miss a couple of free throws and a dunk late in the game like that. Normally, that's money in the bank," Washington coach Doug Collins said. 
The only positive for the new­1oo k Wizards, who shot just 
29 .6 percent from the field, was the play of Kwame Brown, who had a career-high 18 rebounds, 12 points and five blocks. 
"Everybody was fumbling the ball," Jordan said. "It was pret­ty ugly on both sides." 
Vince Carter had 18 points in his first game since surgery on his left knee in March. 
Peterson also had a career­high 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who also got a career­high 12 rebounds from new center Jelani McCoy. 
"I thought I did a great job on Jordan," Peterson said. 
The Wizards started the game with four new starters in their lineup, including Jerry Stackhouse, who had a team­high 19 points. Stackhouse, acquired from Detroit in exchange for Richard Hamilton, went 6-for-17 from the field. 
"There wasn't any chem­istry," Jordan said. "For us to come out in the first game and expect to have everything click­ing is kind of far-fetched." 
Carter had eight points, including an impressive fade­away jumper after spinning around his defender, as Toronto took a 18-11 lead in the first quarter with Jordan on the bench. 
Jordan entered with 3:50 left in the first quarter and immedi­ately stole Peterson's pass, but Washington didn't score on the possession because of Stackhouse's turnover. 
Stackhouse later shot an air­ball after another pass from Jordan. "We were all out of sync," Stackhouse said. 
The Wizards shot 25 percent in the first quarter as the Raptors led 20-14. 
After Jordan made his first shot of the gave early in the second, the Raptors went on a 14-0 run as Peterson scored seven points and the Wizards went almost five minutes with­out scoring. 
"We were terrible," Collins said. "Our screening was poor and our shot selection was very poor." 
Jordan scored all eight of his points in the second quarter as the Wizardscut Toronto's lead to eight at halftime. 
Trail Blazers 102, Lakers 90 
Rasheed Wallace scored 28 points to lead the Portland Trail Blazers to a season-open­ing 102-90 victory over the shorthanded Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday night. 
Already playing without Shaquille O'Neal and Rick Fox, the Lakers were further hob­bled when they lost Kobe Bryant for several minutes in the first half after a hard fall. He returned and led the Lakers with 25 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Trail Blazers handed Los Angeles its second straight loss. It's the first time since 1990 the Lakers have opened a season 

AFP Photo 

Michael Jordan comes up short on a dunk attempt In the second half of the Wizards 74-68 loss to the Toronto Raptors. 
with two losses. the injured list after surgery on NBA this season after taking a 
Bryant returned before the his right big toe, while Fox was year off. One of the reasons the half, but at times had a notice­serving a six-game suspension Trail Blazers wanted the 7­able limp and wore a wrap for fighting with Sacramento's foot-3 Lithuanian back was to under his right knee. The Trail Doug Christie. defend against O'Neal and Blazers padded their lead by as That meant the always-antic­some of the West's other big many as 22 points when ipated matchup between men, including Sacramento's Wallace's 3-pointer made it 56-O'Neal and Portland center Vlade Divac and newcomer Yao 34, and went into halftime with Arvydas Sabonis would have to Ming. a 60-40 advantage. wait. In three of the four games 
Wallace put the Blazers up The 7-foot-1. 33 5•pound that the Lakers played against 77-54 with another 3-pointer O'Neal is expected to miss at the Trail Blazers last season. late in the third quarter. least seven games. O'Neal averaged 33 points and 
O'Neal started the season on Sabonis is returning to the 14.3 rebounds. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
..At Last Spring Break** Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash• tours.com 18004267710 
SPRING BREAK 
INSANITYIWWW.INTER·CAM­
PUS.COM OR CALL 1-800-327• 6013. GUARANTEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! OUR SEVENTEENTH YEAR! REPS WANTED! 
TC TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE SECOND SEMESTER. SPECIAL DISCOUNT ON RENT. 
CALL 277-0900 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884extU187 . 
INVESTORS NEEDED. WILL PAY 10% INTEREST $100,000 INCRE­MENTS. 100% SECURED WITH REAL ESTATE. CALL 574-675• 0960 OR email at investors@surf­best.net 
Need layout person for projects in PageMaker, Photoshop, etc. Good pay. Call 273-8857 (M-F 8-5) 
FOR SALE 
Just listed Woodbridge condo close to NO. Great location. NE comer-end unit-new kitchen-furnace & water heater-windows. Over 900 sq.ft. $85,000. OPEN HOUSE Sun. 1113 1pm-3pm. See at reedburrer.com or call Reed 574-235-3659. 
Futons! Great selection and ser­vice. Call Mary @ Futon Factory, Grape Rd., 273-2660. 
2 GA BC Tix. Best offer, yar! cell: 661-714-6174 email: 
sanders2@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 
www.mmmrentals.com 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame-
Perfect for Football Weekend 
Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. 
Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269­469-0245 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 
2003/2004: 
Call Bill at 532-1896 DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TANIEO HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-4-5-8-9 & 10 BEDROOM HOUSES • STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL­WASHER/DRYERS -CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST-CON­TACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 -(574)674-2471 

3-Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, alarm system, NC. Avail.immed., $650/mo. Call 220· 0499, 
TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. 
WANTED: ND tickets· HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) bringing family, friends & girlfriend to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmalley@global.t­bird.edu 
NEED BC TIX 312·925-8961 

John Mellencamp tickets{2) ­Call 4-1814 
BUYING/SELLING N. D. FOOT• BALL TICKETS & PARKING PASSES 289-8048 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
wann hear a joke? 
So there was this piece of string and he went to a bar and ordered a shot of rum and the bartender said, "You're a piece of string, get outta here.ff So, the piece of string went up to some guy on the street and said, "i'II give you ten bucks if you tie me in a knor and the guy did. Then the piece of string went up to another guy and said, "i'II give you ten bucks if you fray my ends" and the guy did. So, the piece of string goes back into the bar and orders a shot of rum and the bartender looks at him and says, "Weren't you the piece of string that was just in here?" and the string replies, "No, I'm afraid not (frayed knot)!" 
haha -that one is dedicated to kate waiter, since she told it to me in my time of need • luv ya! 
hey kevin ;) 

Thursday, October 31, 2002 page 15
The Observer . SPORTS 

NBA 
Prosecutors respond to Jayson Williams' defense 
Associated Press 
FLEMINGTON, N.J. 

While cursing at a limousine driver, a drunken Jayson Williams showed off for friends by flipping closed a shotgun that killed the other man with a spray of buckshot pellets, pros­ecutors said in court documents filed Wednesday. 
Prosecutors responded to a defense motion to dismiss charges against Williams by giving the most complete pic­ture yet of what they say hap­pened at the former basketball star's mansion early Feb. 14. 
Williams, 34. is accused of recklessly handling the gun that killed Costas "Gus" Christofi and trying to make it look like a suicide. He could face nearly 45 years in prison if convicted on all charges, including first­degree manslaughter. He remains free on $270,000 bail. 
Last month, defense attorneys asked a judge to throw out the indictment, saying the prosecu­tor gave an incomplete account of what happened and biased grand jurors by repeating that Williams exercised his right to remain silent. 
Prosecutors said there was no misconduct and, unless such behavior is extreme, an other­wise valid indictment should not be dismissed. 
The judge has said he hopes to rule on motions by mid­December. 
Christofi picked up Williams' friends at a Harlem Globetrotters game in Bethlehem, Pa., buying a dis­posable camera to photograph the athletes. court documents said. 
When the party reached a restaurant, several Globetrotters invited Christofi inside, where he sat apart from Williams' friends. 
"At one point during the evening, the defendant singled out Gus and began cursing at him. The defendant's conduct was such that several of the witnesses were uncomfortable with what appeared to them to be an uncalled for public humiliation of Gus by the defendant," documents said. 
When Christofi got up to leave, Williams said he was only joking. 
The liquor bill for Williams and nine adults totaled $627, documents said. Two children also were present. 
Tests on a blood sample taken from Williams eight hours after the shooting found a blood-alcohol concentration of 0.11 percent, slightly above the legal threshold for intoxica­tion in New Jersey. 
An expert for the prosecution has concluded Williams was severely intoxicated at the time of the shooting, with a probable blood-alcohol concentration of between 0.18 and 0.22 percent. 
Later, guests persuaded Christofi to tour Williams' Alexandria Township mansion, and he snapped photos of mem­orabilia inside. 


AFP Photo 

Jayson Williams appears In court earlier this year. Prosecutors resoonded to the defense motion to dismiss charges. 
You Are Invited! 
-11" ti\ 
er. t' . 
a. 
"' jf 
. r,;. (f. 

ISS UES 
MetJeff Immelt, 
Chairman and CEO of the Most Admired Company in America 
and hear him talk about the New GE. 
Sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business, featuring the introduction by Dean Carolyn Woo. 
GA~1E DAY ATTIRE 

• We bring good things to life. 
theclogstore.com 

,1·800-948-CLOG 



page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 
....,,....UPS 


Freshman Retreat #43 
Retreat Date: November 8-9, 2002 Septemer 30-November 4-sign-up dates 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

dav 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m.-11 :30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 

Dia de Los Muertos Celebration 
1:00 p.m. Blessing of the altar in LaFortune Student Center followed by a procession. 
Leaming To Talk About Race Re­treat Pre-Retreat Plunge 
5:00-7:00 p.m. Co-Mo Lounge 


Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 


Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 -11 :00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 

Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Get to Know Me 
¦ by Fr. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C., Director of Freshman Retreat Program 
My name is Fr. Kevin Russeau, C.S.C.. I am a Hoy Cross priest and I'm in my first year working here at Notre Dame. For the past two years I had been serving at St. Gregory the Great Parish in Phoenix Arizona. But in July of this year, my provincial asked me to move back to South Bend and to serve as the Associate Director of Vocations for our province. 
What a great time I have had so far! 

Upon my arrival in July, I was fortunate to work with NDVision for two of their four week confer­ences. ND Vision is a program that started this past summer to help high school students find their place in the Church's life and mission. Seventy of our students worked together as counselors and musicians to facilitate great discussions, skits, prayer services, and fun activities to bring home the point that each of us are called to live a vocation of holiness. 
Shortly after ND Vision ushered home the last group of high school students I went on a bus to Toronto to see our Holy Father Pope John Paul II! This was an amazing pilgrimage. Over 200 students from various Holy Cross schools and parishes (University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary Col­lege, Holy Cross College, University of Portland, Our Lady of Solidad Parish in California, Hoban High School ofOhio) gathered at a Catholic grade school about 75 minutes from the heart of1oronto. We used the school as "home base." Not only were we from many different schools and parishes, we were also from different countries. A large group from Chile was with us, a group from France and Mexico joined us, and we joined a "host" Holy Cross group from 1v1ontreal. Despite our different origins and the challenge ofhaving three languages (French, Spanish, and English) we had in common our Holy Cross heritage. 
The Congregation of Holy Cross, as Brothers, Sisters, and Priests, serve in 15 countries on 5 conti­nents. For our founding in 1837, we were sent as missionaries to be "educators in the faith." It was a great experience to come together from so many different places for a common purpose. We came to pray together, to learn more about our faith, to meet other young people excited about their faith, and we came to hear what the Pope had to say! World Youth Day 2002 Toronto will remain a fond memory for me. I highly recommend that you go on a pilgrimage if the opportunity arises -the next World Youth Day will be held in Germany in 2005! 
Since the summer (which went by very quickly) I have been unpacking and moving into my room and offices. I live in 220 Keenan Hall and I work for Campus Ministry and in the Holy Cross Vocation Office. Many ofyour have hosted me in your dorms for Sunday and weekday masses. Thank you! It is so great to be back at Notre Dame for our liturgies! 
I also direct the freshman retreat. Our first retreat was in September and it was awesome -ask around! Our next retreat is November 8-9th -a "must experience" for all Freshmen. Jes a 25-hour getaway where partici­pants meet and make some of their best friends on campus. The simple application can be picked up in room 114 Coleman-Morse or printed from our webpage "www.nd.edu/ ,.,ministry". Any questions can be directed to me russeau.3@nd.edu (E-mail me if you would like to be on our next team!) 
I spend the rest of my time in the vocation office at Moreau Seminary. I talk to young men who are exploring the possibility of becoming a priest or brother for the Congregation of Holy Cross. I am humbled and inspired by God's grace working in our young people. 
But since most people I talk to will answer their calls to live a holy life in other ways besides religious life, I also give talks about our baptismal duty to become holy! Each of us are called to live our lives so that we become saints! What a generous invitation God gives us and an awesome responsibility -one that is possible when we support each other in our community. We have a great opportunity here at Notre Dame to become holy women and men. 
I hope that I get the opportunity to meet you. Stop by my office at Coleman-Morse or visit me at Keenan Hall. Know of my prayers for you. 
¦ Basilica 01 the sacred Hean ¦ Around Campus 
Saturday, November 2 Sunday, November 3 30 minutes after the game Spanish Mass 
Most Rev. Edwin F O Brien 1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall ChapelSchedule Archbishop, Military Services USA 
--45 minutes after the game (Stepan Center} Law School Mass Rev. Richard V. Warner, c.s.c. 5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel 
Sunday, November 3 MBA Mass
8:00a.m. 

7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Faculty LoungeRev. Richard S. Bullene, c.s.c. 
10:00 a.m. Most Rev. John M. D Arey Bishop, Fort Wayne-South Bend, IN 
11:45 a.m. Most Rev. Robert N. Lynch bishop, St. Petersburg, FL 
¦ SundaV'sScripWreReadings 1st Rdg Mal 1:14b-2:2b,8-10 2ndRdg 1 Thes 2:?b-9, 13 Gospel Mt 23:1-12 
f 
r 

The Observer . SPORTS page 17 


NFL 
Colts' Jam.es listed as doubtful for Sunday 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Edgerrin James might miss Sunday's game against Tennessee because of a partially torn right hamstring. 
The Colts listed James as doubtful Wednesday, and coach Tony Dungy said James would not practice this week so he could rest. James watched prac­tice from the sideline Wednesday afternoon. 
"It looks like it will be a while," Dungy said. "There's some dam­age; we've got to let it rest up." 
James was injured in Sunday night's 26-21 loss at Washington but continued to play until late in the game, when he took himself out. James had an MRI done Monday, and Dungy said the results showed a partial tear of the muscle. 
Ricky Wiiliams. an undrafted rookie from Texas Tech. could replace James for Sunday's game, which the Colts need to win to maintain first place in the AFC South. Williams said he'll spend this week preparing to be the Colts' starter. 
"lf he can't play this Sunday, then I'll get another shot to play this season," Williams said. 
Williams ran three times for 21 yards and caught a 20-yard touchdown pass to get the Colts to 23-21 after filling in for James against Washington. 
The loss of James would be another blow to the Colts' run­ning game, which has struggled all season. 
Quarterback Peyton Manning said Indianapolis would be pre­pared to play without James. 
"When a guy is doubtful. you have to take that approach, that he won't play," Manning said. "You pray and you hope that he does play, but you have to pre­pare as if he is not." 
When James has been on the field, he hasn't looked like the runner who won the NFL rush­ing title in 1999 and 2000. 
Coming off surgery to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee, James has pro­duced just one 100-yard game this season and has run for fewer than 100 yards in five straight games, the longest such stretch of his career. His 3.4 yards per carry is almost a full yard less than his career average (4.3). 


THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 

presents 
The Annual Hibernian Lecture "New Perspectives on the American 
Irish" 
Kevin Kenny 
Boston College 

Friday, November 1, 2002 4:00p.m. 
Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Stroke Analysi.s & Playi.ng Si.tuati.ons 
Presented By: Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet ennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed pen to All Notre Dame Students, Faculty, Staff 
and their families. 
PGA TOUR 

Tour will recognize Masters 
. Finchem refuses to back down in Augusta National controversy 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA 
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem refused to back down from his position on the Augusta National controversy, saying the tour will recognize the Masters as an official event and he expects his players to compete. 
Commissioner Tim Finchem said Wednesday the PGA Tour will have a fully sponsored schedule for 2003, although it might lose one opposite-field event in the fall. 
He also announced the PGA Tour is changing the name of its 50-and-over circuit to the "Champions Tour" with hopes of appealing to a broader base of fans. 
During his annual "State of the Tour" message. commis­sioner Tim Finchem said the Champions Tour would have at least three fewer tournaments to keep the seniors from play­ing the same weeks as major championships and other bi.I! 


Department of :~ Film, Television, and~heatre ND Cinema Presents :l> 
Thursday, October 31 
7:00 p.m. Carey Auditorium, 
Hesburgh Library Admission: Free 
f>-tudent. fa,u\1'1, 'f>taff and fami\1 1enni, llinic. 
Tuesday, November 12 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 
events. 
The developmental tour will 
change names for the fourth 
time since its inception in 
1990. What was the Buy.com 
Tour will be called the 
Nationwide Tour, reflecting a 
new five-year sponsorship 
deal. 
The PGA Tour logo of a play• 
er swinging a golf club will be 
included in the branding of all 
three tours. 
Finchem did not disclose any sponsorship deals for the PGA Tour, saying the 2003 schedule would be announced after the tour's board meeting next month. 
That brought a sharp reply from the National Council of Women's Organizations. whose leader accused Finchem of "stonewalling" on the issue of Augusta's all-male member­ship. 
"If I were his board, I would be asking who he works for: Augusta or the PGA Tour?" Martha Burk said Wednesday. "Clearly, the position he has taken is going to be an apolo­gist for Augusta." 
Burk has accused the PGA Tour of creating a double stan­dard by counting the Masters among its official events, even though the tour has a policy not to hold tournamP.nt<. on courses that discriminate. 
In an Aug. 20 letter to Burk. 
Finchem said the tour does not 
have a contract with the club, 
cannot require Augusta 
National to follow tour rules 
and had no plans to stop rec­
ognizing the Masters as one of 
golf's four major champi­
onships. 
During a 45-minute news 
conference at the season-end­
ing Tour Championship, 
Finchem declined to elaborate 
beyond the letter or be drawn 
further into the debate over 
whether Augusta National 
should admit a female mem­
ber. 
"As far as I know, there's 
going to be a tournament at 
Augusta -the Masters -and 
it's going to be on CBS televi­
sion, and our players are going 
to go play," Finchem said. 
"What else happens, I'm not 
going to speculate on that." 
At one point he said, "I know 
you're going to try to move me 
out of the confines of my state­
ment. You're not going to be 

successful." 
Later, Finchem told a group 

of reporters he was comfort­
able with the tour's position. 
"It is a position based on the 

evaluation of all factors," he 
said. 
The PGA Tour controls 45 

tournaments a year, although 
it doesn't run any of the four 
majors -the Masters. the U.S. 
Open, the British Open or the 
PGA Championship. 
It considers them as official 

events, and counts money 
earned toward the PGA Tour 
money list. Winners of the four 
majors received a five-year 
exemption on tour. 
The tour stopped playing its events at male-only clubs in 1990, eliminating Cypress Point from the rotation at the Pebble Beach National Pro­Am, and leaving Butler National at the Western Open outside Chicago. 
Some of the players rallied behind Finchem. 
Former PGA champion David Toms said while he thought Finchem could be more vocal. the commissioner should not stop counting the Masters as official. 
"That would be totally giving in to this liberal cause," Toms said. "We made a stance sev­eral years ago when we stopped going to clubs that dis­criminate. We've made our case on what we believe. Augusta National can take care of this." 
Charles Howell III. who grew up about five miles from Augusta National. said the tour should focus on its own events. 
"The tour's job is to run golf tournam~nts for us," he said. 

NFL 
Hilliard will miss season with dislocated shoulder 

Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

New York Giants receiver Ike Hilliard will miss the rest of the season with a dislocated right shoulder suffered on a hit by All­Pro safety Brian Dawkins of the Philadelphia Eagles. 
An MRI on Tuesday disclosed a tear in both Hilliard's labrum and pectoralis muscle. He will undergo surgery in about a month and will at some point be placed on injured reserve. 
The normal rehabilitation period for the surgery Hilliard will undergo is three months. 
"Ike's been a playmaker for us," coach Jim Fassel said. "He does an outstanding job on third down. He's been a guy that has been one of our consistent play­ers. 
"He has continually played well in all the games. We're going to miss him." 
Fassel said that he asked ref­eree Bill Carollo whether Dawkins should have been eject­ed following the hit near deep in Philadelphia territory Monday night. Fassel said Carollo told him that the official who made the call didn't believe it warrant­ed a disqualification. Dawkins was called for a personal foul. 
"That type of hit is covered under the rules," Fassel said. "Guys get penalized. Whether the league does anything else or not, I don't know. You hate to see players get hurt, period, especially on a play that could have been avoidable." 
Hilliard said it would be up to the NFL to say whether the hit was dirty. 
"It's not for me to determine whether or not it was a dirty hit," Hilliard said. "It was late. Dawkins is a good, aggressive player. I'm not one to shy away from contact, so I'm not going to cry about it. That wouldn't do my shoulder any good." 
"I know he's an aggressive player, but I think there is a line that he crossed. He reallv did," 
THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
IA\o

UJo When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 8, 2002. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2003) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information contact Mrs. Lisa Tranberg (631-6676). 
Giants quarterback Kerry Collins said of Dawkins. "He knew that (Hilliard) was defenseless. I know it's football, it's part of the game, and I'm not saying he intentionally tried to hurt him because I don't think he did.... You're not going to hear Ike say anything bad about it, but it could have and should have been avoided." 
Amani Toomer, the Giants' No. 1 wide receiver who will certain­ly feel the loss of Hilliard on the field, told the Philadelphia Inquirer the hit was a "cheap shot." 
The injury might put an end to Hilliard's career with the Giants. The teams' No. 1 draft pick in 1997 will be a free agent at the end of the season, and it's debat­able whether New York will re­sign him after drafting Tim Carter in the second round this year. 
Hilliard had 27 catches for 386 yards and a team-high two TD receptions. Despite missing almost all of his rookie season after undergoing neck surgery, the former Florida product has 259 career catches for 21 touch­downs. The reception total is the ninth-most in team history. 
Hilliard was hurt in the third quarter of New York's 17-3 loss in Philadelphia when he was hit by Dawkins after a pass from Collins fell incomplete. 
Hilliard had stretched to reach the pass, and was unable to defend himself against the hit. 
After the game, Hilliard refused to talk about the hit. which left both players on the turf. Hilliard got up first and walked straight to the locker room. Dawkins walked to the bench and soon returned to the game. 
Ron Dixon, Carter and fellow rookie Daryl Jones will be used to replace Hilliard. 
Hilliard is the second starter lost in as many games. Defensive tackle Keith Hamilton was lost for the season with an Achilles' injury on Oct. 13. 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion 
(574) 674-0022 
Fax (574) 674-0033 ND themed baskets our sgecialty! 


BROADWAY THEATRE UAGUE
• 
OF SOUTH BEND, INC.

MUST END SUNDAYI 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Dodgers' Brian Jordan exercises right to demand a trade 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Brian Jordan, who hit .347 and had an NL•leading 30 RBIs in September to help keep Los Angeles in playoff contention until the season's final weekend, exercised his right Wednesday to demand a 
trade. 
"This is not an expression of anger or disenchantment with the organization," Jordan's agent, Jim Turner, said from his St. Louis office. "He thinks it's a great team with great management and field staff and three million good fans. "This is about what's impor• tant to him and his family." 
Turner spoke with Dodgers general manager Dan Evans about a contract extension last week and his request was denied. 
Jordan, who hit .285 with 18 homers and 80 RBIs in 128 games, was traded to the Dodgers by the Atlanta Braves last January with pitcher Odalis Perez and a minor league pitcher for outfielder Gary Sheffield. 

As a player traded in the middle of a multiyear contract, he is allowed to file a trade demand during the 15 days following the World Series. 
If no deal is reached by 
March 15 and Jordan does not 
rescind his request, he 
becomes a free agent and 
loses $11.5 million of guaran­
teed money. If he is traded, he 
loses three years of potential 
free agency. 
Most trade demands are 

rescinded by players before 
the deadline. 
Jordan, who turns 36 next 

March, is under contract for 
$9 million for next year and 
has a $10.5 million contract 
for the 2004 season that can 
be bought out for $2.5 million. 
"I don't have any problem with what he's doing whatso­ever," Evans said. "At the same time, I don't anticipate making any changes in his contract. We fully expect him to be our opening-day left fielder next season. 
"Our respect for Brian Jordan is huge. We love him on the field, we love him off the field. This doesn't change our feelings for him whatsoev­er. We understand it's his right. It doesn't mean anything has to come of this. He's doing what he has to do, it's a chess move for him." 
Jordan, hampered by injuries throughout his career. played a career-high 15 3 games with the Braves in 1999, when he hit .283 with 23 homers and a career-high 115 RBIs. He underwent surgery on his left knee Oct. 2 and is expected to be fully recovered before spring train• ing begins. 
Friday1 November 11 
Lafortune Ballroom Show starts at 8 pm Free 
... -" . . .. . . ... 
,. ... ~ .. ~ , ~ . 
. .. . . . . . 
~. ,: 
.. '1"'},. ~ 
-; .. 
. . 
. . 
... 



--~--~------------------------------------------­
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, October 31, 2002 



around the dial 
NBA 

Celtics at Wizards 7:30, 26 TNT 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Colorado State at Air Force 7:30 p.m., 21 ESPN 
NHL 

Coyotes at Flyers 7:30p.m., 39 ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press Jermaine O'Neal scored mild applause from the offense, our defense," he 
24 points and had 10 crowd at Conseco said. "We're happy with 
Yao Ming may stand 7 -rebounds and Ron Artest Fieldhouse, which was not him. It's going to take foot-6, but he's already added 20 points for a sellout. some time get acclimated." experiencing the growing Indiana, which overcame a "I didn't feel good to sit Francis, who was 13-of­pains most NBA rookies career-high 39 points from on the bench and watch 28 from the field and made do. Houston's Steve Francis. my teammates losing," Yao 12 of 14 free throws, 
Yao, the No. 1 overall Yao played only in the said. "Of course, I want to scored 10 points in the pick in the June 26 draft, second and fourth quar­contribute." fourth but couldn't get the failed to score, had two ters, turning the ball over Yao said he'd have to deficit under double fig­rebounds, was called for the first time he touched it keep reminding himself ures until the final minute. three fouls and made little when Jeff Foster stripped that he would make mis­He said Houston needed to impact for the Houston him of it, the first of his takes li~e any rookie and be patient with Yao's Rockets in a season-open­two turnovers. The Pacers still had to adjust to differ­progress. ing 91-82 loss to the led 71-62 at the start of ent rules and a faster "It's only his first game," Indiana Pacers on the fourth quarter when pace. he said. "He didn't play Wednesday night. Yao was reinserted for Coach Rudy Tomjanovich particularly well. 
"I learned that I still starting center Kelvin said it would take time for Sometimes that happens in have a lot to learn, and I'm Cato, who grabbed a Yao to get adjusted to new your first game. It's a just a rookie," Yao said career-high 17 rebounds. surroundings. learning tool for him and through an interpreter. Yao missed his only shot, "The guy's been here 10 also for us. We don't want "It's a very long road and a turnaround 12-footer days. He's just trying to get to focus on what one guy it's difficult." over Foster. He received acquainted with our did." 
IN BRIEF 

Allen and Tagliabue finalists because they finished in night in the hospital. nominated for Hall of the top six in last year's balloting The fine was announced after a Fame for induction. Stram is the nomi­league meeting at which commission­
Running back Marcus Allen and nee of a seniors committee. er Paul Tagliabue said the NFL will NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue The induction class will be decid­continue to take strong measures on were among 7 4 people nominated ed in a vote of the selection com­hard and high hits on quarterbacks 
Wednesday for induction into the mittee on Jan. 25, 2003, the day and receivers. Pro Football Hall of Fame. _ before the Super Bowl in San Woodson did not comment on the Allen is a first-time nominee, Diego. As many as seven and as fine, adding, "I can't change the way I joining running back Herschel few as four members will be was taught how to play." Walker, quarterback Boomer selected. He was fined $7,500 twice before Esiason, special teams player/wide Among the others on the list of this year for hits, one on Houston tight receiver Steve Tasker, tight end nominees are James Lofton, Art end Billy Miller and the other on Brent Jones, offensive lineman Monk, L.C. Greenwood, Harry Arizona quarterback Jake Plummer. Gary Zimmerman, defensive line­Carson, Donnie Shell. Lester Woodson hit Jackson high and hard man Richard Dent and linebacker Hayes, Ray Guy and Art Modell, all to the head in the fourth quarter Sam Mills. of whom were on last year's list of Sunday. He was penalized on the play, Twelve finalists will be deter­15 finalists. extending the drive that led to the 
mined in voting by the hall's board Seahawks' winning field goal in a 17­of electors. They will be joined by Woodson fined $75,000 14 victory. offensive lineman Bob Dallas Cowboys safety Darren Jackson collapsed in the locker 
Kuechenberg and coaches Bill Woodson was fined $75,000 by the room and had a seizure. He was hos­Parcells and Hank Stram. NFL on Wednesday for a hit on pitalized overnight in Dallas and Kuechenberg and Parcells are Seattle's Darrell Jackson, who had a released Monday. He is expected to be automatically included among the seizure after the game and spent a fine. 


Thursday, October 31, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Thomas 
continued from page 24 
were working out with some of the best guards in the country and it gave us great competi­tion." 
The Nike camp experience will benefit Thomas well this season. Not only will the Irish rely on the perimeter game more with the absence of established big men, but Thomas will be counted on to be a leader. 
Over the summer, Irish coach Mike Brey approached Thomas and told him to take on a more vocal leadership role -a role Thomas didn't have to adopt last year, with four upperclassmen in the starting lineup. 
The change wasn't tough for Thomas, who Brey expects to join seniors Matt Carroll, Dan Miller and junior Torrian Jones in filling the leadership 
said. "Last year, I took more of a more reserved role, and its not just going to be myself speaking, the cap­tains will too. I think the guys will respect me being m o r e vocal." 
The addition of freshman guard Chris Quinn could also mean a new role for Thomas on the court as well. Brey said he wants to tinker with the Irish lineup, meaning that 
"/ enjoy playing every minute ofthe game. but there were some times in the season where I hit a wall and1 don't expect to do that this year. I think it kind ofwore on me. especially at the end ofthe year.·· 
Chris Thomas Irish guard 
do that this year," Thomas 
said. "I think it kind of wore on 
me, especially at the end of the 
year." Thomas is eager to defer to 
his teammates and talk about team goals for the season, but he knows that his suc­cess last season means he enters this campaign as a marked man. It's a challenge he's more than willing to accept. "People are going to talk a lot more and say great things, but its not anything that I haven't had experi­ence with," he said. "It's a little bit more pressure because you're in a bigger spotlight, but I like it. I enjoy it, even though I feel like I'm disciplined enough to put out to the side and focus on our main goal." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at 

throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday lliring 
Live Music Fridays, 2 -6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers,Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages 60" Screen TV's 


Fully Enclosed Tent 631-2000 

www.themorrisinn.com 
year, where Thomas often played 40 min­utes a game and even played all 60 minutes of a quadruple-over­time victory 
o v e r Georgetown. 
"I enjoy play­ing every minute of the game, but there were some times in the sea­son where I hit a wall and I don't expect to celebration, the hoop-lah that was happening. But we know

Football 
that we have to play 60 min­continued from page 24 utes and this week we're defi­
nitely going to finish the game back and the Irish defense off strong." looked nothing like itself. If any member of the Irish 
"It was disappointing," team watches a replay of the defensive coordinator Kent 1993 Notre Dame-Boston Baer said. "I don't like finish­College game, he '11 get a ing that way, reminder of We 're a better what hap­
football team "It was disappointing. I pens when 
than that." don't like finishing that teams don't The defense finish
way. We ·re a better
has had as one they lose. 
of its main football team than that. " That's not goals this sea­something son to keep this team is
Kent Baer 
opponents willing to
Irish defensive coordinator
scoreless in the 
fourth quarter. 
The Irish allowed 14 points in 
exactly one minute against the 
Seminoles. 
"It's easy," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "It's part of the human shortcom­ing that we all have, if you're up 24 points with five minutes on the clock I would say it's reasonable to assume that you're going to win that foot­ball game. Therefore you're subject to slight letdowns. Our football team did that." 
This week, finishing for Notre Dame will be about more than just playing 60 minutes of football. It will be about finishing off a big upset against Florida State and not letting their focus down. It will be about not just playing foot­ball for 60 minutes, but play­ing good football for 60 min­utes. 
"Last week we were embar­r assed in the end," safety Glenn Earl said. "Guys kind of got ahead of themselves in the accept. 
"That just 
makes us 

realize that you can never set­
tle for mediocrity," Sapp said. 
"You just want to get better 
each week. We're kind of 
playing against ourselves." 
Last year's loss to Boston College is also a lesson in fin­ishing for the Irish. Notre Dame controlled all the statis­tical categories last year, but they still lost the game. This year, they'll use that as a reminder not to accept medi­ocrity. 
"Last year we started OK, but we didn't finish a champi­onship team," Sapp said. "This year the team does a better job of finishing games a lot better and that's kind of what we're working on -starting and finishing games really well." 
Come Saturday, the Irish will be looking to do just that. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
void created by the graduation of Ryan Humphrey, David Graves and Harold Swanagan. 
"I really enjoyed hearing that from coach," Thomas 
Quinn could give Thomas rest from point guard duties at times. 
The chance to get some rest would be a change from last 


VOLLEYBALL 
Irish come back to grab 3-1 victory over Illinois State 
ByMATILOZAR Sports Writer 
Comparing the hitting percent­ages for each individual game during Tuesday's night volley­ball match between Notre Dame and Illinois State accurately reveals the game's winner. 
Game one -the Irish hit .093, Redbirds hit .436 -game to the Redbirds. 
Game two -the Irish hit .310, Redbirds hit .089 -game to the Irish 
Game three -the Irish hit .458, Redbirds hit .241-game to the Irish. 
Game four -the Irish hit . 288, Redbirds hit .259 -game and match to the Irish. 
Notre Dame overcame a lack­luster start to defeat Illinois State 18-30, 30-19, 30-22 and 
FOOTBALL 
Back may retumsoon 
By JOE HETTLER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's last two victories against ranked opponents have come without running back Rashon Powers-Neal. 
Powers-Neal injured his leg during the Pittsburgh game and then re-aggravated the injury in practice the next week. He was disappointed that he couldn't play the last two weeks because the week before his injury, the running back gained over 100 yards against Stanford. 
"It's real disappointing right now," Powers-Neal said. ''I'm just trying to get back to where I was so I can contribute and help the team out." 
Although the leg is still sore, Powers-Neal said he is ready to play this week against Boston College. 
"I feel that if I'm needed I can be productive," Powers-Neal said. "If I have to go, I can go." 
Hildbold receives recognition 
Irish senior punter Joey Hildbold was named as a semifi­nalist for the Ray Guy Award given to the nations top punter. 
Hildbold averages 40.3 yards per punt this year and has pinned opponents inside the 20­yard line 22 times. His long is 53 yards and he has yet to be blocked this season. 
"Joey Hildbold is one of the best punters in the nation, although his average might not show it because he is such a team player and will sacrifice his numbers for the good of the team," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
Faine brings the pain 
Notre Dame center Jeff Faine was named as a semifinalist for the 2002 Rotary Lombardi Award. 
Faine joins three Miami Hurricanes on a list that includes Maryland's E.J. Henderson, who the Irish faced in their first game. 
Faine has started 30 straight games for Notre Dame and has played through numerous injuries to stay in the line-up. He was a game day captain against Maryland, Michigan, Stanford and Florida State. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
30-28 for its third consecutive with 18 digs. four-game victory. Senior outside 
"I think we had a slow start," Jones led the freshman Lauren Kelbley said. Redbirds with "We had been working on trying 16 kills and to come out strong and we also had 10 didn't do that. We picked it up digs. As a well and came back. We could team, the have played better. but we got Redbirds had the job done." 15 service 
Middle blockers Lauren errors. Brewster and Kelbley each had The Redbirds a big night for the Irish. came out firing Brewster, the reigning Big East in game one by Rookie of the Week, had 13 kills, taking an early a game-high .476 hitting per­12-8 lead. centage, six digs and two blocks. After Irish Kelbley recorded team-best coach Debbie totals with 15 kills and five Brown tried to blocks for the Irish . slow down the 
Outside hitter Jessica Kinder Redbirds with 
filled out the box score with 12 a timeout, the hosts only got hot­kills. 16 digs, two blocks and ter. three aces off her jump serve. Illinois State went on an 11-2 Keara Coughlin led the Irish run that included seven kills to 
p: 
t::::::t:•:·:·::.:.;.:· 

win game one. hitter Erin The Irish turned the match 
"/ think we had a slow start. We had been working on trying to come out strong and we didn't do that. We picked it up well and came back. We could have played better, but we got the job done." 
Lauren Kelbley Irish volleyball player 
passing and mostly serving," Kelbley said. "We picked up our serving in the second game and that was the difference." 
around in game two with their own run. Outside hitter Emily Loomis had three kills and an ace in a 10-4 run that gave the Irish a 20-12 lead they wouldn't surrender. The improved play for the 
Irish  came  
down  to  the  
basics.  
"It  was  

Illinois State gave away game three with eight service errors. Notre Dame formed a 15-8 advantage and cruised to the eight-point game three victory. 
The Redbirds put up a fight in game four as no team had more than a three-point cushion in the heated battle. 
Down 20-18, the Irish cut the Redbird lead to 23-22 before taking control of the match. Kelbley had two kills in a three point run that put the Irish up 25-23. 
After a timeout, the Redbirds pulled within one at 27-26. However, middle blocker Katie Neff ended the match five points later with her 10th kill of the match. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

9 p.m. Saturday night. Your plans have changed three times in the last half hour. 
SPEAKER PHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL' INSTANT MESSENGER'" service lWO·WAY MESSAGING 
JAVA'" GAMES & APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 
i'fOc 
-roJ."'y ½-he J.i~it-"'1 ""'"'lkie+"'l~ie 
wov~s cvev sevev"'l hl.\\\J.veJ. 1Miles. A"'"'-toiMOYYOw, "'"'Ho\\wiJ.e. 
.JL NEXIEl 

MM ,:,:,: ., .,,..:t,-'%-. . . . . . ... ·. . . . . ·. . . 
'(ov.. \\evev 1Mlss "'"ythi\\t,i why s½-"'v+ \\Ow? Ne,c½-e\'s Ai:,lt"'l w"'l\:.ie-½-"'\\:.le .Pe"'tv..ve lets yol.\ ~e½-vi~hi--thvov..8h wii--h the fl.\Sh 
o.P "' t>L\H-0\\. Th<'\.r ""'e"'\\S \\0 \MlSSeA c"'lls, 
L\\\chec\:.eA voice !Me'\n OV' pho\\e t"'~· 'C"'v..se who h"'s +ilMe .Pov t'\n i--ht'l.t whe\\ yov.. Ct'\\\1T' eve\\ AeciAe wh"'i--i--o we"'v? Now yov..'ve veAAy -Bvi\\8 It. :ti::~: 
!~~~~:~~ 

Now's "' ~ve"'t ti1Me to ~et Ne,ctel: "'n Nohe Doi.iMe stv.J.e\\ts ~et t'\ Io;(•~iSC<'l.\\\i-0\\ "'"Y Vt'\i-e plt'I.\\ "'"J.$loo• c,.P.,P t'I.\\Y pho\\e. 
'To bv.y: 
1 ~c tc \\e,ctel.cc~visl-\-st"<:Ae\\t. 1 CC\ll tc\l~vee 1-877-5"0'-2.12.,. 
•:~~°'.tid~-~t>~~"'"'""ic~Ho-.s 
. • . lo\i.tt-sh0w v ....1\.1. 1:il-wle., .. It> o-r ~is M 1-o veceive .Aisco\<,.... . ·. • • · .. ·.· . ·. . • . • ~:~~:::-===-~::: 
t~:~:imit 



Thursday, October 31, 2002 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
YEAPE 
I rJ 
02002 Tribune Media Servic98. Inc. Alt Aighta Fleae,ved. 
VOARS 



INGALD 

www.jumble.com
IFEWURC 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I rJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: 
IT 
r x x JA "( x x x J" 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: AGILE PAPER SCROLL CALIPH Answer: What the cruise liner turned into when they were overcharged-A "CLIPPER" SHIP 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 28 • To order, send your name, •ddreaa and $5.115 and maka check peyable to Tribune Media Servlcea. P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 80680-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 40 Evidence of a DOWN 1 Draw shooting 1 Relative of 8 Blinking light, 42 Robert Morse "voila" 
maybe theater role 2 Name 15 Kind of calendar 43 New arrival associated with with 18 months crocodiles
45 Goddess whose 16 Georgia children were 3 European hot neighbor swallowed by spot 17 "Relax!" Cronus 4 Deteriorate 18 Classic sci-fi 46 Beauty 5 From left to 
story, with "The" 47 It tops a queen right: Abbr. 19 Purim time 48 Goals, e.g.: 6 Actress Thomas 20 First dog in Abbr. of "That Girl" 
space 49 Clumps 7 Grammy winner 22 Children's for "A Day
51 Praised name

author Ennis Without Rain"
53 Social event

23 West Coast air 8 Went on strike
54 Gobs

hub, for short 9 Cacophonous
57 Shakespearean

25 Medical manual 1oApt. parts
title starter
maker 

11 Regular
59 Swinging

27 Person with a 
national
Sammy

mike programming
63 Home of the

30 Polit. label 
12 Reference
Star-Telegram

31 Charles_ preceder65 Some parasites 
35 Top of a dial 13 Christie setting 
67 Rocket launcher 

36 Pedestal part 14 Wanders 38 Reveal 68 Erupt 21 "Wayne's 
39 Adroit 69 Old fogies 
World" beginning? 70 Tars catchphrase 24 Architecture ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE style of 200 years ago 
-,,,,+..,,.+....+,.,..._,,,,.._,,,-1 26 "Sex and the 
life

City" author symbols
55 Exactly

Bushnell 48 Former Turkish 
64 Baseball's

--+___.... 27 Darryl V.I.P.'s 56 Pasta used in 
soups Maris, for short

Strawberry or 50 Discussion Rusty Staub conclusion 58lces 66 Minor-league _.,.....-c 28 Big East team ~~::+'!'-+:-:-~t-=-t 29 Lashes 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone ....+-+-+-+-+--,+,""' 30 First name in phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. despotism 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 32 Free crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . ......,..,....,.,......,....,,e-1 33 Broadcast Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 --t-+-+-+-+-+-+-"!"-4 34 Housing past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). problem Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, _.........__.__, 37 Can nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Jane Pauley, Dan Rather, Deidre Hall, Lynda Goodfriend Happy Birthday: Focus on your personal life this year. Make things right once and for all. Sort through problems that have plagued you for some time. This can be an exciting and prosperous year for you, but first you must let go of the past. This is not the year to sit on the sidelines waiting for things to tum around. Take action and make things happen. Your numbers are I, 4, 20, 26,32, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can make lucrative investments today. If you get involved in seminars or self-improvement projects; you may run into someone from your past. This might be just the connection you need at this 
time.*** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't overspend on luxury items for your home, Don't react too quickly if someone you live with is hard to get along with, Do your own thing and give them space. *-lrlr-** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have problems with foreigners. Try to avoid arguments with colleagues or employers. Tension will be stressful, so try to silly out of volatile situations. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make major accomplishments at work. Present your ideas and don't be afraid to disagree with opposition. You've done your homework; proceed with confidence. Entertain potential clients. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be overly emotional. Try to spend time with a good friend. You just aren't thinking clearly when it comes to your love life. Step back and gain some perspective Oil the situation, *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work at home if possible. You will not get along with colleagues or employers today. Your ability to see flaws in their_ work will only make matters worse. Concentrate on your own projects and 
workload. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get involved in debates that could lead to wiemployment. Try to be diplomatic regardless of what is said. Work in large groups where you can hide in the crowd. Being invisible today is an 
asset.*** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Criticism has never been easy for you to swallow. This is the time for you to remain calm and ignore ii. Be prepared to have someone qJpOSC your objectives. Don't retaliate. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Promote your ideas and enlist the support and help from those you encow1ter. You will be successful in your endeavors. Argu~nts with past lovers may be disturbing. *** . CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Family members may present you with difficulties. Don't take the brunt of the responsibilitY.; make sure that your siblings share in sorting out the dilemma. Gather family members together to 
deal with this siruatioo. ***** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tum your stress into passion. Think about what you love and turn ii into an outlet for your excess energy. You can please your mate by showing affection Wld letting little annoyances sl_ip by: *** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marc:h 20): You may find that co-workers will twist your words arOW1d. Don't involve yourself in gossip. The less you say, the better. 
Work quietly on your own. **** 
Birthday Baby: You will be intent on doing things right throughout your life. Your perfectionist quality will put you ahead of the crowd. You will use your vision and your charm to get the help you need. You will always want to be in control. 
Oicck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvicc.com. eugenialast.com. astromatc.com . COPYRIGI-IT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name -----------------------------­Address------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 



Thursday, October 31, 2002 

--------=-=--=--=--=--=-=-=-=--=-=-=-=-=-=--=--=--=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=---_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-________________________________________________________________________:._________________________-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_=:.._=:...=:...=:...=:...=:...=:...=:_= 
FOOTBALL 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Starting and finishing, that's what it's all about this week for the Irish. 
Starting as the underdog and finishing on top. Starting the game with a small lead and ending with a big lead. 
Starting and finishing. 
"(Our goal] is just finishing," safety Gerome Sapp said. 'Starting and finishing... 
The Irish have been within one score of their opponents in the fourth quarter in six of their last eight games. So play­ing with a 24-point lead with five minutes remaining was something of a new experience for the defense. 
It showed in their play. 
With 1:12 remaining in the game, Florida State scored two touchdowns and recov­ered two onsides kicks. Despite the fact that the Irish still finished the game with a 10-point victory, some mem­bers of the Irish defense feel differently. 
"I myself was disappointed with the way the game ended Saturday," Sapp said. "I almost felt like we lost the game." 
The Irish defense, which has been a strength this season, showed what it could do against Florida State for the first 58 minutes of Saturday's football game. Notre Dame held the Seminoles to 93 rush­ing yards, forced two fumbles and intercepted Chris Rix 

'· twice. As time ticked off the
I 
I clock, victory was all but guar­anteed. But in the final minutes, Seminole head coach Bobby Bowden sent in a new quarter-
see FOOTBALL/page 21 

Fighting to finish 

MENS BASKETBALL 

Thomas focuses on the season ahead at Notre Dame 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 

i! 
The questions swirled around 

! 
Chris Thomas over the summer. Questions about his future 
and how long he would stay 

with the Irish. Questions about 
! " his plans for the NBA. Questions that Thomas ignored. 
"It's not tough for me. and I don't even think about it now," the sophomore point guard said. 'Tm just focusing on the season, that's how I'm going to be." 
Yet Thomas can understand all the attention surrounding him and the Irish, especially fol­lowing his sensational freshman season. After helping the Irish reach the NCAA Tournament for the second straight season and earning Big East Rookie of the Year honors, Thomas is anxious for the new season to start. The Irish play their first exhibition of the season Friday. 

Part of Thomas' enthusiasm has to do with how he spent his summer. In addition to staying 

l BASKETBALL Thomas plans for the future 
Notre Dame's Chris Thomas faces J 
questions surrounding his future
't'. 
l 
'1: after a stellar freshman year, but·~ Thomas chooses to focus on the sea­son ahead. 
back page 

'{' ' ' 
I 
•,'
L 
Starting and finishing 
Notre Dame's defense struggled to finish the game against Florida State University, but looks to fix that against Boston College. 
back page 
FOOTBALL 

on campus with the rest of the team, Thomas attended the prestigious Nike basketball camp as a counselor -a role he dreamed of being in after participating in the came as a high school student. 
At the Nike camp, Thomas competed against top college guards like Arizona's Jason Gardner and Xavier's David 
West -something he feels helped him improve over the summer. 
"Back then, I went and always looked up to the college coaches and always wanted to be considered among the elite college players," Thomas said. "It was a great experience. We 
see THOMAS/page 21 
Powers-Neal could play 
Running back Rashon Powers­Neal may return on Saturday fol­
lowing  an  injury during  the  
Pittsburgh game.  
page 22  

VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame 3 Illinois State 1 
The Irish came back from a first-game loss to top Illinois State in the next three games. 
page 22 






