

T-STORMS 
HIGH 67° LOW37° 

By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame Security/Police are investigating an alleged assault of a male Notre Dame student by another male stu­dent, which occurred earlv Saturday morning in Keenan Hall. 
According to Charles Hurley, NDSP assistant director, a St. Edward's Hall resident was on the fourth floor of Keenan when a Keenan resident threatened the victim while holding a weapon that Hurley would not identify. In an interview Tuesday with The Observer, the St. Edward's man alleged the incident occurred in a hallway and the weapon was a butterfly knife. 
"Apparently, there was a statement made [by the suspect] that made the victim feel like there would be physical vio­lence. There was contact between the suspect and the victim, and a weapon was seen in the hands of the suspect," said Hurley. 
The alleged victim told The Observer that he was visiting friends in Keenan. At about 
1:25 a.m., he said he left the room with a basketball in his 
,-.--------------.,..;:------------~-----------'------=---.;;;.~~,...------­
Farewell to the college years 
In his final column, senior Joe Larson looks back on four quality years of membership to the "idiocracy" before taking the mark of Notre Dame with him after graduation. 
Viewpoint . page 8 


THE 
hand to pick up a pizza. At that time, a resident of the room he was visiting followed him into the hallway and threw a football at him. 
"I thought he was messing around. Then he came at me like he wanted to tackle me .... I tried to just hold him without any other scuffle," the man said. 
When the suspect stopped flailing, the alleged victim said he let go of him and backed away toward the stairwell. When he was about eight feet from the suspect, the man said the suspect pulled out the knife and moved toward him. 
Two of the alleged victim's friends, who live in the room where the suspect resides, were in the hallway at the time, the man claimed. As he backed away from the suspect, the alleged victim said the suspect moved closer, until the alleged victim had backed up into the radiator at the end of the hall­way and the suspect was a foot in front of him. 
"I just said 'We're cool, We're cool' and told him he could have whatever he wanted, and threw my $20 for the pizza down at him. Eventually, I think he understood that he had the upper hand and left and went 
=---------------¦ 

Wednesday 
APRIL 24, 
2002 

into a room," the man said. 
He said he then left the dorm after speaking with a Keenan resident assistant. He did not know what caused the incident but speculated that the suspect may have been agitated about him removing the basketball from the room. 
Hurley said the alleged assault was reported to a Notre Dame Security/Police officer who was already in the building investigating an unrelated report of an intoxicated woman who had entered the dorm. That officer and other officers 
see ASSAULT/page 4 

Buffett informs, entertains with life anecdotes 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
Warren Buffett. world­renown businessman and investor, talked to more than 2,000 members of the Notre Dame community in the Joyce Center Tuesday about the characteristics he values in people and companies -and combine lecture and Q-&-A session, dubbed, "A Conversation with Warren Buffett" and sponsored by Mendoza. 
"I think just getting to talk to Warren Buffett would have made it all worth it," Mendoza said of the auction. 
After Tuesday morning, Mendoza was not the only one to have experienced that privi­lege. Buffett took questions from audience members for more than an hour but focused mainly, not on corporate investment strategy or Wall Street reports, but instead on the qualities he looks for in people. 
"I look for three things: brains, energy and integrity," said Buffett. "I don't think you can rate everybody on how classy they are from zero to 100, but you can spot the zeros and the 100s. 
"Good people really behave like you're taught to here at ND, like you're in the other person's shoes." 
Buffett also stressed the importance of taking care of vourself. · "You get one body and one mind, but you only get one and have to take care of it early on," he said. "Be the person you want to be early in life." 
The questions from the audi­ence, however, were more financially focused. Buffett described the importance of an "enduring competitive advantage" and "share of mind" when considering investments. He said "share of mind" is when consumers automatically associate posi­tive images with a product. 
"Businesses arc always look­ing for something to set them apart so that price doesn't rule [consumers'] decisions," Buffett said. 
see BUFFETT/page 6 



Students to continue service at orphanage 
ByJOHN FANNING 
News Writer 
In September, four graduat­ing Notre Dame students will embark on a 27 -month mission trip to Trujillo, Honduras. 
Current Notre Dame seniors and fifth-year students Michael Makens, Christopher Bystedt, Nicholas Fonte and Andrea Mechenbier will be spending 2 1/2 years of their lives at the Farm of the Child Orphanage in Honduras, which provides schooling, medical care, social outreach and a faith community for more than 60 children between ages two and 15. 
The Farm of the Child Orphanage was founded in Honduras in the early 1990s by Notre Dame alumnus Felicia Johnson, who had visit­ed the area after graduating. 
While Johnson was doing service work in the Central American country, the founder of the original Farm of the Child Orphanage in Guatemala died in a plane crash and Johnson decided to keep the dream alive by continuing the tradition of service in Honduras. 
Since then, there has been a strong connection between the orphanage and Notre pame, as many students have each dedi­cated several months or years of their lives to the community there. 
see SERVICE/page 4 

the day he caddied for Tiger . Woods and Tom Mendoza, chief donor to Notre Dame's College of Business. 
Buffett said he lost a $5 bet to Woods on the 18th hole when Woods hit a 260-yard drive on his knees. 
"But I had to remind him that the caddy gets 10 percent of the winnings," Buffett joked. 
The trio ended up golfing when Mendoza placed the highest bid on a game with Woods at a charity auction. When bidding became extremely high, Buffett offered his services to the package for fun. A picture of all three men on the golf course, Buffett sporting a caddy's uniform, was featured on the back of the brochure distributed at the 

Businessman Warren Buffett charms a crowd of more than 2000 In the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, imparting worthwhile lessons in business and life during a lecture Tuesday morning. 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVI NO. 136 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 




Police investigate alleged knife assault 
-----,.-------------~~----~-~ 
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

In their elentent 
What do you get when you take a cold, South Bend spring afternoon, lots of pieces of obsidian, a big white tent, two barrel grills, a goat, a lamb and about 100 Notre Dame students and professors bearing exot­ic dishes? You get an Anthropology Goat Roast! 
This annual event is the 
perfect socio-cultural Mecca to observe just how people (and anthropolo­gists, in particular) inter­act with each other. While you might be thinking I'm just a little out of my mind, think about what it is to be an anthropologist. 

Our primary goal is to Angela Campos observe and take note of people. I guess you could call us "people-watchers," Lab Tech but that's such a limiting and stereotypical frame for describing and deci­phering this rich, ritual setting. 
Anthropology addresses the fundamental questions of human distinctiveness and embraces the full diversity of peoples and cultures. To put it in common speech, we (anthropologists) like to look at groups of people and see how they interact. Now, back to the goat roast. 
Looking at the 100 or so students and pro­fessors, we can break them up into three groups. Group one worked with the obsidian to learn how to make stone tools. These people wore protective eyewear and cloth­ing. They were inside carefully knapping away at the obsidian with hammerstones. 
Group two helped cook and prepare the food. Some woke early to make the food the morning of the event. Others brought food they cooked the night before. The food ranged from chili soup, salads and barbe­qued goat to a large number of desserts. They wore warm clothing and congregated under the white tent next to the rectangular tables where their food offerings were being kept and the round tables where there were several seats. 
Group three were the people that attended the ritual food offering, taking a couple hours out of their afternoon to trek out to the Reyniers Life Annex and partake in con­suming the work of those who pre.pared the food offering. They, too, wore warm cloth­ing, and they milled about the tent, convers­ing in small groups. 
Now, before you think that these groups are defined by solid boundaries, some peo­ple in each group participated in the activi­ties defined by other groups. These cross­ings of boundaries show on a small scale just how diverse we are. Some people only ate salad while others ate primarily meat (mmm ribs) and there were several who ate a mix. There are some people got into the making stone tools, sitting around a wise elder and watching as he demonstrated technique, and others just watched. Some people skewered, grilled, cleaned-up. Some people just mooched. 
Take that frame structure, and apply it to Notre Dame or a bigger community. The types apply.-There are people who work, teach, learn, help, and mooch. 
As for the Anthropology Goat Roast, it was a lot of fun, a lot of good food and lots of people getting to know each other and anthropology. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
In the April 23 issue The Observer misspelled Warren Buffctt's last name in the headline and caption. The Observer regrets the error. The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and mives for the highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please concacr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Ob~rver is a member of the Assoaated Pres•. All reproduction rigbu arc reserved. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
"I . Lecture: "Women's Voices and  . SMC Tostal: Saint Mary's Library  . Lecture: "Journey of the Soul,"  
Representations," O'Shaughnessy  Green, 3 p.m.  Doris Klein, watercolor artist, Lillie  
Hall, Room 109, noon.  . Lecture: "Surprise Twists in a  O'Grady Center, Saint Mary's  
. Faculty Assembly: Stapleton  Career Path," Margaret Crahan,  College, 7:30 p.m.  
Lounge, Saint Mary's, 12-1 p.m.  Hunter College, O'Shaughnessy  . Opera: "The Magic Flute,"  
Hall, Room 242, 5 p.m.  Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Syracuse student bashes commencement speaker 
SYRACUSE. New York 
Operations and Cabinet, which will 
Student Association President Colin recommend changes to the resolution. Seale gave an impassioned speech at Cabinet has the power to keep the bill the SA meeting Monday about from coming up for a vote. Syracuse University's decision to "Some language will probably be invite former New York Mayor Rudy toned down," Parliamentarian Giuliani as commencement speaker. Andrew Thomson said. "That's what 
"What's happening this year at com­happens in committee." mencement can never be allowed to The resolution states, among other happen again," Seale said, drawing things, that Giuliani's "policies to applause from much of the Assembly. Seale read a partial list of victims improve the 'quality of life' for New 
Seale acknowledged Giuliani had killed and said the NYPD racially pro­York included arresting homeless peo­done some noteworthy things while in filed residents. ple found on the street," and he office, including reducing crime and "I myself was racially profiled on my "sought to undermine the First cleaning up Times Square. But Seale bike coming home from Brooklyn," Amendment by arresting artists and noted Adolf Hitler was an effective said Seale, a sophomore computer sci­threatening to end public funding for leader as well and criticized Giuliani ence major. "I was very scared." museums with provocative artwork." for "terrorizing the homeless" and At the end of the two-hour session, a In 1999 Giuliani caused a flap when supporting a New York Police resolution, "No Giuliani at commence­he criticized and threatened to pull Department that accidentally killed ment," was brought up. It was auto­funding from "Sensation," a tax-fund­some minority individuals during matically referred to the ed exhibit in the Brooklyn Museum. 
Giuliani's eight-year term as mayor. Committee on 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
More meningitis appears on campus 
MADISON, Wis. 
A University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire student died from bacterial meningococcal disease and a UW­Whitewater student has contracted the potentially deadly disease, officials said Monday. The cases come on the heels of a UW-Madison student's bout with the infection and are causing statewide concern about prevention and treatment of the sudden, often fatal ill­ness. UW-Madison freshman Kelly Steinborn is being treated for the disease after weeks of fever and vomit­ing. As of Sunday, her condition was serious. Her cur­rent condition is unknown. Sean Coleman, a sopho­more computer science major at UW-Eau Claire, died Sunday after falling ill with flu-like symptoms on Saturday. The residents in his dorm and those who were in contact with Coleman were immunized as a precaution against the disease. Coleman is the second UW-Eau Claire student to die from bacterial meningo­coccal disease this academic year. 
Badger Herald 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

~,~,~~~~ ~  ~ ~  
Shawers T-storms Rain  FltJrries  Snow  tea  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via AlaOCiated Praa GraphicsNSl  

The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, April 24, 2002
• 

Administrative Daily Oracle 
NYU 

DVD texts make lukewarm debut 
NEW YORK 
One year after the New York University College of Dentistry announced new students would be required to purchase a DVD that replaces all textbooks, students and faculty have received the new technology with mixed feelings. The DVD, known as the Vital Book, contains a student's entire four-year curriculum, including 161 text­books, course syllabi, handouts, lecture notes, slide pre­sentations, video clips, a clinic manual, internally created material and other reference materials. The material is searchable, giving users the opportunity to research effi­ciently. Last year students and faculty protested the DVD because it was supposed to expire after each semester; however, now the DVD does not expire, and students can keep at least half of the information for life. Still, students said they do not always need textbooks for class, and the cost of the DVD, about $1,200 per year, is automatically added to students' tuition, giving them no alternative but to buy the DVD. 
Washington Square News 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 24. 
FRONTS: 


....... .A-&. ......... 
cot.D WARM STAnONARY
0 2002 AccuWeather 1nc. 

@'© . LE] ITil ~ ~ ~ (J ~0 4.~, 
High Low Sh01weu Rain T-atorm• Flurrt.a Snow lo• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via AS£0Clatud PrJJss 


Are vou in need of a studvdavil 

Reply to e-mail titled ''Study Day'' issued by 
Fill out the survey available in the Dining Hall 
SAC Wednesday, April 24 or Thursday, April 25 at the SMC Tostal. 
Sponsored by Saint Mary's College Student Government Association. 


Professor publishes book 
on literacy instruction 
Special to the Observer 
A revised and updated second edition of "Reading Instruction That Works: The Case for Balanced Teaching," a book examining litera­cy instruction by University of Notre Dame psychologist G. Michael Pressley, has been pub­lished by Guilford Publications. Inc. 
The revised text "This book should 
includes new data, 
serve as the core text

information and 
resources that for any foundations of strengthen the reading course." 
utility of the book. in which Pressley 
Elizabeth English

examines how the combination of Fairfax County Schools both skills-empha­early literacy specialist
sis and whole-lan­guage approaches creates effective reading instruction. He incorpo­rates findings from reports by the National Reading Panel and the National Research Council, as well as his own ongoing research. Topics covered include whole-lan­guage and skills instruction, how the balanced approach is applied in real classrooms and motivational issues. 
"The second edition incorporates the significant research conducted within the last five years on the importance of teacher-directed instruction in the areas of phone­mic awareness, phonics and com­prehension," said Elizabeth English, early literacy specialist for Fairfax County Schools in Virginia. "This book should serve as the core text for any foundations of reading 
course." 

earned his doctorate from the University of Minnesota. 
Presslcy's academic specialties include the characteristics of effec­tive reading instruction and how high school and college students confront and accomplish the acade­mic demands made on them. 
In addition to "Reading Instruction That Works," Pressley is a coeditor of "Best Practices in Literacy Instruction." 
A professor of psy­chology, Pressley holds the Notre Dame Chair in Catholic Education and is director of the master's of educa­tion program at the University and edi­tor of the Journal of Educational Psychology. A grad­uate of Northwestern University, he 

Wednesday, April 24, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
READY FOR THE SUN 
Anticipating warmer weather, Keough Hall sophomore Brian Adams swings and watches the ball sail over South Quad in a game of baseball Tuesday afternoon. 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 24, 2002 
Service 
continued from page l 
According to Makens. the group has made a commitment to service under the pillars of community, spirituality, ser­Whatever the need of the com­munity is will be our utmost priority." 

The group's experience-, however, begins long befort!' they depart for Honduras. After applying and committing to the program, each member is responsible for raising 
vice and sim­ple living and will be join­ing two Franciscan nuns and about a dozen other volunteers who are cur­rently run­ning the orphanage. 
"We won't know what 
around $10,000 in "We're all going down there order to 
with open hearts and cover their 
living and
empty hands, ready to 

travel serve. Whatever the need of expenses 
the community is will be for the 
next 2 1/2
our utmost priority. " 

years. In addi­Michael Makens tion to donations
Notre Dame senior 

from alum­ni who 
we are going to be doing until we get there," Makens said. "We're all going down there with open hearts and empty hands, ready to serve. 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
searching for the drunk woman identified the suspect and brought him to the Security Building for questioning. 
According to Hurley, the sus­pect was advised of his Miranda rights and interviewed by the officers who found him in the dorm. The suspect did not request a lawyer, and Hurley said that alcohol did not appear to be a factor in the incident. When the officers finished ques­tioning the suspect, Keenan Hall staff was informed, and he was returned to the dorm. 
"The officers were confident there was no threat at that point, and the suspect was returned to his dorm," said Hurley. 
The alleged victim said that officers came to his dorm room about an hour after the incident to take a statement. 
The suspect did not return a voicemail message Tuesday. 
Keenan rector Father Gary Chamberland said in a silent voicemail message to The Observer that he was "not going have been involved with the program in the past ~,.who would like to help the cause, the group has also planned an upcoming concert to raise 
to have any comment on any aspect of what happened." 
Hurley said the case has been turned over to an investigator, and the alleged victim will have to decide if he wishes to press charges against the suspect. If he opts to press charges, the case will be turned over to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor's Office, who will decide whether or not to prosecute the suspect. 
Regardless of potential crimi­nal charges, Hurley said that the case will be turned over to the Office of Residence Life and Housing for possible discipli­nary action against the suspect. 
The alleged victim said he likely will not press charges against the suspect. 
"Nothing happened to me physically. ResLife handles other smaller things in big ways, so they certainly can han­dle this," he said. 
Hurley called such reports of assault at Notre Dame "very, very, very rare." 
"This type of conduct is not tolerated," Hurley said. "Most of our students know this. This type of conduct is very rare." 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer@nd.edu. 

What Will Make You Happy? 
Religious life... Worth exploring! 
For more information, contact; 


Sr. Elyse Marie Ramirez, OP 
Vocation Director DOMINICAN SISTERS OF SPRINGFIELD 

Pho  ..Q48\  
j,fAX  69,  
'  .123  s  roe  '  

Springfield, IIY 62704 e-mail:..SEMRamirez@spd6m.org website: www.springfieldop.org 

money for the trip. 
"Konccrt for the Kids" will take place Friday on North Quad from 9 p.m. lO midnight. Featured in the event will be performing artists the Undertones, Wild Bill's Bluegrass Brigade, Danielle Rose Skorich, Emmeline Schoen, Michael Makens and "Notre Dame's only Drum Circle." 
While admission is free, all donations made will go toward helping the four volunteers prepare for their experience. 
Those who cannot attend the event but who would like to make a donation to the project, can send checks payable to Farm of the Child, c/o Julie Zackrisson, 2616 Cardinal Ridge Rd., Charlottesville, Va. 22901 

Makens, however, said donating money is not the only way to participate in the pro­ject, noting that many students have actually volunteered their summers to working at the orphanage. 
Any student who is interest­ed in the possibility of doing summer service work at the Farm of the Child should con­tact Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. 
"We're all called to serve others," Makens said. "It doesn't matter what we do, where we are or what lan­guage to speak. In the words of Mother Theresa, 'We are here to love or be loved.• Whether at a small orphanage in Honduras or a small campus in Indiana, we can all respond to that call." 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu. 

PARK JEFFERSON APARTMENTS LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION! 
-Now accepting deposits for 1 & 2 bedroom apartments -Spacious apartments with two full baths -Rents starting at ~466.00 per month -Located on bus line -Within minutes from the University & shopping -Ask about our rent specials! -Come in now to reserve for next school year! 
Park Jefferson Apartments 3001 E. Jeffersbn Blvd. South Bend, IN 46615 574-232-3333 
www.parkjefferson.com 

*Presidential* PassinReview 
Wednesdav, April 24th 4:30 pm in lottos 
JointROTCpaystribute tothe University ofNotreDameandReviewingOfficer 
Rev. Edward A. Mallov, csc 

ATION 
Wednesday, April 24, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
French rightist voted for run-off: 
The strong showing by far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen in the presidential quali­fying round came as a shock to many French Jews in a country where authorities say anti-Semitic attacks arc at their highest level since World War II. Le Pen unexpect­edly placed second and advanced to a runoff against incumbent Jacques Chirac, 
Iran hails U.N. ranking decision: A decision by the top U.N. human rights watch­dog to drop Iran from its list of worst offenders was a ··great victory" for the Islamic republic, a senior Iranian official said Tuesday. lly a vote of 20-19, the U.N. Human Rights Commission threw out a resolution criticizing violations in Iran on Monday. effectively ending two decades of special scrutiny into the nation. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Mass. House passes clergy sex bill: The state House approved a compromise bill Tuesday requiring clergy to report sexual abuse of children except when the informa­tion surfaces during confession or a similar confidential religious consultation. The Senate is now expected to take up the bill late this week or early next. Clergy have been exempt from the mandatory reporting law that applies to teachers, social workers, physi­cians, foster parents, police officers, firefight­ers and other professionals. 
Colo. man charged for sexual assults: 
An Air Force airman was arrested Tuesday in a string of six sexual assaults in this college town last summer and has also come under suspicion in a slaying and a series of rapes in Philadelphia, police said. Senior Airman Troy Graves, 29, was jailed on $1 million bail after turning himself in. He listed a Fort Collins address, but has been stationed since 2000 about 40 miles away. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Matheney may receive new trial: 
Indiana death row inmate Alan Matheney could get a new trial after a U.S. Supreme Court ruling Monday, Gannett News Service reported. According to a Gannett story filed from Washington, D.C., the high court cleared the way for a hearing to determine whether Matheney was competent when he faced trial in 1990 in the murder of his ex-wife, Lisa Bianco of Mishawaka. Bianco was killed while Matheney was on an eight-hour pass from the state correction facility in Pendleton. Ind., where he was serving an eight-year term for battery for beating Bianco. 
Dow 
10,089.24 -47.19 

Jones 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) -14.96 -0.60 3.41 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +2.19 +0.19 8.85 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -5.78 -0.86 14.01 ERICSSON (ERICY) -1.73 -0.58 33.01 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -9.12 -0.25 2.49 
Associated Press 
MONTEVIDEO 

Uruguay's president announced Tuesday that his country was break­ing diplomatic ties with Cuba, days after Uruguay sponsored a U.N. human rights vote targeting Fidel Castro's government. 
The surprise announcement by President Jorge Batlle came as the Uruguayan leader charged Cuba with a series of insults against his small South American nation. 
Uruguay sponsored a resolution targeting Cuba that was passed Friday by the U.N. Human Rights 

Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Three passengers were killed and at least 253 people were injured today near Los Angeles when a commuter train and a freight train on the same tracks crashed during rush hour, officials said. 
Shortly after 8 a.m. Pacific Standard Time, the mile-long freight train, which is owned by Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway, was traveling north on the when it rammed head on into a southbound Metrolink commuter train. 
Two of the passenger trains' three cars were 
derailed in the collision. Officials said they did not know how the trains wound up on the same tracks. Sharon Gavin, a spokesperson for Metrolink, said the com­muter train-Metrolink Train 809 -was traveling along its normal route, heading south from Riverside County to San Juan Capistrano, when the accident occurred. 
Ms. Gavin said the train was running with the loco­motive at the rear of the last passenger car and the engineer operating the train from controls at the front of the first passenger car. The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating the accident, Ms. Gavin said. 
Each car of the com­muter train had 148 seats and officials estimated that more than 300 pas­sengers were on board this morning. The train was about three minutes outside of the Anaheim Canyon station -about 35 miles southeast of Los Angeles -when the acci­dent occurred. 
Emergency personnel treated 162 people at the scene, Steve Miller, a spokesman for the Orange County Fire Department said. He said he could not account for the medical condition of people who may have been injured but left the area on their own. 
The Associated Press and other media reports, citing estimates from other officials, said that as many as 270 people might have been injured. 
Jim Amormino, a spokesman for the Orange County Sheriff's Department, identified two of the fatalities as a 59­year-old man who was in the first car of the train and died at the scene and a 48-year•old man who was riding in the third car. The second victim died at St. Jude's Hospital in Fullerton, Mr. Amormino said. The train reportedly came to a halt before it was hit. 
URUGUAY 

President breaks ties with Cuba 
Commission in Geneva. The vote was a tight 23-21 with nine abstentions. 
The resolution invited the commu­nist-run country to provide its people with greater civil and political rights. It also exhorted Cuba to allow a U.N. representative to visit the island ­an idea Havana rejected. 
Almost all Latin American nations on the 53-member commission approve't!_ the human rights measure, prompting Cuba to term them all "Judases." 
"The rupture will remain until it is clear that the Cuban people have peace and liberty," Batlle bristled at the news conference in this South American capital. 
Batlle said he instructed Foreign 
Minister Didier Opertti to carry out 
the necessary stops to formalize the 
break in relations. He did not elabo­
rate nor say whether he had ordered 
the expulsion of Cuba's ambassador 
to Uruguay. 
Diplomatic relations between Uruguay and Cuba date to 1986, restored after the end of a right-wing military dictatorship in Uruguay. But relations fell on rocky times in the weeks leading up to the Geneva vote. Uruguay's government went so far as · to recall its ambassador, Enrique 
Estrazulas, to show its displeasure. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, April 24, 2002 
Buffett 
continued from page 1 
He also answered questions about current events such as the Enron scandal. 
"Enron was an aberration," said Buffett. "(There was] an 'ethical drift' that has mani­fested itself in good, decent people who felt it was part of their job to make quarterly numbers. get prices up. and that behavior is contagious." 
The only personal questions Buffett was asked involved his children and his money. 
"I don't believe in inherited wealth," he said. "I was born in a bountiful society and worked hard." 
To that end, Buffett has established foundations supervised by each of his three children to benefit their communities. He said he intends to leave his own estate as a charitable founda­tion as well. 
Buffett is chairman and chief executive officer of 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., an investment company worth ­more than $2 billion in corpo-" rate holdings. He serves as a director of the Coca-Cola Company, the Gillette Company and the Washington Post Company and is a life trustee of Grinnell College and the Urban Institute. He lives in Omaha, Neb. 
Following his conversation, Buffett was presented with a Notre Dame football auto­graphed by head coach Tyrone Willingham and Buffett's friend and Notre Dame football player. Grant Irons. Irons also gave Buffett a replica of his own No. 44 Notre Dame jersey. 
Buffett also mentioned an additional connection to Notre Dame. University President Father Edward Malloy and Buffett both played •ti.t•i•gh school basketball under coach Bob Dwyer at Archbishop Carroll in Washington, D.C. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu. 
FDA: Bring back risky bowel drug, Lotronex 
Associated Press 
BETHESDA, Md. 

Government advisers heeded patients' pleas Tuesday that a drug for irritable bowel syn­drome should be cleared for sale again -but with stringent restrictions to try to mitigate side effects that have hospital­ized more than 160 people and killed seven. 
If the Food and Drug Administration heeds the panel's advice, Lotronex will be tough to get -prescribed only by doctors who have under­gone special training to use it and given only to the sickest patients, who must register in a national database that moni­tors how well they fare. 
To patients who called the drug a miracle therapy, that's enough. 
"A life without Lotronex is a miserable existence," said a tearful Diana Hoyt of Atlanta, who described swallowing four anti-diarrheal pills and don­ning a diaper just to spend a few minutes asking the FDA for the only pill that ever made her feel well. 
Two attorneys for people injured by the once-popular drug. which was pulled off the market in November 2000, argued it's too risky to sell again. One played a video of a Florida woman left mostly par­alyzed and unable to breathe on her own after a burst colon attributed to Lotronex caused a brain-damaging infection. 
Her attorney asked if the FDA should allow the sale of Lotronex again. 
"No, don't let them," Gloria Lockett gasped on the video­tape. 
"She would have been better off dead," attorney Dennis Larry said later. 

Friday and Saturday  7:30 pm, Washington Hall  
>..,  Univenily or Notre Dame  
=  
....  
g  $3 S.:nlor Citizens/Students  

t-, 

Tickets a,·allable at Lafortune Box Office or by phone: (574) 631-8128. Call (57-l} 631-6201 for information 

ew. 

Campus phone lines have 3-way calling. 
To add a third party to an existing call: 
1. 
Depress the switchhook or hit the "flash" button. 

2. 
Dial the third party_ Clf there is no answer, the line is busy, or it's a wrong number, press the switchhook or flash button twice to return to the original call.> 

3. 
After the third party answers, press the switchook or flash button again. 

4. 
Everyone should now be connected. 


To disconnect third party: 
1. 
Depress switchhook/flash button. 

2. 
The remaining two parties are connected. 


Sponsored by Student Gcwernment. 

Erasmus Institute University of Notre Dame Gender Studies Program and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Invite you to a cosponsored lecture ... 
Ana Maria Stuven 

Professor ofHistory and Political Science 
Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile 
Women's Voices & Representations: 19th-century Chile 
12 noon Wednesday April 24, 2002 Room 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
If you would like to attend, please send an e-mail to erasmus@nd.edu So we can send you a copy of the paper prior to the seminar 

w~dnesday, April 24, 2002 The Oburver . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Hispanic ownership up; differences exist among Latino groups 
A•sociatcd Press 
MANASSAS PARK, Va. Homeownership among 
Hispanics surged during the patterns among Latino groups. economic boom of the 1990s, For example. 2000 census according to census figures that data to be released Wednesday also show differences in living show that Cubans arc more likely than Mexicans to own their own homes, while Puerto Ricans are much more likely to rent rather than buy. 

More flexible lending prac­tices and the good economy helped boost the homeowner­ship rate for Hispanics overall to a new high, though it still lags far behind the national average for all people. 
The Hispanic rate grew from 42 percent in 1990 to 46 per­cent. Overall, 66 percent of all American homes were owned in 2000, up from 64 percent a decade earlier. 
"There's no question there's a substantial increase in home­ownership, but a very small base," said Roberto Suro, direc­tor of the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center research group. 
"\\',hen I came to this country, Hispanic people didn't have the opportunity," said Jose Pineda, who immigrated from El Salvador in 1981. 
Pineda now co-owns a restau­rant in a primarily Hispanic neighborhood in Manassas Park, a middle-class Virginia suburb of Washington, and owns a town home in a develop­ment in nearby Sterling. 
By comparison, 46 percent of black-headed homes in 2000 were owned, along with 53 per­cent of Asian homes and 72 per­cent of white homes. 
Owning a home is more prevalent in some Hispanic groups than others. Much of that is due to where these dif­ferent groups settle. 
Mexicans, Puerto Ricans and Cubans are the three largest Hispanic groups in the United States. 
The majority of Cubans live in Florida, where housing prices and the cost of living are lower than in New York, which has a large Puerto Rican population. 
Cubans, as a group, tend to be older, better educated and bet­ter paid -characteristics that lend themselves to homeowner­ship. 
Cubans also tend to have been in the United States longer. giv­ing them more time to build up enough wealth to buy a home. Much of the most recent Hispanic immigrant wave came from Mexico and central America. 
Those effects play out in the statistics: Of the three largest Hispanic groups in the United States, 58 percent of Cuban­headed homes nationwide were owned, compared with 48 per­cent of Mexicans and 35 per­cent of Puerto Ricans. 
Erika Hizel is director of housing programs for the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group. 
She said Mexican and Latin American families in the United States tend to have little access to credit, in large part because of their poorer financial back­ground. 
Meanwhile, some Puerto Ricans and other Caribbean groups tend to be overextend themselves on credit, possibly because they are more assimi­lated to American culture, she said. 
Geographically, the largest gains in Hispanic homeowner­ship were in immigrant gateway states with large Mexican popu­1ations like California, New Mexico and Texas, said Patrick Simmons, a demographer with the nonprofit Fannie Mae Foundation. 
While predatory lending remains a big concern, Hizel said more flexible mortgage lending practices were devel­oped in the past decade. 
Hispanic Homeowners More Hispanics own their own homes 
Many Hispanics took advantage 
Many Hispanics took advantage of the economic boom of the of the economic boom of the 199:>s to b~ t-omes, accordrlg to Census data. The homeownership1990s to buy homes, according 
rate increased among Hispanics by 4 percent between 1990 and to Census data Th& home• 
2000, !hough patterns differed among Latino gro~s
ownership rale increased arrong Hispanics by 4 percent between 
-owner occupied CZ)Ren1er occupied 1990 and 2000, !hough patterns 
Total households drffered arrong Latino groups. 
-Owner occupied Hispanic households 
f:m Renter ocoupied 
144· 


Cuban Mex!can Puert':) Rican Otho, HispanicsHispanic households ~~ii;~'!,':'/ 

f 

Top at•tH for hom•~wnerahlp Del. 70.3% N.M.. i.15% Fla 55 7% NM. 729% 
SOURCE· Census Bure&IJ 

lsouRCE: CeRSUI Bureau A.P 
R~~ 
Proudfy Presents 
The RecSpys 
Vote for your favorite candidates in the following categories: 
Undergraduate Female of the Year Undergraduate Male of the Year Grad/Fae/Staff Female of the Year Grad/Fae/Staff Male of the Year Game of the Year Team of the Year Fans of the Year 
Vote online till April 26 at: http://www.recsports.nd.edu/recspys 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, April 24, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Vining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz An DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINl~TRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINlSTRATORr Scott Brodfuehrer CoNTROUER: Lori Lewalski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERiGENER,U. lNF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 5-43 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MAR.¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINlSTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from The Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Edicor. Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of1he auchors and noc necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Quesi/ons regarding Observer policie; should be direct­td to Editor in Chieffmon McFarfey. 
. 
r 
College provides true knowledge 
Four years, 120 credits, a few beers. epitomLling this knowledge. Also. let's ture or anything, but it really does some miserable failures, some tri­not downplay the importance of being mean something to me. There's a spe­umphant successes. a card-carrying member of the idioc­cial feeling that accompanies going to 
When I arrived on this campus as a racy in our college years. This is also school here, and that feeling is what 17-year-old freshman on a stifling day part of the formative process. As you makes people such loyal followers of in August get older and your priorities change, this community. 1998, I thought you don't have the opportunity to When I think about my high school 
Joe Larson
I knew myself truly enjoy yourself like you do in col­graduation, one thing I think about is pretty well. I lege. the common desire everyone seemed didn't have any This is why you really have to savor to possess that hinged on leaving their delusions of The Principles every opportunity you get to act as unique mark on their high school so grandeur. I ·ofIdiocracy sophomoric and ridiculous as possi­they could be immortalized and knew I wasn't ble. Quench the primal thirst to act remembered by the students below going to set your age. It's probably your last them. this place on fire with my brilliant chance to do it without serious reper­This isn't what Notre Dame and theories on Descartes or my mathe­cussions. Try explaining to your wife Saint Mary's are about. Attending matical proof that Hamlet was actual­and kids why you drove 26 hours to school here marks you. In four years, ly Shakespeare's grandfather. I fig­Key West with your buddies to party there won't be _one single student here ured my most pertinent personal mat­for a week. who has ever, even by mistake, read uration had occurred. I'd done the The trick after you graduate from one of my columns. They won't be emotional high school growing, and it the idiocracy is to maintain, instead of talking about how you and your seemed like all that was behind me. I nurture. your natural urges to have friends sneaked a greased pig into the considered myself an adult. fun while maturing into an actual dorm or camped out on South Quad in 
I think this is a common mispercep­adult with a mortgage and a wife and a tent. Each class has its own legends, tion for college freshmen. kids and station wagons. I'd hate to and then when the class leaves, new 
College life, both socially and acade­see you people turn off what you've legends emerge. mically, provides knowledge -not learned in the idiocracy like a light And that's how it's supposed to be. just about flipping a cup at the perfect switch. But it'd also be a shame to see The institution and community doesn't angle or about how to convince your you disregard the knowledge you·ve shift because of you. It molds the per­professor you actually believe in what acquired as a student here. son you become and spouts you out you were writing that paper about -Now, as I said before, I'm not an the other end a better educated and a but actual knowledge. After college, adult ... yet. But I can kind of see the simply all-around better person at the you are trained for adulthood. But mixture beginning between the idiot end of your time. That's the important your degree isn't a certificate that college guy and the knowledgeable part. It's not what you leave here for proves you're an adult. young adult. My drinking prowess is the next generation of students. It's 
The acquired knowledge mixes with slowly descending. I'm getting up ear­what you take with you for the rest of experience and time and it turns into lier in the morning. I have to shave all your life that makes your time here wisdom. You have to possess at least the time. These are all signs that my worthwhile. a touch of wisdom before you qualify tenure in the idiocracy are coming to If I had to summarize my time here, as an adult. a close. In the past four years here, it'd be like this: Four years, 120 cred­
For the past year in this column I've I've had my fun and I've learned a lot. its, a few beers, some miserable fail­referred to myself and the student And for that, I'm eternally grateful. ures, some triumphant successes and body as being part of an "idiocracy." One thing that makes Notre Dame a giant thank you to the place and All this means is that we're young and and Saint Mary's different from all people who made it so memorable. no matter how hard we try, we're not other universities is the people who really adults yet. Adults don't draw surround you here. Unfortunately, Joe Larson is a senior English and pictures on their friends when they there are a few people who slip by the history major. He would like to thank pass out drunk. Adults don't skip admissions committee, but on the everyone who has taken the time to work because they're hungover. whole, I don't think you'll ever live or read and comment on the "Principles Adults don't join basketball tourna­work or study in a place this saturat­of Jdiocracy" this year. ments as an excuse to, once again, get ed with good people ever again in Congratulations, class of2002. and drunk and wear goofy costumes. your life. good luck. His column appears every 
Now, am I saying that these activi­Maybe I'm being a little cheesy here, other Wednesday. He can be reached ties arc, in some way wrong? No way. but I appreciate this place. I'm not at jlarson@nd.edu As important as it is to gain the saying I'll be sneaking back on to The uiews expressed in this column knowledge of an adult in college, it's campus next year to get a whiff of the are those of the author and not neces­equally important not to rush into dining hall or hear a core class lee-sarily those of The Observer. 
• 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Sheila Egts Laura Kelly Andrew Thagard Graphics Jill Maxbauer Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Matt Lozar Noah Amstadtcr 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 

Tere~a Fralish Christina Reitano 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Is the United States being sufficiently proactive in the Middle East? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It's something unpredictable, but in the end it's right. I hope you had the time of your life." 
Billie Joe Armstrong singer and songwriter 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 24, 2002 page 9 
Respect workers' right to organize 
Both at Notre Dame and internationally, discussions of workers' rights often carry a certain stigma, producing fear about what "workers' rights" even means. For some, the act of participating in or sup­porting a work­ers' rights cam­paign is anti­Paul Graham democratic, anti-American and anti-Notre Dame. Another 
Much of what 
Perspective 

we take for granted has resulted from many years of hard struggle, fighting and organizing. The advantages of labor orga­nizing go beyond changing wages. The 40-hour work week, the weekend, health benefits and many other benefits have risen out of the labor movement. It is because workers organized and stood up for their rights as laborers that these changes came to be. 
At Notre Dame many workers have come to me ·with cornplaintc; about how they are treated and their working condi­tions. They ask me for help, but unfortu­nately there is not much that I, as a single student, can do. \'\Then I ask if the workers have taken their complaints to Human Resources, they tell me that HR does nothing, is inefficient and does not care. Some workers have even told me that, "many are afraid to voice their opinions for fear of reprisals which sometimes seem to happen." 
I want to help the workers; I want to do everything I can, but the only people who can create change are the workers them­selves. This requires campus workers to share their stories among themselves. However, many of the workers I have spoken with feel that they are unable to share their stories. 
Some fear they will disrupt ihe current system, or will be a nuisance or that other workers "'ill not care. Many are afraid of losing their jobs if they tell their story or complain about their treatment. They may feel alone in their situation or feel a,;; if there is nothing that can be done. fear of challenging the status quo helps main­tain low wages, long hours, diflicult work­ing conditions and numerous other prob­lems that workers on this Catholic cam­pus must face. 
Workers need to start talking to each other. They need to share their stories. By discovering that others have similar com­plaints, workers are able to sta11 listing the grievances and complaints they feel must be addressed. 
To do this, workers must organize. A single worker cannot effectively address his or her grievances. Many campus workers have tried this; they know that little, if anything, results from voicing their concerns to Human Resources. 
All workers have a legitimate, legal right to collectively bargain. The power of collective bargaining is not just apparent power similar to that of student govern­ment, the Faculty Senate or the Staff Advisory Council, all of which have no ability to create real change. For collec­tive bargaining to succeed, workers must be organized and communicate their needs with each other. 
\-Vhen workers organize and address issues as a unified body, the administra­tion is suddenly dealing with a new situa­tion. By forming an association, workers gain tho legal power to bargain over wages, conditions, hours-and benefits. They can address grievances and expect a reasonable response. 
This process is called democracy. Democracy goes beyond the voting for a representative or a president, it extends to the actual process ofvoicing one's con­cerns and grievances, When campus workers organize and negotiate issues, including wages, hours and conditions. they are collectively bargaining with Notre Dame. Collective bargaining is the democratic voice of the workers. Without it, there is no democracy in the work place. Workers are left without a voice, and effectively become only a "commodi­ty" to the University. 
Workers should not fear organizing, but many do. There is a serious lack of democracy in the work place at Notre Dame. Workers have the right to be heard, to have their troubles addressed and to see workplace justice actualized. Notre Dame has a responsibility not only legally, but also as a Catholic institution to support labor on campus. Pope John Paul II has declared that a union "is indeed a mouthpiece for the struggle for social jus­tice, for the just righl,;; of working people in accordance with their individual pro­fessions" ("Laborem Exercens'). 
Unions are essential to achieving work­place justice everywhere, even at Notre Dame. Workers will tell you that their working conditions are far from just. They need to work together to overcome this situation. The problems many cam­pus workers face go far beyond those of' wages, extending to working conditions, treatment, number of hours and control over schedule, among other issues. Many workers both need and want a change. 
For this to happen, students must sup­.port labor in every way possible, and workers must organize and challenge the administration. This country was built on working class struggles. Workers at Notre Dame must unite and act collectively so that their voices will be heard and their grievances be efficiently and effectively addressed. 
Paul Graham is a junior sociology major with a minor in Catholic social tradition. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at pgraham@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Support dedication and sacrifice of ROTC students 
In the April 23 Observer, you may have noticed the ad for the annual Presidential Pass in Review. The Pass in Review is the ceremonial presentation of the three ROTC units, Army, Navy and Air Force, to the University president for his approval. 
The event itself is not very long, but it is the result of weeks of unseen preparation. The best uniforms of every cadet and midshipman are creased to military standard with the medals, insignia and Notre Dame shamrocks brightly shining and the ribbons aligned to perfection. What do the ribbons stand for? They stand for academic excellence, for physical prowess and athleticism, for service to both community and fellow students and for leadership and team­work. No one enjoys the polishing or the shining or the trips to the dry cleaners. No one looks for­ward to perfecting the drill and ceremony at· 
6:30 a.m. Each is one more responsibility to fit into a busy schedule and a very long day. 
But when that Wednesday afternoon rolls around, and we as cadets and midshipmen are looking our best, even the most sleep-deprived over-worked heart among us is hard-pressed not to swell with pride as the flag waves and the band plays "As the Army Goes Rolling Along," "Anchors Aweigh," "The Marine Hymn," "The Air Force Song" and the national anthem. 
Juniors and seniors will recall that the Pass in Review used to be held in the middle of South Quad. The ROTC units marched proudly under a blue April sky. Curious onlookers stopped and watched in wonder, many hanging out of dorm windows for a better view. That, however, was two years ago. As noted in the April 23 ad, the event will be held in Loftus for the second year in a row. 
Correction: the Pass in Review will be hidden in Loftus for the second year in a ·row. Why? I guarantee that Loftus is not a rain location. No, it is because such a high-profile military pres­ence on campus might be offensive to some. This was a decision made in the Dome, not in Pasquerilla. 
This is a day when we as future officers should hold our heads high for the entire Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and South Bend community to see. Instead, we are hiding as though ashamed. Make no mistake, we are proud of what we do and the commitment each and every one of us has made to each other and our country. We are the future leaders in the military of a country at war. Many of us will leave the pristine bubble that is Notre Dame for assignments overseas, including the Middle East and Afghanistan. We are all devot­ing at least the next four years of our lives to a common cause. Some of us will be risking our lives. As such, we ask for respect and support, not protest, not a walking-on-eggshells fear of offending. 
With that said, I ask that you come to Loftus at 
4:30 p.m. today and show your support. There won't be the towering flag of South Quad or a blue sky or a military flyover, but we will be there. If you can't come, take some time to go up to that friend or classmate or neighbor in ROTC and tell them you admire what they have done and will do. Ifyou feel the need to protest, by all means go ahead. That is your right, a right we will fight to uphold for you. a right for which oth­ers have fought in the past. In fact, an alternate review will be held in front of the war memorial. I know because yesterday every ROTC student was mailed a letter announcing the gathering. If you attend, however, please remember what that war memorial stands for. 
"Be all that you can be." "Full speed ahead," "The few, the proud." "Aim high." These may have become cliche slogans, but they are found­ed in truth. We are all that we can be, we are the proud, and we as your follow students face a future that includes the possibility of war. Show us your support. 
Connie Quinlan Nocre Dame ROTC 
senior 
Howard Hall April 23, 2002 

SMC coaches must be retained 
About two months ago, head coach Bobby Johnston announced to us, the Saint Mary's soccer team, that he was resigning as coach. Not long afterwards we learned that the Saint Mary's golf coach, Theresa Pekarek, was also not going to return next year. And finally, within a two-month time period, a third person, soft­ball coach John Ganeff, decided to leave the coaching staff. I could not stand to see the disappointed frowns and tears on the faces of my teammates two months ago, but now we are forced to share the frustration with even more varsity athletes as well. We all seem to have the same question: What will happen to us now? 
I don't want to speak for the other teams, but as for the soccer team, we were a family who believed in each other and played not only with each other but also for each other. Bobby was the first person to teach us this and was the founder of our family. He showed us what we were capable of doing and pushed us to go even further. We worked hard for him and for each other and had fun doing it. 
As Saint Mary's athletes, we don't need scholarships, sponsors or recognition, because all we want is to play the game, to belong, to believe, to compete and to be taken seriously. We believe in our abilities and ourselves, but does our school? Do others care enough to keep leaders like Bobby, Theresa, John and so many others at Saint Mary's? Can athletic programs continue to grow, compete or even exist with new leaders every other year? How can we keep amazing people like these coaches on our campus? 
To our coach, leader, fan, teacher, confidant and friend, Bobby Johnston, the Saint Mary's soccer team will miss you, and Saint Mary's will not be the same without you. Thank you and good luck. 
To my third and final coach at Saint Mary's, you have huge shoes to fill but also a group of girls that wants to play. To Saint Mary's, let's keep this next batch of coaches for a while. 
Lynn Taylor Co..;;aprain, Saine Mary's soccer team junior Holy Cross Hall April 23, 2002 



O
THE 
BSERVER 


tre 

Wednesday, April 24, 2002 


page 10 
Scene Editor 
The Notre Dame Opera will bring a fairy tale to life this weekend when they bring their 2002 workshop piece, Mozart's "The Magic Flute," to the campus stage. 
Yet this fairy tale is more than the happily-ever-after of fairy godmothers and princes in disguise -this is one of the world's most famous operas and one of Mozart's masterpieces. In this work, the composer, who wrote music for Masses, drinking songs and everything in between, demonstrates his ability to cre­ate a multi-dimensional piece. 
"Die Zauberflote," or "The Magic Flute," was Mozart's last major work. Written in 1791, the piece formalized the singspiel, a genre of dramatic perfor­mance in which song and dialogue alternate, much like a musical except with operatic singing. 
Mozart wrote the operetta at an interesting point in history, directly following the French Revolution and in the heyday of Free Masonry, a secretive, patriarchal and fraternal society. 
Haydn had introduced Mozart to some of the ideas of Free Masonry, which the audience will recognize in the plot of "The Magic Flute": the autonomy of the individ­ual. self-determination and rampant sexism, as well as a preponderance of the nature of power, wisdom and beauty. Masonic symbols like aprons. hammers, com­passes and a pyramid with the all-seeing eye of the Masons are also present in the play along with allu­sions to Masonic rites, rituals, tests and initiations. 
The show questions people's abilities to view the world as it really is, without prejudice. One of the run­ning themes is that people may not be who they are made out to be and that perhaps the truth is not apparent at first sight. 

somewhat different type of show than the previous two operas the group has presented. Last year's "Xerxes". demonstrated a baroque style and the 2000 production of "llansel and Gretel" was undoubtedly romantic. 'The Magic Flute," on the other hand, presents a more classical style of music. 
Unlike romantic music, the classical style puts the form of the musical composition above the emotions it engages. This highly structured nature of the music lends itself to memorable melodies and audiences often go home humming the tunes after they hear them. This light-hearted style lends itself to the fairy tale form of "The Magic Flute." 
The cast of "The Magic Flute" has been rehearsing music since January and the whole show since early March, a long process that has allowed the cast to get to know each other very well. 
Members ofNo rehearse 'The Ma~ Above, fas, (Papageno)sha laughter with th far left, Mid (Sarastro) sing Svonavec (Pam Brian Dean z fallen Applelr_ 
Appleby is bl spirit. To the fa Marc Verzatt sj 
Phot 
AMANO). 
' 

Adjunct Professor and Director Marc Verzatt, howev­er, does i:iot use the Masonic symbolism in his show because he feels that the greater meaning of the show should be emphasized instead. 
"You can't do symbolism if the audience doesn't understand what the symbols represent," Vcrzatt said. 
Verzatt believes the show has a gentle and simplistic message. He doesn't want the show to be iconoclastic, but rather to represent the humanist message that was the overall point of Masonry. Verzatt wants to present the show in the context of his audience, rather than the aristocratic audience of Mozart's time. 
"My work as a director is to make the audience care about the people on stage and not make them seem like they are just singing to sing, because that's not what people do," Verzatt said. 
Verzatt believes that he and his cast have a responsi­bility to the audience, to reach out and bring them into the story and the characters, to find meaning through the story itself. 
"The Magic Flute" follows the adventures of Tamino, a young prince who finds himself in the mystical realm of the Queen of the Night after escaping from a dragon. When the queen's attendants meet Tamino, they show him a portrait of the queen's beautiful daughter Pamina. As in any good fairy tale, it is love at first sight. 
Problems arise, of course. Pamina has been abduct­ed by the villain Sarastro. The Queen of the Night promises her daughter's hand in marriage if Tamino rescues her. The queen also gives him a magic flute to help him on his journey. 
Tamino and Papageno, the queen's bird catcher, set off for Sarastro's realm. But when they meet Sarastro, he seems quite unlike the villain he is supposed to be. Sarastro puts Tamino and Papageno through a series of trials before they can be united with their respective lovers, Pamina and Papagena (groans). 
But the fairy tale itself serves to 
convey what Verzatt believes is the 
deeper message. 

'The piece is really about people 
finding out what matters to them 
and what they believe and disre­
garding hearsay and what they've 
been told ... and that is why it is my 
favorite opera to direct," Verzatt 
said. 

The show also examines the issue 
of sex roles. Vcrzatt believes that 
the show is, in part, a critique of 
feminism and patriarchy. 

Musically, "The Magic Flute" is a 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, April 24, 2002 page 11 

"Because we interact very emotionally with each other [in the show]. it carries over," said junior Michael Holderer, who plays Sarastro. "If you see someone passing on the quad, you just might start run­ning lines." 
Some members ,of the cast are in the Opera Workshop, a class for credit in the music department. Others are music and vocal performance majors or are students that are simply interested in musical perfor­mance. 
For example, junior Kristen Moskow, who is now a vocal performance major, originally wanted to be a psychology major en route to a career as a concert pianist. But an injury to her right hand changed her plans and she began taking voice lessons instead. Moskow found the new musical outlet to be a useful medium. 
re Dame Opera 
ozart's 
ic Flute.' n Appleby 
res a moment of 
ee spirits. To the zael Holderer s with Danielle ina). To the left, 
atches over a . To the right, ·ndfolded by a 
right, Director rveys the scene. 
s by 
HUGHES 
"I've always loved music since I was a little girl, and 
I was so upset when I couldn't play the piano the way I 
wanted to," said Moskow, who plays Pamina in the 
Friday night performance. "But with voice, it's really 
amazing when you can affect your audience and touch 
[them] in a certain way." 
Verzatt thinks that the cast has really pulled togeth­
er. Even with two members of the show dropping out 
at the last minute, the understudies were able to rise 
to the challenge of the parts, which is no small task 
considering the superior vocal talent quality he feels 
the cast has. 
'There are a lot of major voices in the cast," Verzatt 
said. "Voices that could have great careers." 
Verzatt boasts an impressive resume himself: a for­
mer professional dancer for the Metropolitan Opera, 
stage manager for the Cincinnati and Pittsburgh Opera 
companies, assistant stage director for the Lyric Opera 
of Chicago and the co-artistic director for the Lake 
George Opera Festival in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Last 
year, he founded his own opera company, the Great 
Neck Opera Company in Long Island. 
Yet Verzatt is still able to connect with the perform­
ers on a down-to-earth level. 
"(Verzatt is] a really good director and has a very 
good sense of people's character," said Holderer. "He 
takes his ideas of what the role should be and he takes 
your idea of what the role should be and he melds 
them." 

Verzatt isn't the only big name behind this produc­
tion. The show's guest conductor, John Apetios, is an 
internationally known figure in the music world. 
Apetios is a permanent guest conductor of the Czech 
Philharmonic Orchestra and in 1989 he also had a 
series of scholarships established in his name by the 
Cyprus Hellenic Alliance of Victoria for his contribution 
to Australian music culture. Apetios brings this inter­
national flavor to his seventh season as an associate 
professor and conductor at Notre 
Dame. 

·The Notre Dame Opera was found­ed in 1991. Each year the group puts on a full-length opera, putting into practice the styles and techniques ,taught in vocal performance classes. The productions are not only the cul­mination of months of preparation, but they also serve as educational opportunities for the students who 
make up its cast. 
"I learned a lot about classical vocal 
technique. Our voice teachers at 
Notre Dame have worked extensively on [this style] -what embellishments and attitudes would be appropriate for the time, as well as the fact that we're performing it in a 21st century context," Holderer said. 
"This opera was a lot more about personal growth," Moskow said. "The character Pamina goes through a big emotional growth and development throughout the opera. You really have to dig deep inside yourself to understand the character and try to get in her shoes, so to speak. It makes you think a lot about your life and things you've been through." 
Other actors echo Moskow's belief that the charac­ters and the opera itself have influenced them throughout the rehearsal process. 
"No one in my family was an opera singer, but I guess the thing that connects [me to the opera] is a strong feeling of the music, something that transcends my nationality," Holderer said. 
While the show is appropriate for children, it has many aspects that adults will appreciate as well. 
"Even though [the story] is full of magic, it's still real­ly relevant to people of our age who are dealing with rites of passages," said Moskow. "On top of all that, it's a great story." 
"The Magic Flute" will be performed at Washington Hall on Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. General admission is $6; $3 for students and senior citizens. Tickets are available at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office or by calling (574) 631-8128. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 24, 2002 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Top three teams hold on 
By MIKE CONNOLLY S<:nior StaffWrirer 

The top three teams held onto their top seeds in the Sweet 16 Bookstore Basketball re-rank released Tuesday night. 
blackJACKS, AdWorks All­Stars and Project Mayhem retained their top positions heading into the final rounds. 
"We haven't seen anything that would really tell us any­thing differently," head commis­sioner Brian Clemency said about the decision to hold form with the top seeds. "We've seem them play strongly. We haven't seen anything that would make us think any differently." 
Neither blackJACKS, Project Mayhem nor AdWork'i All-Stars have faced a tough game yet, making it difficult to determine who should be No. 1. For this reason, commissioners saw no need to swap the two favorites. 
"The top three was pretty much a consensus," Clemency said. "We do vote but those three were pretty solid on our mind. It's so hard to split hairs among the top three in the tour­nament. Neither one has had a big test." 
The pre-tournament No. 4 seed, the Splitters, took a tum­ble in the rankings, however. It fell from No. 4 to No. 6 -mostly due to an injury to Matt Wolbeck. Wolbeck played in the Round of 32 but in obvious pain. 
The ,beneficiary of the Splitters tumble was previous No. 6 Lazy Boyz. It moved into the No. 4 position while No. 5 Mmm Cheese held onto its fifth position. Playing part of its Round of 32 game with only four players, Lazy Boyz greatly impressed the commissioners with its victory. 
Mourning Wood, 5 Degree Guarantee and We Get Wet held the 7-9 positions. Dime Pieces made a huge Jump in the rank­ings from the No. 18 pre-tour­nament seed into the 10th seed. 
The other loser in the re-rank was former No. 8 SP Shockers 
II. The Shockers fell to the 11th seed. 
"They arenlt playing up to the level we expected," executive commissioner Andrew Dayton. "We just aren't as impressed as last year. They have been very good, but not as good as we expected." 
Sr Shockers II and the Splitters drop in the ranking 
does set up one of the most intriguing Sweet 16 match-ups. The two teams met last year in the Round of 32 with the Splitters coming out on top in part due to a late injury to a Shockers player. Playing 5-on-4, the Splitters won. 
Irish Men, thanks to the big play of Irish assistant basketball coach Lewis Preston, vaulted into the No. 13 seed. 
What the Hell Are Robster Craws is one of only two pre­tournament unranked teams to survive the opening rounds. It earned the No. 14 seed followed by previous No. 20 NDToday.com at No. 15. 
Team 524, the other pre-tour­nament unranked team, fills out the bracket at No. 16. 
The rankings were deter­mined by a vote of 13 commis­sioners after the conclusion of the Round of 32 games Tuesday night. 
There are no open tourna­ment games scheduled today. The women's tournament plays its Round of 32 games before both tournaments play the Sweet 16 Thursday. 
Contact MikeConnolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 



ROAD TO THE FRITZ 
1) black J.A.C.K.S. 

2) Adworks I I All Round of 16 games will be played Thursday. 


16)Team 524 



No Exceptions. 
Any game time changes must be approved by BOTH teams and the head commissioner by midnight on Wednesday. 
8) 5 Degree Guarantee 



9) We Get Wet 

5) Mmrn Cheese 


All game times and courts are final for the Round of 8. 
No Exceptions.
12) Kellv Kaoowski 

13) Irish Men 

.=· 
4) Lazy Boyz 

I 3) Project Mayhem 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m, Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

..  SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED  Photography Equipment: Nikon  Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home.  Two bedroom cottage 5 min from  
NOTICES  THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR  N90s camera with MB-10 Grip, SB28 Flash, Nikon  Garage. Must Seel Call Tammy(616}684-1 049.  campus $325.Dave 291-2209  PERSONAL  
HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND  Video & School Handbook, UV  5-Bedroom.5 min from campus. All  
Mexico/Caribbean or Central  WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFER·  52.0s & 77.0s Lens Filters. Polar  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9  the goodies..dancing-0.K.I Dave  
America $250 round trip. Other  ENCES REQD CALL LYNN @  52.0s Lens  people) 2) medium (3-5 people)  291-2209  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
worldwide  616-849-7022  Filter Nikon 50mm 11 .8, B0-200mm  Call Bill at  alone. If you or someone you love  
destinations cheap. Book tickets  12.8, and 28-7013 5 Lenses,  532-1896.  Need a place to stay for graduation  needs  
online www.airtech.com or (212)  Small Refrigerator 291-9451  Sekonic L-508  weekend or just anytime? Our little  confidential support or assistance,  
219-7000.  Zoom Speed Light Meler, and  Upstairs apt., single person, no  cottage situated on 127 acres  please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  
Proficient in Word and Word Perteet  Lowepro Nova4 camera bag • used  srnoking/p_ets. All utilpaid. Avail  sleeps 2-3 and only 20 minutes  CSC,at  
OBLATES OF BLUES CJs -Friday,  for manuscripts, theses, disserta­ 10 times: MINT  now or  from campus  1-7819. For more information, see  
7:30-11 :30 "Blues" and Gold  lions and  CONDITION. $1575. • Call  Fall 02. For info, call 574-255-1738.  Call  our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
Weekend  transcripts from Dictaphone.  (574)875-7877  Close to ND.  616-687-1080 or email:  
Accuracy and meeting deadlines a  jlizma@aol.com  ELECTRONIC DIGITAL PRINTING  
priority.  3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE  Black & White or Full Color at THE  
WANTED  $$??per page or flat rate neotiable, Call Delores at 273-8616 or e-mail Fain. 1@nd edu  FOR RENT  WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, AND A DECK, WASHER & DRYER  3-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. $180/PER PERSON/MO. SUM­MER/2002.272-6306,292-6718  COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Submit your work via email for details call:  
Looking for single Castle Point  CORNER OF EDDY AND  574-631-COPY  
roommate coming summer and/or  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm- HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF  AWESOME CHICAGO SUBLEASE  
!alt Free high-speed DSL internet. currently $323 per month + utils.  FOR SALE  rentals@aol.com  LOGAN CENTER. FREE KEG WITH  THIS SUMMERI call 773-844-1885  GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by  
Call 574.2n.9322 if interested.  MMMRentals.com  RENTAL. Call Gary or Lynne 616­ local PGA professional.  
Furniture-Law Student selling 2  699-5841  Call Dick at 276-9670.  
99 ND grad seeks male to share spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt  Serta x-long beds,3 dressers,2 night  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec  HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03,  TICKETS  How would you like to write for  
for 3-9 months. Great location & fur­ stands,lamps,futon,microwave  sys/prking... Nice 3-4  5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2  Observer sports?  
nished. Call George Carr at (n3) 975-0563 or e-mail at  cart.entertainment center­ .  bedroom house-air,sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cottage..cute.. DAVE  bath, central ale, washer & dryer, alarm system,  2 Dave Mathews Tix for sale  1Call Chris Federico at  
George.E.Carr@us.andersen.com  call 277-0171  291-2209  call 773-486-8622.  Sat.4/27 call 247-1775  1-4543  

Wednesday, April 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Round of 32 plays out as expected 
By KERRY SMITH 
Senior Staff Writer 
In a tournament that had boast­ed few major upsets in the open­ing rounds, Tuesday's Round of 32 played out no differently, as nine of the top 10 teams remain in the running for the champi­onship. 
But not all of them made it to the Round of16 with ea'ie. 
No. 3 Project Mayhem struggled in the first half ofit<; game against No. 30 Ileteroskedascity, before winning 21-14. 
"We came out way too slow," point guard and former Eastern Illinois player Luke Mueller said. "This was our first real tough game. We weren't expecting it to be that tough." 
Heteroskedascity's scrappy play kept it in the game, trailing only 11-10 at the half. 
But the members of Project Mayhem caused the No. 30 team some trouble when they opened the second half with a 5-1 run and never looked back. 
A deep jwnper by Lustig ended Heteroskedascity's hopes of mak­ing it to the next round. 
Project Mayhem -Mueller, Brian Rush, Dan Lustig, Doug Wilson and Jason Mayes ­retained its No. 3 ranking after Tuesday's games and will face off against now-No.14 What the Hell Are Robster Craws in the next round. 
No. 5 Mmm Cheese also needed to play hard to advance. 
Leading 19-17 in the midst of a physical and sometimes frustrat­ing game, Mmm Cheese's Steve Byrnes yelled to his team, "Just two more possessions." 
He was right. 
Two more trips down the court were enough for the point guard to lead his No. 5 team to a win over underdog Team 473. 
But while Byrne. who scored his team's fmal four points, drained the two buckets with ease, the win was anything but easy for Mmm Cheese. 
Both teams struggled early, log­ging more fouls than points. 
With the score tied at 6-6, both teams had passed the 10-foul mark and were shooting from the line. 
"We fought hard," Byrnes said. "They were a lot bigger than us. We couldn't put the ball in the basket." 
Mmm Cheese began to pull away late in the first half, break­ing at 11-8. The team got down to business in the second half, quick­ly pushing its lead ~6-11. 
Team 473 pulled to within three on a foul shot, but couldn't hit enough shots for the upset. 
After the win, Mmm Cheese with Byrnes, Grant Gholson, Tony Carney, Jon Gentine and D.J. Lipke kept its No. 5 ranking. The squad will take on Kelly Kapowski in the Round of 16. 
In the middle ofthe bracket, No. 18 Dime Pieces had no trouble upsetting No. 15 Team Truth 21­10. 
Dime Pieces' tough zone defense kept Team Truth battling for shots from the outside. And when the shots weren't falling, Team Truth saw its hope to advance fade. 
The strong performance was a welcome relief for the members of Dime Pieces -Jeff Nelson, Phil Madonia, Greg Morrissey, Alex Acey and Brad Fritsche. 
"We hit lulls in our first two games, so it was really good to play like a team," Fritsche said. "We're really happy with the way we played." 
With the win, Dime Pieces moved up to No. 10 in the new rankings and will see No. 7 Mourning Wood in the Round of 16. 
No. 11 We Get Wet didn't have it as easy, baLtling No. 22 Hoosier Racing Team for a 21-19 win. 
"We felt lucky to get the No. 11 seed and were surprised they were onlv 22," Justin Funk said. "They could definitely play with anybody." 
The two teams traded baskets the entire game, before Funk nailed a free throw for the victory. 
It was the freshman's second attempt at the line to earn a Round-of-16 berth. 
"The first time I was way too nervous and too excited,'.-Funk said. "I was glad I got the second chance." 
The all-freshman team -Funk, Greg Bos!, Greg Dunn, Mitch Knapke and Matt Cox -earned their No. 11 ranking after logging lots of hours playing basketball at Rolfs and making it to the finals of the Interhall basketball tourna­ment. 
Bookstore commissioners re­ranked We Get Wet at No. 9. The team will meet now-No. 8 Five Degree Guarantee Thursday. 
One of only two unranked teams to break into the Round of 
16. What the Hell are Robstcr Craws beat No. 14 Linebacker Lounge 21-14 to advance. 
It was the team's second win against a ranked team -it beat No. 19 Bacchus in the Round of 64Monday. 
"I think we're showing we deserved to be ranked from the beginning," Josh LaFarrel said. "But :ve were happy with our draw. 
Now-No. 15 Team 524 is the only other previously unranked team still alive in the tournament. 
All teams will get a rest today, as the Round of 16 does not start until Thursday. 
Contact Kerry Smith at smith.387@nd.edu. 
Tonight vs. Bowling Green at 6pm 
• First 500 fans receive a Notre Dame mini helmet 
(200 will be filled with peanuts) bt,t{!5. fIIwJIJ: ©!fil 
Student tickets will be available on a first come, first serve basis FREE beginning Friday at 9am at theJoyce Center Ticket Office. Students can get up to four tickets, with 
four IDs. Students must present student ticket at the gat 
Friday -First 300 fans receive a baseball 

Saturday -First 200 fans receive a Notre Dame green bean bag bear 
ND Softball 
continued from page 20 
Myers, Irish pitcher Steffany Stenglein settled down and retired the next three Cornhusker batters to pick up her 17th victory of the season. 
"Basically I told her, 'You own this girl, you have owned all these girls all game,"' Myers said about her conference with Stenglein on the mound. '"Go out and do what you have done all day' -and she did." 
The Cornhuskers scored their other run in the first inning when Nebraska's shortstop Amanda Bucholz homered over the left field fence to give Nebraska a quick 1-0 lead. 
The game's only other scoring threat came in the top of the sixth when the Irish were able to load the bases. 
With consecutive singles by second baseman Alexis Madrid, 1.:enter fielder Jenny Kriech and right fielder Megan Ciolli, the Irish gave themselves a good opportu­nity to tie the game or take the lead. James was able to retire Notre Dame's two best hitters, third baseman Andrea Loman and Myers to escape the inning unharmed. 
Gumpf thinks that the Irish threat in the sixth boosted 
their confidence. 
"It made these girls believe that we could do it," she said. "We got so close that it was just a matter of getting it together. That inning actu­ally got our momentum going." 
The victory not only gave Gumpf the biggest win of her short head coaching career, but also provided her with a victory against her alma mater. Gumpf played first base and pitcher for the Cornhuskers as she starred there from 1989 -1992. 
"Coming back to Nebraska was a great thing and they are a great team," Gumpf said. "It is a great feeling not just because it was here at Nebraska. It is a great feel­ing because we played very well." 
With the win over the Nebraska and the dominant sweep of a doubleheader on Saturday in which they outscored Virginia Tech 18­0, Notre Dame is confident it can play with any team in the country. 
"We know that if we play as well as we are capable of playing, that we can play with anyone in the nation," Myers said. "We beat them today, not because they weren't on their game, but because we were the better team." 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu. 

Want to write sports? Call 1-4543. 



Monday, April 29 
5:30 PM 

WCUftll Solf Course 
I I I 
t I Wednesday, April 24, 2002
' The Observer . SPORTS
I ' 
I i 
I COLUMN 
I I 
' 
I 
i I 
I Picking through the sports world 
I 
' 
I It has been suggested to me
I 
that, with this past weekend's

r I NFL Draft and the upcoming ) I NBA Draft, l construct a mock I draft to end all mock drafts. 
I 
I And you 
I thought
' 
Mel Kiper I ~ Jr. was the( only draft I expert in
, 
i 
town. Well, let's see him try to guess 
what will 


I happen in Ted Fox 
I 
the 2002

I 
Fox Sports 
... Almost Fox Sports ... 
Selection Almost 
Extra­
vaganza 
(FSASE, for short). 
First on the clock is my very own dorm, Morrissey Manor. 
"With the first pick in the 2002 FSASE, the Manor selects the mascot from UC­Riverside and will now be known as the Highlanders." 
That's great, but what exact­ly is a Highlander, guys? 
"We're not sure, but it has to be better than a 'Manorite'. Nothing conveys intimidation like saying: 'Hey, you may be an Angry Mob, but we live in a manor.'" 
Glad to see the hike in the • hall tax working for real dorm improvement. The Detroit Tigers are next. 
"Oh, we're just going to draft plans to another new ballpark. That'll make the team better, right?" 
Of course, and don't forget the Ferris Wheel out front. That's an extra 10 wins a year. 
Stepan Court Number Four, you're up. 
"OK, seriously -who designed me? I heard I'm going to be an Olympic down­hill venue in 2006. I have more undulations than a green at Augusta. And you want peo­ple to play Bookstore Basketball on me? Can I just draft some concrete to come level my south end off?" 
Man, if I had a dollar for every time I've heard that one. Pick No. 4 originally belonged to the recently unemployed DART guy. However, he traded it to the PGA Tour in exchange for a job announcing the play­ers on the first tee at this year's U.S. Open. 

"With the fourth pick, the PGA picks someone will out­play Tiger Woods in the last group in the final round of a major." 
Wait, what? 
"When he's fifty!" 
Oh, you guys at the PGA ­
everything's always a big joke to you. The NBA's Eastern Conference, it's your turn to pick away. 
"Yeah, we would like to draft a charter to a new league, sep­arate from the West. Because let's be honest, the only way we're going to win anything is if Karl Malone and John Stockton make it to the Finals. 
"And we all know that's never going to happen again." 
Touche. Pick No. 6 belongs to Steve "Snapper" Jones from the NBA on NBC. 
"Well, I was going to take the Highlander to replace Dill Walton as my color commen­tary partner. But since he went first, can I at least get a some sort of mute button in case Walton ever refers to Robert Horry as a basketball genius again, like he did on Sunday?" 
Absolutely, and we'll get one for Shawn Kemp's "Kobe Stopper" song, too. The Notre Dame administration holds the seventh pick overall in the FSASE. 
"We'd like to draft a new alcohol policy." 
Good luck with that one. 
Jason Gabbert, the man who claimed he had an authentic piece of gum chewed by Arizona Diamondback Luis Gonzalez and put it up for auc­tion at "nocontraction.com," picks eighth. 
"Heck, I don't need to pick anything. I'm auctioning off used gum. If that isn't the American dream, I don't know what is." 
Let's just hope they don't let you into the stables at the Kentucky Derby. I don't want to see what other discarded goods people will bid on. 
Anyway, the eighth pick reverts to the commissioner of Major League Baseball, Bud Selig. 
"I'd like to draft someone who can tell me why both the Expos and Twins have better records than my Brewers. Oh, and I'd also like to get in touch with the hearts of baseball fans everywhere." 
Bud, it's the eighth pick in 

Pl ZZA CC>MPANVQP pi2zadoneright 
After 8 Party Pak! Lg 1 Topping Pizza, Dozen Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) & 2 Liter of COKE Only $14.99!!! 
(Ofter Good After 8 PM Only. Before 8 PM Add $2.00) Visa & Mastercard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
271-1277 

SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to SUBWAY) 
the FSASE, not a bag of magic beans. Anything else? 
"Contraction in 2003, baby!" 
Keep living the dream. Pick No. 9 falls to another, but much more successful, Detroit team, the Pistons. 
"First off, we would just like to point out that we pulled the trigger on that Grant Hill for Ben Wallace/Chucky Atkins deal. Everyone thought we were losing the franchise, and instead we got two starters, one ot:...whom is the 2001-02 Defensive Player of the Year." 

Don't even act like you knew that was going happen. Former Indianapolis Colts coach Jim Mora. would you like to take the ninth pick? 
"Draft picks? Diddly-poo to draft picks, that's what I say!" 

OK, does anyone want the ninth pick in the 2002 FSASE? How about the Observer sports department? 
"Yeah, Ted, we'll take it, although it's not really a pick." 
What do you mean? 
"Well, we've kept you on board for about four years now. Can we just use the pick to waive you or something? I mean, a mock draft? C'rnon." 
· How about you give me one more week, then I'll take my walking papers. 
"Deal. At long, long last, it will finally end." 
Which leaves me with one question: does anyone know the DART guy's number? 
Maybe I can caddie. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Ted Fox at fox.J4@nd.edu 
page 14 
SMC GOLF 

Golfers prove to be resilient for 4th place 
By LEAH GILLOCK 
Sports Writer 

At the Tri-State University Invitational last weekend, the Saint Mary's golf team battled inclement weather -along with the competition -to fin­ish in fourth place at their final tournament of the sea­son. 
Because of heavy rains, the two-day tournament was shortene-d to only one round that was held on Sunday. The weather proved a hindrance in allowing the Belles to be more competitive at the chal­lenging course. 
"The greens were very diffi­cult, very undulating ,., and thus difficult to read," said coach Theresa Pekarek. 
The Belles were led by Stephanie Simmerman, who shot a 78. The freshman fin­ished second overall and shows she has the talent to lead the team in the future. 
"I was very proud of Stephanie's accomplishment. Shooting a 78 in this tourna­ment and finishing second really represents what kind of a player she [can become]." Pekarek said. 
Pekarek also was impressed with freshman Chrissy Dunham, who made her first career start. Dunham finished in second on the team along with Lindsay Hanlon. 
"[I am] very impressed with Chrissy," Pekarek said. "This is her first collegiate tourna­ment; she has a lot of potential and is a very hard worker." 
The Belles proved they have tho ability to compete against the better teams with a young lineup. Getting the young, tal­ented players experience will _ allow the Belles to have more success in the future. Pekarek is determined to see the play­ers take the team to the next level. 
"I not only think [they] have potential, but [they'll] definite­ly prove themselves to the other teams in the confer­ence," Pekarek said. "We're a real threat, and we're going to show that." . 
That potential does not stop with attaining low-level goals. 
"Winning the [MIAA] cham­pionship and going to the NCAA finals is very attainable with the girls we have no.w and those we will see in the future," Pekarek said. "I can't emphasize enough how much talent we have and what an impact they'll show at the NCAA tournament." 
The University of Indianapolis finished first in the tournament with a score of 327, followed by Transylvania University and host Tri-State. 
Despite the recent resigna­tion of their coach, the Belles are looking forward to the fall season. Many talented recruits join the team in the fall, look­ing to add to the solid talent base the team currently has. 
"[This young team] is defi­nitely going places," said team member Megan Keleher. 
Contact Leah Gillock at gill7627@saintmarys.edu. 


Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
It's Not Too Late Apply to Study Abroad in Sunny Mexico, Spring, 2003 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
THURSDAY, APRIL 2:S, 2002, 5:00 ?71 
209 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1, 2002 FOR SEMESTER BEGINNING JANUARY 2003 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE EARLY AUGUST, 2002: 
www.nd.edu/ ~intlstud / 
Wednesday, April 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles hope to defeat Valparaiso with love of game 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
As Saint Mary's steps onto the court today, it brings some­thing with it that even Division I competition Valparaiso doesn't. With non-scholarship athletes, the Belles are bring­ing a love of the game, a love of the game that has sent them to victories against the Crusaders the past two seasons. 
"Because of the fact we're not scholarship, the only rea­son that we're out on that court is because we absolutelv love the game of tennis, and"that's the only reason," said senior Annie Knish. "We love being part of the team and represent­ing Saint Mary's, and that's what we bring out there. At our 

PICK UP YOUR YEARBOOK 
Distribution of The Dome will take place: 
Wednesday, April Z4: 
12-5 in 108 LaFortun.e 4:30-9:30 at South Dining Hall (main lobby) 
Thui-sday, April 25: 
12-5 in 108 Lafortune 

--No charge to undergraduates (just show ID). $5-0 all others. 
--Past yearbooks (1999, 2006:,-2001) will also be available in 108 LaFortn:Qe. 
Thank you. Enjoy yOllr 2002. Dome. 


Looking for a safe place to store your "stuff' during the summer? We have just what you need! 
5 lit 5 to 15 lit 30 size units A....U.able NOW! 
15 Minuu,s from the Golde.n Dome! From ND. Caznpus go east 8.8 miles on Douglas Road to dead end, then go north 1.7 miles on Ash Road. Lcx:ated directly across from Discovezy Middle School 
ELLIE ASHBYme Observer Jeannie Knish goes after the ball in a previous game. The Belles will face Valparaiso today. 
level we're very competitive but we also love to play." 
The Belles, who are coming off two close weekend victories to non-conference opponents, are hoping to use today's match as a practice for the upcoming MIAA tournament. A win or a loss against the Crusaders will have no effect on the team's conference standings or standings in Division III in general. For that reason, the Belles are going in with no expectations. 
"We have absolutely nothing to lose," Knish said. "It will have no effect on our confer­ence standings, it's just kind of for fun and to help better our game. It's just a good practice match for us." 
Despite the fact that today's match will serve more as a practice, it will serve as a chal­lenging practice. Last season the Belles took home a 5-4 vic­tory against the Crusaders, winning the match with their depth. Although they lost at Nos. 1, 2 and 3 singles and No. 1 doubles, they managed to hang on to the rest of the matches for the win. 
As it faces off against Valparaiso again, Saint Mary's is looking to improve its own 
This Week in the Department of Music 
Tue. April 23:  Peter Kurdzeil, graduate organ recital  
8:00 pm, Basilica. Free admission.  
Thurs. April 25:  Rexphil Rallanka, graduate organ recital  
8: 15 pm, Basilica. Free Admission.  
Fri. April 26:  ND Opera: The Magic Flute  
7:30 pm, Washington Hall. Tickets ($3-6):  
LaFortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128  
. Sat. April 27:  Daniel Tonozzi, senior cello recital  
w/ Jacqueline Schmidt, piano  
2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission.  
Sat. April 27:  Sean Downey, graduate tuba recital  
5:30 pm, Hcsburgh Library Auditorium.  
Free admissioQ.  
.  Sat. April 27:  ND Opera: The Magic Flute  
7:30 pm, Washington Hall. Tickets ($3-6):  
LaFortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128  
Sun. April 28:  ND Brass Ensemble  
3 pm, Band Bulding. Free admission.  

Call 631-6201 for more information 
play through tough competi­tion. Earlier this season the Belles faced some weaker MIAA competition, which may have affected their play. Higher level of play will be a positive for them today, regardless of who wins the match. 
"You're only as good as your opponent," Knish said. "When you're playing against better competition, it raises the level of your game that much more." 
Valparaiso brings a deep team as well, a strength it's had the past several years the Belles have played the Crusaders. That depth, coupled with scholarship athletes, will provide a level of competitive­ness the Belles haven't seen much this season. 
"They have a very deep team, but I guess their top two or three players are very solid," Knish said. "Those are their scholarship players. They have some new recruits.... Everyone on the team from one singles to six singles should have a very good match tomorrow." 
The match begins at 3 p.m. at Valparaiso. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
24 -Hour Digital Survtillance Cameras With Keypad Entry 
52336 Ash Road ~ Gran2er, IN 46530 
Wednesday, April 24, 2002 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

Everybody plays in Irish 16-7 victory 
! 
I 
r 
r 
• 
I 
! l t 
I 
I 
t r r 
I ~ ,.__ I 
I
I I 
t 
f 
I t 
Congregation Of Holy Cross 

lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I ., 
;  CJ's PUB  ;  
;  PARTY ON THE PATIO  ;  
~  Blue &Gold Weekend  ~  
~  Live Music after the Game!  ~  
~  All "Out on the Patio"  ~  
I ,,  Friday April 26  I ,,  
7:30 ­ 11:30  
~  Oblates ofBlues  ~  
~  SaturdayApril 27  ~  
7:30 ­ 11:30  
~  Nihm  ~  
~  Inside ­ Friday and Saturday  ~  

Live Music by Ricky Joe ~ -Specials Every Night-~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
By JOE HETTLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Heading into the bottom of the fourth inning of Tuesday night's 16-7 win over Chicago State, Notre Dame head base­ball coach Paul Mainieri began substituting his bench players into the game -and he didn't stop for the next five innings. 
When the game ended, Mainieri had played 22 differ­ent players and sent pitchers to the plate and into the field. 
"[The substitutes] work hard in practice every day," Mainieri said. "I realized that we had the game in hand very early and it provided an opportunity to give those kids to play almost a full game. I think some of them had three at-bats each. I was glad to see them get an opportunity to go out there and play." 
The Irish blew open a 5-2 game in the third inning by batting around and scoring nine runs off the Cougars. For the game, designated hitter Matt Bok went 2-2 with two doubles and three RBIs before being pulled while left fielder Brian Stavisky batted 3-4. with a double and three RBIs as well. 
Ironically, Irish center field­
er Steve Stanley, who entered 
the game with the sixth high­
est batting average in the 
country at .462, did not col­
lect any of Notre Dame's 14 
base hits. Stanley walked in 
both his plate appearances 
and collected two RBIs in 
three innings of work. 
Notre Dame freshman 
Martin Vergara started the 
game and went six innings, 
yielded only one earned run 
and struck out six Chicago 
State players. 
After building a 14-2 lead 
heading into the fourth 
inning, Mainieri began 
unloading his bench. Pitchers that usually do not bat or play the field, like pitcher Matt Laird, seized their opportuni­ty. 

"I was a prospect in high school," Laird said. "I really didn't get a shot my first two years here to play the field. But coach thought it was my time and I went in and took advantage of it." 
Despite lining out to the second baseman, Laird felt his first Notre Dame at-bat was a success. 
"[Cougar pitcher Nick Troy] started me off fastball away, he had a little sink on it," Laird said. "He knew that, obviously, I was a pretty big guy up there. Once he got ahead of me, he didn't want to throw me another fastball [so] he threw a slider away. 
[I] kind of got it off the end, but I hit ... a line drive." 
Before the game. Mainieri 
had been concerned about his 
team having a letdown after 
playing difficult Big East com­
petition. 

"[A letdown] is a concern 
because we've been playing 
so many tough games and it's 
kind of hardened our team 
and we've learned to do the 
little things it takes to win." 
Mainieri said. "Then when 
you have a game like this. you 
just hope your players don't 
lose the edge of what it takes 
to win." 

The Irish play Bowling Green today at home before taking on perennial power Arizona State for a two game series on Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
·Moving to Chicago? 
Contact Ben @ NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmanr@hotrnail.com 
r--------------------------------------------, 
ABOUT TO GRADUATE? 

... ( 

. I ' 

CONGRATULA~~S! 
. Y.1/1, 

Now the fun begins! ·. ;,::,:,:,·., 
Paying back the student loan~· ., · ... 
We _can help make this part of y~~~fe 
easier. -~~­
*$ave money ·~.m·: 
*Lower Fixed Interest Rate that~iv·er goes up. No prepayment penalty. *Your current Interest Rate can go up as much as .6% at the end of your grace period, so ACT NOW to lock in the lower rate. 
Call Toll Free 1-866-814-2258 
L-------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
the report said. "With the money comes manipulation. Schools
Feature Show them the money
and conferences prostrate them­
If commercialization is spread­continued from page 20 selves to win and get on televi­
ing among college athletics,
sion. Meanwhile, equipment 
exactly what is the cause of the 
manufacturers inundate promi­
But as concern grows, so does more recent movement to adver­
nent coaches and universities
the number of corporate spon­tise in intercollegiate sports? It
with goods and money in
sorships to generate profit for stems from a basic need among
exchange for exposure -adver­
collegiate programs. schools to support their pro­
tisements of all kinds on cam­
"Vastly larger television deals grams, experts say. 
puses, stadiums and field houses
and shoe contra~ts have been "Schools have done only what
and logos on uniforms, shoes
signed, and more and more they have to do to finance their
and every other conceivable
space in stadiums and arenas programs," Kevin White, Notre
piece of equipment." 

has been sold to advertisers," Dame athletic director, said. 
L....I 
...
rtheJ t 
b5 

Your alternative musicsource. 
T
999 

MEDIB'PLAY® 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888·60-MEDIA. 
Sele<:tion, pricing and special offeu may vary 1,y store and online, 808942 12027 Sale ends May 4, 2002. www.mediaplay.cam 













"Within intercollegiate sports in general, what has happened is that intercollegiate athletics has had to find alternative ways to finance these growing programs, and it has really driven the com­mercialization." 
While some athletics may seem to be cash cows for univer­sities, the fact is, most programs fail to turn a profit for their schools. 
In fact, the Knight Commission reported the NCAA's latest study of revenues and expenses at Division I and II institutions showed that nearly 15 percent operate their athletics programs in the black. 
Many theorize that the advent of women's sports and Olympic sports, which have stolen some thunder from the traditionally dominant sports of football and basketball, has caused most pro­grams to expend more than they receive. Without some outside funding, many institutions would lose their programs altogether. 
"With the advent of women's sports and with the whole women's sports explosion, with­out having any financial or fund­ing mechanism to accommodate those interests, schools have had to become much more commer­cial," White said. "You can almost identify when schools really got into venue signage ... you can tie that almost right to the evolution of women's sports, because there is no funding mechanism." 
For the most part, these over­whelming costs of ever-growing athletic programs force universi­ties to seek corporate help. At the University of Arizona, for example, Athletic Director Jim Llvengood said his school's asso­ciation with Nike is necessary to maintain a successful athletic department. 
"We would not be able to have the program we have now," Livengood told the Arizona Summer Wildcat. "We would not be able to support 19 sports. We would not be able to offer many of the things [to athletes] that we do right now. The Nike contract allows us to try and treat as equally as we can all 19 of our sports." 
How far would Notre Dame go? 
It's uncertain how long it may be before Notre Dame -a school that doesn't even want to put the names of players on jer­seys or decals on helmets ­splashes corporate logs across navy jerseys or golden helmets. Will Notre Dame Stadium one day look like a minor league ballpark with advertisements for Harry's Hardware plastered on the scoreboard? 
Already, the Adidas logo is vis­ible on the right shoulder of foot­ball jerseys and in various places on other team uniforms and University merchandise. 
Despite this, White maintains the Notre Dame is careful to limit the visibility of corporate sponsorships in areas that could compromise the tradition of the University, such as in the Stadium. 
"We've charted the course to do it without a lot of venue sig­nage in Notre Dame Stadium," White said. "In fact, there's none. You'll always see us try to find ways to raise resources that do not compromise that venue position." 
A fine line exists between making sponsors' names visible and displaying blatant advertise­ments so that teams become vir­tual walking billboards. 
"We have a lot of corporate sponsors and partners, but when you get in on game day and it's time to enjoy Notre Dame foot­ball, they're in the back 40," White said. "They're all over the place, but they're not cluttering up the venue. We've done that here to a fairly significant extent, but we've been careful and thoughtful ... on how we've entered into those relation­ships." 
In the end, however, it comes down to having enough money in the department to allow equi­ty among all programs, not just the top earning dogs -football and men's basketball. It is important -albeit very expen­sive -to allow each sport to have its full amount of scholarships and to have the necessary bud­get to field a competitive team. 
Enter corporate sponsors, who can finance such an opportunity. 
"[The sponsorships] arc criti­cal as we are also looking for resources to fund this program and to provide more and better opportunities for our 800 stu­dent athletes," White said. "We're not just focused on pro­viding world-class opportunities for 85 football players. Our mis­sion here is much broader than that." 
Funding a future 
There's a flip side to what experts say is the ugly veneer of commercialization in collegiate athletics. Granted, because of a corporate contract, a team may have to wear an agreed-upon brand of uniform or hang a par­ticular company's logo in its sta­dium; but the money generated by the contract is often used toward offering equal opportuni­ties to athletes in all sports. Officials also funnel profits into areas of universities other than athletic departments. 
One of the few schools to regu­larly turn a profit from its sports, Notre Dame does exactly that. 
"l think that while we are one of the few schools that makes money on athletics, that money allows us to bring kids here that otherwise couldn't pay their way," Hesburgh said. "I would say the bulk of that money went into scholarships for poor kids, and that's hard to criticize that." 
The athletic department pro­ceeds alse-become part of the University endowments that fund student scholarships. 
"When I took over as presi­dent, we had one endowed scholarship," Hesburgh said. "Today, we have about $100 million endowed for scholar­ships. I'm sure that some schools' athletic dollars go right back to the athletic department. but here, the bulk of it goes into our scholarships." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

r 
I 1 
I ' ( 
t 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 24, 2002 
l 
I. standard and then you finally get that's what it is." "It's just very difTicult because
t will take its place among the t there, I felt like I got there As Kachmarik begins the we haven't had a lot of success searches for new head soccer 
f 
Resigns

t Saturday and how many days search for a replacement softball in the past with our searches and golf coaches which are still l later I find out [Ganeff] is leav­coach for the fifth time in four with local people. local candi­in progress.
continued from page 20

! ing." years, she stated the difficulties dates especially for the softball "Without a stable coach it's of finding local candidates who search," Kachmarik said. Contact Katie McVoy at
coach in the fall, the women will

! hard to develop any type of pro­are interested in the position. The search for a softball coach mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu.
have to return to try-outs and

I 
gram," said senior Rachel Deer.
t learn another new coaching sys­
t "Every year we have to learn a
, tem and style. 
new style of softball and what
"It's really frustrating as an

I 
that coach likes. An example for ~ athlete, I have to try out for a
I that, every year we've played
I team," said sophomore Marnie 
l we've learned a new style of 
t Walsh. 'Tm going to be a junior 
l defense, a new style of hitting, a
and I'm going to have to try out, 

t new style of bunting and there's
I'm going to have to prove myself

f no way to create a winning pro­
f as hopefully a starting player
t gram when you consistently
I and it's frustrating for me. You 
t change coaches. It's ridiculous,
I work so hard to get to a certain 
I t I 
I 
I 
I t SMC SOFTBALL 
l ! 
I !, -Belles hope to 
i 
I 
•f t finally face Calvin 
f 3-7 and are in seventh place.I By NATALIE BAILEY Keri Cole and Laurel Sands t Sports Writer lead Calvin on offense. Last t week, Cole was named the( MIAA Position Player of the
The Belles travel to Grand Week. In six league games,
t Rapids, Mich., today to facet Calvin College in their resched­Cole batted 4 for 19 with four' I uled doubleheader at 3:30 p.m. RBIs and also pitched Calvin to While canceled and resched­
two victories. Sands leads Calvin in batting average, runs
uled several times because of scored, hits, RBIs and home­

wet fields, Saint Mary's players runs.
hope the weather will not 

Today's game ends the 2002interfere again. 
spring Mli\A season for the
Last year the Belles won 8-0 Belles. This weekend they will
and 13-12 in their doublehead­participate in the MIAA tourna­

er against the Knights. Repeating last year's victories 

ment. may be more difficult this year. Calvin is currently in fifth place in the MIAA with a 5-7 Contact Natalie Bailey at league record. The Belles are 
bai11407@saintmarys.edu. 
As SENIOR VP OF FINANCIAL PLANNING AT A 
MAJOR MOVIE STUDIO YOU COULD: 
0.K. A $93 MILLION BUDGET 
HIRE 7,500 EXTRAS 
RENT 273 PALM TREES 
(AND 1 BIG FAN TD MAKE THEM SWAY) 
How DO YOU GET A JOB LIKE THIS? 
www.STARTHEREG . PLACES.C0M/B1Z7 
Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
···ifi;Jj!fii!iii~~~-·:;:;:,,.:('.':•,:;~;·•:·.
C0 m • ··..,:;Ii•:
.. .. 
. ' 
~=
.. 
START HERE. G. PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 


Wednesday, April 24, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

lASolll, WE~ 'YOU THE oNE WHO TAPED THESE STUPID "1<1CIC ME" SIGNS To THE 
BACK OF E.VEfZY SHIRT IN 
MY CLOSET?! 
FOXTROT 

INCORPORATING TOUCH­DOWN JESUS IMPRESSION INTO TOUCHDOWN BOOGIE: 9 POINTS 
ME?? I kl'&OW OF 'YOU'RE couli'SE LYING, r-&oT. YOU LITTLE 

Il.l.fwAL POs.sESSION OF HALF-TIME ORANGES: -5 POINTS 
THIS STUPID PLOT HAS YOUR FINGERPRINTS ALL OVER IT! 
TOM KEELEY 
RUNNING PLAY -'NYWHERE BVT UP THE MIC>t>t.E: 1000 POINTS 

BILLAMEND 
I TOLD YOU NOT To EAT CHEEToS YEAH, BEFORE YOU 010 YEAH. 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

Nov \vl\e.  1ov i"P  t)tl.~re,  ,ov .:f',  
~l\  ou\­ ~~e.  Vi-er~  ~~  ~  'fu srell  
T ~o.ve +-o ) ~II e, tk M)c> "" •  r~e"""'e""ll1  i.11eo ...pete-J?  


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 2002 
ACROSS 25 Vamooses 58 Paleozoic and Cenozoic

1 Black Caucus, 29 Causes gasps CELEBRITIES BORN ON youback.00 
59 Hyperactive THIS DAY: Barbra Streisand, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Youe.g. 30 Skin flicks 
Shirley Macl.aine, Stanley Kauff­will be sensitive when it comes to
5 Borscht 31 Put 60 Like a beanpole 
man, Eric Bogosian criticism but must learn to take it,
makings appearance 61 Tent furniture 
Happy Birthday: You will have especially if you are going to dish it 10 Prefix with 32 Kind of spirit 62 Indefinite wait greater insight into matters pertain­out. Pay attention to details when carpal 36 Middle of the 63 "What could ing to work this year. You mustn't doing professional jobs. 000 definition I do?" let peISOnal problems interfere with LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): You'll
14 1972 Kentucky 
what you are trying to accomplish. be fascinated by secret intrigues.
Derby winner 39 Element #10 
You will communicate well with Avoid involvement with colleagues 
_Ridge 40 New Mexico DOWN 
both business and personal part­or anyone who works in your15 More tl1an fancy resort 1 Crow ners. Intellectual activity with industry Problems will develop if 16 Mysterious 41 Cheeses in red 2 For the calorie­friends, family and peers will be you aren't discreet. 000 
byline, for short wax conscious stimulating and rewarding. This is a SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): year to negotiate contracts. Your You can contribute to a cause vou
17 Start of a 42 Ego 3 In excess of 
numbers are 9, 17, 21, 25, 32. 44 ,believe in but oo!y by offering your 
cynic's definition 43 Safari chiefs 4 Engine parts 
ARIES (M:arch 21-April 19): Be worthy suggestions and your time. 
of "love" 44 Private school 5 Seven-time careful when operating equipment Once you step over the line and 19 Burglar 48 Cousin of "Ugh!" N.F.L. East or machinery. You'll have a tenden­donate cash you will be in over 20 "Oh, Lady, Be 49 Congo Basin champions in cy to be careless. You may become your head. 0000 
the 1950's emotional if someone you work SAGITTARnJS (Nov. 22-Dec. n..
Good" writer river 
with is critical. Keep things in per­Partnerships may be under duress
21 Reef material 50 Pink-flowered 6 Spooky 
spectiveand stay calm. 000 today. Plan a busy schedule so you 22 Lunch hour, shrub TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don't have to bother with emotional 
7 Cardinal maybe 55 Proctor's O'Connor's Look over your personal papers or issues. Take on a physical challenge announcement successor work on a hobby or creative project and you will receive far more satis­
23 With 43-Down, 
8 Cigarette stat -something that will make you faction. 00
author of the 56 End of the 
feel better about yourself. Yc,u will CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):
definition definition 9 Winking, maybe 
learn something new if you watch You'll be light years ahead when it
10 1984 Ed Koch 

how others do things. 00000 comes to your ideas and intentions. best seller GEMINI (May 21-June 20): By sharing your thoughts with peo­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Mo starter Don't do anything to upset matters p le you look up to you will find at a personal level. Keep your yourself moving in a positive direc­
E W E S H E M E N 12 "Animal House" 

MARC 
thoughts to yourself no matter how tion getting the kinds of results 
CHIC ORATE partywear

ALO 
U 

hard that might be. Focus on your­you're looking for. 00000 H E R A M I N C E 13 Tum sharply self, your ideas and your future. 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
S E A R 
18 Massless CANCER (June 21-July 22): Lack offunds may stand in the way particle You'll discover that your friends are cf having a good time. You should 21 Dan Rather's 
there to support you if you need a be concentrating on developing one helping hand. Work-related matters of your brilliant ideas and turning ...
employer 

might be put on hold but don't sit your financial situation around.
23 Radar-equipped 

around waiting for things to hap­000 
plane pen. Initiate your plans or nothing PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 24 Waiter's offering or hall will get done. 0000 Problems with an older relative or 25 Test drive 37 News bit LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): If you friend are likely to crop up today. By 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are don't count on getting any help you standing by and helping you will
26 Christmas 38 Don't change available by touch-tone phone: won't be disappointed. Avoid discover that this person does have decoration 

out of expensive outings, clubs or lending wisdom to offer you in return. Be
1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 

27 Guess qualifier to people who aren't likely to pay observant and listen carefully. 000
42 Understand

28 Son of Judah Annual subscriptions are available for the 43 See 23-Across best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 Birthday Baby: You will be precise and to the point. Your ideas will
29 "Don't give me 

always be practical and well thought-out. You will plan everything carefully 
S W E D E A L E A S _ your lip!" 44 Montezuma, e.g. years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
and leave no room for error. You are a bit of a perfectionist but only when doing something that you want to do. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astrornate.com.) 
©2001 Uni"ersal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--------------------------------------------------~-~--------------------­

45 Where "Aida" premiered 46 Shoot for 47Toggery 48 Thrash 50 Old Dodge 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. · Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester .. j I
Name ______________________ 
Address 1 City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-
Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Fox Column, p. 14 
. SMC Tennis, p. 12 
. 
SMC Golf, p. 14 . Bookstore , p. 12, 13 

. 
SMC Softball, p. 18 . Baseball, p. 16


PORTS 
Wednesday, April 24, 2002 
SPORTS ANALYSIS 

How far could it go? 
Viewing the problem of commercialization in collegiate athletics
-
and how Notre Dame fits into this trend 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
As the University has inked multiple operating contracts' with corporate sponsors in recent years, the issue of com­mercialization on the campus has arisen -and focused itself squarely in the athletic depart­ment. 
Most people may be familiar with the highly publicized televi­sion deal between NBC and Notre Dame, as well as the

r-recent apparel contract with 
1 Adidas. 
r Less publicized, however, are
l various other corporate engage­
l ments between the University 
t 
I 
I and companies such as
I Gatorade, Chevrolet, Verizon, 
t Meijer and FANSonly Media. How much is too much? At what point do collegiate athletics stray from being an aspect of college life to become a profes­sional enterprise? 
The Problems 
In 1991, the Knight Commission, a committee co­chaired by Notre Dame President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, assembled to discuss questions about prob­lems in collegiate athletics. The commission's work targeted three areas: academic perfor­mance of student-athletes, the so-called "arms-race" to build up athletic programs and the growth of commercialization in collegiate and even high school sports. 

Last year, the Knight Commission met again to report where the problems stood 10 years later. 
"The most glaring elements of the problems outlined in this report -academic transgres­sions, a financial arms race and commercialization -are all evi­dence of the widening chasm between higher education's ideals and big-time college sports," the committee reported. 
Commission members main­tained that these issues contami­nated the very nature of colle­giate athletics and university life. "Under the influence of tele­vision and the mass media, the ethos of athletics is now profes­sional," the group wrote. 
see FFATURE/page 17 
.. ND SOFTBALL 
Irish upset No. 4 Cornhuskers 
By AARON RONSHEIM 
Sports Writer 

l 
The Notre Dame softball team improved their record to 27-13 with a dramatic 3-2 victory over the No. 4 ranked 
Nebraska Cornhuskers on 
Tuesday. "We have had so many

f 
I heartbreakers this year and 
! finally things turned out our way," head coach Deanna Gumpf said. "When you keep lighting like that great things will happen." 
Great things happened for the Irish in the seventh inning, when freshman left fielder Liz Hartmann provid­ed the Irish with their only runs of the game. She hit a three-run home run to pro­vide the Irish with a 3-1 lead heading into the bottom half of the inning. 
"[Liz] has done that more than once this year," Gumpf said. "She wants to be up there in the clutch situation. That is why she is success­ful." 
After being unable to score with the bases loaded and one out in the top of the sixth inning, the Irish offense was finally able to score against Nebraska pitcher Peaches James. 
Following a leadoff single by shortstop Andria Bledsoe, an error by Nebraska first baseman Nicole Trimboli let Lisa Mattison reach base and Bledsoe advance to third. 
With runners on first and third, Hartmann delivered with her first career home­run. 
Hartmann's clutch hit didn't surprise catcher Jarrah Myers. 
"[Liz] is the type of hitter that zeros in when runners are on base," said the senior captain. "She is going to get a hit." 
In the bottom of the seventh the Cornhuskers would not go quietly as they made one last attempt to steal the victory from the Irish. 
Cornhusker catcher Amber Burgess started the inning with a double off the leftfield fence and would score when James lined a double into center. After a talk from 
see ND SOFTBALL/page 13 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles' Ganeff 
•

resigns 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 

Saint Mary's head softball coac~ John Ganeff joined the ranks of soccer coach Bobby Johnston and Teresa Pekarek when he announced his resigna­tion Monday. According to Athletic Director Lynn Kachmarik, GanefT cited finan­cial problems and personal goals of returning to college and working full time as reasons for his resignation. His resignation will be effective following the end of the softball season. 
"Part of it is financial," Kachmarik said. "But he's going back to college and that's a big part of his goal and he'11 lose his flexibility when it comes to class time." 
Ganeff did not immediately return a phone call for comment Tuesday. 
The first-year coach worked part-time at a local high school teaching physical education classes, but also cited the need to find a full-time job in addition to going back to school. Kachmarik said. His position at Saint Mary's was as a part-time head coach. 
With the announcement of Ganeffs resignation at a team meeting yesterday, three ath­letes announced their intent to transfer from Saint Mary's to other schools with a more solid athletic programs. Katie Frigge, Lynn Lapshan and Kelly Wirpsa are planning to leave Saint Mary's at the end of the season, citing the rotating door of coach­es as part of their reason for leaving. 
"l had a strong team at school and I came for fall ball and fell in love with team," freshman Kelly Wirpsa said. "Now I don't feel excited to go home and feel excited about the team and tell people about my school. I just don't have that excitement about it." 
In addition to the three ath­letes who announced their intent to leave Saint Mary's, graduating and returning soft­ball players expressed their frustration at losing their fifth coach in the last four seasons. With the arrival of the new head 
see RESIGNS/page 18 
TS 
. Baseball vs. Bowling Green, Today, 6:05 p.m.
p 
OBSERVER 
. Softball vs. IUPU-Fort Wayne, Thursday, 3 p.m. 
online

.. 
. Women's Lacrosse at Northwestern, Thursday,
AT AGLANCE 3 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 








