
To date or not to date?
SUNNY 

Wednesday 
This is the question that Scene answers as it explores the dating 
scene on campus. 

FEBRUARY 13,
HIGH 31° 
Scene . pages 10 and 11
Low23° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 78 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Tickets face off at run-off debate 
ByJASON McFARLEY News Editor 
In private, the two remaining tickets for Notre Dame student body president and vice president were amiable in the 10 minutes immediately prior to I.heir debate Tuesday. 
The four candidates, all 
acquaintances, joked and  Voting info  
laughed with each other as they probably had at student government  .Thursday, Feb. 14  
meetings  or residence  . On-campus  
hall parties in the past.They looked and sounded  students vote in  
more like pals than politi­ residence halls  
cal opponents.  . Off-campus  
Then, in public, running mates Brian Moscona and  students vote  
Keri  Oxley  and  Libby  near 1st floor  
Bishop and Trip Foleylined up on opposite sides  computer clusters  
of the Hesburgh Library  in DeBartolo from  
auditorium stage and did  12:30-3:30 p.m.  
for the first time what  
they had wanted to do  

since the campaign season began last month: compete. 
The debate, a face-off between the tickets that emerged as the top vote-getters in Monday's primary election. was candidates' first chance to question directly each other's experience and goals. 
They took full advantage of the opportuni­ty. 
Vice-presidential candidate Oxley chal­lenged several of Bishop and Foley's platform ideas -revamping Freshman Orientation, organizing a "Welcome Ty Willingham" tour for the new head football coach and installing detex entry systems for residence halls -as plans student leaders and University admin­istrators have already begun. 
"Initially. we weren't aware [that the pro­jects were underway]," presidential hopeful Bishop responded. "That's a fundamental problem -no one was aware of these things. But work on these issues is not fin­ished." 
Moscona. the current student body vice president, countered, saying that his office had spent countless hours researching and planning the initiatives and looked forward to bringing them to completion. 

"I just wish students knew how many hours you were putting in," Bishop said, emphasizing the need for student govern­ment to communicate more effectively with its constituency. Bishop and Foley further contested their rivals' ability to communicate well, asking whether Moscona and Oxley would represent student concerns to admin­istrators. 
"Absolutely," Moscona said. "Keri [the cur­rent sophomore class president] and I have established relationship with administrators. We'll work to improve the lines of communi­cation with students." 
Bishop replied with a swift barb: "I just feel like it's a little late," she said, apparently in reference to student displeasure with University officials' crackdown on tailgating. "I wish communication had been open more last semester." Moscona pressed Bishop and Foley on the tailgating issue. He asked how they expected to interact next fall with administrators who have vowed to continue their tough stance against underage drinking and alcohol-focused tailgaters before home football games. 
Bishop answered that Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, hadn't offered an explanation of why officials cracked down or presented a clear definition of the school's tailgating rules. That wasn't true, according to Moscona, because Poorman in a full-page Observer advertise­ment last fall addressed the concerns. 
Foley rebutted, "He didn't say what the policy was in clear language." 
The Bishop-Foley ticket, which has cam­paigned on the idea of eliminating repetitive student government-sponsored program­ming, faced questions from Moscona and Oxley about a lack of spiritual-, service and academic-oriented goals on its platform. 
Bishop and Foley said objectives such as "Grab 'n Give" food collections and distin­guished lecturer series satisfy those areas. 
"I think we spoke earlier about overlap ...," Oxley responded, pointing out that many University clubs and departments already sponsor Grab 'n Gives and lecture series. 
Bishop said their opponents' platform pre­sented discrepancies of its own. Moscona and Oxley have campaigned on the issue of creat­ing less programming and facilitating other clubs' events. 
"It's contradicting to say that you're not going to sponsor programming, as I feel most of your platform is," Bishop said about 
see DEBATE page 4 

Malloy opens Ethics Week at Mendoza 
. Weeklong series will address ethics and morality in business 
By JOHN FANNING 
News Writer 
University President Father Edward Malloy outlined the qualities that lead to profes­sional success at a keynote address Tuesday t h a t kicked off Ethics Week in t h e Mendoza College of Business. 
Ethics Week, in its fifth consecutive year, is a week-long series of talks sponsored by the college to encourage morality and ethi­cal practice both in job set­tings and other areas of life. 
"The practitioners of vari­ous professions should be held to the highest standard," said Malloy. However, Malloy warned that one's code of ethics must not only be applied to oneself, but also to the actions of others. 
"Judgements about hard cases involving people you know are very difficult to make," said Malloy. 
Malloy said the safety and care of others must come before hiding the wrongdo­
-ings of a colleague. If a doc-

see MALLOY/page 4 


"Sex and the City's" author advises aspiring writers 
By SHEILA EGTS 
News Writer 
Candace Bushnell, author of the popular best seller "Sex and the City," stared blankly at the crowd in Washington Ball last night after receiving some notable information about her audience. 
"I sort of don't know what I'm doing here because I just found out this school is really conserva­tive and well, I'm not," Bushnell said frankly at the opening of the lecture. "I was going to read from my books, but I've been told maybe I'm not supposed to do Lhat either." 
While she planned on dis­cussing the ethics of journalism in the 21st century, Bushnell threw that plan out the window and had the audience in the palm of her hand as she told per­sonal anecdotes from her climb to the top of her field. 
Bushnell started working as a journalist because she needed to pay her rent. but she knew from age 8 that she wanted to be a famous writer. She started small. and one of her first jobs actually involved sharpening pencils for other writers in the office. 
"I don't know if anyone really wants to hear about the ethics of journalism and how it has changed. But I guess that's one way the field of journalism has changed. Twenty years ago, peo­ple used pencils," Bushnell said. 
As she advanced in the jour­nalism field, Bushnell planned her whole career in a way that would eventually lead her to a career as a novelist. She began writing a regular column that addressed relationships between men and women among Manhattan's elite. The columns were later combined into her first book, "Sex and the City." 
"My column started out in first person, but then I created Carrie Bradshaw because I didn't want my parents to read it and know what I was really doing," said Bushnell. "It was horrifying, the dating experiences that hap­pened to me and my friends. But every bad date lead to at least 2 or 3 good characters, so you can get some use out of those guys." 
As a writer, Bushnell said she tends to find the uncommon character that is interesting to write and read about to keep readers turning the pages. She attempts to look at human nature without being shy about discussing the "underbelly" of human nature. 

Bushnell did not design her novels to encourage people to go out and have random sex. Rather, she portrayed characters that would make readers think twice about what they are get­ting themselves into. 
"I am trying to get people to ask what they will really get out of these kinds of relationships. I at least recommend that they don't end up like any ofmy char­acters because these women are really messed up," Bushnell said. 
Bushnell said she felt pressure from her empty bank account to produce another novel and wrote her second best seller. "Four Blondes." She is currently work­ing on her third novel and has nearly completed the first draft. 
She advised aspiring writers tu be disciplined by getting up every day and writing something even if it's just a term paper. 
"Follow your dreams, or at least chase some hunky guys," Bushnell said. 
In response to popular demand from the audience, Bushnell con­cluded by reading two clips from her novels featuring characters based on real-life dating disas­ters. Bushnell was the last speaker featured in the week­long Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Meatless Fridays 
Ash Wednesday kicks off one ofthe most important and longest running traditions at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. No, I am not talking about Lent. Preparing for the remembrance of the death and resurrect.ion of Christ is surely important but doesn't 
seemed to incite the passion and debate that this other tradition does. Ash Wednesday is the official start to the "Complain about not having meat in the dining halls on Fridays" season. 
Even as you eat your Blazin' Sea Nuggets or what­


ever other meatless contrap- Mike Connolly  
I.ion the dining halls are dish­ 
ing out today, the in box at  
Viewpoint.l@nd.edu is  Editor in Chief  
already filling with com­ 
plaints about the injustice of  

forcing students to give up meat on Fridays whether the authors are practicing Catholics or 
not. 

Shortly after a few ofthose letters run in the paper, the in box will fill with more letters attack­ing the first set of letters. These letters will have the basic message that giving up meat is a sacri­fice for Christ and that it is only a tiny thing we can do to remember his suffering. 
Next will come the retort from the first group pointing out that without the option ofmeat in the dining halls, there can be no chance to choose a meatless meal and therefore, no true sacrifice. 
This debate will continue back and forth for a few days until finally all the letters just repeat themselves and Viewpoint stops publishing them. It's the same every single year. 
So please, just stop. 

There are greater injustices in this world than eating spaghetti with tomato sauce and no meat­balls once a week. There are greater crises than whether or not you can have a steak. Ifyou really want some beef on Friday, go to Lafortune and order a 'Whopper. 
As far as the logic ofchoice and sacrifice, the pro-meat on Friday people are exactly right. If the dining hall s don't offer the choice of meat on Fridays then it really isn't a sacrifice to eat the fish sandwich rather than the non-existent cheeseburger. You can argue logically as much as you want but that still won't change the menu. Logical argument seem to have no effect on the administration and University big wigs. At the same time, you can't honestly expect a Catholic school to break one ofits own dogmatic tradi­tions. 
Ifyou are really concerned about making a true meat sacrifice today and every Friday until Easter, walk through Lafortune before heading to the dining halls. Walk past the Whoppers and pepperoni pizza. Ignore the roast beefsandwich. Then head to the dining hall and shovel down your vegetarian lasagna. Then you will have made a true sacrifice. 
And if not eating pork on Fridays in Lent is still that big a deal to you. move off campus. Get your own room. your own kitchen, cable, much cheap­er rent and no parietals. Then you can cook whatever you want and you won't feel oppressed anymore. 
But until next semester rolls around and you are happily eating beefwhenever you want off­campus, avoid the Blazin' Sea Nuggets. Those things are scary. 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 

ThcAni Difranco concert is Tuesday Feb. 19, noc Wednesday as previously reported. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards irsdfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism ac all times. We do, however, recognize that we wiU make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake. please contact us at 631-4S4 l so we c.an correct our crro.. 
The Ob~rver (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday through Friday except <luring exam and vacation p«io<I.,. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pr..,. All rcpwduccion eights are re&ented. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday Thursday Friday 
. Ash Wednesday ~ Notre Dame  . Lecture -"Partisan Bias in  . Worskshop -"2002 Dance  
Basilica Mass at 11 :30 a.m. and  Policy Convergence: Privatization  Spectrum," guest artists, faculty  
5:15 pm. Saint Mary's Mass at noon  Choices in Latin America," Marie  and student works, O'Laughlin  
and 6 p.m.• Regina Chapel  Victoria Murillo, room C -103  Auditorium, Moreau Center, Saint  
Hesburgh Center, 4:15 p.m.  Mary's College, 7 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Duke smoking ban follows national pattern 

DURHAM, N.C. 

Although Duke University's decision to institute a smoking ban in residence halls has elicited mixed reaction, the policy follows the lead of many schools nationwide as administrators cite the need to protect students' health. 
"If the University bans smoking in academic and administrative build­ings, banning it from a place where students live 24-7 is reasonable," said Larry Moneta, vice president for stu­dent affairs, adding that the policy will help foster a healthy living environ­ment for students. 
Many other universities have similar policies. 
The University of California at Berkeley originally banned smoking in all university-owned facilities except residence halls, but the school expanded the ban to dorms five years ago. 
"I never heard any complaints or problems," said Michelle Kniffin, assistant director of assignments and cashier for UC-Berkeley Housing and Dining Services. "There are less than 200 smokers out of 5,300 [students], so there's really no issue about it." 
Purdue University instituted a smok­ing ban in all undergraduate housing last semester. and in fall 2002, the policy will extend to on-campus grad­uate and family housing. 
"The overall reaction was one of great acceptance," said Bill Schnackel. Purdue's senior director for university residences. 
"I don't recall anyone being angry about it. Smokers are finding areas to smoke, and they are even requesting for non-smoking rooms because oflin­gering odors and so forth." 
Schnackel said buildings were ini­tially designated as either smoking or non-smoking; but separating out the smoking and non-smoking areas became too complex, he said, so Purdue decided to ban smoking entirely. 
At Duke, the impetus for the ban was a Campus Council resolution in the fall, although University adminis­trators have been discussing the issue for several years. 


UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA 
Student kills parents, takes own life 
MISSOUIA, Mont. University of Montana student Jared Hope killed his parents and then shot himself while visiting the fam­ily's Whitefish, Mont., home over the weekend, Whitefish Police Chief Bill Dial said. No one told Tim Gibbins.Hope's roommate in Craig Hall. until Monday morning. "He didn't seem like a violent per­son," Gibbins told the Kaimin Monday. 'Tm shocked. I think what he did is disgusting." Gibbins said he met Hope two weeks ago when both were assigned to a room in Craig Hall. Both were transfer students, Gibbins said, new to UM this semester. Hope's moth­er had called last week and left a message on the answering machine, Gibbins said. "She left a mes­sage saying she was looking forward to seeing him," Gibbins said. The bodies of 24-year-old Jared Hope and parents Chester and Carol were found by a neighbor who went to the home Sunday morning to meet one of them for a ski trip. 

SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
Newspaper editors apologize 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. The topic of racism dominated the debate of Syracuse University's Student Association meeting on Monday night, as many members expressed anger and concern about a comic published in Monday's issue of The Daily Orange. The cartoon, "Posthumously," by Matt Cohen and Devin Tanchum, was seen as racially insensitive because of its depic­tion of a black man breaking into the home of a white man. The student response to the comic led assembly members Anthony Buissereth, Geri Weinstein and SA Vice President Shawn Hardie to draft a resolution asking for a formal written apology by the paper and the immediate ban of paper distrib­ution on campus. This problem comes just one day after stricter policies regarding comic publication were instituted by the paper. Both Editor in Chief Tito Bottitta and Managing Editor Ashleigh Graf explained to the Assembly that the paper required all comic artists to attend a meeting Sunday night. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 13. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

®_,.© D [:] m:J CJ . EJ Q Cr~) 
High Low Shower• Rain T-atonn¦ Flurrla¦ Snow l,;9 Runny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy VIIA.NOCMlacfP,., 
Manta 52 31 Las Vegas 64 43 Portland 51 31 Baltimore 41 17 Memphis 44 25 Sacramento 62 39 Boslon 35 17 MIiwaukee 30 26 St. Louis 42 30 Chicago J3 25 New York 38 21 Tampa 65 49 Houston 59 37 Philadelphia 19 8 Washington, DC 43 24 
r-
Wednesday, February 13, 2002 page 3
The Observer . NEWS 



Talk suggests sanctions as a measure to combat terrorism 
ity to break the back but camps in the country. Four 
By JOE ACKERMAN 
instead to slip a disc," Lopez years later, Sudan had signed
News Writer 
responded to a question from all 12 international conven­
an audience member regard­tions for combating terrorism. 
A dangling carrot drew a siz­ing the viability and potential According to Lopez and able crowd to room C-103 of impact of this goal. Cortright. the U.S. State the Hesburgh Center on So far, this task has proved Department's list of countries Tuesday afternoon. problematic in some respects suspected of harboring terror­
The carrot, in the form of the because of difficulties that ists wields considerable influ­
lecture, "Carrots, Sticks. and arise from monitoring and con­ence internationally. The men the War on Terrorism: trolling the finances of individ­argued that countries on the Sharpening Economic uals. Cortright pointed out that list are greatly inclined to par­Statecraft," was presented by these difficulties are do in ticipate in activities that will Kroc Institute fellows George large part to the accuracy and help them get off the list and Lopez and David Cortright. reliability of name recognition thus be relieved of the sanc­
The pair's presentation software, varying English tions that come with being a focused on the role of econom­translations of similar names, part of the list. Cortright went ic sanctions in the ongoing and remedies available to on to offer the suggestion that 
struggle against terrorists and those who believe that there incentives could be used to the states that harbor them. assets have been wrongly minimize the potential of ter­According to Lopez, the com­frozen. ror developing in certain coun­monly held view among U.S. "Systems are nice in theory, tries. 
officials is that sanctions are but sometimes the practical "I think the time is long an effective tool for helping application of them can be dif­passed that the U.S. cooperate stop terrorism. Effective uti­ficult," Cortright said. more with states such as Iran, 
lization of lifting sanctions in Sanctions and the freezing of Sudan and Libya," Cortrightorder to gain support of other assets have come to be viewed said. countries, similar to the dan­as a viable strategy due to pre­Cortright and Lopez offered gling carrot, when coupled vious successes in combating the idea that countries could with the issuing of new sanc­suspected terror, such as what be removed from the State tions to punish and coerce took place in Sudan during the Department list for cooperat­other states -the sticks -1990s. According to Lopez, ing with anti-terror measures, work effectively together to shortly after the UN Security but that a large-scale coopera­help battle terrorists. council demanded the extradi­tive plan is unlikely because of 

One of the primary goals of  tion of terror suspects and  U.S. reluctance.  
the U.S. right now is to disrupt  imposed diplomatic sanctions  
the financial infrastructure of  in 1996, Sudan was certifying  
the al-Qaeda network, Lopez  that Osama Bin Laden had  
said.  been expelled from the country  Contact Joe Ackerman at  
"It is not necessarily the abil­ and al-Qaeda was closing its  jackerml@nd.edu.  



Junior
csc 
CENTER FOR 

Business Majors
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Internships available 
•
1n 

ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve and build their businesses. 
• 
12 week summer program 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship 

• 
housing paid and food stipend 

• 
3 elective academic credits Theo359A Course includes journal, paper, follow up session 


Available in cities: Atlanta Albuquerque, 
Chicago, New York City, San Diego, 
•• Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & MCOB Undergraduate office ~ due Eebrua ry 20th 
Interviews in early March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCION 
Information Meeting : February 14th 
Room 203 B, MCOB 6:00 PM 
I 

6 Free Breadsticks & Sauce with 
I I Any Regular Pizza (with coupon) 
I 

Not good with other discounts or offers
I I One Free breadstick order per customer I 
I 271 ·1277 
I 

I 54533 Terrace Lane I 
(Off of S.R. 23)
I 

We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! 
I I We Take Visa & Mastercard! I Expires 3/3/02 
L------------------------J 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

At1ors Fro111 Tl1e Ln1do11 Stag·e 
Macbeth 
Wednesday, February 20 ............. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 21 ................. 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 22 ...................... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 

Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame Reserved Seats $1 6 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
USA Today pilots readership program 
ByALISON ROCHE 
News Writer 
On Monday. Saint Mary's students may have been sur­prised to find complimentary issues of USA Today, The Chicago Sun-Times, The Chicago Tribune. and The Elkhart Truth in every resi­dence hall. The papers were donated for a four-week pilot participation in USA Today's Collegiate Readership Program. 
More than 170 other col­leges and universities across the country are currently a part of the readership pro­gram which aims to increase students' readership and knowledge of current events. 
"People don't necessarily go out and buy papers, but if they're right in front of them on their way to class. they are more likely to read them," Tracie Sexton, Senior Account Manager from USA Today, said. 
Sexton, along with repre­sentatives from each of the participating newspapers, came to Saint Mary's campus Tuesday to distribute surveys to learn about students' cur­rent readership habits. 
A post-survey will be admin­istered at the end of the pilot to gauge the program's affect on students. Results from the two surveys are compiled by an out service. It is then the College's choice whether to make the program a perma­nent fixture on campus after the free, no-obligation pilot is over. 
Jerry Madsen, the assistant director for residence life, was involved in bringing the pro­gram to campus and says that the decision to keep the pro­gram will be made two to three weeks after the comple­tion of the pilot. 
"The pilot program will determine if, one, we can afford it, and two, if we can afford it. will it be worth it?" said Madsen. 
If the College decides to con­tinue the program after the pilot, The South Bend Tribune may possibly decide to partic­ipate. Mike Lee, The South Bend Tribune's Circulation Director, said the paper is not contributing to the pilot for financial reasons, but that they are willing to speak fur­ther with Saint Mary's and USA Today on the issue. 

"We chose at this time not to be involved in the pilot pro­gram. It's nothing against Saint Mary's or the program. We'll continue to deliver indi­vidually wherever we can," said Lee. 
During the pilot, the number of papers left on the racks in the residence halls· will be counted each day to form a rough estimate of how much the program will cost the College. If the readership program is enacted, the col­lege will pay only for the papers that are taken. Remaining papers are deduct­ed from the bill. 
Sexton said the cost to con­tinue the program is typically around $10 to $15 per stu­dent per year, whereas a reg­ular subscription to a paper is about $70 per year. She also said that other colleges usual­ly implement this cost into student or activity fees. 
The readership program began at Penn State University in 1997 and USA Today took over the coordina­tion and distribution in the fall of 1999. "Every college campus exists to a certain degree inside a bubble -this program works to burst that bubble," said Madsen. 
Contact Alison Roche at roch0584@saintmarys.edu. 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
tor or businessman has a drug or alcohol prob­lem, which is affecting his interactions with his patients. then one must intervene for the benefit of everyone involved. 
Malloy talked about the various elements that typically character­ize a professionally suc­cessful person. 
First, Malloy noted, one must have creden­tials -specialized training in the area or field in which he or she want to work. Second, they must have certifi­cation, such as a mas­ter's degree or a Ph.D.. which gives validity and title to all of the prepa­ration that they have done in order to pre­pare for the career. 
Finally, Malloy stressed the fact that an individual can only be truly successful in the most complete sense if he or she also lives by a certain code of ethics that governs their actions in both their personal and profes­sional lives. 
In illustrating this point Malloy offered the example of someone entering the medical field. As part of the ter­ritory in health care, physicians typically deal with patients when they are at their most vul­nerable. Malloy said. As a result of this imbal­ance of power, doctors and nurses must be cer­tain not to violate their patient's rights in their weakened state, by sticking to an ethical code to guide their actions. This principle also holds true in the vocation of the priest­hood said Malloy. When members of the church come to seek council and forgiveness through the sacrament of penance and reconcilia­tion, it is the duty of the priest never to reveal these confessions to anyone, even in a court of law. 

"All of the established professions have at times taken major hits," said Malloy in reference to the recent unethical practices of ENRON. However, in the spirit of the upcoming Ethics week, Malloy encour­ages graduate and undergraduate students to attain and live by a code of ethics in order to ensure their complete success as they venture out into the real world. 
Contact John Fanning at jfannin@nd.edu. 
"Where The Aroma Of Gentle Spices Awaits You" 

featuring 
North JNDIAN TANDOOR5 & 
ii:f;~7/!~fte:t~~:i~~fi
~ 6 Vegetanan Platters 1 Imported Indian 
Dine In • Carry Out• & Other Wines & Beer 
. . Valentine's Day SpecialReservat10ns Des.red lSo/o off 
Dinner: Tues-Thurs 5:00-9:30 Special for Students Fri-Sat 5:00-10:00 
Notre 
ANGElA 

Well maintained houses near campus 
• 
W:1shers and df)'ers provided . • Sr:curity systems 

• 
24-hour maintenance staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom' • 2-, 4-, 5-, 6-& 8"-bedroom houses 


Only 7 left for the 2002-2003 scbool year 
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell:_ 298-9673 · • Voicemail: 674-2571 
Debates 
continued from page 1 
Moscona and Oxley's platform that features several festivals and carnival-type events. 
Oxley told them that they had "the wrong idea about our platform." At another point, Moscona and Oxley played up Moscona's experience as vice president, questioning Bishop's fitness to take over the presidency. The student body president chairs such groups as the Campus Life Council. Executive Cabinet and is usually closely involved with the Student Senate and other Student Union committees. 
"You've never been to the CLC or other meetings," Moscona said to Bishop, who he worked with last year when he was sopho­more class president and she was vice pres­ident. "Having no experience with what these groups do, how will you lead them?"Bishop. who studied abroad in London last semester, said, "When you take a step back [from involvement in student government]. you gain insight. Leadership is not how many hours you spend on the sec­ond floor ofLaFortwie." 
The run-off election is Thursday. On-cam­pus students vote in residence halls. Off­campus students vote from 12:30 to 3:30 
p.m. near the first-floor DeBartolo Hall com­puter cluster. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
"1!] Sinus Infection 
f~-s 

,J~ Research Study INOWenrolling! 
Have you been suffering from any of the following symptoms for at 
least the past week but less than amonth? 
• Yellow-to-green discharge from nose 
• Pain, pressure or tightness on cheeks 
• Nasal congestion Ifyou an~~ered YES a~~ you are older than 18 years of age, you may_be ~bg1ble to pa!1ictp~te in astudy evaluating aresearch 
m~d1cat1~n for sinus infections. Volunteers participating in the studywill receive 
• 
Associated medical care 

• 
Study medicine 



Ifyou are interested or would like to learn more, please contact Irene Ege at (219} 239·1S76, Rob S. (219) 237-9337 

ATION 
Wednesday, February 13, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVlCES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
NYPD visits Jerusalem: New York City police and U.S. military officials visited the site of a double suicide bombing in Jerusalem Tuesday. The 12-member delega­tion laid flowers where two Palestinian bombers blew themselves up Dec. 1 at an out­door mall in the center of the city, killing 15 people. Many of the visitors took part in res­cue efforts after the Sept. 11 terror attacks at the World Trade Center. 
Princess Margaret to be cremated: In a departure from royal tradition, Princess Margaret's body will be cremated, Buckingham Palace said Tuesday. Royal fami­ly members traditionally are buried. The cre­mation was requested by Margaret, who died Saturday in London after suffering a third stroke and developing heart problems. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ex-student takes class hostage: A 
former student claiming to have a bomb held nearly two dozen students and an associate professor hostage Tuesday before releasing them unharmed, authorities said. At one point, there were 23 people inside the Fairfield University classroom. The suspect, identified only as a recent graduate. freed the hostages a few at a time throughout the evening. He was taken into custody about an hour after the last student was released. 
Ford recalls cars with fire risk: 
Ford Motor Company is recalling 640,975 cars, including the 1995 Taurus, Mustang, and Mercury Sable, because a problem in the engine cooling system can start a fire under the hood. Eight fires have been reported due to overheating. Daimler-Chrysler is also recalling Jeep Wranglers from 1990-1995 for parking brake problems, and Dodge Ram pickups due to other defects in the design. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Teacher arrested for molestation: 
Logansport elementary school art teacher Mark Wages was arrested Monday night on two felony child molestation charges. alleging he fondled a boy in January and again on Thursday, Cass County prosecutor Kevin Enyeart said. Wages is a 26-year teaching veteran, and the Muncie native has taught in Logansport schools for the last three years. He also taught in Indianapolis Public Schools and in Lake County. Wages has been suspend­ed without pay, and faces up to 16 years in prison and $20,000 in fines if convicted. 
Market Watch February 12 

Dow 9,863.74 -21.04 Jones 

Composite Volume:
~s;~r 
1,099,341,847 

AMEX: 838.63 -2.10 NASDAQ: 1,834.21 -12.45 NYSE: 571.48 -1.20 S&P500: l,107.50 -4.44 
TOP 5 VOLUME -LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.43 -0.43 17.26 
WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -6.92 -0. 54 7.26 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0.82 -0.30 36.33 
METROMEDIA FIBE (MFNX) +6. 25 +0.02-0.34 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -3.69 -0.36 9.40 
PAKISTAN 

to Karachi late Tuesday with Islamic extremist con­the prime suspect in the
Associated Pres.1 
for further questioning, the tacts. Jamil Yousuf, head case after arresting three KARACHI government news agency of a citizen-police liaison men suspected of sending 
Police arrested a British­reported. committee involved in the e-mails that announced born Islamic militant Saeed "is one who is investigation, said Saeed Pearl's kidnapping. Tuesday they say master­highly educated and one told police that threats to One of the three men minded the kidnapping of who I would feel is a hard kill Pearl were not carried who was found to have the Wall Street Journal nut to crack," Karachi out. e-mails on his laptop com­reporter Daniel Pearl -Police Chief Kamal Shah Yousuf said the key puter told investigators the biggest break yet in the said. "I don't think it break came Monday night that he got them from quest to free him. An offi­would be very easy to with the arrest of a suspect Saeed.The other two met cial close to the investiga­break him straight away. It who gave crucial informa­Saeed in Afghanistan, tion said the suspect told would take time I feel tion. A team of police offi­police said. police Pearl is alive. before we get all the cers from the southern Saeed, a first-generation 
Ahmad Omar Saeed details about Daniel from province of Sindh had been Briton, is the son of a Sheikh, 27, was arrested his interrogation." in Lahore searching for Pakistani-born clothing Tuesday afternoon in the Saeed's capture followed Saeed for the last few merchant who lives in a eastern city of Lahore, an intensive, nationwide days, the government-run London suburb. Saeed 
~according to Tasneem manhunt. Pearl, 38, the news agency Associated attended expensive private Noorani, a senior official of Journal's South Asia Press of Pakistan reported schools where classmates Pakistan's Interior bureau chief, disappeared Tuesday. and teachers regarded him Ministry. Saeed was flown Jan. 23 on his way to meet Police identified Saeed as as a devoted student. 
Barry White serenades sharks 
fish are not only affected by music "We'll know if they are likely to 
Associated Press 
but also sensitive to different types. mate as the male chases the female BIRMINGHAM, England "We're hoping that the music will and tries to bite her back and pec­Ten resolutely celibate sharks at tempt them into feeling more toral fins in the early stages of the National Sea Life Center are get­romantic," Sutherland said. courtship," Sutherland said. ting a blast of Barry White in hopes Researchers at the Rowland The tope sharks swim in a show­they'll get in the mood for love. Institute for Science in Cambridge, piece 210,000-gallon tank with dog­"Can't get enough of your love, Mass.. tested various sounds on koi fish and starry smooth hound fish. babe" and "You're the first, the last, carp and found that music relaxed The fish, however, have no need for my everything," has been blasting them and put them in the mood. atmospherics. All have .been bred out of the loudspeakers at 10 topc Sutherland said after the first successfully at the center. sharks. five male. five female. blast of Barry White. the tope The music is only being piped into 
Curator Josie Sutherland said seemed a bit more excited and the visitor tunnel that surrounds the Tuesday that staff have been chased each other round the tank. tank. "But if we have to, we'll get an impressed by U.S. research showing But that's as far as they'vegotten. underwater speaker." 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
Lecture addresses the battle of the sexes 
By KA.TIE RAND 
News Writer 
Basically, men and women are different from each other. 
That's the point Saint Mary's professor drilled home in an informal lecture called "He Said, She Said" Tuesday night in the Women's Resource Center. Ella Harmeyer, a nurs­ing professor, said the differ­ences boil down to communica­tion. 
"We process differently, and that's what often gets us in communication books is that 
trouble,"  Harmeyer  said.  
"  W  he  n  
there's  a  


"women internalize, men exter­
nalize," Harmeyer said. : This difference has the poten­
tial to cause problems between 
the sexes since women are 
more vocal about their prob­
lems then their male counter­
parts. 

Harmeyer suggested that this comes from men's fear of appearing weak. 
Another common problem is the difference between listening and hearing. In this day and age listening is becoming a lost art, Harmeyer said. 
"When we talk we're often 
going on to 
something else 
problem. "We're wishing away or doing two 
women like things at once,
today to get on to the

to hear so we don't themselves next thing and not living really hear talk. We what is being
in the present. " 

just want to s a i d . " vent." Harmeyer T h a t said. "We're
Ella Harmeyer explains SMC professor wishing away 
why women will typically go on for hours on end talking about their problems, analyzing 
everything and asking ques­tions. 
"On the other hand, men seem to come to terms with problems more so by retreat­ing," Harmeyer said. 
"They want to think it all through, compartmentalize it and then come out with a solu­tion." 
Gray says that from the very beginning men want to fix; things, while women tend to look at a problem, list all possi­ble solutions and then maul them over. 
One phrase commonly used in today to get on 

to the next thing and not living in the pre­sent." 
One other difference is that women often make assump­tions about their relationships. Women assume that they're significant others will know how they feel before vocalizing it. 
"Last time checked extrasensory perception was not a gift that God gave men!" Harmeyer said. 
She also said that people wrongly assume they can "fix" their significant others later, so they put problems on the back burner. 
This misconception that 

Go wiid for Valentine's Day with a wildflower bouquet! 
Heaven and Earth 143 Dixie Way South 
(US31/933) 
3 Blocks from Campus 


(547) 273-22.12 
behaviors will change as the relationship intensifies can lead to problems and disappoint­ment. 
"If he spends every Sunday watching football and drinking beer, why would you think he'll start going to the opera once you sign the marriage license?" Harmeyer said. 
She suggested that women discuss their concerns openly with their partners before it is too late. 
Harmeyer also quoted Dr. Phil from Oprah in her discus­sion about assumptions. Dr. Phil uses the example of taking out the trash to show the differ­ence between how men and women think. 
"For the guy, it's just some­thing on his To Do list that he'll get to later," Harmeyer said. 
"For us, when he does it, this shows how much he cares. We think that if he waits until tomorrow or doesn't do it at all that he must not care any­more." 
Another problem that women bring on themselves is that they too often resort to negative self­talk, which men do not do as frequently. 
For example, if a guy has not called after three days. the female immediately assumes there is something wrong with her and blames it on herself. 
They never stop to think that maybe he had a good reason or that maybe it was his fault. 
The discussion was sponsored by The Community Leadership Team, a group that started after last year's conference. 
The group is trying to make the Women's Resource Center more visible on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Contact Katie Rand at Rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 

/RISH BASEBALL /RISH BASEBALL 
Mondajif:l&}uary '7/~f 2002 Doors Open 6p.m. &Dinner Served at 7p.m. Joyce Center Concourse -CasualAttire 
For ticket information call: 631-6366 


:·YFi:,:;t. ::· .....: :·~:, ;:. . ~;;L :-:'.:,,,.: 
~--~~­
• =-:: .•. : ·::. . 
..__ .. ., .·::::: 
:t}t\::::s:~-:-• 
-:::::::::::::>:::?> :l~ 
::· ....--..-,,.... :;. !i:;:1 

Wednesday, February 13, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Trigiani relives influential roots at Saint Mary's 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Adriana Trigiani put Saint Mary's College in her novels not just because she went to the school, but because it fit the story and the characters. 
In fact, Ave Maria Mulligan's attendance is a pivotal point of "Big Stone G a p , Trigia.ni 's bestseller, and also affects Trigiani's upcoming novel. "Milk Glass Moon," which will come out in July of this year. 
"Ave Maria went there because I wanted her to go to a women's college that was Catholic in origin," Trigiani said. In the third book, Ave Maria tries to get [her daugh­terl to go there, and Etta docs not want to go." 
"A person is really formed here," Trigiani said. "I took [Sister Jean Klene's Shakespeare] class twice, the second time I just took it to listen and enjoy and gain knowledge. 
Trigiani revealed in her lec­ture that she had been shy, an admission met with roars of laughter from the chairs in front of her. 
"I learned bravery here," Trigiani said. "Max [Westler] would make us get up and read our poetry in class. I was shy about it but the poetry really helped me. You were getting behind yourself and saying 'This is what I am.'" 


Trigiani was so moved by 
·her own experiences at Saint Mary's that she could not resist a plug for the school in her books. 
Trigiani ended her visit to the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community as a guest of the Sophomore Literary Festival with a trip to her alma mater, where she spoke with The Observer, met with faculty and friends, and talked to students and staff alike about her expe­
. riences as a writer. "If you keep falling in love with the process of writing it's easy," Trigiani said. "It is such a part of my psychology -If I didn't do it, I'd die. Everything else I do comes from writing." Trigiani graduated from Saint Mary's in 1981 with a degree in Visual and Performing Arts and headed to New York. By the mid-1980's, Trigiani was writing for noted sitcoms like The Cosby Show and A Different World. She supplemented her income by working in the mailrooms of financial institutions. Trigiani wrote, directed, and produced "Queens of the Bigtime," a documentary about her father's family, set in Roseto, Pa. "I was born in Roseto," Trigiani. "We moved to Big Stone Gap when I was little.'' When that film won several awards, she was approached 
with an offer to do her next in a poem she read while at movie. She began work on a Saint Mary's. screenplay that would eventu­"The crux of the book is ally become "Big Stone Gap." when you have a child and 
Once the book was finished, they don't turn out to be what Trigiani gave it to Gluck and you wanted them to be," the rest is history. "Milk Glass Trigiani said. She also hinted Moon," the third installment of that the book would answer the "Big Stone Gap" novels, readers' questions left over goes into production this from the second book, "Big Friday. Cherry Holler." 
The plot of the third novel is The film Big Stone Gap, especially important to written, directed and pro­Trigiani now that she is duced by Trigiani, will be expecting her first child. filmed in its natural setting. 
''I'm pregnant," Trigiani Trigiani is in the casting stage announced to of produc­her audiences tion. at Notre Dame "It is such a part ofmy Whoopi and Saint Goldberg
psychology -ifI didn't 
Mary's. has agreed Six months do it, I'd die." to play the into her preg­chain­nancy, Trigiani smoking
Adriani Trigiani
has no qualms Fleeta, Ave
author
about either Maria's 
finishing the third book, beginning the filming process on Big Stone Gap, or even starting a fourth book. 
"My mother will babysit while I'm shooting the film," Trigiani said. Both of her par­ents still live in Big Stone Gap. 
"I felt like I needed to be established before I had a baby. A year off now is not going to kill me. I think it all depends on how you live your life." 
"Milk Glass Moon" comes from an old farmer's saying for a cloudy night, that there is a "milk glass over the moon." Trigiani first heard it 
employee at the Mutual 

Pharmacy. 
Actresses Trigiani is consid­ering for the starring role of Ave Maria include Toni Collette, Marisa Tomei, Cate Blanchett, and Jennifer Ehle, 
star  of  A&E's  Pride  and  
Prejudice.  
Casting  Jack  Mac,  Ave  

Maria's love interest, is more difficult. 
"Jack Mac is the American prototype, the strong silent type," Trigiani said. "As to whether she will film the sec­ond novel as well, Trigiani smiled. 
"We really have to see if we fall in love with the cast of Big Stone Gap,'' she said. "Then we might do it." 
As if that weren't enough to do, Trigiani is also thinking about a fourth novel, to be set in 1950's New York. 
"I already have my fourth book that I want to do," she said. "It's a completely differ­ent vibe. It's about the life of a woman, and takes place in 1950's New York. It is based on a true story, starting in the present and then going back in time." 
Max Westler, Trigiani's old creative writing and poetry professor, admires his former student. 
"She started off small, but there was a progression," Westler said. "You could walk past a dormitory and hear laughter, and you would know Adri was there. Adri is going for nothing less than the entire world. What this world needs is the wisdom that comes with a good laugh." 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 
Masters of Oriental Acrobatics 

Chinese Golden Dragons 



2200 Years of Tradition, live on stage, one night only 
8:00p1n, Thursday, February 14th  Tickets: $3 Students  
Washington Hall  LaFortune Info. Desk $5 Public  
www.nd.edu/-sub AIM: ndSUBinfo ~  

O
THE BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nmre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dam,, IN 4655G 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Petecs  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwec SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter ScENE EDITOR: C Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMlNISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WES ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL )NF0..............631-7471 FAX.........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING............, ........................ 63 !-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDJTOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT ................................................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARYs.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob,erwr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from the Ass0<::iated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofrhe UniversiryofNorre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advecrisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Q"',:ions regarding Observerpolicies should be diri:c1­ed ID Editor in Chief Mikf Connolly. 


It's that time of year again when walls are filled with colorful decorations in the elementary schools around the country. No, unfortunately I am not talking about Valentine's Day, but rather Black History Month. Yes, it's that time Elizabeth of year, 28 days 
Simpson

when blacks are actually recog­
What's Your

nized for having 
Shade? 

some influence in this country. Twenty-eight days for teachers to pack 
all the information into their restless students' minds that they can about 
blacks in the United States. 
Memories of Black History Month in elementary school bring to my mind thoughts of posters with pictures of famous blacks like Martin Luther King Jr.• who received most of his accolades on one day last month, Garrett Morgan, Mary McCloud Bethune, Booker T. Washington, George Washington Carver and a paragraph at the bottom high­lighting their most well-known accom­plishments. 
Maybe at your school your teacher read a book by a black author or read some book with a main black character like "To Kill A Mockingbird." Maybe your class all got to take a field trip and see the play. Maybe in music class you learned the song "We Shall Overcome" or "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot." 
And maybe if you don't know, or dare I say, don't care, I can see how this would pose a problem. But then my problem would be realizing the irony in trying to celebrate the accomplishments of a race of people for a month whose ancestors, in reality, were from the place where life began. Don't be shocked. I did not mean for this to come as a surprise. Yes, life began in Africa. 
And no, I am not saying this because I am some militant black woman, feeling empowered by 28 or, if we're lucky, 29 days in February. I am saying this because it's an anthropological fact. The bones of the first human, Lucy, a lady about three feet tall, were found in Africa. Did you know that most of the books of the Bible, expect for Luke, were written by people of African descent? Solomon, supposedly the wisest man on earth at the time, was African. 
If one thinks about it, when Joseph took Mary and Jesus to hide from Herod, he took them to Egypt. The last time I checked, Egypt was in Africa. It seems to me that if you are trying to hide from someone, you generally hide somewhere where you wouldn't stick out like a sore thumb. So even if I don't say that Jesus was African, or at least had a couple drops of African blood in there somewhere, I am just saying that Jesus had some color in him. 
But let's get away from all the shock­ing facts about blacks and their descen­dents -I won't even begin to talk about all the accomplishments of the ancient Egyptians: the first surgeries, astrono­my. the architectural mysteries of the pyramids and how they were built. 
I remember when I was little my aunt got me a T-shirt that I wore to Ms. Halloway's third grade class which had names of different objects all across the front and back. The sentence, "Do you know what all these have in common?" was on the front. When I turned the shirt over to see, it said at the bottom on the back, "They are all inventions and discoveries of African-Americans!" 
And just to give you a brief rundown so you don't leave this month without some extra knowledge of the accom­plishments of blacks to show for yourself here are a couple things that a black person invented: the washing machine, the gas mask. the stop light, the folding chair, the propeller for airplanes, the folding bed, the shampoo head rest, interliners to prevent tire punctures, the railway signal apparatus, biscuit cutters, the clothes line support, the jack, the release valve, the coin changer mecha­nism, the rotary engine, the letter box, dough kneaders, stainless steel scouring pads, the locomotive smoke stack, the fitted bed sheet, the spring seat for chairs, the ironing board, the street sweeper and the apparatus for automat­ically transmitting messages over a tele­phone line. 
I could go on, but I'll spare you -all these facts about Africa and blacks might be too much for one day. In 1926 Dr. Carter G. Woodson took the initiative of launching Negro History. He chose the month of February for the celebra­tion because of certain key events that happened for blacks in the month of February throughout history in this country. 
In Feb. 1870, blacks got the right to vote, and in that same year the first black, Hiram R. Revels, took his oath of office. In Feb. 1909. the National · Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was founded by a group of citizens in New York City. 
In 1960, a group of college students began a sit-in at a segregated Woolworth's lunch counter, which would soon become a civil rights mile­stone, and in Feb. 1965, Malcolm X was shot and killed. So since 1926, first known as Negro History Week, blacks have been recognized for contributing to the history of the United States. 
In closing. I guess what this month comes down to, for me, is a certain sense of sadness that all the contribu­tions of blacks to this country have to be crammed into a month and that without this month I would venture to say that they would continue to go unaccounted for. The irony of it all is that we recog­nize the "first" blacks did something when in ancient cultures in Africa. They were already doing things ahead of their time. 
It's strange that black children learn that they came from slaves when some of the greatest kingdoms of the ancient world were in Africa. In history books, our history seems to start with slavery. So while I feel saddened, on the other hand I feel vindicated because we go on learning about the same select group of blacks that history books chose to high­light. 
While history books do highlight a few blacks who did great things here, we were already doing wonderful things there. I don't need 28 days to tell me that I am important and to show me that black people were indeed intelligent enough to think great thoughts, start colleges and invent things. I know the truth. 
"What's Your Shade?" is the Multicultural Students Programs and Services column and appears every other Wednesday. Contact MSPS at sacharya@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Kiflin Turner Scene Sarah Rykowski Laura Kelly Van Giles Graphics Sports Jimmy Atkinson Noah Amstadler Lab Tech Viewpoint Angela Campos Teresa Fralish 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What is the most important issue for the next student body president's administration to address? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Love builds bridges where there are none." 
R. H. Delaney writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 13, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Show real love for Valentine's 

Valentine's Day is quickly approaching. Are you ready? Have you picked up that special gift for the one you love? Why is it lhat in our society we feel that is such a touchy subject. something to be guard­ed and kept at bay until just the perfect moment arrives when we feel we can truly express ourselves? 
As I wander the store aisles, pink and red goodies, chocolates and flowers abound. Is this a true expres­sion oflove? It seems that in this commercialized world of ours, love has become a sort of commodity. Instead of simply expressing an sense of connection between two people, we seek out that perfect gift to express the love. How about redefining and learning to understand what it means to care about another person so deeply that you worry when they worry or are upset when they are upset? 
This Valentine's Day, why not take a new approach and just love? Why restrict it to one person or that special someone. How about borrowing a lit­tle wisdom from Mother Teresa and doing "small things with love." Ifthere is one thing that I have learned in my four years at this University, it's that love is all around us, but often we are so caught up in our academic lifestyles or making plans for the weekend that we forget to take a moment and appreciate the place that is Notre Dame. We are here at a very special place, a place that I dare say thrives on individuals and yet we never really stop to express that to anyone. 
This Valentine's Day, why not wipe away the barri­ers that we try to place on love and just let it thrive? We have so much education and yet we Jack the abil­ity to express one of the fundamental human emo­tions. How can this be? If any of you have worked with the disabled or seen the movie "I am Sam," per­haps you can relate. Although they may lack a for­mal education or the "book knowledge" that we have all acquired over the years, they have something that we can often only dream of-they have no qualms about showing love to another individual, about sharing that human connection. Maybe it's time that we set those books aside and take 10 minutes out of our day to learn that lesson ourselves. What do you say? 
This Valentine's Day, why not let go ofthe fences which we put on our emotions and just live? May we seek not to do great things, but to do "small things with great love." On Feb. 14 go out and just let go of the social barriers and reconnect with that childlike innocence and the true passion that is love. Tell your friends how much you love them, go out and show those who don't have any family nearby how much you love them, call your family and tell them how much they are loved. Just for one day, forget about the chocolates or the flowers associated with Valentine's Day and just tell someone you love them; reach out and show them how much you really care. For it is then that you might really know what it means to have a Valentine. 
Sarah Zalud semor Walsh Hall Feb. 12,2002 


Comments on Israeli conflict 
Israel and Palestine both to blame 
I am writing this letter in response to Seth Hiland's Feb. 11 letter entitled, "Arafat should not be tolerated." I do agree that Arafat sh01.ild not be tolerated and that his actions have proven that he is an ineffective leader in the peace process. However, Mr. Hiland's view on the situa­tion as a whole is disturbing. He cites that the "number of Israelis killed by Arab terrorists in the years since the Oslo Accords has been higher than in the 10 years prior." 
He also describes how Israeli efforts of patience do not have anything to show over the past 20 years and describes how Israel has "taken more drastic steps toward holding the Palestinians accountable for their actions." The Palestinians have not agreed to peace and extremists have stepped up suicide bombings in the last 16 months. 
This is all true and cannot be disputed. However, what Mr. Hiland's letter failed to address is that not all Palestinians are evil and not all Israelis are noble. 
So what about the other half of the picture? The Palestinians do not agree to peace because their land, which they believe was given to them by God himself. was not back in their possession. And let us not forget that it was the Palestinians who were forced from their land after World War II to form the state of Israel, which resulted in the refugee camps in Lebanon, Jordan and the surrounding area now home to thousands of refugees. 
Don't let the media sway your objectivity of the situa­tion. All you have to do is look at the pictures, not the biased text that is sympathetic to Israel. What do you see when you see Israelis in the Associated Press? You see soldiers with M-16s, reports of Palestinian homes being bulldozed and F-16s bombing buildings. 
What do you see when you see Palestinians in the Associated Press? You see young men 15 to 30 years old throwing rocks with their faces covered to protect from tear gas. What does this tell you about who has the power in this region? It certainly isn't the Palestinians. 
Israel is backed by us. the United States, which is why M-16s and F-16s find their way into the control of an Israeli soldier. Yes, the number of Israelis killed is high­er. but that number pales in comparison to the number of Palestinian civilian casualties. In this conflict, Israel has lost less than 100 soldiers in contrast to over 2,000 Palestinian civilians. 
At any moment, if Israel so chooses. it could annihilate the Palestinians and any combination of nations in the Middle East. The reason that Arafat's forces were caught smuggling in weapons was because they don't have any to fight with. Israel has guns, planes. bulldozers, heli­copters and gunships. Palestinians have rocks. It really isn't a fair fight. 
· Mr. Hiland said that President Bush was wise to side with Sharon, Barak and the rest of Israel. Of course he is and that is the side that will win this fight. But do not for­get that Bush inherited a nation that has a large Jewish population with plenty of representation in both Congress and the Senate, i.e. Senator Joseph Leibermann, which means that it would be political sui­cide if he did not side with Israel. The social and political uproar would be unheard of. 
I do agree with Mr. Hiland on many of his points, mainly that Arafat should be ousted because I do believe he is harboring terrorists and not succeeding as a leader. But try not to be swayed that Israel is a sinless entity. Neither side has been angelic. 
James Andry 
senior 
Dillon Hall Feb. II, 2002 

America can strongly influence the Middle East 
It is rare to see an American give honest appraisal of Israel's strategy in the ongoing Israeli and Palestinian conflict. In his Feb. 5 letter entitled, "U.S. Middle-East policy dangerously unbalanced," Tony Lusvardi gave us that, showing that Israel has done much in recent months to stoke the violence, that Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has consistently pursued a strategy designed escalate the conflict into full-scale war and that a more balanced U.S. policy would serve both American and Middle Eastern interests. On Feb. 11, we saw a response from Seth Hiland, applauding America's one­sided approach. His letter essentially boiled down to one point: Palestinians have also done bad things. 
Hiland's approach to policy making in the Middle East mirrors that of the American media and, sadly, many of our Washington representatives. This consists in choos­ing the morally superior position and unconditionally supporting that side. Ifthis is indeed our strategy, then it is by no means clear that Israel is the more deserving party. Hiland's grossly distorted view of the conflict ignores many historical facts, including those cited in the very article to which he was responding. 
His claim that Israel has been "more than patient" with the Palestinians was effectively refuted in the unan­swered arguments of Lusvardi's original letter, but just in case that list was not sufficient, I will add to it. Israel has continued to place settlers in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, in violation of international law and despite the fact that this unquestionably incites the rage of the Palestinians. 
They have shown blatant disregard for human rights. Amnesty International has cited Israel for hundreds of violations in the past year alone, including unlawful arrest, extrajudicial execution and mistreatment of pris­oners. 
They have broken promises. Sharon repeatedly claims to target Palestinian leaders alone, yet his attacks have killed hundreds of non-combatants and children, and his siege of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip has destroyed the Palestinian economy and quadrupled unemployment. 
Hiland's call to hold Palestinians accountable for their actions is fair. but should we not be even more con­cerned about the accountability of those who use American tax dollars to fund their atrocities? Perhaps, instead of searching for that elusive moral high ground, we should support the course of action that is most likely to bring peace to the region. Here, again, Lusvardi's call for change is justified. 
He argues that Sharon's policies will plunge the region into war and chaos. Hiland does nothing to rebut this analysis and in fact, he implicitly agrees with it, but evi­dently thinks that this is an acceptable price to pay if it ensures the punishment of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. Those with less vindictive motivations would do well to recognize that peace must start somewhere, and Arafat, currently trapped under house arrest, will find it difficult to persuade his people to ensure security for a nation that continues to bombard their villages and besiege their towns. 
Significant changes are called for on both sides, but. as Israel's primary financial supporter, this is clearly the place where the United States has the most potential to make a difference. If we demand changes -an end to assassinations, for example, or a freeze on settlement building -then Israel will have no choice but to comply or face losing the resources that have made their mili­tary dominance possible in the first place. 
Given Sharon's present course, such changes could only be an improvement. They would also, by the way, be in our own country's best interests. Given our current international ambitions, America has nothing to gain and everything to lose by appearing to support Israel to the detriment of all Arab interests. 
Peace in the Middle East is, unfortunately, a far-off goal. Nonetheless. our country is now too deeply involved to ignore the wider ramifications of the state­ments that we make and the checks that we write. Are the Israelis and Palestinians moving closer to a solution or is the situation deteriorating even further beyond recall? Whether we like it or not, it may be America that decides. 
Rachel Smith senior Lyon• Hall Feb. 12,2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


E 

campus
page 10 Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
Cyrano and country classics can reclaim Valentine's Day 
Ah. love. 

Such a wonderful, mysterious phenomenon. For those of us who own stock in Hallmark or have a significant other, February snow is romantic and dreamy. For everyone else, it can accentuate embit­tered and hopeless feelings about Cupid ignoring us for the rest of 

eternity and spending the rest of our days in solitude. 
But St. Valentine never meant to damage our fragile, hormonal egos, and being single should be celebrated just as passionately as being in love. 
Instead of boycotting February 14, I've come up with a list of comforting and festive rituals to engage in, so that nobody has to send themselves sweetheart roses or leave love messages on their own dry erase boards. Valentine's Day is about love, not resentment. 
1. Read "Cyrano de Bergerac." 
For the type of single who wallows in sor­row on V-Day, reading this classic is the per-feet remedy for putting your own measly problems in perspective. Here is unrequited love, being too shy to approach someone, 

ChriStie Bolson 
Scene Writer 
falling in love with your cousin. If you're short on time and don't want to read the play, the Clitrs Notes are available in the bookstore. If you're short on time and also broke, you can stand there and read the synopsis of the play. 
Bottom line is, Cyrano was desperately in love and possessed great charisma, but had a nose which could be described as "a rock -a crag -a cape .... a peninsula!" The moral is clear: don't judge people by their noses, and you may find true love. There is too much emphasis placed on appearance by this society in general, to say nothing of our campus where there are many beautiful people walk­ing around the quad. Give someone a chance, or else you might inad­vertently pass up your soul mate {see No. 4). 
2. Get yourself a pre-emptive SYR date. 

Even if you don't have an impending formal or SYR, you can never be too prepared. Be creative. The next time you're in the presence of members of the opposite sex, quickly assess their potential fun factor and then take the plunge. Prime opportunities include a lull in class, walking across South Quad, in the library, waiting for your waffie to bake, etc. If he or she accepts, then you can feel good about being single and free to ask any old random to your dances. If you get shot down, eat a Whitman's Sampler and proceed to No. 3. 
3. Go country. 

Too often at this school, we hear some variation of the line, "I like all music ... except for country." Before the criticism begins, let me clarify that I have yet to hear a country song about somebody's dog dying. (The tractor thing is true, but still.) No other genre of music could have possibly produced so many different love songs for so many situations. 
Are you in love? Reveling in singleness? Broken heart? No doubt about it, there's no better way to pick yourself up from rejection or loneliness than a little bit of Garth and two pina coladas. 
4. Find your soul mate. 

While this may sound alarming, bear in mind the Notre Dame sta­tistics for meeting a future spouse. I've heard both 50 percent and two-thirds, which translates into keep your eyes wide open. Whether pr not you believe in love at first sight or the idea that we're destined to be with a certain person for the rest of our lives, the fact is that there are a lot of girls here. And a lot of guys. And you pass hun­dreds of them every day without a second glance. 
Think about the possibilities! Girls, consider the 55:45 ratio as promised in the brochure. Guys, think about how every single party is packed with 62 females for every three males. (How does that hap­pen?) This goes along with the idea of Cyrano and SYRs -keeping an open mind and maybe getting lucky. 
5. Call home. 

Who made the rule that Valentine's Day love had to be romantic? The first people who ever loved you don't even expect you to buy them Godiva or serenade them with Billy Joel songs in public. So call your parents. Or if this approach sounds a little drastic, call your other relatives or friends from home who don't get to go to Notre Dame, and tell them how much you miss them. 
These are only suggestions, of course, so if you feel the need to be miserable about singledom, then don't crank up the country. However, having fun with this much-hated, much-loved holiday may get you a date, or at the very least some warm fuzzies. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
When "woe ism 
Don't despair at the ND/SMC dating scene 
By JULIE BENDER 
Scene Wricet 

We've all been through it. 
You fidget uncomfortably in class, every now and then throwing a nervous glance at that cute certain someone over in the corner. You hope to make eye contact and have that mutual explosion of fireworks and instanta­neous love. but when you actually do make eye contact, it's a different story. 
Caught off-guard, you quickly avert your eyes in a rather violent head swing, only to sneak a quick look back to see if your crush is still looking. Instead of focusing on the biology professor's rant about hormones, your mind is constantly thinking of scenarios for you to "accidentally" bump into your crush in the halls. 
You envision a romantic encounter in which you will sweep him or her off of their feet with your endearing charm and lovable nature. Of course, once again, when the opportunity presents itself, your throat closes up and all you can muster is a quick "pardon me" as you rush off with scarlet cheeks. 
Ah... the torture of love. It seems that here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, everyone is feeling a bit discouraged lately. Maybe it's just the time of year (Valentine's Day can do it) or maybe it's just the student body in gen­eral. 
Everyone has a complaint about how diffi­cult it is to find a good date here on campus. Ask anyone about the dating scene and you're bound to get a roll of the eyes and the bitter comment of "it sucks" thrown back at you. Girls complain about boys. Boys complain about girls. It seems to be a vicious cycle. 
Of course, there are the selected few that do have a boyfriend or girlfriend on campus. Perhaps they were lucky varies so widely based on who is describing it. Someone involved in a relationship is likely to be pretty optimistic, whereas someone who has been unlucky in that category will generalize dating as a negative experience. According to Notre Dame freshman Sarah Brown, much of the difficulty with dating stems from the stark lines separating the genders on cam­pus. 

"Relations between guys and girls on campus are pretty strained," s a i d Brown. ''Just look around the din­ing hall." 
This is a valid point. A glance around the dining hall clear­ly reveals the divi­s i o n s between males and females. 
A majority of the tables are in fact divided by sex. 
There will be long rows 
enough to meet "Relations between guys of all girls sitting together, as well
each other at and girls on campus are 
as tables of all boys.
freshman orien­

pretty strained. Just look This division of course
tation and have 

be en together around the dining hall." stems from the fact that 
Notre Dame has all single-sex
ever since. Or 

dorms.
maybe they 
Sarah Brown 

Although a blessing in some cases,
somehow met in 

freshman single sex dorms can be a hindrance
class or at a 

for gender relations on campus.
party. 

Interaction between male and female
However the 

dorms is often forced, and as freshmen orien­
lucky pair got together, it is an embittering 
tation demonstrates all too well, forced inter­
experience for the rest of us to see them 
action with people just leads to awkward situ­
walking around the lakes holding hands or 
ations. It's hard enough trying to make
sharing a smoothie over a table at Reckers. 
friends with the opposite sex, let alone meet­
It's enough to make you want to scream or cry about the unfairness of it all. When did dating become so diffi­
cult? When did it lose the magic it once had? It always seemed so perfect on the te1evision programs growing up. The hit show "Saved by the Bell" always portrayed teenage drama so well. Every episode provided some sort of fias­co between Zack and Kelly, with 
A.C. Slater getting involved in one way or another. 
Lisa and Screech were a great pair as well. Screech was such a gentleman when he took Lisa to the sock-hop even when she had a broken ankle. Why can't dating be as easy as that? Reality never seems to live up to its television counterpart. 
Students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's agree, for tho most part, that the dating scene here is pretty weak. It is difficult to assess Notre Dame's dating with that of other schools because opinion 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE 
campus
Wednesday, February l 3, 2002 
page 11 

' becomes "I do" 
success stories prove the strong can survive 
ing someone date-worthy. Take, for example. the story of senior The weekends at Notre Dame don't provide Elizabeth Emerson and her boyfriend Rudy a much better solution either. Although there Gallegos. Elizabeth and Rudy went to the is plenty to do on campus -sporting same high school in Hammond, Indiana, and events, guest speakers, theatrical although Rudy asked Elizabeth out during performances and the their teenage sort -it seems that days, she con­everyone attends s is tent l y
"/fit happenedfor me, it
these events with refused. 
their friends can happen for anyone!" She refused and there that is, until isn't much they both ended 
Elizabeth Brown,
opportuni­up at Notre 
ty to talk on getting engaged during Dame. By 
to or meet n e w peo­
ple. 
Parties are a pop­ular occu­pation on the week­ends as w e l l. However, t h e atmos­phere of m o s t dorm par­ties isn't conducive 
to meeting the love of your life. 
Somehow gyrating to ear­pounding dance music in a dark, sweaty room with a strobe light doesn't lend itself to formulating long-term 
relationships. 
Freshman Shantha Ready summed up the situation: ·'Crowded dorm parties are definite­
1y not the place to meet guys." 

With the odds stacked against finding a nice, decent date here, how does one manage to find a girlfriend or boyfriend? There's also 
her senior year sophomore 
year, Elizabeth 
finally relented 

and took Rudy up on his offer. 
Though neither could have imagined it, the relationship took off. The couple went to each other's dances and even found for themselves a tree on campus where they could take their lunches to be alone. 
Their relationship has endured right through to their senior year. Rudy is now such a common sight on the third floor of Lyons Hall where Elizabeth is an R.A. that some have been heard to comment that Lyons has started admitting male residents. 
In addition to this, the third floor's section event during fall semester study days was to witness the Zahm bun run through Lafortune, since Rudy, a Zahm resident, was an organizer and participant of the event. 
This past October, Elizabeth and Rudy's relationship took a new twist. On a particu­larly warm autumn afternoon, the couple returned to their tree for a picnic, for old time's sake. As the couple lunched on sand­wich es and fruit, Rudy subtly called Elizabeth's attention to the tree. Glancing up haphazardly, Elizabeth's eye caught some­thing etched into the bark. 
Squinting for a closer look, Elizabeth read the words aloud: "Will you marry me?" Rudy then knelt down before the astonished Elizabeth and taking her hands, uttered the words himself. In the midst of a flood of emo­tions, Elizabeth managed to choke out her "Yes" before the tears of happiness arrived. 
The pair then was met by a surprise gath­ering of Lyons girls for an engagement cele­
that bewildering statistic that 50 percent of bration at the Coleman-Morse center. 
Notre Dame graduates marry each other. Although the wedding date has yet to be 
Such contradictions make the dating scene decided as Elizabeth and Rudy settle their 
here hard to assess. plans for after graduation, seeing this newly Despite what some may think, however, engaged couple together is enough to reas­there are some fairy-tale love stories that sure anyone's faith in love. take place right here on campus. As you dab your eyes after that story, keep 

in mind that this is not a one-case scenario. Dating here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's isn't a hopeless cause. 

It may take a little effort, but getting past the first step is always the most difficult. As Elizabeth herself said, "If it hap­pened for me, it can happen for anyone!" 
So next time you're feeling down as you look at the happy couples around you, just remem­ber that it's not impossible. 
After all, Rudy didn't let Elizabeth's refusals deter him from his goal. He shamelessly persisted, and he got the girl. Just like the football chant: "Rudy! Rudy! Rudy!" 
Contact Julie Bender at jbendcr @nd.edu. 
SCENE ASKS 
What are you planning on doing for Valentine's Day? 


"/ have a date with the Health Services doctor." 
Dan "Mono Boy" Sushinsky sophomore, St. Edward's Hall 
"Isn't that midweek?" 
Shingayi Sikipa sophomore, O'Neill Hall 



'Tm picking up my boyfriend at the airport. " 
Katie Maich sophomore, McGlinn Hall 
'Tm spending time with friends and doing walk-throughs for Blak Koffee House." 
Jourdan Sorell sophomore, Siegfried Hall 



"/ will probably have a small party in my room with all the other single females in my dorm, ­
swapping stories ofthe lameness ofgender relations at Notre Dame. " 
Mary Claire Jarvis senior, Lyons Hall 
Photo poll by Scene Photo Editor Amanda Hughes 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL NBA 
Sale of two teams approved 
. Loria sells Expos to league, then purchases Marlins 
Associated PreS> 
NEW YORK 
Baseball owners approved the sales of the Florida Marlins and Montreal Expos on Tuesday, setting the stage for the teams to hire new managers and front offices just three days before spring training starts, 
John Henry, whose group was given approval last month to buy the Boston Red Sox for $660 million from the Jean R. Yawkey Trust, is sell­ing the Marlins to Jeffrey Loria for $158.5 million. 
Loria is selling the Montreal franchise to Baseball Expos LP -a Delaware limited partnership owned by the other 29 teams -for $120 million, with the commission­er's office loaning him the difference between the prices. 
Even though the sales won't officially close until later this week, baseball commissioner Bud Selig immediately announced a new manage­ment team for the Expos: team president Tony Tavares, vice president and general manager Omar Minaya and manager Frank Robinson. 

Jeff Torborg, who had been the Expos' manager, was hired as the Marlins' manag­er and Larry Beinfest, who had been Montreal's interim general manager, became Florida's senior vice presi­dent and general manager, David Samson, Loria's step­son and the Expos' executive vice president, became the Marlins' president. 
Loria will become the third owner of the Marlins, who began play in 1993 and won the World Series in 1997. Founding owner H. Wayne Huizenga, frustrated he couldn't get government funding for a new ballpark, sold the team to Henry in 1999. 
"Our commitment to the Marlins and to the South Florida community is com­
plete," Loria said. "Our intent is to succeed by doing what­ever is necessary to ensure that the fans will enjoy a relationship with the Marlins for generations to come." 
Baseball owners originally intended to fold the Expos and Minnesota Twins, to teams that also have failed to gain government funding for new ballparks, but a Minnesota judge issued an injunction that forced the Twins to honor their 2002 lease at the Metrodome. 
The ownership changes in Boston and Florida left the Expos with no owner, leading the commissioner's office to take the unprecedented step of operating a major league team for an entire season. 
"I am very pleased with the management team that we have assembled," Selig said in a statement. "They have long experience in the game and they are first rate in every way. Now that they are in place, they will have the authority to operate the club with complete autonomy." 
Tavares, who quit last month as president of the Anaheim Angels and the NHL's Mighty Ducks, will submit a budget similar to Expos' budgets of recent years. According to the com­missioner's office, Tavares "will have complete and inde­pendent operating control over the club and the bud­get." 
Minaya. who had been senior assistant general man­ager of the New York Mets, becomes the first Hispanic general manager in the major leagues and the sec·ond minority, joining Kenny Williams of the Chicago White Sox. who is black. 
Robinson, a 66-year-old Hall of Farner, had been the vice president in the commis­sioner's office in charge of disciplining players, man­agers and coaches for on­field misconduct. He is the only player to win Most Valuable Player awards in both leagues and is fourth on the career home run list at 
586. He spent parts of 11 seasons as manager of the 
Indians, San Francisco Giants and Baltimore Orioles, com­piling a 680-751 record. 
Montreal's only holdover in senior management will be Claude Delorme, promoted to executive vice president of business affairs from vice president of development and stadium operations. 
Selig at first contemplated having owners meet Tuesday in the Chicago area, but some teams didn't want to travel for a vote in which tho out­come was certain. Some teams already had mailed in their votes before the call. 
Owners approved these deals with a speed unprece­dented in recent decades. The Red Sox sale, agreed to on Dec. 20, was approved at a Jan. 16 meeting in Phoenix by a 29-0 vote, with the Yankees abstaining. 
Henry's sale of the Marlins to Loria was approved even though they don't yet have a signed agreement. 
But the start of spring training put pressure on baseball to speed the trans­actions. The Marlins and Expos open camp Friday, and Loria and Henry hope to close of the Marlins' sale by then. 
Meanwhile, Selig will not testify at Wednesday's Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the sport's antitrust exemption and instead will send his chief lawyer. 
DuPuy and union head Donald Fehr are among wit­nesses scheduled to appear, a spokesman for committee chairman Patrick J. Leahy, D­Vt .. said Monday. 
Also scheduled to testify are Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth, Minnesota Deputy Attorney General Lori Swanson, and Stan Brand, a lobbyist for the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues, the gov­erning body of the minor leagues. 
Sen. Paul D. Wellstone, D­Minn .. and Rep. John Conyers Jr., D-Mich,, proposed legis­lation Nov. 14 to strip base­ball of its antitrust exemption as it applies to franchise moves and folding, 
Bryant faces boos 
in return home 
Associaced Press 

PHILADELPHIA 
Kobe Bryant should wear ear plugs the next time he comes to the First Union Center because fans plan to keep boo­ing him. 
Philadel­phia fans ­the few thou­sand who actually got tickets to Sunday's NBA All-Star game booed the Los Angeles Lakers guard when he was introduced, continued whenev­er he fook a shot early in the game, then did it almost every time he touched the ball in the second half. 
When commissioner David Stern presented Bryant with the MVP trophy for scoring 31 points and leading the West to a 135-120 victory over the East, the boos were long and loud. 
Bryant. who went to nearby Lower Merion High School, and whose father, Joe, played for the 76ers, was visibly shak­en and later admitted he was 
"hurt." 

But what has he done to deserve such venom from a city known for its boorish behavior? 
It goes beyond the "coming to Philly to cut their hearts out" comment he made during the NBA finals last season, when the Lakers beat the Sixers in five games. 
Some fans simply don't con­sider Bryant one of their own. others view him as a sellout because he only comes back to Philadelphia when the Lakers play here, and a few just resent his success. 
"Kobe didn't go to Simon Gratz or Overbrook, he didn't go to Germantown Academy, he didn't go to Roman Catholic," Sixers fan Willie Russell said Monday. referring to some Philadelphia-area schools. "Kobe went to Lower Merion. He isn't from Philly. 

He was born with a silver spoon in his mouth." 
Brvant was born in Philadelphia, but spent eight years of his childhood in Italy before returning to go to high school. He skipped college, entered the 1996 NBA draft, and quickly established him­self as one of the best players in the league. 
A four-time All-Star, Bryant 
has won two straight champi­
onships with the Lakers. And, 
he's only 23. 
Some fans still hold a grudge because he chose the draft over going to school at La Salle, where his father was an assistant coach. or another of the city's Big 5 colleges. 
"Michael Jordan grew up in North Carolina and went to North Carolina. Allen Iverson grew up in Virginia and went to Georgetown. Kobe didn't do that," Sixers and Temple fan Alvin Stewart said, ignoring the fact that Philly favorite and Portland star Rasheed Wallace shunned Temple to go to North Carolina. 
The fans' actions at the game prompted Philadelphia Mayor John Street to call Bryant on Monday. 
"I want you to know that you are highly respected and loved in the city of Philadelphia," Street said. "We want you to come back in the offseason so that we can show you how much we appreciate what you've done for the game and the thousands of kids who look up to you as a role model." 
Philadelphians are blue-col­lar fans and they love an underdog -a real-life Rocky Balboa that they can relate to. 
They appreciate Allen Iverson for his grit and deter­mination more than Hall of Farner Julius Erving because the game came easier for Dr. J. They revered Pete Rose for his hustle more than Hall of Farner Mike Schmidt because he had a more casual approach. Eric Lindros could never live up to Bobby Clarke because he didn't play with the same zest and zeal, though he had more skilL 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Noere Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
3-bdrm, 1-1 /2 bath tri-level, safe  River Condo For Rent $1050 MO  #1 Spring Break Vacations!  Want to send your special some- 
NOTICES  FOR RENT  neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage, fenced yard, NC, gas  Mishawaka 219-532-1537.  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels.  body a special message Thursday?  

 
 heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo.  Best Pricesl Space is Lirnited!II  Why not send your loved one a  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed­ MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmrn­ 232-4527 or 616-683-5038.  TICKETS  special red classified in The  
room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896  rentals@aol com  1-800-234-7007  Obseiver?  
New 3-4 bdrms, 3-bath homes lea- Wanted: Tix for Syracuse game.  Come to the Observer office in the  
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house  turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral  Call Tim at 472-1229  www.endlesssummertours.com  basement of South Dining Hall  
WANTED  w/large common areas-prkg lot,  ceilings, family room, 1ox20 deck,  today before 3 p.m. to put your  
TestMaster is looking for  appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209  2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232­4527 or 616-683-5038.  PERSONAL  Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to  special wishes in the paper.  
responsible people to distribute  select shows when you book your  For more information, call Shirley at  
information, post flyers and proctor  Excellent house 3-4 students.  3-4 person house, Close to cam- Spring Break with STS, Americas  Spring Break through  1-7471  
.....  !rests. $10/hr.  Air,appl. 5 min from ND.  pus, c/a Available June 1 Call 219·  #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote  StudentCity.com!  
1-800-929-7724  Dave  298-3800  trips on-campus earn cash and  Go to MTV.com or call  Are you a non-varsity athlete at  
291-2209  free trips. lnfo/Reseivations 1-800­ StudentCity.com at  Notre Dame with an interesting  
IM LAX officials needed. Good  Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting  648-4849  1-800-293-1443 for details!  story to tell?  
Pay!I Some exp. necessary.  THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8  furnished, air-conditioned room in  Let the Observer Sports staff know  
Contact Tara Fisher @  STUDENTS CLOSE TO ND  NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to  www.ststra11el.com  Tours and tickets are limited!  about it. Call Noah at 1-4543.  
1-3536.  GREAT AREA  sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M,  
2773097  1F) Safe neighborhood, free street  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  ADOPTION  Have an embarassing photo of a  
FOR SALE  SUPER HOME GREAT AREA  parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus  alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or  Young, loving happily married cou­pie interested in adopting a baby.  friend? Is their birthday coming up?  
CLOSE TO ND FOR  to downtown. 1 • 1/2 miles from  assistance, please call Sr. Mary  Take out a birthday ad in The  
1998 Saturn Great Winter Car,  3-4 STUDENTS  Tacoma Metro, $390/month + 1/4  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  Please call Matt & Robin  Observer and let everybody  
Sweet Stereo, 40mpg $8,600/offer,  2773097  utilties, call  celebrate with you  
Michelle 202/829-3725, or  For more information, see our  1-800-484-6411  
283-0901  MMMRentals.com  krup78@holmail.com  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  PINi/6463  Call Ads --1-6900  

. . .. . ' 
. . 

••• ' •• ' ••• ' • ' ••••• . •••• 
Wednesday, February 13, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 13 • 

•

time. 

Calling all Observer alumni! 
The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
South Bend Marriott April 19-20, 2002 
Please send a check for $50 made out to The Observer at 024 South Dining Hall, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN, 46556, by March 20, 2002. 
email obsreunion@hotmail.com to register for an invitation! 
r--­
r 
t t 
page 14 The Obseroer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
need is all three of them to have a big game on the same day." 
That kind of an all-around performance could come tonight. St. John's is coming of a 12-game losing skid, as compared to Notre Dame's five-game winning streak. But, after close calls against both Seton Hall and Pittsburgh on the road, McGraw is not so ready to call this an easy win. 
"[Against Pittsburgh] I thought 'This'll be a good chance for us to play a lot of people,' but we didn't defend well," she said. "I don't think you can ever look at a game and say this is what's going to happen." 
To play a good defensive game, the Irish post players will have to be aware of the Red Storm's offense. St. John's post players hit jumpers, looking, at times, more like perimeter players. 
"They present some problems for our post defensively," McGraw said. 
But coming out of one of its best defensive efforts of the season, the Irish should be able to handle the change. On Sunday the Notre Dame played very little zone, a defense they've been able to make use of this season, because of Boston College's outside shot. 
But tonight they should be able to change up their defensive style. 
"I think we'll be able to do a little bit more in terms of switching things up [defensively] and playing some zone," McGraw said. 
Tip-off is 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center where the Irish have a 49-game winning streak. 
Notes: 
. Sophomore guard Jeneka Joyce is listed as questionable for tonight's game. After return­ing from an Achilles Heel injury against Boston College on Sunday, pain in her foot may pre­vent her from playing against St. John's. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

The 

What is the Liturgy of the Hours? The Liturgy ofthe Hours is a series ofprayers based on the Psalms said throughout the course ofthe day. The tradition ofthe Liturgy ofthe Hours goes back to before the time ofChrist. Christ Himselfprayed it in its earlier/arms. Moming and Evening prayer '4sts approximately 20 minutes each. 
Liturgy 
Why should we pray the Liturgy of the Hours? Christ invites us, as Paul writes, to "Pray without ceasing. " The Liturgy of the Hours expresses our mindfulness ofthat call and it is an act ofconsecration oftime. 

the Hours 
Why start during lent? Lent is a time ofrecommitting ourselves to God's service through and in prayer. Liturgy ofthe Hours is starting during Lent because in Lent we have the opportunity to establish ourselves in new ways ofliving our lives, to last beyond and be enriched by Easter. The Liturgy ofthe Hours is valuable specifically t1J adaily offering, complementing the rest ofthe Church's prayers and set/Jons. What we begin during lent, we will continue through the rest ofthe yem: 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother 

(Coleman -Morse Center) Monday through Friday 
Morning Prayer (Lauds) 8:45 a.m. Evening Prayer (Vespers) 5:00p.m. 

BeginningAsh Wednesday 


Wednesday, February 13, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Friedgen withdraws from Bucs coaching list 
l'i 

Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

Maryland's Ralph Friedgen withdrew his name from consid­eration for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' head coaching opening Tuesday. 
Friedgen, fresh off leading Maryland to a 10-2 record in his first season as a head coach, met with officials of the Buccaneers on Monday. 
f'riedgen is the latest in a series of coaches interviewed by the Buccaneers, who are seek­ing a replacement for Tony Dungy, fired last month after the team's first-round playoff loss in Philadelphia. The Bucs already talked to former NFL coach Bill Parcells and Marvin Lewis. 
Parcells backed away from the offer and Lewis, then defensive coordinator for the Baltimore Ravens, was ultimately shunned. 
Then, less than 24 hours after speaking with the sons of Bucs owner Malcolm Glazer, Friedgen announced that he was staying put. 
"It's very flattering to be con­sidered after so many years of 


Your alternative music source. 




T
399 

T 
1099 
T 
1099 
CITIZEN COPE 
Citizen Cope 

LOSTPROPHETS 
The Fake Sound OI Progress 



T 
1399 
T 
T

1399· 
1r 



MEDl»7PLAV" 
Your Entertainment Superstore, 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Selection,_pricing and special offers may vary by ston, and online, 
802522 1 I 165 
Sole ends Febr-uory 23, 2.002. www.mediaplay.com 
not being considered," said Friedgen, a longtime assistant before being hired by Maryland. "We have a long way to go here. l know what l have here. Sometimes you don't know what you'll have in other places." 
Fricdgen, speaking in a news conference at the university, said he was never formally offered the Bucs job, and never discussed financial terms with the Glazers. But he said he agreed to the meeting out of curiosity. 
"It's something you have to look into from a monetary standpoint," he said. 
But after meeting with his players early Tuesday morning, Friedgen said he decided to stay 
CNothinB to Wear? 
Come in andsee our Latest ?lrriva(s for Syrina! Winter Safe stiff in yro3ress! 
WHERE: ),wpire rf/ef CORNER OF COLFAX AND HILL DOWNTOWN SOUTH Brno 
HERE'S OUR PHONE NUMBER: 
232-1822 
JUICY (OUTURE NOMINATION HARDTAll BETSEYJOHNSON LAUNDRY THEORY LILLY PULITZER FRANKIE B 


at Maryland. 
Friedgen signed a 10-year contract with Maryland in December after leading the Terrapins to their first Atlantic Coast Conference title since 1986 and a berth in the Orange Bowl. Two days after signing the extension, Friedgen was named Associated Press College Coach of the Year. 
Lewis. who later accepted a job as defensive coordinator of the Washington Redskins, criti­cized the Bucs on Monday for their handling of the coaching search. 
"It was a meeting that was already set one way," Lewis said of his session with the sons of Bucs owner Malcolm Glazer. 
-,.. 
-
11 t . 
. 
y 

SALT LAKE 2002 


page 16 The 'Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
FitzRandolph takes gold in 500 meters 

Associated Pres• 
KEARNS, Utah 

As Casey FitzRandolph turned into the 
final curve, an orange cone suddenly ric­
ocheted off his right clapskatc. He wob­
bled a bit, his left hand dangling along 
the ice as he struggled to stay upright. 
Dan Jansen revisited? No way. 
FitzRandolph had come too far to suffer 
another disappointment. 
Erasing his own agony from Nagano, 
FitzRandolph won the 500 meters 
Tuesday in a stirring speedskating duel 
with defending Olympic gold medalist 
1-Iirovasu Shimizu. 
"There's too many things going 
through my head and they're not sticking 
around long enough to grasp any of 
them," FitzRandolph said. ''I guess I real­
ize that I just won the gold modal." 
He gave the United States its first 
speedskating victory of the Salt Lake City 
Games, and it came with an unexpected 
bonus -unheralded teammate Kip 
Carpenter took the bronze. 
FitzRandolph persevered through a 
mistake-filled pairing with Carpenter, 
the most glaring glitch coming at the ·start of the last turn. 
Carpenter cut the corner too tight as he 
switched to the outside lane, his left knee 
catching the small pylon that divides the 
lanes. It flew into FitzRandolph's right 
skate, nearly causing him to fall. 
He managed to stay on his feet, though 
he swung wide out of the turn and sent 
another lane marker flying. 
"I didn't have a great race," 
FitzRandolph said. "I knew I had to drop 
the hammer and just go for it." 
FitzRa11dolph became America's first 500 champion since Eric Heiden won all five events in 1980. Jansen was favored in three straight Olympics, but a fall, a slip and a slushy track denied him a medal in his favorite event. 
"I think D.J. should have gotten one." FitzRandolph said. 
But enough of the bad memories. The Americans have three medals through the first three events at the Utah Olympic Oval. putting the home team in excellent position to reach its goal of 10 medals, including the short-track competition. 
The speedskating squad, which has never won more than eight medals, leads traditional powers the Netherlands and Germany, which have two apiece. 
FitzRandolph edged Shimizu by a mere 
0.03 seconds -about the length of a skate. The blonde-haired, blue-eyed Wisconsin native threw up his arms when he saw the final standings, break­ing out ina smile that appeared more relief than jubilation. 
FitzRandolph skated an Olympic­record 34.42 seconds and had a 0.19 advantage over Shimizu after the first round Monday. Ile needed the entire cushion to hold off the world-record holder, who had the second-best time of Day 2. 
FitzRandolph crossed the line in 34.81 for a two-day total of 1 minute, 9.23 sec­onds, another Olympic mark. Shimizu skated the llaps in 34.65, giving him a 
1:09.26 total. 
"I really could have done better. I feel a bit of regret," the Japanese star said. "I was not able to give it my ultimate. I didn't even come close to my own world record." 
Street finishes 16th in Olympic finale 
Associated Press 
SNOWBASIN, Utah 
Picabo Street, her star-spangled pony­tail flapping as she sped down the Wildflower course, finished 16th in her Olympic finale Tuesday -even trailing two U.S. teammates. 
"This is the last race of my career," she said. 'Tm not going to have to live with­out skiing. I'm just going to have to live without trying to be perfect on my skis everyday, which is wonderful." 
Street, who was trying to become the first American woman to win three Olympic skiing medals, had the best time at the top of the mountain, but lost speed in the middle of the course as she fought to control her skis. 
After blowing kisses through her hel­met to the wildly cheering crowd, she grabbed a microphone and thanked the fans. 
"This is the best day in my ski racing career and it's because of you. Thank you," she said. "Thanks Mom and Dad, you always supported me. You waited for that phone call at 4 o'clock in the morn­ing. And you won't have to wait any more, because I'll be home." 
Street finished behind compatriots Jonna Mendes, who was 11th, and Kirsten Clark, who was 12th. The fourth 
U.S. skier, Caroline Lalive, missed a gate near the bottom of the course and did not finish. 
The winner was a shocker. Carole Montillet of France, who has never won a World Cup downhill, won in 1 minute, 
39.56 seconds. 
Isolde Kastner of Italy was second in 1:40.01, and Renate Goetschl of Austria won bronze in 1:40.39 in a race post­poned from Monday because of high winds. The start of the race also was delayed more than two hours Tuesday by gusting winds. 
Montillet's victory was salve for a 

French squad that has been in mourning since the October death of team leader Regine Cavagnoud, killed in a training accident. 
Montillet, 28, went to San Diego for a few days before the Olympics, leaving the World Cup circuit, telling friends she needed to get away from the repeated questions about Cavagnoud. 
"I still think of Regine Cavagnoud and I will continue to do so. She will always be in my heart and on my mind," said Montillet, who carried the French flag at the opening ceremony Friday and was wrapped in a blue, white and red French flag in the finish area Tuesday. 
For the 30-year-old Street, it was remarkable that she was even racing. 
A month after her victory in the super giant slalom at the 1998 Nagano Games, she broke her left leg and mangled her right knee in a crash and was off skis for 21 months. 
She got off to a good start Tuesday, posting the best results at the first two timing spots and quickly getting into the tight tuck position that allows her to glide so quickly down hills. 
But she flew a bit high at the first of the course's jumps and then struggled to maintain her balance as she left a trail of snow in her wake. She also was too high off the second jump. losing crucial time. 
After she crossed the finish line, she stared at the scoreboard in disbelief and then lowered her head. But then sh·e waved both hands to the crowd and blew kisses. 
Street was trying to become the first 
U.S. skier to win medals in three Olympics. She won the silver in the down­hill at Lillehammer in 1994 and a gold in the Super G in 1998. 
The prospect of an Olympic farewell on home snow motivated her through her comeback, a process she was all too familiar with after blowing out a knee twice before. 


page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 13, 2002 

ND SOFTBALL 
Myers named Scholar-Athlete of the Year 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame softball stand­out Jarrah Myers has been named the 2001-02 BIG EAST/Aeropostale Female 
Scholar­ 
Athlete  of  
the  Year.  
She  will  
receive  a  
$4,000  
stipend  
which will  
be applied  
to graduate Myers 
studies.  
Myers,  a  
senior  catcher  from  
Carbondale,  Kan., is the  

fourth Notre Dame female to win the award. She was cho­sen for the Scholar-Athlete of the Year award from a pool of 15 candidates which may encompass athletes from any 
Runoff Election on Thursday!!! 
There will be a Runoff Election for Student Body President and Vice-President between Brian Moscona/ Keri Oxley and Libby Bishop/Trip Foley 
Voting will be held on Thursday, February 14 (Valentine's Day!) Off-campus students can vote from 12:30pm-3:30pm By the 1st floor DeBartolo Computer Cluster On-Campus student voting times will be posted in the dorms Seniors can vote too!!! 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Judicial Council 
of the 12 Big East women's sports. 
Myers is an environmental science major in the Notre Dame academic honors pro­gram and earned National Fastpitch Coaches Association/Louisville Slugger All-America Third Team honors as a junior in 2001. In addition, Myers was a member of the U.S. National Team last year. Prior to the 2002 season, she was named to the Preseason All-Big East Team. 
Myers was named to the All-Big East Second Team as a junior in 2001 and the first team in 2000. Last season she led the Irish in batting (.380). RBI (41} and home runs (7). She also ranks among the top five on the Notre Dame career lists for triples, home runs and RBI. 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Two defenders honored 
. Gonzalez, Pruzinsky named Academic All-Americans 
Special to The Observer 
Two Notre Dame women's soccer player s have been rec­ognized as Academic All­Americans for the 2001-02 academic year, as selected by the College Sports Information Directors of America. 
Junior defender Vanessa Pruzinsky -who impressively has maintained her 4.0 cumu­lative grade-point average as a chemical engineering major ­repeated as a first team Academic All-American. 
Fifth-year defender Monica Gonzalez became the 38th all­time student-athlete in Notre Dame history to earn All­America and Academic All­America honors for the same season. She was a second team All-American and third team Academic All-American. 
Pruzinsky joins former bas­ketball star Bob Arnzen (1967 and 1968) as just the second student-athlete in Notre Dame's storied Academic All­America history to be named a first team Academic All­American as both a sophomore and junior. Arnzen closed out his career by making the first team for a third time in 1969. 
Notre Dame was one of just six schools that placed multiple player on the 33-member Academic All-America teams, with Notre Dame and Nebraska being the only schools from that group that were ranked in the national top 25. 

Gonzalez is the fourth Notre Dame women's student-athlete to recently complete the unique All-America and Academic All­America distinction, with soft­ball players Jarrah Myers and Jen Sharron and women's bas­ketball standout Ruth Riley doing so in the spring of 2001. 
Gonzalez joins former goal­keeper Jen Renola as Notre Dame's second women's soccer player to receive both honors in the same season. Renola is one of just seven ND student-ath­letes from all sports to do so in multiple seasons. 
Notre Dame women's soccer players have combined for 10 Academic All-America honors during the past eight seasons, with the pervious seven years of the awards coming under the fall and winter "at-large" program. 
Renola and forward Amy Van Laecke earned 2nd-team hon­ors following their junior sea­son and were 1st-team selec­tions as seniors, with Renola named the Academic All­American of the Year. 
Jenny Streiffer then earned 1st-team honors after the 1997 season and was a 2nd-team pick as a junior while another Irish forward, Meotis Erikson, was a 3rd-team selection for the 2000 season. 
Pruzinsky was one of five players with 4.0 GPAs that were named to the 2001-02 Academic All-America squad, including fellow first teamers Katharina Lindner (Hartford) and Llza Nowoslawski (UAB). 
A two-time second team NSCAA all-region selection. Pruzinsky also earned first team all-BIG EAST Conference honors in 2001 and was a final• ist for the Missouri Athletic Club National Player-of-the­Year Award. She has started 71 of 72 games during her ND career and registered her first goal at Notre Dame in the 2-1 loss at Rutgers before scoring again in the NCAA loss to Cincinnati. 
Gonzalez -who was the 11th overall selection in Monday's player draft for the Women's United Soccer Association -capper her career with NSCAA second team All-America honors before posting a 3.62 semester GPA and graduating with a 
3.39 cumulative GPA, as a dou­ble major in management information systems and Spanish. 
A founding member of Mexico's women's national team, Gonzalez joined Pruzinsky as a central defender in 2001, when she started all 21 games while scoring once and adding two assists. She totaled 17 goals and 17 assists in 95 career games played, with 49 starts. 
Gonzalez and Pruzinsky com­bined with freshman Candace Chapman as just the sec9nd trio of Notre Dame defenders to be named NSCAA all-region in the same season. The 2001 Irish defense allowed just 18 goals in 21 games, including nine shutouts and eight other games with one goal allowed. 

Saint 
Mary's 
College 
Program 
in Dance 
presents 

Dance Spectru111 
Friday &Saturday, Feb.15 &16 at 7 PM Sunday, Feb. 17 at 2:30 PM " O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact ,.;.,.,.,"'·"·•·~ the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
1M:J...fi(:'J'~ /

284•4626 ~,:o~/a~~. IN 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Thomas grabs Sports Illustrated honor 
Speci:al to The Observer 
The honors continue for Notre Dame freshman Chris Thomas. The 6-1 point guard has been named Sports Illus­trated' s Player of the Week following his perfor­mances last week in wins 
o v e r Rutgers


( 8 9 _7 2 ) Thomas and a quadruple overtime victory over Georgetown (116-111). The five-time Big East rook­ie of the week posted a pair of 
double doubles in the two 
contests and averaged 27.0 
points, 11.5 assists, 5.0 rebounds and 2.5 steals. 
In playing 38 minutes against the Scarlet Knights, he scored a career-high 32 points and dished off 11 assists while hitting 1 O-of-14 from the field and seven-of. nine from three-point range. 
He played all 60 minutes against the Hoyas and fin­ished with 22 points, 12 assists, a. personal best eight rebounds and made three steals. 
Thomas is currently averag­ing 16.2 points (second best on the team) and a team-lead­ing 7.17 assists, 2.43 steals and 376 minutes per game. 
Please recycle The Observer 
Express your Talent for Latin Expressions! 
fl Performance try-outs 1' 
Mon, Feb. 18 Tues, Feb 19 7-9pm Walsh Hall basement 

t Opening Act Dance try-outs t 
Mon,Feb. 18 Tues, Feb 19 9-lOpm Walsh Hall basement 
iii MC try-outsiii Tues, Feb. 19 · 9-l0pm Walsh Hall basement 

Latin Expressions 2002, Fri. April 5, 7prn-O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Any questions? Email Anabe!-anavarro@nd.edu 

JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW 
JPW TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
7-.toPM 

ROOM 108 LAFORTUNE 
Tuesday, Feb. 12 Wednesday,Feb. 13 

Traditionally, a $2 donation is requested from each junior partidpating in JPW. This donation benefits a local charity and is eollected at ticket distrilnltion. Our selected charity this year is the Cmter for the Homeless. Please give generously. 
JPW JPW JPW .JPW JPW JPW JPW 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Toledo defends recruiting 
when Neuhciscl said UCLA just blowing everything out of
By HANNAH GORDON 

tried to lure his recruit, Clayton proportion," he said. "I guess
Daily Bruin (U-Wirc) 

Walker, away. Neuheisel said it's just the recruiting game. I'd 
that Toledo told Walker that if say every school throws little 
LOS ANGELES he were fired, Neuheise1 would jabs. But a few of the thingsStones are being thrown all be the next UCLA coach. that were said were pretty big 
over the Pac-10, and if the But according to Toledo, time.'' coaches are not careful, every­
those comments were taken out The University of Washington onc will end up in shattered 
of context. declined to comment to the glass. 
"Basically what Neuheisel Daily Bruin Monday, and said 
UCLA declined to comment 

and (assistant coach) Steve that Neuheisel was unavailable 
Friday after Washington head Axman were telling them was for comment. football coach Rick Neuheisel 
that l was going to get fired. I The Seattle Times reached complained about negative 
told the kid, 'If I get fired, I Neuheisel. but he too said he recruiting around the confer­know Rick Neuheisel will be the did not want to get involved. ence, specifically by Oregon 
first one to apply.' That's exact­"Bob can go ahead and say
and UCLA, last week. 

ly it, verbatim," Toledo said. what he wants to say,"UCLA head coach Bob Toledo 
Neuheisel had also claimed Neuheisel said. responded in the Seattle Times that Walker lost his part-time Toledo lobbed a few more Monday. 
job because he was afraid to rocks in Neuheisel's direction,"If you live in a glass house, 
leave for work when UCLA including allegations of 
you shouldn't throw rocks, you 

coaches showed up unan­Neuheisel's own negativeknow what I mean," Toledo 
nounced. But Toledo said that recruiting.said. "We never had a problem Walker's mother had invited "He called a couple of our in the conference until he start­them to stay. recruits and said we were lying
ed talking about negative Monday, Walker spoke to the to them," Toledo said. "He recruiting. Now I'm going to Seattle Times, and he said that made some real negative com­start talking.n 
both coaches were making ments, that (UCLA) coaches live Attempts by the Daily Bruin 
more of this than the situation far away. that we're not close 
to reach Toledo for comment 

deserved. to the campus, that the school were unsuccessful. 
"J don't think it was really doesn't take care of its ex-play­The stone-throwing started 
that bad. I think everybody's ers.'' 
It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful seivices, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and seivices designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
(574) 654-2250 
31869 Chicago Trail 
~ 
New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836
HAMILTON 
Website: http://www.hamiltoncomm.org 
r;, 

COMMUNITIES 
~-· ~ ...........A. Ricli. Traditi~".-~!.~~~~.~~ _f~~--~~~.~~.-~~~.~~s .~.'.'~-'.~--·~.~~-=··-·-·~
H : To find out more, clip and mail the following information to: !
:-.j 

! Hamilton Communities, 31869 Chlcaio Trail, New Carlisle, IN 46552 j 

~ i Name: i \Address. _______\ / City: _________State: ______ Zip: ___ i@' 
~ ! Telephone: ( ----+-----------O/F !.,,.:... . , 
' ~ ~ ..·········--·······-··--········••·-·•-···..···••·••······-·--········-··-·····-···---··-----····-··---···-··-··--·-··-··-·-------J ,: 

' 'if;';'«~or 'ii ­
.J.'.\l .\;,l~1 _ ,:v ... · 

Wednesday, February 13, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
-..., 


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 31 Hunt like a cave 61 Aloha State bird 1 CELEBRITIES BORN ON close friend about personal prob­man THIS DAY: Peter Gabriel, lems. 00
1 Balkan capital 62 Some six-
Stockard Oianning, Jerry Springer LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22):
33 Interview bit: shooters

6 "Black Beauty" Happy Birthday: Your unique Make an effort to get to know your
Abbr.

star 63 Q.E.D. part ideas will transpire into money­colleagues better. If you can get the Freeman 36 Down_ 64 Breyers nval making pursuits this year. You support of those you work with, {Maine) will do well in fields that are you can make a difference to your 
10 Under the 65 Praise weather 37 Small island 
unusual in some way. You must professional future. 000 follow what you know in your SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
38 "Phooey!'

14 Uniform hue DOWN heart is best for you. Your num­You've been working too hard and 15 K-6: Abbr. 39 Child advocacy bers are 9, 14, 17, 23, 34, 39 it's time for you to get out and
1 Three-player

org. ARIES (March 21-April 19): have some fun. An intimate dinner
16 Topology figures game .ii> 
Find a way to improve your with a few good friends will give
40 Make peace

17 Support person 2 Home to home. You can make a difference you somethfug to think about The 18 Colorful mount 44 Anouk of film Columbus to loved ones if you are flexible. conversations you have today 45 Gad about Opportunities to get involved in could change your life. 00000
19 Mil. truant 3 Falter at the 
products or services for the home SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
46 Wellesley grad finish

20 Common will bebeneficial. 000 You will face opposition if you darning spot 49 Years and years 4 Likable prez TAURUS (April 20-May 20): have been avoiding a personal 50 They're hidden You can ask for favors today but issue with a family member or
21 Hide boredom, 5 Blue Angels 
in 21-, 31-and display don't push y_our luck. _Expe~t to dose friend. A sincere apology will
in a way 
give something back m return. help to resolve past problems. You
40-Across

24 Part of a 6 Reason for a New friendships will develop if owe it to yourself as well as to 
53 "Vamoose!" raise

boilermaker you take part in worthwl:i.ile those you may have offended. 00 25 Lays out 56 Like many fans 7 Former Swedish events. 0000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If Your friendship will be valued
57 Seine sights P.M. Palme26 Sot's state 

you don't take the time to regain today. Offer sound advice and you 29 Used a 58 Roomy cut 8 "Hud" star your strength you will become will receive loyalty in return. Part­peephole 60 Winks 9 Knock-on-the­emotional and upset over events nerships will lead to interesting 
noggin and comments that wouldn't nor­opportunities as well as new consequence mally bother you. 00 acquaintances. 0000 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Didn't fold CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You need to venture out into the Stop spending your money on all
Puzzle by Sarah Keller
T O R E 11 Hawkeye world. Familiarize yourself with sorts of trivial things and start to W R E N 12 Three. they say 33 Kaffiyeh wearer 46 Bring down different cultural backgrounds save for your future. Don't be too and you will discover all sorts of willing to let someone else take
13 Hops driers 34 One of the 47 Onions partner 
interesting information. 00000 care of your finances. It's time you
major leagues: 
22_ Bora 48 City near LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Think learned to take care of your own
Abbr.
(Afghan region) Syracuse about what you are doing to your­money matters. 000 23 Mimic 49 Slalom paths
35 Lid swelling self. It's time to get back on track PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): and take better care of yourself. You may be emotional today if
38 F.D.R. and
24 •x• may mark it 51 Said "no Smart eating and exercise will things don't go according to plan. 26 Put one's foot make a world of difference. 000 Don't let someone you work with 
L.B.J., e.g. contest," e.g. down 40_Fein VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): confuse you or send you in the Partnerships may be a little tense wrong direction. Do your own 
-=+..,,.+~-,-+,,,+,,,,..i 27 "Ho;.about 41 "Think of it!" Answers to any clues in this puzzle are today, but if you are honest and research and refuse to let anything 
42 Meadowlands available by touch-tone phone: caring you should be able to keep you hear cause upset and poor28 Celestial bear pace 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). things running smoothly. Talk to a reactions. 00 29 Title holder? 43 Turn upside­Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: You work well with others. You are quite willing to
30 Anti-fur org. down best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
make sacrifices and compromise in order to have everything around 
44 In the thick of years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
32 Solomonic you run smoothly. You need to have a pleasant environment in order to be happy. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
52 Counting-out bit 53 Embellish richly 54 A Ian of 55 Tracy's 
Trueheart 59 Bud's bud 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
TWO PAPERS, ONE PRESENTATION, AND ONE 
SHORT ESSAY ALL t>UE BY 
TOMORROW 

FOXTROT 
PLVS, ON TOP OF EVERYTHING, I'VE GOT A RAGING COLD 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 


I N N S R U R 
E S S E M M U 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year )­
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
..

··········••1~ .....••................................ 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. ND Softball, p. 17 
. Olympics, p. 16 
. 
ND Women's Soccer, p. 17 . NCAA Football, p. 18, 15 

. 
Men's Basketball, p. 18 . MLB, p. 12 


. NBA, p. 12

PORTS 
Wednesday, February 13, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Improved Irish ready for Red Storm 
..... By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Spom Editor 

After dropping out of the rankings in early December, the Irish have been playing the underdog role. They've defeated three ranked opponents in the last three weeks and now they'll have the top spot going into tonight's game against St. John's. 
With the Irish ranked 23rd in Associated Press bal­
.... loting and second in the Big East, tonight's game may be more about Notre Dame's play than the play of the 3-20 Red Sturm, who are ranked last in the Big East. 
"We've got to focus on us," said head coach Muffet McGraw. "That's our primary concern ... There are some things coming out of the Boston College game that we feel we can do better at." 
At this point in the season, although the Irish have made strides to 15-7, McGraw is still looking for improvement in her team. The Irish have strung together several strong offensive appearances and many solid defensive performances. 
However, they don't seem to be coming in tandem. 
"I want to see great defense and great offense in the same game, that's what I really want," McGraw said. "We've had a lot of games where we've played one or the other." 
A combined defensive and offensive effort isn't all McGraw wants from her team. She wants a team effort -period. Post players Jacqueline Batteast, Ericka Haney and Teresa Borton have all taken their turns being the go-to player, scoring on the block and really helping the team out. But McGraw would like to see a game where all three play well on the same night. 
"I think the problem is, it's been different people and I would like it to be all of them," McGraw said. "Teresa's had some big games; Ericka's had some big games; Jackie's had some big games. So what we 
see IRISH/page 14 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles confident heading into Adrian game 

By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 

When Saint Mary's faces off against Adrian tonight, it will be a battle between a team with confidence and a team that has been struggling. 
The Belles are the confident team com­ing off a 65-61 win over Olivet College on Saturday and winners of two of their last three while Adrian has lost two straight games. 
The reason for the Belles' recent suc­cess has been defense and rebounding, according to head coach Suzanne Smith. 
"The main thing is that we've played great defense and rebounding," said Smith. "We've done a much better job the last couple of weeks of boxing out and going to get the rebound." 
While the Belles were out-rebounded last game, they feel they can improve on that against Adrian. 
"In our defense we do a lot of rotating aro4nd," said Smith. "Many times that leaves someone open and we just really talked about going back and finding your person and making sure everybody's matched up and they box out their per­son and put a body on them." 
Aside from rebounding, the Belles will rely on another outstanding perfor­mance from freshman forward Emily Creachbaum. Creachbaum scored 26 points against Olivet, which included 11­15 shooting from the field. 
Creachbaum's performance was good enough to earn her an honorable men­tion for MIAA Player of the Week hon­ors. 
"She's just real consistent," said Smith. "She's not trying to do too much but it seems like the opponent's defense is giv­ing her some great opportunity's and she's taking advantage of everything." 
The Belles are hoping to continue play­ing well and pick up some victories before heading into the MIAA tourna­ment on Feb. 19. 
"We're focused on Wednesday night first, said Smith. "We haven't really gone to Saturday yet. But tomorrow night it's a great opportunity. I know one of the team's words today was revenge because it was a close game last time. So we really want this one tomorrow night." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
. Women's Basketball vs. St. John's, Today, 7p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Men's Basketball at Rutgers, Thursday, 9p.m.
SPORTS 
onl!ne 

. Women's Tennis vs. Tennessee, Saturday, 10 a.m. AT AGLANCE . Men's Tennis vs. Wisconsin, Saturday, 2 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 




