
Missed a Movie?
PARTLY 

Thursday

CLOUDY 

From "Lord ofthe Rings,. to "A. Beautiful Mind" Observer Movie Critics check out .films you may not have caught over break. 
JANUARY 17, HIGH 30° 
Scene . page 12-13 
2002 
LOW20° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 68 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


ND, SMC gear up for-area code change 
• North central Indiana region adopts S 7 4 area code this June 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER Assisr,1111 News Fdit\Jr 
For Llw next six months, Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and the entirn South Bend region will have two working area codes whilt'."• the 574 area code is introduced and tlw 2.19 an\a wdc is phased out. During this period or permissive dialing that began on Ttwsday, callers from outside llw rPgion may dial either area code until Junc 14 when the 2.19 area code will stop working for tlw region. 
Officials from both Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's began preparations for the 
new area code last year to rmsure that the 
campus infrastructure would support the 
change and to make sun• all materials. 
such as statiotwrv and business cards 
would bl' printed i·ith tlrn new area code. 
Officials said no technology related 
charges would br, incurred as a result of 
the change, and it is unlikely that many 
materials with the 219 area code will 
have to be discarded when the 574 area 
code becomes mandatory, 
According to Notre Dame telecommuni­cations manager Steve Ellis, the vendors of various systems -including the voice mail system -have made changes to accommodate the new area code. At Saint Mary's, the voice mail system did not require changes. but telecommunications coordinator Sandy Handley repro­grammed lhe switch. a system that routes calls to either the local or long distance service provider. ments last semester informing them of the ment services at Notre Dame. basis so the departments don't think they 
The onlinfl phonebook at Saint Mary's changing area code and outlined proce­Although it is likely that some old mate­will be left with many old materials -I has already been changed to show the dures for ordering new supplies. rials will remain after the 219 area code assume there will be some additional cost 574 area code. The Office of Information "A letter was sent out to all depart­can no longer be used, officials said they [of changing materials], but I don't know Technologies will change the Notre Dame ments, advising them to use up the exist­are not aware of departments that have exactly what that will be," said Nick onlinn plrnrn\book within the next few ing stock and then, when placing an much more than six months of materials Farmer, director of Marketing weeks. order. to change the area code," said Tim in stock. Communications at Saint Mary's. 
Both schools sent notices to depart-Gibney, assistant director for procure-"Most people tend to order on a yearly see AREA CODE/page 4 

ND community remembers late Minamiki 
gram there." said Father as good as Minamiki." excellent teaching, Minamiki When he retired, Minamiki By ALLY JAY Theodore Hesburgh, Notre According to Hesburgh, Japanese won the 1988 Sheedy chose to continue living at Notre News Writer Dame president emeritus. "He Minamiki was a private man Award for Excellence in Dame. 
had joined the Jesuits and done who was devoted to being a Teaching in the College of Arts "When he was 65, he looked 
Renowned scholar of' classical· his training 
good priest and teacher. and Letters, and in 1991 was a pretty young, maybe like he was and 0rim1tal languages and pro­in Japan. so "Be wasn't flamboyant, but he co-recipient of the Madden sixteen, and we wero talking fessor emerilus Father George he worked did a good job in a quiet way. Award for Outstanding Teaching about how his provincial said Minamiki died .Jan. 4 while visit­with .me to It's really the quiflt guys like that of Freshmen. Minamiki could stay on and ing family in Los Angeles. lie set up the which makes this place go," said Besides teaching, Minamiki teach a l'ew classes or leave. He was 84. program. Hesburgh. was instrumental in welcoming told me that 'This[Notre Dame] 
Minamiki graduated from For years Before coming to Notre Dame Japanese families into the Notre has been the center of my life" 
Loyola Cnlversity of Los Angeles he did a in 1968, 1'.Iinamiki spent 11 Dame family. and chose to stay on and had an with a bachelor's degree in phi­great job years as a teacher and adminis­"He helped get together fami­apartment here." losophy and held graduate's teaching trator at Jesuit high schools in lies who came over when they According to Hesburgh, degrees from Gonzaga Japanese Japan. He spent the last six sot up some Japanese compa­Minamiki's presence will be University and Alma College. He and helped Mlnamikl years as headmaster of nies near South Bend. A lot of sorely missed, especially by the earned his doctorate from Notre make it Hiroshima Gakuin. After arriv­the families came here from hundreds of students he touched 
Dame in 1<J77. easy for students, and let me tell ing at Notre Dame, Minamiki Japan to work. They didn't have through his teaching here. "George came to my attention you I've studied Japanese and began teaching J apenese to a church but Minamiki would when wn were sending students it's not so easy to learn. We hundreds of Notre Dame stu­invite them here to have mass," 
Contact Ally Jay at ajay@nd.edu, 

to Tokyo and setting up a pro-never_ had a Japanese professor dents. In recognition of his said Hesburgh. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, January 17, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Let it snow 

I was very unpleasantly surprised when my flight into South Bend Regional Airport landed at 7:15 p.m. on Sunday ni!{ht, Jan. 13, 2002, and I saw nothing but bare ground. 
Lel me reiterate: there was no snow on the ground in South Bend in JANUARY. 
Does anyone else find this odd'? 
To make matters worse, sludents seemed lost 

on enrollment day, when temperatures ·soared' to nearly !lO degrees. we won­dered, if South Bend had moved itself tu the deep south. 
r might Le a minority in saying this. but I miss snow. A lot. 
I miss last year, when we had a day of finals resched­uled due to a nice. fresh. two-foot-deep blanket of snow on the ground. 
I miss that dav in second grade when 011.ly half the school showed up bec.ause of the heavy snow, and we then proceeded to do noth­ing the entire day. 
I miss getting up super early at home each morning of a snowstorm, waiting to see if school was cancelled so I could get to go sled­ding on the hill down the street all day. 
I miss just staring out any available window, entranced in watching this already picturesque campus turn into a scene not unlike a Currier & Ives tin. 
I miss building snowmen from a measly dust­ing of snow, and having a snowball fight on the quad until the early morning hours. 
I miss the neatly plowed-out paths around "ampus, and losing sight of people's feet under the deep snow. 
And, until the very last day of break, I missed curling up on my couch at home, listening to whatever music my parents popped into the stereo, and gazing longingly out the window as snow was piling up. 
Of course. l'm not crazy, there are some things I don't miss about snow: 
I don't miss driving in the snow -I did that once over break, and succeeded, but quite pre­cariously. 
I don't miss skidding my car into a snowbank on the way to work, and proceeding to watch my bosses laugh at me as r tried to dig my car out. 
I don't miss being pushed into the snow by my friends during a·chilly 3 a.m. walk across campus (but I do miss being called a "[exple­tive} seal" for being able to escape the attempt­ed shove). 
But, all in all. snow is a wonderful thing. And Notre Dame has seen far too little of Jack Frost's dandruff this school vear. 
Wednesdav's two inches· of the white stuff will hopefully mark the beginning of a very snowy spring semester. I have my fingers crossed that there will be many a snowman and snowball fight on North Quad this January and February (and \1arch?). 
Of course, 1 will probably end up eating my words after a Buffalo-style blizzard dumps four feet of snow on the Bend. 
But at least I'll be smiling. 
Contact Bryan Kronk bkronk@nd.edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe ()hserver. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 

Ye,rerdav's "Whar's Your Shade" ankle entitled. "Getting past suffocating 'tunnel vision"' was incorrectly amibuted to Sandhya Acharya. The acrual autbor was Jourdan Sorrell. The Ohscrver regrets the error. 
The Ob,erver regards itself ,is a professional public:uion :md strives for r!ie highest swndards of journalism at all rimes. We Jo. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a misuke, pkase conr.ict us at GJ 1-4541 so we can 
c:orreu our error. 

Tht Oh«rwr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, pnbli,hcd Monday rhmu~h Frid:iy e-x,ept during exam and vac.1tion periol!s. The ()b1;ervcr is a ITI("mher of tlie A:-.sm::iareJ Pre~;,,. All re-pruducrion riglua are lt''.-1.:ncd. 


Bryan Kronk 
Sports Copy 
Editor 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Thursday  Friday  
. Lecture: "The New  . Comedy: Mike Barbiglia,  
Horsemen of the  LaFortunc Ballroom, 9-11  
ApocalypsA," Shirley  p,m.  
Williams, /\Uditorium,  
Hesburgh Center, 4 p.m.  
. Film: "crazy/beautiful,"  
Carey Apdit(lrium.  
Hesburgh Library, 7 p,m.  

Compiled fmm U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 


U. Arizona worker convicted of first-degree murder 
TUSCO'.'l 
A jury found a L'niversity of Arizona ('mployee guilty Tuesday aftcrno(ln of first-degree murder and arson in the August 2000 death of his 
wife. · 
Ralph David McCormick, a senior office specialist for facilities manage­ment, will face the possibility of nat­u ra I life in prison after a Pima County Superior Court jury found him guilly of first-degree murder and arson. 
The jury found that McCormick beat his wife, Maria Velasquez­McCormick, to death with a baseball bat in their midtown home and then left her body in a rental car that was set on fire. 
Pima County Prosecutor David Quantz said that on the night of the murder, Maria Velasquez-McCormick 
UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY 

Professor studies cocaine, quails 
Chana Akins. an associate professor of psychology, is investigating the effects cocaine has on quails' behavior. Akins received a $480,000 grant from the National Institute of Drug Abuse to conduct her pro­ject, which started in .lune, 2001 and will continue for four years. Although similar studies on cocaine reward, a drug-seeking behavior, have been done, Akins said her project is unique because it focuses solely on visual stimuli in an environment that can contribute to a quail's desire for cocaine. Examining the effects of visual stimuli on quails may help to explain why many human cocaine addicts relapse even after detoxHication, Akins said. "A contributing factor to the high relapse rate could be the environ­mental stimuli that may become associated with pre­vious drug use," she said. "Studies suggest that cocaine addicts respond differently to cocaine-related objects compared to neutral objects." 
Kentucky Kernel 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Ac(;uWea.rher® forecast for Unytime condition\ and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Thursday, Jan. 17. 

t. 
Friday·: ~ l:ig 
Saturday ~ 28 Sunday (f Ng:3 Monday 32 
:•:,::: ../, 
Tuesday ~·· ·--~ '36 
"tt"'-··-........v·"'\.;r· 



4.Q-,~p6fQ(f ~u 
Showers T-storms Ra,n Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Vi.a Assoc1a1e:1 Press Graph1csNe1 


arrived homB to her husband, who drank 16 hoers throughout the day. After making sexual advances at his wife, Ralph McCormick hit her in the face with a baseball bat. 
Ilis wife reportedly swallowed f'our of her own teeth before dying from several other blows from the bat. 
Velasquez-McCormick's body was 
17 

2~~1~\ c~'b · 70s 
_J~Bls 

23 
806 ~ 
70s ......--.­
!C 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD 

26 
Pressure: 
®© ......
Hi h Low 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Professor's death ruled accidental 

The death of Harvard University biochemistry profos­sor Don C. Wiley was accidental. and not a suicide, as police had prnviously speculated. Authorities ruled that Wil1~y foll of'I' tlrn llfirnando de Soto Bridge unintentionally -perhaps under the influence of alco­hol or as the nfsult of' a little-understood seizurn disor­der -and officially closed the investigation into his death."The rrnidical examiner's ruling is always the final ruling, and there will be no further investigation," Memphis Polic:n Inspector J.D. King said. Wiley vanished after attnnding a conference on Nov. 15. lie was last seen around midnight, and his abandoned rental car was reported to police almost four hours later. Wiley's body was found 320 miles downstream in the Mississippi Hivor on Doc. 20. The medical examiner hypothesized that Wiley pulled over his car on the bridge to inspect damage from two minor driving accidents -at which point gusty winds could have blown him off the bridge. 
llar/Jard Crimson 
Saturday 
. Winterfest: Dale K, hyp­notist, Washington Hall, 10 p.m.-midnight. 

found in a burning car in the desert near the intersection of West Anklam Hoad and West St. Mary's Road. 
Defense attorney Michael Piccarreta argued that McCormick should have been convicted of a less­er charge becausn of' the influence or alcohol and ragn. as well as the pres­ence of the bat. 
McCormick spent two months in jail while awaiting trial but was released after his family was able to post $250,000 bond. The bond had origi­nally been set at $1 million, but Judge Leslin Miller reducnd it on Nov. 21, 2000. 
McCormick returned to work at the University of Arizona on Nov. 29, 2000, and has been employed at UA since then. 
Arizona Daily Wildcat 
Sunday 
. Reception: 
"Reinstallation of African Arts Collection," Snite Museum of Art, 2:30 p.m. 
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston FRONTS: 
59  45  Las Vegas  52  34  
49  29  Memphis  44  29  
39  29  Milwaukee  28  18  
31  21  New York  45  28  
74  56  Philadelphia  48  31  
Portland 42 28 Sacramento 51 32 St. Louis 38 26 Tampa 74 54 Washington DC 50 33 


.&....A. 
............ 
WARM STATIONJl,RY 

Thursday, January 17, 2002 lhe Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Athlete's project nets $4,500 for relief fund 

$20 loan to establish her prod­uct. 
"I wanted to show the women's baskf'tball team in a light lhal people aren't used to seeing us in." said Swanson. "We wanted people to see us out of our uniforms and out of our sweats." 
Swanson said she began to rnalize how imprnssed others were when the ladies of the team donned more formal attire during last year's banquet at the end of the season. 
"Some of the fans were saying 
how differ­

idem artor some deliberation. Tho  "J was trying to }ind some  ent we looked  
next hurdle  was  way to get the team  dressed  
convincing her hesitant team­mates to bn fea­ involved and also use my background in  up," said Swanson. The fin­ 
tured in calen­ photography.,,  ished prod­ 
dars that would  uct includes  
be sold public.  to  thn  Karen Swanson  pictures p h o - 
"! was trying tu  Women's Basketball Player  tographed  
!ind some way to  by Swanson  
get  tlw  team  of campus  

involvnd and also use mv back­scenes with each player in dress ground in photography," said clothes for the month or Swanson who became interest• January 2002 to January 2003. ed in photography during hor Although the calendar focuses senior year of high school. on the women's basketball "They were kind of skeptical at team, her project has a more lirst." philanthropic goal. Swanson 
!\fter much coaxing, Swanson plans to donate all or the pro­said she was able to convince ceeds to the New York City her t,~ammates to pose for pic­Children's Relief Fund which tures around campus l'or the provides aid to children who calendar. Swanson. like all stu­witnessed the attacks of Sept. den ts nnrolll'd in Professor 11 or were near Ground Zero, David llayes' ManagemFint 320 as well as the schools close to class. "Introduction to the area. Entrcprmwurship." received a Because of NCA!\ guideines, 
Important CSC Vehicle Driver Update 
CSC Driver Authorization Certification cards issued prior to January 2002 will no longer be acceptedl 
All drivers must attend a new information session 
ONLY THE ACTUAL DRIVER OF A VEHICLE MAY SUBMIT A REQUEST FOR USE 
Swanson would not have been able lo keep the profit even if she wanted to. For this reason, she had tu pres,mt her project idea to the NCAA compliance field of the Notrfl Dame athletic department in addition to the Notre Dame licensing depart­ment and Student Activities to obtain a vendor's license. 
Lithotone, Inc., a local print­ing company in Elkhart, Ind., decided to print the calendars free of charge because of the charitable cause as well as Swanson's creativity. 
Many of tho patrons who have supported Swanson's project have been !or.al fans from Notre Dame and the surrounding communitifls. 
"Every amount that the cus­tomer pays is returned to us in full." said Swanson. 
Students in the Management 320 fall semester class had to earn $140 from their products and services by the end of the semP-ster. So far, with a profit of about $4,500, Swanson is well in excess of the amount, but the calendars will continue to bo sold at women's basketball home games until all rnmaining calendars of the original 1,100 are gone. Swanson recently reduced the price of the calen­dars from $10 each to $5 to increase purchases. 
Unlike some of her team­mates, freshman center Teresa Borton said she was immediate­ly excited about the calendar when Swanson pitched the idea. 
"(I thought] it would be kind of fun to get out of your basket-


N(JV L ,Vt B [ R ~~ Utll l 4 
4 
ANGELA CAMPOS/The Observer 

Women's basketball player Jill Krause poses in the November section of the calendar. The calendar was designed by Karen Swanson for an entrepreneurial project. 
ball clothes and dress up," calendars. Borton said. "A lot of people have asked us 
She and freshman guard Jill to sign them," said Borton. Krause went with Swanson to "Anything with women's bas­shoot their pictures on the same ketball they really like." day. 
"It was fun," said Borton. "We were just goofing off." 
Contact Helena Payne at

Borton said basketball fans 
Payne.30@nd.edu.

have responded positively to the By HELENA PAYNE As,isram r-.icw.1 Editor 
In addition to posters and Coca Cola bottles among other lhings, lhe ,,.,omen's basketball tr.am can add cakndars to the list of itnms fans want the play­ers to sign. 
During the 2001 f'aH semester when Junior guard Ka1·cn Swanson was prnsentod with her management professor's "$20 chalhmge" to establish an en treprmrnu ria I project. she came up with an 

DUETO 



Ci ~ pllOCEDIIRAl. ~.ll ... 
o'\;~  fur  -~o  
~ Center for Sod.al Conce rns  ~  
VEHICLE DRIVERS  

ALL STUDENTS WHO PLAN TO DRIVE CSC VEHICLES (beginning January 21. 2002) MUST A I I END A NEW INFORMATION SESSION THIS SEMESTERI 
The following hour-long sessions are the ONLY planned sessions that will be offered at the CSC this semester*: 
January 20, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
January 22, 5:30 -6:30 p.m. 
January 27, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
January 31, 8:00 -9:00 p.m. 
February 3, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
March 3, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 

There is no need to register. Bring pen and driver's license to session. 
Questions? e-mail: cscvans@nd.edu or csc web page at http;//centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu and scroll down to CSC driver update. 
*If any additional training sessions are deemed necessary, the dates will be listed on the web page 
I 
' 
I 
. -j 
Thursday, January 17, 2002
page 4 Thf' Observt'r . CAMPUS NEWS 



Area Code 
continued from page 1 
Handlev said she is encourag­ing everj•otrn to tell family and friends to start using the new area t:ode now so that there are no problems when the 219 area code is no longer functional for South Bend. 
"I know there will be a lot of people confused and there will always be someone out there who doesn't know the area code changed, but my goal is get the other 99 percent used to dialing 574 so the transition will be transparent on June 14," said Handlev. 
BetvvPen June 14 and July 29, if a dialer uses the 219 area code to call South Bend. he will hear a recorded message advising him to redial the numbe1· using the 574 area code. After July 29. the numbers now assigned to South. Bend will start to be reassigned to new customers and a person dialing tlie old area code could be connected to someone in the Gary area. 
Those who own a cell phone in the 21 () area code need to have the phone re-programmed. 
ThP area code change for South Bend became necessary because the telephone numbers available to northern Indiana users were nearly depleted. To remedy the problem, officials from the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission split Northern Indiana into three parts, each with its own area code: the eastern region includ­ing Fort Wane, the central region including South Bend and the western region including Gary. 
During the summer, a lottery was held to determine which region would keep the 219 area eode and which would adopt two new area codes: 260 and 574. The Garv area was randomly selected to keep 219, South Bend was assigned 5 7 4 and Fort Wayne was assigned 260. The new area codes are expected to last for about 20 years until it is necessary to repeat the process of assigning new area codes. 
Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at Brodfuehuer. l@nd.edu. 
FITNESS 


Institute earns grant for Brazilian study 
Special to the Observer 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies at Notre Dame has received a $208,760 grant from the 
U.S. Department. of Education to support a L:.S.­Brazil student exchange pro­ject titled "Building Capacity for Social Progress: A Partnership for Leadership Development." to be dcvcl­opAd in collaboration with Harvard University's David Rocke[Aller Center of Latin American Studies. 
The grant has been award­ed by the Fund for the lmprovnment of' Postsecondary Education through the Department of Education's U.S.-Hrazil Higher Education Consortium Program, which also includes the University of Sao Paulo and the Pontifical Catholic University in Rio de Janeiro, both of which have received similar federal funding through the Fundaca Coordenacao de Aperfoicoamento de Pessoa! de N'vel Superior in Brazil. 
The consortium, titled "Partnership for Leaders in Social Progress," will work to develop a program of comparative study of innova­tions to assist the poor in the United States a-nd Brazil with the aim of strengthen­ing international collabora­tion between the two coun­lries. Each university will contribute expertise in social analysis and provide access to public and private agen­cies working with disadvan­taged groups in diverse sel­t.ings. 
Through a seriBs of multi­disciplinary modules inte­grating experiential, class­room and Web-based learn­ing. the program will allow undergradualP and graduate !iludcnts to explore ideus about the impact of global change on economically dis­advantaged groups, with a particular emphasis on efforts and opportunities to reduce poverty in oach set­ting. 
The consortium's activities bPgan this fall and will con­tinue through September 2005. 
The FIPSE award repre­sents 41.2 percent ol' tlrn total project of $506,578, with the remaining 58.8 per­cent to be fundod by Notre Dame and Harvard. In addi­tion. the Brazilian universi­ties have received $360,000 from CAPES to fund the con­sortium projects. 
For more information on the FIPSE-CAPES, U.S.­Brazil Higher Education Consortia Program, visit http://www.ed.gov/FIPSE/ on the Web. 

SCHEDULE ~ 2002 
RSRC AC11VI1Y ROOM 1 1 12:15-12:45 Cardio Sculpt (ends 5/17) M/W/F $36 2 4:15-5:15 Step II M/W/F $38 3 5:30-6:45 Power Step n'Purnp M/W $33 4 8:30-9:30prn Cardio Box M/W $26 5 12:15-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 5/16) T/fh $23 6 4:15-5:15 Step II T/fh $26 7 5:30-6:30 Cardio Box T/fh $26 8 9:45-10:45am Step II (ends 3/3) Sa $7 9 11:00-11:30 Arms n'Abs (ends 3/3) Sa $5 10 4:15-5:30 Cardio Sculpt Su $14 11 5:45-6:00 All Abs Su $10 
RSRC ACTIVITY ROOM 2 12 4:15-5:15 Cardio Box M/W $26 13 5:25-6:10 Flexn'Tone M/W $26 14 7:15-8:J0arn Step II n' Sculpt T/fh $33 15 4:15-5:15 Cardio Sculpt T/fh $26 16 5:25-6:10 Lo Impact T/fh $26 17 4:45-5:15 Annsn'Abs Su $10 
ROCKNE ROOM 301 18 5:30-6:30 Cardio Box M/W $26 19 5:30-6:30 Step I T/fh $26 ROLFS AOUATIC CENTER 
20 7:00-7:45pm Aquacise T/Th $26 
REGISTRATION Begins Thursday, January 17, 7:30am in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Classes are open to all ND students, staff, faculty, retirees and their spouses. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 14 class registrants. 
lasses begin the week of January 21 and unless noted, end the week 
of April 29. Please call 1-6100 with questions. 
Study: ND sends more students abroad 
Special co the Observer 
Notre Dame has the second­highest percentage of students participating in study abroad programs among American research universities, accord­ing to a rncently released report from the Institute of International Education. 
In 1999-2000, the most recent academic year for which statistics arr available, 37 percent of Notre Danlf\ stu­dents had participated in study programs in other countries. Yeshiva University in New York City ranked l'irst in the report with u 38.8 percent participation rate. 
Virtually all of Yeshiva's study abroad students partic­ipate in tlw university's S. Daniel Abraham Israel Program. Notre Dame offers international study programs in 17 nations worldwide: Australian, Austria, Brazil. Chile. China, England, Egypt, Franco, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia and Spain. "The value of our study abroad programs has never been higher," said Michael Francis, Notre Dame·s assis­tant provost for international studies. "In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, it's more important than ever for students to experience dif­ferent culturns, develop mutu­al understandings. and build stronger connections with men and women from other nations." 

There is no indication that the terrorist attacks and sub­sequent U.S.-led war on ter­rorism have caused a decrease in the number of Notre Dame students applying for spring semester international study programs, according to Thomas Bogenschild, director of the University's internation­al and off-campus programs. 
The IIE's report. titled "Open Doors 2001," showed an over­all 11 percent increase in stu­dents participating in intPrna­tional study programs from the prnvious year. 
"The dramatic increase in study abroad is very good news for our nation, as it shows that the next generation of leaders will have a greater understanding of thP world around us." said Allan E. Goodman, presidnnt and chiAf' executive officer of thn l!E. "This is a time when our world needs more international exchange, not less. The terror­ists wish to make us close our minds, our borders, and our markets to the rest of the world, and we must make sure they do not succeed." 
As it has been for many years, Europe is the most pop­ular destination for American college students. 


SPRING BREAK
+CANcuN. Al:Alw:o, Mllmruut .L 
.bwcA. BAffArM.\ & s. -~ www.studentexpress.com 

Call Now: 1-800-787-3787 
SPRING 

The Snite Museum of Art OPENING RECEPTION January 20, 2002 2-4 pm 
Reinstallation of African Arts Collection 
Masks And Figures, Form and Style: The Christensen Family Collects African Art 
Portraits of Money: Djawid C. Borrower 
2:30 pm African Arts Reinstalatoin Libation ceremony performed by Chandra Johnson, Assistant to the President and Assistant Director, cross-Cultural Ministry 
3:00 pm Christensen African Art Gallery talk by Douglas Bradley, curator of Ethnographic Arts 
3:30 pm Portraits of Money Gallery talk by Stephen Spiro, curator of western Arts 
Free and open to the public For information, call (219) 631-5466 
l_ ---­








ATION 
Thursday, January 17, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. expands war on terrorism: 
Am11rican and Philippi1w military ofnrnrs in \itanila began prnparing joint operations today against a Muslim nxtr('mist group linked to Al Qanda in the southern Philippi1ws. An Amnrirnn advanrn tnam is on tl111 ground. and ol1icials today crr.atcd a joint command for the mission. 
Powell begins peace push: Scr.rctary or Stati' Colin Powidl urgrd India and Pakistan \VPdll!\Sday to avoid conflict. while l'akisuu1 said that with both South Asian armiPs faring off on thl'ir bord11r ev1~n a sm,tll inridt'llt could spark ·w,tr. As Powell arrivrd in Islamabad on LhP first l1•g of a South Asi,rn pr·arn shuttlr to dPl'usr a stand­off bntwP!'n thP nuclear rivals. India's navy chit>!' said l'orl'.ns w<'l·n n1ady f"or war. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
3 killed at Virginia law school: A 
stnrggling law school studt'nt who had just bPPn suspPnd0d wPnL on a shooting spree at tlw srhool WPdnrisday. killing tlw dean, a pro­J"pssor and a student bPforn lw was wn'stlPd to tlw ground, school ofl1rials and wiLnPsses said. Thn11' studnnts also wcrn critically woundPd in the hail of gunl'irn at thr, Appalachian School of Law. 
Racial protests converge in York, PA: 
.lust as this bltw-collar dty triPs to face up to -;onw long-burit!d racial violC'nC('. it is linding itsPlf lhP chospn vcnuP of whilP suprPmacist hatP groups and rival anarrhist protesters ,vhom rivil rights spPrialists have been track­ing arross Llw nation as a kind of traveling rirrns of publicity hunters. Tlw rally was dPsignPd to send a stronger nrnssagP than the downtown spnrtacle or feuding agitators. bel­lO\wd hatrnds and occasional punch-outs that tlw po lief' f'orn• manag(•d to contain. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Danville schools to display motto: 
Franwd prints of the nation's motto. "In God We Trust," are set to b!' displayed in this r,pn­trnl Indiana town's schools under a proposal approvPd by the local school board. "It's our national motto. It's not all different than hav­ing thf• flag in tlrn class," Danville Superint1'ndent John McKinney told The Indianapolis Star for a story published on Wndm•sday. Meanwhile. a proposal to require public schools statewide to display the motto is before• the Senate Education Committee. 
Market Watch January 16 
Dow 9,712.27 -211.88 

Composite

1% s~~t 
Volume: 1.453.672.960 
AMEX: 829.42 -6.10 NASDAQ: 1,944.44 -56.47 NYSE: 575. l6 -7.47 S&P 500: 1,127.56 -18.63 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
KMART CORP (KM) -34.69 -0.85 1.60 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -3.87 -1. 56 38. 78 INTEL CORP (INTC) -2.80 -0.97 33,71SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -3.35 -0.42 12 .11 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.76 -0.74 18.94 

AFGHANISTAN 
Associated Press 
KABUL 

One of the world's main sources of opium, Wednesday banned the cultivation of opium poppy and the trafficking in opium and its derivatives, including heroin. 
The decree, announced days before Kabul's inter­im administration meets major aid donors in Tokyo. renewed a ban issued by the Taliban in 2000 which effectively lapsed with the collapse of the Muslim fun­damentalist movement last November. 
"All countrymen, espe­cially peasants and farm­
ers, are informed that from now on, the cultiva­tion. manufacturing, pro­cessing, impermissible use, smuggling and trafficking of opium poppy and all its derivatives is declared ille­gal," said the statement read to journalists by a 
U.N. official in Kabul. "Violators will be dealt with severelv," it added. 
It said · Afghanistan would seek help from donors to fund crop substi­tution programs to wean farmers off growing poppy, a popular cash crop in this drought-stricken country. 
Bernard Frahi. the Afghanistan and Pakistan representative of the U .N. 
Drug Control Program, read the Afghan statement after holding talks with the government. 
"We are more than satis­fied, it is a remarkable declaration," he said. adding that Afghanistan provided 90 percent of the heroin sold in Europe. 
Heroin is refined from opium. mostly in illegal laboratories in Afghanistan or neighboring Pakistan and Iran. 
The decree said provin­cial governors and law enforcement agencies had been instructed to enforce the ban. 
With its isolated moun­tain valleys, defiant war­

lords and impoverished farmers, Afghanistan has all the natural and human ingredients to be a major opium producer. 
Production soared dur­ing the 1980s Soviet war. as Muslim rebels used opium to help finance their jihadagainst Moscow, and then zoomed to new heights under the Taliban. reaching a record 4,500 tons in 1999. 
After the Taliban banned opium cultivation and destroyed poppy fields under their control two years ago, the harvest slipped to 3,276 tons in 2000 and a mere 185 tons in 2001. 
Fired Enron auditor questioned 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Congnissional investigators ques­tioned a former partner of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen today about the destruction of paper ~nd electronic docum~nts related to the collapse or the Enron Corporation. 
David B. Duncan. who had been the partner in charge of auditing Enron, was fired on Tuesday by Andr.rsnn, which said he had ordernd the destr'uction of thousands of documents and e-mail messages after learning that the Securities and Exchange Commission had begun an invr,stigation of Enron 's accounting. 
Mr. Duncan called a meeting of auditors at the firm's Houston office and ordered "an expedited effort lo destroy documents" on Oct. 23, the day after Enron disclosed that the 
S.E.C. had begun its inquiry, the firm said. The destruction apparP.nt­ly <lid nol end until Mr. Duncan's assistant sent an e-mail message to other secretaries on Nov. 9 that said "stop the shredding," the firm said. Andersen had received a subpoena from the S.E.C. the day before. 
This afternoon, Mr. Duncan was questioned in a private meeting with lawyers and staff members of the llouse Energy and Commerce Committee. The committee has not yet released details of that meeting. but committee officials and lawyers for Mr. Duncan said he was expect­ed to cooperate with the investiga­tion. 
Also today, the White House dis­closed that before Enron's collapse. Lawrence B. Lindsey. President Bush's top economic adviser, studied the impact the rompany's downfall might have on the economy. 
_j 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, January 17, 2002 
FRANCE 

Concorde report cites runw-ay debris as crash cause 
Associated Press 
PAHlS 
A much-awaited government report on the Gery crash of an Air France Concorde confirmed a long-held theory that a piece of debris from a Continental AirlinPs plane was a factor in the deadly accidenL 
The 400-pagc rnport by France's Accident Investigation Bureau. or BEA, releasfld Wednesday says the crash of the luxury supersonic on July 25, 2000 could not have been forcsePn. But it also takes aim at what it says are some sloppy operations by Air France and Houston-based Continental. 
Continental on Wednesday sharply denied any suggestion that it was responsible for the crash. which killed l l 3 people. 
The report said a Continental Airlines DC-10 shed a piece of metal known as a wear strip onto a runway thal Lhe ill-falf!d Concorde later used for takeoff. The strip caused a Concorde tire to burst, propelling rubber debris into the fuel tanks and sparking a fuel leak and fire that brought the plane down. 
The loss of the metal piece "originated from a lack of rigor­ous maintenance," the report said. 
It marks an end to the investi­gation into what caused the jet to crash minutes a!'ter takeoff from Charles de Gaulle airport outside Paris. An inquiry to determine legal responsibility for the crash is still under way. 

"Wt> acknowlPdge the efforts of the BEA to establish the cause of the accident. but WH disagree strongly with the find­ings in their report. We deny responsibility for th11 accidc>nt," said Continental spokesman l\iick Britton in London. 
Britton said airports ha\'e a statutory duty tu sweep run­ways and keep them free of debris and that, in any event, a burst tire should never be the cause of tlrn loss of an aircraft. 
He also said Continental has not b1rnn ab[p, to confirm that the wear strip came from the DC-10 that took off live minutes before the Concorde. 
"Even if it did come from our aircraft, the wear st.rip is not the root cause of the accident. That was the inherently unsafe design of the Concorde, which is vulnerable to catastrophic dam­age in tire bursts." 
Britton also said BEA's rec­ommendation that the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration audit maintenance procedures at Continental Airlines was unnecessary. 
"All our maintenance has been in accordance with FM regulations and manufacturer's procedures," he said. 

Britton not,~d the report said that Contincntal's overseas maintenance subcontractors also should be examined. He said the wear strip was installed on June 11, 2000, by a contractor. Israel Aircraft Industries, under Continental supervision. It was replaced July 9, 2000, by a Continental mechanic in IIouston. 
"Once we discovered t.lrn wear strip was missing ... we intro­duced supplemental procedures to ensure wear strip installation was secure in the future," Britton said. 
The report also cited a num­ber of weaknesses in the way French air carrier Air Franc11 maintained its fleet of ConcordP.s, although the report 
stressed that the deficiencies were not to blame for the crash. 
"The technical investigation brought to light various mal­l'unctions relating to the opera­tion of the aircraft, for example the use ol' non-updated flight preparation data, the absence ol' archiving ol' certain docu­ments or incomplete baggage inspection," the report said. 
Bush tells Argentina to embrace international trade 
lion in the American contribu­the gap between the few rich at the Organization of' American Bush did not specify what Associated Press 
tion to World Bank programs and the legions of poor. Bush States near the White Ilouse. "half-measures" concerned that help the poorest countries. answered that "free markets "Some wonder whether free­him. But he offered a litany of On hemispheric matters, Bush and opp,n trade are the best market reforms are too painful steps he said IP.ad to "success inWASHINGTON said he will press for free-trade weapons against poverty, dis­to continue," Bush's prepared the global marketplace": free 
President Bush warned on 

pacts with Central American ease and tyranny" speech said. "Some question the trade. privatizing inefficient Wednesday that Argentina will countries, which could pave the Some analysts say Argentina fairness of free and open tradP, state firms. fiscal discipline.
face a "bleak and stagnant 

way for the Free Trade Area of is drifting toward greater pro­holding out the false promise of He pledged unspecified lrnlp
future" unless it embraces 

the Americas that Bush sm~ks. tectionist policies and away protectionism." lie cautioned through institutions such as the 
international trade and other 

Argentine President Eduardo from engagement in the global against "an even greater danger International Monetary Fund 
free-market economic policies 

Duhalde also has expressed marketplace. Argentina's bank­-that some may comp, to doubt once Argentina has committed amid a devastating recession. 
interest in pursuing that hemi­ruptcy could force trade barri­democracy itself." to a "sound and sustainable
He reiterated that U.S. aid 

spherewide free-trade zone, he ers to protect domestic indus­"Argentina, and nations nconomic plan." Tlw United through global lending institu­said. tries, they say. throughout our hemisplrnrn, Statf1s is tlrn largest shareholder
tions will come onlv after 

Bush had sharp words for "Those who promise painless need to strengthen our commit­in the IMF and has grnat sway
Argentina assembles ·a long­

Duhalde, a fierce critic of protectionism or security ment to market-based rnf'orm. on its financial dncisions. 
term economic plan. 

Argentina's last decadp, of free­through statism assure a bleak not weaken it," Bush said. Bush administration officials Bush also s:iid IHi will propose market reforms that brought and stagnant future for their "llalf-measurns will not halve havn all but ruled out direct aid an irn-rPas,· of" almost $50 mil-growth but oftm1 failed to close pc~ople," Bush said in a speoch the pain, only prolong it." likn a $20 billion bailout. 


Irish Basketball 
•1111,:~1111 TIIE _,,,, 



Sponsored by HPC 
TOnlGHT!!!  South Dining Hall  
6:15 ­ 7:00 p.m.  Coach Brey 6Players  
Cheerleaders, leprechaun  Posters, T-Shirts, Porns  
Wear '1our l=ireens ..  . Bar\ 1:he ken1:ucJc:.~ Blue ! !  


Thursday, January 17, 2002 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 7 
200 I marked by low inflation 
Assodared Press 
WAS!IINGTON 

ConstHTIN in[lation slow11d to I.(, pnrcenl in 2001, just hall' tlw innNtSP of th<> previous year, in one of the fow bcnelits from th11 rect!ssion. 
It provided shopp<irs with bargains on everything from gasoline to computP.rs. 
The modest advance in the Labor Department's Consumer Prire Index, a closely watched inflation gauge, came after consum,~r prices jumped 3.4 percent in 2000, the largest incrnasc in a decade, the gov­crnmfml reported Wednesday. 
'v\'hile a double-digit rise in energy prices led that spike, a dramatic dei:line in thosf' pric11s playnd a key rolfl in the significantly lower inflation reading for 2001. Prices for other itnms also foll or didn't go up as much, contributing to llw moderation. 
"Consunrnrs are getting a break as lower inflation is not picking tlwir pockets." said Stuart llof'f'man. chief Cl'.ono­
and in November, they were flat. 
But the damage of the ailing nconomy. which slid into reces­sion in March, could bn seen in anothm· report. 
Afti>r incrnasing 4.5 percent in 2000. industrial production sank 3.9 percent last year, the biggest annual drop since 1982, when the country was in the depths of its worst reces­sion since the Great Depression, the Federal Resnrve said. 
Manufactur­ers, hardest hit 
by the economic "Inoentories are flying out -of the slump, have ofwarehouses, ojfthe warehous­tried to copn by es, off the
shelves and offdealer

cutting produc­shelves tion and letting lots." and off workers go. dealer In December, lots," said
Ken Mayland

industrial activi­economist
economist

ty dipped only 
0.1 percent aftf,r a steep 0.4 percent drop the month before. The srnallN declinl', along with an incrnas(~ in automobile pro­duction last month. led some oconomists to bolieve manufac­
turing l:ould be on the mend. 
mist at PNC "Consumers are getting a For manu­
Financial 
break as lower inflation is facturing to 
SPrvic.cs 
recover fully.
Group. not picking their pockets. " 
however,
I.ow inrta­
businesses 
tion is on,i of 
Stuart Hoffman will have to 
tlw slowed 
crank up
economist 
t) con om y · s 
investment 
fow silvPr lin­
again and 
ings for con-
foreign companies and con­
sumers. Companies. J'acing sag­
sumers must increase their 
ging demand, haw lrnavily dis­
spending on American-made 
cou n tPd merchandise and 
goods, boosting U.S. exports,
ofl'f'n)d frel' financing and 
economists said. 
oth(ir incentives to lure cus­
On Wall Street. worries that 
tonwrs. 
a recovery would take longer
In Dt'ccmbcr. eonsunwr 
than expected sent stocks tum­
pricm; edged down 0.2 pnrcent 
bling. The Dow Jones industrial 
average lost 211.88 points to close at 9,712.27. 
In a third report, businesses reduced their inventories of unsold goods by 1 percent in. November even as sales fell 1.4 pl-'rcent. the Commerce Department said. 
The report indicated busi­nesses continued to make progress whittling exl:ess sup­plies, which economists said is necessary to set the stage for increasing production. 
"Inven­
tories are 
flying out 
K e n 
Mayland. 
president of ClearView Economics. 
To revive thP flconomy, the Federal Reserve cut interest rates 11 times last year. Many analysts believe the rate reduc­tions will fuel a recovery this vear. · A nationwide survey of busi­ness conditions released by the Fed on Wednesday found "scattered reports of improve­ment" with production up at auto plants and consumer spending posting gains in late December and early January. 
The survey also said business executives were hopeful for a rebound by midyear. The Fed has been able to cut rates so aggressively because innation has been low. Last year, energy prices overall plunged 13 per­cent, the largest annual decline since 1986, reflecting weak demand amid a worldwide eco­nomic slump. · 

3 groups file suit against Boeing Corp. 
. Female workers allege gender bias 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Three groups of fflmale Boeing employees on Wednesday filed federal law­suits against the aerospace giant alleging gender discrimi­nation, several months after a similar suit in Seattle was granted class-action status. 
The lawsuits were filed in federal courts in California, Kansas and Missouri by the Seattle law firm Hagens Berman. They also seek to be classified as class-actions. 
In Octo bcr, a suit filed by another Seattle law firm, McNaul Ebel Nawrot Helgren & Vance, was granted class­action status to represent female employees in the Seattle area. 
The lawsuits allege Boeing denied women promotions, equal pay and other employ­ment opportunities because of their gender. 
Ken Mercer, a spokesman for Boeing in Chicago, said the company is reviewing the law­suits and had no immediate comment. 
But in general, he said. "Boeing is absolutely commit­ted to equal opportunity for all of its employees and does not tolerate discrimination of any kind." 
Steve Berman, a lawyer rep­resenting the women, said in a statement that the suits allege Boeing has "deep-seated -gen­der bias within its organiza­tion" and has done little to change its policies. 
The lawsuits ask the court to order a halt to discriminatory actions. They also seek back pay, compensatory damages and other punitive damages for the workers. 
The law firm said the suits are on behalf of several current and former employees in each state. The plaintiffs cite various examples of incidents they con­tend reflect gender discrimina­tion: 
. 
Cheryl Lee Persinger, a technical specialist in Wichita, Kan .. contends she has been passed over for 17 different _jobs although she was more than qualified. 

. 
Teodosia Grosz, who was fired in July from her position as an electrical engineer in the company's Long Beach, Calif., plant after working thflre since 1996, alleges she made consid­erably lflss money than her male counterparts. 

. 
Terri Wertz. who has worked for 13 years at Boeing's St. Louis plant, con­tends she received lower pay raises after taking maternity leave than before her leave. 


In 1999, Boeing settled two class-action lawsuits that alleged racial discrimination. In the settlement approved by a 
U.S. District Court judge in Seattle, the company agreed to spend $15 million to compen­sate the approximately 13,000 affected workers but admitted no wrongdoing. 
The settlement was applaud­ed by the Rev. Jesse Jackson but some workers complained that the settlement failed to provide enough money and wouldn't do enough to prevent further bias. 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: • Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, l-7407 • Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 • Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 • John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 • Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 • Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 South Be1td Community Resources: • Women's Care Center: 234-0363 • Catholic Charities: 234-3111  


1f 
Cluesdavs
/hondavs 
1/22-3/5

1/21-3/4 
12:10-12:50 $21
4:00-5:15 

$25 ~ock 
~ 
7:00-8:15 $25 
'RS'RC 
q.hutzsdalfs 1/24-3/7 4:00-5:15 
q

$25 ~ock 7:00-8:15-pm $25 RSRe 
A 

Wed11.esda1ts 1/23-3/6 12:10-12:50 $21 'RS'RC  



Registration begins 7 :30am, Friday l / 18 in the RSRC. Call 1-6l 00 with questions. 
l 

page 8 Thursday, January 17, 2002
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


•
ec1a 
ass 
to welcome back students returning from i nternationa I study 
¦

ex,per1ences 

Today, January 1 7 5:15pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Reception and buffet to follow 
in the Coleman-Morse student lounge. C-M 
Campus Ministry 


Thursday, January 17, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 9 
King signs 4-year CNN contract 
. Deal pays cable talk-show host $7M annual salary 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. 

CNN has agreed to a four­year contract extension with talk-show host Larry King that krrnps him as the cable not­work's highest-paid personali­ty. 
The rontract pays King nearly $7 million a year in base salary, but stock options and other incentives could make it worth much more, according to an executive close 
"For the viewers, for 
to the negotia­MSNBC tions who asked Larry. for us, for h a s for anonymity. expanded
everybody, it's a great
The New York its prime­
decision to know that
Post said the time talk deal was worth Larry will be there in lineup by $56 million. giving for­
that position for years 
"f<'or the view­mer GOP 
to come."
ers, for Larry, presidential for us, for contender everybody, it's a Alan Keyes
Jamie Kellner 
great decision his own
chairman, Turner Broadcasting
to know that show. 
Larry will be them in that position for years to comP," said Jamie Kellner, chairman of CNN parent Turner Broadcasting. 
A spokeswoman for King, Erin SermPus, confirmed the deal was essentially done but had no further comment. King was running with the Olympic torch Twisday in Los Angeles. 
c~·· 

Tho genial, 68-year-old King is not known as television's toughest interviewer. But his show, which airs nightly at 9 
p.m. ET, is a popular stop for newsmakers. 
King and Fox :\Jews Channel's Bill O'Reillv are in close competition to· be the highest-rated cable talk show host in prime-time. 
King's agreement to extend a contract that expired later this year comes at a time of heightened competitiveness in cable news. Fox earlier this month poached Greta Van Susteren, who had been host of a CNN program that aired before King, and is giving her 
a 10 p.m. show. 

Kellner said IH! "never even thought about" the possibility that King would leave for another network. 
"I thought for a long time that Larry belongs on CNN," he said. "Ile believes he belongs on CNN. It fits well." 
An NBC spokesman denied a broadcast report that the net­work had dangled an offer to bring King to MSNBC and CNBC. Although King had breakfast with Fox News Channel Chairman Roger Ailes in early October, that network also said it didn't pursue King. 
"Larry King's ratings are on the way down," said Kevin Magee, vice president of pro­gramming at Fox :\Jews Channel. "Bill O'Reilly's rat­ings are on the way up. Of those two guys, I'm very happy with the one we've got." 
However, a source close to King who requested anonymi­ty said there were clear expressions of interest -even 
an  offer  - from other net­ 
works.  
N BC's  recent  signing  of  

"'Today" host Katie Courie to a contract believed to be worth around $15 million a year has augured a new period of infla­tion for TV news star salaries. Kellner said Couric's deal did not affect the King negotia­tions. 
The new deal also continues King's access to a private plane to shuttle him between Washington, Los Angeles and New York. He's done his show from each city. 
King's friendliness with power brokers caused some problems for him last year. CNN White House correspon­dent John King sent his bosses an e-mail saying he felt "shame and horror" watching Larry King serve as host to a pre­inaugural event and hug President Bush. 


:If~~''" ...
~·~£:;"' 
;li:"ir]:r 
:-:·-·­
~lf=,i 
r~ff~V) 

; lilii!ili~il:!ii! iliiili::::: :::: d:i1:::::::;:;:;;::;i::1:,;:;::::;:1:!j;/:!:::~::1:!j~~lii~1!i!i]:::::;l;::;;~::::1,:i;:,~;;::;.::;:::::::;:;:;:~;:;:::1i!:::::::~:i;:::i:,j!i~:: 
1~::;:: 
t~ji:-,-:-:-:-:-:-:.:..-:-:-:-:.:-:-:-:-:-·-:-:-.-:-:-:-:-:-:-: .• ,, ...••. 
CNN chief seeks 
substance, style 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. 

Just because CNN is packaging and promoting-itself more aggressively doesn't mean it's less serious about the news, the network's leaders insisted on Wednesday. 
CNN has dramatically changed its look over the last nine months, partly because of the news, but also because of the influence of new TurnPr Broadcasting Chairman Jamie Kellner, who started both the Fox and WB entertainment networks. 
".We want CNN to be the best it can be from a journalistic standpoint," Kellner said. "We [also] want it to be a comfort­able place where people can turn to and we want to aggres­sively promote it." 
While entertainment shows 

"We want CNN to be the 
emphasize the glitz factor, 
best it can be from a

the most important thing a news network can promote is journalistic stand point. its credibility, he said. 
We [also] want it to be a 
Aggressive promotion has 

comfortable place where 
gotten CNN in some trouble recently, when a commercial people can turn to and referring to morning show we want to aggressivelyanchorwoman Paula Zahn as 
promote it. " 

"sexy" was quickly yanked from the air after being deemed offensive. 
Jamie Kellner Zahn and Aaron Brown, chairman, Turner Broadcasting
who anchors a 10 p.m. news­cast, are the most visible new hires in the regimes of Kellner and new CNN Chairman Walter Isaacson, who have both been leading CNN for less than a year. 
In the past few weeks, CNN has hired Anderson Cooper, former ABC News correspondent and host of "The Mole" reality show, to work on Zahn's show; much-traveled sports anchor Keith Olbermann to contribute to Brown's program; and former MTV personality Serena Altschul as a New York­based correspondent. 
Zahn's program has gotten a stylistic makeover, with a new set, and is due to enter a studio with a window to the Manhattan strnets in May. 
She said that shouldn't distract from the harder edge that distinguishes "American Morning" from network morning shows: 
"You will not be seeing us cooking," Zahn said. "We will not marry people live on television." 
CNN is also experimenting with different ideas to fill a hole in its prime-time lineup left by the departure of Greta Van Susteren to rival Fox News Channel. A leading contender at 8 
p.m. ET is "Live From ... ,"' a newscast anchore<;I from-differ­ent world hot spots every night; Christiane Amanpour did it from Mogadishu on Wednesday. 
"It's a gimmicky thing," Isaacson said. "But it makes it more compelling." 
ENGLAND 
Ant committed to mental hospital 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Adam Ant, the flamboyant pop singer who scored hits in the 1980s, has been com­mitted to a London psychi­atric hospital after being arrested for firearms offens­es, police said Wednesday. 
The singer, whose real name is Stuart Goddard. was taken to the Royal Free Hospital by police · on Monday -just 24 hours after he was accused of pulling out a gun at the Prince of Wales pub in north London. 
UndM the Mental Health 

Act, doctors will be able to 
hold Ant for 28 days while 
they assess his condition. 

G·oddard was charged on Saturday over the pub inci­dent with possession of a firearm or imitation firearm with intent to cause fear of violence. and with criminal damage and assault. He was bailed to appear at Highbury Magistrates Court on Friday. 
The Mirror newspaper reported receiving a ram­bling phone call from Ant from inside the hospital. 
''They've put me in the 'Alice in Wonderland' ward because thev think I'm crazy," the ta'.bloid quoted Ant as sayiug. "The whole thing's a conspiracy and they are out to get me. I'm not mad." 
The singer, famous for his painted face and flamboyant dress sense, scored a string of hits including "Stand and Deliver," "Prince Charming," and "Goody Two Shoes." He was scheduled to headline a 1980s nostalgia tour this spring. 


OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page IO Thursday, January 17, 2002
======-============================--=-=-=-=:---_-_-_-_-_---:.._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_~---=----=----=----=----=--::.:=========================== 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Noue Dam<, IN 46556 024 South IJinrng Hall. Notre Dame. IN 4655(, 
.EDITOR IN Cmn Mike Connolly 

MANAGJr-.c; EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Noreen Gillespie Bob Woods 
A.,s·1. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Kerrv Smith Pot Peters 
NEWS EDITOR: Jason Mcfadey VIEWP0IN1· EDITOR: btrick McElwee SPORTS FDITOR: Noah Amstadrer SCl,N£ EDITOR: C. Spence, Beggs SMNT MARY'S EDITOR: Mvra McGriff PHOTO EmTOR: Pe1er Richardson GRArHl,.S .EDITOR: Andy Devora 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSlEMS AoMINIS"IRATOR: P,hvel Chin WFB Ar>MINlSTRAl"0R: Ad:1m Turner CONTROLLER: Ke\'in Ryan 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..•.........••6J1-74 7 I FAx .................................6.'11-6927 Ar>VERTISING..... . ..........................631 .(,900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................6.~)-4'i42 MANAGING EorrnR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFlCE..................................•.....631-5313 NEWS........... ...................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. I@nd.edu VlEWl'OlNT.... ............................... 631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.................•...••..•.......•..•..•..••..........•.631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE .............................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nJ.edu SAl'ff MARY'S. ...............................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO............ ................. ··-.......••.631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS...........•..••631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit om Web sire ar http:l!obsen,er. nd.edu tor daily updates ofc.impus news. sports, frarures and opinion colunm.s. as well as cartoons, reviews Jnd breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
to meet the edi mrs and
anicles published after 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial conrem, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofrhe adminimarion ofeither insritution. The Observer reserves the righc to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of che Editor in Chiel~ Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries. letters and colun1ns present rhe views of the authors Jnd nor ·necessarily those ofThe
' ,
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners w rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Que;tio,,s rega,ding Observ<"r policies sho11/tl be d1rect­ed tn fditor 111 ChiefMike Cmmolly. 
TODAY'S STAFF  
N('WS  Scene  
Andrew Thagard  Matt Nania  
Meghanne  Graphics  
l)ownes  Ancty DPvoto  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Bryan Kronk  Peter  
Vil:'wpoint  Hkhardson  
Sheila Flynn  

GUEST COLUMN 
Screeners deserve congratulations 
Last week, Michigan Rep. John Dingell was stopped in the unless you bleml a difforent color, then you are no dilforent Beagan National Airport because his fake hip kept going off than t.he next person. in the metal dotoctors. The f'11doral government and the Fodera! Aviation 
OK, nothing that can't be resolved. The "probl,~m·• came Administration have cracked down and increased security whPn tlrn security personnel tknown as scrneuers) asked l 00-f"old at ttw entrance gates to airports. Dingell to step aside and remove the knee Thero are no more curb-side pick-ups (you only are brace he was wearing, his shoes and thnn J.D. Piland allowed to park for about a minute). people dressed in army his socks (egad!). fatigues and guns 11.t their side patrol the airport tPrminals 
But then the worst (as I am sure thn and finger nail clippers are being confiscated. politicians think) happened. Dingell and Of course, people are throwing lits right and left because of
Northern Star
the screeners went to a S<'paratc room these small, but effcctivt1, inconveniences. But I ask anyone where Dingell dropped his pants and was to find one person who wouldn't have wanted that inconve­scanned with a handheld metal detnctor. nience on Snpt. LI . 
Dingell cooperated, but later said to his Also, Transportation Secretary Norman Mincta was noti­wife, according to an article in tho Washington Post, lied of the incidnnt. Mineta was sympathetic to Dingell and "Woman, do you realize what they madci mn do?" apologizBd for Urn screeners' actions. 
\'ly question is this -so? This is a bit disturbing coming from our transportation sec­
Just two weeks ago, I was subject to two random searches, retary. Shouldn't he be defending the actions or thn scrnen­once ent1>ring the airport and once boarding the plane, at the• nrs since they am. in a sense, his employmis? Sea-Tac International Airport in Seattle. Granted, I didn't It soerns to Lhis rnpurter Lhat he was just trying to gel on have to strip down, but I felt better about !lying because they Din!{ell's good side. were checking th«' passengers so thoroughly. Dingnll also fp]t that there was •·some incompetence 
That's how people who are uµseL about the situation involvnd here." as h11 said in the article. sho.uld f'P-el: secure. But no, they am busy whining about What'? lncompntnnce? rights and whatnot. !lave they forgottrm about Sept. 11 E\'cryone should salute the scrceners at lleagan National already'? Airport for the job they've done. Not only did tlrny have to 
Secu~·ity is called sc>curity for one reason -to make things search a half-naknd, 75-year-old man. but th«:y did it rngard­secure. If that means strip-searching Dubya or Dick Cheney less of Dingell's political status. (my condolences to tho one who has to do so}, tlwn I am all If that isn't a lovn for this country, I don't know what is. for it. 
Tho point is that it shouldn't matter what race, religion, This column origin a Uy appeared in the Jan. I6, edition of etc., you are when it comes to airport security, or anything the Northern Star. Northern Illinois Uniuersity's campus else fur that matter, especially after Sept. 11. newspaper. 
I always follow one rule, which Sfwms that the sneeners at The uieu,s expressed in this column are those of the author Reagan follow as well. The rule goes something like this: and not necessarily Uwse of The Ob-senwr. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Student family housing is not adequate 
Over the Thanksgiving holiday, my lack of space (500 square feet for fam­general. My suspicion is that the wife gave birth to a baby girl. ilies of live), the alarmingly high levels Administration believns student fami­Unfortunately, as a second year law or copper and lead in the watnr. tlrn lies am not a sound investmnnt. student, my studies require me to uninhabitable and constantly lloodnd Indeed, most of' tlw residents am not spnnd most of my waking hours basement apartments and the dilapi­profossional students but am graduate researching in the Law School. dated appliancP-s. Nevnr mind arts and sciences students. Many of' Why? I live in the all of that. Ilow can the thorn come from othor countrins and University Village -one richest Catholic school cannot afford any otlwr housing. The of Notre Dame's stu­in the world, a school prospect for latnr donations from dent family housing supposPdly built these students to the UnivPrsity's facilities. Without upon tho values of nnormous endowmcmt is not as HesNet. I am the Catholic l'aith, promising as, say, students who study forced to do all of a school that talks in a new $55 million law school. All I mv research at about tlrn "Notre know is that the conditions am abom­school. I call Dame family," inable. The way the University attention to this deny its student neglects its student families is anti­fact because I families the most thetical to its Catholic mission. think something basic necessity -Perhaps, Father Malloy, you could needs to be done. time. A HesNet come spend a week in the Village and 
Never mind the connection would sen for yourself'. Wednnsday, my wife fact that the rnmedv this. But is cooking meatloaf -shall I save you Village and Cripe the fact.is that even a place at the tablo'! are the only campus the most fundamental residences without a needs of resident stu­Kevin Rodriguez Gingras lire sprinkler system. dent families are ignornd. graduate law student Never mind that Notre I think the neglect is University Village DamA's own fire chief calls the indicative of the Administration's Dec. 5, 200 l Village a "death trap." "fover mind the attitude towards student families in 
POLL QUESTION 
Was the hiring or Tyrone \.Villingham the right choice for Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Wlten audiences come to hear us authors lecture, il is largely in the hope that we 'fl be funnier to look at than to read." 
Sinclair lewis writer 
ossi:RVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January l7, 2002 page 11 . 
Mauritania gets running water and the Internet 
Tlw major Orn me or las1 semcstflr's columns was water in tlrn United States. In my two y1mrs here it my lif,1 with lack of running wator. Before I even will never come directly into my house or bath­gol lo my pnrmarwnl site Mauritanians and Peace room. Faucet installation and monthly water bills Corps staff kept telling nm that the city of Toulde arc a luxury of the rich or of people whose rela­would g1it running waler soon. There were evf1n 1.ives vvork at the water company. I still walk faucets spr1ccrl intermittently about 100 yards with my bucket twice a day. throughout the village. At Orst Before "running water" I walked 300 yards and I was hopeful. But the longer I Maite Uranga used a woll buckel. I guess it is all relative, but I lived h1~rn tlw more I lwcame -----feel spoiled. resigw~d to the prospecl that I I have only lived here for eight months, yet run-may get running water in my Life in Africa ning water in Touldc is just one example of the last frw months of s<Tvicc. changes within Mauritania. Technology is earning 
Thnn a miracle haµpencd. A in_-;uch a way that decades of technologkal deve}­roupln of wPeks ago. I as I opment -and in some cases the entire twentieth walk1~d to my friends for lunch I saw someone century -were skipped over. My village of 2,000 turn on<· of the f'aucc•ts and water actualIv -=~-,.,. s 5 telephones, which for Mauritania is con­rnnw out. I stopped. I watclrnd in awe · " , . 'dered a luxury. The national cell phone for a fow seconds. My lifo suddenly ··•·"::t,,. ompany is in the process of building senmed luxurious. Aftnr living for .. . . -•. ::i"...""i • , tower. The cost and ease of using live months without running ·.,ii":,:.,; t1--.:. ••. ··,<···· ... · ~ell fJhones will make land lines
-........ ' .
. 

water I almost lorgot how nasv .!' ... , (") ::i",_ ":. .ibsolctc before they even it is. ,~,·; · ,, ~,..C,:. ..,.,\ ' ' ecam<' widoly used. It is a On llw sncoml day or , > ~ ~ ·• ri..-\l -:;::~··.-:· ,
:l'."'..~'..r t~ange phenomenon_that my wali•r. on my wa} Lo the ,; .7-·. ':y '""--'--)) 11lage may get runnmg
I.. .,,

\WII a \\oman callPd me• ·,J1 :"' : ~: · --. •-~" ·ater, cell phones and inter­
.·-r7 1 -; .·
ovt•t· and told nw I c-ould ',_;_J: -_, ·.' 1 et capabilities all in the US(' lwr fau~'('l. I tha1_1ked !. r : .' , , I.:' )tr f ' ame year. . 
lwr and poht<'ly cfpcJ11wd. ,,,~, r . , · •. i.. Even I am havmg a hard .\ part of' me· IikPd going to \ ;IL'· ., ~. ',, · .., r,t.• time dealing with the 1:apid tlw ":"'"11 _,w,1ry mornm_g. -~-i• .~ '..' l y ; : _change. I cannot_ eve? 1rnag­
' 

wa1tmg m l11w, watrbmg ! -J. "me what all of this will do to 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Willingham is 
what Notre 
Dame needed 
AftAr viewing the press conference introducing Tyrone Willingham as the new Irish head coach, I felt much better about the decision that had been made in the wake of' the embarrassing O'Leary dnbade. 
Despite the ohvious pressures of recruiting at an Ivy League-caliber school, I was still skeptical about the win­ning percentage of Coach Willingham at Stanford, a good football school, but not elite. 
I enjoyed a sense of confidence af'lp,r hearing him speak lo reporters, however. He portrayed himself as a man of class and virtue, and he emphasized winning at all levels of tho student-athlete experience. Ho has shown in his short tenure that he is what Notre Uame needs to move past its troubled recent history. 
Jon Cruden or Steve Mariucci were the fantasies of many, mostly duA to tho media attention thoy receivAd, but no one should be disappointed with the hiring decision. Coach Willingham will bring Notre Dame back to where it belongs by leading a championship caliber team that also will be the most respected group in college football. 
Paul Zederbaum 
senior 
off-campus 
Jan. 16, 2002 

thP women and listening lo  ".,..,.,. __ .  oulde and, on a wider scale,  
tlw exritement of thn day. In  to Mauritania. Some people  
anollwr way I would also miss  >,  here are unaware that people  
tlH~ glory th.at comes with  :·  l  ·'  --~,  .  •  - have walked on the moon. I have  
telling people at home that I do  ~  · -··  _  ·  ~;I!~ ,,~been asked how long the drive is  

not have running water and relay-,":";::.;:,;:.::;~~~#' ·. ·'· from America to Africa. They do not ing to them a dramatized version of ':'::''"!f:0"':':....:·.,·· ··.~ understand the concept of photo manipu­using tlrn well every morning. · lation so anything they see, most will believe. 
By my sPcond trip that morning I decided to This is an interesting time to be here in a country stop. f sl'l my bucket down, turned the faucet and on the verge of running water and Internet. watchnd as a clear liquid came out. I was used to cloudy water on good days and brown water on Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in bad days. Seeing clear water was strange and so 2000 as an anthropology and government major. easy. After using the faucet for the third day I She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the realizPcl f would never use a well again in my vil­Islamic Republic ofMauritania. lage. The views expressed in this column are those of 
But do not get tlrn wrong idea. Running water in the author and not necessarily those of The Mauritania is flntirPly different from running Observer. 
Break is over. Time to get those brains working again! 
Send Viewpoint your thoughts. 
observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu. 
GUEST COLUMN 
Afghan civilian casualties need recognition 
ln lkn·mber, Marc \V. Herold. an economics profes­sor al tlw University or New Hampshire, published "A Dossinr 011 Civilian Victims of thA United States' Aerial Bombing of Afghanistan: A Comprehensive Accounting." Drawing from multiple news and eyewit­
ness accounts, Ilorold estimates  
that at least 3.767 Mghan civilians  Todd Battistelli  
died bPtween the start of bombing  
on Oct. 7 and Dec. 6.  
I do not know how closo Herold's  Daily Kent  
estimate comrs to realitv. I would  Stater  
hope the actual toll is fa~· less, but  
certainly some number of civilians  

havn died. L'nfortunatPly, the dossiPr is the only docu­ment [ have encountered that attempts to estimate the total civilian casualties in the American-Afghan con­llirt. Individual reports or civilian causalities in the !\mcrirnn mainstream media are few. As Herold notes, they are usually accompanied by tho disclaimer that ''tlrn report cannot be independently verified." Yet the media have made no substantive efforts to indP­pcndently verify them. 
Qul'stions remain regarding the morality and neces· sity of such "collateral damage,'' as the Pentagon Huphmnistically deems civilian death and injury. Answers will be found in an open debate long past duP among the Ameriran public. Has our military action as carried out in Afghanistan been proportional, moral or necessary? Though I have doubts, I welcome frank discussion with those who claim these three criteria 
have been met. What I will not tolerate is the U.S. mainstream 
media's reluctance to cover civilian casu­
alties in Afghanistan. I do not believe 
civilian Afghan lives lost in the 
bombing serve our national 
interests or security. But if 
this were the case, then do 
we not at least owe them 
recognition of their 

unknowing sacrifice'' Because of malfunc­tioning guidance or inac­curate target data, death from the sky stole their lives as they slept. They either were buried under the rubble of their homes or blown to pieces by bombs and missiles. U.S. defensfl officials claim loss of civilian life and limb to be a nec­essary part of military action, and that this action was taken to protect America: We exchanged their slaughter for our safety. Our attempts to ignore or downplay civilian casual­
ties in Afghanistan are shameful. For the moment let 
us assume that our military campaign was correct. If the cause is just, then the loss, no matter how tragic, • 
works for the greater good. Why then should we hide or minimize civilian deaths? For one, our leaders' refusal to acknowl­edge the extent of civilian casualties reduces criticism of their campaign from the American public. But it also offers inspirational fodder for those who would follow maniacs like bin Laden. America's fail­ure to account for deaths could 
./ be interpreted as indifference toward people of the Third World. 
.,

,·.•·., 
The best course of action 
.~ .~ 

..r would be to treat Afghan civilian casualties with the · .J·V gravity and respect their trag­ic loss deserves by including · them in coverage of the current ·-~ campaign. Only with all the cvi­JI'/ dence out in the open can we hope;:,fi. to lflarn from these events and work to prevent similar tragedies in the future. 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 16, edi­tion ofthe Daily Kent Stater, Kent University's daily newspaper. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Scene Staff Report 

Hollvwood is known for manipulating audiences into crying' and laughing at wlorful st.reams of celluloid pro­jected far above their heads. Tht> ultimate Hollywood manipulation. however, is the release of their finest films at tho tail end of car,h year. Whether it's for award r,onsid­cration or buckets of money, the movie industry always saves ttw best for la.st. [fuw else does one account for the shePr superiority of December's rt>leases'' Forgt>t Santa Claus. The real gift bearer this Christmas was 1-Iollyv,ood. 
Want proof? Take a look at our critics' reactions to 10 holiday rrleases, starting with tho one film that ruled thf'm all. 
"Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring" 
1f1 (out of five shamrocks) 
Go see this movie. Now. later, today, tomorrow, whenev­er -"The Lord of the Rings" is a worthy film at every turn. and especially thrilling on the big screen. Oirector Peter Jackson and the combined genius of concept artists, cinematographers and computer graphics render the New Zealand landscapes as fantastic portraits. The film virtual­ly sings of magnificent kingdoms. unearthly creatures and feats of daring-do. 
Jackson's cast only serves to enhance the enchanting scenery in whir,h they play. Sir Ian McKellen brings a sober vitality to his complex role as Gandalf. and Elijah Wood is equally acute as the protagonist Frodo. While the rest of the cast is also noteworthy, perhaps the most engaging supporting role comes from Sir Ian Holm in his rendition of the hobbit Bilbo. Holm's sr,enes reveal a tor­mented soul teetering on the brink of madness and obliv­ion. darkening the narrative and yet enriching it at the same time. 
Above all, the substance of the film, J.R.R. Tolkien's books. shines through as the most prominent and essential aspect. Tolkien fans may be surprised by a few additions and subtractions. but Jackson and his scriptwriters man­age to preserve the overall integrity of the original story line. Even Tolkien's Christian overtones are embedded in the narrative and remain intact. "The Lord of the Rings" is truly that rare thing: a great story made into a great film. 
Mario Bird 

medication. His courage to return to a normal life despite his disorder is the focus of the remainder of the 
"The Royal Tenenbaums" 
·:{j/1~~·¥)/1€(1 ~i 

Oirector and writer Wes Anderson opArates in a genre all his own. combining idiosynrrntif comedy, tragedy, d(itachAd humanity and melodrama inLO an indelinabfo category. 
Thf' Tenonbaums are a f'amilv or fallen child prodigies: Chas (Ben Stiller): Hichie (Luke Wilson) and adopted Margot (GwynAl.h Paltrow). The children, still protecting the scars of their childhood, all play victims to father Hoyal ff1awlessly portrayed by G<'ml Hackman), who fakes an illness in order gain back the endearmPnt of his family and wifo. Etheline (Angelica Houston). 
Anderson and co-writer Owen Wilson havr crafted "The Hoval Tenenbaums" like a novel. Each segment begins with a chapter title and a snippet of a book. More importantly. th,, movie Hows like a novel. The story itself b based in a timeless \1.anhattan, where popular culture and fashion never seem lo advance. These discrepancies present us with a com­pletely original and fictional world wc are not accustomed to. 
For fans of Anderson's previous films. "Tenenbaums" bursts with the same bitter­sweet notions of adolescence present in "Rushmore" and "Bottle Rocket," but here he pushes his skills past that of an independent filmmaker and forges his way into Hollywood as an imaginative and hilarious writer-direc­tor. "The Royal Tenenbaums" will please any 
college filmgoer: its idiosyncrasies will keep film. Ultimately. Na'ih becomes a character who possesses you thinking and make you laugh even harder each time not only a keen intnl!Pct, but also a sense of compassion. you see it. bravery and dedication that transcend the mathematical 
Meg Ryan equations for which he won the Nobel Prize. 
The chemistry between Crowe and Connelly is first rate, 
"A Beautiful Mind" 

as Connelly plays a wife coming to grips with a schizo­
itlt'ii;;?.'~H.yI'~ 

phrenic husband and a newborn baby. Crowe's intense performance showcases his acting ability and goes l'arDirector Ron Howard bridges excellent chemistry with beyond the epic hero he played in "Gladiator." It would notan intriguing plot to make "A Beautiful Mind" one of the be surprising if both were nominated for Oscars. 
best films of 2001. In a year that was mediocre at best 
Liam Dacey 

until the holiday rush, this movie sets itself apart with it'> psychological twists and turns that delve deeply into the "Ali" mind of a schizophrenic. (~~:~)1~1 

O
f!IE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Thursday, January 17, 2002 
To Moviegoers, 
Over winter break, the motion picture industry 
The film tells the true story of mathematician John Forbes Nash, Jr. (Russell Crowe). While studying ardu­With "Ali," director Michael Mann chooses to focus in on 
ously at Princeton, Nash finally succeeds in finding an only one decade of the boxer's epic life story. The years original theory of equilibrium. laying the foundation for between 1964 and 197 4 were the most turbulent of Ali's the game theory of economics. His subsequent dealings career and it is no overstatement to say that Mann suc­with lhe government in ils Cold War efforts have a ceeds in creating a film that celebrates Ali's determination mysterious effect and question what Nash is really up and steadfast beliefs. two qualities that made him one the 
to. During this time, he marries Alicia (Jennifer most revered figures in history. Connelly) and soon she becomes pregnant. For an actor, portraying Muhammad Ali is the trickiest Nash's fall from grace commences as he is diagnosed of roles. A balance must be found between giving an emo­with schizophrenia, loses his job and is put on intense 

tionally honest performance while also evoking the sounds 
and mannerisms of a man whom has been documented all 
his life. Thankfully, Will Smith nails Ali's distinct manner­isms and boxing style to near perfection. The fight scquonr,es, though, arc the film's highlights. The rapid-fire editing and quick bursts of blurrPd slow motion stand in visually for what it must have been like to be in the . ring. Considering the pres­sure and high levels of expectation Mann .proba­bly felt as he began to tad<le this project. it's not hard to see why the f1lm is ultimately so unfulfilling. By attempting to juggle everyone's expectations, Mann shows bis expertise by still making a mildly pleasing film that, unf'ortu­n a tely, never lands a knockout. Matt Nania 

--...
01s1:RVER 


CENE.
1,1i z,ies
Thursday, January 17, 2002 page 13 
rom Hollywood 
naged to spread some holiday cheer of its own 

"Amelie" 
4.'J i;14 !,(ui;'1 ,, 
Amelie Pou lain !Audrey Tautou) is a charming romantic who lives alone in a deteriorating old apartment. She dis­covers a keepsake box belonging to a former resident that inspires her to embark on a series of adventures in which she fulfills the longings of co-work­ers, family members and exploited friends. In the midst of her crusades. she finds herself attracti>d to a peculiar stranger, Nino IMathieu Kassovitzl who col­

PhOto courtesy at USA Films Photo courtesy of Miramax Films 
lects discarded photo

"Gosford Park" showcases the assured direction of Robert Audrey Tautou plays the lovable lead in the whimsical 
images. Amelie begins

Altman, starring a who's who of talented name actors. French film, "Amelie." 
Photo courtesy of Buena Vista Pictures rson's quirky family drama ntry. 
"Vanilla Sky" 
"Vanilla Skv" is a thriller in 
which the audience is not par­
ticipatory in piecing together 
the mystery. 

In the lilm. Sofia (Penelope Cruz) entices David (Tom Cruise) to forgo his vain. womanizing existence for a chance at true love. 
David immediately dissolves his relationship with the rnlatilc Julie (Cameron Diaz). who upon hearing the news of' th1, dissolution suddenly decides she wants to explore tlw kinntk energy distribution between her car (with David inside) and a brick wall. 
After thP crash. the pace of "Vanilla Sky" crawls with lackluster scenes exploring David's deteriorating mental condition. Ilis shattered vanity catalyzes a dangerous psy­chological fixation, and David begins to project Julie onto Sofia. David's emotional stability is threatened by this switching, whirh has nu apparent motive, but whose gene­sis might b!, solely in David's mind. 
"Vanilla Sky" unites two underdeveloped romances with a rnndusion that is antidimar.tir. instead of thrilling. The Iilm explorns too much ground. trying to incorporate into a single film thP impingement of technology on the moral and social order. the problems of life as a dream, and the discovery of true love. In the end. it does not add new or interPsting ideas to any of these premises. 
Jude Seymour 
"The Majestic" 
,,-, .;.i. 
"The Maj,~stir." is the story of Peter Appleton (Jim Carreyl. a scrnenwritr.r who is blacklisted by the major studios during th0 1951 House Un-American Activities probP. Whilr. ouL bemoaning his excommunication. Peter driv1:s his cur off a bridge. only to wash up on a beach in 11. small town \\ith no memory of who he b. The resident'> of' tlw town mistakfi him l'or l.uke Trimble. the lost land pre­sumed dcadl son of Harry TrimblP (Martin Landau). While Pnt1lr attempt-; to rt\discover his past, he walks into the liv1is of several townspeople. including Luke's only love. Sandra {Amanda Detmer). 
"The Ma_jnst.ir.," dirncted by Frank Darubont i"The Sh.awshank Hedemption" I. is littered with problematic'. monmnts. including its aUempt to revise historic events in order to promote its m1:-ssage of' freedom and bravery. l lowr.vcr. any audience that is willing to suspend their dis­br.lid' for thr. 150-minutc running time will find a cozy !;rank Capra-Psqur universe that is comforting in its con­struction. 
In the mid. thl' plot pn1sents little more than a hack­11cy1•d structurn about th!' amnesia condition, but Carrey and l .andau do their best to make the characters they pnr­tray likeable. 
Jude Seymour 
"Ocean's Eleven" 
=i{1 =lJ1 tJ/1 i\ 

Director Steven Soderbergh ('Traffic") assembles an elite force of popular American actors for his adaptation of the 1960 Rat Pack feature. Danny Ocean (George Clooney) is released from jail and immediately begins to master­mind a casino heist. Ocean's hubris usurps the plans how­ever, and soon enough Danny finds himself in need of eleven men to rob three casinos simultaneously. The actors who make up the eleven members are a running list of past and present acting talents: Elliot Gould and Carl Reiner are found to be in cahoots with Brad Pitt, Matt Oamon and Don Cheadle. 
"Eleven" blends the structure and flow of a "Mission Impossible" movie with the feel of previous Soderbergh features "Out of Sight" and "The Limey." This time the director forgoes imaginative cinematography for a slicker look, reinforcing the smooth operation of the heist itself. 
The movie pays off all of its tense moments with its bril­liant re-imagination of the 1960s plot, adding computer wizardry and a comedic cast to make things both action packed and well scripted. Ultimately, "Ocean's Eleven" doesn't challenge the intellectual properties of the mind. but it's still a ti.In way to spend a couple hours. 
Jude Seymour 
"Gosford Park" 


It is November of 1932, and Sir William ~cCordle (Michael Gambon) has invited several guests to his coun­tryside mansion for a pheasant shoot. The eleven who accept are accompanied by their own personal valets, making director Robert Altman's newest film similar to a game of Memory. Over 25 characters are introduced in the film's first 20 minutes, challenging the audience to take mental notes on names and status. Then, after singu­lar introductions. Altman gleefully reverts to addresses such as "Lady" and "Sir." 
The confusion adds to the overall excitement of the film, which takes a twist when the host of the' party is murdered twice. A bumbling detective (Stephen Fryl interrogates the houseguests (playPd by some of Britain's finest actors, such as Kristen Scott Thomas, Maggie Smith. Helen Mirren and Jemmy Northam). 
Altman takes special care to make each character dynamic. despite the arduous nature of such a task. Smith and American Ryan Phillippe are outstanding in their rcspedive roles. 
Borrowing both from Agatha Christie's "Ten Little Indians" and Jean Renoir's "Rules of the Game." "Park" not only solves its murder, but also provides a rewarding critique of caste systems while challenging the true under­standings of propriely. "Gosford Park" is a movie to be explorPd and dissect<>d not with only one viewing. but with many. 
Jude Seymour 
a flirtatious game with 

Nino, which highlights both her imaginative capabilities and her extremely shy disposition while around romantic interests. 
"Amelie" is not only extremely charming but also won­derfully directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet, who handles the movie like the break operator on a roller coaster. Jeunet fiddles with the pacing of the film. making the experience more playful and visually stimulating. 
Although it.is primarily a romantic comedy, the film does not overindulge in the genre's customary allotment of sappiness, making this a date movie that is accessible to both men and women. 
Jude Seymour 
"In the Bedroom" 
•1";"1 ~~1111'\~ 

"In the Bedroom" is an emotionally charged story about a couple confronting the schism that is slowly developing within their relationship. Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek turn in two outstanding performances as Dr. and Mrs. Matt Fowler. whose quiet existences are thrown into tur­moil when their son Frank (Nick Stahl) starts dating the recently separated Natalie (Marisa Tomei). Mrs. Fowler is wary of Natalie's past, including her dysfunctional and abusive ex. Richard (William Mapother). Frank is unable to control Richard when he invites himself over to visit Natalie. and their conflict soon escalates beyond the two of them. The Fowler parents invest their love singularly into their only son. and therefore try to facilitate a resolution between their boy and Richard. 
However, that investment in loving Frank has long pro­vided a cover for loving each other. When Frank is absent. the parents struggle to reopen the severed lines of com­munication, often exploding into catastrophic and painful argument'i. 
Director Todd Picld does a remarkable job capturing the emotions of the Fowler couple. oftentimes doing such an authentic job that the movie becomes difficult to watch. The film succeeds remarkably because of' its poignant scenes and wPll-written characterizations. 
Despite notions that fihm like this exist without any pur­pose except to make the audience feel empty by their con­clusion, "In the Bedroom" challenges its audience to par­ticipate in a manner not seen in most Hollywood tllms thesP days. 
Jude Seymour 

Over the next few weeks, American audiences will sec the wide releases of several other 2001 holiday films that arP currently playing in select major cities. These include the Ridley Scott's gritty war epic '.'Black Hawk Down." Sean Penn's "I Am Sam," the genre blending "Brotherhood ol'the Wolf' and the race drama "Monster's Ball," starring Oscar buzzers Halle Berry and Billy Bob Thornton. 
Contact Scene's movie critics at mbird@nd.edu, mna­nia@nd.edu, seymour.7@nd.edu, and wdacey@nd.edu. 
Thursday, January 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 14 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Red Sox sale to John Henry approved Wednesday 
called for $410 million to go to 
l\s,ociaced Press 
the Yawkev Trust. Under an agreement ~eacllf'd WPdnPsday
PIIOENIX 

with Heilly. an additional $30
Thc rf'rord $660 million salf' million will go to youth. edurn­of the Boston Hed Sox to a group 
tional and other organizationsIPd by Florida Marlins ownrr 
-$20 million f'rom tho inr.0111­
John Henry was approvrd ing owners and $10 million
Wednesdav bv bastiball owners. 
from the rnrrent limited part­
Acting ~ith a speed seldom ners. 
seen in the sport. ownf'rs voted 
Arcompanicd by Worner,29-0, with the Nrvv York 
Lucchino and Mitchell. theYankees abstaining. to OK a incoming owners rf'ad state­
controversial deal that was ments from Bed Sox llall of
agreed to on Dec. 20. 
Famers Ted Williams and CarlThe new ownership is likely tu Yastrzemski.
take control in late February 
Werner said he was "looking
after the sale closes, which 
to forward to opening day andcould lead to the ouster of gen­
erasing thr Curso of' the
eral manager Dan Duquett(\ and 
Bambino" -a referonce to
other front-office moves. 
Boston's lack of a World SrriPsWhile the Herl Sox, with tinv title sinre it traded Babe Huth to
Fenway Park, the Gree;1 
the hated Yankees.
Monster and Pesky's polc. are Selig said ho expecls th0 sale one of baseball's most storied to dose in mid-to-late February.
teams, they have not won a The approval set in motion
World Series sincr 1918 as NAw 
deals for Hcnrv to sell the
England's springtime hopP has Marlins to Expos·owner .Jeffrey
turned to autumn disappoint­
Loria for $158 million and formPnt earh vear. 
Loria to sell the Expos back to"BasPbail runs in our veins. 
the commissioner's office f'or
just like it runs in yours," llenry 
$120 million. Neither deal hassaid in a message to Bnd Sox been completed.
fans. 
Selig said baseball "will pro­Bemuse the Hcd Sox spurned cord with the consideration" ofhigher offers -$755 million those sales "in an orderlv fash­
from New York lawyer Miles 
ion." He said that before the BedPrentice and $750 million from 
Sox salc-closes, Henrv must
Cablevision Systems Corp. chair­have approval for the sale of the 
man Charles Dolan -Boston 
Marlins and must sell his l per­
chief executive officer John 
cent stake in the New York
Harrington and baseball rom­
Yankees.
missioner Bud Selig have been In addition, Selig said WernPracrused of st(rnring the deal to and Lucchino have to sell theirHenry's group, lilied with con­
shares in the Padres before Urn notably Harry Frazee, infamous "\Ve will bring in profossional rnme," llenry said in a state­nectPd baseball eterans. 
Red Sox sale closes. for selling Huth to the Yankees management to manage it," ment.
Among Henry's partners are 

· Harrington. who had argu(~d for money to finance his Heilly said. 'Tm proud today The agreement was
former San Diego owner Torn 
Henry's group was the most Broadway musical, "No, No that this sale ran go l'nrward." announced shortly after Hnilly
Werner. former Padres and 
likely to gain quick approval, Nanew~." IIarrington said that by rr,ach­had sent a lettf'r to Selig, saying 
Baltimore Orioles president 
was not at the meeting. Thomas Yawkey bought the ing the agreement, he would be the bidding should be reopened
Larrv Lurchino and former 
"This may not seem obvious at team from J.A. Hobert Quinn in able to "maximize the procAeds and urging owners not to voteSenate Majority Leader George 
the moment, but running this 1933 and when Thomas Yawkey 
to the Yawkey Foundation and on the sale. I le had said in theMitchell. who served on Selig's team is one of the greatest jobs died in 1976, his wil'e took over. to conclude the sale process so letter that his reviow of tlrn saleslatest economic study. 
in the world." Harrington said in Whf'n Jean Yawkey died, she that the 1-lenry-W(-Jrner group 
process required further investi­'Tm not concerned about the 
a statement. · willed all her holdings to her can be in place by opening day."
I way John Harrington handled gation.
"The most important aspect uf trust, giving Harrington, her "I look forward to continuing
the sale or his people," Selig "I have a responsibility not
I said. "or the way major league this approval is that new owner­lorigtime adviser, broad power to carry on Mrs. Yawkey's lega­only to assure that the charities 
I I baseball handled the sale." ship, who know and love this to run the team. cy in my role as trustfle and of the Commonwealth rernive as 
I g,rnie, will be in place and in Boston was one strike from r.xecutive director of her foun­
I Massachusetts Attorney much as possible from the sale 
I control by opening day. Winning winning a World Series against dation for many years to come,"
General Thomas Heilly had been of the Bed Sox, but also to guar­
' teams don't happen by accident, the New York Mets before Bob
I Ilarrington said.
investigating the sale process. antee that the foundation is pre­
and they don't happen Stanley's wild pitch and Bill 
llenry said the agreen11rnt to
saying his rolP is to ensure that pared to meet its obviously
overnight. It's time to let John Buckner's infamous error on establish a New Boston Bed Sox
r the agreement maximizes the enhanced obligations," Heilly
I Henry and his group get mov­Mookie Wilson's grounder costs 
roundation would continue the
I money that goes to charities. wrote to Selig. 
l 
ing." them the game. The lled Sox Yawkey's long history of' com­
The Jean R. Yawkey Trust. run At a subsBquent news confr.r­
The sale of the Hed Sox will also lost that Series in seven mtmi-ty involvement.
by Harrington, owns a 53 per­ence, Beilly said he had "run out
mark the first time since 1933 ganrns. 
"We look forward to forging
cent controlling stake in the of patienre. It was important to
the Yawkey name isn't associat­Under the agreomeut with 
strong tiP.s within the Boston 
l 
learn. which owns F~nway Park 
ed with thP. team. Heilly, HarriITgton will sham us to get it done." 
area and throughout the New
and 80 percent or the New The Bed Sox, who last won the control of the Yawkey trust with Prentice and Dolan had no
England community via this
England Sports Network. World Stn'ies in 1918, had six an expanded board that will immediate comment. 
I foundation for many years to 
I The original deal with llenry owners from 1901-33, most totn.l nine lrustnes. 
t 
I 
The Observer ,Keepts classifieds every business d,1y from 8 a.m. to 3 r· m. at the Notre Dame office~ 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day das.siheds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

TO 6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM-New 3-4 bdrms, 3 bath homes Spring Break with STS, Americas SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! Place classifieds in 
PUS.SPRING 2002 & FALL featuring fireplace, skylights, cathe-#1 Student Tour Operator. Promote Book your trip with StudentCity.com The Observer NOTICES 2003.272-6306 dral trips and save up to for just pennies a day ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck, on-campus earn cash and free $100 per person to Cancun. Why live in crowded houses? Have 2-car garage .. trips. Into/Reservations 1 ·800·648-Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre or SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica. your own space. privacy & security. $1500/mo. 4849 Florida. Visit The Observer online at 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations. Mar-Main Apartments 233-2098 Call 232-4527 or www.ststravel.com Most popular 
BEST 616-683-5038. student hotels including the Oasis www.nd.edu/-observer Hotels, FREE parties, LOWEST LOOKING TO LIVEIN CHICAGO? GET CHEAP TEXTBOOKS! Search and the Nassau Marriott Crystal prices! www.breakerstravel.com Apartment for Sublease (ASAP -nice homes north of ND [closeJ for 16 bookstores with 1 click! S&H and Palace! Prices start at $399! Sale 
(800) 985-6789. June 1) $530/mth + next school year ideal for 3-8 stu-taxes are also ends soon! Want to write Sports? utilities for 3rd Fl Apartment off dents calculated. CALL NOW! 1-800-293-1443 or go Call Noah at 1-4543 Belmont 2 SMC 2000 Grads looking great area 2773097 http://www.bookhq.com/ to StudentCity.com! 
for a 3rd
LOST & FOUND 
Block from the train and 10 to the MMMRentals.com 272-1525 Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it Spring Break Tickets! Interested in writing for The 
Loop 4 Blocks to Wrigley field mmmrentals@aol.com alone. II you or someone you love Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to Observer's News Department? FOUND: Watch outside of South PLEASE CALL 773-398-3384 needs select shows when you Dining Hall on Monday, Jan. 14. 3 Bedroom House Close to confidential support or assistance, book your Spring Break through Call Jason at 1-5323 Call Claire 3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath trHevel, safe Campus $595.00 per month Call please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, StudentCity.com! 634-3677 to identify. neighborhood, new appliances, 2-233-1440 CSC, at Go to MTV.com or call 
car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas 1-7819. StudentCity.com at Grab The Observer for the latest heat. W/0. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. For more fnformation, see our 1-800-293-1443 for details! campus news! 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. weekly ad-in THE OBSERVER. Tours and tickets are limited!
FOR RENT PERSONAL 
..' ' 

Thursday, January 17, 2002 page I5
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
&av 

Mass for Students 
Returning International 
Studies Abroad Program 
5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Followed by dinner at Hammes Student lounge 


Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. •4:45 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
MBA Retreat 
4:00 p.m. 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 

urdav 

The Plunge-It's AFamily Affair 
1:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 


Confirmation-Rite of Welcome 
11:45 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. 
Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. 
Mendoza College of Business Chapel 


The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
lflsdav 

Campus Bible StudyfCBS 
Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Oirector 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration 
From the Inside Out 
An Expression of Self through Dance, Poetry and Music 6:30-8:30 p.m. 
Lafortune Ballrom 
Educated by Holy Cross r-, 
¦ By Fr. Bill Wack, CSC, Director, Freshman Retreat Program 
0 

For those ofyou who attended a Catholic high school, you may know that your school probably had a certain "charism" or feel to it. Many congregations and orders such as the Jesuits, Marists, Dominicans, Christian Brothers, and others attempt to pass on to the students in their schools spe­
~ 

cific values and disciplines -both inside and outside the classroom. But what about the Congregation of Holy Cross (the congregation which founded and runs or sponsors the University ofNotre Dame, Sc. Mary's College, and Holy Cross College as well as dozens of high schools and colleges around the 
I.II

world)? What is it about these places that is distinctively "Holy Cross"? 
There are about fifty Holy Cross high schools, colleges, and universities around the world. They are located in India, Chile, Brazil, Peru, Bangladesh, Africa, Canada and the United States. Of all of ..... them, Notre Dame has the most international recognition. 
Though it may not always be evident in every place, there are several marks of a "Holy Cross education", as introduced by our founder, Fr. Basil Moreau, CSC. A~ong these are the following: 
t:I 

1) In Holy Cross schools there is a great deal of emphasis placed on forming and maintaining 
rr,communit,y:. We try to do this in our high schools by focusing on how our decisions and actions affect others. Also, we are challenged to see others not just as students, faculty, and staff, but also as brothers and sisters in the Lord. At our colleges and universities, Holy Cross prides itself on 
"An education that is complete is one in which the hands and heart are engaged as much as the mind. We want to let our students try their learning in the world and so make prayers of their education." 
-Rev. Basil Moreau, CSC 
fostering community through residential living, espe­
:tJ 

cially in halls on campus. As Bishop Daniel Jenky, CSC, writes in a recent article, "From the very beginning Holy Cross religious were never intended to be confined to ~ the classroom alone. They were challenged by Moreau to share their lives as well as their learning. It is a vision of education unique to Holy Cross and traceable to Fr. --t Moreau's own understanding that a Holy Cross educator's role is more than providing classroom instruction but 
..... 

to help students to discover their deepest longings in life as disciples ofJesus Christ." 
0

2) Moreau also was a champion of the modern litur­gical movement, and believed that liturgy should be at the heart of any Holy Cross school. Accordingly, the Eucharist is celebrated daily in all of our schools, from ~ 
large "all-school" Masses to small liturgies in our residence hall chapels. We al:;o hope to pass on to our students a love of liturgy and a sense of responsibility to celebrate the sacraments well in their 
I.II

parishes at home. 
3) Schools run or sponsored by Holy Cross priests, brothers, and sisters attempt to promote • service as a way to respond to the invitation of Christ, who sent his disciples out to preach, heal, and teach. There are many opportunities available to the community, both on campus and off; during one's academic career and long afterwards. Further, our students should be taught to think of themselves as servants ofthe rest. Fr. Moreau wrote, "I have always been convinced that the first duty ofany teacher is to produce Christians; society has a greater need for people ofvalues than it has for scholars." 
4) We hope to foster collaboration of religious and laypeople for the common purpose of furthering the mission. Holy Cross was founded to assist parishes and schools in teaching all ofGod's people the Gospel of Christ. To that end, the priests, brothers, and sisters of Holy Cross work side by side with women and men of good will for the building up the Kingdom. 
There are many objectives Holy Cross has in sponsoring high schools, colleges, and universities. Some of these are evident, some are not so obvious. Sometimes we are blessed by a tremendous amount of success; sometimes we fail at achieving these goals. But we press on as 'educators in the faith', more hopeful than ever that God's will be done in and through us. All of us at Notre Dame, Sc. Mary's, and Holy Cross College ­students, faculty, staff, cl_~rgy, lay, and religious -can benefit from Fr. Moreau's vision ofwhat a true Christian education is all about. (-M 

Sunday, January 20 Mass 
10:00a.m. 
Rev. Peter 0. Rocca, c.s.c. 
11:45a.m. 
Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 
¦ Sunday's
¦ Presiders Basilica oftheSat;red Heart Scripture Readings 
Saturday, January 19 Mass · 1st Reading Is 49: 3, 5•6 
5:00p.m. 
Rev. David J. Scheidler, c.s.c 2nd Reading 1 Cor 1: 1-3 Gospel Jn 1: 29-34 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 17, 2002 
NFL 
Strahan gains defensive award 
Associated Press 
The sack has become lhe most glorified defonsive play in the NFL, a major reason why Michael Strahan is The Associated Press Defensive Player of the Year. 
Strahan, who set an NFL record v\ith 22 1/2 sacks for the New Yurk Giants, earned a seven-vote margin over Chicago linebacker Brian Urlachcr in balloting announced Wednesday. 
"Only seven," Strahan said with a huge smile that showed off his famous gap-tooth look. 'Tm disappointed. but I'll take it." 
Nothing was disappointing about the defensive end's perfor­mance this season. 
Strahan, one of the league's most popular players for his out­going, entertaining yet humble manner. always has been a fear­some pass rusher. He was a force against the run this sea­son, too, and, with linebacker Jessie Armstead and the rest of New York's defense plagued by inconsistPncy, Strahan was Mr. lleliable. 
So much so that he was a unanimous choice to tho AP All­Pro team last week. 
"I don't try to make every play perfect, I. just try to make sure evt)ry play counts," Strahan said, "because you never know which plays are going to count in a game. 
"I do something extra every day. I don't think there is a day that I don't do something extra. That's been the difference for me. That's one thing I learned over the last few years: Every day you have to do something that yon think somebody else is not ,?oing to make yourself bet­ter. 
Although the Giants struggled in defense of their NFC crown and finished 7-9, Strahan was virtually unstoppable. 
The nine-year veteran from Texas Southern punctuated his huge season with :~ 1/2 sacks against Philadelphia in the next­to-last game. llis record-break­ing sack came with controversy, when Green Bay quarterback Brett Favrn appearnd to hand it to Strahan, a longtime friend. 
Asked Wednesday if he knew Strahan had won the award, Favre cracked, "I helped him get that." 
But Favre dlmied having helped Strahan get bis final sack. 
"No sack is a gimme in the NFL." said Mark Gastineau, who set the old record in 1984 with the New York Jets. 
"Any time you can break an NFL record it's awesome,'' Giants tackle Lomas Brown said. "He worked hard all year. He deserved it." 
Strahan received 27 votes from a nationwide panel of 50 media members who cover the NFL Last season's choice Baltimore linebacker Ray Lewis: got two votes, and Cleveland linebacker Jamir Miller received the other. 

Bucs look to sign Parcells as coach 
. Former Giants coach begins search for staff 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 

There were more indica­tions Wednesday that Bill Parcells is on the verge of becoming the next coach of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
New York Jets assistant general manager and direc­tor of pro player personnel Mike Tannenbaum inter­viewed for the Bucs' general manager position currently held by Rich McKav. 
Tannenbaum was Parcells' hand-picked choice to nego­tiate contracts and manage I I the salary cap when the I coach moved from New
I 
I England to the Jets in 1997. 
I t 
The Bucs fired Tony Dungy as coach Monday night and formally
t 
announced Tuesday that the
( 
I team was negotiating with I Parcells, who won two Super Bowl with the New
l 
York Giants. 
Parcells has begun assem­bling a staff that's expected to include Dan Henning as 
offensive coordinator. Bucs defensive coordinator Monte Kiffin remains under con­tract and could be a candi­date for the same position under the next coach. 
The Bucs had little to say about Tannenbaum's visit other than to acknowledg~ through team spokesman Reggie Roberts that the Jets' executive "was in town to discuss a possible role with­in the organization." 
The sons of Tampa Bay owner Malcolm Glazer have said they'd like McKay, who worked with Dungy to turn around a franchise that had 14 consecutive losing sea­sons before ending a 15­
year  playoff drought  in  
1997,  to  remain  in  an  
expanded role.  
With  Parcells  likely  to  


have control over all foot­ball-related personnel deci­sions, and Tannenbaum handling the financial side, Club vice presidents Joel and Bryan Glazer have already approached McKay about a contract extension, but the general manager said they have not discussed what his duties might entail. "The hard thing I have 
SCUBA DIVING COURSE 
YMCA LIFETIME CERTIFICATION SEVEN CLASSROOM AND POOL SESSIONS MEETS SUNDAYS 3:30 -7:30 PM CLASSES BEGIN JANUARY 27 

IMPORTANT .INFORMATION MEETING 
SUNDAY, JANUARY 20 
1:00 PM ROCKNE RM 218 

here is that we've invested a lot. done everything we can to try to get the franchise righted from a franchise that was not right, and you feel a little emotional tie to it, from that perspective," McKay said. "I need to sit down with them, figure out where we're going and 
make some decisions, which I will. ... It would be difficult because a big part of our life was tied up in it. I've got to wait and see." 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
GU suspends players 
No arrests had been made,

• Bulldog players but the school announced late Wednesday afternoon that
allegedly raped 

Cole, Thomas and Williamsfemale student. were suspended pending an 
investigation by university 
police, the department or stu­
Associated Press 

dent affairs and the athletic 
ATHENS, Ga. association. 
Georgia suspended starting "We're going back over 
forward Steve Thomas and everything thal's been said 
backup guard Tony Cole on and get as much information 
Wednesday while university as possible," Horton said. 
police investigated a report "When different people tell 
that a female student was what they saw, sometimes 
raped in a dormitory. when you talk to them again, 
The suspensions occurred they'll put a different twist on 
shortly before the 20th-the story." 
ranked Bulldogs (14-2), who Thomas, a 6-foot-8 sopho­
moved into the national rank-more. was averaging 8.2 
ings two days earlier for the points and 6.5 rebounds. Cole, 
first time this season, played a 5-11 junior, was averaging 
No. 16 Alabama in a key 5.6 points and 2.3 assists. 
Southeastern Conference Williams, a junior corner-
game. back, was a. backup on the 
Another athlete, football Bulldogs' football team. He 
player Brandon Williams, also had 13 tackles and one inter-
was suspended indefinitely. ception this season. 
Asa Boynton, the school's The loss of Thomas was a 
director of public safety, said major blow to the Bulldogs' 
a basketball player was inside game. He was the 
accused of rape and a football biggest player on a team that 
player of attempted rape. A doesn't have a true center. 
third athlete. a basketball Even without a center, the 
player, was identified as Bulldogs were off to their best 
being an accessory to the start in years, including an 
attack. upset victory at Kentucky last 
Boynton said the alleged week. rape occurred in a room at The female student called McWhorter Hall between 9:30 police at 1 a.m. Tuesday and 
p.m. and 10 p.m. Monday. said she was raped at a dor-The dormitory houses many mitory by a man she knew. of the school's football and She said another man who basketball players. she did not know tried to rape "One of the three athletes her, according to a police 
was friends with the victim" report. Boynton said. "The other t~o Boynton said university did not know her." police were "questioning all of 
Boynton and university the people involved in this, police chief Chuck Horton the victim, as well as those would not identify the athletes accused. We're doing fact­
irr==~~~~~~~~~~~:di~n~vo~l~v~ed~.:...___ finding to see what actually 
11otre Dame HOCkeJ, ROCK THE RIUK 2002 

Friday, Jan. 18 @ 7:05pm ND vs. Nebraska-Omaha 
*FREE t-shirts to 1st 500 fans!! (Be sure to wear kelly green to show your support) 
*2 chances to win box seats to a Chicago Blackhawks game! (Sponsored by U-93 and Notre Dame Federal Credit Union) 

FREE 
pizza to 1st 250 students! BOTH NIGHTS! 


Saturday, Jan. 19 @ 7:05pm ND vs. Nebraska-Omaha 
*FREE ND rally towels to 1st 500 fans!! (Sponsored by McDonald's Physical Therapy) 
*Win great prizes during on-ice contests & watch a mini-mite game after the first period! 

page I 7 

Thursday, January I 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 
Free agents sign contracts 
Associated Press 
Pndro Astacio landed with tlw New York Mets on WPdnesday and Eric Young signed with llrn Milwaukee Brewers as the slow-moving l're11-11gent markPt pushed forward. 
Mnanvvhile. Jprmaine Dy,, agroed to a $32 mil­lion. thnii•-yPar contrai:t with Oukl~nd, on11 of s<wHn deals among tlm 90 
play1•rs  who  f'i!<'d  for  
salary arbitrat ion a  day  
mtrlinr.  

'vlinnnsot a right-hander .l!W t\lays got a $20 mil­l ion. fnur-yr.ar r.on tract. and Detroit right-hand,ff Danny Patwrson agrnt\d to a $7 million. thn•e-vear rkal. · 
Fou1· play11rs agrne<l to 
o111• -yPa r con trac ls: /\nah1;i111 ouLfi1•ldN 
Hut Astacio had a partial tear in !Jis right shoulder and, after going 2-1 with a 
3.14 EKA for the Astros. did not pitch again. 
Astacio, 32, finished the season at 8-14 with a 5.09 EHA in 26 starts for the Rockies and Astros. 
The Mets watched Astacio pitch four times in the Dominican Hepublic winter league. The team brought him to New York for an MRI exam on Wednesday. 
"Jle's loose and pain­free," Phillips said. "He dearly didn't havr a sor<' 
urm 
Young. a seconrl base­man. batted .279 with six home runs, 42 HBls and 31 stolon hasi>s last season for the Chir:ago Cubs. 
"Eric is a riuality, proven kadoff hitter," gc11oral manager Dean Taylor said. "He is a guy who 
knows  how  to  get  on  
base."  
Dye,  acquired  by  

Oakland from Kansas Citv in a July trade, could have become a free agent after next season. 
"A lot of our guys who are young are locked up for three, four years," Dye said. "When I came lrnre, cv11rything changed in my mind. It was like I was playing major league baseball for the first time again. It was fun again." 


poser! one-year contracts. 
Hearings will bo schBd­uled for Feb. 4-21. 
In smaller free agent deals. catcher Scott Servais agreed to a minor leagun cnntract with San Pranciscu. a deal that calls for him to get a $400,000, one-ycar contract if h<,'s add<id Lo tho major league roster. Right-hander Alan Benes agrncd to a minor leagu11 w11tract with the Chicago Cubs. 
Astacio's contract boconws guaranteed for at least $6 million in 2003 if be pitdies 180 innings. 
If healthv. /\staeio would givP tlw ·Mnts a much­nend,id righty for their rotation. lie was shut down late last season because of a partial tear in his pitl'hing shouldM. Astacio was one 
"Eric is a qua/Uy, proven
D u r i n of' tho Erstad hitter. Ile is a guy who biggest t $ <, . 2 5 names
knows how to get on
million). av a i I ­
Kansas base." able at City ld't­l a s t h and(\ r year's
Dean Taylor 

.I () s p Julv 31
Brewer's general manager
Hosado trading (:1.25 mil-dead­lion I, St. linr.. lie Louis outlieldN J.D. DrPw was sPnl from the 
(5:U million! and Boston Colorado Hockies with ca tchcr Doug Mirab!' 1! i cash considerations to tlrn ($()50.00<H. l louston Astros for pitcher 
PlayPrs v.·ho don't settle Scott Elarton and a player will cxdrnng1\ figurr.s with to be named. tlwir teams Friday for pro­
0 



NHL 

Hurricanes, Panthers swap 5 players in trade 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

Six-time All-Star defenseman Saudis Ozolinsh and top minor league prospect Byron Ritchie were traded by the Carolina Hurricanes to tho Florida Panthers on Wednesday for three players. 
The Hurricanes received del'ense­man Bret Hedican, center Kevyn Adams and minor league prospect Tomas Malec. 
Ozolinsh. in his 10th NHL season, was picked as a starter for the World All-Star team for the second straight season with Carolina despite offen­sive numbers that didn't match his playing days with the Colorado Avalanche. 
"We're in the second half of the 
season now, we're getting into rnal 
ctitical games and we have to be 
more responsible defAnsively,'' 
Carolina general manager Jim 
Hutherfonl said. "We have to have a 
little more energy and a little more 
grit." 

In 119 career games with 
Carolina. Ozolinsh had 16 goals and 
51 assists for 67 points. flis best sea­
son was in 1997-98 with Colorado, 
with 68 points. 
"lie felt pressure right from the 
start to put up a tremendous amount 
of numbers and to create things 
offensively," Carolina coach Paul 
Maurice said. "He wasn't able to do 
that early and it cost us defensivelv a 
bit and his confidence went and ·he 
had a hard time getting that back." 
Panthers general manager Chuck Fletcher isn't concerned. 
"We feel ho's a quality offensive defonseman." Fletcher said. "We're one of the lowest scoring teams in the league. We felt in order to improve our offense, we needed to get a better puck moving defense­man to help our attack, to help our transition and help our power play. Certainly over his career. he's shown· Lo be one of the better offensive defenseman in the league." 
Ozolinsh was traded to Carolina on the first day of the 2000 draft for Nolan Pratt and three draft picks. General manager Jim Rutherford signed Ozolinsh to a five-year. $25 million contract. 
But he became a defensive liabili­
ty, going a team-worst minus-25 last 
year and scored just 23 points in 46 
games this year. 
Rutherford tried to deal Ozolinsh 
last season, but them wern no takers 
because of his high salarv. 
Fletcher said the Pantlwrs tried to 
trade for Ozolinsh a few years ago 
when he was with Colorado. The 
Panthers also inquired about a trade 
last year. At the time it didn't make 
sense for Florida. 
"This year our ownership stepped 
up," Fletcher said. "They obviously 
were willing to take on more payroll 
and take on more pay.We were able 
to add on a quality player." 
The 5-foot-9 Ritchie had 20 goals 
Lowell of the American Hockey 
League, but the Hurricanes have 
questioned Ritchie's size and dura­
bility. 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, January 17, 2002 
NBA 
NFL 

Cuban works a~ Dairy 
Colts search for new coach 
Queen for two hours 
. Owner honors promise to ice cream parlor 
Aswciated Press 
COPPELL. Texas 
Trying desperately to per­
fect the curly tip on a soft­
serve cone, Mark Cuban 
licked the remains of another 
failed effort from his finger­
tips and handed the messy 
treat to an excited 3-year-old 
boy. 
One lick latflr, the kid 
dropped it. 
That was about the only 
thing that went wrong 
Wednesday when the billion­
aire owner of the Dallas 
Mavericks worked two hours 
behind a Dairy Queen 
counter, making good on a 
promise to manage the fast­
food restaurant. 
The company's offer came 
in response to Cuban·s asser­
tion that he wouldn't hire Ed 
Rush, the NBA's head of offi­

ciating, "to manage a Dairy 
Queen.'' 
The league fined Cuban 

$500,000 for the comment, a 
record for an individual. For 
about $650,000, Cuban 
could've bought a startup DQ 

franchise. 
So, after doing the job him­
self, does he still think Rush 
couldn't do it? 
"It depends on how he 

treats the customers. That's 
the hard part," Cuban said. 
"Part of the point I was try­

ing to make with the NBA is 
that vou have to understand 
your·customers and learn to 
get better as a business." 
Cuban, fined more than $1 

million bv the NBA in the two years s(nce he bought the team, praised his boss-for-a­day, store owner Parrish ·Chapman, and took another 
shot at the league. 
"I'd love to send Parrish up 

to the NBA to have him give 
them a lesson in exactly how 
to communicate,'' Cuban 
said. "When anybody needed 
to interact with Pai-rish, he 
"JOYOUS ...THOROUGHLY ENGAGING!" 
The New York Times 
·l"""'
n> 
were treated to inflatable play areas for children, portable basketball hoops for kids and adults, and more than a dozen TV and radio stations broadcasting live. 
Another beneficiary was the Children's Miracle Network, a charity that received a lump sum of $5,000, plus hundreds more through donation boxes 
on the counter.:...______ 1999 NFC Championship game, Anderson said. "We're going to where the Buccaneers lost to let people proceed as they eventual Super Bowl champion deem appropriate, and we're St. Louis. looking forward to .meeting 
Colts president Bill Polian has with them." said he will not comment on the The Colts were granted per­coaching search. Team mission to speak with Cottrell, spokesman Craig Kelley, citing who is still under contract to team policy, declined comment the Jets, on Monday. on the search Wednesday night. Cottrell has spent 18 seasons 
Mora was fired. primarily. in the NFL, 1 l of thos<~ with because he refused to fire Buffalo, including three seasons defensive coordinator Vic while Polian was thr, Bills' gen· Fangio and era! manager other assis­during the
"We certainly appreciate
tants. Fangio 1980s.
the chancP, to talk to
was hired by Cottrell's the Houston Indianapolis and second stint Texans earli­with the Bills
Carolina." 
er this week. was 1994­
Polian said 2000 and hf) be thought Ray Anderson spent his last Fangio's sys­Tony Dungy's agent three seasons 
tf~m was too complex for the Colts' young defense, and both Cottrell and Dungy have reputations for building strong dpfenses with young players. 
Dungy served as defensive coordinator with the Pittsburgh Steelers from 1984-88 and with the Minnesota Vikings from 1992-95 before taking over at Tampa Bay. 
Dungy also has tics to Colts offensive coordinator Tom Moore. Both of them were on the Minnesota Vikings staff in 1992-93, and Moore was offen­sive coordinator at the University of Minnesota when Dungy was the Gophers' quar· terback in the mid-1970s. 
Polian has said the possible retention of some or all the offensive assistants would be among the discussion that takes place during the interview process. 
"It's a very sensitive time," in Buffalo as 

the defensive coordinator. With Cottrell in charge, the Bills ranked No. 1 in 1999 and No. 3 in 2000 before he left for NPw York. 
'Tie's flattered," Linta said. "Bt1ing in control of the show somewhere is something every guy dreams of, that's why you work your rear end off for 20 years. 
Last year, Cottrell inter­viewed for head coaching jobs in Buffalo, where he lost out to Gregg Williams, and with the Jets, who selected Ilerman Edwards. 
But the Indianapolis job, Linta said, may be Cottrell's most attractive option. 
"I think Indianapolis is more camera ready," Linta said. "The offense is in prntty good shape and they have some good players on defense, too. They just need someone to get thPm playing together. 

TEAMS 
Zahm -Cavanaugh Keough -Welsh Family Knott -PE O'Neill -McGlinn Siegfried -PW Sorin -Walsh Alumni -BP Lyons -Morrissey Carroll -Badin -Regina Fisher -Pangborn -Holy Cross St. Ed's -Farley -McCandless Stanford -Howard -LeMans Dillon -Lewis -Keenan 

was right then~ to answP.r the 
questions. That's the way you 
run a business. If Parrish just 
went up there and just took a 
look, we'd be a lot better off." 
Cuban·s presence created a carnival atmosphere at the suburban Dairy Queen and drew more than 1,000 peo­ple, many waiting close to an hour to place their order. The crush was so big the restau­rant ran out of ice. 
"It was worth the wait." Tony Newpower said. "It's not often you see a billionaire serving btirgers." 
Wearing a navy denim shirt and a manager's nametag, and carrying a pencil in his right shirt pocket, Cuban actually spent more time signing autographs than lak­ing orders. 
But he did take his tempo­rary job seriously. He lirrived at 6 a.m .. after flying home from a Ylavcricks game in Atlanta, and began training hy 6:30. 
Kirn Skeffington, a regional field consultant whose duties include working with new managers, spent about two hours teaching him the finer points of curling soft serves and mixing a frozen dessert. 
James Kelly, who waited about two hours to be first in line, ordered a strawberry version of the dessert ­which Skeffington made ­then had Cuban sign a novel­ty $1 million bill. 
Cuban's first cone for a cus­tomer looked squished on top. 
"Be patient with me, please. I'm new at this," he said with a wink and a· smile. "It might not be pretty,-but it works." 
,Lured by a "Mark Cuban Here Today" sign, customers 
~~ A..:n-lR)'rt° §,-.. <){)y 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
The Indianapolis Colts sched­uled interviews with former Tampa Hay coach Tony Dungy and New York Jets defensive coordinator Ted Cottrell, agents for the two coaches told The Associated Press on Wcdnesdav. 
Joe Lin.ta said his client, Cottrell, was expected to meet with the Colts at an undisclosed location either Wednesday night or Thursday. He was uncertain if the meeting would be in Indianapolis. 
"I'm not sure which it is, lonighl or tomorrow," Linta said Wedncsdav, while travel­ing in North Carolina. "It's sup­posed to happen sometime between tonight and tomorrow night." 
Dungy has scheduled inter­views in both Indianapolis and Carolina, although his agent, Ray Anderson, would not say when either meeting would occur. 
The Colts need a replacement for Jim Mora, who ,.,vas fired Jan. 8 after going 32-34, including 0-2 in the playoffs, in four seasons. 
"What I can confirm is that we made contact with lndianapolis and Carolina today and interviews will be forth­coming," Anderson said. "We certainly appreciate getting the chance to talk to Indianapolis and Carolina." 
Dungy was fired as Tampa Bay's coach Monday night after going 54-42 and leading the Buccaneers to four playoff appearances in six years. lie also guided Tampa Bay to the 


a. @l 
Deadline to enter a team is 
Saturday January 26th, 2002 at 7:30 p.m. 
Monday, January 21 
Moreau Little Theatre 
Friday, January 25, 2002 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM 
Joyce Center • 631-6100 • recsports.nd.edu
Limited Seating! 

1;rglRt~'c~
For ticket information contact the 
THE AllTS 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association
Saint Mary's Box Office at 284-4626 ~NOTRE DAM£, IN 
R~~ 
Thursday, January 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MLB NHL 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE Rret BoOIH' is ready to stay put. 
The second baseman agre1•d to a $25 million. three-year contract Wednesday to remain with tlrn SnaLlle Mariners. 
Boone had b(wn f!ligible for a one-year contract in salary arlJitratiuu, IJut he decided to sign a mu ltiyear deal instead. Ile had played with four teams over the last four seasons, including helping Seattle to a rerord 116 wins in 2001. 
"I was sick of renting hous­es." Boone said. "When you're on a y'nar-to-ynar you don't know whern you'll be.... from 
Gators beat up Tigers 102-70 
Boone will stay with Mariners All-Star reserves named 
the season went" Kari ya said. "I didn't pay much attention to it bncause l had a lot of con­cerns here with our team to worry about whether I was 
. picked for the All-Star Game. 
"If I didn't get invited, I would have enjoyed the rest," he added. "But anytime you're selerted to the All-Star Game, it's a huge honor." 
The roster additions were selected by the NHI.'s Hockey Operations Department, after consultation with League Cennral Managers. 
Rounding out the World Team reserves are Toronto defenseman Tomas Kaberle, Chicago forward Alexei Zhamnov, (arolina forward Sami Kapanen, New York Islanders forward Alexei Yashin, Toronto forward Mats Sundin, Vancouver forward Markus Naslund, Tampa Bay goalie Nikolai Khabibulin, Edmonton goalie Tommy Salo, Buffalo defenseman Alexei Zhitnik, St. Louis forward Pavul Demitra and New Jersey for­ward Patrik Elias. 
The North American starters, voted in by fans and announced Saturday, are Toronto goalie Patrick Roy, Colorado defenseman Rob Blake, St. Louis defenseman Chris Pronger, Detroit forward Brendan Shanahan and San Jose forwards Owen Nolan and Vincent Damphousse. 
Roy, Lemieux and Sakic each will be making his 10th career All-Star game appearance. Leetch is a nine-time All-Star. 
edge  of  his  chair  and  
screamed in frustration.  
Much  of  his  anger  was  

The North American team will be coached by Toronto's Pat Quinn and assisted by Boston's Robbie Ftorek. 
The World Team starters are Detroit goalie Dominik Hasek, Detroit defenseman Nicklas Lidstrom, Florida defenseman Sandis Ozolinsh, San Jose for­ward Teemu Selanne, Washington forward Jaromir Jagr and Detroit forward Sergei Fedorov. 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE. Fla. 

Brott Nelson equaled his earner-high with 26 points Wednesday night to help Nu. 2 Florida beat LSU 102-70 and match a schoor record with its l l th straight Southcaswrn Conference vic­torv. 
Nelson wasn't the only one setting personal bests for the Gators (15-1. 4-0). Orien GrncnP had 14 points and 11 assists. both career-highs, and Udonis Haslem matched his carner-h igh with 16 rebounds to go with his 20 points. 
Florida shot 60 percent from the field and extended its school-record winning streak to 14 games. The Gators· No. 2 ranking is the day one, Seattle's been the place I wantPd to play." 
His deal rontains a team option for 2005 that would become guaranteed if he has about 400 platr appParancPS in the previous year. The con­tract would be worth $33 mil­lion over four seasons. 
Boone decided to test the market as a free agent after last SPason. When there were no blockbuster offers from other teams, he was happy to stay where he had his best season. 
Boone, 32, finished third in the American League l\IVP vot­ing last year after setting AL records for second basemen in home runs and RBIs. He hit 
highest in school history. 
The loss was a startling detour for LSC (11-:i, 1-2), amt Tigers roach John Brady had the right idea: He got ejected with 17:22 remaining after refusing to move from center court when referee John Clougherty hit him with his first technical foul. 
Before his ejection. Brady was the onlv form of enter­tainment the Tigers could offer. He yelled at players, officials, his own assistants, and at one point, got so angry, he raised his knees to his chest, put both feet on the 
directed at LSU's biggest star, Collis Temple III. Temple had 15 points, but they were all meaningless. The team's .331 with 36 homers and 141 RBIs. 
He won't guarantee a repeat of those numbers -but is plenty confident he can pro­vide similar production. 
"I think last year was a big year for me, not just from a numbers standpoint, but learning,·· Boone said Wed11esday night in a confer­ence call from his home in Orlando, Fla. "l think some­thing just kind of clicked with me last year. I think I can keep this kind of pace up. I can't explain how or why, it's just a feeling. 
"I foe! I can put up these kinds of numbers year in and year out." 
leading scorer this season was invisible -both on the court and on the score sheet -until LSU trailed 58-3fi with 16:06 left. 
Florida had too many high­lights to list. 
Among them were James White's steal and hip-twisting dunk. David Lee's two-hand­ed jam and Haslem's easy dunk off a pass from Nelson, who went to the floor and scrapped hard for a loose ball -even though his team was ahead by 29 points. 
It was enough to make Florida fans forget that the Gators were without starting guard Justin Hamilton, who separated his shoulder Sunday against Vanderbilt. 
Ronald Dupree led the Tigers with 19 points and eight rebounds. 

Associated Press 
.laronrn lginla, the league's leading scorer, was selected as a North American reserve Wednesday for February's NHL All-Star game. 
lginla, the Calgary Flames right wing who leads the NHL with 29 goals and 53 points, will be making his All-Star debut. 
Boston's Joe Thornton, who ranks second in points with 51, and Chicago's Eric Daze, sec­ond in goals with 26 entering play Wednesday, will also make their All-Star debuts as reserves for the North American team. 
Washington defenseman Sergei Gonchar, who leads all NHL defensemen in scoring, heads the list of players added to the World Team. 
Gonchar has 1 7 goals and b on pace to become tlrn first defenseman in nine years to post a 30-goal campaign. 
Two players from tho host Los Angeles Kings, forward Zigmund Palffy and defense­man Jaroslav Modry, also were selected to the World Team. 
Other first-time All-Stars for the North America team are Montreal goaltender Jose Theodore, New Jersey defense­man Brian Rafalski, Ottawa defenseman Wade Redden and Kew York Islanders forward Mark Parrish. 
Others named to the North America roster are Phoenix goaltender Sean Burke, Vancouver defenseman Ed Jovanovski, New York Rangers defenseman Brian Leetch, Rangers forward Eric Lindros, Anaheim forward Paul Kariya, Pittsburgh forward Mario Lemieux, Philadelphia forward Jeremy Roenick and Colorado forward Joe Sakic. 
Kariya is an All-Star for the sixth time, but the first as a reserve. 
"It's good enough -especial­ly after the way the first half of 
Protect Your Asset & Privacy With an affordable International Trust and build wealth at the same time. plus help St. Johns Center Call l-888-437-0077 

A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 

r---------~--------------, 

January Super Special! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza $7.99 (with coupon) Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1.49! 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! We Take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 2/2/02 


Thursday, January 17, 2002 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NDAnERFIVE 


sday, January 17 
Friday, January 18 
Saturday, January 19 
5: 15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred 
5:00 p.m. -6:30 p.m. Band Concert & !SSA 
5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of Heart 
Welcome Back Event, Alumni Senior Club 
the Sacred Heart 
7:00 p.m. Film: crazy/beautiful, Hesburgh (event begins at 4:30 p.m.) 
5:00 p.m. Women's Swimming, Dual Library Carey Auditorium 
5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred 
Invitational Meet, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Heart 
5:00 p.m. ND Men's Tennis vs. Furman, Eck Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
6:00 p.m. ND Men's and Women's Track vs. 
Tennis Pavilion (matches start at 4:00 p.m.) 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Ball State, Western Michigan, Loftus Sports 
7:05 p.m. ND Ice Hockey vs. Nebraska­Room open, LaFortune Student Center 
Center Omaha, Joyce Center Fieldhouse 

9:00 p.m. Acoustic Cafe, LaFortune Student 6:00 p.m. Women's Swimming, Dual 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Jay & Silent Bob and Center Huddle 
Invitational Meet, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
Mal/rats, De Bartolo 101 and 155* 
10:00 p.m. -1 :30 a.m. Club ND, Alumni 
7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Senior Club 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Room open, free billiards, LaFortune 

10:00 p.m. Movies: Jay & Silent Bob and 
7:05 p.m. ND Ice Hockey vs. Nebraska­
Student Center Mal/rats, De Bartolo 101 and 155* 
Omaha, Joyce Center Fieldhouse 

10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Open Karaoke, 
10:45 p.m. -12:45 a.m. Winterfest Java and 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Jay & Silent Bob and 
LaFortune Student Center Huddle Jazz Ice Skating, Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Mal/rats, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 10:00 p.m. Movies: Jay & Silent Bob and 

8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center 
Ma/frats, DeBartolo 101 and 155* Student Lounge 
10:00 p.m. Winterfest Comic and Hypnotist: 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool 
Dale K, Washington Hall 
Room open, free billiards, LaFortune 
Student Center 

9:00 p.m. Crafting Carnival: Various 
This ad is published by the Student 
Projects from last semester, LaFortune 
Activities Office. Programs are subject 
Student Center Sorin Room 

to change without notice. All programs 
are free to Notre Dame students unless Comedian: Mike Barbiglia, LaFortune 
9:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m .. Winterfest 

marked by an asterick (*). Student Center Ballroom 
10:00 
p.m. Movies: Jay & Silent Bob and Mal/rats, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 

10:00 
p.m. -1:30 a.m. Tournament Fridays: Uno, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 


AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Clement exits following loss in early rounds 
Associated Press 

MELBOURNE. Australia 
Arnaud C,Jement. last year's run­ner-up, joined tlw list of players making early exits from the Australian Open. spraying shots wide and long in a loss Thursday to Argentina's Gaston Gaudio. 
Gaudio. who had lost in the first round in his last six Grand Slam events. advanced to the third round with a 6-4. 4-f>. Ci-2, 7-6 (3) victorv. 
Clement. seeded 15th, missed on !'our of the la;;t five points. netting a forPhand in a short-range exchangr at the end. 
All fiyp of the men's top seeds are gone. and No. 8 Petr Sampras. the U.S. Open runner-up, is the only player left from among the finalists al last year's four Grand Slams. 
No. 7 Tommv llaas antl No. 9 Marat Salin, ihP 2000 U.S Open winner. both advanced. 
Haas. an Australian Open semili­nalist in l 999. made short work of Frnnrh qualifier Jean-Francois Baehelot 6-1. C,-2. 6-3. 
The ninth-seeded Safin saved four set points in the second-set tiebreaker on his way to beating Belgium's Christophe Hochus 6-2, 7-6(61.6-1. 
The 21-year-old Russian is in the most diffirult section. along with Sampras, who is vying for a 14th Grand Slam title. No. 13 Andy Hoddick and Nicolas Escudc. 
"We have a tough part ol' the draw -Roddick, Sampras ... it's difficult." Saf'in said. "But I'm ready to mitkP good rnsults here ­this is a good chance f'or mo." 
Salin, who dropped from No. 2 in 2000 to No. 11 last year, said hP wanted to make anwnds for a "dis­astrous" last 12 months. whrm he struggled with back problr.ms and picked up two .\TP titles. 
Despite missing out on the top 10 
last yr.ar. Salin made llw quarterfi­nals at Wimblr'don b(,forn losing to r.ventual champion Goran lvanisevic. He lost to Sampras in the semifinals at the U.S. OpPn. 
ClenwnL. who had bcalf~n (~audio in thrir two previous meetings. had 62 unforced errors. I le imme­diately brokP back after losing his opening serve in thn fourth SPi, but played a poor final tiebreaker. 
Gaudio recrivrd treatmrnt f'or his upper left leg after the final set's 10th game but didn't fode. 
Andre Agnssi, who beat Clement in last year's final. dropped out before this year's start with a wrist injury. 
French Open champion Gustavo Kuertcn and runner-up Alnx Corretja both lost in tlrn f'irst round. Wimbledon winnnr Goran lvanisPvic lost in the second. and runner-up Patrick Rafter is no longer playing. U.S. Open champ Llcyton I lcwitt, set back by chicken pox, also lost in the first round. 
NHL 

Blackhawks top Panthers 3-0 
Associated Press 

SUNHISE. Fla. 
Alex Zharnnov and Michael Nylander scored 4:36 apart in tho third period to seal the Chicago Blackhawks' :)-0 victory ovnr thr, Florida Panthers Wednesday night. 
Jocelyn Thibault stoppfld Hi shots !'or his fil'th shutout of Orn season and 26th of' his carPer. 
Florida was lwld without a goal f'or the sncond straight game and (\ighth timn this snason. The !'anthers lost all four ganrns on tlrnir honws­tan d, the last thr!10 with lnading-scornr Pavc1l Bure sitting out with a brokrn lrf't hand. 
Thn Blackhawks havo won 
nine of' their las( 11, and 12 
ol' 15. 

Zhamnov scorod his 17th goal with l 0:0:i rnrnaining. Lsing teammatn Miko Peluso as a screen. Zhamnov rippnd a straight-on wrist shot past Boborto Luongo. who made 27 savns. 
With 5: 2Ci lnft, Nylander cirdfld Florida's net and slid a back-hander by Luongo. 
Chicago took a 1-0 first­
period lead on Phil l louslny's 
dazzling power-play goal at 
11 :49. Faking a slap shot, llousley baited Hobert Svehla into diving. Skating left around the fallen Svehla. llousley then tucked in a wrist shot high to Luongo's stick side. 
Chicago was on a l'our­minute pownr play because Ollie Jokinen was called for high-sticking Michael Nylander. 
Kyle Calder and Eric Daze each had two ai-;sists. 
Desperatn f'or ol'f'Pnse. Florida started d11f'nnsnman Sandis Ozolinsh. acquirncl in a trad1:1 Wednesday morning with Carolina. Cent.c1r Byron Hitchin. also r:laimnd in thn tradn, saw limitl1d action. 
Canadiens 2, Capitals 0 

Josn Theodore stopped 28 shots and Jan Bulis and Patricn BrisPbois s,·orPd snc­on<l-pnriod goals to lnad tlrn Montrnal Cana<lio1is to a ~-0 win ov,1r 1.hn Washington Capitals on Wednesday night. 
Theodore, who was added to the North /\nwrican team's rostnr for tlw All-Star game in Los Angeles on Feb. 
2. rnrord ed his 12th earner shutout. and f'ourth of the season. 
Bulis scored 4:50 into the second to nnd Capitals goalin Olaf' Kolzig's shutout streak at Hi4 minutes and 24 sec­onds. 
Brisebois scornd his sec­ond goal of' the season on a pownr play with :HHl lel't in tlrn period. 
With several kPy players 
still out of the lineup - 
including star right wing  
Jaromir Jagr -and eight  
defonsPnwn dressed !'or the  
game, Washington coach  
Hon Wilson once again  
employed a unique 2~ 1-2  
alignment.  
The Capitals, who enternd  
llrn ganrn unbnal.nn in tlwir  
last !'our games (3-0-11. f'rn­ 
qunnt.ly used dnl'nnsemPn  
Kr.n Klen and Sergei  
Conchar as rovnrs along  
with two forwards and two  
def(~ nscnwn.  
Washington l'irst used tlw  
system in a :{-:~ lie with  
·1:oronto on Jan. 11 before  
posting 1-0 wins in Florida  
and over Boston in its last  
two outings,  
Kolzig, who rncordr\d suc­ 
cessive shutouts against the  
Panthnrs and tho Bruins.  
held Montreal srorPless  
through the first as thP  
Canadiens outshot the  
Capitals 13-5 in tlw period. Bulis, who was playing his  ..­l  
second game since missing  
20 games with a sprain<'d  
knee, put Andrei Markov's  
rnbound past Kolzig from the  
slot for his fifth goal of the  
season to Pnd thP  
Washington goaliP's shutout  
streak.  
Brisebois put thn  
Canadiens up by two 17:00  
into the second pPriod with a  
slap shot f'rom llw point into  
tlw top IPl't cornPr to Kolzig's  
right.  


FOR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOMr VISIT: www.nd.edu/~sao/ , 
------·---·--------­
Thursday, January 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Nets' early start leads to 111-67 win over Wizards 
4:23 left in thf-l first. The Nets outscored the 
Associated Press 
Van !lorn hit a 3-pointf~r with Wizards 19-0 on fast break 
3:34 left in the first to make the points in the first half and outre­
E.\ST HlJTIIEHFOIW, N.J. 

Nets 15-of-16 from the field and bounded Washington 24-17 -
ThP New .lMsr.y Nets filled 
give them a 36-10 lead. and it the latter stat all the moretlwir arf'na f'or the first t.imP this 
was 43-18 at the end of the impressive considering the
s,•ason. and rvrn Michael 
quart!'r as the Nets shot 18-f'or-Wizards outrebounded New
Jordan spent most of the night 
21 and got 1i points from Van Jersey 62-30 on New Year's Evesitting and watching in awe. 
!lorn. when they beat the Nets by 24Tlw Nets got off to an absurd­
There was no lfltdown in the points.
ly good start W1>dnPsday night. 
se<·,ond quarter as Lhe Nets con­Jordan was on the bench ashitting thPir l'irst 13 shots and 
tinued to look to run at evnry thr, second half began and
op1•ning a 41-point !Pad br.forr 
opportunity. They reached 50 remained there throughout the
halftimr to defoat thf' points less third -even after the crowd
Washington 
than 3 1/2 mocked him with a sing-songyWizards 111-67 
"For us to be ablP to minutes into r.han t of ".I or-dan" late in the
f'or tlw f'ran­
thP quarter, quarter.
l'hisr's first six­match last year's win 
took a 30-The Nets led 88-49 at Lhe end
ganH• winning 
total after [3 7Jgames, point lead of the third after Martin hit a 3­
stn'ak in ninr. 
and to do it in front of when Kidd pointer with one second left,
yPars. 
hit a layup and the lead reached 48 with
Ne,\ Jersey however many people 
with 7:21 3:19 left in the fourth when
(2(i-11 I matchPd 
this building holds, and 
lcl'l, lhen Richard Jefferson hit a jumperits vie to ry to ta] 
to do it against the went ahead to make it 107-59.
l'rom last sna­
by an aston­

son. improvf'd Washington Wizards. No 
ishing 4.1
the L1stc:rn Raptors 1.09, Rockets 103
better way tu do it. " points. 72­
Con I',, r r. n 1· t'. s Vince Carter scored 29 points
:n, on a 3­

bnsl rPcord and and Hakeem Olajuwon had six
pointer by

s,\nt .Jordan"s Byron Scott points and five rebounds in his
Van Horn
Wizards to their Nets coach first game against his former
with 29 sec-
l'ourth consent­t1rnm as the Toronto Raptors
onds left
live dr.l'rml. beat the Houston Tior.kets 109­
before half-

KPith Van !lorn sr.ored 27. 103 on Wednesday night.
time,
Aaron Williams had 17. Kenyon Olajuwon. who played 31 min­
The Ntits received a. standing
Martin 14 and Jason Kidd added utes. was not much of a factor 
ovation over the final 30 sec­
11 points, 12 assists and five playing against the team he
onds of the first half from a
rrbounds for thr Nets. who had spent 17 seasons with before
crowd that was mostly com­
tlwir largest victory margin of the Raptors acquired him in the
prised of people who came to
lhP sPason. summer. 
see Jordan.
Jordan scored just 10 points Alvin Williams added 21
DP-spite having the best record
!'or Washington and sat out thn points for Toronto. which shot
in the East, the Nets arc ranked
<>ntirc sncond half as thP 56 percent from the field.
last in the NBA in attendance
Wizards vvnnl down Lo their Moochie Norris, filling in for
averaging only 10.839, and this
most lopsidPd d,~foat and had the ailing Steve Francis, had 28 
was their lirst sellout of the sea­
tlwir !01,vpst point total of' the points. The Rockets fell to 1-17 s.-ason. son. without Francis. who underwent
"For us to be ablP to match
NPw J,,rsey's onslaught began tests in Washington, D.C. for
last VPar's win total aflpr f37]
just s,\conds into thn gamP when recurring migraine headaches. 
gam~s. and to do it in front of
KPnyon '.Vlartin posted up The Raptors led by as many as
howrwcr many peopln this build­
against Jordan and bPat him !'or 18 points in the fourth quarter
ing holds. and to do it against
a dunk. Tlw Nets hit their first after Carter made a layup. but
the Washington Wizards. No
13 shots -six jump shots Houston narrowed the lead to
better way to do it," :'Jets coach
including two 3-pointc\rs. four one as Norris r,onverted a 3­
Byron Sc,;tt said an hour before
layups. two hook shots and point play, Eddie Griffin made
tipoff.
Martin's dunk -and did not r.onsecutive 3-pointers and
But even he r.ouldn't have
miss until Jordan blocknd Todd Norris made a jumper to make
imagined this good of a way.
MarCulloch's layup attPmpt with it 100-99 with 1 :53 remaining. 

ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books 
, -25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock -Out-of-Print search service .. f' -Appraisals large ond small · 
' ''· Open noon to six . Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 

233-1234 
Student Rate Fares, cowtesy Irish Cab. 
(219) 232-8444 

1-800-SURFS-UP
www.studentexpress.com 
~-=-==-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
-.,._-;;;;;-;;;;;-;;;;;-;;;;;-;;;;;-;;;;;-;;:-;;;~~=========~-==========~
At:a::¾ 
289-5080
<>a~~ Announces the Following Introductory Offers Of... 
e, r.o::~F;, r ;-2~, I ;5;, r $ti;-, r-;6;,
I Aveda I I Women's I I ('nlur.Cu1.t,,,,,. I I Men's Cut I I Hilites & I 
L !:t;! J I.:"!.:;,!Y!:J ~n:_:'::;e:.J L ~~e .J l:,"~!Y:J 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
Not valid for spiral perms, Long or tinted hair add $1 O. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. 
Valid -with the Follo.rrinJ Stylists Chly: 8arah, Vicki, Connie, Mirarna & Karol 
-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-
1\lust Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Arc Performed (Certain Restrictions Apply) 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Offer Expires 2/1/2002 
Antonio Davis followed with New York has now lost nine of two free throws with 1: 30 left, 11. Boston hasn't swept New giving Toronto a 3-point lead. York in a season series since Aflu Norris missed a layup. 1990-91. Jerome Williams made two free Houston had 28 points follow­throws to make it a fivH-point ing a career-high 44 points game with 29 seconds left. against Milwaukee last 
Griffen followed with another Saturday. 3-pointer. but Alvin Williams Strickland, who started in made two free throws to make it place of the injured Kenny a four-point game. Anderson, added 16 for the 
Houston's Osr.ar Torros made Celtics, who improved to 13-5 at one of two !'ree throws to cut the home. lead to three, but Carter made After the Celtics srnred on one of two with 10 seconds lef't. their first eight possessions to and Norris missed another take a 19-6 lead, the Knicks jumper. responded with a 25-8 run. 
CuLtino Mobley added 22 Shandon Anderson capped off points, and Kenny Thomas had the comeback with a pair of 3­20 for the Rockets, who have pointcrs to give the Knicks a 31­lost four straight road games. 27 lead. 
The Raptors, with Olajuwon Kurt Thomas and Sprewell on the bench, went on a 19-4 had 17 apiece for the Knicks, 4­run in the second quarter as 14 on the road. Jerome Williams scored eight In one first half stretch of points. Keon Clark's layup gave 4:28, the Celtics failed to score a Toronto a l 5-point lead. point and the Knicks Rventually 
Norris' 3-pointer off the back· built a 47-38 lead courtesy of 3­board narrowed Toronto's lead pointcrs by Houston and to nine, but Chris Childs made Sprewell. two free throws just before the end of the half. 
Bucks 105, Pacers 100
Olajuwon is the Rockets' all­
Ray Allen scored 36 points,
time leader in points, rebounds. 
including seven 3-pointers, and games. steals and blor,ked shots, 
Sam Cassell added 20 points
and helped lift Houston to back­
Wednesday night to lift the
to-back NBA championships in --.
Milwaukee Bucks to their sixth
1994-95. 
straight win. 105-100 over the Indiana Pacers. Celtics 101, Knicks 100 It was Milwaukee's second 
Paul Pierce had 30 points and consecutive victory over Tony Battie scored a career­Indiana, which fell 106-102 to high 20 as the Boston Celtics the Bucks on Tuesday night in beat New York 101-100 on Indianapolis. Wednesday night. extending the Milwaukee opened an 87-78 Knids' losing streak to six lead on Allens' 3-pninter with games. 7:33 left. but the Pacers 
Eric Williams hit the go-ahead answered with seven consecu­3-point shot with 32.9 seconds tive points, pulling within 87-85 remaining to give the Celtir,s a on Jalen Rose's 3-pointer from 98-96 lead. He then stole the the left corner with 6:19 ball from Allan Houston, which remaining. led to a free throw by Pierce. Two free throws by Cassell 
After Erick Strickland hit a put the Bur,ks up 100-95 with pair of free-throws, Kurt 28.3 seconds left, but Reggie Thomas hit a 3-pcinter with 4.2 Miller's 3-pointer made it 100­seconds remaining to pull the 98 with 24.6 seconds left. Knicks within one. The Celtics Milwaukee made five of' six successf'ully inbounded the ball. free throws in the final 20 ser,­though. and Latrell Sprewell onds to clinr,h the vir.tory. could not run down Pierce Miller had 27 points. Al before time expired. Harrington 18 and Rose 17 for 
The Celtics beat the Knicks for the Pacers, who lost their fourth the third time this season and straight. 
••••••••••••••••~•••••••••••e••••••••••~••••••••~
. 

• •• 
University Resources .., • for Gay, Lesbian, & • • Bisexual Students • 
• !i!iliii~iliiii,iiiililil •
• 

C0"'1MITTEE ON 
• 
GAY AND LESBIAN 

• 
STIJDENT NEEDS


•
•
•
• The Standing Committee on Gay and
•
• w 
Lesbian Student Needs 
•
• (Confidential information, education, and resourc~s) " 
• Contact. Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, orstudent
•
. 
members (see web site.for student contact info.) 
•,. •• Office of Campus Ministry 
•
•,. ("GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which • include prayer and discussion ofspiritual is!;ues; annual •
•
• retreat; library with relevant reading materials, :
•
• Contact· Fr J Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu, or :
•
. 
Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu : 
" .
" 
•,. • 
• University Counseling Center : (Individual counseling or a confidential support group} •
•
.. 
Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen :
•
• Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu !
• 
• For more infunnation, check out our web sire: http://www.nrl.edu/-scglso' • 
•• e •••••• Ill e •• ¦ Ill •• Ill ••••••• • b • a • • • 9 •• • • •• ._ ¦ • e ¦ • r ••• 
Thursday, January 17, 2002 
SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Irish rack up wins over break 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Spam Write, 
Under sunny skies and warmer temperatures. both the rnp,n's and women's swim teams added to their win columns during winter training trips. 
In a matchup between the women ·s team and the Universitv of' Iowa. the Irish wur~ 12 of 13 events at a meet in Honolulu, Hawaii. 
The meet event sched­ule featured non-official collegiate events, includ­ing 3-length races and shorter distance events. 
Carrie Nixon was the big winner for the Irish. winning three events. Nixon claimed victories in the 100-yard individ­ual medley. the 75-yard freestyle and 150-yard butterflv. 
Senio·r Allison Lloyd won two events, grab­bing the 7 5-yard breas­troke and butterf1y. 
Senior Kelly Becking won the 75-yard back­stroke. followed by sophomore Danielle Hulick in second and freshman Kristen 

PetPrson in third. Freshman Kelly Barton finished the day with a win in the 600-yard freestyle. 
In Plantation, Fla., the men's team won two meets during break. defeating both Xavier University and University of Maine 
Senior David Horak grabbed a win in the '100-yard backstroke. Jason Fitzpatrick won the 100-yard breastroke, and Andrew Pittman won the 50-yard freestyle. Senior Austin Anderson won the 100­yard freestyle. 
Othc r event winners included Matt Obringer in the 200-yard freestyle, David Moisan in the 200-yard individ­ual medley, Lucas Wymore in the 100-yard butterfly and Jonathan Pierce in the 500-yard freestyle. 
Both teams will com­pete this weekend. The women compete in the ND Dual Meet Jnvitational at Rolfs Aquatic Center Friday and Saturday, and the men will race Oakland Saturday at Rolfs. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
8-ball 
continued from page 24 

percent from beyond that arr. In other words, the Tigers scored a single three pointer out of 16 attempts. · 
"We expert11d them to be a three point shooting team. We shut them dl'lwn. Thai's what we had a forus on," said freshman forward Emily Creachbaum, who had 13 boards. 
At the end of' the first half'. the Belles led by just a point, 27-26. They got off lo a slow start at 1h11 bnginning of gamn, but as tim<l wont on they openAd up, started talking, and started scoring mon1. 
During the second half. Saint Mary's forused on driving the ball to the inside, using the Tigfirs lack of height to its advantage. The Belles only made four three point attompts in the second period after shooting 4-10 from beyond the arr before halftime. 
"We knew they didn't have a big start­ing lineup and that we had to get in the post more. Anne stepped it up a lot in the second half. she was hitting all her shots which was key," Smith said. 
Blair was flawless from the free throw line, shooting !l-5. Overall, Saint Mary's shot 87.5 percent from the line -a great improvement from the beginning of the season. Olivet's l'oul troubles enabled the B1~lles to shoot 2'1-23 from the free throw line in the second half. 
"We shoot free throws every day. I think people arr, stepping up to the line more confidently," Crea.chbaum said. 
Louisa Grill of Olivet had the most 
points of the game, with 28, but the 
Belles would not let her teammates scorn. 
especially in the second half. The Tigers 
went 9-15 from the field in the lirst half, 
but were limited to 12-35 in the second. 
"The hustle was there tonight. We real­ly wanted to win, and we needed to win," Miller said. 
Saint Mary's !'aces Adrian on Saturday. 
page 22 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Marlins expect third owner in five years 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX 
The Florida Marlins seemed set to get their third owner in f'ivc seasons after a group lrnaded by John llenry was given approval Wednns<lay to buy tlrn Boston Heel Sox. 
Before he ran close on his record $660 million deal in Boston, Henry must work out an agreemflnt to sell tho Marlins, the team be pur­chased in 1999. l le has been negotiating a $158 million salii to Jeffrey Loria, the cur­rrm t ownr.r of' the Montreal Expos, but the deal still isn't in writing yet. 
"We started with 357 deal points and we're down to eight," Expos executive vice president David Samson said. 
Loria, a New York art deal­er, would then sell the Expos back to the commissioner's office for $120 million. 
Loria is expected to bring much of his top staff to the Marlins, including Samson, interim general manager Larry Beinfest and manager Jeff Torborg. Florida has been without a GM and man­ager since the end of the sea­son. 
Samson. who intends to 
move to Florida if Loria 
arquires the Marlins. said it is too early to discuss staff issues. 
"Nothing in baseball is easy, and the excitement that .Jeffrey l'etds today is tem­p<)r('d only by the work that has to be done and will con­tinun to get done in order to get to a prompt closing," Samson said. "The message today to all the fans in Montreal and south Florida is thank you !'or your patience and understanding, and we look forward to addrnssing all the issues as they hap­pen. 
The Marlins have struggled since winning the World Series in just their fifth sea­son in 1997 and repeatedly havfl said they cannot survive without a new ballpark. Government financing. how­ever. has not materialized. 
H. Wayne Huizenga. who paid a $95 million expansion fee for the franchise but put the team up for sale shortly after it won the World Series at cut the payroll from $52.5 million -the fifth-highest in baseball that year -to 27th at $19.1 million. The Marlins went 54-108. the worst record ever for a defending champion and the poorest record in the National League sinre 1969. 

2002 STUDENT GOVERNMENT GENE L ELECTION PETITIONS NOW AVAILABLE!!! 
To All Potential Student Body PresidentNice-President Candidates: 
Petitions can be picked up from the Student Government Office 203 LaFortune 
All Candidates must get at least 300 signatures from undergraduate students By Noon on Wednesday, January 23. 
***There will be a MANDATORY MEETING for all candidates*** On Thursday, January 17, at 7 PM in the Student Government Office 
-------·_ -------------------------~ --j 
----------· ------­

Thursday, January 17, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

CROSSWORD  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS 1 "Blues Suite" choreographer 6 "Maze! !" 9 Cries 14 Minoan domain 15 Pay back? 16 Look for 17 About half of a team's schedule 19 Choice in decaf 20 Roxy Music co-founder 21 Legends 23 It may be thorny 24 Commercial prefix for winter products 26 Developmental  31 Get into, in a way 32 Start of several Keats titles 33 Nephew of King Arthur 36 Wallop 41 What a shrug may indicate 42 Like some rials 43 Heart chart: Abbr. 46 Some bracelets, briefly 47 Dracula's creator 48 Where winners pick up their awards 52 Antietam soldier  56 Kung_ chicken 58 Pekoe , production place 60 Stem's area 62 Actress Carter and others 63 Words of commitment 64 Friend of Alfalfa 65 Kind of letters hidden in 17-, 26-, 36-, 48­and 60-Across 66 Paper mate 67 Not sitting well? DOWN 1 Harbinger of tooth trouble  THURSDAY, JANUARY 17, 2002 CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Betty White, Jim Car­rey, James Earl Jones, Maury Pavich Happy Birthday: You will impress those around you with your colorful and unique approach to life. Yourjositive actions will bring goo results and you should be able to per­suade others to help you along the way. Your numbers are 9, 12, 24, 33, 36, 48 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will find it easy to research and lnvestigate anything that you have been questioning. Avoid secret affairs, regardless of the temptation. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20)): A generous, outgoing, knowl­edgeable approach will make you  partners or friends today. You'll do well working within large organizations that are fighting for a cause you believe in. 00 LIBRA (Sept 23-0cl 22): You are eager to get ahead in your chosen field and will rely on all the knowledge that you've acquired. You'll be giving, sensi­tive in your response to others, and will get the support you need.000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be intuitive today. Focus on yourself and your goals. Don't be afraid to ask for favors. Career changes look positive. 00000 SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You won't have a clear picture of your position or of your relation­ship today. You will have a ten­dency to avoid your responsibili­ 
windup 28 Stomach· sculpting set 30 Estuary  53 Left at sea 54 Unwelcome people at nudist colonies  2 One with exceptional endurance 3 Drink with a tinge of tartness  a true asset to any group that you join. Be prepared to face some opposition along the way. 0000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Unusual circumstances will evolve around work and with  ties, which will result in problems at work as well as with your part­ner. 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll be attracted to organiza­tions that deal with human issues  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  4 !t starts in juin 5 Itinerant burglar, slangily 6 Actress Marisa 7 Fake fat brand 8 Huge collection 9 Some degs. 10 Flooded 11 Classified 13 Pollen bearer 18 Canine clamor 22 More devious  irrationally 34 Part of N.C.A.A.: Abbr. 35 Twain forte 37 Wasn't given a choice 38 Share (in) 39 Poolroom items 40 Noel staple  47 Golf's 1998 U.S. 51 Enticed Women's Open 55 Float alternative winner_Pak 57 Less than 49 Scrabble spectacular10-pointer 59 Set a price of 50 Food processor feature 61 Whip Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:  those you work with. You· must avoid getting involved in your co­workers' personal problems. 00 CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make new friends if you participate in groups that interest you. Creative outlets will help ease your tension. 00000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have good fortune when it comes to your home and family. You will do well working from your home or running your mvn small business. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll have no problem attracting  that concern you. Mingle with people who can help you achieve your dreams, hopes and wishes. 0000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be tempted by get-rich­quick schemes today that will leave you cash poor if you aren't careful. Learn the value of a dol­lar. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put your efforts intc:> learning something new instead of trying to make changes at home. You should get involved in new social activities. 000  
25 "_sight!"  43 _ Forest (park near London)  1 ·900-420-5656 (95e per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the  Birthday Baby: You were born with intuitive insight into matters of truth. You possess a strong will and mental independence. You will  
28 Cry 29 Baked entree  44 Danish coins 45 Figure enhancer  best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  develop unusual friendships. You are generous to the people you care about. (Need advice7 Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,  
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.)  ·  

© 2002 UniveISa! Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-----------~~---------~---------------------------------------------------­


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensiblc link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address------------------­
..

City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
Campus Sports OIHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Swimming and Diving, p. 22 
. NBA, p. 21 
. 
NHL, p. 20 

. 
Major League Baseball, p. 14,22


PORTS 
Thursday, January 17, 2002 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Morale boosts Belles to 73-48 win over Olivet 
ByJOE LINDSLEY Spores Writer 
After losing four players ­including two captains -in just a few Wf'eks. most teams would have trouble coping. 
But Saint Marv's was not deterred by the recent loss as the team beat Olivet 73-48 for an MIAA victory Wednesday night at Anglea Athletic facility. 
Morale was boosted by the pres­ence of their former teammates at the game. Kristen Matha. Katie Christensen and Meghan Fitzgearald were all sidelined for the season due to injury, and Mary Campione left the team during the holiday break. 
"It's not like the girls have totally left us. Matha sat on the bench with us tonight. Katie and Megan were in the stands. They're still
..­
there." said senior forward Anne Blair. who led the Belles with 23 points. 
"I thought of it as a new start for our team. because we've had so manv hurdles to come over. We stepped it up a lot." said Katie Miller. who posted 19 points for the Belles. 
-"We have realized that it's hard with out them, but if we stay posi­tive. we can do it. The bench is big," added Miller. 
The Belles were expecting a fight from Olivet. especially because of its three-point shooting, but,they only allowed Tigers to shoot 15 percent from beyond the arc. In the second half. Olivet shot just 6.3 
see B-BALUpage22 
FENCING 
Irish remain undefeated with Walton's lead 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sporrs Wrirer 
The long-delayed debut of sophomore epeeist Kerry Walton highlighted an undefeat­ed weekend by the women's fencing team at the Northwestern Invitational. 
Walton, the top recruit in the class of 2004. was ruled acade­mically ineligible last season and did not fence for the Irish. In her first meN with the Irish. she showed why she is the No. 1-ranked junior women's epceist in the country. as she won all 11 of her bouts. 
"It was a long wait but it was definitely worth it." she said. 
Walton's 11 wins led the epee squad. which tallied 29 teams wins against Temple, Fairleigh Dickinson and Johns Hopkins. Junior epee captain Anna Carnick was right behind Walton with 10 wins and one loss. while All-American Meagan Call started the season with a 7-4 record. 
The women's foil and sabre squads also swept Temple, FDU and Johns Hopkins. The foil squad had the best weekend of any Irish weapon as they won 30 bouts -even without their top two fencers. 
Freshman foilists Alicjia Kryczalo and Andrea Ament did not fence in the meet because of a e-onflict with a senior World Cup event in Hungary. Junior Liza Boutsikaris and sophomore Maggie Jordan stepped up in the absence of the two top recruits. Boutsikaris appeared to put a rough 2001 season behind her, as she opened the season with 12 wins and no losses. 
Jordan also went undefeated with 11 wins despite switching from sabre to foil to fill in for the loss of the two freshmen. Last year Jordan fenced foil for the Irish and qualified for the NCAA Championship but switched back to sabre this year. 
Although she is considered a better sabre fencer than a foil foncer. she was flawless at her old weapon. 
"I didn't really know how read she was going to be," Boutsikaris said. "She did just as good as she did last year. I was pleased with that." 
Sophomore Destanie Milo opened the season undefeated at sabre for the Irish with a 10­0 record. 

"It felt real well. I was sur­prised to do as well as I did because I didn't practice as much as I should have over break." Milo said. "There was a little rust but there was a lot of things I didn't forget." 
Although the Irish said they were pleased with the three wins. they know tougher bouts lie ahead. 
"The first tournament wasn't the hardest tournament we had. It was probably one of' our easi­er ones," Walton said. "It's more of a warm up." 
The Irish return to action Jan. 27 at New York University against fop competition includ­ing defending national champi­on St. John's. The men's team will open it<; 2002 season at the NYU meet as well. 

Senior Anne Blair heads to the basket during the Belles' 73-48 MIAA victory over Olivet Wednesday night. 
TRACK 
Irish top Purdue Open 
By KATIE HUGHES 
~pons Wnicr 
The men's and wonrnn's trark teams turned in strong opening performances at the Purdue Open Saturday in West Lafayette. Ind 
Though team srores werr not kept at the meet. the Irish set the bar high for the rest of thn indoor season with a com­bined six first place f'inislrns. 
On thf' wompn's side. thP Irish dominatf'd the 400 nrnters, claiming the first 
three  places.  Freshman  
Tiffany Gunn  won  the racf' in  
58.32,  followed  by junior  

Kymia Love in second (58.40). Sophomore Kristen Dodd fin­ished third in 58.44. Gunn then finished third both in the preliminaries and in the finals of the 60 meter hurdles. 
Tameisha King jumped 19-6 1/2 in the long jump. taking first place in thf' evPnt. Sophomore Ayesha Boyd fin­ished second in the 60 metPrs in 7.70. which was a personal best performance. Boyd then won the 200 meters in 24.18. 
SophomorP Kevin Somok IPd the Irish middlfl distance run­ners in the 800 meters. win­ning the racp in 1:57.(>7. Junior Doug Gunzelman was next in 1:58.52, followed by Colin Quinn in third (1:59.28) and Geof Rudziewicz in firth (1 :59.61 I. 
The Irish also showed thf1ir strength in the distance events. as sophomore Kevin Avenius won the 1600 meters in 4:19.62. f.'reshman Eric Morrison was third (4:22.95). while senior Tom Lennon took seventh (4:26.391. 
In the early indoor compPti­tion, some talPnted freshmen found their place as tPam scorers in their first rollegiate races. Freshman Trevor McClain-Duer ended up fourth in the 400. Selim Nurudeen had two top-three finishes in the 60-meter hurdles. 
In the field events for the men, Junior Tom Gilbert won tho long jump with a jump of 22'-10", and senior Quill Hedwine took sPcond on thP triple jump. 
Derrik Dyer finish11d fifth in both the shot put preliminar­ies and finals. 
. Women's Swimming, Friday, 6 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Men's Hockey vs. Nebraska-Omaha, Friday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 

ontine classifieds 
. Men's Basketball vs. Kentucky, Saturday, noon 
AT AGLANCE http://www.nd.edu/~observer 



