
Pat McGee Band shines with passionate performance
MOSTLY 
Tuesday

The band mesmerized their audience Friday night its unique blend of
SUNNY 
classic rock, country, pop and blues. McGee pleased the crowd by 
APRIL 23,

throwing out Oreos and offering to sign autographs for fans after the concert. 
HIGH 38° 
2002
Scene . page 11

LOW30° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 129 



Investor Buffet to speak at Joyce Center today 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Organizers expect a talk today at Notre Dame by world­famous businessman Warren Buffett to attract several thou­sand people. 
The talk, 
A Conversation with Warren Buffet." is free and open only to Notre Dame students. faculty and staff. It is at 11 a.m. in the Joyce Center arena. 
At Buffett's request. the event also will be closed to all news media. except The Observer, and no one may record his comments. Anyone attending the speech must show a Notre Dame identification card at the door. 
"[The restrictions are] for the benefit of the academic atmos­phere of the event," said Mary Hamann. manager of adminis­tration and operations in the Mendoza College of Business, the sponsor of the event. "Mr. Buffett wants to be able to speak freely and at times off the cuff and not worry about his words immediately going on the news." 

Buffett, often called "The Oracle of Omaha," is well­known as the world's most suc­cessful stock market investor. He is chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., an Omaha, Neb.-based firm with holdings in excess of $2 billion. 
Buffett's 90-minute appear­ance will include a brief open­ing statement from the 70­year-old entrepreneur followed by a Q-and-A session with the audience. 
Officials expect between 1,500 and 2,000 people to attend the event, according to Hamann. Organizers originally considered holding the event in the 325-seat Jordan Auditorium but eventually set­tled on the Joyce Center arena, which holds more than 11,000 people. 
"We believe there is a lot of interest in Mr. Buffet and want to make sure that everyone who wants to attend can attend," Hamann said. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 




Holy Cross nuns advocate peace 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
Aline Marie Steuer, president of the Sisters of the Holv Cross, and Joan Marie Steadman, Saint Mary's chair of the Board of Trustees, discussed the importance violence has in society, whether at a personal level or globally, during their presentation "A Call to Peace: Faith and Hope in the Face of Terrorism." 
The Holy Cross Sisters were signatories of a recent docu­ment that explores ways of connecting faith to the current situation involving the United States and Afghanistan. Steadman and Steur have also written articles for various publications on how military budgeting takes away from funds for people's basic social needs. 
"They are women of peace. women who have strong voices and lead by example," said Jan Pilarski, director of the Justice Education Program. 
Sisters of the Holy Cross, administrators, students and faculty were gathered for the discussion bringing a sense of community to the discussion. Steadman involved the audi­ence by allowing everyone to reflect on their own definitions of violence and non-violence and then sharing their defini-


Students try for tree hug record 
the phrase, "Making a world Jennifer Slavick, an NDSEA 
By GEREMY CARNES 

of difference right here under member. explained how the 
News Writer 

the Golden Dome." Members organization came up with the 
of NDSEA solicited students on idea for the tree hug. "We 
"If you can't hug a tree, their way to the dining hall to were just trying to think upwhat can you hug?" a student participate in the tree hug. ideas for [Earth Week]," she outside North Dining Hall The students surrounded a said. "Someone came up with asked Monday evening. At tree on North Quad and held the idea, somewhat jokingly, least 33 Notre Dame students hands for a moment before to set a record for hugging a proved that rushing for­tree. We researched it and they shared ward to hug found out none existed, so we his sentiments "I think Notre Dame the tree. A decided to try it." when they · few more While the group is hopeful
students are aware of
joined in what students that GBWR will accept the 
some ofthe bigger 
they hope will who were record, the record was not the be declared [environmental] issues, passing by main purpose of the tree hug.the world's but there are smaller joined the "[The tree hug] is just to largest tree hug when increase environmental
issues to deal with on
hug. they real­awareness on campus," 
The record­campus. ized what Slavick said. setting tree was hap­Other participants shared hug was a pening. The Slavick's view that spreading
Paul Quinlan
kick-off for a final count environmental awareness
Environmental Science major 
series of Earth for the hug among Notre Dame students is Week events was 33 stu­important and necessary. designed to dents. "I think Notre Dame stu­promote environmental "(The largest tree hug] dents are aware of some of the '· awareness on campus, spon­doesn't exist in the Guinness bigger [environmental] issues, sored by Notre Dame Students Book of World Records but there are smaller issues to for Environmental Action (GBWR) right now," said Kevin deal with on campus," said (NDSEA). Allen, secretary for NDSEA. Paul Quinlan, an environmen­
At 6 p.m. Monday evening, "We'll send it in to IGBWR] tal science major who joined students gathered outside and tell them how it fits into the hug. North Dining Hall around the [the environmentall section of NDSEA banner, which bore the book." see TREE HUG/page 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 



Group holds final meeting of the year 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance held its last meet­ing of the year today as many students came to request funds for conferences and projects. 
Megan Gamble requested $300 for her senior theatre comprehensive "The Most Massive Women Wins" because she is expected to cover the cost of the production. The Board decided to allot her $100. 
Alison Ashley and Kristen Carrigen, Justice Education Club officers. also requested funds for two students, Laura Porto and Elizabeth Dezenzo, to be participants in the "Catholic Social Teaching Internship" this summer. They asked for $1,500 as a group but since it is only for two students the Board decided to grant 
them $600, the maximum 
amount any individual student 
can request. 
"I feel like BOG is tuck in this 
cycle of students wanting to d, 
these wonderful things but the 
make it BOG's responsibility t 
fund them," said Kriste Matha, student trustee. "I thin · as BOG we need to make 
statement to the departmen: 
that if they want to genera1 
opportunities they need to he: 
fund them." 
Hayley Dawson also reques 
ed funds for the annual Psi Cl 
the National Honor Society 
Psychology, Midwest conve1 
tion that occurs in Chicai 
each year. 
In past years, students ha· 
always covered their own cos1 
This year the seven presente 
and three non-presente 
requested that BOG cover ti 
see BOG/pag, 

tions with each other. Steur then began her lecture on the different levels of violence that exist, using Gandhi's definition as a basis. 
"Violence is the killing of human beings, like a plague, that humanity has inflicted on itself," Steuer said. "We learned to trust the bomb in order to gain peace." 
Steuer recognizes that non­violence means are more diffi­cult when violence surrounds us in our cities and has become so popular. 
"We all have violence in our heart, it is the spirituality of 
see PEACE/page 4 


QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
'The Duke game was unbelievable. Unfortunately we didn't come out with a win. As a team we did the best we've ever done. Defensively, I've never been so proud. "  "We'll continue to revisit this issue until we believe that students are able to contribute to policy at Notre Dame. "  "The credit all goes to our players. They came back and they fought and they got hits when we needed them. "  
Jen White women's lacrosse player on the loss to Duke in triple overtime  Pat Hallahan student government chief of staff on the goal of the Bishop-Foley administration to give students input in Universizy policy changes  Paul Mainieri Irish baseball coach on the 10-9 victory over Central Michigan  

Compiled from U·Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Intoxicated students start riots again at Ohio State 
COLUMBUS, Ohio around the university district. who 
fior the second straight year. house suffered a broken jaw after being hit parties on Chittenden Avenue esca­in the face by a flying object. Another lated into a full riot early Sunday officer was injured so severely police morning. thought he had been shot. 
Sunday morning's off-campus dis­"Ile went down so fast," said Sgt. turbance occurred on the one-year Earl Smith. spokesman for the anniversary of the 2001 Chittenden Columbus Division of Police. "He was riot. About 40 Columbus Police offi­hit in the back by a bottle or a rock cers, dressed in full riot gear and gas or something." One dumpster fire masks. pushed their way down was set. windows were broken and Chittenden Avenue from Summit numerous cars were damaged Street toward High Street around 1 severely. 
a.m. The evening began with a long 
The action was an attempt to clear Standing in a cloud of tear gas, one line of house parties, named several hundred individuals, many man yelled, "Come on. take me." "Chittfest" by area residents, intoxicated, who had congregated in Several minutes later, thick plumes between High Street and Indianola the street. They had stopped traffic, of tear gas rose from the area. Avenue. They were relatively con­climbed on top of parked cars and Police arrested 26 people, including tained at 10:30 p.m, with traffic still tossed bottles and cans onto the 13 OSU students. Twelve police offi­moving down the street. Most revel­street. cers were injured, including Suzanne ers stayed inside temporary orange 
Individuals, many of them Ohio Curmode, commander of the area fences put up by party hosts. 


5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, April 23. 
FRONTS: 
......... ----­
COLD WARM STATIONARY
C 2002 AecuWeather Inc. 
Prt11um: '(-~
® © B ~ ITII ~ !ill ~ 0 '@$, ,i~, 
HJgh Low Show•r ¦ R•ln T-•rorm• FlurrfH Snow 1¢• Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Asaoc1atmJ P/"f:1Sti 
AUanta 74 54 Las Vegas 89 62 Portland 60 38 Baltimore 60 38 Memphis 78 62 Sacramento 84 52 Boston 48 40 Milwaukee 55 49 St. Louis 73 60 Chicago 60 46 New Yori< 54 42 Tampa 87 66 Houston 76 53 Philadelphia 44 27 Washington 60 42 
State University students, taunted the police as they moved down the street with hand gesturing, flashing and chants of "Bring it on." 



INSIDE COLUMN 
Eulogy for a fallen comrade 
Although l only got to know you in one night, in that time period, we shared each others deepest secrets and hidden aspira­tions. Both of us grew in the wisdom we had 
to offer each other and I  
knew we would be  Justin Krivickas  
friends for life. But that  
was not meant to be. Like a baby taken away from its mother's bosom, I  News Copy Editor  
admit I wailed when I  

couldn't be near you anymore. 
Your only flaw was that you happened to be a bar. Yes, a bar, not the building I am too young to enjoy but the tangible counter and all its glory. 
You came to me while I was volunteering for Christmas in April, and I will be damned if I ever forget the day. You were being dis­carded like a soiled overcoat, but I spotted you like a diamond in a rough while you sat in a backyard patio praying to the sun God and hoping for a savior. I do not claim to be the one who became that liberator and saved you from the clutches of a garbage truck, but once your life was placed in our hands and into the back of a Dodge Caravan, you whis­pered to me and I became entranced on your black coating. 
Once bathed and given new finery, you stood in our room perched like a gargoyle surveying a new den, watching over and pro­tecting the revelers within. We treated you like a God although it was us who should have been your God, and we danced around your enclave like a tribe performing a cere­monial rite to appease your holiness. 
A gift that kept on giving. you bequeathed to us a nylon kite and a dated letter from 1978 which we planned to laminate and give immortality to by pasting on the surface of your sleek finish. 
Until the hour of five, we basked in your glory and showered you with praise and spent time planning out your college career for the next three years. Through housing textbooks by day and necessities by night, you were going to be the haven for every lewd joke imaginable and becoming a sanc­tuary for all mankind to congregate. Yet, it was not meant to be. 
When I awoke at the hour of two, your fate was already sealed and a sentence handed out. Please do not be angry with us. We worked hard to obtain a stay of execution, but all efforts were thwarted. Deportation precedings were underway, and there was nothing we could do. I ate one last meal on your counter top, hands extended on your padded armrest and feet firmly implanted against your footrest and wept. 
Although you had only been with us for 14 priceless hours. what you gave me will never be forgotten, I will carry my head high knowing that you are still out there somewhere waiting for our reunion. Perhaps someday we will meet again. All I know is that you have gone to a better place: Turtle Creek. 
God bless you and all your future patrons, and may you spread the love that we shared together to others forever and ever. You will be missed by all of us you helped to enlighten. 
Contact Justin Krivickas atjkrivick@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards icselfas a professional publication and strives for rhe highesr standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please concacc us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofthe A.'1ociatcd Pre,,. All reproduction righr. arc reserved. 
BROWN UNIVERSITY 
Students join protest in Washington 
PROVIDENCE, R.l. 

A contingent of about 60 Brown University students joined the thousands of protestors who convened Saturday in Washington, D.C.. to oppose globalization, the Israeli invasion of Palestine and U.S. military involvement in wars abroad. Members of a variety of campus groups rode a bus and cars to the capital to par­ticipate in the protests, participating students said. The protest attracted an estimated 75,000 people, according to Washington, D.C., police estimates. The protestors said they were objecting to an array of actions, includ­ing Israel's occupation of Palestine and the policies of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. The students said the rally was very peaceful, especially in comparison to the violence that has marred other anti­globalization protests since Seattle in 1999. An informal student group called A20 Mobilization organized the transportation from campus to Washington, D.C. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Feingold demands global AIDS fund 
MADISON, Wis. 
Members of the Student Global AIDS Campaign met at the University of Wisconsin-Madison this weekend for the 2002 North Central Conference, highlights of which included speakers Sen. Russ Feingold, D-Wis., and Olympian Isaac Menyoli. The SGAC, part of a nonprofit organization called Global Justice, seeks to end global AIDS through wide-spread education about the disease and persuasion of the U.S. government to take an active interest in the subject. Feingold said he was "astonished" by the activism of the student generation. According to Feingold, who spoke to a crowd of about 100 Saturday afternoon, attitudes in Congress are changing in regards to the AIDS epidemic as a result of "dedicated grassroots efforts." The conference was partly to familiarize stu­dents with the organization and its cause. In addition to speakers, the conference included workshops on improv­ing media relations and lobbying congressional offices. 
........ 

Tuesday, April 23, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Malloy to receive honorary diploma 

Thursday, April 25th at 6:30pm in DBRT 126 
Dr. Dennis M. Nigro, MD, F ACS, FICS 
will give a talk: 
Surgical Volunteerism a Mechanism for Improving Lives. He has been in aesthetic plastic surgery practice since.1979 and is certified by the American Board ofPlastic Surgery. 
Dr. Nigro is t/ze Founder and Chairman ofthe Medical Counsel/or Fresh Start Surgical Gifts, Inc., which is endorsed hy the University ofNotre Dame and chaired by Father Theodore Hesburgh. This charitable organizati01z provides reco11structive surgery to children who suffer from birth defects and other operable deformities. 
Fresh Start has received two Presidential awards: In 1992 Fresh Start was honored as one ofPresident George Bush's "Points ofLight," and in 1993 the "Presidential 
Volunteer Action Award," the highest award given in the United States, and the only one bestowed in California from President Clinton. Dr. Nigro was named the 1992 recipient ofNotre Dame University's Thomas Dooley Award. This prestigious award is given annually to an alumnus ofthe University in recognition ofoutstanding service to mankind. Dr. Nigro is the first physician to be so honored. In 1994, Dr. Nigro was awarded the Moose Krause Award by the University of Notre Dame 
Monogram Club (Varsity Letter) as its "Man ofthe Year". 

•

anov1c 
Erasmus Institute •
nst1tute 
for European Studies 
Invite you to a cosponsored lecture ... 
Hartmut Lehmann 
Director; Max Planck Institute for History, Gottingen 
Missionaries Without Empire: The Case ofthe Germans, 1914-1939 
4 p.m. Wednesday April 24 Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center 
Special to the Observer 
University President Father Edward Malloy will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree from Barry University in Miami Shores, 
Fla., during its com­mencement ceremonies May 11. It will be his 13th such honor. 
N o tr e 

D am e • s Malloy 16th presi­dent, Malloy was elected by the Board of Trustees in 1986. Now in his third five-year term. he has led the University at a time 
of rapid growth in its reputation, faculty and resources. During his tenure, Notre Dame's faculty has increased by more than 350, the academic quality of the student body has improved dramatically, and the number of minority stu­dents has more than doubled. 
The University's $2.9-billion endowment is among the top 20 in higher education, and its recently completed "Generations" capital campaign raised $1.1 billion, by far the most successful in the history of Catholic higher education and just the 12th billion-dollar cam­paign ever for a private universi­ty. 
Malloy has been a driving force behind efforts to promote community service and combat substance abuse. A member of the advisory board of AmeriCorps and the National Civilian Community Corps, he also is a founding director of the Points of Light Foundation, a member of the board· of gover­nors of the Boys and Girls Clubs ofAmerica, and a member of the Indiana Community Service and Volunteer Committee and the Indiana Commission on Community Service. 
In combating substance abuse, Father Malloy has served as a member of numerous organiza­tions, including the National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the President's Advisory Council on Drugs, the Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America, the Governor's Commission for a Drug-Free Indiana. and the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University. He also currently serves as co-chair of the subcommittee on college drinking of' the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, a component of the National Institutes of' Health, and chairs the National Commission on Substance Abuse and Sports for CASA. 
Fou.nded in 1940, Barry University is an independent, coeducational Catholic interna­tional institution that fosters academic distinction in the liber­al arts and professional studies within the Judeo-Christian her­itage and the tradition of St. Dominic. 
Labor secretary to meet with ND students 
Special to the Observer 
Elaine Chao, U.S. secretary of labor. will meet with students in Notre Dame's Washington Program today in the 
Department of Labor. She will be joined by Ann Combs, assistant secretary of the Pension a n d 

W e 1f a r e Chao Benefits Administration. 
Chao, who received an hon­orary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1998, is the nation's 24th labor secretary, and the first Asian-American woman to be appointed to a presidential Cabinet. Her previ­ous government career includes service as the deputy secretary and deputy maritime adminis­trator of the Department of Transportation. She also has served as director of the Peace Corps and as president and chief executive officer of United Way of America. Before becom­ing the nation's 24th secretary of labor. she was a fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a Washington-based public policy institute. 
A graduate of Mount Holyoke College, Chao holds an M.B.A. degree from the Harvard Business School. She is married to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. 
Chao will be the principal speaker at Saint Mary's com­mencement ceremonies May 18. 


page 4 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 23, 2002 
Peace 
continued from page 4 
the modern world," Steuer said. "Non-violence is a princi­ple underlying all human life and it must become a way of life to promote God's reign so that we may learn what it means to be human in this reign of violence." 
The Justice Education Office of the Sisters of the Holy Cross 

-BOG 
continued from page I 
cost of $1,109 for the conven­tion. 
"These are students looking at graduate school and they get published through this," said Kim Jensen, student body presi­dent. "This really is not a big fee to ask for." 
The Board passed the motion to grant ~he Psi Chi students the full request of funds. 
Nicole Haebrle also requested funds to create unified Saint Mary's shirts for incoming fresh­man and transfer students to wear during orientation next year. This is the first time a uni­fied shirt will be created for an incoming class. 
"The orientation comrflittee wants to increase pride in Saint Mary's," Haebrle said. "We want to create a shirt for the fresh­man to wear to the Saturday night function at Notre Dame during orientation." 
The Board voted unanimously to grant the requested funds of 
Tree Hug 
continued from page I 
"Everyone thinks everyone else is doing something instead of doing something themselves," said Alan Mackiewicz, another partici­pant. 
"There's not really an awareness of a lot of the big issues facing Congress right now," said NDSEA co-presi­dent Kathi Jo Jankowski. Erich Eschmann, NDSEA's other co-president, said that the rest of the events that NDSEA is sponsoring this week have an "educational purpose" and are intended to boost environmental aware• ness on campus. 
Lectures will be held Tuesday and Wednesday at 7 
p.m. 
and Thursday at 5:30 

p.m. 
in Montgomery Theatre 


has been trying to spread this message world wide through its congregation and by using pub­li cations. More information about the mission of non-vio­lence can be found on the web­site www.cscsisters.org. 
"It is our hope that our study, prayer and efforts on the behalf of justice recognizes active non­violence responses," Steadman said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
$2,205 to the orientation com­mittee in order to create the shirts. The shirts will be the same design as used this past year for Saint Mary's pride week. . 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, stu­dent body vice-president and Student Academic Council Coordinator, also spoke about the campaign this week for the proposed extra study day prior to finals. Surveys will be avail­able in the dinning hall and will also be sent through e-mail to find out student's position on the proposed extra study day. At least 7 50 students need to fill out the survey to show faculty that there is student interest. 
"Faculty want to see actual data, to see what students really feel about the study day," Jablonski-Diehl said. 
At the conclusion of the meet­ing, the BOG's preliminary bud­get was presented to the Board and came to a total of $215,250. for the 2002-2003 school year. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
in LaFortune. Topics will include the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste storage site proposal and global climate change. On Wednesday at 4:45 p.m., Father Theodore Hesburgh will preside over the annual Earth Day mass in the Grotto. 
Saturday is the Earth Day Celebration from noon to 5 
p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. "There are going to be all sorts of environmental organi­zations there, both campus­wide and community-wide," said Eschmann. "We want to celebrate the community and all the different people who arc helping the environment," said Jankowski. 
The event will feature live bands and free tie-dying. Reusable Grab 'n' Go bags will be sold for $3 each. 
Contact Geremy Carnes at gcarnes@nd.edu. 

Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631-5323. 

Get Involved Today! 
Silver Wings 
A Nationa1, co-ed Service Organization's new branch on the ND/SMC Campus is 
Calling for interested leaders for Fall '02 
Scholarships! Awards! National Conclaves! -Patriotism~Leadershlp-Service-
Info Session ; Wednesday 7:l5PM Badin Hall Social Space *free food..,.. 
Erasmus Institute University of Notre Dame Gender Studies Program and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Invite you to a cosponsored lecture ... 

Ana Marfa Stuven 
Professor ofHistory and Political Science 
Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile 
Women's Voices & Representations: 19th-century Chile 
12 noon Wednesday April 24, 2002 Room 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

If you would like to attend, please send an e-mail to erasmus@nd.edu So we can send you a copy ofthe paper prior to the seminar 

ATION 
Tuesday, April 23, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Afghan rebel leader dies: Maulvi Mohammed Nabi Mohammedi, an Afghan militia leader who battled the Soviets and vis­ited the White House in the l 980s, died Monday in Pakistan. Mohammedi's group, Harakat-e-Inqilab Islami Afghanistan, was one of seven Afghan guerrilla groups support­ed by the United States and other Western nations to wage an independence war against the invading Soviet Union during the 1980s. 
Indian death toll rises: Two people were killed Mondayin religious strife between Hindus and Muslims in western India, bring­ing to 20 the number of dead in two days of clashes. At least 105 have been injured since Sunday. Several neighborhoods in Ahmadabad, the commercial hub of the state of Gujarat. were under siege Monday as Hindus and Muslims clashP-d and set homes and businesses on fire. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Cowboy yodeler settles Yahoo! suit: 
Wylie Gustafson can really shout "Yahoo!" now. The cowboy yodeler from Dusty, Wash., has settled his copyright infringement lawsuit against Internet giant Yahoo! Inc. over the use of his distinctive yodel in its national advertising. His yodel will continue to be fea­tured on Yahoo! advertising. 
Young girl molested and stabbed: 
An 8-year-old girl was sexually assaulted and stabbed several times in the neck by an intruder in her home, leaving her critically wounded, police said. Two adults were asleep in the home Sunday morning when the assailant broke in, entered the girl's bedroom and attacked her. The girl's father told police he found his daughter wounded after he returned from driving his girlfriend to work. Police said the girl told her father she had been raped. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Chrysler plant guilty of pollution: 
Two former supervisors at a Chrysler plant in Kokomo have been fined and sentenced to home detention for ordering the dumping of industrial oil coolant into the city's sewer sys­tem. Henry L. Hall, 56, of Sharpsville, pleaded guilty last week to two counts of negligent vio­lations of the federal Clean Water Act, the 
U.S. attorney's office said. Federal law required the coolant oil be pretreated by Chrysler before its discharge into the public sewers, but a clogged sewer line inside the plant caused the coolant to mix with sewage. 
Market Watch April 22 

Dow 
10,136.43 -120.68 
Jones 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -32.94 -1.97 4,01 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -5.36 -0.49 8.66 ERICSSON LM-ADR (ERICY)-22.60 -0.80 2.74 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -2.52 -0.87 33,59 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -2.56 -0.39 14.87 
FRANCE 

Associated Press 
PARIS 
With words of shock and shame over Jean-Marie Le Pen's stunning showing, French political leaders of all stripes tucked away their differences Monday and threw support behind President Jacques Chirac in an attempt to thwart the extreme right's bid for power. 
"It is the honor of our country that is at stake," said Dominique Strauss­Kahn, former finance min­ister and spokesman for defeated Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, explaining why he would 
support the conservative 
Chirac. 
He was joined by a host 
of other defeated presiden­
tial hopefuls and their 
allies, all still not quite 
able to believe that Le Pen, 
a man who once called 
Nazi gas chambers a 
"detail of history," had 
outpolled all but Chirac in 
Sunday's first round to 
advance to the presidential 
runoff. 
At a news conference 
Monday, Le Pen declared 
himself "the candidate of 
the French people against 
the candidate of the sys­
tem." . "The French by their 
sovereign power decided to shake up our current system," he said. 
Le Pen's second-place finish was a crushing blow to the political left and to Jospin, prime minister for the last five years, who declared the results a "thunderbolt"and announced his resignation from politics. Jospin had been universally expected to advance to the May 5 runoff against Chirac. 
The results brought thousands of anti-Le Pen demonstrators into the streets of France's major cities Sunday night, with police in Paris using tear gas to disperse marchers heading for Chirac's Elysee Palace. 
Spontaneous demonstra­tions continued Monday, especially among the young, in Marseille, Strasbourg, Paris, Toulouse and other cities. "F like fascist, N like Nazi," some cried in Lyon, playing on the initials of Le Pen's National Front party. 
PoHs predict Chirac will crush Le Pen in the runoff. Still, that wasn't enough to blunt the shock waves reverberating through France. 
"NO,"cried the leftist daily Liberation on its front page. "The shock" was the headline of Le Parisien. 

Gore criticizes Bush on environment 
tisan national consensus to improve more," Bush said. 

Associated Press 
our environment, the Bush administra­Gore said Bush's "clean skies" initia­

NASHVlLLE tion has chosen to serve the special tive would ultimately allow more emis­
Al Gore used Earth Da:y to unleash interests instead of the public interests sions than permitted under current his harshest criticism of President Bush and to subsidize the obsolete, failed law. since losing the White House to him, approaches of the past instead of the ''What kind of world are we building saying Lhe administration's environ­exciting new solutions of the future." when parents of little leaguers have to mental policies serve "special interests The speech countered one given ear­be more worried about them catching instead of public interests." lier in t.he day by Bush, who briefly their breath than catching a fly ball?" 
"America is only as healthy as the air hiked the snowy Adirondack Mountains Gore said. "Yet instead of working to our children breathe, the water they in New York before calling for manda­reduce air pollution, the Bush adminis­drink and the earth they will inherit," tory limits on the power plant emis­tration's so-called 'clean skies' initiative Gore told about 200 Vanderbilt sions that cause the acid rain that actually allows more toxic mercury, University students and environmental plagues the picturesque region. nitrogen oxide and sulfur pollution activists Monday. The 1990 Clean Afr Act amendments than if we enforce the laws on the 
"But instead of embracing the bipar-were a start, "now we should do books today." 



Center or Socia{ Concerns 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

c!fflJ)ID)nmf£~
CONCERNS 

http://centeriorsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: M-F 8AM-10PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
El Salvador Mini-Conference Transforming Church: Base Christian Communities Past and Future Tuesday, April 23rd 7:00 to 9:30 PM C103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Join us for the completion of a mini-conference developed by students and faculty in THEO 463: Church and Society in El Salvador, sponsored by the Depmtment of Theology, the Center for Social Concerns, and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. Hear the fruits ofactive research in El Salvador. Contact the Center for Social Concerns for more infom1ation. 
Current Volunteer Needs ND Students for Environmental Action 
Taste of the Game -Sat., 5/4 12:30·6 at ND Sarah Cullinan• sbcullinan@yahoo.com 
invites all students, staff and f acuity to attend 
This hands-on sports experience day hosted by 
this year's unique array Earth Week events: 
Share our Strength, an anti-hunger association, is 
looking for volunteers to join Notre Dame 
coaches and athletic professionals in Lhe fight TUESDAY, APRIL 23 7:00pm, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune: Join Dr. Peter Burns and 
against hunger. Volunteers needed to assist with 
Dr. Kristin Shrader-Frechette as they explore the science and philosophy of the 
set-up, water stations, directions, registration, box 
controversial Yucca Mountain nuclear waste storage site proposal. 
meals, and clean-up. Take a break from studying 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24 4:45pm, Grotto: Fr. Hesburgh will say the annual Earth Day 
for finals to participate in this worthy cause. 
mass. 7:00pm, Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune: Dave Herrington from Republicans for 
Spring Cleaning for two Sr. Citizens Environmental Protection will present: "Conservation IS Conservative." This is an 
Grady & Ideria Thompson -234•0300 
incredible presentation, so don't let this opportunity pass. This elderly couple is looking for some students 
THURSDAY, APRIL 25 5:30pm, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune: GLOBAL CLIMATE to help them with some spring-cleaning projects 
CHANGE PANEL. Join the current director of the United Nations Environment 
including: cleaning out their basement & garage Program and 6 other professors from anthropology, biology, architecture, engineering, law, and cutting their grass (they have a lawn mower). 
and business backgrounds as they convene to discuss global climate change. It is rare, yetThey live at 1241 E. Madison St. 
crucial, to hold discussions of this magnitude. Please be a part of this special event. Tutor for 9 yr. old -Tina Johnson -233-7665 
SATURDAY.APRIL 27 Fieldhouse Mall, 12-Spm: EARTH DAY CELEBRATION. 
She is looking for a tutor to assist her 9 year old Environmental Organizations and bands are coming in from campus and elsewhere around with her homework in reading, english, and the state oflndiana. Stop by for five minutes of a few hours. We have five hours of FREE live social studies. She can bring her daughter to ND music lined up, FREE tie-dye, GRAB N GO BAGS, and FREE frisbees. 
if the tutor would like to meet with her on campus. 
***If you have any questions about these 

Attention: 
volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu *** 
SENIORS who are participating in 


Senior Send Off 
POST-GRAD SERVICE 

Picture-Taking Evening Please be sure to register for the 
Wednesday, April 24 4:30-6:00 
SENIOR SERVICE at the Center for Social Concerns 
~ , SEND-OFF ,Q ,
. 

We would like to take group photos which will be displayed in 
~\-~. . .....,.,\ ..... 

Washington Hall on the day of the Send-Off (May 18). Please come at 
:. t You are invited to this event :: ( 

the following times -or if you can't make the time come anytime 
\ hosted by the CSC during ~ 

between 4:30 and 6! Refreshments will be served. 
£', commencement weekend to /,

4:30 -Holy Cross Associates 
honor all seniors who are

4:40 -Programs to be determined group 
planning to commit to service/

4:45 -AmeriCorps 
social awareness programs and 4:50 -Jesuit Volunteer Corps 


internships. The event is a4:55 -PLACE, EPICS, PACE wonderful opportunity for 
5:00 -Peace Corps 
5:05 -Nativity Prep 
students and families to meet 

5:10 -Puerto Rico Program 
and support each other and to be 

5:15 -Farm of the Child 
honored by the Center's staff 5:20 -Teach for America and Fr. Monk Malloy.

5:30-ACE 
5:45 -All other programs 
Sign up at the CSC or email 
shappell.1@nd.edu 

The CSC is still looking for a few student assistants for next year. Inquire at the CSC's Front Desk for more information. 


Tuesday, April 23, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
University to award 11 honorary degrees 
Special to the Observer 
Eleven distinguished figures from the fields of education, the arts, science, engineering, busi­ness, civic affairs and law and a Catholic cardinal, will join prin• cipal speaker Vicente Fox, presi­dent of Mexico, as honorary degree recipients at the University of Notre Dame's 157th Commencement exercises May 19. 
Degrees will be conferred on some 1,800 undergraduate and 550 advanced degree candidates in ceremonies beginning at 2 
p.m. in the Joyce Center on cam­pus. 
Fox will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. Other honorary degree recipients are: 
. 
Margaret Bent (doctor of fine arts) -The first woman to be appointed a senior research fel­low at All Souls College, Oxford, Bent has been a leading scholar in medieval music for more than three decades. She previously taught at Brandeis and Princeton Universities and served from 1984-86 as presi­dent of the American Musicological Society. 

. 
The Lord John Browne of Madingley (doctor of laws) ­Group chief executive of BP Amoco, Lord Browne first joined the British Petroleum Company in 1966 after earning a degree in physics from Cambridge University. He served for more than 30 years in a wide variety of exploration, production and senior management positions until his appointment as group 


chief executive of BP in 1995. He earned a master's of business administration degree from Stanford University and was knighted in 1998. 
. 
Alfred C. DeCrane Jr. (doctor of laws) -1953 Notre Dame graduate, DeCrane is the retired chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Texaco, Inc. He joined the company in 1959 and served in numerous posi­tions until 1983, when he was elected president. He became chairman of the board in 1987 and chief executive officer six years later. 

. 
Cardinal Walter Kasper (doctor of laws) -A German theologian, Cardinal Kasper was appointed in 2001 president of the Pontifical Commission for Promoting Christian Unity, the Vatican's principal office for ecu­menism. He was elevated to car­dinal in February 2001. 

. 
Helen Lieberman (doctor of laws) -Often called the "Mother Teresa of South Africa," Lieberman is the founder and executive director of Ikamva Lebantu, a nonprofit, umbrella organization for more than 1,000 social programs in the townships of South Africa. Lieberman holds a degree in speech and hearing pathology from the University of Cape Town. 

. 
Sydney Pollack (doctor of fine arts) -A motion picture actor, director and producer, Pollack has won two Academy Awards -as both director and producer ofthe 1985 film "Out of Africa" -and two Golden Globe awards -for "Out of Africa" 







Bent Brown Lieberman O'Scannion
DeCrane 





Pollack Quinn 
and "Tootsie." Pollack was raised in South Bend and is a member of Notre Dame's adviso­ry council for the performing arts. 
. 
Helen R. Quinn (doctor of science) -Internationally recog­nized for her significant contri­butions to particle physics theo­ry, Quinn has served on the sci­entific staff of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SI.AC) since 1979. She earned her bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in physics from Stanford and also has taught and conducted research at Harvard 

. 
Diarmuid F. O'Scannlain (doctor of laws) -Judge O'Scannlain was appointed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit by President Reagan in 1986. A graduate of 


University  and  Deutsches  
Elektronen  Synchrotron  in  
Germany.  

Sexton 
Harvard Law School, he earned his bachelor's degree from St. John's University and a master's degree from the University of Virginia Law School. 
. 
William P. Sexton (doctor of laws) -A professor and former chair of management, Sexton has been vice president for University Relations at Notre Dame for 19 years. He earned his bachelor's, master's and doc­toral degrees from Ohio State University. His academic special­ty is human behavior in organi­zations, and his research inter­ests center around organization, individual needs, conflict and the management of change. Sexton will retire June 30 as vice presi­dent and return to full-time teaching. 

. 
Patrick Toole (doctor of engineering) -For more than 40 years Toole has been promi­nent in the development and 



Toole Tyson 
manufacturing of semiconduc­tors, storage devices and elec­tronic packaging at IBM Corp. A member of Notre Dame's adviso­ry council for the College of Engineering, Toole served in similar capacities at Cornell and Syracuse Universities and was a trustee at the Rochester Institute of Technology. 
. Cicely Tyson (doctor of fine arts) -An Emmy Award-win­ning actress, Tyson is equally respected as an activist and humanitarian. She won two Emmys in 197 4 for her perfor­mance in the title role of "The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman" and a third for "The Oldest Confederate Widow Tells All." Her human rights activities have been honored by numerous organizations, among them the NAACP, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the Martin Luther King Jr. Center. 


•• In recognition of April being Se,xual Assault Awareness .Month C.A.R.E. is proud to present ·What's Goin' On? an inte~ractive skit ;on Sexual Assault and Rape perfo:rmed by The Gestic Theatre Company on-Tuesday~ April 23 at 7:00 PM In the library Auditorium FRfi:E!!  '  


OBSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, April 23, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q.. None Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

Niws EDITOR: Helena Payne V1EWP0INT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Man Lurz Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin Wm .ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalsk.i DEVEWPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GEN.ERAL INFO .............631-7471 FAX....................... ··········· ........................... 631-6927 AoVERTISINC.....................................63)-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING Emrna/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.......................... .......................631-5303 • observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS......................................... ....631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire ar http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion cclumns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-che 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives co search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricyof the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntions regarding Observer po/icier rhould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 

The Justice Department has charged Zacarias Moussaoui, the so-called 20th hijacker, in federal court with six counts of conspiracy to commit mur­der and other crimes. Allegedly, he took flying lessons to participate in the Sept. 11 attacks. On that day, he was in jail for visa viola­tions. Attorney General John Ashcroft is seeking the death penalty. 
The government has constitutional authority to pros­ecute Moussaoui in a military tri­bunal for violation of the laws of war. In trying Moussaoui instead in federal court for violations of ordi­nary criminal law, the government is bound by the procedural limits on such prosecutions. It is not certain that Moussaoui will be convicted and it is less likely that the government will obtain the death penalty where the charge is conspiracy rather than actual commission of the murders. 
Does the restrictive teaching of Pope John Paul II on the death penalty apply to this case? The Catechism puts that teaching in the context of "pre­venting crime." If the government had prosecuted Moussaoui in a military tri­bunal, it might be argued that the papal teaching does not apply in such a tribunal which applies the "laws of war" outside the usual criminal process. In a just war, the state has authority to kill intentionally, subject to the restrictions of proportionality and non-combatant immunity. Since the government, however, has prose­cuted Moussaoui in the ordinary crim­inal process, John Paul's teaching applies. 

John Paul II reaffirmed the tradi­
tional teaching that the state has 
authority to impose the death penalty. 
He has given us a new development of 
the teaching as to the use of that 
authority. 
"Evangelium Vitae" (EV) and the Catechism affirm that retribution, the restoration of the balance ofjustice, is the primary purpose of punishment in general. But, because of the impor­tance of the conversion of the sinner, neither retribution, deterrence of oth­ers nor any other reason can any longer justify, by itself, the use of the state's power to execute unless that execution is "the only possible way of ... defending ... lives against the unjust aggressor," that is, against this crimi­nal. 
Whether execution is such an "absolute necessity" depends on the ability of the prison system to confine this prisoner securely. That involves a prudential judgment. But the new teaching as to the use of the death penalty is universal and not a pruden­tial teaching. It applies everywhere and to all states. Nor can it be dis­missed as merely the Pope's personal opinion -he put it in the Catechism. 
Even under John Paul's teaching one could still argue for the death penalty in some cases: for example, if a life inmate, already in maximum security, murders another inmate, or where the state is unable to confine inmates securely. In a military tribunal case that teaching might not apply. Or it might be argued that even John Paul's criteria could justify execution of a terrorist leader if his continued exis­tence in prison would ·incite further terrorist attacks. 
On the other hand, the martyrization by execution of such a leader might have the same inciting effect. Or, could a clandestine terrorist be regarded as a spy and rightly executed pursuant to the laws of war? 
Whatever the answer to such hypo­
theticals, John Paul's teaching fully 
applies to all prosecutions under ordi­
nary criminal law, including that of 
Moussaoui. 
When Paul VI, in "Humanae Vitae," affirmed the immorality of contracep­tion, many liberal Catholics took a walk or began a sit-in schism. John Paul's teaching on the death penalty may become the "Humanae Vitae" of some politically conservative, orthodox Catholics, including Justice Antonin Scalia and Patrick J. Buchanan. Scalia argues that because EV "does not rep­resent 'ex cathedra' teaching ... it need not be accepted by practicing Catholics." Canon Law and the Catechism, however, agree with Vatican II that "loyal submission of will and intellect must be given, in a special way, to the authentic teaching authority of the Roman Pontiff, even when he does not speak 'ex cathe­dra."' 
John Paul insists that the power of the state is subject to the law of the Lord of life. He seeks the protection of society and of innocent life, not through homicidal acts of the state, but through a "cultural transforma­tion" building a "new culture of life," recognizing "the incomparable and inviolable worth of every human life" (EV, no. 95). I agree enthusiastically with his position. But even if a Catholic does not agree with it, he must support it because John Paul is the Vicar of Christ and not some Polish guest-worker in Rome. Under that teaching, Moussaoui should not be executed. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at plawecki. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Scott Mike Schmuhl 
Brodfuehrer Graphics Justin Krivickas Andy Devoto Elizabeth Lee Production 
Sports Joe Hettler Kati('} Hughes Lab Tech Viewpoint Amanda Greco Kristin Yomm 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Is the United States being sufficiently proactive in the Middle East? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Compassion is not weakness." 
Hubert Horatio Humphrey former U.S. vice president 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, .April 23, 2002 page 9 
Sense of family provides stabilit)' abroad 
I just got back from my first vacation since l have been in Mauritania. I knew it was going to be great the minute I walked onto the Air France flight. It looked so clean and organized. The seats felt like 
absolute luxury, Maite Uranga
the food was great and there was actually the con­cept of customer !,ife in Africa service in action. The vacation por­tion of it involved mountains, trees, waterfalls, islands and ice cream. AH of-these Mauritania has little to none of -which made it won­derful. 
The flight back was one of those high­tech planes with individual television screens and choice of movie options of video games. As my plane left green and water, I played Tetris and suddenly 1 realized the enormity of what lays ahead of me. I tend to take mv life here week by week and sometimes· even day by day. For some reason, instead of next week or tomorrow ahead of me, I saw 17 months. 
Sev1;;nteen months is a long time when you are in your mid-twenties, especially here. Using averages and some guess­work, that involves 673 more trips to the faucet with my bucket, 342 more hours squashed in a bush taxi. 185 more days of waking up already sweat­ing, 1.5 more mysterious illnesses, 1,203 government forms and at least 22 lost letters. 
This seems like an enormous amount of stress and in many ways unnecessary. I could be working in a cubicle, sitting in a comfortable chair with the Internet, phones and printers at my fingertips. Food would be within walking distance and possibly even in the same air condi­tioned building. People would speak my language. My hours would be fairly cer­tain and my job defined. It is a hard choice some days between the chaos of Africa and the order of America. 
On top of this I have been in country for almost a year. In this time I have seen a lot of Mauritania, learned French and Pulaar to an extent, read 39 books. made some friends, provided a lot of cross cultural exchange and completed some small work projects. As I played Tetris in the luxury of economy cl~ss I concluded that leaving around my one 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't let objectivity overshadow sympathy 
I might ask why Todd Mobley felt the need to submit his April 19 letter ("View rape discussion fairly") consid­ering his point was already adequately stated by Memo Tijerna: that people should be "innocent until prov·en guilty." A valid point, although some­what obvious. Yes, there is a presump­tion of innocence in this country. However, it is unfortunate that it did not occur to either writer that Erin Kennedy's April 16 letter was a letter of sympathy and support and not neces­sarily an objective argument. 
Suppose you have a child who may have an incurable disease, and you have to wait 3 weeks for the test results to prove whether or not your child has it. Is that the time for a friend to say, "Well. I have to reserve judgment on your kid's future until after the test results?" Or is that when the friend should say, "Don't worry, I believe everything will be OK, your kid is going to be fine?" Even if the chances of the child being fine are 30 percent, that is not what the parent needs to hear from a friend, no matter how logical such a statement may be (though they may need to hear it from a doctor). There is a time for support, and there is a time for debate. I took Erin Kennedy's letter to be one of public support, not a call to remove the presumption of innocence. 
The presumption of innocence is important in our legal system, but it has limited applications in everyday exis­tence. Suppose your roommate comes back from Heartland one night and says that he was mugged, and as a result he is really shaken up. Do you tell him that since you don't know the facts you can't really say anything supportive? Do you instead say that because of the pre­sumption of innocence you have to assume that he made up the whole story? (But, of course, as soon as you get the facts then you'll make your con­clusion and tell him how sorry you are that he was mugged.) 
An abstract legal standard shouldn't prevent people from showing each other compassion or trust, neither of which need to be or should be defended logically. Doesn't saying that you trust someone necessarily mean that you support them in the absence of full knowledge of a situation? 
There is a time and a place for every­thing. In a court of law or hearing it is a time for standards of law and debate, in everyday life it is a time for compassion and support. Saying that you believe someone and trust them when they are going through a difficult time is invalu­able. Even if this were all an incredible fabrication, it would still be heartless to say that the alleged victim doesn't deserve any public compassion. In the latter instance she would still be going through a difficult time period, as would the accused. 
Finally, I might address Todd Mobley's assertion that if any student "quickly draws a conclusion" in this case, then that would be "nearly as damaging as the supposed incident itself." Thus, according to Mobley, if I were to draw a quick conclusion in this case, then the damage I cause would be comparable to the damage someone experiences when they are gang raped. 
It is most unfortunate that Mobley so casually trivializes the long-lasting emotional, psychological and physical trauma of rape, let alone an alleged gang rape. I will assume that in his exu­berance to write a letter to the editor he wasn't thinking properly when he proposed that an intellectual "conclu­sion" someone may make is "nearly as damaging" as a brutal physical viola­tion. Otherwise, I would have to say that his statement skirts the border somewhere between asinine and gut­less. 
Babu Kaza 
Law student April 21, 2002 
year anniversary did not seem like a bad option. 
The plane landed and the flight atten­dant made me get off the plane. Over the next few days I slowly readjusted myself to Mauritania. Instead of focus­ing on 17 months I readjusted to think­ing about it in a day to day mentality and also on the 11 months I have been here. The day before I planned to leave the capital for my site I stopped by my host family's house in Nouakchott. There were the usual smiles and level of excitement as I entered the house. They asked about my vacation, my family at home and other Peace Corps volunteers here. 
Then they told me my host gran.d­mother was there in the back room. Mauritanians never really come out with a direct reason for a situation or a spe­cific answer to a question. All they told me was that she was visiting. I immedi­ately knew something was wrong because she never even goes into the regional capital which is half an hour away. She would never make the six hour trip to Nouakchott just for a visit. 
I walked into the room and saw her lying on a mat surrounded by four of her daughters who live in various places in Mauritania and Senegal. She saw me walk in and smiled. We did the standard five minute greeting as if nothing hap­pened. One of her daughters told me she had been asking where I was for about a week and kept talking about me and trying to figure out when I would be back. 
My French is OK, but communicating medical terms and situations is not something I can do. All they kept saying to me in Pulaar was, "Our mother is tired." Without even thinking they included me in the "our." 
Suddenly the next 17 months did not seem as overwhelming as I realjzed I had a family. Seventeen months did not seem as dire as I held my grandmoth· er's hand and told her my parents in America said hello. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2001 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently serving as a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily th.ose ofThe Observer. 
a grcd student reacting to kotie hughes' column 
9cncro.l 
rnonacle 
shock and 
popping chagrin 
out of eye 
in scondo.f 
TAs prove point 
l
Sigh. Graduate students have been defamed again. Our characters have been maligned, our capacities questioned, our motivations doubted. 
But it was not Katie Hughes's clever April 17 Inside column that proffered these slanders most effectively; it was the lifeless responses elicited from the 1graduate student body itself. 
Katie's excessively witty column about TA culture demanded a sly, irony­saturated response. Apparently wishing to demonstrate a pervasive lack of wit, T As responded with straightforward indignation, straightforward refuta­tion and straightforward insult. It was as ifwe collectively wished to verify Katie's sentiment by example, showing how technically accurate yet dull we can be. 
For example, Katie referred to us as "bitter low grade giving pretentious TA," going two for three on the truth (we inflate our grades as much as pro­fessors). One TA responded with "bitter, sarcastic, low grade-receiving Katie Hughes." Now, copying your opponent's phrase and changing one word is not very clever. This would have been a good opportunity to invent a new, witty phrase, perhaps retaining the meter, something such as "grade-grubbing, pre-yuppie, anti-intellectual undergrad." 
Or, one might have graded the column, complimenting the wickedly ren­dered sarcasm but noting the grammatical mistakes: "theorum" (misspelled), "Nietche" (misspelled), "bitter low grade giving pretentious TA" (need com­mas and hyphens). 
In the summary comments, one could have proposed avenues for improve­ment, perhaps suggesting that Katie put down her skim-milk-frappa-whatev­er, remove the sideways or backward baseball cap from her boyfriend's head, and realize that the world is bigger than her conservative, Catholic, obscenely pampered, (almost certainly) homogeneously white, pre-med/business/law, alcohol-obsessed life. 
But, now, this is impossible. If I were to grade Katie's column, I would have to also grade the responses to it, and Katie would win the highest mark. Instead of refuting her, we simply proved her most incisive point: Notre Dame graduate students are just no fun. 
Brandon Fogel 
Graduate student 
history and philosophy of science 
April 22, 2002 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 Tuesday, April 23, 2001 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Paul McCartney still has what it takes 
After 40 years in the musical spotlight, the former Beatie is still rockin' 
By JULIE BENDER 
Scene Musk Critic 
April 10 was the 32nd anniversary of the Beatles breakup. And not since then has a band sounded so good. On his Midwestern stop on his "Driving Rain" tour, Paul McCartney brought his British pandemonium to Chicago's United Center last Wednesday night. Playing a set list of over 50 percent Beatles songs, McCartney showed an enthused audience that despite his nearly 60 years, he can still twist and shout. 
Dressed casually in a red t-shirt and blue jeans, McCartney walked onto the stage and emblem of modesty and humility, despite the carnivorous roar of the fans. Pulling out his signature Hofner violin bass, McCartney started in a on a set of songs encompassing five decades of musical genius. From the early Beatles shakes and shim­mies, to psychedelic era anthems, to Wings rock, to modern day melodies, McCartney gave a taste of everything. 
For the opener, he broke into the often over-looked Beatles' classic "Hello, Goodbye." Singing it crystal clear. it was as though it was 1967 all over again. McCartney's voice has withstood the decades, and impres­sively he can still reach all the high notes in the harmonies he was once so well noted for. Next, ripping into the Wings song "Jet," McCartney had the audience up and dancing in no time. The performance only kept "Getting Better" as McCartney tooted through the eras with songs from both his early and later albums. 
Backed by a highly skilled band of mostly unknown musicians, the music was tight and stayed faithful to the original recordings. With excellent fills on "Maybe I'm Amazed" and "Sgt. Pepper's Reprise," Lhe drummer Abe Laboriel Jr. at times resembled Ringo with his head-bopping style. The guitarists Rusty Anderson and Brian Ray also showed immense skill in their youth. Anderson particularly displ~yed talent on the audience thriller, "Back in the U.S.S.R." and on the final number "The End." Paul "Wix" Wickens was tho man on key­boards. but also did an interesting stint with the accordion, dueting with Paul's guitar on the sweet "Mother Nature's Son." The backing band, with its members each showing talent and musicianship in their own right, also had a stage-chemistry and youthful vitality that made McCartney sing and play as though he were in his 20s again. At times, with black and white camera's fixed on McCartney, the audience felt as though they were in a time warp. The cheerful head bobs, the slightly moppy hair and that charming wink and smile can still make any woman in the crowd's heart flutter for McCartney, the "cute" Beatie. 
Perhaps the most exquisite part of the evening was when McCartney had the band leave while he played a solo set with just an acoustic guitar. Falling into an anecdote about how "In England we call girls birds" and connecting that to the race issued in Alabama in the '60s, McCartney told 
the story of the creation of the 

In memory of Sept. 11, McCartney also played "Freedom," which he per­formed live at the Super Bowl earlier this year. A large yellow banner unfolded behind him depicting the Statue of Liberty signed and doodled upon. The audience showed passion, waving flags and singing along with the chorus, as McCartney held up his guitar in a symbolic gesture of unscathed power and pride. 
The final song of the night was the much-anticipated "Hey Jude." The multi-colored "box" returned, and McCartney immediately launched into the powerful piano classic. The famous "Na Na Na Na" chorus at the end had the audience up out of their seats swaying with beer mugs and waving lighters in the air. McCartney stood up and conducted the audience first having only the men sing. then only the women and, for a powerful finish, everyone together. With a glis­sando, McCartney sat back at his piano and let out a series of screams and wails showing that his voice is still as rock 'n' roll as ever. 
Leaving the stage with a bow, McCartney returned minutes later to subdue an audience pounding for more. First slowing things down with "The Long and Winding Road," McCartney then rocked out with "Lady Madonna" and "I Saw Her Standing There," a song some claim is the best three-minute rock song ever written. For the second encore, McCartney strapped on his classic Gibson Epiphone and serenaded the audience with the beautiful "Yesterday." Next, McCartney traded his acoustic guitar for an electric and launched into a jam with his band on "Sgt. Pepper Reprise" singing, "We're Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band/ We hope you have enjoyed the show/ Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band/ We're sorry but it's time to go... " The perfect choice for the final song was "The End," which contained smoking guitar solos and a fantastic drum fill. 
McCartney blew a final kiss to the swooning audience and left the stage bowing as humbly as he had first entered. After a three-hour rock fest, McCartney showed that he is as youthful as ever. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 


beautiful song "Blackbird." The crowd fell silent as McCartney's natural guitar picking mingled with melodious tones of his voice. Fading out of the song with some falsetto. he continued on with a few more numbers like "Every Night" from his McCartney album and the 1965 classic "We Can Work it Out." 
Adding some puzzling humor to the night, mysterious men dressed in costumes such as an 18th-cen­tury wig and another with a Roman toga entered the stage car­rying what turned out to be a bril­liantly painted electric piano, which McCartney called a "box." Settling himself behind the instrument, he noodled around a bit before break­ing into Abbey Road's "You Never Give Me Your Money." As the audi­ence hummed along, McCartney fumbled the words a bit. but con­tinued to sing, ''I've forgotten the words and I won't remember them till the end of the tour!" making his mistake perfectly excusable and almost charming. Contihuing with the piano trend, he also played "Carry That Weight" and "Fool on the Hill," while scenes from the Beatles self-produced movie Magical Mystery Tour played on the screens in the background. 
Although less recognizable. McCartney also played songs like "Lonely Road" and "Loving J:llame" off his· most recent album Driving Rain, for which the tour is named. For other more recent songs McCartney switched lo a Spanish guitar and whistled into the song "Vanilla Sky," the title track he wrote for the Cameron Crowe film. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Tuesday, April 23, 2001 page 11 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Pat McGee Band shines with passionate performance 
Byl.AUREN BECK Scene Music Cricic 
Pat McGee Band is well known for its mellow rhythms and lyrical bal­lads, but the band's Friday night performance was anything but sedate. 
The band mesmerized their audi­ence and set the tone for the evening after opening with a spirited, upbeat rendition of their hit "Girl from Athens," off McGee's 1995 debut acoustic album, From the Wood. 
McGee, a Virginia native, formed his sextet in 1996 as a grassroots rock group. The band has since earned a place in the spotlight with their 1997 independent album Revel, General Admission. a live recording released in 1999, and most recently, Shine, their first album produced by piajor label Giant Records, in 2000. 
Pat McGee Band has continued to develop its unique blend of classic· rock. country, pop and blues. and the band certainly showcased that sound on Friday. 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Ooserver The Pat McGee Band brought its ener­getic and innovative blend of rock, pop and blues to Stepan Center Friday night. 
From the bluegrass-laden "Can't Misc;; What You Never Had" to the melodic love ballad "Haven't Seen in a While," Pat McGee Band proved itself versatile and innovative. 
McGee looked and played like a born rock star: confident, composed, cool, but not too cocky. 
He was a true crowd pleaser, throwing Oreo cookies to the crowd, offering to stick around after the show for autographs and joking with his audience. "So this is quite a venue you guys have here," McGee face­tiously said of Stepan Center. His crisp. sensual lead vocals and transi­tions from acoustic to electric guitar fused well with John Small's bass and Brian Fechino's electric guitar for a rich sound. 
It was evident the band thoroughly 
enjoyed playing, so it only made 
sense that the captive audience loved 
listening. They begged to hear the 
band's classics but responded with as 
much enthusiasm to their new mater­
ial as well. Neither Pat McGee Band 
nor its fans lost their explosive ener­
gy during new, more intense and edgy songs like "You and I," "Never Around" and "What You're Missing." 
But the crowd went wild during hits like "Runaway." "Lost" and the appro­priately titled "Passion," driven by Chris Williams on drums and Chardy McEwan's amazing percussion. 
Piano virtuoso Jonathan Williams arguably stole the show with his sig­nature solo rendition of Marc Cohn's "Walking in Memphis." 
The exuberant "Rebecca," extended to include fast and furious jams, inspired incredible crowd reaction. Pat McGee Band used "Rebecca" to segue into covers of Bob Marley's "No Woman. No Cry" and John Mellencamp's "Jack and Diane," giv­ing both a more modern rock feel. 
McGee returned to stage solo for an acoustic encore performance of the mellow, passionate title track from the "Shine" album. 
The remainder of the band joined him to end the concert with the pow­erful. climactic "Hero," leaving the crowd energized and fully satisfied and confirming that Pat M_cGee Band has what it takes to make it big. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu 

CONCERT REVIEW 
Yorn brings songs from the heart 
By DAVE FULTON Scene Music Cricic 
Unfortunately, musician is a term that gets thrown around much too loosely these days when radio puts out more cheese than a Wisconsin dairy farm. Being able to dance around on a stage while lip-synching to songs written by someone else falls far short of musicianship. 
However, on Friday night at Heartland. Pete Yorn showed that there are still some deserving of the title musician. His 70-minute ener­getic, intimate and honest set blasted a refreshing musical air over the near-capacity crowd. 
Backed by a four-piece band, the 27-year-old Yorn hit the ground run­ning. opening his set with a blistering version of "Black," tipping his hat to one of his greatest influences, Joy Division. The song was injected with Yorn's adrenaline-laden strumming giving it a faster. frenzied feel. From there, the show gained momentum like a non-stop train pulling out of a station. never slowing down until it reached its final destination. Not an easy task, as much of Yorn 's material consists of slower ballads. Yet, the singer/songwriter succeeded in the task with near perfection. 
His performances of songs from musicforthemorningafter, his debut album, were granted subtle alter­ations, maintaining their solid crafts­manship, while staying fresh at the same time. 
Where an acoustic guitar drives 
across more intimately than their stu­dio counterparts. Much of this was due to the fact that Heartland looks more like the big basement of a well­to-do friend, than a sprawling dance club. The small size of the venue as well as the rawness of the songs and the subtle, warm lighting, gave an almost campfire quali­ty to the bal­lads. 
On the other hand, "For Nancy," and "Life on a Chain" took on an added intensity that breathed new life into the songs. Yorn's confidence and experience showed through in the songs. After touring almost non-stop for the past year 
and a half 
since the album's release, Yorn has his live performance down pat. There was no flashiness, no 

"For Nancy." The song worked well as 
it slowly built up from Yorn strum­
ming and singing alone, into an 
exploding chorus of drums, bass and 
distorted guitar. The added synth 
never really fit into the song's sound­scape, yet at the same time, Yorn had enough sense to use it sub­tly. Th us even in bad judg­ment. Yorn made sure the song's overall quality would not be dam­aged. Much of the music's excel­lence comes through in the lyrics. Fortunately, the sound quality of the vocals matched that excellence. Despite the heavy, three­guitar ambush, Yorn 's voice always came through clear­ly over the instruments. All of his songs have a strong poetic quality 
sound cliche. 
With only one album of original material to play from, Yorn pulled out some covers and a B-side to not only fiH time, but also pay his dues. David Bowie's "China Girl" and The Smith's "Panic" fit perfectly with Yorn's own songs, as much of Yorn's own materi­al is strongly influenced by the British rock sound. The songs had an edgy aggressiveness that could have blown the roof off of the venue. Guitarist/keyboardist Joe Kennedy added melodic strums while lead gui­tarist Jason Johnson ripped at his gui­tar strings like a tiger attacking its prey. All of this was glued together by Terry Borden's nimble bass lines and Luke Adam's thunderous drum blasts. 
However, it was the softer moments of the show that were most effective. Yorn's solo performance of Bruce Springsteen's "Dancing in the Dark," followed by a delicate "Simonize" found Yorn at his best. Standing in total shadow at the microphone look­ing like a modern-day Jim Morrison with a guitar, he crooned the ballad with a raw, almost Dylanesque voice. Without the polish had by multiple studio takes. Yorn's vocals on "Simonize" and the beautiful "Lose You" turn into pleas, charging the songs with gentle emotion. 
A solo, acoustic performance of "EZ" had the capability of being the highlight of the night, but fell short due to no fault of Yorn. Instead the incessant chatter of audience mem­bers plagued Yorn's delicate picking and peaceful crooning. Yet. for those actually listening, the stripped down, 

most of the songs on the album, Yorn only donned the instrument once dur­ing the show. The omission of that element in the set gave the songs a more aggressive feel, yet failed to take away from their intimate value. 
Songs like "Simonize," "Lose You" and "On Your Side" actually came arrogant, rock star posing, instead there was a sense of personal enjoyment. Yorn clearly enjoys playing his songs to an audi­ence, slipping sly grins across his lips while violently strumming his guitar. 
Overconfidence might have been behind the added synthesizer line in 
to them in the same fashion as other singer/song­writers like Elliott Smith and Jeff Buckley. Despite the content of the songs often dwelling on loss, there is a beauty in the choice of words and expressions that give them an honesty and tenderness without making them 
solo performance proved a real treat. 
Contact Dave Fulton at dfulton@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 23, 2002 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Bacchus loses after Graves goes down 
By TIM McKENZIE 
Sports Writer 
With only minutes left in the final half of the game, an ankle injury to former varsity basket­ball player David Graves caused 19th-ranked Bacchus to stop worrying about Bookstore Basketball and think about their teammate and friend. 
Bacchus went on to lose the game 21-16 to unranked oppo­nent What The Hell Arc Robster Craws?. 
"As soon as [Graves] was injured, we stopped caring about whether we won or lost -his health was more impor­tant to us than the game was and losing him really knocked the wind out of our sails," said Bacchus captain Nick Lambrecht. 
Bacchus could not have lost Graves at a more pivotal point, as they trailed 18-15. Though Lambrecht cited the Robser Craws' sportsmanship as they played the game 4-on-4, he also commented that his team cared more about Graves' health and no longer about the outcome. 
Five Notre Dame employees proved that they still what it takes to compete by winning a close game through determina­tion and team effort. Team Irvin Jones, made up of Huddle employees Danny Williams, Stacey Locke, Deauto Smith, Robert Allen, and captain Irvin Jones, earned a berth in the top 32 with their 21-19 win over Houdini, comprised of students 
Public 
continued from page 20 
do is you handle it in a straightforward manner in which you hope to reflect both integrity and humility," Nanni said. 
The public also expects Notre Dame to not only com­pete, but win against teams such as Florida State and Nebraska. despite the Irish not being able to recruit some of the country's top players because of their aca­demic standards. Notre Dame has turned away numerous outstanding foot­ball players because of poor Ed Smith, Pat McAllister, Ron Sulewski, Ryan O'Malley and Mark Yost. 
"As employees, we just want­ed to let everyone know that we're a part of Notre Dame," said Jones after the win. "We're here to show the young guys that we've still got it." · 
Houdini's Smith cited a num­ber of missed jumpers as his team's main shortcoming, but has no regrets about the game. 
"It was very physical and we played hard," said Smith. 
Despite a 21-19 loss to Heteroskedasticity. Bly and the Family Stone isn't focused on their loss and is already looking forward to next year's tourney to make another appearance. 
"We played well tonight," said Bly member Dave Goett. "Even though we were down Un the first half], we made two big comebacks." 
With a smaller and quicker roster, Team Bly and the Family Stone, made up of Alumni Hall's Dave Goett, Dave Finocchio, Paul Sifuentes. Ben O'Connor and Marcos Sosa. relied on tight pressure to steal the ball and convert on a num­ber of perimeter shots. 
Unfortunately, this momen­tum wasn't enough to carry Bly, as Heteroskedasticity used their size advantage to wear down Bly's defense. 
"We're all taller guys, so our game plan was just to pound it inside," said Skedastic player Ed Wasilewski. 
This strategy worked well towards the end, as Bly and the 

An Adworks player dribbles the ball during a recent Bookstore Basketball game. Adworks blew out And You Thought a Root Canal Hurts 21-10 to advance to the next round. 
Family Stone exceeded the foul "We have five athletic guys about the game, however. limit, allowing the Skedastiks to who can all play basketball "It was a hard-fought game pull ahead with free throws. well," said Ostick. and we gave it our all," said 
The second-seeded Adworks Adworks' roster also contains Dick. continue their push to the finals students Jason Sullivan, Abe And You Thought a Root of the Bookstore Basketball Elam, Carlyle Holiday and Canal Hurts also included stu­tournament with a 21-10 win Justin Tuck. Ostick also noted dents Tim Caprio, Dan Kelly, over And You Thought a Root that his team's three varsity Tim Neuner, and Chris Crane. Canal Hurts. Adworks member athletes give them an athletic Brian Ostick cited raw athleti­advantage over smaller teams. cism as his team's main advan­Team And You Thought a Root Contact Tim McKenzie at tage in the game. Canal Hurts had no regrets tmenzie@nd.edu 
academics, including the done it and we're certainly likes of NFL players Randy one of them. And we've done Moss, David Terrell and T.J. it in perhaps the most visible 
Duckett.  sport,  
Despite losing these pro-caliber  "We've chosen a path  football as well as  
players,  White  that few are. that few  the other  
insists Notre Dame can win regardless of  have also chosen and we want it all. We want the  sports ... we've got a chance  
how  high  the  whole enchilada."  to do it in  
academics stan­ a 11  2 6  
dards are set. "We've [won  Kevin White  sports, including  
with  difficult  Notre Dame athletic director  football."  
academics stan­ W i  t  h  
dards] through- the Irish  

out our history," White said. football team struggling for "I don't have any reason to much of the last decade, think why we can't ... We've playing a schedule with created a great point of dif­teams like Nebraska, USC, ference here. There are and Michigan every year some programs that have does not make winning any 
easier either. The Irish are 
only 19-16 in the past three 
seasons, including two losing 
campaigns. 
The Irish have scheduled 
BYU, Florida State, 
Washington State, 
Washington and Michigan 
for the next several seasons 
as well as annual foes 
Purdue, Michigan State and 
USC. These teams are consis­
tently ranked in the top 25. 
"My take is who would you prefer to play, good teams, or teams who are perceived to play the best," head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "I would prefer to play good ·teams. You have great respect for them. and usually ·good teams and good compe­tition brings out the best in 
all of us." 
As Notre Dame enters the 2002 football season, it will once again face the extreme expectations of the public. However, according to White, Notre Dame is the type of University that can handle the pressure from its fans and foes alike. 
"We've chosen to take a path that few are, that few have also chosen and wewant it all," White said. "We want the whole enchila­da. And we're not willing to ratchet down those expecta­tions as relates to any of those realities." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. ac the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edir all classifieds for content wirhouc issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Large kitchen with island NC, AND A DECK, WASHER & 3-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED Caregiver/Tutor needed to work videophone,Dish,Micro,Laundry. DRYER CORNER OF EDDY AND $180/PER PERSON/MO. SUM• NOTICES with our nine-year-old daughter in Free access to nearby gym,No HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF MER/2002.272-6306,292•6718 
THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT completing computer modules, Broker Fee $2600/mo(heat and hot LOGAN CENTER OBLATES OF BLUES CJs -Friday, HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR workbooks, and novels (provided by water included) Bethany ND 2000 FREE KEG WITH RENTAL. Call AWESOME CHICAGO SUBLEASE 7:30-11 :30 "Blues" and Gold HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND the family) with the goal of {347)524-5823. Gary or Lynne 616-699-5841 THIS SUMMERI call 773-844-1885 Weekend WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFER-improvng math, reading and key• 
ENCES REQD boaring skills. Tues, Weds, Thurs, Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02·5/31/03, CALL LYNN @ 616-849-7022 7:30-2:30. Position Begins June Garage. 5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2 PERSONALWANTED 11th. Must have reliable a car and Must Seel bath, central a/c, washer & dryer, 
excellent references. Non-Smokers Call Tamrny(616)684-1049. alarm system, call 773-486-8822. Looking for single Castle Point BABYSITTER:wkdys/wnds. onl}', 1-6749 or collins.79@nd.edu ELECTRONIC DIGITAL PRINTING roommate coming summer and/or Must have a car-Granger home. HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9 Two bedroom cottage 5 min from Black & White or Full Color at THE fall. Call Laura 243-4776. campus $325.Dave 291-2209 COPY SHOP Fre& high-speed DSL internet. cur-FOR RENT p&ople) 2) medium (3•5 people) LaFortune Student Center Submit rently $323 per month + utils. 5-Bedroom.5 min from campus. All your work via email for details call: 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 Call Bill at 532-1896. the goodies..dancing-O.K.I Dave 574•631 ·COPY Call 574.277.9322 if interested. Small Refrigerator 291 ·9451 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec 291-2209 
sys/prking Nice 3-4 bedroom Upstairs apt., single person, no GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & 99 ND grad seeks male to share house-air,sec sys/parking 2-bed-Need a place lo stay for graduation CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. Wanted to rent or sublet an apart room cottage cute smoking/pets. All util.paid. Avail weekend or just anytime? Our little local PGA professional. for 3-9 months. ment near campus or University now or Fall 02. For into·, call 574· cottage situated on 127 acres Call Dick at 276-9670. Great location & furnished. Mall area for June and July. DAVE 291 ·2209. 255·1738. Close to ND. sleeps 2·3 and only 20 minutes 
CaII George Carr at Call 563-349-5832; leave your from campus. Call 
(773) 975-0563 or e-mail at number. Will call you back. New York City Apt-2 bedroom/con 3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE 616-687-1080 or email: Work for sports. Call 1-4543. George.E.Carr@us.andersen.com vert 3 New building in East Village WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, jlizma@aof.com 
Tuesday, April 23, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
BASEBALL 
Irish sweep Pirates, grab first place tie 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Editor 
The Irish baseball team enjoyed quite possibly its best performance of the season this weekend as it claimed a three­game sweep of conference rival Seton Hall. The two teams entered the critical series tied for second place in the league. 
With the three wins, the Irish improved to 27-12 and 11-6 in the Big East while moving into a three-way tie for the conference lead with Virginia Tech and Boston College. 
"This was the best weekend we've had so far," center fielder Steve Stanley said. "We played as a team. The pitching contin­ued to be great, and our hitting was really coming along." 
The games were reminiscent of the Irish style of play lq5t sea­son, when Notre Dame would regularly get dominating pitch­ing performances from graduat­ed starting· pitchers Aaron Heilman and Danny Tamayo and the offense would provide enough support for the victory. 
"We don't have, right now, as dominant as a pitching staff as we did last year," Stanley said. "We've gone out each inning and have been mentally prepared to score nine or 10 runs if that's what it's going to take. I think our offense has really stepped up, and we've done a better job than we have in the past couple of years." 
In each game, the Irish enjoyed dominating outings from starters John i\xfo rd, Pete Ogilvie and Grant Johnson. Each of the three pitchers earned a win for their work, and none even trailed in a ball game after the second inning. 
In the opener Saturday, rains delayed the start 2 hours and 50 minutes, allowing only one game to be played and pushing the doubleheader to Tuesday. 
After falling behind 1-0, Irish catcher Paul O'Toole blasted a solo home run in the second inning to tie the game. 
Following a leadofT walk from Stanley in the fifth inning, left fielder Brian Stavisky hit an RBI single to put the Irish up 2-1, a lead they would never relin­quish. 
After adding an insurance run in the sixth, Notre Dame scored four more in the seventh on a grand slam from O'Toole. The homer was the second of the day for O'Toole, who had also hit a grand slam in the previous game against Toledo Wednesday. 
Meanwhile, the freshman pitcher Axford had cruised through six more solid innings of work after allowing a run in the first inning. In the eighth, how­ever, the youngster ran into some trouble by allowing a pair of leadoff hits, and then yielding two more walks with two outs. 
Senior J.P. Gagne came in to relieve Axford, and allowed a 
Second base­"This was the best sixth when 
man Steve weekend we've had so senior third Sollmann, who baseman
Jar. We played as a team. 
was 5-for-7 on Andrew 
the day, then The pitching continued to Bushey 
singled in be great, and our hitting smacked a Stavisky for an single that
was really coming 

RBI and the 2-0 s c o r e d lead. along." Stavisky from After getting second. a run back in Notre Dame
Steve Stanley 

their half of the added three
center fielder 


This Week in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 
lldav 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
Sant' Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Log Chapel 
Conversation on Vocations for Women 
7:30 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 
Shotgun Start • Foursome Scramble Sign up with Friends 
Prizes for: 

Low Score, Longest Drive, Closest to Pin 
finally feel like I'm settling in to mid-season form." · 
Billmaier then squeezed in Sollmann with a bunt, and O'Toole added a single up the middle to score Stavisky for the 4-0 lead. 
The Irish added two more runs with two outs in the ninth on hits again from Stanley. Sollmann and Stavisky. 
The Irish get a break from Big East play this week, but are by no means in any position to relax. The team has a pair of mid-week games against Chicago State and Bowling Green Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively. 
Later this weekend, the Irish will play host to Pac-10 power­house Arizona State. The Sun Devils are ranked as high as 14th in the USA Today/ESPN Coaches Poll and are coached by former Irish head coach Pat Murphy. 
"We feel very excited about these games coming up," Stavisky said. "We have a matchup between the previous coach and our current coach, and Arizona State is a national name every year in college base­ball. To get to play them in our park with our fans is going to be very exciting." 
The game today against Chicago State will begin at 6:05 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

two-run doublo to first baseman Tim Pahuta to narrow the Irish lead to 8-4. Gagne got the next batter to strikeout, however, to end the threat. 
The Irish added one more run in the bottom of the eighth for the final of9-4. 
Notre Dame got on the board first Saturday with two runs in the top of the first after a lead-ofT single from Stanley and an RBI triple from Stavisky. 
first, the Pirates tied the game at 2-2 in the third when first baseman Todd Crawford slapped an RBI single to left field that scored Anthony Seratelli. 
The Irish went ahead in the next inning on a sacrifice fly from shortstop Javier Sanchez that scored O'Toole from third. 
Notre Dame ended an insur­ance run in the sixth when Sollmann singled and then stole second. Right fielder Kris Billmaier then singled in Sollmann for the 4-2 victory. 
In the final game of the series Sunday, the junior right-hander Ogilvie pitched a gem of a ball­game, holding Seton Hall score­less for seven innings before yielding an unearned run in the eighth. Ogilvie finished with eight strikeouts and five hits over his eight innings before yielding to Brandon Viloria for the final inning. 
It took five innings fur either team to score, before the Irish 
got on the 
board in the 
more in the 
eighth when Stanley and Sollmann lead off with a pair of singles followed by Stavisky's RBI single, capping off a 4-for-9 day for the preseason All-American, who had a triple and a home run to go with his two singles. Alfter playing through a couple of injuries this season, Stavisky is settling back into his familiar form on the ros­ter. 
"I was injured right at the beginning of the year, and came back for a few games, but got injured again," Stavisky said. "I 



330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Spanish Mass 
1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Deadline Extend~d 
"" 

WOMEN'S TRACK 
Relay competes with U.S. Olympic squad 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Writer 
This weekend at the Mt. SAC Relays in Walnut, Calif., lack of preparation and a last minute line-up change proved to be a good thing for the Notre Dame women's 4x100 relay team. 
The distractions kept Tarneisha King, Liz Grow, Kymia Love and Ayesha Boyd from thinking about the team who was racing right next to them ­the United States Olympic squad. 
Their lack of nervousness led to a second-place finish of 44.3 seconds in the relay, a new school record. The time also places the Irish in the top 10 among 4x100 relay teams in the nation. 
"It was a nice distraction, because I think if we had thought about who we were run­ning against, Chryste Gaines, Inger Miller, these amazing Olympians who are practically our role models, I think we would have been really nervous and would not have done as well," said Grow, who runs the second leg of the relay. 
Due to the stringent rules of the meet, the Irish were only able to warm up for 40 minutes prior to the race, when they are used to at least an hour of warming up. 
"I felt before they called us out to the track that I was unpre­pared," Grow said. "I hadn't done as many strides as I usually do. I didn't feel that I was ready to go. So I wasn't even nervous to run against Team USA." 
A last-minute change was also made in the lineup. Kristen Dodd was replaced with Kymia Love after sprinting coach John Millar decided that Dodd was not well enough to run in the relay. 
Although the Irish came in sec­ond to the Team USA "A" squad, they were able to edge out the "B" squad by .03 seconds. 
Victories for the Irish at the Mt. SAC Relays came from Boyd in the 100-meter dash, with a season best time of 11.69 sec­onds, and Megan Johnson in the 1,500-meter run with a time of 4 minutes, 27.21 seconds. 
Although Johnson won her heat of the 1,500, women's dis­tance coach Tim Connelly was hoping she had raced in a more competitive field. 
"She wasn't in a heat where there were people at her level," Connelly said. "She led every step of the way, and most of the race she was 10 meters in front of everybody. I tried to get her into a better heat but they [the Mt. SAC officials] wouldn't switch her." 
Jen Handley ended up taking third place in the College 5,000, but Connelly was hoping she would be able to race in the faster Invitational 5,000. 
"She didn't get into the Invitational 5,000, so she ended up in the College 5,000 where she led most of the race," Connelly said. "It was frustrating not to get accomplished what we wanted to get done." 
SOFTBALL 
Gumpf to face alma mater 
By AARON RONSHEIM 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame softball team visits Lincoln, Neb., to face the No. 4 Cornhuskers, head coach Deanna Gumpf will be returning to her alma mater. where she was named to the All­Big Eight Conference second team in 1991 and was a confer­ence honorable mention pick in 1989 and 1990. 
"Nebraska is a great place to be and a great place to go and play a game," said Gumpf, who graduated in 1992. "They are No. 4 in the nation right now and that is motivation in and of itself." 
The Irish are ranked No. 1 in the Big East. With their victories over Virginia Tech on Saturday Notre Dame, improved their record to 27-13 and 11-1 in the Big East. 
Gumpf and seniors Jarrah Myers, Jenny Kriech and Kas Hoagt all remember their last face-off against the Cornhuskers. In 1999 the Cornhuskers ended Notre Dame's season with a 4-3 extra-inning victory in the NCAA Region VI tournament final. 
"We lost twice during the sea­s on then again to them in regionals," Gumpf said. "So we have a score to settle." 
"[This] is a huge game," Myers said. "From my freshman year we owe them so bad. It is going to one game." 
Myers, who turned 22-years­old on Monday, celebrated her birthday a little early as she hit three homeruns against the Hokies. With her three home runs Myers passed 2001 gradu­ate Melanie Alkire and became the Irish career home run leader with 32. 
Against Nebraska the Irish will need Myers' offense, but also her defense to shut down the Cornhuskers' running game. The Cornhuskers have stolen 104 bases in only 129 attempts. 
"Nebraska is very aggressive team and if we take that out of their game then they are going to have to make some adjust­ments," Gumpf said. 
Opponents have only swiped Nebraska offense, Steffany 22 bases against the Irish this Stenglein (16-9) and Carrie season. Wisen (11-4) will have to keep 
After a Big 12 championship Nebraska leadoff hitter Kim season last year in which they Ogee off the bases. Ogee leads finished 51-15, the Cornhuskers the Cornhuskers with a .378 bat­have continued their winning ting average, 40 runs scored and ways by compiling a record of 25 stolen bases. 39-9. Gumpf's return to Lincoln 
One of the main reasons why should bring back some old the Cornhuskers are among the memories, but she really wants nation's elite is because of pitch­to create a new memory. er Peaches James (18-5) who "I think that it is going to be a has a 1.21 ERA and Leigh Ann great game, and I am really Walker (20-4) with a 1.89 ERA. excited to go back there, only 
"I think we can hit both [James because I really want to beat and Walker]," Gumpf said. "They them," Gumpf said. are both very good pitchers, but if we play our game and swing at good pitches, we will hit them." Contact Aaron Ronshdm at 
In order to shut down the aronshei@nd.edu 
The final Irish runner at the Mt. SAC Relays was Lauren King, who raced in the fastest heat of the 1,500 taking fifth place with a time of 4:23.47. 
The mile relay team for the women was hoping to run an automatic NCAA qualifying time at the Mt. SAC Relays, but a fum­bled baton exchange ruined all hopes of achieving that goal. Despite the fumble, the relay team still finished in third with a time of 3:35.99. 
"We had trouble with the hand-off because we switched the order [of runners]," 
said Grow. "We weren't quite as prepared as we liked to be, but we still ran a pretty decent time." 
With Ayesha Boyd performing particularly strong the last sev­eral weeks, sprinting coach John Millar switched the positions of Floyd and Kymia Love in the mile relay, making Boyd the lead run­ner and Kymia the second run­ner. 
The Irish also competed in two field events at the Relays. Jamie Volkmer took seventh place in the pole vault with a vault of 11 feet, 5.75 inches, and Tameisha King took fourth in the long jump with a jump of 18-11.75. 
While the Irish were on the West Coast, several sprinters raced in the Pomona-Pitzer Invitational in Claremont, Calif. the Friday before the Mt. SAC Relays. 
The most notable of the races was the 400-meter dash, where Liz Grow took first place by beat­ing long-time rival Foye Williams. who races with the club-team Etobkoke Gladstone. Williams beat Grow earlier in the season at the Meyo Invitational, where she edged out Grow by .35 seconds. 
"It felt really good to get a little revenge," Grow said. "I knew if I focused on beating her, I'd run a fast time." 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
-
This Week in the Department of Music 
Tue. April 23:  Peter Kurdzeil, graduate organ recital  
8:00 pm, Basilica. Free admission.  
Thurs. April 25:  Rexphil Rallanka, graduate organ recital  

Fri. April 26: Sat. April 27: Sat. April 27: Sat. April 27: Sun. April 28: 
8: 15 pm, Basilica. Free Admission. 
ND Opera: Tire Magic Flute 
7:30 pm, Washington Hall. Tickets ($3-6): Lafortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128 
Daniel Tonozzi, senior cello recital 
w/ Jacqueline Schmidt, piano 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission. 
Sean Downey, graduate tuba recital 
5:30 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Free admission. 
ND Opera: The Magic Flute 
7:30 pm, Washington Hall. Tickets ($3-6): Lafortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128 
ND Brass Ensemble 
3 pm, Band Bulding. Free admission. 
Call 631-6201 for more information 

*Pr11sid11ntial * PassinR11vi11w 
Wednesdav, April 24th 4:30 pm in lottos 
JointROTCpaystribUIIJ to lhll Univ11rsi1Y ofNOIIIJDam,andBtJVitJWiDUOffictJr 
Rev. Edward A. Mallov, csc 

Tuesday, April 23, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mclemore smacks first-ever grand slam 
• Mariners cruise to 16-5 victory over Angels 
Associated Press 
at-bats without one, sending the Seattle Mariners over the Anaheim Angels 16-5 Monday night. 
"I don't think about trying to hit grand slams," Mclemore said. "Why should I? I'm not a 
Mclemore drove in a career­high five runs and had three hits. 
Mclemore had led all active players for the most at-bats without a slam before his shot made it 8-0 in the third inning. 
"So he's the one who's on the hook now," said Mclemore with a grin. "Oh well. Sorry about that." 
The Mariners got six runs in the third and added six more in the seventh for their highest­
In the seventh, Ichiro Suzuki drove in a run with his third I triple in two games and Cirillo I I followed with a homer to key I another six-run burst. I 
I 
Cirillo entered the game hit­I 
I 
ting only .235, a!}d he's been 
disappointed with his start. 
Cleveland 4, Chicago 2 
Danys Baez pitched 5 1/3 
shutout innings in the cold and 
Travis Fryman and Russell 
Branyan homered as the 
Cleveland Indians snapped a 
six-game losing streak Monday 
night, beating the Chicago 
White Sox. 
Finally home after an 0-6 trip to Chicago and Minnesota, the Indians improved to 7-0 at Jacobs Field this season and ended their longest losing skid in two years. 
1-<ryman and Branyan each 
hit two-run homers off Mark 
Buehrle (4-1), who had gotten 
an average of nine runs of sup­
port in each of his first four 
starts. 
But the White Sox did noth­
ing against Baez (3-1), who has 
been moved into the starting 
rotation this season after pitch­
ing in relief a year ago. 
The right-hander, who defected from Cuba and lived in Costa Rica. didn't seem to be bothered by having to pitch in chilly temperatures that dipped into the 30s. He struck out a career-high seven and walked one. 
After giving up two singles in the sixth, Baez was replaced by Ricardo Rincon, who got Ray Durham to swing at his second pitch and bounce into an inning-ending double play. 
Jose Valentin's two-run 
homer in the seventh off David 
Riske got the White Sox within 
4-2, and Chicago put two run­
ners on with two outs in the 
eighth. 
But Paul Shuey struck out Frank Thomas on a low pitch to end the threat. 
Bob Wickman pitched the ninth for his sixth save. 
Kenny Lofton, who played nine seasons with the Indians, returned for the first time with the White Sox and went 1-for-3 and was thrown out trying to steal. 
Lofton got a nice ovation as he came to the plate in the first inning, but the warm welcome ended seconds later when Baez's first pitch zipped past his head. 
Fryman came in batting just .203, and grounded to third in his first at-bat before connect­ing for his first homer since opening day in the fourth to make it 2-0. 
Omar Vizquel singled, and one out later, was thrown out at the plate while trying to score on Ellis Burks' double. Shortstop Royce Clayton made a nice throw to catcher Sandy Alomar, who blocked Vizquel from touching the plate. 
With two outs, Fryman was given the green light and drove a 3-0 pitch from Buehrle into the left-field bleachers. 
Branyan, who teases the Indians by hitting long homers and then going into prolonged funks. was in a 5-for-31 slump with 11 strikeouts before he followed a leadoff walk to Milton Bradley in the fifth with his third homer -on an 0-2 pitch. 
Buehrle allowed four runs and seven hits in seven innings. 

home run hitter. This was not Now. Milwaukee's Eric Young scoring game of the season. SEATTLE that big of a deal." is the leader \Vith 4,585 at-bats Seattle won its third in a row. In his 17th season and play­Jeff Cirillo hit his first two and no slams. "Tonight the story was the ing for his sixth team, Mark home runs of the season and Overall, McLemore had bat­bats," said Mariners manager
McLemore finally hit a grand 
Hret Boone and Ruben Sierra ted with the bases loaded 121 Lou Piniella. "We really hit the 
slam. 
also connected for Seattle. The times without homering. Young ball well most of the night."
Mclemore hit the first slam 
Mariners won for the 13th time has come up with the bases The Angels lost their third 
of his career after going 5,348 
in 14 games. loaded 92 times. 

-_-_· ( '/''?'. ,. The Notre DameJournal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy & 
The Thomas]. White Center on Law and Government 
_,_...__, --------__ -..:::=-:-__ 

present 
A Panel Discussion: 
Just War Theoryand the War on Terrorism 
Tuesday. April 23. 2002 3 p.m. 
Second Floor Law School Courtroom 
Light Reception to Follow -Third FloorWhite Center 
Panelists: Respondent: 
Professor Danell Cole ......,•••-Paola Caroaza 
The College ofWilliam and Mary's Department of Notre Dame Law School; Religion; Faculty Fellow, Joan B. Kroc Institute for Contributor, FirstThings: The Journaf ofReligion International Peace Studies and Public Life 
Moderator: 
Profe•••r M¦ry¦-Cuainlano Love 
Rev. J.._. Pearson. C.S.C. 
The Catholic University ofAmerica's Politics 
Notre Dame Law School; Department; 
Director,Thomas J. White Center on Law and Council on Foreign Relations' Project on 
Government 
Homeland Security; 

U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops' International Policy Committee 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
!CAREER SEARCH CITY TO@ 
''How to Find a Job or Internship" THE CAREER CENTER 
April24, 2002 
• 
Sa.n I'ra.ncisco 5:50 TbeCRC 

•Sea.tile 
6:00 T_be CRC 


•Texas 
6:50 T_be CRC ~•LosAugeles 
7:00 ~Tlw CRC V 
SIGN-UP WITH BRIDGET KIBBE k;bbe.l@ndedu More fnfon;1a fio.11: cc1reercen ter.11ded 
straight game, and have 
dropped seven in a row to 
Seattle. 
Jamie Moyer (3-1) coasted to victory behind the run support, retiring the first 10 batters he faced. He pitched seven innings and gave up five runs on seven hits and no walks. 
It was the first time Moyer had allowed more than three runs in a game this season. but he was pleased with the results. 
"I probably could have gone 
longer, but we needed to get 
some guys some work," said 
Moyer. "I think I had pretty 
good command tonight. I felt 
pretty good out there." 
Seattle battered Scott 
Schoeneweis (1-3) from the 
start. With one out, Cirillo 
homered and then Boone hit 
the next pitch for his fourth 
home run. 
"I don't know what it is that 
they're taking or what they are 
doing over there. but I want 
some of it," said Schoeneweis. 
"It was one of those nights." 
Schoeneweis put himself in trouble with one out in Seattle's big six-run third. He threw away Mike Cameron's comebacker for a three-base error and walked Sierra. 
Carlos Guillen hit an RBI dou­
ble and Dan Wilson was inten­
tionally walked to load the 
bases for Mclemore, whose 
slam finished Schoeneweis. 
In his last three sta,ts, Schoeneweis has allowed 24 hits and 19 earned runs over .15 innings. 
Trailing 9-2 in the sixth, the Angels came up with three runs on Troy Glaus' sacrifice fly and Garret Anderson's homer. Sierra homered in the bottom half. 


CLUB SPORTS 
Water polo wins Midwest Championship 
Illinois in the finals, down 8-3 at Criterium. Duke 25-23, 25-21. Moving to victory as the Irish prevailed 18­
Special to The Observer 
the half. Again mounting a sec­the Bronze bracket, the Irish lost 25, 25-19, 18-16. Rob Smith 
The nationally-ranked women's water polo club won the Midwest Conference Championship this weekend at Rolfs Aquatic Center. In the most dominating individual perfor­mance ever achieved by an Irish team member, captain Lauren Kuzniar scored all seven goals in the finals to lead the Irish to a 7 ­6 upset of No. 3 Miami Ohio. Llz Parolin, who had found the back of the net five times in the semifi­nals, accounted for five assists in the finals. In avenging a loss last week to Miami. the IrL<;h claimed their second championship in four years. Brigette Alge was outstanding in goal, recording 15 saves in the finals against the Red Hawks. 
In the quarterfinals, the Irish defeated Washington University of St. Louis, 17-0, and in the semifinals, overwhelmed Grand Valley State, 14-1, to set the stage for an intense finals. With the championship goes an auto­matic berth to the National Championships, May 4-6, in Atlanta at Emory University. 
Gymnastics 
The Notre Dame Gymnastics Team was victorious over the weekend of April 5-6, at the 2002 NAIGC National Championships held at Ohio State. The women's team captured the fifth place tro­phy. 
On the women's side, the com­petition was close as they fin­ished just .025 behind a third place tie with Syracuse and North Carolina, and only a 1.1 points separated them from national champs Texas. The team included seniors Chrissy Dehmer and Katie Bonchonsky. junior Emily Smith, and fresh­men Caitlin O'Brien, Mary Blazewicz, Susan Jennings and Danielle Reyes. Both Smith and O'Brien finished in the top 10 all­around and qualified for event finals held during the second day of competition. At the end of the meet, Smith had become the 2002 National Bar Champion, and received fourth place on floor and fifth place on beam. O'Brien finished in fourth place on vault and sixth place on floor. Other top finishers included Blazewicz, who finished 16th on vault, 32nd on beam and 26th all-around and Bonchonsky who finished 30th on bars and 38th all-around. 
The men's team, led by Guido DiStefano, Pete Blouin and Tony Mrrabile. Pete will be leading the team next year as co-president and men's team captain. 
Ultimate 
Rob Bruggner's all-around play on offense and defense comple­mented the standout offensive combination of Jamison Klang passing to Cory Padesky as the ultimate club firushed runner-up to Illinois in the Sectionals. On Saturday the Irish swept four opponents. Augustana and Indiana B were dispatched quickly and then the Irish came from behind to defeat Ball State. Chicago fell in the quarterfinals. Two dramatic games were played on Sunday, as freshman Andrew Hochstedler gave the team a lift on both sides of the disc. After trailing Indiana A 8-4 at the half, the Irish stormed back to pull out a 15-14 thriller. The Irish started slow against ond half rally, the club tied the 
game at 13, and briefly held a 
lead at 14-13, before dropping a 
heartbreakcr, 16-14. 
The team will compete next 
weekend at the regionals at Ohio 
State. 
Sailing 
The unseasonable weather of 
this past weekend \vreckcd havoc 
with the MCSA / Doyle Women's 
Dinghy Championship at 
Northwestern. Lake Michigan's 
7-foot waves created problems as 
boats tried to burst through the 
breakers to get off the beach. 
With jib windows breaking and 
blowing out, the Notre Dame 
boat did a cartwheel, bow first, 
resulting in a bent mast. Ohio 
experienced a violent capsize 
with waves kicking the boat as it 
went over, resulting in a broken 
mast in two places. A number of 
boats had jibs and mains blown 
out, while Northwestern cap­
sized, breaking the centerboard. 
Northwestern's rescue squads 
were exceptionally busy and per­
formed admirably. 
Amidst snow flurries, sleet, and 
bitterly cold winds, the race was 
held in Ann Arbor. The Irish 
placed eighth overall, highlighted 
by Nell Ryan's and Katie 
Brandes' fourth place finish in 
the A Division. Katie Roney and 
Katie Thompson finished eighth 
in the B Division. 
Cycling 
The Cycling club completed its 
season at the Ohio State Invitational this weekend. In the 30-mile road race on Saturday, Mike Denney finished a strong fourth in the field of 47. Teammate Grant Kleiber posted ·a time good enough for 13th place. Just one week ago, Kleiber captured first place in the Purdue Invitational among a field 
of 55. 
On Sunday, again in bitter cold 
and wet conditions, Kleiber fin­
ished 14th in the 20-mile 
Moving to Chicago? 
Contact Ben@ NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmanr@hotmail.com 
PALESTINE 
It's not black and white. Making Sense of A Crisis: What is Going On in the Middle East? A Question and Answer Session 
Mada poaslble by the College of Arta and Letters 
Men's Volleyball 
The No. 23 ranked men's vol­leyball club closed their season with a third place finish in the Bronze Division 1 class at the NIRSA national championships. ln opening pool play, the Irish dropped all three contests to San Diego State (28-26, 25-20), Victoria (25-15, 26-24) and Purdue (25-19, 25-12). In Pool 2. the Irish defeated Colorado State 25-16, 26-24 before losing to 
TONIGHT! TONIGHT! TONIGHT! (ah•ahhh} 
Cinema SUB presents "The Goonies11 
to USC 25-20, 25-23, before ral­lying against Rhode Island. Facing a season-ending defeat with four match points against URI, Greg Silber rallied the team with tough serving and Adam Schreier's solid hitting sparked the comeback The Irish then dropped the finale to Texas, 21­25, 25-22, 15-11. 
Mark Overman and Dan Parziale contributed key digs and blocks in the four-point rally to 
(Sort of] Live on North Quad 9:30pm-11 pm 
Stepan Center if raining 
ru 
:::i. 
ru 
played hard throughout the tour­nament with key blocking in the middle, while returning layers Andrew Mascarenhas, Nick Abrams and Jim Lowder give promise for next year. 
Equestrian 
Molly Kopacz earned a trip to the Zone Finals at Wisconsin River Falls after claiming first in Intermediate Fences at the Regionals at Purdue. 


Tuesday, April 23, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Hoyas send Irish back to bubble again 
McCardeU said. "It was not the Eleanor Wielle and Shearer have let teams get ahead of them could be in," said senior captainBy CHR1S COLEMAN team the played with Duke and scoring for the Irish to make the early in games. The Georgetown Alissa Moser on being in control Sports Writer beat Yale." game 9-5. game, however, was the first of their fate. "It is a must win sit­
Natalie Loftus came out and The game looked still in reach time the Irish have been blown uation ... but we can play with, 
The Notre Dame women's claimed the first goal of the for the Irish but then out of the water. and beat any of those teams." lacrosse team finds itself on the game for Notre Dame, but it Georgetown came out a scored Their other three loses were The Irish have some time off bubble again. would prove to be the only Irish two quick goals before the half one-goal games. after playing four games in 11 
On Saturday, the team trav­lead ofthe day. and opened the second half with "[The loss to Georgetown] was days and look to assure their eled to Georgetown to fight for Georgetown then opened up a three quick goals to make the a real big wake-up call," said playoff spot Thursday against the Big East Championship as six-goal run to go up 6-1 on score 14-5. defensive -player Elizabeth Northwestern in Chicago. well as solidify their presence as Notre Dame with 15 minutes still Alissa Moser, Kassen Delano Knight. "The next three games "We'll bounce back." Moser a national power. to play in the first half. and Shearer scored in the sec­are so important for the tourna­said. "We are not a different 
Unfortunately, the No. 2 Hoyas Danielle Shearer, who was the ond half for the Irish. ment." team than when we played defeated the No. 9 Irish 17-8, point for the Irish with three The Irish have struggled to The Irish have three games left Syracuse." leaving the Irish a bit uncertain goals and an assist, and Kate find their consistency since against Northwestern, Rutgers about their postseason chances Scarola then added a goal each defeating Syracuse 12-7, going and tenth-ranked Vanderbilt, for the second season in a row. to cut the lead to 6-3. 7-1 before lhe game and 2-3 and if they win all three, should 
"I don't know what happened Georgetown and Notre Dame after it. The competition has advance to the tournament. Contact Chris Coleman at at Georgetown," midfielder Kelly then traded two goals with increased steadily and the Irish "It's not the worst situation we ccoleman@nd.edu. 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish fall just short at Big East Championships 
well as the Red Storm. finishing 17 was significant," Hanton said. not disappointed with his play in earning a place on the all confer­By KEVIN BERCH OU shots behind the eventual champi­"We're used to playing in those his final collegiate event. ence team. Sports Wrirer on Virginia Tech. conditions." "I definitely thrilled with the "Marshall was outstanding," 
"We're very proud of the way Team captain Steve Ratay, who team's play as well as my own Hanton said. "He showed us he 
The men's golf team didn't win our guys responded," said Tom second place finish represented individual play," he said. "It was a could play." the season ending Big Hanton, an assistant with the the best by an Irish golfer, agreed. good season." Though not victorious, there is Championships contested at the team. "The conditions were tough 'Tm glad it was cold and Good may be understating it. much the Irish can take away Warren Golf Course this past but we got good efforts top to bot­windy," he said. "We're used to it. Ratay's 2002 campaign was from their performance this past weekend, but their performance tom and really played well." We've played in it, and living in arguably the best in Notre Dame weekend. Trailing St. John's by can nonetheless be considered vic­Conditions were indeed brutal. South Bend, we've practiced in it. history and statistics only back two strokes heading into the final torious. Temperatures in the forties com­We thought maybe with the way that assertion. round, Notre Dame responded 
Notre Dame, seeded third, was bined with swirling winds made we were playing we could give While Ratay once again led the with a strong top to bottom effort given little chance of competing for high scores and only served to Virginia Tech a run, but they just Irish, he had plenty of help. to overtake the Red Strom by four. with top-ranked Virginia Tech and augment the home course advan­played great." Freshman Ryan Marshall No. 2 St. John's, but thanks to a tage already enjoyed by Notre Ratay finished four stroked emerged from relative anonymity fine Sunday round of 296, the Irish Dame. behind individual winner Johnson to finish the sixth, the best result of Contact Kevin Berchou at overcame blustery conditions as "The home course advantage Wagner of Virginia Tech but was his collegiate career en route to kberchou@nd.edu 

NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 



PIZZA CC>MPANV• piz-zadoneright 
After 8 Party Pak! Lg 1 Topping Pizza, Dozen Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) & 2 Liter of COKE Only $14.99!!! 
(Offer Good After 8 PM Only. Before 8 PM Add $2.00) Visa & Mastercard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to SUBWAY) 

Earn full-year credit in biology, chemistry, physics, and foreign languages. 
accelerate 
Accelerate progress_ towards your degree. 
fulfill 
Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement. • 
en Joy 
Enjoy Northwestern's lakeside campus, just north of Chicago! 
to request a free catalog. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 23, 2002 
Records 
continued from page 20 
Redwine and hurdler Selim Nurudeen. They competed at the Pomona Invitational on Friday and at Mt. SAC Sunday. 
Nurudeen placed 11th in the 400-meter hurdles and 12th in the 110-meter hurdles at 
Pomona before adding a sec­ond -place finish in his heat of the 110-hurdles at Mt. SAC. His speed and tech­nique were impressive at both meets, 
but he was slowed as he hit hurdles both days. 
"At Pomona in the 400-hur­dles he was really running well but he clobbered the 10th hurdle and had to fight just to stay up on his feet," sprints coach John Millar said of Nurudeen's 55.05 second mark at Pomona. "His time wasn't very good but he really looked like he was running well up until that point." 
Redwine finished in a tie for fourth-place in the high jump with a leap of 6-8 3/4 at Pomona and sat out the Mt. SAC meet. 
"He's progressively getting better and better with his heights each week," field events coach Scott Windsor said. "We adjusted his approach just two days before they left, so he adjusted very well. He's coming along really well." 
Dyer finished 15th in the dis­cus with a throw 
of 158-5 and 
"[Staron] looked very 
14th in the shot m o r e 
good at [higlz--jumping]
put at 48-5 1/2 at thrower Pomona and and was getting very Juan Alba. added a throw of 
Staron
good height.,. 
165-feet at Mt. finished SAC. Windsor tied for was impressed Scott Windsor fourth with Dyer's con­place in
Irish field events coach 
sistency in the discus, but point­ed out that he still has work to do. 
"He had between a 170 and 175 discus warm-up and he gets to the competition and it's like he tightens up," Windsor said. "He just needs ,to learn how to relax and let his body do what it's trained to do and it'll dv it." 
While the team's top runners traveled to California, the rest of the team competed at the Indy Invitational. The high­liirht of the nillhttime meet. 
Student 

Golf Clinic cl 


Etiquette Monday, April 29 !5:30 PM Warren 6olf Course 
toss of 162-2. Windsor found Alba's consistency encourag­ing. 
"I couldn't ask for more from Juan," Windsor said. "He's doing a great job. 
He's getting better and bet­ter and better in the hammer, held in frigid weather and 4­meter-per-second winds, was a first-place finish by senior William "Red" Croker in the 400 meters. 
improving every week. One of  rest of the team travels to  a  
these days I think he's going to  meet at Purdue.  
jump up 10 feet. In the discus,  
he's been very consistent."  
The Irish split up again this  
weekend, sending the top run­ 
ners to Des Moines, Iowa, for  Contact Noah Amstadter at  
tho Drake Relays while the  namstadt@nd.edu.  


"I was real excited for Red," Millar said of Croker, who ran a time of 48.84 seconds. "We kind of joked about the fact that he hadn't broken 50 but yet he could run a relay leg in 
47. To go out and run as well 
as he did under less than ideal 
conditions was  
"[Redwine is] progressively getting  pretty good." Croker was followed by  
better and better with his  freshman  
heights each week.,,  T r e v o r McClain, who  
finished fourth  
Scott Windsor  in 49.31  sec­ 
Irish field events coach  onds  and  

senior Nick 
Saracco, who took sixth in 49.54 seconds. Those three, along with senior Mike Mansaur. who took the weekend off, comprise the Irish 4x400-relay team. 
Also posting impressive sprint marks at Indianapolis were sophomore Ryan Hurd, who finished third in the 200 meters with a 22.03 second mark, and classmate Mark Barber, who finished second in the 110-meter hurdles with a time of 15.16 seconds and fourth in the 400-meter hur­dles with a career-best 54.39 seconds. 
In other running events, Notre Dame got points from sophomore Tom Lennon, who finished fifth in the 1,500 and sophomore Jules Vandersarl, who took sixth in the 100 meters with a time of 11.48 seconds. 
In the field events, the Irish got strong efforts from fresh­man high-jumper Chris Staron a n d sopho­
the high j u m p , clearing 6-foot-6. Windsor said that mark may be misleading. 
"Track and field is one of those funny sports," Windsor said. "All you see is 6-6. His attempts at 6-8 were very good. He looked very good at it and was getting very good height, he just didn't make it. That tells me physically he's coming along." 
Alba took fifth in the discus with a throw of 155-1 and ninth in the hammer with a 
Rules 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA ME 
FiflniiRf ilfSh llase/Jaa_ 

T~IS Wl;;l;;I-( AT J:QAnl-( 1;;(1-( STADIUm 
Tuesday, 6 pm vs. Chicago State Free box of popcorn (First 100) 
IE~ Wed. 6 pm vs. Bowling Green lillP,~;~~~13 Mini. Helmet (First 500) 
H. ad To Log-an·,, 

•1RADITIONS 
COlllDE" 
~('<:; ~ 
NOTRE DAl\tlE ARIZONA STATE 

FRIDAY 6 PM ND BASEBALL (FIRST 300) SATURDAY 3 PM ND GREEN BEAN BAG BEAR (FIRST 200) 

.-:.. .·.·. -_,...,, ~ 


Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
It's Not Too Late: Apply to Study Abroad in Sunny Mexico, Spring, 2003 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 

THURSDAY, APRIL 2S, 2002, 5:00 209 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1, 2002 FOR SEMESTER BEGINNING JANUARY 2003 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE EARLY AUGUST, 2002: www.nd.edu/~intlstud / 

Tuesday, April 23, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
A SENIOR'S GUIOE TO ANSWERING 
THE QUESTION. "50 WHAT ARE YOV DOING NEXT YEAR?" 
IM STILL WEIGHING MY OPTIONS. GOT INTO MEC SCHOOL ANC LAW SCHOOL. BUT I DON'T KNOW IF I 
WANT TO PASS UP AN $80,0000 
.______;::_ST.:..:A:.::.R:.:,.TING SALARY 

FOXTROT 
HOW'S '!'OU!.' I'M STUCI< ON A 
HOMEWoRI< WORD PRoStE.M. 
METHOD 2: CONFUSE 'EM 
• THROUGH MY NI) CONN ABLE TO HOOK UP WITH A 
G 8ANb OF CIRCUS CLOWN K, BY THIS TIME NEXT YE 
COMPLETE!> MY FORMAL 
I'D oFFER To HELP, MATH? THIS SU'T IT'S 8EEIII A IS FOR WHILE SINCE HISTORY CLASS. 
TOM KEELEY 
METHOC> 3, TELL THE mUTH 
I'M GOING TO PLAY A LOT 
OF VIDEO GAMES, FOLLOWED 8Y 
EXTENDED PERIODS Of ()RINKIN& 
BILL AivfEND 
oH, THAT SORT OF WOULD IT KILL WORD PROBLEM. MICROSOFT To 
RYAN
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 
'1-.e_'he.•·,.J,e..--1e.:s~erck~ ~ow I St--,.l _L l.x.'i, <5°,.'5 -h, :f ft, eve.ri clo. ss .J,t:i w::tak7 
T A1.--ew~ bleiv it. 
T ~J,,..,;r~ yCA.Jr ~o~~ r 'fr;.:; \Jfll"lot i11a}J slr..p"""~key 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 "The Intimate 1 Artist Chagall 
_" (1990 jazz album)5 Rams' mates 40 Disgusted9 Hairy-chested 43 Capone'sones nemesis14 Former Expos 44 English actors manager Felipe Bates and 

15 Ala mode Rickman 16 Use a soapbox 46 Granola bits 17 Scorch 48 Play thing 18 Frequent 49 Oil container #3 
quarreler with 53 "Naughty!"Zeus 
54 Many a 19 Chop finely crossword clue 20 Oil container #1 55 Follow 23 On the briny 59 Oil container #4 24 Melody 64 Novel or essay 25 _-de-France 66 Desert bordered by steppe land 
28 Oil container #2 67 French cleric 33 Neighbor of Syr. 
68 "The House of 

36 Downfall 
the Seven 37 Pitcher Ryan Gables" locale 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

INT RAO ONLY ROOF ALE POLO 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
------------------------~------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and· Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home, 
69 Place for a spending spree 70 Apple 
throwaway 71 Nobel, for one 72 One way to 
orient a boat 73 Greek H's 
DOWN 1 Tuscan city noted for its 
marble quarries 2 Alaskan native 3 Dappled horses 4 A time to 
remember? 5 Reverberate 6 "That was a 
close one!" 7 Leprechaun's 
land 8 Sacred beetle 9 Big hit 
10 Enemies of the Iroquois 11 Lower jaws 12 Often-repeated abbr. 13 Maiden name preceder 21 Bert of "The Wizard of Oz" 22 The "S" in R.S.V.P. 26 Rent subject, possibly 41 Old Mideast in accounting inits. 29_ 42 "Ha~per Valley Wiedersehen 30 Tell tall tales 45 Above all others 31 At the one's 47 "Peter Pan" rope character 32 "_ voyage!" 50 Capek play 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900·285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ONTillS DAY:SiirleyTemple Black,RoyOrbi­son, Valerie Bertinelli, Lee Majors 
Happy Birthday: You'll be well disciplined inany pursuits you follow and cautious when dealing with oth· ers. You ·will want to change the peo­ple you care most about. Renovations to your home will tum out well this year. Your numbers are 8, 12, 15, 22, 31,39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You11 be outgoing and determined to let everyone see how valuable you really are. Your creative abilities will shine and recognition will be yours. If you put greater detail into your work the more rutting-«lge it will be. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more socializing you do today, the better you11 feel and the more people you11 meet. Keep in mind that you can have a good time without spend· ing too much. It's the company you keep that will be entertaining. 
00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Dm't be surprised if someone you know well isn't that easy to get along with. Don't berome emotional or try to sort out why this person is reacting the way he or she is. Focus instead on making any changes at home that will help you feel more comfortable. 
00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get together with anyone who can help you get ahead. Ifyou can show peo­ple what you have been working oo or tell them your intentions you will discover that help is just around the 
comer.0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opportu· nities are apparent today, sodo what­ever it takes to promote yourself and your work. Talk to someone you trust and you will get an honest answer regarding your inrentions. 000 
Birthday Baby: You have a way with words that adds to your charm and yourpersonality. You have strong ideas and will stand up for your beliefs. You will always take the road less traveled in order to create an intellectual chal­lenge. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Uni\·ersal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may not know which end is up today at an emotional and personal level, but ifyou do not allow your personal life to interfere with your business responsibilities, you will make head· way.00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct 22): Work quietly behind the scenes and you will accomplish a lot more today. Your creative talent can be put to good use ifyou channel it into detail and your present hobbies. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your talent to good use. You know how to make thin~ happen and how to help the underdog. Your valuable knowledge will come in handy ifyou join an organization that you believe 
in.OOClO 
SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may experience difficulties at work. Partneiships may be limiting if you have not been facing up to any existing problems. You will damage your reputation if you become involved with clients. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Partnerships will develop if you socialize with people working in the same industry as yourself. You should be prepared to travel or attend a convention that will bring you fasci­nating information. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can invest but doo't get involved in joint financial ventures or any form of gambling. Get invoh·zd in a hobby that will challenge you as well as take your mind offyourwonies. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Both business and emotional connections may be a little strained today. Try to take a lighter approach to life. Your ability to put others at ease should help you keep things running smoothly. 000 

51 Riddle 52 Unite threads 56 Wooden shoe 57 Planetary 
shadow 58 Fencing needs 60 Secondhand 
61 Brat's stocking 
stuffer 62 Highly adroit 63 Blue or White 
follower 64 Supp. writings 65 Untreated 
THE
Campus Sports Campus Sports
OBSERVER 
. Women's Lacrosse, p. 17 
. Women's Track, p. 14 
. 
Men's Golf, p. 17 . ND Softball, p. 14 

. 
Club Sports, p. 16 . Baseball, p. 13 


. Bookstore Basketball, p. 12

PORTS 
Tuesday, April 23, 2002 
SPRING FOOTBALL 

Pleasing the ·crowd 
High expectations for Notre Dame put pressure on football program to stay above the rest of college football 

By JOE HETTLER 
Assisrant Sports Edi tor 
With spring practice nearly complete, another football season looms on the horizon for the Notre Dame football team. As the season begins, the expec­tations of the Notre Dame football team will be where they always have been ­very high. 
Fans expect the Irish to not only win, but win convincingly. 
Notre Dame is supposed to be successful, while playing 
vice president of public affairs and com­munication, Notre Dame must attempt to please several different groups of fans. 
"I almost never talk about the public," Nanni said. "We talk about several dif­ferent publics. For example, how alum­ni might perceive Notre Dame football might be very different than our aspira­tional peer universities perceive Notre Dame football, or how ESPN viewers perceive Notre Dame football." 
Nanni also believes the expectations set on Notre Dame by the different 
groups of people 
are very clear­

one of the toughest schedules "[The fans] expect us to cut. in the country. The Irish must "They expect us
win, to win big and to

win on the gridiron even to win, to win big though many top high school compete, ifnot win, a and to compete, if football players across the national championship not win, national nation cannot meet the diffi­championships on 
on a regular basis. " 

cult academic standards the a regular basis," administration sets for accep-Nanni said. "At tance. Lou Nanni the same time, Notre Dame understands vice president of Public Affairs they expect us to 
these public perceptions and do it in a Notre
and Communication

has repeatedly strived for them throughout its history. 
"We're going to do it the Notre Dame way," Notre Dame Athletic Director Kevin White said. "We're going to do it from an academic performance stand­point, we're going to do it from a posi­tion that's the top of a sub-sector. We're going to make sure our student athletes graduate. We're going to make sure we attract the right kind of folks that are a great representative of this institution, and we're going to run a clean program, and we're going to win on Saturday as well." 
Easier said than done. 
According to Lou Nanni, Notre Dame 
Dame way. That 
represents the values, the integrity, and the strong appreciation for excellence in acade­mics and in world character across the board. They expect us to run an excel­lent football program across the board, on and off the field." 
Situations such as the alleged rape of a student manager by four football play­ers or the George O'Leary debacle put an incredible amount of pressure on Notre Dame to make sure public per­ception is not damaged. 
"Whenever a crisis emerges, what you 
see PUBLIC/page 12 
MEN'S TRACK 

Watson, Shay set new Notre Dame records 
said Irish head coach Joe onds. chase of the season. I don't the 10,000 meters, ran the 
ByNOAH AMSTADTER 

Piane. "It shattered the "I heard my split at the mile know how much barrier work event at Mt. SAC as well, but Senior SraffWrirer record. It shattered the record [4:19] and I just started pick­he's done in practice. I don't failed to finish. that was shattered by Luke ing people off and trying to think a whole lot. Once he gets "That was unfortunate. He 
It was a record-breaking earlier in the year. Luke kind keep consistent running each a little more of that under his was running great. right up California adventure this of destroyed Ryan's record. lap at 65 or close to it," Shay belt, he's a contender to win with a group that was running weekend for Irish seniors Luke Those two have dropped that said. "I felt pretty good and the national title." well enough to get him quali­Watson and Ryan Shay. 5,000-metcr record by 17 sec­ran after it, and out-leaned a Three other distance run­fied for nationals," Shay said. The team's top two distance onds this year. That's really guy at the end." ners made the trip out to "Right around SK you could runners both set school significant." In the steeplechase, Watson California. Sophomore Kevin just tell there was a change in records in their respective In his own specialty event, was slowed down by running Somok and senior Pat Conway his facial expression. He was I j --events at the Mt. SAC Relays in the 3,000-meter steeplechase, in a tight pack of runners, competed in the 1,500 meters. pretty upset about that. It's 1 Walnut, Calif. Watson finished fourth, second which forced him to plant his Somok finished third in his just tough to watch someone Shay's 13 minute, 35.08 sec­among collegiate runners, foot on the barriers rather heat in a time of 3:49.31 while run more than half the race ond mark in the 5,000 meters with a time of 8:38.20, break­than hurdle them. Still. he Conway, who was struggling like that and then have to drop 
placed him ninth overall and ing his own school record in moved up from sixth-place to with illness, placed 11th in out." 
third among collegiate runners the process. fourth over the final lap. 3:58.67. Also making the trip to 
and shattered the 13:44. 92 Shay, who crossed the mile "I think he can go a lot Sophomore Todd Mobley, California was thrower Derek 
mark Watson set in the event in 16th place, ran a strategic faster than that," Shay said of who provisionally qualified for Dyer, high-jumper Quill 
at Stanford earlier this season. race as he topped his career­Watson, his roommate. "That the NCAA Championships ear­
"That's a really good time," best mark by nearly 17 sec-was only his second steeple-lier this season at Stanford in 
see RECORDS/pagel8 


. Baseball vs. Chicago State, Today, 6:05 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. ND Softball vs. IUPU-Fort Wayne, Thursday, 3 p.m.
SPORT 
ontlne 

. Women's Lacrosse at Northwestern, Thurs., 3 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Lacrosse at Harvard, Saturday, 2 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 




