
Changing the face of politics
MOSTLY 

Wednesday

Columnist Scott Flipse evaluates the lasting impact Sept. 11 will have on
CLOUDY 
the political world. 

APRIL 3,
HIGH 40° 
iow21° 
2002
Viewpoint . page 12 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 113 




Fighting on the financial front 
• Undersecretary of Treasury talks about Bush's economic anti-terrorism policy 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
Undersecretary of the Treasury Jimmy·Gurule, a former law professor at the University, returned Tuesday to Notre Dame to speak about President Bush's administra­tion anti-terrorism measures. 
As the Undersecretary for Enforcement, Gurule is responsible for all federal law enforcement agencies, includ­ing the Secret Service. Gurule said that as an effect of the events of Sept. 11, his respon­sibilities took on a "dramatic new meaning." 
Gurule was in his office on Sept. 11 conducting an inter­view Vvith a reporter from the Washington Times when his secretary interrupted on three separate occasions to tell him that planes had crashed into the two towers of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. He recalled hearing the explosion and the win­dows rattling and seeing a dark plume of smoke across the Potomac River, engulfing the Pentagon. 
After the second plane struck the World Trade Center. Gurule immediately thought the attacks were an act of terrorism. He immedi­ately called Brian Stafford, director of the Secret Service, to ensure that measures were being taken to secure the President. He then went to the Secret Service headquarters to oversee the safety of the president's and vice.presi­dent's families and cabinet members. 
In response to the criticism about the president moving about the country instead of immediately returning to Washington, he said, "Because there was so much uncertainty as to who was responsible ... and concerns about unaccounted flights, our direction was to keep the President out of the District until it was secured." 
In the following days and weeks, Gurule was responsi­ble for ensuring that mem­bers of the Secret Service were being extra careful while protecting high-ranking government officials. In addi­tion, he visited Ground Zero to assess the extent of the damage to World Trade Center Buildings Six and Seven, which formerly housed federal law enforcement offices. 
When Bush declared war on terrorism he said that this war would be fought on sev­eral fronts, specifically under covert operations and finan­cial investigations. Bush intended for the government to track the money that 
see TREASURY/page 4 

HTTP://OBSER . . 

Physics prof Cushing dies in home 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
The Notre Dame Physics Department recently lost a teacher, colleague and friend when Professor James Cushing died in his South Bend home Friday. The cause of his 
death was not immedi­ately known. 
Cushing, who joined the University faculty in 1966, taught in both the Philosophy and Physics departments during his career. 
"He was an extreme­


ly intellectual man," Cushing 
said physics professor Gerald Jones, Cushing's friend of more than 40 years. 
Cushing, born Feb. 4, 1937, in Long Beach Calif., received degrees at the univer­sities of Loyola (bachelor's degree), Northwestern (master's) and Iowa State (doctorate) before coming to Notre Dame. 
Cushing worked with both undergradu­ates and postgraduate students during his tenure, specializing in the history and phi­losophy of modern physics and the founda­tions of quantum mechanics in Australia, Germany, Russia, Spain and England, where he taught in the University's London Program. 
"He has a widespread international repu­tation in the history and philosophy of sci­ence," said Jones. 
Cushing was involved in many national and international professional organiza­
see CUSHING/page 4 

School of Architecture plans Sept. 11 memorial 
. Organizers seek design plans for South Quad structure 
By SCOTT BRODFUEHRER 
Assistant News Editor 
In collaboration with the administration, the School of Architecture recently orga­nized a design competition for a Sept. 11 memorial that it hopes to have built by September 11, 2002. The proposed location for the memorial is the flagpole on South Quad in memory of all victims, but especially the four Notre Dame alumni who were killed. 
"The impromptu Mass on September 11th on South Quad became a focal point for the campus' response to the attacks. Behind the plat­form where the presiders were standing, the flagpole is rusting and the concrete is cracked. The idea is to [revi­talize] that area," said Kara Kelly, director of communica­
tions  for  the  School  of  
Architecture.  
The  contest  has  been  

advertised for the last two weeks and entries to the con­test am due by 4 p.m. today at the School of Architecture. Any student may submit a 20-inch by 30-inch entry of any medium. However, Kelly said she is concerned that the contest will not have enough entries to warrant holding the scheduled design jury on Fri.day. The design jury is scheduled to include five jurors, including Indiana Lt. 
Gov. Joe Kernan, a former mayor of South Bend and a 1968 Notre Dame graduate. University President Father Edward Malloy will serve as an honorary juror. According to Kelly, the judging of the designs will take place from 
3:30 to 5 p.m. Friday, provid­ed that the school receives at least six entries in the compe­tition. 
"I am kind of afraid that not enough people have heard of the competition because we have not yet received any entries [as of 2 p.m. Tuesday]. But everyone does things at the last minute, so I'm not sure what to expect -I'm afraid that if we don't get six entries, we won't be able to hold the design jury on Friday," said Kelly. 
see MEMORIAL/page 4 


page 2 The Oburver . INSIDE Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
I make\these lists for my away messages on my Instant Messenger. Five reasons to be happy every day. I ripped off the idea from a desk calen­dar my grandma gave me two Christmases ago. Call me a cornball, but they've developed some­Katie Hughes thing of a cult following. 
One day a few weeks ago. 
Sports Copy

Ijust didn't feel like putting ice cream or caffeine on Editor there for like the 700th 
time. So reason No. 5 to be 
happy on March 21 was 'Tve been chosen to be on the next 'Real World,' in Ontario." 
Riliight. Right'? 

Not everyone from Central Regional High School caught the sarcasm. I was inundated with excited, frarttic IM messages that night, from the kid who sat behind me in calculus and only talked to me when he wanted to copy my homework to the girl who narrowly beat me out in the "Best All-Around Girl" category for class favorites (though I am not at all bitter about that and have moved on with my life, more or less) to the girl from my gym class who never really took the hint that l didn't want to be squirted with massive amounts of kiwi body spray every day. I didn't even know ifthese people still existed, no less read m.y away messages. 
"OHMIGOD, KATIE, ITS MONICA!!! REMEM­BER ME???? I HEARD YOURE GOING TO BE ON THE REAL WORLD, AND ME AND HEATHER AND IAUREN JUST THINK THAT IS S00000000 COOL. ITYL. MUAH." 
I guess I could have stopped the rumor then, but one of them called me, and before I knew it, I was going into details about how it had been such a close decision, and how Mary Ellis whatever her name is, the producer, was really the deciding factor. I went on about how my parents had taken some convincing, going to a foreign country and all, but Marty and Kathy had come around. 
Yes, of course Lauren and Heather and Monica could visit and I would even let them into the pri­vate confessional booth. No, I would not put those ugly blurry blobs on their faces. Great talking to you, too. 
Ithought that would be the end of it, but then my younger sister called me a few days later. "Katie, juniors and seniors are cornering me in the hallway asking me ifyou're going to be on 'The Real World Ontario.' What did you DO?'' 
My mom called me. "Katie. The boy that's building our roof, I think you went to high school with him, was so excited today. What's this 'Real World' business? You cannot go around making things up." 
It was fun being famous. Addicting. I couldn't stop it, and I didn't care. I added a few more away messages about how the cast was going on Jay Leno for good measure. 
The president of my senior class called me two days ago. He and the kid from calculus and a kid in the Marines in Hawaii and some girl in Florida were all excited for me, too. I decided Hawaii was far enough and broke the news to him. April Fools? 
Great talking to you, too. 

Contact Katie Hughes at Khughes@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. ff we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we= correct our error. 
The Obwver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press< All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
April Fools 

. Movie: Latin American . Lecture: "In Her Hands: . Symposium: David . Performance: "Mufaro's 
Film Series. "Cicatriz de la  Craftwomen Changing the  Gordon Green. indepen­ Beautiful Daughters,"  
Memoria," Hesburgh  World Exhibition," Toby  dent filmmaker, writer­ O'Laughlin Auditorium.  
Center, 6 p.m.  Tuttle and Paola  director, Carey  3 p.m.  
Gianturco, Carroll  Auditorium, 2 p.m.  
Auditorium, 8 p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Indiana U. police unleash tear gas on unruly crowds 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

After the Hoosiers' loss to the Maryland Terrapins, crowds on Kirkwood Avenue set T-shirts and trees on fire and tore down street lights, street signs and trees. Police dispersed the unruly crowd with the release of tear gas, sending students running through campus at Indiana University. 
Students dashed through Dunn Meadow with their hands to their faces, covering their eyes at about 
1:25 a.m. Two state troopers were hit with bottles, one with such force it cracked his gas mask. Another trooper, Matt Dillon, was hit with a bottle on his left leg after the tear gas was dispersed; the Bloomington Fire Department wrapped the wound. which was bleeding consid­erably. 
'The idea was to let kids to come out and have a good time, but unfor­tunately a few individuals decided to throw beer bottles at police," said Lt. Ed Reuter. "At one point we were bombarded with 40 to 50 beer bot­tles.'' 
Becky Carnegy, an alumnus, said she was hit with tear gas. She said she had been notifying the police of damage to a window, when without warning she felt her eyes tear up and her throat get scratchy. 
"I don't know why the police did that," she said. "But what would you do if you were in charge of that? College kids shouldn't be throwing stuff at police, but honestly, what are they supposed to do?" 
At 1:45 a.m .. police scanner traffic indicated a second round of tear gas to the crowd. The scanner also said the city had run out of ambulances and fire trucks to respond to other calls. 
Police arrested a remaining few on Kirkwood. Earlier, the crowd began lighting torches in the intersection of Kirkwood and Dunn, despite repeat­ed attempts by the police to halt the fires, students continued to burn torches. 

MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY 
Ann Arbor resident dies at frat 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

The Ann Arbor Police Department is awaiting the results of an autopsy following the death of 21-year­old Ann Arbor resident Dustin Goodman. who died sometime Friday morning at the Zeta Psi fraternit on East University Avenue. Goodman was not a University of Michigan student, but he was a mem­ber of the fraternity. A Zeta Psi alum who wished to remain anonymous said Goodman had not lived in the house since 1999. The fraternity, which is not currently affiliated with the University's Inter­Fraternity Council, held a party Thursday night that Goodman attended. AAPD Lt. Khurum Sheikh said the police received a call from Zeta Psi at about 1:10 
p.m. Friday. When police went to the house, they found Goodman's body in the basement. "He could have had a medical problem we didn't know about. There was no obvious trauma to the body," Sheikh said. "The autopsy will tell us what it was. At this point, there is no indication of foul play.'' 
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
Police arrest at least 6 after win 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

Pepper spray, tear gas, mounted police an riot gear didn't deter a melee of University of Maryland fans from assaulting police, looting stores and starting bonfires on the campus and in downtown College Park on Monday night. Police were repeatedly taunt­ed by fans who mooned them, pranced in front of them and slowly surrounded them from all sides on Route 1 between R.J. Bentley's and Subway. Police were told to wait until they judged the situation as unsafe for celebrators before they moved into the thousand-wide crowd on Route 1 to disperse fans, said Col. David Mitchell, superintendent for the Maryland State Police. When they did move in on the crowd, fans on Route 1 climbed a tree outside of Smoothie King and broke off large branches to hurl at about 20 officers on horseback and a line of riot­gear clothed police, in addition to the bottles, glass and trash they were already throwing. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 3. 

02002 AccuWeatl'ler, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY p,...u,.: 
.,,.v~.

® © G:J ~ [IT] ru3. till 0 ~~~~
.

High Low Shower• Rain T-¦torrna Flurriee Snow ,.. Sunny Pl. CloUdy Cloudy 
~­

Via A.9soo'Ated Press 
Atlanta 67 41 Las Vegas 85 56 Portland 64 40 Baltimore 65 33 Memphis 51 34 Sacramento 77 46 Boston 60 37 Milwaukee 36 23 St Louis 44 28 Showers T•slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 40 25 New York 64 35 Tampa 81 68 Via-Associated Press GrapflicsNef Houston fi7 50 Philadelphia 68 35 Washington 67 36 
~-~-~~~~ (f ~ dlBl\ 
Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



The Office ofUndergraduate Admissions will be hiring new tour guides for the 2002-03 academic year. 
Applications are available in: 
Room 220, Main Building 

8:00 am -5 :00 pm M-F 
Application deadline is Friday April 12, 2002 
Our 75-minute tours are offered M -Fat 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. and at 10 a.m. and 11:15 a.m. on Saturdays 
*Additional tours arc added on football Fridays, but we do not offer tours on game days. 
JAMES DAVISON HUNTER 
Author of •culture Wars' 
PRESENTING HIS WORK ON 
THE DEATH OF CHARACTER 
THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 2002 
4:00 PM-5:15 PM 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium Room 107 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Professor James Davison Hunter is the William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of Sociology and Religious Studies at the University of Virginia. He currently serves as the Department Chair, Director of the Institute for Advanced Studies in Culture, and Executive Director of the Center on Religion and Democracy. 
Dr. Hunter's latest work, ·The Death of Character," is a historical and cultural analysis of moral education in An1erican society. The focus of this research is on the social and cultural conditions that make ..character" possible, how these conditions have changed over the years, and what these changes mean for the normative ordering of self in society. 
Sponsored By 
Intercollegiate Studies Institute Interdisciplinary Workshop on American Religion Erasmus Institute Department ofPolitical Science Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism 
If you have questions contact David Sikkink at 631-3166 or email at dsikkink@nd.edu. 
THE OBSERVER 

It's ·where you get your news. 






Smyth to receive Laetare medal 
Special to The Observer 
Father John P. Smyth, execu­tive director of Maryville Academy in Des Plaines, Ill., has been awarded the University of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal for 2002. Smyth will receive the medal, the old­est and most prestigious honor given to American Catholics, during the University's 157th Commencement exercises on May 19. 
"The Notre Dame family has been proud of Father John Smyth since his days as a stu­dent here nearly fifty years ago," said University President Father Edward Mal1oy. "His tional. counseling and personal growth programs, the estab­lishment of a diagnostic unit, and the opening of an emer­gency shelter. 
During the 1970's, as Maryville became increasingly independent of Archdiocesan funding, Father Smyth devel­oped a year-Jong calendar of fundraising events, culminating in Chuckwagon Day, an annual family picnic which has become the most successful single-day charitable fundraising event in the State of Illinois. The funds thus generated have made pos­sible the establishment of a number of programs for home­
less youth, 
including the

"His multifaceted _
m ul tifaccted 
Maryville

ministry cer­ministry certainly 
Parenting•tainly deserves deserves the University's Teen Center,the University's 
highest honor." t h e
highest honor, Haymarket­
but this year we 
Mary vi 11 e

particularly Father Edward Malloy 
Post Partumwish to cele­

University president 
Chemical

brate the exem­plary manner in which he has served Christ in the children who are victims of neglect, prostitution, sexual abuse and family violence." 
A Chicago native, Smyth was graduated from DePaul Academy in 1953 and from Notre Dame in 1957. While at Notre Dame, he was captain of the basketball team and an honorable mention All­American player. Despite his selection by the NBA's St. Louis Hawks as a third-round draft choice, he decided to forgo a professional basketball career in order to pursue a vocation to the Catholic priesthood. Ordained a priest of the Chicago archdiocese in 1962. he was assigned to Maryville Academy, a residence for orphaned and homeless chil­dren which had been founded in 1883. He has worked there as a priest, teacher, coach, counselor, administrator, man­ager and fundraiser ever since. 
Appointed Maryville's execu­tive director in 1970, Father Smyth oversaw a massive and thorough renovation of an aging physical plant, the devel­opment of severaJ new educa-
Student Office Assistant Position Open in the Office of Student Activities for 2002-2003 
Applications are now available and can be picked up at 315 LaFortune in the Student Activities Office 
Application Deadline: Friday, April 26 
Call Carol at 631-9314 with any questions 
_J 
Dependency Program, Herrick House, Maryville-St. John of God, Maryville Residential Treatment Center, the Maryville Center for Medically Complex Children's Programs and the Hanley Career Development Center. Maryville has become the largest resi­dential child care facility in the State of Illinois and one of the largest in the nation. More than 18,000 children are served each year by its network of childcare facilities on 23 cam­puses. 
The Laetare (pronounced Lay-tah-ray) Medal is so named because its recipient is announced each year in cele­bration of Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent on the Church calendar. "Laetare," the Latin word for "rejoice," is the first word in the entrance antiphon of the Mass that Sunday, which ritually antici­pates the celebration of Easter. The medal bears the Latin inscription. "Magna est veritas et prevalebit" -"Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail." 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 3, 2002 

Treasury 
continued from page I 
finances the operations of the Taliban and al-Qaeda. 
Secretary of Treasury Paul O'Neill assigned Gurule the job of investigating the finances within the Treasury Department and the Oflice of Foreign Asset Control. Within the Treasury, employees are utilizing their expertise to investigate financial crimes, currency transaction reports, suspicious reports, con­nections between money trans­fers and financial profits. 
The Office of Foreign Asset Control overviews transactions and issues fines to those who enter into transactions with ter­rorists. 

Melllorial 
continued from page 1 
entries. we won't be able to hold the design jury on Friday," said Kelly. 
Even if the jury meets to select a winning entry, the University has not committed to building the memorial. The decision to build a memorial would be made in collaboration between the School of Architecture, the administra­tion and the University Architect's office. 
"The University is being kind of vague, saying a memorial may or may not be built -if someone went to all the trouble to submit a winning entry. I hope the University will con­struct it," said Kelly. 
According to Dennis Brown, associate director of Public Relations and Information, any monument that is built would be small in nature, nowhere near the scale of the Clarke Memorial Fountain in front of Lafortune Student Center. 
The memorial would com­memorate the lives of the four Notre Dame alumni who died in the Sept.11 attacks: Robert Ferris, class of 1962, who worked on the 102nd floor of the south tower of the World Trade Center; Army Lieutenant Colonel S. Neil Hyland Jr., class of 1977, who worked at the Pentagon; and Peter Batacan, class of 1983, and Dora Marie Menchaca, class of 1977, who were killed on American Airlines Flight 77, which crashed into the Pentagon. 
Contact Scon Brodfuehrer at brodfuehrer.l@nd.edu. 

Be kind to the Earth. Please recycle The Observer. 

Under the International Economic Power Act, Bush issued an economic emergency and launched his financial attack by prohibiting individuals from doing business with the Taliban and al-Qaeda or those who aid and abet these organizations. Gurule was involved in drafting this broadly interpreted aci that Treasury became responsible for enforcing. 
Since IEPA's passage, 192 individuals or organizations have been recommended for blocking orders. OFAC packages infor­mation on suspects, which goos before a review board where strategies are discussed. These strategies encompass investigat­ing the suspect covertly, through the government, or financially. All block orders to freeze domes­tic bank accounts must be 
Indiana 

Elkhart 422 East Bristol 219 264-4100 
Fort Wayne Coldwater Crossing 5525 Coldwater Rd 219,482-7271 
Fort Wayne Covington Plaza 6336 W Jefferson Blvd. 219,436-1445 
approved by the Secretary and the Treasury, 
Block orders are a civil admin­istrative action and must only esiablish a credible standard of proof as opposed to providing evidence beyond reasonable doubt in criminal actions. This becomes problematic with legal challenges that argue action was taken without due process. To date, there have been few chal­lenges. 
Gurule made a clear distinc­tion that these accounts were frozen and not forfeited. However. he has given serious consideration to the forfeiture of these accounts. Standards and rules would have to be estab­lished in order to determine if these accounts could legally be seized. 
An approximate total of $34 


Exclusive College Student Offer 


instant rebate 
with a 2-year Advantage Agreement 
Offer valid at participating Sprint Stores with avalid student identification card from qualifying colleges and universities. 
Or you can receive $25 off instantly when you sign a 1-year Advantage Agreement. 
Indiana 
Kokomo Kokomo Plaza 621 South Reed Rd. 765-452-6500 
Manon 3022 South Western Ave. 
765-668-0000 
South Bend State Road 23 and Ironwood Dr. 2035 South Bend Ave. 
219-277-7727 

million in terrorist related funds and $70 million in assets have been frozen. 
Gurule has been working with other countries to form a coali­tion in order to issue simultane­ous blocking orders. This becomes challenging, as many countries do not have an equiva­lent to IEPA. In a step toward cooperation, Saudi Arabia and the United States issued simulta­neous blocking orders to a Saudi based charity that was linked to funding training camps, while O'Neill was meeting with Gulf States. 
The United Nations Security Council issued a resolution that prohibits its members from pro­viding help or making transac­tions with the Taliban and al­Qaeda. 
According to Gurule, concern has been focused toward the Far East as a possible breeding ground for the al-Qaeda. Currently. pro-active steps are being taken to strengthen their banking systems. 
"It has been a remarkable year with the events and issues l have seen and been involved in." said Gurule. 
Gurule was a law professor at Notre Dame for 10 years between 1989 and 2001 before being confirmed as a presiden­tial appointment by the Senate on Aug. 7, 2001. He previously served as an Assistant Attorney General under former President George Bush between 1990 and 1992. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes@nd.edu. 

Indiana 
Warsaw Woodland Plaza 3638 East Commerce Dr. 219-269-5001 
Ohio 
Lima 3215 [Iida Rd. 419-331-9596 
Valid al µwtii;iµatinq Sµ1rit SltJJC~ ooly CtblotPCl:i With a p,dcrri."1 ':)i;rint PC~ trc.'(!1t Wat111y 41mhiy kt m-.taul rOOahi, nul aU CU'::olOIJICf'l w1U t1ual1ly a\ tiavuij prclurl.'l.l aucll\ ~c!bdlC'! lt!'qUlfC~ pudia~ ol nuw phone bcl'MX!fl ]/'ll/07 .:mll -4/JO/OZ lllld ,')(;!IV<1U011 at Uic µc>llll of :..:tic on iJ ~µ.1111 PCS ~HVICC tJlan of ~34 !,9 UI hi~ht.ll w11J1 c1 ilt'W Hoi11011 SJ11mt pc:;; f'tlUiK~ NLil'ritxir L111111Liti to )>loci;. Oil harl(J ~Wun! JD rmr.,11)'1 µ1c-...cntcd al woe of porc.hu'.C fJtulty and -.tall a1c JKll d1tJ1blc lot m~tilnl 1cb.Jtc Hr..i:,;11c (.;,1111!.ll exceed tvt9I 1cta1I price of jll.t,lcl1J),l,_'d phurM: Sl',O early tci,nukit,oo Ice apJlllt:) to S.µi1nt PCS MJallla(J(.: A(jlt'CIUCnt AjlUf\!L'IU!Jdablc 114 99 ptlon!.J iJWIYil.tlOn f(,'t i,pµJic~. C~CC!J.)l In ~t:lr.:cl AlhlliJ.IC rrmk.ot:, Atl plar1~ -.ubJC:C:I to crc:dtl apprnval DepcridUMJ 011 Cl!!dil. d 1125 dep0',,11 d/id ,u-,!oon-r 'A.'IVl(C ct.a1111:. may apply Oflt.:r ftMY no, I;:..: cotrlllut.-d with m!Jtll iilhcr p,onlOI!~',. di~OtJlt..,, CfJl1tc~b ur oµt10Ii•, and•~ riot dvrnlablo w11h ('ubu ptwn1:•, or My Wtwle'.>~ Sl'.le pr1n!rJd 1n '>llltc rnal1_:m:1L for furth,:r cJl)laih Offer':> .,,uhJOCI to w1lhr1,J,:iwal w11hrllJI no11r.e Copy,1qht ,(i!QO[ Sp1111t '.,[)l,:lfum I P Alt Wjllh l(•~L'IW~ Sµflnt, Spunt PCS. Sprmt PCS Ch.:..11 
""Y ;:md !he l11arnt1nd lo,ry, am H~<.k:mark:. of Spnnt Comrnun1wlmn, Cm,iiw1y t P 






ATION 

Wednesday, April 3, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. criticized for backing Israel: 
The United States' strong support for Israel is drawing little backing from other nations and could hurt the coalition against terrorism. Egypt and Jordan have distanced themselves from President Bush. worried that anger against Israel could spill over into new protests in their countries. Europeans are pressing for a faster Israeli pullout. Jordan's prime minister urged America, in a telephone call with Powell on Tuesday, to intercede to force Israel to withdraw from the West Bank. 
Rwandan genocide trial begins: 
The trial of four former Rwandan army offi­cials charged with masterminding the 1994 massacre of more than 500,000 people opened Tuesday with U.N. prosecutors accus­ing them of "unleashing a legion of ferocious demons" on the victims. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. lawyer prepares Vatican case: 
A lawyer who often sues Roman Catholic Church officials on behalf of alleged sex abuse victims plans to take his efforts a step further by accusing the Vatican of protecting priests who molested children. Attorney Jeffrey Anderson said he will file suits that accuse the Holy See, two religious orders, and the diocese of Portland, Ore., Chicago and St. Petersburg, Fla., of conspiring to hide two abusive clergymen by moving them across state and national lines.Anderson has represented more than 400 plaintiffs in abuse lawsuits against church officials since the 1980s. 
Los Angeles missing evidence: 
Hair, blood and semen gathered in as many as 6,000 unsolved rape and murder cases in Los Angeles County are missing and presum­ably destroyed, according to a county foren­sic specialist. The cases were not under active investigation, but the statute of limita­tions for bringing charges in many of the cases had not run out. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Police tear gas Indiana sport fans: 
Police fired tear gas into a crowd of Indiana fans early Tuesday when students began throwing bottles at officers after Maryland defeated Indiana in the NCAA Tournament. After the tear gas was fired, hundreds of stu­dents fled from the area near the edge of campus. Police were seen making scattered arrests. Police shut down intersections in downtown Bloomington at about 11:15 p.m., before fans spilled out of bars, houses and dorms to share their disappointment. 
Market Watch April 2 

Dow Jones  10,313.71  -48.99  
Same: 189  Composite Volume: l, 173,873,447  

1::::::l~i::II~@1l*liI1lii:Jilimt.ai:~II~:!I1lllil:l~lI\Its 
NASDAQ: 1,804.40 -58.22 
:illliltfltI:\tm{I:ii.@i;]::iSlio~Ittfli:&11EtMrn 
S&P 500: 1,136.61 -9.93 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(~) -4.52 -1.66 35.09 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -6. 28 -1.10 16.42 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUMI') -6. 09 -0.58 8.94 PEOPLESOFT If'!: (PSFT) -32. 67 -12.21 25.16 GEMSTART-TV GUID (GMST) -37.26 -5.35 9.01 
JORDAN 


Associated Press 
AMMAN 
Protests against Israel and the United States intensified across the Middle East today, with the police in Amman and Cairo firing water cannons and repeated bursts of tear gas to prevent demonstrators, mostly students, from surg­ing through the streets. 
The protests took myriad forms. In Iraq, Saddam Hussein demanded that Arabs take the unlikely step of cutting off oil sales to the West. In Libya, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi led marchers through the streets of the capital, Tripoli, and challenged the Arab nations bordering Israel to open the frontiers to allow volunteer fighters to join the Palestinians. 
Even in Kuwait, the most uncritical of American allies, the Parliament issued a statement suggest­ing that Washington be fairer in dealing with the conflict. 
The Arab masses are "on the move," said Taher Masri, a former prime min­ister of Jordan. "It's a terri­ble situation. The regimes were beginning to stabilize, and the region was moving in the right direction. Now some regimes will suffer." 
Not all protests were vio­lent or unruly. Thousands of marchers moved peace­fully through the streets of Khartoum, in Sudan, and demonstrators in Lebanon chanted outside the American Embassy near Beirut. Outside of Cairo, protests erupted in various Egyptian cities including Alexandria and Sohag, along the Nile.· 

The most violent were in Cairo andin Amman. In Cairo, thousands of stu­dents pushed through the gates of Cairo University and headed for the Israeli Embassy a few hundred yards away, shouting for Egypt to expel the ambas­sador and sever diplomatic ties. 
Riot police firing water cannons and tear gas and wielding truncheons drove the students back after four hours. The police said nine officers were hit by stones and 16 protesters were taken to hospitals, over­come by tear gas. Thirty protesters were arrested, the police said. 
The State Department, citing a "deteriorating security situation," warned Americans to defer travel to Israel, the West Bank and Gaza and said depen­dents of American diplo­mats in Jerusalem were being encouraged to go home. 
WEST BANK 

Israel seizes control of Bethlehem 
ed an Israeli offer to free him from In the seventh such attack in as 
RAMALLAH confinement in his compound in the many days, a Palestinian man blew. 
Israel seized control of Bethlehem West Bank town of Ramallah -pro­himself up Tuesday night when and another West Bank town vided he goes into exile. Arafat security forces stopped him at a Tuesday in a day of wild fighting spent a fifth straight day pinned checkpoint in Baka al-Sharkiyeh, a that left at least 13 Palestinians down by Israeli troops and tanks, Palestinian village along the line dead. Palestinian gunmen forced his compound now ringed by barbed between Israel and the West Bank. their way into the Church of the wire. The man detonated explosives Nativity, where tradition says Jesus Israeli troops pressed ahead with strapped around his body, killing was born, and Israeli tanks and house-to-house searches for himself but not injuring others, the helicopters pounded the headquar­Palestinian militants and weapons military said. In a dramatic gesture ters of a Palestinian security chief. as part of what Israel calls that underscored hardships caused 
Amid the fiercest Israeli offensive "Operation Protective Wall" -by the Israeli incursion, Palestinians in 18 months of conflict, Palestinian aimed at halting terror attacks tar­buried 15 of their dead in a hospital · leader Yasser Arafat angrily reject-geting Israelis. parking lot in Ramallah. 
Wednesday, April 3, 2002
page_ 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Cushing 
continued from page l 
tions. such as the American Association of Physics Teachers, the American Philosophical Society. Phi Beta Kappa, the British Society for the Philosophy of Science, the Philosophy of Science Association and the Royal Society ofArts in London. 
In addition to his academic contributions to Notre Dame and the world. Cushing, a 1960s civil rights activist, once served on the South-Bend-area chapter of the Urban League as a board mem­ber. 
The memorial service for. Cushing will be held today at South Bend's ·Clay United Methodist Church. 17646 Cleveland Rd., at 10:30 a.m. Cushing's family, including his wife, Nimbilasha. and his two daughters, Christine and Pa.1.ricia, will be at the church to greet attendees from 10 a.m. until the start ofthe service. 
Jones said plans are being made for a campus memorial service on April 21. 
Cushing's body will be donated to research in order to fufill his will and remain faithful to the professor's commitment to sci­ence. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
Student changes plea in professor's murder 
. 18-year-old also plans to testify at friend's trial 
Associated Press 
BURLINGTON, Vt. 
A teen-ager who pleaded innocent by reason of insanity in the stabbing deaths of two Dartmouth College professors plans to change his plea this week -apparently to guilty or no contest. 
The Superior Court in Haverhill announced that Robert Tulloch would change his plea at a hearing on Thursday, a few hours before Tulloch's alleged accomplice is to be sentenced. 
The court did not say how Tulloch planned to plead. Neither prosecutors nor Tulloch's lawyer would say. 
But Tulloch's only options under the law are to plead guilty or no contest, and the punishment i.s the same either way. said John Kissinger, a for­mer assistant New Hampshire attorney general. First-degree murder carries a mandatory life 
One of our job requirements includes 1'being yotJrself:1 


How can you grow as an individual if you're being forced into a mold? At Ernst & Young, we empower you to push the boundaries. We offer the chance to generate creative ideas that really count. On our teams everyone has arole to play and something to contribute, so not only do you have a voice but you can make a difference with clients and co-workers alike. Break the mold. 
F()HTUNE'. 
100 BEST 

COMPANIES 2:5 
TO WORK FOR~ 
ey.com/us/careers i1/ f RNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
sentence. 
Prosecutors say Tulloch. 18, and James Parker, 17, both of Chelsea, Vt., killed Half and Susanne Zantop in the couple's 

Please recycle The Observer. home last year while posing as students conducting an environ­mental survey. 
,------------------------------------------­
Wednesday; April 3, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Priest arrested on abuse charges 
. Boston priest charged in New York more than 20 years after alleged abuse occurred 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

A Roman Catholic priest charged with raping a young bov in Massachusetts more than two decades ago was arrested in New York, prose­cutors said. 
Father Romano Ferraro, 67, of the Jamaica section of New York, was charged Monday with raping and sex­ually assaulting a boy at a Billerica residence between 1973 and 1980, when the victim was between 7 and 13 years old. 
A telephone message left at the public information office of the Diocese of Brooklyn, which serves 1.6 million Catholics in Brooklyn and Queens, was not immediately returned Monday. 
Ferraro was never assigned to any parish in Massachusetts, said Middlesex County district attorney spokesman Seth Horwitz. 
Ferraro is set to be arraigned in Middlesex Superior Court after he is extradited from New York. He is charged with rape of a child and three counts of indecent assault and battery on a child under 14. 
The statute of limitations for the alleged abuse would be 10 years from the time of the alleged assault or 10 years since the alleged victim turned 16, both of which would have expired in this case. But prosecutors said the clock on that statute was stopped because Ferraro lived outside Massachusetts. 
The complaints were initi­ated last fall before a sexual abuse scandal began roiling the Archdiocese of Boston, following revelations church officials moved a priest from parish to parish following allegations of sexual abuse. 


Following those revela­tions the archdiocese turned over to prosecutors the names of more than 80 priests accused of sexual abuse over four decades. 
In other developments relating to the church scan­dal. a seminary priest in Florida resigned over alle­gations that he sexually abused a teen-ager in New York in the 1970s. 
Monsignor William White, 69, resigned after the presi­dent of St. Vincent de Paul Regional Seminary in Boynton Beach discovered the Archdiocese of New York had settled a case in 1997 for $100,000 involving alleged abuse by White. 
White did not admit to the abuse, but said his actions were misinterpreted, semi­nary president Stephen Bosso said Monday. 
Kevin Mahony, 42, of Salem, Ore., said White 
abused him for three years, beginning when he was a senior at Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains, N.Y. Mahony said White became a friend of his family and inappro­priately touched him as a teen about 20 times during overnight stays. 
And in New Jersey, a fam­ily is trying to convince a court that it should be able to sue the Catholic Diocese of Camden over alleged sex­ual abuse that occurred almost 20 years ago. 
Under New Jersey law, civil claims in child sex­abuse cases generally must be filed by the time the vic­tim reaches age 20, but the law allows exceptions when the victim can show that duress or mental instability delayed the filing of a claim. 
Family members were in Atlantic County Superior Court on Monday ·for the first in a series of hearings on the suit. 

you take care we'll. help take 
of the patients, care of the-
If you wantro give your nursing career a shot in the arm, you rie~~ ~. 
not the headache of how to pay your tuition. Qualify for an Army 
scholarship, and you'll not only get hands-oncHnical training, you'IlE 
leadershipskiHs you'U be able to tap intofocyoyr entire career. 
Army ROTC department, We'll .take care of you. ­
ARMY ROTC Unlike any other -college course j-o. 
or more information aboot·our Scholt:trsl'ltp Progr ptain Bart Hennessey at (219) 631-4656 dr 1-SOP.,' 


·· 

Kennedy 
cousin's trial starts 
in Conn. 
Associated Press 
NORWALK, Conn. 

For decades, authors, attor­neys, investigators and resi­dents have speculated over who killed Martha Moxley in 1975. 
Now the only group that mat­ters will try to resolve the intrigue. 
Attorneys were to begin ques­tioning prospective jurors Tuesday at the start of the trial of Kennedy cousin Michael Skakel, who is accused of' beat­ing Moxley to death with a golf club in their wealthy Greenwich neighborhood. Both were 15 at the time. 
"Our sights are higher than merely creating reasonable doubt," said defense attorney Michael Sherman. "I would like the jury to go away feeling that Michael Skakel is truly inno­cent." 
Moxley's body was found on Halloween under a tree in her yard. She had been out the night before with other teens, including Skakel and his older brother, Thomas. 
Skakel, a nephew of the late Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, was arrested in January 2000 after a one-judge grand jury investi­gated the murder. 
He was arraigned as a juve­nile because of his age when the crime was committed, but tlw case was later transferred to adult court. 
If convicted, Skakel could face life in prison. Selecting a jury is expected to take a month or more, while the rest of the trial may take up to two months. 
Authorities say Skakel, now 41, confessed to the crime in the late 1970s while attending Elan School, a substance abuse facili­ty in Poland Spring, Maine. 
Attention focused on Skakel in 
the 1990s after he changed his 
alibi when interviewed by a pri­
vate investigative firm hired by 
his family. 
A day before jury selection 
was due to start in Norwalk 
Superior Court. Sherman 
appeared on several morning 
television shows. 
Prosecutors kept a lower pro­
file. 
"We're not going to discuss 
the case in the media. We're 
going to try the case in court." 
said Frank Garr, the state's lead 
investigator. 
Garr, who has investigated 
the case for years. said he's 
happy the trial has finally 
arrived. "We're ready to go," 
Garr said. 
Sherman said his defense 
would involve more than poking 
holes in the prosecutor's case. 
"We don't plan to sit there 
and be reactive," he said. 
Sherman would not provide 
any details of his strategy, 
including whether Skakel will 
take the stand. 
"He's anxious but looking for­
ward to being exonerated," 
Sherman said. 

John Moxley, Martha's broth­er, said Sherman should put . Skakel on the stand if he wants 
to prove his innocence. 
He said his family is glad to 
finally have their day in court. 
"I think it's kind of like 
Easter," Moxley said. 


page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 3, 2002 


Wednesday, April 3, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
WEST BANK 

Israel seizes control of West Bank towns 
A>sociated Press 
RAMALLAH 

Israeli tanks rolled into two West Bank towns before dawn Wednesday. exchanging fire with Palestinian fighters, wit­nesses said. The incursions fol­lowed a day of wild fighting as Palestinian gunmen forced their way into the Church of the Nativity, where tradition says Jesus was born. 
The Israeli moves into Salfeet and Jenin. a northern town that has been home to some of the suicide bombers who have been terrorizing Israelis, came a day after Israel seized control of Bethlehem and another West Bank town. 
At least 30 tanks rumbled into Jonin from all sides, opening the. sixth day of a crushing offensive designed to root out Palestinian terrorists. They exchanged heavy machine gun fire with Palestinians in the city and at the entrance of a refugee camp, witnesses said. Tanks were tak­ing up positions in Salfeet. Witness said the Israelis did not appear to be meeting with armed resistance there. 
On Tuesday, Palestinian gun­men forced their way into the Church of the Nativity, where tradition says Jesus was born, and Israeli tanks and helicopters pounded the headquarters of a Palestinian security chief. 
Amid the fiercest Israeli offen­sive in 18 months of conflict, Palestinian loader Yasser Arafat angrily rejected an Israeli offer to free him from confinement in his compound in the West Bank town of Ramallah -provided he goes into exile. Arafat was spending a sixth straight day pinned down by Israeli troops and tanks, his compound now ringed by barbed wire. 
Israeli troops pressed ahead with house-to-house searches for Palestinian militants and weapons as part of what Israel calls 'Operation Protective Wal!' -aimed at halting terror attacks targeting Israelis. 
In the seventh such attack in as many days, a Palestinian sui­cide bomber was blown up when Israeli soldiers shot and detonated explosives he had strapped to his body. The inci­dent occurred at a checkpoint i.J.1 Baka al-Sharki.yeh. a Palestinian village along the line between lsracl and the West Bank. The man died but no one else was injured. the military said. 
In a dramatic gesture that underscored hardships caused by the Israeli incursion, Palestinians buried 15 of their dead in a hospital parking lot in Ramallah. Families of the dead had been unable to claim the· bodies, which were decompos­ing in a hospital morgue because power cuts made refrig­eration impossible. Relatives wailed and gunfire from fighting poured into the shops. lugging echoed as the bodies were away canisters of cooking oil placed in common graves carved and plastic bags bulging with out by a bulldozer -one for 13 pita bread. Canned goods were men, one for two women. popular, as many people have 


Ramallah residents, though, no electricity and perishable got a respite of a few hours from food has been rotting in refriger­a curfew that has been in effect ators. since Israeli tanks and troops By nightfall, most of the about moved in on Friday. People 400 Palestinians trapped in the compound of West Bank security chief Jibril Rajoub near Ramallah had surrendered to • Israeli troops, in a deal brokered by U.S. and European officials. About eight men remained inside. The sprawling compound was battered by the Israeli onslaught, with gaping holes punched in rooftops. 

Who l\new? 
Student Government sponsors Who Knew? ads ... 

When we were running for office back in February, we promised weekly "Who Knew?" advertisements in The Observer. All too often, students are left in the dark about new or existing programs and services. 
Now that we're in office, we want to make students aware of existing resources. Every Wednesday, we will be sponsoring a "Who Knew?" ad in The Observer to highlight a service that few students know about. 
Please look for these ads on Wednesdays! 
And now for our first ... 

Who. Knew? Student Government is a resource... 
Our office is located in 203 LaFortune and is open from 9 a.m. -5 p.m. every Monday through Friday. 
What Can Student Government Do For You? 

If you are sponsoring an event, the Office of the Student Body President might be able to help. The Bishop/Foley administration is interested in helping other organizations in order to insure attractive programming for a wide range of students. 
We can also help student groups who are working on special projects. For example, last year the Office of the President worked with Students for Environmental Action to make reusable Grab and Go bags a reality. 
We are also the official voice of students on campus. Because this is perhaps our most challenging role, we encourage students to come to us with their questions and concerns. 
,­

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 3, 2002 


START HERE. Ga PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in fashion. 
How DD YOU GET A .JOB LIKE THIS? www.STARTHEREGDPLACES.COM/BIZ7 
Go· here and take the first step toward the career you want. 

Wednesday, April 3, 2002 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 11 
Andersen appoints transition team 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Paul Volcker is getting some help in his efforts to pull Arthur Andersen back from the brink. 
The former Federal Reserve chairman, who is in charge of trying to rescue the troubled accounting firm, announced Friday that senior partners 
C.E. Andrews and Larry Rieger will lead the company's transi­tion to a new structure. 
The announcement came a day after Andersen said it would embrace Volcker's plans for shaking up the firm, which has been indicted for destroy­ing documents related to its audits of failed energy giant Enron. 
The plans include separating the auditing and consulting practices to avoid conflicts of interest. No decision has been made on what to do with the consulting business, where 60 percent of the firm's partners work. 
The top ranks of the strug­gling company were jolted ear­lier this week when Joseph Berardino resigned as Andersen's global chief execu­tive Tuesday. He has not been replaced. 
The U.S. firm is currently being led by managing partner Larry Gorrell and a group within the firm that is repre­senting Andersen in talks with the Justice Department. 
Volcker has said the firm will survive the exodus of clients if a number of requirements are met -including the Justice Department dropping its indict­ment against Andersen, some­thing the department has indi­cated it has no plans to do. 
Volcker also said progress has been made in talks to settle class-action lawsuits against the firm. But shortly after he made those remarks, a court­appointed mediator in talks between Andersen, Enron and lawyers for employees and shareholders suing both enti­ties released a statement say­ing that "serious issues" remained. 

The mediator, Eric D. Green, said he spoke out "in part to correct any other releases that may have been made by any­body else." 
In his remarks, Volcker also hinted that there might be other changes in senior man­agement. He has wide authori­ty to mandate changes at Andersen under an agreement he reached with the firm in February. 
The plan also calls for Volcker to take over the firm and head a seven-member gov­erning board. That step will still occur if the other condi­tions of Volcker's plan are met, including the end of the legal actions against Andersen by the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Whatever changes happen, clearly a new Andersen would be considerably smaller than today's firm, which employs 28,000 people in the United States. 

Andersen employee questioned acco.unts 
ments released Tuesday. "Both you and had Internet investment that other­the incorrect memos amended
• Worker raised 
Internal Andersen e-mails expressed some concern about wise should have been report­them last fall with correctedprotests about detail the strenuous objections this deal," Bass recounted in ed," wrote Bass. versions that contained Bass's company's of Andersen partner Carl Bass, an e-mail to a superior in He also wrote: "There objections. 
while handwritten notes by an Chicago last year. "The client's appears to be some sort of Recounting his objectionsfinancial practices Andersen executive reveal proposed accounting nonethe­assertion that I have a 'prob­about Enron in an e-mail, Bass 
Enron's unhappiness with him. less was sustained." lem' with Rick Causey or said he didn't complain to 
"Client sees need to replace Some of Bass's most serious someone at Enron that results Enron about the Raptors.
Associated Press 
Carl," said one of the notes, objections dealt with special­in me having some caustic and "I am perplexed as to how 
which were released by the purpose entities known as the inappropriate slant in dealing the client even knows I was 
WASHINGTON House Energy and Commerce Raptors, which kept hundreds with their questions." Causey consulted" about the Raptors
An Arthur Andersen LLP Committee. of millions of dollars in debt off was Enron's chief accounting "and how they believe I am too partner was removed from According to the documents, Enron's books. officer. He was fired in caustic and cynical with monitoring Enron after he Bass questioned the account­"I will honestly admit that I February. respect to" them, Bass wrote. raised repeated objections ing for Enron Corp.'s financial have a jaded view of these Some of the memos falsely Of another transaction in about some of the energy trad­practices in 2000, when Enron transactions" involving the state that Bass supported December 1999, Bass wrote to ing company's financial prac­wanted to show a $50 million Raptors, Bass wrote. aspects of the Raptors, when in his superior in Chicago, "I do 
tices that eventually sent it into gain on a transaction with "I understood that there was fact he didn't. The team of not know if he knows how bankruptcy, according to docu-Blockbuster Inc. a $100 million loss on an Houston auditors that wrote much we cannot support this." 
KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 

Some Undergraduate Courses for fall 2002: 
IRISH LANGUAGE IRST 101 Beginning Irish 1 An introduction to modern spoken and written Irish: basic principl~ofgrammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary. Emphasis is placed on the application of these principles in every-day situations. Students learn how to conduct simple conversations: talking about oneself and asking information of others; talking about family and home; describing the weather and daily activities. 
HISTORY OF IRELAND 
IRST 326B Irish History I This course explores the main themes in Irish history from the Plantation ofUlster in the early Cl 7th through the rebellion of 1798, a period that witnessed the emergence of many forces and rivalries that have shaped modern Irish society and politic. . . IRST 441 The Vikings Did the Vikings contribute anything to western civilization other than plunder andpil1age,pjlgan savagery, and homed helmets? This course examines the Vikings' impact on Europe and 
North America over four centuries. Discussion centers on primary sources from England, Ireland, France, Russia, and Scandinavia, archaeological evidence and modern treatments of Vikings in film and Iiterature. 
IRST 235 The Irish American Experience For sophomores only, this course will examine the history of the Irisliitllhe U.S. In many respects the Irish are the great success story in American history. They have moved from the shanty towns to the board rooms of Wall Street. Along the way they have left their mark on American politics, literature, religion, and the Labor Movement; these are the areas that the course will study. The heart of the course will be the century of immigration, 1820-1920. 
IRISH LITERATURE 
IRST 471 Dying Cultures: Studies in Six Irish Writers 1910-2000 Bram Stoker, W. B ..Yeats, J.M. Synge, Elµ;abeth Bowen, Seamus Heaney, Medbh McGuckian. The aim of the course is to look at the exemplary role assigned to the notion of a dying culture in the work of the authors listed hen:, The versions of'suc1M;ultures are the pre-modern (Stoker); the Anglo-Irish and the Modern (Yeats and Bowen); the traditional Gaelic culture (Synge); and Northern Ireland ( or 'the North'), in Heaney and McGuc,kian. Close examination of the fiction, drama and poetry involved will be reinforced by an analysis of the versions of history deployed by these authors, most especially those versions dominated by the notion ofa cont)ictbetl'Jeen-ition' and 'modernity'. IRST 453 Visits to Bedlam 'He gave the little wealth he had,/ To build a house for fools and i;nad. ·• .' Dean, ...··• 's obsession with establishing a hospital for the 'insane' in Cl8th Dublin signals a wider interest in the 'Age of Reason' with madness, the irrational, and what Freud called the unheitnlich, or tqe,uncag.pt1;Beginning with Don Quixote, a work that did much to construct early modern ideas about madness, the course moves through short readings in Cl7th and C 18th writers, philosophers, and physicijllis who ~yzed madness. A key question is to what extent was madness seen as a 'national' trait and to what extent did that idea and its supposed opposite, 'rationality', define certain views of 'Englishness'? The course:enas with a consideration of later representations of madness, including Dracula and Dr. Jekyll 
and Mr. Hyde. 
IRST 302 Crime and Violence in the Nineteenth-Century Irish and British Novel This co11+se explores§ t dimensions of the Cl 9th concept of crime through novels written in Ireland and Britain during the last half of the century. Key texts, including Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes, an~xtensiv~ ion of Fenian prose, Bram Stoker's Dracula and Joseph Conrad's The Secret Agent, provide di verse perspectives on history and literature and a framework for discussion of violence and social change, ~ex onomics, and politics. IRST 303 Victorian Empire Writing 1868-1901 The late Cl9th United Kingdom witnessed considerable .... tization, a process that many conservatives feared would lead to anarchy throughout the Emplfe. In fact, crown and empire became ever more popular. This course explores how literature bolstered the i.d~1~gy ofirnperialism in the popular imagination. paying particular attention to the intersection between the troubled categories of race and gender and exploring Ireland's anomalous rel,ationship to Emp}r~. b c ' ' ng Irish writing wi¢ fuat of India and Africa. 
ANTHROPOLOGY ,/,; IRST 321 Folklore, National Culture and Irish Identity The notion of folklore emerged iii the late Cl8lh and. ideas of cultural relativism, from the romantic period on 1t became an important resource to national movements in search of cultural autllenticity. This course explores the idea offi e eas and examines the relationships between folklore and popular culture and modernity. It looks at the Irish case in detail, from the begtJirUpgs.p(scholarly interest in popular cmfut. . . . .. .. .. ··· ·.. folklore study in the southern slate. lRST 324 Irish Traditional Culture Yes, it had to happen; finally a .cOUisC:~ut the Leprechaun.but not as.. yQU;;:ku,0.\1/.,~ ~~-.,~ .· e is concerned with narrative traditions (stories and storytelling), popular religion (folk belief) and material culture (folklife), traditionally the core areas fotresearchers ill folklore and fi:,WJjfe:Jtfnftrrpgate,_s'tbe notion of 'traditional culture', implicit or explicit in the work of folklorists, relating that work to anthropological and other writing on Ireland. , ....... ,<~Jl!l c;. '.~.::,,:;,:;,.• fC'• :, . '. ·. ~: ,r •• , ,. IRST 482 Archeology of Ireland This co!Use examines the culturnland hiSI.Oiical trajectory of the arcbaeology·pf!'fre.ljmd through a .~es·of richly illustrated lectures, organized chronologically. that trace cultural, social, and technological developments from the Neolitl)jc through Viking periods. Integrated · · ;a'il,,lrl:Uttui'l.E; concurrently on alternate days, will be a series of seminar and d1scuss1on classes focused upon a number of anthropological and arcllae,i:ll9gjt:1!Jissue~la~ed to each of these 
•. ..· ·• ·· 

. . ...,. 

See Dart Registration Bookfor other Irish Studies courses,'ms.1ui:.i4.rs't-fiJliaass times.,.·,:., ~ 
•: •'.~~::: ~ ·..·";i~f j;l_ • ·;_tfe ~ ~-•• ·, >+ ,'.·~ ' .··· ":.'.•,i,.I, ..~, ,•!JI>• . '.,.. . . , .. ·,~

Graduate courses to be announced shortly; for additional in/onliatwnconta~t,Breandim MgcWuibhne;, 
; 't~~-'~\; ::~~~·f::·: .-~~:\ 
O
THE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

page 12 Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. B,,x Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H..11, No,re Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHlliF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  KeYin Ryan  
As,T. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATTONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payn,. VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SroRTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENF EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz AD DESIGN l\UNAGER: Alex Menze SYSTliMS ADMll'<1STIIA'f0R: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scon Brodfuehrer CoNTROUH!: Lori Lewahki DEVEWPMENT MA.IIIAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
Orna MANAGERIGEmRAI. INFO.............631-7471 
FAX............................................................. 631-6927 
ADVERTISING ..................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4 542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE .......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................ .631-5303 
observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS................................................. .......631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCF.NE.. ........................................... ............631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINI MAR\"s............................................. 63I-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB Af)MINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob,erver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
cial campus coverage 

and rares ofprint ads 
about The Observer

archives to search for 
to meet the editors and

articles published after 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, il)cluding advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obrerverpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 

Has anything really changed in the last six months? If asked, all of us will say that Sept. 11 had a profound effect on our lives. But, ifwe are honest, it also seems the world is sliding back to "nor­malcy." The 
economy is get-Scott Flipse ting stronger, Republicans and 
Democrats are back to partisan Urbanites sniping, the 
Israeli-Palestinian situa­tion is again dominating our foreign poli­cy, people are returmng to their favorite leisure pursuits -like March Madness, protesting decisions of college adminis­trators and demanding to know how Halle Berry won an Oscar. Has anything really fundamentally changed? 
To answer that question I draw on my knowledge of 20th century American his­tory. I can safety say that the United States was profoundly changed by every violent national trauma. World War I brought an end to Progressive era poli­tics. World War II quelled the activism of the New Deal Vietnam destroyed the nation's Cold War foreign policy consen­sus and made the United States wary of using its military power. The Iran hostage crisis, on the other hand, made the public more receptive to Ronald Reagan's promise of a more assertive foreign policy. And the Oklahoma City bombing by an anti-government radical discredited Newt Gingrich's Republican revolution. 
American history is full of similar examples. Sept. 11 is certain to have left a lasting mark. ln fact, the terrorjst assault that killed 3,000 innocent Americans had both global and domestic ramifications. We might have to wait a decade or more to see them all, but I \.Viii be bold enough to venture five now. 
Global Hegemony, American Style 
International relation theorists thought that any challenge to America's global power would come from Russia, China or a coalition of nations anchored by one or both nations. But no country or coalition confronts America now. Instead our enemy is radical Islam, eager to drive America from "Muslim" lands and even­tually to destroy Western civilization. The diplomatic fallout has been immedi­ate. Russia joined \\-ith the West to battle terrorism -its energy is seen as crucial to reduce America's dependence on Middle Eastern oil and its military is now coordinating with NATO. China has been more cooperative than competitive recently and India has suddenly become a fast friend. The makings of a new world order are apparent. 
Americans and the World 
It is hard to believe that only a couple years ago, the neo-isolationism of Pat Buchanan and of Ralph Nader was taken seriously by the public and pundits. America cannot afford to remain aloof from global events; Islamic terrorists will not be deterred by only a strong military and two broad oceans. Americans now realize that the world is a hostile place, where millions of people "hate" us. Our interests and safety are tied closely with our historic allies and the future of the "civilized world." 
Fracturing of the Left 
The last six months have been difficult for the American left. At first Susan Sontag, among others, argued that Sept. 11 was the fruit of American hegemony. In essence, America deserved it. But fail­ure to condemn the terrorists caused a public backlash. Prominent leftists such as Christopher Hitchens, Richard Faulk and Todd Gitlin counseled their compa­triots against knee-jerk anti­Americanism. Nonetheless, the criticism from the left continued unabated. Their fear is that an open-ended war on terror­ism will cripple the politics of multicul­turalism at home and anti-globalization abroad. Their political clout will be strangled if national security and defense dominate domestic politics. One bright spot has been the self-examination process that has begun. Michael Walzer's piece "Can There Be a Decent Left?" in Dissent magazine is a clarion call for the left to re-examine its world­view and political agenda. It deserves to 

be read by serious people across the 
political spectrum. 
A Republican Majority 
Since Sept. 11 President Bush has had astronomical approval ratings. Most political experts thought these numbers would eventually decrease, but they have not. The trickle-down effect is helping all Republicans. Recent polls by the Los Angeles Times and the National Journal show that the GOP is gaimng swing vot­ers who voted Democrat in 2000. Democrats hoped the Enron mess and a slow economic recovery would buoy their numbers, but the Bush administra­tion has never been on the defensive. The President signed popular education and campaign finance reform bills. And the economy is slowly improving. While I won't predict future elections, at the moment it looks like the Republicans will survive or gain in mid-term elections and serious challengers to Bush in 2004 will have to think twice. 
The Condi Craze 
The chorus of voices plumping for Condelezza Rice as the possible vice presidential choice is becoming deafen­ing. Though the last vice president to be replaced was Henry Wallace in 1944, the possibility of a young, articulate African­American woman on the ticket would be a monumental moment and the Democrats' worst nightmare. Let me say in advance that it won't happen, as rumors of Dick Cheney's demise are greatly exaggerated. Also, Rice's political inexperience, her "mildly pro-choice" position and life-long focus on interna­tional affairs will be handicaps on the stump. But one can hope. 
Scott Flipse is the associate director of Notre Dame's Washington Semester and a Pew Civitas Fellow at the Brookings Institution. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at flipse.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Noreen Gillespie Van Giles Jill Maxbauer Sports 
Matt Lozar 
Viewpoint 

Teresa Fralish Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs Graphics . 
Jimmy Atkinson Production Kerry Smith 
Lab Tech Christina Rietano 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame publicly address the recent cases of sexual abuse involving the Catholic Church? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Any change, even a change for the better, is always accompanied by drawbacks and discomforts. " 
Arnold Bennett writer 
O
THE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 

Wednesday, April 3, 2002 page 13 
Changing routines into entertaining stories 
My parents are hooked on Survivor. At first. I thought they were being ironic, because no one could possibly care about a group of whiny outdoor ama­teurs vying for a million dollars, unless they appreciate the camp (bad pun 
Eric long

intended) value. 
Usually the con­testants aren't even interesting Fitter, people -the time Happier slot could be aptly filled by reruns of "Moonlighting" or any solid courtroom drama. But my parents eagerly await their cherished reality game show, even throwing Survivor mini-parties with cocktails and hors d'oeuvres. I admit, I've watched the show with them, and I never pass up their snack foods and alcoholic beverages. But I could take or leave the show. Am I missing some­thing? Perhaps my parents have one­upped me again. 
What is "reality television" supposed to be? What's the draw? To understand the appeal of real TV, we must study the phenomenon's history. 
Think back to the late '80's and early '90's, a time not different from the pre­sent. A Bush was president, the econo­my was slowing and we were involved in a vaguely defined war against a much­vilified enemy. Bob Saget, a fading comedian, successfully parlayed his vio., lently unfunny role on the sitcom Full House into a gig as host of the proto­"reality television" program "America's Funniest Home Videos." The show capi­talized on the booming personal cam­corder industry, and the combination of precious voice-overs and a $10,000 prize enticed many viewers to share intimate, yet strangely banal. family moments. 
Banality -yes, this was the show's hook. Chances are, most American mid­dle class families have a video of dad getting hit in the testicles with a tennis ball or of the just-married couple falling down on the dance floor. These people were anonymous, indistinguishable and 
just like us. Watching them made us believe we could be on television some day and 
thus extended to our 
most powerful 
voyeuristic fan­
tasies. People 
would watch us if 
given the oppor­tunity. Talk shows 
faH under the 
same genus 
with important 
variations. Talk show guests are 
often real peo­ple, but the added element 
of the studio 
audience compli­
cates the matter. 
Talk shows offer 
entertainment under 
the guise of information, 
and the guests represent 
marginalized groups that the 
average viewer "needs" to know more about: teen daughters gone wild, for instance, or secret transvestites. The host interviews the guests, or rather promenades them like a carnival bark­er, and then turns the studio audience loose on the guests to ask questions, accuse and reprimand. 
Yet another powerful fantasy surfaces -this time voyeurism coupled with the desire to judge and to be judged. The talk show relies on an interesting struc­ture of audience judging guest, guest judging back and TV viewer judging them both. 
Bob Saget, Jerry Springer and reggae group Inner Circle of "Cops" theme song fame evolve into the newest, most virulent strains of real TV: the dating show and the reality drama. 
The appeal of dat­ 
,.  ing shows, such as  
.  -~  MTV's  

'{'i;.P.1,.; "Dismissed" and n,., ;_\ ~~.. company is pret­~~-, :.-,.< · ty self-explana­
tory. Dating is often awk­ward, and meeting peo­pie is never easy. And it feels good to 
watch others struggle through awful dates. 
,.,=~--: . .. . .,,, ,.., Sometimes ~hese 
------:_~·. '' shows seem qmte=:,.JC~f'7~:..,~~:!'jfreal. But the cam­/'.. -:<, _. .:t~_era's invi~ible eye adds ./ · -:;,.;;-;;: .· 11 the expectat10ns of the >JY~/ entire viewing audience, ---·-prompting the show's participants 
into employing stronger than usual per­sonas and into wearing thicker than usual masks. Instead of watching pro­fessional actors perform pre-written lines, we watch ostensibly "normal" peo­pie improvise. Often the participants are aspiring actors, which only increases the irony. 
The disturbing post-ironic irony culmi­nates in the real drama. MTV's "Real World" series pioneered and perhaps exemplifies real drama as genre. Real people are selected on the basis of audi­tion tapes and placed in an unfamiliar environment to live and work together for about a year. They live in a nicer­than-average house stuffed to the gills with cameras, and they are taped con­tinuously 24 hours a day. This footage reduces to a weekly half-hour episode that presents a portrayal of the drama of daily life -the toothbrush borrowed without permission or the kitchen sink confrontation about negligent dish washing. 

But all is illusion. Cameras don't lie, but they do beg interpretation. Now pro­ducers spend less money for on-camera talent, but pay top dollar for the editing that transforms unassuming documen­tary footage into an entertaining show by advancing certain story lines or char­acter traits. 
This is the disturbing irony of it all: we shape real TV, which presumably avoids the imposed artifices of plot and acting, into an imitation of a fictional TV show. We watch people who are not only aware we are watching, but who no longer have to pretend they don't know they are being watched. We escape from the humdrum routine of our daily lives by watching others perform the routine. I'm not entirely sure what that means, but this shrimp cocktail is delicious. I can't wait for next week's Survivor party. 
Eric Long is a senior PLS major. He can be reached at long.31@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those oJThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Give Palestinians fair treatment 

Once again, Israel has declared a war against Palestinians. Israeli forces have re-occupied virtually all of the Palestinian territories, and the Aljazeera network reports that Israeli troups have started mass executions in Ramallah, killing about 30 Palestinian security agents it captured in the inva­sion. All this while Yasser Arafat is being detained in one room. 
Meanwhile. Bush declares that he "understands the Israeli need for securi­ty." Very good, let the veil of hypocrisy be lifted once and for all. All this time the U.S. government has been publicly declaring that it holds the role of neu­tral peace "broker." But with a broker like this, who needs an enemy? 
It is well understood by everyone in the world except by the American peo­ple that the U.S. government has been completely supportive oflsraeli terror­ism. Economic and military support reaches above $4 billion a year, includ­ing the highest level of equipment, missiles and helicopters with Israel being the only country in the Middle East to have nuclear weapons. So the U.S. gov­ernment has never been and isn't now passive -instead they're being com-• pletely involved in the most criminal way. 
And the Israelis and the Americans expect the Palestinian Authority to crack down on suicide bombers? What? I keep asking myself: Are these peo­ple joking? When in the history of humanity has the occupied protected the occupier? Why is a nation being murdered and brutalized on a daily basis expected to stop fighting back and submit? Not to mention the obvious fact that Israel is actually crippling Arafat's ability to control anything. 
People, the emperor wears no clothes. This is naked aggression against a nation whose only defense is their bodies. When will people realize that the only solution for peace is to remove the sources of conflict, end the occupa­tion and give the Palestinians and refugees their full rights as guaranteed by international law (U.N. resolutions 194, 242, 338)? 
Until then, don't expect the Palestinians to submit to Israel or to anyone. They have the moral strength of a people determined to end their slavery, and nothing will break their resolve. 
OmarS. Dahi 
graduate student March 31. 2002 

Protests shame student body 
When I was in the eighth grade, my graduating class staged a protest in the school cafeteria. More than 300 students pounded on tables, shouting, "Hell no, we won't go." Honestly, I have no idea why it started, but that did not really mat­ter. Within half an hour we adolescents had created our own personal episode of "The Wonder Years," a ridiculous prank heightened to that of a cinematic rite of passage. 
The glorified temper tantrum Mar. 27 at the Main Building will go down in the books as nothing more than a canned attempt at rebellion by spoiled young adults. At best it will serve as a self-indulgent myth, marveled at by the common student 10 years down the road. 
Book burning, hurling liquor bottles as a kind of symbolic Molotov cocktail and using militant rhetoric of the National Rifle Association and Bob Marley is neither cute nor effective. Our human rights are not being violated, and the mere compar­ison has twisted the idea of true protest into a sad caricature of oppression. On a personal level, these staged events have devalued students' integrity, which will inevitably give our legitimate opinions the political impact of a knock-knock joke. 
Clearly there are several pressing issues that need to be worked out between our University's administration and its students. Perhaps simple dialogue is not enough, but a sophomoric public spectacle will not change anything. We have been invited to attend this campus because we are intelligent, resourceful stu• dents. At the very least, we have been creative in our ways of dancing around the rules. A small minority of the student body, however, has challenged the adminis­tration for the wrong reasons, using ineffective arguments and despicable calls to action. 
This is the first time I've ever been ashamed to be associated with Notre Dame's student body. To those of you who are congratulating yourselves for raising hell at the Main Building; your wannabe protest only made us look ignorant. Your copy­cat riot didn't make students' "oppression" a reality. Find something better to do with your energy -not for yourselves, but for the rest of us. 
Joel Ebner 
senior Keough Hall March 28, 2002 
"3:HE
~1>SERVER 


page 14 Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
Bands,booze and the Tao of Dave 
Many starry-eyed and pimple-faced 15-year-old boys sitting 
alone on Friday nights get the idea that maybe the way to get to 
the ladies would be to learn the guitar. I was one of those boys. I 
can't even count how many Friday nights I spent in high-school, 
practicing guitar and watching "Sabrina: the Teenage Witch," 
thinking that that my work would one day pay 
off. 
Flash forward to the college years: I find myself playing in several campus bands. Although the payoff for all my practicing was not what I thought it would be, it certainly ended up being as good as I had hoped. I can still remember the words I heard as I set up before my first performance at a party at Turtle Creek one glorious night last year: "You boys in the bands, you drink for free." This was truly a sweet deal that would be repeated many times through the present. 
But, playing in a campus band isn't just free beer. In order to have a decent sounding band, one must unfortunately practice every once in a while. While there is nothing that I like more than hanging out with my buddies in my various bands and just relaxing and jamming, the planning involved in just getting together a practice is generally quite a bil. of work. 
A typical Notre Dame campus band will run into several prob­lems. The first of which is the total lack of any sort of practice space on campus. Keenan had a woefully inadequate practice room that was available for a whopping two hours a day. This year, however, even the tiny weight room/band room that was previously available is no longer in existence. With the shutting down of the Keenan band room just days before NAZZ last year, my band Red Dragon Tattoo desperately searched for alternate spaces in which to practice. Our only refuge was the storage room in the basement of Fisher Hall. 
As it turns out. this particular room has no power outlets, lights, heating or even a floor to speak of. But, we made due. With no rehearsal space on campus available. the only option for bands now is to have a member of the band who lives off campus and has a place big enough to set up the required equipment. 
Another problem encountered by Notre Dame campus bands is the stubborn desire by most students to put their studies first. When it comes to people such as me, this is typically not an issue. In a band of four or five people. however, getting everyone to agree on a time to.rehearse generally ends up being exceptional­ly difficult; for example, one of my bands. Rex LaDado has not practiced for about a month and we arc scheduled to perform at the battle of lhe bands on north quad Friday evening. The likeli­hood of a late Thursday night practice is increasing rapidly as time progresses. 
Furthermore. if the style of your band isn't all that popular, fill­ing out the proper instrumentation can be a pain in the neck. There are not too many fans of rockabilly on the campus of Notre Dame, so filling the position of bassist for my band, Updogg, has been, as of yet, fruitless. The same situation has come up in my other band, The Salvation Coast Guard; there simply isn't a big pool of punk bassists available on this campus. Although, I'd bet if Updogg were a Dave Matthews' cover band, I would have no problem in that respect. 
The problems don't end there. Acquiring all the equipment nec­essary for a band to perform is unavoidably a very expensive process. Ideally, all the guitars and bass have amps loud enough that they require no additional amplification. Unless your vocalist just happens to be the lead singer of Slayer, it is doubtful that your band will be able to perform with no PA. A capable PA will typically set the average band back at least a thousand dollars; when your daily meal consists of Ramen and Tang, this much money is a pretty tall order. 
Being in campus bands is a drain of my time, my patience, and my money. My grades have suffered because of it. Would I have it any other way? Not a chance. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Dave Lodewyck is the best musician on campus and offers music lessons to those of the fem ale persuasion. Interested par­ties can contact him at dlodewyc@nd.edu. 


UDID 




By MIKE SCHMUHL Assistant Scene Editor 
Tired of the same four CDs in your winter rota­tion as the snow pummels South Bend in early April? Don't worry. A fresh change has arrived to our arctic tundra with a fiery concoction of blues, soul, reggae, rock, hip-hop and funk. Originally playing at small parties around town, Notre Dame's own Station One just won the 2002 NAZZ (battle of the bands) and have started performing a few times each week. 
Station One includes drummer Pete Miller (PM) from South Bend, his brother and guitarist David Miller (DM), keyboardist Mike Maimone (MM) from Cleveland, bassist Lee Elsey are your musical

"A lot ofpeople compare us to
(LE) from Detroit and lead influences and singer Lawrence Santiago Sublime or 3 1 I. We pullfrom style of music? (LS) from Guam via LE: I grew up lis­
Ben Folds a lot, a lot ofthe 
Louisiana. The Observer tening to a lot of
guys like Ben Folds. There
recently sat down with reggae, lots of members of the group and are a lot ofpunk rhythms. blues; I'm really talked about the band's Back in the day we were into BB King, past, future, imploding ceil­Stevie Ray Vaughn,
pretty much pop. " 

ings and their Taco Bell tra­I like the Beatles. dition. Led Zeppelin, basi­Lawrence Santiago cally everything. Observer: How did Station LS: A lot of peo­
Station One lead singer
One form? 
LS: Well, I came here for a campus visit and my host family was the Millers. I knew that they played guitar and drums, so we went down to the basement and jammed a little bit. I was singing R&B over their punk, but we wanted to start a band when we got here our freshman year. We started the band as soon as we got here. It was just me, Pete and Dave. We started playing Acousticafe, but wanted a bass player and a keyboardist. Mike was in my dorm and I learned that he played keyboard, so I intro­duced him to these guys. Mike joined and we played some more at Acousticafe and we met our bassist Jeff McDonnell, who now is the lead singer for a new band. 

MM: Our first song was "BB Mac." We started playing some at College Park. We played a lot of parties there and jam out for two hours, three hours, just on bongos and like five songs. 
PM: We were called "The Island Boys" and then changed to "House Bound," then Station One. Jeff left the band and Lee joined this year. 
Observer: Where do you get the name Station One? 
LS: Station One's the name of a ghetto­booty club back in Louisiana. I never went, but it's a cool name. 
Observer: What 
ple compare us to 

Sublime or 311. We pull from Ben Folds a lot, a lot of the guys like Ben Folds. There are a lot of punk rhythms. Back in the day we were pretty much pop. 
DM: My influences back in high school were pretty much punk and ska. My brother and I played in a punk band. My main influences were like the Smashing Pumpkins, Nirvana, Radiohead. but then I got more into reggae like Sublime and Marley. 
MM: I kind of listen to everything. I liked rap when I was a little kid. but when I got to high school I started listening to Zeppelin, Dave 

Station One band members playing at NAZZ where they won first place: drummer Pete Miller, guitarist Dave Miller and Mike Maimone on keyboard. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 



Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
page 15 


to 
tation 
ne 
interviews the winners ofNAZZ 
Matthews, stuff like the Counting Crows. I'll pretty much listen to everything though. 
PM: My influences are mainly Sublime, Marley, Led Zeppelin. In high school I only listened to Pennywise, Less Than Jake, Mustard Plug, Nirvana or any other ska or punk bands. 
Observer: How did it feel to win battle of the bands (NAZZ)? 
LS: (sighing) We didn't believe it at f"ll'st. Last year it was such a big deal. This year there weren't any prizes, but it meant a lot. It really didn't sink in until we left the place and went to Taco Bell. That's like our tradition. 
MM: I thought the Skammunists were really good, I mean they won it last year. My first reaction was there could have been no way we placed. Wben they said we won it, we were just amazed. 
Observer: What is the key to a good live performance? LE: The audience. If the crowd's not into it, it is really hard to play. 
MM: From our perspective, we have to have energy. If we're not into what we're playing, the crowd will notice. 
LE: It's hard at Acousticafe because everyone is studying and talking. We play best at small parties on the same f1oor, where it's dark, everybody's drinking and everybody's standing less than 10 feet away from us. 
l.S: And girls dancing on us. LE: Yeah. 
Observer: Where can Notre Dame stu­dents find you guys performing? 
PM: OK. We'll be playing ... (pause) 
l.S: We keep getting shows that we don't know about! 
PM: April 5 from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., we'll be playing downtown at Benchwarmer's with NIHM. who got second at battle of the bands. Admission there will be $3. We'll be playing Saturday, April 6 sometime between 1-5 at Knott on the Knoll. We'll also be playing that night at the Sophomore Class battle of the bands. We haven't found out what time we're play­ing, but it goes from 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. Next, we're playing Friday, April 12 with the Skammunists from 7 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. at Higher Grounds on Washington Street. The cover there will be $5. That same night we'll be playing 11 :30 p.m. to 12 
a.m. at Stonehenge for the Junior Class event. Then, Saturday, April 13, we're playing the Hawaii Club Luau around 6:30 
p.m. 
Observer: Describe the band's greatest moment. 
PM: It would have to be last year. We were playing at a big party for like 200 or 300 people. We were in the basement and the ceiling collapsed. 
LS: So I dropped my mic and I ran. 
MM: We were covering up the equip­ment. That was all we were worried about. 
l.S: That was the first night we got Taco Bell together Oaughing). Our best perfor­mance was probably NAZZ. It was our most energetic. It was short and we played fast, but it was good. That was the first time we went to Taco Bell. 
Observer: Do you have any advice for students who want to start a band? 
LS and LE: Transfer to Business. 
MM: I'm a business major and I always want to practice, but they can't. 
LE: Between us, there are two architects, one pre-med major and one bio-chem major. 
MM: Definitely get people who share the same type of schedule that you do. You'll be able to talk to each other all the time. 
PM: Make sure you're friends with the other people. It's not going to work. 
LS: Make sure you know 

.... 
small. Do something with that. LE: We'll be able to develop our origi­nals over a year too. 
.... 
PM: We're planning on meeting over the summer to practice. Maybe play some bars or something. 
Observer: Is there anything else Notre Dame should know about Station One? 
LS: We have a Web site up now; www.station-one.net. We have T-Shirts on sale for $10 and CDs for $5. 
Some of the band's music can be found online, like the catchy song "Rebel 
Children." The laid­
back reggae vibe 

what kind of intertwines with
"We play best at small par­
sound you Santiago's lyrical ease want to have. ties on the same floor. and leads to a Otherwise. the where it's dark, everybody's crunchy-rock chorus; music will go "Listen up can you
drinking and everybody's
off into differ­give me your atten­
ent directions. standing less than ro feet tion?/ Administration away from us.,, it needs correction/ Observer: I'm Everybody stand What does the up for your right/
Lee Elsey

future hold for Everybody get up and Station One? Station One bassist fight." 
M M 
Lawrence is going to Rome next year for archi­tecture. I'm going to London in the fall. 
PM: The year that they're gone, at least until the spring, we're going to try and record some songs. As live performances go, we'll probably just screw around, maybe do some instrumental stuff. Maybe one of us will have to start singing. 
LS: We're going to try, with the stuff we're recording now, maybe compile a demo CD, possibly sign to something Station One is not 

an act to miss. Many people may think the on campus music scene is dry and there's not much to see. Someone who's looking for a new, ener­getic and lively performance in a band should take the opportunity to see Station One at one of their upcoming shows. For booking information contact Peter Miller at prniller6@nd.edu. 
Contact Mike Schmuhl at schmuhl.5@nd.edu. 

The sound of Station One combines the styles of each of their band members. Vocalist Lawrence Santiago (right) adds funk, soul and freestyle hip hop on top of bassist Lee Elsey's (left) reggae-influenced sound. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
NCAA MEN's BASKETBALL 
Christian christened at Kent State 
. Assistant replaces Heath after helping lead Golden Flashes to tournament run 
Asoociated Press 
KENT, Ohio 
Kent State decided it was time to put an end to all the surprises. Less than two weeks after its improbable March tournament run con­cluded and just four days after coach Stan Heath left unexpectedly, Kent State found his replacement sitting right on its bench. 
Jim Christian, an assistant under Heath this season when the Golden Flashes advanced to the NCAA tour­nament's round of eight, on 
Tuesdav  was  named  the  
school's 21st coach  - and  
third in three years.  

illt happened very fast," Christian said. "We want to continue what's been started here." 
Christian takes over for Heath, who in his first sea­son led the Golden Flashes to a 30-6 record, the Mid­American Conference title and victories over Oklahoma State, Alabama and Pittsburgh in this year's NCAA tourney, before taking the job at Arkansas. 
The 37-year-old Christian received a five-year contract from athletic director Laing Kennedy, whose priority in finding Heath's successor was to bring stability and continuity to the program. 
"Jim is the person we need to continue at the champi­onship level," Kennedy said. "If we were conducting a national search, we would look at Elite Eight-type pro­grams, and we have one right here. Jim is the right man at the right time for Kent State. 
"He is part of the family." 
Christian's deal is similar to the one Heath got a year ago when he replaced Gary Waters, who left for Rutgers. Kennedy said Christian will make $120,000 per season with incentives. 
But unlike Heath, Christian won't have the luxury of inheriting a group of seniors like Trevor Huffman, Andrew Mitchell or Demetric Shaw, who led Kent State to 100 wins and three NCAA tourna­ment appearances the past four years. 
"Guess we'll have to find some guys just like them then," Christian joked. "But they were a very special group and they have 
"Jim is the person we need
laid a foun­dropped dation here to continue at the out of that we championship level. If coaching 
want to from 1999­
we were conducting a
build upon. '00 to work We have to national search. we would at a sports continue marketing
look at Elite Eight-type 
the stan­firm before 
programs. and we have one
dard and joining work ethic right here. Jim is the right Heath's that they staff.
man at the right time 
set." He played
for Kent State. " 
K e n t at Boston State's University returning Laing Kennedy for two players y e a r s
Kent State athletic director 
w e r e thrilled with the decision to hire Christian, who has more than a decade of experience as an assistant. 
"I just couldn't see a new coach coming in here now and not knowing the play­ers," said junior forward Antonio Gates, who along with his teammates attended the news conference to announce Christian's hiring. "I thought coach Christian was the best person." 
Gates knows that because of the magical tourney run, the days of Kent State -or any other MAC school ­sneaking up on anyone are over. 
"Now we've got to try and stay at the top," Gates said. "That might be the hardest thing to do." 
Christian believes the Golden Flashes can remain among the nation's elite pro­grams by keeping realistic expectations. He knows the newfound national respect and heightened profile Kent State is enjoying can vanish quickly. . 
"We've got some work to do," he said. "But I think we have a nice group to start with." 
Christian was an assistant coach at Pittsburgh, Western Kentucky, Miami of Ohio and St. Francis (Pa.) but 
before 
transfer­
ring to Rhode Island, and played for the Rams in 1988 when they advanced to the Sweet 16. 
Although he believes he was "born to coach", Christian said an epiphany came his freshman year ­while trying to stop Michael Jordan on an alley-oop. 
"He jumped, and I jumped, and I was at his knee level when he dunked," Christian said. "I figured my career as a player was going to be short-lived. I knew I'd better find something else to do with the rest of my life." 

NCAA puts Tampa on I-year probation 
Associated Pres• 

TAMPA, Fla. 
The University of Tampa has been placed on one-year's pro­bation and its women's soccer team banned from postseason play because its founding coach improperly paid players' tuition and violated recruiting rules, the NCAA said Tuesday. 
Former women's soccer coach George Fotopoulos, now 
the coach at Louisiana S t a t e University, used his own money and his father's to pay tuition for six players and provided two Swedish recruits improper housing and transportation, the NCAA said. 

"It hurts our reputation. pay tuition and fees at
which up to this point has 
the private
been pretty spotless. We 
universityhope we can get through in 1998. A 
that by making this a year later, 
Fotopoulos
better institution. " 
p a i d another Gail Swalls $1,500 to Tampa associate athletic director two stu­
Fotopoulos, a Tampa gradu­ate and former professional player with the Tampa Bay Rowdies and the New Orleans 
Riverboat  Gamblers,  was  
placed  on  probation  until  
2003.  

His wife, professional soccer player Danielle Fotopoulos of the Carolina Courage and a member of the 1999 women's World Cup team, was banned from involvement with his teams under the NCAA's sanc­tions. 
Fotopoulos declined com­ment Tuesday through LSU's sports information office. 
In addition to being placed on probation, Tampa's women's soccer team is banned from the NCAA tour­nament for a year. The team also had to stop its recruitment of international students. 
The university crafted a series of reforms for itself and has been implementing them since the investigation began in 1999. It has recently height­ened its compliance monitor­ing and is regularly conducting training for coaches. 
"It hurts our reputation, which up to this point has been pretty spotless," said Gil Swails, Tampa's associate ath­letic director. "We hope we can get through that by mak­ing this a better institution." 
The NCAA said Fotopoulos arranged for a $3,500 pay­ment from his father to two students to help them 
dents and 
after leav­ing Tampa in 1999, paid yet another $3,000 for two team members' tuition. 
The money was needed because the students had come up short in their financial aid packages. Investigators said Fotopoulos provided the money directly to the students, instead of through an estab­lished fund for such needs, because it would have taken too long. 
When he was confronted about the payments, Fotopoulos initially lied about them, the school said. 
"He short-cut the system ­he gave the girls the cash and told them to go pay their bill," Swalls said. "He was a new coach and a fairly young coach and it was his first college job." 
The NCAA further found vio­lations in Fotopoulos' contact with two Swedish soccer play­ers recruited to attend the uni­versity. They were provided housing and transportation in violation of NCAA rules. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

YOUTH MINISTER. 2 suburban Summer Employment for College Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting 3-4 person home. New York City Apt-2 bedroom/con­parishes, Chicago-OHare area, Student. Care for 11 and 9 year old furnished, air-conditioned room in Avail. June 2002. CIA. vert 3 New building in East Village NOTICES seek an innovative, dynamic, faith-Fun, relaxing summer. Good pay. NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to Security system. Large kitchen with island A/C, 
filled person to coordinate a com-Hours 9am-5pm. Please call Lisa sept. 1 2002, three roommates (2M, Close to campus. videophone,Dish,Micro,Laundry. $250 a day potential/bartending prehensive youth ministry program. 631-9947. 1F) Safe neighborhood, free street 616-699-5841 Free access to nearby gym, Trainmg provided Full time position, requires flexible parking, washer/dryer in house. two No Broker Fee $2600/mo 1-800-293-3985 hours, some evenings, weekends. blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1 /2 SUMMER SUBLET (heat and hot water included) ext 556 Compassion, enthusiasm, motiva-miles from Tacoma Metro, 4Bdm/2Ba house close to ND par-Bethany ND 2000
FOR SALE

tion, organization skills, dedication $390/month + 1/4 utilties, call tially furnished, air, w.d. great (347)524-5823. 
AREA CODE CHANGES to teens. Michelle 202/829-3725, or backyard $11 00+uts. 289-5651 Update business cards Tasks: coordinating faith/formation Men's new black NOTRE DAME krup78@hotmail.com FEMALE SUB-LET IN CHICAGO letterhead & envelopes program; supervising adult volun-leather jacket (med) $150. 631-Lakeview 3052 Ashland-two good-2 recent ND grads seek a room-
at teers; preparing liturgies, yearly 6234 or 616-684-6692. HOUSES FOR RENT: 1 )large (6-9) sized bedrooms, nice closets, hard-mate to share spacious 3 bdrm, 2 THE COPY SHOP retreat, fostering social justice out-people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call wood floors, bright apartment, fire-bth apartment-close to Wrigley, EL, Lafortune Student Center reach: guide fund raising program. PASSAT VW 1996 $7500 obo Bill at 532-1896. place, near el, heat incll, ldry in-very safe 5/1-8/31 Call for details 574-631-COPY Preferred candidate Catholic with KellyBB=$8900. Black, all avail bldg. May/1 or 15, 1 (312)-696-1579 bachelor deg. in ministry/theology, options, heated leather seats, manu OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 200/mo. THE COPY SHOP Lafortune some experience. trans, no fluid leaks, 150k, tight fast Huge 5 bedroom house, 773/4 72-7775 Student Center Start date: July 1, 2002. Submit sporty sophisticated. wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking ... 
PERSONALS

Hours: resume, reflection on youth min-Call Jason 634-4645 Nice 3-4 bedroom house Nice 3-4 bdrm, 1.5 bath, CIA, 
Mon-Thur: 8:00am-Midnight istry, 3 references to: Youth Min. air.sec sys/parking 2-bedroom gas heat, W&D, fenced backyard Fri: 8:00am-7:00pm Search Comm , 920 W. cottage..cute.. across from park, Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it Sat: Noon-6:00 pm Granville, Park Ridge, IL 60068. DAVE 291-2209 VERY SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, alone.
FOR RENT 

Sun: 1:OOpm-11 :oopm Fax 847-825-3484 by April 6. fireplace, 2 car garage If you or someone you love needs Sell-Service available 3-6 BDRM HOMES. $1050/mo+dep. confidential support or assistance, 
Cati 574-631-COPY SMC alumna looking for someone Well maintained houses near cam-NEAR CAMPUS. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038 please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, to do childcare in my Granger home pus 2-4-5 & B bedroom houses FURN., CSC, at 1-7819. for school year 2002-2003, 2-3 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing LOW RATES 2 Great Homes: For more information, see our hours per day, M-F. Must have own for 2003-2004 Call Kramer 234-272-6306, 4 & 5 Bdrm, W&D, close to campus. weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.
WANTED car. Call 247-0690. 2436 or 274-9955 ext 556 292-6717 Well Kept! Great Location! 
ND Alum. A lifetime of happiness awaits your Camp Counselor for children w/ dis-Boy Scout Summer Camp Program LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES-1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath hOuse WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE baby. abilities. Must have strong work Director• 7 weeks in June & July. TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 3 with lots of updates. OW/wash/dryer LOOKING FOR. Young California couple with stay at ethic and be interested in making a Must train, lead & motivate a pro-NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND inc. Walking distance to campus. Call Karey 255-8403. home mom and involved dad will difference 1n the life of a child. $7-gram staff of 45. Experience strong-NORTH 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097 Spacious yard for tailgating, recre-cherish your newborn in our warm, $11 hr.• 35 hr/wk, summer only. 6 ly preferred. ext. 556 ation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec Furn. 1 bedroom house w/ garage. caring, secure and joy-filled home sites in Summit County. Must enjoy Send resume to or $325 ea for 5+ 1 mi N of campus. Avail mid-May Please call Kim and Al outdoor activities. Call 800-CYO-info@lasallecounsilbsa.org MMMRentals.com 272-1525 Call 277-8450 or email to mid-August. $550/month all util toll free anytime CAMP tor an application. or lax to 574-289-0336 mmmrenials@aol.com house@newwebtech.com incl. Call Laura 514-8568. 1-866-533-3332. 

Wednesday, April 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Bonds drives in 5 runs to lead Giants over Dodgers 
senior Thank You Picture Frame 
Sold Wednesday from 7:30-9:30 and Thursday from 2:30­
4:30 in Lafortune. Sales end April 5! 
The 2-sided, 4x6 frame 
Also available is a 4x6 includes a picture of the 
album holding 24 picture Dome, a quote by Monk, in navy with a gold ND 
a brief thank-you emblem on the cover. A message, and one line of 
great gift for friends and name personalization. even yourself! 
Cost: $25. Cost: $7. 
• Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! • 

Name (first and last only, please): 
big thumbs-up. 
The Expos survived baseball's plan to eliminate them during the winter, but poor support is likely to doom them beyond this, their 34th season in Montreal. A crowd of' only 3,500 to 6,000 was expected for Wednesday night's game. 
With Braden Looper (0-1) pitch­ing, Brad Wilkerson drew a lead­off walk in the Expos' ninth and Barrett doubled. 
After pinch-hitter Henry Rodriguez and Peter Bergeron struck out, Vidro singled. Vidro took second on the throw home, prompting the Marlins to inten­tionally walk Vladimir Guerrero. 
That brought up Cabrera, whose HBI single capped a three­run eighth that made it 6-4. On a 1-2 pitch, Cabrera hit a drive over the head of' right fielder Kevin Millar to end it. 
Matt IIerges (1-0). acquired from Los Angeles in spring train­ing, got the victory. 
Preston Wilson hit a grand slam in the seventh, putting the Marlins ahead 6-1. 
Mike Lowell's RBI double off Javier Vazquez broke a 1-1 tie in the sixth. Wilson connected off Britt Reames for his third career grand slam. 
Ryan Dempster held Montreal to one run on Guerrero's RBI sin­gle through seven innings. 
Barrett led off the eighth with a home run, and Dempster left after allowing a one-out walk to Bergeron. Reliever Vladimir Nunez gave up an RBI double to Guerrero and Cabrera's run-scor­ing single. 
Marlins first baseman Derek Lee ended Montreal's threat with a fine play, picking Lowell's throw from third base out of the dirt. 
Milwaukee 9, Houston 3 
The name Enron was gone from the ballpark. As far as the Houston Astros were concerned, hitting and pitching were miss­ing, too. 
Ben Sheets struck out a career­high eight, and Richie Sexson, Tyler Houston and Jose Hernandez drove in two runs each to lead the Milwaukee Brewers to a season-opening win over the Houston Astros. 
"Ben was overpowering," 
Brewers manager Davey Lopes 

said. "His fastball was clocked at off Jesus Colome. 
97. He came out firing in the first inning. He was pumped tonight. It usually takes him three or four innings to get going." 
Sheets, a member of the gold medal-winning U.S. Olympic team two years ago, allowed two runs and nine hits in six innings and walked none. Last April 5, Sheets lost to Houston in his major league debut. 
"There were Opening Day jit­ters, but our guys came out and banged them early," Sheets said. 'Tm pleased with the way things went. I went six innings and I still felt strong. I didn't want to burn up the bullpen in the first week." 
The game was the first one at the stadium since it was renamed. 
Following the collapse of Enron, the NL Central champions bought back naming rights to their ball­park from the bankrupt energy company. 
Tampa Bay 9, Detroit 5 
Tampa Bay's "Heart & Hustle" campaign is off to a successful start. 
Greg Vaughn's two-out RBI sin­gle broke an eighth-inning tie and the young Devil Rays went on to beat the Detroit Tigers before a season-opening crowd of 38,142 at Tropicana Field. 
Vaughn broke a 5-5 tie after loser Juan Acevedo walked Steve Cox intentionally to get to the Devil Rays' cleanup hitter. 
Ben Grieve drew a bases­loaded walk to drive in another run and Bobby Smith added a two-run double that glanced off pitcher Danny Patterson's foot and rolled into shallow right field. 
Victor Zambrano pitched two­thirds of an inning for the win, and Esteban Yan finished. 
Tampa Bay scored on pitcher Jeff Weaver's throwing error in the third, Brent Abernathy's RBI double in the fourth and Toby Hall's run-scoring single in the fifth to build a 3-1 lead against Detroit's ace. 
Cox's two-run single in the sixth wiped out a 5-3 lead the Tigers took when they scored four times off starter Tanyon Sturtze in the sixth. 
Mike Rivera and Jose Macias delivered RBI singles off Sturtze before Bobby Higginson finished the rally with a two-run double to lead the San Francisco Giants ond inning. 
Associated Press 
to a season-opening 9-2 victory Bonds had an RBI single off 
over the Los J\ngcles Dodgers. Brown in the fourth, then sent a 
LOS ANGELES "It's not how you start, it's how 1-1 pitch from Omar Dc1.al just 

After getting off to a great you finish," said the 37-year-old inside the right-field foul pole in beginning, Barry Bonds said he's San Francisco slugger, who hit 73 the seventh, becoming the 10th more concerned about the end­homers last year to break the player to reach the loge level at ing. record set by Mark McGwirc in Dodger Stadiwn. 
He was speaking of' his team, 1998. "We want to be in the race The home runs gave Bonds five not himself. until it's over. It's early, one game on opening day and 569 overall, 
Coming off one of the greatest doesn't make a season." moving him four behind Harmon offensive seasons in baseball his­Bonds hit a two-out, three-run Killebrew, who ranks sixth on tory but still without a World homer off Kevin Brown on his baseball's career list. Series appearance, Bonds home­second swing of the season., a Bonds has 57 multihomer red twice and drove in five runs drive that capped a five-run sec-games, including 10 last season, 

Experience Stanford this Summer 
• 
Engage in thought-provoking study with Stanford faculty 

• 
Live 011 campus -a short drive from West Coast beaches 

• 
Earn Ju/I-year credit in foreign languages and physics 

• 
New 3-week Institutes in Creative Writing & Intematianal Security 


Choose from more than 200 courses, including: Psychology of Peak Performance (Psy 168S) • Evolution, Mind, & Culture (Phil 85S) • Creativity and Innovation (MS&E 177) • Battles for God (PoliSci t 66G) • American Religious Thought (RS 8S) • Investigating Violence (Cult&SocAnth I I 9S) • Intro to Artificial Intelligence (CS I JI)• Intro to Signal Processing (EE I 03) 
Ph: (650) 723-3109 
summersession.stanford.edu 

and is fifth in the category. He became the 25th player to homer twice on opening day. 
Livan Hernandez, making his third straight opening-day start for the Giants, won by allowing both Los Angeles runs and four hits in eight innings. 
Hernandez, who retired 14 straight batters before Mark Grudzielanek singled to start the eighth, also had two hits, scored twice and drove in a run. 
"We outscored them, but Uvan won that game for us," Bonds said. 
Montreal 7, Florida 6 
The Montreal Expos made their fans forget about extinction and feel some excitement. 
Down to their last out in what might've been their final season opener, the Expos rallied for three runs in the bottom of the ninth inning and beat the Florida Marlins on Orlando Cabrera's single. 
A crowd of 34,351 cheered loudly after Jose Vidro tied it with a two-out, two-run single and Cabrera won it. 
While Cabrera was mobbed by his teammates, new manager Frank Robinson ½ildly waved his hat to the fans and gave them a 

School Address: 
Phone: 
Email: 

I want to order 
frame(s) for $25 each -~ album(s) for $7 each __ both the frame and album for $30 
. 
Please make checks payable to: ND Management Club, 

. 
You can print an order form at www.nd.edu/~mgtclub or send in this article with your order information to 200 Lafortune1 Notre Dame, IN 46556 



......--------­page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
ND SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish grab academic honors 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team kept its tradition of academ­ic excellence alive in 2001­02, finishing sixth in the nation according to the College Swimming Coaches Association of America (CSCAAJ All-Academic list with a 3.195 grade-point average. 
To qualify for this honor, the grade-point aver.age of the entire swimming and diving team, including all team members on the eligi­bility list, must average at least a 2.8 on a 4.0 scale. In all, 30 men's swimming and diving teams met the crite­ria for the 2001-02 winter/spring semester. 
Notre Dame has tradition­ally finished well in the CSCAA academic rankings, finishing first in 1999 and second in 2001. The sixth­place ranking for the 2001­02 winter/spring semester is the fifth consecutive semes­ter the Irish have been ranked in the top 10. 
The Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team, fresh off a highly successful 2001-02 season in which the Irish won their sixth consec­utive Big East Conference title and qualified nine swimmers and divers for the NCAA Championship, has earned a spot on the CSCAA all-academic list for the first time in the program's histo­ry for the 2001-02 winter/spring semester with a 3.184 grade-point aver­age. In all, 53 women's swimming and diving teams met the criteria for the 2001-02 winter/spring semester. 
received more good  news  
from the CSCAA.  
The  Notre  Dame  team  

The Irish finished the 2001-02 dual-meet season with a perfect 10-0 record, giving the squad a 30-1 dual meet mark over the last three seasons. Notre Dame was also ranked as high as 13th in the CSCM Top 25. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Play earns Thomas spot on Sporting News team 
Special to The Observer 
The honors continue for Notre Dame point guard Chris Thomas. On Tuesday, the Irish freshman and the 2002 Big East Rookie of the Year was named to the The Sporting News All­Freshmen Team. 
Joining Thomas on the squad were Alabama guard Maurice Williams, Texas guard T.J. Ford, Memphis guard Dajuan Wagner and Connecticut center Emeka Okafor. 
Thomas was recently named the national freshman of the year by Basketball Times. A third-team all­Big East selection, he was the team's second-leading scorer this season as he averaged 15.6 points per game. He set Notre Dame single-season marks for a_c;sists (252). steals (72) and steals per game (2.18). He also tied the sin­gle-season assist average record (7.64), sharing that honor with Jackie Meehan. 

Thomas recorded the first triple double in Notre Dame basketball his­tory when he scored 24 points. dished off 11 assists and made 11 steals in his first collegiate outing on Nov. 16 against New Hampshire. He scored in double figures in 24 games during the season and registered seven double doubles. The six-time Big East rookie­of-the-week honoree also scored 20­plus points in nine games and led the Irish in scoring on nine occasions. 
_, PGA 
Back problems force Nicklaus to withdraw from Masters 
Associated Press 
Jack Nicklaus, the most domi­nant player at Augusta National with six green jackets won over 23 years, withdrew from this year's Masters because of linger­ing back problems. 
It will be only the second time since 1959 that Nicklaus has missed The Masters. He also skipped in 1999 when he was recovering from hip replacement surgery. 
While Nicklaus, 62, has expressed concerns about com­peting against players half his age on an Augusta National course that has added nearly 300 yards, it was a back injury that has plagued him for nearly a year that forced him to withdraw. 
Nicklaus also withdrew from this week's Legends of Golf on the Senior Tour. 
"I have tried over the last cou­ple of months to get my body and my golf game in shape to play at the Legends and possibly The Masters," Nicklaus said. "And while encouraged, I made a deci­sion today that neither is at the point I hoped they'd be at this stage. 
"I do not think my golf game is 
-
suitable right now for the compe­tition." 
He has not played an official tournament since July 29, when he tied for third in the Senior British Open. 
"We are disappointed that due to his health, Jack will not be competing in this year's Masters," Augusta National chairman Hootie Johnson said. "Jack has made numerous contributions to this tournament, and we hope physically he is able to play golf again soon." 
Nicklaus said he will continue a fitness program designed to help his back. He hopes to play in the Tradition, the first major on the Senior Tour to be played the last week in April in Arizona on a course he designed. 
"My back is better, and hopeful­ly it will come around to the point where it will allow me to play golf in the not-so-distant future," he said. "I really miss competitive golf. It's in my blood, and I very much look forward to playing again soon." 
He first suggested he might skip The Masters in January, when his lower back caused problems swinging the club. 
Nicklaus joined Augusta National last year and played in a 
It's NOT too late to order Graduation Announcements that are great! 25% off total order 
www. tbepapercaper. cceasy. com The Paper Caper ~ Niles, MI 
6I6 683-s886 
owner Judy Mell ND'77 

'Jlo/111110500·-a-•lnllflliBBS.lartel/il!1,Cansull1lllfs Seminar.· f'Learn The Methods OfAProfeSSionalBusiness Man's Priceless Achievements r ·,1n ABC-123 f:lan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
A Dn Dav Semlmu, ABookOfOJII r,a Y,anOfln11Bluall/o Expor/111cs.:.· 
This class is designed to short cut you.to the simple focused thoughts _you must hsve iri business to move forward in high lave/business. ·t The class is_ tsught by a man whose work, on(t Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, •c11ange the course ofan enure industru. • · • 
I • 'I' 
:~..IIR£Forclass dates, private classes & ·.1: =~-2.0AII more information, go to ovr web · 
,__.., --site, orca11Mr .. Adamsat277-8104, ,. --~~fl.~_~.:__m~J • Jnv:sntor(!J__'!_S~'EJ_d'.gc,m-> 
members' tournament in November. He said he couldn't reach the fairway bunker on No. 1 from the members' tees, and routinely hit his drives only about 210 yards. 
Golf World magazine recently checked the scores Nicklaus was posting at his home course, The Bear's Club in Jupiter, Fla., and found his handicap index was 2. 
Nicklaus still plans to go to Augusta National next week for the Champions Dinner, and did not rule out playing The Masters again, depending on his health. 
His six victories, the last one coming in 1986 when he was 46, tell only part of the story of how Nicklaus dominated Augusta National with power, skill and experience in 42 appearances in The Masters. 

When he missed the cut last year at age 59, it was only the fourth time he failed to make it to the weekend at golfs first major championship. He also missed the cut in 1994, withdrew in 1983 and kissed the cut as an amateur in 1959. 
He won his first Masters in 1963 and became the first back­to-back champion in 1965-66. In the 1965 Masters, Nicklaus set the tournament record of 271 with a nine-stroke victory over chief rivals Arnold Palmer and Gary Player. 
The record was tied by Raymond Floyd in 1976, and bro­ken by one stroke when Tiger Woods shot a 270 in 1997 during his 12-stroke victory. 
The most dramatic victory was his last one, when Nicklaus shot a 30 on the back nine to beat Tom Kite and Greg Norman in 1986. 
Even after turning 50, Nicklaus has pulled a few surprises. He tied for sixth in 1998 after anoth­er Sunday charge, and in 2000 he was only six strokes out of the lead going into the weekend. He closed with a 81-78 to tie for 54th. 
"Needless to say, I have a spe­cial place in my heart for Augusta National and The Masters, and I will miss not playing there this year," he said. "] am certainly hopeful that I may have the chance to play The Masters in future years." 
JOln US 
for a free retreat; this could be the weekend that changes your LIFE! 
call or write: toll-free 1-866-774-0005 eaform@~dmc-op.org 
www.aomc-op.org 

Wednesday, April 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
No. 4 Irish rebound with win against Sycamores 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports \Xfriter 
Fueled by an embarrassing and anger­ins pi ring loss t.o No. 46 Michigan last week, the Notre Dame men's tennis team soundlv defeated Indiana State 5-2 on Saturday: 
The No. 4 Irish, after losing the dou­bles point. were able to change the tide of the match as they defeated the No. 29 Sycamores by posting victories in five or the six singles matches. 
''I'm pleased with the way we fought," said senior Casey Smith, who defeated 56th ranked Vedran Vidovic, 6-1, 5-7, 6­
4. "We fought a lot better than the way we did against Michigan. Technically we still have a lot of stuff we have to work on. but as far as the effort everyone gave, I was really pleased." 
Throughout the season, Notre Dame often has trouble gaining the momentum and confidence needed to win its singles matches after it loses the doubles point. On Saturday, though, the Irish did not let the loss of the doubles point disturb them. 

"We expected them to be a tough team to beat at their home courts," senior James Malhame said. "We stepped up to the level we need to in order to domi­nate the match." 
In addition to Smith's victory, which was his sixth win over a ranked oppo­nent this season, the Irish earned points from seniors Javier Taborga, Aaron Talarico and Andrew Laflin and sopho­more Luis Haddock-Morales. Laflin, after defeating Dalibor Mihaljlovic in straight sets, 6-4, 6-1, improved to 17-1 in dual matches for the season. 
While the singles was strong on Saturday, the Irish continued to have trouble with doubles play. 
"Doubles is a big concern for us right now," Smith said. "At the beginning of the year that was one of our strengths. Right now, moving to outdoors, we've decided to change up some of the combi­nations." 
After the loss at Michigan last week, Irish coach Bob Bayliss changed the bot­tom of the doubles lineup for the contest at Indiana State in an effort to find the best possible combinations of players. 
While the fifth-ranked duo of Taborga and Smith won, the new pairs lost to · their Sycamore opponents, both by scores of 8-5. Malhame and Luis Haddock-Morales fell to Henry Choi and Vidovic, while freshman Brent D'Amico and senior Ashok Raju lost to Mihaljlovic and Lovre Brajkovic. 
According to D'Amico, the doubles results were somewhat surprising but not cause for alarm. 
"I don't think we expected them to push us as much in doubles," he said. "I don't think we're really concerned. We're just trying to find out what's going to work out. It was good to mix things up. Obviously things hadn't been working." 
Besides doubles, the Irish had also been concerned about making the tran­sition from indoor to outdoor play, but at Indiana State -their first outdoor dual match of the season, Notre Dame was able to show that it can have prowess both inside and out. 
"I liked going outdoors," Smith said. "As a whole our team should be better outdoors. Indoors you get in the mindset where you want to end the points very quickly, and we've been so used to that." 

The Irish changed that mindset, though, as they took on the Sycamores in Terre Haute, Ind. 
"We realized that we need to sustain the points longer and take a more work­man like attitude," Smith said. "Ry doing that, we played a lot better. This really is a good sign for the rest of the season." 
With three more regular-season matches left, the Irish feel confident about their prospects and progress, even as they will continue to juggle their dou­bles lineup. 
"We went through a little stretch were anything that could go wrong did," Smith said. "Some of it was just bad luck. We finally started getting a few breaks and played with a lot more confi­dence. Hopefully we have turned the corner and are ready to play our best tennis at the end of the year." 
The Irish hope to complete that turn away from poor play as they play host to No. 43 Southern Methodist at the Courtney Tennis Center on Sunday. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindle@nd.edu 
LASTWEEKTO SIGN UPt!t!!!!t! 
When: Tuesday,April 2 nd 
• 
Friday, April 5th 12-2 p.m. and 5-7p.m. Where: l"' Floor LaFortune l\'hatYou Need: creative team name, name and phone # ofcaptain and $20 

'Jlus year's tournament proceeds to be donated to ND Club of.Jamica .Jmnpball Programme 
Questions? Email us at bkstr.l@nd.edu 
Visit our spoolilOr
ails 
BASEBALL 

O'Toole earns Big East honors 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior catcher Paul O'Toole has been named the Big East Conference base­ball player of the week, after leading the Irish to a 3-1 record during the week of March 25-31 in road games against West Virginia and Georgetown. 
O'Toole paced the Irish offense during the week in batting average (,500, 8-for­16), times on base (10, two walks). doubles (3). total bases (14) and slugging per­centage (.875), and runs scored (7). 
He also ranked second on the team with seven RBIs for the week and added his team­leading fifth home run of the season in clutch fashion, launching a three-run shot for a 6-6 tie as the Irish ral­lied for a 10-6 win at West Virginia. 
The 6-1, 205-pound left­handed hitter also stole a base during the week and played error-free in the field. 
A second-time Big East player of the week -his first honor coming as a sophomore on March 13, 2000 -O'Toole showed his versatility as a hitter during the four-game stretch, batting fifth, second and in the cleanup spot. 
He hit 4-for-8 with runners in scoring position and reached on 3-of-4 leadoff plate appearances. 
O'Toole currently ranks sev­enth on the squad with a .277 season batting average while leading the Irish in RBI (20), runs scored (18), home runs 

Wlud'd-IJie d)utw,,e of; tlud, R~....,..... 
. 1/1.Jkdd-neai lfn owi ~ajie4 ~? 
. 1/1.Jkd wte ~ ~ (,(A,'..J,-7,1:.A,,Yt,1..--c:;;
~ m ~ ~? 
. Wkdd-~in~~~akat a. 
~? •• 
Please join us for an aternoon of reflection and discussion designed for dating coup~ who are discerning the next stage of a relationship commitment. ~ 
Sunday, April 7, 1:00-4:00 p.m. ~ 
Pre-Registration is required by Friday, April 5, at noon. Applications are available in 114 Coleman-Morse Center or 319 Coleman-Morse at the Reception Desk.

C-M • • 
Questions: Call Darrell Paulsen at 631-5827. 

Campus Ministry 
• 

(5) and two-out RBI (6). 
He also ranks second on the team in walks (9) and stolen bases (5), third in hits (23) and slugging pct. (.554) and has yet to ground into a dou­ble play. 
O'Toole owns a .310 career batting average while appear­ing in 196 career games, with 186 starts. 
He ranks sixth in Notre Dame history with 48 career stolen bases -most ever by a Notre Dame catcher, with his other career statistics includ­ing 209 hits, 133 RBI, 25 home runs, eight triples, 41 doubles, 162 runs scored, 71 walks and 23 times hit-by­pitch. 
His 1,073 career putouts rank fourth in Notre Dame history and are the most ever by a Notre Dame catcher. 
Write for 
Observer 
Sports. 
Call 

1-4543. 
Moving to Chicogo? 
Contact Ben @ 
NEW WEST Realty 

312.942.1202 bbischmanr@hotmail.com 
page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 3, 2002 



Lisa Corlbitt 
Junior-Biochemistry
~:~~.~"".,.X"' ~ ·Bloomington, IL
" ....... ..-1: ~.... ,.. .,., ~x 

_ ... .. ~\k. ;~~:.: ~ Godparent: Tom Apker 
Rachelile H((])ng Ryan Gianelilii 
Law School-3rd Year Junior-Marketing/M. I. S. Livermore, CA Seattle, WA Godparent: Kate Aertker Godparent: Gavin Lamb 




Initiation -Baptism, Confirmation, and Eucharist-at the Easter Vigil on Saturday night in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 


Theodore Wong Ken Keliliey 
Sophomore-Accounting Graduate School-Psychology Flushing, NY Cincinnati, OH Godparent: Lusiena Wong Godparent: Sean Dudley 



Jennifer RuJenko Laura Leslie 
First Year Student Law School-2nd Year Evansville, IN Sonara, CA Godparent: Elizabeth Cryan Godparent: Matt Boulger 


Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS pagel"l 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish break records as they set tone for strong-season 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Writer 
Records continued to fall for the Notre Dame women's track and field team as it completed its second week­end of the outdoor season. Sending three separate squads to Stanford, Florida and Purdue, the team carried its indoor season success into the outdoor season as more personal records and school records were broken. 
Setting the tone for the weekend were Jen Fibuch, Jen Handley, Megan Johnson and Lauren King, who trav­eled to Stanford to compete against some of the best dis­tance runners in the nation. For all four girls, it was their first meet of the outdoor sea­son, and three of them came away with personal records. 
"It was a really good race for all of them," said Tim Connelly. the women's dis­tance coach. "They all did a great job ... They ran really well against great competi­tion." 
Racing in the 5000-meter run were juniors Fibuch and Handley: Both girls set new personal records in the 5000, with Handley breaking her old record by 12 seconds and completing the race in a time of 16 minutes, 28.55 seconds. 
Johnson and King competed in the 1500-meter run, where King broke her old personal record. King also broke the school record in the 1500. previously held by Johnson who set the record in 2001 as a freshman. Her ninth-place time of 4:22.89 provisionally qualifies King for the NCAA 
outdoor championships in May. 
"Jt was a good provisional," Connelly said. "She'll run faster than that later this year, but it was a good provi­sional." 
Johnson finished the race in 
4:28.40 and took 15th. 
Six girls made the trip to Gainesville, Fla., for the Florida Relays to survey the best sprinting competition in the nation. Liz Grow, Kymia Love, Kristen Dodd, Ayesha Boyd, Betsy Lazzeri and Tameisha King each compet­ed in four events. 
The 4x100-meter relay team had the most impressive race of the meet, finishing in third place. The relay team consisted of Grow, King, Dodd and Boyd. It was the first time the four raced this year. 
"Our team did really \•,:ell," said John Millar, the sprint­ing coach. "We beat a lot of good schools like Florida State and Georgia Tech who have been running outdoors year-round. I think from that I felt really good about where we were. We're only two­tenths of a second off of where we were last year." 
King also had a strong start to her outdoor season in the long jump, jumping more than 20 feet in her three jumps for a strong finish. 
"This gives her a place to start as she continues to improve," Millar said. "She's way ahead of where she was indoors, and for the first meet outdoors she's in good posi­tion. It shows she's capable of jumping a lot further." 
Rounding out the Florida squad were the mile relay team and Lazzeri in the hep­tathlon. Lazzeri left for the meet early to compete in the heptathlon, where she set a new school record of 4,463 points, good enough for a 10th-place finish. 

With those girls traveling to Stanford and Florida, most of the team was at the Purdue Invitational where about 70 Notre Dame male and female athletes went to compete. Unfortunately for the Irish, the 13 teams there was not the only adversity they faced. Violent storms on Friday resulted in postponement of the events and chaotic races Saturday. 
"It was a really poorly run meet," Connelly said. "The kids who were affected most were the field event kids. The Friday events were cancelled, so they combined everything into Saturday, and they had to compete every three to four hours." 
In her inaugural collegiate meet, freshman Kate Duman set a school record in the javelin with a throw of 126 feet, 7 inches. She broke teammate Andre Duplechain's record set last year en route to a second­place finish. Duman, Duplechain and freshman Lauren DellaVolpe all had Big East qualifying throws at the Invitational. 
Fellow freshman Katie Wales also had an impressive meet. Her 5000-meter time of 
17:45.81 was good enough for a first-place finish, the sole victory for the women at Purdue. 
In her first steeplechase run of the year. junior Emily Showman qualified for the Big East meet. Due to snow last week, the Purdue Invitational was the first time that Showman had been over a water jump. Showman ran a fifth-place time of 11:25.36. 


With some good weather, the women hope to continue their success in this week­end's Notre Dame Spring 

Opener. The whole team will be competing at the Invitational, which takes place Saturday at Moos-e Krause Stadium. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu 
Tell Us -we are listening! Answer the Library Survey 
March 25-April 10, 2002 
For additional information, see th~ LibQUAL+ web page at http://tib.nd.edu/services/libqual. 
UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 



ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
SPONSORED BYnodofoS 
~~ NOTllDAMff000Sl.VIC:l$ 
~ ... --.. ----. . .. .......--... -­


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish finish 14th at Invite with sub-300 outing 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Wrirer 
At this weekend's Johnny Owens Invitational in Lexington, Ky., the Notre Dame men's golf team did something they haven't done this season -post a cumula­tive round score of under 300. They accomplished the feat two times and finished 14th with a three round total score of 893. Purdue won the tour­nament with a score of 857. 
Although his team was 14th, Irish coach John Jasinski 
was opti­"We're young and Lunke stepped mistic about up." Jasinski
inexperienced, and we

his team's said. "We
know that. We have

play. needed him to "l think enough talent, but with do that." this is a While the
so many freshmen 

move in the scores have
making up the core of

right direc­moved lower t i o n , the team it's a steep as the weeks Jasinski said. have passed,
learning curve. We have

"We got Notre Dame's 
a ways to go." 

more consis­first-year head tent play coach is by no from the bot­means satis­
John Jasinski 

tom part of fied with his
Irish head coach

the team, and that was something that had been lack­ing in recent weeks." 
For the first part of the sea­son, Notre Dame's highlight reel included Steve Ratay. The senior shot well once again posting two rounds of par or better in finishing tied for 16th. His teammates sup­ported him for the first time this season. 
The squad's three freshmen -K.C. Wiseman. Steve Colnitis and Ryan Marshall ­all improved on their previous week's play led by Wiseman's 55th-place finish. Wiseman's improvement is a sign to 
DISTRIBUTION CENTER ASSOCIATE 
Part Time Only M-F 2pm-6pm 
Hilti, Inc., a world-class organization with excellent pay and benefits, has part time opportunities available Mon.-Fri. day shift. Duties include the daily processing of customer orders by utilizing material handling equipment to lift products (up to 60 lbs.), placing and sealing products in shipping cartons. 
Requirements include high school diploma (or GED), warehouse experience, excellent oral and written communication and math skills. Must be a team player with excellent attendance record. 
Part time positions paying $10 per hour + Bonus opportunity available. 
Fax: (219) 288-5875 or Email to: priebri@us.hilti.com Applications accepted Mon. -Fri. 9am-11am 3507 Olive Rd, Ste. B South Bend, IN 
Hitti. Inc. is proud to be an Equal O,,p<>rtunity Employ8f which suw<>rt• a Multicultu"'I Wor!<ploce 
WAREHOUSE 

Use Observer classifieds. 
Jasinski that the team's future appears bright. 
"K.C. Wiseman has really started to be more consistent as a freshman and that's important," he said. "For a while it was only Steve who was playing at a champi­onship level. No one else was even coming close to doing that." 
Adding to the improved play of the first year players was junior Brandon Lunke ­sparked by a switch to a dif­ferent driver -who split fair­way after fairway in finishing 
29th. 
"Brandon 
team's play. 
Inadequate, unrefined short games are still killing the Irish, who are leaving too many shots on the course. 
"We need to get better from inside 50 vards," Jasinski said. "You can't ever be satis­fied with your short game. You're constantly improving and we leave a lot of shots out there." 
Jasinski praised Ratay's patience and leadership on being the captain of this young Irish squad. 
"Steve is really showing his character by keeping his com­posure and not letting some of the poor play get to him," he said. "He's been our star." 
While any improvement is cause for optimism, Jasinski admitted the team still has a long way to go if wants to seriously contend at the Big East Championships to be contested at the Warren Course later this month. 
"We're young and inexperi­enced, and we know that," he said. "We have enough talent, but with so many freshmen making up the core of the team it's a steep learning curve. We have a ways to go." 
While improvement is need­ed, Jasinski believes his team can hit on all cylinders in a tournament this year. 
"We definitely have not had a weekend where everything has clicked," he said. "But I think it's coming. I'm sensing we can put it together on a given weekend." 
Contact Kevin Berchou at berchou.2@nd.edu 
•;':1 '--:r;, :.,f ,.~,;,,"'·;;·· :-.: ' ;' ·,,/·'•,•~1->-~,,:·:· 
},}';,:!>·...-..,:·. 


Wednesday, April 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles crush Comets, 9-0 
ByKATIEMcVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Despite playing on a court built for volleyball, the Saint I\Iary's tennis team drilled Olivet 9-0 and held the Comets to just seven games during the course of the match. 
"The problem was the courts," said sophomore Kris Spriggle. "They were at a [YMCA]. They were very loud and a different surface so it was difficult switching to the different setting and trying to adjust our stroke." 
But the Belles managed to adjust very well. The Belles took six singles wins and wrapped up the match before the two teams even stepped on the court in pairs. Senior No. 1 singles player Annie Knish had the closest match, winning 6-2, 6-2. With a weak Olivet team. the Belles had to focus on playing their game at their level. 
"I think the biggest difficul­ty was getting over the differ­ence in their ability, their skill level and being able to still play our game and main­tain our patience," Spriggle said. 
The rest of the singles play­ers fell into line. Junior Angie Sandner was the only other Belles player to allow a sin­gles point -losing one game in the first set of her 6-1, 6-0 victory against Olivet's Heather Boulhinghouse. 
Jeannie Knish took home a win in No. 2 singles, defeating Anna Hasselberg 6-0, 6-0, Kaitlin Cutler defeated Jamila 
"We're going to try to continue increasing confidence among the team, to have fun, to practice afew things that we might be weaker on. " 
Kris Spriggle No. 3 singles player 
Faraj 6-0, 6-0 at No. 3 sin­gles, Spriggle took home the win at No. 4 singles against Erin Timmer 6-0, 6-0 and Elisa Ryan wrapped up sin­gles play with a 6-0, 6-0 vic­tory against Mary Shannon. 
"T think we all just, it was a different kind of surface ... none of us have practiced for awhile. It was different for us to get out there," said Jeannie Knish. " ... After we warmed up, after we started our first set everyone got back into their groove." 
The doubles teams did just as well. After the No. 1 sin­gles team of Knish and Knish allowed Ezell and Faraj to take two games, the Belles shut down the Comets and finished their sets without losing a single game. 
"[In] doubles, our first set took us a little to get into a groove," Knish said. "Then we were able to get the hang of it and were able to put balls away." 
Cutler and Ryan closed down Shannon and Timmer 6-0, 6-0 and Spriggle and Sandner wrapped up doubles action at No. 3 with a 6-0, 6-0 victory against Jennifer Dick and Ericka Hayes. 
For women that hadn't hit a ball in a structured practice in more than a week, it was a chance to get back into their games before heading into heavy MIAA competition. 
"We knew when we played them last year that they're not that strong of a team," Knish said. "And we just expected to just go out there and h~t some balls and get a warm-up for our next two matches." 
Today the Belles will face off against the Adrian Bulldogs in another lopsided match. Although Adrian has not played any MIAA competi­tor this season, the Bulldogs finished last season in sev­enth place just above Olivet. 
The Bulldogs, whose first MIAA game against Hope was postponed due to weather, are 1-2 in non-league compe­tition, coming off a victory against Tiffin. Adrian fell to Tri-State, a team the Belles solidly defeated earlier this season. 
Saint Mary's is hoping to use today's match to tone skills and get some more experience. 
"We're going to try to con­tinue increasing confidence among the team, to have fun, to practice a few things that we might be weaker on," Spriggle said. "Personally, with my shoulder I have to work on my serve I haven't been able to conquer it yet." 
The match gets under way at Adrian at 3 p.m. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

Irish 
continued from page 28 
the third-base line that scored two. 
Two pitches later, Paul O'Toole smashed a line drive down the right field line that cleared the fence for his team-leading fifth home run of the season, and tied the score at 6. 
Javier Sanchez broke the tie in the 10th when he blasted a West Virginia pitch to left­center, driving in two more runs and giving the Irish all the insurance they would need. 
Irish relievers Drew Duff, Matt Buchmeier and Martin Vergara were able to hold the Mountaineers to just one unearned run on five hits in the final nine innings of the game. 
Due to Tuesday's rainout, the Irish will make up the game by playing a doubleheader against Valparaiso today at 4:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. Probable starters for the Irish will be Vergara and Peter Ogilvie. 
Notes: 
. 
Junior Brian Stavisky was hit in the cheek by a pitch thrown by West Virginia's Billy Biggs in the third inning of the opening game of Thursday's doubleheader. He suffered a facial fracture and has not played since Thursday. He has missed a total of 13 starts this season. 

. 
O'Toole was named Big East Player of the Week on Tuesday following his contributions to Notre Dame's 3-1 record last week. 


Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk2nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish blast Pitt for 2 wins, 6 homers 
By AARON RONSHEIM 
Sports Writer 

After two weeks of not playing due to inclement weather, the Irish softball team started their Big East schedule with a bang. 
The Irish slammed six home runs in their two wins over Pittsburgh en route to victories of 13-1 and 9-2. The Irish continued their offensive fireworks when they defeated Loyola 8-0 on Monday. 
"They have worked real hard the past few months, and now they are letting the ha.rd work pay off," head coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
· All-American catcher Jarrah Myers set the tone for the Irish during the week­end. Myers was 7-of-10 with two home runs and eight RBIs. 
"Jarrah is in the zone," Gumpf said. "She is on fire, and I don't see that changing too soon." 
"I think I finally found a rhythm. I was doing some­thing wrong mechanically and I fixed it over spring break," Myers said. "It is a lot easier to hit well when the whole team is hitting. Everybody clicked together this weekend. It wasn't just me." 
The Irish scored a season­high 13 runs in the first game of the doubleheader. 
Myers and fellow captain Jenny Kriech ignited the Irish offense as each hit a two-run homerun in the third and fourth innings to give the Irish a 4-0 lead. 
"Jarrah and Jenny are both great players," said Gumpf. "They are both hit­ting the ball well right now. That's what happens when you are a great player, you step up when you need to, and that's what they're doing." 
The Irish offense came alive in the sixth inning, scoring nine runs on eight hits to give the Irish a 13-1 win. Steffany Stenglein pitched five innings for the victory and evened her record at 8-8. 
In the second half of the 
doubleheader, the Panthers 
jumped out to a quick lead behind Kelly Hulpa's two­run blast in the bottom of the first. 
That lead would not last long as the Irish continued their barrage of homeruns. In the top of the second, Andria Bledsoe launched her third home run of the year to cut the Panthers lead in half. In the third inning Andrea Loman, Notre Dame's most consistent hitter this spring, sent a 3-2 pitch into the bleachers for a three-run homerun to give the Irish a 4-2 lead.Jarrah Myers added her second round-tripper of the day to give Irish a com­manding 5-2 advantage. 
Freshman Carrie Wisen pitched five scoreless innings in relief to get the win. 
The Irish carried their hot bats into Chicago against Loyola on Monday. 
Kriech started the Irish scoring against the Ramblers with a RBI single in the top of the second for a 1-0 lead. After adding another run in the third, the Irish busted the game wide-open with five runs in the fourth inning. 
Wisen again picked up the victory in relief and improved her record to 3-4. 
As impressive as the Irish offense was this weekend, the Irish pitching staff held their own by only giving up three runs over 16 innings of work. 
"All three pitchers did an excellent job," Myers said. "They were getting ahead of the hitters and were able to throw their pitches." 
The Irish are 11-12 after this weekend and 2-0 in Big East play. 
The Irish had a double­header against Valparaiso postponed until April 9 because of rainy weather. On Thursday, the Irish hope the weather will allow them to play their home opens-r against Illinois-Chicago. 
"We're in the mood right now where we really want to play," Myers said. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu 


fighting Irish Women's Lacrosse 
vs.Syracuse Wednesday, April 3 

1st 200 fans receive m 1st 200 fans receive
4.00 

FREE long-sleeved • p a FREE sub ND Lacrosse -peanuts to 100 lucky fans courtesy of t-shirt! 


.To Be Played@ Moose l<rause Stadium, weather permitting 
Wednesday, April 3, 2002 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
No. 11 Irish rout Hokies with 15-4 victory 
. Team jumps out to best start with 6-1 record 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team put on a scoring clinic against Virginia Tech on Saturday. Eight different play• ers scored for the Irish during their 15-4 rout of the Hokies. 
With the win, the No. 11 Irish improve to 6-1 on the season, their best start ever, and their 2-0 record in the Big East puts the Irish in a first­place tie with Georgetown. 
"I was happy with our over­all game today," said Irish coach Tracy Coyne. "We really exploded offensively." 
Senior captain Alissa Moser matched Virginia Tech's out­put with four goals and and an assist as well. Senior Natalie Loftus and sophomore Meredith Simon added three goals each. 
"During weekend practice, our defense was doing a bunch of different defenses on us so we were ready for any­thing," said Loftus. "We were really unselfish with the ball and we took it to them." 
The Irish expected a tougher game from the Hokies. Earlier in the season, Virginia Tech lost to top-ranked Georgetown 11-9. 
"We really thought Tech was going to give tis a good game," said Coyne. 
The Irish scored eight min­utes into the game on Moser's goal. That goal was the third time she scored Notre Dame's first goal in a game. 
Simon started her breakout game by scoring two goals in 
President Gibler-
Congrats on the past two yea rs! Welcome back to 
Full House! 
Love, Phil and the Girls of 1704 
The most beautiful music written for 
the Broadway stage .· performed by the people who make it come alive 
every night ion the Great White Way. 
~~#,,

J:1RD11t•" .., 
:VE

-vr~ 
·i 
.LEK 

• A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
.l\oril 5, 6, 7 • Fri. & Sat. 8pm • Sat. & Sun. 2pm 

Group, Senior, Student Discounts Available. Call now for tickets. 
234-4044 or toll free 1-877-315-1234 Morris Performing Arts Center 
"During weekend practice, our defense was doing a bunch ofdifferent defenses on us so we were ready for anything. We were really unselfish with the ball and we took it to them. " 
Natalie Loftus 
senior forward 
45 seconds to put Notre Dame up 3-0. 
Loftus then scored two goals in a row and Moser added another to make ~he game 6­0. 
The Hokies broke up goal­

keeper Jen White's shutout with less than three minutes left to end the half down 6-1. 
After dominating the first half, the Irish did not stop their attack or let down their defense in the second. 
On goals from Kassen Delano, Lauren Fischer. Danielle Shearer and Moser, the Irish put the game away 10 minutes into the second half with a 10-1 advantage. 
After Tech scored again, Andrea Kinnik responded 30 seconds later, followed by goals from Moser. Loftus and Simon. 
Maureen Whitaker sent the home crowd into a craze with the last Irish goal of the day, making it 15-2 with under two minutes left. 
The Hokies then converted two free-position shots to make the final score 15-4. 
White ended the day with nine saves and three of the goals she yielded were on free-position shots. 
Note: 
. White was rewarded for her outstanding play by receiving the Big East Defensive Player of the Week for her efforts against Virginia Tech and Delaware. 
This is the second time in three weeks White has received this honor. 
Contact Chris Coleman at coleman.44@nd.edu 

,.. 
' Well maintained houses near com9us 
• 
Washers and dryet5 provided 

• 
Stcurity system:. 


• 
24-hour maintainance staff e Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, •4-, 5-, & 8-bedroom ho!.!ses 


bnly 4 left for the 2002-2003 school year 
Also leasing for the W03-2004 school year 
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 274-9955 Voicemail: 674-2571 
ryone is talking ross College 
• 
Meet with faculty, staff, administration, alumni and students. 

• 
Tour our new academic and residence facilities. 

• 
Hear faculty and staff presentations on admission, financial aid, academic programs, student life and much more. 

• 
A great opportunity for prospective students and parents to discover all that Holy Cross College has to otter. 


Join us ... and learn more about our unique two-year, transfer-intent program. 
Great collegessometimes come 'in snurl/ packages. 
For reservations or more information, contact sraven@hcc-nd.edu or call 574-239-8400. 

--, 
Wednesday, April 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Join Coach Brev in 1111rapping up the basketball season at tonight"s banquet 
Tonioht--7:3Dnm 
.levee Center Enter gate 1, Sit in the Gold seats ,. 
• Team Awards 
• Video highlights

• Hear from Coach Brev and the seniors David Graves, Rvan Humphrev,
Harold Swanagan, Charles Thomas & DannvWhite 
"You never want to look midfield. The Irish are going to focus on the transition game by 

Lacrosse ahead to other games 
extending passes on offensive but, this Syracuse transition and marking harder

continued from page 28 
game, we've been on the defensive end. The defense, the most experi­The rhythm of playing at
looking forward to it 

enced unit on. the field for the home should be a significant Irish, is led by senior captains since Day I." advantage for the Irish. The 
Kathryn Lam and Tina game most likely will be played in Loftus making the turf sur­
Fedarcyk. Alissa Moser 
face familiar for theSenior Maureen Henwood 

senior captain

and junior Kelly Mccardell have Orangewomen, but this doesn't played on defense in every bother head coach Tracy Coyne. game since coming to Notre "Whatever surface it is, bring Dame. The attacking trio of Moser, it on," said Coyne. "We are "We are going for the win, Danielle Shearer, who scored a ready." and whatever that's going to record six goals in last year's Today's opening draw is set take, we are going to do," said game, and Natalie Loftus will be for 4 p.m. 
Lam about the defensive mind­expected to continue to lead the set for the game. "We are going Irish offensively. to play our game and be The game will be determined, Contact Dave Coleman at 
aggressive." however, by who controls the coleman.44@nd.edu 
'\ SUMMER 2002 TOUR GUIDES NEEDED 

The Office of Undergraduate Admissions is seeking 
full-time tour guide/office workers for this summer 
(May20 -August 16) 
Our 75-minute tours are offered M-F at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. 

Notre Dame students from the South Bend area and students planning to attend Summer Session are encouraged to apply. 
Applications are available in Room 220, Main Building 
8:00 am-5:00 pm M-F 

Application deadline is Friday April 12, 2002 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Midfielder Danielle Shearer looks to pass the ball in a contest earlier this season. The junior leads the Irish with 16 goals and nine assists. 

' RECRF.\fl( '.'JAL S['(_KL 
• UNIVERSITY llf r--;omE DAME [ 
RecSports has openings for this summer and the 2002-2003 academic year in the following positions: ~tudent ~upervi~or~ front De~k ~upervi~or~ fitne~~ Room ~upervi~or~ 
•~~ue Room ~upervi~or~ Lifeguard~ 
Any one who isinterested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an application. Office hours are 8:00-12:00 & 1 :00-5:00. First consideration will be given to those who apply before April 8, 2002. 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 3, 2002 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish make successful run at Stanford Invitational 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Senior Scaff Writer 
When Ryan Shay and three other members of the Notre name distance squad headed to Palo Alto, Calif., for the Stanford Invitational last weekend they had two goals in mind -com­peting well against an elite field of runners and posting qualify­ing times for the NCAA Championships. 
Both missions were accom­plished. Shay, last year's NCAA Champion in the 10,000-meters, took second in his event but was the first collegiate runner to cross the line in an NCAA auto­matic qualifying time of 28 min­utes, 39.1 seconds. Senior Luke Watson broke Shay's school record in the 5,000-meters, fin­ishing sixth -third among col­legiate runners -in 13:44.92. 
Sophomore Todd Mobley also posted an NCAA provisional qualifying time in the 10,000­meters, finishing 21st with a time of29:11.35. 
Shay was happy with his per­formance, which was the best posted in the event nationally by a collegiate runner so far this season. But both Shay and Irish head coach Joe Piane stressed that if it were a more important meet, Shay would have pushed harder toward the top finisher, Chris Graff of the Nike Farm Team. 
"I was contemplating whether or not to go with him," Shay said. "But my goal at that race was just to get qualified. I didn't really want to get into a highly competitive mode ... He wasn't a collegiate so I wasn't really too worried about him. If he was a collegiate, I would have went after him." 
"If you run that race again and it was the finals of the USA Nationals, I'd put my money on Shay," Piane added. "He's just tough. He needed to be the first collegiate and he needed to get qualified for the NCAAs and the USA Nationals. He did that with­out a doubt." 
Watson's automatic qualifying time in the 5,000-meters eclipsed the mark Shay set last year at the NCAA Championships in Eugene, Ore., 
when Shay finished in sixth place with a time of 13:52.45. 
'Tm going to try to get it back from him at Mount Sac," Shay said of the record, indicating he plans to run the event at the California meet later this month. "But he has another year so I doubt even if I do get it I doubt it'll hold for very long. 
Both Piane and Shay were impressed with Mobley's effort in the 10,000-meters, where he set a personal best by nearly one minute. 
"Some years we'd have been jumping in the streets at 29:11, but when you've got a guy that's running 28:39, he's beating him by half a lap," Piane said. "Mobley's doing a great job, especially for a guy that's only a sophomore." 
"rt was the first race of that caliber he's ever really been in," Shay added. "He took a minute off of his time. It just shows that he's been working hard since last summer." 
Also competing at Stanford were sophomore David Alber and junior John Keane in the 5,000-meters. Keane set a per­sonal record by 24 seconds, placing 13th in the section three race with a time of 14:35.56. 
While Alber didn't match his best indoor time, he did cross the two-mile mark at 9:10, 10 seconds better than his best high school time in the two-mile race. 
The Irish also sent a group of runners to the Purdue Invitational on Saturday, a meet senior high jumper Quill Redwine remembers as taking place in challenging conditions. 
"That was my first time ever seeing snow on the track as I was jumping," Redwine said. "The wind was really a big bur­den to pretty much everybody. The wind dropped the tempera­tures ... The wind picked up a lot as the day went on, the tem­perature dropped a lot too." 
Despite competing nearly all day wearing sweats, Redwine posted a top jump of 6 feet, 8 inches to tie for second place. 
"Quill got off to a good start in the high jump," said field events coach Scott Winsor, who indicat­ed Redwine's best jumps could come later in the month when his workouts are less intense. 
"I've been pounding him pretty good. I've been doing a Jot more volume running, a lot more bounding and plyometrics." 
While Redwine delivered a solid veteran performance as expected, a group of younger Irish runners also put up impres­sive marks at Purdue. 
Freshman Selim Nurudeen took second in the 110-meter hurdles with a time of 14.6 sec­onds, while classmate Eric Morrison grabbed third in the 800-meters, posting a 1:53.16 mark. While those marks were somewhat impressive, sprints coach John Millar stressed that at a meet with conditions like those at Purdue, times aren't always as important as how the 
Millar said. "The times sort of don't mean a lot. l looked at how they competed." 
Another freshman who com­peted well was Trevor McClain in the 400-meters. The 6-foot-6 Ohio native finished seventh in a time of 49 .48 seconds, fast enough to possibly earn himself a spot on the Irish mile relay team. 
"I think Trevor's shown he's got some ability," Millar said. "He's the kind of guy that by the end of the year hopefully he'll be able to step in there and con­tribute. Long-term, he's going to be a guy we're going to see more of and count on more." 
The Irish compete in their lone home outdoor meet this year on Saturday when they host the Spring Opener at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at arnstadter. l@nd.edu. 


athletes compete. BRIAN PUCEVICHThe Observer 'The guys competed well and Distance runner Ryan Shea earned an NCAA bid with a second­that's really what r looked at," place finish in the 10,000-meter run at the Stanford Invitational. 
Wednesdays and Thursdays are student nights. Students receive 20% of meal price with student I.D. 

Michiana's most unique dining experience. Located in the brewery at the Historic 100 Center in Mishawaka (219) 257-1792 www.1OOcenter.com 
~~ Irish Women's Tennis takes on Colon Cancer ACE~::
CURE 

ThisSundav 
Notre Dame vs. Miami 
12pm -Courtnev Tennis Center 
Tickets are now on sale at the Joyce Center Ticket Office and at North Dining Hall -April 3, 4, 5 South Dining Hall -April 3, 4 
All proceeds to benelit Colon cancer Research 

{a
MEIJER, 
;,/..1:-TJ1·~n~1 
~~u.11•u1! ,'-l"J"'.,i I \i•r,·t h,­


Wednesday, April 3, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
teddy bear and shed a frn; tears. 
USE YOUR ROOMMATE'S IDENTITY TO INSTANT MESSAGE HIS FRIENDS 
FOXTROT 

Now WE HAVE To OuMP ALL

PAl&E, You'~ SUPf'oSEDTo 
Tl-IE WATER OUT So WE CAN

Ftll. iME F1SM TANK AFTER 
CARRl IT. REACH UNDER

lOU TAK£ IT 
UPS1AIRS.' I-IEH HEH. 

4-3 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 2004 Olympics 
RYAN
TOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 
Leiit'.) o\/ er; 

lut's over; k,h over,r:: C"e-!11 c><)
CM 

r u... L,,J~ J,;"k r t..,, ~dly
Nlll\Jl\ti.," Deiv a_scr.in. S~p ""°-~•s '
THE SHEETS SffiL WARM? 
O.t 13vrjer ~'j o:l~­

_____...,.t,,1.1 o~ y~v +-.,o Je,.1'' ~ -,,LOl!l
life's ..,,,,,..ple 'y,ys 
BILLAMEND 
OEAR, WHEN You SAID fE<;T. GUl'PtES IN THE SAIJCE 
PER­WE CAN PuT THE 
TONIGHT'S 01NNER 
WAS A SURPRISE...
PAN AND TI-IE ANe:.EL 
I 



HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIFS BORN ON THIS DAY: Alec Baldwin, Tennie Garth, Marlon Brando, Eddie Murphy 
Happy Birthday: You will wel­come mange this year. You will be intent on finding the solution lo any problem you encounter, and you will join organizalioos that make reforms. Your input into causes you believe in will lead you lo new friendships. This isa year to flourish. Your number.; are 9, 11, 16, 23,41,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Spend time with friends and family and ask them to pitch in and help you make changes to your home. You don't have lo be extravagant to make yourplare more comfortable. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your focus should be on philosophy and attitude You will be in a position to help others today Take part in an event that is charitable but don't donate more than you can afford. 
OOOl'JO 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have an opportunity to make some money. Invest in yourself and your abilities. You are far more talent­ed !han you give yowself credit for. 
000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll get ahead if you share your ideas with somebody you trust Your view of the situation that you are fac­ing appears lo be amazingly acrurate. 
000 
LEO (Tuly 23-Aug. 22): Career changes are looking good. You can wheel and deal today ifyouwant but don't be unreasonable. People in higher positions will bend ov~ back­wan:1 to help you reach your goals. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Noth­ing will stmd in your way if you are determined. Your ideas will be goo:! and your ability to talk others into helping you looks pa;ilive. Mix busi-
EUGENIA LAST 

ness with pleasure and you will get 
that much further ahead. OClOOO 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22}: The world is on your side but some of your relatives may not be. Keep your thoughls to yourself and focus on m,­ative endeavors and having fun. Socialize with new friends and you will discover all sorts of interesting new pastimes. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get out and do things. Little pleasure trips will ease your stress and help you get back to what's important. Make arrangements to get together with friends and reminisce. Moneymaking prtjects will develop. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may want lo rethink your career direction or your direction in life. Past partners may by lo come back into your life. It is best to be blunt and avoid going through Ire same prob­lems. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make those long-overdue changes. You can please the people closest to you if you include them in your plans. You will have plenty of oppor­tuni.ties to meet new people and start new partnerships. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Play the game well and you will never look back. You know how to wheel and deal so get ire ball rolling. Behind-the-scenes activity will be where you'll shine. Problems sur­rounding your home and family may arise if you are too secretive with Ire ooes you love. 000 
PISCFS (Feb. 19-March 20): Get busy and get involved in wor1hwhile groups. You will meet some special people ifyouare giving and generous with your time. The mme you do for oth= today Ire more you11 get back in return. Do not donate cash; your lime will be sufficient 0000 
57 Sales rep's goal 58 "Gigi" star Leshe 59 terrier 60 Debate side 61 How eccentrics 
behave 
DOWN 
1 Sondheim's "Sweeney_" 2 Reed 
instrument 3 Whimper 4 Mexican 
peninsula 
5 P. T. Barnum, for example 6 "Norma" and 
"Don Carlos" 7 Sit 8 Historical period 9 Add detail to 
10 Publisher of "X-Men" comics 11 French author Robbe-Grillet 
12 ~i~d~~ many 13 Fancy leather 
polished 19 Finish with 23 Comment lrom 
Mr. Moto 24 California winegrowing county 25 & Carla, 60's singing duo 26 Emmy winner Perlman 27 Bumped into 


1 The pyramids ol Giza, e.g. 6 Newspaper's essay forum 10 "Invaders From _. (1953 sci-ti) 14 Jamaican witchcraft 15 Leaf opening 16 Baseball's Moises 17 Business statistic 
20 River that was notably crossed on Christmas
1ns 
21 Was jealous of 22 Soccer star Hamm 23 How spaghetti may be cooked 24 Teacher training institution 
site 30 'X Games" airer 31 _choy 34 Painter 
Mondrian 35 Waitress at 
Mel's Diner 36 ·_Lisa" 37 Simile's middle 38 Freshwater duck 40 Peanut butter 
choice 
42 Starting point ol the Freedom Trail 
44 Says yes to 47 Place tor a stud 48 Hubbub 49 Walked through 
a puddle 54 Benefit of a steady job 56 "_ Tu" (1974 hit) 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

PIIZZle by lllarjorla Rlch1-r 
32 Not fooled by 33 "Ain't We Got Fun" lyricist 35 Saturated 
substances 36 Popular tattoo 38 "Fiddler on the 
Roor star 39 Officer Poncherello's portrayer 40 Like a lizard's 
skin 

41 Fine leather E T ..................._ P E N T 31 Prosperous time 42 Addle 
G L i-,,,,-t.....+=+= N A S instrument 
43 Gurkha or 50 Roe source Sherpa 51 Driven group 44 Farm units 
52 Environmental 45 Court employee sci. 46 Not forthcoming 53 Fashion initials 49 Uttered 55 Cartoon contemptuously chihuahua 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available lor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888•7-ACROSS. 

. Birthclaf Bahr, You will put a lot inio your pe,scoaI and professional direc­tion You will be unpulsive when it comes lo getting thing;; done. You will be hurt easily byaiticism and willshive todo your best to avoid suchenrotn1ters. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
~ Fighting Irish $e 

Baseball 
Softball 
Wednesday, April 3 Thursday, ApriI 4 @ 4:05pm @ 5:30pm Notre Dame vs. Vafparaiso 
Notre Dame vs. University (Doubleheader) 
of Illinois-Chicago 

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's Track and Field, p. 26 
. Men's Golf, p. 22 
. 
SMC Tennis, p. 23 . Women's Track and Field, p. 21 

. Men's Tennis, p. 19


. 
ND Softball, p. 23 



PORTS 
Wednesday, April 3, 2002 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Dame looks for revenge against No. 7 Syracuse 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 
When No. 7 Syracuse comes marching into town today, they are going to meet a Notre Dame squad that has spent the last 10 months wait­
ing for a 5 Al 
chance to ee so play them "No. 11 Irish again. 
rout Hokies with 
"You never 
15-4 victory"

want to look ahead to page 24 other games but, this Syracuse game, we've been looking forward to it since Day 1," said senior cap­tain Alissa Moser. 
Last year the Irish saw their hopes of advancing to the NCAA tournament slip away as Syracuse beat them 13-10 in the final game of the season. Today's game carries even more importance. 
Both teams are ranked the highest ever in the history of their programs. Both teams are fighting to show domi­nance in the Big East, while locking up their NCAA tourna­ment bid. 
But the No. 11 Irish, off to their best season ever, 6-1 overall and 2-0 in the Big East, still has memories of flying home from New York knowing they were done for the year. 
The eight seniors on this vet­eran squad face a Syracuse team that is coming to South Bend for the first time in four years. They all remember how close they came last year. They know this is their last chance and they will not hold anything back. 
"It's the first time we've ever played them at home," said Moser. ''We are looking for a game. There are going to be heads rolling. We are ready for it." 
Junior Jen White, the two­time Big East Defensive Player of the Week, and the Irish defense face their toughest challenge of the year. The Orangewomen are led by Big East Offensive Player of the Week, Kim Wayne. Wayne is also the leading scorer in the league with 36 points. 
"They are going to be tough, but if we play our game like we have been it's going to be a good game," said White. "We have worked all season for this. We want the big-time games." 
see LACROSSE/page25 



BASEBALL 
Irish improve record over break with 4-1 stretch 
vided the lone run in a fast­er on Saturday. This double­
By BRYAN KRONK 

paced 1-0 victory for the Irish. header marked an offensive 
Sports Writer 

The only scoring in the one explosion for the Irish, who hour, 39 minute game came in compiled 35 hits in the two Right now, the only thing the bottom of the third inning. games, and finished the two­stopping the Notre Dame Holba -who had not traveled game series with an overall baseball team from winning is to any of Notre Dame's 22 batting average of .461, en Mother Nature. previous games this season -route to 10-6 and 12-3 victo­Tuesday's heavy rains can­lined a one-out double to left­ries over the Hoyas. Five Irish celled the second game of center field. He moved up to players finished the day with Notre Dame's two-game third on Joe Thaman's ground five hits and freshmen series against Brigham Young out to Brigham Young pitcher starters Chris Niesel and John and delayed the opportunity Jeff Stone and scored when Axford pitched well enough to for the Irish to extend its Stone threw a wild pitch. give the Irish the Saturday 
longest winning streak of the Meanwhile, Gagne recov­sweep. 
season past four games. ered from a rough start Saturday's sweep came on 
Over the long Easter week­Thursday against West the heels of nearly being end, the Irish played two dou­Virginia to pitch his first swept at the hands of West bleheaders and a fifth game career shutout. In his nine Virginia. After losing the first against Brigham Young. In innings of work, Gagne game 4-2, the Irish needed a these five games, the Irish fin­allowed just three hits, while huge comeback in the night­ished with a 4-1 record and throwing 71 of his 108 pitches cap to win the second game improved their overall record for strikes. His ERA dropped 10-6 and split the series with to 13-10, and 3-4 in the Big to a team-best 3.06. the Mountaineers. East. Monday's win marked the In the second game. the 
Monday's matchup with the seventh consecutive season in Mountaineers carried a 6-1 
Cougars opened the home which the Irish have won lead into the seventh inning. 
season for the Irish. Junior their home opener. However, Steve Stanley lined 
J.P. Gagne pitched a complete The Irish entered Monday's a bases-loaded single down 
game shutout and unlikely game after sweeping hero junior Mike Holba pro-Georgetown in a doublehead­see IRISH/page 23 
. Women's Lacrosse vs., Syracuse, Today, 4p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Baseball vs. Valparaiso, Today, 6:05 p.m.
SPORTS 
on line 

. ND Softball vs. University of Illinois-Chicago,AT AGLANCE Thursday, 1 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/-observer 


