
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO 65 HTTP://OBSERVER.NO.EDU 

ND announces Roemer internship 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
In recognition of a commitment to public diplomacy, the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy has created a special internship at 
each semes-Celll ter to a stu­dent participating in the University's Washington Program. 
Michelle Celli, a sophomore double major in political science and French, will be the first recip­ient of the Tim Roemer Internship. 
'Tm really excited," said Celli. "It's going to be a great opportuni­ty." 
The advi­sory com­mission con­sists of a six­me m be r p a n e I appointed by the presi­dent and confirmed 

Roemer by the U.S. 
Senate. The members work on the issue of public diplomacy, the U.S. govern­ment's direct communication with the public in foreign countries, and make policy recommenda­tions to the president. secretary of state and Congress. 
Celli said her internship duties would lilcely include assisting with the nomination process this spring when President Bush names his choices for appointment to the commission. 
Roemer received his master's and doctoral degrees from Notre Dame in 1981 and 1985 in gov­ernment and international stud­ies, respectively and has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since 1990 as a Democratic repre­sentative from Indiana's 3rd Congressional District. Roemer was influential in preserving the oversight role of the commission and pushed to keep the committee in operation. 
"Congressman Roemer played the key role in supporting and reauthorizing the commission on public diplomacy," said Mark Brown, chief of staff for Roemer's Washington office. "He was able to get legislation approved which kept the commission going." 
Brown said H.oemer's contribu­tion to maintaining the committee will be especially needed in the post Sept. 11 world. Roemer's office said it was pleased and sur­prised when the new internship was announced, as staff members had no involvement in creating the new program. 
The new internship will help to further Roemer's commitment to involving others in public service, according to Brown. 
"He's tried to create opportuni­ties for other people to take part in public service," Brown said. "Internships are quite often the starting point for people who go on to have long and successful careers in public service." 
Celli said she first learned about the possibility of receiving this internship through the Washington Program and American studies Professor Robert Schmuhl. 
•·1 wanted to do something along the lines of international rela­tions," she said. "It turned out that they decided to create this new internship." 
Contact Teresa Fralish 
at tfra1ish@nd.edu 

Students allege assault 
By NATASHA GRANT 
News Writer 
Two male students allege they were assaulted in the D6 parking lot adjacent to the security building early Friday morning on their way to their dorms, according to a Notre Dame Security/Police crime alert. 
Both students were struck in the face but only one sus­tained injuries. He suffered minor lacerations and a chipped tooth and was treat­ed at a local hospital. the crime alert reported. 
Currently, officers have a rough description of one of the suspects and the vehicle. According to the crime report, one of the suspects was a college-aged white male with short brown hair. The other suspect could not be identified as he did not leave the vehicle, a dark-col­ored Jeep Grand Cherokee, the report said. 
Associate Director of Security Phillip Johnson said that campus police couldn't come to any conclusion about the motivation behind the assault, saying that it was too early in the investi­gation to know. He said, however, that he suspects road rage could be the motive as the victims first reported seeing the suspects while stopped at a traffic light on State Road 933. 
"Suspects may have simply followed students back to the parking lot," Johnson said. 
see ASSAULTIpage 4 

EXECUTIVE CABINET 
SUB, BOG present to group 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
Nc,ws Writer 
Executive Cabinet mem­bers met Monday evening to hear presentations from the Student Onion Board and Saint Mary's Board of Governance and also to dis­cuss ways to further publi­cizing club and organization events. 
The Office of the President is in the process of creating an online calendar for stu­dent events that will be post­ed on the Student Government's Web site. Any student club or organization can submit postings to inform students of planned activities. The calendar is about 80 percent complete and will be available for use soon. The Executive Cabinet will also have an Instant Messenger screen name by which they will list the day's events. 
"Feedback from students is always welcome," said Executive Council member Susan Longenbaker. "I would like to encourage them. I would like to know more from students how we can better serve their needs." 
Council members also dis­cussed ways to improve the accessibility of "Everything Under the Dome," Student Government's twice-weekly publication to inform stu­dents about the week's activ­ities. Council members brainstormed ideas to make the publication more acces­sible to students and decided to give copies to each dorm's resident assistants to ensure a constant posting place within each dorm. The 

Cabinet proposed having each RA post one copy by their door and spread a few copies of the publication throughout the dorm to ensure that many students will have the opportunity to discover the week's events. 
"We are trying to reach students on a more personal level -right where they live," Longenbaker said. "Hopefully we will have a greater impact on how we are able to reach [students] and increase our audience base." 
Saint Mary's Student Body President Kim Jensen, Student Body Vice-President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, and Executive Council Representative Lindsey Evans explained the organi­zation of their Board of Governance and their efforts to pass a study day proposal. Executive Council members said that hearing about the set-up of Saint Mary's Student Government provid­ed them with new ways of bettering their organization and the positions available. 
"It was very helpful for me to see how our sister school is set up," said Meghan O'Donnell, Executive Council member and junior class president. "It gave me some insights into different ways that our student government could be taking. There is a sense of cohesion that I would really like to see hap­pen here," she said. 
In other Executive Cabinet 
News 
. The Student Union 
see EXEC CAB/page 4 


----------------------------------------, 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, November 26, 2002 
WHAT'S INSIDE
INSIDE COLUMN 

Christmas 
already? 
It's my favorite time of year again. Christmas carols are being sung. and people are rushing to check everyone off their Christmas lists. The only difference this year is that it seems to have come a 
bit earlier than nor­ 
mal. Finals are still  Liz Gaydos  
weeks away, yet the  
Christmas buzz is  Star.ff  
all around. A local  
radio station plays  Photographer  
Christmas music  
24-hours a day.  

It even looks as though this year's wishes for a white Christmas are being answered early. While walking around campus. one can see freshly built snow­men adorning the property. I even heard a group of girls strolling down the side­walk belting out the words to "Let it Snow." 
My question is, what happened to Thanksgiving? Amidst all the holiday cheer, we seem to have left out an important celebration. Thanksgiving is a time to be with mends and family and do just what its name suggests: give thanks for what we have. The important thing is to not focus on the commercialism of Christmas, hut to remember the spirit of the first Thanksgiving. So many tradi­tions are associated with this holiday, yet this year, they appear to have been for­gotten already. 
Every year at my house, the heavenly scents of my mom's home-cooked food waft. through the air as the family watch­es the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in the living room. The banter is often interrupted as Mom asks someone to make yet another trip to the grocery store for that necessary ingredient she inevitably forgot. 
Carving the turkey is just the begin­ning. As much as we all hate to admit it, Thanksgiving wouldn't be Thanksgiving without its corny traditions as well. Though the children of my family always complained about having to express what we were thankful for, our holiday wouldn't be complete without Dad pass­ing around the piece of bread, request­ing that everyone break off a chunk and give thanks for some aspect of our life. 
Another Thanksgiving tradition is dec­orating for Christmas. The tree goes up, lights garnish the shrubbery outside, and various other Christmas paraphernalia decorate the house. 
This is when the real countdown can begin. What better way to kick off the holiday season than with the biggest shopping day of the year? Now is the time to visit Santa at the mall, send out your holiday greetings, kiss under the mistletoe and sip hot chocolate by the fire. 
Remember this before you get swept up in the holidays and take out your copy of "It's a Wonderful Life," or pop your N'Sync Christmas album into your stereo. Take the holidays one at a time, and enjoy them all. 
Be grateful when Dad makes you take time to think about what you appreciate. It just might help keep you grounded enough to celebrate the season we're in. 
Have a Happy Thanksgiving and a wonderful break. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Liz Gaydos at Gayd731O@saintmarys.edu. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0:: 
1.£,1 
:z: 
!« 
1.£,1 
,: 
..I
er: 
(J 




CORRECTIONS 
The Ob.em,r regards irsdf as a professional publie.i­tion and strives for the highest standards of jo,unal­ism at all 1imes-We do, howiever, recognize thar we will make mistakes-If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
0 

HIGH 32 HIGH
...I 

LOW 26 LOW 
HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Irish poet accused of anti.Semitic statements 
Award-winning Irish poet Tom Paulin has faced criticism for his anti-Semitic views. He has spoke at Notre Dame twice. 

page3 

WORLD& 
NATION 
Bush taps Ridge to lead Homeland Security 
Bush announced Monday that Tom Ridge will lead the new Homeland Security Department. 
page 5 

BUSINESS NEWS 
U.S. charges 3 In ID theft case 
Federal authori­ties charged three men with stealing credit information from more than 30,000 people. 


page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Columnist asks, 'What would Jesus drive?' 
Columnist Joanna Mikulski criticizes a pool that lists cars Jesus would support based on their environmental friendliness. 
pages 8--9 
SCENE SPORTS 
Harrison 
Irish fall to 4, releases lat­
Miami est album 
remains number 1 

The Observer 
Notre Dame fell music critics 
to fourth place review George 
despite its Harrison's latest 
Saturday shutout album, 
and Miami Brainwashed. 
retained its top spot in this week's Sendwich Index. 
pages 1.0-ll 
page 16 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Employee reJ>orts 
stofen veh1cfe 
A Notre Dame employee reported a stolen vehicle. The vehicle was last reported seen in front of the radiation build­ing. 
NDSP recovers bike 
An NDSP officer discovered an abandoned bicycl~ outside of Alumni Hall. The bike was taken to the Security building for safekeeping. 
Rector reports Knott Hall vandalism 

The rector of Knott Hall reported damage to the dorm's fourth-floor study lounge. There are no suspects at this time. 
Car sustains damage 
A student's vehicle was the object of vandalism while parked in the South Lot. The car sustained a broken win­dow. 
Compliedfrom NDSP crime blotter 

Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chicken rice soup with jicama, Minesota wild rice soup, mushroom garlic and cheese pizzas, teriyaki chicken wings, Italian beef sandwich, curly fries, twice cooked pork, country kitchen vegetables, baked penne melanzane, caesar bean burger, Santa Fe salad wrap, chef's pasta, sizzling fajitas and fudge mint brownies. 
Today's Dinner: Chicken rice soup, Minesota wild rice soup, cheese pizza, fried fish portions, grilled hamburgers, tempura chicken and shrimp, garden burgers, Santa Fe burritos, chefs pasta and broccoli and cauliflower salad. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


40 HIGH 39 31 LOW 26 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. Campus Bibln Study. ColC'man­Morsc Center Conf<'rcmco Boom, 7 
p.m. Please bring your own Bible. 
. Spanish Mass. St. Edward's llall, HU0 p.m. 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Fn~sllman class mncting. Haggar College Center, room 304, 
6p.m. 

. S<Hlior class board meeting. Haggar College Center, 9 p.m. 
. Lcclur<!. "Cyanide, Cigarettes, and Cnmnnt: Issues in Technology Transfer in Late 19th Ccnturv Mexico," by Edward Beatty. O'Shaugh1wssy I lall, room 11 lJ, 7 p.m. 
. Junior class board meeting. 
llaggar College Center, room 303, 
9p.m. 



WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Baked meatless ziti, pepperoni, cheese, vegetable and supreme pizzas, tomato soup, cream of broccoli soup. minestrone soup, tortilla soup. smoked creole flank steak, roast­ed poupon potatoes, pasta primavera, baked Swiss spinach, Philly steak sand­wich, sweet and sour chicken and baked salsa cod. 
Today's Dinner: Baked meatless ziti, pepperoni, cheese, vegetable and supreme pizzas, tomato soup, cream of broccoli soup, minestrone soup, tortilla soup, pork loin with apples, baked jar• diniere haddock, hot and spicy sea nuggets. cantonese bbq chicken and chicken and cheese chimichanga. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, bianco pizza, Greek pork loin, turkey pot pie, chicken nuggets, seasoned fries, chicken teriyaki and portobello fajita. 
Today's Dinner: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, bianco pizza, peppered flank steak, buffalo chicken wings, grilled cod, bbq rib sandwich, pep­pered tangerine chicken and grilled spicy chicken. 



32 29 

Atlanta 60 / 46 Boston 42 / 29 Chicago 33 / 25 Denver 27 / 13 Houston 50 / 35 Los Angeles 77 / 52 Minneapolis 25 / 15 New York 45 / 32 Philadelphia 45 / 32 Phoenix 72 / 52 Seattle 52 / 37 St. Louis 31 / 25 Tampa 76 / 56 Washington 46 / 36 
Tuesday, November 26, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 







Poef s words criticized 
By JUSTIN KRJVICKAS A.ssi•lalll News Editor 
An award-winning Irish poet who gave a lecture at Notre Dame Thursday has been under criticism for his anti-Israeli 
views. Tom Paulin, 1:1 lecturer at Oxford Univer­s i t y • s Hertford College. 
h a s 


s p a r k e d Paulin widespread debate because of comments he made during an interview with the Egyptian newspaper Ai-Aram in April. In the interview, Paulin voiced his concerns and misgivings of the state of Israel and how the Israeli government was dealing with the Palestinians. "[Israell is a state created by 
the powerful nations some­where else. It is an artificial state," he said. 
Also, when the issue of Brooklyn-born Jewish settlers was brought up, Paulin was quoted as saying, "They should be shot dead. I think they are Nazis, racists, I feel nothing but hatred for them." 
This is not the first time Paulin's views on Israel has garnered criticism. Last year the poet stirred up controversy when he wrote a poem for the London Observer newspaper, labeling Israeli soldiers as "Zionist SS." 
Although his statements may appear extreme, Paulin has repeatedly said he is not anti­semitic, and that he wishes for a peaceful resolution to the con­flict in the Middle East. 
"I just laugh when they [label me as anti-Semitic]. It does not worry me at all. These are the Hampstead liberal Zionists," he said. "I have utter contempt for them. They use this card of anti-Semitism." 
Because of his comments, Harvard University canceled a scheduled lecture Paulin was to conduct. Protests from students. faculty and alums caused the university to retract its invita­tion. Yet, only a week after the event was canceled, Harvard's English Department decided to re-invite Paulin. 
The department cites free speech as their primary reason for deciding to reconsider Paulin's appearance on cam­pus. 
"We are ultimately stronger as a university if we together maintain our robust commit­ment to free expression, includ­ing the freedom of groups on campus to invite speakers with controversial views," said Lawrence Summers, Harvard's president. 
On Thursday, Paulin gave a lecture at Notre Dame entitled, "William Blake, Irish Visionary: His Influence on Yeats, Joyce and Van Morrison." The Keough Institute for Irish Studies sponsored the event. 
Paulin was asked to speak at Notre Dame last summer when members of the Institute learned that he would be a vis­iting professor at Columbia University in New York. 
Although Harvard and later, the University of Vermont can­celed lectures with Paulin, the Institute did not feel it was nec­essary to cancel as well. 
"Harvard. like Notre Dame has the word 'university' in its title. If une has a problem with what a speaker says or report­edly said, a talk provides an open forum and an opportunity to come and disagree with him," said Christopher Fox, director of the Institute. 
Although no incidents were expected during the lecture at Notre Dame, campus security was alerted of the possible con­troversy surrounding the poet's visit. 
"Tom Paulin is a significant scholar along with being a major Irish literary figure," Fox said. "His Thursday lecture here on Blake, Yeats and Van Morrison was well attended and very well received, as was a Friday seminar, on Irish poetry, for Notre Dame graduate stu­dents." 
Contact Justin Krivickas at krivick@nd.edu 

SMC celebrates Kwanazaa 
By MELANIE BECKER News Writer 
In honor of Kwanzaa, Brother Sage, a.k.a. Verge Gillan, will host a pre-Kwanzaa celebration at Saint Mary's Monday at noon in Stapleton. 
Gillan is the host of the radio program "Providing Options" which airs 
day is primarily aimed at chil­dren to give them a greater understanding of African culture and its integration with American traditions. 
The basic principles arc Umoja (unity), Kujichaguila (self determination), Ujima (collective work and responsibility), Ujamaa (cooperative econom­ics), Nia (pur­pose),

S u n d a y 
Kuumba (cre­

"Our hope is that the
evenings for ativity) and
Saint Mary's community 
WSBT 960 
lmani (faith). AM. He is join us in the great A focus of also well the pre­
learning opportunity." 
known for his Kwanzaa cel­
Kwanzaa 
ebration will 

Celebrations. Marie WIIJls be to create a 
"Brother 
assistant director Kwanzaa 
Sage said he Resource Kit
Multicultural Affairs
is honored to come on campus and wants the partici­pants of the celebration to understand that the Kwanzaa celebration focuses on a African American value system," said Marie Willis, assistant director of Multicultural Affairs. 
Kwanzaa is an African American Holiday that is cele­brated from Dec. 26 to Jan. 1 that encompasses African tradi­tions and American customs. 
Maulana Karenga held the first celebration of Kwanzaa in 1966. Kwanzaa recognizes the basic principles of the harvest celebrations of Africa. The holi­that will be 
displayed in the Office of Multicultural Affairs. Gillan has designed a Kwanzaa table that is on display in the Multicultural Affairs. 
The Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Student Diversity Board and the Sisters of the Nefertiti Oub are the sponsors of the pre-Kwanzaa Celebration. 
"Our hope is that the Saint Mary's community join us in the great learning opportunity," Willis said. 
Contact Melanie Becker at Beck093 l@saintmarys.edu 

/,/EEO II RIOETO TIIEIIIRPORT? 


FREE SHUTTLE 
SOUTH BEND AIRPORT ON
TO 

WEDNESDAY 
AND BACK TO SCHOOL ON 
SUNDAY 


As a service to students Hying home for Thanksgiving, Notre Dame Express Shuttle will be 
running to the airport on 
Wednesday and back on Sunday. 
Ad sponsored by Student Government. 
WEDNESDAY SHUTTLE SCHEDULE (Nov. 27) 
MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT RUNS 
4

1 2 3 
4:30

NOON 1:30 3:00
LIBRARY CIRCLE 4:50
12:20 1:50 3:20
MAIN CIRCLE 5:10
12:40 2:10 3:40
REGINA 5:20
12:50 2:20 3:50
MCCANDLESS 5:40
1:10 2:40 4:10
MICHIANA AIRPORT 

SUNDAY SHUTTLE SCHEDULE (Dec. 1) 
MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT RUNS 
7 

2 3 4 5 6
1 
7 30 9:00

MICHIANA AIRPORT NOON 1:30 3:00 . 4:30 6:00 : The shuttle will be dropping students off at LIBRARY CIRCLE, MAIN CIRCLE, REGINA, and MCCANDLESS. 



r 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 26, 2002 I 
I 
Assault 
continued from page I 
Although the victims said that the incident occurred at 330 a.m .. they did not report it until noon Friday. accord­ing to the crime report. Johnson said that the time difference is significant because it affects Security's ability to follow-up on leads. 
"We are hopeful that vic­tims will report crimes imme­diately." he said. "When there's a significant delay in reporting, it makes it difficult to follow-up on the case." 
Johnson advises anyone who suspects that they are being followed to go to either a security station or a call box on either side of campus. 
Contact Natasha Grant at grant.20@nd.edu 
Exec Cab 
continued from page 1 
Board presented its 10-year strategic plan, stressing ways to assess both the qual­ity and the quantity of their sponsored events and encouraging other clubs and organization to co-sponsor activities with them. SUB is also looking for a relatively inexpensive mainstay event like Acoustic Cafe that will become a constant fixture. 
. 
Senior Class President Matt Smith announced the plans to collaborate with other class councils to engi­neer a "Toys for Tots" drive the last week of the fall semester. 

. 
Members brainstormed ways of publishing The Shirt Charity Fund. A portion of the proceeds from The Shirt sales go into a rectors' fund that students can use in times of crises like health emergencies or to ensure that financial considerations will not prevent them from enjoying activities like foot­ball games or retreats. 


Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
thing different.., ·s waiting foryou! 
ory beaches ono 
'cnightlifemakes 

SMC honors heritage month 
By MELANIE BECKER News Writer 
ln honor of Native American Heritage month, Linda Topash-Yazel held a work­shop in the Reignbeaux Lounge of Le Mans on Monday evening. 
Topash-Yazel is part Objibway and Potawatomi and an active member of the Potawatomi tribe, located in Michigan. She is also renowned for her Native American beadwork. Topash­Yazel regularly attends "pow wows," Native American tra­ditional gatherings where she sells her beadwork. 
Through the Title IX pro­gram, federal funding has supported Yazel's many appearances in all levels of school. Additionally, Topash­Yazel has worked in various museums. Currently, she works in the Catalog Center at Notre Dame. 
Topash-Yazel has spent over 20 years educating the public on Native American culture. 
"People need to do bead­work. it's a dying art. Our his­tory is so oral rather then written, you are forced to learn [Native American] histo­ry," she said. greater appreciation of Native of the time, concentration and experience that everyone 
Approximately 30 students, American art. creativity of Native American should take part in," sopho­faculty and staff participated Each participant was given beadwork. Several of Topash­more Mercera Payne said. in the event. The workshop the face of a watch and then Yazel's own beadworks were 
gave all participants a chance created a wristband out of displayed for sale at the work­to take a study break and beads. The participants in the shop. Contact Melanie Becker at socialize while gaining a workshop were given a taste "I think that this is a fun Beck093l@saintmarys.edu 
7!Uf 71,eu I M-3 
fresh baked and buttery'.topped with cinnamon 
sugar. Complete with aside at vanilla topping
Mmmm...try some toda ! 
Fresh-baked bread strips wftt1 3kinds of 

cheeses &garlic_ butter; topped with Parm.sao 
& Roma Seasonmg. Served with aside of Pim 
Sauce & Ranch Dipping Sauce. 
C 


Serving Notre Dame & st, Mary's 52750 IN 633 ...... .574-243•1122 
No Coui!"n Necessary. Plus Ta.t FREE DEllVERY. Now Open Until 3:00am Fridar &Saturday!S7.ll0 Minimum for Delivel)' Nol Valid Wil/1 MY OlllerDffer 1/alid Only At listed Maico's Pizza Serving Bethel College
locations. fx11res 12·15-02. 

326 N. lronwood...574-243-1111 a301C OJ ACCEPTED HERE Corner of Ironwood &McKinley
Must flow!e CJ!<frt Wd inlMmatioo lltien onlenrni tor deli•~ 


WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 26, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush taps Ridge to lead Homeland Department 
Associated Prcss 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush on Monday named close friend Tom Ridge to head the new Department of Homeland Security, but said even the biggest government shakeup in more than a half century can "neither predict nor prevent every conceivable attack." 
"We're doing everything we can to protect America," Bush said as he signed a bill creating the department. "In a free and open society, no department of governnrnnt can completely guarantee our safety against ruthless killers who move and plot in shadows." 
With that sobering assess­ment from an East Room stage, Hush asked the Senate to con­firm his nomination of Ridge and named two high-powered deputies: Navy Secretary Gordon England and Drug Enforcement Administration Director Asa Hutchinson. 
A large portion of the depart­ment will take shape March 1, when the Secret Service, Immigration and Naturalization Service and a few other agen­cies transfer their employees and budgets to the new entity, officials said. The final pieces will be put in place Sept. 30, 2003 -more than two years after the attacks that prompted the overhaul. 
The officials spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Ridge, 57, is a Vietnam hero, a former congressman and longtime political ally of the Bush family who nearly 14 months ago left his position as Pennsylvania governor to serve in the White House. No one else was seriously considered for the job, Bush aides said. 
As the president's homeland security adviser, Ridge has won praise for improving communi­cation between Washington and local governments. His most visible creation -the color­coded national warning system -became an instant butt of jokes but has helped Americans understand the ebbs and flows in terrorism threats, even if they're still unsure what, if any­thing, to do about the dangers. 
Bush initially opposed cre­ation of a homeland security department. But, facing criti­cism from Democrats, he embraced the concept in June and used it as a political issue in the midterm election cam­paign. 
"The continuing threat ofter­rorism, the threat of mass mur­der on our own soil, will be met with a unified, effective response," Bush told an over­flowing White House crowd. 
He has given Ridge a daunt­ing assignment to combine nearly two dozen agencies, $40 billion in budgets and 170,000 employees spread across a broad swath of federal bureau-

Reuters Photo 

Tom Ridge greets guests prior to the signing ceremony for the Homeland Security Act Monday. The 
act wlll create a cabinet agency to prevent terrorist attacks on the U.S., setting In motion the biggest government reorganization In half a century -a process that could take years to complete. 
cracy and well-protected turf. Ari Fleischer said it will take 
lt is the biggest federal reor­more than a year to get the ganization since the Defense agency fully up and running. Department's birth in 1947, But the administration's transi­and critics warn that problems tion plan, devised in secret are sure to crop up. meetings near the White House 
White House press secretary for months, sets a more ambi­tious goal of Sept. 30, 2003, officials said. 
Agencies can begin moving to the new department 90 days after the plan is submitted to Congress. Bush plans to submit it almost immediately. 

Blix -warns Iraq ntust provide convincing evidence 
A..ociated Prcss 
UNITED NATIONS 

Chief U.N. weapons inspector Hans Blix said Monday he warned Iraq that it must provide convincing evidence if it main­tains -as it did last week -that it has no illegal weapons programs. 
Iraqi officials said they intend to cooper­ate fully with U.N. inspectors who will resume work on Wednesday after nearly four years, Blix told the U.N. Security Council. 
But on the critical issue of access, Iraqi officials remarked during talks last week in Baghdad "that the entry into a presi­dential site or a ministry was not exactly the same thing as entry into a factory," Blix said, according to his briefing notes. 
The resolution allows inspectors to go anywhere at anytime, including presiden­tial sites, and Blix said he stressed this point to the Iraqis and told them his teams would exercise this right. "We said we would inspect all sites on an equal basis," he told a news conference after­wards. 
Blix said he would have 100 inspectors on the ground by Christmas and that logistics were being rapidly strengthened. He also wants to open a field office in the northern city of Mosul "without delay." 
"Thanks to assistance from the govern­ment of New Zealand we already have communications people and medics in place and before the end of the week, we may have the first of eight helicopters in Baghdad." 
Blix told the council that the Iraqis had expressed "some uncertainty," about how it should prepare a declaration of all nuclear, chemical and biological pro­grams. 
Iraq is mandated to provide the council and inspectors with the declaration by Dec. 8. 
Some of the Iraqi concerns appeared to be technical, including how detailed the submissions should be on Iraq's petro­chemical industry. 
"Clearly, the most important thing was that whatever there existed by way of weapons programs and proscribed items should be fully declared," Blix said he told the Iraqis. 
"I added that four years had passed since the last inspections and that many governments believed that weapons of mass destruction programs remained in Iraq. The council had wanted to offer Iraq a last opportunity," he said. 
"If the Iraqi side were to state -as it still did at our meeting -that there were no such programs, it would need to pro­vide convincing documentary or other evi­dence," he told the council. 
Blix said he urged Iraq to make a com­plete declaration and "to look into stores and stocks" to ensure that everything is reported on Dec. 8. 
Under the resolution a false statement or omission in the declaration, coupled with an Iraqi failure to cooperate with inspectors, would constitute a new "mate­rial breach" which would be reported to the council for possible action. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.K. Parliament supports Iraq resolution: 
Britain's Parliament declared its support Monday for the U.N. resolution on Iraq, overcoming rum­blings of dissent and misgivings over the manner in which military action would be decided. The deci­sion came after Prime Minister Tony Blair warned that Saddam Hussein would face "serious conse­quences" if he denies that Iraq possesses banned weapons. 
Mideast moderates work on peace plan: Israeli and Palestinian moderates are close to a draft peace treaty, both sides said Monday, but at least one potential deal-breaker remains unre­solved: the fate of Palestinian refugees. Even if completed, the 40-page document would have largely symbolic value since those negotiating it are not in positions of real power. However, it could serve as a guideline in future formal nego­tiations. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Ex•FBI agent acquitted in Fla. crash: 
A former FBI agent was acquitted Monday of killing two brothers by driving drunk the wrong way down an interstate, but he was convicted of lesser charges. The case had led to allegations that the Florida Highway Patrol engaged in a racist cover-up to protect the agent. David Farrall, 39, was cleared of drunken-driving manslaughter and vehicular homicide. 
Boston diocese must release papers: 
Sharply criticizing the Boston Archdiocese, a judge Monday ordered the public release of about 11,000 internal church documents related to 65 priests accused of molesting children over the past three decades. The two rulings by Superior Court Judge Constance Sweeney came as lawyers for alleged victims and the Roman Catholic Church met to try to settle more than 400 law­suits. 

Woes force states' taxes to rise sharply: 
State budgets are in their worst shape since World War II, prompting legislatures to institute the largest tax increases in a decade. the National Governors Association said Monday. Soaring health care costs and a sputtering economy that hurt tax collections were blamed for the budget problems. State lawmakers responded with $8.3 billion in tax hikes for the fiscal year that began for most states on July 1. That was the largest dollar increase sincce 1992, when $15 billion in tax hikes were enacted, the association reported. 
Ex-Ky. mayor pleads guilty to child porn: 
The former mayor pleaded guilty Monday to child­pornography charges that prompted his resignation earlier this year. Paul R. Reeves, 57, admitted receiving and possessing two videos that contained child pornography. Under the plea agreement. he faces 27 to 33 months in prison and a line of $6,000 to $60,000 at sentencing April 22. 
page6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 26, 2002 

The Merrill Lynch Case Study Challenge has been an immensely successful team-based competition offering undergraduate juniors a firsthand look at careers in Debt Markets, Equity Markets and Investment Banking. We want to thank all the participants for their hard work, dedication and incisive analysis. 
Merrill Lynch is proud to congratulate the Notre Dame winners: 
Winning Team 
Project Mayhem -Matthew F. Bramanti and Andrei M. Sandu 
Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer. 
Our advice about your next career move: be bullish. 
~MerrillLynch 
© 2002 Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. 

Tuesday, Novemher 26, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market \,Vatch November 25 
DowJones 

8,849.40 +44.56
~ 
NASDAQ 

1,481.90 +13.16 
S&P500 

932.88 +2.33 
AMEX 

814.59 -1.46
•
NYSE 

492.62 +0.99 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LUCENT TECH (NDRU) +21.85+0.33 1.84 
s~:~;~:~ll~lll::1il!l1~11111!il:~\i!1~!il['"·••:•,:•·•· .. . ···•·•:•=·==·:::~-i 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +0. 97 +0. 27 27. 99 
$'5t!;l¦IJlll!:!~l¦Jl:lt$,. . .:!1111111111~111:II 
ATMEL CORP (ATML) +44.08+1.24 4.05 
IN BRIEF 
Raytheon settles with SEC, Motorola 
Defense contractor Raytheon Co. has agreed to a settlement with federal regulators in one of the first cases involving alleged violations of a rule barring companies from revealing information to stock analysts before the gen­eral public. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission, which announced the settlement Monday, also said it had investigated similar allegations against Motorola Inc. but closed the case without taking enforcement action because a company official had gotten legal advice before starting one-on-one conversations with analysts. 
The companies were not fined. 
Bankruptcy filings climb 12 percent 
Bankruptcy filings by individuals and busi­nesses jumped 12 percent in the three months ending in September to a record 401,306, according to data released Monday. 
New bankruptcy filings in the 12 months ended Sept. 30 totaled 1,547,669, up 7.7 per­cent from the year-earlier period and exceed­ing the record high of 1,492,129 in 2001. a year in which the economy slid into recession, data compiled by the Administrative Otlice of the U.S. Courts show. 
The American Bankruptcy Institute, a group of bankruptcy judges, lawyers and experts, said the filings surged 30 percent from the third quarter two years earlier. 
Existing-home sales rise in October 
Sales of previously owned homes regis­tered their third best month on record in October and arc on track for an all-time high this year, as the beacon of low mort­gage rates turns house hunters into home buyers. 
The National Association of Realtors reported Monday that existing-home sales climbed to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.77 million in October, representing a 
6.1 percent jump from the previous month. 
U.S. charges 3 in ID theft case 
. Predicted losses over $2. 7 million 
Auociatcd Pre.ss 
NEW YORK 

Federal authorities broke up what they called the biggest identity theft case in U.S. history and charged three men Monday with stealing credit information from more than 30.000 people, draining victims' bank accounts and ruining their credit. 
U.S. Attorney James Corney said the losses were calculated so far at $2.7 million but would baUoon to many more mil­lions and affect con­sumers in every state. He called the case "every American's worst finan­cial nightmare multiplied tens of thousands of times." 
"With a few keystrokes, these men essentially picked the pockets of tens of thousands of Americans and, in the process, took their identities, stole their money and swiped their security," the prosecutor said. 
Authorities said the scheme began about three years ago when Philip Cummings, a help-desk worker at Teledata than the content of a bank Mutual Finance Co. in assumed by strangers. Communications, a Long vault, and they didn't Crossville, Tenn.; Dollar Corney said one sobbing Island software company, even need a getaway car. Bank in Cleveland; Sarah victim telephoned prose­sold an unidentified per­All they needed was a Bush Lincoln Health cu tors to say someone son passwords and codes phone and a computer, or Center in Illinois; the stole her identity, opened for downloading con­so they thought," said FBI Personal Finance Co. in a $35,000 line of credit sumer credit reports. Assistant Director Kevin Frankfort, Ind.; the and cashed a check for 
Cummings was allegedly P. Donovan. Medical Bureau in $34,000. paid roughly $30 for each More than 15,000 credit Clearwater, Fla.; Vintage "So that's now on her report, and the informa­reports were stolen from Apartments in Houston; back, that $34,000," he tion was then passed on to Experian, a credit history and Community Bank of said. "The people that at least 20 other people, bureau, using passwords Chaska in Chaska, Minn. take the hit ultimately will who set out to make belonging to Ford Motor Victims have reported be all of us, although in money from the stolen Credit Corp., officials said. losing money from their the short term it will be information, prosecutors They said thousands of bank accounts, seeing the companies that paid said. other credit reports were their credit cards hit with on the credit cards, the 
"The potential windfall stolen from companies unauthorized charges, banks that lent them was probably far greater such as Washington and having their identities money." 

Parents damage children's credit 
With the proliferation of credit deposit but never did," said Touch, 
Associated Press 
cards, experts s·ay parents who've whose father was convicted of embez­
CHICAGO botched their own finances are zlement in 1993. 
It was her first credit card applica­increasingly tempted to dip into their Dionicio Campos, a 29-year-old tion, or so she thought, prompted by children's credit. As co-signers, all Chicagoan, said he's been stuck untan­an offer on her Ohio college campus they need is a birth date and Social gling the trouble caused by his moth­for a free T-shirt. Security number. er's ex-boyfriend and others using his 
But a rejection letter uncovered "I've seen it happen a lot -and the Social Security number. troubling news -someone had damage it takes to correct it is tremen­"I'm sure a 17-year-old kid isn't already opened four credit cards in dous," said Howard Dvorkin, president worrying about his mom taking his her name and racked up $50,000 in of Florida-based Consolidated Credit stuff from him -but maybe he debt. Counseling Services. "These people should," Campos said. 
That someone, it turns out, was her don't go in with the intention of screw­Overall, identity theft and credit card father. ing up their kids' credit. The problem fraud have reached an "epidemic 
"I couldn't believe it," said the young is, old habits are hard to break." level." said Carl Pergola. national woman, who asked not to be named In some cases, law enforcement is director of fraud inyestigations for for fear of humiliating her father, who stepping in. Last month, a father from accounting firm BDO Seidman. was never charged criminally. Billings, Mont., was sentenced to flve Vital information, he said, is stolen 
Now 25 and living in Chicago, she years in prison for charging $12,000 to by everyone from parents to co-work­said she knew her father was strug­credit cards in his daughter's name. ers to hucksters who post fake job list­gling financially after his divorce from Some parents put bills -cable TV, ings or run other schemes. her mother and the faHure of his utilities -in their kids' names. He said young people whose parents restaurant. But she never imagined That's what Teena Touch. a 28-have money problems should consider he'd fill out credit card applications year-old Los Angeles resident, said her running regular credit reports -and sent to his home in her name. "He father did. request that the three major credit completely violated my trust and my "It started with my summer jobs -agencies notify them when new privacy and my future," she said, checks my dad was supposed to accounts are opened in their name. 

AI,.HE
vnSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, November 26, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nom, Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nom Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANA.GING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
Vtt."WI'OINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SroRrs EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR, Katie McKenna SAINT MARYS EDITORt Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lun 

Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
W1mADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROU.ERt Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIGENlillAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS Omcr........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ................................................. 631-5303 observer.viewpoim. I@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR'l"s.............................................63 l •4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SVsTI.MsfWEB ADMJNISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!obserwr.nd.eau for daily updates ofcampus ncews, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of rhe administr.1rion of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is rcporced as accurately and objeaivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tiom r~arding Obsnver policies should he din:ct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Thr ObloC'wC'r (USPS '.:199 240) 1:1 pubfobed Mond.a.y rhrough Friday exc.epr during c:um uid vacation period.. A,ub.cripcion to The ObK",,,.erh SIOO for one-ieadcmic year, 155 for one 5oemata. 
The-Ob'-Cl'Ver kl published ~r: POSTMASTER 024 Sm..U'/ Ojnin-f H~l .smJ ~as ~riOAJ liD: 
Not«: D.rnc. IN 46556 l'nc Obiuna 
P.O. &uxQ f'crlodiul p<Jl«;i.b,c-p.Ud .1.1 Noi:rr Dmic: Norre Dame, IN 46S56-0779 md 1ddirion:al mailing nffit'CI. 
The Obtcrvcr it a ,mmb,;r of dw. !moc:i;i.ttd Pfas. All rqroduoion rigbff ~ 
='"­

EVERYONE LETS WHATEVERIW 

Exploring 'just war' criteria and Iraq 
Two recent news items may clarify the "just war" debate on Iraq. 
First, the New York Times reports that the government may drop its fed­eral court prosecution of Zacarias Moussaoui, "the 20th hijacker," Charles Rice and transfer him to Guantanamo Bay for trial by a Right or military tribunal. Wrong? 
The tribunals were established by President Bush to try non-citizens for terrorist violations of "the laws of war and other applicable laws." They are constitutional, and would be so even to try U.S. citizens, under Congress's power to punish offenses against the "law of nations." 
A tribunal defendant would have lim­ited procedural rights. Government lawyers are reluctant to give Moussaoui access to Al Qaeda prison­ers and to some evidence. Moussaoui's transfer to a tribunal could be chal­lenged in federal court; pending cases have challenged the government's right to designate Al Qaeda persons as "enemy combatants." 
If Moussaoui did what the federal court indictment alleges, he was an enemy combatant acting in violation of the laws of war. He should have been tried in a military tribunal rather than sent to a civilian court as if the attacks of Sept. 11 had involved only ordinary domestic homicides. 
The possible transfer of Moussaoui now to a military tribunal reminds us that, regardless of Iraq. we already have a major war on our hands, against Al Qaeda and other Islamic ter­rorists. The reality of that war reminds us, too, that if there is a significant con­nection between [raq and the terrorist groups, the attack on Iraq could be jus­tified as an aspect of that just war we undertook after Sept. 11. 
The second news item was the New York Times headline, "Bishops Say Attack On Iraq Is Not Justified." The bishops' actual statement on Nov. 13 did not live up to that billing. Perhaps in an effort to reclaim the credibility they squandered in the sex abuse deba­cle, the bishops brought forth Cardinal Bernard Law to deliver a very guarded statement. 
The "just war" theory is a method of moral reasoning to prevent war and to minimize its effects if it does occur. There are three basic requirements for justice in going to war: proper authori­ty, just cause and right intention. 
The Catechism lists further details: "The damage inflicted by the aggressor ... must be lasting. grave and certain;" war must be a last resort, with "all other means ... impractical or ineffec­tive;" "there must be serious prospects of success;" and "the use of arms must not produce evils ... graver than the evil to be eliminated." Justice in fight­ing a war requires proportionality and discrimination (non-combatant immu­nity). The proposed war on Iraq is debatable under just war criteria. 
The bishops' statement. however, is significant because it affirmed the fact­dependent and contingent nature of the just war criteria and the deference owed to the government's evaluation. The bishops said, "We offer not defini­tive conclusions, but ... our serious con­cerns and questions .... People of good will may differ on how to apply just war norms in particular cases. especially when ... the facts are not altogether clear. Based on the facts that are known to us, we ... find it difficult to justify the ... war against Iraq, lacking clear and adequate evidence of an imminent attack of a grave nature." 
But then the bishops acknowledged, "There are no easy answers. Ultimate­ly, our elected leaders are responsible for decisions ~bout national security." 
The effort to win the war against ter­rorism merely by "homeland security" could involve unacceptable restrictions on personal liberty. Instead, success in that war requires elimination of the terrorists' support. The decisive ques­tion on Iraq, in that light, is whether Iraq aids, or is about to aid, Al Qaeda and the Islamic terror network. 
The Bush administration has not publicly disclosed sufficient evidence to make its case clearly on that issue or on others relevant to the just war determination. But. as the bishops implicitly acknowledge, the public does not have a right to disclosure of facts where that would be contrary to national security. And the decisions of duly constituted authorities in this area are entitled to the benefit of the doubt up to a point of incredibility that does not appear to have been reached in this case. 
One relevant factor, perhaps. is that we no longer have an adjudicated liar in the White House. In any event. all of this shows the wisdom of the framers of the Constitution in putting the deci­sion on declarjng war in the hands of Congress rather than in one man. The President has an inherent war power, to enable him, as James Madison said, "to repel sudden attacks." 
Congress has given the President a blank check on Iraq. He may decide not to go to war. But Congress itself should make that decision -and account for it to the people. 
Nevertheless. Congress has ceded its authority to the President and his deci­sions are entitled to a presumption of regularity, including both a decision to try Moussaoui in a military tribunal and a decision to go to war against Iraq. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Andrew Thagaard Matt Lozar 
Helena Payne Lauren Dasso Maureen Christine Reynolds Armstrong 
Viewpoint Scene Patrick McElwee Julie Bender 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Andy Devoto Nellie Williams 
... _.,,.. 

NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Due to the short week, there is no poll question. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ know not with what weaJ!ons World War 
III will be fought1 but Worlil War IV will be 
fougnt witn sticks and stones . ., 
Albert Einstein physicist and philosopher 

Af.HEl"lur-

VIEWPRoINT 
Tuesday, November 26, 2002 page 9 
What would Jesus drive? 
Car commercials to air in Indiana are giving 
new meaning to the popular Christian expression, 
"WWJD." The question is no longer. "What would 
Jesus do?" but instead, "What would Jesus drive?" 
The organizers or the campaign, the Evangelical 
Environmental Network. have 
at least part of the answer to Joanna 
this provocative question: Mikulski 
They claim that the big JC 
would not drive a big SUV. 
Tuesday Voice 
Instead. they say He would 
opt for small fuel-efficient 
vehicles. The WWJD cam­
paign, led by Rev. Jim Ball and supported by both 
Christian and Jewish groups, contends that the 
Good Shepherd smiles brightest upon bi-fuel vehi­
cles, powered by gas and electricity. 
By this measure, I should be worried about my 
own salvation. Since my 16th birthday, I have dri­
ven a number of cars, including a Ford Explorer 
and a Dodge Caravan. Neither would get the OK 
from God, according to the WWJD campaign. 
Furthermore, my mother once tried to teach me how to drive standard on a more fuel-efficient Honda Accord. Ten minutes into the first lesson, I backed into a tree. From then on, I drove the frowned-upon family minivan, and my mother drove the Accord. 
Given that I couldn't master stick shift on the 
God-approved car, I have a few questions for Rev. 
Ball and his supporters. 
1. 
Do you regard my inability to drive the fuel­efficient four-door as a sign of my ultimate fate? 

2. 
Do you think I still have time to redeem myself? 

3. 
Would Jesus take you seriously? 


The "What Would Jesus Drive?" campaign might be offensive, if it wasn't so ridiculous. (As I recall, Jesus liked to walk.) Yet, arguments against using the Son of Man to promote the pur­chase of automobiles aside, the commercials make an important point. The United States must do more to develop environmentally friendly vehicles and to encourage the use of alternative sources of energy for the health of the country and the world. 
Last week, I cringed at the pictures of sea life and coastline covered in black sludge after an oil tanker, a victim of storms, rocks and all-too-flimsy construction, went down off the coast of Spain. The images took me back to the fourth grade, when l sat watching oil flow from the Exxon Valdez. 
How long will it be, until another oil tanker leaves toxic sludge along an American coast? 
However, Americans can't count on President Bush to encourage automakers, who can make up to $8,000 profit on each SUV, to pour more money into alternative fuel vehicles or support any legis­lation that benefits the environment at the expense of big business. Just last week, he expressed his support for easing emissions con­trols at power plants. 
Ironically, policies that support alternative ener­gy and cleaner vehicles help Bush fight the one light he seems to care about: the war on terror­ism. The greatest weapon that the terrorists wield is not chemical, nuclear or biological. It's America's dependence on Middle East oil. 
Although finding other sources of oil could reduce the United States' dependence on Middle East oil in the short term, the use of renewable sources of energy offers the best long-term solu­tion for the health of the country and the world. 
Of course, Americans like myself will always hesitate to give up their SUVs. (I love my car.) I suppose then that the Evangelical Environmental Network might have something right -a little divine inspiration might ease the transition to environmentally friendly vehicles. 
WWJD. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English and German major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at mikulski.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Homosexuality is a fact of nature 
GUEST COLUMN 

'Big Brother' is watching 
Apparently our Irish football team is not the only organization that has taken a hint from Tyrone Willingham. The Catholic Church has also added "fake left, go right" to its playbook. 
After completely mishandling the child sex abuse scandal and developing a plan that fails to sat­isfy any sensible person, the Catholic Church has finally revert­ed to what it does best -ignoring the problem. 
Despite Vatican II, when the Church made a great leap into the 18th century by allowing Mass in English, the remnants of absolute hypocrisy are still hanging on by a steel cable. 
I am referring to the recent move by the Pope to dump the sex scandal on the homosexual priest­hood. 
It's not the inanity of this act itself that I wish to comment on, however -it's the fact that, were the Church moderately consistent in its views on sexuality, it would not even be condemning homosex­uals in the first place, making this whole issue a moot point. 
But, you respond, it says in Corinthians that homosexuality is a moral sin. I know what the Bible says about homosexuality. I also know that Deuteronomy demands the execution of a son who is "stubborn and unruly" and "will not listen to his father or mother. 
That's beside the point, howev­er. I realize I could act like igno­rant atheist groups and cite Biblical passages with ludicrous implications to claim some sort of proof by preponderance ofevi­dence, but I would rather beat the 

Church on its own grounds. So let's examine why the Church condemns homosexuality. 
The Church considers the prima­ry purpose of sexuality in mar­riage to be procreation, which allows it to state that homosexual acts are "gravely disordered." 
Interesting. given that the Church does not actually believe that procreation is necessarily even a purpose of sexual union. 
Note that in the same Catechism. "birth regulation based on self­observation and the use of infertile periods," or in other words using a calendar. is completely moral. 
But I ask. then, how is this in conformity with fecundity? If a married couple is intentionally try­ing not to have kids, are they not breaking God's command to "be fertile and multiply?" 
The Church apparently doesn't think so. 
What ifsome physical disorder prevented either a husband or wife from reproducing, or what if the couple decided to simply not have children, but they still engage in intercourse anyway? The Church never says this is immoral either. 
The point here is that you can't 
· have your cake and eat it too ­you can't on the one hand say that procreation is the natural purpose of a sexual union between two people, and on the other that it is acceptable not to procreate. Moreover, the fact that the Church now supports evolutionary theory shows yet another hypocrisy towards its stance on homosexuality. One of the tenets of evolutionary 
theory is that certain biological 
tendencies and instincts are com­
mon from species to species. 
This is seen in many facets of human existence, from the con­struction and ordering of civil society to morality within that society. 
Homosexuality just so happens to be one of those tendencies. New World monkeys, a primate group including the chimpanzee (our closest relative). usually exhibit a homosexuality rate of somewhere between 5 and 10 percent, roughly the same proportion as in human beings. 
Moreover, a recent study involv­ing sheep seems to suggest that homosexuality is a result of brain structure. 
But how can the Church expound evolutionary theory and then condemn homosexuality as though it were a choice? If we are to accept evolutionary theory, we must also come to accept that homosexuality is a biological fact and a natural law as ordered by God. 
All this hints at the sad truth that, like any other institution, the Church is a product of social norms. 
Homosexuality is not "gravely disordered" -it is a biological fact that the Church refuses to recognize, even at the price of copout and contradiction. 
Let us as individuals not fall into the same trap. 
Brodie Butland sophomore Saine Edward's Hall Nov. 25 

EUGENE. Ore. 
Has the world of George Orwell's "1984" come to pass with the recent passage of the homeland defense bill? Perhaps it doesn't legislate authori­tarianism, but the combination of a denial of information to Americans along with the increased collection of their personal information by the govern­Oregon Dally ment could lend itself all too 
Emerald 
well to abuse by a "Big Brother" figure. 

Since Sept. 11, 2001, StaffEditorial President George W. Bush has spearheaded efforts to bring together various people and agencies that may be important as a cohesive unit for combating terrorism. 
Although the editorial board is supportive of efforts that would actually enhance people's safe­ty, many of the measures enshrined in the home­land defense bill, in conjunction with the now nearly year-old USA Patriot Act, should scare Americans. 
The Pentagon, under former Admiral John Poindexter, a key figure in the Iran-Contra scan­dal, has been given permission to keep a massive database, called the Total Information Awareness program, which would colJate the personal details of Americans' lives. 
Nearly every purchase people make, every event they attend, every e-mail they send and the depar­ture and destination for every night they take will all go into this database. 
The government says the database Is benign -it might allow them to "put the puzzle together" 
before another terrorist attack -but it would still 
be any KGB or Gestapo man's dream come true. 
Its own motto, in fact, shows the danger as well as 
the potential: "Knowledge is Power." 
More worrisome, though, is that just as more private information is being collected, knowledge about the government is being hidden. The home­land defense bill allows any information now freely available through the Freedom of Information Act to be deemed a "potential security weakness" and brought back under the cloak of secrecy. And the rub: Only the department decides what a "potential security weakness" is, precisely. 
These two new proposals show almost limitless bounds for abuse. Will embarrassing information be suppressed under color of "security weakness," and then anyone requesting that information (for instance, journalists) be hounded through the Total Information Awareness program? Will the next group of "plumbers" getting dirt on a rival political candidate walk into the Pentagon rather than sneak into the Watergate? 
Americans have good reason to be afraid of their government given these new marching orders. They should speak out, and the Bush administra­tion should rethink these authoritarian measures before the slope becomes any more slippery. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 25 edition of the Oregon Daily Emerald. the campus newspaper ofthe University ofOregon. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 10 Tuesday, November 26, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Gray stays true to his sound 

"Be Mine," and a heavy beat that progress into rather By MIKE SCHMUHL Distance Call." 
and "Long "Easy Way to long instrumentals and layered effects. Scene Music Critic They each 
Cry'' and "The From start to finish, it may seem as include Gray's 
Other Side," though all the songs on the album sound shift from the the same. Gray uses the same pattern toDavid Gray is quite a popular name on signature 
acoustic arrange­accelerated construct the skeleton of most of his songs college campuses and it isn't wicomrnon to pace of the and the common themes of love, despair
ments and a
hear one of his songs being played in a 
rapid, pulsing 
early few songs and hope fill in the rest. His vocals anddorm room. However, things weren't and are obvi­basic mixing techniques allow the listener
beat. Gray's
always this way. 
ously slower, di<,tinguish differences between songs andvoice, perhapsGray has been writing and producing 
his most gifted 
more reflective draw from his of her own experience.
music for more than 10 years. In the early asset, rattles over ballads. On At a time when music is driven by sex
'90s, Gray released two small albums with­the upbeat tem­these, Gray's appeal and pop culture, Gray remains
out much acclaim and parted ways with 
pos, giving the 
voice and piano devoted to his work. As he says on his web­two records labels. 
take center site, "I've never had to follow up the suc­songs a simplisticJust as things were spiraling downward, and humble tone. 
stage. On "Easy cess. The challenge is to reinvent yourGray decided to release his fourth album, 
The chorus of 
Way to Cry" he music, keep yourself interested, and keepWhite Ladder, on his own record label in "Caroline" is the · sings: "Faith yourself moving forward --to keep it about 1999. The album achieved much commer­
catchiest on the 
gone from your the right stuff rather than be swamped by 
cial and critical success, and secured Gray album. "The final 
eyes/ Each money and attention. It means you focus war/ A steel eyed as a powerful folk-rock artist. "Babylon" word it flies/ on what's important. Music is far moreand "Please Forgive Me," his most well Straight to the enjoyable than those things." 
dinosaur/ Girl I
known songs, are a unique blend of elec­need you more/ heart and I A New Day At Midnight could be titled
tric beat mixing, acoustic guitar and Gray's poignant vocals. Than I can say/ 
k n o w I "White Ladder 2" for its comparable sound But Caroline/ It 
Watching you and Gray's unchanging, solid vocals. All in
With his latest release, A New Day At Midnight, Gray overcomes new struggles. 
seems like every 
go/ There ain't all, David Gray's consistency and talent time/ Honey all I 
no easy way to have created another enjoyable, laidbackHe shows that his work is consistent and 
get is further 
cry." album.
creates an album of the same caliber, if not better, than White Ladder. away." 
"Real Love" Ironically, the 
and "Freedom"The album gets off to a strong start with 

combine lucid Contact Mike Schmuhl at
last three songs
the songs "Dead in Uie Water," "Caroline" on the album, lyrical melodies schmuhl,5@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Coldplay set the critics straight 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scene Musii; Critic 
After the successful release of Parachutes, Coldplay's debut album, critics immediately began comparing them to other bands from the United Kingdom including The Verve, U2, Oasis and Travis, ultimately deciding that the British quartet was just another brand of "Radiohead lite," a brand worth trying but not nearly as good as the original. Coldplay's infectious hit single "Yellow" received a decent amount of airplay, and Parachutes achieved notoriety despite the numerous comparisons to other British bands. Very few listeners. however, expected Coldplay to have any sort of lasting impact on the music scene. Boy, were they wrong. 
With the release of their sophomore album. A Rush of Blood to the Head, the youthful yet rapidly maturing band has silenced their critics and surprised nearly 

Coldplay 

ARush ot Blood to the Head 
Capital Records 

everyone. Though echoes of the mournfully mellow style found on Radiohead's 1995 release The Bends still exist on A Rush of Blood to the Head, Coldplay's latest release has forced critics to retract their Radiobead clone assertions. Coldplay has successfully found its own niche in the music scene. 
Each track on A Rush of Blood to the Head contains majestic orchestrations fea­turing Jonny Buckland's guitar melodies capped with Chris Martin's soaring falsetto. 
Opening the experience is " Politik," Coldplay's memorial to the Sept. 11 terror­ist attacks, a song that was written the same week that the 2001 tragedy occurred. Buckland's chugging guitar riff pounds Martin's message to "open up your eyes" into the heads oflisteners. 
"We imagine 'Politik' to be your beliefs about something, your own 'politik,'" explained Martin in an interview with MTV News. "As soon as it arrived, we thought, 'Alright, that's going to be the first song' because it seemed like a good idea for a band everyone thinks does acoustic songs to have a record that starts by going 'Bash! Bash! Bash! Bash!' With no grace or beauty whatsoever!" 

The opening strains of " Politik" alert fans of Coldplay's previous album that they are in store for some­thing quite different from the original. 
"I think the differ­ences on this new album --they're more extreme," bassist Guy Berryman told MT\!. "'The Scientist' is a slow piano piece and the opposite would be something like 'A Whisper,' which is more of a heavier guitar soundscape and less of a song. We still want to make a record that you would put on and you could listen to from beginning to end without being bored and without it being too long. We could have put on four or five more songs if we wanted, but I don't think that works. Eighteen songs like Moby's got, it's just too much for us." 
At times, A Rush of Blood to the Head does enter into familiar territory --for example, on the track "In My Place," the album's first single. This song was written just as Coldplay had finished recording Parachutes, barely missing 1he cut for their previous release. 
Building from that song, Coldplay has created a masterpiece. Possessing cohesion rarely found in modem albums, A Rush of Blood to the Head Lo; a success from start to finish making it difficult to praise individual tracks. The entire album is praiseworthy. Coldplay has abandoned the overtly moody and at times whiny tone that is character­istic of Parachutes in favor of spine-tingling emotion driven by fervently layered musi­cal compositions. Expect to hear critics comparing other new bands to Coldplay as the British quartet continues to become a more integral part of the music scene. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at tumbrink. l@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CE 

Tuesday, November 26, 2002 page 11 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Harrison's guitar sounds from the grave 
By JULIE BENDER Assmanc Scene Editor 
As the year anniversary of his death rolls around. it is only fitting that George Ifo.nison should have one final word to say. His new album, Brainwashed, was the project he had been working on when ho succumbed to cancer in late November of last year. Although the album remained unfinished at the time of his death, Harrison was prepared. He left specific instructions for his son Dhani. and his good friend and former Travelling Wilburys' bandmatc, Jeff Lynne about how to finish the album. And a year later, it is done. 
But don't expect any revelations or end­of-life wisdom from Harrison on this album. Although he spent much of his life searching for reasons and meaning, this album shows that even at the end of his life he was no closer to a complete under­standing than he was at age 20. "I keep traveling around the bend/1ltere was no beginning/fhere is no end," he sings on the first track "Any Road." Nearly every word that Harrison sings on this mellow mix shows acceptance that life's mystery shall remain a mystery, even at the point of death. 
If his lyrics leave the mystery of life unanswered, Harrison uses his music to draw some conclusions. During his lifetime as a musician, the guitar had always been his outlet. As the quiet sideman in the Beatles and even on his own as a solo artist, Harrison's guitar was his voice. This album serves to showcase Harrison's guitar, in the form of acoustic and electric, and even his late favorite, the ukulele. 

''Give me plenty of that guitar," are the first words heard from Harrison as the album begins, and the music obeys quite nicely. 
The opening song, "Any Road," is a jaunty number that moves quickly with the smooth strumming of Harrison on acoustic as well as slide guitar and the banjulcle. Harrison 
sings of the to and fro rhythm of life, 
"I've been traveling on a wing and a 
prayer/By the skin of my teeth by the 
breadth ofa hair," but he reassuringly 
adds that although the destination of 
such traveling is uncertain, the only 
certainty is that there is an end, "And 
if you don't know where you're 
going/Any road will take you there." 
On "Stuck Inside a Cloud," Harrison 
seems to address his emotions 
regarding his illness. "Never been so 
crazy/But I've never felt so surell wish 
I had the answer to giveJDon't even have the cure." He finds a temporary cure with his dazzling slide guitar solo that breaks between the simultaneously haunting and heartbreaking lyrics, bring­ing an uplifting spirit to the song. 
The gem of the album comes in the instrumental piece, "Marwa Blues." Harrison's slide guitar gracefully slips along and envelops the listener in what feels like a tour of the deep blue depths of a rippling sea. The effect is together mys­terious and magical. simply gorgeous. 
The final song on the album, "Brainwashed," is a juxtaposition of musi­cal. poetic and religious genres that leaves the listener a little uncertain as to what Harrison was trying to accomplish. Harrison sings somewhat bitterly about the brainwashing of society at the com­mence of the song, "Brainwashed in our childhood/Brainwashed by the schooVBrainwashed by our teachers/And brainwashed by all their rules." Spliced in the middle of a song is an ill-fitting female 
Brainwashed 

GeorgeHarrison 

Capital Records 

voice that preaches a gospel from "How to Know God" (The Yoga Aphorisms of Patanjali). The song picks back up with the brainwashing lyrics again, but at the end it suddenly transforms into Indian hymn chanting. This odd mix doesn't hold togeth­er as one song. After 11 other enjoyable tunes, "Brainwashed," ends things on a jumbled and confusing note. Perhaps if Harrison had had the time to complete the album during his lifetime, he might have smoothed out the rough edges. 
Despite the last song, the rest of the album can stand on its own as a final state­ment from a dying man. Harrison lived his life as a "dark horse," but he had immense talent behind the guitar. And as this album shows. even with its uncertain tone, Harrison found peace in life and death through his music. 
Contact Julie Bender at bender. lO@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 26, 2002 
NFL 
Newsome named Ravens GM 
Associated Pres• 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. 

Ozzie Newsome became the first black general manager in NFL history Monday, signing a new five-year contract with the Baltimore Ravens that includes an upgrade in his title. 
Newsome becomes the Ravens GM and executive vice president. He formerly held the title of senior vice president of football operations. 
"From a historical stand­point, this is very significant," Newsome said. 'Tm the only black general manager in the National Football League. Growing up in the South, there were a lot of times when I was one of the first. I was one of the first blacks to play Little League baseball. 
"Sometimes it's all about the right timing." 
Newsome was already responsible for most of the chores associated with being a general manager, and other NFL teams have had blacks in the similar role of vice presi­dent of player personnel. But Newsome is the first to hold the title of general manager. 
"The new title reflects his 

duties and importance to the franchise," Ravens owner Art Modell said. "It will broaden his scope into more of a GM role." 
Even before the promotion, Newsome was the highest­ranking black official on an NFL team. He said his new job has nothing to do with a September news conference in which attorney Johnnie Cochran called for the league to hire more minority head coaches. 
"He was the architect of our Super Bowl team of two years ago, and he's the mastermind behind the transition we are undergoing right now," Modell said. "This new title and con­tract salutes what he does for the organization, and should assure fans that the team is ln good hands for the future." 
Newsome was named the NFL executive of the year in 2000, when the Ravens stunned the football world with their march to the Super Bowl title. He was responsible for several successful drafts and was the force behind the acqui­sition of free agents Michael McCrary, Sam Adams, Shannon Sharpe and safety Rod Woodson -all key components of the championship team, 
The 46-year-old Newsome enjoyed a spectacular career as a tight end with the Cleveland Browns and was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1999. After the Browns moved to Baltimore in 1996, he was named the vice president of player personnel, a position upgraded to senior vice presi­dent of football operations in 2001. 
His latest promotion comes in the midst of the Ravens' unex­pected success this year. A salary-cap purge during the past offseason forced Baltimore to unload more than a dozen veterans and forced the team into a rebuilding mode. 
But the Ravens are 5-6 and just 1 1/2 games out of first place in the AFC North, a testa­ment to the solid relationship between Newsome and head coach Brian Billick. 
Billick, who recently signed a new four-year contract, said of Newsome's promotion, "I couldn't be more excited, per­sonally or professionally. What Ozzie and I have is genuinely unique. If I can finish my career here in this type of rela­tionship with Ozzie, I will con­sider myself lucky." 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hurricanes' 'bet' may be violation 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

No. 1 Miami and the NCAA are trying to determine if cen­ter Brett Romberg's "friendly wager" with a radio talk show host earlier this season violated NCAA rules, athletic director Paul Dee said Monday. 
According to talk show host Paul Castronovo of WZTA­Miami, he and Romberg made a bet before the Hurricanes' Sept. 7 game against Florida. If the Gators won, Romberg and his fellow offensive linemen would don Gators jerseys for a picture that would appear on the station's Web site. If the Hurricanes won, Castronovo, a University of Florida graduate, would take the linemen to din­ner. 
Romberg called Castronovo the next day and informed him that it would be an NCAA viola­tion for the radio host to take them to dinner, so they altered the bet to make it dinner at Castronovo's house. 
Miami beat Florida 41-16, but Castronovo said he hasn't provided the players with any meals. 
"The whole thing was a joke, and nothing has happened," Castronovo said. "There has been no NCAA infraction. It was just a gentleman's thing. lt was more fodder for radio fun _than anything else." 
According to NCAA rules, stu­dent-athletes are not allowed to solicit or accept a bet on any intercollegiate competition for any item that has tangible value, including money, cloth­ing or dinners. Repeated calls to the NCAA were not returned. 
Romberg, a fifth-year senior, is a regular guest on the morn­ing show, and he and Castronovo have jokingly referred to the bet on several subsequent interviews. 
Miami officials said it became an issue when someone placed an anonymous call to the NCAA to disclose the wager. Dee released a statement Monday, and Romberg could not be reached for comment. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Red Sox make Epstein youngest GM in baseball 
in 2000, when Red Sox president 1918. Tom Werner said. "We believe both chose to stay with their
Associated Press 
Larry Lucchino was running the "We have Hall-of-Fame caliber that the team he'll assemble will teams. Also identified as candi­
Padres. Epstein also spent two players on the roster -and achieve results for which we so dates were Mets assistant GM 
BOSTON years each in San Diego's media they're in their prime," he said. yearn." Jim Duquette, Baltimore adviser 
The Boston Red Sox made 28-relations department and as a He also wants to "turn the Red Oakland GM Billy Beane spoke Mike Flanagan, Cincinnati direc­year-old Theo Epstein the baseball operations assistant. Sox into a scouting and player­glowingly of Epstein on Sunday tor of player personnel Leland youngest general manager in "The Red Sox are very much in development machine." night. Beane had been Boston's Maddox, former White Sox gen­baseball history Monday, ending my blood, which makes this -Boston has baseball's second­first choice, even accepting the eral manager Ron Schueler, a long search for a front-office standing here today as the new highest payroll at $110.2 million. job before deciding to stay in Boston special assistant Lee leader by promoting one of their general manager ofthis chili -a The Red Sox finished second in Oakland for family reasons. Thomas and Phillies assistant own. humbling experience," Epstein the AL East at 93-69, 10 1/2 "He's a bright, passionate indi­GM Mike Arbuckle. 
The Red Sox had been without said at a Fenway Park news con­games behind the New York vidual," Beane said. "I think the Thomas has been invited to a permanent general manager ference. Yankees and six games behind world of Theo." stay with expanded responsibili­since Florida financier John W. Randy Smith, previously the Anaheim for the AL wild card. Epstein worked with Port to ties, the team said. Henry bought the team in spring youngest GM, was 29 when he The group headed by Henry represent Boston at the recent On Nov. 14, Lucchino said the training and fired Dan Duquette. was hired by San Diego in 1993. and Lucchino bought the Red Sox general managers' meetings, and ideal candidate would have expe­
Mike Port was interim GM for "We concluded that the right in February," bringing Epstein to he also worked on negotiating rience as a major league GM. the season and was a candidate person was right before our Boston as an assistant general compensation for the A's when it To make up for Epstein's rela­for the long-term job that went to eyes," Lucchino said. "We believe manager. From the start, there was thought Beane would take tive inexperience, the Red Sox Epstein. The team said Port has this franchise will benefit from a were whispers the Yale-educated the job. But a day after accepting are expected to surround him been invited to remain as vice new structure and fresh philoso­Epstein would eventually get the a five-year, $13 million offer, with GM veterans, possiblypresident of baseball operations. phies." GMjob. Beane decided to stay in including Thomas and Port. Jim 
Epstein, who was raised near Epstein said his immediate "Irrespective of his age, we are Oakland. Duquette and former Montreal Fenway Park in suburban goal was to get the team into the confident Theo is among the best After riding out the season with Expos GM Jim Beattie were also Brookline, became director of postseason. A World Series title and brightest, and the brightest, Port, the Red Sox pursued Beane contacted about taking a position
baseball operations for San Diego has eluded the franchise since in baseball," Red Sox chairman and Toronto's J.P. Ricciardi, but in the Boston front office. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The char_ge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrent wirhout i55uing refunds. 
NOTICES 
*'At Last Spring Break" Book now Free Meals, Parties,Orinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash­tours.corn 18004.26n10 
ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI­TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only company exclusive to Acapulco! Thats why we re the BEST."Go Loco In Acapulco" with the #1 Spring Break Company In Acapulco for 16 years! Calf 800-875-4525 Today. www.bianchi-rossi.com. Be a Rep, travel FREE-ask howl SPRING BREAK INSANITY! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! 17 YEARS EXP.! REPS WANTED! 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004:Anlan Properties, L.L.C. 532-1896 Call Bill. 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break VacationslMexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234• 7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866 291 1884 ext U187. 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL233-1296. 
Male roommate for Spring semes­ter, Turtle Creek Town Home. Call Leonard 272-8582. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL.NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Wi11iamson.1@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 

All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
2 & 4-bdrm houses for 2003. Close to ND. 616-699-5841. 
TICKETS 

BCS BOWL TICKETS FOR SALE (ALL LOCATIONS) Loca1(574)654­0168 TOLL FREE(800) 272-8553 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800· 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
MARSHMALLOWS! 

Tami, I know someone who is looking forward to class with you 
next semester. .. ;) YA COMM MAJORS! DONE WITH YOUR COMPS FINALLY!!I 
Hey Kalie, did ya... ;) Fajita Rita: what a good idea. We love you, Anniell -M3CN Wow... this paper is almost as short 
as an imtamous eJC of mine... just... .. want... .. lo..... leave..... I'm going to eat my weight in turkey 000000 the sweetest thing!! 

Tuesday, November 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
SARAH 
A 

Using the All-American performances by Freshman Molly Huddle and 
An lrlsh runner competes In the Big East Championships. The mens cross 
Sophomore Lauren King the Irish finished a school best third at Monday's 
country team finished In 22nd place. 
NCAA championships In Terre Haute, Ind. 
Irish at the NCAA Championships. 
Women 
continued from page 24 
ization of how good we are," King said. "Really early in the season, 
we had a third 
place ranking and 
we just kind of 
• laughed it off, like 'yeah right.' The fact that now we are sitting here and that's the reality... that is just amazing." 
King said the team's great per­formance was due 
The Irish have had high expectations 
not only to the runners on the al after the race." 
given their previous success in the post­
course, but also to the other team 
season. Last year, with the efforts of All­
members who traveled down to 
Americans Luke Watson. Ryan Shay and 
Terre Haute to cheer for the Irish. 
Mobley, the Irish climbed to sixth in the
•· I am just really proud of the Contact Joe Lindsley at 
national championships. Shay graduated 
llirls on the team who ran and who ilindsle@nd.edu 
To my Notre Dame 
Leaf Raking Angels 
Story 
continued from page 24

Eric Cushing 
Allie Depaola 
Irish offense showed against Rutgers it has the capability to keep up with the Trojans. Against the 1-9 Scarlet Knights. 

Austin Fazio 
the Irish scored 42 points, their most since 2000. 

Conor O'Brien 
Most impressive was Notre Dame quarterbn.ck Carlyle Holiday's passing ability. Holiday. criticized before the 

John Sarson 
Just in time! 
season for his inability to throw the deep pass, threw for 270 yards and four touchdowns Saturday. 
And the Irish defense won't 

"You feel the support. You feel the Notre Dame energy. It helps you a.long." 
Lauren King Irish runner 
didn't run," King said. The Irish fans were all wearing bright green 
Men

shirts, and their presence and noise gave the Irish harriers confi­
continued from page 24
dence as they tackled the course. 
"You feel the support. You feel the Notre Dame energy. It helps 
crossed the line in 80th. Mobley has 
you along." 
been recovering from an injury for the 
Jen Handley, the 

past weeks, and ever since his injury he 
only senior who 

has not been able to lead the team in his 
ran for the Irish, 
accustomed style. 
said that a whole 

"We finished in the top eight percent 
new attitude was 

of all cross country teams in the nation," 
present this sea­

Irish coach Joe Piane told und.com. "I 
son, a demeanor 

don't think we ran as well as we could. 
which she said 

But I am thrilled with our finish after 
had heen lacking 

thinking that we might not make the 
meet."
in years past. 
"I can't describe 

Notre Dame finished with a team total 
it," Handley said. 

of 527 points, while Stanford won the 
"I was so emotion­

national title with its low total of47. 
exactly roll over, either, espe­in the regular season-We've got 
cially since they boast the to go all-out, especially against 
nation's No. 2 passing efficiency that caliber of team." 
defense. Although Holiday doesn't ... "Coming off a good win, I come close to matching Palmer's 
think we know what we can do against 
"IfHoliday can throw 
USC. With a 
like that and they can
good week of practice, I run routes like that. think it will 
they're going to be pretty
put us in a 
tough to beat."
good situation going into the game." Ryan Greg Schiano Grant said. 
Rutgers coach
"It's just a matter of us 
going after it this week, under­many wondered if the Irish standing that this is our last shot offense would ever awaken. With a four-touchdown third 

quarter -admittedly against 

-
one of the worst teams in college football -Holiday and the rest of the Irish offense probably shocked USC coaches. 
"We've actually been pretty good on pass defense. so that was kind of a shock when that happened in the second half," Rutgers coach Greg Schiano said Saturday. "If Holiday can throw like that and they can run routes like that, they're going to be pretty tough to beat." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Injuries and a youthful lineup hurt the 
though, and Watson has used up his 
cross-country eligibility, leaving Mobley 
and a talented, bui young, squad. 
"We only had one senior in the race 
for us today," Piane said. "We will be 
very strong in the future." 
With Mobley's injury-related struggles, 
Moore, the national high school champi­
on, has stepped up his performances 
and led the Irish to a disappointing but 
still respectable fourth place finish at the 
Big East Championships, as well as to an 
eighth place finish at the Great Lakes 
Regional Championships. Had Notre 
Dame finished one place at the regional 
tournament, they would not have quali­
fied for the national championships. 
Moore and Mobley were followed by junior David Alber, freshman Eric Morrison, sophomore Ryan Johnson, junior Brian Kerwin and senior John Keane. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
impressive statistics ­just 1,696 passing yards and 10 touch­downs -he's been efficient and hasn't thrown an ­interception in 
a month and a 
half. Before the Rutgers game, 


AROUND THE NATION 
page 14 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, November 26, 2002 

... 
-

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Maui Invitational 7:00 p.m., ESPN 
HIGH SCHOOL BASKETBALL 
Blue Cross/Blue Shield Classic 8:00 p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 


Associated Pre., "clear cut." Tallahassee Police against North Carolina A source familiar with Department said in a state­State. the situation told ESPN The ment. Irvin said he was sur­
TALLAHASSEE 

Magazine's Gene McPherson attorney prised McPherson, a 19­
Florida State quarterback 

Wojciechowski that when Grady Irvin said McPherson year old sophomore, was
Adrian McPherson was dis­

confronted with the issue had not spoken to police kicked off the team.
missed from the team 

by FSU on Monday, but that he would cooper­"They jumped the gun,"
Monday amid reports that 

McPherson did not tell the ate fully with the police, Irvin said. "Florida State
police planned to question 

truth. FSU then felt it had any Florida State investiga­acted so that the NCAA
him in the theft and forgery 

no choice but to dismiss tion or any investigation by won't come to investigate
of a blank check. 

McPherson from the team. the NCAA. Irvin said them."
Coach Bobby Bowden 

At the end of Monday's McPherson is not the sub­McPherson led Florida
would not give details of 

news conference, sports ject of the investigation but State to victories over
the violation, but said 

information director Rob that the police wanted to Wake Forest, Georgia Tech 
McPherson would remain 

Wilson said the investiga­talk to him about the con­and North Carolina.
in school and on scholar­

tion did not involve gam­duct of another individual. Though his numbers
ship through the end of the 

bling or point shaving. Irvin told reporters that through those three games
semester. 

No one has been charged McPherson talked to the were not spectacular -51
"That's about all I can 

in the check forgery, and Florida State coaching staff of 98 for 654 yards ­
say," Bowden said. "This is 

police would have no fur­last week about an issue McPherson threw one
kind of new to me, too." 

ther comment until crimi­regarding conduct and was interception while throwing 
Bowden called his deci­

nal charges are filed, the allowed to play and start eight touchdowns. 
sion to dismiss McPherson 
IN BRIEF 

Texas A&M lineman dies Tuesday for Friday's regular-season Sapp, who was not penalized on the 
A promising Texas A&M freshman finale against the Texas Longhorns in play, said be was just playing football defensive lineman from Colleyville Austin. died Monday at a hospital after com­Miami still a contender plaining to his roommate that he was NFL will not fine Sapp Ohio State may be headed for the having trouble breathing. Warren Sapp will not be fined for a BCS national title game in the Fiesta 
Brandon Fails, 18, was pronounced hit that badly injured Green Bay offen­Bowl, but Miami still sits atop the dead at St. Joseph Regional Health sive tackle Chad Clifton and prompted Bowl Championship Series standings. Center in Bryan at 9:03 a.m. CT after an angry postgame exchange between The defending national champion collapsing in his Cain Hall dorm room the Tampa Bay lineman and Packers Hurricanes increased their lead over 
head coach Mike Sherman. the Buckeyes to 1.32 points Monday without any previous indication that 
he was having health difficulties. "The play was reviewed," NFL from the slimmest margin of 0.01 Fails played in four games for the spokesman Michael Signora said points last week when they moved 
Aggies this season as a true freshman Monday. "And because it was legal, ahead of Ohio State for the first time. before undergoing knee surgery Oct. there will be no disciplinary action." The Buckeyes (13-0) completed 
22. An autopsy will be performed to The NFL also will not discipline their regular season with a 14-9 victo­determine the cause of death. Sherman, who appeared to initiate the ry over Michigan on Saturday. As one Coach R.C. Slocum said Fails' room­obscenity-filled confrontation after his of only two unbeaten teams remaining 
mate, Aggie tight end Patrick Fleming, team's 21-7 loss to the Buccaneers. -Miami (10-0) is the other -Ohio told him Fails collapsed as the pair The league has been taking stronger State assured itself of at least a sec­prepared to leave for breakfast in the measures on illegal hits this season, ond-place finish when the final BCS dorm cafeteria. often handing out tough penalties. standings are released Dec. 8. 
"It would be only speculation at this Sapp hit Clifton on an interception If the Hurricanes win their final point as to the cause of his death," return by teammate Brian Kelly. The games against Syracuse (4-7) on Slocum said. hit appeared to be on the front of the Saturday and Virginia Tech (8-3) on The team did not practice Monday. right shoulder, and a good distance Dec. 7, they will play the Buckeyes for Slocum said workouts would resume from where Kelly was at the time. the national championship. 
Tuesday, November 26, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
McGraw and the Irish ready to play for real 
. Irish finally start season against Cleveland State tonight 
By KATfE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday Muffet McGraw and her team watched. 
The Irish, who haven't played a regular season game yet this season, watched the scores roll in from around the country. They watched the Cleveland State score flash across the screen -the Vikings lost to Western Michigan. The Irish watched and thr.y wished the scores had Notre Dame next to them. Now, they're ready to play. 
"I think at this point, we're so happy to play a game," McGraw said. "We've been watching all weekend, watch­ing the scores come in, and we're just anxious." 
The Irish are getting used to taking breaks. After the first three weeks of pre-season practice, lhey played an exhi­bition game against the Houston Jaguars. They won and then they waited. They waited an entire week before playing another exhibition game, this time against the Ohio Girls Basketball Magazine All-Stars. They won again. They waited again. 
It's been a whole week again. Tonight, the lrish will finally get into the season. They open tonight against Cleveland State. 
"I think we feel like this is 
the longest preseason we've 
ever had," McGraw said. 
For the Irish. that preseason, as long as it seemed, may not have been such a had thing. Had the Irish started the sea­s on when it was originally scheduled -this past weekend against Colorado State -Katy Flecky and Kelsey Wicks may not have been as healthy. As it is, Wicks and Flecky have had a few more days to nurse their injuries and sharpen their mental skills to play over the pain. 
"Both of them arc doing a great job of trying to block it out and get some practice time in and then head to the train­ing room afterwards," McGraw said. 'Tm really impressed with both of their mental toughness." 
In addition, the long presea­son has given the Irish some time to install their new trian~ gle offense. Last week against the All-Stars, Notre Dame had trouble scoring in its zone offense. When the All-Stars switched to zone defense, Notre Dame had even more problems scoring. A week later, McGraw thinks the offense is looking a little bet­ter. 
"We put the man-to-man in first," she said. "We had really just put the one zone offense in two days before. We've worked on it quite a bit since then." 
In addi­tion, the Irish have had some time to work on t h e i r defense. Although Cleveland State has 
o n I y played one game this season, the game the Vikings lost to Western Michigan, the Irish a r e expecting to see s o m e threes. A week of practice has given them time to prepare for those three-point shots. That improved defense should help, especially consid­ering the fact Notre Dame is getting shots off on nearly every possession. but not see­ing all of those go in the bas­ket. 
"I'm pleased with the shot chart," McGraw said. "The fact that not all of them are circled, well that would be great, but we have to rely on defense." 


Despite all that, the fact remains that the Irish would have liked to have a few more games under their belts. After taking on Cleveland State, who will play under head coach and South Bend native Duffy Burns, the Irish have to fly to California to take on what promises to be a tough Southern California squad. 
"I wish we had played some­time this weekend," McGraw said. "They're a good team." 
Tip-off is tonight at 7:00 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 


MENS BASKETBALL 
Thomas and Miller lead Irish in win 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Chris Thomas and Dan Miller scored 20 points ea.ch to lead Notre Dame to a 75-50 win over Furman in the semifi­nals of the Guardians Classic on Monday night. 
M a t t Carroll added 15 points for the Fighting Irish (4-0), who 
Oliver, You look great but you could use a little more cowbell. 
Happy Birthday! 
From, Blue Oyster Cult 

will meet Creighton in the championship game tonight. 
Kenny Zeigler led Furman (1-3) with 16 points, hitting 7 of 8 shots from the field. He had four points as the Paladins opened the second half with an 8-0 run, trimming Notre Dame's lead to 39-31. 
Thomas and Carroll answered with back-to-back 3-pointers. starting a 10-0 run for Notre Dame. 
It was the second big run of the game for the Irish. who led just 18-14 midway through the first half but then outscored Furman 18-3 over the next seven minutes. 
Thomas scored eight points and Miller added seven points in that run. 
Furman's Karim Souchu, who averaged 25.2 points in Furman 's first three games, was held to 15 points. 
The Paladins, who will play Indiana-Purdue-Indianapolis for third place on Tuesday night, shot just 11 percent (l­for-9) from 3-point range to Notre Dame's 75 percent (8­for-12). 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 26, 2002 
SENDWICH INDEX 
Irish slip down to No. 4, Miami stays at top 

Can you smell the salsa? The victory was Jim attempt to remain in the championship, but they Ohio State and Miami can. Tressel's second against driver seat for the remain­can also lay claim to a BCS 
The Buckeyes and archrival Michigan in as ing spot in the Fiesta Bowl. bowl with just one more Hurricanes both remained many years as Ohio State After trailing for all of 22 win. unbeaten, despite facing head coach. More impor­seconds, Miami scored quality tantly, three straight touchdowns Irish update 0 pp O • the vic­to take a commanding 28· So you may be asking, nents, t o r y 14 lead late into the fourth "How could Notre Dame as they assured quarter. The resilient drop two spots this week in t o o k t h e Panthers clawed back into the Sendwich Index, major Buck· the game with a 3-yard despite dominating Rutgers s t e p s eyes a Rod Rutherford touchdown 42-0?" toward trip to scramble, cutting the First off, Rutgers is horri­a n t h e deficit to seven points with ble. They are the appear­Fiesta 4:37 remaining in the Cincinnati Bengals of the ance in Bowl. game. Big East. The Scarlet t h i s where After a defensive stop, Knights left Notre Dame year's they will Pitt got the ball back with Stadium with a 1-10 national o n c e 2:12 left and drove down record, a No. 100 champi­again the field, only to see Sendwich ranking and onship, count on Rutherford overthrow Yogi their tails between their t h e some Ruth in the end zone on legs, Adding Rutgers to Tostitos sort of fourth-and-5 from the their list of former oppo­Fiesta Bowl. divine intervention as they Miami 20. With ihe 28-21 nents really hurt Notre 
In one of the nation's vie for a national champi­victory, Miami held onto Dame's strength of sched­most bitter rivalries, Ohio onship. the top spot in the ule. State narrowly upended In Woodstock-esque Sendwich Index. Pittsburgh To make matters worse, Michigan. The Buckeyes fashion, Ohio State sup­dropped to No. 31. prior Irish opponents were behind 9-7 at half­porters rioted in the streets Miami quarterback Ken enjoyed a 2-8 record this time and trailed for most of of Columbus, igniting more Dorsey struggled mightily weekend, and the two the second half. With 4 than 100 fires while over­in the first half, completing teams that did win, Boston minutes, 55 seconds turning and burning 20 just 5 of 15 passes for 13 College and Purdue, beat remaining, Maurice Hall cars. Buckeye fans appar­yards and an interception. opponents with a combined put Ohio State ahead 14-9 ently thought they were in While Dorsey added 150 record of 7 -17. on a 3-yard touchdown a competition for the "Big yards and a touchdown in Safe to say, not even a run. 10 Conference Idiot Fans of the second half, it was run­late touchdown by "Tiny" 
With Michigan driving for the Year" award with Iowa ning back Willis McGahee Tim O'Neill could have a late score, the table was fans, who recently took a who truly carried the helped the Irish cause this set for another Ohio State goal post out the stadium offensive burden with 159 week, although it would miracle. Sure enough, after a road victory at yards and two touchdowns have been pretty cool. Buckeyes cornerback Will Minnesota. on the ground. Allen intercepted a John The Hurricanes will face The opinions expressed Navarre pass in the end Panthers no breeze for an improving Syracuse in this column are those of zone with no time remain­Hurricanes team on the road before the authors and not neces­ing, giving Ohio State In one of the few wrapping up the season sarily those of The another heart-stopping Thursday night games that against struggling Virginia Observer. Contact Eric win. Michigan slid only a featured teams anyone Tech at home. Should Chanowich at few spots to No. 20, while actually wanted to watch, Miami win its final two echanowi@nd.edu and Eric Ohio State moved up to No. Miami thwarted a games, the Hurricanes will Sendelbach at 
3. Pittsburgh comeback be heading to the national esendelb@nd.edu 

D I D The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business IOI and 
. I . The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide
'----------~ 
Proudly Present 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Mr. Patrick Gnazzo ChiefEthics Officer, United Technologies Corporation 
and 
Mr. George Wratney Corporate Ombudsman, United Technologies Corporation 
"Business Ethics (In Spite ofWhat You May Have Heard) is not an Oxymoron" 
Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
7:00 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
•
Studyinthe nation's • Applications for capitol Fall 2003 & 

•
Workinaninternship Spring 2004 are now 

•
Fulfil) philosophy, being accepted online theology,and fme arts •Open to Freshmen, requirements Sophomores, and 

•
Studypublicaffairs Juniors from all 

•
live in an exciting city colleges 



--------------------------------------::------------------­
Tuesday, November 26, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Center for Socia( Concerns 
SOCIAL 

~rm£~


CONCERNS 
http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Politics, Power, and Organizing: The Struggle for Economic Justice Presentation and Discussion by Dr. Paul Osterman Nanyang Professor of Human Resources and Management, M.I.T. Sloa11 School ofManagement & Professor of Urban Studies and Planning, M.I.T. Wednesday, December 4th At the CSC 3:00 PM Cosponsored By: The Higgim Labor Research Center, the Department ofEconomics, the Department ofSociology, and the Center for Social Concerns  Mexico Seminar Applications Available! · Seminar Dates: May 16 -June 1 in Oaxaca, Mexico Applications Due: THIS Wed, Nov 27  
Inner-City Teaching Corps Information Sessions Tues, Dec. 3 at 4:30PM and 7:00PM AllMajors Welcome! The llllier-City Teaching Corps is a two-year volunteer service program of outstanding recent college graduates who energize inner-city parochial schools in Chicago as classroom teachers and leaders in extracurricular activities. Corps members participate in a specially designed Alternative Teacher Certification Program, developed in partnership with the School of Education and Social Policy at Northwestern University. Upon successful completion of the requirements for the Alternative Teacher Certification Program, Corps members are certified to teach in the State of Illinois and earn 22 credits toward a Masters ofEducation at Northwestern University.  
MaristVolunteers: December Graduates are needed as teachers!, The Marist Volunteer Program is looking/or two teachers for a Catholic elementary school in Lawrence, MA for the second semester as well as teachers/volunteers for the next school year. Bro. Swnner Herrick will be on campus Tues, Dec 3rd, • 5 -7 PM at the CSC. Volunteers serve in schools as teachers, teacher aides, campus ministry assistants, and as.direc­ 
tor ofan after-school program. Teen crisis work is also available for persons majoring in Psychology, Sociology or related fields.  Unable to attend the sessions? Want more info on ICTC? Visit our website: http://www.ictc-chicai:o.orr/  

JUE;[9Qp! An Alternative Thankseivin~ Please join us for a vegetarian dinner on Monday, Dec 9, 6-9 PM in Coleµian-Morse Sponsored by: NDfor Animals and Students for Environmental Action Questions? animals@nd.edu or jankowski.11@nd.edu 
I I
·------------------------------------------------------· 
I Current Volunteer Needs I 
I I I I I Tutors Tutorine Programs I I A tutor is needed for a sophomore in geometry. Tuesdays would be I Believe I Can is an after school program that needs tutors from 3:30-5 on I I best for her; she could come to Hesburgh Library. Contact Kim at Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. The focus is on developing Math I I 
work@ 284-6256 or home@ 288-0844. and English skills; also, a tutor fluent in Spanish is needed. Contact Pierre I
I 
Smith@ 288-1457 or pierresmith@netzero.net :
I 
A tutor is needed for a male junior in Algebra. He is available M-W 
I I
Mentors

after school or in the evenings and he could come to Hesburgh 
I I
A male mentor is needed for a seven-year old boy who does not have a dad 
Library. Contact Elois White@ 233-5666. 
I I 
in his life. There would be no cost to the student and the commitment
I I 
would be about two times a month. Contact Delores@ 631-4115. 
I A tutor is needed for a high school junior in Government and Algebra. I I He is most available M-W from 4-5. It would be best if he could be I Children I
: tutored at his house. Contact Rosemary Collin@ 291-7965. A tutor is needed for a five-year old to help him pass into first grade. The I mother has workbooks and all tools necessary. Mornings for an hour or 2 I
: A tutor is needed for a seven-year old boy. He could come to Hesburgh 
I

would be best. He could come to Hesburgh Library. Contact Turell LewisI Library on Thursdays at 5. Contact Rachel Scrugs@ 287-6573 or 
I
@ 246-1720.

I 1-4682. 
I 

I I
I A tutor is needed in the afternoons for a girl with cerebral palsy. It Special Needs I A woman with physical and learning disabilities needs help typing and
I would need to be at her house. Contact Kim Cavinder@ 254-1352. I editing her books. She would like to meet 2 times a week in the afternoons. 
I I I A tutor is needed for an eleventh grader in physical science. Either Contact Rose Anne@ 287-3891. I : Mondays or Tuesdays. Contact Stephanie Overhalster@ 289-2746. I 
I

I ***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects, please email cscvols@nd.edu. *** 
I ....... ,_ ........ ,,.,.,,.. ........... .
·-----------------------------------------------------· 
page 18 Tuesday, November 26, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 

MENS SOCCER 
Irish hope to upset No. 5 Hoosiers in playoffs 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 
If the Irish have any say about the series between themselves and the Hoosiers of Indiana University, a trend is about to begin. 
The Notre Dame mens soccer team, for the second year in a row, will travel to Bloomington, Ind. Wednesday to take on the fifth-ranked Hoosiers. 
Last October, the Irish made the trek across the state and upset No. 5 Indiana in Bloomington, 1-0, on a goal by Erich Braun. 
This time around there's much more at stake; specifi­cally, a trip to the Sweet 16 in the NCAA Tournament, to face the winner of Wednesday's Connecticut-Penn game next weekend. 
Prior to last year's Irish vic­tory, the series between the two teams had been thorough­ly dominated by the Hoosiers -in the 20 previous meetings between the two teams since 1978, the Hoosiers had won 18 of them, while the Irish won only one. 
In addition, the Irish and Hoosiers have a postseason history, albeit a brief one ­the Irish and Hoosiers faced off in the NCAA Tournament back in 1994 at Bloomington. The Hoosiers escaped that meeting with a 1-0 overtime victory. 
However, the Irish know this year's squad can take motiva­tion from last year's team, knowing that the mighty Hoosiers are indeed beatable. 
"We have good memories there from last year," forward Rafael Garcia said. "Hopefully we can start a little streak against them." 
The Irish have plenty of momentum on their side. They have won eight of their last 10 games, including a victory over then-No. 5 Connecticut on Oct. 20. 
Notre Dame beat Akron Friday, marking only the sec­ond-ever victory for the Irish in the NCAA Tournament. The Irish clicked on all cylinders in Friday's match and are looking forward for the opportunity to exact some 8-year-old revenge. 
"I think we're confident [at this point in the season]," coach Bobby Clark said. "I think we've looked forward to the NCAAs. When we lost to Georgetown, it wasn't the worst thing to happen because this is the thing you want to do well in." 
However, the Hoosiers bring into the match an extensive string of postseason success. The Hoosiers are 39-3 at their current home stadium, and will be playing in their 16th consecutive NCAA Tournament and 27th in the last 30 years. 
"We've got to be very disci­plined," Clark said. "[Pat] Noonan and [Ryan] Mack up front are a real handful, so we've got to deal with that. We'll have to deal with their organization -they're very well organized. And they've got a history of doing well, so they've got the experience." 

Noonan and Mack occupy the top two point-scoring positions for Indiana this season, with 37 and 21 points respectively. 
For comparison, Braun and Chad Riley lead the Irish with 23 and 20 points respectively. 
The key for the Irish in this match will be its defense. 

Neutralizing Noonan and Mack will be a tough task for the Irish defensive line of Jack Stewart, Kevin Goldthwaite, Dale Rellas and Kevin Richards. However, this defense has only allowed more than one goal per game four times this season, out of 20 games played. 
"I think this is how a team grows up, going into Indiana," Clark said. "It'll be a good challenge for us. This is a great opportunity for them to go down to Indiana, without question the team with the his­tory in this state. But we've got to start making our own histo­ry." 
Contact Brian Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Irish break through against Michigan to earn split 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 

Sports Editor 
The Irish continued their streak of tough play against the nation's top teams this week­end, going into Ann Arbor, Mich., and coming away with a two-game split from the No. 5 Wolverines. 
With the win and loss, the Irish moved to 5-4-2 on the season and 4-4-0 in CCHA play. Notre Dame's victory Saturday ended Michigan's nine game unbeaten streak and gave the Wolverines their first confer­ence defeat this season. 
"From our standpoint it's a confidence builder," Irish 
In the second game of the series Saturday, the Irish got three third period goals from defenseman Tom Galvin and wings Cory McLean and Rob Globke to upset the Wolverines 4-3 in come-from-behind fash­ion. 
"We were down 1-0 after the first period and down 2-1 after the second," Poulin said. "In that building, I wouldn't imag­ine they've given up many leads. They had gone 16 in a row without losing in the CCHA going into that game -they just don't lose at home." 
The Irish fired 24 shots at Montoya through the first two periods with only one goal to show. But in the final period Saturday, the Irish shooters finally broke through with three goals on only seven shots. 
With the Irish trailing 2-1 at 2 minutes, 48 seconds of the final period, Galvin took a pass from Irish center Connor Dunlop and fired a wrist shot past Montoya for his first goal of the season to tie the match at 2-2. 
The Irish got their first lead of the weekend with just over 
5:30 left to play in the contest. McLean took a lead pass from defender Neil Komodoski and fought past the Wolverine defenders to get a shot on Montoya. The freshman goalie turned away McLean's attempt, but the sophomore was able to knock in his own rebound for the 3-2 Irish lead. 

At 16:05, Michigan tied the match at 3-3 on a goal from Milan Gajic. But just 15 sec­onds later, the Irish answered with what would prove the game-winning goal. 
After Montoya turned Dunlop's shot away, Globke gathered the puck and fired it into the net for his second goal of the night. 
"Robby [Globkel and Connor [Dunlop] were both really, real­ly good for us," Poulin said. "Everybody played well for us offensively. In terms of us step­ping up offensively, we have to have Connor and Rob Globke on the 'A' page without a ques­tion. They came up big when we needed them." 
Irish goaltender Morgan Cey made 25 saves in the contest, including 13 in the third period to preserve the Irish victory. 
The Irish next return to the ice Friday as they travel to Alaska-Fairbanks to take on the Nanooks in a pair of CCHA games. Alaska-Fairbanks is 2­6-2 in conference play and 2-7­2 overall. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederico@nd.edu 

coach Dave Poulin said. "It sort of shows us where we're at ­
Feel the

we're a pretty good hockey team.... Six of our eight league games have been against the 
Power...

top three teams in the confer­ence, and then we played the number one team in the coun­try in Boston College." 
Friday night. the Irish were unable to overcome a 2-0 first 
HAPPV 21ST
period deficit to Michigan and ended up losing 4-2. Freshman goalie Al Montoya 
BIRTHDAY!

made 35 saves for the Wolverines as Notre Dame out shot Michigan 37-24 in the los­ing effort. 
Love 
Defenseman Brett Lebda and center Jake Wiegand had the the 3 Quad two Irish goals in the match. 
Girls 



Tuesday, November 26, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
I ORRUJ I
(XJ

C2002 Tribune Media Servicea, Inc. 
All Righi• A..,.Mtd 
LODEY !
[ J ( ) 
NINTTE j
rxr 
www.jumblo.com 

RUPALL j 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: USURY 
NOISE GAMBIT SIPHON Answer: Hard to digest after a big meal -BORING HOSTS 
Stumped? Call 1-900-776-6718I99 cents a minute) 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
L&lilVe my kid 

WHAT THE BUL.L.Y 
DID WHEN HE 
GOT INTO A "JAM", 
(Answers tomorrow) 

CROSSWORD 
1 New Jersey NHLer 37 Chest protector 65 Mice-inspired yelps
6 Top spot 38 Boxer's woe? 66 Warp
40 Sense of sell

10 Environmental toxins, for short 41 Thief 67 Sheep counter's quest
14 Like Bo•Peep's 43 Go (for) charges 
44 Initials may be 15 Heister's haul carved in it DOWN 45 Art Deco artist 1I lids?
16 Israeli dance 46 Get the drop on 2 Having neither
17 Barkeep's woe? 
side ahead
47 Midmonth time

19 Mayberry 3 Tarzan'smoppet 48 See eye to eye transportso Sake20 Allergic reaction 4 Very detailed
52 War planner

21 Sweeper's 5 TV host accessory 54 Takes off the Gibbonsleash23 Ignore 6 Politico Landon58 Don Juan's 
26 Weed killers mother 7 Pigeon patter 
27 Left on a liner 59 Stunt man's 8 Temperamental woe?
JO Bygone carrier 9 Caesar's 62 Wingless accusation
31 In bounds parasites 
10 It may be
32 "No way!" 
63 Eight, for checked in a 33 Geometric fig. starters security check 
11 Police officer's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE woe? 
12 Pipe material 
,__..__+-1 13 French composer Saint-_ 
18 Relief for the stressed 22 Alan Ladd 
classic 
24 Deep drink 
25 Without 
exception 
27 Good engine sound 
28 Akron's home 
Visit The Observer on the weD at nttp://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Nancy S.loman  
29 Masseur's woe?  44 Like some  55 Elisabeth of  
31 Sizzling pitch 35 Folklore fiend  lenses 48 Quick-witted  "Leaving las Vegas" 56 German article  

36 Pans for stir­ 49 Wish granter  
frying 38"_ Pan"  50 City division  57 Go ballistic 60 Colorado native  
39 Colorful fish  51 Windblown soil  61 Reaction to  
42 Miki currents  53 Ruckuses  applause  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year), Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
..
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ 
•
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tina Turner. George Segal, Robert Goulct. Olarles Schulz 
Happy Birthday: Hard work. dedication and delennination will be required if you are going 10 reach your set goals this year. This year can be your turning point if you read yourself for the events that are about to unfold You will have the ability to pull things together to do whatever is asked of you. Your numbers are I0, 13, 22, 31, 37, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take trips that will provide you with adventure and cultw-al knowledge. Social gatherings will open doors to love conrections. This is a day to make apositive move. tttt"k TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your refusal to listen to the advice given by friends 
-
or relatives could be your downfall. Try to see your situation in temJS of possibilities rather than limitations. Remain~ ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Friends may be unhappy if you allow a new love to monopolize your lime. Try to maintain balance in your life. Don't be 100 eager to get involvro injoint financial ventures. *tt* 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): H~arguments with loved ones may lead to changes in your home. Drastic reactions toward others will be detrimental. Keep your feelings to yourself. Be careful whom you lend money to. *tt LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): Your dramatic approach to emotional matters may alienate you from the ones you love. Adopt a more practical outlook with less melodrama. Be clear about your role in the situation. ** VIRGO (Aug. 2.'\.SepL 22): Proble1115 will surface if you have to deal with institutions. Put off meetings with superim, llll1il a more suitable lime, Focus on detail and satisfying ywrself. *tt LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make major improvements if you set your mind to il Someone you live with appear.; to be confused. Your ability to see situatioos from all sides and your need for balance and fairness should help. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your rrental agility will be al an all-ture high. Your ability to communicate with others and articulate your ideas will be noticed. Pursue your professional gools. tt SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your need for excitement and adventure will be satisfied if you travel or get involved in philosophic groups. New places and new ideas will be very stimulating for you and will inspire a change in your professional directioo. tttt* CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be subject 10 dealing with the affairs of elders in your family. If you haven't left yourself enough lime, your partrer may be disgruntled by the whole affair. Somehow you must find balance. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20.Feb. 18): Tension will cause confrontations with your mate. Disa.iss lhe root of this with your partner. Secret activities could damage your repJtation Be fcrewamed tt . PISCFB (Feb. 19-March 20): One-sided romantic connections will only lead you astray. Keep your thooghts to yourself. This is not the lime to rock the boat. Respect lhe politics that SIJITOUOO you al your plaa: ofwak. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will always be trying to accomplish and never daunted by failure. You will pick yowself up and start again without thinking twice or looking hick. You will strive fer JX'[fection and you will make your marlc, 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites al astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSALPRFSS SYNDICATE 

PORTS 
Tuesday, November 26, 2002 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish turn in mixed results 
. The Irish women finished a school­best 3rd place 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame womens cross country team turned in the program's best ever per­formance Monday as the Irish took third place at the NCAA Championships in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Freshman Molly Huddle led the Irish with her sixth-place finish, the highest finish for a Notre Dame womens run­ner since former Irish stand­out Joanna Deeter finished third in the national champi­onships in 1996. Huddle ran 19 minutes, 55.7 seconds and was 12 seconds behind the individual champion, Shalane Flanagan of North Carolina. 
"We couldn't have hoped for more," sophomore Lauren King said. King, who led the team all season, earned All-American status for the second year in a row with her 19th-place finish.

-
Deeter is the only other Irish womens runner to have achieved that honor twice. The team had high expec­tations, but knew a third­place finish would be chal-

lenging. behind national champion prise to the team given the 
"I thought we could finish Brigham Young who had 85 Buffaloes' storied program. in the top five," Huddle said. and second place Stanford "The whole season has "That we finished third is with a score of 113. The been such a cumulative real-awesome." Irish finished just ahead of 
The Irish had 170 points Colorado, which was a sur-see WOMEN/page 13 
. The Irish men finish in a disappointing 22nd place 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame mens cross country team couldn't overcome a young lineup and an injury to its All-American in the NCAA Championships held at Terre Haute. Ind., Monday. 
While the Irish did not place as high as they had hoped, their 22nd place finish in a field of 31 still showed the other teams that Notre Dame belonged among the nation's best after being the last at­large team to qualify for the national championship race. 
Monday marked the first time that Notre Dame has fin­ished lower than 15th in the last 10 times the Irish have competed in the NCAA Championships. 
Freshman Tim Moore led the Irish with his 63rd-place finish and 10 kilometer time of 30 minutes 50 seconds. Junior Todd Mobley, who achieved All-American status at the same meet last year, 
see MEN/page 13 
FOOTBALL 

Trojans and Irish play for possible BCS berth 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Finally the rivalry means something. 
Notre Dame and USC meet Saturday in a game with huge BCS implications for both teams. It's also the first meeting that both teams are ranked in the top 10 -the Irish are No. 7 in the BCS, the Trojans No. 6 ­since 1989. 
If the Irish win Saturday, they'll finish in the top six of the BCS standing and automatically earn an at-large bid to one of three BCS bowls. 
And even if the Irish narrowly lose to the Trojans, they still remain an attractive choice to BCS bowl organizers looking to put people in seats. 
But the Irish want to win. And in order to win, they have to contain USC quarterback Carson Palmer. 

"This is a young man who's playing probably the best foot­ball of any quarterback in the country and he's complemented by some of the best receivers in the country," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "So I consider that more than just a little prob­lem. I think that's one of those huge, truckload-full of problems that you have to deal with every now and then." 
What kind of problems does Palmer. a legitimate Reisman Trophy candidate who played his way into contention by car­rying the Trojans on the strength of his arm, present for a veteran Irish defense? 
Plenty. He's easily the most experi­enced -and most talented ._ 
passing quarterback the Irish have faced this season. This season, he's thrown for 3,214 yards and 28 touchdowns with just eight interceptions. USC's offense averages 296 passing yards a game, good enough to rank them 10th in the nation. 
"They'll beat Notre Dame," UCLA coach Bob Toledo said after his team got crushed 52-21 Saturday behind Palmer's 254­yard, four touchdown perfor­mance. 
"What more can you say about Palmer's great leadership abili­ty?" USC coach Pete Carroll said. "Carson is playing better than anyone in the country right now. He should win the Heisman if we win next week." 
While Saturday's game could easily turn into a horserace, the 
see FOOTBALlJpage 13 



HOCKEY 
MENS SOCCER 
SENDWICH INDEX 

MENS BASKETBALL 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
The Irish travel to No. 5 
Notre Dame fell to No. 4 in
Notre Dame 4 

The Irish open their season
Notre Dame 75 

Indiana in hopes of defeating 
the Sendwich, while Ohio
Michigan 3 

tonight against Cleveland
Furman 50 

the Hoosiers for the second 
State and Oklahoma 
State. 

year in a row in playoffs. 
advanced upwards. 

.. 
The Irish return from No. 5 
Irish move to finals of 
Michigan this weekend with 
Guardian Classic where they 
a two-game split. 

will face Creighton tonight. 
page 18 
page 15 
page 15
page 18 

page 16 



