
10 
ND TV plans October debut 
ByJANELLE BEADLE 
NewsWricer 
Notre Dame is just weeks away from the debut of its new television station. 
Led by Faculty Advisor Christine Becker and student producers Lance Johnson, Liam Dacey, Chris Chamberland and Alex Grunewald, backers hope that the station will provide a new outlet for Notre Dame broad­casting. 
"Through this new medium, ND students will be able to express themselves more completely and in a unique way," Becker said. "It will feel more like they are speaking directly to the other stu­dents." 
The program kicks off in early October on cable chan­nel 3, and every other week will debut a brand new show. 
The station's first project will be a variety show, she said. Divided into five seg­ments, this show will include the sections News. Entertainment, Interview, Spotlight, and Miscellaneous. 
The news section will focus on campus issues and events, with topics possibly including students' views on the trans­formation of the SYR. They also hope to spotlight campus groups, such as the choirs, acting groups. dance troupes. and campus bands during the entertainment portion. 
The show also hopes to include a "miscellaneous" segment, to showcase the 
random and creative things 
that ND students do every 
day. 
Although the station is not 
an officially school sponsored 
program, the students are 
attempting to gain university 
permission to turn it into a 
club. 
"This program will also pro­
vide an outlet to those stu­
dents in other majors (other 
than FTT) that are interested 
in aspects of film and televi­
sion and want to become 
involved," Becker said. 
Anyone interested in televi­
sion, film or acting can partic­
ipate in this program. Becker 
welcomes contact from stu­
dents wishing to get involved. 
Contact Janelle Beadle at jbeadle@nd.edu 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.E 
NAP TIME 

NELLIE WILLIAMSfllle Observer  
A Notre Dame student sneaks in  a  nap  on  South Quad  
between classes on Monday.  

EXECUTIVE CABINET 
Students finalize 9 /11 events 

By MATT BRAMATI 
As the first anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks approaches, Student Government Executive Cabinet members met Monday to discuss campus• wide memorial services. 
Cabinet officials reviewed plans for the events, which will begin this evening. Preparations have begun for a vigil at the Grotto, to begin at 8 p.m. It will be followed by a procession to the Hesburgh Library reflecting pool, where a prayer service will be held. 
On Wednesday, the anniversary of the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 peo­ple. a rosary will be said at the Grotto at noon. At 5:00 
p.m. that afternoon. University President Father Edward Malloy will preside over mass at the reflecting pool. The Basilica and University Choirs will be on hand to provide music. 
Student Body President Libby Bishop expressed con­fidence that the services will give the Notre Dame com­munity a chance to remem­ber the events of Sept. 11 together. 
"[The mass] is going to be a nice, reflective memorial," Bishop said. 
She also asked Cabinet members to encourage their constituents to attend the services. Other cabinet news: 
. Susan Longenbaker 
unveiled the new consolidat­
ed student activities calen­
dar. 
The new publication, enti­
tled "Everything Under the 
Dome," will be printed twice 
weekly. The editions, cover­
ing Friday-Sunday and 
Monday-Thursday, will list a 
broad variety of scheduled 
lectures, entertainment 
events, and other campus 
happenings. "Everything" 
will be posted in the 
LaFortune Student Center 
and distributed to residence 
halls for display. 
Longenbaker encouraged 
other students to submit 
events to slongenb@nd.edu. 
. Student programming at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore is moving towards a reality. At Thursday's Student Senate meeting, Bookstore manager Jim O'Connor will speak on the possibility of hosting events at the facility. 
Bookstore officials, noting the increased alumni pres­ence during football week­ends, are reportedly eager to accommodate student events in order to show their interest in the Notre Dame community as a whole. 
. Cabinet members dis­cussed potential options for supplements to The Shirt, the popular football spirit item. Members expressed concern that The Shirt's util­ity is diminished during cold-weather games. when the kelly green apparel is hidden under heavy jackets. The most popular option was The Hat, a gold winter beanie that would provide a unified student color at games later in the season. 
Contact Matt Bramati at mbramati@nd.edu 
Panel criticizes 
U.S. policy 
By MARIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Last night's panel of Notre Dame professors who spoke on concerns vital to understanding and dealing with the aftermath of September 11 analyzed many of the United States' attitudes in response to the tragedy. 
"This panel is meant to inau­gurate this week of reflection," said Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
The panel followed up on a series of discussions presented after the events last year. Scott Appleby, Jeff Bergstrand, George Lopez, and Juan Mendez particularly addressed the United States' economic and political situation and how the attitude and actions of the gov­ernment affected issues like human rights and international affairs. 
Some professors criticized the United States' attitudes towards human rights and the fight against terrorism since September 11. "In the past year we have seen a deepening of xenophobia," said Appleby. He stressed the need for the United States to work with other coun­tries. "We are woefully undere­ducated in foreign policy as a nation," he said on the issue of public opinion in foreign affairs. 
Mendez, a law professor and human rights activist who was once imprisoned in his native Argentina for defending political prisoners, felt since the attack the United States placed too much emphasis on security and too little on human rights. He especially criticized the United States' support of totalitarian 
see PANEUpage 4 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
Leaming 
frotn Chelsea 
For most people, ordering off the menu at a restaurant is a pretty simple affair. You scan the menu and then tell the waiter what you want. But for 10­year-old Chelsea, accomplishing this is a major achievement. . 
Because Chelsea Teresa Frallsh has Asberger's Syndrome, a form News of autism, ordering Production at a restaurant and 
Editor 
other social inter­
actions can be very 

frightening situations. Children with 
Asberger's just simply do not have the 
built-in sense of how to act a.round oth­
ers. They don't understand why they 
should say "goodbye" when a visitor 
leaves. 

Families of these children are left in a 
doubly difficult situation because, as 
Asberger's Syndrome has only recently 
been identified, very few specific treat­
ment options are available. 

When I began volunteering in 
Chelsea's home program last fall, I 
brought a solid knowledge of autism and 
its treatment to my service. But I had 
never heard ofAsberger's Syndrome, 
and [ had no idea about how to interact 
with an Asberger's child. 

What I didn't realize then was that 
Chelsea and her family would teach me 
more than I would ever help her to 
learn. As I read books about Asberger's 
Syndrome. I began to gain a better sense 
ofhow I could contribute to Chelsea's 
home program. Above all, working with 
Chelsea and her family would teach me 
to be creative and unafraid to try new 
approaches. Since I could find little infor­
mation about Asberger's therapies, I 
made up my own activities. 

As the fall semester progressed, my work with Chelsea became a respite from my work at school. I found that I really enjoyed taking a break from that paper I was typing to go be a part of a very special little girl's life. Chelsea's parents also hugely impressed me, as they never once showed any sign of dLr;­couragement. Instead, they were extremely encouraging, providing me with helpful suggestions about activities for Chelsea. 
By the end of the year, I had grown quite attached to Chelsea and her family. I learned that she loved cheese fries and was crazy about baby animals. Something interesting about autistic chil­dren is that they often have a very spe­cial unusual talent, and Chelsea rivaled a marine biology teacher in her knowledge ofwhales. Over the course of nine months, I saw Chelsea make significant improvements in her interactions with others. She even came to visit my donn and talked with some of my floormates. 
While I certainly learned much about Asberger's Syndrome and how to be innovative, my experiences showed me much more. When I see special needs kids at the store or on campus, I know just how special these individuals are. 
Though we all probably claim to be understanding of special needs, Iwould advise anyone who is looking to make a difference at Notre Dame to spend time with a special needs child or adult. You just might be surprised by how much you can learn. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however. recognize that we will make mis rakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
SMC orders 
Arafat reprinting of 
condemns yearbook 
terrorist attacks 
Saint Mary's has 
PLO leader 
authorized a sec­
Yassir Arafat con­
ond printing of last 
demned terrorist 
year's yearbook. 
attacks against 
The first edition of Israel and vowed 
the book was to hold general 
plagued with elections in 
errors, officials 
January. 
said. 

page 3 page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Lecture by Nicholas Boyle, Univorsity · of' Cambridgo, "Hovclation and Hcalism," llcsburgh Center Auditorium, 4 
p.m. 

. Sept. 11 prayer sorvico and candlPlight procession to the lfosburgh Library rdlecting pool, b1~gins at the Grotto, 8 p.m. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Soccer vs. Taylor University, Soccer field north ol' Angela Athletic Facility 

. 
Lecture with Camilla Burns, Loyola University, Chicago. "Scripture as 'ct Source of Wisdom," Stapleton Lounge. Le Mans llall. 7:30 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's lunch: Four grain soup, tomato soup, fried cheese ravioli, swiss steak, Japan ginger chicken, haddock with herbs, scrambled eggs, almond french toast, chicken strips. 
Today's dinner: Four grain soup, tomato soup, fried cheese ravioli, sher­ry chicken thighs, chicken and pea pod stir fry, grilled redfish, lonestar rice, beef stir-fry, egg rolls. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
L&.I 
:c 
ti 
L&.I 
3: 
..I 
ct 
C.) 


_9 HIGH 85 
LOW 68 

BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT

NEWS 
Ex-WorldCom Students employees 
react to demand 
events of severance pay 
Sept.11 

Former employ­
Notre Dame stu­ees of now bank­
dents offer opinions rupt WorldCom 
on how to remem­held a rally outside 
ber the events of of the US bankrupt­
last September. cy court in New York City and demanded sever­ance pay. 
page 7 page 12 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student recovers missing bike outside of 8-P 
NDSP officers completed a report of a bike being taken from outside Stanford Hall. The victim later noti­fied NDSP that he recovered his bike outside Breen-Phillips Hall on Saturday. There are no suspects. 
Two cars involved in wreck 
NDSP responded to a two-car acci­dent in the lot. There were no injuries reported. 
Officers recover, return 
missing check 
A check was found and turned in to NDSP for safekeeping. The check has been released to the owner. 
Ill employee taken to area 
hospital 
NDSP transported a University employee to Memorial Hospital for treatment of an illness. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's lunch: Neapolitan style spaghetti, Italian sausage marinara, pepperoni pizza, vegetable pizza, sausage pizza. chicken jambalaya, beef and noodle casserole, rotisserie chick­en, fried cheese ravioli, vegetable Lo Mein, chicken taco, chicken Acapulco. 
Today's dinner: Italian sausage marinara, pepperoni pizza, 4 cheese pizza, sausage pizza, marinated beef, pork chops, cheese sticks, sesame chicken breast, chicken taco, pork tamale. 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 


HIGH LOW 
SCENE 
Chillin' out 

with summer 
music 
Scene music crit­ics review summer hits. From Coldplay's "A Rush of Blood to the Head," to the latest from The Vines, to the Dave Matthews Band concert in Chicago. 
pages 14 & 15 
SPORTS 
ND football player still recovering from bug 
Notre Dame line­backer Courtney Watson sat out Saturday's game against Purdue due to a viral infec­tion. He is still recovering. 
page 22 

Locked bike missing from 
student dorm 

A report of a locked bike being taken from the south side of Fisher Hall. There are no suspects. 
Student reports missing 
wallet 

The victim reported losing his wallet at an unknown campus location. 
SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 
74 
56 

Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's lunch: Chers pasta, mari­nara sauce, vegetable stir fry, sausage pizza, cheese pizza, deli bar, smoked turkey. 
Today's dinner: Chers pasta, mari­nara sauce, burger, vegetable medley, carved roast beef, cheese pizza, mashed potatoes with gravy, deli bar, 
chicken salad. 
FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 
76 59 

Atlanta 92 I 65 Boston 89 I 68 Chicago 86 / 59 Denver 62 / 51 Houston 88 / 71 Los Angeles 86 / 63 Minneapolis 75 / 55 New York 92 / 71 Philadelphia 94 / 70 Phoenix 95 / 77 Seattle 76 / 55 St. Louis 90 / 66 Tampa 89 / 74 Washington 91 / 42 
Tuesday, September l 0, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC reprints yearbook 
. Abundance of errors lead Administration to demand reprinting 
By MELANIE BECKER 
Ne\vs Writer 
Saint Mary's students returning this fall expecting to receive their yearbook, The Blue Mantle, were due for disappointment. 
Linda Timm, vice-president of Student Affairs announced that due to errors in the pub­lication of the book, copies would not be available until late September at the earli­est. 
The publication mistakes were detected shortly before the school year began when administrators reviewed the yearbook, making the deci­sion that the book needed revisions and then would be reprinted. 
While administrators have not explained what errors or problems were the cause of the reprinting, there were several typographical mis­takes found. The administra­tion, specifically Linda Timm and George Rosenbush, stu­dent activities director, determined that there were too many inaccuracies to dis­tribute the yearbook at regis­tration. 
"There were errors and some problems that are in the process of being taken care of," Courtney Boyle, Blue Mantle Editor said. 
The class of 2002 received their books over the summer before the mistakes were found. A few weeks later they were mailed a letter from Timm instructing them to keep the original books and that ''they were now in possession of the only copies to be distributed of the uncorrected copy of the year­book." 
T h e y book for what Saint Mary's felt was a reasonable cost. Student Activity fees will be making up the cost of reprinting the yearbooks. Students pay an annual stu­dent activity fee of $150, and an additional $50 for a year­book, both of which are included into the cost of tuition. 

Walsworth Publishing Company is currently work­ing to fix the problems. and plans for the 2002-2003 Blue 
w o u l d "There were errors and Mantle are in receive the works.
some problems that are 
their cor­"We have fan­
in the process ofbeing
rected tastic represen­copies at a taken care of" tation with the later, company, the under­people we work
Courtney Boyle
rn in e d with are out­

SMC yearbook editor
date. The standing. They 
current classes of 2003, 2004 and 2005 will only be given the corrected copies of the book. 
"I wouldn't have known about the mistakes if we hadn't been informed, which indicates that they are minor," Jessica Coulter, a 2002 graduate said. "The mistakes in the current year­book are not going to taint the memories that I have. I don't think that there is a real need to reprint all of our books." 
In order to correct the mis­takes Walsworth Publishing Company has agreed to reprint all of the copies of the 

are being very 
cooperative and understanding about the reprinting of the book," Boyle said. 
Overall the student body has been patient and under­standing towards the year­book staff regarding the mat­ter, Boyle added. 
"If the yearbook staff felt that it was important enough to reprint the book then I trust that it affected someone greatly and I wouldn't think twice about having to wait for it," said Whitney Ross, a 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck093 l@saintmarys.edu 
Forum focuses on friendship 
By IAURA CORISTIN News Writer 

Forty-one people attended an open forum discussion about friendships in the Regina North lounge at Saint Mary's Monday night. 
The discussion, the first part of a series 
entitled 

"/ think it's nice to deal because
"Relationships: 

they're some­
with friendships and
Sexuality at its 

thing that we
Best ... ·• con­relationships because 
deal with 
centrated on 

they're something that everyday
friendship as a 

here, espe•
we deal with everyday 
growing rela­

cially being a 
tionship. here, especially being a 
women's col­
The plan­

women's college. " l e g e , " 
ning commit­

Jablonski­
tee for the dis­

Diehl added. 
cussion includ­Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl 
"I think we 
ed of Sister Student body president have a really
Lousita Welsh, who works for the Saint Mary's Division for Mission, history professor Bill Svelmoe, campus minister Cindy Mongrain, student body vice president Elizabeth Jablonski­Diehl, junior Shannon Maloney and senior Anne DeCleene. 
The discussion allowed stu­dents to talk about different issues pertaining to friend­ships, including qualities peo­ple look for in friendships, and whether or not it is possible to ''.just be friends" with males. 
"lOur goal is to see] how we can continue to build friend­ships and relationships in an open environment on campus as we look at issues that relate to the deepening of relation­ships," Welsh said. 
"I think it's nice to get a 
chance to talk about friend­ships and relationships 
unique view, 
and we talk 
about it on a daily basis, but we don't really sit down and talk about it or think about different points of view on the subject." 
The next session of the series "Meeting, Dating, and Mating" will take place on Monday, Sept. 16 at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 
Contact Laura Coristin at cori0333@saintmarys.edu 



SUMMER 2003 
Four and a half weeks for six hours of academic credit (May 14 -June 15, 2003) 


ORIENT AT/ON -JNFORMA TION MEETING 
for all admitted participants (Those interested in 2003 and 2004 are also invited) 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10th at 7 P.M. in 131 DEBARTOLO HALL 
Or call 1-0622 (Summer London Program office) for an application and program information 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Panel 

continued from page 1 
leaders such as Pervez Musharraf allied with the US. "The human rights movement now faces a harder task in cre­ating just societies around the world," he said. "One important voice that has been lost is that of the United States government." 
Lopez and Mendez felt that the United States' plans to use weapons against Iraq showed a United States]. or an Afghan boy who will not be killed for politi­cal beliefs?" asked one audience member. 
"We've not yet ... bombed citi­zens at large or made a preemp­tive strike," said Lopez, empha­sizing that many of the criti­cisms were in anticipation of possible future problems. "We're still in the midst of the flux." 
"We have seen some ugly episodes ... but we have seen a lot of compassion, towards the firefighters, towards the victims, towards their families." said Appleby near the end of his speech. "As the September 11 monument becomes part of our national history, we should find ways to extend the compassion in broader and broader circles, and around the world.'' 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nJ.edu 

need for close examination of US policy. "The United States is not being held up as an example of good. but for what govern­






MAKE WAVES
ments should be able to get away with because the US does." said Mendez. "This is a slippery slope... unless we demand that the government's actions be transparent, we will not be in a position to lecture other governments on their 
Iwfornutt£.o""' ses&LOlf\t for
affairs. Lopez, director of policy stud­
supkol,W)rts. A~jW.1,'W.OYS
ies at the Kroc Institute, stressed that the changing nature of war­fare required changing atti­tudes. He cited cases of small groups fighting large powers through attacks on civilians and with self-destructive techniques 
5PM 
such as suicide bombings. "The United States government is 

septt*ber 1...0
trapped by its decision to approach this as a war model, instead of saying the rules have 
:201. t>t'B.Artolo 
changed." 
Some audience members defended the United States' actions in the following question session, saying the US had done much good through its actions. "How would you feel if you were an Afghan girl who could go to school now [because of the 




sruDY IN SPRING, 


• ' I : ,!•I· ,t;,1(JJ,lJlH1 


WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WEST BANK 
Arafat condemns terror attacks, promises election 
Associated Press 
RAMAf.LAH 

Yasser Arafat condemned ter• ror attacks and promised to hold general elections in January, but in a rambling speech to the Palestinian parliament Monday he fell short of outlining clear steps against terror or agreeing to share some power with a prime minister. 
Fumbling with microphones and repeatedly straying from a prepared text, the Palestinian leader also offered apparently in jest to give up executive powers if asked. 
The parliament session in Arafat's sandbagged West Bank headquarters came at what could be a pivotal point in the two years of Israeli-Palestinian violence, with signs of a thaw coinciding with Palestinian mili­tants' efforts to stage attacks of unprecedented scale. 
In a speech that was both con­ciliatory and packed with accu­sations against Israel, Arafat said he condemned "attacks against Israeli civilians" and that such attacks drew attention away from Palestinians' suffer­ing under Israeli occupation. He told legislators to uphold the national interest but he skipped passages from the draft that included a call on parliament to ban suicide attacks. 
Addressing Israelis, Arafat said: "We want to achieve peace with you. We want security and stability for us and you and for the entire area.... After 50 years of struggle, I say it's enough of the struggle and bloodshed.'' 
Raanan Gissin, an adviser to Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. said the speech was meaningless and that Palestinian reform would not work with Arafat in power. "'Peace and reforms can only happen when Arafat is not there," Gissin said. 
Paul Patin, a spokesman for the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv, said after the speech that Arafat would be judged by his actions, not his words. 
In Gaza, Ismail Abu Shanab of the Islamic militant group Harnas said Arafat showed no clear strategy. "We need to find a way to challenge the Israeli aggression," said Abu Shanab, whose group has carried out scores of suicide attacks that have killed more than 250 Israeli civilians in the past two years. 
The Palestinian legislature has convened only sporadically, and usually with a low turnout, dur­ing the past two years, because of Israeli travel restrictions. 
On Monday, Israel banned 12 legislators from making the trip from Gaza to Ramallah, saying 


they were involved in attacks on ference. Israelis. In solidarity, other At the opening of the session, Gazan lawmakers stayed behind parliament re-elected speaker and participated by video con-Ahmed Qureia. A key player in 
previous peace talks with Israel, Qureia is a confidant of Arafat and is seen as a potential suc­cessor. 
• 1 
SWITZERLAND 
S-witzerland becomes 109th member of United Nations 
Associated Prcss 
GENEVA 

The Swiss kicked off ceremonies Monday to end decades of splendid iso­lation and follow the rest of the world into the United Nations, with festivities slated to feature its signature exports: chocolate and watches. 
But in a final gesture of independence, they made it clear they would not change their flag. 
The U.N. General Assembly is expect­ed to formally admit Switzerland as its 190th member during a ceremony in New York Tuesday. To the accompani­ment of the Swiss Army Band, the coun­try's flag a white cross on red back­ground will then be hoisted to flutter as a lone square among the sea of rectan­gles. 
"Finally Switzerland will be at home as a member of the U.N. family,"declared Bertrand Louis, ambas­sador to U.N. offices in Geneva. 
"When the Swiss delegation steps down from his observer seat to join the main U.N. body, it will be a big step. It will be a step out of the shadows." 
After more than 50 years on the side­lines, Switzerland joined the United Nations after voters approved the movein March by a 55 percent majority. 

In the last vote 16 years earlier, 75 percent opposed U.N. membership on the grounds it would endanger the Alpine nation's revered neutrality in an era of acute East-West tensions. 
This time around, the electorate heed­ed a government campaign that a rejec­tion would be disastrous for the coun­try's international standing and that tra­ditional neutrality was irrelevant given the end of the Cold War. 
Switzerland will be sandwiched between Sweden and Syria on the U.N.'s alphabetical list. Switzerland's member­ship leaves the Vatican as the only state with U.N. observer status. 
Falling on the eve of the anniversary of Sept. 11, Switzerland's membership ceremony will be low-key. Undeterred, the Swiss have made elaborate prepara­tions to broadcast the proceedings live on a big screen in downtown Geneva. 
Gifts of Swiss chocolate and Swatch watches emblazoned with the national flag will be given to guests at a diplo­
·.H
matic reception in New York on Tuesday, officials said. Those invited to .f a diplomatic bash in Geneva late '
• 
Monday were treated to canapes, cock­' tails and an exhibition by Switzerland's best-known artist. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Allied aircrafts bomb Iraq facility: 
Allied aircraft struck Iraq for the third time in a week, bombing a military facility southeast of Baghdad Monday morning, defense officials said. The attack came after Im.qi forces fired on one of the U.S.-British patrols in the no-fly zone, and it fol­lowed bombings on Thursday and Saturday, Pentagon officials said. It brought to 37 the number of strikes reported this year by the United States and the United Kingdom coalition put together to patrol zones in the north and south of Iraq following the 1991 Gulf War. 

Bus crashes in Turkey leave 17 dead: 
Seventeen people were killed in separate bus crash­es Saturday, including two members of a profession• al Turkish soccer team. A bus carrying players for the second-division club Sakaryaspor flipped over, killing live people, and injuring 22 others, news reports said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


'N Sync star left grounded on earth: 
Pop star Lance Bass· dreams of going into space have officially gone "pop!" The Russian Space Agency notified NASA on Monday that the 'N Sync singer won't fly to the international space station next month. Bass had hoped to rocket away from Kazakhstan on Oct. 28, boosted by corporate spon­sors and a seven-part television documentary. But TV producers failed to raise the estimated $20 mil­lion fare, and Russian space officials last week kicked Bass off the upcoming crew. 
Storm Gustav hits N. Carolina coast: 
Waves 8 to 10 feel high pounded North Carolina beaches Monday as Subtropical Storm Gustav head­ed for the Outer Banks with a threat of coastal flooding and erosion. By mid-afternoon, the center of the storm was still more than 200 miles out to sea, but rain had started falling on some of the chain of coastal islands and wind gusted to 26 mph. 

Rhode Island diocese settles lawsuit: 
The Providence Diocese said Monday it has reached a $13.5 million settlement with 36 people who say they were molested as youngsters by members of the cler­gy. The settlement covers all but two of 38 men and women who sued in the early 1990s, accusing 11 priests and a nun of abusing them. The diocese said it will seek both internal and external financing to cover the cost of the settlement. 

Boston gangster's brother sentenced: 
A retired police officer was sentenced Monday to 10 years in prison for hiding an arsenal of weapons for his brother, convicted gangster Stephen "The Rifleman" Flemmi. Federal prosecutors said Michael Flemmi, 64, hid the guns for the Winter Hill Gang, run by his brother and James "Whitey" Bulger, a fugitive on the FBl's "Most Wanted" list. Flemmi, a 30-year police veteran, was convicted in May of perjury, obstruction ofjustice and weapons charges. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
Russell takes charge U.S. government advises caution 



of SMC Residence Life 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saine Mary's News Editor 
When Dana North stepped down last spring as the Residence Life director after six years with Saint Mary's, the search for a new director brought Michelle Russell to campus. 
Russell, a native New Yorker, came to Saint Mary's looking for a change. She completed her undergraduate and graduate studies, earning a masters in counseling from Saint Bonaventure University in New York, where she also spent four years as a hall director. 
While small Catholic colleges Saint Bonaventure and Saint Mary's share similarities, Russell believes there is "some­thing unique" about the Saint Mary's community. 
"I've only been here for a little while but so far my interaction has been very positive, especial­ly with the resident advisors and administrators," Russell said. "It has been an easy adjustment which I credit to the communi­ty." 
Currently Russell is assessing the procedures of the Residence Life department and learning the day-to-day operations of the department. Russell has imple­mented few changes at this point but hopes to be an active part of the community. 
"My goal is that students see residence life as approachable and know that we're not only here for discipline, but to offer emotional and physical sup­port," Russell said. 'Tm looking for student inputand hope stu­dents will become involved in hall councils. n 
Russell has weekly staff meet­ings with resident advisors and the hall directors where they will address the concerns of stu­dents. Russell wants residence life to become a visible, active part of campus. 
"I have a great understanding and love of the college experi­ence," Russell said. 'Tm com­passionate towards the journey a student takes and I hope to guide students on their journey, from living on their own, to graduation and in to a educat­ed woman." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Fearful of new terror attacks but armed with little specific information. the government warned potential targets to be on high alert in the run-up to the Sept. 11 anniversary. 
While officials say they have no details outlining an impend­ing attack, they're taking no chances. 
The FBI told police, utilities, banks and the trarn,portation industry to be wary. U.S. mili­tary bases and diplomatic mis­sions worldwide also are on high security alert for the 
week. 

White House press secretary Ari Fleischer said Monday the threat of new attacks remains a worry to U.S. officials. 
"Anniversaries can be -not necessarily always -can be occasions for heightened ter­rorist activity," Fleischer said. "Just given the fact that it's a one-year anniversary, we're going to be on our toes." 
The State Department issued a worldwide caution Monday night urging Americans to remain especially vigilant this week. 
In the past few days, U.S. intelligence agencies have detected what officials now describe as a marked increase in terrorist "chatter," informa­tion from monitored communi­cations and other sources that are used as a barometer of the likelihood of potential attacks. 
The FBI's National Infrastructure Protection Center, which assesses threats to key utilities and infrastruc­ture, issued a general alert last week. 
"A large volume of threats of undetermined reliability con­tinues to be received and investigated by the FBI," the bulletin said. "Several of these threats make reference to the events of Sept. 11. 2001. and to New York City and Washington. D.C." 
Other events mentioned on the Web site as warranting increased awareness include the Sept. 10-20 U.N. General Assembly session in New York and the Sept. 25-29 World Bank and International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington. 
The warnings are based on information from all U.S. intel­ligence sources, from tele­phone calls to interviews with detainees at the U.S. Navy base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, according to a senior law enforcement otncial. 
Information from detainees, most of whom have been out of circulation for months, has proven false previously. U.S. otncials have said they act on it only when corroborated through multiple sources. 
Recent terror plots in Afghanistan and Germany have not been linked to al­Qaida, said a U.S. counterter­rorism official, speaking Monday on condition of anonymity. 
In Germany, a Turkish man and his American fiancee, arrested last week on suspicion of plotting to bomb a U.S. mili­tary base in Heidelberg. are thought to have been inspired by Osama bin Laden, but U.S. and German officials doubt the pair is connected to the organi­zation. 
If that's the case, counterter­ror officials worry that the Turk. Osman Petmezci, and his fiancee, Astrid Eyzaguirre, may represent a new kind of threat wrought by the spectacular nature of the Sept. 11 attacks -people who have had no contact with al-Qaida but are moved to action by bin Laden. 
U.S. military bases went on alert Monday out of an abun­dance of caution and not in response to any specific threat. government officials said. 
At the State Department, spokesman Hichard Boucher said a cable was sent to all diplomatic posts advising them to maintain a higher state of alert Wednesday. A worldwide J,uly 1 caution urging Americans to take care remains in effect. 
The U.S. Embassy in Manila in the Philippines was believed to be of particular concern for potential terrorist strikes. And in nearby Indonesia, U.S. offi­cials barred the public until further notice from the embassy in Jakarta and the consulate in Surabaya after receiving "credible and specific threat information" Monday that the embassy is at risk of terrorist attack. 
The FBI bulletin did not cite specific intelligence of an attack at the United Nations but said such a New York City event in the general time frame of the Sept. 11 anniversary "represents a potentially attractive target for terrorists." 
The bulletin said the World Bank demonstrations are planned by a "loose alliance of left-wing groups." 
"It is expected that some individuals plan to engage in criminal activity aimed at dis­rupting the meeting and draw­ing attention to their cause," the bulletin said. "Historically, tiny contingents of individuals associated with the protests belonged to violent groups. Those groups have a history of causing property damage." 
Thursday,-September.12, 2002 .•• 7:00pm' -9:00pm The Center. for Continuing Education 
•Room112 • 

Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer 
Our advice about your next careermove: be bullish 

ml.com/careers ~MerrillLynch 



Tuesday, September 10, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch Se tember 9 
DowJones 

8,519.38  NASDAQ  +92.18  
1,304.60  S&P500  +9.30  



AMEX  
866.49  ~  +6.83  
NYSE  
489.14  +4.50  
TOP  5 VOLUME  LEADERS  

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
PALM INC (PALM) -2.47 -0.02 0.75 

--~:1';;'.''i••·•'•····•· :~j~1.ijij:jjaj:~!ft8l 
NEXTEL COMM-A (NXTL) -1.13 -0.09 7.89 
11:;;~::. ?l~il!!!:::11111:1111111!!1'111i:!!ll!l!II!! 
INTEL CORP(INTC) -0.86 -0.14 16.08 
IN BRIEF 
Qwest CEO confident of turn around 
The head of Qwest Communications sounded a confident note Monday. discounting talk of bankruptcy as he discussed efforts to cut costs and increase revenue. 
"In the 90 days I've been here, that word has not come up in my presence other than from outside the company,"chairman and chief exec­utive officer Richard Notebaert said during a telecommunications conference held by Morgan Stanley. 
Notebaert said Qwest's recent $7.1 billion sale of its yellow pages business, its renegotiation of $3.4 billion in bank loans and securing of $750 million in cash were important early steps on a long, difficult road to recovery for a company saddled with $26 billion in debt. 

PG&E creditors approve bailout 
Creditors owed $13.5 billion from Pacific Gas & Electric Co. overwhelmingly approved the util­ity's Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization plan Monday. 
The plan, accepted by the bulk of investors, is to transfer billions of dollars worth of transmis­sion lines. power plants and oJ;her assets away from state oversight and into new companies that would be regulated by the federal govern­ment, then borrow against those assets to clear its debts. 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Dennis Montali is not bound by the vote to approve the creditors' rec­ommendation, which was certified Monday. A hearing is set for Nov. 12. 
Gap CEO Exercises Stock Options 
Gap [nc.'s chief executive officer, Millard ''Mickey"Drexler, exercised 14.5 million of his stock options Monday in a move likely to leave investors guessing about his motives. 
The disclosure comes at a sensitive time for the clothing retailer. which has been trying to persuade Wall Street that it's poised to rebound from a humbling sales slump that has lasted more than two years. Drexler characterized the decision as part of his retirement planning. 
Ex-WorldCotn w-orkers want severance 
• Ex-employees rally together, request payments 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Laid-off WorldCom Inc. employees demanded Monday that the bank­rupt telecommunications giant cough up tens of millions of dollars in sev­erance and health bene­fits that were promised but not paid. 
With legal help funded by the AFL-CIO. more than 40 ex-WorldCom workers from around the country asked the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan to require the severance payments to at least 4,000 employees and possibly thousands more. 
John Sweeney, the AFL­CIO's president, sent let­ters to the heads of AOL Time Warner Inc. and Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., two of WorldCom's biggest cred­itors, asking them not to stand in the way of the severance request. 

"These WorldCom workers believed in their company and worked hard for their company ­and in return they were robbed of their 40l(k's, their jobs and health had been promised much payments they haven't month. He has been care," Sweeney said. better packages. seen. shelling out nearly $400 
With WorldCom in WorldCom itself asked The exact number of a month to keep his old Chapter 11 bankruptcy the court last week to let additional workers -and coverage while he tries to proceedings -in the it pay $36 million more in the total value of such find new work. biggest such case in U.S. severance it had payments -is unclear. "I've seen things, history -the court must promised -and to cancel said Lowell Peterson, an frankly, that make me approve virtually every lucrative severance pack­attorney for the former want to cry," said Kate dollar the company ages it had given to 19 employees. Lee, 44, who oversees a spends and hear objec­executives. The company The union wants small fund created by tions from creditors. said those actions would WorldCom to pay the sev­Worldcom workers to 
In the four months improve the morale of its erance in lump sums, as help former colleagues in before filing for bank­remaining employees. the company traditionally dire straits. Lee says she ruptcy on July 21, The motion is sched­has done, rather than in is still owed $40,000 in WorldCom laid off or said uled to be heard Oct. 1. installments, and make severance after being cut it would fire 12,800 peo­The AFL-CIO -which health coverage available as senior manager of ple. did not represent the retroactively. internal communications. 
When bankruptcy pro­WorldCom workers when That issue is especially Daniel Golden, an attor­ceedings began, the court they were with the com­important for Ben Barile, ney for the committee of allowed WorldCom to pay pany -praised the com­42, of Poughkeepsie, WorldCom creditors, did $22 million in severance pany's motion but said N. Y., a 14-year not immediately return a to about 4,000 workers several thousand addi­WorldCom veteran who call seeking comment. who had been let go. tional workers, people lost his job developing Neither did representa­Each worker's check was laid off later in billing systems. Barile is tives of WorldCom, capped at $4,650 even WorldCom's collapse, HIV-positive, and his MetLife and AOL Time though many employees also are owed severance medicine costs $2,000 a Warner. 

Conseco's debt pressures ease 
The developments came after a The ratings agency also warned that
Associated Press 

pair of Sunday deadlines passed, St. Paul, Minn.-based Conseco 
INDIANAPOLIS including a requirement that Conseco Finance Corp., a wholly owned sub­
Conseco Inc. 's short-term debt make an interest payment on a $545 sidiary that offers mobile-home pressures eased Monday as the million loan that enabled company loans, is also at risk of default. insurance and finance company said insiders to buy stock in the then-high Fitch's action was the latest in a it had won temporary waivers from flying company in the late 1990s. string of downgrades that could hurt creditors to extend repayment dead­Sunday also saw the expiration of a Conseco's ability to operate during lines. 30-day grace period triggered when reorganization. 
However, Conseco also said it had Conseco stopped interest payments Coupled with the negative news defaulted on one commitment. trig­on $45 million in bond obligations. about Conseco's finances was word gering a downgrade of its credit by Conseco said Monday that its fail­from the company that it had won Fitch Ratings. ure to make those payments has put waivers from lenders. 
Meanwhile, the company continued it in default. The waivers expire Oct. 17. giving negotiations with debt-holders, aim­Fitch Ratings cited the announce­the company breathing room as it ing to restructure its $6 billion in ment when it cut its rating of tries to avoid a bankruptcy filing that debt and avoid bankruptcy. Those Conseco's public debt and preferred it has warned is possible unless it talks began last month. stock one notch to "default" status. can restructure debt. 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 10, 2002 






Center for Socia( Concerns 
SOCIAL 


~Qr»_S~
CONCERNS 


http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Comf!llJ£WW1/?1Zt1J°ng/Sptem6etr11th 
o O 0 

The Center for Social Concerns encourages members of the ND /SMC communities to continue participating in this week's campus prayer services and panel discussions surrounding the commemoration of September 11th• Two of the several events remaining this week include a prayer service beginning at the Grotto today at 8 p.m., cosponsored by Campus Ministry and Student Government. And, tomorrow, September 11th, a memorial Mass will be held at 5 p.m. near the 


reflecting pool of Hesburgh Library. 
~=~==================~==~==~=====~~==~---------------· 
Social Concerns Seminars!! I IMPORTANT NOTICE I I For Anyone Interested In I
Applications are available now at the CSC. 

I Using A University Vehicle for I
Appalachia Seminar sends 190+ students to 3 states in the Appalachia region to work with and learn 
I Transportation for Seroice And I
from 16 different local partners. Sites range from building and repairing homes, working in alternative 
I Social Action Programming! I
schools, and assisting in small Catholic parishes. 

I As the result of the creation of a new ser-I
The Gullah Seminar examines the rich history and culture of the Gullah people, many of whom are 
I vice at the University Transportation I
descendants of slaves brought over from West Africa. Seminar consists of service and cultural oppor­
Services Department (www.nd.edu/
tunities. (Note: This seminar is open to ALL classes.) 

: ~undtrans), requests for group, residence : 
Livin2 the Gospel of Life Seminar 

hall, department and academic NON-SER­This pilot seminar focuses on a variety of pro-life issues (death penalty, euthanasia, stem cell research, 
I viCE programming will be processed I 
abortion, etc) in Washington, D.C. Students meet with Church, legislative, and non-governmental 
: through the Transportation Services De-: organizations that work on "life issues". 
partment...I Important Recent Policy Change: I
Washini=ton Seminar By visiting a Benedictine monastery, a Catholic Worker farm, and several I The Center for Social Concerns will sched-I
Catholic public policy organizations in D.C., this seminar will explore how we, as Christians, are I ule and rent Transportation Services Ve-Icalled to live and work in the world. 
I hides ONLY for use for service and so-I
Cultural Diversity Seminar 


I cia] action programming transportation. I Explore the strengths of our diversity as a people and a nation; experience culturally I Groups or departments with budget sup-I diverse communities in Chicago and dialogue with leaders about social change. 
I port may be asked to contribute to the I Cosponsored by MSPS and the Urban Life Center in Chicago. 
I Center's cost of renting from the Transpor-I 
Rosebud Reservation Global Health Initiative Seminar 

I tation Services Department. I This seminar introduces students to issues of healthcare and healthcare deli very on the 
I Training; For information on how to re-I Rosebud Native American reservation in South Dakota. Cosponsors include InterVol 
I quest a vehicle attend one of the training I and Global Health Initiative. CORRECTION: This seminar, once slotted for spring 
I sessions offered. All drivers of vehicles I 
break, will run during fall break! 

I scheduled through the Center for Social I 
Application Due Date: TOMORROW, Wednesday, September 11th! 
I Concerns mustcompletetheTransporta-1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_;,I I tion Department Defensive Driving I SENIOR TRANSITION PROGRAMS I Training Course as well as a brief pre-I Information Session: IID@m:ril®§Uli~ §®lf'I/Il<f® W'lhllil\19.ii W~:i!\l 'P I sentation on CSC policies and proce-I lFir<IDilfPailliID~ <Cll'ii!l~Il'iilil il'®Il' IID~(l!Il§Il®IIDg™IlillkilIIDi I dures on one of the following Sundays: 9/ I TONIGHT!, Tuesday, 9/10 Fr. Michael Himes Video Presentation 115, 9122, 9129(6:45 p.m.,102 DeBartolo) I 
5 -6:15 pm, Siegfried Hall Lounge Wednesday, Sept. 11 .---------¦--------• -----•
Returned Volunteer Speakers from: Siegfried Hall, 5:00 -7:00 PM Faculty Opportunities ... A Simple Supper will be served. The Center offers resources to faculty members teaching
Alliance for Catholic Education,Americorps,Holy Cross community-based learning and research courses. If you 
A · t J 'tu l C RSVP-1-5779

ssocta es esui ro unteer oros are interested in some support for your work in this area, 

International Summer Service Learning Program please contact Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Center Associate Information Night Director, Concurrent Associate Professor of Economics, TONIGHT!! at beckman.9@nd.edu or 1-4172. She can assist with 
Tuesday Sept. 10 6:30-7:30 pm at the CSC course development grants, workshops, reading materi­' ' ' als, and more. 
: CruurreIIBt V0TI1u11mteer Needl§ 
: Faith in Action Respite Care Tutoring : General Requests Contact: Sharon Burnside at ISTEP tutors : Michiana AIDS Walk 254-0454, ext. 221 Contact: Barbara Burquette at Dockside Drug Prevention Program 
•This event is a 5K walk along Volunteers are needed to provide a break for Agency; 299-8595 Contact: Verlie Manns or !South Bend's riverfront and will family caregivers from their daily routine of Volunteers are needed to tutor high school Phyllis Turley at 232-9873 : be held on Sunday, September caring for a loved one. Two orientation ses-students in math in preparation for the Tutors are needed for chil­: 22nd at 2:00 p.m. at Potawatomi sions are required: Oct 1st and Oct. 8th from 6-!STEP test which will be held September dren in a drug prevention pro­: Park. Walkers collect money to 9 p.m. 22nd-24th • Tutoring will be held on Tues-gram set up by the govern-
support AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Thurs from 4-5:30 at Dockside located on ment. It runs in six-week ses-Assist. Gather a group of Boy Scouts South Michigan St. sions on M/W from 4-5 p.m. friends from your dorm and join Contact Karen Carl at 289-0337, or Bob Dill 
in this great event! Stop by the at 656-8984 S.A.I.N.T.S. (St. Adalbert's IN school SAT Prep Center for Social Concerns to If you were a boy scout, please consider be-Tutoring Service) Contact: Paula Muller at pick up a registration form. coming a trained boy scout leader. Two train-Contact: Dan Hoople at 634-3968 or 271-8370 
ing sessions will be held on Sept. 25th and 28th . Hoople. I@nd.edu A tutor is needed for a high St. Joseph Regional Medical Please contact Karen or Bob for more infor-SAINTS is a program that invites ND/ school student who needs to Center mation. SMC/HC students of all majors to spend bring up her Math SAT Contact Denise Kapsa at time teaching lessons, aiding, or tutoring scores. She can meet at 
237-7242. Conversation Exchange Partners (CEP) one-on-one at St. Adalbert's K-8 school. Hesburgh Library on T/Th Volunteers are needed to work Contact: Connie Peterson-Miller at 631-Spanish-speaking tutors are needed. Call from 4-5 p.m. in the ER, with Outpatient Pe-3825, or cpeters4 @n<l.edu Dan for more information on days and diatric Therapy, and as nurses' CEP is a chance to meet individually with an times. aides. Must attend an orienta-international student, scholar or spouse and Child Care ***If you have any tion session on 9/24 (3-5:30 help them master English through conversa-El Campito questions about these P.m.) or 9/25(5:30-8 p.m.). tionwhileyoushareinsightsabouteachother's Contact:PatRichardsat232-0220 volunteerprojectsfeel : 
free to email 
1

Stop by the CSC to pick up an cu ture and interests. Meetings are arranged 2 volunteers are needed to watch children •
cscvols@nd.edu.*** •
application or email Denise at: ~ccording to your own schedules once a match during a parenting group on the last Tues-: kaosad@sic,0 .org. IS made. rlav of everv month from <:;-~n-7 nm •
••••• •'i••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·" -............ ·•·¥ ,-.-~ ••-••.••••••••••••••••••••• 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS page 9 
U-WIRE 
Penn State student is hospitalized after fall 
By ADAM FABIAN Daily Collegian 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 

A 20-year-old Pennsylvania State University student suf­fered serious injuries early Sunday morning after she fell from an eighth-floor balcony at Beaver Terrace apartments, 456 E. Beaver Ave, the State College Police Department said. 
The woman was initially taken to Centre Community Hospital. She was then trans­ferred to the Trauma Center at Altoona Hospital, and has since been taken to the Hershey Medical Center, where she may have undergone surgery Sunday, police said. 
Police would not release her 

name Sunday because they had 
not contacted all of her family. 
She fell at about 2:55 a.m., landing on her face in the rocks on the west side of the 11-story apartment building. 
Police said she fell from the 

balcony at her apartment and 
they do not believe there was a 
party in the apartment. 
State College Police Department Sgt. John Gardner said police are canvassing the building looking for anyone who might have witnessed the fall. He also said police are attempting to retrace the vie-tim's entire day to learn what she was doing and who she was with. 
"You want to be safe and explore all the angles," Gardner said. "You want to look and see if alcohol was a factor and stuff like that. You don't want to discount any pos­sibilities." 
Greg Sailor witnessed the accident and came to the assis­tance of the injured woman. "I couldn't believe it. I was so freaked out," he said. 
Sailor said he was in an apartment on the floor below the balcony the victim fell from when the incident occurred. 
He said the victim was com­pletely horizontal during the fall and did not hit anything on the way down. Beaver Terrace apartments have air-condition­ing units on the ground around the area where she fell. 
"I sprinted down there -I took the steps. the elevator was taking forever," Sailor said. 
Sailor said that as soon as he 
arrived where the victim was 
lying, he and others flipped her 
on her back and turned her 
head to the side. 
"As soon as I got to her I checked her pulse and every­thing," Sailor said. "She wasn't breathing consistently." 
He also said the victim was 
bleeding when he arrived. 

U.S. visa policies strand students 
By I.AURA DORGAN Harvard Crimson 

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Today, Adrian Ow Yung Hwei is slated to register as a first­year with the rest of the Class of 2006. But Hwei can't step foot within U.S. borders, since he has yet to receive his visa. 
Because Hwei is from Malaysia -one of 26 countries for which the State Department has created new, strict, post­Sept. 11 visa policies -no one can guarantee when his visa will arrive. 
Hwei is one of handful stu­dents slated to enroll at Harvard this fall who are cur­rently in a state of limbo, won­dering if their paperwork will arrive in time for them to make it to class. 
These students, now waiting in countries including Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Sudan, face a convoluted new security system still in its forming stages, and tight-lipped officials who can't tell them what is going on-or when they will get their visas. 
As of July 25, Mohamed Al­lssiss was set for this year-he had a slot as a first-year at the Business School and, as a resi­dent tutor in business, a suite in Mather House with his name on it. He would be spending the term with his fiance, also a Harvard graduate student slat­ed to graduate in 2004. 
He expected to pick up his visa at the American Embassy in Jordan, another of the 26 countries subject to new restrictions. on July 28. 
But on July 26, Al-Ississ received a phone call from the embassy, informing him that "new instructions" would mean a considerable delay for his visa. 
Al-Ississ is still in Jordan, waiting. 
"No one could give you a guarantee by what date it will be done," said State Department spokesperson Stuart Patt. 
Patt said a significant backlog prevents new visa applications from getting immediate atten­tion. 
Patt declined to describe the new security procedures for visa applications, saying only that all U.S. security organiza­tions are involved. 
"We're as anxious as anyone to see to it visas don't take too long," Patt said. "We are [also) more concerned that security checks be done." 
For Al-Ississ, who has devot­ed many hours to lobbying for his cause, the paperwork is already too late. Business School students of the Class of 2004 registered on Aug. 23, and a 10-day extension he received from the Harvard Business School has come and gone. 
"The Harvard Business School has a very strict policy on zero tolerance for absence," Al-Ississ wrote in an e-mail. "While being sympathetic to my situation. they did not allow me to join later than that because classes have been well under­way." 
The Business School offered him a spot in next year's class, which he has accepted. 
Meanwhile, Mather has scrambled to put a residential tutor into the suite reserved for Al-Ississ, and they don't have an in-house business tutor. 
As a College graduate who then worked at a major con­sulting group for two years, Al­Ississ was uniquely well­equipped for the job, said Mather House 
Master Leigh Hafrey, adding that Mather will try to make a spot for him next year. 
In the meantime. Al-lssiss is 
looking for a job in Jordan and 
trying to get past his draining 
months. 

"It is logistical, financial, and personal devastating experi­ence," Al-Ississ wrote. 
Hwei, whose education is being paid for by the Malaysian government, faces similarly distressing options. 
He has received special per­
mission from the Freshman 
Dean's Office to arrive in four 
days, on Sept. 13 -but only if 
his visa has arrived by then. 
Meanwhile, his scholarship is 
at stake, he said-the govern­
ment controls the funding, and 
the terms are not under his 
control. 

The Llniversit_y of Notre Dame will commemorate the events of September 1 l th with the following: 
FRAYLR. VJGfLat the Grotto, tallowed b~ a candlelight procession Tuesda_y, September 10 8:00 p.m. Music will be provided b_y the Notre Dame folk Choir and Notre Dame Glee Club. 
R.OSAR.Y SLR.V)CL at the Grotto 
Wednesda_y, 5eptember 1 l 12:00 noon 
MASS atthe Librar_y Reflecting rool 
Wednesda_y, September 11 5:00 p.m. 
F ATHE.R E.DWARD A-MALLOY. C.5.C. 
Fresider and Homilist 

Music b~ the combined L)asilica and LJniversit9 Choirs 
------------------------------------------, 
page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
Foreign opposition to military action in Iraq softening 
AAociatcd Pr= 
WASHINGTON 
The White House said inter­national opposition to military action against Iraq -at least as a last resort -is softening as more world leaders have said Saddam Hussein cannot be allowed to snub U.N. weapons inspectors. 
Officials from France. Spa.in, Denmark and the Netherlands denounced Saddam in excep­tionally blunt terms Monday, and some allies said military action cannot be ruled out if Bush works through the United Nations to confront Saddam. 
The comments, a subtle but potentially significant shift in tone among wary U.S. allies, came as senior administration officials said Bush planned to urge the U.N. on Thursday to demand that Saddam open his weapons sites to unfettered inspections or face punitive action. 
In his address Thursday to the U.N. General Assembly. Bush is not expected to set a deadline nor spell out the con­sequences -leaving the finer points to U.S. and U.N. diplo­mats who may produce a for­mal resolution -but his address will make it clear that military action will be taken if Iraq doesn't comply, officials said. 
The officials, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said Bush is convinced Saddam will pro­voke military action. 
Bush's case was bolstered by the International Institute for Strategic Studies, a London group that issued a report say­ing Iraq could build a nuclear weapon in a few months if it obtained radioactive material. It warned. too, of Saddam's pow­erful arsenal of chemical and biological weapons. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Naji Sabri called such claims "false pretexts, false accusations" designed to turn the world against Iraq. 
White House aides said that while few allies are fully behind Bush, the comments of world leaders in recent days suggest the debate has shifted from a question of whether the United States should confront Saddam to a matter of how it should be done. 
U.N. 
inspectors trying to determine whether Iraq pos­sesses biological, chemical or nuclear weapons left Iraq in 1998 and have been barred from returning despite several 

U.N. 
resolutions. Bush intends to tells world leaders the rele­vancy of the U.N. is at stake as he seeks to disarm Saddam. 


"It does appear that a move­ment is budding to put some force to previous U.N. resolu­tions," White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. 
"It's clear that both the Congress and the U.N. are returning to an issue that had not gotten sufficient attention in recent years, and now some muscle looks like it's being put at least rhetorically into the deliberations of the world's leaders," he said. 
Fleischer did not offer exam­ples, but Bush advisers private­ly said the president was pleas­antly surprised by a proposal from French President Jacques Chirac. 
Chirac suggested a three­week deadline to allow the return of U.N. weapons inspec­tors. Ifrefused, a second resolu­tion to use military force would have to be passed. 
Bush appreciated the talk of a quick deadline, one adviser said. 
White House officials took note of remarks by other world leaders, including: 
. 
Dutch Prime Minister Jan­Peter Balkenende said Iraq should accept weapons inspec­tors and military action should be used as a last resort. 

. 
Anders Fogh Rasmussen, Denmark's prime minister and president of the European Union. called Saddam a "mad dictator." U.S. officials said Rasmussen made it known he might support the concept of "coercive inspections." Under that concept, also being consid­ered by Bush, Iraq would be forced to open suspect sites; thousands of American or multinational troops would he deployed in or near Iraq to launch an attack if inspectors were denied. 

. 
The head of NATO's panel of military chiefs said the threat of military force should not be ruled out as a last resort. 

. 
The Vatican's foreign minis­ter warned of the consequences of war, but seemed to leave the door open to action sanctioned by the U.N. 


Bush pressed his case in a face-to-face meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien while the pair promot­ed safe-border initiatives in Detroit. 
He also telephoned President Ahmet Necdet Sezer of Turkey, United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah, NATO 
Secretary  General  Lord  
Robertson  and  Denmark's  
Rasmussen.  

Chretien said Bush did not seek Canada's support. 
"I want him to go and have an international coalition with the 
U.N. and go and convince other countries through the United Nations," Chretien said. 
Chretien said he pressed Bush for evidence linking Saddam with al-Qaida, the terrorist organization headed by Osama 

bin Laden. "You'd be wise to hang it up -At a conference in "They are not relating it to al­go find other employment. The Washington on U.S.-Arab rela­Qaida at the moment," Chretien United States is deadly serious 
tions, Gen. Tommy Franks,
said. about winning the war on terror commander of U.S. forces in the Bush foreign policy advisers ... and if that means, as it prob­region. said more than 4,000continued a blitz of TV inter­ably does, using our forces to do U.S. troops are in Kuwait "toviews to make the president's so, we're prepared to do that." 
prevent miscalculation by a
case. He did not specifically men­regime that has flouted Security 
Vice President Dick Cheney, in tion Saddam. though White an interview with Fox News House officials said he probably Council resolutions from the Channel, warned terrorists: had the Iraqi leader in mind. first, in 1991." 
Got FootbaII? 

, 'iJ 
~ 111111 TICKII lOIIIDI' """' 
,/ 111111 CH.llltilfiil ~ 
5:30-7:30 (not 8:30) \ 
/ 
TODAY 

LaFortune Ballroom 
Bring your student ID Only 1 ID per person 
Pick up your lottery ticket number today. Numbers will be drawn this evening and po~ted in Wednesday's Observer. Winning ticket holders will be able to buy a pair of tickets on Thursday between 1 and 5 at the SUB office in 201 LaFortune. 


The Easy Banking Club 
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Faculty and Staff 
Great Benefits 

Sign up for direct deposit payroll at 1st Source Bank and receive the following great benefits: 
• 
Free checking account* 

• 
Interest on balances over $750 

• 
Unlimited check writing 

• 
Free Resource<!!> or Resource Plus<!!> card 

• 
l/2% interest discount on consumer loans 

• 
$100 mortgage closing cost discount 

• 
Free Online Banking account information access 

• 
And much more... 


Ask Human Resources or a 1st Source Bank representative for details on how easy it is to join. 
More Convenient Than Ever! 
Access your money at our banking center right on the Saint 


Mary's campus or step-up to any of our three on-campus Resource® Centers (ATMs). With locations in Haggar College Center and LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's, and Hesburgh Library at Notre Dame, 1st Source has the extras to serve you better. 
Saint Mary's Banking Center • 235-2019 
M-Th • 10:00 to 4:00 F • 10:00 to 4:30
www.lstsource.com 

'Subject to new account credit restrictions. 


page 11
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
INDIA 
Train crash kills at least 100 
DAME COMMUNITY 
Without you, Campus Ministry 
doesn't have a prayer........ . 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition ofthe Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visit our new website 
.. 
today for information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 
http://www.nd.edu/~prayers/ 

IRAQ 
Officials reject 
U.S. evidence 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 
Iraq challenged the United 
States on Monday to produce 
"one piece of evidence" that 
Baghdad is producing 
weapons of mass destruction. 
Iraqi officials also took 
reporters on two tours in an 
attempt to refute accusations 
President Saddam Hussein is 
rebuilding sites linked to past 
nuclear efforts and training 
terrorists. 
The head of a U.N. atomic 
weapons team, Jacques Baute, 
said Friday that satellite pho­
tos show unexplained new 
construction at several sites 
the team used to visit when it 
was still allowed into Iraq for 
inspections. Baute did not 
identify the sites in his com­
ments. 
British Prime Minister Tony 
Blair, President Bush's main 
ally in the Iraq standoff, has 
cited the satellite photos as 
proof Saddam had a weapons 
of mass destruction program 
that posed a threat. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Naji 
Sabri said such assessments 
"are pretexts for ... aggression 
against our country, they 
know very well that these are 
pretexts, false accusa­
tions." 
"We challenge them to pre­'sent one piece of evidence, a single piece of evidence for 
these accusations," Sabri said. 
Bush has threatened Iraq with unspecified consequences if he does not allow the return of U.N. weapons inspectors to certify Iraq is not producing weapons of mass destruction. 
Iraq agreed to such inspec­tions after the Gulf War in 1991, but the inspectors left in December 1998 ahead of U.S. and British airstrikes, and Baghdad has not allowed them back. 
Sanctions imposed by the 
U.N. Security Council on Iraq for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait cannot be lifted until the inspectors certify Baghdad has surrendered nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and the missiles to deliver them. 
Iraq has denied it still has weapons of mass destruction and has offered only to contin­ue dialogue with the United Nations about the return of inspectors. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan has demanded that inspectors be allowed to return unconditionally as a first step to further talks. 
Iraqi F.M. disputes weapons allegations 
"We've never put condi­tions," Sabri said. "We call for the implementation of Security Council resolutions." 
The United States not Baghdad, he charged, was preventing the functioning of the U.N. resolutions. 
Remembering September I I 
Prayers for Peace, Hope and Healing 
Bells tolled at: 
7:45 a.m.  AA Flight 11 nashecl into North Towet  CB:45 a.m. EDT)  
8:30 a.m.  UA Flight 175 crashec.y into South Tower (9:03 21.m. EDT)  
8:45 a.m.  AA Flight 77 crcished into the Pentagon (9:43 a.m. EDT)  
9:10 a.m.  VA Flight 93 crashed in Pennsylvani21  (10:10 a.m. EDT)  

You :p·e invitee/ to t,:1ke q moment ofs!lence fat the victims ,117cf theft fiimilies 4s well ,1s to pt<1y fa,-pe,1ce ,1nc/ justice thtoughout the worlc/. 
Interfaith Memorial Prayer Service 
Noon, Regina Chapel 
f 
Mass for Peace and Justice 
9:30 p.m., Holy Spitit Chapel, Le Mans Hall 
--f±J-­Office of campus Ministry Saint MfilY-'s Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME · INDIANA 

. Officials suspect sabotaged tracks derailed train 
Associated Press 
PATNA 
An express train traveling from Calcutta to New Delhi jumped its tracks and plunged into a river Monday, and at least 100 passengers were reported dead, officials said. 
The Rajdhani Express plunged into the river at about 
10:40 p.m. near the village of Rafiganj, about 100 south of the Bihar state capital of Patna, federal telecommunications official R.K. Singh told The Associated Press. 
"Several train cars are hang­ing from the bridge. The other coaches are just thrown around," Singh said. "The bod­ies are being taken out slowly. Many are dead. The river is very deep and that is a problem for rescuers." 
Bandaru Dattatreya, the junior minister for railroads, told Star News TV that 100 passengers were killed and at least 100 injured. 
He told the station that secu­rity forces have been sent to the site. 
Authorities were not ruling out sabotage as a cause of the derailment, saying it appeared that the train tracks had been tampered with. 
"Our preliminary reports say that this is sabotage," Dattatreya told the station. "Clearly some forces are behind it." The Associated Press could not immediately reach Dattatreaya for an inter­view. 
Deepak Sandhu, a spokesman for the Indian railways system, said six railroad cars had fallen into the river, though witnesses at the scene said only one car was submerged in the water. 
Singh, who said he was in touch with rescuers at the scene via satellite phone, said that at least one train car was fully submerged in the water and that the engine and two other train cars were still dan­gling from the bridge. 
Officials said an Indian army rescue team was leaving from New Delhi, as well as a special train for families of passengers. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dirung Hall. Noue Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFar.ley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUS!NF,$ MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
MST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANA.GER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Karie lvkKenna 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROlllR: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us 
OmCE MA.-.AGERlGENEilAL INF0 ..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING ...................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CH!EF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63 l-5313 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporcs. I@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.nd.edufor daily updates ofcampllS news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Quertions regarding Obmverpolicies rhould be dillct­ed to Editor in ChefJason McFar!ey. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObK~t (USPS-599 2-4000) ii; p11bfuhed Monday through Frid~ ~xccpt during exam and. vacation periods. A 1ub5criptioo to The Ol»crvcr U 5100 foro!K ~mic year, SS5 £o.,onc Kmut.er. 
The ObscIVtt i1 pu\,!.i1ht,d, .at; POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining H~I Send ,1,dd{w cocn."'Clioni ro: 
No~ Da,ne. !N 46556--0779 TheOI.~rvcr 
Pcriodk1.I ~o.gc pUd u Notte Darnc ?.0. fu»Q 
iwd oil.XfidotuJ tnililing offic;.;.s. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, JN 46SS6,.0779 

The Ob«rva lJ 1 mcmher of the As.soci:i.ted l'reu. All reproduction rigbtc are =J. 

Response to war cries demands more thought than day's emotion provides 
We were in a TV lounge in Pasquerilla West when the second tower fell -a year ago tomorrow. I cringed and clutched my knees to my chest. My friend's face turned ghost white. 
Joanna
They say a lot has changed since Mikulski then. 
In the immediate 
Tuesday Voice
hours, days and weeks following Sept. 11, 2001, a sense of fear. uncer­tainty and vulnerability entered my view of my country, my world and my life. Like never before I wanted to reach out to my friends and class­mates. my fellow Americans. 
However, as the months passed, I continued to go to class. Final exams came and went. A new semester and then the summer began. My daily life on Sept. 10, 2002, is very similar to what I expected it to be on Sept. 10, 2001. Of course, I realize I was fortu­nate not to be personally touched by the tragedy. The lives of those who were have undoubtedly been altered incomprehensibly. 
What I have taken with me is an event fixed like no other in my memo­ry. In my mind's eye, the moment when the second tower fell is like a still photograph that will never alter or fade. 
Yet, they -the Bush administra­tion, other politicians and govern­ment officials -insist that my life is different. They say Americans, like myself, will never feel secure in their country again. 
They say Sept. 11 is reason to begin 

another war. 
In the American media, government and everyday conversation, "Sept. 11," "9/11" or "9-1-1" has come to signify much more than the date, Sept. 11, 2001. 
When the president, vice-president, Secretary of State Colin Powell or any other American uses the phrase "Sept. 11," they refer to much more than four planes crashing into the Twin Towers, the Pentagon and a field in Pennsylvania. 
"9/11" now encompasses much more than the enormous loss of life. It embodies the sense of fear and unity that Americans, like myself, felt in the moments, days and weeks fol­lowing that day. 
The Bush administration is now using "Sept. 11" to justify a war against Iraq to the nation. Their use of "Sept. 11" does not invalidate the threat that Iraq poses. If the country is working to build a nuclear arsenal. it jeopardizes the safety of all people throughout the Middle East and the world. 
However, it is no coincidence that President Bush asked for congres­sional approval of war last week ­just as the country is revisiting the tragedy. 
Vice-President Cheney is now urg­ing Congress to approve war on Iraq before it breaks for the November elections. 
What happened on Sept. l l, 2001, sent the. United States into war in Afghanistan. 
Before it responds to the Bush administration's call to "Sept. 11," Congress needs to take the time to thoroughly and fully review all intelli­gence. It must confirm that the evi­dence justifying war against Saddam Hussein's regime is as valid -if not more so -than that which led the country into war in Afghanistan. 
It should not act on two emotions, which the Bush administration is now playing upon -the fear and the patriotic desire to unify the country that Americans felt following the ter­rorist attacks. 
If Congress does give the president its approval -even despite a lack of international support, it must also demand that he not move forward with war until all peaceable means of eliminating the Iraqi threat are exhausted. 
Tomorrow. that moment in the dorm lounge will still flash in vivid color before my eyes. War on Iraq will be an afterthought for myself and for many Americans. On Sept. 11, 2002, a day of thought, prayer and reflection, the country will remember the very real tragedy of a year ago. 
Yet. as they mourn for the loss of life and celebrate the heroic actions of many on Sept. 11, 2001, Americans need to consider what Sept. 11 has come to mean. 
It has changed a lot since then. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English and German major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. She can be reached at mikulski.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Andrew Thagard Teresa Fralish Sarah Nestor 
Viewpoint 

Kristin Ycrnm Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto Sports 
Jo<~ I (ptl]Pr 
Lauren Dasso Christine Armstrong 
Scene 
Mike Schmuhl 
Lab Techs 
Tim Kacmar 
Annie Kelly 
Illustrator 
Veronica 
Kelleher 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'It has now become clear to the whole world 
Should students in air-conditioned dorms pay 
that each war is the creation ofa preceding 
more for room and board'? 

war and the generator ofnew present or future wars. " Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
Maxim Maximovich Litinov Russian revolutionary 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
How should we react on Sept. 11? 
Reflect on America's direction and reconsider foreign policy 

No doubt, this Sept. 11 will see a campus clad in red, white and blue. Flags will hang out ofwindows, and people will strut on the quads in their latest trendy America­themed T-shirts. As highly educated students of one of the finest institutions for higher learning in this country, please do not succumb to the jingoistic and ethnocentric fervor that will likely sweep the nation one year after the tragedy that occurred in New York. 
Use Sept. 11 as a day for quiet reflection or intelligent discussion about the direction of this great nation. 
Yes, Sept. 11 was a horrific tragedy, the likes of which have never been visited upon American soil. Yes, many Americans died tragi­cally and heroically in the events that transpired on Sept. 11. In no way do I intend to detract from the sorrow and misfortune surrounding the most heinous crimes in American history. As an educated society, we need to use Sept. 11 not just as a day for mourning our dead and celebrating the great­ness of our nation, but as a day to continually reevaluate all aspects ofAmerican society. 
While thousands ofAmericans died in New York one year ago, we seem to forget that many Afghani civil­ians have perished as a result of our wide-scale bomb­ing campaign in Afghanistan after Sept. 11. Countless other civilians were driven from their homeland into refugee camps along the Pakistani border, where food, water and medical care were in short supply. Our actions in Afghanistan have punished an entire country for the actions of a terrorist group supported by a govern­ment that had no mandate from the population. 
Let us use this anniversary to reconsider American foreign policy throughout the world. As our actions in Afghanistan dur­ing the Soviet-era helped sow the seeds ofdiscontent and hatred for Americans that now manifests itself in the 21st century, we seem to be approaching another breaking point as we creep closer to war with Iraq. Saddam Hussein retains his death grip on Iraqi politics because of the U.S.-led embargo on Iraq. As Saddam's people starve, he vilifies the United States for causing the famine with our embargo. Without the embargo and a popular enemy, Saddam would have little choice but to feed his people or face wide-scale revolt, as his hold on power would be dramatically eroded. 
On Sept. 11, wave your American flags, wear your America T-shirts, but please use the day as a day to reflect on the direction ofAmerica. The events that occurred on Sept. 11, rather than merely muster our patriotism, should instead act as an impetus for improvement of our grand nation. 
Darren Luft 
sophomore Zahm Hall Sept. 9 

Put politics aside and unite in remembrance and hope 
I think both Anna Nussbaum and Thomas Witherspoon made some good points in their letters ofThursday and yesterday, respectively, but I disagree to some extent with both of them. The American flag means many things to many people, and I think that is where we run into trouble in waving it. I believe that Nussbaum is say­ing it has a negative connotation and a lack of empathy with other nations, and that 
patriotism is not necessarily a good thing. "Patriotism" is defined as "love and devotion to one's country." Let's hope that this love of our country will not stand in the way of loving other countries as well. Witherspoon wants us to hang the flag in order to "propa­gate our superior values that it stands for in opposition to the evil values of terrorist nations." In addition, we should wave it "to convert the entire world to its patriotism." I looked up 'pride' in the dictionary and I was surprised to fmd under its definition "an excessively high opin­
ion of oneself; conceit." People, myself included, have used this word thinking it has a positive con­notation. 
Please don't misunderstand me, for I am against terrorism. However, we should not act as ifwe are better than everyone else, and we should not try to convert everyone on the basis of "we know what's 
best." Consequences have to be assessed before actions are taken and other countries, besides our own, should be included in the decision making 
process. We can't exclude everyone else-on the theory that we are a superior nation. Well, obviously there is a conflict here. Having people 
all over America wave the flag shows unity, but unity in what? Unity in fighting other nations until everyone with "evil values" is dead, along with the millions of others caught in the crossfire? Is our unity in pride for our nation? A friend of mine told 
me that he understands being happy where you live, but halfthe people who are so avid about the United States have no idea what's going on anywhere else. They haven't seen impoverished countries; they don't accept people trying to make a better life here because they are "invading their country." Where exactly did everyone else here come from? 
I don't have the answers to these tough questions, but I do propose a temporary solution. On Sept. 11, we should remember all of those who died in that terrible tragedy, and even those who have died in previous tragedies all over the world. How about for one day, we forget politics and just hope that something like this will never, ever happen again. I believe that is something we call all be unified in. 
Angelina Zehrbach 
sophmore Farley Hall Sept. 9 
Diversity workshop bluntness had a point 
I am responding to the Sept. 2 article on the Diversity Matters Workshop entitled, "Diversity talk raises questions." 
Francis E. Kendall, Ph.D., began her presentation on diversity by tear­ing us from our comfort level and propelling us into controversy. Her message was shocking and blunt for the audience comprised mostly of white women. Dr. Kendall explained that white women have privileges that allow them to view everyone as individuals without considering themselves as part of a racial group. White privilege gives a choice to address racism and discrimination, whereas men and women ofcolor do not have this luxury. 
Kendall is correct in saying our education has done a great disservice to us ifwe cannot keep ourselves open to realities within our society. Racism is institutionalized whether it's the opinions of administrators or laws of the past that have repercussions on today's generations. The pur­pose of Kendall's presentation was not to put white women on the defense but to offer hope. Kendall challenged the white women of the audience to recognize who they are so that they may become agents of change within our communities. 
Katherine Kelly freshman McCandless Hall Sept. 5 

Student cried wolf with 'police brutality' claims 
I find it amusing that Matt Roberts is crying police brutality in his letter yesterday after a South Bend cop grabbed a female student's arm when she tried to walk away from him while being addressed. I would like to see Mr. Roberts explain to Rodney King and Abner Louima why the incident he witnessed is "police brutality at its best." Police brutality is a very serious issue, and albeit a rare occur­rence, it needs to be exposed when a legiti­mate claim surfaces. 
Mr. Roberts failed to address a few questions about the incident that I would love to have answered: Obviously the girl was drinking, but was she actually 21? (He never actually says.) Did Mr. Roberts have a perfect view of the encounter in which he could hear everything said? Was Mr. Roberts drinking himself? Were the police called there by somebody, perhaps an angry neighbor? Did he think to ask? Does the South Bend City code allow for public alco­hol consumption? [fhe answer is no.) If the student<; were partying, did they keep the noise do\\11 when they were first asked? 
I particularly enjoyed it when he complained about the officers putting their automobile in a 'No Parking Zone.' Ifhe or anybody calls the police, does Mr. Roberts want them to delay their response time by searching for a legal parking spot for their police car before arriving on the scene? You have to be kidding me, right? 
I want to assure all of those confused schol­ars who were intrigued by Mr. Roberts column that what you were given was a half story and from what details were included I can tell you right away that the use of the phrase "police brutality" is shameless and misguided. I guar­antee that the officers who confronted Mr. Roberts would have something very different to say and it would probably make more sense. The public and the police must work together to eliminate legitimate brutality claims. This cause can not be furthered when seemingly irrational young adults cry wolf. 
Timothy Malin 13th Precinct, NYPO class of '99 Sept. IO 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
Coldplay constructs a masterpiece 
By LIAM FARRELL Scene Music Critic 
From the opening chords of 2000's "Yellow," it was obvious that Coldplay had enormous talent and potential in songwrit­ing and performance. Their album Parachutes was easily one of the best debuts of the pabi. decade and the Grammy winning album was filled with lonesome ballads that accompanied any late night. 

Sadly, most of the promising bands that have appeared in recent memory have had poor sophomore albums. The Counting Crows and Llve being the most depressing examples of bands with solid and moving first efforts but wholly forgettable second albums. With the newly released A Rush of Blood to the Bead, Coldplay not only avoid being placed on such a list, but they also establish themselves as the most talented and significant band to appear in the post­grunge world. By turns uplifting. melan­choly, sparse and full, Coldplay has created an album that few artists will ever be able to match. 
From the building, insistent block chords that start the angry "Politik" to the lonely closing ballad "Amsterdam," the musical and lyrical compositions of Coldplay's songs are brilliant and haunting. Very few artists have the ultimate com­mand of melody and production that is pre­sent throughout the album, as it is filled with soaring hooks, intense bridges, and layers of musical lines. The album's lyrics form an almost cautionary tale about unre­quited love and loss. as lead singer Chris Martin's delicate falsetto voice creates an atmosphere of yearning that makes the tis­
tener's heart bleed along with his. melody showcases a man tortured by his Ambient strings lifted from the dance own mistakes, stating that "I started look-clubs of London mix with dancing guitar ing for a warning sign when the truth is I 
lines heavily influ­enced by The Smiths' Johnny Marr and U2's The Edge on "Clocks," "Daylight" and "A Whisper" heavily produced songs with tragic lyrics. The beat of the drums ticks away the time the singer spent wondering if he is "part of the cure or part of the disease" in "Clocks" and in "A Whisper" he pleads with his lover to "come back and look for me when I'm lost" 
"Green Eyes" is a nod to Nick Drake and Tim Buckley with its folk compo­sition, and "A Rush of Blood to the Head" uses a slow beginning and con­trasts of volume to show the failing mind of an unre­quited lover who is willing to "buy a 
c Id I
'9 p ay 
l!'\1·. 
•!>. 
f t 
· : ~ ·.~ :f t ~ 

}\ Rush ~f Bleed Te The Head 
miss you." 
"In My Place," the album's first single, gives the a listener a first hand experience of the remarkable musi­cianship Coldplay commands. The piercing guitar strain is one of the most beautiful pieces of pop music written in recent years, with an equally amazing melody and chorus accompanied by Chris Martin's voice soaring into the upper register. The singer's pleas of "how long must you wait for him" are true, rare emo­tion in a bankrupt pop music world. "God Put a Smile on Your Face", a concert favorite, is an unorthodox, mainly acoustic number with a good groove and 

gun and start a war if you can tell me great contrast of tension and release. something worth fighting for." The slower, Easily the best song on the album is the gentler "Warning Sign" is a more contem-plaintive piano ballad "The Scientist," a plative song, as the primarily electric song wherein the singer aches at his ten­dency to overanalyze relationships to death. "The Scientist" is an example of what Coldplay does best, a desperate love song filled with great melody and lyrics. The signer urges his lover to "come back and hauntme,"andhemarvelsathowshedoes not know the power of her own beauty. Overall, one of the most gorgeous songs written during our lifetime. 
The album ends on a powerful note, with the gentle "Amsterdam," where the singer seems to resolve himself to his loss of love. He sings "I know I'm dead on the sur­face but I'm screaming underneath," and he feels himself fading without her love. The song ends quietly, disappearing along with its singer, leaving only the tragic beau­ty of the preceding music. 
Rarely does any band record an album filled with originality, infectious hooks, and constant strength. With "A Rush of Blood to the Head," Coldplay succeed in creating such an album. There are few records that have songs so haunting that days later the melodies will still be bouncing around in your head; it is an album as addictive as it is necessary. Few artists possess the capa­bilities to reach the emotions of its listeners on so many levels. 
The eleven songs on this album are incredible in their depth and are a neces­sary part of anyone's music collection. In time, perhaps A Rush of Blood to the Head will be recognized as the landmark album it truly is; if not, then it will remain in the same category as Nick Drake's "Pink Moon," a collection of beautiful songs to tis-ten to late at night. 
Contact Liam Farrell at lfarrel@nd.edu 
The Vines entangle listeners with new album 
decorum. His voice means business, and By DANIEL McSWAIN itfs a risky one at that. This is more than Scene Music Critic evident from the start with Nicholls' wails 
and less than sunny lyrics: "If you feel low/ 

McDonald's makes food products. The you can buy love/ from a pay phone." The Vines make music products. McDonald's complimentary vocals swell as the track wraps food in warm, friendly wax paper. progresses. Half harmony, half lumbar The Vines package their music in very inof­shattering scream, this unique blend of fensive, innocuous cellophane. McDonald's voices makes for a jarring and unforget­tastes like a tribute to unhealthy food and table listening sensation. By the end of the 
guilty  pleasure.  track, the listener  
The Vines sound like a tribute to  The Vines  is devastated. After ninety seconds of  


unhealthy life styles. with gener­ous sides of guilt and pleasure. What exactly goes into a McDonald's burg­er? What, exactly, would you call The Vines' musical style? How did singer/guitarist Craig Nicholls. bassist Patrick Mathews, drum­mer Dave Olliffe and guitarist Ryan Griffiths meet working at McDonald's in their native Australia and form The Vines? Some things are better left 


unknown. 

adding a strange 
sense of security to

Composed of one 
part burger-flippin' 
an otherwise 
volatile record.

self-destruction and 
Garage rock gui­
tars build towards a shockwave of overdriven crunch as the chorus explodes. The song comes close to sounding like a bandwagon clone, but manages to carve its own niche, probably due to Nicchols' very unique post-grunge scat. Think Julian Casablancas trying to hail an NYC cab before The Strokes were two parts fast food rage, their debut Highly Evolved is a veritable smorgasbord of musical styles, ranging from full throttle thrash to (no joke) ethereal drug balladry. 

Highly Evolved leads off with the track by the same name, arguably the album's best. Nicholls bursts in with no intro, his guttur­al snarl ripping through any facade of pure, misdirected, post-Cobain-par­tum disgust, youire left drooling. sens­ing the promise that this little un­Happy Meal of an album must have in store. 
"Outtathaway". a very similar but more engaging and developed song, opens with total feedback chaos. Pounding away on the cymbals, newly instated drummer Hamish Hosser establishes an uptempo beat that he keeps for most of the record, anything. 

"Get Free", the albumfs first single, is an unapologetic car crash of a song with twisted metal and broken glass used as a landscape for disgust, despair, and all around musical Armageddon. Not to mention a teen angst anthem if there ever was one. In the guitar driven songs, like this one, The Vines opt for a duck and cover guerilla-style gui­tar solo. The sound rears its head when least expected, and, just as quickly, fades. This whiplash-induc­ing gyration dri­ves the song into an frenzy. only to climax and then phase into a bal­lad. 
With the gears set securely in drive, The Vines do frequently (and almost unex­plainably) down­shift. After the blistering opener, "Autumn Shade" trickles out unexplicably. Complete with pass-the-bong lyrics that float around airy guitars, the song loses sight of its goal, if' it even has one. "Country Yard" and "Mary Jane" (please, there must be better drug song titles out there) sound like Oasis from the early, early years, but lack the bravado that made those tracks so cocksure. Rob Schnapf (Beck, Elliot Smith), the album's producer, took two months with the band in the studio. The production is seamless, 
but at times may be overdone. And the 
choral thing doesn't work for Nicholls. He 
has a very definite style for his voice, and 
the attempt at cherubic crooning sounds 
more like inappropriate caterwauling than the seraphim choir Schnapf may have envi­sioned. Highly Evolved comes together with such a span of genres that its hard to pin the album down. Unlike other bands that have discarded the genre classifica­tion/restriction. it sounds like The Vines have instead tried to become several different genres. Like a severely misguided tribute album, Evolved shoots the spec­trum from fan­tastic and tear­insprnng to downright awful and tear-inspir­ing. Now the choice is theirs. The right path 
can still be taken. Plain and simple, The 
Vines can rock. The Vines can also roll. 
Roll their way right into ill-advised disas­
ters that should have been left on the cut­
ting room floor. But hope springs eternal 
for these Aussie lads. And not unlike those 
trademark arches, the future of The Vines 
looms on the horizon, big and golden. 
Contact Daniel McSwain at dmcswain@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
page 15 
Dave Matthews Band blows away Windy City 
Band continues popular summer tour tradition 
By JULIE BENDER Assistant Scene Editor 
To Dave Matthews Band fans, sum­mer has pretty much become synony­mous with a concert tour. Summer just wouldnit be complete without a DMB concert to liven things up. Last Thursday evening thatis exactly what the band did for their Chicago branch of fans. Despite some setbacks early on, the band delivered a solid set reflecting every phase of their reper­toire. The band seemed as cohesive as ever, feeding off one anotherfs energy a.nd spicing the set with mini-jams between each song. Matthews himself, a man of few words. thanked the audi­ence often, but gave them their true reward through the music. 
With the audience shouting along, the band tore up the stage with the opener "Grey Street," a tune off the band{s latest effort Busted Stuff released this past July. An audience favorite, "Grey Street" is formerly of 

Singer Dave Matthews has grown to become one of the most popular rock-pop artists In recent times. Some major factors In the band's success have been their endless touring schedule and strong fan base. 
the unreleased tapes that fans have 
best live act in the country, the band taken to calling the Lillywhite Sessions filled the night with songs of classic 

after producer Steve Lillywhite. 
allure. Songs like lRhyme and Reason,iUnhappy with the original recordings, "One Sweet World," "So Much to Say,"the band shelved the Lillywhites last and "Too Much," had the mostly high 

year, only to resurrect many of the 
school and college-age crowd up and songs on the Busted Stuff album. The dancing in no time. Matthews himself 

reworked songs create an energetic 
seemed in a particularly good mood, resonance, while still remaining true to the familiar DMB sound. 
Familiar was what the second song of the night was. with the highly recog­nizable bass-line of Stefan Lessard leading into the gorgeous "Crush." Matthews pleading vocals soared through the music, complemented by the rest of the band, each member dis­playing his particular expertise oil his instrument. Leroi Moore gave a phe­nomenal show with his saxophone engineering, forming the back-bone to many of the songs. On drums Carter Beauford was as enthusiastic as ever. perched high and central on the stage. Boyd Tinsley too played solidly, at times meandering through the music, and other times drawing the eyes and ears of the audience with a violent storm of fiddling. Equally endearing was the keyboarding of Butch Taylor. A focus of many of the jams, Taylor displayed his impressive ability to float his piano above the music introducing a jazzy flavor to the nightis melodies. 
Living up to their reputation as the 

smiling and laughing with his band between 
'0!;,t,~JI0'

songs. Playing a lovely rendition of "Seek Up," 
:;: . •'. :;.; ­
Matthews sang the sweet ::::_ :::•:·:.::: intro "Fall back again" ?\ {t{\
···:::;•:·-:, .:-::::-:.::···

before leaping into the disillusioning lyrics, "Oh. late at night, with TV's hungry child/ His belly swells/ Everyday things change, basically they stay the same." Floating into the next song, "Pig," Matthews offered advice and inspiration about life, "The time is short but that's all right/ Maybe I'll go in the mid­dle of the night/ Take your hands from your eyes, my love/ All good things must come to an end some time/ But don't burn the day away." 
Moving into some 
newer songs, the band broke into their latest single "Where Are You Going," which has been Photo Courtesy of www.dmb.com a familiar hit on the air­The Dave Matthews Band (from left to right), LeRoi waves this summer. Moore, Carter Beauford, Dave Matthews, Boyd Next, the band subdued Tinsley and Stefan Lessard. 
the audience with the 
gentle "Digging A 
Ditch," also off of the Busted Stuff again. so the fans on the lawn could at album. Switching to an electric guitar, least enjoy a strong closing to the Matthews closed the set with "What 
show. You Are," a number off last yearfs With their flames held high, the audi­Everyday album. Although the ence howled for more music when the Everyday was a commercial success, band left the stage after the final song. many hard-core fans were unhappy After several minutes, with the audi­
with the tight, radio-friendly songs. enceis anticipation at its max, Instead, they preferred the looser and Matthews humbly re-entered the stage more fluid stylings of earlier albums. solo, equipped with only his acoustic 
"What You Are," however, is one of guitar. Strumming with intensity, he the stronger songs off the album, and sang the bold lyrics, "Grave digger/ has shown up numerous times in the When you dig my grave/ Would you setlists for this summeris concert tour. make it shallow please/ So I could feel 
The highlight of the nightis show the rain," hushing the anxious crowd. came in the jam sessions and mini­All knew what would be next. It 
interludes between the songs. The wouldn't be a DMB show without the ability to read one another and con­re-entry of the entire band and one nect through the spontaneous music is final number complete with a drawn a talent few possess, but the Dave out jam. Matthews Band has made it into an art The audience got what they came 
form. Each band member had their for. On this particular night the band chance to shine with their individual gave a fantastic rendition of the 
style pouring forth from the music. beloved lTwo-Step,i: the intricate num­Teasing the audience, the band fluxed ber off the 1996 album, Crash. Starting between climactic build-ups and tor­the song with the anxiety-ridden 
turous slow-downs before diving into strumming of a single chord, the band the recognizable intro of the next took off with Beaufordfs smash of the song. Such musical surprises are truly drums and flooded the Tweeter Center what the experience of live music is all with song. The audience was carried 
about. No studio album can deliver away as Matthews sailed through the 
quite the same thrill of being a witness ever-quotable lyrics, "Celebrate we 
as a band creates music together. will/ 'Cause Life is short but sweet for 
Although the show was spectacular certain/ We're climbing two by two/ To for those fans actually inside Chicagois be sure these days continue/ Things we Tweeter Center, the fans who pur­cannot change." 
chased lawn seats were not so fortu­
As the concert drew to a close it nate. For at least half the show one of 
became undeniable that the summer the speakers facing the lawn was not was drawing to a close and with that functioning correctly, sputtering out the concert season. For Dave Matthews bits of the show now and then, but fans, however, there is promise of mostly remaining mute. Fans on the more summer tours to come and of 
lawn had to struggle to hear any course more music. Despite the speak­vocals at all, and were left deaf to er outage for those on the lawn, and 
some of the most intricate jamming. the unruly traffic both before and after When Matthews played the delicate the show, DMB fans showed their 
"Loving Wings," a song with quiet devotion to the band in their outpour­vocals and guitar, much of the lawn ing. The band too, lived up to their audience gave up struggling to listen reputation and played with their all and conversed among themselves until while on stage. And so, DMB fans 
a louder. more familiar song was wonit be lying dormant in the lapse of played. It was unfortunate that so time before another live show comes to much of the concert was lost to these town. Instead, in the words of 
fans, especially when the band was Matthews himself, "Celebrate we will." 
playing so strongly for those who could actually hear. Luckily, for the encore the speaker was up and wor~ing once Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
MLB
FOOTBALL 

Miami secures top spot in poll 
Welcome to Week 3, Sendwich Index fans. Okay, so you're probably not Sendwich fans yet, seeing as Notre Dame is ranked No. 28, but give it some time and every­thing will work out just fine. 
With sev­e r a I intriguing match-ups and some m i n o r upsets, this week· end turned out to be a decent one for college football fans. 
Hurricanes blow by Gators 
Former Sendwich No. 1 and 2 teams squared off as Miami traveled to the Swamp to take on Florida. The Gators actual­ly held a 10-6 lead midway through the second quarter until Miami rallied off 35 more points to Florida's 6. 
This game served as the first real challenge for new Florida head coach Ron Zook. His team looked unprepared and unmotivated. The defeat was Florida's worst home loss in 23 years. 
Welcome to the Ron Zook era at Florida. 
We can't knock Florida too much for the beating they took, as it looks like nobody will be able to stop the 'Canes this year. Miami's Sandwich points are through the roof right now. 
The Hurricanes remained No. 1. while Oregon jumped to the No.2 spot followed by Florida at No. 3 and Tennessee at No. 4. Florida State rounds out the rest of the top five. 
Sitting Ducks 
Good-but-not-great Oregon got all they could handle 


Eric Sendelbach 
Sports 
Columnist 
against a decent Fresno State team. The Ducks take on Idaho and Portland State in the next two weeks, but don't expect them to stick around the top five once they begin tough Pac­
10 play. 
Rams Take 
First 
Battering 
T h e 
"Least 
Surprising 
Surprise of 
the Week" 
award goes 
to UCLA for 
handing 
Colorado 
State its 
first loss. CSU is a solid team, though too highly regarded after securing two quick road wins. 
After beating an overrated Colorado and a mediocre Virginia, a road loss to UCLA doesn't seem all that shock­ing. UCLA was a top five team last year before they fell apart from off-field issues and injuries. With the win, the Bruins halved their ranking, jumping 12 spots to No. 12 
We wouldn't be surprised to see UCLA come out on top of the Pac-10. If the Bruins can get by the Huskies in Wash­ington, they have home games against Colorado, Oregon. Washington State, and USC. 
Oklahoma barely rides tide 
In a battle of teams that combined for 13 national championships, Oklahoma narrowly upended Alabama. Can someone please tell us why Oklahoma came into this game ranked No. 2 and 3 in the national polls? The touted Sooner defense fell apart in the second half, giving up 224 yards. To make matters worse, Oklahoma lost starting quarterback Josh White for the season. 

Blue Raiders, who Raiders? 
The unheralded team to watch this year just may be Middle Tennessee State. The Blue Raiders impressed with a 5-point shootout loss at Alabama and a 23-point loss at powerful No. 4 Tennessee. 
Despite a current 0-2 record, MTSU could easily win out and finish 10-2. They face a weak Sun Belt conference schedule and their only chal­lenge remaining may come next game against Kentucky. 
Irish steam Boilers 

Despite looking less than impressive on offense once again, Notre Dame pulled off a quality home win against a pesky and perhaps underrated Purdue squad. The Irish moved up 20 spots to No. 28. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not neccessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Eric Chanowich at Eric.M.Chanowich. l@nd.edu and Eric Sendelbach at 


Xs beat Angels 2-1 
Associated Press 

ANAHEIM, Calif. 
The Anaheim Angels found out that 10-game winning streaks mean nothing to Tim Hudson and the Oakland Athletics. 
Jermaine Dye and Terrence Long homered as the A's won for the 23rd time in 24 games, beating Anaheim 2-1 Monday night. 
"It's always important to win the first game of a series, and we had the right man on the mound to get us going," Oakland manager Art Howe said. "It's probably going to be nip-and-tuck with them because both teams are solid in every department. I just hope we score more than them." 
Garret Anderson homered for the Angels, who had their 10-game winning streak snapped -one shy of the club record set in 1964. 
The Athletics, who had their AL-record 20-game winning streak snapped Friday night at Minnesota, increased their lead to three games over the Angels in the AL West. 
Anaheim remained four ahead of Seattle in the wild­card race. 
The game pitted Hudson against Kevin Appier. two streaking pitchers from staffs with the two best ERAs in the AL. 
"Hudson and those guys were just one step ahead of us. He really did a great job, had good stuff and kept the ball down. Those guys played some terrific defense behind him to squelch any chances we had." 
Hudson (13-9) retired the first 10 Angels en route to winning his sixth consecutive decision. He allowed one run on six hits in 7 1/3 innings. struck out four and walked none. 
The Obsecver accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer resecves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES  $250 a day potential/bartending. Training provided 1-800-293-3985  Available immediately -Fall semes­ter only -2 BR cottage five min from  ND ALUMS: Rent a 4-bdr condo 5 min from ND for football weekends.  Needed: Large quantity of Stanford tickets for reunion. Please help.  3 MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED. Seats can be separated.  
...  ext. 556  campus. Dave 243-5353.  Email ndcondo2002@yahoo.com  289· 8048.  ----------------------------------------------­Need many tickets(6)for BC game.  
CJs Pub See whats happening WNW cjspub com ----------------------·---------------­Attention Spring Breakers Travel  Housemate in 3 bdrm house in a quiet nbrhood. close to campus. $350/ mo incl  ---------------­Furnished rooms for rent in a spa­cious comfortable home. Includes kitchen  BED n BREAKFAST for FOOT­BALL WKENDS blocks from cam- Need 2 or 4 GA tix to home games. 276-8507. Call 288-2877 after 5.  Call Brian at 4-0881 -----------------­Need 1 GA for Michigan call collect 317.582.1492  
Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals  au util. Calf Niki 574-287-7869.  privileges, washer/dryer, AJC, inter- pus call KEVIN 574-288-5377  ------------­ 
Party w/MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable Y£ifi'.i.S!,!!JSl2l<1s!)!Ql.!!]i l.>!ID 1-800­426­ FOR SALE  net, quiet reading rooms, swimming pool and patio. 2 miles from campus. $330 month. Call Tom at 574-243·  --------------------------------------------­New Studio Apartment available to  Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich. game. 255-8256.  PERSONAL  
7710  4749.  rent for NO games and events  
------·---------------------------------­ 91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal,  Walking distance to Univ. on Dunn Rd. Call  WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251 ·1570  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone  
Need Money? Officiate Flag Football! Call RecSports 631-6100. Training Clinic 9/11/02 7pm RSRC. ------------------------------------­ clean, 1-owner, very gOOd condi• tion. $4200. 2TT-0189. --------·-----------------·-------------------­ All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com w:tfY.i..rmnrnr~Dlal~.!&lrn  340-5938/272-3116. TICKETS  -----------·-----­ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 ---------------------------------------------­ you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,at 1-7819. For more information, see  
Large one-bedroom condo tor sale.  our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERV•  
Need 4 tickets for the NO vs Michigan game. Call 4-4622 and  One mile to NO. Non-rental. Newly remodeled.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  N D tickets buy and sell. Please  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  ER.  .........................  
ask for Roy.  Fully equipped. $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd edu  RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  check our prices. 273-3911. ______.., _________., _______________.,___.,,.._.,..,_.,.,  better a choir boy than a 12-year­old boy magician .....................-......  
WANTED -------------­-.... -------------------------­BENCHWARMERS SPORTS LOUNGE 236 So. Michigan Needs bartenders, DJ and promotional people. 232-0022.  FOR RENT Room in Home tor rent. $400. Utilities incl 8 min. to campus Furn or unturn. Jacuzzi. Call Donna 255-4737.  ....................................... Awesome! We have a 2 bedroom 2 bath apartment available now at College Park Condos on Bulla. Celebrate Junior or Senior living at its best Call Patti 235-7234.  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593. ---------·-----·--------·--·---------------­Buy/Sell N. D. football tickets. 289­8048 or astrog999@aol.com  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ----------------------­Philadelphia-area alum needs one ticket for U. of Michigan game. Call John 610-688-1710  wanted: sports editor/child wizard to perform at the chief's party satur­day. must have own wand and bear striking resemblence to heroic sor­cerer of j.k. rowling books. --·--------------·­must have new headshot. must find something wrong with old one. must not wear turtleneck.  
------------------------------·­ --------­ -------------------------------------­ ------------­ 

Tuesday, September 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
Checlf out the... Sacrament of Confirmation 
Are you a baptized Catholic who has received their first Communion but has never been Confirmed? 
Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirmed to get married in the Catholic Church? 
Would you lilfe to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who are dedicated to growing in their faith? 


It's not ioo late to join the Confirmation Preparation Program! 
Room 330 Coleman-Morse on Tuesday, Sept. 10th at 7:00 pm 


.:, For more info: Fr. John Conley, CSC at 631-7888 or stop by the Office of Campus Ministry in the Coleman-Morse Center with any questions. C-M 
Campus Minis.try 



The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
offee and Conversation 
rGay, Lesbain, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
September 10, 2002 7 :00 -8:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
invites Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. Everyone is 
welcome. 
Coffee and refreshments will be served 

--~i 
I I I I 
I I
page 17 I 
NHL 
Hicks explores possible team sale 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
Dallas Stars owner Tom Hicks has hired a company to explore and manage a possi­ble sale of his NHL team and his half-ownership of the company that manages and operates the American Airlines Center where the team plays. 
Any sale wouldn't affect his ownership of the Texas Rangers, his major league baseball team. 
"As much as I love hockey and the Stars, I have met and exceeded the goals I set six years ago," Hicks said in a statement Monday. "After much thought and private dis­cussion with my family. I have decided this is an appropriate time to become a one-team owner rather than a two-team owner." 
Hicks purchased the Stars in 1996 for $84 million, and the team won the Stanley Cup three years later. The Stars missed the playoffs last sea­son for the first time under Hicks' ownership, which resulted in the firing of coach Ken Hitchcock midway through the season. 
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., the company hired by Hicks, declined to specify a proposed purchase price for the Stars and the half-ownership in the Center Operating Company that operates the $420 million American Airlines Center that 
opened last year. A sale could take months to complete. 
"We will take as long as needed to explore a sale, and if the right owner does not step forward, I won't sell," Hicks said. 
Hicks said the sale of the Stars would help him concen­trate more of his efforts on the Rangers, who will finish last in the AL West for the third straight season. The team won the AL West title the two years before that after Hicks bought the team from a group that included President George Bush. 
"I am totally committed to transform the Texas Rangers into a team that competes every year for the division title and eventually win its share of World Series champi• onships," Hicks said. "Hopefully, this alignment of my personal interests and schedule will accelerate our strategies and tactics for the baseball team." 
The Stars and Rangers are owned through Hicks' Southwest Sports Group, which controls his personal sports and entertainment investments. Southwest Sports also owns the Mesquite Championship Rodeo, a half­interest in a minor league team that begins play in Frisco next year and is the developer of a 75-acre sports complex and mixed-use pro­ject where that team will play. 
CLUB SPORTS 
Water polo places seventh in Classic 
. Team does well against difficult competition 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame Men's Water Polo club placed sev­enth this weekend in a strong 16-team field at the fifth annu­al Michigan State Fall Classic. 
The tournament featured many of the strongest teams in the country. It began Friday night in California style, out­doors under the lights, as the Irish opened play by routing Michigan, 14-2. Captains John Penilla, Keith Ra uenbuehler, and Jay Deimel, along with Greg Krouse, sparked the offense with three goals apiece. 
Notre Dame next faced the host Spartans who were the defending club national cham­pions. The Irish played a dis­mal first half. falling behind 6­
0. The defense regrouped and held the Spartans to one goal in the second half, as the offense chipped away to close the gap, before falling 7-5 to the eventual tournament champions. 
A few hours later, the Irish handed Illinois an identical 7-5 loss. Rory Cleary, Danny Wiederkehr, Mike Grow, Jack Spittler and Pat Watts all scored in the balanced attack. 
Fatigue took its toll in the third game of the day as the Irish fell to Northern Illinois, a 25 and over men's club team, 14-8. 
Sunday morning's game would determine seventh and eighth place., and the Irish came out strong from the out­set against Texas A&M. With goalie Devlin McCormick play­ing an outstanding game between the pipes, Jon Marchetta's and Greg Scecyzyk's strong defense slowed the high-powered Aggie attack. Greg Krouse, Jay Deimel and Keith Rauenbuehler provided all the scoring as the Irish were victo­rious, 13-8. 
The Irish will next compete September 20 -22 at Indiana University. 
page 18 Tuesday, September 10, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 
Sosa tells Chicago to restock roster 


Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Sammy Sosa wants the Chicago Cubs to "clean up the mess" after another losing season and restock the roster with players who can make the team a contender. 
"No question they got to clean the house, including myself. If I got to go, if some­body has got to go. no mat­ter," Sosa said Monday. "They got to bring in some new peo­pIe next year. people who want to go out there and give it the effort we are looking for. 
"I don't want next year to be the same in September and then go home. Hopefully, next year they clean up the mess they need to clean and, you know. we go to the playoffs." 
Sosa's comments came one day after interim manager Bruce Kimm unleashed a pro­fanity-filled tirade at his team for its lack of effort following a 3-1 loss in St. Louis. 
"I think it was the right time for it. In September sometimes a lot of people think the sea­son is over." Sosa said. 
The Cubs were 60-83 going into Monday night's game against Montreal. 
Last month a frustrated Sosa said he would seriously con­sider exercising his right to become a free agent after 2003 and leave Chicago for a winning franchise. 
On Monday, he insisted he wanted to stay with the Cubs. 
"We are all professionals here and we all know we have a job to do. It doesn't matter if you are 20 games out of first, you have to go out and give the same effort every day." Sosa said. 
"I don't think Sammy is say­ing anything that we all don't feel or that he and I haven't already talked about," Cubs general manager Jim Hendry said Monday. "Nobody is happy with the way we played. Everyone thought we were going to have a better club, including Sammy. In the win­ter he was every pleased with the team going into the sea­son. It just hasn't worked out." 
The Cubs haven't had back­to-back winning seasons in 30 years. 
"We've got to make some decisions and we'll address that when the season is over. It's not like you have to get rid of 20 of 25 people," Hendry said. "We've got some good young players and pitchers here. We've got to get the right pieces." 
The Cubs won 88 games a year ago, but made some changes, let go of veterans Michael Tucker. Ricky Gutierrez and Eric Young. They won just eight of their first 25 games this year, and manager Don Baylor was fired in early July when the team was 34-49. 
"I don't regret anything I said. I guess the one thing I regret is that when I get hot, the profanity I use," Kimm said. "When a team struggles. you can't just sit back, you got to do something. I felt it was something that I needed to, both for the club and also myself." 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni 
Student Returnees 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 129 Hayes-Healy 6:00-7:30 p.m. & Wed.,Sept.18,2002 129 Hayes-Healy 4:45-6:15 pm. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 
Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall '03 and All Year 2003-04 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 

The Sound o(Freedom 
CD's Celebrating the Anniversary of 9/11 Original Music by ND Students Only $8 Proceeds go to Feed the Children On sale at Lafortune Wednesday, September 11 9am-5pm 
NFL 
Kearse out several weeks after injury 
there just to stabilize it and 
/\uociated Press 
speed up the healing process." The three-time Pro Bowl NASHVILLE, Tenn. defensive end has never Tennessee Titans defensive missed an NFL start in his end Jevon Kearse had a screw first three seasons. a stretch inserted into his broken left that reached 49 games foot Monday. and could return Sunday. He has had 36 sacks, in six weeks. which trails only Michael Kearse broke the fifth Strahan of the New York metatarsal bone, located on Giants (37) during the past 
the outside of his foot, on the second play from scrimmage Sunday in a 27-24 victory against Philadelphia. He immedi­ately reached for his foot after hurdling teammate 
three sea­sons.
"ft was not a serious 
Kearse was fracture. The screw was not the only Titans player
placed there to stabilize 
injured in
[his knee] and speed up 
Sunday's
the healing process . ., game. Tight end Shad Meier dislo­
Jeff Fisher 
cated his
coach 
shoulder, running back Robert 
Henry Ford while chasing Holcombe strained his hip, Eagles quarterback Donovan and linebacker Randall McNabb. Godfrey and tight end Erron "It was not a serious frac­Kinney hurt their ankles. All ture," Titans coach Jeff Fisher four players had MRis on 
said. "The screw was placed Monday. 

------------~--------------==-=======------=======:::::::_____...;;;;;;;;;;::;===.....-----=iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii---------: 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Several key players out with injuries 
formance. had nine catches for 134 yards, tackles and recorded a sack. "They had a good scheme and said the problem was a couple of Because Nguyen should be 
Associated Press 
a good game plan against us," missed blocks. back around midseason, the Barber said. "They were con­"If we can get a running game Cowboys do not plan to put him EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
stantly trying to put eight men in going, we're going to be a tough on injured reserve.
New York Giants halfback 
the box and they always had a team to stop," Toomer said. ''We'll get him back whenever 
Tiki Barber has more than a 
safety jumping up into the play. If Barber's injury does not he's healthy," coach Dave
pulled hamstring to worry about 
You have to hope to break one improve, Ron Dayne would start. Campo said. "Oat is very instinc­
for Sunday's game against the 
and we didn't get that done." The former Heisman Trophy tive, a guy who makes plays.
St. Louis Rams. 
Giants coach Jim Fassel didn't winner gained 10 yards on six We'll miss him." 
Barber said after practice 
seem overly concerned about carries against the 49ers. Keith Adams, who played in
Monday that he sprained the 
Barber's injury, which is on the "I'm more disappointed we four games as a rookie last sea­
second toe on his right foot dur­
same leg as the hamstring he lost," Dayne said Monday. 'Tm son, mostly on special teams,
ing Thursday's 16-13 loss to the 
pulled in a preseason game not disappointed with the work. likely will replace Nguyen at
San Francisco 49ers. The injury 
against the New York Jets on There will be games where I get middle linebacker. 
was so painful that Barber had 
Aug. 24. 15 or 16 carries and Tiki only Campo said he does not want
trouble walking after the game. 
Not practicing Monday means gets five or six." to move outside linebackers 
Barber missed Monday's prac­
Barbor will have five full days of Kevin Hardy or Dexter Coakley
tice and said he plans to practice 
rest when the team returns to to the middle. He also prefers
Wednesday. He expects to play Nguyen breaks wrist
practice Wednesday. keeping Markus Steele as a 
against the Rams. Dallas Cowboys linebacker Oat 
"We definitely want to run the backup on the outside. 
However, the injury is some­Nguyen had surgery Monday on
ball better than we ran last Also Monday, the Cowboys
thing the Giants have to be con­his broken right wrist and is out
week, and I think we can," said signed receiver Darnay Scott
cerned about, especially after 6-to-8 weeks. 
quarterback Kerry Collins, who and cleared room for him on the
their poor rushing performance Nguyen, who recorded the 
threw for 342 yards and three roster by releasing offensive
in the season opener. second-most tackles in team his­
interceptions last week. "We lineman Char-ron Dorsey. Scott
New York gained 43 yards on tory with 172 last season, was 22 carries. Barber led the Giants have the guys to do it. It's just a injured during a 19-10 loss to is expected to be a third or with 29 yards on 15 carries. matter of continuing to work at the Houston Texans on Sunday fourth receiver starting Sunday Barber said his injury had it." night. He continued to play and against Tennessee. nothing to do with the poor per-Receiver Amani Toomer, who tied for the team lead with seven Scott is a good fit because he 

after this, the corporate l.adder 
will be a piece of [cake]. 
\n Army ROTC, you'll get to do stuff that'll challenge you, both physically and 
mentally. In the process, you'll develop skills you can use in your career, like 
thinking on your feet, making smart decisions, taking charge. Talk to your Army 
ROTC representative. You'll find there's nothing like a little climbing to help 
prepare you for getting to the top. 

ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 


For more information on our Scholarship Programs, contact Captain Hennessey at (219) 631-6264 or 631-4656 
played for Cowboys offensive coordinator Bruce Coslet in Cincinnati. He. signed with Jacksonville in the offseason and was released Sept. 1 when the Jaguars re-signed Jimmy Smith. 
Shoulder injuries limited Scott in training camp, and he hardly practiced. He finished the pre­season with three catches for 59 yards. 
"I know the playbook in and out," Scott said. "I hope I can come in and contribute. I'm not coming in to take anybody's job. I came in to help the team win.' 
Conway's career could be over 
Brett Conway's career could be over because of a torn leg muscle. 
Conway hurt his leg kicking a field goal in the first half of the Redskins' 31-23 victory over Arizona on Sunday. He arrived at Redskins Park on Monday holding a large white envelope that contained his MRI exam results. 
"It shows a lot of tears in it," Conway said. "It's probably the worst I've seen." 
The tears are in the quadri­ceps muscle, and it's the fourth major injury in Conway's career. Last month, he was sidelined with a hip flexor. At 27, he real­izes his career is in jeopardy. 
"The hardest thing is finding out why this keeps happening to me," Conway said. "We can't even figure that part out. It's tough. As an athlete, you never want an injury to force you out of the game. You want to be able to walk away from the game and retire on your own, but sometimes that's not the case. 
"I've got a lot of emotions in my head right now. I've had a lot of great times here. Eventually, I'm going to have to step down and not kick any more. This might be it." 
In six NFL seasons, Conway has hit 5 5 of 7 2 field goals. including a career-long of 55 yards. He also is 83-of-84 on extra-point attempts. 
Coach Steve Spurrier said Monday he is looking at James Tuthill to replace Conway. 
Tuthill spent a few days with the Redskins in August before the final cuts, but his only NFL regular season experience came when he spent a few days on the Green Bay roster last year with­out being activated. 
Other kickers available include Jamie Rheem, Tim Seeder, Jon Hilbert and Danny Kight. 
Also running back Stephen Davis has a strained groin. Davis was noticeably limping Monday, but said he should be ready for Monday night's game against Philadelphia. 

RESUMES 

Anyone can write a resume -but will it be effective? 
A+ Resumes is the answer. cp Resumes that work <p FREE consultation 
cp Located near campus 
A+ Resumes 
243-3140 
www.aplusrez.com 

..r 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September I0, 2002 

LONDONPROG 

APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2113 AND SPRING 2104 
Tuesday, Septem&er 10, 2002 101 DeBarlolo 6:30 pn1 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 


Tuesday, September 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
U-WIRE 
Buckeyes face first real test against Cougars 
By TODD BROMMELKAMP The Daily Iowan  of expectations, one Tressel hopes his team can live up to. "Our expectations are  appears to have settled on senior Craig Krenzcl over fel­low senior Scott McMullen,  is huge at any level," he said. "It's something you can't teach in practice, and right now, we  safety Mike Doss, the Buckeyes will pose a threat for even the highest powered  
IOWA CITY, Iowa  understood, and we are ready for  both w h  of o m  don't have a lot of experience at that position."  offenses in the Big Ten. Doss chose to return  to  
You can't spell Buckeyes without the letters ~BCS." That's something Ohio State coach Jim Tressel should keep  the challenge of the great Big Ten conference," he said.  "Our expectations are understood, and we are ready for the challenge of  h a v e spent the majority of their  An inexperienced running back has also stepped to the spotlight when true freshman Maurice Clarett rushed for 175  Columbus for his senior sea­son despite the very high probability of being drafted by the NFL. He led the team in  
in the back of his mind as he continues his second season in Columbus. After the way the Buckeyes have begun the sea­ But will the Big Ten be ready for a bigger, badder version of the  the great Big Ten conference."  time in Columbus on the sidelines  yards and three touchdowns tackles a year ago, recording against the Red 87 stops, Raiders on Aug. 10 of"My spirit told me to stay24. Clarett came w h i C h  
son, a Big Ten championship and Bowl Championship Series berth may not be out of the question for No. 6 Ohio State.  Buckeyes? So far this sea­son, Ohio State has used its bal- Jim Tressel coach  waiting for the departure of Steve  back to earth against the Golden Flashes, rushing for 64  one more year, and enjoy it, and give it all I've got."  went for a loss. "My spir­it told me  
Tressel did well his first sea­ anced offensive attack and  Bellisari. Krenzel was a near­ yards  and  one  to stay one  
son in Columbus after Ohio State fired John Cooper, lead­ing the Buckeyes to a 7-5 record and 5-3 finish in the  defensive dominance to trounce two opponents, Texas Tech, 45-21. and Kent State, 51-17. The Buckeyes will face  p erfect 12-of-14 passing against Kent State Sept. 7, totaling 190 yards and one touchdown. For the Ohio State  score, but he appears to have completely over­shadowed sopho- Mike Doss strong safety  more year, and enjoy it, and give it all I've  
Big Ten. More importantly to  their stiffest challenge to date  fans who spent the last several  more  tailback  got," Doss  
fans of the scarlet and white  when No. 10 Washington State  years pining for the Bcllisari's  Lydell  Ross  for  s  a  i  d  .  
was Tressel made good on his  comes to Ohio Stadium this  exit, the early season efficien­ the moment.  "Hopefully, by January 4 [the  
promise to heat arch-rival  weekend for  an early show­ cy of the senior duo comes as  The 96 points Ohio State's  day after the national champi­ 
Michigan, something Cooper  down of Top 10 teams.  welcome news, but it doesn't  offense has scored provides  onship Fiesta Bowl] we'll know  
failed to do more often than  After entering the season  make up for their lack of game  plenty of insurance for one of  how right the decision was."  
not. But with the arrival of the  wondering who would be his  experience to Tressel.  the league's stingiest defenses.  Doss highlights a  defense  
2002 season comes a new set  starting quarterback, Tressel  "Experience at quarterback  Led by All-American strong  that features just one under­ 
classman, cornerback Dustin  
Fox.  Three-year  starter  
Donnie  Nickey,  who  plays  
opposite Doss, returns as do  
five experienced linemen led  
by  All-Big  Ten  pick  Tim  
Anderson at tackle.  


Meeting friends? They've got to be here somewhere. 
- 
'  f  
) ) ) ) ) ) )  DIGITAL WALKl£-THK1£ SP£A KERPHDNE WIREL£SS WEB ACCESS AOL• INSTANT MESS£NG£R'" sen•ice TWO-WAY MESSAGI~ JAVA'" GAMES a APPUCATIONS DIGITH CELLULAR  



7">,000 °""'"'-S7 J<.lc pvc\;ilew.. ll!e,d-el "ives ycl,\ sc ""-"'-"'-Y w"'ys tc .Pil\J. WV\C ov wh"'t ycl,\'ve loc,~il\~ ,Pc,Y, 1-\eet yol.\v .Pviel\J..s ""t tV\e J<.le,ctel kios~ oe.Pc,ve the j"'w.e ""'-s.,,..tl.\v.A"'y tc "et v.co~eJ. 1-\p with the l\ewest rv.cl\es, coolest .Pe"'tl.\ves """J. sweel-est v""te pl"'-"'-S. Now ycl-\ 1ve 
ve,,..J.y-f>vi\\' It. 
Ncw's .-. jve"'t-i-iMe t-c ~et-Ne;,ct-el: 

"'ll t{che l)o'llM.e st-lJ\J.e\\t-s jet-"' tot·J.isC()l>.\\:l-C\\ "'"Y Y<'\re rl.-.... "'"-J, $\00.. c,,P.P """-Y f'L-\C'1.e. 
-re '011.y: 

• ~c, i-c, 11.e><:tel.co~/(Yisl,..-stl.\J.e11.t. • Ct:".11 t-oll...Pvee \c877So,-212'. 
• t-a -t!il\J. "' Ne,ctel-Owl\eJ. Rei-"'il 
'St-eve l\ee>\Y yol,\1 c"'ll l-~0O-&'2">-S'2."3S-. 
•Offer is valid for Notre Dame stud~nts and par.ents and exp,res December 31. 2002. While supplies last. Requires new activation. one year Service Agreement and credit approval. $200 early termination fee applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. In-store purchases require at least 2 forms of valid identification. Account set-up fee 0of $35 per phone; maxim urn $70 per account. Fe_es may vary IJy market. $100 ,~stant sav,ngs is off the Regular Retail Price and wilt be applied at pomt of sate. 1 O Yo off monthly rate plan 1s valid on any rate plan activated with this offer. Other restnct1ons may apply. Rate plans are subject to taxes, fees and other charges Cur:rent pnces are sub1ect to change Read Service Agreeme11t tor details. ©2002 l,extel Com111unicat1ons, Inc. All rights reserved Nextel and 11,e Nextel logo are registered trademarks of Ne><tef Communications, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized M logo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and all other Java-based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems. Inc. AOL. AIM. Buddy Lisi and the triangle design are registered trademarks of America Online 
Inc. Instant Messenger is atrademark of America Online, Inc. ' · 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

Watson still recovering from viral infection 
By KATIE McVOY As.ociate Spores Editor 
Despite the fact that Courtney Watson was still first on the depth charts for the lrish, he was not on the field on Saturday. The only returning starting linebacker for the Irish again watched his teammates from the side­lines. 
The Irish linebackers had another stellar performance, led by junior Mike Goolsby. Goolsby had 11 tackles and forced a fumble that was returned for a touchdown. 
"Sometimes we don't want to get off the field," Goolsby said. "After we got that touch­down, l want to get right back out there." 
Brandon Hoyte added nine tackles and. despite allowing Joey Harris to get some long runs, the Irish defense man­aged to shut down part of a very dangerous Boilermaker attack. 
Mmmm ... Duff 
Vontez Duff has scored touchdowns in three straight games for the Irish. Last sea­son the junior cornerback had a career-long 96-yard kickoff return against Purdue in Notre Dame's final game. 
He added a 76-yard punt return against Maryland last Saturday and came up with an interception return against the Boilermakers this year. Duff intercepted Kyle Orton's pass in the fourth quarter to break a 17-17 tie and. ulti­mately, give the Irish the vic­tory. 
"I saw a collision because it was special coverage that we had to double up on a couple of their receivers," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said when asked about the inter­ception. "There seemed to be a collision and then, all of the sudden, out of the dust and out of the collision came Vontez [Duff]. And when he gets his hands on the ball he can do some marvelous things." 
Staying cool despite the 
heat 
There are a few items on Willingham's list that arc con­sidered inexcusable. One of them is being out of shape. 
"I tell our team that there are a couple of things that make him a coward on the field. One is lack of condition­ing," Willingham said. "It' you're not in shape, then you can't raise your level of play." 
The Notre Dame defense seemed to be conditioned enough. At game time, NBC reported that the temperature on the field at Notre Dame Stadium was 100 degrees. Despite the heat, the Irish defense managed to put a stall on Purdue's running game and keep the pressure 


on Orton. The defense record­the D-line, all of us were well and seventh in the AP Poll on ed two sacks. conditioned. So all of us still Sunday. Under coach Lloyd 
"It was pretty tough, espe­had the energy to compete." Carr, the Wolverines are 32­
cially in the end," said safety 10 when ranked in the top 10.
Dangers In the rankings
Gerome Sapp. "Coming into 
The Michigan Wolverines 
the homestretch, the defen­
were ranked sixth in the Contact Katie McVoy at sive backs, the linebackers, ESPN/USA Today Coaches Poll mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
This Week in 
Campus Minis1rv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 1 www.nd.edu/~ministry 
¦-da-,------­
confirmation Information Night 
7:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Ushers' Workshop 
7:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lectors' Workshop 
8:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Ministers' Workshop 
10:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
f&aa11 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

av 
Law School Mass 
4:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 


MBA Mass 

7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m. -11 :30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 


Confirmation Information Night 
Tonight 
7:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 

Are you a baptized Catholic who has received their first Communion but has never been Confirmed? 
Are you wondering whether you need to be Confirmed to get married in the Catholic Church? 
Would you like to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame students who 
are dedicated to growing in their faith? 
For more info: Fr. John Conley, CSC at 631-7888 
Retreats 
sign 
1 

Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #42 (September 27-28) 
August 27-September 23 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Sophomore Road Trip #1 DESTINATION:Unknown (September 20-22) 
Space is Filling up fast! Sign up with Friends 
Sophomore Road Trip #2 
DESTINATION:VY\/cnown 
(September 27-29) 
Space still available Sign up with Friends 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
W·1thout you we don't have a prayer Contribu!e a p~ayer to the new Campus Ministry Prayer Book! , 1• Get details online at www.nd.edu/-prayers 
Tuesday. September 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
MENS SOCCER 
Irish reach highest ranking in school history 
. Clark leads team to national prominence in second year as head coach 
By BRYAN KRONK Sports W ricer 
All it takes is a look at the 2002 promotional poster for the Notre Dame men's soccer team to realize the goal of this year's squad. 
That goal. in a word: rival Connecticut at No. 7. and Rutgers (No. 14). Boston College (No. 19) and Pittsburgh (No. 20) comprise the rest of the Big East's contingent in the top 25. 
The Irish also climb to No. 1 in the NSCAA/Adidas Great Lakes regional ranking. swip­ing the top spot away from local rival Indiana University. 
The Irish currently stand at 2-0-1 on the season, and already have a 1-0-1 record against ranked opponents, with 


Emerging. The leap in the polls for Notre Dame 
the Irish is a result ofits 

showed that it 
4-0 drubbing ofBig East

is well on its 
way to its goal, rival No. 6 Seton Hall as it jumped six Saturday.
spots in the lat­e s t NSCAA/Adidas Coaches' Poll released Monday. to bring the Irish to a No. 5 national rank­ing, which ties the Irish with its previous high ranking, attained by the 1995 squad in early September. 
The leap in the polls for the Irish is a result of its 4-0 drub­bing of Big East rival No. 6 Seton Hall Saturday. 
Notre Dame currently stands second in the rankings among Big East opponents, with St. John's standing at No. 3 above the Irish. Also in the top 10 is a 1-1 tie against No. 19 Creighton Sept. 1. 
The Irish squad, under second-year coach Bobby Clark, has marked a huge come­back for Notre Dame 
men's soccer. After several sub-.500 seasons, the Irish returned to postseason play both in the Big East and the NCAA, and finished the season 12-7. 
The Irish also jumped eight spots in Monday's Soccer America poll. climbing from No. 22 to No. 14. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 


AROUND THE NATION 
page 24 CoMrILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, September I 0, 2002 

NFL 

It was a huge start to times during the second the three New Englandthrows 3 TDs the season for the Patriots and third quarters, he interceptions, and Victor against the team they broke open a 10-7 game Green, one of the many Associated Press upset 24-17 on the road in with two TD passes in the ex-New York Jets on the the AFC championship first half of a 17-point Pats, forced and then
FOXBORO, Mass. 

game last season. third quarter. One went recovered a fumble by
Tom Brady remains the Pittsburgh entered as both for 40 yards to Hayes, a Jerome Bettis that set up

same. It's just the sup­

a favorite to win the con­free-agent signing, and a TD. It was the first fum­
porting cast that's 

ference title and as a 3-the second to Branch, the ble by Bettis in 760 car­
changed for the New 

point favorite on the road Patriots' second-round ries.
England Patriots. 

against the defending draft choice. Other than Brady, whoBrady led New England champions. Trailing 30-7, Pittsburgh completed 29 of 43 pass­to a 30-14 victory over the But Brady, an obscure got a consolation touch­es, the only Patriots hero
Pittsburgh Steelers on 

backup who ended up as down on the game's final from last season to con­Monday night, passing for Super Bowl MVP after tak­play when Kordell Stewart tribute to the scoring was
294 yards and touch­

ing over in the second went in from 1 yard. Adam Vinatieri, whodowns to Christian Fauria, game for an injured Drew New England's defense kicked the 48-yard fieldDonald Hayes and Deion Bledsoe, demonstrated also was sparked by new­goal that won the Super
Branch, none of whom 

that rather than a fluke, comers. Bowl. He had field goals of were with the Patriots last he belongs among the Veteran cornerback 45, 28 and 27 yards.
season during their sur­

game's elite quarterbacks. Terrell Buckley, signed
prising run to the Super 
IN BRIEF 

Bone chips removed from night after the nasal fracture was Williams earns will be added to his pitcher's nasal passage discovered, and Dr. John Yu per­base salary in subsequent seasons. formed a two-hour operation to For example, Williams' perfor­
Los Angeles Dodgers rookie leTt­remove chips. mance against the Lions put him onhander Kazuhisa Ishii, hit in the 

forehead by a line drive, had a two­A small titanium plate was inserted pace to rush for 1,776 yards. That during the surgery, Johnston said. would mean a $1.6 million bonus
hour operation Monday to remove Ishii was removed from the intensive this year, and his base salary inbone chips from his nasal passage. 

care unit Monday. future years would also increase byHe will remain hospitalized for at $1.6 million annually. 
least a few days, Dodgers head train­

er Stan Johnston said. New incentives could This season, Williams' base pay is A CT scan after the operation was boost Williams' earnings the NFL minimum of $450,000. 
.Williams qualifies for a bonus bydeemed normal and the Japanese The Miami Dolphins are so happy 
reaching 750 yards rushing, 35
pitcher was eating and walking, with Ricky Williams that they sweet­according to the Dodgers. Ishii also ened his contract before he even receptions, 300 yards receiving or 
seven touchdowns. Those minimums
sustained a small skull fracture and played a game. 
are lower than under the old agree­a concussion. The Dolphins and their new run­ment.
Ishii, who turned 29 Monday, was ning back agreed to a revised incen­He can also receive bonuses for
struck by a line drive hit by tive package that makes it easier for Houston's Brian Hunter in the fourth him to earn bonuses, senior vice playing time and each postseason 
victory.
inning of Sunday's 6-2 loss to the president Rick Spielman said 
"This is just more realistic for
Astros. Hunter drove the 3-2 pitch so Monday. 
him," Spielman said. "If he is pro­hard into the left side of lshii's head The deal was sealed on the eve of ducing and doing well for us, we
that the ball ricocheted to the back­Sunday's opener. when Williams ran stop. Hunter wound up with an RBI for 111 yards and two touchdowns to want to have a contract that will 
compensate him fairly." 
double. help Miami beat Detroit 49-21. 
The new agreement doesn't affectJohnston said Ishii was moved to One change in the contract, which Miami's salary cap this season.
Cedars Sinai Hospital late Sunday runs through 2006, is that any bonus 

API Photo New England's Terrell Buckley returns an interception during the Patriot's 30-14 victory over the Steelers on Monday night. Pittsburgh committed five turnovers In the loss. 
Brady leads Patriots to Monday night win 
Bowl. 

Tuesday, September 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MLB 
Phillies loss means Braves clinch divison 
. Atlanta captures its 11th straight NL East title 
Associa.tcd Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

The Atlanta Braves clinched their 11th straight division title when the New York Mets beat the Philadelphia Phillies 6-4 Monday night behind Mike Piazza's grand slam. 
Philadelphia's loss wrapped up the NL East for the Braves. The Phillies, who began the day in second place, are a stag­gering 21 games behind Atlanta. 
The Braves secured a post­season berth earlier than any team in Atlanta history. The 1975 Cincinnati Reds have the earliest clinching since divi­sional play began in '69, wrap­ping up the NL West on Sept. 7. 
Piazza went deep in a six-run seventh inning as the Mets set a season high with their sev­enth consecutive victory. 
The Mets, swept by the Phillies at Shea Stadium last weekend, completed their sec­ond four-game sweep at Veterans Stadium. 
The other came in 1972. They haven't lost since setting an NL record with 15 consecu­tive home losses. 
The Phillies have lost seven of eight since reaching a sea­son-high three games over .500. 
Jeff D'Amico (6-10) pitched two scoreless innings in relief for his first victory since July 23. 
Armando Benitez got three outs for his 32nd save in 36 chances, allowing an RBI single to Mike Lieberthal. 
Trailing 3-0 in the seventh, the Mets loaded the bases with one out against reliever Mike Timlin (4-5) on singles by Ty Wigginton, Raul Gonzalez and pinch-hitter Jeromy Burnitz. 
When Phillies manager Larry Bowa kept Timlin in the game, Valentine called Vaughn back to the dugout and sent John Valentin to the plate. 
Valentin cut it to 3-1 on a sacrifice fly. Timlin then walked Roger Cedeno and Roberto Alomar, forcing in a run. 
Jose Santiago replaced Timlin, who was ejected by plate umpire Larry Vanover for arguing on his way back to the dugout. 
Piazza hit a 2-0 pitch from Santiago over the left-center fence for his 27th homer and 14th career slam. 
Josh Phelps, Vernon Wells and Eric Hinske each homered and drove in three runs to lead the Toronto Blue Jays over the Cleveland Indians 11-9 Monday night. 
Jim Thome hit his 44th home run to help the Indians over­come a 6-0 deficit. 
He extended his streak of reaching base to 38 consecu­tive games, the longest current string in the majors. 
Reds 9, Pirates 8 
Jose Guillen hit a grand slam and drove in career high-tying five runs against his former team, leading the Cincinnati Reds past the Pittsburgh Pirates 9-8 Monday night. 
The announced attendance of 13,434 was Cincinnati's small­est home crowd of the season. 
Guillen's shot gave the Reds a team-record eight grand slams this season. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs And Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Thursday, Sept. 12, 2002 5:00-6:00 PM 129 Hayes-Healy 
Applicaton Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring, 2003 
Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud/ 


Orthodox Christian Fellowship Club 

API Photo 

Mets Raul Gonzalez' beats the tag of Phillies second baseman Marlon Anderson during New York's 6-4 win Monday night. The Phillies loss clinched the division for the Atlanta Braves. 
"' 
runs as the Twins finished with nine hits, nearly matching their 10-hit output over the previous two games. 
Rick Reed (14-7), the most consistent starter in Minnesota's injury-plagued rotation this year, gave up two runs and seven hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
Eric Munson, promoted from Triple-A Toledo over the week­
Guillen, who played three years for the Pirates, was with the Arizona and Colorado sys­tems this year before joining the Reds on Aug. 27. 
His fourth career slam made it 9-3 in the sixth. 
Guillen hit his sixth homer of the year and second in two days, connecting off reliever Al Reyes. 
Ryan Dempster (8-13) earned 

or more information please email us at jlohkamp@nd.ed 
his first win in three decisions since Aug. 10. He improved to 3-5 since being acquired by the Reds from Florida on July 11. 
Twins 5, Tigers 2 
Dustan Mohr hit an RBI dou­ble and scored twice as the Minnesota Twins ended their 20-inning scoreless streak and beat the Detroit Tigers 5-2 Monday night. 
After being shutout in con­secutive games by Oakland left-handers Barry Zito and fel­low lefty Mark Mulder, the AL Central leaders broke through against lefty Mike Maroth. 
Jacque Jones drove in two 
end. hit his second homer in 11 major league at-bats this sea­son to bring the Tigers within 3-2 in the seventh. 
J.C. Romero pitched 1 1-3 scoreless innings and Eddie Guardado worked the ninth. 
All are invited to the first meeting of the year on Thursday, September 12 at 9:00pm in 108 DeBartolo. 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 10, 2002 
NBA 
Webber indicted on charges of lying 

Campus BzhLe Sruoy (CBS) 
EveRy Tuesoay aT 7:00 p.m. 114 CoLeman-MoRse ConpeRence Room 
All students are invited to attend Bible Study every Tuesday through the semester beginning September 17, 2002. All sessions last one hour. 
Bring your own Bible 

and a friend. 
For further information contact: Fr. Al D Alonzo, csc 631-4616 or Campus Ministry 

631-7800. 
C-M 
c.,,,pw Mlnls(ry 
U.S. OPEN 

Final draws high ratings 
1990 title. Agassi 12 years ago. That
. Sampras-Agassi 
CBS Sports' coverage of was Sampras' first Grandmatch captivates Sunday's match, which Slam title; he now has a Sampras won 6-3, 6-4, 5-7, 6-record 14.
audiences 

4, had a 7.9 overnight rating. The two-week tournament's That's 44 percent higher overall average overnight rat­
Associated Press 

than the 5.5 for the 2001 ing on CBS was 3.5, a 6 per­NEW YORK final, in which Lleyton Hewitt cent increase from last year. 
The U.S. Open final beat Sampras in straight sets. Overnight ratings measure between Pete Sampras and And it's the biggest the 53 largest TV markets in Andre Agassi drew the overnight rating for a U.S. the United States, covering event's highest TV rating Open men's final since the about 65 percent of the coun­since those two played for the 8.0 when Sampras defeated try. 
Budding Journalism Major.  w --I  
Spent summer writing for hometown paper.  0 u  
Future holds editorial position at major pub.  z  
Her byline olw~ys includes AT&T.  

Freedom of Expression. 
Sign up for AT&T Long Distance and get up to 4 hours of calling on us: 
Choose AT&T for Long Distance when you sign up for local phone service. Then call 1 877-COLLEGE to add the AT&T One Rate 7t. Plus Plan and get up to 4 hours of FREE calling. 
1 B77•COLLEGE x27354 att.cam/<;:allegeJnewter'tTl 
AT&T College Communications 
~ clu,iu_ ~ llAYl1d. ~ ~-~Al&T 
Long Distance • Internet Service • Virtual PrePaid Cards • International Calling 
"Free minutes consist ol monihly long distance bill credits and an AT&T Phone Card worth up to 2 hours ol domestic calling. Terms ana Conailions apply. 81/1 credrl oiler expires 12/31102. Go 10 www.att.com/c0Uege/new1erm lor complete details. 

. Former Michigan player took bribes during school 
Associated Presa 
DETROIT 

Sacramento Kings forward Chris Webber was indicted Monday on charges he lied to a grand jury about his dealings with a University of Michigan basketball booster more than a decade ago. 
Webber, who led Michigan's "Fab Five" team to two NCAA title games, was charged with obstruction of justice and mak­ing a false declaration before a grand jury, FBI spokeswoman Dawn Clenney said. 
Webber's father, Mayce Webber, and his aunt, Charlene Johnson, were indicted on the same charges. 
If convicted, each faces up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fme. 
The indictment contends that Webber, his father and aunt lied to the grand jury and conspired to conceal the cash, checks, clothing, jewelry and other ben­efits that booster Ed Martin gave the player and his family from 1988-93. All three testified in 2000. 
The Kings and a league spokesman each refused to comment on the indictment. Messages seeking comment 
from the elder Webber and Johnson were not immediately returned. 
NCAA spokesman Wally Renfro said Monday night that the college governing body would not comment on the indictment. "We just don't talk about infraction cases," Renfro said. 
After Martin's indictment, Webber publicly denied taking significant amounts of money from him and said the govern­ment's charges were inaccurate. Martin pleaded guilty in May to conspiracy to launder money. 
Martin admitted he took gam­bling money, mixed it with earned income and money given to him from another person, then loaned it to at least four players while they were ama­teurs. 
Martin said he paid $280,000 to Webber; $160,000 to Robert Traylor, now with the New Orleans Hornets; $105,000 to Maurice Taylor, now with the Houston Rockets; and $71,000 to Louis Bullock, who has been playing professionally in Europe. 
Traylor and Bullock admitted receiving the money in testimo­ny to the grand jury, their attor­ney, Steve Fishman, has said. 
Former Michigan guard Jalen Rose, now with the Chicago Bulls, also said in May that he took "pocket money" from Martin. 
(and stuff your face) 


Tuesday, September 10, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 
.. 1Wi.~CR£
ir~J~VVt_ME A 

'.I~ 
(1 

JACK MONAHAN

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKEARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words . 
GUJED 

j

I I t (J 
I t J INEEGIN j 
I-CW TI-E ~

(J t I 
DID ON THE:: C.ARPENTR.Y TEST.

,-GVOAJ t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I IXJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
An•wer: 

HE "( I I I I I J' rn 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' 
Jumbles: BISON MINUS SUPERB DAHLIA s 
Answer: When the zoo built a monkey house, the crowds grew by -LEAPS AND BOUNDS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To order, uml your ...... add19H Ind $5.95 ¦ nd m¦kt chick p&flblt lo Tribune Mtclla S.rvlGta, P .0. Box 4330, Chicago, IL eo680-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
itbt Ntur Bork itimesd
Crosswor 
ACROSS 34 Negative vote 
1 Nile slitherers 36 Foolhardy 5 Masked critter 
38 Interminably 
39 Ayn Rand book raise 42 Out-and-out 14 Opportunity, so 43 Accordingly to speak 
9 Expecting, as a 
44 Gives the nod 15 Dagger handle 
45 Ethel Waters 16 Monica of the classic courts 47 Fall shade 17 1999 Meryl 49 Twitch Streep movie 
50 Shows one's 20 •-not fair!" human side 21 Gardener's 52 Things with _ need (theme of this puzzle)
22 Craving 56 Yiddish plaints
23 Master's requirement, 57 Bread spread often 59 Matterhorn. e.g. 25 Met or Card, for 601988 John short Cleese movie, with "A0
27 Gateway Arch city: Abbr. 65 Action spot 30 Midleg 66 Easily molded 32 Viands 67 Bumped off 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Edited by Will Shortz 
68 Fortuneteller's card 69 Golden rule word 70 Nothing more than 
DOWN 
1 Own up to 2 Pole position? 3 Group that's 
rounded up 
4 Lanka 5 Picky people? 6 Meatheads 
7 -Come here ?" 
8 Extreme 9 leading down the aisle 1oHammer part 
11 It has many keys: Abbr. 12 Anthem 
· preposition 13 Queue after a 18 Goatee site 
19 Gave the once-over 
24 First U.S. space station 26 McNeil's longtime news partner 27 Built for speed 28 Looks alter 29 60's turn-on 
31 Egg roll time 
33 Colombia's capital 

PuzzltbySMffYO.Blocunl 
34 One of the  46 _  Minor  
Judds  48 Flat-bottomed  
35 Storage spot  boat  

37 "Quiet, please!" 
40 Back street prowler 41 Not familiar with 
42 Make lace 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-285·5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.comidiversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

WILLSHORTZ 
No. 0730 
56 "It can, bel" 58 Took off ao •_ chancel" 
51 Wise lawgiver 51 Lyrical Gershwin 53 Cyclist 
62 Sun. talk Armstrong 
63 Baton Rouge 54 Respected one 
sch. 
55 Gardener's 64 Prepare to shoot
need 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name -----------------------------­
Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Amy Irving. Jose Feliciano, Miranda Wi!s011. Roger Maris Happy Birthday: This is the year to take your ideas, along with your fortitude, 1111d make things happen. You will be in demand this year, so pul an offer on the table and approach someone who can suppon your effons. You'll be a powerhouse making crucial decisions that will affect not only yourself but also thooe you are close to. Your numbers are 8, 12, 20, rt. 35. 39 
<:":hrjr,k tn Q')./ ARIES (March 2l>Rprll 19):'Th'it iHrot ti\~ day to force personal issues. Look at your own motives before challenging someone else. lbis can be a trying day if you don't Silly calm and think things through. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will have positive inter-action with colleagues 
or people who have the same interests or vocation as you have. Dou~ hesitate 10 join an organization that will give you greater strength in your indusay. *** GEl\lINI (May 21-Juoe 20): Tum your day into an C><citing adventure. Plan to go 10 a comedy theater or dance club with friends or out for 
an intellectual chat with people you respect ***** 
CANCER (JUNE 21-JULY 22): Your tendency to think that something will go wrong may get on the nerves of everyone arow,d you. Being down all the time will not lead to populari1y. Tum your mood around. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opportunities to g,:t out wilh friends will be infonmitive and fun. You need a break from your everyday routine. Being active will motivate you todo even roorc. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): You can make financial gains as long as you are mindful of what is happening with your investments. You have 10 patticipate; 
leaving your firuinces up to someone else will lead to questionable occurrei=. *** LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): This can be a great day if you busy yourself with fun-filled llCtivities involving the people you enjoy. If you have too much time on your hands you may discover that little things will stan to bother you. *** SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): Stick to a one-on-one encounter diat will lead to a lalk that should solve any problems yoo'vc been facing. Sccrel enemies may try to damage your reputation, but it will probably backfire. *** SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Relationships appear to be good, especially those you develop through environmental groups. Be honest about your likes and dislikes. You don't want to give anyone the wrong impression. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You won't see things clearly today, 
which could easily lead to irreversible changes. You may need an objective point 
of view from a close friend ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Talk 10 important people abou1 your plans. 
Your high energy will captivate individuals in1erested in what you are doing. 
If you are detcnnined, you will accomplish what you set out to do. ***** 
PISCE'i (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Don't ler investments or other money matters get 
lo you today. Sit lighl and put your efforts into making your place a little nicer or 
lakingbettercareofyourself. *** 
Birthday Bahy: You will be the leader no matter what you do. Your intent will 
always be lo do what's best fa-everyone. You11 be able to see all sides of w1y issue. 
Check oul Eugenia's Web Sites at as1roadvicc.com, eugenialast.com, astro!naJc.cotn 
CDPYRIGITT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
r 

PORTS 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 

FOOTBALL 
Offense still lacking 
ByKATIEM,VOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Following the Maryland game, the question was how to get the Irish offense to produce in the red zone. Following this week's football game, the question is how to get the Irish offense to produce -period. 
In four quarters of play against 

....· Purdue, the Irish put three offen­sive points on the board. Notre Dame had 50 passing yards and averaged just a little more than three yards per carry. The Irish were inside the Purdue 20-yard line just once. Joey Hildbold had to punt eight times. So what, exactly, went wrong? "There probably wasn't a fac­tor that didn't contribute to it,"said Irish coach Tyrone Willingham. "We just couldn't get ourselves going." There may have been several factors that contributed to the poor offensive production, but there was one key that was miss­ing from this week's game -a successful pass offense. Willingham's fabled "West Coast Offense "was referred to as a "Great Lakes Offense"by NBC commentators on Saturday after Holiday didn't complete a pass until there were only seven min­utes remaining in the first half. That's quite a turnaround for a quarterback who, just the week before, had a career-best 226 yards and completions to eight different receivers. "It's frustrating,"Holiday said after the game. "Myself and a couple of guys on the team feel very embarrassed. I guess we shouldn't feel like that, but we 
felt like that towards the end of the game." 
Holiday's passing woes were not solely his fault. Purdue's defense was a far cry from tho weak Maryland defense Notre Dame faced last week. Joe Tiller's team blitzed -a lot. Tho Boilermakers sacked the Irish signal caller four times and Holiday spent a lot of time scrambling while he looked for an open receiver. Several of the 15-of-22 passes that were incomplete came in an attempt to prevent another sack. It was a group effort that allowed that to happen. 
"What we were doing with our protection up there, it may not have all been on the offensive line,"said offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick. 
The offensive line and the run­ning backs were missing their blocks and Purdue was hitting hard. 
"I thought Purdue did a good job with their blitz packages,"Willingham said. "Especially coming in and out of it ... sometimes it put us in pro­tections that worked against us." 
The Irish receivers have some work to do as well. Only two receivers caught the ball _ Carlos Campbell and Omar Jenkins. Tight end Gary Godsey had the most receptions for the Irish. Although Arnaz Battle was Holiday's target several times, he couldn't keep his hands on the ball once. 
"For a pass game to work you have to have great routes, you have to have great protection and you have to have your backs integrated into all of it,"Willingham said. 
Notre Dame's run game wasn't stellar either. The running backs Despite the offensive woes, the "We're going to break showed some promise, but Ryan coaching staff still remains confi­out,"Holiday said. "It's going to Grant found himself going up the dent that the Irish can get the happen." middle several times to no avail. job done. The offense has yet to 


''I'm trying a lot, "Grant said. score a touchdown, but that "Don't think that because I didn't hasn't hampered the belief that Contact Katie M,Voy at look good that we didn't play." this team will get the job done. mcvo9695@saintmarys.edu 
WOMENS VOLLEYBALL 
Irish look to bounce back after 2 road losses 
very determined team against a variety of reasons. match against Colorado. important to execute the funda­ByMATILOZAR [Saint Louis University]." "Against Saint Louis we were "I thought [Henican] did well. mentals well," Brown said. "If 
Sports Writer 
"We passed well and that up by a lot so we could get a lot She is really very good at pass­we serve and pass well, the rest allowed us to hit for a very good of people in," Brown said. "In ing and defense. I thought she of the game will take care of Looking to rebound from a percentage. We just struggled in the other two matches, we were did a particularly good job itself. It is good to go on the disappointing weekend at the the first two matches and it was trying to find a combination that there," Brown said. "I think she road and get to experience a Loyola Marymount Classic, the good to see the team come back worked. In the Colorado match, hit some good shots but she also different environment. We only Notre Dame volleyball team -after seeing the team playing one person off the bench that made some errors." have two returning players on travels to Valparaiso today to poorly -and play very well," played well was Kim Fletcher. The Crusaders won their first the back row so the more we face the Crusaders at 7:00 p.m. the coach added. We just didn't have anybody match of the season last week­can play. the more experience 
The difference for the Irish (4-In their two losses, the Irish else,,Play well enough to help end. Valparaiso defeated Austin we get." 
2} in their win and losses this had hitting percentages of .106 her. Peay 30-16, 30-18. 30-19. Notre Dame has defeated weekend was very simple. and .274, while in their win Against the Buffaloes, Outside hitter Marion Hansen Valparaiso the past four sea­
"Pretty much everything," they hit .430. Fletcher had 10 kills and two led the Crusaders with 12 kills sons. Last year the Irish won Notre Dame coach Debbie Despite the losses, Notre blocks. and 11 digs. As a team, 30-22, 30-12 and 30-17 at the Brown said. "We didn't execute Dame did take some positives Meg Henican also played well Valparaiso recorded 13 blocks Joyce Center. the fundamentals very well from the season's first road trip. in Los Angeles. The freshman while Austin Peay only had one. against Loyola Marymount or Brown was able to get more outside hitter had two kills, two "It's a little bit of the same [as Contact Matt Lozar at Colorado and I think we were a players into game action due to assists and seven digs in the the weekend matches]. It is mlozar@nd.edu 

SOCCER  Polls  Club Sports  
Irish receive highest rank ever  New Sendwich Index poll  Water polo  
Notre Dame's mens soccer team is ranked fifth in  Check out the new poll that students on campus  Team competed in tournament over the weekend.  
the country.  This ties the 1995 team's record for  have produced.  See their results inside.  
highest ranking in a season.  
page 23  page 16  page 17  












