
Headed to the NFL
SNOW 
Monday

Six Notre Dame football players were picked up in the NFL draft this 
SHOWERS 
weekend. 


APRIL 22,

HIGH 43° 
Sports . page 18

LOW34° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 129 

"The data they collect will not be simply numbers on a page, but rather the evidence of real, live humans who lived and worked in a particular sort of time and place." Robert Haak, co-director ofNotre Dame Field School ofBio-Cultural Anthropology 
~ 



Change of Plans 
Anthropology program grows on campus after Middle East violence forced it to change focus 
It all began with an invita­tion from the Israeli police department and a little bit 
of ..complete serendipity." In 1994, Israeli police asked 
Susan Sheridan, a Notre Dame 
professor of anthropology, to 
present its members in 
Jerusalem with a lecture on 
forensic anthropology. The 
night before leaving South 
Bend for the Middle East, 
Sheridan met with Eugene 
Ulrich, a fellow professor and 
leading Dead Sea Scrolls schol­
ar. He suggested she visit a 

colleague of his who was a Above, Jaime Ullinger giember of the faculty at the 
works on a sample of a 

Ecole Biblique et Archeologique, a Dominican skeletal collection in monastery and world-famous 
Jerusalem. At right, the 

school of archaeology located in the ancient city. 2000 research group During her lunch at the pauses on a hike between 
monastery with Ulrich's col­
Jerusalem and Jericho.
league, Sheridan learned that 

the Ecole was the site of a . 
series of underground tombs 
STORY BY 
used by the monastic commu-
Meghan Martin 
see SHERIDAN/page 4 



HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Notre Dame begins U.N. conference 
ByT. MUSETTE JOHNSON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame began hosting Sunday the 
first conference in the United States 
devoted to the discussion and implemen­
tation of a new initiative known as the 
United Nations Global Compact. The con­
ference, entitled "Meeting Expectations 
in the World Economy: The United 
Nations Global Compact" seeks to 
address the U.N.'s new initiative to dif­
fuse economic development through vol­
untary corporate policies. 
The conference, held on campus through Tuesday, is jointly sponsored by the United Nations and the Center for Ethics and Religious. Values in Business in Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business. One of the major goals of this conference is to advance knowledge of the Global Compact and its implementa­tion among U.S. corporations and acade­mics. Currently there are only 20 American companies that have adopted the principles of the Global Compact while overseas several hundred compa­nies have adopted all or some of the compacts principles. 
Before keynote speaker Georg Kell, a senior officer in the Executive Office of the Secretary General and director of the UN Global Compact Office, took the floor, University President emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh set the tone for the conference as he discussed the pertinent issues the Global Compact wishes to address. He praised the U.N. as he said, "Thank God we have the United Nations." 
Hesburgh addressed some of the global problems that the Global Compact hopes 
see U.N./page 6 


Saint Mary's breaks ground for new dining hall 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
Gathered together, students, administrators and Board of Trustees commemorated the landmark groundbreaking cere­mony for the Student Center/Noble Family Dining Hall Friday. 
Marilou Eldred, College presi­dent, began the ceremony by wel­coming everyone and recognizing those significant in implementing the groundbreaking. 
"Through the commitment of so many people to Saint Mary's, the Trustees, alumni and students, this has been made possible," Eldred said. "In particular to rec­ognize the gift by student govern­

-----------------------------------~--~­
ment of $12,000 shows their per­sonal sincere belief in our institu­tion." 
Eldred presented a plaque to Michelle Nagle, 2001-2002 stu­dent body president, in apprecia­tion of the student· government donation. 
Eldred also spoke about how the project has been four years in the making when students first began to plan the project to ..improve the student environ­ment and enhance the life of all guests to Saint Mary's." 
Sister Joan Marie Steadman, Board of Trustees chair. expressed her pleasure about the project and how it is a symbol of community at Saint Mary's. 
"The Student Center is the fruit of communal effort," Steadman said. "We are grateful to all who will make the dream of the new Student Center a reality. We believe in what Saint Mary's is about and believe in the stu­dents." 
Nagle reflected on how the future Student Center is an accu­mulation of students working together to voice their needs and concerns. 
"It began with the students and will end with students," Nagle said. "Students here today may not be here when the Student Center is finished, but by giving our ideas of what Saint Mary's needs brings us a connection." 
Nagle added that the Student Center is going to be the first 
see DINING HALL/page 6 


Monday, April 22, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 

We need a 
•

voice, or a 


voice we all 
know 

A tribute to someone who can't defend herself. 
Here's to you. Miss Voice of The Voice Mail Lady. 
Ms. Voice of the Voice Mail Lady, you do not have a sense of humor as far as I know. I do not know ifyou take yourself much too seriously, like real 
Katie Hughes 
people often do. Ms. Voice of the Voice 

Sports Copy
Mail Lady, you say, "Hello 

(fill in my name with my Editor 
voice, not yours). You have 
(fill in number messages) 

messages. Press •p• to hear the current message 
again, 'D' to delete it, and 'S' to save it. That was 
your last unplayed message. That is not a valid 
mailbox number. Message saved. Message kept. 
Message deleted." 
That's about it. 

Ms. Voice of the Voice Mail Lady, I can say whatever I want about you and you will probably not get mad. If I did make fun of you and all Phone Voice People, would you and Miss 411 Information Voice and Mr. DART voice take the satire far too seriously? Would you prove the very idea that you take yourselves too seriously by sending a bunch of bitter e-mail responses if you had a body with hands and fingers to type? Would you fail to see the irony in the whole situ­ation? Jfthe Keenan Revue made fun of Voice Mail People, would that be less offensive than if I made fun of you? 
Do you think that ifyou can't laugh at yourself then you will go crazy? 
Are you happily married to Mr. Movie Time Phone Voice? Do the two of you go to voice peo­ple conventions to hear James Earl Jones give motivational speeches? Would you be mad if your kids wanted to work at a school for the deaf? 
Ms. Voice of the Voice Mail Lady, you are lucky you don't have to deal with the perils of being a real person with a brain and a body. 
Real people call each other names and then they have the nerve to go really slow through tollbooths and to take the last piece of toilet paper. They give the finger and try to sell me magazine subscriptions and Cutco knives. They nudge me in line and notice when I have stuff in my teeth. They need to be fed like three or four times a day. Real people gossip and re-give gifts at Christmas. They get sick. They get addicted to nicotine and soap operas. They have sex drives and silly ideas. Some real people drive big expen­sive cars, and some drive beat up station wag­ons. They order their cheeseburgers rare and then get mad when they're pink on the inside. 
Real people change. They smell. They are sen­sitive and unpredictable, annoying, eccentric, and messy. Some people like country music and some are super geniuses. Real people have bad hair days and lie. They make mistakes and make you late for airplanes and make you, Ms. Voice of the Voice Mail Lady, seem like a saint. 
Real people keep you up at night thinking about them. You, Ms. Voice of the Voice Mail Lady, have never kept me up at night. 
Real people, yeah, they're trouble. 

Contact Katie Hughes at K.Hughes@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLAfllFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a profes~ional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. \X'e do, however, recogniz.e that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, plea.,e contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday <'Keep, Juring exam and :vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Nso.:i:ued Press. All r<:production rights arc rtServed. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday 
. 
Lecture: "Nalipenos: Institutionalizing Latino Media Advocacy," Chon Noriega, 7 p.m., DeBartolo, Rm. 140 

. 
Lecture: "Political Uses of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony," noon, Moreau Rm. 114, Saint Mary's 


Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Princeton successful in preventing campus suicides 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
Princeton University has not seen a suicide in the last 15 years on campus. For other top schools, suicides have drawn national attention, and prevent­ing suicides has become a frequently discussed issue in higher education. 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, for example, has lost six students to self-inflicted deaths since 1998. In the past six months University of Pennsylvania has lost five students, two of whom killed themselves. 
The University's track record may attest to the sentiment few people "fall through the cracks here," said Gina Baral, coordinator of Health · Promotion Services. Indeed, the coun­seling center has seen a 20 percent increase in the number of students who have sought help within the last year. Across the board in professional 
STANFORD UNIVERSITY 

Students protest clothing line 
STANFORD. Calif. 
B.J. Lee was browsing the Abercrombie & Fitch Web site when he came across a T-shirt that read, "Wong Brothers Laundry Service -Two Wongs Can Make It White." Next to these words were two smil­ing figures, with slanted eyes and wearing rice-paddy hats, reminiscent of 1900s popular-culture depictions of Chinese men. Less than 48 hours later, more than 75 students of many racial backgrounds gathered in the lounge of Okada House, the Asian-American theme house, to discuss the company's line of T­shirts that portray Asian-Americans in what many students have called a stereotypical and derogatory manner. The meeting was organized and led by the Asian-American Students Association, at the request of several students, and lasted until 2 a.m. Lee called the T-shirts a "slap in the face to the Asian and Asian-American communities." 
The Stan/ord Daily 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend F~i,1 
Au,;u\V.t.v.itiu.--r:t• fon.~~i f,ig-,lu)l~lll: '41ll<liuc.m~ :.md hi!•-h lt.'ffl :fll!Uf1..":~ 
\ ,/ 
I :~. 
oK:•Mz ¦a&L&Vwuwii&Wt& m PFrn}!a 
·-,~~

,.•,-.,} 
~ 
C!c>:xf~· 
Tuesday 

. 
Lecture: "Impact of Sports Medicine on Everyday Life," Mini­Medical School Lecture Series, 7 p.Jll., DeBartolo, Rm. 102 

. 
Film: "Tito and Me," 7 p.m., LaFortune, Montgomery Theater 


"Ifyou choose to seek help, you ., can alwaysfind the appropriate resources or someone who can connect you to them. " 
Gina Baral coordinator of Health Promotion 
health services and student advisers, the University has laid out an emotion­al safety net to catch those falling stu­dents. 
In addition, RAs and MAAs are trained for crises -especially in rec­ognizing when to seek outside help. Each residential college has its own 
· resource staff to respond in emergen­cies. "If you choose to seek help, you can always find the appropriate resources or someone who can con-
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA -DAVIS 
AIDS patient stigma continues 
DAVIS, Calif. 
While the search for a cure continues, patients long for understanding and compassion from the critical eyes of society. To "paint a picture" of stigmas attached to AIDS patients in the United States, Dr. Gregory Herek, of University of California-Davis, published research outlining them in the American Journal of Public Health. Herek said his latest paper compiles a series of national telephone surveys of approximately 2,500 American adults during 1991, 1997 and 1999. Comparisons between each survey revealed-both encouraging and discouragin results. During one part of the survey, respondents were questioned about whether they agree or disagree with the following state­ment: "People who got AIDS through sex or drug use have gotten what they deserve." In 1999, 25 percent of Americans agreed with this claim, a 5 percent increase from 1991. The surveys also covered a range of other queries including how knowledgeable the general public is about the disease. 
The California Aggie 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Monday, April 22. Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
........... ......... •e •
CJ 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pfeuu,~: 
® © D ~ t:: I ~ ~' lz:J ~:~ ~¾Mi¼i :~lij~)
I ' ­High Low Show•r• Rain T-storms Flurries Snow In Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via A~OCrated Pre$$ 
Atlanta 78 54 Las Vegas 61 45 Portland 58 32 Balt,more 61 41 Memphis 65 41 Sacramento 75 55 Boston 54 35 Milwaukee 44 23 St Louis 56 33 Chicago 41 23 New York 39 12 • Tampa 73 50 Houston 83 59 Philadelphia 55 33 Washington 6G 43 
Wednesday 
. 
Event: "Herps Alive Reptile Show," noon, LaFortune Ballroom 

. 
Lecture: "Women's Voices and Representatives: 19th Century Chile,., Ana Maria Stuven, noon, O'Shaughnessy, Rm. 119 


nect you to them," Baral said. 
Four undergraduates attempted sui­cide during the last academic year, compared to a national rate of 1.6 per­cent, according to the National College Health Assessment Survey in 2001. 
Though a successful suicide has not occurred on campus in recent years "that doesn't mean that there haven't been a lot of attempts and gestures," said Bob Schiraldi, a staff psychologist in the counseling center. Tw,enty-eight undergraduates "seriously considered" suicide one or more times, in compari­son to an average of 32 students per university. What these numbers reflect is the University's efficacy in dealing with crisis, in supporting individuals who have sunken to a level that requires University intervention. 
The Daily Princetonian 

page 3

Monday, April 22, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Protestors rally for peace in Washington 
power could lead to more terrorism.
. Students protest 

"People feel positive about you if you helpduring sendoff at them, not if you attack them," Clark said. Roemer office The group received a significant number 
of honks or shouts of support from motorists driving along the busy north­By LIZ KAHLING 
south thoroughfare through the city's
News Writer 

downtown. One man yelled, "Yeah peace!" as he passed by.Members from the Michiana Peace and Rosalind Clark, a coalition member and Justice Coalition gathered last week in front 
English professor at Saint Mary's, said there 

of U.S. Rep. Tim Hoemer's South Bend is a misconception of how many people are 
office to give support to the members from actually in favor of the U.S. government's
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who attended actions. 
the annual "March on Washington" over "I think some people are afraid to speak
the weekend. 
out if people won't agree with them,"she

Nearly 25 people congregated Thursday said. "But I also think there's a lot of sym­
at Hoemer's office on Main Street, holding pathy with the cause, just not as much as 
signs calling for the end of military aid to willingness to take action." 
Israel, discouraging military action against 
Rosalind Clark said at monthly gatherings Iraq, as well as a banner to "Pray for in front of the federal building in down­
Peace." The weekend's demonstrations town, the positive comments outnumber the 
addressed those issues as well as the ongo­negative nearly two to one. 
ing war on terrorism, U.S. financing of the Pat McElwee, a Notre Dame junior and 
civil war in Colombia and civil liberties vio­member of the coalition, said he has noticed 
lations. 
a significant increase in student interest in 

"\Ve want the government to work for issues of social action and that more stu­
global, economic justice," said Ann Clark, a dents are speaking out about their previous 
coalition member. "The U.S. should take the 
"unexpressed feeling that the official gov­lead because it is the richest and most pow­ernment line of action isn't right." A girl holds a placard and marches with other demonstrators protesting
erful. This is how we can reduce terror." 
against War and the International Monetary Fund/World Bank spring meet­
Many demonstrators pointed out that the Contact Liz Kahling at 
ings in downtown Washington, D.C. Sunday. Several hundred protestors,
inconsistencies and abuses of U.S. foreign kahling@saintmarys.edu. 
hemmed In by police, attended the rally. 

THE 




RECOMMENDS 
Fitzgerald's classic story of psychological disintegration is a powerful and moving depiction of the human frailties that affect privileged and ordinary people alike. 

~.\ 

,iThis celebrated novel of World War II expresses the concerns of an entire generation in its dark comedy. "One of the most bitterly funny books in the language." 

-The New Republic 
The best American novel to e1nerge from World War I, A Farewell to Arms is the unforgettable story of an American ambulance driver on the Italian front and his passion for a beautiful English nurse. 
~ fffHfllifll ~RRffi~

HAMMES 





NOTRE DAME 
Ask how you can


BOOKSTORE 
receive a FREE Reader's IN THE ECK CENTER Choice Tote Bag* 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
Earn Free Books! See store for details 
*while supplies last. 

. Crowds rally outside finance meeting 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

About 1,000 demonstrators gathered on a chilly, drizzly Sunday to protest outside a meeting of international finance ministers and march through downtown for a rally against 
U.S. policies in Latin America. 
The crowds for a third day of capital protests were much smaller than on Saturday, when tens of thousands marched in support of Palestinians and against the Bush administra­tion's war on terrorism. 
While three days of rallies and protests have been relatively peaceful and without arrests, police worried the worst was to come Monday. Protesters advo­cating a halt to U.S. military aid to Colombia planned to disrupt the morning rush hour with a march from the Washington Monument to the Capitol and sit-ins to block traffic. 
"Tomorrow's going to be 
rough," Police Chief Charles 
Ramsey said. 
Activists spent about two 
hours Sunday in front of the 
downtown headquarters of the 
World Bank to protest policies 
they say do more harm than 
good for the world's poorest 
people. 
Assistant Police Chief 
Terrance Gainer estimated the 
crowd as high as 1,500. Other 
witnesses put the number 
between 500 and 1,000. 
Inside, world finance officials 
spent the final day of their 
spring meetings focusing on 
how to more aggressively battle 
global poverty. 
But protesters like Valerie 
Sieth, a student at Southern 
Illinois University in 
Carbondale, Ill.. were not con­
vinced. 
"I don't think anyone inside is 
listening," said Sieth, 19. 
Encircled by a fence and with · police ready with batons and riot helmets, the protesters danced, played games, per­formed skits and chanted anti­World Bank slogans. Music blasted from loudspeakers. 

INIE RESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETH ICRL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical Issues inuoluing technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, enuironmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design 
constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for 
society. 

To eHplore these issues in depth, inuesUgate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and ~alues Program (STU). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STU Program, you may deuelop specific emphases on STU issues In relation to Business; Enulronmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and 6ouemment and Public Policy. 
Rdescription of course offerings for FRLL 2882 
may be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or you can uisit our website at http:/ /www.nd.edu/-stu. Call 631-5815 for a personal appointment. 
Monday, April 22, 2002 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS 
Sheridan 
continued from page 1 
nity in the fifth and sixth cen­turies A.O. 
Encouraged by her interest in the potential of these remains, members of the Ecole community approached Sheridan with a proposition. Would she be willing to exhume the remains for research purposes? 
As she now satti, ..I was in the right place at the right time," and she accepted the proposal. 
Initially a project consisting solely of Sheridan and one under­graduate student and funded heavily by Notre Dame, the Byzantine St. Stephen's Project has evolved into the annual Notre Dame Field School in Bio-Cultural Anthropology, including both undergraduate and graduate stu­dents from across the continent, attending schools ranging from Lycoming College in Pennsylvania to New Mexico State University to the University of Lethbridge in Canada. 
This year, with the help of a $127,000 National Science Foundation grant, the six-week credit-granting program has been given the opportunity for expan­sion, essentially providing 10 par­ticipants selected from a national pool of applicants with a summer research job. All living and educa­tional expenses, as well as a $1,200 stipend will be provided for each student. 
Sheridan said of the partici­pants, who also hail from the Universities of Missouri, North Carolina, Notre Dame, Chicago, Concordia and Emory Universities, "It's a fun mix of stu­dents -and quite a bit scary. Their resumes are pretty impres­sive." With backgrounds spanning the fields of anthropology and Middle Eastern studies to biology, each brings a unique perspective to the program's core. 
Right idea, wrong place 
Although the project has been gaining momentum since its inception, the NSF grant itself has been a long time coming. Sheridan applied for and received it two years ago and was pre­pared for it to cover the 2001 

summer session. Non-fsolated biology 
Soon after the NSF granted the To replace that essential com­award, violence escalated in the ponent, project organizers have Middle East between Palestine instead added a two-day and Israel. Concerned that it monastery stay to the curriculum. would be unsafe to send under­Participants will have a chance to graduate students to Jerusalem experience monastic life on a during at that time, the founda­firsthand basis, an opportunity tion assured Sheridan that her which Sheridan and Haak hope program would receive funding will augment the program's but decided to postpone it for a decidedly interdisciplinary year, in hopes the Israeli­approach. Palestinian violence would even­"We all can read about the tually subside. practices at the monastery, but it 
But a 2002 return to Jerusalem will be even more helpful if the would not be in the program's students can come to a closer future, leaving Sheridan and her understanding by participating as staff to relocate to a less volatile fully as possible in the life of a locale. Notre Dame was a perfect 'real' monastery, even if this is for solution. a few days," Haak said. "In this 
Because the focus of the six way the data they collect will not weeks centers on the hands-on be simply numbers on a page, but research of the remains exhumed . rather the evidence of real. live at the Ecole, Sheridan believed, humans who lived and worked in 
relocating the  a  particular  
project to the middle of  "Working on this project  sort of time and place."  
Indiana has its  has been amazing and  In  addition  
benefits, name­ has truly influenced my  to their experi­ 
ly the ready availability of research facili­ life. both academically and personally.··  ence at the monastery, students'  
ties, technology  research will  
and distin­guished experts at a close prox­ Jaime Ullinger teaching assistant and fonner  be enhanced by visits to the laboratories of  
imity.  program participant  the  Field  
Although the  Museum  in  
move indicates  Chicago  and  
a slight shift in  presentations  

concentration to a more technical given by distinguished scholars treatment of the material, pro­and experts. gram co-director Robert Haak, "We want to introduce them to professor of religion at Augustan a a number of scholars in a number College, indicated the importance of fields. It gives them a lot of of cultural understanding paired first-hand contact," Sheridan said. with physical research. From the program's beginning, 
"In order to understand the her objective has been to empha­context of these remains, we will size the necessity for an interdis­be doing all we can to attempt to ciplinary approach to anthropo­immerse ourselves in the daily life logical research. of the people living at the "We want to drive home the monastery," he said. fact that biology does not exist in 
Field trips, such as the annual isolation," she said. "The goal seven-to eight-hour hike to here is to cross the divide Jericho, served to help past stu­between natural science and the dents understand the environ­humanities." , mental constraints on monks who Haak agreed, naming two main lived on the edge of the Judean foci of the six weeks: "First to understand the materials we have to study, and second, to work with students to encourage their inter­est and increase their abilities in doing serious research in a pro­gram which bridges the gaps between 'hard science' and the humanities," he said. 
This integration of seemingly unrelated areas of study can be most clearly illustrated by the diverse range of publications in which Sheridan's and her stu­dents' work on the project has appeared. 
"The thing that makes it inter­esting ... is that the results have been published in modern science journals and humanities journals ... but even in places like Worship Leader magazine ... there is a wide range of interest in the results of this project," she said. 
New directions 
Though the bones have been exhumed from St. Stephen's monastery, there is still much work left to do. Each year has brought a new focus to the researchers' attention, ranging from the pathology of kneeling, as was demonstrated by the condi­tion of monks' knees at death, to the aspect of asceticism in diet so strongly emphasized by the monastic community. 
This year a new addition to the St. Stephen's research will open, prompted by the discovery of chil­dren's remains within the tombs of the monastery. 
"Among the more than 15,000 bones recovered, a significant percentage were from sub­adults," Haak said. "Why this is true at a monastery is a question which we hope to better be able to answer after this summer's work." 
The opportunity to investigate an historical mystery with such implications is part of what has made this six-week experience so significant, according to former participant and summer 2002 teaching assistant Jaime Ullinger. 
desert and, as Sheridan noted, "drove home a bit about the phys­
A Habitat for Humanity fnndraiser ... 
ical conditions" of such a lifestyle. 
Without such firsthand experi­ence that could be applied to their lab work, "we lose a fairly unique component of the field trip," Sheridan said. 
' 
" 


"I have been amazed by the opportunities it offers for research..:. I started out as an undergraduate with no research experience in biological anthro­pology, and from this I have learned how to propose and write grants, collect and analyze data and synthesize and write up con­clusions.... Working on this pro­ject has been amazing and has truly influenced my life, both aca­demically and personally," said Ullinger. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu. 



n

Police continue search for inmates 




April 26 on South Quad 
• Three escaped from jail using a gun made of toilet paper, knife 
Associated Press 
PAOLI, Ind. 
Police on Sunday continued their search· for three inmates who escaped from the Orange County Jail last week. 
Police had no new fresh leads into the inmates' whereabouts Sunday and were hoping citizen reports might spark the search, said Doug Shepherd, a dispatcher 
with  the  Orange  County  
Sheriffs Department.  
Authorities  said  Jeffrey  

Hayden, 19; Kerry Silvers, 28; and Larry Holden, 21 used a fake gun made of toilet paper and a handmade knife to overpower two officers and escape from the Orange 

County Jail in Paoli on 
Sign ups SDH April 22 &23
Thursday night. Paoli is about 45 miles northwest of Louisville, Ky., on the eastern 
.NDH April 23 & 24­
edge of the Hoosier National Forest. Two of the men have ties in southern Indiana, while one 
Here's the deal:

has links to Texas and anoth­er has a girlfriend who lives 
1) Sign yourself up at the dining halls.
in Indianapolis, Shepherd said. 
2) Convince your roommates who snore obnoxiously,
Authorities said the men were considered armed and 
friends, teammates who lost the Bookstore game for you, dangerous, and urged area 
administrators, or professors who assign ridiculous
residents to lock their homes and vehicles. 
amounts of work to sign up.
Police also continued to search for a car they suspect 
3) Pay a small donation to them arrested and put into our 
was stolen Friday night by the inmates. The car, a dark blue 
homemade jail by the flag post on South Quad. And yes, we 
1988 Oldsmobile four-door 
will let them out eventually. •
with a damaged grille, has a license plate number 88B2375. 
4) Stop by at our concession stand, buy a hamburger or brat, and pick up a free snow cone. 
For 1nore details, visit WWW.nd.edu/---habitat 

ATI 


Monday, April 22, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

U.S. moves to remove OPCW head: 
The United States again tried to oust the head of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons Sunday in The Hague, Netherlands, accusing him of gross misconduct before calling for a vote to force the Brazilian diplomat out, the embattled leader said. Jose Bustani, director-general of the regulatory body, said the United States falsely accused him during the beginning of Sunday's conference. 
Health dept. sends aid to Caribbean: 
The United States will send health experts to help Caribbean governments fight the region­al spread of HIV/AIDS, Health Secretary Tommy Thompson said Saturday. The meet­ing, sponsored by the United States in Georgetown, Guyana, focused on patient care, training for personnel, and collaborative aid. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Man bites 2-year-old son's thumb: 
A Phoenix man who told police he bit off his 2-year-old son's thumb, and apparently held it in his mouth for about six hours, was arrested for child abuse and aggravated assault, authorities said Sunday. Police responding to a 911 call Saturday night found Raymond Jones, 39, running on a street naked, said police Sgt. Bill Knight. Jones told detectives he had taken several hits of the hallucinogen PCP and had swallowed his son's thumb because he wanted to mix their DNA, Knight said. 
Playwright Reginald Rose dies at 81: 
Reginald Rose, the Emmy Award-winning play­wright who wrote and co-produced the movie "Twelve Angry Men," has died. He was 81. Rose died Friday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. During the golden age of TV, Rose was known for his willingness to tackle social and political issues. He won an Emmy in 1954. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Dana Corp. moves 300 tech jobs: 
Dana Corp.'s transfer of about 300 high-paying jobs from a division headquarters in Fort \Vayne is the latest in a series of moves that have reduced the auto-parts maker's presence in northeastern Indiana. Toledo, Ohio•based Dana said on Friday that the 300 jobs will be moved next summer to a new technology center to be built near Toledo in either northwest Ohio or southeast Michigan. The company cut more than 500 jobs at a Fort Wayne manufacturing plant last year because of sluggish customer demand, leaving 950 workers at that site. 
Market Watch April 19 
Dow 

10,257.11 +51.83 
Jones 


COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +7.39 +0.63 9.15 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +0.32 +0.11 34.46 WORLDCOM IN-WO (WCOM) -5.53 -0.35 5.98 MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) +1.47 +0.83 57.20 APPLIED DIGITAL (ADSX) +30.56 +0.33 1.41 
FRANCE 


the anti-immigration Loud, sometimes almost after the projections were
. Candidate 

National Front party has thundering, Le Pen has put announced.denies charges wielded considerable influ­forth a "French first" mes­A former paratrooperof prejudice ence over France's right sage that excludes immi­who fought in Indochina 
wing. grants. and Algeria, the silver­
On Sunday, he stunned In his fourth presidential haired Le Pen strikes a 
the political establishment bid, Le Pen also effectively chord among voters who
Associated Press 

by making it into the May 5 capitalized on his law-and­fear that the French identi­
PARIS runoff election for presi­order message at a time ty, and the French them­
Extreme-right leader dent, shoving aside when many French are selves, are being displaced Jean-Marie Le Pen, bom­Socialist Prime Minister feeling threatened by vio­by waves of Muslim immi­bastic, fiery and theatrical, Lionel Jospin, projections lent crime. grants, many of them from has been a fixture on the by three main polling firms While the left howled in Africa. political scene for decades. showed. distress, the former Le Pen often comparesplaying on fears of immi­Le Pen will face off Foreign Legionnaire took immigration to an invasion, gration and vowing to keep against incumbent Sunday's second-place fin­and blames foreigners for France French. President Jacques Chirac, ish in stride. rising unemployment and 
Brushing off charges of in a battle of the far right "It's not a surprise to urban violence -the topracism and anti-Semitism, and the more moderate me," he said simply on theme of the presidentialthe 73-year-old leader of right. French television shortly campaign. 
Pope calls for 'perfect' new priests 
some cases by moving known said. "In a word, the Lord wants you
Associated Press 

abusers from job to job. It already to be holy." 
VATICAN CITY has paid millions of dollars in dam­The pope last week summoned the 
Days before an unprecedented ages and faces numerous lawsuits 13 American cardinals and several Vatican summit on clergy sex-abuse from victims. Dozens of priests have bishops to Rome for a summit in America, Pope John Paul II told 20 been suspended or forced to resign. Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss new priests Sunday they must be The pontiff's comments Sunday the scandal -an extraordinary perfect and adhere to a "higher loy­highlighted the strict standard of measure underscoring the serious­alty." fidelity to vows he has set for ness the Vatican now appears to be 
While John Paul's exhortations churchmen -and which some in placing on the issue. were not unusual for such a ceremo­America have broken. None of the 20 One cardinal, 81-year-old Cardinal ny. they had symbolic significance new priests were Americans. James Hickey, the retired archbishop ahead of this week's summit with 12 As the new priests gathered in St. of Washington, is too frail to attend. American cardinals and several Peter's Basilica, John Paul told them Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston, bishops concerning the sex-abuse Jesus expects a "higher loyalty" from who is expected in Rome, told his scandal roiling the Roman Catholic priests, a more rigorous poverty and congregation Sunday that the scan­Church in America. humility. dal was undermining the mission of 
The church is accused of covering "He asks of you to be perfect, as the church and "must spark immedi­up sexual misconduct by priests, in your heavenly Father is perfect," he ate and decisive changes." 
-
Monday, April 22, 2002 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
U.N. 
continued from page I 
to diminish, such as sweat­shops and child labor as well as equality among all people despite race, color, creed or religion. 
"If we are going to globalize, let's globalize in a way that makes us civilized and humane. We are for using the great power g,f industry and business for becoming civi­lized," Hesburgh said. 
Hesburgh also reminded business representatives why they were at the conference. 
"We are here to create a better world," he said. "We 

are trying to "It is necessary for find ways for international businesses 
the economic 

to embrace these 
enterprise to tie 

into worldwide principles, making them concepts. There a part ofday to day
should be no 

processes. ,,
problem with being economi­cally successful Georg Kell and just at the 
senior officer of the Executive 
same time." 

Office of the Secretary General
He also 
stressed  the  
urge1.1cy  and  
necessity  to  

"promote education, better healthcare and deal with prej­udices." 
Presently the Global Compact is starting to become more recognized worldwide, though the idea for the com­pact was raised in January of 1999. 
Kell said, "Initially U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan had just meant to discuss a global compact that shared the same principles and ideals, however, the reaction from foreign ministers and CEO's was so great that we decided to take action on this policy." 
Annan decided to set forth 
Dining 
continued from page l 
facility to bring all students together and allow students to grow beyond academics. 
"It is a statement that the College values fun," Nagle said. 
After the completion of the blessing of the earth, the partici­pants, Myron Noble, a trustee, and his wife Rosie Noble, both original donors of the building, Pat and Pat Graham, trustees, Kim Jensen, 2002-2003 student body president, Steadman and nine main principles that would serve as the backbone for the policy focusing on labor standards human rights and protection for the environ­ment. The Global Compact requests that world business leaders: 
. 
Support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence. 

. 
Make sure their own cor­porations are not complicit in human rights abuses. 

. 
Uphold freedom of associ­ation and the effective recog­nition of the right to collective bargaining. 

. 
Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and com­


pulsory labor. 
. 
Uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 

. 
Uphold the elimina­tion of dis­crimination in respect to employ­ment and occupation. 

. 
Support a precau­tionary approach to 



environmental challenged. 
. 
Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmen­tal responsibility. 

. 
Encourage the develop­ment and diffusion of environ­mentally friendly technologies. 


"The main goal is to make globalization more humane by establishing a common appli­cation of how businesses and societies can work together on human and labor rights and improving the environment." 
"The most important thing concerning this policy is awareness," Kell said. "It is necessary for international businesses to embrace these 
Eldred grabbed the golden shov­els to plunge into the earth and complete the groundbreaking ceremony. 
The three-level, 80,000­square-foot, $17 million struc­ture will be built in two phases. Phase I involves construction of the new Noble Family Dining Hall, which is scheduled for com­pletion on June 10, 2003. Phase II, which includes demolition of the old dining hall and construc­tion of the student center, should be finished by Dec. 15, 2004. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

P-ZZA CC>MPANVCD 
piz-za,duneright 


After 8 Party Pak! Lg 1 Topping Pizza, Dozen Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) & 2 Liter of COKE Only $14.99! ! ! 
(Offer Good After 8 PM Only. Before 8 PM Add $2.00) Visa & Mastercard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to SUBWAY) 
principles, making them a part of day to day processes." 
It is very important that more American businesses adopt some or all the princi­ples of the compact in order for it to become a greater suc­cess, according to Kell. "American companies are very untrusting of the policy, basi­cally because the principles are too simple," Kell said. "American businesses are con­cerned that it is too simple and too aspirational." 
However, over the next two months there will be major decisions made regarding the policies. 
"Within the next two months the number of American com­panies involved in the compact will be proportional to busi­nesses involved overseas." 
Kell describes the Global Compact as being pragmatic in the purest sense. "We are the first to admit we have not reached our full potential, but with the help of businesses we can develop it into something that implements great change." 
Contact T. Musette Johnson at tjohnso3@nd.edu. 
Goat meat growing fast in popularity 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, Ga. 
Charles Batten turned a few goats loose on his cow pastures 10 years ago to keep weeds down. They do a great job, but these days they're more valuable for their meat. 
Demand for goat meat has grown steadily in the past 10 years and Batten, whose herd has grown to about 200, is banking that it will continue as more immigrants move here from goat-eating regions such as Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa and the Middle East. 
"Consumers of goat meat are practically everywhere except North America· and we're working on them," said Batten, president of the new. Sunbelt Goat Producers Cooperative. 
Farmers throughout the South are turning to goats for diversification and relief from the low prices they have been getting for traditional crops such as cotton. 
Texas, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia, Florida, Oklahoma and North and South Carolina already supply the bulk of the nation's meat goats, said Will Getz, a goat specialist at Georgia's Fort Valley State University. 
Texas is the nation's largest producer, with Tennessee and Georgia taking turns for second place. To promote production in Kentucky, the state's agricultural develop­ment board provides cash assistance to farmers who want to diversify. In North Carolina. goat sales have soared to at least $6.6 million annually. 
Goat meat is lean and high­er in protein than chicken. And it costs about the same as beef -around $2.89 a pound for cubes, $7.89 for chops. 


Congratulate seniors on their graduation with an ad in The Observer. 
¢ 

Contact Observer Advertising at (574) 631-6900 


Monday, April 22, 2002 page 7
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 

Tuesday, A ril 30 8:00pm Riehle Sand Courts (formerly Stepan Courts) Co-Rec -6 on 6* *Minium of Two Females on the Court at all Times Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Sunday, Apri.l 28 R~~ TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER  

Erasmus Institute University of Notre Dame Gender Studies Program and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Invite you to a cosponsored lecture ... 
Ana Maria Stuven Professor ofHistory and Political Science Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de Chile 
Women's Voices & Representations: 19th-century Chile 
12 noon Wednesday April 24, 2002 Room 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
If you would like to attend, please send an e-mail to erasmus@nd.edu So we can send you a copy of the paper prior to the seminar 
SUMMER SESSIONS 2002 May 20 -June 27 • July 1 -August 8 
Quake shakes northeast N.Y. 
Associated Press 
AU SABLE FORKS, N.Y. 

An estimated 5.1 magnitude earthquake shook the Northeast awake early Saturday, collapsing roads in New York and rattling homes from Maine to Maryland. No injuries were immediately reported. 
The quake, centered 15 miles southwest of Plattsburgh, N.Y., left cracks in foundations and chimneys throughout the region, said Ray Thatcher, director of emergency services for Essex County. 
"It was shaking pretty good," said Jimmy Mussaw, who said he was standing in a Plattsburgh supermarket just before 7 a.m. when the walls and beams begin to shake. "Everybody was running from the back of the store to the front." 
Gov. George Pataki declared states of emergency in Essex and Clinton counties in north­eastern New York. State inspectors were sent to the Adirondack region to examine roads and bridges for structur­al damage. The state Department of Environmental Conservation inspected all the dams in the area and found no damage. 
State troopers also were sent to provide help to local law enforcement officers. No restrictions were placed on travel, but police were urging drivers to use caution. 
In the nearby hamlet of Jay, the earthquake caused an explosion that disrupted a New York State Electric & Gas sub­station, sending sparks into the sky and cutting power to about 3,500 residents, Thatcher said. Power was expected to be restored by late Saturday. 
William Ott, a seismologist at Weston Observatory at Boston College, said the quake had a magnitude of 5.1, and at least two aftershocks were reported. 
He called the earthquake "moderate." A typical magni­tude 5.1 earthquake would cause cracked plaster, broken windows and minor structural 

fl¦ll::!11•1~'; 
_/vr., >.: 
N.~. 1 ~~i\ NEW
t.1tifi'.h 
STAlES \ 
PENN. l 
0 •OOrnl 0 •00 km 
AP 
damage around the epicenter, he said. 
The quake broke off a 100­f oot section from one road in Ausable, said David Fessette, highway construction supervi­sor for Clinton County. A crew was filling the area in with limestone Saturday afternoon. Parts of at least two other roads collapsed, and there were several water main breaks in the area. 
At Adirondack Mountain Spirits in Ausable, the earth­quake rattled liquor bottles off the shelves. 
"It was just a mess," said owner Dayle Richards. "Even if they didn't break, they were covered with other debris." 
The largest earthquake recorded in New York, accord­ing to the USGS, was a 5.8 magnitude quake in 1944 that was centered in Massena, about 3 miles from the Canadian border. 
Won Young Kim, a seismolo­gist with the Columbia University's Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory, said a magnitude 3.5 quake occurred in the same area on the same day, April 20, two years ago. 
"Northern New York is an active area, but most of the earthquakes that occur in the area are smaller," said Frank Revetta, a professor of geology at State University of New York at Potsdam. "Normally you'd got one this big just every 100 years or so. 
"During the last two or three years, there haven't been many at all, and I wondered if that meant anything. This might prove the strained ener­gy had not been released, and now it has been." 


page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 22, 2002 


MEETING EXPECTATIONS IN THE WORLD ECONOMY: THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPAC1_, 
Presented By 
Notre Dame Center 

I ------
I for Ethics and Religious And ~ Values in Business The United Nations 
APRIL 21 -23, 2002 UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Center for Continuing Education McKenna Hall 
The United Nations Global Compact is a new initiative intended to increase and diffuse the benefits ofglobal economic development through voluntary corporate policies and actions. I<.ofi Annan, secretary-general of the United Nations, addressing the Davos World Economic Forum in January 1999, challenged business leaders to join a "global compact of shared values and principles" and give globalization a human face. Annan argued that shared values provide a stable environment for a world market and that without these explicit values business could expect backlashes from protectionism, populism, fanaticis1n and terrorism. 
l(ofi Annan's top assistant will present the UN's vision and major 1nultinational co1npanies \vill offer case studies discussing issues of the Compact. 
Schedule 

Sunday, April 21 (Morris Inn Dining Room) 
7:45 p.m. Georg l(ell, UNITED NATIONS, "The Vision of the UN Global 
Compact"  •  
Monday, April 22  (CCE)  
9:00 a.m.  NOVARTIS  

10:45 a.m. DELOI'rl'E TOUCHE TOHMATSU 
2:00 p.m. MERCI< and MOTOROLA 
4:00 p.m. SHELL OIL Tuesday, April 23 (CCE) 
8:30 a.m. FREEPORT-MCMORAN and HEWLETT-PACKARD 
10:15 a.m. NII<E 
10:50 a.m. THE FUTURE OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT 
FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT THE CONFERENCE, SEE I'HE WEB SITE HTTP://WWW.ND/EDU/,...,ETHICS/ 
Monday, April 22, 2002 page 9
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
PHILIPPINES 

Bomb explodes in busy department store 
Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida net­Most of the casualties appeared an Indonesian man believed to Associated Press work, and the fundamentalist to be pedicab drivers, shoppers be a key leader of the Jemaah Moro Islamic Liberation Front of and bystanders. Islamiyah, a Southeast Asian­MANIIA setting off bombs here. The second bomb went off 34 based group with suspected
A bomb exploded in front of a Gener.al Santos is about 130 minutes later at the radio sta­links to al-Qaida. 
busy department store in the miles from Basilan island, tion, followed several minutes Fathur Rohman Al-Ghozi was southern city of General Santos where the Abu Sayyaf has been afterward by the bus terminal sentenced to 12 years in prison on Sunday, killing at least 13 holding an American missionary blast, injuring several people, for explosives possession. He people, officials said. couple and a Filipino nurse the city's disaster operations told police he had planned a Two other bombs went off in hostage for nearly 11 months. center said. series of bombings that killed 22 quick succession near the Radio About 160 U.S. Special Forces Bartolome Baluyot, police people in Manila on Dec. 30, Mindanao Network office and a troops are on the island to train chief for the central Mindanao 2000, and in January he led bus terminal in this Philippine Filipino troops assigned to crush region, said two unexploded police to a buried cache of more city. At least 46 people were the rebel group. bombs were discovered under a than a ton of TNT, detonatinginjured in the series of blasts. City councilor Eduardo Leyson truck parked in front of the cords and M-16 rifles in this 
Police said they received an Ill said a bomb exploded in a store and were being detonated city. anonymous call claiming 18 · pedal-powered cab parked in a by the police bomb squad. On Thursday, the U.S. State bombs had been planted around line about 10 yards in front of The injured were rushed to Department renewed an appealthe largely Christ.ian city of the Gensan Fitmart department hospitals and clinics in the city, to Americans to exercise caution 800,000 people in the predomi­store in the city's business dis­a little over 620 miles southeast while in the Philippines. nantly Muslim south. trict. Reports of another nearly of Manila. Most businesses In March, several bombs with­
There was no immediate simultaneous blast appeared to closed, and checkpoints were set out triggering devices were dis­claim of responsibility. But in be incorrect. up on major roads. covered in Manila. A rebel the past, police have suspected The blast shattered the store's It was not clear if the blasts group claimed responsibility and the Abu Sayyaf, a Muslim rebel glass panels. Blood was spat­were related to the sentencing has threatened to plant more 


group believed to have ties to tered around the parking area. Thursday in General Santos of bombs. 

H@:, st;ud@Jtf;s ..... QoiJt Clllllt!JU, 
I 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association and the Student Alumni Relations Group will sponsor the following events on April 23 and April 26: 
.•. Alumni Association Open House . 
Tuesday, April 23 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 
This event will be open to all students but geared towards graduating students. Come learn about the benefits of your free Alumni Association membership and involvement in your local alumni club. Door prizes include alumni apparel and a pair of football tickets. Freet-shirts will be provided for the first 400 arrivals. Doors open at 11 :00 a.m. Food will be served. 
We will also have information about "Classic Europe" --the trip of a lifetime for Notre Dame graduates. This trip is a 17-day excursion on which you'll visit London, Paris, Athens, Rome, and many other European destinations. You won't want to miss this last chance to sign up! Tour dates: May 30-June 15, 2002. Get detailed information from a travel professional at the Open House. 
.•.· Lunch with Alumni. Friday, April 26from 12:00 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. in South Dining Hall. Join over 200 alumni club leaders for lunch in South Dining Hall. You'11 find that they're not just about plaid pants. 
.•.. Young Alumni Social Friday, April 26from 9:30 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. in Alunzni-Senior Club. This event is open to all students who are over 21. Hosted by y6ung alumni, this social is a great opportunity to network with alumni of all ages from across the country. Free pizza will be provided. 
NOTRE DAME 
\~JRG 
S1,utnu,'\lumniRl1x11or...,G1t<>1•1·
• 
SOURCES Associated Press; ESRI AP 
ISRAEL 
Tanks scale back 3-week offensive 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Firing shells into the air, Israeli 
tanks began pulling out of the 
largest \Vest Bank city. Nablus, early 
Sunday, hours after leaving parts of 
Ramallah, scaling back Israel's 3­
week-old military offensive. 
Israeli troops remain in Bethlehem 
and around Yasser Arafat's battered 
headquarters, where the Palestinian 
leader is confined. The army said its 
forces remain in several villages 
near Jenin, scene of the fiercest 
fighting of the military campaign 
and which Israeli forces left on 
Friday. 
The withdrawal from Nablus 
seemed largely complete shortly 
before dawn. An Israeli military offi­
cial, speaking on condition of 
anonymity, confirmed a withdrawal 
was under way. 
During the pullout, a group of Israeli settlers tried to march to Joseph's Tomb, where Jews believe Joseph, son of the biblical Jacob, is buried, the official said. 
The official described the scene as a "major riot," but said the settlers were turned away and eventually left. No further details were immedi­ately available. 
After Israeli forces left one of the Nablus buildings they'd occupied for more than two weeks, residents took a first look at their homes. 
Ghasoub Abu Ghoush, who had moved in with a downstairs neighbor when soldiers took over his apart­ment, gestured to an empty drawer he said had contained gold jewelry. Empty cases and only a couple of pieces were left lying inside. 
Abu Ghoush explained that up to 30 soldiers had been staying inside his apartment. Most doors in the building were dented in, their locks broken, and sewage covered the floor of one home. 
On Saturday, tanks and armored personnel carriers also were seen heading out of some Ramallah neighborhoods. Raanan Gissin, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's spokesman, confirmed some forces 


were redeploying to just outside the city. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Monday, April 22, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF
-
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR Kate Nagengast  BUSINESS MANAGER Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR Andrew Soukup  OPERATIONS MANAGER Bob Woods  
NEWS EDITOR: VIEWPOINT EDITOR:  Helena Payne Lauren Beck  

SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sheila Egcs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoro 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLl..ER: Lori Lewalski 
DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 !-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the movies/music for 
minute forecasts weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 

online features for spe­and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for  about The Observer  
articles published after  to meet the editors and  
August 1999  staff  
POLICIES  

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntions regarding Obseroer policin should. be direct­ed to Editor in Chief/a.son McFarley. 
Saying so long to the SYR 
Much to everyone's dismay, this year will most likely be the last year of the SYR (even though we made signs). 
I was never a big fan of dances myself, since I thought they were a relic of high school, along with Amy Schill pep rallies and awkward gender relations. Over the Dazed and years, however, Amused I've grown quite fond of this little tradition, if only for the opportunity to let guys destroy our restrooms. Though I was a sporadic dorm dance attendee because, well, I just didn't care, I will definitely be sorry to see them go. 
When I heard the announcement, I started thinking about my first dance here, a formal. Formals will still be around next year because, after an extensive five-year study, officials have determined that people drink less when not wearing silly costumes. It was at South Dining Hall, so I thought how next year more dances are proba­bly going to be there (if your dorm is notluckyenoughtosnagthe Enchantment in DeBartolo theme). Looking back, however, if future dances are anything like my first one, we might just want to get rid of them all together. 
More than the distinctive smell of pizza mixing with perfume, the naYvete of my friends and I at this dance is my fondest memory. Before the dance, we managed to procure a bottle of wine (giggle), that we were going to drink (teehee) before we got there. With boys. We had bad wine in Dixie cups, and we thought we were "Animal House." 
Don't worry, we get even cuter. We didn't even get to enjoy the fruits of Bacchus ... well, Boone's, for more than two minutes before we had to head over to the dance. You see, we thought we'd be fashionably late by showing up at the dance a full half-hour after the scheduled start time. Again, there were boys with us. So we get there, and the attendees consist of us, the DJ, the hall staff and my embarrassment. 

To make matters worse, Club SDH was apparently unable to turn all the lights out and in particular was not able to turn the lights off that were over what tried to pass as the dance floor. So as we were dancing (we decided to dance really close to one another to give the illu­sion of a crowded room ... gosh, we were clever), we were not only not anywhere near inebriated, but we could actually see each other. The last thing people need to see clearly is me dancing. In fact, we don't need to see any of us dancing. I mean, seri­ously, we're all terrible. In fact, if alcohol has any value whatsoever, it is to shield us from the jerky, uncoordinated movements we make when a 
·Backstreet Boys song comes on. With no alcohol to obscure our minds and no dark­ness to dbscure our sight, we had to have real, unassisted interac­tions with other people in a social situ­ation, and as a typical Notre Dame stu­dent, I'd never been more frightened. 
If your first dance experience was much wilder than mine, I congratulate you for being a cooler freshman than I was. If you had a similar experience, just remember one thing: you were a gigantic nerd. 
I never went to another formal after that one because I preferred the more relaxed and much-darker atmosphere of the SYR. I liked the goofy outfits and the last-minute search for a date. I liked how our parties got more orga­nized over the years, and some were 
so good that a couple of my friends never quite made it to the 
dance. SYRs were all about the surprises: taking care of 
your friends, finding your room locked with your roommate, her date -and yours ­inside, and singing .-...,...,_-\ along to a not-so­
\ Catholic lyric of "Baby Got Back" right as your rec­
tor walks on the
fit} 
dance floor. (She loves to dance.) Can you have fun 
ttif1 
without it? Sure, I 
had a good time at 
my well-lit formal, 
1• ,•...~,t"' ~. but it's just not the {'/IN same unless it EME takes a week to get -o F_ whatever that stain O ~ is on your rug out. A~ So I bid farewell to :M\,Q the SYR and hello to 
~ more dances at South. Now I have to actually learn how to dance {with 
boys). 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. "Dazed and Amused" appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Don't categorize those who choose celibacy 
This letter is a response to Christine Niles' April 18 col­umn. "Celibacy offers unique freedom." While I would never disagree that "society should respect and celebrate" those men and women who choose to lead a chaste and celibate life, I do, however, question her categorization of those who have chosen another path. 
Mrs. Niles writes, "the profound emptiness it [self-con­frontation] can reveal is terrifying," and goes on to corre­late copulation with desperate attempts to fill the void. Her reductive definition of love {and lovers) implies that all such activity prior to marriage is morally wrong and innately flawed. It seems that if one is to engage in the sacred and therefore dangerous act of love, it is only a futile and reckless attempt to inject spirituality and mean­ing into an otherwise desolate life. 
The act of love is an extremely spiritual and personal experience, which insinuates that all decisions must be respected. This includes a decision to participate in a healthy and empowering physical discourse. 
Jess Morrison 
senior off-campus April 18, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Noreen Gillespie C. Spencer Beggs Kelly Hager Graphics Helena Payne Katie Malmquist Sports Production Mike Connolly Rachael Viewpoint Protzman Kristin Yemm Lab Tech Peter Richardson 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

Is the United States being sufficiently proactive in the Middle East? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"On with the dance! Let joy be unconfined.·· 
Lord Byron poet 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, April 22, 2002 page 11 
GUEST COLUMN 

ANWR drilling should not be stopped 
WACO, Texas according to The Associated Press. nationwide. The oil and gas companies acres, roughly the size of South 
The Democratic senators who suc­By drilling in ANWR, however, we would have been able to employ thou­Carolina, and according to the AP. cessfully filibustered against drilling could have decreased this sands of people in the drilling, refin-drilling would only require the use of for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife dependency to 
the point ------ing and other processes. about 2,000 acres of this precious land. Refuge (ANWR) have made a grave where our relation­Aside from the jobs this While roads would cover these 2,000 mistake. ships with the would have created, the acres, pipeline and thousands of peo­
They have suc-Middle East drilling of oil touches ple, the companies who would have cessfully sealed Staff Editorial would not hinge every local economy. drilled would have been required by our fate by keep-so much on Americans' con-law to return the land to its natural ing America the amount cern about how pristine condition. reliant on foreign The Lariat of oil they much they pay for While the drilling of this oil would not oil. want to sell gas and how long have produced any for 10 years, these 
A key piece to us. 
we are able to issues are so pertinent to Americans President Bush's This 
participate in that they need to be dealt with immedi­energy plan was to open ANWR's mil­dependency 
war are both ately. lions of acres to our domestic oil and is a very 
directly related Perhaps the Democrats would have gas companies for drilling. dangerous to-oil. considered the amendment if it had 
The president's, and by default the situation for If Americans also included some long-term fixes Republicans', plan was intended to America to be were given the such as increasing our reliability on solve many of America's problems that in because it right to drill in renewable resources, more research are concerning the average Joe. allows the ANWR, they would and development into more environ­
Opening ANWR would help America actions of other have been able to keep mentally friendly automobiles and help itself. The Republicans' primary countries, which ~ prices at a steadier level other consumers of fossil fuels. argument for the opening of ANWR is might not be friendly to !'el{ -....5.::-while at the same time pre­couched in national security concerns. us, to affect American policy. served American interests in times This editorial first appeared in the 
Mainly by tapping this nirvana of While the senators filibustered this of catastrophe. One of the primary rea­April 19 issue ofThe Lariat, the cam­black gold, we will be able to signifi­amendment, they also made a bad eco­sons the Democrats were against pus newspaper ofBaylor University. It cantly decrease our dependencies on nomic decision. drilling in ANWR is their concern about is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. foreign oil. Of our daily consumption of They kept thousands of people from the possible destruction of habitat in The views expressed in this column oil, 57 percent, or about 9.5 billion bar­getting jobs. These jobs were not just in ANWR. are those ofthe author and not neces­rels a day, comes from imported oil, the state of Afaska but included jobs However, ANWR is about 19 million sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Work for all students to succeed at Notre Dame 
Let me first start off by saying that my intent of writing this letter is not to aim frustrations with the conditions at this University at any particular individuals. Since coming to Notre Dame, I have experi­enced a number of things that have frustrated and saddened me. 
Approximately two years ago I arrived on this campus with a number of high aspirations and expectations. I came with the feeling that I would have a community of peers who stimu­late my intellectual curiosity and challenge me to explore my identity as an African American. In some ways my expectations have been ful­filled. I often question if I am accepted and recognized as an intelligent, goal-orientated African-American male at this predominantly Irish-Catholic institution. 
When I began my intellectual and spiritual journey at Notre Dame, there was a major emphasis on the unity among the administrative and student population. However, the pro­paganda that has been delegat­ed to me is an illusion. African Americans make up about 3 percent of the overall student population at the University. 
My initial impression as a freshman of the African­American community on cam­pus was that of a thriving, intellectually based group of individuals striving to make a difference and name in an aca­demically challenging environ­
ment. 
When I began to participate in student organizations, I noticed that there was only a small percentage of African Americans involved. What caught my attention were the increasing number of students expressing their dissatisfaction with coming to Notre Dame. You ask these same individuals if they had attempted to change the situation and rarely would I get a positive response. This started to affect me personally, as I questioned whether this ­University best suited my needs as an African-American under­graduate. 
If God and a number of indi­viduals had not been a part of my life, I would have been one of the many African Americans who have fallen through the cracks. My soul was unnerved by the fact that I did not feel a part of the African-American and overall campus community. 
It feels at times that we as students are only concerned with ourselves and do not take the time out to assist or aid our fellow peers. Also, it seems to me that people have the ten­dency to complain about this University but are passive in taking action to improve the situation. 
I have partaken in a number of extracurricular activities. and it is funny to see the same faces repeatedly at events. You sometimes want to say: "Wait a minute, didn't I just see you the other day at X event. Yeah, I 

volunteered at the same thing: 
too; what a coincidence . ., I 

commend the individuals who 
sacrifice their time and effort 
in making this University a 
place in which we all can 
appreciate. 

I do not, however, completely sympathize with people who complain and fail to take the initiative to make change. I find it pathetic that our student gov­ernment, "the voice of the stu­dent body," unites the campus together so that we can have a voice in the alcohol policy. 
I want -to ask what are you going to do to improve race relations on this campus? Or when are you going to take a stand and petition for an increase of minority faculty and funding for programs that will educate and enlighten students about issues affecting all of us? 
Recently, I had a convei;-sa­tion with a good friend, and she told me something that makes sense. The opportunity for everyone, regardless of ethnic background, is available for us if we take the initiative and seek it out. 
I pose a challenge to the Notre Dame student population to take a stand and make this campus a place where we can all succeed. If we don't do it, then who will? 
Jourdan Sorrell 
sophomore Siegfried Hall April 21, 2002 
Respect TAs 
Dear Katie Hughes: I am so sorry your paper sucked. But you are quite fortunate to have such a public forum from which to vent your spleen. Just think of what you will save on therapy. Though, maybe if you had discussed your recent rant with some responsible people before you published it, they would have told you that your comments could be offensive and hurtful to a number of people. 
Let me list just a few: the grads who may be thousands of miles from home but are working hard so they can be of ser­vice to their country in the future; the graduate students who could have had a great job after college, because they have top grades, an impressive curriculum and are actually pretty smart but decided to go to graduate school to have the privilege of teaching the next generation of students like you; the many grad students here who put in long hours grading papers and exams, trying to be fair and helpful to undergraduates (many of whom, by the way, actually appre­ciate the work T As do); the grad students who would like to have a little more cash to spend on clothes but are living on a meager stipend while trying to support their families; and maybe even the professors who care about your education and work hard to ensure that TA grading is fair and consis­tent. 
The point is not really that TAs are perfect in every way. They're just people, too, who work hard. who might be far from home and who have bad days like everybody else. And while you may be forgiven for your ignorance of the person­al situation of graduate students you don't really know, it is harder to forgive the gratuitous insults you included in your column. Lack of love life? How would you know? A crush on my professors? Where did that come from? No deodorant? Please. Next thing you know, you will be accusing me of hav­ing bad breath. _ 
But maybe it's hard to empathize with someone who is {you tell us) so everything you're not: bitter, pretentious, unpopular, frugal in dress (is that an insult?j. bisexual (is that an insult too?), sexually frustrated, unemployable, either foreign or speech-impaired (insults again?) and yet able to string together incomprehensible academese, con­temptuous, abusive and hateful toward students, atheistic, and malodorous. Really, I don't think you get many points for using epithets in lieu of arguments. 
But there I go again, trying to criticize your writing. I should know better, you might write about me in The Observer. 
Daniel Brinks 
graduate student Government Deparcment April 19, 2002 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Monday, April 22, 2002 

By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Scene Theatre Critic 
Any production of Shakespeare that features a PMSing, cross­dressing Juliet Capulet and a pot­smoking Hamlet deserves an hour and a half of time. 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company and Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame's pro­duction of "The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (abridged)" is more abridged than complete. The show includes all 37 of Shakespeare's plays from comedies and tragedies to histories and hon­ors his 154 sonnets on the space of a 3x5 index card. 
The collaboration is the first the groups, though they would like the show to become an annual event to celebrate Shakespeare's birthday, which is April 23. 
Four men play all the role the plays require, including the female roles. The cast consists of sopho­mores C. Spencer Beggs, Dave "FD4" Lodewyck and Justin Williams as well as Dave "FD" Hartwig '00. 
The first play the quad performs in abbreviation is "Romeo and Juliet," which sets the tone of the rest of the show with a swordfight between a frighten­ing plastic sword and a menacing sock. Beggs' Romeo, who is even more effeminate than Leonardo DiCaprio was in the role, spends the rest of the scenes futilely pursu­ing Hartwig's homophobically resistant Juliet and rhapsodizing about love, sounding more reminiscent of the Ladies' Man than a typical Shakespearean leading man. 
The next script to be condensed from its 400-year-old form is the Bard's first tragedy, "Titus Andronicus." To cater to the modern audience's interests, it has been 

AMANDA GRECO/The Observer Sophomore C. Spencer Beggs ( right) as Bernardo salutes the king as Horatio, played by sophomore Justin WIiiiams, surprises him on the night watch. 

adapted into a cooking show. As hilarious as it is gruesome, especially Lavinia's lines which are spoken after her tongue has been chopped off, most of the characters in this scene are either missing body parts or about to be prepared into meals. 
Next up is "Othello," performed by four incredibly white guys as a rap song, fol­lowed by all 16 of Shakespeare's comedies condensed into one short synopsis that com­bines random characters and events from each play interacting with the others. 
Then comes the famously cursed Scottish play "Macbeth," acted out entirely with fan­tastic Scottish accents. Keeping with the rol­licking fast pace, "Julius Caesar" quickly ensues. starring the title character with a fluffy, sparkly tiara and womanly manner­isms. The furious tempo of the production lends itself to the excessive murders that occur in quick succession. The actors are killed as their various characters up to eight times each. 
The rest of the show includes an interpre­tive dance of "Troilus and Cressida" and all the histories played out as a football game, complete with passing of the crown and murder on the field. Finally, all the plays have either been performed or at least men­tioned except "Hamlet." 
At the mention of this play, David Hartwig, wearing a dress to portray most of the female characters, begins screaming and trying to slice his wrists with a toy sword. The intermission involves a hostage situa­tion and attempted escape from the country. "Hamlet" then begins as Williams' Horatio and Lodewyck's Hamlet smoke weed and see apparitions. 
The audience is involved in the "Get thee to a nunnery" sc_ene, as Ophelia's psyche is performed according to the Freudian princi­ples of Ego, Id and Superego. 
"Hamlet" includes an excellent perfor­mance by two hand puppets talking seduc­tively to one another before passionately making out and some of the best parody lines of the play during a swordfight that pays tribute to the filmmaking masterpiece "The Princess Bride." 
"The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (abridged)" was originally written by three disgruntled Gen-X actors from California: Jess Borgeson, Adam Long and Daniel Singer. It may be better to say 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, April 22, 2002 page 13 

that the three wrote the standardized ver­sion of the show. 
Borgeson, Long and Singer, who eventual­ly became known as the Reduced Shakespeare Company, evolved the show from a half-hour parody of "Hamlet" that Singer had written in 1981 to the hour and a half "Complete Works," which was first pre­sented in 1987 at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. 
The show itself is a compilation of the Reduced Shakespeare Company's versions 
of the show. The group performed the part impro­vised show all over the world .. Since the production was different each time, the published script was w h a t Borgeson, Long and Singer consid­ered to be the best parts of their comedy. Arguably,
reading the script is fun­

"The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (abridged)" 

Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 
and Summer Shakespeare at Notre Dame Director: Matt Holmes Stage Manager: Tom Conner Starring: C. Spencer. Beggs, Dave Hartwig, Dave Lodewyck and Justin Williams 
Tomorrow and Wednesday night at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies auditorium. $10 General 
admission, $5 for students. 
nier than watching the show. 

After years and years of reading Shakespeare, the authors decided to add a commentary to the lines through footnotes. The purported 11,188 footnotes in the show satirize annotated Shakespeare collections by giving irreverent scrutiny of the lines. 
"Complete \\1orks.. is not necessarily per­formed as written. In fact, groups that per­form the show are encouraged to customize the script to their audience. 
The NSRSC adds a campus spin to many of the Bard's most famous lines with jabs at different majors and other Notre Dame jokes. 
This is not the first time Notre Dame and a reduced Shakespeare have collided; the Department of Film, Television and Theatre produced "Complete Works" five years ago as a mainstage show. It was the last show to sell out at Washington Hall. The director of this show, double-Domer Matt Holmes '99, actually performed in the last production of the show. 
The group has only been rehearsing for two weeks and almost the entire cast has changed since the first rehearsal. While the limited rehearsal time shows in the lack of professional looking props, scenery or costumes, the unique type of show can get away with and even do well using plas­tic props and makeshift costumes. 
Lodewyck joined a week ago, but remembered seeing the play performed when he was a sopho­more in high school and Holmes was an actor, not the director . 
..I was in the audience ... and it was the most fun rve ever had in theatre. When I visited my sister here and I saw this play, I thought, 'Wow, I don't really do plays, but I would love to do that one,'" Lodewyck said. 
The appeal of this type of the­atre is not in its elements of sur­prise. Although more humorous when the viewer is familiar with the Shakespeare play being paro­died, the script is written so that no previous knowledge of the plays is necessary. 
"We were talking to some of the actors about why people want to go to the theatre instead of a movie because in the movie you've got the element of surprise, you can go to a movie you've never seen before, but if you're going to see Shakespeare, chances are you know how it e_nds. Nobody's in the audience at "Romeo and Juliet" going, 'Oh God, I hope the young lovers make it this time.' This play kind of takes that whole gimmick and throws it in everybody's face, like we know you know how it's going to end 


who are lots more fun to watch than any professionally executed Shakespeare play. Bottom line: more entertaining than an Elizabethan seminar, but not for people who do not enjoy a lot of feigned vomiting sounds. 
"The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (abridged)" opens tomorrow night in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies auditorium. Performances run to Wednesday; all perfor­mances are at 7:30 p.m. General admission is $10, $5 for students. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office. To order tickets call (574) 631-8128. Children and those that are easily offended should be advised that this show contains mature content. 
Contact Christie Boisen at bolsen.l@nd.edu. 


but we're just going to kind of mess with your head a little bit," Hartwig said. 
While the atmosphere of the show may suggest those summertime street produc­tions where the neighbor­hood punks would dress up and ridicule old people, the actors are tal­ented comedic performers 
-----~-----­
Monday, April 22, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL SMC TENNIS 
Pirates streak continues 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
The Philadelphia Phillies look at the Pittsburgh Pirates and see themselves a year ago -a surprising, straight­
out-of-nowhere team that unexpectedly becomes a con­tender. 
Jason Kendall, in a slump nearly all season, hit a bases­loaded triple during Pittsburgh's five-run second inning and the Pirates won their sixth in a row, beating the skidding Phillies 9-3 on Sunday. 

Kendall didn't have an RBI! before driving in four runs as the Pirates, off to an improba­
) 
I 
ble 12-5 start a year after los­ing 100 games, swept a three­game series from the Phillies in Pittsburgh for the first time since 1992. 
Athletics 6, Angels 5 
Troy Percival was thinking too much. 
Pinch-hitter Greg Myers hit a three-run homer off Percival in the bottom of the ninth inning to give the Oakland Athletics a 6-5 victo­ry over the Anaheim Angels on Sunday night. 
Percival (0-1 ), making his second appearanc~ since coming off the disabled list Thursday. entered to start the ninth and gave up consecutive singles to Miguel Tejada and Terrence Long. 
Yankees 9, Blue Jays 2 
Roger Clemens set down Toronto in order in the top of the first and Alfonso Soriano homered leading off the bot­tom half. For the New York Yankees, it was a perfect start. 
Roger Clemens lowered his ERA from 6.46 to 5.52 after his performance Sunday. 
After winning once in his first four games, Clemens showed there's still a lot of life in his 39-year-old arm, taking a one-hit shutout into the eighth inning Sunday to lead the Yankees over the Toronto Blue Jays 9-2. 
Soriano hit his second lead­off homer in five days, singled and doubled, raising his aver­age to .395. 
Diamondbacks 7, Rockies 1. 
Randy Johnson struck out 

17 and pitched a two-hitter for his major league-leading fifth victory as the Arizona Diamondbacks beat the Rockies 7-1 on Sunday. 
Johnson received an adren­aline boost in the sixth when he struck out pinch-hitter Terry Shumpert to begin the inning. 
Atlanta 4, Marlins 2 
Atlanta Brave Rafael Furcal tied the modern major league record with three triples, scoring after each one to lead the Braves to their fourth straight victory over the Florida Marlins. 
White Sox :11, Tigers 8 
Jose Valentin homered dur­ing an eight-run burst in the first inning, and pinch-hitter Ray Durham delivered a tiebreaking single in the sev­enth Sunday to lead the White Sox over the Detroit Tigers 11-8. 
Chicago has scored 12 5 runs to lead the AL and its top starters, Mark Buehrle and Todd Ritchie, have pitched well. But the White Sox's other starters, youngsters Dan Wright (6.97 ERA), Jon Garland (6.75) and Jon Rauch 
(10.61) have struggled. 
Brewers 5, Cardinals 3 
Jose Hernandez homered and drove in two runs as Milwaukee won its fourth straight since Jerry Royster replaced Davey Lopes as Brewers manager with a 5-3 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals on Sunday. 
The Brewers, 3-12 when Lopes was fired, swept a four­game series for just the sec­ond time since jQining the National League in 1998. The Brewers swept a four-game series at Florida in April that season. 
Twins 4, Indians 2 . 
The Minnesota Twins found themselves on the winning side this weekend. 
Rick Reed had his most effective outing of the season Sunday, helping the Twins complete a three-game sweep of the Cleveland Indians. 
Last week, the Indians swept a four-game set from Minnesota at Jacobs Field. 
Mariners 5, Rangers 3 
lchiro Suzuki tripled twice and scored two runs Sunday as the Seattle Mariners over­came two home runs by Alex Rodriguez in his former ball­park to defeat the Rangers 5­3. 
On Saturday, Texas manag­er Jerry Narron went with an unconventional strategy to make sure Suzuki wouldn't be the one to beat him. The Rangers intentionally walked the star leadoff hitter with two outs and runners on first 
and  second  in  the  11th  
inning.  
Reds 5, Cubs 3  
Reds  starter  Jose  Rijo  

allowed only one unearned run in five innings. 
Making his first start in almost seven years, Rijo showed flashes of his old, dominating self, allowing only an unearned run as the Cincinnati Reds beat the Chicago Cubs. 
Boston 1.2, Kansas City 2 Boston 8, Kansas City 7 
Johnny Damon highlighted his huge weekend by hitting a grand slam as the Boston Red Sox beat the Kansas City Royals 8-7 to complete a dou­bleheader sweep Sunday. 
Damon also homered in the first game and Manny Ramirez connected twice to give the Red Sox a 12-2 victo­ry. 
Montrel 6, New York Mets 3 
Montreal took over sole pos­session of the division lead Sunday, beating the New York Mets as Lee Stevens homered and drove in three runs. 
Padres 5, Dodgers O 
Brett Tomko struck out a career-high 13 and allowed two hits in seven innings Sunday as the Padres ended a three-game losing streak with a victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Devil Rays 2, Orioles 1. 
Ben Grieve hit a tiebreaking RBI single in the eighth inning to lead the Devil Rays to a vic­tory over the Orioles on Sunday. 
Astros 4, Giants O 
Dave Mlicki threw one-hit ball for eight innings and Houston beat San Francisco, ending the Giants· 11-game winning streak at Astros Field. 

Without Knish, Belles still win 
By KATIE McVOY 
A.ssociate Spores Editor 
The Saint Mary's tennis team got a taste of what competition will feel like next year this week­end. playing two tough matches without No. 1 singles player Annie Knish. With the sole senior captain remaining at Saint Mary's, the Belles faced Wheaton and DePauw with a new line-up and still came home victorious. 
"We did really well without her but obviously we would have done a lot better with her," said sophomore Kaitlin Cutler. "It shows how the team's really deep but of course it would have been easier with her. In a way it prepared us for next year. We definitely missed her." 
Cutler's 2­1 (7-5, 5-7, ing Mikulyuk with Knish at that spot, the usual No. 2 and No. 3 doubles teams of Cutler and Elisa Ryan and Kris Spriggle and Angie Sandner remained intact. 
Mikulyuk dropped her singles match and she and Knish fell at No. 1 doubles. The other Belles loss came at the No. 3 singles match as Spriggle fell in two sets. 
Knish, who took over her older sister's usual spot at No. 1 sin­gles, had little trouble with her competition, defeating Wheaton's No. 1 singles player Kari Torgensen in two sets, 6-3, 6-2. 

Later that afternoon the Belles took home a solid victory against , DePauw, suspending the final two matches. After the doubles point, Saint Mary's only had to win three singles matches to 
take home 
the victory.
"It shows how the team's 
6-3} win at Despite the No. 2 singles really deep but ofcourse it fact that 
gave Saint would have been easier with Ryan lost 
Mary's a just her sec­
her.· In a way it prepared us
close victory ond singles against for next year. We definitely match of the 
Wheaton in missed her. ,, her college the first career in match on three sets, 
Saturday. Kaitlin Cutler Knish, Saint Mary's sophomore Cutler and 
and Wheaton each had three wins as Cutler finished her singles match. Luckily for the sophomore, who usually plays No. 3 singles, she didn't know that the match rested on the out­come of her match. 
"My match was the deciding match, and I didn't even know it," she said. 
Despite the close match. Cutler was glad to have the opportunity to play at a higher spot in the Belles rotation. 
"I like rising," she said. "I like playing a higher position and having better competition. I didn't even really feel like I was playing a different position. My goal is to win so it doesn't matter what my position is." 
Freshman Miranda Mikulyuk played with the usual Belles ros­ter for the first time this season in the match against Wheaton, taking over the No. 6 singles spot and teaming up with Jeannie Knish at No. 1 singles. By team-
Spriggle 
each won their matches at No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3 singles. Play was suspend­ed at No. 5 and No. 6 singles and the Belles were declared victori­ous. 
Following several matches against weaker MIAA competi­tion, the Belles were grateful to have some tougher competition. Add to that the missing No. 1 sin­gles player, and Saint Mary's felt like it got a real taste of competi­tion as it begins its final prepara­tions for MIM championships. 
"It's nice too at this point in the season since we have con,ference in two weekends," Cutler said. "It was good practice. We're used to it since last weekend was such tough competition." 
The Belles will take two days off before playing Valparaiso on Wednesday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
NOTICES 
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $250 round trip. Other worldwide destinations cheap. Book tickets online www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 
WANTED 
Looking for single Castle Point roommate coming summer and/or fall. Free high-speed DSL internet. currently $323 per month+ utils. Call 574.277.9322 if interested. 
99 ND grad seeks male to share spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. for 3-9 months. Great location & fur­nished. Call George Carr at (n3) 975-0563 or e-mail at George.E.Carr@us.andersen.com 

SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFER­ENCES AEQD CALL LYNN @ 616­849-7022 
BABYSITTER:wkdys/wnds. Must have a car-Granger home. Call Laura 243-4776. 
Small Refrigerator 291-9451 
Wanted to rent or sublet an apart­ment near campus or University Mall area for June and July. Call 563-349-5832; leave your number. Will call ~ou ba~k. 
FOR RENT 
MMMAentals.com 
272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com 
MMMRentals.com 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air,sec sys/parking 2-bed­room cottage.. cute.. DAVE 291-2209 
Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. Garage. Must Seel Call Tammy (616)684-1049. 
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE AREA. NICE HOME NORTH OF NO 277'3097 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9 people) 2) medium (3·5 people} Call Bill at 532-1896. 
Upstairs apt., single person, no smoking/pets. All util.paid. Avail now or Fall 02. For info, call 574­255-1738. Close to NO. 

3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, AND A DECK, WASHER & DRYER. CORNER OF EDDY AND HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF LOGAN CENTER. 
FREE KEG WITH RENTAL. Call Gary or Lynne 616-699-5841 
HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03, 5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2 bath, central ale, washer & dryer, alarm system, call 773-486-8822. 
Two bedroom cottage 5 min from campus $325.Dave 291-2209 
5-Bedroom.5 min from campus. All the goodies.. dancing-O.K.! 
Dave 291-2209 

SUMMER SUBLET female to share 2 bdrm apmt, June and July, by ND, Emily 255-6314 
., 
Need a place to stay for graduation weekend or just anytime? Our little cottage situated on 127 acres sleeps 2-3 and only 20 minutes from campus. Call 616-687-1080 or email: jlizma@aol.com 
FOR SALE 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1 • 7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
OFFSET PAINTING available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Call for a quote: 574-631-COPY Free Pickup & Delivery 
GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by local PGA professional. Call Dick at 276-9670. 
Do you have an eye for the key moments in the game? Like to point click and shoot at well-known ath• letes on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses? Come shoot for The Observer. Call Nellie at 631-8767 
Are you good at finding the story behind the story, sifting out truth in a way that makes a difference? Come write news for The Observer. Call Helena at 631-5323 
Do you love sports but hate sitting out in the freezing cold or scorching heat? Come write for The Observer and have your own spot in the press box call Chris at 1-4543 

• 
Monday, April 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team continued its exhibition season Saturday against the University of Evansville. Above, rising sophomore midfielder Mary Boland makes a move past an Evansville defender. Above right, rising junior Molly Tate breaks away from the pack. Right, Boland pushes the ball past two Evansville players. 
. 
photos by 
ANDY TROEGER 



page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 22, 2002 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish handle the heat 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
After a season that tested the endurance, mental attitude and adaptability of the Notre Dame men's tennis team, they showed that a team from northern 
Indiana Joe Lindsley knows how 
to handle 
Sports Writer 
the heat of 
south 
Florida. 
For a short time during the season, it seemed that the Irish had become complacent. 
A major turning point for the team came after its upset loss to Michigan. a team ranked much lower than Notre Dame. 
Irish coach Bob Bayliss, always full of witty, yet very applicable phrases summed up that loss by saying, "Some days you're the dog, some day's you're the fire hydrant. Today we were the fire hydrant." 
The Irish rebounded after that potentially demoralizing loss to Michigan, recognizing that they were the team to beat, and that they still had much to work on. In the words of Bayliss, they had to follow the Eastern Airlines motto of "earning your wings every day." 
It was time to ignore the rankings and focus on the fun­damentals of striving for each and every point. 
In doing so, the Irish exhibit­ed their tenacity in many ways throughout the season. That tenacity was exhibited during the Big East tournament, as Notre Dame ignored the heat factor and battled it out to a dominant win. 
And then there's senior Casey Smith, a pre-profession­al sociology major, who had to sit out play Saturday in order to take the MCAT -not an easy feat in itself. 
Then, the next day, he went on to win his singles match in straight sets, as well as to assist Javier Taborga in their doubles victory. 
The Irish exhibited their determination throughout the season. Taborga and sopho­more Luis Haddock-Morales, returning to South Bend from 



Davis Cup play early one Sunday morning two weeks ago, both triumphed in their singles matches that same day. 
Notre Dame learned some

I i 

key lessons this season, but the major one was the importance of gutting out every single game, every set and every match. The key to success, they realized, is an indomitable intensity. 
"We've been a team that scrapped hard for every match and every point," 
Bayliss said after the Michigan loss. "And if we lose that identity, [winning becomes] difficult, because sometimes all of the sudden 

) 
you wake up and say, 'What , t happened?"' Notre Dame stayed tough though, and because of their
.l
; / determination, they won't be waking up Monday morning after the Big East, saying, "What happened?" 

In some ways, the Irish might wake up and say "what 
Moving to Chicago? 
Contact Ben @ NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmanr@hotmail.com 



TIM KACMARffhe Observer The Irish No. 1 doubles team of seniors Javier Taborga, left, and Casey Smith compete at the Big East Championships. 
happened?" Not in a regretful 
sense though. 
Taborga might wake up some days and wonder what happened -how did he improve so much from his freshmen year? 
Well, tenacity happened. 
Casey Smith survived four years of pre-professional stud­ies and tennis. 
What happened? A strong work ethic and determination happened. Bayliss won Big East Coach of the Year. 
What happened? 
He dedicated himself with patience and zeal to his team. 

Senior Andrew Laflin lost just one match this season, while recording 21 victories. 
What happened? 
Refusal to throw in the towel and truckloads of heart hap­pened. 
The Irish also conducted themselves with class. While Miami players swore as they started to fall behind, Notre Dame stayed cool throughout. Even when the Irish had cause to dispute, they stayed cool, while Miami sometimes made a John MacEnroe-type scene. 
While the Irish have con­
quered many of little chal­
lenges, such as lower-ranked 
teams hungry for a respect­
winning victory over a team 
like Notre Dame. the team has 
many larger obstacles in their 
quest for a national title. 
The Irish have shown 
improvement in their doubles 
play, but they must make that 
improvement consistent. And if 
they lose the doubles point, 
they must put that behind 
them mentally and not let it be 
as important so they can focus 
on the singles matches. 
And an undying intensity must pervade all this -an "invincible determination" --if the Irish wish to wake up after the NCAA tournament knowing they did their best, no matter the outcome. Because, after a successful regular season, filled with many varied tri­umphs, these players do not want to regretfully ask them­selves "What happened?" 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
M. Tennis 
continued from page 24 
cial to Irish morale and domi­
nance. 
"I was pleasantly surprised by 
how our doubles teams played," 
Smith said. "That was probably 
as good as we've played in 
awhile." 
"The most important thing is that the team was excited. We came out strong in doubles. Doubles was key," Talarico said. "We really took it to them in the doubles. It was the first time we've actually played that well for awhile." 
Taborga and Smith were the first to win a doubles match on Sunday, triumphing 8-4 over Tomas Smid and Todd Widom. 
The Irish duo, ranked fifth nationally, have had some dou­bles struggles in the past, but Smith was pleased with Sunday's performance. 
"The last four matches, Javier and I have played as well as we have all year," Smith said. "I think we're over our troubles." 
Taborga and Smith improved to 30-11 for the season, becom­ing the first doubles duo to win 30 matches in a season under Bayliss' tenure. 

After their victory, Talarico and Raju clinched the doubles point for the Irish, winning 8-3 at No. 2 in their first official match together this season. 
While Bayliss was pleased with No. 1 and No. 2 doubles, he had some concerns with freshman Brent D'Amico and sophomore Luis Haddock-Morales, whose match was abandoned when the doubles point was won. 
"We played awfully well in the first two," Bayliss said. "We were playing great at three, but we got a little shaky and lost serve a couple times." 
"At third doubles, it's just a matter of being able to hold serve. When you're up 6-1, you should be able to close it out," he said. 
Despite Sunday's fruitful dou­bles line-up, Bayliss is not com­mitted to that particular combi­nation. 
"Matt Scott played really well [Saturday] at No. 1 doubles," Bayliss said. "[Sunday] was the best Aaron and Ashok have played together." 
Andrew Laflin, starting the winning in singles play, defeated 
Tarik el-Bassouni at 6-1, 6-4. His 
victory was a continuation of a 
successful weekend that includ­
ed a shutout victory -his third 
of the season -against Brook 
Denning of Rutgers in Saturday's 
semifinal. 
Smith. who did not play 
against Rutgers on Saturday 
because he was taking the 
MCAT, obviously wasn't too 
worn out by the eight hour test 
as he won 6-4, 6-4 to give the 
Irish their second singles victory. 
Although the Irish got revenge as a team for their lost to the Hurricanes last year, Miami freshman Todd Widom sought and earned revenge on an indi­vidual level, as he upset 11th­ranked Taborga, 2-6, 5-6. Taborga defeated Widom earlier this season. 
"Widom played awfully well," Bayliss said. "He was bad [Saturday] and lost to a player I think he should have beat.en. When you lay an egg, sometimes you don't do it twice in a row." 
That's exactly what \Vidom did, although Taborga made a few charges and was ahead for a time during the second set. 
Despite the loss by their No. 1 player, the Irish held on against the Hurricanes, and sophomore Matt Scott clinched the Big East title for his team with his 6-4, 6­2 win against Joel Berman. 
Besides Taborga, the only other Irish players to struggle in singles were sophomore Luis Haddock-Morales and Talarico, although before were in the midst of making comebacks in the third sets when Notre Dame clinched victory. 
The intense heat, approaching the 90s at midday, may have had an effect on Talarico's play. 
"[Talarico] was up a set and really got slapped by the heat," Bayliss said. "Beyond that, I don't know that the heat affected anyone. That was a match that we counted on winning. And I think he was well on his way, if he hadn't lost all his energy." 
Saturday's decisive win against Rutgers and Sunday's triumph against Miami have given the Irish added confidence as they prepare for the NCAA tourna­ment which starts May 11. 
"It was really encouraging to see everyone play well and we moved well," Smith said. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
574/239-6611 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 

Whether your next step is buying a new home or refinancing the one you have, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union offers some of the lowest interest rates around. There's never been a better time to see us for a fixed-rate mortgage. Plus, we offer first mortgages nationwide. Clearly, when it comes to home financing, nobody puts out the welcome mat like Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
www.ndfcu.org 
E0IJ4l Cl'l'OATI.N"f'I 


Independent ofthe University LENDER 
Monday, April 22, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
W. Tennis 
continued from page 24 
the doubles point. 
"I thought that when we won 
the doubles, we'd come out and 
have a really good shot at the sin­
gles, but we just sort of died after 
that," said Louderback. 
As the singles competition began, it became clear that the Irish were headed for a struggle. Miami jumped out to quick leads in five out of the six matches, including the crucial Nos. 1 and 2 spots. 
Varnum's match against Toro seemed to characterize how diffi­cult the day would be. With line calls going against her in the opening games, Varnum had to fight to maintain composure. She lost the first set 6-1. 
"I think in the first couple of games I let [the bad calls] get to !Ile mentally, and that had a big impact on the first set," said Varnum. 
And although the Irish fought back, they ultimately seemed to wither under the heat. Connelly was the first to fall, losing 6-2. 6­1 to Miami's Sarah Robbins. 
Meanwhile, Varnum and Nina Vaughan had recovered from bad first sets and were looking to force their matches to three sets. 
Unfortunately, both players fal­tered toward the end, losing 6-1, 6-3 and 6-0, 7-6 to Toro and Hora, respectively. 
With both Cunha and Salas winning their first sets, however, the Irish still had comeback hopes. But those hopes were dashed when Lindsey Green couldn't come back against Staci Stevens, losing a tightly contested 6-4, 7-5 match. 

Although the Irish often found themselves on the wrong end of some close line calls, Louderback refused to blame the loss on offi­ciating. 
"We missed some balls on big 
points," he said. "The officials 
had nothing to do with that." 
Even so, considerable disap­pointment over the runner-up finish could not diminish the lus­ter of an impressive semi-final that vaulted the Irish into their Sunday final against Miami. 
The Irish opened the tourna­ment by dominating fourth seed Boston College, 4-1. 
Once again, Notre Dame was able to nab the doubles point with strong performances from all three teams. Connelly and Salas clinched the doubles point with an 8-4 win, while the other two teams both had comfortable margins of victory. 
Cunha quickly vaulted the team to a 2-0 lead with an impressive 6-1, 6-1 win over the Eagles' Anisha Fernando. 
After the Eagles captured their only point with a 6-2, 6-4 win at the No. 3 spot, Varnum and Salas wrapped up the match with near­ly identical wins. Salas topped Ruta Veitas 6-2, 6-4, while Varnum downed Allison Ashley 6-3, 6-4. 
Although Salas' win continued her dominance this season, Varnum's win was especially important because it snapped a personal 12-match losing streak. 
"Becky's played well in some tight matches this year and just hasn't won them," said Louderback. "Today, she closed out really well." 
Contact Colin Boylan at cboylan@nd.edu. 





In recognition of .April being Se.xual Assault Awareness Month, C.A.R.E. is proud to present 
What's Goin' On? 
an interactive skit on Sexual Assault and Rape perfo:rmed by 
The Gestic Theatre Company On Tuesday~ April 23 at 7:00 PM In the Library Auditorium FRE'E:11 
Monday, April 22, 2002 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Irish sport experienced line 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
When a quarterback takes a snap on Saturday, there's only one thing standing between him and a core defense that wants to send him flying to the turf: the offensive line. Without that line, the quarterback's back will get to know the playing field better than most people know the back of their hand. 
But developing a solid offensive line may take the longest time of any development on a football team. 
"Experience is critical in your offensive line," said Notre Dame head coach Ty Willingham. "If you look at that position, those are the positions that take the longest time to develop. You usu­ally don't get your offensive line reaching their peak until three years in your program." 
Fortunately for the Irish, they return five players with signifi­cant starting experience. Jeff Faine, Sean Milligan, Brennan Curtin and Sean Mahan return to the same positions they played last year, while fifth-year senior Jordan Black shifts from guard back to tackle. 
"Even though they're learning a new offensive system, they've been out there, they've been engaged in game situations, so we've got quite a few guys that have game experience, which really lends to the learning process," said offensive line coach Mike Denbrock. "It really helps with the learning curve of the new offense." 
"When you get to that point and have that experience to call QP, that is critical," Willingham said. "I think we have a good founda­tion with Faine and Black and some others, Mahan and Milligan that have the foundation and experience." 
Faine, who will be playing his third season as the Irish center, leads the offensive line. Last sea­son, he played the final games of the season with fellow linemen Milligan, Mahan, Black and Curtin. Black, who moved posi­tions several times last season because of injuries, Milligan and graduating senior Kurt Vollers, played both left tackle and right guard last season. Despite the fact that Milligan missed two gaines due to an injury he suffered at Boston College and played in a reserve role during four, the time these players spent together last season has set them in good stead. 
"It's such a plus," Faine said. "\iVe've worked together for about two years now. It's perfect the way it's been working. We've got some good guys who've been pumping." 
The two years of experience have allowed the offensive line to come to an understanding and created an atmosphere of non­verbal communication. 
"I thought that toward the end of the season we started to gel as an offensive line, meaning we just kind of got used to playing with each other," Curtin said. "Certain things like when you're used to playing with a guy, you know you won't have to make a certain call on the offensive line, he'll just know." 
That understanding has been very beneficial as the Irish adjust to the new West-Coast style offense that Willingham has intro­duced. The unit's cohesiveness allows players to focus mainly on learning the new offensive scheme and not on learning to read the men they're playing with. 
"I think [the experience] does [help] if you take the right approach and the right attitude about it," Curtin said. "Certain plays we have are very similar to plays we had last year. and you try to take as much and match it up as you can and other things you just have to relearn." 
Now what the offensive line has to focus on is communicating with the coaches. Denbrock and John McDonnell, both offensive line coaches, will be focusing on mak­ing sure their players understand the calls and can retain that infor­mation through the summer until fall practice begins. If they can do that, Denbrock believes there is 
Six Irish seniors 
picked in NFL draft 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Javin Hunter was disappoint­ed it took so long to get on a team, but after the NFL Draft concluded Sunday, he was just happy he got drafted. 
"I originally expected to go to Kansas City in the fourth round," said the former Irish receiver, one of six Notre Dame players drafted in the 2002 NFL Draft. "They called Saturday and said they'd take me earlier, but that didn't happen. That's how the draft works." 
Hunter had to wait until the Baltimore Ravens called his name in the sixth round before he could stop being nervous. He'll join Irish teammate Anthony Weaver, a second­round selection by the Ravens on Saturday. 
"I was getting a little ner­vous," Hunter said. "I had to leave my home, and I went to the casino. I had my phone with me, and I kept waiting for a call. I'm happy. though; Baltimore seems like a great fit for me." 
In addition to Hunter and Weaver, linebackers Rocky Boiman and Tyreo Harrison, tight end John Owens and wide receiver David Givens were selected Saturday by NFL teams. It was the second straight year that NFL teams drafted six Irish players. 
After Weaver, Boiman was the second Irish player selected, getting chosen in the fourth round by the Tennessee Titans. Owens was next, going to the Detroit Lions in the fifth round. Harrison went to the Philadelphia Eagles midway through the sixth round. Hunter was picked toward the end of the sixth round, and Givens rounded out the list of Irish draftees when he was selected by the defending Super Bowl champion New England Patriots nine picks from the end of the draft. 
"I was real nervous," Boiman said. "I spent 11 straight hours in front of the television Saturday and two more hours Sunday. It's a different kind of experience -one I wouldn't want to go through again -but rm glad that I got in." 
Most of the Irish players will earn their spot in the NFL by distinguishing themselves on special teams. But some are fairly high on their NFL teams' depth charts and could poten­tially see playing time on both offense and defense. 
Of all the Irish players draft­ed, Weaver has the best chance to jump in and make an impact. He joins one of the NFL's best defenses anchored by All-Pro linebacker Hay Lewis. And Weaver, who could play either defensive end or tackle, could fill a void left by three departing Ravens starters on the defensive line. 
Hunter is already listed as the fourth receiver on the Ravens' depth chart at wide receiver, but he said he expects to start contributing on special teams. 
"They need wide receivers, and that's an ideal situation for me to contribute," he said. "But I'll probably start on special teams so I'd be in there and contribute." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 





enough talent for a successful offense. 
"That's probably the biggest thing -the communication that has to take place from the coach­es to the players, from the players amongst themselves," Denbrock said. "Once we get that done and once we all can communicate in an effective way so that we're all on the same page all the time, we've got enough talent to be good offensively." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 




I' 
Monday, April 22, 2002 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
Nunc Dimittis. 
Notes: 
. 
By the end of Sunday night all the round of 128 games were supposed to be completed. The round of 64 begins and finishes tonight beginning at 7 p.m. All 32 games will be played on Stepan and will be officiated for the first time in the tournament. 

. 
The appeals board of Bookstore Basketball XXXI ruled that With Themselves used an ineligible player in its victory against Off the Heazy. 



With Themselves was disquali­fied. The was the first ruling handed down by the inaugural appeals board. 
The disagreement arose when the game between the two teams was postponed until the next day because of an injured player on Off the Heazy. When the two teams resumed playing, With Themselves used a differ­ent five players than started the game. 
With Themselves argued that it had a gentlemen's agreement with Off the Heazy to allow With Themselves to use a different player since Off the Heazy was given an extra day for its injured player to recover. Bookstore rules say injured players may not be substituted. If play had not been suspended, Off the Heazy would have played with only four players. Off the Heazy claimed it never gave With Themselves permission to exchange players. 
Head commissioner Brian Clemency recommended the two teams replay the game from the point when play was suspended with the original 10 players but With Themselves refused and appealed to the board for a deci­sion. 
The board made its ruling based on the no substitution rule, Clemency said. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish season ends with 9th place finish 
By KATIE HUGHES Sports Writer 
The last day of the final tourna­ment of the women's golf season was washed out by rain, as the Irish tied for ninth at the Ohio State Lady Buckeye Invitational. Notre Dame tied with the University of Toledo in the 15­team field. 
Irish freshman Karen Lotta, who has led the team all season, tied for 11th with a 153, missing a chance for her fifth top-five fin­ish of the year. Senior Lauren Fuchs was Notre Dame's second highest finisher, as she tied for 48th with a 161 (78-83). Fellow senior Kristen McMurtrie tied for 50th, with a 162. Sophomores Rebecca Rogers and Shannon Byrne tied for 59th with 164 totals. 
"I was proud of the efforts our team made this weekend, espe­cially the seniors," said Byrne. 
Rogers shot a pair of 82s while Byrne opened with an 83 and fol­lowed with an 81 on the way to her 164. Terri Taibl tied for 71st with a 168 (82-86). 
"Our seniors are definitely going to be missed," said Byrne. "I think our program is moving in the right direction. We definitely laid the foundation this season." 
Although Fuchs and McMurtrie will graduate this year, first-year head coach Debby King will enter next season with a strong roster that includes Sarah Bassett and Katie Brophy, Lauren Barbir and Suzanne Hayes. King coached at Memphis before coming to South Bend. 
"It's been really positive all around [having King as head coach]." said Byrne. "We get along better as a team and work harder at practice. I think [King] has been one of the main causes for the turnaround. We're all real­ly happy to have her . . . though I thought she might cry at a few of our tournaments. I didn't think she was ready for Midwest weath­er." 
"Our four new players will com­plement our returning players to give us a well-rounded, competi­tive team in the 2002-03 season," said King. 
Kent State finished six-strokes behind the Buckeyes, with open­ing rounds of 300 and 297 for a 597 mark. Ohio State shot a 36­hole total of 603 (301-302) on the par 72, 6,037-yard Scarlet Course. Michigan State was third with a 604 (305-299), Indiana fourth with a 614 (302-312) and Purdue closed out the top five with a 620 (307-313). 
Kent State had three golfers in the top five, while Michigan State's Emily Bastel (78-71) and Ohio State's Natalie Aber (74-75) shot a five-over par 149. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 


What you·ve missed: 
NASCAR Simulation Free Laundry Chik-Fil-A Breakfast (Too bad, eh?) 


TOMORROW: Tuesday, April 23 
Cinema SUB presents "The Goonies" (Sort of] Live on North Quad (Stepan Center] 9:30pm-11 pm 
(Rain Locations) 
Coming Soon 

Wednesday, April 241 12pm-2pm 
Herps Alive Reptile Show Fieldhouse Mall [LaFortune Ballroom) 
Thursday, April 251 3pm-6pm 
Tie-Dying. Snow Cones, and Music Fieldhouse Mall [LaFortune Ballroom) 
Friday, April 261 12pm-6:30pm 
Inflatables, Wax-Hands, Live Music from "OK Go" North Quad (Stepan Center) 

Monday, April 22, 2002 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Fairfield loss ends Irish NCAA hopes 
ByJOE LICANDRO Sporrs Writer 
After a furious comeback from a five-goal deficit in the final six minutes of regulation, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team came up just short against the visiting Fairfield Stags. 
The 11-10 victory Sunday for the Stags ensured them a first­place finish in the Great Western Lacrosse League and more importantly a spot in the NCAA tournament in May. 
This will mark the first time in four years that Notre Dame will not be a part of the NCAA tour­nament field. For the Irish seniors, the loss at Moose Krause Stadium was extremely devastat­ing. 
"I've seen the best and worst of Notre Dame lacrosse," said senior captain John Flandina. "The year before my freshman year was the last time Notre Dame didn't make the tourna­ment. Last year, we made it all the way to the Final Four. This will be the first time in my career I won't be in the tournament. It's just embarrassing." 
The Stags started the game strong, jumping out to a quick 2­0 lead in the first four minutes on goals by Tom Werner and Garrett Bamann. 
The Irish then responded with three straight goals from Travis Wells, Owen Mulford and Matt Howell. The score for Howell marked his first goal since regis­tering a hat trick in Notre Dame's opening-game loss to Penn State. Howell has been out of action for two months with a knee injury. 
The Stags tied the score 3-3 at the end of the first quarter with a fast-break goal by Brian Holland. 
Just like last week's loss against Army, Notre Dame allowed Fairfield to take control in the second quarter. The Stags scored four straight goals to take a 7-3 lead. Travis Wells finally stopped the bleeding for the Irish with his second goal of the game. Fairfield closed out the first half with another goal by Bamann to extend the Stags lead to 8-4 heading into half time. 
Flandina quickly cut into the Stags lead in the opening minute of the third quarter with his first goal on the day. 
Bamann's brother, Troy, responded with a goal of his own to reclaim a four-goal lead for the Stags. Flandina struck again for the Irish with 33 seconds remaining in the third quarter to close the gap to 9-6. 
The Stags' Garett Bamann took the ensuing face-off and drove the ball down the length of the field to find a wide-open Peter Vlahakis in front of the net. Vlahakis' score occurred with only four seconds remaining in the third quarter. 
The Stags' Matthew Buecker tacked on another goal at the beginning of the fourth quarter to give Fairfield an 11-6 lead. 
With 5:58 remaining in the game, Notre Dame's offense finally woke up. Attackman Kyle Frigon got the ball rolling with an underhand scoop shot past Stags goaltender C.J. Kemp to make the score 11-7. 
At the 4: 17 mark, Flandina net­ted his third goal of the game, giving the senior his first hat trick of the season. Less than a minute later, Wells recorded a hat trick of his own with his third goal of the game. 
Irish senior captain Chad DeBolt won the ensuing face-off and raced straight down the field, shooting the ball past Kemp for the first goal of his career. DeBolt's goal was the third goal in less than a minute for the Irish. 

"We just kept saying to each other 'make the next play, make the next play. make the next play,"' said Flandina. "We defi­nitely had our chances to win the game." 
During the final 3:19, Fairfield regrouped and shut down the Irish comeback attempt. 
"We relaxed a little bit [during the comeback]. My hat goes off to ND," said Stags head coach Ted Spencer. "We told our guys to just keep playing hard. It's awful­ly hard to come back from a five­goal deficit." 
Notre Dame's best chance to tie came with 2:30 remaining on the clock when midfielder Devin Ryan positioned himself in front of the Stags' goal for a prime scoring opportunity. Ryan's rock­et shot deflected off Kemp's stick to preserve the win for the Stags. 
Kemp made the difference for Fairfield on Sunday. His eight saves were the key to victory. 
"C.J. Kemp is one of the best goalies in the country," said Spencer. "He's been coming up big for us all year. He made some unbelievable saves out there. Without him, we don't win the game." 
The tough 11-10 defeat was the fourth one-goal loss of the season for Notre Dame. Like many of the previous losses, the Irish struggled with the funda­mentals during the game. The Irish attempted bad passes amid heavy coverage and carelessly turned the ball over numerous times, allowing the Stags to dom­inate the time of possession. 

"We prepared really well this game for the Irish in more than a week in practice," said Flandina. month -Notre Dame's record "We don't have any excuses. We dropped to 4-7 on the season. just didn't take care of the ball. The Irish· have two games We had trouble scooping the ball remaining on their schedule off the ground the whole game. against Harvard and Ohio State. Once again, we struggled with The team returns to action the intangibles that are neces­against the Crimson when they sary to win games." travel to Cambridge, Mass., 
Notre Dame's top two goal­Saturday. Game time is set for 1 scorers, Ryan and sophomore p.m. Dan Berger, failed to score in the game. The matchup broke a 10­game scoring streak for Berger and marked the first time all year he did not finish a contest with at 
least one goal. Contact Joe Licandro at With the loss -the first home licand.ro. l@nd.edu. 
111 
c 
(\:J 
c 
:::J 
0 0 0 
<( 
.!::! 
:a 
:::J 
a. 
j 
t: 
0) 
{.) 


START HERE. Ga PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you 
can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in · business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in pro sports. 

www.STARTHEREC3DPLACES.COM/BIZ7 Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
• 
Monday, April 22, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ND SOFTBALL 

Stenglein, Myers push Irish past Hokies 
ByMRON RONSHEIM 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame battery of 
pitcher Steffany Stenglein and 
catcher Jarrah Myers had 
record setting days as the 
Notre Dame softball team 
swept a doubleheader from the 
Virginia Tech Hokies, 8-0 and 
10-0. 
Stenglein (16-9) registered her first perfect game of her collegiate career as she retired all 15 Virginia Tech hitters that she faced in the first game of the twin bill en route the Irish victory. 
"She was unbelievable," Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf said after the Saturday victory. "Steffany dominated. She had a great game." 
Stenglein was not the only player that deserved the spot­light; her battery mate Jarrah Myers provided some fire­works of her own. 
Myers made Notre Dame softball history as she broke the career home run record by hitting her 30th, 31st and 32nd of her career against the Hokies. 
"To be honest, I had no idea," Myers said. "It is pretty neat to be in the record books, but I suspect that a few girls that are younger than me want to catch me. It is neat to be in there, but what really matters to me is getting to the \Vorld Series." 
It didn't take the Irish offense long to get going against Virginia Tech, as Notre Dame scored four runs in the bottom of the first. 
Right fielder Megan Ciolli started the rally with a one-out 

bunt single. After third base­
men Andrea Loman walked, 
Myers sent Virginia Tech 's 
Ashlee Dobbe's 1-1 pitch over 
the left-center field fence to 
give the Irish a 3-0 lead. 
Shortstop Andria Bledsoe then 
hit the third pitch that she saw 
over the fence for her sixth 
home run of the season as 
Irish 4-5 hitters went back to 
back. 
"The girls came out ready to win, win you do that it changes everything," Gumpf said. "I mean you jump out in the first inning and set the tone." 
In the third inning, Myers made history when she hit Dobbe's 0-1 pitch down the left-field line just inside the foul pole for her 31st career home run. She passed 2001 graduate Melanie Alkire. 
The Irish added another run in the forth on a two-out RBI single by second basemen Alexis Madrid. 
In the fifth, the Irish used the long ball again as Loman hit her seventh home run of the season. After an error allowed Myers to reach third base, first basemen Lisa Mattison singled, scoring Myers and invoking the mercy rule. 
Stenglein ended up pitching nine combined innings in the two games on Saturday, while striking out 10 and only allow­ing two hits. 
After being hit hard on Thursday by Bowling Green, it was very important to Stenglein to respond and pitch a good game. 
"I was really fired up to get back in there and throw better in today's game," Stenglein said Saturday. "I thought about it a lot the past couple of days, so I was mentally prepared and ready to go today." 

In the second game, the Irish again jumped on the score­board early with three runs in the bottom of the first. 
After a Loman double scored 

Attention Sophomores! Order your class ring now and have it ready in thefall! 

Orders may be placedfor your class ring April 22 through April 26 8:30a.m. to 9:00p.m. 
Ring :will be availablefor pickup qfter September 1,2002. 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BCX>KSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
631-6316 

Open Monday through Saturday, 8:30am -9pm Sunday, 10am -7pm 
Ciolli, it appeared that the Virginia Tech pitcher Clarisa Crowell was pitching around Myers. With count 3-0, Crowell threw a fastball down the mid­dle of the plate, which Myers rocketed over the 220 sign in dead center field for her third homer of the day. 
Most of the time on a 3-0 pitch, the manager will have the batter take a pitch. 
"\Ve have a lot of faith in each other, so when it comes to stuff like that, I definitely have the green light on 3-0," Myers said. . 
The Irish offense struck again in the third inning, 
exploding for five  runs and  
chasing  Crowell  from  the  
game.  

Myers again was in the thick of the Irish rally. 
She led off the inning with a single to left field. After a Bledsoe fly out, Mattison dou­bled to right field, scoring Myers. Left fielder Liz Martmann followed with an RBI single that gave the Irish a 5-0 lead. After a Carrie Wisen single to put runners on first and second, Crowell was replaced by Natalie Smith. 
Errors hurt Smith. as Virginia Tech center fielder Tiffany Hurt misplayed Irish center fielder Jenny Kriech's line drive, allowing p_itch run­ners Kas Hoag and Nicole deFau to score. On the error, Kriech reached third base. She 
then scored on a passed ball, 
and the Irish had an 8-0 lead 
after three innings. 
Notre Dame again capital­ized on Hokies errors in the fourth, as they pushed across two more runs. After Loman reached on a throwing error, Myers singled up the middle for her fifth hit of the day. Myers used heads-up base running, as she advanced to second, and Hookies tried to throw out Loman advancing from first to third on a single. 
With two runners in scoring position, Bledsoe singled back up the box and recorded her 28th and 29th RBIs of the sea­son. 
Corning into the game, the Hokies were regarded as one of the better hitting teams in the Big East, boasting a team batting average of .306. 
Next up for the Irish is another team well-regarded for its hitting, the No. 4-ranked Nebraska Cornhuskers. With a big game against the Cornhuskers on Tuesday, it was important for the Irish to play well this weekend. 
"Nebraska is No. 4 in the nation right now, and for us to have these games against these hitters, is huge for us," Gumpf said. "It sets the tone for Nebraska." 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu. 
~ LI @ 
~ w®i.~ltl·i~lilli~~,!-lliliil 
··==:::::: •.-.•.;. ·;r:=:::::.:-:-::..:.:,:-•-•.•.·.-·· 
1 0 X l Q :'f,c$199-,.l)EP .1IIIJl\.f½[1)/.\) 
CLOSE TO.:-~i~s:::1~rtlfltlJJ;\ 

Monday, April 22, 2002
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles come back to split doubleheader 

"We had dominated the whole ing that would continue for theBy SARAH RYKOWSKI game, but we got too comfort­rest of the game. 
Sports Writer 

able with our lead instead of try­Deer, the third batter to face ing to increase it," Belles captain fresh Hornets pitcher Sarah 
The Belles first game against Rachel Deer said. "We were Martyn, whacked a home run a the Kalamazoo Hornets on playing just to play. The problem little right of center field, scoring Saturday was one of the longest in the first game was a lack of Melissa Hayes to put the Belles games in both teams' history. focus." up 2-0. After eventually dropping that Wilhelmy pitched all 12 "The factor for us winning in three-hour contest 9-7 in the innings for the Belles, allowing the second game was our confi­12th inning, Saint Mary's softball 13 hits and nine runs while strik­dence," Deer said. team came back in the second ing out two. The Hornets alter­"If we have our confidence up game to defeat Kalamazoo 7-2. nated junior Emery Engers and we can beat anyone in our con­The weekend split put the teams sophomore Elli Toskey on the ference. We were also really in a two-way tie for sixth in the pitcher's mound. Engers pitched aggressive in our batting." MIAA. the first four innings and Kutz and Erin Sullivan singled 
"[In the first game,] we were returned in the 11th to finish the and the Hornets switched pitch­ahead of them the whole game, game and take the win. ers, bringing veteran closer and they came back in the sev­"We're proud of the way we Engers back in. enth," said catcher Susan Kutz. played," Engers said. "We played With two outs, the Belles went "We let up in the last inning, a home game against Hope last for broke. Kutz stole third to set thought we had it covered and year that went to 11 innings. But up a bunt single by Kathleen they started hitting." [the game today was] the longest Wiggins. Both Sullivan and Kutz KATIE LARSEN/The Observer 
The Belles led the first game 3-game I've ever played." scored on the play to extend the 
Belles' sophomore Rebekah Solmos scores a run during Saint 
1 until the top of the seventh Junior Marnie Walsh led the Belles lead to 4-0. 
Mary's double-header split against Kalamazoo Saturday. 

· inning, before yielding four runs Belles in scoring, finishing with "We're starting to play more and the lead. The Belles battled four hits and two runs, including together as a team as the season Engers finished the game for Alicia Dicks and Deanna back to tie the game at four in the one that forced the first of progresses," Deer said. "There's Martyn, and in four innings Werner were the only Hornets to the bottom of the seventh, how­five tiebreaker innings. Katie always an advantage playing at allowed four hits and three runs, score in the second game, both ever, and force extra innings. Frigge, Tebbe, Deer, Wilhelmy home and in front of your friends while striking out five. in the fifth inning. 
Neither team scored again and Solmos also scored for the and fans. We get a lot of energy "We wanted revenge in the The Belles bumped their until the 10th inning, when a Belles. Rumery and Dicks led the from being at home." second game, and we took it," record to 3-7 in the MIAA to join runner was allowed to start on Hornets with two runs each. Senior co-captain Kristin Kutz said. "We played a lot bet­Kalamazoo in sixth place and second base to aid in scoring. After the first game, it was Martin pitched the entire second ter than we did against Olivet -are 8-12 overall. Kalamazoo fell 
In the 10th inning, Kalamazoo hard for both teams to believe game for the Belles, allowing we made good use of our prac­to 7-15 overall. went to bat first and scored, but there was still another to be only two runs and nine hits, and tices." "We're. communicating a lot Jill Clark, the Belles' junior out­played. struck out three. Martyn, the Melissa Hayes added two more better," Kutz said. "It was defi­fielder, answered with a run of "After that first game -I Hornets starting pitcher for the runs later in the game to lead nitely a team game." her own to tie the game again at thought it would make it difficult second game, pitched only two the Belles with three runs, and 5-5. to keep our energy up for the innings, striking out three and Deer added another in the sev­
111 the 11th, it was Wilhelmy second game, but we focused allowing four runs and seven enth inning to bring her total to Contact Sarah Rykowski at who answered the Hornets' chal­and puts some good plays hits. two. ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. lenge to tie the game again at 6-together," Deer said. 
6. And indeed, the Belles had 
Finally, in the 12th inning, some good plays. After the first Kalamazoo scored three runs, two innings, the game was while the Belles could only plate scoreless, but in the top of the : 7:2~ -: Katrina Tebbe and dropped the third, Deer, the Belles' designat­
: ~e-e,4----~~a!!':--2'::>""°42!'...,---'"'Ci'11-----:
marathon game 9-7. ed hitter, set off a spate of scor­
: Proudly Presents : 
~ The RecSpys ~ 
: Vote for your favorite candidates online April 22 -April 26 at: : : http://www.recsports.nd.edu/recspys : 
:r,---------------7r.-;;;;;;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;;;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;.;;;;;;.7: : I Undergraduate Female of the Year I Undergraduate Male of t~e Year : 
•I Vanessa Lichon -Jr. -Welsh Family I Aldo Tesi _Soph. _Stanford 
• : I Abigail Coons -Jr. -Pasquerilla East I Holt Zeidler -Sr. Keough : : I Betsy Schroeder -Soph. -Badin I Nick Williams -Soph. -Fisher : 
eL---------------~~====~~~~~~======~: 


•
• 
_,,,,,.--------------""""""-•• 
Game of the Year 
•
• 


Men's Interhall Hockey: Keough/O'Neill vs. Keenan Women's Interhall Football: Welsh Family vs. Lewis
••• CoRec Flag Football: Torchbearers vs. Summadat 
• 
.• ----------------~ .•
: For 1nore information about each candidate, please visit the voting website. : : All RecSpys will be prsented at the Dinner of Champions on May 2. : : Attendance is by invitation only. : 
•.
/ • 
•
•

• 
Fans of the Year 
•

• Siegfried Ramblers Football •• Alumni Dawgs Hockey •• Lewis Chickens Football 
• •• Team of the Year ••
•

• •. Dillon Interhall Football ••••• ~ Welsh Family Interhall Football ; •••Go Fish! CoRec Broomball • • • 
•
•
• 

Anne Yoches 

Maria Canalas 

Natalie Wight 

• 
•
Gad/Fae/Staff Male of the Year 

•
•
Scott Klein 

•
Peyton Berg •
•
Rico Casares •
• 

Monday, April 22, 2002 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 
RYAN
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED

FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
CUNNINGHAM 

FOXTROT BILL AMEND 

Ok, I'VE Gol lHE F1LTER  •.. AND, of CoURSE, ALL  STtLL, t CAN'T HELP  LUCE, WHAT 1~  PETER, ~N  
IN ... THE HEATER tN••• THE  MY CUTE LITTLE  5 FEELtNG AS ll-toUGH  GAL!.oNS oF WATER  YOO HELP  
Rocks IN .•.THE BuBBLtNG  FtSHtES tN.  l I'VE FoRGoTTEN  WE16HS, PERHAPS~  ME CARR-rll-US  
CLAM SHELL IN,_ 'THE  j SoMEllitN&.  •---'  UPSTAI~  
WATER IN•..  1 \  
\ 1/J 4-2  

T"  ~0/\0f' of +~ le.  
~  J' c\e..s5QS, ]:·,..  
J°'.J  i .:f -k, evtry  
~;5  w~~ ! "l:'" o.i""';re yrur-CC'Wicto"  
yw ir.-e5r0f\5ible, boob.  


Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS  33 Three-wheeler  56 Buckeye's home  
1 Sixth Greek  34 Thin wedge of  57 Foreword, for  
letter  wood  short  
5 Short hit, in  35 Stew holders  58 Slender nail  
baseball  36 Fruit that  59 Child with no  
9 Specialized  grandma  siblings 
vocabulary  dubbed?  60 Parts of houses  
14 Tennis great  39 Rooney of "60  and mouths  
Lend!  Minutes"  61 Shopper 
15 u_  bitten,  40 Place to stroll  stopper 
twice shy"  41 Refrain in "Old  62_pony 
16 Crystal-lined  MacDonald"  
stone 17 Barbershop call 18 Place for "junk" 20 Emergency situation that an Egyptian goddess experiences? 22 Spell-off  42 Magic 8-Ball answer 43 Sherlock Holmes prop 44 Beauty parlors 45 "Thar blows!" 46 Permit 47 Ornate clone of  DOWN 1 Metal in brass 2 "... happily _ after" 3 Way around town 4 Aardvark's fare 5 Supervisors  
23 Golf ball peg  designer  6 Loosen, as  
24 Down's opposite  Chanel?  laces  
28  and aahs  55 Big political  7 Sgts. and cpls.  
30 Head-butt  contest  8 Actress Hatcher  
9 Texas A&M's  
team  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS _P_u....zzLE....
____ 10 Baseball great Pee Wee 11 Mongolian 
................... desert 12 Scandinavian 
__.___..,......_.__._-+-,,... god 
13 Royal flush card 19 Breathing woe "="~~~::'."1 21 "A Doll's House" playwright--.-4 24 Unable to flee 
25 Origami bird 26 Orange covers 
..............._............, 27 Approve -=-+~.,..,...,,,....,""'4 28 Chicago airport ~~~~~ 29 Sound in "Old 
MacDonald" 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying for1n and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Puzzle by Pet« Gordon 
30 One of Shakespeare's "star-crossed lovers" 
31 Didn't go out to a restaurant 32 Forerunner of Windows 34 Rice Krispies sound 35 Bucket 37 Each 38 "Cool!" 43 Wedding album contents 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip_____ ­
44 Withdraw (from} 51 Condo's cousin 
45 Winter wear 52 Speed skater Apolo Anton _
46 Making all stops 47 Nevada city 53 Tablet 48 "I'm _ you!" 54 It has its ups 49 Spheres and downs 50 Singer Irene 55 Knight's title 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285--5656 ($1.20 per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON nns DAY: Glen Campbell, Aaron Spelling, Daniel Johns, Peter Framp­ton 
Happy Birthday: You'll want to remake everything and everyone this year. Your ideas will be good and you are likely to get help from those in positions to support your coocems. You will actively seek love relationships or business partner­ships. You will be creative in your self-expression and attract many friends and a lot of attention. Your numbers are 2,'ZJ, '19, 31, 35, j7 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Your main focus should be on get­ting ahead in business or making whatever adjustments to your diet or lifestyle that are required in order to feel and look great. Push your ideas and believe in your abilities. Practi­c.ality will pay off. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Self-improvement programs will show quick results. You soould take the time lo work on a creative proj­ect. Getting out with friends or doing something sociable with rolleagues should be on youragenda. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Emotions may be running high on the home front Try not to takelife so seriously. If you are a little happy-go­lucky you will receive much better response frun others. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you get out and do a little Sll(X)ping around you'll meet some interesting people. Pleasure trips will lead to all sorts of possibilities. Your outgoing warm nature will attract new and lasting connections. 000() 
LEO (Ju1y 23-Aug. 22): You can make money today but someone may also try to take it away from you. Don't be so generous that you end up worrying about your cash 
flow.000 
Birthday Baby: You are headstrong and independent and have a real desire to be first You are mentally quick and will never back away from an argument. You must stay bw,--y in order to be happy. You are a doer; not an onlooker. 

EUGENIA LAST  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Your ability to deal with people ·will bring rewards that you can't even imagine. The more accommodating you are when dealing with othei:s the better the response you will receive. 000 LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Focus on what you can do, not what you can't You have everything going for you so pick yourself up and start the ball rolling. Money making opportu-· nities must be taken advantage of. O<X> SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your contributions will be the pas­sageway to future prospects. You will make interesting and profitable new contacts through newgroups or organizations you drnate money to orjoin. 000() SAGrITARIUS (Nm.: 22-Dec. 21): Keep your thoughts to yourself today. You are likely to say some­thing that will lead to a confronta­tion. If you are aggressive you will probably end up making little head­way. 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You must follow your instincts and contact people that you want to have in your life. The time to make your move is now. Be practical in your approach and direct in your speech. 00000 AQUARIUS (Jan 20-Feb. 18): If you focus on making money and not spending it you can have a success­ful day. Don't lend money to friends or relatives. It will only ruin your relatirnship and you aren't likely to get your cash back. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone you care about may be a little emotional today. Be nice and attentive and you will be able to keep things running smoothly. An older relative may need your help or cause a rroblem for you. 000  -- 


O
THE Campus Sports
Campus Sports 
BSERVER 


. Football, p. 18
. SMC Softball p. 22 
. ND Women's Soccer, p. 15
. ND Softball, p. 21 
. SMC Tennis, p. 14
. 
Men's Lacrosse, p. 20 

. 
ND Women's Golf, p. 19 


Monday, April 22, 2002 



. Irish top 'Canes 4-1 in heated conference finale 
ByJOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
When it comes to the Big East Tennis Championship, it always is Miami against Notre Dame. 
In the sixth consecutive Big East finale between the two teams, Notre Dame beat Miami 
4-1. 
"Miami always plays really tough. The last two years we 


have been ranked ahead of them but we lost twice," senior Aaron Talarico said. 
Despite the dominating score, the Irish did not win without considerable effort and stamina. 
"[Miami] played awfully well today. It was a hard match for us," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss, who was named Big East Coach of the Year after the victory. 
"I don't think people under,;. stand how difficult it is to come here and win, with the combina­tion of the crowd and the heat." 
Despite the favorable condi­tions for Miami, the team from Indiana began dominating the hometown Hurricanes from the outset of Sunday's champi­onship. The Irish first showed their prowess in doubles play. with two pairs of seniors, Javier Taborga-Casey Smith and Ashok Raju-Aaron Talarico, winning their matches to put Notre Dame up 1-0. 
Riding on that momentum, the Irish then went on to win three of four singles matches under the hot south Florida sun. They won all three matches in straight sets. 
The doubles victory was cru­
see M. TENNIS/page 16 

2002 BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Irish battle rival Hurricanes to the finish 


. Notre Dame falls to improved Miami squad in finals 
By COLIN BOYlAN Sports Writer 
CORAL GABLES. Fla. 
Head coach Jay Louderback warned his Irish women's tennis team not to use its regular-sea­son victory against the Hurricanes as a precedent before · the rematch in the finals of the Big East tournament. 

Even though the Irish defeated Miami 4-3 only two weeks earlier in the Eck Center, Louderback predicted the Hurricanes would be a much-tougher opponent in front of their home fans and in the intense Florida heat. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, their coach's prediction c.ame true Sunday as the team dropped a hard-fought Big East final match to its Florida rivals, 4-1. 
"They outplayed us today," said Louderback. "I thought we fought really well, but they just played a little better than we did." 
The lopsided 4-1 score obscured what Was actually a very competitive match, high­lighted by several swings in momentum and close line calls. 
The Irish got the ball rolling on the doubles side when Katie Cunha and Becky Varnum earned an 8-4 victory at the No. 1 doubles slot against the Hurricanes' Mari Toro and Marci Hora. 
Miami won at No. 2 doubles to even the score at 1-1 and turn attention to Court 3, where Alicia Salas and Sarah Jane Connelly trailed 5-6. The team's youngest doubles tandem then turned in a clutch performance when they rattled off the next three games to win the match 8-6 and earn 
see W. TENNIS/page 17 



BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Ranked teams continue to fall in round of 128 
. Comissioners report 6 ranked teams fail to make round of 64 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Senior Staff Writer 

Rory Barthel snapped out of a shooting slump at the perfect moment for Team 32. 
The senior hit a running one-hander to score his first point of the game and seal his team's 21-19 upset of No. 26 Team Indart Sunday in Bookstore Basketball XXXI round of 128 action. 
"It was the first thing I hit all day," Barthel said. 
Barthel's basket capped of a tightly played game between two well-matched opponents. Team 32 led for most of the game but Team lndart was never far behind. After trailing 19-17 late in the game, Indart battled back to tie the game at 19. 
Team 32's Ryan Majcina answered Indart's rally with a 15-foot jump shot to put his team up 20-19. 
"I was having a tough time getting open," Majcina said. "They were double teaming me and I couldn't get any good looks. Finally we started setting some dou­ble screens and Igot a look." 

The teams traded missed baskets for a few possessions before a key turnover gave Team 32 the advantage. 
Dennis Decore dribbled up the court for Indart unguarded when he lost control of the ball and trapped it against his leg briefly. He started dribbling again. Team 32 immediately called him for double drib­bling. Decore didn't argue. 
On the next possession, Barthel hit his shot to win the game. 
The five seniors on Team 32, Majcina, Barthel, John Bodnovich, Chris Pyfer and Nick Heinemen advance to the round of 64 for the first time in their Bookstore Basketball careers. The furthest this team had advanced in its previous three tries was the second round. 
Team Indart, made up of second year MBA students Decore, Ken Young, Scott Kleine, Ryan Indart and Dave Tharp, join a growing list of ranked teams to fall in the early rounds of the tournament. 
Bookstore commissioners have reported upsets from six of the top 32 teams in the first three rounds. More ranked teams may have lost in rescheduled games. 
The two highest seeded teams to lose so far are No. 12 Team Boat Club and No. 13 
see BOOKSTORE/page 19 
. 
SMC Softball at Calvin, Today, 3:30 p.m. 

. 
ND Softball at Nebraska, Tuesday, 3 p.m.



SPORTS 
. Baseball vs. Chicago State, Tuesday, 6:05 p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Tennis at Valparaiso, Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. 







