
~---.... ;-~------,....,...-----....-,.._ 
Students respond to rape allegations
SUNNY 

Wednesday 

Students respond with their opi!lio!1s on the re~e_nt rape allegations follow­
ing a letter to the Editor quest10rung the priorities of the student body. 
APRIL 17,
HIGH 80° 

Viewpoint . page 9
1ows2° 
2002 


VOL. XXXV NO. 126 
BONE MARROW DRIVE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP:// . . 
Prof~r elected head of hmnan rights group 
By KlFLIN TURNER News Writer 
Once a political prisoner in his native country and now a progressive leader working to preserve universal human rights, Juan Mendez, profes­sor of law 
and direc­tor of the Center for Civil and Human Rights at N o t r e Dame, was elected 

presidentof the  Mendez  
Inter- 
American  Commission  on  

Human Rights (IACHR) mark­ing a new chapter of Mendez's life-long commitment as an advocate of human rights. 
His impressive record of investigating human rights violations began when Mendez began representing political prisoners under the military dictatorship of Argentina when he was to become a vic­tim himself of governmental persecution. Mendez was tor­tured and imprisoned for more than a year before he was expelled from his home­land. 
"When I came to the States I started at the beginning, try­ing to work on behalf of friends that have been left behind in custody who disap• peared and then that turned into a professional career," said Mendez 
Mendez began his 15-year career at the Human Rights Watch and eventually worked on its general counsel in 1994, where he helped to establish it as the world's leading pri­vate organization monitoring human rights violations. A year later, he became execu­tive director of the IACHR in Costa Rica from 1996 to 1999 and served as the Commission's vice president. 
And now as president-elect of the IACHR, Mendez admit­ted that his accomplished position will pose a challenge, but he's ready for all that his title entails. 
"I think it's a great chal­lenge having a complicated year -with the challenge of terrorism and the United States' responses to it, but 
see MENDEZ/page 3 




ND and SMC students plan D.C. demonstration 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 
Fifty students will converge on the nation's capital this weekend with thousands of other activists as part of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's National Mobilization for Global Justice. Organized through student organizations Peace Coalition, Pax Christi, Progressive Student Alliance and Amnesty, the students _will be focusing on peace and 
polisy alternatives. 
The demonstrations coincide 
with the spring meeting of the 
World Bank and International 
Monetary Fund but organizer 
Lindsay Updike stresses that 
peace will overshadow these 
institutions' meeting as the 
primary focus. 
"Notre Dame students are going to add our voices in concern for U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East. Afghanistan, South America and all over the world. We want to show our support for peace, economic and social justice and let it be known that we have hope for peace," Updike said in regards to the goals for the weekend. 
Student organizer Megan Renner added, "People from all over the country are con­verging in Washington this weekend to call for a world truly free of terrorism ­where peace. social justice and human rights are given top priority." 
Students will be going and coming in different shifts throughout the weekend, the first shift leaving Thursday night while another shift will be leaving Friday evening. Several demonstrations will be going on at once, protest­ing the war on terrorism, U.S. military aid to Israel, U.S. involvement in the war in Colombia. the School of Americas and IMF and World Bank policies. However, the main event will take place Saturday with a peace rally on the National Mall. 
Updike says that partici­pants went through nonviolent training that was lead by 
see PROTESTS/page 4 

Advisors question double 01ajors 
By LAUREN BECK 
News Writer 

As more students choose to 
double major within the 
College of Arts and Letters, 
advisers have begun to ques­
tion students-' _motives in an 
attempt to curb the trend and 
to ensure students receive a 
well-rounded liberal arts edu­
cation. 

Recent statistics showed that 
approximately 40 percent of 
students in the College of Arts 
and Letters double majored. 
Advisers said anecdotal evi­
dence suggested this number 
was constantly increasing, esti­
mating that half of all Arts and 
Letters students pursued more · than one major. 
Dottie Pratt, dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters, 
attributes the inclination 
toward double majors to the 
large number of students who 
come to Notre Dame with 
Advanced Placement credit and 
therefore have room in their 
schedules to fulfill the require­
ments for two majors. She said 
she has noticed an increase not 
only in the number of students 
who double major. but also in the number of students who choose to add one or more minors to their double major or even to triple major. 
"Students with 30 or 40 Advanced Placement credits can do two or three majors, but I still make them think through what they really want," said Pratt. 
Other students believed a double major would afford them more opportunities in the career world. Anita Rees, assis­tant director at the Career Center, said she did not think a double major made a student more or less attractive to potential employers, but she warned against choosing a double major for the wrong reasons. 
"Sometimes students cannot decide on one major. and they end up spreading themselves so thin they don't get a good grasp on either major. Employers want to see breadth and depth," she said. 
Arts and Letters Dean Mark Roche cited three different types of students interested in a double major. The first type of wanted to pursue a passion in the College of Arts and Letters. but assumed he or she also needs to study another more practical discipline. 
"We welcome majors who choose Arts and Letters from that perspective, but I think they are insufficiently aware of how marketable they are as lib­eral arts students alone," said Roche. 
The second group of students chose a foreign language or lit­erature as a second major. While Roche did not discourage these students either, he said. "It is a mistaken perception on their part that language is sim­ply a tool rather than a disci­pline itself." 
Roche said he was not a strong advocate of the third category of double majors ­students who developed an interest in several disciplines and intended to use a double major as a second credential ­but said he would not legislate against it. 
Junior Lauren Willoughby said she decided on a political science and theology double major because she was inter­ested in both areas. She said the political science depart­ment initially discouraged her, 
see MAJORS/page 4 
.......,....,-,..________,,-,--..______....--, ..........---~ 

..-~--------r,-r-----,, .,..,..____.......,_,....,___ •-,-.7--,---~-------­
1 I I I 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, April 17, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Yay for T.A.'s 
Here's to you, pretentious, low grade-giving TA 
What a comfort to know that there's someone 

like you, bitter low grade giving pretentious TA, 
to help us along on the path to philosophical, or 
scientific, or psychological, theological, literary, or 
mathematical enlightenment. 
You have all the best per­Katie Hughes sonal qualities of a high school substitute teacher, my 
Sports Copy

best friend's annoying older siblings, and the aunt who's Editor always trying to wipe stuff off my face with her spit cov­ered finger. You are academia's hormonal ado­lescent, and you know if you had only been born fifty years earlier you would have thought of all this stuff that everyone else already did. Here's to your fashion sense that reflects both a charming frugality and detachment from reality. Here's to your love life, or, well, lack thereof, to your brooding, and to your simultaneous inferiority and superiority complexes. 
Bitter low grade giving pretentious TA, you say, "I will be here for 11 more years ifl'm lucky, still trying to get to the bottom of this thingtheory that no one cares about and that I realized nine days ago, neither do I. I am doing this because I was that kid as an undergraduate who just never quite got into the social swing of college but had a hopeless and enormous crush on every professor, of either sex, that I ever had. You legacy, lethar­gic, spoiled, shallow, stupid excuse for anything resembling intelligent. 
"While I am still working on my thingtheory, you, you snot nosed, binge drinking freak, will have spent a few years doing volunteer work in a South American orphanage, will have been pro­moted in Wonderfulco, Incorporated, to senior vice president, popped out three or four kids and finally settled in Fabulousville with Mr. Perfectandcoolineveryway. 1 will have spent approximately seven hundred million hours researching this thingtheory no one cares about, and 'Nill have come to the conclusion that no one cares about it. 
Meanwhile, all my connections to anything resembling reality will have faded away into the night, leaving me in a cold, sterile, emotionless bubble. I will still be bitter, and I still will not have an office. I will never get a real job and I will never learn English. I am holding all the cards in this relationship, and, yeah, it's a power trip. Don't step to my green pen, I will cross out your entire paper. Go ahead, try me. I can tell if you wrote this last night. I need therapy but I can't even afford to eat anything but Ramen." 
"Don't you know the Nietche-Hemingway­Plato-Darwininial theorum? Don't you know ANYTHING? Ah. perhaps I should explain this in terms you can understand, but Dr. Seuss didn't get around to writing any books about Calculus. Haven't you read Finnegan's Wake in its Swahili translation? It's the only way to really get the intricate nuances of it. The historical turmoil of that atomic despotic erotic demonic government clearly ended the Rennassaince and formed the basis for the Freudian interpretation of Communism. And, you see, it was ofcourse the manifest existential political stream of conscious­ness heat transfer integrations that produced the feminist theory of reciprocity. God does not exist, and I'm not sure about deodorant. Duh, ya dum­mie." 
"And your paper sucks." 

Contact Katie Hughes at Khughes.39@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publicadon and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. \Y/e do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mis,ake, please concac, us•• 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of ch, A.•,.soclated Prcs-.s. All reproduc(ion righ[.<, are reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 

Wednesday  Thursday  
. Concert: Notre Dame  . Film: "Apocalypse Now  
Chorale and Chamber  Redux," Carey Auditorium,  
Orchestra, Basilica of the  Hesburgh Library, 7 p.m.  
Sacred Heart, 8 p.m.  

Friday 

. Lecture: 'The Pope and the Black Madonna: The Icons of the Solidarity Revolution," Jan Kubik, Auditorium, Hesburgh Center, 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. 
Saturday 

. Performance: "The Life of Galilieo," Bertolt Becht, Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 

Tensions grow between UC-Berkeley and high school 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Last year when Dave Smith, a University of California-Berkeley student, asked several high school students wan­dering around his fraternity house to leave, he ended up with a split-open chin and seven stit.ches. 
When Paolo Pcllizzer, a Berkeley High School sophomore, attended fraternity party last year expecting to have a good time. he ended up taking care of a friend with a broken collarbone who got punched in the chest by a fraternity member. 
The strained relations between frater­nities and the East Bay high school stu­dents who attend their parties is a decades-old problem. From both sides, the casualties and tension seem to be growing, solutions seem scarce and the police are frustrated. 
Since February 2001 there have been 25 reported incidents of violence or van­dalism at fraternity parties. Seven were linked positively to Berkeley High stu­dents, Inter-Fraternity Council Risk Manager Glen Ryan said. For high school students from surrounding East Bay cities, Berkeley fraternity parties present 


"something to do." 
"In Berkeley there is nothing p~sitive for us to do on weekends," Pellizzer said. "Until the city sets up something for us to do on a Friday night, like a dance or something that doesn't cost a Jot of money. we are going to keep going up to the frats." 
Other high school students said they hear about the parties from school-wide rumors. 
"The older kids who go to the parties come back and say you can get free drinks and drugs if you just walk in and act like you know what you're doing," Berkeley High freshman Alex Perez said. "But if you mess with us, we mess with you -you don't mess with us, we don't mess with you. It's that simple." 
Delta Upsilon President Kevin Kemper said the violence erupts when high school students are asked to leave the parties and refuse. 
YALE UNIVERSITY 

Yale to fund students in drug rehab 
PHIi.ADELPHIA 
Yale University recently implemented a new policy that will allow students convicted of drug-related oflenses to receive institutional financial assistance if the student undergoes rehabilitation. Yale is now the fourth school to adopt this kind of policy, joining Swarthmore and Hampshire Colleges and Western Washington University. Yale's decision stems from the Higher Education Act of 1998, in which there is a stipula­tion that any student convicted of a drug-related offense could have federal financial aid revoked until that student had completed rehabilitation. Federal law requires drug offenders applying to or studying at any university in the country -and hoping to be given financial aid -to acknowledge any prior offenses when filling out their yearly Free Application for Federal Student Aid forms. Few students took notice until 2000 when the Bush administration actually began enforcing the stipulation. Currently, any drug offender applying through FAFSA for federal assistance will be auto­matically rejected or have the option to receive aid after com­pleting a drug rehabilitation program. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Students attend Israel rally in D.C. 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Roughly 100 Harvard University students joined more than 100,000 individuals from around the nation and the world Monday at the Israel Solidarity RaJly in Washington, D.C. Organizers said it was the largest pro­Israel rally held in the United States since Israel became a state in 1948. The gathering wrapped around the Capitol, as people congregated to hear nearly four hours of speeches from prominent individuals. including former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and New York Gov. George Pataki. Harvard graduate and undergraduate students filled 85 of the approximately 320 seats on two planes chartered by the Combined Jewish Philanthropies for those in the Boston area. The organization gave students a subsidized rate of $140 for the round-trip, which left Monday morning. The plane trip was advertised by Harvard Hillel. In addition. a 50-person bus organized by Hillel -costing students only $10 -left from Rosovky Hall late Sunday. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 17. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
FRONTS: 

50• 'Y"T ~ ....... 

Cl 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Preuuri: (
® CD CJ ~ c.Il . ~ El {) <iltt @Wik> 
High Low Shower• Rein T*•torm• Flurrlaa Snow Ice Sonny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vi·., Assoo'alod Prnss 

Atlanta 85 63 las Vegas 76 54 Portland 54 43 Baltimore 92 63 Memphis 85 66 Sacramento 61 41 Boston 87 62 Milwaukee 75 53 St. Louis 84 69 Chicago 80 56 New York 90 63 Tampa 85 68 Houston 83 68 Philadelphia 93 67 Washington 95 68 
.. 
Wednesday, April 17, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . NEWS 


Mendez 
continued from page 1 
also the turmoil and the inter­ruptions of democracy in Venezuela -and that means that the Inter-American Commission is called upon to offer solutions on a short-term basis," said Mendez. 
When asked about his deci­sion to commit his life's work to investigating human rights issues, Mendez preferred to regard his work as more of a rewarding opportunity rather than a job that demanded great obligations and respon­sibilities. 
"I actually think it's a privi­lege -I've been very blessed at the possibility of working full time on human rights," said_Mcndez. "I don't think it's any sacrifice, on the con­trary, it's like being given a pass to do what you want to do," he said. 
Established by the charter of the Organization of American States, the Commission hears complaints filed by individuals against any one of the mem­ber states that belong to the OAS. The case is then processed under procedure after the Commission makes a decision in favor of the peti­tioner or of the state. 
The case then goes on to the Inter-American Court of Human rights where the Court passes judgment on the laws of the country in relation to its compatibility and inconsisten­cy with human rights viola­tions, according to Mendez. 
"We educate civil society as to how to defend their own rights," said Mendez. "We try to disseminate the doctrine of human rights and try to edu­cate the people as to how they should apply human rights terms in their daily work," he said. 
The Commission also dedi­cates its energy to investigat­ing specific issues concerning women, children, indigenous peoples and prisoners. Mendez noted that his current area of concentration is focused on migrant issues. 
Mendez identified reforms regarding financial funding as being necessary to improving the effectiveness of the inter­nal system of the Commission and the Court. 
lie cited that the OAS budget allots less that 4 percent in human rights protection. 
"At this point we have an incredible amount of work and really pathetic levels of sup­port so we could function a lot better if we could convince the states to put the put the money where their mouth is," said Mendez. "In spite of those meager resources we are con­stantly called upon to work on very difficult cases to protect those who cannot protect themselves," he said. 
Along with an increase in monetary support, Mendez also pointed to reforming the potentially problematic struc­ture of the Commission and the Court as an organization without a binding legal force to implement its decisions. 
"It's not only a matter of money, it's also a political commitment by the states to back the decisions of the Commission and the Court," said Mendez. The Commission derives its authority from its decisions that serve as recom­mendatiorts. 

States arc obligated to fol­low the decision, but compli­ance often resides on the pres­sure of the international c;;om­munity to carry out the judg­ment. 
"Also, dealing with effective­ness is to find a mechanism that which if a state decides not to comply with our recom­mendations and the decisions of the Court, that there would be effective measures enforc­ing them," said Mcnd·ez. 
Political commitment on the part of the states is the major component in continuing to recognize the authority of the Commission and the Court, Mendez said. 
"Right now, fortunately we don't have u great problem with non-compli-ance. Countries by and large abide by what we say they should do," he said. "I think if we could come up with a better system of monetary compli­ance with the decisions of the Court and the Commission with a similar system in Europe then it works much better." 
Protecting the freedom of expression by enforcing the democracy clause of the con­vention is a primary goal of the Commission said Mendez. 
"Countries not only have to respect human rights, but they have to organize themselves in a way that goes hand in hand with respect to human rights -and that's democracy," said Mendez. ".Suspensions of democracy are a human right violations in and of them­selves," he said. 
Contact Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 

Civil rights lawyers plan to sue Ashcroft 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Alleging widespread abuse of hundreds of Middle Eastern men detained on immigration violations after Sept. 11, civil rights attorneys said they planned to sue Attorney General John Ashcroft and other U.S. officials. 
A draft copy of the class 
action law­suit, expect­ed to be filed in federal C O U r t Wednesday, alleges the plaintiffs have been subjected to unreason­able and excessively harsh condi­tions. 
The Center 

"There's no explanation for why [Middle Easterners are] being held. These people are being treated worse than criminals." 
Barbara Olshansky attorney for Center for Constitutional Concerns 
for Constitutional Rights in Manhattan released the draft Tuesday, saying the suit would be the first filed on behalf of the detainees, some still behind bars. 
"There's no explanation for why they're being held," cen­ter attorney Barbara Olshansky said. "These people are being treated worse than criminals." 
In some cases, detainees were "placed in tiny, window­less cells for over 23 hours a day," the suit alleges. "Many class members have suffered physical and verbal abuse by their guards. Some were badly beaten." 
Spokesmen for the Justice Department and Immigration and Naturalization Service would not comment before the suit is filed. But INS spokesman Bill Strassberger said the government insists on a high standard of treatment 
for detainees. 
The draft complaint cites several examples, including the case of Asif­ur-Rehman Saffi, a native of Pakistan, who was arrested at La Guardia Airport in New York on Sept. 30 
after his tourist visa expired. 
Although an immigration judge ordered him to be deported, the lawsuit alleges he was jailed until March and locked in an isolation unit. Guards allegedly subjected him to strip searches and "severe beatings to the point of unconsciousness," the suit said. 
The lawsuit asks a judge to issue an order protecting the detainees' due process rights and to appoint a monitor to oversee their treatment. 
I I It 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 17, 2002 
try. Downey sees these dis­cussions as necessarv to stu­

Protests 
dents who are cnte~ing the continued from page I workforce because many do ------------not recognize the other 
prominent nonviolent advo­cate David Cortright, a peace studies professor. The meet­ing was an attempt to talk about possible situations ahead of time. With 30,000­40,000 people expected to be present there is always a possibility that things may get out of control or the police may get nervous and start spraying tear gas. Participants were taught to stay calm and to refrain from pushing through crowds as well as preventing violent protester from attacking the dignity of the movement. 
In preparation for the ral­lies students had the oppor­tunity to attend several "teach-ins" led by Notre Dame professors to discuss some of the debates at the upcoming protests. The teach-ins were an opportuni­ty for professors to provide historical background and a forum for issues to be raised in order for students to decide on issues they felt strongly about and to pre­pare them for debate. 
"The teach-ins are basic training for students to dis­cuss pressing issues in an intellectual, sophisticated way. It provides a link between what they have learned in the class and relating that to the world," said David Ruccio, an associ­ate Economics professor, who last week addressed the IMF/WB programs. 
Ruccio commented that in the last five years he noticed a new generation of econom­ic activists at Notre Dame looking to integrate their class experiences with the Catholic faith and in the end raise critical issues instead of ignoring events outside Notre Dame. 
Greg Downey, an assistant professor of Anthropology, enlightened students on the negative image many coun­tries have of the U.S. He used the recent crisis in Argentina as an example in which the IM.I<, a financial institution dominated by U.S. leadership and thinking, as playing a significant role in the unraveling of the coun­
points of view in the interna­
tional world. 
"The Notre Dame student body is incredibly. ethically motivated but they some­times don't recognize the connection between the clothes they wear, the shoes they buy and the politicians they vote for. They discon­nect their daily lives with these issues and become unwitting participants of extreme, unfair, destructive and immoral systems with­out being aware," Downey said. 
Ruccio expressed concern that this year's rally is not as focused as in years past, protesting a "laundry list" of grievances, but he admits that the protest could sur­prise the organizations much like past rallies in Seattle, Wash. and Genoa, Italy. 
Downey said that after Sept. 11, there was a "mut­ing of objectivity" in protests against the Jl'vlF and other financial institutions. But he insists that people "can't not protest. Many would like things to remain as business as usual but we must speak up," 
The Washington Post reported that police are also training not only for the demonstrators but also for possible terrorists who may attack the demonstrators. Participants have expressed some concern that radical anarchists might be present but they are more worried that the term ''terrorist" will be equivocated to mean demonstrators. 
There will be a send-off rally on Thursday in front of Rep. Tim Roemer's office in South Bend before the first bus heads to Washington, 
D.C. at 8:30 p.m. 
There is still room for additional participants. However, anyone planning on going must attend a mandatory meeting at the Center for Social Concerns from 4:30-6 p.m. The group is asking $15 per person to cover van costs. 
Contact Liz Kahling at kahling. l@nd.edu. 
Attention 

Scene is now accepting applications for the bi-weekly "Two Tickets For" column. 
Applicants should be a male/female team and should submit a sample article to Scene Editor Spencer Beggs at scene@nd.edu. 
Majors 
continued from page I 

saying that if she focused on two subject areas she would not receive as well a rounded an education. Willoughby remained adamant in her deci­sion and said both departments then supported her. She said declaring a double major has wqrked to her advantage. 
"I have two sets of classes I can take. Both departments save spaces for me, so it's easi­er to get into classes," she said. 
Pratt, however, said a double major could put students at a disadvantage because students filled their sched ulc vvith cours­es in their major and neglected to explore several disciplines. 
"Students get so locked into their progress toward gradua­tion that they don't explore dif­ferent subject areas. rm con­cerned there will be many stu­dents who look back and wish they had taken other courses," she said. 
Pratt did cite some positive aspects of a double major. "Some courses work together well," she said. "They build on each other and create a vast system of knowledge, or a diverse group, such as econom­ics and Chinese, makes sense at the end" 
But overall, she feared that students became too frustrated when courses did not count toward a major, rather than assuming they could benefit from general knowledge and exploration. 
Josh Kaplan, associate direc­tor of undergraduate studies in Political Science, also worried students would deprive them­selves of' a well-rounded educa­tion. He said he advised stu­dents to evaluate their reasons for choosing a second major. 
"Many students think that two majors are better than one, that it will impress people, or that they need to have officially declared a government major to Lake our courses," said Kaplan. 
Ile rnfutcd those assump­tions, saying a second major was not necessary tu secure a job and that students could take several government class­es without declaring it a second major. 
Sophomore political science major Katie Browning followed such advice when she contem­plated a double major. She rejected the idea after meeting with a dean who advised her not able to take that might serve them well to get a well­rounded education." 
Roche prompted students to consider one of the University's interdisciplinary minors instead of a second major. 
"We have a large number of minors. and they are a good fit for a Catholic university inter­ested in the integration of knowledge across disciplines. They develop a track of orga­nized studies more coherently than a second major would," he said. 
Students and faculty mem­bers alike did not a·nticipate the 
only one major was necessary. 

"In an environment like 
Browning 

this, there is a tempta­
said she was pleased with tion to double major. her decision. 
When everyone has a lot 
"I now 

on their plates, it seems
have the lib­

erty to take like the thing to do. " courses that arc interest­
Katie Browning
ing to me, lo 

student
take more courses in 
number of double majors w o u I d 
decrease soon. "In an environment like this, there is a teru,.ita­tion to double major," said Browning. "When every­one has a lot on their plates, it 
political science and to take classes in other departments without taking all the introduc­tory courses required for majors," she said. "I can also spread out classes in my major so I can concentrate on them more." 
Recently, more advisers have encouraged students to take an approach similar to Browning's. 
"I don't tell students not to double major, but I do make sure they have the correct information and it is in their best interest ... that they understand the trade-off's involved, they are comfortable with the decision, and that there are not other courses they want to take," said Kaplan. "Double majoring might mean that there are other courses that students are 


new, 

There is an on-line guide to dorms. 
on its Web site, the Office of Residence Life and Housing provides helpful information on each residence hall. 
Go directly to the site at: 
http://www.nd.edu/ ~ orlh/housing/undergraduate/index.htm 
What the site offers: 
• 
Floor plans for each dorm. 

• 
Profiles and photos of each dorm. 

•
Information on modular furniture and elevated beds. 

•
Dates and policies related to room picks and moving in and out of dorms. 


Sponsored hy Student Government 
seems like the thing to do." 
Advisers said they would con­tinue to operate according to an unollicial policy of encour­aging students lo seriously con­sider both the advantages and disadvantages of a double major. 
Hochc speculated this might lead to a gradual decrease in double majors. Although he did not foresee Notre Dame adopt­ing a policy similar to that of a university like Princeton, which forbids double majors entirely, he said he could imagine some future changes. 
"I could see a situation like this: Students must declare a (irst major, and they must give coherent rationale for choosing a second," said Roche. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu. 

, 'I 


ATION 
Wednesday, April 17, 2002 ,COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Jordan's Queen Rania blasts Israel: 
Queen_ Rania of Jordan accused Israel on J'uesday of creating a "human rights catastro­phe" in the West Bank and suggested Mideast peace is impossible without a strong U.S. mediating role. "Prime Minister (Ariel) Sharon is after some suspects that he believes are terrorists, but insted he is terrorizing the lives of many, many people," she said. 
Vatican will address clergy scandal: 
The extraordinary summit of U.S. cardinals amt·Vatican officials on clergy sex abuse will likely focus on speeding up the removal of errant priests, a leading American bishop said Tuesday. Also on the table at next week's meeting: implementing a binding national pol­icy that could standardize how U.S. bishops handle charges of molestation against priests. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
GOP pushing Alaskan oil drilling: 
Senate Republicans ·used the threat of an Iraqi oil embargo and the lure of jobs to try to boost support for oil drilling in an Arctic wildlife refuge as the Senate neared a vote on the issue. Alaska's two senators on Tuesday introduced the !orig-awaited amendment that would lift a congressional ban on drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge's 1.5 million-acre coastal plain in northeastern Alaska. 
Human smuggling ring interrupted: 
Undercover immigration agents broke up a ring that charged up to $50,000 to smuggle illegal Chinese immigrants into the United States. prose­cutors said Tuesday. Seven people were indicted after paying agents nearly $220,000 for papers listing 18 aliens as crew members for a shipping line to ensure they wouldn't be turned away when they flew to the United States. The immi­grants will be deported after they testify. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
36-year-old running for governor: 
A southwestern Indiana man who became the youngest mayor in state history is seeking the Republican nomination for governor in 2004. Randy Harris, Petersburg's three-term mayor and a 36-year-old Evansville native, announced his candidacy Friday at the Pike County Lincoln Day dinn·er. Harris, a Republican in largely Democratic Pike County, acknowledged that his background as a small-town mayor could leave him open to attacks that he is unprepared to lead the state. 
Market Watch April 16 
Dow 
10,301.32 +207.65 

Jones 

ITALY 


Associated Press 
ROME 
Afghan leader Hamid Karzai arrived in Rome on Tuesday to escort the nation's deposed king back home after nearly three decades of exile in Italy ­and nearly one month after security reasons forced the former monarch to delay his trip. 
In his home country, Mohammad Zaher Shah is due to convene a grand council, or loya jirga, in June that will select a new transitional government for Afghanistan until elec­tions can be held 18 months later. 

Many believe only the 87-year-old king will be able to add legitimacy to the council, given the bloody tribal rivalries and war that have shaken the country since Zaller Shah's was ousted nearly three decades ago. 
The king is widely seen as a unifying force, and Karzai hopes his presence will encourage reconcilia­tion between ethnic groups that fought the Taliban and the Pashtuns, the largest ethnic community which formed the majority of the Taliban. 
Zaher Shah, a Pashtun. was originally to have returned March 23, but 
the trip was delayed. The Italians have responsibility for his safety until he reaches Kabul, the capital, and said at the time the trip was too dangerous. There were reports then of plans to assassinate the king. Other accounts held that tribal rivalries were behind the postponement. 
A senior U.S. official, speaking Q.11 condition of anonymity, said Tuesday there now are no known specific threats to the king. 
'Tm tremendously glad to take him back," Karzai told reporters after step­ping off the plane at Rome's Ciampino airport with a delegation that included several ministers. "The new Afghanistan wel­comes all its sons, includ­ing the former king of Afghanistan, a fatherly fig­ure, a symbol of unity." 
Zaher Shah and Karzai, who held talks Tuesday with Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi, are scheduled to head back to Afghanistan late Wednesday. The former king has lived in Italy since he was ousted in a palace coup by his cousin in 1973. 
"People are waiting for the old man to come. It will help bring peace to the country," Yusuf Nuristani said in the Afghan capi­talof Kabul. 
Israeli soldiers preparing prison 
limply in the baking desert air. Rajoub, said reopening the prison
Associated Press 

An Israeli military official, speak­would only increase Palestinians' 
KETZIOT, Israel ing on condition of anonymity, con­desire for freedom from Israel's con­
Israel has reopened a sprawling firmed Tuesday that Israel reopened trol. "The Israelis will discover that desert detention camp made infa­the camp this week. they are wrong in their belief that mous during the first intefadah to Ketziot held thousands of opening this prison ... will break the hold some of the thousands of Pal~~tinians during the first determination and the unity of the Palestinians it has rounded up dur­Palestinian uprising. from 1987-93. Palestinian people," he said. ing its current West Bank sweep. Prisoners were held 26 to a tent, In the current offensive, in its 19th 
Associated Press reporters saw exposed to searing heat in the sum­day Tuesday, Israel has detained bustling signs of activity at the mer and bone-chilling cold in the 4,258 Palestinians including suspect­Ketziot camp in the southern Negev winter. The camp was closed in ed leaders of the Palestinian upris­Desert: Spotlights beamed down and 1996. ing, the army said. soldiers stood in guard towers, civil­The army declined to comment on The army said 387 of the thou­ian and military trucks entered and the reopening. The Palestinian secu­sands detained this month were pre­left and bright new Israeli flags hung rity chief in the West bank, Jibril viously known terror suspects. 
l 
•' 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, April 17, 2002 
GERMANY

Sex abuse alleged at school 
20 years ago and that the 

Terror trial disrupted in Germany 
Associated Press 
school now screens employees 
TRENTON, N.J. 

A former choirboy said in a lawsuit that he was molested almost every day by the choir director at a famed boarding school where several other employees have also been accused of sexually abusing students. 
John Hardwicke Jr.'s law­suit, filed last year, said choir director Donald Hanson began molesting him beginning in late 1970. Hardwicke alleges other adults at the school also molested him. 
Hanson ran the choir from 1970 to 1982 at the nonsectar­ian boarding school. Its fifth­through eighth-grade students have been invited to sing for presidents and a pope. 
The New York Times report­ed Tuesday that a dozen alum­ni from the 1960s to the 1980s said they were abused by school employees including Hanson, another choir direc­tor, a headmaster, teacher's aides and a cook. 
Hanson and his predecessor eventually resigned after admitting to molesting boys under their supervision, according to documents the school had submitted in court cases. 
Donald Edwards, the school's vice president for institutional advancement, issued a statement Tuesday saying the school would not discuss the lawsuit. The state­ment said the molestations allegedly occurred more than rigorously. 
A letter dated March 28 from school president John Ellis said students are encour­aged to speak up about abuse and that the school has a help­line handled by a psychologist. 
The Times also reported Tuesday that John Shallenberger, a patron of boys' choirs who was a con­victed child molester, recom­mended people for the school to hire, including Hanson. 
At least three other lawsuits have been filed over the past 14 years alleging sex abuse at the school dating back to the 1970s, the Times reported. Two were settled, including one for $850,000 involving a student who said he was sodomized repeatedly by Hanson in 1980. 
The newspaper said Hanson could not be located for com­ment. His attorney, Richard Howell, said Hanson declined to comment. 
The alumni interviewed by the newspaper did not accuse Shallenberger of molesting them, and former school offi­cials said they were unaware of Shallenberger's half-dozen criminal convictions between 1958 and 1998 on charges related to child molestation. 
Shallenberger is now a fugi­tive from Pennsylvania for fail­ing to answer 1998 charges that he violated a court agree­ment by trying to organize a choir trip without divulging his criminal record. 

. Outburst begins trial of five Algerians charged with plotting attack of French market 
Associated Press 

FRANKFURT 
The trial of five Algerians charged with plotting to attack a French market opened Tuesday but was briefly disrupted when one defendant angrily shouted, "My God is my defender." 
While four defendants tried to shield themselves from a TV camera in the courtroom, 31-year-old Lamine Maroni launched into a tirade, recit­ing Quranic verses and urg­ing his co-defendants not to testify. "You want to kill me, baby, don't you?" Maroni said as he was escorted out. "I'll stay still when you chop my head off." 
The session opened with prosecutors reading a sum­mary of the 150-page indict­ment charging the men with belonging to a terrorist orga­nization, fabricating explo­sives with the intent to kill, falsifying documents and committing various weapons violations. 
If convicted, they could face up to 10 years in prison. 
The defendants, Aeurobi Beandalis, 26, Fouhad Sabour, 37, Salim Boukari, 
30, Samir Karimou, 33, and Maroni did not enter pleas. Responding to fears of
Waagner denied mistrial 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

A man suspected of mailing fake anthrax letters to abortion clinics nationwide was denied a mistrial on federal firearms and car theft charges Tuesday and scolded by the judge for arguing with a witness on the first day of testimony. 
Clayton Lee Waagner, 45, is representing himself on the stolen car and firearms counts. The charges are separate from a federal investigation into whether Waagner mailed the fake anthrax hoax letters nationwide. 
Waagner compared himself to abolitionist John Brown, a militant anti-slavery organizer who used violence to promote his cause and was hanged in 1859. 
"John Brown had a large reward on his head. So did !," Waagner said. "Within months of his death, John Brown was considered not a religious fanatic but a man who ushered in a right cause ... parallels were there." 
Federal Prosecutor Robert Behlen objected to the compar­ison. but U.S. District Judge Susan Dlott allowed Waagner to go ahead. 
Waagner was one of the FBl's most wanted fugitives before his arrest at a copy shop in Springdale, Ohio, on Dec. 5, about 10 months after he escaped from an Illinois jail. 
Waagner, of Kennerdell, Pa., pleaded innocent in March to a six-count indictment charging 
reprisals by the al-Qaida ter­ror network, German authori­ties heightened security for the trial, including surveil­lance cameras and road­blocks around the court­house. 
Prosecutor Volker Brinkmann accused the defendants of conspiring to form a terrorist cell "based on a common creed, common origins and military training in camps" in Afghanistan. 
The trial is expected to take up to a year. According to the indict­
Authorities say two of the defendants rented an apart­ment in the German city of Baden-Baden, 40 miles from Strasbourg, France, where they allegedly planned to bomb the market. 
A homemade video found in the apartment detailing the market, which sits in front of one of Europe's oldest cathe­drals, led authorities to establish what they believe to have been the group's target. 
The trial is expected to expose the extent and goals of Islamic terror cells in 
ment, the defendants 

used fake "I learned with horror American that these attacks 
Express 

were carried out in the
and Visa 

credit name ofmy religion. 
c a r d s On that same day. I duplicated 
distanced myself
f r o m 

and started my life
accounts in Britain to anew. buy chemi­cals in 
Aeurobi Beandalis
Germany to m a k e 

defendant 
explosives. In less than 
Europe. U.S. authorities believe the Sept. _..,...,J 1 attacks on the United States were carried out by an al­Qaida cell that had been oper­ating in Germany. 
None of the defen­dants in the Frankfurt 
tive and as a convicted felon, and possessing a stolen hand­gun and a stolen car. 
Prosecution witness Irvin Moskovitz testified Tuesday that Waagner stole a handgun from him in March 2001, while he was helping out at a friend's gun store in Breinigsville, Pa. Moskovitz couldn't identify Waagner from an FBI photo spread but point­ed to Waagner in the court­room. 
Kelly Johnson, a federal pub­lic defender advising Waagner, requested a mistrial on Waagner's behalf, saying pros­ecutors had not provided infor­mation about the photo spread. 
Dlott denied the request and admonished Waagner for argu­ing with Moskovitz during cross-examination. 
Federal authorities have said Waagner mailed more than 550 hoax anthrax letters to women's reproductive health clinics in October and November. He has not been charged in that case. In media interviews, Waagner has said he wanted to scare clinic oper­ators. 
The federal government also has charged Waagner with bank robberies in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, a car theft in Mississippi and possession of a pipe bomb in Tennessee. 
Waagner was sentenced to 30 years in prison for inter­state transport of a stolen vehi­cle, illegal possession of a firearm and the jail escape. 
f 
r 
I 
d 
a 
. 
y 
a p 
r 
I 
I 
2 0 
free 

a month, the five rang up more than $7,000 worth of bills. 
A search of two Frankfurt apartments where four of the defendants were arrested in December 2000 turned up 44 pounds of a chemical that can be used to make explosives, as well as homemade detona­tors, a hand grenade, subma­chine guns, dismantled rifles, revolvers and ammunition. 
trial are connected to Sept. 11, but one man entered a statement disassociating him­self from the attacks on the United States. 
"I learned with horror that these attacks were carried out in the name of my reli­gion," Beandalis said in a written statement read by his lawyer. "On that same day, I distanced myself and started my life anew." 
him with illegally possessing a handgun and a rifle as a fugi­

comedian comedian 
LAURA LIFSHITZ 
1 
0 
p m 
t 
0 
m
. 
I 
d 
n 

free 
/i:;·~:t/::. 
,. ~;~J:}it 
Iifi 
'. :r~l:::~;j;: 
l -• • • ... :· 
-~) 
..·:.-t:i~~~~­
,_'~r.1-,Jf 
' ",llf•~!!,1£!; 

-~1,,,1, 


/tl!1' 
from mtv' s "say what karaoke" & 11 wanha be a vj too contest11 
Write for Observer News! Call Helena at 1-5323 

Recycle The Obsewer 
---------,-.,-::;:::::s=:-.--....,--...... ... 
Wednesday, April 17, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
ISRAEL 
Troops enter more zones 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Israeli forces moved into a West Bank town and four vil­lages near Jerusalem on Tuesday -a day after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said operations were winding down. But he appeared to soften his resistance to deal­ing with Yasser Arafat. 
Palestinians condemned the new incursions. and Secretary of State Colin Powell appeared ready to set­tle for something short of a formal cease-fire. 
In Bethlehem, heavy gun­fire could be heard near the Church of the Nativity on Tuesday evening, with flares and gray smoke visible over the compound. The army confirmed sporadic gunfire exchanges but said its forces had not entered the com­pound. One injury was reported, a Palestinian in nearby Beit Sahour hit in the leg by a stray bullet outside his house. 
The United States has called for a full and immedi­ate end to the Israeli military campaign, which Israel says is aimed at dismantling Palestinian militias behind deadly attacks on civilians. 
Sharon said his forces would leave the cities of Jenin and Nablus -sites of the worst fighting -but vowed to keep Israeli troops in Ramallah and Bethlehem. 
Sharon, who has been pressing for a peace summit including heads of Arab nations, said Tuesday he expected the Americans to call such a summit for June, perhaps in the United States. 
In an interview with Israel TV, Sharon said a June sum­mit was likely; and appeared to drop his opposition to involving Arafat, the Palestinian leader. Sharon said that who represents the Palestinians is "a secondary issue." 
"It's not important to me which of them will be here," he said. 
Sharon had previously said that he no longer considers Arafat a peace partner and 
Wednesday-Saturday 
April 17-20, 7:30 p.m. 
Sunday 
April 21, 2:30 p.m. Post-performance discussion on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
Reserved seats $ I0, $9 senior citizens, $7 students 
Tickets are available at th£ Lafortune Student Center Box Office or by calling 574-631-8128. 
other leadership should ~e found. 
Mohammed Dahlan, the Gaza security chief who's been involved in past Israeli­Palestinian negotiations, said the Palestinians are open to a summit.. 
"We don't want a confer­ence to cancel 10 years of negotiations, but a confer­ence to achieve a solution based on two states, Palestine and Israel," he said. 
Israel has reopened the Ketziot desert detention camp to hold some of the 4,250 Palestinians rounded up in its 19-day offensive, army officials confirmed Tuesday. More than 300 pris­oners have been moved to the tent camp, according to the Israeli human rights group B'Tselem. 
Thousands of Palestinians were held at Ketziot in the 1987-93 Palestinian uprising. The camp became notorious for its conditions, including searing daytime tempera­tures and biting cold at night; rights groups alleged prison­ers were abused there. 
Israeli Defense Minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, speak­ing on Israel Television, said Israeli forces should be repo­sitioned just outside Palestinian-controlled towns by early next week. 
Maj. Gen. Aharon Zeevi, the head of military intelligence, said even if troops pull out, it may not be for good. 
"We're not afraid to go into the cities to get the terror­ists," he said. "If we have to go in again, we'll go in again." 
Israel said several mem­bers of the militant group Hamas were captured Tuesday in the West Bank. Since the military offensive began March 29, the army said, nearly 400 wanted Palestinians have been detained. 
The military said forces were searching for suspects and weapons in the Askar refugee camp near Nablus as well as in the West Bank vil­lages of Hirbet Beit Hassan, Luba Sharkiyeh, A-Ram and Anata. 
by BERTOLT BRECHT 
TRANSLATION BY DAVID HARE DIRECTED BY GUEST ARTIST HOLGERTESCHKE 
For more information, please visit www.nd.edu/-ftt/mainstage.html 

Park Service sets watercraft rules 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Personal watercraft such as Jet Skis will be permanently banned at three national seashores and two national recreation areas beginning next week, the National Park Service said Tuesday. 
The decision to close the live sites to the motorized water­craft followed a lengthy review and extensive public comments. said Deputy Director Randy Jones. 
Eight other areas in the national park system will be temporarily closed to the watercraft Monday but could be reopened if the individual parks should adopt rules for their use. 
That leaves eight park system areas open to the high-speed motorized craft this summer, except for temporary closures beginning Sept. 15. 
Additionally, Jones said, sites where personal watercraft are allowed can restrict them to certain areas. 
The eight areas open to watercraft were granted exten­sions this summer under a court-approved settlement a year ago with Bluewater Network. The San Francisco­based environmental group sued to ban the watercraft throughout the (ederal parks system. Sixty-six water bodies overseen by the National Park Service earlier were declared off-limits to the watercraft. 
Personal watercraft are high­speed, gas-powered vessels, usually less than 16 feet in length, operated from a sitting, standing or kneeling position. They are commonly known as wet bikes or by their trade­marks such as Jet Ski, Wave Runner or SeaDoo. 
Still open to personal water­craft this summer are Amistad National Recreation Area, Texas; Curecanti National Recreation Area, Colorado; Chickasaw National Recreation Area, Oklahoma; Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area, Montana and Wyoming; Lake Meade National Recreation Area, Nevada and Arizona; Lake Meredith National Recreation Area, Texas; Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, Utah and Arizona; and Lake lloosevelt National Recreation Area, Wasington. 
The five sites where personal watercraft are scheduled to banned permanently on Monday are Cape Cod National Seashore, Massachusetts; Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area, Pennsylvania and New Jersey; Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, Indiana; Cumberland Island National Seashore, Georgia; and Whiskeytown National Recreation Area, California. 
The eight being made off-lim­its temporarily are Assateague Island National Seashore, Maryland and Virginia; Big Thicket National Park, Texas; Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore, Michigan; Fire Island National Seashore, New York; Gateway National Recreation Area, New York and New Jersey; Gulf Islands National Seashore, Mississippi and Florida; Padre Island National Seashore, Texas; and Cape Lookout National Seashore, North Carolina. 
But environmentalists said Tuesday they worried the Park Service might ease up at three national seashores -Gulf Islands, Padre Island and Cape Lookout -because it is now requiring superintendents in those three areas to reconsider their recommendations last year that watercraft should be banned. The areas had been on the list for permanent closures Monday. 
A hearing on a watercraft industry suit challenging the ban is scheduled for Wednesday before U.S. District Judge John D. Rainey in Victoria, Texas. The suit alleges the Park Service arbitrarily dis­criminated against a class of park users, personal watercraft users. 
Environmentalists have argued that personal water­craft damage the landscape and wildlife and create risks to public safety risk. 
The House Resources Committee approved a bill to postpone the prohibition until December 2004, but the Senate has not taken up the legislation. 

House protects clergy tax breaks 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Since 1921, ministers, priests anti rabbis have received a tax break for the costs of their housing. Members of Congress acted Tuesday to block a feder­al court from invalidating that exemption. 
Lawmakers are seeking to protect the so-called parsonage exemption before the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco has an opportunity to decide whether the tax break passes constitutional muster. 
Legislation that would clarify the exemption and pre-empt that case passed the House 
408-0,  moving  on  to  the  
Senate.  
Rep.  James  Ramstad,  R­ 

Minn., said loss of the exemp­tion would cost clergy members 
$2.3 billion over the next five years. 
"We cannot allow this impor­tant tax provision to fall," Ramstad said. 
Rep. Earl Pomeroy, D-N.D., said the exemption was partic­ularly important in rural areas where churches, synagogues, mosques and temples would be Jess able to compensate for its loss, making it harder to attract clergy. 
"A clergy's home is not just his shelter, but a central meet­ing place for all members of the congregation," Pomeroy said. 
Echoed by other sponsors, Ramstad accused the court of "judicial activism at its worst" because the judges were ini­tially asked by the Internal Revenue Service only to deter­mine whether a Los Angeles­area Baptist minister, the Rev. 
Richard Warren, had claimed too large a tax deduction for his home. 
The IRS, which appealed a lower court decision it lost, contended that Warren was due only $59,479 under the "fair rental value" principle instead of the $79,999 tax deduction he had claimed for a home he purchased for $360,000 in 1992. 
Those questions would become moot if Ramstad 's bill 

· clears the Senate and is signed into law by President Bush. The legislation actually puts into law the more restrictive IRS practice of allowing clergy to deduct the "fair rental value"of their homes. 
In practice, the exemption permits a clergy member to deduct from taxable income the portion of church earnings that are attributed to housing costs. 


......_,_,. --------­
r ­
! 


page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengasr  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

N.1:.'WS EDiroR: Helena Payne VIEWPOIITT EDITOR, Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDI.TOR: C Spencer Beggs SAINT MAJly's EDITOR: Sheila Egrs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoro 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scorr Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE................................... , •••• 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoin1. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631--4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at htp:!!observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
_rnovieslmusic for

weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly sruden t reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published afrer 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and colllmns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quatio11J regarding Oburoer policia should In dim-1­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Meghanne Amanda Greco Downes Graphics 

Van Giles Jimmy Atkinson Jill Maxbauer Production Sports Noah Amstadter Bryan Kronk Lab Tech Viewpoint Angela Campos Teresa Fralish 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 17, 2002 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Tanks and violence will not solve Palestinian conflict 
I am writing in response to John Litle's April 16 column. I am far from an enraged liberal, but I am not about to sit back and let someone say that Palestinians should be happy with what they have. Indeed the efforts at Camp David failed; Arafat was not about to give that much ground both figuratively and liter­ally. He is the leader of a people and he is their representative. 
One cannot expect him to take a deal that is unfair to him. It is even more ridiculous to say that because he did not take that deal. he should get nothing instead. There is no way that the Palestinians are going to be happy with the situation right now. They have nothing, and they are facing genocide at the hands of the Israeli army. 
Comparing the Palestinians to the Native Americans is almost humorous. I particularly enjoyed his hypothesis of a descendant of a Native American entering the bedrooms of our children and murdering them. The analogy almost works except that the Native Americans had their land taken away 200 years ago and the Palestinians had their land taken away after the war in 1948 and 1949. There are still people alive in Palestine who remember what happened during their lifetime. The conflict between modern day Native Americans differs in that it is almost too far in the past to rectify the situation. This is not the case with Palestine. The wrongs can still be corrected. 

Mr. Litle, I do believe the Palestinian citizens have the right to wage war when their police forces and military are being slaughtered execution-style and their leader is being held up in a bombed-out building. Are the Palestinians terrorists? Yes. Are the Israelis terrorists? Yes. This cannot be overlooked. 
America does need to step in and I think we, the United 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Student Activities censor the names of Bookstore Basketball teams? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
States, along with the United Nations, have every right to pres­sure Israel into backing off. What good will come of a sound defeat in the Holy Land by the Israeli army? I can assure you that absolutely nothing will be gained except greater contempt by the Arab nations for Israel and for the U.N. The U.N. exists to protect human rights worldwide. It exists to stop genot;ide. It 
exists to bring peace to this world. Allowing the Israeli army to bulldoze homes of innocent citizens and militants alike is allowing the Israeli army to declare war upon Palestinian citizens but now allowing them to fight back. Mr. Litle opens his letter with a state­ment regarding how terrorism will never lead to political change. I would just like 
to remind him that our country won its independence with militias and guer­rilla warfare. Things do change, but it can take longer than desired to achieve these goals. 
~ 
The Israeli government and military -. is not allowing the Palestinians to even : attempt to wage a fair war or to cstab­, lish a government for that matter. Right 
now, everything is on the side of Israel ;;J__'~,,.F-/} and there really is no wonder as to why suicide bombers continue their campaigns. All it would take to bring peace to the Holy Land is a concerted effort by both sides to stop the fighting and the only way to get Israel to do that is to put pressure on them. The conflict needs to be resolved and it is not going to be done by allowing Israel to roll its tanks through Palestinian cities. 
Daniel Tyszka 
sophomore Sorin Hall April 16, 2002 
Guarantee equal opportunities to succeed 
I am writing in response to the April 16 letter from from members of the Women, Work and Economics Group, "Support Equal Pay for Women and Minorities." I have a question regarding the call to action stated by the authors about "contacting your state representative and letting him or her know you support legislation that works to guarantee pay equity." What exactly is my state representative going to be able to do? Not vote for the next bill entitled "Pay Disparity Renewal Act of 2002?" 
The statistical averages referenced comparing various groups of citizens are just that: statistical averages. They have any number of legitimate economic factors that can explain the disparities. Often left unsaid, usually to confuse the issue, is that the-differentials are not "de jure" in nature, as paying different groups for the same work is already ille­gal under any number of laws and regulations. 
Rather, the issue rests with "de facto" pay differentials which arc due to a range of wider economic and societal fac­tors that are being addressed every single day. The unfortu­nate historical routing of people into different fields (such as elementary teachers vs. professors, nurses vs. doctors, secre­taries and laborers vs. executives, engineers and lawyers) because of race and gender due to wider societal issues such as poverty and racism is the cause. However, as our society continues to move towards all people being able to freely choose their careers based upon their ability and desire, while at the same time reducing the unfortunate impacts of racism and poverty, these differentials will decrease as opportunity abounds. 
Contacting your state representative to inform him or her that you support "guarantee[d) pay equity" is simply a foolish waste of their time and yours. All reasonable people are against pay inequity, but the economics of a free market make it beyond the purview of your state representatives to guarantee outcomes. What you need to ask of your govern­ment representatives is that they support equal opportunities to succeed, as trying to legislate equal outcomes is not the solution. 
Mark W olnitzek 
class of '00 April 16, 2002 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One cannot subdue a man by holding back his hands. Lasting peace comes not from force. " 
David Borenstein writer 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 17, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students respond to rape concerns 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rethinking student unity 
In his April 16 letter, Nathaniel Hannan uses what he calls "mathematics" to prove that the majority of students actually support the proposed alcohol and SYR changes. Using some common sense and some more mathematics, it becomes obvio~ that Mr. Hannan's logic is poor, and his con·crusion incorrect. 
Let's think about who the changes will actually affect. If a policy will have no material effect on a person's life. he or she will have little reason to sign a petition rejecting it. Seniors, who may care about the future of Notre Dame, will not be materi­ally affected by the changes. Nor will students who currently Jive off-campus. Some of our student body has already voiced its disappointment and anger by deciding to move off-campus. Essentially, I'm proposing that the only people who will be affected by the changes are non-seniors who live on campus. People who plan to move off-campus also won't be affected, and therefore have little incentive to sign the petition. However, I'll include them in my analysis to counterbalance seniors and off-campus students who did sign it. 
In the hall profiles published online by the Office of Residence Life and Housing, we see that total dorm capacity is 6,233. Because of uncommonly high freshman enrollment this year. we know the dorms are full or very nearly so. Of those 6,233 students, the same office statistics show that about 866 of those students are seniors. This leaves 5,367 non-seniors who currently live in dorms. So, some quick division shows us that the 4,063 stu­dents who signed the petition constitute more than 75 percent of the affected student body. This, Mr. Hannan, is an overwhelming and non-silent major­ity. 
It would seem clear that student government does indeed represent a majority of the student body on these issues. "Notre Dame administration, take note." 
Benjamin Schack 
junior Keenan Hall April 16, 2002 

Support Palestinian cause, 
not terrorism 
In his April 16 column, John Litle claims that to sup­port the Palestinian cause "is necessarily a promotion of terrorism because that is the only method the Palestinians have used to promote their political ends.'' This is ridiculous. Our president, the United Nations and most of the world support the idea of an indepen­dent Palestine made up of pre-1967 war borders. In other words, they support the Palestinian cause. Does this make our president a supporter of terrorism? No. Thus it is possible to support the cause of a people without supporting terrorism. 
Mr. Litle's an;1logy of the Native Americans and 
indeed passed and the idea of get­ting it back is extremely impracti­cal and will never happen. However, in the Middle East. the situation is entirely different. The Palestinians there were kicked out not hundreds of 
years ago, but 50 years ago, within the memory of many liv­ing today, including Ariel Sharon. To say that the Palestinians claim to their land has "long since passed" and compare it to the hun­

dreds of years the Native Americans 
Israeli invasion of Lebanon which even-have been without their land is absurd. ,;,;;;;;~(;,;:-,..;,.:, .· •· tually killed at least 14,000 people, of 
Israel received reparations from Germany after World War 11 for the Holocaust and to compensate the Jews who fled their homes and never returned. How can Israel accept this compensation and then refuse to offer a similar compensation to those Palestinians who have experienced some of the same offenses Jews experienced in World War II? Because of events over the past 50 years, a physical right to return is now nearly impossible to implement. Yet Israel has still refused to consider compensation in negotiations. 
True, Yasser Arafat made a very unwise decision not to accept the peace proposal at Camp David. But the proposal was not as generous as it was made out to be. Barak. the prime minister of Israel at that time, offered a state divided into three big chunks separated by Israeli settlements and control of a few scattered dis­tricts in Jerusalem. In order to compensate the Palestinians for the land Israel would keep, Israel offered a chunk of desert not equal in size or quality to that Israel proposed to keep. Most people would agree a state divided into three chunks and completely sur­rounded by a huge military force would hardly be con­sidered "free and independent." 
Litle also dismisses the killing of Palestinian civilians and hints that the "bleeding heart media" is easily duped into believing a dead body is an innocent. Yet in the refugee camp at Jenin, which was recently invaded by the army, no journalists were allowed. especially 
when claims of summary executions and mass 
which over 90 percent have been estimated to be unarmed civilians. 
Sharon was found to be indirectly responsible for the massacre of thousands of unarmed Palestinians in a refugee camp. He was never tried for his responsibility in this, only forced to resign his defense post. Sharon's biography is filled with multiple incidents of indiscrimi­nate use of force against unarmed civilians. I encourage anyone to examine the record and see if Sharon is a "man of peace" as Bush has described him. Truly, if Litle considers Arafat a terrorist, then he must neces­sarily consider Sharon one as well. 
Michael Macaulay 
sophomore 
Sc. Edward's Hall 
April 16, 2002 

Withhold judgment until the facts are known 
Someone needs to remind Sarah Edwards that -as of right now ­both the University and police are investigating the sexual assault which has taken us all by surprise. Nobody here at Notre Dame con­dones rape, nor those who commit such irreprehensible actions. It seems, fortunately, that the students are doing exactly what needs to be done: wait. How can anyone have an opinion without knowing the facts behind that fateful evening? 
Perhaps we should offer our sup­port to the victim through our prayers and patience. After all, com­ing out with something like this is, from what I understand, a very diffi­cult situation. 
I doubt seriously that our Notre Dame family would harbor sexual predators. ff they do, we can protest it according to the channels open to us -as students have done in regards to the change in the alcohol policy. Notice though, that in regards to the changed policy the administra­tion made a decision and students are reacting. In respect to a rape allegation, it serves neither party to make judgements prior to receiving any information, We have no infor­mation. 
Rest assured that when details emerge about the rape our communi­ty will respond in a manner compati­ble with the values which our faith has instilled in us. 
Memo Tijerina 
senior 
off-campus April 16, 2002 

Giving strength and courage to the victims 
I hope this letter will give a voice to the voiceless. I am a silent supporter of every sexual assault and rape victim. I am speaking so that every victim of sexual assault can find some sem­blance of comfort knowing that there are countless silent supporters who know that you are not lying and who know that you have made a very diffi­cult and courageous decision by com­ing forward. 
While those who speak against you will seem to possess the only voice to which people listen, know that I and numerous others support you and thank you for making the right deci­sion. You have helped ensure that another Notre Dame woman will not have to endure the same trauma. Thank you. 
I have never met you, nor do I need to, in order to know that you are telling the truth. I believe you and I am so sorry that you had to endure what few can even conceive. 
I would give anything to help you. And I promise that I am doing every­thing I can. You are not alone and there are many people who are here for you. I offer you unconditional sup­port and sympathy. 
You are selfless and brave. You will get through this. And every time that you feel strangled and silent, please find solace knowing that I and count­less others are behind you, and that you are my hero for what you have endured, for what you stand for and for what you will become. 
Erin Kennedy 
junior Toledo, Spain April 16, 2002 


O
TI-IE 
BSERVER 


page I0 "''\Wednesday, April 17 2002 

Fine dining: 
•
service 

without a smile 
An honest meal is hard to find, sometimes. 
In the world of theme restaurants, homctovvn cooking has been sold out to gigantic corporations that are able to give their customers the same home cooking in one of their 942 convenient locations nationwide. Between renditions of Happy Birthday from apparently Prozac-enrap­tured wait staff to French fries shaped like endangered rainforest-dwelling tree lizards, restaurateurs seem to have forgot­ten the golden rule of serving their patrons: Give them food, leave them alone. 
The last adjective any menu should use is "home-cooked." For the most part, true home-style restaurants are hard to come by. The days of the greasy spoon are gone. Where we used to have Dick and Tom behind the plastic counter flecked with gold spots smoking stale cigarettes into and grunting to the game, we now have an overly friendly guy named Jeff, who wears a pressed shirt, red bow tie and lame paper cap. Dick and Tom made my milk­shake by hand when I ordered it. And they didn't do it quickly and they didn't serve it with a smile. The way service is supposed to be. 
Don't get me wrong; there's a time and place for everything. Nobody really goes to Steak 'n' Shake for the friendly service. It's not like Jeff actually gives his customers some sort of vali­dation. I've always thought that when Jeff makes change for his customers like this: 
"That will be $9.53 please, sir. Why, thank you, sir. I hope your burger was up to our incredibly high standards, which are detailed on the colorful company mandated sign behind me. And how was everything this evening, sir?" 
"Fine." "And $.47 is"your change. Thank you so very very very much 
and thank you for letting us serve you today, sir." "Thanks. Bye." Jeff really thinks this is going on: "That will be $9.53 please, guy whom I respect and has 
mutual respect for me. Why, thank you, my newfound friend and compatriot. Can I ask you a question that indicates my general concern for your well-being?" 
"Why. everything was wonderful, Jeff. I am glad to have made your acquaintance because you make me smile with your adolescent enthusiasm for serving calorific liquid desserts and over-cooked meat patties." 
"And $.47 is your change. I, too, am glad we have met and made this lasting bond of friendship -it is my goal in life to bring joy to others by serving them prefabricated drek." 
"Jeff, my original plan for this evening was to finish my ham­burger and then go home and cut long vertical slashes into my forearms, but you have given me a refreshing outlook on life. I have a reason to live again." 
What's missing from restaurants now is the idea that they're there to serve you food, not be your friend. When your choices for lunch consist of the Panda Burger, the Panda BLT and the Panda Pita Wrap, the dining experience actually becomes so cute and cuddly that you just might lose your appetite. 
I like the old kind of restaurant. If I wanted a refill, I would ask for one. If! wanted Jeff to tell me about the specials, I would ask him. If I wanted to be entertained, l would go watch Jeff try to get a Prom date. 
Honest restaurants don't try to beguile you with tchotchkes on the walls. They don't pretend to like you. They just give you your food and leave you alone. 
The opinions expressing in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
C. Spencer Heggs is aware lhal the initial preceding his name confuses most people and he apologizes. Ile is also only this cynical in a state of extreme sleep deprivation (i.e. all the time). He can be contacted at beggs.3@nd.edu. 



By BOB MASTERS 
Scene Writer 

You can tell a lot about a place by the cars parked in its lot. An abundance or BMWs and Mcrccdes-Benzes makes an establishment look snobbish: a place like that is as inviting to a broke college student as Cuba is to democracy. A fleet of Harley-Davidsons and beat up Ford trucks with Confederate Flag mud-tlaps in a tav­ern's parking lot warns a potential patron to expect plenty of whisky. shotguns and barroom brawls. The lot at Fat Shirley's 24 Hour Coffee Shoppe is an enigma. 
A worn-down pick-up with a bumper sticker reading "Charlton Heston is MY President" is found itself next to a Ilonda Civic with an Indiana "Children First" license plate. A few spaces down a blue and white Crown Vic Police Cruiser sits beside a bright red Cadillac. The range or automobiles in its lot serves as a visible reminder of what makes Fat Shirley's so popu­lar: a customer base as diverse as the communi­ty they come from. 
The common names of the restaurant are just as unique. Your choice of nomenclature reveals as much about your personality as the car you drove there in. Ask a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student and you may hear it called "Fat Shirley's." A South Bend resident would know it as "The Gag and Heave." The bright red lights on the front exterior wall proclaim the name "24 Hour Coffee Shoppe." Consult a menu or the storefront window sign and you will learn the official name: "The White House Restaurant." The names themselves are unimportant. What matters most is that on the east side of South Bend, at the intersection of Mishawaka Avenue and Twyckenham Drive, within the faded, off­white walls of an aging building, there exists a soul rarely seen anywhere else in the world. 
The food at Fat Shirley's is as diverse as the gang of cohorts eating it. The greasy spoon 
atmosphere is as authentic as it gets. 
atmosphere is enough to make Aretha Franklin's Soul Food Cafe in the "Blues Brothers" blush. Cheeseburgers and fries simmer on the grill next to eggs and bacon at all hours of the day. The · menu features favorites with names like 'The Trucker's Special" and "The Fat Shirley." Nothing served here is for the weak of heart ­
•Ii• 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, April 17 2002 

page 11 
-

ran 
WI 
sou 

icon because it offers hearty food,. black coffee and strange company 
night and irritate Shirley." 
Fat Shirley's means a great deal to many people. The officer at the end of the counter may see it as an escape from a rough night on the beat. The father with his son may remember when his own father introduced him to the restaurant. The group of friends at the corner may come for the memories of past late nights stolen away inside Fat Shirley's. The elderly couple sharing a slice of pie may be celebrating an anniversary or the birth or a new grandchild. Whatever the moti­vation for a visit one fact remains con­stant: Fat Shirley's is a truly unique expe­rience. 
"There aren't many places like Fat Shirley's," Andy Callan, an O'Neill Hall freshman and South Bend native, said. "Every time you step in the door you're in for an adventure, whether it be the food or the company." 
In a world that suddenly seems more dangerous every day, larger concerns invade our lives. The simple pleasures in life -a strong cup of coffee, a home­cooked meal and unique company to enjoy them in -become all the more precious. 
They are like the last few sunny days in October when fall defies winter for one more week before turning into a dreary November or a grown man reminiscing 
C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer on youthful days playing catch with his ag and Heave" or "Fat Shirley's," is a restaurant that defines the greasy spoon. The place may be small and dingy, but the old man before time stole his innocence and made him middle-aged old man him­self. These frozen moments of pure bliss eat the sausage and bacon now and worry cooling on the window sill or the elderly "It really is a social home. There's when nothing else matters but the 
about the cholesterol later. Since Fat uncle who is always ready to give a pat on always somebody here you recognize," moment itself are now more poignant Shirley's is open 24 hours a day, break­the back. This familial atmosphere is Spurrier said. "It's kind of like a bad than ever before. At Fat Shirley's, they're fast is served anytime and it is not unusu­what keeps people coming back. _habit, but a bad habit with great served 24 hours a day. 
al to see omelets and scrambled eggs "You see a lot of people who come in American fries." savored long after the sun has set. And of here with their dads and grandfathers," With a wink and a smile he added, course. nothing on the menu will set you Christine Chamielewski, a regular cus­"When I was at Bethel College we'd sneak Contact Bob Masters at back more than five bucks. tomer, said. "And the dads and grandfa­out of the dorm, eat breakfast late at amasters@nd.edu. 
"So much eats for so little money," Tom thers came here with their own dads and Hippinger, a Holy Cross College freshman, grandfathers." said. "What more can a debt-overloaded The hometown feeling extends even college student ask for?" past the customers. The waitresses and 
Without a doubt the flagship of Fat staff are perfectly happy to chat with cus­Shirley's greasy armada is the Double tomers, many of whom are old friends. Omelet. A behemoth concoction, it is cer­Fat Shii:Iey's transforms itself from a tainly not for. the week-willed or those restaurant full of strangers into the family with a family history of heart disease. A kitchen that is full of old pals and rela­more Puritanical customer would scoff at tives. the idea of buttered eggs, bacon, ham, "In the old days the owner was always onions and green peppers beaten and around, always in the kitchen, always whipped into the breakfast food equiva­with a cigar," Chamielewski said. "He still lent of the "Old 96er," the 96-pound steak comes in now and insists on making the which gave John Candy so much trouble doughnuts himself." (and, undoubtedly, heart-burn like no Fat Shirley's is the kind or place new other) in "National Lampoon's Great fathers escape to drink a Gup of coffee at Outdoors." The enlightened patron, how­3 a.m. after a late night in the delivery ever, realiz.es that life is too short to count room. It is the sort of spot where fathers calories and watch waistlines. and sons celebrate birthdays; the passage 
''I've been coming here for 31 years, into manhood is marked by the ability to almost daily," Mark Spurrier, a South eat an entire Double Omelet and drink Bend resident and Fat Shirley's regular, black coffee. said. "And I haven't had a heart attack An over-worked mother can get a day's yet." repose and let Shirley do the cooking. A 
The customers, who come from all weary police officer, fresh from the late walks of life. and the fantastic food are night beat, can stop in for a bottomless two of the characteristics which make Fat cup of coffee and a fresh, homemade Shirley's great. The main reason the donut. A factory worker can sit next to a restaurant remains so popular, however. college student at midnight and eat is its heart. As cliche as it sounds, Fat breakfast, forgetting about their troubles Shirley's is more than just a res.taurant. for a while. Old pals who have had a The face ol' South Bend has changed dras­falling out can mend fences and make tically over the years but one constant has their peace over a plate full of American been Fat Shirley's. For many it's a way of fries, which are the best ones in town life. It is almost as if the restaurant is an according to the regular customers. The extended family member, the beloved heart of the community pours in through aunt who always has a home-made pie Fat Shirley's doors all day and all night. 

Wednesday, April 17, 2002
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Pacers playoff prayers remain alive 
As•o.:iated P re.s 
CLEVE1AND 
Once again, the Indiana Pacers did what was necessary for survival. Now they need one more win -and some help from someone else. 
Needing a victory to keep their shaky playoff hopes alive, the Pacers got 34 poinl.s from Jermaine O'Neal and held on for their fourth straight victory, 99-95 over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Tuesday night. 
Ron Artest made several huge plays in the fourth quarter for the Pacers, who nearly blew a 17-point second-half lead and their season along with it. 
With the victory, Indiana (41-40) moved into a tie with Milwaukee (41-40) and Toronto -(41-40) for the final two spol.s in the Eastern Conference playoffs. 
The Pacers have to win their home finale Wednesday night against Philadelphia to have any chance of mak­ing the playoffs for the 12th time in 13 years. The Bucks will play at Detroit and the Raptors v.'ill end the regular season at home against the Cavs. 
Indiana needs some help to get in. If the Pacers lose or end up tied with either team, the Pacers' season will be over because they lose tiebreakers to both Milwaukee and Toronto. 
Cleveland coach John Lucas, whose team played hard but came up short in its home finale, assured Thomas that i.he Raptors won't have it easy. 
After the final horn, the Pacers hurried into their locker room for a score update from Milwaukee. When Ray Allen hit a late 3-pointer to put the Bucks up by 12. Miller had seen enough. 
The Pacers. who saved their season by beating Toronto and Milwaukee in the past week, then headed to the airport for the short flight back to Indianapolis, knowing there's at least one more big game to be played. 
Andre Miller scored 21 points and Zydrunas Ilgauskas 20 for the Cavs, who rallied in the second half and nearly put an end to Indiana's playoff dreams. 
Bucks 105, Raptors 89 
The "Big Three" finally lived up to their billing -and just in time. 
Behind 24 points from a gimpy Sam Cassell, 23 from Ray Allen and 22 from Glenn Robinson, the Milwaukee Bucks routed the Toronto Raptors 105-89 Tuesday night. 
It was the first time in 25 games that the trio surpassed 20 points apiece. 
Anthony Mason chipped in 18 points for the Bucks, who inched closer to a playoff berth while preventing the Raptors from clinching a postseason spot. 
The Bucks, Raptors and Indiana Pacers are all 41-40 and fighting for the final two playoff berths heading into Wednesday night's season finales. Milwaukee owns the tiebreaker over both Toronto and Indiana, which beat Cleveland on Tuesday night. 
Toronto finishes the regular season at home against the Cavaliers, with the Raptors having won six straight at the Air Canada Center. Indiana is at home against Philadelphia, and Milwaukee, which has lost 11 straight on thfl road, visits Detroit. 
The Bucks have spent the last two months in a self-inflicted nose dive thanks to injuries, an inconsistent offense and fes­tering infighting. 
Despite 21 points each from Kcon Clark and Morris Peterson, Toronto lost for Just the second time in 13 games since All-Star Vince Carter went down for the season with a knee injury. 
Pistons 103, Nets 98 
Ironically, playing well on the road has given the Detroit Pistons the homecourt advantage for at least two rounds of the playofls. 
Chucky Atkins scored 21 points and the Pistons clinched the second-best record in the Eastern Conference with a 103-98 win over the New Jersey Nets on Tuesday night. . 
"It's very important for the playoffs to have your crowd behind you," said Ben Wallace, who had 14 points, 16 rebounds and six blocked shots. "They're there for you when you need that extra energy. They're screaming for you and you feed off the crowd." 
The Pistons also have shown they can win without that. 
ln beating the Nets for the third time in four meetings, the Pistons posted their fifth straight road win and 18th in 21 games. 
In a game in which Jerry Stackhouse bit one basket and scored 11 points, Detroit had a lot of players step up, particularly in the second half. 
Atkins had 16 points in the final half. Jon Barry had 12 of his 17 and Corliss Williamson had eight of his 14 points in the final quarter. 
Kerry Kittles, who has struggled in recent weeks, scored a season-high 30 points after being challenged by coach Byron Scott. 
Kidd had 11 assists in setting a Nets' single-season record (803), breaking the mark of 801 set by Kevin Porter in 1977­78. 
Detroit, which was already the No. 2 seed in the conference as the Central Division champion, needed this victory to clinch the homecourt edge in later rounds should it advance. Victory No. 49 guaran­teed that the Boston Celtics cannot catch the Pistons. 


First-round playoff opponents for the Nets and Pistons are still up in the air. Indiana, Toronto and Milwaukee are all tied for the final two spots heading into Wednesday night's season finales. 
Mavericks 96, Jazz 87 
Their bid to win the division title is going down to the last day of the season, but the Dallas Mavericks might not have their leading scorer and rebounder for the finale. 
Although Dirk Nowitzki returned from a four-game injury absence to score 24 points in a 96-87 victory over the Utah Jazz on Tuesday night, the All-Star for­ward said that he'll probably sit out Wednesday night's game in Phoenix to rest up for the playoffs. 
Dallas, which went 3-1 without Nowitzki. has the same 57-24 record as San Antonio and the Los Angeles Lakers but loses tiebreakers to both. So while the Mavericks haven't given up on either win­ning the division or finishing third in the Western Conference, they realize it's a long shot. 
The Mavs also know that the fourth seed has some benefits, including avoiding a series against the Lakers or Spurs until the conference finals. 
The Jazz already know they'll be start­ing the playoffs on the road for the first time since 1994. This loss prevented them from locking up the seventh seed, but with the sticond through fourth seeds up in the air it wouldn't matter much anyway. 
Utah was in the game early. then trailed by 10 before halftime. The Jazz was up 62-61 late in the third quarter after a flip shot by Karl Malone but never led again. 
Nick Van Exel led a 9-2 run the rest of the period and lobbed an alley-oop pass to Finley early in the fourth. The Jazz got within three on a jumper by John Stockton, but Finley cut between three defenders for a powerful dunk that put Dallas up five and wiping out Utah's comeback hopes. 
Andrei Kirilenko had 18 points and six blocks -two on dunk attempts by 7 -foot­6 Bradley -and Scott Padgett bad 15 points. 
Nowitzki said he was nervous before the game about whether the ankle would bold up. 
He got into the flow of the game early, getting an assist on the game's first bas­ket, then making a steal on the other end of the court. He swished bis first shot, a 20-footer, bit another jumper, then threw down a dunk on a fast break. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f<m, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Looking for single Castle Point BABYSITTER:wkdys/wnds< Must roommate coming summer and/or have a car-Granger home. Call NOTICES fall< Free high-speed DSL internet. Laura 243-4776. currently $323 per month+ utils. 
98 Honda Civic EX, 2-dr., auto, 49k 
miles. All power, air, cassette+ 6 Call 574.277.9322 if interested. FOR SALE 
CD changer. $10,900 obo. 
FREE 1 BEDROOM APT FOR THE Couch. loveseat, and recliner. $450 Call Mark 631-7716 or email RIGHT GRAD STUDENT IN or best ofter. Less than a year old< mshawcro@nd edu EXCHANGE FOR 21 HRS/WK Perfect condition 
LEASING APTS AND OFFICE 233-0360 WORK. SOME WEEKENDS. LOST AND FOUND IMMEDIATE OPENING YEAR Selling all household goods< Good ROUND. GEORGETOWN APART-quality & cheap. For info: 277-1379 Lost: Necklace with gold + diamond MENTS 272-7286. after 12 pm daily 
cross. Near West Quad area. Call 
4-1640 99 ND grad seeks male to share Toshiba Laptop 300Mhz 13,3" spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. screen, 96MB, 4Gig HD, Modem, for 3-9 months. Great location & fur-Cd. Superb condition. $430 OBO. 
WANTED nished. Call George Carr at (773) E-mail dllynchy@yahoo<com 975-0563 or e-mail at 
Reliable businessman looking to George. E Carr@us.andersen.com 
rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home FOR RENT 3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. Upstairs apt, single person, no SUMMER SUBLET female to share C/A< Security system. Close to smoking/pets. All util.paid. Avail 2 bdrm apmt, June and July, by ND, campus. 616-699-5841 now or Fall 02< For info, call 574-Emily 255-6314 

255-1738. Close to ND< New York City Apt-2 bedroom/con­vert 3 New building in East Village 3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE PERSONAL Large kitchen with island NC, WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, videophone,Dish,M1cro,Laundry. AND A DECK, WASHER & GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & Free access to nearby gym,No DRYER. CORNER OF EDDY AND CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by Broker Fee $2600/mo(heat and hot HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF local PGA professional. water included} Bethany ND 2000 LOGAN CENTER. FREE KEG Call Dick at 276-9670. (347)524-5823. WITH RENTAL. 
Call Gary or Lynne 616-699-5841 I wish to thank all of you for your Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. thoughtfulness and your prayers. I Garage Must See! HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03, miss all of you. Hope to see you in Call Tammy 5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2 the fall. Sincerely, Mary (616)684-1049. bath, central ale, washer & dryer, 
alarm system, call 773-486-8822. Does the heat of the summer make 4&5 Bdrm, W&D, CLOSE. ND a day of doubleheaders at the ball-Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE Here this summer? Law students park seem just too intimidating? Sit LOOKING FOR. wish to sublet house. Furnished up in the shade of the press box as Call Karey with AC. Terms VERY negotiable. a member of the Observer Sports 255-8403. Call 289·5651. staff. 
for 9 to 12 months or longer. ASAP SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED Call Chris at 631-4543< Call Tim THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES-Two bedroom cottage 5 min from 574-250-8552< HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec TIONABLE AREA NICE HOME campus $325. Do you see things at a special Lv. message if necessary< HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND sys/prking Nice 3-4 NORTH OF ND 2773097 Dave 291-2209 angle? Want to zoom in and exam-
WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFER-bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking ine while letting fellow students see Need 1 or 2 Grad tix Call Dave @ ENCES REQD CALL LYNN @ 2-bedroom cottage. cute. HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9 5-Bedroom.5 min from campus. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 247-1148 people) 2) medium (3-5 people) the goodies.. dancing-O.K.! Dave through your eyes? Shoot for The 
Greatly Appreciated 616-849-7022 DAVE 291-2209 Call Bill at 532-1896. 291-2209 Observer. Call Nellie at 1-8767< 
Wednesday, April 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Tigers finally win first gameof year 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

The Detroit Tigers ended their losing streak against the team that started it. 
Randall Simon drove in three runs and Jose Lima pitched six scoreless innings as the Tigers won their first game of the season over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, 9-3. 
Tampa Bay swept the Tigers to open the season and help send Detroit to an 0-11 start. 
Only four major league teams since 1900 started worse: the 1920 Tigers and the 1904 Washington Senators began 0-13, the 1997 Chicago Cubs lost their first 14 games. and the 1988 Baltimore Orioles set the record with an 0-21 start. 
Simon's solo homer in the fourth gave Detroit a 2-0 lead and his two-run single began a live-run sixth, which made it 7-0 and prompted the crowd of 13,256 to give a standing ovation. 
With the crowd standing and chanting "Let's go Tigers," Juan Acevedo pitched a scoreless ninth to end it. He got Brent Abernathy on a comebacker to get the final out. Young jumped in Acevedo's arms after the final out was recorded. 
It was the first victory for manager Luis Pujols, who replaced Phil Garner after six games. 
Red Sox 14, Blue Jays 3 
Shea Hillenbrand hit a three-run homer, and Frank Castillo and Rolando Arrojo combined for a three-hitter as the Boston Red Sox beat the Toronto Blue Jays 14-3 Tuesday night. 
Hillenbrand hit his fifth homer of the season off Brandon Lyon (0-2) in the third inning, giving Boston a 5-0 lead. The second-year third baseman went 2-for-4 with three runs scored. rais­ing his batting average to a team-high .413. 
Manny Ramirez went 3-for­4 with a homer and three RBI for the Red Sox. who won three of four against New York in their previous series. 
Vernon Wells homered for the Blue Jays, who have lost two consecutive. 
Castillo (1-0) allowed one run on three hits in six innings. He struck out three and walked one. Arrojo allowed two unearned runs in three hitless innings for his first save of the season. 
Hillenbrand extended his hitting streak to 12 with a double in the first. He then advanced to third on a wild pitch before Nomar Garciaparra hit a run-scoring grounder. 
Trot Nixon, Rey Sanchez and Johnny Damon hit con­secutive singles in the third before Hillenbrand homered. 
Wells led of the bottom half with his third homer of the season. 
Ramirez led off the sixth with his third home run, giv­ing Boston a 6-1 lead. 
Orioles 5, Yankees 4 
The New York Yankees aren't used to this. The bullpen is blowing leads. Two star players are 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Series presents 


fllexa11dct BlacM'f, ditectO'l Wotks b'{ ')osqui11, B~zd, /11011te11ezd.i, Schutz., Vit,aldi t11td. /Jt{oz.azt 
Wed., April 17, 2002 Free and open8 pm, Basilica to the public of the Sacred Heart 
For more information, olease call (574) 631-6201 or visit htto:/ /www.nd_edu/-coneous 
.,___;.;..;..,;;,,;,;,;;.;;,;.;.;.;..;;..,;...i-=--.....----.............---..........-............--iiioi--....1 
P•ZZA CC>MPANV• 

pi:rzadol~eright 
After 8 Party Pak! Lg 1 Topping Pizza, Dozen Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) & 2 Liter of COKE Only $14.99!!! 
(Offer Good After 8 PM Only. Before 8 PM Add $2.00) Visa & Mastercard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to SUBWAY) 
hurt. And a lineup filled with clutch hitters can't seem to come up with a big hit. 
Tony Batista homered and hit a tiebreaking sacrifice fly in the eighth inning as the Baltimore Orioles beat New York, the Yankees' sixth defeat in seven games. 
Roger Clemens bounced back from a rough start with seven solid innings, leaving with a 4-3 lead. But New York, playing without All-Star center fielder Bernie Williams, could not hold it. 
David Segui greeted reliever Ramiro Mendoza (0-1) with a ringing home run in the eighth that tied it at 4. Segui sent a 1-0 pitch into a near-empty section of the upper deck in right field, and Mendoza just slumped his shoulders on the mound. 
Mendoza, pitching for the third consecutive day after beginning the season on the disabled list with a neck strain. then gave up sharp consecutive singles to Jeff Conine and Jay Gibbons, putting runners at first and third. 
Steve Karsay came on and allowed Batista's sacrifice fly to deep right. 
It was another disappoint­ment in a string of difficult days for the Yankees. 
Mariano Rivera blew an eighth-inning lead at Fenway Park on Saturday, and New York got nothing but bad news Tuesday: Williams is out for at least three games because of his sore shoulders, and left-hander Andy Pettitte will skip his next start because of a tender pitching elbow. 
Rick Bauer (1-0), called up earlier in the day from Triple-A Rochester. worked a score­less seventh for his first major league victory. Jorge Julio got five consecutive outs for his first career save and Baltimore's first of the sea­son. 
Gibbons and Segui both had run-scoring singles for the Oriores, who won for just the third time in 12 games and avoided their worst start since 1988. That year, Baltimore dropped its first 21 games ­a major league record. 
Robin Ventura led off the sixth with his sixth home run of the season, giving the Y,mkees a 4-3 lead. 
Clemens allowed three runs and six hits. lowering his ERA 
from 7.56 to 6.46. The Rocket 

If [iliJ!\ d "rom there. Finley retired only
uur,11UIL11ij(~1uu,. one of the first 10 batters he·
••• ••n••-•••• •• -faced ­
Contact Ben @
NEW WEST Realty 
. 
312.942.1202 bbischmann@hotma1l.com 
What Will Make You Happy? 
Religious Life ... Worth exploring! 
For more information, contact: 
Sr. Elyse Marie Ramirez, OP 
Vocation Director DOMINICAN SISTERS OF SPRINGFIELD 
Phone.~1} 
FAX2-17. 
1.237Wes 
Springfield, e-mail: SEMRamirez@spdom.org website: www.sprin91ieldop.org 

was roughed up in his previ­ous start at Toronto. when he pitched on three days· rest to fill in for an ailing Orlando Hernandez. 
Jason Giambi went O-for-3 with two strikeouts for New York. He was booed heartily after grounding into a double play in the fifth. 
Williams, hitting just _180 with no home runs and one RBJ in 50 at-bats this season. went to seo Dr. James Andrews in Birmingham, Ala., on Tuesday and received cor­tisone shots in both shoulders. 
White Sox 10, Indians 5 
The Cleveland Indians' win­ning streak is over. And in spectacularly ugly fashion, no less. 
Chuck Finley gave up nine runs -eight of them earned -and seven hits in just 1 2/3 innings Tuesday night as the Chicago White Sox beat the Indians 10-5, snapping Cleveland's 10-game winning streak. 
The Indians bullpen. best in the Aml:lrican League, also gave up its first run in 19 innings. 
Magglio Ordonez hit a grand slam to cap a nine-run second inning for Chicago, which has won six of seven. Royce Clayton added a two-run homer, and Sandy Alomar Jr. had a two-run single. Kenny Lofton was 1-for-5 against his old team, but he had a beauti­ful catch in the fourth inning that robbed Cleveland of at least one run. 
White Sox rookie Jon Rauch didn't get the victory in his first major league start. lifted in the fifth inning after throw­ing 89 pitches. Damaso Marte (1-0) got the win by allowing 
one  run on  one hit in 1 2/3  
innings.  
With  an  11-1  record,  

Cleveland had the best record in the majors and was off to its fastest start since opening the 1966 season 14-1. 
But that came to an end in the hurry in the second. Finley (1-1) should have known he was in for some trouble with the way the inning began. Ordonez Jed off with what should have been an easy popup to right. But with two other players coming in on the ball, Matt Lawton dropped it. 
Then he made a bad throw, allowing Ordonez to reach second with ease. 
And things just got uglier 

and that was on Tony Graffanino's sacrifice bunt. After Clayton's two-run 
homer, he took a ball on the 
left h · h f t
1p w en ormer earn-mate Lofton's liner wentright back to the mound. 
He came close to hitting Frank Thomas a few times, and loaded the bases when he finally walked Thomas. Then Ordonez sent: a 2-2 pitch 
screaming to right-center, and fans could tell it was a grand slam as soon as it left his bat. 
It was Ordonez's second homer of the year and his fifth career grand slam. 
Finley finally got an out, retiring Paul Konerko on a popup. Indians manager Charlie Manuel decided that was enough, relieving Finley with David Riske. 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles searching forwin 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles travel to Olivet today to face the Lady Comets in a race to climb out of the basement of the MIM. 
The Belles are 0-6 in con­ference play, still looking for their first win, and the Lady Comets are looking for their second win to bo'ost their record from 1-7. 
"J think that we are going to win tomorrow," Belles catcher Kristin Martin said. "We've had some mistakes and some ba:d times and this might be the game where it all comes together." 
Over the last few weeks, the Belles have indeed strug­gled to put a winning game on the boards. After entering conference play with a 5-4 record, the Belles have lost their last six games, usually in one or two innings. 
Martin and her teammates have been working on com­munication and also improv­ing the fine points of their game in preparation for the rest of their matches. 
"We need to talk more on the field," Martin said. "From where we were in the begin­ning of the year, we commu­nicate more. When we talk and communicate we do a lot better." 
Martin, one of the three senior captains for the Belles, also said that the team has been working on different techniques to stop opposing teams from pulling away with a string of runs in one or two innings, a problem that has plagued the Belles since the beginning of the season. 
Saint Mary's is also work­ing on creating a string of runs for themselves. 
"There are spots in our game we need to hit and we are hitting them," Martin said. "One of the things [head coach John Ganeff] had us work on is hitting to different places to get our people around. Once we manage that it will really make a dif­ference." 
Martin spoke about Saturday's game against Alma, the first home confer­ence game for Saint Mary's as an example of the tech­niques the team is refining during practice. 
"They had one girl that was a really good hitter." Martin said. "We pitched differently to her to make it harder for her to hit." 
Last year, Olivet defeated Saint Mary's 4-2. 7-5. at Saint Mary's. 
The Lady Comets are coached by James Knight. The seniorless Olivet squad is led by sophomore pitcher Stacey Dulinski, who has pitched all but one game for the Lady Comets, including the team's only conference win, a 2-0 victory over Kalamazoo. 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 


Wednesday, April 17, 2002 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Marlins comeback comes with setback 
Associated Press 
MIAMI Florida's big comeback came with a setback. 
Preston Wilson's two-out sin­gle in the ninth inning scored Kevin Millar from second base and gave the Marlins a 7 -6 vic­tory Tuesday night over Philadelphia. 
The Marlins scored all their runs in the final three innings, tying the club record for the largest deficit overcome at six runs. 
But right-hander Julian Tavarez, who filled in on short notice for a sick Brad Penny, could b.e headed to the dis­abled list with an arm injury. 
Tavarez asked for and received the start when Penny came down with flulike symp­toms two hours before the game. He took the mound hav­ing not been able to get fully loose. 
Tavarez gave up seven hits and six runs in six erratic innings. He walked three, hit three and threw two wild pitches. But every time the Marlins asked if he was OK, he said yes, and Torborg stayed with his No. 4 starter even though he was barely reaching 80 mph on the radar gun. 
Tavarez will have an MRI exam on Wednesday, and Torborg said he expects him to go on the 15-day DL soon after. 
Trailing 6-5 in the ninth, Mike Redmond led off with a single, and pinch-runner Marty Malloy moved to second on a sacrifice and scored on Millar's two-out double off the wall in left center. With first base open and backup catcher Ramon Castro on deck, the Phillies chose to pitch to Wilson. 
He delivered a long fly ball over center fielder Doug Glanville's head. 
Wilson's second game-win­ning single in three games gave Florida its first three­game winning streak of the season. Wilson beat Atlanta with a hit in the 14th inning Saturday. 
Jose Mesa (0-1) blew his first save in five chances. Gary Knotts (1-0) pitched the ninth. Florida's bullpen, much maligned early in the season, has pitched 14 consecutive scoreless innings. 
Expos 8, Cubs 4 
Vladimir Guerrero and the Montreal Expos displayed a killer instinct when opportunity knocked. 
Guerrero homered twice and had four RBI -including a run-scoring single to cap Montreal's five-run fourth inning -to lead the Expos to a win over the Chicago Cubs Tuesday. 
Montreal's Vladimir Guerrero had his 14th multihomer game of the season Tuesday night. 
Guerrero homered on an 0-2 pitch from Juan Cruz (0-3) with two outs in the first and hit an RBI single to chase Cruz with two outs in the fourth. He added a two-run shot to right off Jesus Sanchez in the sixth for his fourth homer of the sea­son and 14th career multi­homer game. 
Masato Yoshii (2-1) retired the first 10 batters he faced and allowed three hits and one run in five innings. T.J. Tucker got four outs for his first save in front of a season-low crowd of 4,486 at Olympic Stadium. 
Jose Vidro hit a two-run sin­gle in the fourth as the Expos scored five unearned runs with two outs. 
With runners at first and sec­ond and two outs in the fourth, Yoshii hit a grounder that got past third baseman Chris Stynes, who was charged with an error as the Expos took a 2­0 lead. 
Yoshii advanced to third on Peter Bergeron's RBI double. Both runners scored as Vidro's two-run single made it 5-0. Vidro advanced to second on Cruz's wild pitch before scor­ing the Expos' firth run of the inning on Guerrero's single. 
Cruz allowed five hits and six runs, though just one was earned, in 3 2-3 innings. Cruz has a 1.93 ERA this season as only three of the 11 runs he has allowed in 14 innings have been earned runs. 
Astros 8, Reds 3 
Lance Berkman figures the way he hits Cincinnati Reds pitching is just one of the quirky things about baseball. 
Berkman became the first major leaguer this season to homer three times in a game, driving in five runs as the Houston Astros hit five home runs in beating the Reds Tuesday. 
"Sometimes a guy just owns you and can't get a hit off him to save your life," Berkman said. 
Berkman owned the Reds on Tuesday. as he has most of his career. 
It was the second three­homer game for Berkman, but his first in the majors. He said he had three in a Triple-A game with New Orleans in 2000. 
The first two Tuesday night were off Reds starter Jose Acevedo, and they cost Acevedo (2-1) his job. Acevedo was optioned to Triple-A Louisville after the game. 
But he wasn't surprised by the demotion. 
Richard Hidalgo followed Berkman's three-run homer in the first with a solo shot to the same spot over the left-field wall. 
Jeff Bagwell's two-run homer in the second inning, his first of the season, made it 6-0, and Berkman followed with his sixth homer, clearing the 40­foot "batter's eye" in center. 
He also had a solo homer in the fifth off Jose Rijo, breaking 


JOE RIMKUS JR/Miami Herald 
Teammates swarm Florida Marlin Kevin Millar Tuesday as he scores the winning run against the 
Philadelphia Phillies in the ninth inning of their 7-6 win.  
a 24-inning scoreless streak by Pittsburgh Pirates beat  fifth when Geoff Jenkins led off  
the Reds' bullpen. Milwaukee Tuesday, handing  with his second home run of  
Houston's first four homers the Brewers their ninth loss in  the season.  
were off Acevedo, who lasted 10 games.  Pokey Reese doubled to start  
just 1 2-3 innings, the shortest He did against the struggling  the sixth, advanced to third on  
start of his career. He allowed Brewers as Pittsburgh won its  a groundout by Giles and  
seven runs on six hits. sixth straight road games and  scored on a wild pitch by  
Berkman 's homer over the improved to 8-5 ­the Pirates'  Neugebauer for a 2-1 lead.  
black wall in straightaway cen­best start in three years.  Neugebauer was lifted after  
ter was only the second to Pittsburgh hasn't had a win­ six innings. He allowed three  
clear the wall in the two years ning April since 1994.  hits before tiring in the sixth  
it has been in place. The first Anderson (2-1) retired the  when he walked two after  
was hit by St. Louis' Albert first 11 batters before Jeffrey  Reese scored the go-ahead run.  
Pujols last season. Hammonds doubled and Richie  Neugebauer ended his night by  
Berkman has thrived on Reds Sexson walked. Anderson  inducing a double play  
pitching, hitting .416 (37-of-89) retired Alex Ochoa on a  grounder from Jason Kendall.  
in his career with eight home grounder to end the threat.  The Pirates made it 3-1 in  
runs and 29 RBI. Anderson struck out four and  the eighth when Adrian Brown  
But Jim Brower got Berkman walked two.  and Reese singled to start the  
to ground out in the seventh, Giles hit a 438-foot home  inning. Brown took third on a  
and Luis Pineda struck him out run, his third of the year, in  flyball by Giles and scored on  
in the ninth. Berkman said a the first inning off Nick  Aramis Ramirez's groundout.  
fourth homer was in the back Neugebauer (0-2) for a 1-0  Pinch-hitter Rob Mackowiak  
of his mind, but he wasn't lead.  hit a two-run homer in the  
going for it. The Brewers tied it in the  ninth to make it 5-1.  

THE COLLEGE 
db 
PII,_ 

REPUBLICANS 
are hosting: 
Pirates 5, Brewers 1 

Jimmy Anderson's strategy isn't any different this year but the results are. 
Anderson allowed three hits in seven innings and Brian Giles homered as the 


.. 

Wednesday, April 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
which by the way I think I Bolivia his junior year though, Bolivian tennis courts -he have," Smith said. "It's good. I Taborga made a turnaround. would have to make changes in
Tennis 
page 15 

what time I have I have to max­imize it.'' 
A product of an Irish-Catholic family obsessed with Notre Dame, the Kansas City native, given his proclivity to disagree with his family, was not always keen on coming to South Bend. 
'Tve always been a pain in the butt my whole life," he said. "Since everyone in my family liked Notre Dame. I didn't." 
Upon visiting and given the tennis opportunities offered. he changed his mind. "Smith. like Taborga, never expected to do so well in doubles, and both give Trish coach Bob Bayliss considerable credit in their increasing prowess on the courts. 
''I've learned a lot from coach and from Javier," Smith said. "It's just amazing how much you can pick up in the course of four years. I didn't realize there was that much to I-earn·:..· 
"[Bayliss} demands and expects a lot out of you," Smith said. "It was difficult for me a little earlier in my career because I didn't always under­stand that what he was saying was best for me. I have grown a lot under him, both as a ten­nis player and a person." 
Both Taborga and Smith intend to play professionally for a few years, and then, if they are successful and if the tennis playing life is fruitful. they will stick with it. If the pros do not prove welcoming to either of these players, they have pretty safe contingency plans. 
Smith hopes to attend the medical school at the University of Kansas, located in his home­town, and Taborga plans to go to law school. 
Taborga and Smith, through their play and their friendship, have been a critical element of the whole team's successes this season -and in many cases. even when the team does not fare well, the No. 1 and No. 2 players come through with a solid doubles performance. Their leadership has been important to the underclass­men. 
"Casey and Javier, as well as {fellow seniors] Talarico and Andrew Laflin have really been the heart of the team," sopho­more Matt Scott said. "The four seniors who have been playing have set the standard, showed us how it's done. We really look 
Contact Joe Lindsley at 
jlindsle@nd.edu. 

I 
I 
j I 
continued from page 20 
going to beat you this year.' 
"I think we've accepted our roles each year and we've been smart about it. And we're real­ly good friends, so there was never room for that." 
"He's a fun personality to be around," Smith said, adding that the two know when to have fun and when to be seri­ous. "We can be pretty sarcas­tic at times." 
The only time Taborga and Smith usually show any signs of a rivalry is during practice. 
"We'll play a ground stroke game and we go back and forth to see who has won the most, think he pushes me to play at a "At the end of my junior year, his life. higher level and I do the same I got the opportunity to play "Junior year was a big jump for him." with players that are ranked for me." he said. "I turned 
There was a time though, pretty high in the around when Taborga had only himself world back home m a n y to rely upon in order to over­and I thought I "It's been a struggle in things in come mental hurdles in tennis, was at a level to some sense. But once you my life. [ as well as the obstacles posed compete with was able to
get in the routine it's 
by coming to a new country -them," Taborga realize that namely getting adjusted to said. "They just much easier." I had been American food. During his kicked my butt. I doing a lot freshman and sophomore realized I wasn't of things
Casey Smith 
years, he struggled with going where I wrong in
Irish senior
injuries and a lack of intensity. was planning to 
"l think I underachieved ro.y go and I had to freshman and sophomore year make some and my game wasn't where I changes." wanted it to be," he said. "I was Taborga realized that in having a lot of trouble improv­order to achieve his dream of ing my game." becoming a professional player 
During a tournament in -a dream cultivated on 

Lalo y La Chola: Together at Last Special one-time performance 
Thursday April 18, 2002 
8:00 pm 
Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of.Art 

Join us for an evening of music, comedy and satire featuring the father of Chicano music, Lalo Guerrero, and rising Latina comedic star Maria Elena Gaitan in a Nancy De Los Santos Production. 
The event is free and open to the public. 
I ---------­
general 
and it was 

a big, big move towards where I wanted to be." 
That transition bloomed dur­ing his senior year, as moved up to as high as 11th in the national singles rankings and fourth with Smith in the dou­bles rankings. 
"Finally, my senior year, it all clicked. I don't think too many people expected me to do it," Taborga said. "If you saw the rankings [last] September and you asked people if they would expect Javier Taborga to be top 20 in singles and top five in doubles, I don't think too many would have said. 'Yeah."' 
Although he and Smith have had some challenges with regards to their play recently, Taborga is pleased with what he has accomplished during the past year. 
"In a way I have compensat­ed for the underachievement I had for two years," he said. 
Smith's struggles have arisen from the challenge of combin­ing his rigorous pre-med sched­ule with playing on a national­caliber tennis team. 
[n fact, as the Irish travel to Miami for the Big East tourna­ment this weekend, their No. 2 player will also be preparing to take the MCAT exam on Saturday at the University of Miami. He will not be able to participate on Saturday, but will be back to aid Notre Dame on Sunday. 
Smith, who won multiple sin­gles and doubles state titles in high school, has not felt over­whelmed, except for a time during his sophomore year. 
"It's been a struggle in some sense," he said. "But once you get in the routine it's much eas­ier." 
Handling a tough schedule has made him a better tennis player, Smith believes. 
"I don't have a lot of time and 


'/Jt
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
574/239-66 l l 800/522-66l 1 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 800/400-4540 
Whether your next step is buying a new home or refinancing the one you have, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union offers some of the lowest interest rates around. There's never been a better time to see us for a fixed-rate mortgage. Plus, we offer first mortgages nationwide. Clearly, when it comes to home financing, nobody puts out the welcome mat like Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 

www.ndfcu.org 
9
LENDER 


Wednesday, April 17, 2002
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 

First round ends with stripping, pubic hair 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Senior Staff Writer 
Five strippers, a bottle of pubic hair and a finance pro­fessor made the end of the first round of Bookstore Basketball XXXI very memo­rable. 
Punky Brewster opened the day by striping off an article of clothing for every point scored. Five sophomores from Pasquerilla East -Erinn Rigney, Meghan Rigney, Shaina Morphew, Krista Berghoff and Carol McCarthy -began the game wearing white undershirts, shorts, a headband and an armband. 
21 and forcing overtime. 
The extra period seesawed back and forth until Lucky took a 25-24 lead. Rak then grabbed a rebound and hit a short jumper to win the game 26-24. 
"I was just at the right spot at the right time," Rak said. 
One of the most revolting traditions in Bookstore Basketball entered its eighth year as Absolut Cur!ies VIII lost to No. 11 We Get Wet. 21­5. 
Absolut Curlies, made up of five men from Zahm, contin­ued an eight-year tradition by killing a fifth of Absolut Vodka and shaving their pubic hairs I a s t weekend. 
By the end of "[The stripping The hairs 
opposition] was very
loss to What then put The Hell Are distracting. I thought it was into the 
Robster just a ploy but then we bottle 
Craws, Erinn a n d
found out they
Rigney was brought wearing only a were serious." to court­bikini while side for the rest of the t h e
Matt Leonard 
team was in game.
What The Hell Are Robster Craws
other various 
stages of 
undress. 
"We thought our bodies were hotter than our game," Erinn Rigney said about her team's strategy. 
What The Hell Are Robster Craws embraced Punky Brewster's strategy as well. Matt Leonard, Bill Bingle, Gregg Michaels, Mike Wahl and Josh O'Farrell even helped by scoring the first two points for Punky Brewster. 
"It was very distracting," Leonard said. "I thought it was just a ploy but then we found out they were serious." 
While Punky Brewster was serious about stripping, Who's Getting Lucky Tonight? was serious about winning its first round match-up against milk­flap.com. 
Lucky, made up of one for­mer and four current Welsh Family football players, used physical play and hustling to defeat Milkflap.com, an all guys team, 26-24. 
"A lot of guys teams will hold back against us," Katie Rak said about the physical style of play. "They didn't hold back this game so we didn't hold back either." 
Milkflap.com, made up of Brian McCabe, Paul Guzzetta, Mike Iacono, Pat Murphy and Joe Biggs, left the court immediately after the loss. 
"They played very well," McCabe said as the team's only comment. 
Head Bookstore commis­sioner Brian Clemency said Lucky's win was the first all­female win against an all­male team that he was aware of. 
Late in the game, however, it looked like Milkflap would pull out a tough victory, as it led 19-15. Lucky had missed several easy shots and passed the ball poorly up until that point. 
"It was one of those things were we were just missing lay-ups," Rak said. "Once we started hitting lay•ups we were fine." Lucky battled back to take a 

I 20-19 lead. Milkflap.com
l • 
answered Lucky's answer, r however, by tying the game at aerodynamic today," junior Pat Amato of Curlies said. 
" W  e  
w  e  r  e  
m  o r  e  

The improved aerodynamics of Amato, Brian Zant, Chris Bystedt, Chris Roche and Pat McGarry could not ovMcome the superior athleticism of the five freshmen of We Get Wet, Justin Funk, Greg Bos!, Greg Durm, Matt Cox and Mitch Knapke. 
Under the lights, finance professor Carl Ackermann and We've Got Your Cash Flow Right Here In Our Pants schooled Loveburger: All About The Benjamins, 21-19. 
"They are a real forgiving group of guys," Ackermann said about his student team­mates. "They let a guy well past 40 run up and down the court with them. I had a won­derful time." 
The ski team was out of Hs element against No. 24 Irvin Jones as the ranked team whipped the spandex-clad skiers 21-10. 
Irvin Jones, Danny Williams. Stacey Locke, Deauto Smith and Robert Allen were too athletic for Do You Want To See My Junk. Despite frequent substitution, Joe Payne, Marc Pribaz, Kevin Wolf. Jon Pribaz. Wes Jacobs, Jesse Hensley, Bill Leimhuehler, Eric Hansen, Dan Block and Kieran Norton could not keep up with Irvin Jones. 
Notes: 
. 
Bookstore commissioners released the top eight rank­ings for the women's tourna­ment, which starts Sunday. Sindone's Slamming Divas received the top seed. Hardcore Strokers, which includes three Saint Mary's basketball players. is ranked second. Who's Getting Lucky Tonight. which defeated an all-male team Tuesday night, is ranked fourth. 

. 
Irish basketball coach Mike Brey's team, Stylistics, plays tonight at 8:30 p.m. at Stepan Courts. 


Contact Mike Connolly at Connolly.28@nd.edu. 



Now Hiring a 
Summer Program 
Assistant 
The Student Activities Office will be hiring a Program Assistants for the Summer 2002 semester. Program Assistants responsibilities include: 
Assist in the planning and implementation of Student Activities sponsored events, including ticket sales, facility setup and clean up and more. Some events you might be working with include our summer music series, summer movie series, tournaments7 bus trips and more. Assist in office projects and other duties as assigned. 
This position is a stipend position and requires 5-10 hours per week (primarily 8:00am -5:00pm but will include some night and weekend hours). Applications are available out­side the Student Activities Office located at 315 LaFortune. 
For more information contact Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631-7308. 

Wednesday, April 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

out the Cardinals with two more solid innings of relief

Baseball 
pitching by Grant Johnson. continued from page 20 Johnson allowed only one hit 
and one walk in his two innings and smacked a towering Oy of relief. ball towards left field. The Irish added an insurance 
"I hit it up there, and I was run in the bottom of the eighth like, 'Come on wind, catch the when Thaman led off the ball,"' Bushey said. .inning with a double off the 
The wind did indeed catch left-field wall. A fly ball to left the ball, and brought the ball off the bat of Steve Stanley over the left field fence for allowed Thaman to tag to third, Bushey's first career grand and a sacrifice fly by pinch hit­slam, putting the Irish ahead ter Brent Weiss brought comfortably, 9-1. Thaman home to provide the 
"l thought Andy's at bat in final run of the game. the seventh was really a huge "[Ball State] has come in here at-bat," Maineri said. "The and been a very tough mid­wind was blowing out [to left week team," Bushey said. field} and we were facing a "Beating them here tonight junkballer. We were playing to was a really good win for us." pull the ball and he was frus­The Irish, who have won 14 trating us and then Andy goes of their last 16 games, now out and makes an adjustment." face their third consecutive 
The Irish were able to close Mid-American Conference foe in Toledo today. before a piv­otal weekend series against Big East rival Seton Hall. 
"We just really want to keep our momentum going into the weekend, so we want to play a really solid nine innings (today] to carry into this weekend's really big series," Bushey said. 
Note: 
. With his 2-for-5 performance Tuesday, Stanley's season bat­ting average dropped to .474. However, his two hits helped him extend his current hitting streak to 10 games. This marks his third 10-game hit­ting streak this season and the seventh such streak of his career. During this most recent streak, Stanley is hitting .595. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish look to start new set of streaks 
"All of them are doing a little bit of soul-searching right now," 
Meet the Author 
Gurnpf said. "Everybody is try­ing to see what they could do better."
Join Author 
First baseman Lisa Mattison currently leads the Big East in hitting with a .444 batting aver­age in league games and .559 on-base percentage. Shortstop
Professor Ruthann Knechel Johansen 
Andria Bledsoe is second at 
.438. Bledsoe leads the league 
with 14 hits and 11 runs scored. 
Steffany Stenglein earned her first Big East award on Monday. The freshman pitcher was named co-Big East Pitcher of the Week. In her 25 innings of work. Stenglein allowed 12 hits, three earned runs and regis­tered 27 strikeouts. Last Tuesday. Stenglein combined with Carrie Wiscn for a no-hit­ter. 
On the week, Stenglein was 3­1 with a 0.89 ERA and for the year she is 14-9 with a 1.96 ERA. 
Indiana State is 11-25 and has lost 12 in a row. Beating the Irish on their home field is the type of win that could make the Sycamores' season. Indiana State beat Notre Dame on April 18, 2000, the last loss for Notre Dame before Sunday's loss to Syracuse. 
"Indiana State is a scrappy team." Gumpf said. "They have a couple of really good hitters and they would love nothing better than to beat Notre Dame." 
Leading the Indiana State offense is Sarah Ledmond. The centerfielder is first on the team with a .404 batting average and 46 hits. Catcher Kate Gentile has driven in a team-high 20 runners. 
While these games count toward the team's overall record, Gumpf knows the impor­tant games occur against Big East teams. These non-confer­ence weekday matchups will allow the Irish to work out some problems and be ready for the weekend. 
"In my point of view. the games against Indiana State and Bowling Green are just practice for Virginia Tech," Gumpf said. "That's what really matters. The at-bats we are going to use like batting practice. The ground­balls and fly outs are just like defense practice." 
Today's doubleheader is scheduled to start at 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Contact Matt Lozar at lozar. l@nd.edu. 
ByMATILOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Most teams are satisfied with winning three of four games in a weekend. For the Notre Dame softball team, satisfaction comes 
from perfec­tion. 
This after­noon, Notre Dame looks to get back on track against Indiana 


State in a Gumpf
non-confer­ence dou­
bleheader. With their 3-0 loss to Syracuse in game two of Sunday's doubleheader, Notre Dame saw their 14-game win­
ning streak, 26-game home win­ning streak and 36-game Big East regular season winning streak snapped. 
"I don't think they felt the pressure of the streaks," said Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf. "Some days teams tend to come out with more energy. On Sunday, we didn't come out with a lot of energy. But, I think [the team] expect[s] to have win­ning streaks." 
The Irish were O-for-8 with runners in scoring position and left six runners on base in Sunday's loss, including four in scoring position. Notre Dame managed only eight hits in Sunday's doubleheader and scored three runs. Finding the intensity and energy that allowed the Irish to score more than four runs in 12 of their previous 15 games starts within. 
Thursday 
LISTENING IN THE SILENCE 

April 18th 



7:00 pm 
,n the 
Hammes 
JJ:et 'tl ~ 

Notre Dame Bookstore 


for a book talk and signing 
HAMMES 

·­
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndhokstore.com 


• ' I 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 17, 2002 
Football 
continued from page 20 
different than the kind of respect the team has for its brand new coaching staff. 
"It's sort of weird situation. They're coming in after every­thing that has happened and saying, 'I'm your coach, l want you to do this, I want you to do that,· and at the same time, not push any but­tons," Watson said. "I think they want us to understand that. I think in that aspect, it was different, because with tho coaches last year we didn't have that. It was just common mutual respect for each other." 
That respect, although it is different than the personal, man-to-man respect of last season, is apparent this sea­son. 
"There is respect there all down the line," said rising senior center Jeff Faine. 
The difference in the kind of relationship the players have with their coaches goes beyond respect as well. 
Last season it was normal to expect Davie to be watching his defense throughout most of practice, overseeing what defensive coordinator Greg Mattison was doing. He may have shouted-out some instruction from the cart that he used at practice. 
Head coach Tyrone Willingham is more of a silent observer. 
"He's very to the point, he doesn't waste too many words," Faine said. "He's a real direct man and I think that gets the job done." 
Although Willingham is a man of few words, the words he chooses to share with his team hit home. 
"Coach Willingham picks and chooses his words very carefully and only says things that are really necessary," Watson said. "He's not a real big talker and that makes what he says taken more to heart. He doesn't say just coach's lines." 
In addition to being a silent observer, Watson said, Willingham roams. That very distinct difference, although obvious, makes it very difficult for the players to even make the comparison between last year's practice atmosphere and this year's. 
"l don't know if it's a fair comparison, just because Coach Willingham is more of a roam-about coach," Watson said. "He deals in terms of offense and defense, and as everybody knows, Coach Davie was more of a defensive coach. He was with us more so I don't think I can give an accurate description of that." 
So while the major changes take place under the eye of the unconnected observer and the subtle change in atmos­phere takes place under the eye of the athlete, Faine thinks that the team's goal is the same. 
He said, "It's pretty much we're just out there doing the same thing, trying to win games." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


ANDY KENNA/The Observer 
Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham tutors rising senior noseguard Cedric Hilliard during the team's first spring practice. Players have described Willingham as more of a silent observer during practice as compared to predecessor Bob Davie. 
-

PENTLAND PRESS, INC. IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THE PUBLICATION OF: 
On 
Allen 
Viduka 

Big cleat you may say, It's just one man's paranoia... 
-"Are They Building the Republic?" Allen Yid uka 
Before 1985, hospital psychiatric wards were filled with those suffering with schizophrenic disorders. Breakthroughs in medicine have allowed those affected by this psychosis to return to the world and become productive members of society. Allen Viduka, author of On the Edge of Reality, attempts to enlighten readers about dealing with this misunderstood disease from the schizophrenic point of view. 
Too often, those uneducated about schizophrenia imagine the psychotic mind filled with darkness and deep secrets, Viduka attempts to dispel many of the myths associated with schizophrenia and show that an afflicted person may be a complex individual of strong character and moral views. On the Edge of Reality shows by Viduka's example that schizophrenia is in fact a disease and can be treated or even cured. 
Filled with a strong idealism that those afflicted with schizophrenia may indeed conquer their disajJility, On the Edge of Reality is the story of one individual who has been tortured by paranoia, yet has overcome many obstacles to achieve a sense of normality. Viduka reveals his thoughts and feelings during his most trying times through letters, articles, and poetry. Both educational and inspirational, On the Edge of Reality is more than just the autobiography of a schizophrenic. Viduka communicates with honesty and sincerity many intensely personal details ofhis life to illustrate to others the results of his tragic mental illness. 
About the Author 

Allen Viduka currently resides in South Bend, Indiana, where he is an electronics technician, as well as a part-time real-estate salesperson. After earning his associate's degree in electronics technology, Viduka served in the United States Navy, where he fought in the Persian Gulf War. He is the author of two other books, Victory! Hint and Strategi; Guide (volumes I and II). 

a Pentland Press 512.2 Bur Oak Circle Raleigh, NC 27612 Phone: 919-782-0281 800-948-2786 Fax: 919-781-9042 
Contact: Libby S. Rinehart • Ordering Information: On the Edge of Reality• Allen V1duka • $15.95 •ISBN# 1-57197-073-8 • 76 pages• • Shipping & Handling $3.00 for 1 copy plus$ 1.00 for each addttlonal copy • 
• Currently available through Baker & Taylor (800-775-1100) and Associated Publishers Group (800-327-5113) • 
' .' 

Wednesday, April 17, 2002 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
HOW NOT TO DO A SENIOR THESIS .. 
AS YOV CAN CLEARLY SEE, 

I'VE INCORPORATEC ALL FOR MY PROJECT, I CHOSE TO USE 
Of THE BASIC aEMENTS Of THE 
THE MOST EXPRESSIVE OF ALL CLASSICAL NOTION OF "HOUSE." DOOR,THE DIORAMA CHIMNEY, AND HAPPY STIClC PEOPLE 

FOXTROT 
HOLD ON. I'LL GET HER. 
I 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Play baseball with cheeses?
1 90 degrees 40 Water color 
5 Place for a 42 Seafood entree
cypress 43 Perplexity
10 Attempt 44 Badly bruised 
14 Be a monarch president?
15 Staples Center 47 Rock producerplayer Brian 
16 Hack 48 Kind of bean 
17 "Magnet and 
49 Over

Steel" singer 51 Dutch export 
Walter 55 Canadian
18 Word to a knight peninsula19 Aspirin, e.g. 
59 Master at 

20 Reduce one's wielding a feelings of tongueweariness? 
depressor? 

23 Check for fit 64 Monopoly 24 looped handle square 25 Actress 65 Piano specialist 
Campbell 66 Cut, as film 28 Heavenly edible 67 Pac 1 O school 33 Court decision 68 Grimalkin 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE A S M Z L L O y A L 

s M 
M A N 
E T T 
--E,,-i 30 1982 Tonymusical B R I N 31 Broadway B I E brightener E T 32 Regarding D E T I E 33 Arctic native ~~C,;;,+.K,;,.i 34 Prefix akin to J I ~~-4.;,+.,,. I I iso-A R ~.,.,+.,..+,.,+:-A N 35 Change colors B E .._._......__._..__ A N G 37 Singing syllable 


69 Steam up 70 Keep at it 71 King of Judea 72 Sibyl 
OOWN 
1 Be constructive? 2 Foreshadow 3 Dark bluish-gray 4 Muscle/bone connector 5 Common side order 6 Put on notice 7 Japanese dog 8 Elementary particle 9 Urge 10 Dateless 11 Dial on the dash 12 Central line 13 Didn't pass 21 First-floor apartment 22 Shakespeare's 
foot? 26 Bud holder 27 Make an artistic 
impression 29 Famous holder of pairs 

The Observer . TODAY page 19 
RYAN

TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

HOLD ON A MOMENT, DID YOU EVEN READ ALL Of' THE CHOOSE­YOUR-OWN-ADVENTVRE, OR JVST A FEW PAi.ES OF IT? 
BILL AlvIEND 
So HOW LON& FOUR• HAS THIS TEEN HEARIN(; LOSS YEARS. 
SEEN GoIN6 ON? 

Here is yesterday's comic(top half included). While not extremely funny to begin with, it is certainly much less funny when the top half is missing. It wasn't my fault. Swear to God. 


Puzzle by Richard SIivestri 
38 Georgetown athlete 39 Adam's apple area? 41 Fitting 45 MGM Studios founder 46 Utah's state flower 50 Thin treats 52 Get rid of 53 lapis lazuli 54 House of lords 56 "Sexy" Beatles girl 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Nikita Khruschev, William Holden, Sugar Ray Leonard 

Happy Birthday: You will be cre­ative in your self-expression and therefore will attract many friends and a lot of attention. You help those less fortunate and are likely to meet potential partners through the organizations you join. Put your time and effort into renovating your home but be sure you have the approval of those you live with before you get started. Your numbers are 8, 14, 22,31,33,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Enjoy the company of friends today. The more you do with others the more information you will pick up. Travel plans should be made even if they are only for a short but informa­tive trip. OCIOO 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll be intent on doing well at work or at any project that you have a real interest in. Your dedication and loyalty to those you work with will be enhanced by your unique ideas and unusual approach to what you do.000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't hold yourself back just because you are emotional today. Put your personal life on the back burner and get involved in creative 
57 Audio endeavors. Your serious attitude will attachment? be respected by others today. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):58 Any acetate, There may be secrets that you have chemically to deal with. Don't tell anyone what you are really thinking. Your emo­
59 Food whose 

tional outlook will be changeable 
name means, 

today so it's best not to make a literally, wadding 64 Water carrier move.000 LEO (July 2.3-Aug. 22): You may 
be a little fickle regarrung partner­Answers to any clues in this puzzle are ships today. Try not to lead someone available by touch-tone phone: on if you aren't interested. You will 
discover a new connection that
1 ·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
EUGENIA LAST 
could turn into a great friendship. 
0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You11 have what it takes to get ahead today. Focus on work and money and don't let anything distract you. Sudden changes involving friends ,-viii leave you disheartened. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You have what it takes to get ahead today. Emotional problems with rela­tives or colleagues are evident. Do not let others hold you back. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Problems with older relatives or friends may lead to added responsi­bilities. Be prepared to do whatever is necessary in order to deal with personal matters quickly and effi­ciently. 000 
SAGITrARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You can get ahead financially today but if you let your personal encoun­ters cloud your vision you may not make the right choices. Moderation will be the key to your financial ven­tures. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have the discipline to finish what you start, but don't work too hard or you11 be tired and stressed. Stay put and work on the projects that don't require a great deal of trav­el or communication. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Put your heart into doing the things 
that you enjoy the most. If you fol­
low your dreams you will succeed. 
The greatest satisfactir,n will come 
from doing what you know in your 
heart is best 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): An 
older relative may need your assis­
tance, however, don't let him or her 
bully you into doing more than you 
can handle. You must look out for 
your own interests. Invest in your­
self, your home and your future. 00 

Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: Success will be important to you. You will surround your­best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 self with people who can help you get ahead. You will always be looking and listening fomew ideas that will help you achieve the power you desire.
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Baseball 


Softball 8
TODAY
TONIGHT 

vs. 
vs. 

l~PIA-NA STATE (DH) 
liJ;~}ii!.¼
--,,-,,¥,_y.,. 


4 PM 8
TOLEDO 

<$DAY VS.
6PM 

BOWLl~~fijf!.EEN (DH) 3 PM "DORM W\l'iS" -STAY TUNED!! 
-
I 
I I 
• 'I 
Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

.. . ND Softball, p. 17 
. National League, p. 14 
. 
Bookstore Basketball XXXI, p. 16 . American League, p. 13 

. 
SMC Softball, p. 13 . NBA, p. 12


PORTS 
Wednesday, April 17, 2002 
ND MEN'S TENNIS 

Smith, Taborga take different paths to the top 
ByJOE LINDSLEY Sports Wrirer 
They come from two very dif­ferent backgrounds, one from Bolivia. and the other from Kansas City, Mo., but they enjoy numerous commonalities -and tennis pervades them all. 
Seniors Javier Taborga and Casey Smith both started play­ing tennis at age five. 
They both lived in Knott Hall as underclassmen. 
Thev both strive to challenge themielvcs, with Smith major­ing in sociology and pre-profes­sio nal studies and Taborga studying finance and computer applications, with hopes of law school someday. 
They lead the Notre Dame men's tennis team as the No. 1 and No. 2 singles players. 
They both want to play pro­fessional tennis. 
And they both are great friends who still room together off-campus. 
Taborga and Smith have much in common, but what is perhaps most important is what they do not have in com­mon. 
Using their different talents, Taborga and Smith have moved up to fourth in the national doubles rankings. 
"We complement each other very well and we understand each other better than anyone I've played with so far," Taborga said. "We're really good friends. We talk a lot. We're really open and support· ive, and in doubles, it's all about trust." 
"Our game style has comple­mented each other very well," Smith said. "Javier is very explosive. He's able to pull us away. He can take over a match. I'nt more solid, l play at a pretty high level the whole time. The combination is good, two people that make up for what the other is deficient in." 
"They complement each other really well," said fellow senior Aaron Talarico. 
Taborga has not always been the No. 1 player for the Irish. Last.year, he played at No. 2, while Smith commanded the top position. 
Despite their competitive natures though, the change in positions has not brought about fierce rivalry, but rather pro­ductive and friendly jesting. 
"We are both really competi­tive," Taborga said. "We both want to play at No. 1. We're not mad at each other though because [Casey] played No. 1 last year and I'm No. 1 this year. At the beginning of the year, we made jokes like, Tm 
see TENNIS/page 15 


TIM KACMAR/The Observer Irish seniors Javier Taborga, left, and Casey Smith, right, compete against Kentucky earlier this season. Taborga and Smith comprise the fourth-ranked doubles team in the country. 
BASEBALL 

Irish crush Cardinals 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Writer 

-Call it an all-around good performance. The Notre Dame baseball team used a combination of solid pitching, timely hitting and some great defensive plays to achieve a decisive win over the Cardinals of Ball State, 10-1. "It was a great night. All the pitchers we sent out there did a great job," Irish head coach Paul Maineri said. "When you get good pitching and good defense, it gives your hitters the chance to scratch out a few runs." Notre Dame jumped out to an early 2-0 lead in the bottom of the first inning. After Matt Bok lined a single to center. Paul O'Toole was hit by a pitch. The next batter, Andrew Bushey, hit a towering fly that was dropped by the Ball State centerfielder, allow­
ing Bok and O'Toole to score. 
After the Cardinals notched a run in the top of the second with back-to-back doubles, the Irish responded with three more runs in the bottom of the inning. Consecutive leadoff singles by Steve Sollmann and Kris Billmaier set up a one-out line-drive home run to right ofT the bat of Joe Thaman, mak­ing the score 5-1 in favor of the Irish. 
After two more singles and a walk reloaded the bases, the Irish had a major scoring opportunity wasted when O'Toole grounded into a dou­ble play to end the inning. Then the Irish relief pitching took over. 
J.P. Gagne entered the game in the top of the third for the Irish. and pitched four out­standing innings of relief, allowing only two hits and one walk enroute to his third relief win in six days. 
The Irish defense faced a major scare in the top of the fifth inning, as third-string shortstop Javier Sanchez, now starting due to injuries to shortstops Matt Macri and Matt Edwards. chased a ball in foul territory along the left field line. The wind took the ball well foul, and Sanchez, still chasing the ball, crashed into the chain-link fence lining the stadium. 

While concerned onlookers feared the worst, Maineri said it looked much worse that the actual injury. 
"He was hustling after the ball and he plowed into the tarp and his legs gave out, and his chin smacked into the fence," Maineri said. "It was a hustle play, and he plays hard, that kid." 
The score remained 5-1 into the bottom of the seventh, when the Irish loaded the bases with a single and two walks. 
Bushey came to the plate 
see BASEBALL/page 17 
FOOTBALL 

Coaches bring new 
practice attitude 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Edi tor 

The major differences at Notre Dame's practices are easily discernible to any bystander -the absence of the option, the emphasis on pass plays, the number of quarter­backs tak­ing snaps. But there is another dif­fc renc e at practice, a more subtle difference that may, ultimate­ly, have a great impact. 
There is a whole new coach­ing staff and that coaching staff has brought with it some atmosphere changes. Last sea­son, the Irish football players were playing under coaches they had known for years, the men who had recruited them. They had a personal relation­ship with those coaches, the kind of relationship that is just in its infancy with this year's brand-new coaches. 

"It's just different personali­ties. It's just like making new friends," said rising senior linebacker Courtney Watson. "In the end the message is somewhat the same as far as technique ... but it's just like meeting new people and you get into a different atmos­phere." 
After three years of working with former head coach Bob Davie and most of his coaching staff, the team had a personal relationship with the coaches, Watson said. The respect found in that relationship is 
see FOOTBALL/page 18 
. 
SMC Softball at Olivet, Today, 3:30 p.m. 

. 
ND Softball vs. Indiana State, Today, 4 p.m.


SP 
T 

. Baseball vs. Toledo, Today, 6:05 p.m.AT AGLANCE . SMC Tennis vs. Bethel College, Thursday, 3 p.m. 
' . 









