
HTTP://OBSERV . . 
Trident runs non-stop for Special Olympics 
there had to always be at to bowl and play volleyball.
By LINDA SKALSKI 
least one person running. Gagnet said that this aspect
News Writer 
Students found creative ways makes the fund raiser espe­
to comply with the rule. cially rewarding because 
Students from Trident Students ran all over campus, members of Trident will see Naval Society ran for 24 through firsthand how hours. beginning at noon on LaFortune the money is Friday, in a fund-raising Student "We received being used. effort that raised more than Center, The 24-hour
compliments about how 

$2,500 for the local Special around run was an 
we serve our country. It

Olympics. the book­experience that "You wouldn't think run­store and really gave me a sense of left most stu­ning like this would be some late­dents feeling
pride and patriotism to

appealing, but we have found night run­exhausted but
see the community being 

a way to make it appealing," ners even pleased with said Trident President Ryan crashed involved in such a good themselves and Gagnet. "There is a huge par­off-cam­with the gen-
cause ... 

ticipation from people who pus par­erosity of the are not even in the club ... ties. Notre Dame Students donned orange "We ran Chris Heck community. 
vests and ran in two-hour through run participant "We received shifts, carrying tin cans to Reckers complimentscollect donations. Most stu­singing," about how we dents, especially those who said sophomore Matthew serve our country," said had participated last year, Burkhardt, whose shift was sophomore Chris Heck. "It were excited to run. from 4 to 6 am. "Seventies really gave me a sense of 
"We devised a game plan of tunes really turned heads at pride and patriotism to see going nuts anytime someone that hour." the community being involved donated," said sophomore Trident Naval Society works in such a good cause." Hans Biehl. "I think we may closely with the Specialhave made ourselves into a Olympics, and in the coming
bit of a comic relief... months students will team 
Contact Linda Skalski at 

The only rule was that with the South Bend branch 

lskalski@nd.edu 



Meier leads Sat. lecture 
By MARIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Father John Meier, dis­cussed the historical Jesus in the fourth lecture of the Saturday Scholar Series before the football game against Pittsburgh on Saturday. 
Meier holds the position of William K. Warren IV Professor of Theology at Notre Dame. He has written several books and articles and is currently writing the fourth volume of his work "A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus." 
"The first question is always where to begin addressing such a huge topic as the life of Jesus," Meier said as he began his lecture. "First you have to address the definition. What do we mean by the 'historical Jesus?"' 
Meier stressed the differ­ence between Christology. the study of Christ as a subsec­tion of theology, and histori­cal study of Jesus Christ. 
"You must divide the meth­ods of discipline," said Meier. "Faith has to be separate from history." 
Meier, however, acknowl­
see LECTURE/page 6 

SEND A VOLLEY CHEER ON HIGH 


SMC trustees meet 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's took steps toward change Thursday and Friday at the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees' second of four meetings this year. 
During the two-day meet­ing, the group set goals for the year and heard updates on the Strategic Plan, cam­pus building projects and various fund-raising goals and initiatives. 
The board discussed recruitment and the impor­tance of student-endorsed applications that waive the application fee. 
The board also took a tour of the dining hall construc­tion and was informed that the building should be com­pleted in mid-May or early June. 
The board discussed the idea of on-campus apart­ments as well. Board mem­bers plan to conduct studies of the popularity. need and potential success in this attempt to keep students liv­ing on campus. 
Kristen Matha, student trustee, discussed the 
see TRUSTEES/page 6 


Monday, October 14, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I need a job! 
They're the two words that strike fear into the hearts (and resumes) ofcollege seniors everywhere: job search. 
Yes, it's that time ofyear again, folks. Time to press your suit, print your resumes, and sell yourself to any willing company for a negotiable price. 
We've already had the career fairs, where college students are herded together like cattle to look for the best jobs with the best companies. 
Most of you have already had inter­views, some signifi­cantly more than others. You get asked the typical questions, like 'Why do you want to work for our company?' and 'Explain to me specifically how your PlS major qualifies you to potty train chimpanzees?' 
Despite these tough economic times in our nation, for the most part Notre Dame students are still regarded pretty highly on the job market. 
Notice how I said "for the most part," because, at the current moment, there is at least one Notre Dame senior still look­ing; not necessarily for the perfect job, more like just Ajob: namely. yours truly. 
Keeping track ofmy applications right now is a lot like watching the stock mar­ket during the Great Depression: failure after failure after failure. 
My currentjob search scoreboard looks like a baseball player during a slump: 10 applications, seven responses from companies, eight rejections, includ­ing one that I had to discover myself by finding out the interview date had already passed. 
Strike one. 
So, save a miracle response from the Boston Beer Company in the next few days, I will be left to the spring semester with my last-minute applications. 
Combine that with my two jobs and a rigorous class schedule and it makes for a really busy year, all in all. 
To make my job search complete, I am pondering resorting to the Internet to promote my career (pardon the pun). Job search engines are all the rage these days, and ifmy career search here at Notre Dame ends in vain, sites such as monster.com could very well be my only hope. 
Although I could always maintain my job at the local supermarket, my parents have more or less narrowed my job search somewhat by eliminating that as an option. 
Strike two. 
My last resort, one that I am very hesi­tant to use, is networking. For some rea­son I fail to see how I earned the job when my cousin's daughter-in-law's half-brother basically handed me the job. 
But hey, who am I to pass up a free job offer? So let me use this column as a promo­tional gimmick. 
I need a job. Any job. 
I can work nights, I can work week­ends, I can work holidays, I can work 
upside down. I can do anything. Well, 
OK, I can't fly, but I can do almost any­
thing else. Ask me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Bryan Kronk at brkonk@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS  WORLD&  
NEWS  NATION  

Investigators

Saint Mary's 
organizations 
continue 
search for 

promote 
Virginia sniper 

campus-wide 
recycling 
Investigators
Saint Mary's stu­
continued to hunt

dents continue to 
for an increasingly

promote recycling 
brazen sniper who

programs on cam­
has gunned down

pus, expanding to 
eight people in the

recycle vending 
D.C. area.

machine plastic 
bottles. 
page 3 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Exhibit. Allan J. Hilcv British Drawings Collection. All day, Snite Muscmn of /\rt. 

. 
Symposium. "Hcstoring Trust: Perspectives After Dallas." 4:30 p.m., McKcnna Hall auditorium. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Board of Governance meeting. 
4:30 p.m., llagar College Centm·, 
Hoom 304. 
. Performance. Jean Hitchie. folk lcgand. 7:30 p.m.• Moreau Little Theatre. 
. 
Lecture. "Conceptualizing and Measuring Democracy," by Gerardo Munick. 12:30 p.m., Ilesburgh Center for International Studies. 

. 
Exhibition. The James Scholz Collection of ninctc~cnth century European photographs. All day, Snitc Museum of /\rt. 

. 
Lecture. Suellen Heed, Indiana State Superintendent. Oct. 17, 6 p.m., Stapleton Lounge. 



WHAT'S COOKING North Dining Hall 
Dining Hall menu not available today. 
South Dining Hall 
Dining Hall menu not available today. 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Longshoremen end labor dispute, plan to return to work Monday 
Workers  on  
strike  for  Long­ 
shoremen  will  

return to work on Monday after a 10­day lockout. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Marchand says there's no place like Las Vegas 
Columnist Mike Marchand says there's nothing quite Las Vegas, especially when you travel there with your mother. 
pages 8 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

a: 
LIJ 
::c 
~ 
3: 
..I 
c( CJ 





.9 HIGH 59 HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 32 LOW LOW LOW 
53 
46 
60 
38 
55 28 

SCENE SPORTS 
ND, SMC activist clubs continue to spread their messages 
You've seen their posters and chalk messages scrawled on sidewalks around campus. Now, find out what these organi­zations are about. 
pages 10 Notre Dame defeats Pitt, now 6-0 
The Irish defeat­ed Pittsburgh Saturday. Check out all the stats and a full game recap. 
Irish Insider 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
~ult victim refuses 
to press charges 
NDSP concluded their investi­gation of an assault that occurred at the Stephen courts. The victim, however, will not press charges. 
NDSP returns bike 
A bike listed as missing was found and recovered this weekend outside of the LaFortune Student Center. The bike was returned to its owner at Pasquerilla West and the case is still under investiga­tion. 
Student caught in act 
A University official caught a Notre Dame student using a stolen Kontrol Kard to get access to campus. 
Digital camera stolen 
A Univers;ty employee reported a digital video cam­era stolen from an O'Shaughnessy Hall classroom. 
Complied from NDSP crime blotter 

Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta with mariana sauce, grilled chicken breast, pepper­oni pizza. sandwich bar with chicken salad, french onion soup, grilled cheese sandwiches, shoe-string french fries, international stir fry, 
Today's Dinner: Pasta with mariana sauce, grilled chicken breast, sausage and cheese pizzas, french onion soup, grilled cheese sandwiches, shoe-string french fries, international stir fry, roast beef and garlic mashed potatoes. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 



HIGH 44 LOW 37 
Atlanta 63 I 51 Boston 55 I 40 Chicago 62 I 42 Denver 66 / 37 Houston 66 / 50 Los Angeles 76 / 58 Minneapolis 57 / 39 New York 58 I 43 Philadelphia 60 / 43 Phoenix 91 / 70 Seattle 65 / 44 St. Louis 63 / 43 Tampa 86 / 72 Washington 60 / 47 
Monday, October 14, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC students take out the trash 
• Student group continues to promote campus­wide recycling programs 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
Students at Saint Mary's have been working to expand the school's recycling program. The College's current program is the result of initiative taken by past classes, according to Susan Duff, professor of biology and advisor to the school's chapter of the Student Environmental Action Coalition. 
"At least four years ago, the environmental club started to try to push through recycling and the first thing that they did was to try to recycle on their own and try to get it through the administration. So they started this small recycling pro­ject," Duff said. "We collected at the back of the Science Hall stairs because nobody would let us collect in the dorms. Finally, a couple of years ago, they allowed us to collect in the dorms as long as the students were doing it." 
The College presently recy­cles paper products and alu­minum, but Duff has noticed an increased amount of plastic bottles in campus vending machines. She worries about the unnecessary wasting of plastic, she said. 
"It's energy, it's oil going down the drain. Oil is money and oil is energy," Duff said. 
Last year, Duff and a group of students began recycling plastic and glass, with bags donated by Building Services and the use of a vehicle lent by the Facilities Department. According to Marilyn Rajski, director of building services, both depart­ments helped research a com­prehensive recycling program for the College with a local waste management service. 
They tried to enlist additional 
THE 

RECOMMENDS 
Find out what happens when two twenty-something New Yorkers find love inthe most unexpected of places-right next door! "A cJ.ean..scrubbed, girlish romp from the author of Princess Diaries." -Kirkus Reviews 
support from the College by Budget Committee, but, in fact proposing a program for glass we found out later that it never and plastic recycling in every got through that," Duff said. building on campus. The pro­Duff added she was told that posal, sponsored by SEAC and a campus-wide recycling plan presented by Teresa Lorenz, of that magnitude would be Kellie Mark, very expen­Stephanie sive, requir­
"It would be great ifmore
Shevik and Mary ing a new
people got involved. You
Rath, outlined position on requirements don't just want to push it S a i n t for the program, Mary's staff
offfor other people to do. ,,
including con­to oversee tracting with a it. The pro­recycling pick­Katie Bacone gram would up service and Life-long recycler C O S t placing accessi­approxi­ble recycling mately bins in all campus buildings. $10,000 to start, covering the 
"They put in a proposal that cost of bins and transportation went into the budget to see if to a recycling plant. they could get it recommended In April, after the recycling ... We never heard. We kept proposal's rejection, Saint thinking it had to get to the Mary's signed the Earth Board of Directors. Somewhere Charter, which calls for a dec­in there, we got the impression laration of responsibility to that they thought it would actu­community, ecological integrity ally get through ... It had to go and social and economic jus­through the Campus Budget tice. These responsibilities Committee. And we thought we include the prevention of pollu­had the support of the Campus tion and recycling to reduce 

waste. 
According to Melanie Engler, director of public relations at Saint Mary's, the College is making a concerted effort to act in the best interests of the school and the environment. 
"From everything I can gath­er, it appears that Saint Mary's administrators worked hard to find effective alternatives to the proposed program in the face of budgetary restrictions that precluded the College from con­tracting with an off-campus
TKE ,...,. 111 JIOth!t19 G'tetll1J• 11bo111~ 
recycling service. It also
BOY NEXT DOOR appears that SEAC is doing their part to help 'reduce, reuse and recycle the materials used in production and consumption systems... ' as stated in the Earth Charter. It's a great team effort," Engler said. 

This year, Saint Mary's senior 
Emily Miller organized a com­
mittee to review the Earth 
Charter, the rejected recycling 
proposal and the College's 
Master Plan. 
"I put together the committee 
who is going to look at the 
Earth Charter and our proposal 
and the Master Plan .... We 
want to be very organized so 
that we can look at all angles 
and decide what's best for the 
school and then actually pre­
sent it to the administrators," 
Miller said. 
Until a formal recycling pro­gram is passed, Miller and other student volunteers will continue to collect glass and plastic every other Friday. The success of the recycling efforts is dependent upon the amount of volunteers. Miller is opti­mistic that her fellow students will become involved, she said. 
"So far from the response that I've had, this year student recycling is going to be really successful. ... I think we can really get somewhere if we organize [ourselves]. We can show the administration that campus-wide recycling would be beneficial in both the short and long run," Miller said. 
Senior Katie Bacone, who has been a life-long recycler, encourages other students to volunteer. 
"It would be great if more people got involved. You don't just want to push it off for other people to do ... I'm hoping that more people realize that they have to take care of their own backyard, to just take responsi­bility," Bacone said. 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@nd.edu 
MONDAYS 
.Nr*~,-..wt~iud11:w.:1,.-m« .. 
MEGGIN CABOT·, 

4-5:15 10/28-12/9 Rock ~32
y 
TUESDAYS 

Bestselling author Sebastian Junger brings his 
i;)12·10 12·c;o 10/29-12/10 RSRC ~2c; heart-pounding prose to bear in a collection of 
• . --~UESDAYS/POWER Y;GA
pieces that span a decade's worth of journalism. ''Propelled by dynamic reporting that reads as 
7-8:15pm 10/29-12/10 RSRC ~32 fluidly as great fiction." 
previous yoga experience preferred
-Maxim 
G 

WEDNESDAYS 
A 
10/30-12/11 RSRC ~25 
From childhood, Ansay trained to become a Regist,~ion: 10/1!5 concert pianist. But at 19, a mysterious muscle 8am, RSRC 
disorder forced her to give up her dream. "A gorgeous memoir." -Publisher's Weekly 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 14, 2002 
Change the World of Healthcare .... Become a
ND con£erence to 
address sex scandal 
• Conference to serve as University forum on scandel 
Special to The Observer 
Five Notre Dame faculty members will join Commonweal editor Margaret O'Brien Steinfels on Monday in the 
Univer­sity's McKenna Hall audi­torium for a con fer­ence on the sexual a b u s e 


s c a n d a l  Malloy  
recently  
afflicting  the  Catholic  
Church.  

The conference, titled "Restoring Trust: Perspectives After Dallas," will begin at 4:30 p.m. with an introduction by Notre Dame president Edward Malloy, C.S.C., followed by a panel discussion on "Dallas and Beyond: The Experience and the Future." 
The panelists include Ste inf els; Scott Appleby, pro­fessor of history and director of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; and Father 
.. . 
Richard McBrien, Crowley­
0' Brien  Professor  of  
Theology at Notre Dame.  
A  panel  discussion  on  
"Emerging Issues for  the  

Church.. will begin at 7:30 
p.m. The panelists, all Notre Dame faculty, will be Gerard Bradley. professor of law; Mary Rose D'Angelo, associ­ate professor of theology; and Father Brian Daley, Catherine Huisking Professor of Theology. 
Steinfels and Appleby were prominent speakers at the June 14 meeting in Dallas where the Catholic bishops of the nation adopted a contro­versial "zero tolerance" poli­cy for all past and present sexual abuse of minors by Catholic clergy. The policy requires Vatican approval to become Church law and con­sequently binding in all dio­ceses. Yesterday. an anony­mous Vatican official told The Associated Press that the Holy See would iss':l"l its response to the policy Oct. 10 or Oct. 11. 
Since reports of sexual abuse among clergy began rocking the American church in January, at least 300 of the nation's 46,000 priests have been removed from their ministries, and many bishops have been criticized for inadequately responding to reports of abuse. 
·, The First Biennial Blessed Pope 
Doctor or Chiropra~tic
Help People 
Gain the skills to assist your patients to achieve and maintain a healthy lifestyle. 
Income 
Earn a substantial salary commensurate with your position as a Doctor of Chiropractic. 
Be Your Own Boss 
Most Doctors of Chiropractic are in private practice working an average of 40 hours per week. 
Become a Doctor 
Prestige, respect and expanded leadership opportunities are available as a Doctor of Chiropractic. 
Call Logan College of Chiropractic today to change the world of healthcare! 
Logan  1-800-533-9210 www.logan.edu loganadm@logan.edu  
College•of•Chiropractic  1851 Schoel!ler Rd, Chesterfield MO 53006  




John XXIII Lec::t:ure Series in Theology and Culture 

Rev. John W. C>'Malley s.J. 
Professor of Church History West.on Jesuit School of' Thee>logy AUTHOR OF The First Jesuits ( 1993> ANO Trent and All That: Renaming Catholicism In the Early Modern Era (2000) 
Tuesday and Thursday nights c::> c tober 8.. IO~ I S & 17 
7:30 -9:30 pm 138 DeBartolo HaU 
Studen'Cs may earn half a credit by regist:ering for the course. TH EC> 3878 4 Cultures West Christianity. Please contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department (631-7811) for me>re information. 
THESE LECTURES ARE SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY. MADE POSSIBLE BY A GRANT FROM THE DILENSCHNEIDER FAMILY. 

Monday, October 14, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INDONESIA 
Attack in Bali night club sparks al-Qaida fears 
Associated Press 
BALI 

Terrified tourists tried Sunday to flee this island par­adise that turned into an infer­no, with the death toll from a pair of bombings climbing to 187 and fears growing that al­Qaida has taken its terror cam­paign to the world's largest Muslim country. 
Many of those killed by the two bombs that tore through a nightclub district on Bali island Saturday were Australians as well as other foreigners from Canada, Britain, Germany and Sweden. Two Americans were killed. while three were among the more than 300 people injured. 
No one claimed responsibility for the bombings -the worst terrorist attack in Indonesia's history -but suspicion turned to al-Qaida and an affiliated group, Jemaah lslamiyah, which wants to establish a pan-Islamic state across Malaysia, Indonesia and the southern Philippines. It is accused of plotting to blow up the U.S. and other embassies in Singapore. 
In Washington, President Bush condemned the attack as "a cowardly act designed to cre­ate terror anrl chaos" and 
offered U.S. help in finding the perpetrators. 
"The world must confront this global menace, terrorism," he said. 
The attacks were on the sec­ond anniversary of the al-Qaida• linked attack against USS Cole off Yemen that left 17 sailors dead and took place amid signs of increasing terrorist activity that had led to the closure of 
U.S. embassies and renewed 
terror alerts for Americans. The destruction started when 
a. small homemade bomb exploded outside Paddy's Discotheque in the maze of clubs and bars on Kuta Beach, a popular haunt with young trav­elers. Shortly afterward, a huge blast from a bomb in a Toyota Kijang, a jeep-like vehicle, 30 yards down the street devastat­ed the crowded Sari Club, a surfers' hangout. 
A third, smaller bomb explod­ed outside the U.S. consular office. No one was injured in that blast. 
The second blast ripped into the open-air bar, triggering a massive burst of flames that officials said was caused by the 
explosion of gas cylinders used sions and fire damaged about for cooking. The explosion col-20 buildings and devastated lapsed the roof of the flimsy much of the block. structure, trapping revelers in Identification of the dead was flaming wreckage. The explo-slow, since some were burned beyond recognition. 

American Amos Libby, 25, felt himself lifted off his feet as he walked by the Sari Club as the bomb detonated. 

"All the buildings in the vicini­ty just collapsed, cars over­turned and debris from the buildings fell on them," he said, without giving his hometown. 
Citizens have faith in police to find Virginia sniper 
Associated Press 
ROCKVILLE.Md. 
Investigators hunting an increasingly brazen sniper defended their meager release of information, saying Sunday they don't want the killer to know what they know. 
Authorities pointed to the dangerous balance between pleading for public help and revealing too much. 
"We don't want to release anything that may cause ... anyone to think they're a suspect," said Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agent Mike Bouchard. 
Montgomery County police Chief Charles Moose, meanwhile, has cut back on his news briefings while saying he wishes there was more he could reveal. 
"I wish we could give you a name, a mug shot and an address but we're not at that point," he said in one of four appearances he made Sunday on national TV talk shows. 
Moose has become the public face of a massive task force investigating a random shooter who has fired a single round into each of 10 victims, killing eight, in suburban Washington since Oct. 2. 
The last killing occurred Friday morning, when a 53-year-old father of six was shot while fueling his sedan in a gas station just south of Fredericksburg, Va. At the time, a state trooper stood just 50 yards away, investigating a traffic accident. 
Also Sunday, calls continued to flood tipster hot lines with information about white box trucks and a second white vehicle, a Chevrolet Astro van, seen at two or more of the killing sites. 
And authorities began describing the serial sniper as not just a local threat, but an attempt to terrorize an already anxious nation. 
"This reminds us that people in our past have tried to intimidate and put fear into Americans," Moose said. "This a strong nation ... and we will not be intimidated." 
At the sprawling Covenant Life Church in Gaithersburg, Md., pastor 
C.J. Mahaney urged Sunday worship­pers to turn off their televisions and turn to God. 
"I am concerned there is too little faith and too much fear," the preacher said from the pulpit. 
Eighty-six-year-old Frances Pratt attended morning services at St. George's Episcopal Church in Fredericksburg, a few miles north of 

the latest shootin~. 
"I don't worry,' Pratt said. "Sooner or later he'll be caught. They always are." 
At Landover, Md., police on horse­back and bicycles ringed parking areas before Sunday's Washington Redskins pro football game against the New Orleans Saints. Fans grilling burgers at tailgate parties said they welcomed the rifle-toting officers. 
"I don't think anybody in their right mind would try something out here," said fan Bill Freita8, of Virginia Beach. Va...But he's not m his right mind to begin with." 
The victims, in Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C., were shot as they carried out daily errands, includ­ing mowing grass, shopping and pump­ing gas. Four were killed at service sta­tions. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Ivory Coast city captured by rebels 
Rebel fighters captured a major city in Ivory Coast's cocoa belt Sunday, dealing a heavy blow to the government even as peace envoys reported progress in talks to end the fighting. The fall of Daloa, a western city of 160,000 people, was a key· victory for the rebels because it is the heartland of embattled Ivorian President Laurent Gbagbo's Bete tribe. 
Iraq to vote on Hussein's re-election 
The victory rallies are set and the tributes are ready. In an Iraqi yes-or-no vote on re-electing Saddam Hussein, the only cliflhanger in Tuesday's vote is whether the two-decade Iraqi leader will beat his last showing: 99.96 percent. In Iraq, where many believe war with the United States is coming, that 1995 result for Saddam is now seen as some• what tepid. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush Iraq coalition lacks broad base 
President Bush promises to be at the helm of a "vast coalition" against Iraq. Unlike his father's 31-nation force for the Persian Gulf War, howev­er, it is a coalition slow to gather and lacking in marquee players. Bulgaria has anted up an air­port. Romania guaranteed air bases and airspace rights to U.S. fighter jets. Qatar is upgrading its al-Udeid air base and letting the Pentagon set up a command center and pre-position armored brigade equipment there. 
Astronauts delay unfolding radiator 
Astronauts aboard space shuttle Atlantis and the international space station got to see the results of their handiwork Sunday, with the rotation of brand new radiators. But the main event -the unfolding of one of the three exterior radiators -was put off until Monday because of a fleeting electrical prob­lem. 

Historian Stephen Amrose dead at 66 
Stephen E. Ambrose, a once-obscure history professor catapulted to prominence by his best­selling books that made aging World War II veterans hometown heroes again, died Sunday of lung cancer. He was 66. 
Family members were with Ambrose, a long­time smoker who was diagnosed in April, when he died at a Bay St. Louis, Miss., hospital, said his son, Hugh. 
Boston mobster's condos to be sold 
The government held open houses Sunday at five properties confiscated from a convicted mobster that are going on the auction block. The condominiums were seized last year after Stephen "The Rifleman" Flemmi began serving a 10-year sentence for extortion and money laun­dering. He still faces charges for his alleged role in 12 murders. 
Monday, October 14, 2002 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
edged that historical method­ology did not necessarily pro­vide information relevant to faith or current theology. 
"The closer you get to a first-century Jew and what he said to other first-century Jews, the less relevant he will at first seem to us,.. he said. 
Meier also discussed the issue of his­torical 
as valid. 
"In ancient history. we do not have pretext that there is no spin," said Meier. "At that time, you were not a decent historian if you gave no spin on what the truth was." 
In deciding whether a say­ing or teaching could truly be attributed to Christ or if it might instead have simply been a doctrine of the early church, Meier considered sev­eral criteria. "One criterion is that of discontinuity. what cannot be derived from 
Judaism of 
the early

sources in "The closer you get to a 
researching church," said
first-century Jew and
the life of Meier. "The 
Jesus. He what he said to other rejection of voluntary
listed first-century Jews, the 
Matthew, fasting and
less relevant he will at 
Mark, Luke the prohibi­and John, first seem to us . ., tion of divorce the four were some­gospels of thing unique
John Meir
the New to Jesus, and 
Notre Dame theology professor 
the teaching

Testament, as major sources of information. Other possible sources of information includ­ed the writings of Josephus, a first century Jewish historian and of Tacitus, a second cen­tury Roman author. 
"Josephus and Tacitus make reference to Christ, but they have differences from the gospels," said Meier. empha­sizing their use as verifying sources for the existence of Christ. "These people were not just getting their informa­
tion  from  the  New  
Testament."  
The  issue  of  differing  

sources also raised the ques­tion of criteria for deciding which information to accept 
sticks out like a sore thumb." 
Another important criterion was that of multiple witness­es. 
"The word of two to three witnesses reinforces an event," said Meier. "Not word­for-word testimonies, which imply coaching, but indepen­dent accounts from different times and viewpoints." 
Though Meier emphasized the difference between faith and history, he also focused on the importance of history in faith. 
"Some people wonder. if the historical Jesus is not the same as the Christ of faith, why bother to research him?" 
done extensive research and discussion with her proposal,
Trustees 
she said this would be a yearlong project.
continued from page 1 
"[I hope the] trustees see Catholic identity of the col­the benefit for the college 
lege with the Student Life Committee and also made a pro­posal of an improved physical education program for students. 
"The phys­ical educa­tion depart­ment is lack­
ing  right  
now.  There  
is  a  lot  of  

student con­cern and 
"The physical education department is lacking right now. There is a lot ofstudent concern and interest as seen in a survey done last year. overflow in aerobics classes and increasing participation in intramural sports. ,. 
Kristen Matha 
student trustee 
community and offer guidance to make the idea a stronger reality," Matha said. 
The Student L i f e Committee, which Matha sits on, has already endorsed the proposal. 
The board will return to campus in February to continue dis­

interest as seen in a survey done last year, overflow enrollment in aerobics class­es and increasing participa­tion in intramural sports," Matha said. • 
Matha's proposal is based on activity and theory com­ponents with the goal of impacting the social, emo­tional. spiritual and intellec­tual well being of students. 
While Matha has already 

cussion on issues brought up at this meeting. Matha is looking to coordinate more student interaction with the board, possibly focusing on a plan that includes a formal gathering of students and trustees. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at Bail l 407@saintmarys.edu 

said Meier. "No amount of scholarship will ever produce faith. Historical research will not prove the Christian faith but if historical claims are untrue, and Jesus did not exist and die on the cross, the religion loses meaning." 
eier holds the position of William K. Warren IV Professor of Theology at Notre Dame. He has written several books and articles, and is cur­rently working on the fourth volume of his work "A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus." 
The Saturday Scholar Series lectures take place each foot­ball Saturday in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium, starting three and a half hours before kickoff. 

Contact Maria at msmith4@nd.edu 
Toledo, Spain 
Information Meeting 

Don Quixote by Pablo Picasso 

Bridget Franco, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
Tuesday, Oct. 15, 2002 
6:00 PM 101 DeBartolo 

Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud Toledo On-line application deadline: December 1, 2002 ( for academic year, falI & spring semesters) 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
"Numbers and Courses" 
INFORMATION 
MEETING 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
tease · in us whether it is econd meetin 


Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
7:15 PM 209 DeBartolo 

Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 Academic Year 2003-2004 Fall 2003-Spring 2004 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, October 14, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch October 11 
DowJones  
7,850.29  •  +316.34  
NASDAQ  
1,210.47  •  +47.10  
S&P500  
835.32  •  +31.40  
AMEX  
790.66  ~  +15.42  
NYSE  
449.67  •  +15.50  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +5. 86 +0. 57 10. 32 
tiii~ll,~i~ilil)li~t!i1j1j::~¦l1l~llilill1lll!l/!l~il1I 
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) +4.38+3.53 84.16 
~!~~§m:;:;;ij~i~i::rji~jjj1!~~j~~~~:]1j~]:i.:mZ~f.lil~W.ll~~-]i~11:~~:~:1 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -17 .14 -0.12 0.58 
IN BRIEF 
Gasoline prices turn upwards 
Retail gasoline prices jumped almost 3 cents during the past two weeks, the first major spike in prices in six months, an industry sur­vey indicated. 
The average price for gas nationwide, including all grades and taxes, was about $1.4859, up 2.93 cents from the previous sur­vey Sept. 27, according to the Lundberg Survey of 8,000 stations nationwide. 
Continued strong crude oil prices, plus high­er demand at the pump, contributed to the rise in prices, analyst Trilby Lundberg said Sunday. 
"Fears about the Middle East crisis have kept crude oil prices high," she said, adding that travelers' continued reluctance to fly was also a factor. 
Until the latest survey, the price of gasoline had remained steady since April 5, Lundberg said. 
The national weighted average price of gasoline, including taxes, at self-serve pumps Friday was about $1.45 a gallon for regular, $1.55 for mid-grade and $1.64 for premium. 
Vacant stores now Halloween shops 
The grim reaper has arrived at a vacant golf supply shop. Leasing agent Eric Flocco is anything but hor­rified. 
Flocco leased the store across the street from the Cherry Hill Mall to a seasonal Halloween shop. 
Although the 14,000-square-foot building hasn't had a permanent tenant for more than two years, its prime retail location made it the object of a bidding war between two Halloween outfitting outfits, Flocco said. Spirit Halloween, a national chain owned by Universal Studios Company, won. 
"They'll take any open space they can get their hands on," Flocco said. "This business of peddling multicolored wigs, fake blood and that timeless Halloween staple, the flashing belly button light, is not kid stuff." 
Longshoremen strike over 
. Companies gain advantage in labor dispute 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Longshoremen are back 
at work after a 10-day 
lockout, but who's in 
charge on the West Coast 
docks? 
Historically, while other 
unions have withered, 
dockworkers in 29 major 
Pacific ports have stood 
strong against the ship­
ping lines and terminal 
operators that transport 
more than $300 billion 
worth of cargo each year. 
The balance of power 
changed -at least tem­
porarily -this week 
when President Bush 
ordered dockworkers back 
to the waterfront. 
Although it was a lock­out by shipping companies and not a dockworker strike that Bush ended, his invoking of the Taft­Hartley Act gave employ­ers the ability to drag the dockworkers' union before a federal judge on charges of deliberately slowing the pace of work. 
It's powerful leverage, given that Taft-Hartley's 80-day "cooling-arr· peri­od lets the shipping lines clear the cargo-choked docks during the all­important holiday import and fall harvest export seasons. 
In his Saturday morning radio address, Bush said he had to end the lockout, which he said was costing the nation up to $1 billion a day in lost business and lost jobs. 
"We simply cannot afford to have hundreds of billions of dollars a year in potential manufacturing and agricultural trade sit­ting idle," Bush said in his Saturday morning radio address. "The action I took this week will help keep our economy moving and allow labor and man­agement more time to resolve their differences." 
More time, but surely less motivation for a union infuriated by federal intervention. 


Bush's action compels the International Longshore and Warehouse Union and Pacific Maritime Association to take part in federally mediated contract talks after a meltdown at the bargaining table over terms of a new contract led to the lockout late last month. 
But union officials say the government interven­tion has only stiffened their resistance to what they see as association attempts to shrivel their ranks by denying them jurisdiction over new jobs created by cargo tracking technology. 
The union might simply wait out the 80-day "cool­ing-off" period and react angrily once federal involvement goes away. 
Taft-Hartley has been used in West Coast water­front disputes 11 times before, and has led to an immediate settlement only three times, according to David J. Olson, a political science professor at the University of Washington. 
"My guess is that instead of cooling off, things will heat up," he says. "The animosity is 
going  to  increase,  not  
decrease."  
Already,  there  are  

renewed accusations of a slowdown. 
The association com­plained Friday that pro­ductivity is down about 25 percent because too few workers are on the job. It may try to argue in court that longshoremen are not working "at a normal pace," as required by the judge who implemented Bush's Taft-Hartley request. 

Longshoremen say the docks were congested by the lockout and they are doing the best they can. Union officials also point out that employers have rejected their requests to train more registered workers, which would swell their current ranks of about 10,500 members. 
National labor groups say hard feelings over Taft-Hartley will invigo­rate their organizing for next month's midterm elections. 
No West Coast contests are close enough for orga­nized labor to target, said Steve Rosenthal, political director for the AFL-CIO. 
Enron a shadow of former self 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
A year after Enron Corp.'s public facade as a thriving global energy behemoth began to crumble, only hints of those heady days remain in the company's SO-story headquar­ters. 
Former chairman Kenneth Lay's corner office on the top floor, with its view of the city skyline -and what used to be called Enron Field, before the embarrassed Houston Astros changed the name -is vacant. 
The 2,000 workers left in the building that once housed 7,500 are consolidated on half-empty floors. The Starbucks in the lobby remains open, but lines of java lovers are rare; most of Enron's now-14,000 workers worldwide work at the company's pipelines and power plants. 
The cavernous board room for 15 directors is too spacious for the current slate of just four directors, none of whom were around for the financial sleight of hand that led to Enron's demise. 
Interim chief executive Stephen Cooper. a restructuring expert. uses former CEO Jeffrey Skilling's office, which faces Enron's smaller twin building. Intended to showcase its once-envied trading operation, the bankrupt company last week sold the tower for less than half its $240 million construction cost. 

"It's not the same company." spokeswoman Karen Denne said. 
But what Enron, No. 7 on the Fortune 500 list two years ago, retains is the image of corporate malfeasance it earned Oct. 16, 2001, when it revealed a $618 mil­lion loss and eliminated $1.2 billion of shareholder equity. 
Those revelations opened the door to an elaborate knot of part­nerships and off-balance-sheet debts that quickly fueled Enron's failure. 
O
THE BSERVER 


page 8 Monday, October 14, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVE.RTISING .....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS...... ...........631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://oburver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners ro the Ediror must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~stions regarding Obsnver policies should be direct­ed tlJ Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obonwr (USPS 599 240) is published Monday through Frid.y c,cq,< durin& a.am and noa<ion period>. A,.b.<ription ., The Obs<rm-is SI 00 fur one acadmuc 
ya,: 05 furo""""""'""· 
Th< ot-,.., is publi,h,d .., l'OSTMASTEJl 02 . South Dininc Hall Smd address COl'ffl:OOM to: 
No<r< Dunc. !N "6SS6 ThcOt..c.­
P.O. BoxQ Pm<><li<al P"""I' poid •• Nou,, Dam, Noett Dam<. IN 46SS6-0779 md additional mailing ollica. 
The Oboen.r is • member of the Aaociaral p,.._ All rq,roducrion riches .,., ,....,...j_ 

There's absolutely nothing in the world quite like Las Vegas, and there's absolutely no way to experience it quite like doing so with your mother. Oh sure, it's nice. this being her very-delayed­
thanks-to-Sept. 11 graduation present for me. but all the same, it's strange seeing your mom looking over your shoulder at the blackjack tables. "Hey, split those 

eights, kiddo. We're getting Mike Marchand lunch, you want something to eat? Oh, hey, dealer 
Undistinguished
busts! Booyah!" 
Alumnus ­
But yet, there we were at the South Bend Regional Airport at about 5:15 a.m. Thursday morning, watching her hus­band -my stepfather -being inappro­priately touched by airport security per­sonnel. Evidently, they thought he, a spe­cialty mechanic, represented enough of a danger to the other passengers to pull him out of the regular line and give him the full-monty examination. Every now and again, the security guy's magic wand would beep somewhere over my stepdad's pants. 
After a brief layover in Detroit, we arrived in Vegas, and the first thing we did, even before getting our luggage, was play slots. Yes, there are slot machines in the middle of the terminal at McCarran International Airport. My stepdad, fresh off his frisking, won $6 with his first quarter. Meanwhile, I couldn't win did­dly. It was getting so bad that I nearly begged a security guy to grope my crotch for luck. Finally, I heard the happy whooping of the machine signaling a winner, and: 
Clank. I won one damn nickel. It was my same nickel I put in the machine, too. I 
put it right back in, saying "First time's the hardest." The machine whooped again, and this time I looked down to watch my riches roll in: 
Clank. 
The same nickel again. I was done after that. Slots are for suckers, I rea­soned. 
I hardly fared better at the table games. At craps, poker and blackjack, I started off on a winning streak. I actually won my first three hands on the poker tables. I was having so much fun (and enjoying wonderfully uninhibiting drinks ferried to me for free by lovely waitress­es) that I didn't notice when my luck went cold and I was starting to lose money. Attempts to dig myself out of the hole only resulted in sinking further, except for blackjack, in which I finished $5 ahead. 
My one shining success came at the sportsbooks. Faced with the difficult choice of betting on the Florida State­Miami game or the Notre Dame­Pittsburgh game or both, I decided to let it ride and plunk down $50 on Notre Dame to cover. Thankfully, Ty's lads scored a touchdown in the closing min­utes to lead by eight; the final intercep­tion sealed it, and I doubled my $50 sim­ply because Notre Dame covered the seven-point spread. God bless you, boys. (Oh, I would still have been happy if they won by one point.) 
But of course, gambling is only one facet of the Las Vegas experience, and really not even the best. While tourists are advised to go to a bunch of different casinos to diversify their experience, I learned pretty early on that it was basi­cally all the same, only with a different decor. The Excalibur, where we stayed, looks like a castle and has a medieval look to it; whereas the adjacent Luxor is pyramid-shaped and has an ancient Egyptian motif. 
Anyway. there are also the shows, which can be broadly divided into two categories: "adult" and "everything else." (If I had won a ton of money here, I would finance a show featuring naked women doing magic. It would kill.} I decided to get a liberal dose of both in the same night, electing to see Penn and Teller at the Rio over the Blue Man Group at Luxor (P and T were simply the coolest thing I've ever seen), then staying for the showgirls at the Rio. 

Before I get any angry letters calling me a perverted deviant for wanting to see topless women, I hasten to point out that the show I saw was called "a cele­bration of artistry." I wholeheartedly agreed, being in the front row and at times less than two feet away from some delightfully jiggling and gyrating artistry. Seriously, though, there were more women in the audience than men, and one of the recurring themes of the show was how men are all vain, ignorant brutes. 
But for all the glitz Vegas has, there's a seedier side. Like tourist traps that charge $20 for 90 minutes of Internet access, making this a very expensive col­umn. Or ads for porn and prostitutes being handed out on Las Vegas Boulevard with hardly a peep of protest from passersby (of course, the road is called "The Strip," so adult themes are to be expected, I guess). 
In the end, while Las Vegas is a fun diversion for a few days, eventually. it gets old. Even the Rat Pack spent time in other places occasionally. and the guys from "Ocean's Eleven .. all left. So I'll be happy to get back to the Bend, being only a little worse for the wear monetari­ly. But before I leave, I have some slot machines to break. 
There are 1,000 women livin •devil­may-care. and Mike Marchand, class of 2001, is the devil with love to spare. By the time you read this, he will be back in town and available to e-mail at Marchand.3@nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus.. appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Andrew Joe Lindsley Thagard Bryan Kronk 
Laura Coristin Chris Federico Viewpoint Scene 
Sheila Flynn Emily Howald Graphics Lab Tech Katie McKenna Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Was Notre Dame justified in suspending the Irish Guard from last Saturday's game? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Work is a necessary evil to be avoided. ·• 
Mark Twain writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, October 14, 2002 page 9 
Experiencing the reality of famine 
One of my friends sent me a newspa­per article a month ago about a famine in Mauritania. It was from six pages into the newspaper, 50 words long and simply said there was a famine and food aid was being collected. Non-gov-Maite Uranga ernmental organi­zations in the capi­tal talked about the famine and Life in Africa predicted mass malnutrition and possible starvation. They cited statistics from unknown studies: "This is the lowest amount of rainfall in 40 years. In addition, the last three years have also received low rainfall ·so the food reserves within the country are running dangerously low. And the cold spell in January killed many goats and cows further adding to the food shortages." 
Using American terms this means that no fresh fruit or vegetables are available at Wal-Mart and the canned products are now out of price range because of rapid inflation. All the food in storage in case of a potential terror­ist attack or a surprising food shortage is gone. And because of the high price of food, savings accounts were emp­tied and health insurance cancelled back in January. Definitely not a posi­tive or hopeful scenario. 
So the first day I got back to site, I felt guilty even going to my family's house because somewhere in my Catholic upbringing I learned you are supposed to give food to the poor rather than take it from their starving children. I overcame the Catholic guilt, bought some bananas on the way and arrived at my family's house that I thought was in the midst of famine. I told my family about the news article and the things that people were saying in Nouakchott. They admitted their concern and then laughed at my over­concern. 
My family is very much upper-middle class in terms of Africa so I thought the famine had not reached them yet. Perhaps the poorer people could not as readily absorb the food price infla­tion and were also less likely to have been able to afford to stock up on food. At the market the next day I bought food to make dinner with one of my Peace Corps friends and we managed to find everything that we wanted. We would have no problems finding food during the famine. I was also in the economic class that was able to pay the price inflation; instead of five cents for a carrot it was 15. I saw that famines are not lack of food. They are a magnifying glass of economic dispar­ities. 
Famines can also be a misunder­standing of the relationship between climate and culture. Mauritania is now at the very end of its hot season which they refer to as "the hungry season." The difference between this year and any other is that the rains came about two and a half months late, and in that two and a half months, the Western media predicted famine whereas Mauritanians continued on with a slightly increased concern. I live with people and a culture that developed in the Sahara. It is absolutely necessary that this culture devise ways to live through droughts. Western media and 

oftentimes non-government organiza­
tions do not understand this relation­
ship. 

Life here is difficult, and lack of rain definitely heightens the level. but the culture and the people know what to do. Using American terms, their lives are always on the brink of famine. In their terms, sometimes they have real­ly good years and sometimes really bad years. 
The rains arrived a few days ago. Not quite as much and a little late, but nevertheless the Senegal River is ris­ing, the animal herds are moving north away from the river and people are starting to plant their vegetable gardens. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Deal with Irish Guard fairly 
I would like to respond to Meghanne Downes' Oct. 11 news article concerning the Irish Guard and to make some comments. 
First, The Observer misrepresented the facts from years past. As a member of the Irish Guard from 1984-1987. I can inform you that the Guard was never disbanded for alcohol consumption while in uniform, as you suggest. Also, I am not aware of the Guard ever being cited for alco­hol consumption while in uniform. In 1986, the fact is three members of the Guard missed the bus to Penn State, were suspended for the final game and subsequently re-instated. The entire Irish Guard never missed a performance during this time. 
I. too, was disappointed in the current members appar­ently sleeping on the sidelines and am not trying to defend or explain their actions. However, I do feel they deserve an opportunity to explain their actions, apologize and move forward in a positive manner. I can tell you that during my tenure, when issues arose, we never had that opportunity. A rush to judgment and a quick dismissal were the way problems were, in my opinion, unfairly dealt with. 
People who try out for the Guard are passionate about all things related to Notre Dame and Notre Dame football. They are people who are proud of the Irish Guard and the University it represents. I am certain the current members in no way wanted to portray the images they did and are deeply sorry for their actions. The fact is, the Irish Guard is part of the University and its great tradition and deserves to continue uninterrupted. 
J. Michael Connors 
class of 1988 Oct. 12 

Irish-British conflict kills Blair's political credibility 
The performances in Parliament and 
Blackpool of Prime Minister Blair and Foreign 
Secretary Straw about the use of force against 
Iraq gave a new luster to those time-honored 
English values of hypocrisy and arrogance. No 
doubt some were convinced of the need for 
force, but is Britain, with its track record of 
deceit and violence in Ireland, in any position 
to convince others? 
Prime Minister Blair asked the Speaker to call a special session of Parliament to present the case for using force against Saddam. As the debate began, British Information Services released a 50-page report which, according to Blair. chronicled "the 11-year history of the United Nations will flouted, lies told by Saddam." 
I have been waiting for 30 years for the British to tell the truth over their murderous rampage which cost 14 innocent Catholics their lives. A British Tribunal has gathered tons of evidence that fills rooms about Bloody Sunday, and yet, with a 50-page report, Mr. Blair would rain death and destruction on the Iraqi people. 
The reasons Blair gave for a "regime change" in Iraq invite a comparison between Sadaam and Britain's treachery in Ireland. 
1. 
Execution of Dr. Najat Haydar -The Prime Minister spoke of the execution of an Iraqi obstetrician who was critical of the cor­ruption in health services in Iraq. In Northern Ireland, Patrick Finucane and Rosemary Nelson were solicitors who were critical of and exposed the corruption and lawlessness of British forces. British security services gave weapons, money, data and a free-pass to loyal­ist gunmen who executed them both in front of their families and neighbors. 

2. 
Saddam Hussein's stonewalling-The Iraqi dictator is depicted as "constantly obstructing [inspections)" and with a long record of "intransigence" and "duplicity." Nearly 30 years ago, four no-warning bombs detonated in Dublin and Monaghan shopping centers, killing 33 and injuring hundreds. The British government was implicated from the start and to this day has refused to cooperate in the Irish investigation or arrest suspects in the North sought by Irish police. Dr. Reid, the Northern Ireland Secretary, stated that the lat­est requests for data by the Irish government 



would be "treated seriously." 
3. 
United Nations Charter -Considerable discourse is given to the obligations of mem­bers of the United Nations with respect to the Charter and the Declaration of Human Rights. The Foreign Secretary stated, "there will always be some who will reject or despise the values upon which international law is based." No nation in Western Europe comes close to England for charges and convictions of viola­tions of human, civil and legal rights as provid­ed under the Universal and European Declaration's of Human Rights. U.N. Rapporteur Param Cumarswamy's reports on killings in the North of Ireland are ignored. The United Kingdom still excuses itself from a treaty provision regarding the detention of sus­pects. Such is the British regard for U.N. oblig­ations, that the unlawful killing of unarmed suspects, politicians and children is steeped in deceit, cover-ups and even protected by gov­ernment-issued Public Immunity Certificates. 

4. 
The British Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC) -Prime Minister Blair notes that the report was prepared by the Joint Intelligence Committee which has served British prime ministers for over 20 years. This is the same crowd that in 1972 turned a peaceful civil right protest in Ireland into an armed uprising. The JIC has probably given more data to loyal~ ist assassins than to any Prime Minister. There are currently three British panels trying to sort out the corruption and failed intelligence of the security services in Northern Ireland. This does not inspire confidence in the quality of the JIC's conclusions. Perhaps that explains why after a five-year IRA ceasefire there are still more British troops deployed in Ireland than in any other place in the world. 


A case may be made for the preemptive use of force in Iraq, but some other nation should make it. Britain's history of treachery and deceit in Ireland discredits the very cause of truth, justice and freedom which is essential when defining a course of action to end the rule of Saddam. 
Michael Cummings Member, National Board Irish-American Unity Conference Washington, D. C. 0cc. 11 
O
THE
BSERVER 

us 

page 10 \ Monday, October 14, 2002 

ca 
to 
Scene looks at sorne of the social justice activist grou 
By LINDSAY UPDIKE 
Scene Writer 
Hippies. Tree-huggers. Left-wingers. Radicals. 
Traditionally, mainstream American culture has looked down its nose at the activist scene. Social and political 
activists are often ­times labeled as dissidents, trouble­makers, and now, in the face of war with Iraq, a threat to national securi­ty. 
Historically, how­ever, the United States has evolved itself through the exhausting efforts 
of  activists.  The  
framers  of  the  
Constitution  were  

activists, in a sense. 
"It's important for everyone to be a visible sign oftheir beliefs and to always be seeking ways to improve themselves and their communities. " 
Brian Hart Pax Christi member 
They gathered with a vision of how things should be. "The Federalist Papers" were published in an active campaign to shape the development of the United States most effectively and justly. Martin Luther King, Jr. and every other American who participat­ed in any capacity in the Civil Rights Movement were activists. 
Social action groups on the campus­es of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College have adopted the view that action can and will instigate change where injustices exist and they want 
to invite other 
students to get involved. "It's impor­tant for every­one to be a visible sign of their beliefs and to always be seeking ways to improve them­selves and their commu­nities," Brian Hart, a sopho­more member of Pax Christi and Amnesty International 
said. 
On Thursday, October 10, the four largest action-oriented social justice organizations from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses Amnesty International. Pax Christi, Peace 


Notre Dame senior Jason Witt marched at the Mobilization for Global Justice in Washington, D.C. In September. 

Coalition, and the Progressive Student Alliance held a rally on Fieldhouse Mall. 
Speakers included members from each of these groups and the Notre Dame Green Party as well as Father Michael Baxter, the chairman of the recent• ly-revived Catholic Peace Fellowship, which is now based Notre Dame, and Dr. Ivy Wilson, a faculty mem­ber with experience in campus organizing. 
The speakers, leaflet­ing and live folksy music from student Paul Kellner aimed to increase awareness among students, faculty and staff about the existence, missions and campaigns of campus activist groups. 
"Many students don't realize that we're here," said one organ­izer of the rally. "Of those who are aware of 

our presence, some misunderstand our objectives. We want to reach out and build a more powerful base of trials for political prisoners and abol­social consciousness and action on ish torture, the death penalty and these campuses." other acts that they believe are cruel 
How can students become involved toward prisoners. with issues that interest them? Amnesty conducts much of its 
action through letter-writing cam­
paigns. Amnesty functions and finds
Amnesty International 

overwhelming success by what theyThink activism isn't mainstream? 
call generating
Think again. 
mass globalThe Notre pressure.
Dame and Saint 

Mary's College "It's about increasing people's Students inter­ested in joining
chapter of faith in their prayers and in 
Amnesty
Amnesty 

their actions working to rid 
International
International 

contributes a themselves and their country of are invited to attend meetings,
handful of violence.·· 
which are heldsocially con-on Mondays at
scious student 

Brian Hart 7:45 p.m. in the
activists to the organization's Pax Christi member Center for Social 
1.1 million-member co1,1nt. 
Amnesty International is world-renowned­over 160 countries and territories have chapters-for its action of behalf of human rights. Founded in 1961, Amnesty received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1977. 
Amnesty International is worldwide movement of people acting on the conviction that governments must not deny people their basic human rights. 
The group mobilizes concerned individuals throughout the world to free prisoners of conscience, end extra-judicial executions, ensure just 
Concerns lounge. 

Notre Dame Greens 
A look at the information provided by the Notre Dame Green Party reveals that this independent political party shifts the focus away from rhet­oric and toward a politics of action. The list of the ten key values of the Green Party includes the promotion of grassroots democracy, social justice and equal opportunity, ecological wis­dom, nonviolence, decentralization of wealth and power, community-based economics and economic justice, fem­inism and gender equality, respect for diversity, personal and global respon­

O
THE 
BSERVER 

us 

Monday, October 14, 2002 page 11 
) action 
ups on the Notre .Dame and Saint Marys campuses 

Peace" vigils. ties to form a broader local peace Democrats and College Republicans Pax Christi meets movement. are routes through which students on Mondays at 8:30 The Peace Coalition meets on may actively advance concepts of 
p.m. in the lounge of Wednesdays at 9 p.m. in the CSC social justice and the Center for the Center for Social lounge. Social Concerns provides numerous Concerns lounge. opportunities for education and 
action surrounding, well, social con­
Progressive Student Alliance 

cerns. Law students can join the
Peace Coalltlon The Progressive Student Alliance 

Social Justice Legal Forum, the Public
The Notre Dame recently narrowed its focus to a con­

Interest Law Forum, the Women's
and Saint Mary's centrated effort sur-
Law Forum or
College Peace rounding campus 
the International
Coalition is also a labor issues. They 
Human Rights
peace action organi­currently address 
Society.
zation, but it differs two concerns. 

''Student activism is crucial Students
from Pax Christi is First, the PSA is 
already active in

two fundamental calling for pay because we can ·t learn 
social justice
ways. increases to adult 

about contradiction and campaigns
First, it is an ad hoc University employees 

injustice and suffering and stress the impor­
group of the Center who earn less than 
tance of engage­for Social Concerns, the amount which is do nothing to change them. " 

ment in current
working directly in approximately $10 
events and 
response to the per hour in the South 

Rachel Soltis issues, regard­
events of Sept. 11 Bend area. Living 
less of whereand in opposition to wage levels are cal­2002 graduate and peace activist 

students' sympa­
the U.S.'s military culated by city to 
thies lie and 
response. Members determine the 
warn against
of the Peace Coalition amount that an adult 
apathy.
do not agree with the supporting a small 
"Student
military actions, not family must make per hour to live at 

activism is crucial because we can't
necessarily all wars. or slightly above the poverty line. 

learn about contradiction and injus­
There are a variety Second. the PSA is campaigning for 

tice and suffering and do nothing to
of motivations for the right of University employees to 

change them. Education without
students and faculty organize and unionize, should they 

action is as empty as ignorance,"
joining this group. desire to do so. 

Rachel Soltis, 2002 Notre Dame grad­
Second, the Peace Progressive Student Alliance meet­

uate and peace activist, said.
Coalition is secular. ings are held Tuesdays at 8 p.m. in Some students 115 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

sibility and future focus and sustain­
choose to join only one of these peace These are not the only socially and
ability. 
action groups, and others join both. politically active student organiza­Contact Lindsay Updike at The group addresses these goals 
The premise behind the Peace tions on the Notre Dame and Saint 
Updike.4@nd.edu
through education and outreach. Its 
Coalition is that it is impossible to Mary's College campuses. College
pamphlet says, "The Green Party is a achieve internation­value based political party ... We al stability andbelieve in empowering citizens and peace through vio­communities. We offer hope and a call lence. Throughto action." 
social and academicInterested students should send an activism, the organi­email to ndgreens@nd.edu. 
zation works to fos­ter awareness about Pax Christi the implications that 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's they feel comes with College chapter of Pax Christi is part forceful actions and of a large national organization called try to show their Pax Christi USA. Pax Christi is a paci­response. fist organization that is centered on The group uses a Catholic social teaching. "'.ariety of tactics. 
"It's about increasing people's faith For example, last in their prayers and in their actions, year, with the sup­working to rid themselves and their port of the other country of violence," Hart said. campus social action 
In general, Pax Christi believes they groups, the Peace are working to change mechanisms of Coalition set up that they perceive violence. During camp on South Quad the past year, members of Pax Christi and slept outdoors regularly distribute information on a snowy night to about protests of the American gov­raise awareness ernment during the campaigns about the plight of against Afghanistan and Iraq, placing Afghani refugees. particular emphasis upon the suffer­Many members ing of civilians. also participate in 
A prayer by Art Laffin which was rallies and march in recently distributed by the group South Bend and in says, "Empower us to engage in non­Washington, D.C. violent action ... Make us channels of Currently the group your peace and reconciliation." They is organizing with have also held regular "Pray for other area universi-

Monday, October 14, 2002 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Another missed FSU kick gives Miami victory 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Unbeaten, yes. Unbeatable, no. 

Thanks to yet another missed field goal by a Florida State kick­er in the final seconds, No. 1 Miami hung on for a 28-27 victo­ry over the ninth-ranked Seminoles on Saturday. 
The Hurricanes (6-0) extended the nation's longest winning streak to 28 games, but the defending national champions proved they're not invincible after all. 
While the Hurricanes move forward in their quest for a sec­ond straight title, the close call certainly got the attention of upcoming opponents such as No. 4 Virginia Tech and No. 10 Tennessee. 
In beating the Seminoles for the third straight year, Miami knows it was lucky to come out on top. 
"I knew we were going to win; we just have a curse or some­thing on them," Miami defensive end Jerome McDougal said."lt was a true test of a champion today." 
For the fourth time since 1991 in this glorious rivalry, the Seminoles failed to connect on what would have been a game­winning or tying field goal. But unlike the first three that sailed wide right, Xavier Beitia's 43­yard attempt went in the other direction as time expired. 
Wide left. Who would have thought? Certainly not Florida State coach Bobby Bowden. 
"I simply can't believe we lost the game like that again," Bowden said. "I thought we had it. I went out to shake (Beitia's) hand. I thought he hit it. I've had that picture so many times before in my career. I can't stand it. Our kids did not deserve to lose this game." 
When the officials signaled the kick was no good, the Hurricanes rushed the field and celebrated as a record Orange Bowl crowd of 81,927 stood and cheered. The Seminoles hung their heads and trudged off to the locker room. 
'Tm an old man, and it's the best football game I've ever seen," Miami coach Larry Coker said. 
Until the final minutes, Florida State (5-2) outplayed Miami, but the Seminoles now find them­selves out of the national title chase. Even though Miami was pounded by the running of Greg Jones -189 yards and a touch­down -and penalized 14 times for 109 yards, the Hurricanes never quit. 
Ken Dorsey bounced back from what would have been the worst game of his career by leading the 'Canes to a pair of fourth-quarter touchdowns as they rallied from a 27-14 deficit. 
Oklahoma 35, Texas 24 
Just as the Red River shootout started to slip away from the Oklahoma Sooners, Quentin Griffin ran to the rescue -and all over the Texas Longhorns. 
Griffin scooped up a loose ball to score the go-ahead touchdown early in the fourth quarter, ran 17 yards for the game-clinching score with 3:02 left and finished with a career-high 248 yards to carry the No. 2 Sooners past the No. 3 Longhorns 35-24 Saturday. 
..Quentin had an incredible day. I think he really likes to play Texas," Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops said, referring to Griffin's six-TD day against the Longhorns in 2000. 
Oklahoma (6-0, 2-0 Big 12) beat its interstate rival for the third straight time, but this one was the toughest yet. 
The Sooners trailed by 11 in the second quarter and were behind at halftime for the first time since the 1999 Independence Bowl, but they ral­lied with 24 unanswered points. 
"I knew if we kept executing, something would give," Sooners tight end Trent Smith said. "This is what we prepared for all week long. We had the confidence." 

Texas (5-1, 1-1) got its first three scores, and a 17-11 lead, by making the most of Nate Hybl's four interceptions. Otherwise, the Longhorns couldn't do much. 
Coach Mack Brown fell to 2-7 against top-10 teams, and quar­terback Chris Simms lost his fourth straight. Simms was 12­of-26 for 156 yards with three interceptions and four sacks, including one on the game's final play. He's committed 15 turnovers in games against top­10 teams. 
LSU 36, Florida 7 
Just when Florida thought it couldn't get any worse, another Saturday rolled around. 
This time, it was unheralded Matt Mauck and No. 18 LSU picking on Ron Zook's woeful. 

16th-ranked Gators -scoring in almost every way imaginable for a 36-7 victory. 
LSU intercepted Rex Grossman four times and got its first win in The Swamp since 1986. The Tigers (5-1. 2-0 Southeastern Conference) scored touchdowns on an interception return, a fake field goal and two passes from Mauck to Devery Henderson. 
Of course, winning at The Swamp doesn't seem that big a deal for visitors anymore. Florida lost by 25 here five weeks ago to No. 1 Miami, a bad performance that doesn't seem like an aberration anymore. 
Now, the Gators (4-3, 2-2) are relegated to playing out the string aiming not for the kind of things they sought when Steve Spurrier was here -like SEC titles and winning with pizzazz. 
Instead, Zook will be trying to hold onto his job. And the way his team is playing, the Gators will be lucky to finish with a win­ning record and a trip to a bowl game. 
The victory put the Tigers, defending conference champi­ons, into a first-place tie in the SEC West with Mississippi. the team that defeated the Gators 17-14 last Saturday. 
Corey Webster intercepted Grossman twice, and returned the second pick 45 yards for a touchdown and a 10-0 lead late in the first quarter. 
From there, it got worse. 

The low point -or one of them, at least -came on the first play of the fourth quarter, when holder Blain Bech ran 35 yards untouched into the end zone for a score and a33-7 lead -an insult made worse consid­ering the Gators botched a fake field goal on their first drive of the game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
CJs Pub See whats happening www.cjspub.com 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-771 0 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Lost: Kairos (wattle) cross. Believed lost near west entrance to library. Has burgandy piece of velvet tied around top and two pins, a celtic cross and a footprints pin. PRICELESS to owner. REWARD offered. PLEASE call Cristin at 034-1057 
Flowers tor you Belle :) 
RecSports Basketball officials NEEDED Apply at Rolfs Sports Rec Center Clinic: Wed. 11 /6 7PM, RSRC Contact hadams@nd.edu 
LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold initials JME, size 10 3/4; engraved within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14 Michigan game, stadium student section or on field. 
Jon Mack 309 Zahm, 
634-1090. 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 
1-800-234-7007 
endlesssummertours.com 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800­SUNCHASE ext. 123. 
WWW.SUN CHASE.COM 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. 
Call 1.866291.1884 ext U187. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. 
$99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
1991 Honda Civic Hatchback. 135k miles.Good cond. $2200. 
574-277-3189. 
2-1988 National Champion footballs signed by Lou Holtz, coaches, and players. (271-2843) 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aoJ.com www.mmmrentals.com 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. 
CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2·4-5-6·7•8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM • MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS· CALL TODAY· HOUSES GOING FAST• 
CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 -(574)274-9955 -(574)674­2471 
Alum owned, 5Bdrm/2Bath, W/D,Security,1 O ft ceilings, HUGE Yard,very close to campus&well kept.2Bdrm w/view of dome also available. 
Call 674-0709. 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 • 269-469-0245 
B&B-Rutgers. Best Area (574)-287-4545 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896 
TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 
273-3911. 

WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 
251-1570 

ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. 
AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Need Home GA tix. Call 276-8507, after 5 call 288-2877. 
NEED BC TICKETS Alum {67 & 96) bringing family, friends & girlfriend to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck at 877.654.8472 or email at jbmal­ley@global.t-bird.edu 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free I ntormation/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Oh, bother 
I wanna go home 
Saturday night cups + Sunday MCAT = bad idea 
The Return to Glory was not as successful as it could be, but domi­nance still prevailed. Here's to an estimated 60 rounds! 
Philo girls -remember we can talk football with the best of them, regardless of the fact that we don't wear socks! 


Monday, October 14, 2002 page 13
The Observer . SPORTS 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
~gels are bound for baseball's heaven 
. tti
Samt MfilY-'S College 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
The Nation's PromlerCathollc Women's Coflege 
30TH ANNUAL 
EUROPEAN SUMMER S'I'UDY PROGRAM 

Courses offered in History, Education, English and Culture. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (574) 284-4462 e-mail: dstefanc@saintmarys.edu Fax: European Summer Study Program (574) 284-4866 
Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts Tuesday, October 15, 2002 At the Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
7:30 PM 
•Bring your gear ready to practice 
•Practice will be run by Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
•Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 
to get it done." 
Associated Press 

Anaheim had just wasted a 3-2 lead in the sixth when 
ANAHEIM, Calif. Kennedy's three-run drive off 
As players jumped around Johan Santana erased a 5-3 the infield and thousands of deficit and made him just the screaming fans pounded their fifth player to homer three plastic sticks together in a vic­times in a postseason game. torious drumbeat, the reality "Oh. man. This is tremen­was sinking in. dous," said Kennedy, the series 
With the help of Adam MVP. "We worked hard the Kennedy's newfound power, 
last few years to bring it all 
Anaheim finally made it to the together and we finally got it World Series, where no Angels' 
done." team had gone before. The Angels, who joined the 
And then thoughts turned to 

major leagues in 1961, blew the late Gene Autry, past the New York Yankees to Hollywood's singing cowboy 
win their first-round series 3­and the team's founding 1, then humiliated the Twins in owner, who wasn't there to see a seventh inning that saw 15 
it. batters come to the plate
"I know Mr. Autry's smiling against Santana, J.C. Romero, up there, and I'm so happy LaTroy Hawkins and Bob that Jackie's here to enjoy it 
Wells. 
with us," Tim Salmon said. "To Anaheim, whose playoffbe with this organization as hopes had seemed bleak fol­long as I have, and to feel the 
lowing a 6-14 start. tied post­emptiness of the fans all these season records with the 10-run 
years, and the pain and frus­inning and six consecutive hits tration, it's like we're paving a -something the Angels also 
new  road  did against 
here." In the movies,  "They just keep playing. And they keep swinging.  t h e Yankees. The "rally 
Autry's horse  Goodness gracious. I  monkey"  
was named Champion. Now his team  don't know ifI've ever seen an inning like that."  never even had time to make an  
is, too.  appear­ 
After 41 Sfta• sons of frustra­ Ron Gardenhire Twins manager  ance. "They're 

tion, and four 
years after 
Autry's death, 
the Angels 
finally got that final out. 
Halo-lujah! They did it. 
Kennedy, a No. 9 hitter with 
little previous proclivity for 
power, had three home runs. 
four hits and five RBIs, the 
most heavenly game of his 
baseball career. 
Just minutes after the Angels 
had squandered another post­
season lead, bringing back all 
those painful playoff memo­
ries, Kennedy broke out the 
biggest Thunder Stick of all ­
a 34-inch, 32-ounce Louisville 
Slugger. 
His first homer started the 
comeback, his second gave 
Anaheim a short-lived one-run 
lead. And then came his third, 
a three-run, go-ahead drive in 
a 10-run seventh inning 
Sunday. The Angels humiliated 
those resilient Minnesota 
Twins 13-5 to win the AL 
championship series in five 
games. 
The Angels will try on the World Series saddle for the first time Saturday when they open at home against San Francisco or St. Louis. A pic­ture of Autry, Hollywood's "Singing Cowboy" turned­baseball owner, was hanging throughout the weekend on a banner behind home plate and no doubt will be there next weekend. 
"This was a goal of Gene's all of his life in baseball, and the fact that he was not here to see it personally -I know he's watching it from somewhere," said his widow, Jackie, who gave the AL trophy to manager Mike Sciascia in her role as honorary league president. 
"His inspiration is what real­ly drove this team,"' she said. "Guys like Tim Salmon and Troy Percival and the other young men on this ballclub who knew Gene Autry wanted on a roll," 
T w i n s 
manager 
R o n 

Gardenhire said. "Those guys, 
they just keep playing. And 
they keep swinging. Goodness 
gracious, I don't know if I've 
ever seen an inning like that. 
We couldn't get anybody out. 
They were hitting balls 
through holes, over-bullets." 
Anaheim, long the second 
banana in Southern California 
to the Los Angeles Dodgers, 
had been one of only seven 
major league franchises with­
out a pennant. No more. 
"It's the biggest game of my 
life," said Kennedy, who has 
23 regular-season homers in 
four major league seasons and 
four in this year's playoffs. 
'Tm going to enjoy this for a 
while and then get back to 
work." 
Twice before, the Angels had 

been one victory from the 
World Series but failed to 
make it. They lost three 
straight to Milwaukee in 1982 
and three in a row to Boston 
four years later, when they 
were one strike away before 
Dave Henderson's home run 
off Donnie Moore. 
"Everybody is making a big deal of the 1982 and 1986 teams. We had nothing to do with that," said Scott Spiezio, who had three hits and three 
RBIs. 
When David Eckstein caught the final out -just as he did in the division series -he ran over to Kennedy and tapped gloves, then danced with Salmon. 
The Angels jumped on each other in a mob between first base and the mound. Fans cheered as Salmon, in his 11th Angels season and the team's senior member, ran around with the AL championship tro­phy. Percival joined his team­mates for a lap around the field. 

page 14 
The Observer . SPORTS 
Monday, October 14, 2002 
NFL 

Rams' first win is Raiders' first loss 
pass on the game's first play, 
Associated Press 

which actually led to a momentum-turning defen­sive stop by St. Louis. 
ST. LOUIS 

On fourth-and-1 from theOne quick possession was St. Louis 3, Zack Crockettall Marc Bulger needed to was stopped for no gain bycalm his frayed nerves and 
linebacker Tommy Polley,
give the St. Louis Rams a who had missed the two pre­lead they'd never relinquish. 

vious games with an injury.
The third-string quarter­Bulger then guided theback, who came into the 

Rams 97 yards in just nineleague two years ago as an plays. He hit Isaac Bruce for 
obscure sixth-round draft 

17 yards with his first NFLchoice, threw three touch­
pass, then connected with
down passes and ran for 

Torry Holt for 50 yards on
another in his first NFL 

action Sunday as the Rams his second. On his third pass won their first game 28-13 Bulger found Bruce in the over previously unbeaten corner of the end zone for a Oakland. 7-yard touchdown. "If you know you can play, Bulger, a star at West 
you don't have to worry Virginia who was originally about it," Bugler said. drafted by the Saints, said ..You'll get your chance." the deep pass to Holt did 
Marshall Faulk, who was wonders for his confidence. slowed by back spasms "Torry's so fast, I think he against the 49ers last week, outran my arm," he said. showed his familiar form by "Just being able to let all running for a season-high that energy out and com­158 yards. His darting 32-plete it, I think guys could yard run, sense we which fol­can get on l o w e d "For [Jerry Rice] to be 40 a roll Damione here."
years old and still be out 
Lewis' Gannon
there playing every snap 
332 yards, tion of Rich and not coming out ofthe 
Gannon's game andjust doing falling pass, put short of 
intercep­threw for 
what he's done since he 
the ball at becoming
[was] 23 is just
t h e the first Oakland 1 unbelievable. •• NFL play­with 11 :20 er to have left. at least
Dre' Bly
Bulger, 350 in
Rams cornerback
who started f o u r in place of straight injured sec-games. He 
o n d -connected stringer Jamie Martin, with Terry Kirby for a 2­scored on the next play to yard TD to get the Raiders to 
give the defending NFC 28-13 with 8:05 to go. champions (1-5) a 28-6 lead. 
Oakland coach Bill The touchdown triggered 
Callahan denied that the thunderous cheers from a 
Raiders overlooked the 
crowd that hadn't seen its 

Rams, or Bulger.
team win a home game since 

"He did get significantlast Jan. 6. 
playing time in the presea­
Kurt Warner, the NFL MVP son, and he understands the 

in 1999 and 2001, is out system," Callahan said. "l 

with a broken finger, but he think they were intelligent was the first person to hug 

with their approach. We
Bulger as he trotted off the were very diligent about howfield. 

we prepared for this team.
"You can't say enough 

My hat's off to them." 
about a guy who comes in in 

Two special-teams mis­
such a big game and plays 

takes by Oakland led towith such poise," Warner Bulger's second TD pass.
said. "He played the way he 

First, the Raiders were
had to play to win this foot­flagged for having an ineligi­ball game." 

ble man downfield on a
Bulger finished 14-of-21 punt. On the second kick,

for 186 yards and three they let Terrence Wilkins

touchdowns, with no inter­

break free for a 56-yard
ceptions. 

return, setting up the Rams
The Raiders (4-1), who 

on the 13. 
entered the game leading 

On the next play, Holt gotthe NFL at 40.5 points and 
free from Tory James and461.5 yards a game, had 
caught Bulger's pass in theonly two field goals and 229 end zone.
yards through the first three Less than two minutes into quarters. 

the fourth quarter, Faulk
The dismal performance 

broke a 40-yard run. Fromdidn't stop Jerry Rice, who 
the 10, Bulger tossed a
caught seven passes for 133 dump-off pass to Faulk, whoyards on his 40th birthday. 

slid past two tacklers into
"That is amazing for a guy the end zone for a 21-6 lead. 

who has done it as long as The Rams' offensive line,he has," said Rams corner­

back Dre' Bly. "For him to already thinned by the loss 
be 40 years old and still be of tackle Orlando Pace, was 
out there playing every snap further weakened when left 
and not coming out of the tackle Grant Williams was 
game and just doing what's carted away in the first half 
done since he's 23 is just after breaking his lower 
unbelievable." right leg and dislocating his 
Rice's caught a 53-yard right ankle. 
I 
.h(Mi!tt. 
~~~;1t

J: · Tracy Rees.e • P0Jec1 • ..Petttfo11 ·'-,.:c•'''.':,.~, :r·f/· ·.,.t;f:':_. 

' ..._, " ·i. il'ii:' tr,!

;, ,J . 
,,, f 
k~· 
. . . . 
' . . . 

&.J.-·ired 
1 INSPIRED AND FIRED 
l Granger Area /ic;'c~I;:Nicol~,f•~iU~•},l!~~Z11tf\528 E. Colfax, Suite #2 !312 W. Clevela~d.Rd. !{t~{!~//;Jam~;~,i~ (~;;~r;6:rI~~\)::,1 South Bend, IN 46617 I Granger, IN~~ . Jj{f:,;;~fit:f{;:}(;::/t~tx/'.:\-:,.. ];:;J;[ii,1t}l~':)f•.. 574/232-1822 I 574/277-6693 
___....,__________________.______________, 
'YOV'~ SP/E9{ 

'1!H!E qo£(JYE!N(J)O~<E;.•• !NOWC09rffE S'ElE '1!H!E CRJ)9,1Jl.!NO~I 
.., 
-:.. 


ROME PROGRAM 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday,Oct. 15,2002 
5:00 PM 101 DEBARTOLO 
International Study Programs: http://www.nd.edu/~intlstud Rome On-line Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 (for academic year, fall & spring semesters) 


REFLECTIONS ON THE CURRENT CRISIS IN THE CHURCH 
4:30 p.m. Welcome and Introduction: 

Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Dallas and Beyond: The Experience and the Future 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels 
Editor, Commonweal Prof. Scott Appleby, History Rev. Richard P. McBrien, Theology 
PERSPECTIVES AFTER DALLAS 
4:30 P.M. • MONDAY, OCTOBER 14 McKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY THE CHURCH STUDY COMMITTEE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion: Emerging Issues for the Church 
Prof. Gerard V. Bradley, Law Prof. Mary Rose D'Angelo, Theology Rev. Brian Daley, S.J., Theology 
9:00 pm. Prayer Service Followed by Reception 

• I I 
; 

page 16 

around the dial 
NFL San Francisco at Seattle 8 p.m., ABC 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, October 14, 2002 
NBA 


Associated Press 
Could the New York Knicks' preseason take a worse turn than it report­edly has Sunday? 
Power forward Antonio McDyess is expected to miss "most, if not the entire season" with a knee injury he suffered in a pre­season loss Saturday night, the New York Daily News reports on its Web site. 
The Daily News cites a person close to McDyess for its report. 
The Knicks wouldn't give a timetable, but said Sunday he will be out indefinitely with a frac­tured kneecap. 
The Knicks announced the news Sunday, a day after McDyess went down clutching his left knee with 
1:5 5 remaining in a pre­season loss to the Phoenix Suns. The injury was ini­tially diagnosed as a hyperextension, but an MRI exam revealed the fracture. 
"Naturally, he's totally disappointed and some­what devastated," coach Don Chaney said. 
In three preseason games, the 6-9 forward averaged 17.7 and 13.0 rebounds. 
The injury happened to the same knee that was operated on last season, sidelining McDyess for all but 10 games. Knicks president Scott Layden said McDyess will likely have surgery, and the only time frame he provided was that McDyess will be out "for an extended peri­

d .. 
0 . 

He is the second Knicks starter to be sidelined by an injury. Latrell Sprewell arrived for training camp with a broken hand, and the Knicks fined him $250,000 and told him to stay away from the team for failing to report the injury in a timely manner. 
Sprewell is not expected to return until mid-November at the earliest, and there's no telling when he might eventually team up with McDyess. 
McDyess will get a sec­ond opinion, and a course of treatment will then be determined. Layden said there was no damage to the patella tendon that was repaired a year ago. 
"Our medical staff feels this is not a career-threat­ening injury," Layden said. 
The injury happened suddenly in the closing minutes of an otherwise meaningless game. After dunking a miss by team­mate Howard Eisley, McDyess fell to the floor clutching his left knee. 
IN BRIEF 

Reports say Pinella could Armstrong accompanied Lincoln and attorney. Jensen said that Fizer, gef contracf release general manager Pat Gillick to released after posting bond, is due Seattle manager Lou Piniella will Florida and said the team had not back in court Oct. 21. be released from the final year of his yet granted Piniella's request. "He is charged with having (the 
contract if he does not want to gun) in his car and readily accessi­return to the Mariners, The New Fizer arrested on weapons ble," Jensen said. "He said he need­York Times reported Sunday. charges ed a gun for protection, according to 
A baseball official told the newspa­Chicago Bulls forward Marcus prosecutors." per the Mariners would release Fizer was charged with having a Piniella from his $6.8 million con­loaded gun in his car and driving De La Salle extends streak tract if he made the request. with a suspended license early De La Salle High School extended 
The Seattle Times reported on its Sunday morning. its winning streak to 130 games with Web site Saturday night that Piniella Illinois State Police Sgt. Wayne a 28-7 victory Saturday over Long has asked out of the final year of his Winterberg said Fizer was pulled Beach Poly in a meeting of the contract. over just after 2 a.m. for having ille­nation's top two high school football 
Piniella made the formal request gal tinted windows on his sport-utili­teams. Friday during a meeting in Tampa, ty vehicle. Britt Cecil passed for 237 yards, Fla., with three Seattle team offi­Police then found Fizer was dri­completing long touchdown passes cials, including CEO Howard Lincoln. ving with a suspended license. While to Cameron Colvin, De'Montae 
"I asked them if I could be allowed preparing to tow his car, police Fitzgerald and Terrance Kelly as the to get closer to home," Piniella told searched it and found a .40-caliber Spartans (5-0) rolled to an easy vic­The Seattle Times from his home in gun, Winterberg said. tory with 474 total yards. Tampa...We had an amicable meet­Fizer appeared before Cook Maurice Drew rushed for 161 ing, as amicable as amicable can be. County Circuit Court Judge Margaret yards as the Spartans -from 
We talked for over an hour. Now Mary Brosnahan, who set bond at Concord. Calif., in the San Francisco they're going to make a decision." $5,000, said Marcy Jensen, a Bay Area suburbs -extended a Mariners president Chuck spokesman for the Cook County state streak that dates to Dec. 7, 1991. 

Monday, October 14, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 



frequent Service to Chicagoland Airports 
Save Time, Save Money. 
Coach USA City Express makes traveling to o·Hare International Airport and Midway Airport more convenient and affordable than ever. Daily service and a flexible 
:1:.:\,_ 
·.• departure schedule makes getting 
" .·< • ­
'~~··:·••·•:,.; to both airports a cinch. 
You may purchase tickets from 
Anthony Travel or from the driver. 
. ;, ·, 

.<~~", 1-800-833-5555 
WNW.coachusa.com 

Boardat Holy Cross Drive and Notre Dame Ave. 
rm
<t~ 

CoachUSA 
....... CityExpress ....,.,.,. 
Former1y United Limo 
13 trips daily Extra buses will be available for fall break 

'(, ~­

Women 
continued from page 20 
was nice seeing her on the field again." 
The return of junior defender Melissa Tancredi was also cru­cial to Irish defensive effort, which did not allow a shot by the Huskies in the second half. 
"Tancredi stepped up huge today," said Waldrum. "We document our heading battles and she won 18 and didn't lose any. Also Mary Boland did a great job of marking Sarah Popper out of the game, which is one of their key people. It really was a great team effort." 
Notre Dame's first score came early in the second half. Warner and Candace Chapman initiated the sequence before Chapman played a lead to freshman Katie Thorlakson. Her shot from the close left wing got by Connecticut goal­keeper Maria Yatrakis for her first goal of the season. 
The second goal for the Irish came on a corner kick from Guertin. Guertin played a per­fect kick into the box for Randi Scheller whose header gave the Irish their first lead. 
Thirteen minutes later the Irish struck again on almost the same play. Guertin placed another kick into the box that this time was headed in by Tancredi for the 3-1 lead. 
"Amanda Guertin, on the two corner kick goals that we got, she placed them right where we needed them," said Waldrum...In the second half when we needed to do it right. she did it right." 
Despite out-playing the Huskies in the first half, Notre Dame went into the locker room down 1-0 on a goal by Salla Ranta with just under five minutes left. 
"Everyone was still positive at halftime," said Warner of the halftime deficit. "We acknowl­edged that we were playing better. We were still confident." 
The schedule does not get any easier for the Irish, who were playing their third straight ranked team. Next up is a trip to No. 9 Michigan on Thursday. 
"We have to take each game one at a time," said Guertin. "Every team we play is good, but we have to take care of business." 

Notes: 
. 
The Irish won their 43rd con­secutive home game against Big East opponents. 

. 
Defenders Vanessa Pruzinsky and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir are not expected to return this sea­s on due to injury. They join freshman Annie Schefter, who has missed the entire season due to an ACL injury. 

. 
Guertin's two assists added to her team leading total of seven. 


Contact Andy Troeger at atrocger@nd.edu 
11!:iil 

HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
f& When it's the 

match your career goal. Apply by November 8, 2002. 
prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the far east, strategically chosen to 
ND WOMENS GOLF 

Irish shuffle lineup, look for consistency 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
For the fourth consecutive 
tournament the women's golf 
team will be have the same 
goal: to finish a tournament 
with a 312 per round average. 
Coach Debby King will lead her team to the Marilynn Smith Sunflower Invitational today and Tuesday in Wichita, Kan., as part of the 16-team field. 
"This is a medium field, probably a little stronger than our home field tournament," said King. ''I'd like to see us be in the top five and to continue to strive for 312 consistently." 
The Irish will also continue their lineup shuffling for this weekend's event, as all of the golfers have continued to shuf­fle through the lineup. 
"It's hard to pick [the five golfers who get to travel each weekJ," said King. "I don't know who's going to play [from week to week]; Rebecca Rogers has really started coming on 

strong and playing well of late." 
Rogers, a junior coming off her best performance of the season last week, will lead the Irish from the No. 1 position. Also traveling to Kansas are freshman Katie Brophy, sopho­more Karen Lotta, junior Shannon Byrne, and freshman Sarah Bassett. 
King's decisions are made more difficult because golf is one of the few team sports that does not allow any kind of sub­stitution once the competition begins. She is forced to decide who will play before the team leaves for any given tourna­ment, then has no recourse if someone struggles. 
"It's kind of frustrating that everyone can't get it together at the same time," said King. "Someone might have a good round and someone else has a bad one. But we're a young team and it is going to take us more tries to get experience." 
The golfers hope to put it all together this week in Kansas. 
Contact Andy Troegec at atroeger@nd.edu 


I • 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, October 14, 2002 
ROWING 

Irish finish season at Head of the Rock 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame dominated the open eight race with third-, fifth-and seventh-place finish­es Sunday at the Head of the Rock Regatta. 
The Irish first varsity eight of Cassie Markstahler (cox), Natalie Ladine, Ashlee Warren, Ann Marie Dillhoff, Alice Bartek, Elizabeth Specht, Erica Drennen, Kerri Murphy and Kathleen Welsh rowed the 2.7 miles course in 15:56.6. 
Wisconsin's A crew was first with a time of 15:46, followed by Iowa in second at 15:55. 
The second eight of Kathryn Long, Kati Sedun, Becky Luckett, Casey Buckstaff, Meghan Boyle, Diane Price, Rachel Polinski. Katie Chenoweth and Melissa Felker finished in fifth, while the crew of Maureen Gibbons, Katie O'Hara, Shannon Mohan, Meredith Thornburgh, Christine Donnelly. Sarah Palendech, Kristin Henkel, Sarah Keefer and Megan Sanders took seventh place. 
The fourth varsity eight of 
Men 
continued from page 20 
took a long catch and the keep­
er came out." 
The goal for Boughen was his third goal of the season, and Detter's assist was his third assist of the season. 
For the most part, the weath­er controlled the tempo of the game, as 
rain and wind prevented any large-scale runs or long posses­sions of the ball. 
Despite the adverse weather conditions, both sides had opportunities to put the game away in regulation. 
The Eagles' biggest threat came about eight minutes into the second half, as Neil Krause found a wide-open Casey Schmidt, who put the ball past Irish goalie Greg Tait for what appeared to be the first goal of the game. 
However, the referee ruled that Schmidt was offsides on the play. and the goal was dis­allowed. 
Five minutes later, an Irish corner kick found Braun with an opportunity for a shot on goal. However, Braun's hard shot was saved on an acrobatic play by Singer. 
Statistically, the Irish con­trolled the Eagles for most of the game, outshooting the Eagles 15-10, and taking six 


"{After Saturday ·s win,] I the right 
think we ·re just back on track," Boughen
the right track." 
said. 

The Irish Luke Boughen return home for their
midfielder 
Rebecca Campbell: Kristin Mizzi, Courtney Quinn, Katherine McCalden. Devon Hegeman, Antoinette Duck. Jenna Froberg. Danielle Stealy and Ann Mulligan came in 18th. 
Notre Dame likewise had a strong showing in the open four, as the crew of Rackish, Mohan, Thornburgh, Donnelly and Palandech clinched first, while the team of Markstahler, Buckstaff, Boyle, Sedun and Felker finished third. 
The Irish also dominated in the pairs as it secured four of the top eight places and six of the top 16. 
The team of Warren and Murphy were second, followed by the duo of Dillhoff and Bartek in third. Ladine and Welsh were seventh and Price and Luckett finished eighth. 
The Head of the Rock Regatta completes the team's fall season, but the rowers will work off of its strengths from fall races as it transitions into the offseason. 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.ec1u 
corner kicks to the Eagles' two. 
"[After Saturday's win,] I think we're just back on 
next game, which will take place . Wednesday. 

The Irish will host Michigan State (8-4) at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@ncl.edu 

rJities

student Act.¦ 
Hnatusko 

Notre Dame Fire Department t1oulihansStudent 
Government 
Jeff Shoup
Mac,-;'s 
~~~I 


Monday, October 14, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN ~~~~ • ,..-!_. 1flE DIFFeteNT SnTCl&S OF Kt> FOOTe;\U. FAM~:
.....____  
Z1iLEFT~~  ~~lf-AM~  '/A'{.. rJM .. (HIU-OP)  
DFCf2. IT.  
t  ~  ~  .  ~  
t •  ~, AM6· Bn"-RAN~ML'I•MJ.1£.&S -A· SE·lllAT· PASSES-RR...\·ati6R·  
·o'.1  ·A·'rRl»\N·\lfflL·lllEY·~·  
cHE  f'l·nt&  • --T&At'l. !  •TOO-l)RlMl(... OUT-\#HAT· &Va2YONG.·ElSE-IS TO ·CAR,&> : OOINGt I :  
HAPPY TOWN  JACK MONAHAN  


page 19 

• 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
LITEE 
± 
I I r J 
C2002 Trtiune Media Sento;ea, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ARROD 
± 
I I r J 
GRUIFE 
± 
www.jurri>le.oom
tDIBORM 
IJ I CJ 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: THE 

"( I I J -rI I I I I I ]'' 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GORGE FORAY FLABBY ENJOINSaturday's 
Answer: Enjoyed by a flag company even when business is down -A "BANNER" YEAR 
DOUBLE JUMBLE 2, Double Jumble Is Jumble fun an.a two. &cl!~ ta two sets of puzzlN and cartoon rfddlaL Send $4.911 (Ind. l)OjJtllge and hMdllng) to P.O. Box 4330, Chk:ago, L 60680-4330. Include your name, add,-and zlpcode and malutcheck~lo Tribune Ma:1111 Servicle&, Inc. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Brown on the beach
1 "Peanuts" boy 34 Basketball's
6 Lady's man Alcindor 
1oFizzling-out 35 Florida home ofsound 
Busch Gardens 14 Make amends 
36 Not weighing(for) 

much 15 Taj Mahal site 
39 Mauna Loa, e.g. 16 Title role for 
41 BoughtPeter Fonda 43 Bad breath 17 Tunneling cause, maybetusker? 

44 Exhaust 19 Sinn _ (Irish 46 Prevaricate

organization) 47 Holiday quaff
20 Brown in the kitchen 48 New Jersey hoopsters
21 Hurt or irritate 49 Clutter
23 Suzanne of "Three's 50 Musician's date Company" 52 Better _ than 26 Sultry Hayworth never 54 Goodies
28 The "I" of 
T.G.I.F. 56 Playful child 
29 Fruity coolers 58 Cook, as clams 30 Central street 60 Needle case 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
61 Grizzly doing a striptease? 66 Powder ingredient 67 Writing on the wall 68 Spine-tingling 69 Sailing 70 Amusement park lure 71 Small drinks of liquor 
DOWN 1 Chem class 2 "How was 
know?" 3 Common 
conjunction 4 Joins forces 5 One who may 
hear "Si, si!" 6 Yaks 7 Vain voyage? 8 Gunner's grp. 9 Fortuneteller's 
card 


18 Certain meter .....+......,...,;..i reader 

t-:-t~~r+-i~~~~i-,;..1,..,..+~;.;;;...=~ 10 Bit of smoke 11 Pest that's beating it? 12 Misleading maneuver ......___._......,........,.,._...,;.~ 13 Minds, as a bar 
22 Result of a punch in the 
mouth 
t-::-1~~~,......,+-,,,+--1--i......,.....+..+.-+-......... 23 Artillery burst 
t-=-+-=+.~~+...-11-,,,-1-~..;...;.;~..,,,,_.~.;;.;,~ 24 Old-fashioned music half 


Puzzle by Nonna Johnaon and Nancy Salomon 
25 Big-eared 42 "Pride and blubberer? Prejudice" 27 Sulking author 31 Quantity 45 Boils over 33 Help 49 Dues payer 
35 Snarl 50 Reclusive Garbo
37 Raise 38 Long lock 51 ltsy•bitsy bits 
WILLSHORTZ 
55 Showed fury 57 Typesetter's unit 59 Fork feature 
62 French friend 63 End of an 64 Something to 
take, carefully 
40 Dove's sound 53 Ann _, Mich. 65 Lawyer's thing 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1 ·900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leamin'1xwords. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Harry Anderson, Ralph Lauren, Roger Moore, Arleen Sorkin 
Happy Birthday: Keep your personal life and your emotions in check and this can be a fabulous year for you. You will have the savvy to pull off whatever deal you choose. If you follow your instincts you will rise above anything that is unsavory or gnawing at your subconscious mind. You are the master of your own destiny. Your numbers are 6, 18, 20, 25, 31, 33 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Problems will continue if you don't sit down and have a heart-to-heart talk with the one you love. You have probably neglected your family in order to get ahead professionally. Now's the time to make up for your absence. HHHH TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do something special with the whole family. You need to spend time together. Whether your outings are of an educational nature or strictly for exercise, everyone will benefit. HH GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Children's activities may cost you dearly. Remember, you don't have to spend a lot to have fun. Some of your new friends may not be that trustworthy. Stay alert. HHHHH CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should take time to do things with children. Uncertainties about your relationship may play on your mind. Consider all the alternatives. You may want to get some legal advice. HHH LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may feel a little under the weather. Don't exert yourself. Stay home and help youngsters prepare for festivities. Do a bit of research on a project you've been working on. HHH VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get busy. You should be making as many of your Christmas gifts as possible. You can save a bundle and you can get the kids involved as well. HHH LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may be overly sensitive to criticism of your home. You aren't the neatest individual, but you do appreciate nice surroundings. It may be time to put some energy into a little redecorating. HHHHH 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's time to discard old junk. Have a garage sale and put the money you make into a travel fund. This is an ideal time for you to take a relaxing trip. HH SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may have to make a fast financial decision. Don't involve too many others in your planning or it could slow you down. Set a cash figure in your mind and refuse to go over that amount. 
HHHH 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let your partner goad you into pouring your heart out. Try to find a place where you will not be disturbed by anyone. You need more time to think this through. HHH AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time for you to shake things up a little, not only for yourself, but also for others. Whether you decide to entertain at home or plan an excursion, it will be exciting for all. HHH PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Lending and borrowing l!'.3Y present a problem . A friendship will suffer if money becomes an issue. Your desire to get away 
.....
may lead you into greater debt. HHH 

Birthday Baby: You will be able to find solutions to any problems that arise. You will be compassionate, caring and charismatic. You will be popular with your peers but fickle when it comes to your personal life. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


Monday, October 14, 2002 
ND SOCCER 

Upset specials 
• Women score three second-half goals to top No. 8 Connecticut 3-1 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 

Down 1-0 at halftime, the Irish women's soccer team knew that the second half of their game against Connecticut was crucial in their effort to start a late-season surge. 
Their play in that second half might send them on the way toward that goal. 
Notre Dame dominated the second half, scoring three goals on nine shots -while holding the Huskies scoreless -for a 3-1 vic­tory. 
"Everybody was really focused," said junior forward Amy Warner. "We really played with more intensity and heart today." 
"We didn't say much about it before the game, but everyone knew how important this game was to us," said fellow junior Amanda Guertin. "We felt that if everyone does their part individually then the team as a whole will win and do well." 
The game marked the return of Irish senior midfielder Ashley Dryer, who had missed the past few weeks with nagging injuries. 
"[Dryer is] so composed and brings such a calming effect into our midfield," said coach Randy Waldrum. "She's still not 100 percent. but I think she makes a world of difference. It 
see WOMEN/page 17 


. Men make big strides in Big East with 1-0 overtime road victory over No. 15 Boston College 
By BRYAN KRONK Sports Writer 

One goal has never meant so much so often to the Irish. 
In the fourth and final road game in a span of 16 days for the Notre Dame mens soccer team, a goal by Luke Boughen 3:36 into over­time propelled the Irish to a 1-0 upset of No. 15 Boston College on Saturday. 
"It was a big win for us," Boughen said. "Some of the guys were talking about how [a loss] might knock us out of NCAA contention." 
The victory for the Irish -their third over a ranked opponent this season -puts them back in the mix for a home game in the Big East quarterfinals in November. 
The Irish now stand at 6-3-3 overall and 3­2-1 in the Big East, and are tied with Rutgers for fifth place in the conference. The top four teams in the Big East earn a home game in the conference's postseason tournament. 
The only goal of the game came off a lead pass from midfielder Justin Detter. He led Boughen down the left side of the field, and Boughen's shot to the far side of the net edged past goalie Justin Singer to give the Irish the hard-fought victory in less-than­ideal playing conditions. 
..Justin [Detter] just got the ball, and I just made a run outside," Boughen said. "I just 
see MEN/page 16 
MENS SWIMMING 
Irish top Hornets 
•
1n opener 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame mens swimming coach Tim Welsh wanted his team to control the meet from the start against Kalamazoo Friday. 
The Irish did just that. 

Notre Dame won four of the first five races and cruised to a 139-96 victory in their first dual meet of the season. 
"At the beginning of the meet. Coach said that he really wanted us to take the meet out and really establish a. tone very early in the meet by swimming hard right at the beginning," sophomore Frank Krakowski said. "That's what we did. Everyone really contributed to the win because we spread the team out a little bit and gave everyone a chance to get a 'W'." 
Krakowski led the Irish by win­ning the 50-yard freestyle and the 100-yard relay, while fellow sophomore Matt Bertke added a win in the 1,000-yard freestyle. 
Krakowski was not surprised Notre Dame won the meet so convincingly. 
"Kalamazoo is definitely not one of the toughest teams on our schedule. but it was really nice to win," Krakowski said. "We prac­ticed really hard that day, we swam 5,000 yards and lifted after that. So it was nice to still be able to swim fast after all that." 
The Irish got contributions from Andy Maggio, Patrick Davis and J.R. Teddy. Matt Hyde, Tyler Grenda, Patrick Heffernan and Travis Kline finished second in the medley relay with a time of 
3:40.49. The foursome of Krakowski, Doug Bauman, Jason Fitzpatrick and Teddy finished first in the event. 
Notre Dame put the meet away when four Irish swimmers took the first four spots in the 200­yard individual medley, led by first-place finisher David Mosian. 
Notre Dame travels to Colorado to face the Air Force Academy Oct. 18. 
Krakowski thinks that meet will be a good test for the Irish. 
''They should be pretty tough," Krakowski said. "From what the coaches said and what I've [seen online], they match up with us pretty tough. I don't know if we'll be practicing as much during that day but we'll be taking the week as a regular week and go up there and see how we do." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame 14 Pittsburgh 6 
Despite a poor offensive showing, the Irish defense managed to hold off the Panthers, as Notre Dame improved to 6-0 and earned a No. 7 ranking in both major media polls. 
Irish Insider 
ROWING 
Head of the Rock Regatta 
The Irish rowing squad finished off its fall season with an impressive showing at the Head of the Rock Regatta last weekend. 
page 18 

ND WOMENS GOLF 
Irish at Marilynn Smith Sunflower Invitational 
The Irish travel to Kansas today and Tuesday in hopes of breaking their total score of 312. 
page 17 
.__: E.1'> 

O
THE 

Monday, October 14, 2002 BSERVER Notre Dame 14, Pittsburgh 6 
Luck of the Irish 
Despite a lackluster performance, the Irish eked out a win Saturday 
ByJOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Luck was on Notre Dame's 
side as the Irish etched out their 
sixth win of the season. The 14­
6 victory against Pittsburgh on 
Saturday came in spite of the 
fact that Pittsburgh controlled 
the bail the majority of the 
game and had more than dou­
ble the total number of Notre 
Dame offensive yards. 
The Panthers finished with 21 
first downs and gained 402 
yards of total offense, while the 
Irish, with 10 first downs, were­
limited to a season-low 185 
yards. 
Irish head coach Tyrone 
Willingham. however, would not 
be so quick to discount the 
team's performance -a perfor­
mance that classifies him as 
only the third coach to start his 
Notre Dame career 6-0. 
'Tm not quite sure I would [say we were outplayed]." Willingham said. "I think the true quality of being outplayed is winning the game, and I think that happened today." 
The Irish did so, in part, by keeping Pittsburgh out of the end zone. The Irish defense held Pittsburgh to just two field goals. 
"I don't care about the yards -we played a lot of plays, and the more plays you play the more yards you're going to give up," said Irish offensive coordi­nator Kent Baer. "Keeping them out of the end zone is huge. [Pitt] is an awfully good football team, and I want to emphasize that. They have a very mobile quarterback and great receivers. But we did what we had to do." 
Despite the offensive strug­gles, the Irish were still able to get two touchdowns past Pitt's tough defense. 
"[Pitt] played hard," running back Ryan Grant said. "I guess they were coached well because it seemed like they had some­thing for us every time. I give a lot of respect to them, but I also give a lot of respect to our offense, because we stuck together. Our offense stepped up and pulled through." 
Carlyle Holiday, returning as quarterback after injuring his shoulder at Michigan State, went 16-25, threw one intercep­tion, and completed his second touchdown pass of the season. 
"I don't think I was rusty," Holiday said. "I knew I needed to go out there and get through my throws and establish our offense in the first half. and I think for the most part that hap­game, significantly contributed marked the first time since a pened." to what success the offense did 1998 win against Baylor that 

While Willingham acknowl­have with his 10 receptions -Notre Dame has not allowed an edged the offense needed the most in a single game for an opponent to score a touchdown improvement, he did not Irish player since Bobby Brown in Notre Dame Stadium. express disappointment with his against Pittsburgh in 1999. "[The defensive line] was starting quarterback. Battle was on the receiving end probably getting more comfort­
"I thought Carlyle did a good of Holiday's second quarter able with their style of play," job for us again," he said. "What touchdown pass, and his leaping Willingham said. we're looking for is our quarter­catch gave the Irish their per­After allowing the two scoring back to make some smart deci­manent lead. drives in the first half, the Irish sions during the course of the Defensively, the Irish once came out noticeably stronger in game. And I think Carlyle com­again proved formidable, espe­the second half. 
ing back after a week or two off cially in the clutch. The defense "We were just playing a little did a very nice job. I expect was able to prevent Pitt's com­bit more aggressive," Gerome great things from Carlyle, and I paratively longer drives from Sapp said. "We got a feel for the think he expects things." ending in touchdowns and routes they were running. [We] Arnaz Battle, who had 11 allowed two field goals -both basically [were] putting our­receptions heading into the Pitt in the first half. Saturday selves in better position to 
make plays." 
Part of the defense's success 

sprung from players who have 
not seen much time in the spot­
light before. Justin Tuck's four 
sack contributed to Notre 
Dame's total of eight -the 
most since the Irish had nine 
against Rutgers in 1996. 
Additionally, Glenn Earl made 
some key players, including a 
fourth quarter sack and subse­
quent fumble recovery which 
initiated Notre Dame's second 
scoring drive. 
"The front four definitely 

stepped it up the second half," 
Earl said. "It seemed like every 
time [Pitt quarterback Rod 
Rutherford] dropped back he 
was scrambling and running for 
his life back there. That defi­
nitely makes our job in the sec­
ondary a lot easier. 
"The defensive line had a 

wonderful second half, actually 
they had wonderful 
first half," Sapp said. "In the 
second half they were just run­
ning around, crawling, 
scratching, anything to get to 
the quarterback. That's helps us 
out a lot." 
With Pitt's defense keeping 
the Irish offense in check, the 
Notre Dame defense was dead 
set on not allowing the Panthers 
to score again. 
"We'd made up our minds there were not scoring in the 4th quarter," Tuck said. "That's one of our goals -no points in the fourth quarter. Luckily we got that goal again." 
While the Irish still have con­cerns about their offensive capabilities -especially with Air Force looming next Saturday, the team believes they did what was necessary to win against Pittsburgh. 
"We need to get over this as soon as possible," Grant said. "We know we're going to. We know it's going to change. We've got a big game this week with Air Force. We got to put points up on the board. I think that we have the right mindset for what we need to do. 
The unbeaten Irish are natu­rally excited to be winning ­they are living their dream, according to Tuck -but they recognize their weaknesses. 
But, for Willingham and the Irish, it may not matter how ugly a game is -as long as the end result is a "W.". 
"We got what we want -a win," Shane Walton said. "We always love to score, but the win is the most important thing." 
Contact Joe Lindsley at Lindsley. l@nd.edu 
player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Justin Tuck  40  Glenn Earl's forced fumble and  "Right now we·re living in a dream.··  
The Irish lineman hadfour sacks on  number ofIrish rushing yards  recovery  Justin Tuck  
his way to five total tackles and a forced fumble.  The Irish had their worst running game ofthe season, running 32  Earl's fumble recovery on the Irish 13-yard line set up Notre  Irish defensive lineman onbeing6-0  
times for only 40 yards.  Dame's second touchdown.  

<t ~ '-, 
Monday, October 14, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
quarterbacks: Holiday completed 16-of-B 25 passes to four receivers and only threw one interception. However, the passes were short and only netted 145 yards. 
running backs: The running backs had their worst performance of the sea­
son. rushing 32 times for only 40 yards. Despite Pittsburgh's solid defense, that was a bad performance. 
D+ 
A-
receivers: The receivers turned in a solid performance. Led by Battle's 10 catches. including a 23-yarder, the 
Irish had 16 receptions for 145 yards. 
offensive line: Although the offensive line provided good protection for
C+Holiday and only allowed one sack, 
A 
B 
C 
B+ 
B 
they opened virtually no holes for the Irish running backs. 
defensive line: The defensive line was the bright spot in the Irish team. They recorded six sacks and effec­tively shut down Pittsburgh's run game. 
linebackers: Watson led the Irish in tack­les with nine and the linebackers played their part in shutting out the run. But the 'backers had trouble help­ing contain the pass. 
defensive backs: The defensive backs turned in their worst performance of the season in the first half as Pittsburgh's receivers burned them. Jackson did record his first interception. 
special teams: Hildbold had two punts 
that landed inside the 10-yard line 
and Setta connected on both PATs. 
However, there were no serious run­
backs. 

coaching: The Irish turned in a bad offensive performance, but the coaching staff kept penalties low and managed, somehow, to find the win. 
2.85 
overall: The Irish turned in anything but a solid perfor­mance. Although they won, they will have to improve before facing Air Force on Saturday. 

adding up the numbers 
number of days that passed between Carlyle Holiday's touchdown pass Saturday and the 
350
last touchdown pass in Notre Dame Stadium 
8 
total number of sacks recorded by the Irish defense 
Saturday 

point total from both teams, the least number 
2o 
of total points at Notre Dame Stadium since a 1986 Notre Dame 10-9 loss to Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh's total offensive yards, more 
than twice the 185 yards the Irish tallied
402 
total number of receptions Arnaz Battle had 
11 
coming into Saturday's game 
10 total number of receptions Battle had during Saturday's game 
total Irish offensive plays in the first quarter, the 
8 
Irish went 16 yards and controlled the ball for a whopping 3:37 
1998 
last time the Irish stopped an opponent from scoring a single touchdown at Notre Dame Stadium 
With the Irish in another of their accustomed tight contests, the team looked to its 
opportunistic defense in the fourth quarter to come up with the big plays. The defense was happy to respond. 
"Our coach emphasizes all 

the time that big Matt Lozar plays win ball games... Irish cornerback Sports Preston Jackson Writer said. "You have to have good players at all positions." 
With Pittsburgh starting an off en• sive drive in Irish territory, Glenn Earl came up from his free safety position and played his role as the hard-hitter in the secondary perfect­ly. He crushed Pittsburgh quarter­back Rod Rutherford, forcing and recovering the fumble at the Notre Dame 13. 
"I tried to hit him right in the mid­dle of his chest, but he was holding the ball in the wrong arm, and either my helmet or shoulder must have hit the ball," Earl said. 
With Pittsburgh driving for the tying score, the Notre Dame defense came up with the big play again. On the Panthers' 83rd offensive play of the game, defensive linemen Ryan Roberts and Kyle Budinscak flushed Rutherford from the pocket. Rutherford tried to throw the ball away, but Jackson didn't let that happen. 
"I had to do my pushups last game, and I didn't feel like doing them again this game," Jackson said. "I had to be aggressive. That was part of it, just being aggressive and going to get the ball." 
There were different heroes Saturday on the Irish defense, but seeing someone other than usual stars Shane Walton, Vontez Duff and Courtney Watson make the big plays didn't surprise Irish coach Tyrone Willingham. 
"We expect that of our players," he said. "You never know what position your opponent will put you in and who will be called in to make that play. But with our style of play, we expect them to find a way to step up and make a play." 
That game-sealing play exempli­fied the mindset of the defense. It is 11 players working together as one unit -a unit that has strapped the 
Irish on its back and carried them to a 6-0 start. 
"What the offense does really means nothing to what we do," Earl said. "We know we have to shut teams down. We know we have to try to get teams to turn the ball over and get it back to our 
offense... As the Irish proved on 

"/ had to do my pushups last game. and I didn't feel like doing them again this game. I had to be aggressive. ,, 
Preston Jackson Irish comerback 
Saturday, a team doesn't win the game on the stat sheet, it wins the game on the scoreboard. Despite yielding 402 yards to the Pittsburgh offense, the defense kept the Panthers out of the end zone ­which is all that matters. 
"I don't care about the yards -we played a lot of plays, and the more plays you play the more yards you're going to give up," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "Keeping them out of the end zone is huge." 

After seeing Rutherford get ample time to throw for 233 yards in the first half, the Irish simply turned up the intensity in the second half and let their defensive line go after the Panthers. 
"The front four definitely stepped it up the second half," Earl said. "It seemed like every time the quarter• back dropped back he was scram­bling and running for his life back there. That definitely makes our job in the secondary a lot easier.·· 
The Irish recorded eight sacks. the most since 1996. Justin Tuck contin­ued to impress, causing havoc from his defensive end position. The sophomore had three sacks and 
forced a fumble. 
"I thought he was fantastic," Willingham said. "We think Tuck is a tremendous edge rusher, and he has the ability with his explo­siveness to put a lot of pressure on the offense." 
With difficult road games at top-20 teams Air Force and Florida State on the hori­

zon. the defense may have to contin­ue to carry the Irish on its back. But that doesn't bother them at all. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
-----------------------------------------------------------;-.' 
Monday, October 14, 2002 page 3
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
. 


Big hitter Earl delivers knock outpunch 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
This week, it was Glenn Earl's turn. 
With Notre Dame leading by only 
one point nearly midway through the 
fourth quarter, the Irish needed a 
play to put Pittsburgh away. 
The team has looked to the defense 
all season to deliver that big play. 
Saturday, it was the senior safety 
delivering a big hit on Pittsburgh 
quarterback Rod Rutherford inside 
the Panthers' 10-yard line to jar the 
ball loose. Earl covered the ball in 
the pile, and the Irish scored a cru­
cial touchdown five plays later to go 
up by eight points. 
"I saw the quarterback scrambling, and I came up to support, and the next thing I know the ball is on the ground, and I was lucky to get it," Earl said. "I was just trying to tackle him. Chaos was breaking out, and I was trying to get him on the ground. The hall popped up and bounced right next to me. so I was able to grab it." 
The role of the hero should be very familiar to Earl. Just two years ago , with Air Force in great position to upset the Irish in Notre Dame Stadium, Earl came over the top to block a potential game-winning 28­yard field goal. 
Notre Dame entered the game rid­ing a three-game winning streak, rebounding from a pair of close loss­es to Nebraska and Michigan State at the start of the season. The block saved a miracle season for the Irish that saw the team to the Fiesta Bowl, where they would eventually lose 41­9 to Oregon State. 
Back then, the play of the virtually unknown Earl was equated with a miracle. 
"There's three seconds left in the game and they are going to win it, 
eagerness to lay the big hit, Earl is out Stanford receiver Teyo Johnsonalmost from the same spot they did 
leaving his mark as the enforcer in coming across the middle. Evenback in '96,.. then-Irish head coach 
the defensive back­though Johnson -who stands 6-foot-Bob Davie said the field. 7 and weighs 240 pounds -out­day after Earl's block "We all have roles weighs Earl by a good 20 pounds, the

against the Falcons. "Chaos was breaking out, 
in the secondary," hit showed what opponents have to "It was an amazing 

and I was trying to get Irish cornerback deal with when entering Earl's terri­
feeling. And Glenn 
Shane Walton said. tory in the secondary.

him on the ground. ,,
Earl just had a great 
"Vontez Duff is the "Everyone on our defense plays

block." 
athlete, I'm the their part, and everyone has respon­

Now Earl is the Glenn Earl coach on the field, sibilities," Earl said. "If my job is to 
starter at safety, and 
Irish free safety [Gerome] Sapp gets hit people and try to cause some
in just six games, 
everyone lined up chaos, that's fine with me."

he's made his pres-and Glenn Earl is 
ence felt in the sec-the head hunter."
ondary to weary receivers coming 
Against Stanford two weeks ago, Contact Chris Federico at 
across the middle. With size and an Earl filled that role pretty well, laying cfederic@nd.edu 

Battle shows flashes of brilliance 
Bobby Brown had 12 at after a week or two off did a Carlyle, and I think he 
Observer Staff Report 
Pittsburgh in 1999. very nice job." expects things ... Holiday did not get any Irish receiver Arnaz Battle Saturday a Holiday In playing time last week 
In their faces 

showed flashes of becoming South Bend against Stanford, as Pat 
The Irish defensive line 

a brilliant receiver Saturday Irish quarterback Carlyle Dillingham played the entire continued to put pressure onafternoon. The senior col­Holiday made his return to game for the injured starter. 
opposing quarterbacks

lected 10 passes for 101 the field After sit­
Saturday, as the teamyards, highlighted by an Saturday ting out of recorded eight sacks on

athletic 11-yard touchdown against the '7 expect great things most drills Pittsburgh signal caller Rodcatch in the second quarter. Panthers during the
from Carlyle, and I think Rutherford, the most since
"The catch in the end zone after sus­two weeks getting nine against Rutgers 
-to be able to make the taining an he expect things.,, leading up 
in 1996.

grab and then to be able to injury to his to the "My vote for player of thekeep himself in bounds -shoulder Stanford
Tyrone Willingham game is those four guys that

that is huge," Irish head three weeks g a m e , 
rush the passer," Irish
Irish coach

coach Tyrone Willingham ago against Holiday defensive coordinator Kentsaid. "And that's what we Michigan returned to 
Baer said. "They're not 

expect out of a guy that we State. practice in 
always going to get there

believe is an excellent ath­The junior completed 16 of full pads last week. 
because that's a good foot­lete." 25 passes for 145 yards. He Willingham said they decid­

ball team and protections

Battle's numbers for threw one interception and ed Friday night to go with are tough. but it's going toreceptions and yards set had one touchdown. Holiday as the starter. 
happen sometimes." 

career highs. He became the "I thought Carlyle did a "We had thought about it first Irish receiver to have good job for us a again," coming out of Friday 100 yards in a game since Willingham said. "What evening when we had a Gameday captains Joey Getherall had 116 we're looking for is our chance to sit down and think Captains for the Irish against Air Force in 2000. quarterback to make some about it," Willingham said. Saturday were Battle, defen­He also became the first smart decisions during the .. , think it was the right sive tackle Cedric Hilliard, Irish receiver to grab 10 course of the game. And I thing to put into trial. I left tackle Jordan Black and catches in a game since think Carlyle coming back expect great things from punter Joey Hildbold. 
•

scoring 
summary ... 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame O 7 O 7 31 Pittsburgh 3 3 o o 7 
First quarter 
Pittsburgh 3, Notre Dame 0 
David Abdul 29-yd. FG with 11:06 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 75 yards, 3:54 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 3 
Arnaz Battle 11-yd. reception from Carlyle 
-
Holiday (Nicholas Setta kick) with 9:51 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 4:11 elapsed 
Pittsburgh 6. Notre Dame 7 
Abdul 24-yd. FG with 0:23 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 68 yards, 1:29 elapsed 
Third quarter 
No scoring 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Pittsburgh 
Ryan Grant 1-yd. run {Setta kick) with 7:08 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 12 yards, 2:20 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
~l=&='t=lf=i~=l=l=-i;,;,;,;,;1::___ :J402
i~....,;,;,;,;.;.................... 


passing yards 
~•=:!ll==:ui=ll=:crni=:00=~il;=!:f=::1313 return yards
11,:,-;~ 
time of possession 
3

1•1­
3~:43 


32-40 rushes-yards 39-89 16-26-2 comp-att-int 19-44-1 9-351 punts-yards 9-375 1-0 fumbles-lost 2-2 3-25 penalties-yards 8-59 10 21
first downs 
passing 

Holiday 16-25-1 Rutherford 19-43-1 Battle 0-1-1 
rushing 

Grant  19-42  Rutherford  20-29  
Powers-Neal  4-8  Kirkley  7-23  
Wilson  2-1  Polite  5-24  
Loplenskl Holiday  1-0 3-(-3)  Furman Walker Miree  2-5 2-5 3-5  

receiving 

Battle  10-101  Slade  7-127  
Jenkins  2·24  Fitzgerald  7-83  
Godsey Lopienskl  1-12 1-8  Wilson Furman  2-86 2-22  
Walker  1-(-5)  

tackling 

Watson  9  Hayes  11  
Campbell  7  Crochunls  8  
Walton  6  Moore  8  
Tuck  6  Morris  5  
Roberts  6  Gilliard  4  
Goolsby  6  Beinecke  4  
Hilliard  6  Harriott  4  
Earl  5  Spencer  3  
Curry  4  Guzek  3  
Sapp  4  Cod  3  
Bible  4  Ferguson  2  
Budinscak  3  Holthaus  2  


ALHE 

Notre Dame 14, Pittsburgh 6 vnSERVER Monday, October 14, 2002 









