
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 21 
NDSP responds to 3 crimes 
. Students say they still feel secure on campus despite recent incidents 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
Thre1• Ill'W crime incid1'nts have prompted l\'otre Dame Securitv/Police to stress the importancp of safoty in num­bers. but sturlf1nts maintain that the campus remains 
S(\CUrc. 
In tl111 first incident. NDSP Assistant l>irnctnr Phil .Johnson said a student told NDSP that thrne passersby assaulted him Parly Saturday at I 2::i4 a.m. bPtwePn the .loycp Ccntl'r and Notre Da'nrn Stadium. 
The student \-Vas en route to his residencP hall from the Alumni-Senior Club when he apparPntly had exchanged words with the three sus­pects. describod as two black 
men. 6-fePl-:-l and 5-feet-10 incident "a fluke." One Fisher resident. senior the fact that many students and onP (i-foot-4. The man 
"If that's the worst thing Nick Salazar, said be might left their dorm rooms to and 01w of' the black men that happened around here, be slightly more cautious, watch the Michigan State WPre dPscrilwd as between it's not that big of a deal." but he still feels safe. football game elsewhere. th11 ages of 19 and 20. Wittliff said, describing how "I don't think that there's "The most common crime 
.Johnson said the suspects one suspect ran behind him been that drastic of a change on campus is the theft of fled tlw scPne immediately and put him in a choke hold in my attitude toward cam­unattended property from after the attack. as he was walking to his car pus crime," Salazar said. unlocked areas," Johnson 
"The securitv officers tried 
parked in the D6 lot after said.
Stolen Sorin Property
lo locate the suspects but did studying with accounting Sophomore Jackie Burke
However, NDSP did find
not find tlwm," Johnson said. students in Dillon Hall. said she has always felt safe
the three non-student youths
lie said them was no infor­"I could barely breathe, and does not hesitate to
who stole a laptop computer
mation connecting this case and at first, I was really leave her possessions unat­
and an xBox video game sys­
to the two reports of calm because I thought it tended in the dining hall or
tem from an unlocked room
attempted robbery by the was one of my buddies," Coleman-Morse Center.
in Sorin Hall.
Rockne Memorial Building Wittliff said. "Before I came, my grand­
"Two of the students were
and betwren South Dining 
Once he realized that the mother always said never to
lodged at the juvenile facility
Hall and Fisher Hall. Those suspects wanted money, the walk alone, but I thought,
and one was released in the
cases am still under investi­off-campus senior said he 'It's a small campus. There's
custody of his parents,"
gation. heeded their demands and always people around,"' she
Johnson said.
Senior Philip Wittliff, the called security from his for­said.
Johnson said the studentsstudent involved in the mer dorm, Fisher Hall. 
probably took advantage of
Rockne incident. called the see SECURIIT/page 4 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Fr. Joyce suffers stroke 

Observer Staff Report 
Father Edmund Joyce, execu­tive \-ice president emeritus, suf­fered a stroke Friday while at his Corby Hall residence, University spokesman Dennis Moore said. 
Joyce, 87, was rushed to St. Joseph Regional Medical Center where he was in stable condition Monday night, a nursing supervi­sor said. 
The stroke occurred late Friday morning, Moore said, and Joyce appears to be suffering from some paralysis, a typical conse­quence of a stroke. 
"It's pretty difficult to gauge anything for a few days," Moore said, when asked about Joyce's chances for full recovery. 
No release date from the hospi­tal has been set. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University President emeritus and a longtime friend of Joyce, has visited him in the hospital several times, according to Moore. 
Joyce was born in Honduras in 1917 and was raised in Spartanburg, S.C. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1937 with a degree in accounting. 
He was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1949 and has served as a University administrator for 35 years. In addition to executive vice president, Joyce's former positions at Notre Dame included chief financial officer, chairman of the building committee and chairman of the faculty board on athletics. 
When Joyce retired in 1987, the board of trustees decided to name the Athletic and Convocation Center after him. 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group revises SMC study day proposal 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN News Writer 
Board of (iovernance is con­tinuing the fight to add a study day to tlw academic calendar, according to a rPport Monday from Student Body Vice President ElizabCTth Jablonski­Diehl 
.lablonski-Diflhl said the old plan dealing with the study day issm: has bt'.flll revised and repackaged as the "reading day" proposal. 
The requnst to add a study day to thfl academic calrndar has been a !'our-year struggle for the Board of Governance, who first initiated tho proposal in l 999 under former Student Body President Nancy Midden. The proposal has received resis­tance from facultv who have expressed concern ·about losing class days in the semester. 

In hopes of renewing a discus­sion about the inr:lusion of study days in the academic calendar, BOG today voted unanimously to bring the reading day proposal to an administrative committee composed of fo.culty and admin­istrators. Student government is cmrently working to determine exactly which of ten committeus tl1e proposal will be sent to. 
"This presentation will hope­fully eliminate any doubts the faculty have regarding the loss of class time," Jablonski-Diehl 
see STUDY DAY/page 6 


EXECUTIVE CABINET 


Students debate 10-year plan 
By MATT BRAMANTI News Writer 
Student government's Executive Cabinel met Monday to discuss the strategic planning initiative that began last week. The Hl-year plan. entitled "Notre Dame 2010: A Quest for Leadership," will jntegrate issues of academics, student life, finances, research and other matters. It is expected to be pre­sented to the l:niversity's Board of Trustees in May. 
Members proposed various ways to create plans and eventu­ally decided that mcmher organi­zations would create their own individualized documents. 
Student Body President Libby Bishop was optimistic that long-
see PLAN/page 6 


page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Tuesday, September 24, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Rematch time 
It's tho perfect time ofyear. The tem­perature has finally fallen far enough that I can trade in short.<; and T-shirts for jeans and my favorite owrsized sweat­shirt. 
Pretty soon the leaves ½ill bP­changing colors and the Awmue heading in to Saint \1ary's will bo beautiful. 
But what's best about this Lime of year isn't the tem­perature or tho leaves changing colors or evf'n the thought ofhot cider. It's football. 
And this coming weekend promises to be another classic. 

1have a very important meeting on Sunday. That meeting involves me. a couch, a case of beer and a room full of Steelers and Browns fans. Cleveland and Pitt,;burgh are real football towns. They're both industrial cities ¼ith smoke star.ks that still look like they're pollut­ing. They're full ofblue collar families who aren't so impressed with themselves that they've turned in the old family car for a PT Cruiser. But most importantly, they know their football and they love their teams. 
The insults have already started. I walked into the office Tuesday to shouts of"Hey McVoy, are you ready for the Brovms to lose on Sunday?" 
To which I responded, "Check out the records. Who has two wins and who has two losses?" 
Sure, I remember that the Browns lost in sudden-death overtime last year to the Steelers. It still stings a little. But here's the beautiful thing, it's a new season and that means another chance for av.in. 
Tim Couch is back leading the Browns and Jerome Bettis ½ill be out again for the Steelers and on Sunday. We'll all be screaming at the top of our lungs at a television that can't respond to us. We'll be watching the game on the all-impor­tant satellite dish because, of course, no ·1v station in this area is going to broad­cast a Cleveland game. 
And when the game is over, the dust has settled, the winners are glorifying in their team's victory and the losers are sunk in fits ofdespair. it will be official ­the Brov.'TIS and the Steelers will have made another classic. 
For those ofyou who are Saints fans and Bears fans and 49ers fans. this may not strike you as so important. But for one girl who grew up with people refer­ring to her city as 'The Mistake by the Lake" any time that Cleveland can prove itself is a red-letter day. And by fellow Browns fans and all you Pittsburgh fans out there understand this: You under­stand that this is notjust another football game. It's about pride and respect and bragging rights until the next meeting. 
It's about looking at the AFC North rankings and knowing one of those victo­ries came against our biggest rival. 
It's about loving the game. 

And when Monday comes, we'll all go back to being friends and being civil. But unW then, a note for all ofyou Steelers fans: 
This time, you're going dovm. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5696@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publirn­rion and srrives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all times. \Xie do, however, recognize that we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please comac1 us at 631-4 541 so we l''.1.n correi.::t our erroL 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
Domus properties throws block party  Tensions rise at Arafat's compound  Adelphia executives indicted  Student blasts security surveilance at tailgates  Scene reviews new album releases  Alicia Salas leads Irish at weekend Invite  
The off-campus management com­pany is hosting an event Wednesday to promote security and personal safety for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. page 3  The Bush adminis­tration criticizes Israel for the stand­off and called for a pullout. page 5  Court charges exec­utives with build­ing 'facade' in a 12.5 billi.on-dollar monetary fraud scandal. page 7  A Notre Dame alumnus responds to unfair and overbearing targeting by the police at tailgates. page 13  From the Flaming Lips to Drums & Tuba, Scene takes a walk on the wild side. page 14  Ranked 86th in the nation, Notre Dame's Salas wins the cup at the Prince Cup Invitational in Columbus, Ohio. page 28  

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture with Eugenio Tironi, Visiting Professor of Sociology, "Change in Chile: Competitive democracy in a low growth market economy." Ilesburgh Center Auditorium, 12:30 p.m. 

. 
Lecture with Milton Cole, CEO, Cole I Iardwoods, "Business Ethics in a Time of Crisis." Mendoza College of Business, 7 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Lecture with Dr. Barbara Searle, Center for Spirituality Fall Lecture Series, "Experience as a Source of Wisdom." Stapleton Lounge 12:15 p.m. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: New England clam chowder, tomato soup, tomato pizza, walnut plum chicken breast, wild rice, green beans, beef & peppers stir-fry, vegetable rice casserole, scrambled eggs, french toast sunshine, beef BBQ sandwich 
Today's Dinner: Minestrone soup. shrimp spaghetti, honey glazed ham, baked beans, mixed vegetables, seafood medley stir fry, mushroom quiche, fresh spinach, corn dogs, chicken fajita, beef stir fry 
TODAY TONIGHT 

D:: LiJ 
:r 
~ 
LiJ 
~ 
..J 
~ 

<C 
(.) 


WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
One car accident reported 
NDPD responded to a one-car accident on Juniper Road. There were no injuries reported. 
Suspicious person complaint 
NDPD responded to a complaint of a suspicious person leaving the Varsity Shop. The area was searched but the person could not be located. 
Student enters campus illegally 
NDPD stopped a student in a vehicle which entered campus illegally. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Traffic accident reported on Juniper 
A visitor reported her vehicle was struck by another vehicle on Juniper Road. 
NDPD issues minor in consumption 
NDPD issued a University citation to a student for minor in consumption of alcohol. The student was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment. Case is being referred for administrative review. 
Student assaulted on Juniper 
A student reported being assaulted while on Juniper Road. The case is being investigated further. 
Information compiled from the NDSP Crime Blotter 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled thin spaghet­ti, boiled shells, boiled tri-color rotini, turkey tetrazzini. mushroom marinara, spinach cheese tortellini, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, whipped potatoes, cut corn, peas, spinach, garden quiche, beef tips and mushrooms, boiled kluski noodles, chicken enchilada 
Today's Dinner: boiled mostaccioli, sausage pizza, calzones, plain rice, turkey gravy, lima beans, eggplant parmesan, swiss steak, grilled salmon fillet. shrimp poppers, pork tempura, chicken taco, beef fajita 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
~ 


_,0 HIGH 66 HIGH 53 HIGH 73 HIGH 74 LOW 44 LOW 47 LOW 56 LOW 58 
Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chef's pasta, mari­nara sauce, hot & sweet tofu, sticky rice, grilled vegetable pitas 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable caccia­tore, chef's pasta, garden marinara, roasted potatoes, garlic bread 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

f) ') .., i)4)w. ,1)®.,... ,i) f·· 11)$'& t)  
HIGH LOW  63 43  HIGH LOW  68 41  
Atlanta 82 / 69 Boston 71 / 57 Chicago 66 / 47 Denver 78 / 54 Houston 83 I 62 Los Angeles 90 / 64 Minneapolis 63 / 51 New York 75 / 59 Philadelphia 78 / 59 Phoenix 105 / 78 Seattle 73 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 51 Tampa 86 I 76 Washington 78 I 62 


Tuesday, September 24, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
D0111us Properties sponsors housing fair 
By MARIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Domus Propcrtios is sponsoring block party Wednesday evening to provicln students living off cam­pus with importunt information about homr: security and personal safrty. 
Domus Propcrtins lnvnstnrnnt.s, Ll.C. is ;in off-campus managP-­1m~nt company for the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mury's Collegr.. 
Noling that the company man­agPs 36 housPs, managing mP-m­bcr Mark Kramer said that the cwnt is meant to bring together thr. community and provide an open forum for safety concerns. 
"This goes beyond safety," said Kramer. "It's about gc1rnral knowlrdge too." 
Manv of Domus Properties' housPs°, bowrwer are located in somewhat danw~rous arPas. 
"We haVf~n·t rnally had prob­lNns." said Kramer. ''Hut to pre­vnn t problnms arising in the futum. we nm•d to prnvidf1 educa­tion." 
Crim<! trends rnveal that in rnnmt years students arn particu­larlv at risk for robbery during ext;,ndnd breaks. · 
"Wp want to providP studflnts with inl'nr-mation about how to stay saf<' ovPr ·wintt>r break or sur1mwr break." said Kramer. 
Domus Properties sponsors a yearly event in coopr,ration with the South Bernd Police Department, Notre Dame Security Polke, Notre Dame Student Life and Student Affairs to inform shl­dentc; on the crime incidents and prevention. The South Bend Tribune, as well as television sta­tions W~DU and WSBT V\ill cover the event. 
The event features speakers, information booths. tree food and free soft drinks. 
"It's like a block party setting." said Kramer. "We'll have tablP-s, chairs, and tents." 
Attending the event will also be usnful for those student.<; thinking about living off campus in the future or who are concerned about personal safety in general. 
The event will be held on the 800 block of East Washington Streflt hetwefln Notre Dame Avenue and St. Peter Street at 6 p,rn. 
"We're inviting students from Turtle Crnek and all the off-ram­pus apartment complexes too." said Kramer. "This is for every­bodv. The more aware students are ·of security issues, the better off thev'll be and the better otT we'll be," said Kramer. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
Freshinen to choose leaders today 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's Editor 
Six tickets are in the run­ning for the freshmen presi­d 0 n t and vice president slots. The winner will be chosen today. 
Elections coordinator Alison .Joseph called the turnout a "great response from the class of 2006." 
The six presidential tick­ets have a variety of plans for improving class unity and planning class activi­ties. 
Megan Conway and Crystal Schauf are focusing on social activities such as an ice cream social, dances and a day trip tu Chicago. 
Anna Bauer and Liz Goers hope to plan class activities but first will plan hand out a survey to have input of what e·xactly the class wants. 
Clare Hoyt and Kristen Vokaty hope LO plan week­

end activities, a 1980s theme dance and is open to 
taking suggestions  from  
classmates.  
Becky  Winston  and  

Kathleen :'vfcMorrow would like to plan a freshman slumber party. a class tail­gate before a Notre Dame football game and plan to sell hats and pants with the class motto "Fresh." 
Maureen Zimmer and Jenny Betti hope to organize class Masses, <.lances and study breaks to unify the class. 
Leena Hackett and Janet Brace want to plan a lot of theme events, such as dances and service projects but plan to base decisions on student feedback. 
With six tickets campaign­ing, a run-off election appears inevitab!P-. One ticket needs to receive at least 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff, though it is unlikely a ticket will receive more than 50 per­
cent of the vote. If neces­sary, the run-off election will be held on Thursday in the dining hall during serv­ing hours. 
In addition to the women running for president and vice president, there are also eight tickets running to fill the 13 at-large spots on Fr<lshmen Class Board. 
Board candidates include Lauren Condon. Elizabeth Kulinski, Colleen Bruen, Chelsea Rahn, Amy Oliva, .Jackie Wright, Danielle Lerner and Amy Martin. 
The elected president and vice president will fill the remaining board positions. 
"Usually the electP-d presi­dent and vice president have an interviewing process to fill the remaining class board positions," said Joseph. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmacys.edu 

SIT Program in Uganda 

• 
Interestec£in.Jlfrica? 

• 
Interestec£in Cha{fenges el Issues of(J)eve{oping :Nations? 

• 
Interestec£in Jfo[y Cross Work, in P,ast .Jlfrica? 


<Don't miss a stucfy a6roaa opportunity tfirougfi the Schoo{for Intemationa{rr'raining. Information 9Jeetine on: ff'uestfay Septem6er 24tn 2002 · (J?J,om 129 J{ayes -1feafy _}ft 5:001Jm 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
the suspect said he lost his glasses.
Security Author discusses urban sprawl
The South Bend resident 
continued from page 1 had been drinking and had intended to go home after 
Burke added that she also leaving a downtown South typically associated campus Bend bar, Johnson said. crime with non-students, However, the Notre Dame especially visitors on foot­campus was not anywhere ball week-between ends. the bar 
He said the q u i C k response by the student  "He could not point out the location ofthe alleged assault. but he  and his residence, and the man said  
who report­ed suspi­cious youths was helpful,  believed it happened on S'outh Quad, perhaps near the flagpole."  he was uncertain as to bow he arrived  
and he said  on  cam­ 
students should be quick to call  Phil Johnson NDSP associate director  pus. Johnson said the  
NDSP in sim- latest  
ilar circum­ c  r  i  m  e  
stances.  reports  

"This [theft] would have show that crime can occur been a huge cost, not only on campus despite the low in the cost of the computer statistics and the tendency but even in the data," for assaults especially to Johnson said. occur more frnquently off 
NDSP referred the case to campus. juvenile justice authorities "Our advice again to stu­for burglary or the posses­dents is not to walk alone sion of stolen property. and to walk in groups of 
people particularly in the
Assault 

early-morning hours or inIn a separate investiga­
the late-night hours," hetion. a 21-year-old South 
said.
Bend resident arrived at the In addition, he said stu­Security Building Friday at dents should report suspi­7:30 a.m. requesting a ride cious behavior.

home after he was pushed "I think students are real­

off his bike by an unidenti­ly good about knowing whatfied 6-foot tall male white 

behavior is commonplacesuspect with dark hair 20 
and normal at theminutes earlier. The man 
University and what doesn'ttold NDSP that the suspect fit," he said. "We'd rather
was between 24 and 25 

they call and be wrong thanyears old. 
to wish they had called
"He could not point out later."

the location of the alleged assault, but he believed it happened on South Quad perhaps near the flagpole," Contact Helena Payne at said Johnson, adding that payne.30@nd.edu 
Classicism to the Avant-Garde: tects to think that they must 
By JOE TROMBELLO Contemporary Directions in produce something original, 
News W'ri£er Architecture." something that has never been 
"The real problem with seen before, that they dis­
The auditorium in the 104 America is that it's all equally pense with all previous Bond Hall was not large miserable, equally low quality, notions of the function and enough to contain those facul­and equally demoralizing and aesthetic quality of architec­ty and students of the School degrading," he said. "Public ture. Also, Kunstler cited the of Architec­
space in America -what a irony of how advancements in ture who warm and welcome place -if architectural technology and h e a r d you're an android." tools have led to worse archi­J a m e s · Using a V«'.lriety of slides that tecture. Howard compared current American "The better our tools get, the Kuntsler's suburbs to their historical worse our buildings get ... lecture counterparts, Kunstler illus­Much of the architecture of "Parking trated our inability to effec­the 20th century is so distress­Lot Nation: tively define space in order to ing," Kuntsler said. The Coming Kunstler create meaningful and memo­Kunstler proposed a solution End of rable places and buildings. to the problem of suburbia Suburbia" Instead, Kuntsler showed how and its architecture. He said Monday afternoon. architects have created America must be downsized, 
Kuntsler, an advocate of the uninviting wastelands with lit­or what he calls "right-sized," New Urbanism movement in tle concept of the underlying to have buildings that are architecture, is the author of civic purpose. smaller and closer together. eight books. including "The "Everywhere in America has This downsizing should not be Geography of Nowhere," become the Special Olympics restricted to architecture, but "Home from Nowhere," and of architecture," Kuntsler should be applied to other "The City in Mind." said. "We have got to do a bet­facets of American life, from 
Called "New Urbanism's ter job than this ... we need shopping to agriculture tu Avenging Angel" by a South better places to go to than school, Kunstlcr said. Bend Tribune article pub­these brutal, horrible, despot­"We are now entering an era lished Sunday, Kuntsler mixed ic buildings." when we have to get serious of humor with harsh criticisms of Kuntsler went on to describe doing something about the the architectural problems the demoralizing effect that fiasco that human habitat has plaguing American suburbs. the American suburbs' poor become in America ... we are 
"We have created thousands use of space has on its resi­going to have to rediscover of places that are not worth dents, particularly teenagers. what the body of cultural caring about and pretty soon He argued that such environ­'civic design' is, learn it and we will have an entire country ments produce a tremendous apply it," he said. that is not worth defending." amount of anxiety and depres­"From Classicism to the Kunstler said. sion. Avant-Garde" will feature at 
A former writer for Rolling "We send kids to schools least one event each month Stone Magazine, Kuntsler has that look like a maximum­and will run through April 14. no formal training in architec­security prison," he said. Thomas Schumacher. archi­ture or fields relating to "Kids get a very special mes­tect and professor of architec­design. Nevertheless. he has sage from a place like this. ture at the University of lectured at such universities that it is pointless, that it is Maryland, will give the next as Harvard, Yale, Columbia purposeless, that there is no lecture Sept. 30. and Dartmouth, and opened future here." up the 2002-2003 Bond Hall Kunstler said the problem Contact Joe Trombello at lecture series "From lies in schools that train archi-jtrombel@nd.edu 

If you've ever thought about a vocation as a priest or brother, join Fr. Sam Peters, C.S.C. and the Holy Cross community at ND for an hour of prayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 
Tuesday, Sept. 24, 9:00-10:00 pm at Corby Hall 
www.nd.edu/~ vocation 


WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 24, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WEST BANK 

Mideast tensions rise in response to Israeli action 
Associated Press 
RAMALLAH 

A defiant Yasscr Arafat dug in at his besieged compound Monday, rejecting Israel's demand to hand over the names of all those holed up inside. The Bush administration criticized Israel for the standoff and called for a pullout. 
In Gaza. Israeli tanks fought Palestinian gunmen. and hospi­tal officials said three Palestinians were killed and 20 injured. 
As Israeli troops settled in around the compound. criticism of the third blockade in 10 months intensified in Israel and around the world. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon is boosting Arafat's popularity, instead of sidelining him, the government's detractors said. 
At the U.N. Security Council in New York, the United States proposed a resolu­tion calling for an end to the siege along with pun­ishment of the plotters of Palestinian suicide bombings. 
In Washington, statements issued by White House and State Department officials said Israel siege had "aggravat­ed" U.S. efforts to improve security and reform the Palestinian leadership. 
On the West Bank, an Israeli man was killed and three of his children, ages 9, 12 and 18, were wounded in a Palestinian shooting attack in the West Bank city of Hebron. The 9­year-old was in serious condi­tion, hospital officials said. 
Meanwhile, in the Gaza Strip, 20 Israeli tanks and two heli­copters traded fire with Palestinian gunmen on the east­ern edge of Gaza city near the Jewish settlement of Nahal Oz, according to witnesses and Palestinian security officials. 
Three Palestinians were killed and 20 others injured, two of them critically, hospital officials said. 
The army confirmed that a military operation was under way in Gaza and said no soldiers had been injured, but declined to comment further. 
Sharon said earlier Monday that Israel would mount a mili­tary operation against Hamas in Gaza "as soon as we have the necessary troops together." 
The assault on Arafat's office has made an already tense situa­tion even more volatile. With Arafat and 200 aides and securi­ty guards ringed by troops and confined to a building Palestinians claim is in danger of collapse, Israel cannot guarantee the Palestinian leader's safety. Harm to Arafat, even uninten­tional, could ignite the region. 
Associated P rcss 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Al Gore harshly criticized President Bush's push for war against Iraq, saying it has hurt the United States' standing and could dangerously undermine the rule of law around the world. 
"After Sept. 11, we had enormous sym­pathy, goodwill and support around the world," Gore said Monday. "We've squandered that, and in one year we've replaced that with fear, anxiety and uncertainty, not at what the terrorists are going to do but at what we are going to do." 
In his first major speech on the Iraq situation, the once and possibly future Democratic presidential candidate accused Bush of abandoning the goal of a world where nations follow laws. 
"That concept 
would be displaced by the notion that there is no law but the discretion of the president of the United States," he said. 
"If other nations assert the same 


right, then the rule Gore of law will quickly be replaced by the reign of fear," and any nation that perceives itself threatened 
Arafat's isolation has already triggered mass street protests, some orchestrated and some spontaneous, in a replay of the scenes that marked the begin­ning offighting two years ago. 
On Monday, Palestinians rally­ing around Arafat observed a commercial strike and burned tires and pelted soldiers with rocks -events rarely seen in recent months. 

About 10,000 rallied in Gaza, many of them school children bused in for the demonstration. 
Early Tuesday, more than 
1,000 Palestinians returned to the streets of Ramallah to sup­port Arafat. 
For the first time since Israeli tanks crashed into the com­pound on Thursday -retaliat­ing for a Palestinian suicide bombing in Tel Aviv. 
Gore speaks against Bush's stance on Iraq war 
would feel justified in starting wars, he said. 
Gore also told an enthusiastic Commonwealth Club crowd he would decide in December whether to chal­lenge Bush again for the presidency in 2004. 
Republicans quickly pounced on the speech as evidence of Gore's weakness. 
"It seemed to be a speech more appro­priate for a political hack than a presi­dential candidate by someone who clear­ly fails to recognize leadership," said Jim Dyke, a Republican National Committee spokesman. 
Gore always has supported overthrow­ing Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and was one of the few Senate Democrats who voted in favor of the Gulf War reso­lution after Iraq attacked Kuwait. He said he felt betrayed by the first President Bush's "hasty withdrawal from the battlefield." 
But like other leading Democrats, Gore has expressed reservations in recent months about military actionagainst Iraq, suggesting the diplomatic costs would be extremely high. 
His speech Monday was much more critical, warning of ominous and untold consequences, ranging from a short­term power vacuum that could increase the danger of chemical and biological attacks, to the creation of legions of ene­mies angry and fearful about U.S. domi­nation. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. drafts Mideast resolution for UN: 
Calling a Palestinian draft resolution "one­sided," the United States countered Monday with its own proposal to condemn Palestinian suicide bombings and call on Israel to cease military actions around Yasser Arafat's compound. 
U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte said he wouldn't support a resolution that "fails to recog­nize that this conflict has two sides, that fails to condemn acts of terror and the groups that perpe­trate them." 
Vatican could approve U.S. abuse policy: 
The Vatican is leaning toward giving the go­ahead to the U.S. bishops' plan to combat sex abuse among clergy, accepting the proposals on an experimental basis, a senior Vatican official said Monday. 
Such a move by the Holy See would give Roman Catholic leaders in the United States time to enact their controversial reform policy without making permanent changes in church law. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Miss Universe fired for first time: 
For the first time in its 52-year history, the Miss Universe Organization has fired the woman wearing its crown. Oxana Fedorova, a 24-year-old Russian law student, was ousted four months after she won the pageant, the organization said. Spokeswoman Mary Hilliard McMillan said the organization would not comment on the reason until Tuesday, when the first runner-up, Miss Panama Justine Pasek, 22, is expected to be crowned. 
Calif. passes paid family leave law: 
Gov. Gray Davis signed a law Monday that makes California the first state to offer workers paid ramily leave. 
The law -financed by an employee payroll tax ­allows workers to take six weeks off to care for a newborn, a newly adopted child or ill family mem­ber. Employees will be eligible to receive 55 percent of their wages during their absence, up to a maxi­mum of $728 a week. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Mishawaka mother to plead guilty: 
The woman caught on video beating her 4-year-old daughter in a Mishawaka, Ind. department store parking lot will probably plead guilty and seek mercy from the court, her lawyer said Monday. 
Madelyne Toogood, 25, was arraigned on a felony charge of battery to a child, and a magistrate entered an innocent plea on her behalf. Her attorney, Steven Rosen, called the plea a formality and later said there was no point in trying to challenge the surveillance videotape in court. 
"We will probably enter a guilty plea and throw our­selves on the mercy of the court," he said after the arraignment. 
He added: "If a jury has to sit in judgment of this lady, the jury is going to come back with a guilty ver­dict ... I'm confronted with a videotape that shows Attila the Hun, no question about it." 
Earlier Monday, a Probate Court judge ordered that Toogood's daughter, Martha. remain in foster care. He also gave child-protection officials two weeks to recommend who should care for the girl. 
page 6 The Observer . CAM:PUS NEWS Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
Study day 
continued from page 1 
said. 
Student Body President Kim Jensen informed the members of BOG that the presentation will include a survey completed by the student body on the reading day recommendation as well as other statistics that support the imple­mentation of study days set aside at the end of each semester's aca­di=>mic calendar. 
"We're very hopeful about this proposal," said Jensen afLer lhe mePting. "It's very extensiw and lhorough." 
In other BOG news: 
. RAsident Hall Association President Jillian Kamaski 
Plan 
continued from page 1 
tt1rm plans .,.,ill pro,ide clarity for the government, but said a few issues still needed to be analyzed. 
The first of the individualized plans \Viii come to light on Oct. 14 when junior class president Meghan O'Donnell will present her organization's strategic plan. 
In other Cabinet news: 
. 
The Executive Cabinet wel­comed its new secretarv. first­year student Emily Chin. The res­ident of Welsh Family Hall replaces Erik Smith, who resigned last week. 

. 
The new Student Activities master calendar, "Everything 


announced the formation of a new policy that will increase each dorms committee activity. 
The policy will reqtiire every committee to hold at least one activity each month. If the com­mittees do not comply with this provision, 20 percent of their bud­gets ·will be withheld. 
RUA will also begin a "Hall of the Month" contest in which each residence hall will compete to ret:eive a banner that will hang outside the hall, along with some possible olher prizes. 
. BOG Athletic liaison Mollv Rurns, rnquestcd support from tho Saint Mary's community for this Satunlay's MIAA cross country meet. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 
Under the Dome," has a new home. It will be displayed in what is r,urrently the building directory in LaFortune Student Center. oppositE' thE' elevator. 
"We're excited about the visi­bility this will bring," Bishop said. 
. The Sophomore Class Council appealed to the Club Coordination Council for $1.500 to help defray the cost of this weekend's Spiritual Blast event. The concert, to be held Thursday night in Stepan Center, will fea­ture the Christian music of singer Bebo Norman. The appeal passed with unanimous consent. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. l@nd.edu 
DOWN TIME 


\J1e IIaJey led:ure Series on PollHcs anJ Putllc Policy J 
EJ. Dionne,Jr. 
Washington Post Columnist and Author Senior Fellow, The Brookings Institution 
will deliver a public lecture 
''Will Enron or Saddam Dominate This Year's Election?'' 
Tuesday, September 24 
4:15 p.m. 

Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Sponsored by: The Washington Program 
OTHE 

BusiNEss 
Tuesday, September 24, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market \Vatch Septe1nber 23 
DowJones 

7,872.15 • -113.87 
lVASDAQ 

1,184.93  •  -36.16  
S&P500  
833.70  ,,  -11.69  
AMEX  
831.54  
 -9.60  
NYSE  
453.78  -5.19  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.99 -0.12 11.96 
ili¦i11i!!:iiiiI1iliiii11i1i•••·•···• i!!fl!:1111111:!f 
PALM INC (PALM) +4.11 +0.03 0.76 
¦;:;l~wa!llil~II~:[!: .....:::::11::;l~1~l!lfil!l!l~ill 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -5.17 -0.77 14.13 
IN BRIEF 
Iraqi war fears drive oil prices up 
Oil futures shot well above $30 per barrel on Monday because of Iraqi war fears, although analysts said the world's top crude producers helped set the stage for even higher prices by refusing last week to increase output in the near future. "I think OPEC made a mistake by not raising production this time," said Phil Flynn, an analyst at Alaron Trading Corp. Crude to be delivered in November was up 87 cents at $30.71 on the New York Mercantile Exchange on concerns that President George W. Bush could be getting closer to ordering an attack to topple Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. 
Minutes reveal truth of Tyco perks 
Minutes from a board meeting early this year contradict Tyco International's testament to reg­ulators that board members had no knowledge of excessive pay packages allegedly arranged by former chief executive L. Dennis Kozlowski. Internal documents also show that a human resources official said she was pressured by a board member to do something "dishonest" dur­ing the company's internal investigation. Tyco last week filed a document with the Securities and Exchange Commission saying the internal investigation found board members had no knowledge of excessive pay packages for Kozlowski. former general counsel Mark Belnick and former chief financial officer Mark Swartz. 
Dole CEO pushes for privatization 
Dole Food Co. Inc. chief executive David Murdock told the fruit producer's board of directors that taking the company private is the best way to boost its share price, and offered $1.2 billion in cash to do so. Murdock offered $29 .50 per share for the 76 percent of the com­pany he doesn't already own. That was a 20.5 percent premium over Dole's closing price Friday. Investors initially pushed Dole's shares to nearly $31 a share, but the stock later gave some ground to close Monday at $28.99 a share, up $4.50 or 18.4 percent, on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Adelphia executives indicted 
. Court charges executives with building 'facade' 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Adelphia Communication Corp. founder John J. Rigas, two of his sons and other former executives were indicted Monday on charges that they built "a towering facade of false success" based on a $2.5 billion fraud. 
The indictment, handed up in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, seeks a stag­gering $2.53 billion in for­feiturc for the alleged large-scale accounting fraud and corporate loot­ing. 
U.S. Attorney James Corney called the alleged looting "one of the most elaborate and extensive corporate frauds in United States history." 
The 24-count indictment names Rigas, 77; his sons. Timothy, 46, and Michael, 48; James R. Brown, 40, former vice president of finance; and Michael C. Mulcahey, 45, former director of internal report­ing. 
The defendants "exploit­ed Adelphia's Byzantine corporate and financial structure to create a tow­ering facade of false suc­cess, even as Adelphia was collapsing under the weight of its staggering debt burden." Corney said. 
Rigas issued a statement Monday insisting the trans­actions detailed in the indictment were perfectly legal. 
"The corporate and per­sonal reputation I have worked to build over the last 50 years has been irreparably damaged," Rigas said. "My family and I have always acted with integrity and honesty and are committed to restoring our credibility and that of Adelphia." 
Lawyers for all five for­mer executives have denied that their clients have committed any wrongdoing. 
"Starting with nothing, John Rigas built a major American corporation which has now suffered serious damage through these accusations and charges," said his lawyer, Peter Fleming. "When the prosecution fails to prove its case, who will take responsibility?" 
The 103-page document charges that the Rigas family engaged in rampant self-dealing, often doling huge sums from the com­pany directly to their per­sonal bank accounts. 
John Rigas was taking so much money under the table that his son Timothy instructed Mulcahey not to aHow his father to with­draw more than $1 million a month. prosecutors charge. 
Different members of the Rigas family received more than $50 million in unau­thorized secret transfers from Adelphia, according to the indictment. 
The court papers also charge that the Rigas fami­ly regularly used three cor­porate airplanes for their personal use and spent $13 million in Adelphia money to build a golf course on property owned by John Rigas near the family home in Coudersport, Pa. 
Monday's indictment added new charges of securities fraud and con­spiracy to allegations already filed in 

a  com­ "My family and I have  2.  
plaint  always acted with  Adelphia,  
in July, when federal  integrity and honesty and are committed to  the nation's sixth-largest cable televi­ 
postal  restoring our credibility  sion compa­ 
inspec­t o r s  and that ofAdelphia."  ny, based in Coudersport,  
accused  filed  for  
t  h  e  John Rigas  Chapter  11  
Rigases  Adelphia founder  bankruptcy  
of mak­ protection  
ing the  June 25. The  
compa- Rigases  

ny into their "personal stepped down from their piggy bank." board seats and executive 
Rigas and his sons were posts at the company in arrested on July 24 at their May. apartment on Manhattan's Federal prosecutors have Upper East Side and have accused the family of using been free on $10 million $252 million in company bail each, secured by cash, land and other property. 
They each could face up to 30 years in prison if convicted of the most seri­ous charge, bank fraud. Their arraignments were scheduled for October 
money to pay margin calls, or demands for cash pay­ments on loans for which they had put up Adelphia stock as collateral. 
Prosecutors also said that Adelphia employees regularly performed work for other companies owned by Rigas family members and that the companies' bills were regularly paid out of Adelphia bank accounts. 
The family's companies included the Buffalo Sabres pro hockey team, a furniture and interior design company. a car dealership and a number of partnerships. 
Rigas, who was the com­pany's chief executive offi­cer and president, and his sons also have been named as defendants in more than 40 civil lawsuits, including one the company filed the day of their arrests. 

Stocks plunge after bad forecasts 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The Nasdaq composite index slid to a six-year low Monday and the rest of Wall Street fell equally hard amid a worsening outlook for the U.S. econo­my. The Dow Jones industrials dropped more than 100 points. 
Responding to a smattering of bad news -and lacking any positive eco­nomic data -investors essentially sold across the board, punishing shares of everything from Microsoft to Wal-Mart. The selloff carried the Nasdaq to its lowest close since September 1996, and the Dow back toward the four-year low it reached July 23. 
"The air is thick with concern about the pace of corporate profit growth or the lack thereof, and I think the reports that we're seeing about a pos­sible retest of July's lows are some• what making that a self-fulfilling prophecy," said Charles G. Crane, strategist for Victory SBSF Capital Management. 
The Nasdaq fell 36.16. or 3.0 per­cent, to 1,184.93, its lowest close since it reached 1,165.81 on Sept. 12, 1996. The broader market also retreated. 
The Dow fell 113.87, or 1.4 percent, to 7,872.15, after declining 3.9 per­cent last week. The losses gave the index its third triple-digit decline in five sessions -and put it just 169 points above its July 23 low, 7,702.34. 
The Standard & Poor's 500 index declined 11.69, or 1.4 percent. to 833.70, following a weekly drop of 5 percent. 
All three indexes have been on a monthlong losing streak. Since Aug. 22, the Dow has lost nearly 1,200 points. Investors have increasingly lost confidence due to mixed economic news. earnings warnings, and con­cerns about a war with Iraq. 
Analysts say the strength of the eco­nomic recovery has been investors' main concern. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
, Session 2: Catj)ofJJteminism: Creating a Culture ofLife (Rooms Sc.sion 6: Di.stim;uvcly Catholic Healthcare (Room 202) ·112-114) ·,;.;;, ,t" 
"Reemphasizing rhe Distinctive Religious Mission of the Laur:1 Gard,1,·Marg:1rec Monahan Hog:111 

Catholic Hospital"Session 3: Defending Ju~t War Theory: Three•Vi~~ UProtecting the 'Health Care Right of Conscience' through
{Rooms 210 •'Hl'tlJ 

Federal Legislation·
Gilbcrr Meil:ietfijer; James Toner; Russell Hittinger 
''Renewal within Healthcare Organiiations"
·~ l 
3: 15-4:45 p.m. ,;;-CoUo'luium Sessions 

S~sion 7: Ends, Law,, :uid Principles (Rooms l 12 • I I 4) "Mor.al Faith end Tr.anscendant Ends"
Session 1: The Rdationship between Philosophy a.ad Theology 
~Mor,! Panicularism and Moral Refoan"
(Room 106) _. . ; ; ; 

· -Reconsrruc:tlng the Culture of Marital Obllgacion"
The NottetDame, ., · , mer for Ethics and "The Culture of Life and Hierorheos Vbchos: A11 Orthodox ·,0;. Christian Account of an Agenda for Rcfotr,n"
Culture1sThird~nual Conference ·Seuion 8: Reforming Scienti6c Rt.$ean:h (Room I06)
u Fidjs u Ratio and the Mmphysical Basis of Aquipas' Natural 
,, . ' ,.,.. ~'"•, '<>t'\. ,~ 

Law" ,,,~ ··. : , . , ".Rornan Catholic Moral Philosophy and che Ethics of
'1'.!.',!'Ytft"f~ijt~discip1{'· ' conference dedicated to ~ · ·· Human Research• •
"R~vering Philosophietl Propaede111ics" ,• ,{
cxanzlrJ:{ng lli .'lities for building a ',.,: "Research Comm.unitiQ for Teachers as a Sruregy for t:;dlpi~fcultun tfe in the modern uior!d Session 2: Refonning Catholic Institutions (ETS R~~}; Promoting Civility" ' Ji%,... . "The Diocesan Seminary as che Local Secdltt-d oftne:Culture of l0:45 a.m.-ll:00 Invited Papers
AIJ;~ons are open ro the public. Conference ; ute" · '{ '..i:J'.\ · 
·•.fi"•

c:ve11rs will be held in McKenna Hall unless "Holiness, Moilmicism, and che Culmre of Life".; ,lit\ 
· Session 1: "New Ucbi0is1¥111Jld Cacholk Evangelism''
· 'orh~rwi~ nored. The full schedule is also available ''Building rhe Culture ofLile by Reforming Cat,61l~;firis~es~ 
(Auditorium)

;~, , ') ,_..;:. "'!•,
;,.v.~n ili~·Center's web site (www. nd.ed11/-nderhics). . ,[_
. _· ~ 
::::,, .,·... :•.,: ·-.· ' . ·=·-
1~·: ;•. . PhilipJ3c:ss
•;Session 3: Abortion: Strategies for f~ture Rcf\>1'-(fl~o~ 208), ,(. 
, Thursday, September 26 
"Changing_ the Image o£ ~?e PrerL1fe Movcm1j(~'~?:•.~·~{· ;:'' Session 2: Prom Outrageous Idea to Vocational Commitment: Eflccnve Scracrgy ,. . ,Q~:):},/j.l ~;:, ,;'.•.' ·.Chrutiau Scholarship in the Trench~ (Rooms 210 -214)
7:~m~9:0D p.m. 

"Bringing Hope ro !he MarkerpL1.ce . · ,.. i• ;:-.,~\1;': : ':\;·~r' ' Michael Scapcrlanda, Ken Stephenson, Lowell Busenitz,(Auditorium) · · · 
"Pro-Life Direct Acrion Oimp:i.igns; AVery fre.}imv,w;•· ·,., ' Mike SrrauS$, George Marsden Ralph MEln,e~nt .. Assessment ofTheir.lmpacr". '\'t,(:'CJt, )h .· 
-~-1~ . ' " jt' ' 
-~J!;~· :~:.; Friday,.September 27 
.~ffi 

Se~ion 4:J~'f\Var {Rooms t l 2 ~ H4): :, . i :~1..:~.;'.~n•.•.~.·.•1n!'.·d!·•·•.. ·•.·:' ~.•·•·;·"•.•·.•··•.t :·: Ses~~;r~:r~:tl;~cagd:;~~o~a~:~:~gl~;r~•I I 4) 
~Becwc;im Paciµ~.andJihad; TheJun Wat , • ~ · 
7 ,,
9:00-10:15 a.m. Collo,1uium Sessions 
/w;,;}:, .·• ,; l~Cqhr~poraiy lmpi!c..rioni 11 :;!"" tt i: .
), Invite<! PapersScssio_n 1: T~chiug Ethics to U11<lerg,.1dua1cs: A P:anel '<J•"Ju!itWara11dJ¥.CultuJ'cofL1fe" ,, ' '{ >'
.'"· '·~:-.:..~ _:·:·.:·::;~}{;:,:~/·":; --~ii~~f:'. •t:t: ..--..f.< _· \·.'; .,. "f-( ·£
DiscQUion (Arnliwrium) Session 1: Crisis in the Pric:Jthood: Some Way$ Foiward

·' a,1d Popular Culture· (!,09 -214·) · ·· , ' 
K:!ren Scohr, Rulirn Miner, Pa11ick Paul K;iiu. Rurh 
(Audicoriun1) . G1·oucnhou1 gThf?IO~}JiPilm~~; :, if ·<·· ;'i i'., 
Sidney Callahan; Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C.; Jorge Garci;i.; · 
;~--'.'c:cina11lnt~~rateClimare~p ·..... ,," : ..·ii ·;ilf.·p\\ 
. John M. D'A.-cy, S.T.O. 
Sessio.p ,' 2: Mura! Hesponsibili1y andJwrice (Room 202) ... h's AW:o~iderful Life: The Film ludufoy·as i~,;·JfRc~~al''.i;' "Amib111ing ,\k111i11g 10 Lite af1er Experiences of Violence: il ·····: . . '/. : . . ..·· . tis .:, .·•·· 'I :,Jni Session 2: StraLegies for Revitalizing Chrl$fiarl Colleges and 
·. Session 6: Commian.ity 3lJd Dm:rsity .(Room 21).t) '·, .'. ,; :<
·/,.: A Cl1risuan l'mpcnive" Universities (Rooms 210 -214) 
.. :.·.. ;'Yoder's Caution and Plamiga'sAdvice: Twtj '1~ws ofReligl(}GS'i:' <
1'~¥'!¥1$i'iturio11:1I lmmortaluy and the Cri:;is of Moral Sense" 
. ~; . Michael Beaty. Don Briel, Scott Moore 
Beliefand Trans-Tribal 9bligatio,1'' ;-· Sc:s,lon 3: I Icaldu:arc Reform (ETS Room) '''Oo Diverse Schools Build aDlverse Sociezyt 
Session 3: 1'Film as EVMgelical Instrument: 'American Beauty,'
'.'Back ro che Ghetto?"

~The ~uspd Message: Health Care with Jusrice and 'The Ice Storm,' and Contemporary Sexual Mores" (Rooms 
:·•·;

··,'.sCollljlaS!iio11" 112. 114) "Httll~Jnsur-,u1ce for 1he Poor" Senfon7: Lei$ure and J.he Reform ofCuhure:jJR/,om Z,OQ ThomasHibbs ~R~on~racing Public Space: Churches i~/ilie~
·Is< , ·",·:.
Sess.io ·· Road, to Conversion and Reform (Room 200) · Public Square" f 3:15-4:45 p.m. CoUoquiwn Sessions ~ A ReC11ami11ation of Leist.µe" .· ·
]asricity a:; a l'ar.1digm for Peace" Session 1: Authority and Exemplars (Room 200)
un Vitae and i,s Ramilkations for American ~Lcisur¢, the Basis of cl1e Culture .~~(~i'.e?" itt;fli
sure• "The Hero: Ard1irect and Worker of rhe Culture of 
fDcach, Valley of Life: An Immigrant Journey of Scasio.n 8: On the Edges.oflium;ut Life (Auditoriu~) .•. •. . Lifrt "Sustaining a Culrure ofUfc towards Embryohict)fe:) "Fahh, Rmon, and Authority; The Cultural Crisis in "Building a Culrurc ofLifc:A Call to Respect Human Dignity· Roman Catholicism" 
Resources iu the His1ory of the Church . ' in America" . •, ( ./ •·. • "Culrure, Merirocracy, and rhcCulrure of Life"· . ~The Promise of Human Life i11 ili,e Face of P~te~tial Genetic 
Alrcrarions" ( Senion 2: P<1litical Liberalism and the Public-Private
ntinuing Rdcva11ce of the Reform Proposals 
Oistinctlon {Room 208)

f Nicholas of Cusa a1 the Council ofBasd ( 1433)" =r "Abolidonism: A Christian Re$po1U-C to ·"Responding to the Culture of Death: Reflections on
ct's Rule, the Rise of Eth11ici1y, and the Fall of 
War?" (AudiLOriurn} '.t Agendas for Refurrn"
the Roman Empire" Stanley Hauerwas; Enda McQoriagh; Michael uPosirive and Negative Freedoms: Rethinking
:urgical Consummarion of Labor: The 'New 
Baxter, C.S.C. · 
Conceptions of Rightl'
:,0110111>·.' Worker Selt~Management, and a Political "An American Liberalism for Life? The Polirical
JEconomy of Lile" 

~ ·\Saturdar, September 28 
a~• 
Thought of the Founders and rhe Social Tlioughr of PopeJoht, Paul W
Sc~ion ~t ~irtm:s of Paren!hood ( ~o~'.ns. 112 • 114) 9:00-10:i5 a.m. . Colloquium Sfflions 
. .
Culu~t111g die Virtue ot Respon.s1b1hry · · .· 
,s~;il>11 3: l.>hlfosophy a11d E<lucation (Rooms 210 • 214) 
'ib•-> ,7/,Ji#,J!.ft ""r knoll) rha, I mmt be i11 myfather's howr? .·. SessionliPe.rsp~tivce oi:i.Abon.ion. (Auditotium) ·· 
· 'The Risk ofa Philosophical Curri,ulumin American Public
,,,,,,/'.ii' ,.~~'"ifRcvi1alizi11g Family through a Rereading ofClassical , "Advancing the 0.dtureofLlfcin Washington Waco" 
Schools" 

J~f.,•.•··· nd l.libli,al Father-Son Narracim" "A Defense ofLife Fo1.1Qded on Coni;epr. ofJustice" "jfVIQ . WL JllSIKe, W k 1· CllaS!lt}' " · • · ·:;}:·::c::'.. "Maternal Loveiind Abortion'! .. "MetaphysicsandCarhoUc Educario11'' 
....w<1lll · or. or · . ~ ;,: ,;,' ~ .-... ·. "Vocation and Virtue:The Pedagogy and Pracrice ofVirtue in ·· ThpmasAquinas" ·
~!Q1j •. Working for Life at 1he End of Life (Room 208) :·.. • { ~on 2: The R,eq~cm~~ of J?cmocracy: (Room208} >. "Embracing Our Dying: A Concrete Propo~al for Building ·!,t .· "The Rood to aVirruousand FroeSocicty lnMniCQ: 
.Sc.,sion 4: Aburt.ion: Toward Legal Refonn (ETS Room)
1hc: Culmre of Life" . ,;; Emergcnr Demoqacy as a Moral Project for U~i'versity "Defending Feral Rights; Protecting the Unborn from
"Hospi,e Vol111Hecrs and 1he Objecc of Love" ·,;J'. Education'' . .·.•. · · · 
·. Third-Parry A$aults» 
"Terminal Sedarion and Euthanasia" fJ .ti:i~~~~~:l~~~;;1Democracy;State Actio,{ oc "TheNeed for a Federalism Amendment on Abortion n 
. l "Practical Strategics for Humaniring the Unbom" 
Smion 8: Rcspo11sibili1ics towards 1hc Poor and Oppresse4 . ~vi(Sl)(i~9'm:,f;:f-1ti;e,,r)E1•: .,,~J};:::> . 
(Room I06) } • . . • ... •· . • . . ,·::. . . Session,: Making (American} Catholiciffll Mo«: Urban: A "Lel ll5 go IO dil' poor: Frederic Ow1am and the Society Qf Sesaion 3: Yo11rhfo'r Rdi:i~ (R~rii ioo) : ...• 3 y <. .Pand D~l)n (Auditorium) 
"Al DS, t·a~:1,~~~1\~)~1~:1~· ...·.• 'Ii~g;;::.::t~~f1:~8¢J!t::;J;~!~;:O(~£;i\,1;::rm::tlI;;;.Ii:'~c{ ~in~ndtougcau, Nichole Garnett,. ErkN. Kniffin 
"FIOlll 'I laving' IO •Bt'ing': A Proposal for Reform.. . . ,~Promoting ~ Culture ofLlfr on Am,eriean University . . s~si.OAl 6: Interpretation a11d U)Ulfl'.ll,lllkadQil; A rand [ .. . . . ,; Campuses;~ §~dcnt's,R~r;pect:ive on Teaching'' .;{~, ,.,. ~, .Discu,uion (Room !06) . .• _ . . 
10:45 a.m.-12:00 Invited Papers 
,>··';-'". ,.: ,,.;.\::, '·' ,.i ~r•·:" .; : .· . . . ·· · · Kathlc:eri Cleni~rer R.pbem, Janie Harden Frirz, Eric Sr:ffiQll 4: B~ding aLat\~ alld U~etaturo 9fLife (Rcx,n1$ Grabowsky,John Prclhvitt · .
SeHiou 1: "Tbc Saucd as Rdle,1cJ in Life-Giving 
ZW ~ 2l4)c,:,.:,. , ...· .. •.. 't: . . ....·· . . .. ·. . ; .
Architecture" (Audnorium) . 
. Ii }:i ·:,: A Propos;il for;,tJc,ii.111:iaJ~f Reyi~s: ~, ·. · . , . Se.won 7~ H~ilA Dignity and R~ponsibi.llry (Roams 112­Thomas Gordon Smith 
;,;t;
}: •.·. "John Paul Uon Ch.tllenging and Replacing ~e Langu~e < . 114) <• .· .• ..·.::··. . ... . ·.. · . Scs~ion 2: "Hegel, Ni~tz.sche, Vattirno, and John Rawls: Rcligioui Di5Cun.iuu in 1he Public Forum after the Death of 
··:~1i.!t~.ir?~1~~i·~~•ir,Jllitt&f~l!Jf'.\~sfu~;i~~:if:~,dd~ 
Cod" (Rooms 210. 
214) ii 
11. 'liima111 Engdhard1 SewoA 5; ½Sl!.l4l.;ofJheU~".rgy(ETS~o,n) • • ·.. ... . ,,:+ );\ "lprough µI¢ Laoking Glass: Identity and the Ethics of 
"The Crltlal Importance ofthe Lord~ D=ly fur i Culture of : ., 3;; ..: Ra:ogoirion" .. · · · .We" : . .. . ... . . . . . .· ,....... ,,·.: :_. .•.. ,.• •J-''··· .,•.
1:30-l:45 p.m. "From Oe.itli P~na!()' £Q 1.i(e: The Uctirgy ~ :i.So11rce fo( •· '• ,:J(; •· Scssi~n 8: ACulture of Llfei.o the World of Business 
Session I: The Ftnurc of. -~rm:>>,. · , .·. . · . . . . ·..·..·., (Room202) ·•· •.. · · ·•·· · ·• . ••·.. · ·. . · Panel Uiscus$ioo (Audit ;,:P.-c.Jl?le ofrcdd!nM in R~b~ildi.ni the Cu.lt4re ofIJ((,; ..,'. i.: ': .• ~Brlnging ;1 Culnu;eofLife to l 11~es1ment Managcmen1" Charles Dougherty; Robert S oan; 
c.s.c. ~.;. 



Tuesday, September 24, 2002 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS page 9 
m~ When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 8, 2002. 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
IN 
DUBLIN,IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
~r---..,1"""-.J,-....,,I 
Tuesday,Sept.24,2002 102 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 PM 
With Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs Student Returnees 
,..._,,.._,,...__,,..._, 
Application Deadline: December 1,2002 For Fall 2003 -Spring 2004 A Y 2003-2004 Applications on -line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud available after Oct. 1, 2002 
Anxiety grows over serial rapist in Ohio 
By JORDAN GENTILE & 
LISA EVERMAN 
The Ohio State Lantern 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

The serial rapist stalking the Ohio State University campus area claimed his fifth and sixth victims over the weekend of Sept. 14 and 15, compelling university officials to intensify efforts alerting local residents to the threat. 
As autumn quarter begins and the campus fills with stu­dents -many of whom are unaware of the sexual assaults that have gripped the area over the summer -that task may become increasingly difficult. 
"After students move in there will be a greater concentration of targets in an already ripe environment," said Sgt. Pat Foley of the Sexual Abuse Unit of the Columbus Division of Police. "Everyone needs to be aware of the neighborhood's environment and keep an eye on each other for safety." 
The fifth assault was a rape and the sixth is being called an assault with sexual overtones. As with all of the previous attacks, both occurred between 5 a.rn. and 10 a.m., in an off­campus area bounded by North High Street to the west, North Fourth Street to the east, Patterson Avenue to the north andlOth Avenue to the south. 
Five of the six victims are confirmed as Ohio State stu­dents. 
The attacks have been attrib­uted by Columbus police to a black male in his 30s, of aver­age height and weight, with either short hair or a shaved head. 
In each case, the perpetrator gained access to his victims by entering their homes through an unlocked door or window. On at least one occasion, he entered while his target was on a short errand; another time, he barged into a residence after persuading a woman to open the door. He has threat­ened each victim with a knife. 
In addition to an increased Columbus police presence, the off-campus area in which the rapist operates is now being watched by Community Crime Patrol, a group founded and co-sponsored by OSU that "pro­vides extra eyes and ears to police," according to a univer­sity press release. 
While the area is out of the jurisdiction of University Police, OSU Police Chief Ron Michalec said he has not been left out of the loop. 
"We have great confidence in the Columbus police and we are doing everything we can to cooperate in their investiga­tion, specifically in terms of the public awareness campaign," he said. 
That campaign, initiated this summer in response to the string of assaults, has been stepped up in response to the two recent attacks. At a press conference Wednesday, repre­sentatives from the university and Undergraduate 
Student Government announced new initiatives designed to educate and pro­tect incoming students. 
"It's the university's no. one priority, as far as I'm con­cerned, to make sure that stu­dents, as they come in literally from all over the world, are alerted to the threat." said William Hall, vice president for Student Affairs. 
Posters and fliers bearing warnings and safety tips are being distributed on and off campus. Door-to-door visits by OSU police have been initiated, and a web page has been cre­ated providing a list of resources related to personal safety, including free self­defense and rape prevention classes. 
Tonight, resident advisers will hold mandatory floor meetings during which safety issues are to be discussed at length. 
As part of its safety aware­ness week, USG will hand out "screamers" -devices that emit loud signals designed to ward off physical attack -Oct. 3 on The Oval. Additionally. the organization plans to make house alarms available at dis­count prices of $10 and $15. Interested parents and stu­dents will be given more infor• mation via e-mail. 
The installation and proper maintenance of house alarms was an issue raised by Off. Campus Student Services in its monthly meeting in July, to which all 110 off-campus prop­erty owners registered with OSU were invited. While some of the larger realtors had rep­r esentatives in attendance, only 22 owners showed up in total, said Willie Young, coordi­nator for Off-Campus Student Services. 
Northsteppe Realty did not have a representative at that meeting, but Northsteppe prop­erty manager Rick Graff said communication between OSU and the land owners has always left something to be desired. "I don't think they make a point to stay in touch with us either," he said. "They're just beginning to, in light of recent events." 
Few students bother to pur­chase a house alarm in the first place, Graff said. Northsteppe offers alarm installation to every tenant, but only two of his approximately 100 new res­idents have purchased a sys­tem. 
"Students are very leery of spending the money," Graff said. "Everybody thinks it's going to happen to someone else." 
Still, some off-campus resi• dents are taking the universi­ty's warnings to heart. Meghana Batra, an engineering student who arrived from India two weeks ago, learned of the serial rapist for the first time when an OSU police officer vis­ited her apartment as part of the neighborhood patrol. 
Since then, she has changed her habits. "Now, I keep win­dows closed and doors locked," she said. "And I pay more attention to my surroundings." Michalec said he is counting on such vigilance to help restore the security of the campus area. 
"It would be nice to think that the police are going to be able to do it exclusively," Michalec said. "When we talk about who's going to catch this person, it's going to be a stu­dent who sees something unusual, who makes the tele­phone call to the police depart­ment. and that's how this guy is going to be caught." 


--------------------------------------------------, 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 24, 2002 

Centerfor Socia{ Concerns 
SOCIAL 


~QrJl£~

CONCERNS 

http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Please make sure to look for the CSC's insert In today's Observer listing many ofthe ways to be Involved In the local community. 
Vehicle Training 
MPORTANT NOTICE FOR STUDENTS 

Internati.onal Summer Servi.ce

WHO MAY WANT -AT ANY TIME IN THE FUTURE -TO USE VEIIlCLES FOR SERVICE Learning Program IN THE COMMUNITY 
Sites in 13 developing countries around the world 
If you think that there is even a possibility that 
Application due date November 1st 
you , at some time in the future, may want to use It's never too early to explore and consider the a University Vehicle to do seivice in the commu­possibilities ... 
nity, we suggest that you attend the FINAL ISSLP Information NightTRAINING SESSION presented by the Trans­
Tuesday, Sept. 24 
portation Services Department. It will be held on 
6:30-7:30 pm Sunday, September 29, DeBartalo, Room 102 

'EI Paso/Ciudad Juarez Borders Issues Seminar' 
This one-credit (THEO 371) seminar over winter break, January 2-8, 
examines immigration and related issues that surface between the United 
States and Mexico border. Participants will have the opportunity to stay at 
different shelter homes on both sides ofthe border, meet with refugees, help 
with daily chores at the homes, visit maquilas and border patrol posts, and 
discuss policy issues. 

*Information Session October 8, 5:30-6pm, Coffee House (CSC) 
*Applications are available at the CSC and are due October 14 *For more infomation, contact Melody Gonzalez at 4-1715 or gonzalez.76@nd.edu 
Current Volunteer Opportunities 


••••,.•,-,.~ .! .,.,...t,U..•~~.., .!.,.., ••• ! .•••••• 
:-S~M@y·AJb?ro@dl fin Ui;mmi@@ _: 
: Study Abroad Opportunity for • Spring 2003>1! • in Uganda, East Africa offered through the • : School for International Training Program ! : focus: "Development Studies &· Issues ~}</--~: : Challenging Developing Nations" · ': 
• Come learn more! • !Tuesday, Sept. 24 : 
:s:oo pm ,: 
• 129 Hayes '-Healy •
..........-,.-...,.~............... 
csc 

1101yCross Mission in Edycation Seminar 
Immerse yourselfin the educational mission ofNotre Dame's Holy Cross priests to a largely Hispanic population in Arizona's Valley ofthe Sun. You'll participate in the creative programming of St. John Vianney grade school and experience Phoenix's well-known Andre House ofHospitality. Local families love to host you, and you'll explore some ofthe region's natural beauty. Ideal for students considering ACE! 
*January 3-9, 2003 *Info session Oct 8, 5-5:30pm, Coffee House 
*Applications due Oct. 14 *Contact Kevin Sandberg, CSC (1-4147 or sandberg.6@nd.edu) 
Tutoring/Mentoring: 
Agencies: 

I 
Learn.Fun is an extended learning program for kids k-6 at Jefferson Elementary School, They are looking for tutors M-F 
r 
from 2:40-3:30 or 4:30-5:30. Contact Tomeka Jones at work: 
I 283-8700 from 11-6 or at (574) 514-8713. 
I I 
Holy Cross Grade School is looking for tutors for kids in grades 6-8 for their after school Math Help program. It runs on Wednes­days from 3-4. Contact Colleen O'Brien at school: 234-3422 or home: 287-3006. 
Believers After School Program is looking for tutors/mentors for teenagers ages 12-18 one day a week, T/W/Th 3:30-6:30. 
Contact Tera Barnes or Jackie Davis at 233-3353. 
Greater Holy Temple is looking for tutors for children grades 1 ­12 on Tuesdays, 7-8. It is located at 7 lO Napolean. Contact Jean Cane at 631-5685 or home: 243-9435. 
St. Joe Regional Medical Center is looking for people to read to small children. You need only read for an hour at a time, and you choose M-F between 9-12 and 1-4. Contact Denise Kapsa at 237-7242 or kapsad@sirmc.com . 
Individuals: 

A person who is a sibling of twins, triplets or quadruplets is needed to mentor to a girl who is the sister to quadruplets. Contact Marissa Runkle at 289­4831. 
Special Needs: 

A woman with a serious illness needs to be taken to her doctor's appoint­ments. Most of her appointments are in the morning, but that can be flexible. If you can get to her place in Mishawaka, she has a car that you can use. Contact Carol at 256-9319 before 7pm. 
A woman with physical and learning disabilities needs help typing and editing her books. She would like to meet 2 times a week in the afternoons. Contact Rose Anne: 277-4341 or 287-3891. 
Conversation Exchange Partners (CEP) Contact: Connie Peterson-Miller at 631-3825, or cpeters4@nd.edu 
CEP is a chance to meet individually with an international student, scholar or spouse and help them master English through conversation while you share insights about each other's culture and interests. Meetings are arranged according to your own schedules once a match is made. 

Tuesday, September 24, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
White House criticizes Israeli action 
Associated l'ress 
WASHINGTON 

Breaking its silence, the Bush administration criticized Israel for laying siege to Yasser Arafat in his West Bank headquarters and called for a pullout. 
Statements issued Monday by White House and State Department spokesmen said Israel had "aggravated" U.S. efforts to improve security and reform the Palestinian leader­ship. 
At the United Nations Security Council in New York, the United States called for an end to the siege along with punishment of the plotters of Palestinian suicide bombings. Their renewed attacks last week prompted Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon to move against Arafat. 
Israel has demanded that Arafat turn over terror suspects in his compound. Arafat has refused. 
Privately, administration offi­cials said the Israeli assault in Ramallah was puzzling after some progress had been made on both security and reform. 
The pressure Israel put on Arafat by destroying most of his compound may have been designed to force him into exile. President Bush in June called for the ouster of Arafat, but has never given any public indication of how he thought Arafat should be replaced. 
Earlier this month. Bush met at the United Nations with Nabil Shaath, a senior adviser to Arafat. Secretary of State Colin Powell met separately with Shaath. 
The Palestinian delegation sought Monday to have the Security Council condemn Israel for the siege. 
The United States countered with a resolution that called both for an end to the siege and pun­ishment of Palestinians who plot suicide bombings in Israel. 
Powell told Sharon in a phone call Saturday night that the siege was contrary to Bush's goals for peace in the Middle East and reform of the Palestinian hierar­chy, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said in Washington. 
Powell wanted to convoy Bush's udeep concerns" about the situation, Boucher said. 
However. Boucher declined to say whether the administration wanted Israel to withdraw its forces from the compound. 


"Let roe just say that we're working fairly intensively with both sides and other internation­al parties to try to calm the situa­tion, to help resolve it," Boucher said. 
Earlier. Bush admonished Israel through White House spokesman Ari Fleischer, who said the president considered the siege detrimental to peacemak­ing and reform. 
American officials have con­veyed the president's views to Sharon, Fleischer said in an apparent reference to Powell and Daniel Kurtzer. the U.S. ambas­sador to Israel. 
"We've urged Israel to consider carefully the consequences of its recent actions and 1heir effect on the goals of Palestinian security cooperation and reform of Palestinian institutions," Boucher said. 
Through the first two days of the siege the Bush administration said virtually nothing about Israel's actions. 
On Sunday, the third day of the encircling of Arafat's battered compound in Ramallah, White House spokeswoman Jeanne Mamo said, "Israel's actions in and around the (Arafat com­pound) are not helpful in reduc­ing terrorist violence or promot­ing Palestinian reforms." 
Mamo also said, "We urge Israel to continue considering the consequences of its actions on progress" toward reaching goals Bush has set: Palestinian elec­tions next year, Arafat's removal as leader and creation of a Palestinian state within three years to exist peacefully with Israel. 
At the same time, Mamo said Palestinian hopes for an indepen­dent state are greatly harmed by suicide attacks. 


t 1  Tuesday  
j j j l  September 24, 2002 7:00 ­9:00 pm LaFortune Student Center  
l  Foster Room  
i ' '  1st Round Interviews ­ 10/10/02 

l (Bidding Schedule Closes -9/26/02 
California adopts new sten1 cell research law-s 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

In a move that runs counter to Bush administration policy, California has adopted a new law that opens the state's doors to stem cell researchers. 
Gov. Gray Davis signed legis­lation Sunday that expressly permits the research, which has been strongly opposed by anti-abortion groups and the Roman Catholic church because it involves the use of fetal and embryonic tissue. 
The issue captured headlines more than a year ago when President Bush restricted fed­eral funding for human embry­onic stem cell research to a select number of existing cell lines. 
Supporters of the California legislation say the law will attract scientists who someday may be able to cure chronic diseases 1hrough the research. Proponents include actor Christopher Reeve, who has been a stem cell research activist since an accident left him paralyzed from the neck down. He believes stem cell research could help treat paralysis. . 
· "Since stem cells were first isolated in 1998, the political debate has had a chilling affect on our scientists," Reeve said Sunday. "It is painful to con­template what advances could have been made" if that research wasn't stifled. 
Stem cells, which are found in human embryos, umbilical cords and placentas, can divide and become any kind of cell in the body. Opponents contend the research is tanta­mount to murder because it starts with the destruction of a human embryo. 
On board Air Force One as President Bush flew to New Jersey on Monday, White House press secretary Ari Fleischer initially chalked up the California law to states' rights. 
"The president has always said states have authority within their states," Fleisher said. 
Later, Fleisher amended his remarks. 
"The president thinks that all policies -state or federal -need to promote a culture that respects life and, in that, he does differ from what California and the governor there have done," he said. 
State Sen. Deborah Ortiz wrote the bill that states that California will explicitly allow embryonic stem cell research, 

Trish & Mar 

and allows for both the destruction and donation of embryos. 
The bill requires fertility clinics that do in-vitro fertiliza­tion procedures to inform women that they have the option to donate discarded embryos to research. It requires written consent and bans the sale of embryos. 
Ortiz and supporters of her bill said the research could be valuable in curing or alleviat­ing chronic and degenerative conditions, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's and spinal cord injuries. 
The law will attract "the best and the brightest" researchers to California and halt the migration of stem cell researchers to other countries where it is permitted, said Larry Goldstein, a professor at University of California, San Diego. 
Since the federal govern­ment won't pay for stem cell research, researchers in California will have to be vigi­lant about keeping studies sep­arate, said Susanne Huttner, associate vice provost for research for the University of California. 
Movie producer and director Jerry Zucker joined Davis and Reeve in the announcing the law, saying he learned about stem cell research after dis­covering that his young daugh­ter had diabetes. 
"After learning the daily rou­tine, we began to ask what was being done to cure dia­betes," he said. "Everyone told us that embryonic stem cell research is her best hope for a cure." 
Zucker said he immediately discovered "that the biggest obstacle in finding a cure for our daughter is our own gov­ernment." 
Congress hasn't acted on any stem cell research bills, or a bill to ban human cloning, and Ortiz said there was still a question over whether California's law would be pre­empted by a federal statute. 
Measures pending in Congress range from allowing research to criminalizing it and prosecuting those who traveled abroad for treatment derived from stem cell research. 
Davis has signed another bill which makes permanent a temporary ban on human cloning for reproductive pur­poses, said his spokesman Steve Maviglio. That ban was set to expire at the end of the year. 
Lock your bathroom doors... Peaches is turning 21 ! 
Love, Al, La r, Ryn, 


OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre D~mc. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dimng Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagenga~t  Kevin Ryan  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  O1'ERATIONS MANAGFR  
An.drew Soulrnp  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 

SCENE Et>ITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Matt Lmz 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSl'EMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangerr 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAl. lNF0•• ,...........631-7471 FAX... .. .............................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF..... .......................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0R/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'OINT.. .............................................. 631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS......................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu ScENE......................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTF.MS!WE!I ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as carroons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edi tori al conrent, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Ediror in Chie[ Managing Editor. Assisram Managing Editor and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all reader,. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letrers to the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tll~ Ob-.o-vl"r l lJ:lPS 'ilJ•) 1~4000) 1., publi,lu:,I Moml.t:, ,limu~h !·riJ.iy txc,:pr tlurin~ ,:11:.1111 ~rwl v.1c~t10-11 pcnoJ,. A,1th,criptio11 I() TI,c Oh~crver U. S100 fur Ollr:' ,1c,1<lt"m1,· 
yc-;tr; S)) fur Olk' \C"ltlf'\t('r. 
Tl,,: Oh,cr1.·,:r 1, publi,h...J a POSTM!\HER 

024 South Dinmg H.1!1 s~nd ,1dc.lre-., ...-orrcctiom m 
NouC" 0.1mc. I~ 465%-0-7:"I) ThcOh~rv-c-r 
Periodic.ii p1N;tf.,:-p,ud Jf Notre l1Jmc P.O. Flnx ({ 

3f1J nl,foion,il m.,ilinf ofi'ictc, 02,4 S<l111h D,nir,g H.111 
t'-!1"1tr<"[).1ml'. !~4(iC,,}(i.ff~IJ 
Th'" {)h...._·"'cr ".1 m~1!11."f uf1h" Aw'ltmttd l'r,r\:'-,. ~II n.-pm<lu<"rn,n rigl11" ate 
rc'C!Jvcd 

Senior year brings new perspective 
The water in the "cooler." in which we had put our "soda," leaked out onto our carpet over the course of Thursday and Friday nights. By Sunday, there was something unwant­
ed growing in our Joanna apartment. Our . . living room M1kulsk1 
smelled -and not like roses. After hours of work. mv Tuesday Voice roommates and ( managed to elimi­nate the problem. The room now smells like Lysol. 
As I worked to soak up the watN. I became keenly aware that I have grown into an off-campus senior. FrPshmen don't have to worry about odors emanating from their living rooms. They don't even have a living room. 
Sometimes I wish I were a freshman again. I remember the first year of college as so uncomplicated. I didn't have a major. It didn't matter. I went to class blissfully unaware of anything going on outside of campus. Even "the bubble" seemed like a big place to me. Three years ago as a resident of McGlinn Hall, I couldn't even navigate my way to the Stepan Center. My only lament was the sub-par performance of the football team. 
But then, I wouldn't even make a good freshman anymore. Freshmen, or at least those in my Introduction to Theology class, do all of the reading, take very good notes and attend the professor's office hours. As one of a handful of seniors in the class, I real­ized last Tuesday that I had lost my notebook for the course. Last Thursday, I looked around the class­room to discover that none of mv classmates would have to pier,e · together the notes for tlrn test this week. I can't remember when I start­ed to become so delinquent. 
Of course, my senior friends and I have had more pressing issues on our mind than our theology requirements. We have to figure out what we plan to do with our lives -or at least next year. 
For my roommates and me, last week served as an introduction lo everything this year will and will not be. We learned it will be busy. We dis­covered it will be tir­ing: We realized it will not be easy. 
From Saturday until Thursday, two of my room­mates hur­ried to com­plete resumes, research companies and buy (or borrow) interview suits for the career fair. Two more of my roommates spent the time studying for the Foreign Service Exam. I dedicated the seven days to an appli­cation that might -and I emphasize "might"-help me do what I want to do in Europe next year. 
By Saturday. we all had come to the conclusion that only two options remained for the weekend: drinking and sleeping. Believe it or not, I couldn't even stay awake during the second half of the Michigan State game. I only arose l'rom my slumber when my friends hegan to blast the fight song and dance an Irish jig at the end of the game. 
Involuntary and ill-timed naps aside, my roommates and I also discovered that most of what happens this year will be out of our control. During the first part of the Foreign Service Exam, a test for employment in the State Department, my friends had to fill out questions on their work and leader­ship experience. After they finished, 
they asked the woman next to them where she works. She answered, "the Kroc Institute." My roommates' story came with the realization that we arc entering a realm in which lead­ership experience as 
"captain of hall soc­cer team" docs not look very impres­
sive. 
Now I know why the seniors told • me to enjoy every minute of my freshman year. I suppose that in 
the end, mv friends and· I will have to just throw 
our hands up and see what comes our way. I realize that our 
jobs, service projects or study next year don't finally determine the paths of our lives. However, keeping 

perspective is a challenge, when I so desperately want to be excited, interested and happily anxious about where I'm headed next. 
Oh well, at least I don't have to lament the football team's perfor­mance. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English and German major. She can be reached al mikulski. J@nd.edu. Her column appears et•ery other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Neighbors owe each other respect 
I am a lifelong resident of the Northeast Neighhorhood, was born five blocks from campus, then grew up and moved two blocks from campus. 
Through the years, I've seen thousands of Notre Dame stu­dents in our neighborhood not only partying with the resi­dents and among themselves, but i(rnding a helping hand to the senior citizens in the neighborhood. I've seen the "bub­ble" people, (so called), come to the neighborhood and call our young black kids "niggers." I've seen students, both boys and girls, so drunk at the original Corby's bar that they would pull their pants down and urinate all over the place. I could go on and on about the bubble children. 
In order to get respect, one must give respect. We as a com­munity for years have tried to establish a relationship with the University, but because the bubble children think they're better than others. they have missed the opportunity to enjoy the wonderful l.hings the city of South Bend has lo offer. True, we may not be as popular as other r,ities, but th,wc's a lot of love here. For years, those living north of Angela knew noth­ing about the people or the sites south of them. 
There are good students and bad students; the1;e are good residents and bad residents. Only when we stop fighting one another and start knowing one another will we feel safe to venture out. When I see a group of students drinking and loud in my community, as a black lady, I feel just as uncomfortable as they do when they see a group of young black kids. 
Stop trying to belittle us because of a robbery. It happens to us all at some point. Just maybe, if you get to know your neighbors and stop judging us, your stay outside of the bubble would be pleasant. Just maybe, it's time for fresh air inside the bubble. 
Lu Ella Webster South Bend Sept. 22 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Teresa Fralish Kiflin Turner Helena Payne Viewpoint Kristin Ycmm Patrick McElwee Graphics

! Andy Devoto 
Sports 
Katie McVoy Lauren Dasso Christine Armstrong 
Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Aune Kelly 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you support a preemptive U.S. strike on Iraq? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What has happened to the dreams ofthe United Nations' founders? What has hap­pened to the spirit which created the United Nations? The answer is clear: Governments got: in the way ofthe dreams ofthe people." 
Ronald Reagan former U.S. President 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 24, 2002 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
U.S. action in Iraq is necessary and justified 
The Unitt>d States is the root of the world's problems. I have heard such drivel spouted by Americans and for­eigners, educated and illiterate. According to Danny Richter. we are promiscuous and fat ("America preaclrns fnlse ideals," Sept. 22). According to Adrian Acu. WP, arc ter­rorists ("Sept. 11 reactions expose 
U.S. xenophobia," Sept. 22). And because of thest' accusations, we should leave Iraq alone, I am sick of it 
Most recently, the United States has become the global scapegoat concern­ing th!' imwmding war with Iraq And wh1\n I say impending. I mean it. It has hf'en approximately 12 years since the Gulf War ended, and Iraq still refuses to conform to the terms of the cease fire. Millions have died because of the U.N. 's misguided and continued imposition of sanctions, Iraq is trying to develop weapons of mass destruction. Time is wearing thin. 
Them are still over 600 missing Kuwaiti citizens. and much of the spoils plundered from that land have not been returned, including their National Archive. Iraq still violates the no-flv zone. and since 1998 they have not allowed weapons inspections. They have verifiably proliferated chemical weapons to other states in violation of a number of treaties. All these items were specifically addressed over a decade ago. I was in fifth grade. 
And then came the sanctions. People conveniently forget that the sanctions currently levied against Iraq are the result of a U.N. resolution, not the will of the United States. They forget that these sanctions are in effect because Iraq has refused to comply with the humanitarian and military resolutions agreed to after they decidedly lost the Gulf War They forget that these sanc­tions are a non-violent attempt to force Iraqi compliance. Unfortunately, the sanctions have not had the desired Bffect. 
Iraqi citizens are dying. Babies are dying from diarrhea. There is no food. There is no medical care. According to some sources, as manv as two million such deaths have occtirred. At the same time. Iraq has a thriving weapons program. What alternatives are left? 
It has come to the last resort. Saddam Hussein has no interest in ful­filling his promises to the rest of the world, and there is no evidence to the contrary. Even an eleventh hour acceptance of weapons inspectors is only an attempt to superficially appease the U.N. It is past time to force the issue. 
We have a responsibility to the Iraqi people and to ourselves. We must see the people of Iraq treated with dignity. We must see that the terms of the cease fire, for which Americans fought and died, are met. Sometimes doing what is right is popular. Most of the time it isn't. 
Andrew Henrick graduate student Sepe. 23 

The College deals with more than Catholicism 
This letter is in response to yesterday's letter from Michelle Powell, "Questioning Saini Mary's Catholic identity." Stated in that article were several points, including the task of well-educated adults to inform students of Catholicism. •·subjective feminisms" and the need for a change of religious atti­tudes on campus. 
I would like to remind the author that these well-educated adults you speak of are not required to incorporate religion into their studies if it is not pertinent. Some may say religion is relevant to everything. In response, my argument is this: Saint Mary's is an institution of higher learning. Not only is it an institution of higher learning, it is a liberal arts college. I will say it again -liberal arts. Catholicism is a part of this institution's curriculum, but it is not its entirety. 
Perhaps this is where the confusion arises. Surely, Catholicism puts a limit on what can and can't be said in certain subjects. While I understand the importance of a religious tone to this school, there is no way the women of Saint Mary's could receive a well-rounded education if all subjects were based on religion. If you are having trouble seeing my point, ask yourself honestly if it were up to Catholicism, would ihe women's studies department exist? 
As for not feeling that her faith is being fulfilled at Saint Mary's, I would strong­ly recommend that Powell turn to our religious studies department. It is a depart­ment based solely on people who want to learn about religion. It is rumored they teach Catholicism there. She could pick up an extra class, perhaps even major in it. I looked it up; The major requires 27 hours, and the minor only 15. I'm sure Powell would be welcomed into the department and could complete the degree of her choice with no problem. 
My last comments deal ½ith language and action. Powell. at the symposiums discussing Catholic identity when you left disappointed, did you speak? Did you ask the questions to the persons "warping and mutilating" your religion that you posed in your article? 
"Subjective" is a tricky word and I advise you to use it carefully. When you say "subjective feminisms," I ask that you turn the word "subjective" on yourself. Your article is your subjective opinion on your religion. If your heart is aching and you feel you are being "robbed" spiritually, then Iencourage you to not only state that there is a problem, as you have done, but to do something about it. 
You got your writing published in a paper about your dissatisfaction with reli­gious views at our school. Clearly, you are not a helpless individual incapable of starting a movement on campus. You could easily lead discussion groups about your opinion of the "true Catholic identity," or even workshops if you wanted. I will not be attending your discussions, but there is no doubt in my mind you will draw attention. Good luck to you in your fulfillment. 
Jessie Genther sophomore Regina Hall Sept. 23 


Covert surveillance too much at tailgates 
Despite my lack of eloquence. I felt the urge to write concerning my great displeasure with the recent changes made in the tailgating poli­cy. I do understand that underage binge drinking is a problem on the Notre Dame campus and that the recent changes have been made in an e(Tort to reduce this problem. However. I strongly disagree with the manner in which the problem is being dealt with. 
As a credit to Notre Dame, l have seldom been ashamed of the actions of someonP-from the Notre Dame family. bul the afternoon of Sept. 14 was such an ocrnsion of shame. 
Members of several law enforce­ment agencies, includin~ Notre Dame Security, conducted a sting opHration throughout tailgates prior to the Michigan game. Several offi­cers posing as students, dressed in jean shorts, plaid shirts and back­packs, lurked at the edge of tailgates in hopes of ensnaring unsuspecting fans and students. At first glance I just thought he must be a shy fresh­man or something. Ten minutes later when several uniform officers swooped in, I discovered the truth. 
The young lady they had ensnared was not drunk or obnoxious. She was, however, under 18 and had allegedly been drinking. She was berated with questioning worthy of a bright lamp in her eyes, to the point where she was hysterical and began to cry. She was told she would have to take a breathalyzer test. When I asked how they could force a minor to take a breathalyzer test, I was moved aside and told to mind my own business or I would get a ticket also. She was not informed of her right to decline and in fact without the test (0.03 per­cent), the officer had no evidence for the ticket 
In an effort to make a point regarding underage drinking, Notre Dame has resortrid to infiltrating tailgates. Uniformed officers making sweeps of large groups would make this point adequately. but conduct­ing covert operations seems a bit Big Brotherish for my tastes. Having 21 Jumpstreet patrol our parking lots is not the solution to this problem. 
Danny Peloquin class of '00 Blue Island, Ill. Sept. 20 

Bring back lost tradition 
I am writing to you in an effort to reestablish a wonderful Notre Dame tradi­tion, which seems to have disappeared in recent decades. During the '60s and '70s, members of the Notre Dame student body would always meet the team upon their return from an away game. 
This took place at Main Circle where the team buses arrived. Some of mv most memorable and emotional experiences at Notre Dame took place at these "home­comings." At times the crowds were mon­strous with practically the entire student body in attendance. Students would line Notre Dame Avenue, hanging from trees and light posts as the team buses arrived on campus, sometimes in freezing and snowy weather. Nothing deterred them. 
The larger gatherings tended to happen when the team had a great victory, but especially when they experienced a hard Joss_ The student body was always there. It helped cement u special bond between the team and the students. The band was always there. 
I believe that the students have been fantastic this year at both the pep rallies and home games. However, I was sur~ prised to learn that there were only 20 people to receive the team back on cam­pus after the great victory over Michigan State. On one of the Notre Dame message boards, l learned that the current students were not aware of this past tradition. 
As a result, I am writing this letter to The Observer and sending copies to the Student Body President, Libby Bishop, the Head Drum Major, .Jessica Boehm and the head cheerleader, Mike Macaluso. My hope is that this leadership and the "voice of the students" will be able to come together and resurrect this great Notre Dame tradition. 
At home games, we line the path from the Basilica to the Stadium, the students and players salute each other after each game and we rush onto the field to join the players after great victories. Why not honor the team when they play away games? Coach Willingham has reawak­ened the echoes. Why not respond by reawakening an old tradition? 
Tim Kelley 
class of '64 Sepe. 23 
osslRVER 


page 14 Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Flaming Lips bring album to medium boil 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

ln a world rilled with synth-pop clones like Britney Spears, Britney Aguilera and Britney Timberlake. real music aficionados might wonder what ever happened to artists that put on a real show like Pink Floyd and The Who (besides overdosing or turning 50). Following their critically acclaimed 1999 magnum opus The Soft Bulletin, The Flaming Lips have tr.iurnphantly returned with Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots, to the irrita­tion of pop clone factories every­where. 
As always, The Flaming Lips pick rather offbeat topics for their albums. For example, the title track is a tribute to anime film. Lead singer Wayne Coyne describes the battle "Those evil-natured robots \ they're programmed to destroy us\ she's gotta be strong to fight them \ so she's taking lots of vitamins\ because she knows it'd be tragic\ if those evil robots win." 
Initially, the listener may look for some deeper meaning in the lyrics. Are the robots symbolic of the U.S. 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Recently unleashed in stores is the instrumental band Drums and Tubas' second major-label release, Mostly Ape. The album, like the band's previous efforts, is a confusing and eclectic mix of rock, marching band, and electroni­cally derived sounds. 
A wonderful display of the band members' ability to play off each other's jams, the album shows excellent instru­mentation and the band member's knowledge of their instruments. The music builds triumphantly but never quite reaches a climactic peak. The result is a sometimes troubling groove of sound, which is hard to interpret. 
For the listener, this album provides only questions and no answers. The genre of music is very hard to classify. Brian Wolff, the musician on tuba and trumpet is quoted as saying, "Characterizing [our music! is not one of my fortes. When people ask I tell them that we are an instrumental 

trio who are rock 'n' roll and a little punk. Everything is rock 'n' roll." 
The band, formed in 1997, originally consisted of Tony Nozero on 
drums and Wolff 
on tuba and trum­
pet. Neal McKeeby 
joined later 
adding his guitar 
to the mix of 
instruments. The 
band was picked 
up by Ani 
DiFranco's self­
made record 
label, Righteous 
Babe records, 
based in Buffalo, 
N.Y. Difranco, herself a punky folk-singer, has promoted Drums and Tuba bv slat­ing them ,1s her opening band on various tour stops throughout the past year. 
Drums and Tuba themselves have spent a large part of the last year on the road, playing more l.han 200 dates. 
Hecorded intermittently while on tour, Mostly Ape is solely an instru­mental album, ll is good for accompa­nying studying or other activities that require background music but is too much to just sit down and list.en to on its own. The driving rock and roll sound and extra long riffs grow tire-sounds for their electric symphony on each album. But on Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots, they may have reached the limits of their style at certain places. For example, "Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots part 2" is a glaringly ugly two minute and 57 second attempt at emulating a techno style that simply sounds, well, bad. Besides this oversight, the rest of the album might not push the lim­its like fans might wish. 
Like previous Lips albums, tho pro­duction quality on this album is phe­nomenal. It takes a bit of work to really get into the sound. To fully appreciate the fullness of the Lips' sound, listeners might want to get a pair of headphones and jack into the sound rather than play it over lower quality speakers. This is definitely not a background music album by any means. 
Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots doesn't set the standard like The Soft Bulletin did three years ago, but it's certainly worth a listen, or a number of listens as the case may be. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
with only the whimsical story The Lips wanted to tell. The rest of the album follows suit; the lyrics aren't exactly poetry here. Other songs are less impenetrable, hut arc still f a i r I y straightfor­ward. 
But despite the initially off-putting lyrics, Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots is a verv well proct"uccd album. Like their modern rock counter-
government or maybe societal pres­parts, Radiohead, The Flaming Lips sures? But the lyrics resist interpre­have created an album that is a tation. In the end, many may be left musical work of art. The band uses a 
vostlimi a~ttlas ttta ~iatt aottots 


The Flaming Lips 

Warner Brothers Records 
lot of layers of instrumen­tation to pro­duce a unique tcch­no-symphon­ic sound. 
Coyne's hypnotic voice backed up by The Lips' signa­ture sound creates a trancclike mood to the album espe­cially appar­ent in songs like "In the Morning of t h e Magicians" and "Are You a Hypnotist?" 
The Lips have expand­ed their repertoire of 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Druills and Tuba blow 
some for an entire album's worth of' songs. The deep jam grooves, howev­
er, serve another 
purpose. They 
allow the band 
members to 
explore their 
individual talents 
without the com­
plications of 
lyrics. Wolffe 
defends the 
instrumental 
form saying, "An 
instrumental 
album forces you 
to work hard to 
create a song. 
With vocals there 
is more of a 
structure, so we 
really wanted to 
have more of a 
direction so that 
the songs weren't 
quite as mean­
dering.'' 
The album's resulting sound is spacey '70's rock with an edge. The band's musical talent is 

unmistakable, their creativity unnerv­
ing, but this album just never comes 
together. It is worth a listen if only to 

hear the talent of the musicians with 
their individual instruments. It is not, however. an album that is easy to listnn to, nor will it give Drums and Tuba status as a credible band in the music business. 

Contact Julie Bender at bender. IO@nd.edu 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
page 15 

ALBUM REVIEW 
RJD2 has created a 111onster 

By DANIEL MCSWAIN Scene Music Critic 
"Frorn what evil mixture was I compounded' From what grave did I come?" These lines from the opening track of "Deadringer" foreshadow· the amalgam of work that is to come. A Frankenstein of an album, "Deadringer" draws on everything from James Brown to DJ Shadow, all the while forging ahead to ground all its own. 
RJD2 brings his own inimitable style of beat driven hip hop. soul, jazz. and outright funk to the scene with a heavy dose of Midwestern des­peration and Heartland flavor. Hailing from Ohio. RJD2 began as a DJ/producer for the Columbus-based group the Megahertz. Now making his home on Definitive Jux, RJD2 finds himself in the enviable position of being the hottest act on the fastest growing label in hip-hop. and possi­bly music as a whole. 
The opening horns of "The Horror". the album's first track. are the start­ing gun for this aural free for all. A gurgling bass beat creates a scaffold­ing for a whirring reminiscent of late 80s arcade games. Break-beats scat­ter through the oscillating and grainy synthetic sound. giving the madness a spoonful of method. In an album dominated by almost only instrumen­tal tracks. RJDZ samples sporadically throughout the album. each time to achieve an exact image that plays consummately off of the music. Here, a Karloff-esque voice rings out, "time to understand the monster." The monster in question is RJDZ's own creation. a veritable Chimera of sounds and styles that would intimi­date even the most skilled DJ. 
"Smoke and Mirrors" moves away from the soupy synthetic noise and adopts a very traditional basis for song writing. The track contains a definite melody. sounding less like electronic chaos and more like tradi­tional music. RJD2 turns symphonic cacophony into equal parts bedlam and majesty. Like Moby, RJD2 sam­ples from black spiritual and blues songs. A sorrowful trumpet rambles around in an artificial soundscape of rumbling bass. The bridge, a song writing technique usually reserved to the singer/songwriter genre, sounds like a xylophone being played in a bathtub. Through the looking glass of RJD2's production. a normal sound comes out being reflected in a fun­house mirror; distorted and confus­ing but also intriguing. 
"Let The Good Times Roll Pt. 2" comes next, showing the other, more frenetic side of this multifaceted work. Once again, the Moby influ­ences arc evident. But there is a side of RJDZ. a slightly disjunctive and edgy one that separates him from the industry-friendly Mohy, as well as the Moby-friendly industry. This anthemic mover is full of sublimely beautiful cuts and heats. But its not without its psychadclia. The horns sound like Maceo Parker and Miles Davis on ecstasy. There are glimpses of musical Armageddon thrown in where, in the middle of a standard beat. a drum fill will be double timed. transforming the calculus of the beat into a free-formed disaster. 
Maybe the most enjoyable parts of this whole album are the breakdowns in some of the tracks. "Pt. 2", "2 More Dead" and "Take The Picture Off" feature cuts that throw gasoline 
on the f u n k f i r e . B e a t s 1 i k e t h e s e CO U Id tear the roof off the joint and burn t h e s u c k a down. leaving the lis­tener to sit and contem­plate the destruc­t i V e beauty of t h i s m e t a ­phorical fire and the real 
a real vocalist instead of sampled loops. "Final Frontier" features raw, uncompromised roots in hip-hop. "F.H.H." tackles the stagnant and desolate scene of commercial hip 
,,. 

O.e<AJ(j·r19er 
~ llHm'gllr 


1112 
Def Jux Records 


role of entropy in the physical world. It's moments like these that RJD2's music comes alive as an unorthodox parity album for habitual worriers. It is intelligent dance music. It's soul for the soulful. It's funk for the funk. 
The album does contain three more traditional hip-hop songs that feature 
sound provides the 
hop. The competi­t i V e aspect of m a i n ­stream rap exists here too, but only in the realm of true lyri­cal skill instead of ridicu­1 o us I y inflated egos. 
"June", one of the album's standout tracks, presents a very vulnera­ble textile of warm 
canvas for 

Copywrite to flow over. The bridge of the song laid down over flamenco guitar and organ sounds like a new­born robot puppy searching for its scrap metal parents. These vocal tracks prove that RJD2 has mastered early what other producers never 
,_ 

can, and that is taking the backseat when its necessary. He can produce a lot out of a mixer and can also lay a solid beat. 
When the album appears over, wait a few minutes. There the most sub­limely beautiful of all of the tracks occurs, tucked away in the forgotten moments before the album turns itself off. This ethereal but beat-ori­ented piece reeks of despair, loneli­ness and loss. It is the most unex­pected of ends to this album. It is ., perfect. 
It may sound out of place, but this is a terribly passionate and romantic album. Not in the traditional gushy, "We're the couple who walks around with our hands in each others' pock­ets" sort of way either. Passion drips from every track. An incurable obses­sion with music combined with a pro­ducer's slightly OCD approach to music-making turns this work into a staggering work of openly love-struck genius. It is impossible to distinguish what kind of creature. be it animal, mineral or artificially intelligent uber-machine, "Deadringer" is. It is punishing, endearing, gentle and unapologetic. It will redefine hip-hop, rap, and sampling, It is a phenome­nal work, and the music world should eagerly anticipate the next opus from this burgeoning genius at large. 
Contact Daniel McSwain at mcswain.3@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
MLB 
Sox ground Orioles in 15-inning showdown 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

Johnnv Damon scored the tiebreaki11g run on a wild pitch in the 15th inning, and the Boston Hed Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles 5-4 Monday night to complete a four-game sweep. 
The victory enabled the Red Sox to remain alive in the AL wild-card race. One more Boston loss or Anaheim win will eliminate the Red Sox from play­off contention. 
With two outs in the 15th, Damon reached on a walk by Willis Roberts (5-4). Damon then took third when Roberts threw wildly to first on a pickoff attempt, and scored the unearned run when Roberts uncorked a high fastball with a 1-1 count on Shea Hillenbrand. 
The Red Sox, who earlier blew one-run leads in the ninth and 14th innings, made their final run stand up. 
Jay Gibbons hit two solo homers for the Orioles and Jeff Conine connected in the 14th, but Baltimore lost its sixth straight. 
Boston took a 4-3 lead in the 14th when pinch-runner Rickey Henderson scored on a single by Tony Clark following an error by Conine at first. But Conine made amends by leading off the bot­tom half with a home run on the first pitch from Alan Embree (1­2). 
Embree avoided further dam­age, and Wayne Gomes got three outs for his first save. He struck out Tony Batista with runners on first and second to end it. 
Hillenbrand homered for the Red Sox, who earned their third four-game road sweep of the season. The other two came at Tampa Bay. 
The Orioles havfl lost 26 of 30. Baltimore has also endured los­ing streaks of 10 and eight games during its monthlong skid. 
Gibbons' sPcond home run, off Boston closer Ugueth Urbina in the bottom of the ninth, denied Red Sox starter Tim Wakefield his fifth strnight victory. 
Wakefield allowed two runs, four hits and three walks in eight innings. It was the first time in eight starts that the knuckleballer gave up more than one run. 
Urbina, who was 8-for-8 in save opportunities in September. suffered his first blown save since Aug. 20. 
Hillenbrand's 18th homer, a fifth-inning solo sh()t off rookie John Stephens, put the Hed Sox up 3-2. The lead stood up until Gibbons hit his 28th homer in the ninth. 
Devil Rays 3, Yankees 2 
Every time someone tried to ask Orlando Hernandez about his postseason pitching prospects, El Duque shut them out. 
Aubrey Huff had the eighth and final hit off Hernandez, a run-scoring single that broke a fifth-inning tie and led the Tampa Bay Devil Rays to a 3-2 victory over the New York Yankees on Monday night. 
New York (98-58) missed an opportunity to move into a tie with Oakland (99-57) for the American League's best record. 
"We haven't gotten to the postseason yet," Hernandez said through a translator. "We still have games to play here, and that's what I'm worried about." 
Hernandez has a career record of 9-2 in the postseason with a 2.48 ERA. but he could be the odd man out in the playoffs if manager Joe Torre decides to go with a four-man rotation. The top three spots would figure to go to Roger Clemens, Andy Pettitte, Mike Mussina and David Wells. 
Hernandez (8-5) retired 12 consecutive batters after Huffs tiebreaking hit, but the Yankees couldn't gf>t their offense in gear as they had their three-game winning streak snapped. 
While Hernandez deflected all questions about postseason ramifications. Torre said the outing Monday night would have no bearing on his plans. The Yankees have already clinched the AL East. 
"I don't think anybody can pitch themselves on or off at this point," Torre said. "I know it's assumed that Duque is out of the mix, but that has not been decided." 
Victor Zambrano (7-8) allowed six hits and a pair of unearned runs, getting into trouble only once in six innings. 
Wilson Alvarez worked two innings of relief and Esteban Yan pitched the ninth for his 19th save. 
Huff, one of the hottest hitters in the majors since July 19 with 96 hits in 262 at-bats (.366), also had an RBI in Tampa Bay's two­run first inning. He finished 2­for-3 with a walk. 
Alfonso Soriano went 2-for-3 for the Yankees but did not hit a home run. With 39 homers and an AL-leading 41 stolen bases, Soriano is seeking to become the fourth 40-40 player in major league history. 
He lined out to right with a runner on first to end the game. 
"He's the buzz in the dugout," Torre said. "Everybody sort of looked at each other because he was the winning run and there he was. It was dramatic, but it wasn't meant to be." 
Bernie Williams went 2-for-3, giving him 199 hits and raising his average two points to .336. 

Hr is third in the AL batting race behind Kansas City's Mike Sweeney and Boston's Manny Ramirez. 
Tampa Bay scored two runs in the first before Hernandez start­ed to settle down. 
I luff drove in a run on a field­er's choice, beating out a poten­tial double-play grounder, and Ben Grieve addod a sharply hit run-scoring double to the gap in right-center. 
Astros 8, Brewers 6 
Jeff Bagwell hit a two-run sin­gle and the Houston Astros beat the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Bagwell needs to drive in three more runs to reach l 00 HBis for the seventh straight season. 
Hichie Sexson doubled home a run for Milwaukee, giving him 100 RBIs for the third time in his career. 
Bagwell's key hit came during a four-run burst in the sixth inning as the Astros broke away from a 4-4 tic. 
Brandon Puffer (3-3) was the winner, pitching one scoreless inning. Billy Wagner worked the ninth for his 34th save in 40 chances. 
Glendon Rusch (10-15) gave up seven runs, only four of them earned, in five innings. 
It was 4-all when Jason Lane drew a leadoff walk in the sixth and Gregg Zaun had an infield single. 
Rusch's throwing error let Lane score, and reliever Mike Matthews later walked pinch­hitter Mike Matthews with the bases loaded. Bagwell's single capped the inning. 
Cardinals 13, Diamondbacks 1 
Arizona star Luis Gonzalez separated his left shoulder in an outfield collision and the Diamondbacks again failed to clinch a playoff spot, losing to the St. I,ouis Cardinals. 
There was no immediate word on how long Gonzalez would be sidelined. The left fielder was to be evaluated Tuesday. 
Gonzalez is batting .288 with 28 home runs and 103 HBls. He got the hit that won last year's World Series for the Diamondbacks. 
Gonzalez was hurt when he tried to make a diving catch on Tino Martinez's bloop double in the fourth inning. 
Shortstop Tony Womack's knee hit Gonzalez's shoulder, and Womack cartwheeled over his teammate. 
The Cardinals broke open the game by scoring 10 runs in the seventh inning, and sent Arizona to its fourth straight loss. 
The NL West leaders have a magic number of one for wrap­ping up a playoIT berth, with six games to go. 
Thn Diamondbacks' lead for home-field advantage in the first round of the playoffs is down to two games over St. Louis, which has won 16 of 19. 
The NL Central champion Cardinals posted their highest­scoring game of the season in the opener of a three-game series. 
Eli Marrero had four hits for the second time in four games. St. Louis tied a season high with 18 hits. 
Marrero hit a three-run dou­ble in the big seventh, which also featured three infield RBI singles and nine consecutive two-out hits. 
Arizona, which has given up double-digit run totals in its last three losses, leads the Giants by four games in the NL West. 
They've been outscored 48-20 during the losing streak. 
Albert Pujols' RBI double off the right-field wall against Rick Helling (9-12) snapped a tie in the Cardinals' two-run fifth. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION SUN- FOOSBALL-high level players  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Spacious Condo for Rent: 2 BR & 2  Give adoption a chance... we are  
NOTICES  GLASSES IN ANTHONY TRAVEL IN LAFORTUNE. STOP IN TO  wanted. Play for fun or$$$. Will also teach. Call D 257-4441.  RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  bath, freshly painted & carpeted, walk to campus, w/d, microwave,  happily married and need your help in starting a family. Will provide a  
CLAIM AT FRONT DESK  OW, fireplace, clubhouse & pool.  lifetime o1 love, laughter and end- 
CJs Pub See whats happening  Earn extra money evenings sched- DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW  Call 317-261-0190.  less opportunities. Call our attorney  
www.cjspub.com  uling appointments and making  LEASING FOR 2003-2004  toll free at 866-215-2229.  
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals  WANTED  customer calls for local State Farm agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, you choose from Tuesday- SCHOOL YEAR-WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ TICKETS  ND grad with Ph.D. doing child care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home  
Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations  Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must  ROOM HOUSES· STUDENT  near campus. 234-8004  
'­ Most Reliable www.sunsplash­ $250 a day potential/bartending,  be enthusiastic with great telephone  NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  
tours.com 1-800-426-7710  Training provided 1-800-293-3985  presence. Fax resume to 574-232­ SYSTEM -MAINTENANCE STAFF  check our prices. 273-3911.  
ext. 556  9984.  ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS­ SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  
www.workforstudents.com 574-282­ CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
2357  PART-TIME WORK $14.05 base- FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER  GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593.  Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  
Sports car,88 Mazda RX?.Runs  appt. Flex. around classes. We train. All majors. Cust. service &  FOR SALE  (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 ­(574)674­ Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­ Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
great.no rust. $3,950 o/b/o, 291­ sales. No door-to-door telemarket­ 2471  8048 or astrog999@aol.com  
4048.  ing Build resume. Internships. cond.  Drafting tables -$25-30 Student  Wanted:  
apply.www.workforstudents.com  desks $25 ~31-4969  HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003:  WANTED: ND tickets · HIGHEST  Saint Mary's sports editor and Saint  
LOST & FOUND  574-282·2357  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND.  We have a variety of houses includ­ing two of the best undergrad hous­es you can rent. Call Bill at.532­ PRICES PAID 251-1570  Mary's sports writers interested in covering SMC fall sports. Great experience! Call Katie at 631-4543  
#1 Spring Break Vacations'Mexico.  NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ 1896  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  
LOST: SIGNET RING AT MICHi- Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas!  ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  PRICES 289-9280  I'm tired of coughing ...  
GAN GAME ON 9/14. PLEASE  Campus Reps Wanted 1 Best Prices.  $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu  
CALL JOHN AT 634-1090  Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­ That Pretty Place. Bed & Breakfast  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Hi. Tami.  I wish we still had class  
7007 endlesssummertours.com  HOME FOR SALE Great family  has space available for football/par- SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  together. Love, you know who! ;)  
Found: Womans gold watch on  home with room for a home office  ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths,  
Saturday. September 14th in The  close to Notre Dame, SMC, 4 bed- hot breakfast, $80-$115,  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT- Hey, Karen, at least you're not at  
Huddle. Call 245­ Make $320 Weeki Sunchase Ski  room, 3 bathroom. eat in kitchen,  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  ED AM 232-2378 PM 288·2726  tennis right now.  
3508 to identify.  and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep.  formal dining and living room, sun  Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487.  
positions available now. Largest  room and finished basement Call  Well.Kendall, at least we were hav- 
Lost Platinum wedding band with  commissions Travel Free! 1-800­SUNCHASE ext 123. WWW.SUN­ Dan-Remax 1st, 574.273 9547 or dan@cdkhomes.co m  ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT ­WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM­ PERSONAL  ing 5 star days...  
gold edging-Michigan weekend- CHASE.COM  PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES  This is NOT BK and you can NOT  
Alumni HalVCircle, or on the walk  UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 EMAIL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  have it your way ...  
from Angela/St. Louis to Alumni Hall along ND Ave. Engraved : AKO  WANT TO BUY: "The Shirt' -Will  FOR RENT  leopei@hotmail.com  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  Maybe I'll be over this cold be next  
& JD 11-18-00 If found please con- pay premium price! If you have an  Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  semester...  
tact me at  extra to sell, please call 219-926­ All size homes available for 2003·  (Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1­ 
James.Dougherty@accenture.com  3986.  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607­ 7819. For more information, see our  Observer Sports Cups. Simply the  
or 1-972-679-8770. REWARD  www .mmmrentals.com  723-7363  bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  best.  


Tuesday, September 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
U-WIRE 
Brabbs' job in jeopardy after missed kick 

Trojans passing falls short as Wildcats pass them by 
By JEFF PHILLIPS t\lichigan Daily 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Another game, another poor kirking performance by Michigan. In the Wolverines' Hl-7 victorv over Utah on Saturday, kick<'!' Philip ikabbs went 1­for-3, making a 37-yard field goal and missing two fourth quarter atiPrnpts, one from 27 yards out and the other from 42 yards. 
The Wolverines are now 3-of-11 on field goal attempts this season. 
'Tm vp,ry concerned." Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. "I don't know what else to do. We've been excellent in pract'icr., btit WP hav<' not been abln to take that to the games." 
Brahbs is n~sponsihlc for six of those eight fir.Id goal misses. 
"It is kind or tough. I had a lot of confidtmce going into th1! game and aft1~r hilling on t!w first 01w I felt real­ly, really confident," Brabbs said. "I just have to focus on eoming straight through tho ball." 
Carr told the media last Monday that punter Adam r'iulcy may get a chance to kick in an cm1\rgcncy situation. After Saturday, that situation may bo now. 
"Adam has only worked the past couple weeks and that may be a possi­bility -we've got to do something," Carr said. 
While Rrabbs was unsuccessful kicking the ball, he nearly scored a touchdown on a fake field goal. 
After taking the snap, Navarre handed the ball off to Brabbs, who ran the ball seven yards for a first down on the 2-yard line. 
"I wish I would've had morn practice running tho ball. I almo_st had it. It was a blur," Brabbs said. 
Michigan fans wc-m~ not pleased with Brabbs' and quarterback John Navarre's performances on Saturday -and Carr was not pleased with the fans' reaction. 
Fans booed the Wolverines twice: Once aft.er an errant Navarre pass on third down and again after Brabbs missed a chip-shot, 27-yard field goal. 
While players said they don't pay attention to the boos, Carr was well aware. 
"I don't think they're booing John l\'avarre, I think they're booing me, and if they're booing a wllege athlete, then shame on them." Carr said. "Shame on them. I've got a theory about that, I.Jut I won't go into it at this time." 
Navarre's performance against Utah comes on the heels of Michigan's 25­23 loss to Notre Dame, in which many Wolverines· fans believed that Navarre was at fault. 
"I read (and) I hear people say John Navarre cost us tlrn Notre Dame game -let me tell you something, anybody who says that, they don't know a damn thing about football," Carr said. "They don't know a damn thing about the game." 
Against Utah, Navarre was 19-of-36 for 186 yards and one touchdown. He was sacked twice, but ran 18 yards for a first down on second-and-15 in the second quarter. 
Injuries and Absences: In the first half, dflfensive lineman Shantee Orr was helped oIT the field after injuring what appeared to be his right knee in Michigan's effort to get the ball back with time winding down. Orr did not return to the game. 
Carr did not discuss the extent of Orr's injury, but indicatfld that Orr wouldn't return quickly. 
"l would think he's going to be out a little while," Carr said. "We're going to have to see." 
Defensive linemen Alain Kashama and Pierre Woods are expected to see morn time while Orr is out. 
Cornerback Markus Curry also did not play, but Carr said that his absence was not caused by health or disciplinary problems. Cornerback Zia Combs played the majority of the time opposite Marlin Jackson, with Jeremy LeSueur and Brandon Williams also seeing the field. 
Markus' brother, Julius, did not know why Markus did not play, but thought it might be a performance issue. 
high. The passing game that was bv the time Carson Palmer and
By JASON W. DAVID 
crucial to the USC Trojans in his receivers started connecting
Daily Troian 
their first two wins this season in the fourth quarter. was shut down by the Wildcats "It took us too long to getMANHATTAN, Kan. for the first three quarters going," Palmer said. It was too little. too late and on Saturday. This created a gap in Palmer completed 18 of his 47 
tlw last play it was simply too 
the score too large to make up pass attempts in the game for 
DAME 
COMMUNITY 
Without you, Campus Min1·stry 
doesn't have a prayer...... .. . 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition of the Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visi~ our new website today for information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 
http://www.nd.edu/~prayers/ 
186 yards -a significant drop­off from the 70 percent comple­tion rating he had going into the contest. Through the first three quarters, he was 10-for-29 for only 54 yards. 
The Wildcats played tight cov­erage, denying Palmer his pri­mary targets on most of the passing plays. Although Palmer did an excellent job of finding second and third receivers in the first two games, his offensive line could not buy him enough time against the tireless Wildcat defensive line and Palmer was frequently flushed out of the pocket. 
"It was hard to get a good jump off the ball," said tight end Alex Holmes, referring to the boisterous cheering that pulsat­ed throughout the intimate sta­dium. 
Even when he found open receivers, purple jerseys usually surrounded them. 
"They did a good job of cover­ing every down," Palmer said. "They would leave one man open. but he would be short of the first down." 
More frustrating were the plays that didn't happen. Close to 10 of Palmer's passes were dropped. 
'Tm really disappointed in that," coach Pete Carroll said. "It was a big factor for us offensive­ly because we had to make some plays throwing the ball down the field and it was there for us and we just didn't handle the ball 
wen.·· 
Palmer attributed the prob­lems with the passing game to tho strong wind that persistfld throughout the game. 
"It's tough to throw deep balls when the wind is in vour face or behind your back," ·he said. "It was a factor with the dropped balls because the ball moved so much in the air." 
On the Trojans' first posses­sion of the fourth quarter, they reached Wildcat territory in two plays. Then they displayed a pathetic inefficiency that charac­terized the type of game they were having. Palmer dropped back and launched a pass down the sideline, leading a sprinting Kareem Kelly, but it was too long. The next play he sought Keary Colbert on the other side, but overthrew him. 
On third down, Palmer took a three-step drop and found Kelly on a quick out, but Kelly's foot landed out of bounds. On a cru­cial fourth and 10, Palmer led Malaefou MacKenzie on a fade with a perfectly thrown ball in between two defenders. but the ball squirmed out from his grasp when his body met the ground after he dove for the ball. 
Kelly said the game was a learning experience. 
"They were a good secondary, but at the same time it was noth­ing that we couldn't handle," Colbert said. "We didn't come out and execute our offense." 
On their last series of the game, the Trojans marched 47 yards down the field on three passes. They gave the ball to MacKenzie in hopes that he could repeat what Sultan McCullough did on the last series when he took a handoff down the sideline for a 25-yard touch­down run, but MacKenzie was stuffed and it was evident that USC would have to rely on the pass. 
What followed was an incom­pletion to Kelly and then a sack by Tank Heese when Palmer scurried around in the pocket. desperately looking for an open man. That brought up fourth and 15 and the Trojans huddled despite a quickly diminishing clock. When they emerged, Palmer took the snap and threw to his right side without hesita­tion. Colbert, however, was still running his route, trying to find space in double coverage as the ball sailed over his head and sealed thfl Kansas State victory. 
r 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Umps sue league over information 
because the union had agreed
Associated Press 
before the season to allow the system to be used as a "train­
NEW YORK 

ing tool."
Baseball umpires angry with During a summer of escalat­the computer system used to ing anger among umpires over
track their 
the Questeccalls behind system, thethe plate 
"The office ofthe union has
filed unfair 
filed a griev­
labor prac­commissioner has 
ance againsttice charges 
shielded the Questec management,
against own­
system from inspection." and owners 
ers Monday have sued. 
with the The next
National Joel Smith 
step is for
L a b o r 
union lawyer the NLRB
Relations Board. In a 21-page let­ter sent to the NLRB's regional office in New York. the World Umpires Association accused management of violating the labor law by refusing to pro­vide information about the computer system, which umpires claim is inaccurate. 
"The office of the commis­sioner has shielded the Questec system from inspec­tion, and from critical inspec­tion by experts trained in the physics of baseball and engi­neering," union lawyer Joel Smith wrote to Celeste Mattina, the NLRB's New York regional director. 
"This charge is about a refusal to provide information, about the commissioner's strained efforts to insulate the umpire information system from independent scrutiny, and about the threats uttered by the office of the commis­sioner in that effort." 
Smith claimed management had "stalled, stonewalled and stymied," and said the com­missioner's office illegally obstructed the WUA's right to information, failed to supply information, illegally limited access of union lawyers to meet with umpires at ball­parks and refused to discuss Questec with union lawyers. He also said the commission­er's office illegally threatened and discriminated against the union and its officers. 
Management spokesman Pat Courtney said none of the labor lawyers in the commis­sioner's office were available for comment. In the past, management lawyer Rob Manfred said his side would discuss the system with umpires only after the season 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase S~ and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep, positions available now. Largest commissions Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE extl23 
WWW.SUNC.HASE.COM 

office to 
decide whether to issue a complaint. If it does, the matter would go before an administrative law judge. 
i~Oc 

Teen to be tried as juvenile 
. Illinois boy charged with attacking Gamboa faces juvenile court 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
The teenager who attacked Kansas City Royals coach Tom Gamboa on the field was ordered Monday to stand trial in juvenile court. 
A date will be set Tuesday for a trial on a felony charge of aggravated battery. The 15­year-old boy, who was not identified, ran onto the field at Comiskey Park with his father at the Royals-White Sox game Thursday and attacked Gamboa. 
The teen's attorney, Assistant Public D efe oder Christopher Swanson, asked the judge to allow the teen to go h_ome with his mother, but 

You're the Homecoming chairperson. All you have to do is organize 10,000 students, 20 events and 1 parade. 
> 
DIGITAL WALKIE-TALKIE 
SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL" INSTANT MESSENGER"' ,ervice TWO-WAY JofESSAGING JAVA'" GAMES & APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 

-roJ."'y +1,,,.e .-li:,i+-"'l w"'l\,:ie-+"'l\,:ie wc.-\:.s ave.-seven11l 11\1.\\\.J..-e.J. !Miles_ 
A"'-.A l-01Mo.... ow, ""'"o\\wi.Ae. 
the judge ordered him held in a juvenile facility at least until after Tuesday's hearing. 
During Monday's hearing, the boy, wearing blue jeans and a black and blue T-shirt, stood quietly. His mother, grandmother and other rela­
tives stood nearby. 
Assistant State's Attorney Catherine Gregorovic outlined how the teenager and his father, William 
Ligue Jr.. ran onto the field during the game and "attacked somebody in front of thousands of people." 
During the ninth inning last Thursday night, Gamboa, 54, was coaching first, facing the field, when two shirtless men rushed him from behind. They knocked him to the ground, where they continued to punch and kick him. 
On Saturday, the teenager's father was held on $200,000 bail. Ligue, 34, faces the same felony charge as his son. 
"[The teen] attacked somebody in front of thousands ofpeople. " 
Catherine Gregorovlc 
Assistant State's Attorney 
sister, telling her to turn the game on her television because he was going to be on. 
Daly said the father told police he ran onto the field because he was angry that the White Sox were losing. 
They've "'11 col.\\\M\\8 O\\ yol.\. Which is why yol.\ \\ee.A. t,te,ctel's .A.i8ii-"'l wt,1,l\:.ie+"'l\:.ie .Pe"'i-1.\ve. Ii-lets yol.\ 8ei-vi8hi-+-hvol.\8h wH-h i-he pl.\Sh o.P "' 't>I.\H-o\\. Tht:'1.i-1Mee\\\S \\O 1Misse.A. c"'lls, voice ""'"'ii ov pho\\e i-"'8· St"'y i"' co"'i-"'ct wii-h everyo\\e -Pv-olM i-he Flo"'t Co1M1MiH-ee i-o i-he All.\lM\\i Co1M1MiH-ee, wii-hol.\i-~issh,8 "' .A.etc:l\il. Jllow yol.\'ve vei:,wl,y-Bvi\\8 Ii-. 
t,taw's "' ~veO\i-H""'e i-a ~ei-t,te)Ci-el: 
"'" t,tatve 1)0\""'e stl.\.A.e\\ts ~et 
"'-to%'·~lSCOl.\\\r 0\\ °'"'Y Yt:'1.i-e 
pl"'"' "'"'.A $\oo• of-P "'"'Y pl.\o\\e. 
-ra bl.\y: ,,c tc t.\e,cte1.cclM/iv-ts~-st1>.cAet.\t. , CO\ll tcll-Pv-ee 1-n1-so,-2·rz.,. 
During that hearing, Assistant State's Attorney Colleen Daly described the attack as premeditated and that Ligue had even tele­phoned his 

, tc cct.\tO\ct yol.\v-Ne)Ci-el A1>.tl-\ovtz.eJ. Repveset.\i-~Hve, cc,i.ll 574-W-'38' I 8'.
For a good time call NEXTEL: 
Chris at Observer sports 
1-4543 


Tuesday, September 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL NHL 

Marriucci downplays jab 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 

Everything is back to normal in San Francisco. Terrell Owens is unhappy, Steve Mariucci is answering more questions about feelings than football -and the 49ers are winning in spite of it all. 
According to Owens, his team lacks a "killer instinct," as evidenced by Mariucci's decision to run out the clock instead of trying to score deep in Washington territory in the final two minutes of San Francisco's 20-10 victory over the Redskins on Sunday. 
On Monday, Mariucci down­played his All-Pro receiver's latest thinly veiled jab. The much-publicized detente in this rocky relationship didn't even last to the bye week ­though Mariucci, ever the pub­lic peacemaker, insisted this was only a hiccup caused by Owens' admirable competitive nature. 
"There's no relapse. There's no fester here," Mariucci said. 
Owens didn't speak to reporters after a light workout Monday, but he made head­lines with his surprising anger after San Francisco kneeled on the ball at the Washington 16 in the closing seconds the 49ers' 20-10 victory. 
Owens didn't see any value in Mariucci's decision to keep it conservative on the final two 
You've always thought ahl:,ut ,. : 
-. '~ 

Isn't it time you learned -· 
. • !T's A :t7•MONTH COMMITMENT .YOU EARN AM0NnlLYSTIP£ND 
• 
H£ALTH1NSURANC&IS PAID FOR. 

• 
AT El'IDOF SERVICE, YQU'RE CIV£ 

• 
UPON COMPLETION, YOU HAVE 1-Y HIR.INGSTA'IUS l'OR. FEDERALCO 


Join us for a meeting ;,he~e you willJ~;r~· more about the Peaqt Corps:i ; 
Th~~rsday, Sept. lQ,J~? i>~11?i Center for Social Concerns · · 

• . • . .c ·" . 
·c,c,. . • ; 
~, _,-,.t. -•·:·:-:'.'" 

www.peacecorns.goy 
BIG u~~u~ BIG o//~[LAP~ 
"Big E" Pizza $7.99! ~ 
Hurry... Limited Time Onlyl 
VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD 
(Next to Subway)
PIZlA COMPAl'fr 
271-1277
plzuJIlllel'ight 
. ,. •. . . . . ·•
.,. 
If you are unablSr to attend: cStrqP-~v o~'tA~ui~THE 
··POST-GRAD SERVJC!t FAIR WEDNESDA.Y, SEP't\25, 5:30_-8:30 P.M, 
.. '·
_:; 
plays of the game, even though many of his teammates were sick, and several others were out with injuries. 
"We have no killer instinct, period," Owens said Sunday. "I think I wasn't the only one who felt like that. For whatev­er reason. we did what we had to do." 
Mariucci said he knew sev­eral players wanted to get a blowout victory in the same way Washington blasted San Francisco in an exhibition game seven weeks earlier ­but it was clear he couldn't believe he was answering questions about the wisdom of protecting a victory for an injury-plagued team by run­ning out the clock. 
"We wanted to bury the Redskins. [Owens] felt the same way I did," Mariucci said. "A lot of guys wanted to just keep pounding them, keep going after it and score some more points. I did too, but given all the information that I had and knowing that the game was over, I just had to make that call." 
"I have an ego too, and real­ly do ... but the smart side of my brain said, 'Get out of this game with no more injuries. Let's get out of here. We have the win, and that's it."' 
Mariucci and Jeff Garcia thought that ending the game with a relentless eight-minute drive right up to the final whistle was even more satisfy­ing than another score. San Francisco improved to 2-1 while fighting through a stom­ach virus that infected a third of the team. 
Most of Owens' complaints about Mariucci traditionally have been sparked by a lack of production from Owens, who has meager numbers this sea­s on. Facing constant double­teams and zones designed to harass him, Owens has just 11 catches for 112 yards and one touchdown. though he scored on a 38-yard run against Washington. 
Owens' relatively small role on Sunday was affected by the health of fellow Pro Bowler Garcia, who played just one series in the second half while battling the virus. Owens had just two catches for 33 yards. 
"l don't think we lacked killer instinct," Garcia said. "I know T.O. speaks from a [posi­tion) of being very intense, of wanting to be a difference­maker. In some ways, I think that if more people had his mentality of wanting to win so badly, better things would happen for this offense." 
The minor controversy detracted attention from San Francisco's dominant 252­yard rushing game and a defense that strangled the Redskins' Fun 'n' Gun offense, holding it to 41 yards and no points in the second half. 
..·· .,i!·-·· 

20tlJ>Annual Don,er Run 
••'· 2 ·c.o~ 0 0 z A Be1wf1t tm Nutre Omn~ Pru~tr1te A'IIV'dl~ness LllncPr Edut:allon 
,Q,-~ 
•.,.., 


Saturday, September 28 11 :00am 
ALL NA' l!ACtCOUR~t! 
3 & 6 mile runs, 2 mile walk 
Pancake Breakfast Register in advance at RecSports $6 in advance, $7 day of the race CaH 1--61:00 for more iflformation 
-¦:,, 
tel 
-cs 
C, 
I­
...., -=.... 
= 
-= 


campus shoppes • orbitused.com 
Fuscos elected 
to Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
EVELETH, Minn. 

Hobey Baker Award-win­ning brothers Mark and Scott Fusco, former University of Minnesota coach Doug Woog and former Dartmouth star Joe Riley on Monday were elected to the United States Hockey Hall of Fame. 
Mark Fusco in 1983 became the first defenseman to win the Hobey Baker Award as college hockey's top player. He still holds several scoring records at Harvard, including career goals (44) and points 
(135) and single-season points {46 in 1982-83). 
A three-time First Team All-American, he was Ivy League Player of the Year in 1983 and twice led Harvard to the NCAA Tournament. 
Scott Fusco won the Hobey Baker Award in 1986 and is the only two-time ECAC Player of the Year. 
A two-time Olympian, he twice led the Crimson to the NCAA championship game and remains the leading scor­er in school history with 107 goals and 133 assists in 123 games. 
The younger Fusco com­


,c 
··,_c..·...,., 

piled a 29-game points streak during the 1984-85 season. finishing with 81 points in just 32 contests for the sec­ond most prolific total in school history. 
Woog coached Minnesota from 1985-99, averaging nearly 28 wins per season and capturing four regular­season and three WCHA tour­nament championships. 
He guided the Golden Gophers to six appearances in the NCAA Frozen Four and compiled a 389-178-40 record. 
A former All-American and team captain at Minnesota, Woog resigned as coach in 1999 to accept a post as assistant athletic director. 
Riley played freshman hock­ey at the University of Illinois before transferring to Dartmouth, where he spent two seasons from 1947 -49. As a senior, he set a single-sea­son goal-scoring record that still stands. 
Riley played for the U.S. at the 1948 Olympics, won All­America honors the following year and took Dartmouth to back-to-back NCAA champi­onship games. The Big Green have not been back since. Riley died in 1976 at the age of 52. 
Induction ceremonies will be held December 4 in St. Paul, Minnesota, where for• mer Detroit Red Wings coach Scotty Bowman will be pre­sented with the Wayne Gretzky International Award. The honor is given annually to someone who has made a major contribution to the growth and advancement of American hockey. 

r-------~--­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
NFL 


Couch boosts confidence 
Associated Press 

Tim Couch strutted into Cleveland's noisy huddle, wiped the blood from his lower lip, snapped his chin strap and grabbed control. 
"It was a little bit of a John Wayne thing," Browns coach Butch Davis said Monday. 
Without the horse. 

Out of timeouts and needing a tying touchdown. Couch ­the quarterback some said shouldn't even be playing ­then quieted his teammates before silencing a hostile crowd. 
"Everybody was talking on that last drive, saying what we should do," wide receiver Andre Davis recalled. "He said, 'Shut up. This is what we're going to run." 
Couch shut up more than just his teammates Sunday. 
He rallied the Browns (2-1) to a 31-28 overtime win against the Tennessee Titans with the best game of his four­year NFL career. Couch passed for 326 yards and three touch­downs -two in the final 2:35 of regulation -and squashed any notion of a quarterback controversy in Cleveland. 
"Couch came back and played excellent," wide receiv­er Kevin Johnson understated. 
Davis insisted last week that despite backup Kelly Holcomb's solid performance in the first two weeks, Couch was the Browns' unquestioned starter and leader. 
There's no doubt now. 

"Maybe," Couch said follow­ing his spectacular season debut. "I proved a point." 
Couch, who sat out the first two weeks after tearing scar 
Happy 21st Birthday, Pukey! 
,.
·.. ·-· 
tL' •. ~ 
; 
I 

tissue near his elbow, wasn't the only player to stage a comeback on a day of redemp­tion for the Browns. 
There was also third-year wide receiver Dennis Northcutt, who before Sunday was better known for dropped passes and a flashy wardrobe than game-breaking plays. 
Northcutt returned a punt 74 yards for a TD to bring the Browns within 21-14 late in the third quarter. 
But he gave the seven points from his first TD as a pro right back by muffing a punt inside the 10 to help the Titans take a 28-14 lead. 
Northcutt atoned for his mis­cue by recovering an onside kick to set up the Browns' final touchdown, his 8-yard recep­tion with 12 seconds left dur­ing which he slipped away from a Tennessee defender with a jaw-dropping spin move. 
"Three out of four ain't bad," Northcutt joked about his suc­cess percentage. 
Phil Dawson also bounced back. 
He missed a 52-yard field goal in the second quarter, snapping his streak of 21 straight. But Dawson perfectly executed the onside kick with Northcutt before making the game-winning field goal in overtime. 
"Part of my job is to handle missed kicks," Dawson said. "I had to be ready. I just did my part." 
Cleveland's rushing defense finally did its part, too, rebounding from two dismal outings. The Browns held Eddie George to 59 yards and limited Tennessee's offense to 187. 
With love from all of us. 
And with their second win, the Browns distanced them­selves from the Week 1 loss to Kansas City that slipped away when linebacker Dwayne Rudd threw his helmet in the closing seconds. 
"It still boils down to playing the entire 60 minutes, and guys believing you got a chance to win," Davis said. 
Couch's comeback, however, was Cleveland's best. 
Playing behind a line missing two starters, Couch was rusty in the first half. He helped put the Browns behind 21-7 with a poorly thrown pass that was picked off and returned for a TD. 
Couch was battered all day, getting sacked three times and flattened another 10. 
He was bloodied and bruised, but refused to be beaten. Instead, he took his team to an improbable win -one he and the Browns may someday view as a defining victory. 
Jury misconduct leads to new trial 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Citing jury misconduct, a Los Angeles Superior Court judge on Monday ordered a new trial in the Oakland Raiders' $1.2 billion conspir­acy lawsuit against the National Football League. 
In a 9-3 vote last year, a Superior Court jury rejected the Raiders' claims that the NFL sabotaged the team's plans to build a new stadium in the Los Angeles area and that the team still owned the NFL rights to the Los Angeles market. 
The Raiders moved back to Oakland from Los Angeles in 1995 -13 years after they moved south. 
The misconduct allegation was raised after five jurors in last year's six-week trial said they overheard one member of the panel say he hatP.d the Raiders and team owner Al Davis and would never vote in their favor, Raiders attor­ney Larry Feldman said. 
The ruling calling for a new trial was made by Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Richard C. Hubbell, who heard the first trial. 
"The Raiders are elated with the court's decision and look forward to having an opportunity to try their case to a fair and impartial jury," Feldman said. "The Raiders have always believed that they would be playing football games at a state-of-the-art stadium at Hollywood Park today if it were not for the NFL's interference with their negotiations." 

AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 24, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 21 


around the dial 
Major League Baseball 
Red Sox at White Sox 7 p.m., FOXCH 
NFL 

began with the Rams' 11-6 touch on the victory, return­alarm. Climbing out of an 0­
Associated Press 
win in the 1999 NFC cham­ing an interception 39 yards 3 hole will be difficult, pionship game. for a TD, a score assured though.TAMPA, Fla. Brad Johnson threw a 9-when Warren Sapp flat­In the past five seasons. 
Maybe now it's time for yard touchdown pass to tened Warner near the goal 28 teams have started 0-3. the St. Louis Rams to get Rickey Dudley and Martin line. He also scored on a 97 -Just one, the 1998 Arizona concerned. Gramatica kicked field goals yard interception return in Cardinals -have made the 
The defending NFC cham­of 39 and 47 yards to help Tampa Bay's 25-0 win over playoffs.pions dropped to 0-3 the Bucs (2-1) build a 13-7 Baltimore last week. Warner finished 30-of-45 Monday night, hardly halftime lead. Faulk, who rushed for 9 for 301 yards and no touch­resembling a team that's Brian Kelly's interception yards on six carries, left downs. He was sacked five been to the Super Bowl two and 31-yard return to the with a neck strain early in times. of the past three seasons in St. Louis 1 set up Mike the second quarter and did Since their memorable a 26-14 loss to the Tampa Alstott's TD plunge to put not return. He scored on a meeting in the 1999 title Bay Buccaneers. Tampa Bay up 19-7 with 5-yard run in the first quar­game, the Rams and Bucs 
The Bucs' vaunted 10:42 to go. The Rams ter and finished with 9 have faced each other three defense knocked running pulled within five points on yards on six carries. consecutive years on back Marshall Faulk out of Lamar Gordon's 20-yard TD The Rams opened the "Monday Night Football." the game and intercepted run, but couldn't score season with losses to the Tampa Bay won 38-35 at Kurt Warner four times to again over the final 4:21. Denver Broncos and New Raymond James Stadium in key their third straight vic­Linebacker Derrick York Giants, but maintained 2000 and 24-17 at St. Louis tory in a heated rivalry that Brooks put the finishing there was no reason for last season. 
IN BRIEF 
Earthquake shakes Belfry a heavy sleeper, was awakened by the after they moved south. 
After a three-year wait, the Ryder quake, and said J esper Parnevik ran The misconduct allegation was Cup finally returned with a real jolt -out on the balcony. raised after five jurors in last year's an earthquake that shook central Parnevik was in New York on Sept. six-week trial said they overheard one England early Monday morning and 11, 2001, wrapping up a photo shoot member of the panel say he hated the roused European captain Sam when two hijacked planes toppled the Raiders and team owner Al Davis and Torrance from his sleep. twin towers. would never vote in their favor, 
"We didn't know what it was, The Ryder Cup, scheduled for last Raiders attorney Larry Feldman said. whether it was something explosive," September, was postponed one year The ruling calling for a new trial Torrance said. because of the terrorist attacks. was made by Los Angeles Superior 
It was the worst earthquake in Court Judge Richard C. Hubbell, who Britain in 10 years, measuring a mag­Judge orders new trial heard the first trial. nitude of 4.8. Police in Rirmingham Citing jury misconduct, a Los "The Raiders are elated with the said there were no reports of injury or Angeles Superior Court judge on court's decision and look forward to damage. Monday ordered a new trial in the having an opportunity to try their 
Most of the U.S. team was still in Oakland Raiders' $1.2 billion conspir­case to a fair and impartial jury," Ireland when the earthquake shook acy lawsuit against the National Feldman said. "The Raiders have the area shortly before 1 a.m.. Football League. always believed that they would be although captain Curtis Strange said In a 9-3 vote last year, a Superior playing football games at a state-of­some of the players' wives had Court jury rejected the Raiders' the-art stadium at Hollywood Park already arrived in the Birmingham claims that the NFL sabotaged the today if it were not for the NFL's area. team's plans to build a new stadium interference with their negotiations." 
"I understand it shook pretty good, in the Los Angeles area and that the Feldman said a new trial date didn't it?" he said to Torrance. "We team still owned the NFL rights to the would he set Dec. 3. worry about the fans. We ought to Los Angeles market. Feldman said the complaint was worry about earthquakes." The Raiders moved back to Oakland significant because the jury favored 
Torrance, who described himself as from Los Angeles in 1995 -13 years the NFL by a 9-3 vote. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 24, 2002 

WOMENS SOCCER 
Big East honors three key players 
Special to the Observer 
Three Notre Dame womens soccer players have been hon­ored by the Big East Conference for their roles in last week's pair of 1-0 wins 
o v e r Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
Junior forward A m y Warner has b e e n named the Big East offensive player of the week for the sec­ond time in her career w h i I e sophomore M a r y Boland was named the defensive player of the week and fresh­man Erika B o h n e a r n e d goalkeep­er-of-the­week hon­ors. 
Warner's goal ended the Rutgers game with 9: 17 left in the second and final overtime, as the team tri-captain ran onto a thru-ball from Maggie Manning and arched a cross­ing shot into the upper left corner of the net. Two days later, Warner's leftside cross initiated a double-header sequence, with Boland srnring on the diving header for the game's only goal in the win over Seton Hall. 




The versatile Boland started both games at left back, limit­ing Rutgers and Seton Hall to a total of seven shots on net during the weekend action. She also shifted into the mid­field during the second half of the Rutgers game, filling in for injured senior Ashley Dryer. 
Boland picked up where Dryer left off, as the Irish lim­ited Rutgers' top player Carli Lloyd to just one shot for the entire game. Boland continued to show her versatility in the Seton Hall game, running onto the play and diving low for the header goal midway through the first half. 
Bohn -the first freshman to start in the nets for the Irish since Jen Henola in 1993 -made six saves and stopped several other Rutgers scoring chances in the first game of the weekend while helping foil several potential chances in the Seton Hall game. 
She dropped her season goals-against average to 0.66, good fo1· second in the Big East, behind Villanova sopho­more Chrissy Dolan (0.46). Bohn's six starts include three shutouts, two games with one goal allowed and two goals allowed versus Maryland. 
Warner also was named Rig East player of the week on Oct. 8, 2001, after totaling three goals in action vs. St. John's and Miami. 
Boland is Notre Dame's sec­ond player to earn Big East defensive player of the week honors in 2002, as her class­mate Gudrun Gunnarsdottir was so honored after the opening wins over Providence (3-0) and Virginia Tech (5-0). 
ND WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish face tough schedule 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's womens bas­ketball team wi II face 14 teams which advanced to postseason play last year, including nine NCAA Tournament qualifiers, as part of a demanding 2002-03 schedule which was released Monday afternoon. 
The Irish return nine mono­gram winners and three starters from last season's club, which posted a 20-lO record and reached the sec­ond round of the NCAA Tournament. With the start of practice less than three weeks awav, Notre Dame already has "received signifi­cant attention in several pre­season publications -the Irish are ranked fifth in the nation by Athlon Sports, sev­enth by Womens Basketball Magazine and 12th by Lindv's. 
Highlighting the 2002-03 schedule for the Irish are a pair of nationally-televised games at the Joyce Center. Notn~ Dame will play host to intrastate rival Purdue Jan. 4 in a 4 p.m. contest to be 

DUU\JIC:.,...;> ....,.~, 1'-"'1 • • • -• • .. --· · ­
All profits going to benefit the Center for the Homeless 
Heartland Nigh1'club 
FridaySeptember 
27th 
Tickets: Ticketmaster 574-272-7979: www.Ticketmaster.com or at the Heartland Nightclub. Price; Gen admission $22 in advance; $25 at the door. VIP $45 includ':s ca-t:ered 
preconcert reception and af'.er show meeting with the band. info web site; www.cfh.net, littlefeat.net 
broadcast on CBS as the nightcap of the network's women's basketball triple­header. The Irish then will welcome defending NCAA champion Connecticut to town on Martin Luther King Day for a 2 p.m. matchup that will air on ESPN2. The last time Notre Dame tangled with the Huskies at the Joyce Center on Jan. 15, 2001, the Irish registered a landmark 92-76 win over top-ranked Conneticut, helping to pave the way for Notre Dame's first national championship. 
In addition, the Irish are scheduled to take on six-time NCAA champion and 2002 Final Four participant Tennessee Dec. 28 at Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis. It will be the first regular-sea­son meeting between the two schools since 1996, and Notre Dame will be seeking to avenge last year's loss to the Lady Vols in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
Following a pair of exhibi­tion games on Nov. 4 and 19, the Irish will make their 2002-03 debut Nov. 26 at 7 
p.m against Cleveland State at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame then will embark on a rugged four-game road trip that will feature games at regional rivals Valparaiso (Dec. 4) and DePaul (Dec. 11 ), as well as a pair of cross­country trips on consecutive weekends to USC (Nov. 29) and Arizona State (Dec. 7). The USC tilt will take place at the Los Angeles Sports Anma the night before the Irish football team battles the Trojans right next door at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. 
Meanwhile, the Arizona State contest is being billed as AstraZeneca Hoops for the Cure Classic II. This special doubleheader -which also will feature Purdue vs. Vanderbilt -is a fund-raiser for the Phoenix affiliate of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation. The first Hoops for the Cure Classic in 2000 raised $10,000 for breast cancer research, development and education in the Phoenix area. 
Notre Dame will-return home Dec. 14 to square off with defending Atlantic-10 Conference tournament champion Temple. 
Tennis 
continued from page 28 
They lost their first match, but went on to win their next three and the consolation title. Overall, they had a 3-l tournament record. 
Nelson was originally paired with .Jennifor Smith, hut a last minute change, because of an illness, brought Nelson and Donohue together. 
"We were really happy with our performance," Nelson said. "We weren't supposed to play together; we hadn't even played together before." 
In singles, Notre Dame had rive wins in the consolation bracket on Sunday. Freshman Kristina Stastny defeated Hocio Fantilli of Louisiana State 7-5, 6-1. Lauren Connelly topped Marina Chiarelli of LSU 6-1, 6-4. Sophomore Sarah Jane Connelly beat Emily DcCamilla of Ohio State, 6-4, 6-4. Donohue contributed two victories in singlfis matches on Sunday. 
Other Irish who played in doubles well were freshman Lauren Connelly and junior Emily Neighbors. The pair won in consolation doubles, beating DeCamilla and Leskovar of Ohio State 8-6. 
Louderback was especially pleased with the play or the freshman because the change from junior tennis to college tennis can often be a slow one, he said. The maturity and progress of the freshmen as well as the other members of the Irish is a sign of good things to come. 
Ahead for the Irish this weekend is the adidas Classic in Atlanta. Salas will lead the Irish against some tougher competition in the form of Florida, Duke and T,~nnessce. All of those teams were top 15 finishers in last year's NCAA Championships. 
"All of our players compete real well," said Louderback. "It'll be good to see how we do against them." 
Louderback stressed the importance of the fall season as an opportunity to get matches in for all players. 
Nelson said in preparation for the tougher competition at the adidas Classic, Louderback has increased the number of matches in practice and decreased the amount of time the team spends in drills. 
Contact Mark Zavodnyik at mzavodny@nd.edu 
Tuesday, September 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Bingle picks and throws Siegfried to win over Fisher 
By LISA RETJULA and JUSTIN SCHlNER Spans Wrircrs 
Throwing l1,vo touchdown pa5s­cs just wasn't enough f'or Bill Bingle Sunday afternoon. Siegfriod's jw1ior quarterback also had a key interr,pption at oul<;ide linr,backcr to help lead his team lo a 17-0 vir.tory against Fishnr. 
ThP Hamblers' ellicient offense got the better of a tough Green Wave delense in Blue League play. 
Bingle energized the Siegfried offense, completing I0-of~14 pass­es includin){ two for scores. Receµtious by freshman Pat Mu1in and sophomore .John Kaup adrnnmd tho Ramblers downfield, with tlw driv(! ending in a :n-yard field goal 
Bingle and his offpnse gained momPntrnn to encl tlw half and the next drive resulted in a tnuchdm-m recPption to Kaup. Despitn their intensity, Fisher's defrnse was unable to contain Siegfried's pass­ing gamt'. 
Kaup had a stellar first game ½ith another touchdown reception in thP second half. Bingle was steady and ar.curate, helped by consistent protection !'rum his offrnsive linemen that allowed him plenty of time to read his offense. 
Fislwr's offense struggled all game as SiPgfriNl's defense prnved capable of stopping the run. Junior running back Kanrnron Chappell was the lone bright spot for the Green Wave offensively. 
Fisher's passing game was inef­fective in the second half. as the Siegfried defense came out relent­1ess. Nate Raschke and Bingle each had an interception. 
Vlnce Siciliano also had a big day for the Ramblers (1-0), with several key tackles latti in the game that brought cheers from the sideline. · 
"Wr just wrren't prepared." Chappell said of his team. "We need work on our pass coverage and defense, and we also have a lot of inexperienced linemen." 
Fisher W-11 proved they could keep up with Siegfried for stretch­es, having limited success with ChappPll and the running game. However, the Green Wave arc not satisfied with their performanr.R as a team or individually. 
"I don't consider myself playing wdl unless I scon\" Chappel] said after the game. ''We'll get it done for next week, though." 
Sorin 6, Knott 3 
Both teams had a chance for two field goals. Only one team made both. 
That was the difference as Sorin defeated Knott 6-3 in Blur League interhall action Sunday. 
The Juggs (0-1) got on the score­board first 'Alith an opening drive that spanned 55 yards over eight plays, including a 37-yard pass from Juggs quarterback Ben Gilfillan to wide receiver Jonathan Smith. 
Eric Wooldridge connected on the 27-yard field goal to give Knott the 3-0 lead. 
The Otters (H)) answned on their first drive, marching 52 yards ovtir seven plays. Kicker Greg Carney was successful on the 30-yard field goal. 
The first in a day of qurstionable calls occurred near the end of the second half, when an Otter defen­sive back intercepted Gilfillan, but the turnover was nullified by a pass interfert>nce call against the Otters. 
The penalty kept the Juggs· drivf' alive and they were able to try a 36-yard field goal as time expirncl to end the half. But Wooldridge's attempt hit the goal­post and the score was tied at 3 going into halftime. 
"Every once in a while, I have a bad kkk and that just happen1>d to be one of those times," tho Juggs' kicker said afterward. 
Neither team was able to do anything on offense in the second half until the fourth quarter, when a high snap on a pw1t gave Sorin the ball on the Knott :H-yard line. 
The Otters were ab!!' to capital­ize on the mistake. and Carney kicked a 28-yard field goal sAven plays later to give his team a 6-3 lead. 
Like numerous calls throughout the day, the winning field goal was not without controversy. 
Despite three referees patrolling the field, only one was W1der the goalpost to judge Carney's kick. It was argued that the ball sailed over the right post, but the referee was stationed under the left and may not have had the best angle. 
"I can understand their [Knott's] point of vi1>w," said Carney. "The ref was not in position to make that call. It was a judgment r,all." 

The Juggs tried to engineer an answering drive but ran out of time. 
"They gave us a hell of a game," Camey said. "We were just happy to got out of there with the win." 
Zahm 14, Carroll 0 
A balanced offense and timelv turnovers helped Zahm defeat Carroll 14-0 in Blue League action Sunday. 
The Zahmbies (1-0) were !rd on offense by sophomore quarterback Mitch Knapke and sophomore running back Greg Durm. 
Knapke. starting his first game ever as the Zahmbirs signal railer, completed 4-of-10 passes for 94 yards. inducting a 46-yard touch­do"'11 strike to Vlide roceiver Mike Russell. 
Dunn had an impressive day running the ball. carrying eleven times for 63 yards and one touch­doV111. 
"It was a team effort," said Zahmbies captain and wide receiver Nick Passafiume. "Defense came out and really shut them down." 
The defense was responsible for sparking both touchdown drives. 
The Zahmbies' first touchdown occurred shortly after Vermin run­ning back Mike McNamara fum­bled early in the second quarter. 
DeMark Schulze recovered the fumble for the Zahmbies, and four plays later Durm scored on a 6­yard touchdown run. The extra point attempt failed. 
Three plays after the ensuing kickoff, Vermin quarterback Uel Pitts was intercepted by a Zahmbies defensive back on the Carroll 46-yard line. 
The very next play, Knapke found Russell open and thfl wide receiver ran into the endzone for Zahm's second touchdown. The two-point conversion, a run up the middle by 0mm, was successful. 
Neither team was able to score in the second half. 
"I think we have to be proud of the fact that we can compete," said Vermin captain Justin Williams. "A'> a defensive unit we did really well." 
The Vermin (0-1) were able to threaten near the end of the third quarter, when McNamara returned a punt from the Carroll 5 to the Zahm 39-yard line. 
"One good thing about him !McNamara! is that he's never played football before but he's still a great athlete," said Williams. 
That drive was extinguished when McNamara fwnbled for the second time in the game three plays later. 
For a dorm that didn't even have a team last year, Williams believes the Vermin had a good showing against the Zahmbies. 
"I think we'll be even more com­petitive if we stop these mistakes," he said. 
Contact Justin Schuver at 
jschuver@nd.edu and Lisa 
Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
Golf 
continued from page 28 
Irish remain optimistic enter­ing rrnxt wePkend's Notre Dame Invitational. The field for that tournament is not quit!' as strong as the one the Irish facPd at Michigan State so tl1Py look to improve. 
"Next weekend is a medium­strnngth fipld," said King. "We should be ablP. to win if every­one is on thPir game. With this being our first tournament we wern hoping to get off to a lit­tle better start, but hopefully it will be good just to get one under their belts. 
Notes: 
. 
Gebauer's score did not fig­ure into Notre Dames team scoring. She played in the event as an individual partici­pant representing Notre Dame. 

. 
The Notre Dame Invitational will take place this weekend at the Warren Golf Course. The 18-team tournament begins Saturday at 8 a.m. 


Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 

Irish find success in tourney 
Special to 1he Observer 
An undermanned mens water polo club completed its most successful non-conference fall tournament in four years this weekend, with a promising fourth place finish at the Indiana University Hoosier Classic. The finish comes on the heels of a seventh place finish in Michigan State Spartan Invitational. Despite missing the club's two leading scorers for two games, and two other starters for three games, the club turned in its most complete perfonnance of the season. 

The Irish opened against Iowa with a deliberate offense and a very tight pressing defense. Jay Deimel continued to lead the squad in scoring as he splashed 

Graduate Research Fellowship Notre Dame Faculty and a representative from the NSF will be on hand co discuss the award, the application process and
Information Session 
answer your questions regarding this prestigious fellowship. 
Wednesday, September 25th DeBartolo 102, 6:00-7:00 
Juniors, Seniors, 1" Year Grad Student & 2nd Year Grad Students 
in the Social Sciences, Sciences, Engineering & Mathematics are 
encouraged to attend. 

The fellowship provides support for 3 years of graduate study, $2J, 500stipend for twelve-month tenure; cost of-educa­
tion allowance of$J0,500per tenure year; and a one-time $J000International Research Travel Allowance. 
For more information contact the Office ofUndergraduate & Post-Baccalaureate Fellowships at 631-0372 or fellows@nd.edu 
Penilla regained his form of a year ago and powered home four talllies. Danny Wiederkehy and Mike Silhasek completed the scoring as the Irish were victorious, 12-7. Mike Grow was exceptional in his first start for the Irish. 
The second game of the day pitted the Irish against host Indiana. Before a raucous crowd, the Irish jumped out to a 4-2 lead and withstood a late Hoosier rally to prevail 7 -4. Co­captain Keith Rauenbuehler paced the club with four goals, while Greg Krouse, Penilla and Deimel each ripped home goals. 
Sunday proved to be difficult for the Irish as Deimel and Penilla were unable to attend the games. Despite a tough defensive mindset, the Irish suc­cumbed to a deep Purdue squad, 6-2 in the day's opener. The Irish rebounded with a 10­3 victory over Wisconsin, as Silhasek and Grow led the scor­ing. Pat Watts and Greg Swwczyk were very sharp as each saw extended playing time. Defensively, Jon Marchetta and Jack Spittler stymied the Badger attack throughout the game. 
The Irish then played Illinois for third place immediately after the Wisconsin game, due to a quirk in the scheduling. Despite another strong performance in goal by freshman Scott Tagwerker, the Illini prevailed 10-3. Rauenbuehler was encouraged by the team's fight, stating they "played well all day; we were just exhausted in the last game." 
1---­
f =p=ag=e=2=4===========================================T,="h=e=O=b=se=r=ve=r=.==S=P=O==R=T=S=============================Ti=t=1e=sd=a=y,=S=e=p=te=m=b==e=r=24='=2=0=0=2 
Fallon 
continued from page 28 

this wePkend. On Sunday, he picked up his second three-set win of the tournament, a 3-6, 6-3 l-0 (10-7) victory over Notre Dame freshman Patrick Buchanan 
:Vleanwhile. Granger native and St. Joseph·s High School graduate Chris Varga of Ball State registm·ed three wins at the Tom Fallon Invitational, including a pair of victories on the singlr-s circuit. He closed out his homecoming in fine fashion Sunday after­noon. rolling to a 6-3. 6-2 win over Haris Causevic of Maryland. 
The 2002 Tom Fallon Invitational featured 11 teams competing in a "hidden dual" format, where teams simulate dual matches, bul no team scores are recorded. Of this year's lield, seven teams fin­ished in tlw national top 50 a year ago and eight of the 11 squads earned invitations to the 2002 NCAA Championship. 
The event. which was known as the Irish invitational until the name was changed in 1988, honors Notre Dame coaching legend Tom Fallon, who coached the Irish for 31 years from 195 7­
87. Fallon, amember of the Intercollegiate Tennis Association (ITA) Collegiate Tennis Hall of Fame, amassed a career record of 511-200 and helped Notre Dame to a share of the 1959 national championship. 


-7 
l 
I
Tuesday, September 24, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
Irish claim top 5 ranking in Sendwich poll 
With a number of disappoint­ing teams rebounding, Goliaths struggling versus Davids and up­and-coming teams proving themselves once again. the result was noth­ing but con­fusion in college foot­ball last weekend. 
Vols become Gator bait 
Tu say that new Florida head coach Ron Zonn and the ­Gators looked less than impressive heading into their SEC showdown at Tennessee may have been an understatement. Arter their worst home loss in 23 years against Miami three weeks ago, Gator fans were alrP-ady railing for Zook's resignation. 
Led by Heisman candidate Rex Grossman. Zook and lhe Gators silencnd their critics with an impressive 24-point second quarter offensive explosion. despite the torrential downpour. The Gators cruised to a 30-13 win and now control their SEC East destiny. 
Despite their impressive win, Florida dropped two spots to No. 15, as their loss to Miami continues to increasingly fac­tor in. This week should mark the end of their slide through the rankings. Tennessee fell from No. 5 to No. 20. 



Irish Battle to victory 
Scenario: Notre Dame faces a 
tough Big Ten opponent. None of the so­called "experts" pick the Trish to win. Notre Dame gains a size­able lead in the first half. The Irish then relinquish the lead, only to dra­matically regain it in the final minutes of 
the fourth quarter. The experts stick their feet in their mouths. 
Does that sound familiar? After three weeks of quality Big Ten opponents and three wins, the Irish are finally starting to command the national n~spect they deserve. 
Arnaz Battle's game-winning 60-yard touchdown scamper not only transformed quarterback Pat Dillingham into Irish folk­lore, but also put the Irish into the top 10 in both of the national polls for the first time since 1998. 
Notre Dame continued to zoom up the Sendwich top 25, leaping 10 spots to No. 4. So does this mean that Notre Dame is the fourth best team in the country? Well, that is to be decided on the field, but they've played well against quality opponents thus far. 
Tech gets tested 
For the third game in a row, Virginia Tech faced a ranked opponent. After disposing of Louisiana State and Marshall at home, the Ilokies faced their first big-time test this week as they traveled to College Station. 
With the highly-touted Hokie running back tandem of Lee Suggs and Kevin Jones stifled by the Texas A&M defense for a mere 99 yards, Virginia Tech quarterback Bryan Randall com­plfited 10 of 11 passes for 119 yards. While these may not seem like big numbers, Randall's pass­ing set up the lone touchdown of the game, leading to a 13-3 Virginia Tech vit:tory. 
After the gritty win, Virginia Tech finally moved up signifi­cantly in the Sendwich Index. leaping from No. 17 to No. 3. We're already looking forward to the Hokies showdown at No. 1 Miami on Dec. 7. 
Falcons Continue To Soar 
Two teams nkknamed the Falcons are making some noise this year, and neither one calls Atlanta home. 
Last week, we told you about the Bowling Green Falcons' chances of going undefeated. Indeed, BGSU notched a 23-point victory at Kansas, and they now move on to their incredibly weak MAC schedule, where their opponents have a combined record of 14-19. 
But the Bowling Green Falcons aren't the only Falcons who are still undefeated this year. The Air Force Falcons scored a nar­row victory at upstart Cal this weekend. With their 23-21 win, Air Force halved its ranking from No. 44 to No. 22. 

Though Irish fans are looking ahead to Florida State. watch out when Notre Dame takes on a quality Air Force squad in Colorado Springs. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Hric Chanowich at echarzowi@nd.edu and Eric Sendelbach at esendelb@nd.edu. 
,,._ 

THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Wednesday, September 25 
7:00 P.M. 136DeBartolo 
FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Yellow flags fly in penalty-ridden Keough win 
defense. The sophomore had
Bv LISA REIJULA and TREY 
his team ready to defend
WILLIAMS 
againsl O'Neill's pass-oriented
Sporrs Writers 
system. "Jason made all the right 
Yellow flags Dew everywhere defensive calls for us." !Iess Sunday afternoon during said. Keough's penalty-plagued 14-7 O'Neill's defem;e also win against O'Neill in Gold brought intensity to the field, League· artion. blocking a Keough kick in the 
Emotions were heated as the opening minutes. Senior Mark coaches of both teams found Yost rl:'covered a Keough fum­
;;ome of the officials' calls con­ble for his team. troversial. Many offensive dri­"I felt that our defense really ":_es for both the Angry Mob stopped up and tightennd up in and the Kangaroos were the second half,'' said Keough stalled by coach Paul pe•naltios for McAndrews.
"f was encouraged by
false starts or Keough ineligible how our defense played. quarterback 
rcr.eivers. They were really solid Andy Hess 
-Keough took brokr the
against O'Neill's strong 
the upper game open in hand early pass offense. ,, the second with a fumble quarter by · recovery and running for a
John Hess 
an intercep­pair of touch­
Keough quarterback
tion of O'Neill downs. quarterback A strange~T.r o y 
moment for 
· Montgomery. the Mob (0-1) came in the end .. "As far as first games go, it of the fourth quarter when was fine," said Keough quar­senior running back Thomas t,e.rback John Hess. "I was Kier! appeared to score a encouraged by how our touchdown. The referee called defense played. They were it good, but then was corrected 
really solid against O'Neill's by another official who real­strong pass offense." ized Kierl had not cleared the Safety Jason McLaughlin was goal line. the standout for Keough's On the next play, however, 
Kier! ran in a legal touchdown, plete 1-of-6 passes in ihe first ma.king thP srorn 14-7 quarter, forcing the offense to Keough. depend solely on its running 
"The [reversed] call on the game. touchdown was a good one," "It's all a mattf'r of what s a i d works," said 
McAndrews. Downev of ·early
"We had too "We have to improve our tho 
many stupid offensive 
game for the seniors on
penalties in strategy. "We the first half the team. They deserve can run and 
that kept thPir another shot in that we pass but it drives alive." really comes
stadium."
W h i I e down to what Keough (1-0) lhe defonse was happy to Dave Cantos gives us." come out with The Knights
Keenan wide receiver 
tho victory, ditched their the team real-early plan izes then> is room f'or improve­late in the third and replaced ment. it with a more efficient passing 
"It was kind of disappointing game, centering around senior to give up a touchdown on the wide receiver Oave Cantos. last play," said Hess. "But Cantos caught three passes that's to hp expected in the from Downey. moving Keenan first game because everyone's to Stanford's IO-yard line and just getting used to playing setting them up for a quick again." touchdown pass for their f'irst 
score of the game. 
"The corners were playing
Stanford 6, Keenan i4 

back further," Cantos said.
The old-school rivalry of 

"We just needed to get in a few 
man against beast ended with 

short passes to move us up the a victory for the latter Sunday field until they came back."
as the Stanford Grimns defeat­

Unlike Keenan's offense,
ed the Keenan Knights 14-6 in which spent most of the game

a Gold League season opener. 

focused on rushing, theThe Knights struggled to 
Stanford offense focused on
score against a tough Stanford 

the pass-and-catch combo ofdefense. Quarterback Patrick 
freshmen quarterback Rich
Downey was only able to com-

Whitney and receiver Colin Walsh. 
Whitney completed all of his passes in the fourth quarter except for two. 
Walsh, using speed and agili­ty as his weapons of choice, was open for two key passes in the fourth, including a 30-yard touchdown pass from Whitney. 
Stanford running back Mark McNamee also had his glory moments. McNamee rushed for a total 115 yards which inr,Juded a 45-yard sprint to the Knights' 13-yard line, putting the ball in place for another Griffin score. 
For Keenan's elder players, the loss was a blow to their dream of returning to the splendor of the champion team they had in 2000 which Stanford's McNamee was actu­ally a part of. 
Of course, the loss of \1cNamee is relieved by the gain of Cantos, a former varsi­ty walk-on. 
"We have to improve our game for the seniors on the team," said Cantos. "They deserve another shot in that Stadium." 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams.3 l 7@nd.edu and Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
This Wee1< in Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 
.,_da-,------­
campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

·...,1,nesdav 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00-11:00 p.m. Morrissey Hall Chapel 

Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 


Program Spotlight 
Spiritual Blast 
Concert by Bebo Norman 6:00 p.m.-12:00 midnight Stepan Center 

Sophomore Road Trip #2 
Friday through Sunday Buses leave 4:00 p.m. Return Sunday by 1:00 p.m. 
Freshman Retreat #42 
Friday through Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 

Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #72 
Friday through Sunday Fatima Retreat Center 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

av 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 
RCIA-Session 
10:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Retreats 

siun , 
Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
Sophomore Road Trip #2 DESTINATION:U11knoM1 (September 27-29) 
Only a few seats left for guys Sign up with Friends 
Sign-up Freshman Retreat #43 Retreat Date: November 8-9 
Sign-up dates: Septemer 30-November 4 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
New Opportunity 

New Weekly Spanish mass 
Tuesdays 

10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 

-

Tuesday, September 24, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD W1LLSHORTZ 
Al,;ROSS 37 Person with a 64 Reaaiiy 1 Sheep's cry chest pad available 60n _{Hk& 38 String section some jobs) member DOWN 
1oSubieci o1 a 39 Possible 1 Sing&r/acnvi.<:t Sophocies solution Joan tragedy 
40 ·Just 2 Renaissance 14 Video's thought!• instrument ;.;oumeipa1, 
41 Acie<l baaty 3 iv genie 
15 watertmm s.gnt portraye{
42 Clothing laoei 16 Stanoard desiynation 4 Pl.II on TV 
, I AHJOI UUS 

45 Hertz :>ttewng :i Wrtl'lOl.it 
1m1anglement mftootlon or
46 "OI <tll the !uci(!'

zo Dlsciplinti 1na1 feeling
47 Posmumous

u;;tt:i kl.llSn~ 6 ci...... ~en,'
donation

Z1 ::sena uut rtnale, often 
:n ACtress Pitts ot

22 Mel1'10ef ul a 7 6iitis11 P,M
old films 

:.i,,01::1 oroer unom Gemge Iii ~z Grttetings
CJ Eye opening for a Always wim an a ::,yuinl c1µost,vvhe
t>5 Mechanical 24 SIC c1 lawyer on it l~ibfilly 9 Dermer lij Annuyance for 58 Nobelist Wiesel 10 Ba/lei Russe owe1iers oear 1>1.1 Fairy tale star l-'<1·.10va airpons op&ner 
n Hl:11ps. as a 3-3 8ond'5 'Casi, ,o 61 Witt, 40--Down, rnemoty
Hoya1e· 1oe seat oi Orange 12 Singer Gwltltie 34 Ranaornii.er County, Calif. 
1a Maivfll Go.nlCS ~ Govt. irn!lauve c;Z WiK!cal group 
47 ue1rnan 52 Aid to the as Suosists (on) 63Jao 1S Sin'l)!e tolt. automa1<er stumpeo
37 Exploitative type
19 •1 agree 
48 BaoK (Of\) S3Smldgen

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE completely!" 311 MUSiCal artiste 
49 Allred E 54 ~ay $1"18;1piy

41,1 S&e 61-ACross
S C i...+.+-~ 1 S 1,, E 23 1~96 flOl'TOI' lllm 
Neuman 56 aioose, e.g.

A 1,, N E E O wr.,h sequels 
4, Fl~titing mU11cle t,.llpfesB!On
G o ....+,rh,+,;. A L O E 24 Barbershop l)(Oblem 57 G(lfne wltt. 
sound 50Surnmrt ·oraw IWO" 1 43 c;IearasII target cards
F 25 Colorado na1iv6 51 "Au Officer and 2&Ammonia 44 Irish port near a (j&miernao· i8 l:leachgo&t's 
derivative KiUamey nem goal !-::-ihn..;.J,:;d,,...11!!!11 ~~;,...;.J!JW~~~ -z, "Wefl, I_!' 
rn-1-i:ii~ii,,i,;..,:.,+,;,~~ ...,,.+,+.,,+,--+-i-f 28 Campus offices· 
Amwers to dues in !l'!m puzzle are available by ioucll-tooe
Abbr. 
pnone: 1-OOt"\.285-5656. $l .20 per minulB. rllif.:i-r-ialllillil._. 29 Thmi<s out lOIJd Ant,ua, sutl8!:ription~ iire aviii!able !or (h(! ~t al Sunday 
•Tfi""l!IIJI!~ 30 Rreplace Iools crosswords !rorr. !tie last 50 years: 1·888-7 ACROSS 
•.:::.i..:.i;:;.i.::::J 31 Treaoect Unline subscnptions: Iooa.y-s puz:zie aria more tttan 2,000 
su-laces past pu:ules, nytimes.com/div&raioos ($19,95 a year). 32"Good Cru:i:ir.wvoras ror )VVll!J so!Yl!ts: fhe L..iaming N~1Wo•!<.,
s 

nylin•ttl1.1,oml~ti~1:,,wun.l&. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ten-y Metcalf, Phil Hartman. Linda ~ McCartney Happy Birlhday: Take things in stride this year and move swiftly in a direction that will benefit you. It's a year for you to stop worrying so much about what everyone else is doing and stan to put yourself first. Challenge yourself and you will end up gaining the most ground this year. Take the initiative and do what you feel is best for you. Your numbt,>rs are 9, 15, 23. 36, 40, 42 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Money may he an issue today if you have been shortsighted rerarding yonr cash flow. If you are thinking ahout ch:mging your dire..:tion, sit tight for the time being and perhaps spend time picking up new skills.*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your mind will be wandering today. so position your,clf so that you don't have to accompli~h a whole lot. You will be in the mood to expand your mind and talk to people who can broaden your horizons. *** GEMir--.1 (May 21-June 20): lhings may not he as they appear. Don't be too quick to put your money on the line. Unforeseen bills or expense,; will take you by surprise.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll be more concerned with others today than you will he with yourself. You have a great memory and your past experience should help you to give others the right advice. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have a hard time holding on to your cash today. Don'! take on other people's responsibilities, and don't offer to pick up the tab if you are out in a group. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Opportunities to travel must be taken advantage of. Sitting back and thinkmg about travel will not suflice. You will attract people who can offer you food for tl10ught. ***** IJBRA (Sept. 23-0ct 22): If you bt.-come consumed with greed or getting as much a, you can for the least amount, you can expect to lose in the end. Pul your time and energy into self-improvement. *** SCORPlO (Oct. 23-No,·. 21): Paitnersbip problems may emerge today if you haven't been paying proper a11ention. Your attitude will make ii difficult to compromise and could lead to uncertainties within your relationship, *** SAGfITARRJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You will discover that you can accomplish a whole lot more if you are practical and well-prepared. Some of the younger people in your life may rely on you for guidance. *** CAPRICORN (l).;c. 22-Jan. 19): Put some time aside to pamper yourself. You've been working hard and deserve to take care or any personal needs or desir.:s that you might have.***** AQUARTIJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't underestimate someone who is close to you. You'll he surprised at how observant this person really is. Changes in your personal life rmcy not be to your liking. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The infonnation coming your way today should spait .S enthusiasm to push some of the ideas lhat you've been mulling over. Communication and travel should beon your agenda.**** Birthday Baby: You will be bright. compassionate and hard-headed when it comes to fighting f<Jr the underdog. You will he the grand ma~ter when it comes to mediating and bringing hannony to ai1y situation. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRJGI-IT2CXJ2 UNIVERSAL PRr:SS SYNDICATE 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 
You've got too many items, ' but I know your guilt for 
~ .. ) ..~ 

trying to put one over 
~­

"(,. on me is punishment enough.i 
l~, 
HENRJ ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ(Q100ffi11JK
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

j 
... 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I GEDEH I t I 
©2002 Tribune Media Services, lnc
ti;~·-1 

tTOMELE I tW&Q TO IUIU' 
,_ ~ 
www.1umble.com 
.Pl--t:fl'b ~
tVIKONE 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answerhere:[ I I I I I I Jrn 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: ABBOT OUTDO JOCUND GOVERN Answer: What the soldier did to fix the hole in his sock -A "DARN" GOOD JOB 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 26 -To order, send your name, address and $5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
----------------------· 

PORTS 
Tuesday September 24, 2002 

ND WOMENS TENNIS 
Salas serves up solid performance 
By MARK ZAVODNYIK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame womrrns tennis team got its fall season off to a great start last week­end at thr Prince Cup Invitatiunal in Columbus. Ohio. The Irish wern led by strong performances from junior Alicia Salas and fresh­men Liz DonohtH' and KAily Nelson. 
Salas was the top finisher for the Irish. reaching the finals of the singles bracket before being ousted by Lisa D'Amelio of Eastern Michigan. 6-7 14-7). 2-6. 1-0 (10-5). Salas had a very strong tournament. posting 4­1 record. 
On her way to the champi­onship match, Salas, ranked as the 86th best player in the nation. defeated Erica Fisk of Ohio State, the 69th ranked player. 
"Alicia had a great week­end." said head coach Jay Louderback. "l wasn't sur­prised at all by her perfor­mance. She played really well last year and this year has been moved up to the top flights. She'll be playing the l\io. 1 and No. 2 players from every team this year." 
Salas was not the only Irish player who had a successful weekend. Louderback said he was happy with the perfor­mance of the entire team. 
Freshmen Donohue and Nelson made quite an impact in their first collegiate tennis event. winning the consola­tion doubles competition. 
see TENNIS/page 22 


ND WOMENS GOLF 
Irish encouraged despite low finish 
By ANDY TROEGER Sports Writer 
Despite a disappointing 10th­place finish at Michigan State's Mary Fossum Invitational over the weekend, the Notre Dame womens golf' team showed some enr.ouraging signs in its season-opening tournament. 
The Irish fired a team score of %6 for the 54-hole tourna­ment. placing 49 strokes behind team champion Kent 
State. The Irish shot rounds of 316 and 314 on Saturday but then struggled to a 326 on Sunday. 
"We're a little disappointed," said Irish coach Debby King about the weekend's scores. "This event had a very strong field, but we were hoping to place a little better." 
Two freshmen, Sarah Bassett and Lauren Gebauer, paced the Irish effort. Hassett record­ed a 235 (80-76-79) for the event, tying for 21st Gebauer finished one stroke behind at 236 (80-80-76) in a tie for 24th. Despite the overall strug­gles, King was pleased with the effort of the two freshmen. 
"Lauren Gebauer really came through this weekend," said King. "And I was also fairly pleased with the play of Sarah Bassett." 
Junior HebPcca Hogers tiod for 36th at 240 (78-79-83) for the next best Notre Dame score. Katie Brophy and junior Shannon Byrne followed next 

at 241 to tie for 43rd, and sophomore Karen Lotta tied for 54th with 247. 
Nebraska's Sarah Sasse took medallist honors in a playoff by defeating Michigan State's Allison Fouch on the second hole of their playoff. Sasse and Fouch tied with five over par 221 totals, while Kent State's Gabby Wedding fired Sunday's best round with a 71 to claim third place at 222. 
Despite the poor finish, the 
see GOLF/page 23 
MENS TENNIS 
Irish fall flat at Fallon 
.Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's mens ten­nis team felt the bite of playing for a fourth con­secutive day, dropping seven of eight singles matches to Purdue University on the final day of the 16th annual Tom Fallon Invitational Sunday afternoon at the Courtney Tennis Center and Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish had several chances to claim victory, but lost two matches in third-set tiebreakers, while another was decided in straight sets on tiebreak­ers. Notre Dame will con­tinue its fall tournament schedule Thursday through Sunday when it takes part in the Harvard Invitational in Cambridge, Mass. J\ complete schedule for that tournament will be announced later in the week. 
Junior tri-captain Luis Haddock continued his stellar play this fall, card­ing a 6-3, 6-3 win over Purdue's Andrew Wakefield. Haddock did not drop a set in winning all four ol' his singles matches at this year's Tom Fallon Invitational -he also split two doubles matches. 
For his career, Haddock is 14-0 in singles and 22-2 overall (singles and dou­bles combined) in three years of competition at the Tom Fallon Invitational. This weekend's 5-1 com­bined mark boosts Haddock's record this sea­son to 7-1 in singles and 12-2 overall. 
That continues his impressive success rate in the fall, where he now is 28-5 in singles and 46-12 overall during his college career. 
Two players with local tics have played well at the Tom Fallon Invitational as well. Purdue's Troy llavens, a South Bend native and Penn High School graduate, went 5-1 overall (2-1 in singles play) 
see FALLON/page 24 
CLUB SPORTS

SENDW!CH INDEX
INTERHAU. FOOTBAU. 
WOMENS BASKETBALL
ND WOMENS SOCCER

en 1.1,1 
Irish finish fourth 
Making honor roll 
Schedule announced

Irish reach top 5
c.:, Mens action kicks off 

~ z 
s 
Notre Dame's water polo 
Three Irish players were

florida and Tennessee
Siegfried, Sorin, Zahm, 
The Irish will face 14 teams

club team has its most sue-
recognized by the Big East

both drop in Sendwich poll
Keough and Stanford record 
that played in last year's
c:s 

cessful tournament in four 
for their solid play last week. 

as Irish victory against the
victories as mens interhall 
NCAA tournment during

Spartans raises them to No. 4 
years at the Indiana
<C action begins. 
2002-2003 season.
University Hoosier Classic. 

Cl. !ii 
page 22
page 22

page 23
page 25

page 26 
# 




