
Notre Dame authors let their books speak volumes
SHOWERS 
Wednesday 
Scene reviews a selection of books written by Notre Dame 
professors and alumni. 
FEBRUARY 20, 
HIGH 45° 
1ow33° 
2002
Scene pg. 12 to 13 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 93 HTTP:/!OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Eldred addresses student concerns 
. Informal talk covers multiple student issues 
By KA TIE RAND 
News Writer 
Speaking as a friend and a mentor, Marilou Eldred, presi­dent of Saint Mary's College, addressed students during an informal discussion on Tuesday night to answer any questions or concerns the typical student might have about student life and the College. 
"This discussion is a way for us to get to know a person who cares about Saint Mary's just as much, if not more than we do, and whose everyday job is to make sure that our college is well," student trustee Akmaral Omarova said during her intro­duction. 
Eldred began the talk by speaking about her background, telling students about her college experience, the 10 years she spent as a nun and how she ended up as the president of Saint Mary's. 
"I never originally set my goal to be a college president. I never wanted to be involved in fundraising, and I knew that col­lege presidents are often very removed from students," Eldred said. "But it was a great move and I'm really happy I did it. I love Saint Mary's and I love being president." 
A main issue of focus during the discussion was the Master Plan. Eldred gave students a briefing of the projects that are in store and spoke about the process it has been to initiate the plan. 
"We are really close to having enough money for the student center," Eldred said. "Hopefully the groundbreaking will happen this spring, and it should take less than 18 months to com­plete." 
The student center will include a new dining hall, a copy shop, cyber cafe, lounges, small the­ater and all of the facilities cur­rently located in Haggar, includ­ing the bookstore, bank, travel agency and student government offices. 
Following the completion of the student center, work would begin on two student apartment buildings. The buildings will con­sist of two and three bedroom apartments, each with a private bathroom, kitchen, living room and possibly laundry facilities. The apartments wiH most likely have different rules than the dormitories. 
"They will be open to juniors and seniors as an alternative to moving off campus," Eldred said. "With the way enrollment is going now, we may need one building for the fall of 2003." 
Eldred then spoke about the improvement in Saint Mary's enrollment and recruiting strate­gies. 
"In the late '80s and early '90s our enrollment wasn't doing very well," Eldred said. "Now I am really pleased with it. In the last four vcars we have seen an increase" of 35 percent in the incoming classes. You all are a result of that." 

This is due in large part to a change in the recruitment proce­dures of the Admissions Office. Eldred said that in addition to the significant increase in finan­cial aid, Admissions is now thinking more strategically about recruitment. 
"We realized how important it is for us to focus on high schools that we have a high turnout from," Eldred said. "So now we 

By TERRY RESTNO 
News Writer 

Most students are supportive of students with disabilities, despite the fact that many have never been exposed to someone who is dis­abled. a panel discussion concluded Tuesday night. However, there is room for better indi\,idual attitudes regarding those who are disabled, the group of about 12 students said. 
Notre Dame sophomore Laura Hoffman led the discussion. The discussion coincided with National Disabilities Week, which began on Monday and continues until this coming Saturday. The goal of the talks centered on increasing Disability Awareness at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's through continu­ous dialogue with the community. The group discussion questioned if accommodations· for the disabled that the University provides are adequate, involve interaction with go to [fewer] high schools and really focus on the ones that Saint Mary's students have come from. If we have one or two women come from a given school one year, then maybe the next year we will attract two or three." 
Eldred also gave credit to the personal attention that Admissions pays to possible stu­dents, the VISA program, and the student-endorsed applica­tion. Twenty-four percent of the College's current freshman class came from student-endorsed applications. 
She gave students a taste of what her job includes, giving them an example of her typical day. 
"Seventy percent of my time is 
see ELDRED/page 4 
Forum explores student disabilities 
professors and promote a social environment for disabled students. Most of the sentiment was positive when the panel discussed Notre Dame's accommodation of disabled individuals. 
"Accessibility at Notre Dame is great," Notre Dame freshman John Walsh said. "Professors have been very accommodating to my disabili­ty. n However, not everyone is as optimistic about campus attitudes towards disabled students. 
"Some professors look down upon on those who have a disability because they think they are abusing the system to their advantage, which is not true," freshman Martha Fulcher said. 
"People can accuse you of faking if your disability is not necessarily visible, but as someone who is dis­abled you have to be truthful, blunt, and_honest as possible," Walsh said. 
"People can be scared of people with disabilities," Saint Mary's sophomore Sara Mahoney said. 
"You have to be sensitive to these issues." When the topic of increas­ing disability awareness was brought up in the discussion, many panel participants said educating individuals with disabilities is diffi­cult in college. 
"Education [on the disabled] at a young age would help," said Fulcher. Hoffman ended the forum by sharing her perceptions of the disabled community at Notre Dame. 
"A lot of people in the Notre Dame community are afraid to talk about their disabilities." Hoffman said. "To talk about it breaks down barriers." Hoffman said the forum would provide disabled students who are not always visible a voice expressing their concerns. 
"Disabilities are a big part of diversity with the Notre Dame com­munity, However most people do not know there is even a disabilities office at Notre Dame." 
Contact Terry Restivo at TRestivo@hcc-nd.edu. 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Domers on the road 
fley everybody, let's talk about "The Vagina Monologues" some more! 
Nah, how about the way in which many ofus guys here show off our Notre Dame pride. l know guys here who think that a play that talks at length about the clitoris is OK, and others who think ills despi-1~~ cable. Whatever. None of them, and I mean none of · .,;;,;, ""' them, want to go to another 
;/K­~chool .~ml gPt out drank hy 
them. 

Ever been with Notre Dame guys to another school? Last year when I Brian Burke 
was in Arizona for the Fiesta 
Bowl and we went to 

Arizona State with my Notre Sports Writer 
Dame friend from Phoenix. The kids from ASU were all hanging out in one of their 
apartments before we went out to the bars in 
Tempe. Meanwhile, my two ND friends and I are in the corner of thP kitchen downing our half­vodka-half-Sprite mixture, as is the standard pre­game ritual. The Keystone light from Boat Club has trained us well in the art of pre-gaming. 
It scared the hell out of them. They only have "a" beer before going out. But God forbid we get outdrank by them Sun Devils! They never stood a chance. The Irish Car Bombs were just too much for them. 
Last semester my friends and I headed up to East Lansing for a weekend at Michigan State. After a night out at bar after bar, not to mention the wonderful "after hours" that Notre Dame will never have, it probably would have gone down as a draw. But what tho' the odds be great or small, we pulled it out the next morning when at 10 
a.m. my friend Ben whipped out a flask of bour­bon and just picked up where he left off the next night. The frat guys were intimidated. 
This weekend. it's a trek to see my cousin at Purdue. and already the game plan is being for­mulated. Three guys taking down a handle should be enough, but we need to he prepared for anything. Supposedly my cousin knows these guys that "are so crazy" and "drink day and night." 
Blah, blah, blah. We Dillon guys have heard it all before. Three years of sitting around drinking in the dorm has made us unstoppable on the road. 
"Ben," I asked last night at dinner, "ifworsf! comes to worse you can do the bourbon at 10 
a.m. thing right?" "Consider it done, man." 1know we're such dorks. But not everyone can 
run out of the tunnel wearing the blue and gold. We're just trying to do our part. So I'm going to visit my cousin this weekend, but it's also a big road game. We're favored by about a fifth of Jim Beam. Go Irish. 
Contact Brian Burke at Bburke.1 @nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a prolessional publicltim1 and mives for 1he highesc s1md.ir<ls of journalism at all time •. We Jo, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a misrak~. pkasc comacc us at 631-4541 so we can corrccc our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publish«! Monday rhrou.;h l'riday c:xcq,t during ex.am omJ \t;.1carion periods. The Observer iN :1 mcmbt'r of rht A.,sodat<-d Pre>.,. All repmdu,:rion rights arc rc,cm:d. 

THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Wednesday Thursday Friday 
. Film: "Peppermint Candy" (South . Keynote Speech: Chris Burke, . Boxing: Bengal Bout 
Korea, 2000) Montgomery Theater, "Corky" from the television show, Preliminaries, Joyce Center 
Lafortune Student Center, 7 to 9 "Life Goes On" Stepan Center, free Fieldhouse. Tickets can be pur­
p.m. admission, 7:30 p.m. chased at the Joyce Center box 
oflice, either one or four day pass, 
5 p.m. 

Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Harvard prof begs leniency for convicted molestor 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
cal physics at Harvard in 1976 and 
A Harvard University professor served as a lecturer in Harvard's asked for leniency Friday in the sen­Department ol' Chemistry and Geology tencing of a former Yale University in 1976 and 1977. professor and housemaster convicted Lasaga was conducting studies in of child molestation. global warming and the safe disposal 
Antonio Lasaga, an award-winning of nuclear waste at the time of his geochemist who taught aL Yale for arrest. His work is still taught in almost 15 ynars, was sentenmd to 20 Harvard's Earth and Planetary years in prison Friday after he pled no Sciences courses, llolland said. contPst to charges of sexual assault, academic expertise should be consid­llolland, a former professor and employing a minor in an obscene per­ered in the sentencing. mentor of Lasaga, said Monday that formance and risk or injury to a minor "All of us in science are expendable, the reVt)lations had come as a "hor­in New Haven Superior Court last but the loss of' the most capable arn rendous shock." H,1 said Lasaga was month. felt the most strongly," Holland said in well-respected and considered to be 
Harvard's Heinrich D. Holland, his testimony according to the "the perfect student, the perfect pro­Dudley research professor of econom­Hartford Courant. fessor and perfect friend." ic geology, as well as two professors They pointed to Lasaga's career, Hiroshi Ohmoto, one of the other from Pennsylvania State University, which began at Princeton University professors who spoke on behalf of asked Superior Court Judge Holand and continued at Ilarvard and Penn Lasaga, said Lasaga had a tendency to Fasano for a light sentence for Lasaga State, before concluding at Yale. spread himself too thin with academic on Friday. They argued that Lasaga's Lasaga earned his doctorate in chemi-and social obligations. 


DARTMOUTH UNIVERSITY 
Early decision grows at Ivies 
HANOVER,N.ll. 
Despite growing concerns about the fairness of early decision, its use continues to proliferate throughout the Ivy League, with some schools filling half of their incoming freshman slots with early applicants. The most dramatic increase came at the University of Pennsylvania, where 50 percent of its freshman class will be admitted early this year, up from 43 percent last year. Columbia, accepting 490 students, admitted 49 percent of its incoming class early. It saw a 6.5 per­cent increase in the number of early applicants and its early admission acceptance rate was 29 percent. The growing popularity of early decision has raised many serious questions. Hecent criticism has arisen that early decision favors affluent students over students in financial need. This is because early decision does not allow students in need of financial aid to weigh offers from other schools. Once accepted under the program, a student must attend regardless of better financial aid offers at other institutions. 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Male sexuality class put on hold 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
The University of California-Berkeley male sexuality class that came under lire last week has been suspend­ed by administrators while an investigation into reports of illicit class activities is conducted. The class's female counterpart is also under review but has not been suspended, officials said. A me1)ting between the instructors of the student-run classes took placP Friday, following an inquiry into tlrn classes by The Daily Californian. But when instructors of the male sexuality class failed to show up, the class was pulled, said George Breslauer, dean of social sciences at UC­Berkeley. Students and instructors of the class told the Daily Cal they took trips to strip clubs and "sex exchanges" and watched an instructor strip. Some also said a party at an instructor's house included group sex and a "party game" that had students photograph­ing their genitalia and then trying to match the pic­tures to the correct body. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeathcr(l!)forccast for daytime contlitions and hi ,h 1cm craturcs 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 20. 
-.r--.--~ 
COLD WARM STATIONA.R'f 
P,wuu,e: 
® © D D D D D D 
High Low Show¦ ra Rain T· ¦torma FlurrlH Snow Ice Sunny P1. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vi.t Auoc1at&a PtfJ:33 
Atlanta 65 43 Las Vegas 69 44 Portland 54 42 
Baltimore 58 42 Memphis 63 41 Sacramento 64 45 
Boston 48 42 Milwaukee so 27 St. Louis 58 36 
Chicago 54 29 New Vork 53 45 Tampa 78 61 
Houston 73 49 Philadelphia 59 47 Washington, DC 59 45 
Via Associat11d Preu Graphk:SNclt 

- - ---------------,,  
Wednesday, February 20, 2002  The Observer . NEWS  page 3  
NETHERLANDS  



Milosevic denounces war crimes witness, defends police 
THE HAGUE 

In a four-hour verbal battle 
Tuesday, Slobodan Milosevic 
dismissed the first witness in 
his war crimes trial as a liar 
and defended Serb police 
actions in Kosovo as a fight 
against terrorism. 
During cross-examination, Milosevic sought to discredit Mahmut Bakalli, an ethnic Albanian politician who claimed the former Yugoslav . president coldly destroyed Kosovo and was responsible for 
thousands of deaths in the province. 
Milosevic, the first former head of state to be charged with war crimes while in office, is accused of crimes against humanity in Kosovo and Croatia, and of genocide in Bosnia during the 1991-99 Balkan wars. He could be sen­tenced to life imprisonment if convicted on any one of 66 counts . 
Although a law graduate. Milosevic never practiced law 
until he became his own defense attorney at the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal. He has refused to recognize the court, claiming it is an instru­ment of Western powers who want to destroy him and his nation. 
At times sarcastic, Milosevic engaged in heated exchanges with Bakalli. trying to catch him in contradictions. He also highlighted Bakalli's links with Kosovo Albania,n rebels. argu­ing that he was too biased to be a reliable witness. In one exchange, Milosevic asked whether the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army was disarmed when international peacekeep­ing forces arrived in l 999~ 
NEW  INTERNATIONAL  STUDY  PR.OGRAM  IN  II  
BRAZIL ­ Spring 2003  
RIO DE JANEIRO SAO PAULO  
''.; .\ 1 . L  
INFORMATION SESSIONS  
TUESDAY~ FEBRUA.R\' 12TH 5:30-6:30 125 Haves-Healv..  
THPRSDA'Y, FEBRUARY 21sr 5:30-6:30 125 Haves-l-lealv " ,,.  


"Yes, it was disarmed." Bakalli said. 
"Then, what are they firing with now?" Milosevic asked. claiming 3,000 Serbs have been killed in Kosovo by "terrorists" since the arrival of the NATO­led troops. Richard Dicker of the New York-based Human Rights Watch said Milosevic's ability to attack a witness's credibility is "a benchmark of fair trial . . . for any accused in any court." 
In his most damaging testi­mony, Bakalli told the court Monday that in 1998, Milosevic admitted knowing about a Serb massacre of more than 40 members of an ethnic Albanian family in the village of Prekaz. He said Milosevic defended the police action as a fight against terrorists. 


Not r e Oa m e Fi Im . TeIevisi o n . a n d T h e a t r e pr e se n t s· 
Aetors ~'rorr1 rrhr London ~tag·r 
Macbeth 

Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 


'Notfiin8 to Wear? 
Come in anisee our Latest ?lrriva(s for Syrina! Winter Safe stiff in _pro3ress! 
WHERE: J,u,pire rflef CORNER OF COLFAX AND HILL 
Dow,nowN Sourn Brno 
HERE'S OUR PHONE MUMBER: 
232-1822 
JUICY COUTURE NOMINATION HARDTAIL BETSEYJOHNSON LAUNDRY 
TH£0RY 
LILLY PULITZER FRANKIE B 


page4 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 20, 2002 


Eldred 
continued from page 1 

spent talking to people about the value of a Saint Mary's educa­tion. and ultimately asking peo­ple to be helpful to the College," Eldred said. "When I'm asked what I do for a living. I usually say that I meet with people to talk about everything from the sublime to the ridiculous."One of her main goals as president of the College is to visit all 52 active alumni clubs around the nation. 
"I give them an update on the college and address current issues," Eldred said. "Frequently they express a con­cern and a fear that we have lowered our admission stan­dards, but I can happily say that we have not." 
After giving an extensive update, Eldred said she usually provides alumni general infor­mation regarding the financial needs of the College. She said that many Saint Mary's gradu­ates she meets with are married to Notre Dame graduates. 
"I tell them that I would like to see them give the same amount to Saint Mary's as their hus­bands give to Notre Dame," Eldred said. 
The typical response to this statement. according to Eldred, ends with heads hung low in shame as graduates acknowl­edge that they do tend to give more financial support to Notre 
Dame. 

"Alumni give money to Saint Mary's because it is an institu­tion they love and want to see continue to grow stronger," Eldred said. "They want to carry on their legacy and the wonderful Saint Mary's tradi­tion." Eldred also addressed a question pertaining to why she thinks Saint Mary's has consis­tently remained one of the nation's premier women's col­leges for so many years. 
"There used to be over 100 women's colleges across the country, and the number has dwindled down to 19. A lot of this has to do with the schools becoming co-educational, being taken over by larger schools, or having small endowments and low enrollment rates," Eldred said. "We are in the exact oppo­site position. Our enrollment is increasing and our endowment is 88 million dollars. We have great resources and a beautiful campus." 
Another student asked why Saint Mary's no longer has a Masters Degree Program and if students can expect to see one in the future. Sister Madeleva started the program in the late 1940's when Catholic universi­ties would not allow women to enter their programs. The Masters Program was dropped in the early 1960's when institu­tions such Catholic University let women into their programs. 
"We have decided to remain student-athlete asked Eldred to Eldred said. "We're making the an undergraduate college," speak about the athletic depart­budget for next year, and the Eldred said. "One great thing ment's budget, making it clear Athletic Department has asked about Saint Mary's is that we are that the program requires more for a lot. We can't do it all, but 
very clear about who we are. sufficient funding. we can try." We are a Catholic, women's, lib­"We have come so far in terms eral arts undergraduate college, of how the college supports ath­Contact Katie Rand at and we will stay that way." A letics in the last four years," Rand8903@saintmarys.edu. 
University ofNotre Dame 

Preliminaries February 22 



Finals 

Quarterfinals February 24 

March 1 
Semifinals February 2 7 

7:00pm 


1~~2/2~~) 
FINANCIAL AID DEADLINE 
Your Renewal FAFSA and PROFILE Application must be 
received by the processing centers on or before the dates listed below ifyou wi~h to apply for financial aid for the 2002/20~) academic year: 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's February 2~) 2002 March l, 2~02 
For additional information or applications, please contact your financial aid office. 





ATION 
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Brazilians may be revaccinated: 
As many as (10.000 Brazilians may haw to gel rnvaccinatPd against fi<'patitis A. Merck & Co. initiatncl an iutt>rnational recall of the vaccine on ~ov. 16 aftPr tPsts shownd some closPs that had bt'l'll sold to patiPnts didn't providn Pnough protertion against the liver disease, tlw H)i\·s website' said. 

German kills bosses, pincipal, self: 
In FrPisii1g, a young-German who rernntly lost his job shot and killNI two fornrnr bosses TtH•sday then took a taxi lo his old high school and killNI tlw principal and himsi>lf as hun­drPds of students ran !'or cover. The man won• army l'amouflagn and r.arrind two pis­tols and twn pip!~ bombs !\one of Urn other slu(frnts was injurrnl. Th<' suspect's name was not n-!Pased. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Jury finds Doctor guilty: Dr. James Graves, Florida's only Oxy-C:ontin prescriber, was found guilty Tuesday of manslaughter for prescribing llrn drug to !"our patients who overdosed on their nrndication and died. Ile was convicted of' four counts of manslaughter, onP count of racketeering, and five counts of delivPry of an unlawful substance. Florida prosecutor l{ussell Edgar n•ferred to Graves as a drug dPalPr. Ile f'acps up to 30 years in prison. 
Louisville has flight delays: Early morning flights out of Louisville International Airport wcrn delayed as d(!parting passengers rnpeau1d the screening process Tuesday. Oflicials said a security 1!mployee was discov­ered aslPep at her position. Airport security cleared the concourse and directed 1,000 pas­sengers through the security checkpoints, in case ol' a security brnach. Thn sleeping employeP was tired. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS College enrollment increases: 
DPspitP the setbacks expm-ienced in the steel industry, college enrollment in notbcrn Indiana has increased. Students are choosing to altPnd rnllcgP in tlw hopps that, art.er four years in school. tlwir drnnces of employment will bn bettPr, and the nconomy will have improvPcl. Tlw Community College of Indiana. Indiana lJnivPrsity. and Purdue University have Pxperi1•nced an increase in student intnn\st and nnrollment. They report that most of the rnlls and applications are coming from laid-off steel employees. 
Market Watch Febn1ary 19 
Dow 
9,745.14 
Jones 

Same: 
201 


-157.90 
Composite Volume: 
l.192,1-41.947 
··AMEX(···· ··•··•••·•·••··.···••·:•·•.••••·844(•1::}lj:i• ;:;;I~9+I••!;/}i••·NASDAQ: 1,750.61 -54.59 NYSE(····• ····)·•·•·,·•s62::o&·,•· ••i••·µfiJ:HtI<•••.,.··• S&P 500: 1,083.52 -20.66 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
~y/SE~lY %01ANGE SGAlN PRIC I NEXTEL COMM (NXTL) -26.95 -1. 31 3.55 NASDAQ-100 (QQQ) -3.07 -1.10 34.68 SUN MICRO (SUNW) •6.40 -0. 57 8.33 CISCO SYSTEM (CSCO) -1.64 -0.28 16.81 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) -3.71 -0.25 6.48 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
ERIK LESSER/Getty Images A Georgia State Trooper stands guard outside the Tri-State Crematory Tuesday in Noble, Ga. State officials have brought in federal assistance to help identify several corpses found at the locatoin. 


Officials find 149 more corpses 
Associated Press 
NOBLE 
As the ground around Tri-State Crematory yield­ed more corpses, residents in three states faced the horror of planning funer­als for loved ones they had long believed were resting in peace. 
Forensics teams on Tuesday had recovered 149 bodies left to rot out­side the northwest Georgia crematory, finding skele­tons sealed in vaults and bodies that had been dragged into a shed. 
"I feel like I'm in a hor­ror movie," said Leatha Shropshire, a mother of three, whose own mother died Jan. 30 and was found dumped in the 16­acre area behind the cre­matory. 
"We just lost our mother two weeks ago and we are having to do this all over again," Shropshire said. "The waiting was killing us. There is no way to describe what that kind of waiting is like." 
Hay Brent Marsh, opera­tor of the crematory in this rural town 20 miles south of Chattanooga, Tenn., was arrested for a second time and authorities filed 11 new theft-by-deception charges against him, bringing the total to 16. 
"By the hour, this is get­ting bigger and bigger and bigger," said Kris Sperry, the state's chief medical examiner. "I don't have a theory because none of this makes sense. I don't think it ever will." 
Officials examined the contents of 51 urns that had been sent to relatives. Some contained powdered cement or potting soil rather than human remains, officials said. Other urns appeared to contain human remains. 
Sperry said there was no way to make a positive identity using cremated remains, but officials said at least one family received remains that did not belong to their relative. The relative's remains were identified among 

those recovered from the grounds. 
Investigators have said Marsh told them the the incinerator was broken. Evidence shows some dumped bodies have been there for 15 years or more. 
Some corpses were in body bags, while others were dressed in clothing or hospital gowns or wrapped in sheets. They ranged from newly delivered to severely decomposed. he said, predicting that some would never be identified. disaster mortuary team began arriving late Monday to open a mass morgue to sort the bodies. More than 400 people were involved in the inves­tigation. 
Marsh, 28, refused a request for a jailhouse interview. Calls to bis home and the crematory went unanswered Monday. and voicemail boxes at both numbers were full. 
As the body count rose, agents said they had begun examining the records of Marsh and his parents, Ray and Clara Marsh, who turned the business over to their son in 1996. The elder Marshes have not been charged, but authorities said bodies were being dumped before the son took over. 
"As far as the criminal investigation goes, we have to question every­body who was involved in the operation and that's being done," said Georgia Bureau of Investigation spokesman John Bankhead. 
Clara Marsh. who taught high school for more than 30 years, appears not to have been involved in day­to-day operations at the crematory, Walker County Sheriff Steve Wilson said. 
In almost all cases, Tri­State Crematory picked up the bodies from up to 30 funeral homes in Georgia, Tennessee and Alabama, delivering ashes later in return, said Walker County coroner Dewayne Wilson, who is not related to the sheriff. 

Man crawls out of grave to find killers 
Associated Press 
PHENIX CITY, !\la. 
A man whose throat was slashed and who was buried in a 5hallow grave with his slain 12-year-old son clawed his way out of the dirt and helped police find two men accused of killing the boy. 
Forrest "Butch" Bowyer, 54, underwent surgery and was expect­ed to recover, Sheriff Tommy Boswell said Tuesday. 
The suspects, l\1ichael David Carruth, 43, and Jimmy Lee Brooks Jr., 22, were charged with capital 
murder, attempted murder, robbery, and kidnapping. They wi'lre being held without bail. 
The sheriff' said Brooks and Carruth showed up at Bowyer's home late Sunday and allegedly forced Bowyer and his son, Brett, into a car and drove about 20 miles outside town. After Bowyer gave them. m_oney, the men slit his throat and shoved him into a grave, Boswell said. Minutes later·, Bowyer heard gunshots, and his son's body was pushed on top of him. The killers covered the grave with dirt. Bowyer began digging his way out as soon as they left. He was slashed "ear to ear," the sheriff said, but the cut wasn't too deep. 

"Ile played dead. He just knew he was dying or fixing to die," Boswell said. "He was in there about 10, 15 minutes," Boswell said. 
The father unearthed his son's body, walked through woods, then flagged down a car. 
"We got an ambulance there but he wouldn't leave until he showed us where the body was," Boswell said. 
Officers found the boy's dead body atop tho grave a few minutes after the ambulance left with Bowyer. 

page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
PERU 

American to ask president to pardon terrorism sentence 
Associated Press 
LIMA 
An American woman will 
seek a pardon from Peru's 
president after being ordered 
to serve out her 20-year 
prison sentence for collaborat­
ing with leftist rebels in a 
failed bid to seize Congress. 
The Supreme Court on 
Monday announced its deci­
sion iii. the case of' Lori 
Berenson. The high court was 
the New York native ·s last 
recourse for appeal in the 
Peruvian justice system. 
Berenson's lawyer and par­
ents said she will pursue the 
remaining options for being 
released from prison: a par­
don from Peruvian President 
Alejandr~ Toledo or a favor­
able ruling by the Inter­
American Commission on 
Human Rights. 
Berenson, 32. has already 
been jailed for six years and 
must now servo out the sen­
tence that ends in 2015. 
ShP condemned the Supreme Court decision Mondav and said she was joining hundreds of jailed gw-\rrillas in a hunger strike to protest prison condi­tions and Peru's anti-terror­ism laws. 
Berenson was convicted in Jurw of' terrorist collaboration in the thwarted attempt by the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement to take over Peru's Congress in 1995. 
But she was acquitted of being a member of the rebel group. 
That was Berenson's second terrorism conviction. The first came in 1996 when a secret militarv tribunal of hooded judges sentenced her to life in prison for being a rebel leadflr. 
In that trial. the court ruled that Berenson aided the guer­rillas by renting a house for their hide-out and posing as a journalist to enter Congress to gather intelligence. 
Berenson denied the charges and said she didn't know her housemates were rebels. 
The life sentence was over­turned in August 2000 and a new trial ordered after years of pressure from the United States. 
Presiding Justice Guillermo Cabala said five Supreme Court judges decided Rerenson's appeal last week but held off releasing it until Mondav. 
Cabala said four judges upheld the 20-year sentence while he supported reducing it to 15 years. 
Berenson's parents, Mark and Rhoda Berenson of New York. already have urged Toledo to pardon their daugh­ter. Peruvian officials declined lo comment ·on that possibility ,vhile the case was in the courts. 
Th<\rn was no official ri~ac-
A FREE SPRING BHEAKI 
.· ·HOllllS[ Dei;llr,atiul ISif'anioi.1 Low.isl 
Prices Gua; anlued! Besr Ah lines/Holals! Fn,e Foild! 2 Frou Trirs on 15 Sales. Earn C.isll! Group Dlsi:011111:.! Oouk• nnlin<i. www.s11nsplashto11rs.com 
1-800-42ti-7710 

JOBS 
Model needed for Figure Drawing Classes. $12/hr. Please call Art Dept. 631~7602 for info. 

tion  to  Monday's  announce­ Court's decision in a statnment  call upon President George W.  tr,rrorism  with  Toledo.  
ment. Rhoda Berenson also said she will ask the Inter­ released by her parents, who have spoken regularly with their daughter by tnlephone  Bush to right this wrong and to secure Lori's release," the Berensons said in the state- Peruvian Foreign Minister Diego Garcia Sayan last week did not rule out that the two  
American Commission on Human Rights, part of the Organization of American States, to accelerate its review of the case. The issue eventually could reach the OAS court, which  from New York. "This judi­cial process was a farce l'rom its beginning to  "We know that Lori is innocent, and we remain optimistic that she will be released."  ment. The State Department had no immediate comment. A pardon  presidents could discuss Berenson 's case. Bush urgf'd Tuledo during a June~ meeting in Washington to consider humanitarian ron­cerns in Bcrenson's case. "Lori was a victim of the  
has the power to overturn her  its end. I am  of Berenson  previous· administration,"  
conviction. Peru is a member state of the court and is oblig­ed to adhere to its rulings.  innocent ol' the charges," Berenson  Mark and Rhoda Berenson parents of Lori Berenson  might bn unpopular in Peru:where  Hhoda Bnrenson told The Associated Press from her New York home.  
Berenson, a former Massachusetts Institute ol' Technology student, considers herself a political prisoner and says authorities unfairly por­ said in the statement. Beronson's parents said they will appeal to President Bush lo lobby for her r0leasc.  she is seen as a foreign terrorist in a country that suf­fered through years of guerril­la violence.  "She was a political pawn !'or their personal gains and she's already been in jail for six years under horrendous conditions," she said, refer­ 
trayed her concern for social justice as a terrorist agenda.  "We know that Lori is inno­cent, and we remain optimistic  Bush will visit Peru March 23 to discuss trade and com­ ring to the prnvious adminis­tration of' President Albi\rto  
She condemned the Supreme  that she will be released. We  bating drug trafficking and  rujimori.  






No {:Jiy-e,afe,y-L,ove, 
... J Notre-PJMc-da~ of pva~c-v1 mv<;rv arid vc-ric-wa( 
How do you pray? 
Taize
Lectio Divina Ignatian Meditation

Rosary AdorationStations of the Cross 

Praise & Worship Mass 
Walk around the Lal,es 

Throughout history, people of faith have developed many creative ways to pray. No Greater Love is a day long retreat that offers you a chance to try some of these ways for yourself through inspirational talks and student-led music-filled prayer. Come experience something new. 
Keynote Speaker: Chandra Johnson Music led by Danielle Rose 
Other contributors include: Fr. ]. Steele, csc & Fr. Nick Ayo, csc 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD 
10 A.M. • COLEMAN.. MORSE CENTER BREAKFAST, LUNCH & DINNER PROVIDED CLOSING MASS BEGINS @ 6:30 P.M. 

No sign up required • Space is Limited First 50 people get a FREE No 0rrc-dtc-v l--ovc-T-Shirt 
For More Info: Go to www.nd.edu/ ~ nglove or Call 1-3250 
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
RUBBER BULLETS: THE MIDDLE EAST 
A presentation by A/an Pogue, Texas Centerfor Documentary Photography, includi~g slides ofhis photographs and actual prints. 
Co-sponsored by the Center for Civil and Human Rights and the hlstitute for Latino Studies 

Wednesday, February 20 
3:30 p.m. 
Room 105, University of Notre Dame Law School 
For over thiny years, Alan Pogue has been photographing social and political movements in Texas and a:round the world. His phows have appeared in several national and international publications including the New York Times Magazine, The Boston Globe, The Washington Post, The L.A. Times, The Austin American Statesman, The Dallas Morning News, Ky,,do News Japan, and Texas Monthly. Alan Pogue's many honors inclu.de a Dobio-Paisano fellowship and being named Austin's "Best Photographer" by the Austin Chronicle for 10 consecutive yea,s. His work has been widely exhibited nationally and intemationally. 
Alan Pogue's presentation is named after "rubber bullets" that he picked up in Bethlehem, whfoh are mostly metal with a thin rubber coating. During the last four years, Alan Pogue has been to Jordan, Israel, and the West Bank twice, and to Iraq four times. In Iraq, he traveled from Mosul in the north to Basra in the south, and he met with a professor ofinternational law at lbe University ofBaghdad. Most recently he returned from Pakistan where he photographed Afghan refugees. 
Alan Pogue asks: "Peace is immanent, so why nol imminent?" Let use pursue the answer with him. 
hllp:l/www.documentaryphotographs.com 
For more information about the Institute for Latino Studies, visit our web site at www.nd.edu/-latino 01 contact: 
Carmen .Macharaschwili Programs and Public Relations C.,ordinator Institute for Latino Studies University ofNotre Dame 574-631-3747 macbarascbwili. l@nd.edu 

UNIVICR.ITY o.-NOTltlt DAM.II: 
ITALY 


Trial begins for 3 suspected terrorists 
Associated Press 

MILAN 
Three Tunisians accused of 
cooperating with Osama bin 
Laden's terrorist network went 
on trial Monday in a heavily 
guarded courtroom on charges 
they supplied false documents 
and belonged to a criminal 
group that tried to traffic in 
arms and explosives. 

Prosecutor Stefano Dambruoso. who is leading Italy's investigation into Islamic terrorism in northern Italy, told the court he wants to prove the men were part of an interna­tional ring that "referred directly to al-Qaida." 
The Tunisians were detained during a major probe into sus­pected Islamic terrorist cells last year. They are charged with criminal association with the intent to obtain and trans­po rt arms, explosives and chemicals and with supplying false documents.Defense lawyers argued that the defen­dants -Riadh Jelassi, Mehdi Kammoun and Adel Ben Soltane -may have committed some illegal acts, such as the use of counterfeit documents, but not terrorist crimes. 
"They are small fishes," said lawyer Gianluca Maris. "Investigators were seeking terrorists with arms and bombs. They found a modest 
amount of' counterfeit docu­
ments." 

Judge Ambrogio Moccia rejected a defense request to have the trial moved out of Milan. whern Italian investiga­tors say a cell linked to al­Qaida operated. The defense says the men were arrested in a town outside Milan, not the city itself. Dambruoso asked permission to call witnesses from a long list that included German, Spanish, French and Belgian investigators who coor­dinated a crackdown on sus­pected al-Qaida supporters in Europe before and after the Sept. 11 attacks. The judge said he would permit the testimony but that a limited number of investigators could appear. 
In the courtroom. Kammoun was locked inside an iron­barred cage. lie waved to the other defendants, who were handcuffed as they were escorted to benches, a handful of prison guards hovering with pistols as they sat down. Three paramilitary police guarded the entrance, and in an unusual sign of tight security, a plain­·ciothes policeman stood behind Dambruoso. Dambruoso, who conducted the pretrial probe and asked for the indictments, has said the defendants were not directly connected to the Sept. 11 attacks but are believed linked to al-Qaida. 

j 
j ' 
l
I 
l 
I I 
I I I I I I I I 

'' 
! ' 
J 
~~---------------------------------, 
We NeedYour Input on: 
0 Changes a~d Improvements to Email System 
o 
Food Offerings in LaFortune 

o 
Renovations to Alumni Senior Club 

o 
Improvements to digital services in the Library 

o 
Use of Wireless technology on campus 

o 
Printing Quotas in the Computer Clusters 

o 
Renovations to the 2nd Floor Faculty Dining Room of SDH 

o 
Women's· Issues on Campus for Spring Report to the Trustees 

o 
Clarification of Tailgating and Alcohol Guidelines 

o 
Faculty/Student Interaction 

o 
Ideas for future Library Study Space 

o 
Curriculum Changes 



o Television as an educational atjjunct 
o 
Student Computer Ownership as part of tuition 

o 
Long term proposal for cable in the dorms 

o 
Renovation of Basement study space in LaFortune 

o 
Flexible meal plan options 


'r 
·1,­
, ·. 
I •
i ,_. 
I ; I 

Upcotning Events: 
'
I ,-. 
I ~'. 
I ··:. 
: 
I •,--~ 
o Report to the Trustees on Women and Gender Issues at Notre Dame : . o Body Image Awareness Week
I I I 
' 
' o 
Celebration of 30 years of Co-education: -Mass in Walsh 2/26 at 11 pm 

I • . 
-Crush Fundraiser 

:I •' .' -. ' . -History Displays in the Maximum Student Resource Center 2/
t .;:..~
I t;::· 
I 
I 25-2/28
I ' 
I ,s.·, 
l ~ o Student Appreciation Day
I . ­
. .r.~-r 
I : I .. 
I • o Clean Up Your Own Backyard 
I • 
I ; 
I • o Gr~atness Grant applications now avai Iable in 203 La Fortune 
I ' 
I ­
I 
' 
I 
I 
I .. 
: .'1: 
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Office of the President Staff is currently working with Administrators, University Departments and student groups to effect long term change at the Notre Dame. Students have more input right now than ever before, but we need your help! Please give us your feedback on the following issues. ,Many recommendations. will be made this semester! Email studegov@nd.edu, call the Student Government Office at 1-7668 or stop by the Maximum Student Resource Center next to the info desk in Lafortune with suggestions or comments. 
Thank you for your input, Brooke Norton, Brian Moscona, Jonathan Jorissen and the Office of the President 

.--------------------------------,­
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 page 9

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

to the Office of the President Staff for theirThank you hard work and accomplishments this yearl 
We appreciate all that you have done for Notre Dame... 
o 
Football Stadium Collection for Firefighters Fund 

o 
September 11th Prayer Vigil a La Fortune Renovations and Food Services 

o 
Opening of School Year Mass 

o 
Collection for New York Ambulance 

o 
The Maximum Student Resource Center (A place to look at campus happenings and dialogue with Student Government) 

o 
Student Discount Cards and Designated Driver Cards a Culture Fest Program 

o 
Last Lecture Series and Collaboration on Week of War and Peace Education 

o 
Collaboration on Sexual Assault Awareness Week 

o 
Blessing Unto Others Week and Concert Series 

o 
Founder's Day Dinner and Midnight Grill on Quad 

o 
Irish Elves Christmas Donations to Homeless Shelter 

o 
Secured U2 tickets for students 

o 
Re-usable Grab N 'Go bags. 

o 
Free LSAT/GRE review and Off-campus Security Forum 

o 
Boston College Away-Game Hospitality 

o 
Athletic Promotions and Game Watches 

o 
Reports to the Trustees on First Year Orientation and Residentiality 

o 
Dinner with Seven Strangers 

o 
Stepping Stones to Understanding and Aids Awareness Discussions 

o 
Town Hall meetings and Collaboration with Class Council Spiritual Committees 

o 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat for Student Leaders 

o 
Retreat with Dorm Multicultural Commissioners 

o 
Faculty/Student Interaction and Financial Aid Research 

o 
Blood Drive and Discussion Group in Response to September 11th• 


o AND MANY MOR£ STILL TO COME 
Thank you to: Molly Norton, Julie Perla, Tai Romero, Drew Gawrych, Andrew DeBerry, Chris 
Broughton, Dennis Barrett, Brendan Harris, Bill Ferreira, Adam Shanko, Karla Bell, Casey Fitzmaurice, 
Danielle Ledesma, Brian Pawloski, Michelle Bottitta, Matt McGowen, Casey Torgusson, Andy Groebner, Meg 
Reynders, Kevin Berrill, Marissa Congemi, Andy Hess, Guillermo Munoz, Dominic Paschel, Fernanda Payan, 
Jennifer Roberts, Joyce Deleon, Jesse Flores, Oscar Alvarez, Jenn Hammamoto, Adrianna Jackson, Bunnoi 
McDaniel, Kat Walsh, Jemar Tisby, Alison Childs, Anabel Na'(arro, Irene Onyeagbako, Katie Koch, Steve 
Kovatis, Katie Bufalino, Victoria Fetterman, Valerie Lee, Chris Fallon, Tom Leventhal, Owen Asplundh, 
Mariah Gidel, Mary Dun'leavy, Kate McCarthy, Chad Silker, Krista Berghoff, Kelli Kalisik, Lauren O'Brien, 
Adam Russ, Cassie Stuart, Paul Guzzetta, Son Nguyen, Steph Burum, Caroline Reams, Kate Lutkus, Colleen 
Clarke, Erin Dwyer, Paul Graham, Bill Boyd, Kim Howe, Christina Grimmer, Kristin Courtney, Patrick Corker, 
Carrie Vos, Lu~e Burke, Audra Hagan, Tyler Jackson, Taylor McWilliams, Preston Benson, Dome Designs, 
Steve Granados, Ken Siefert, Ashley Koger, Kevin Busen, Michelle Mikos, Henry Scott, Elisa Madrid, Eric Nitz, 
Maggie Dowd, Jason McFarley, Courtney Zeph, Tara Weiler, Jonathan Corbett, Kate Rumsey, Van Tran, 
Bridget Brennan, Alison Trappey, Sonia Wallace; Caela Carter, Lisa Pendarvis, Nick Befera, Christopher 
Hammer, Annette Lopez, Galen Loughrey, Michael Pfaff, Maureen Ritchey, Courtney Badgley, Andrew Zuraw, 
Mary Barter, Paul Cruickshank, Thomas Raaf, Claire Reisinger, Kevin Wolf, Erling Wu-Bower, Adam Conrad, 
Jennifer Garczyk, Joseph Keller, Phil Slonkonsky, Charles Hedman, Katie Murphy, Brian Moscona, Jonathan 
Jorissen and Many More! 

OBSERVER 








VIEWPOINT 
p:1.ge 10 Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Rox Q, Nor,e Dame. IN . 6556 024 South Dining Hall. Noire Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN Cilia Mike Connolly 

M~"l'AGINC EDITOR  BPSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gilk-spie  Bob Woodi  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  P.a Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: _Jason Mchtrley VIE\YrOINT EDITOR: Parrick McE!wee Sl'ORT~ EDlTOR: Nnah Amsradter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Reggs SAINT M·\RY's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Perer Richardson 
ADVERTISlNG MANACl::R: Kimberly Springer AD OF.SIGN MANAGFR: Alex Menze SYSTEMS AoMINlSTRATOR.: PJhvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE .MAf-,;AGER/GLNLRAL lNF0..............6J I -74 7 l FAX............................................................. 63!-6'>27 
ADVERTISING... . .. .. . ... .... .. ..........631-690018840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................63 I -4 542 MANAGING EDtTOR/AssT. ME......... ..........631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc.J@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................631-4540 obs<.'rver.scene. J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S........... .................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.............. . ...................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily uprlates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly smdem reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe· 
and rates of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published ali:er 
to meer rhe edimrs and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objeccively as possible. L:nsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Edirnr in Chier: Managing Ediror, Assistant Managmg Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofrhe authors and 11or necessarily 1hose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerref', is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and musr include umcacr inform,uion. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policies should be direct· rd m F.ditor i11 ChiefMike Connolly 

In lieu of Valentino's Day and the month of February being extremely boring around these parts, my last col­umn was an attempt at laying out some strategies to aid the everyday, lovelorn, sexuallv frustrated Notre· Joe Larson Dame or Saint Mary's student in finding a date 
Principles of 

during these dire 
ldiocracy

times. 
Well, Valentine's Day is over and Spring Break is coming up. You know. it's been great, but it's been a long couple of weeks and I think that your target is probably pret­ty sick of you by now. You're really great. but it's time to move on to something new and you already ful­filled the need to have a date on Valentine's Day. So, I'm sorry to tell vou this, but it's over. This column is going to try and inform you people about what could possibly be happen­ing to you right now. It's going to explain to you the ways you could be about to get dumped. 
'.\low, people are constantly trying to vary their strategies for the almighty dump, but really there arc three basic and classic ways to dump someone. Granted, variations arc made, but these arc pretty much it. 
By far the worst way to get dumped is the cruel and uncompromising "Fade." The "Fade" involves the dumper simply stopping all conversa­tion and interaction with the dumped. One day, everything's fine and dandy and then the next day, nothing. They don't return phone calls, they don't show up where you arc, they just sim­ply make themselves scarce until eventually they have faded completely out of view. 
This form leaves the dumped with exactly zero legs to stand on. Since all forms of communication arc severed instantly. the dumped has no chance to find out what wrmt wrong or even throw a few sporadic insults at th8 person brnaking their heart. Also, af'tPr the "Fadc" has lrnnn idnntifir~d. 
tho dumped is left with a sensitive 
quandary. 

Because of the unexplained and abrupt ending of their previous rela­tionship, the terms for post-breakup interaction have not been laid out and therefore, if the dumped runs into the dumper at a later date, confusion ensues. Who knows if' the dumpnr just wants to be friends and still talk to the dumped or absolutely loathes the per­son and breaks out in hives at the sight of them'? 
Basically, the "Fade" vaguely insinu­ates that you're not supposed to ever talk to your former date again. But due to the utter lack of' communica­tion, no one really knows and the dumped is left to wonder in the dark f'cirever. 
The most common form of dumping is the not quite compassionate but at least remotely thoughtful "Martyr" technique. This form usually involves a lot of explanation but it basically hinges on these live words: "It's not you, it's me." See, the person doesn't want to date you anymore, but they don't have the heart, or pills, to actu­ally tell you why. They'll compliment you until they're blue in the face, but then tell you that they just can't han­
. die a relationship right now or that they need to be alone or something. They tell you they're sacrificing your relationship for your own good, not theirs. Even though the break-up will inevitably make them miserable because not having you around will be so terrible for them, for your sake they are willing to bite the bullet and take the pain. This is all crap, by the way. They really just don't want to date you anymore. An interesting twist on the "Fadn" is the "Trading Baseball Cards" clause. This is most commonlv stated by the dumper suggesting to ·the dumped, "let's be friends." This is even more cruel than the break-up itself'. Most obviously, this screams to the dumped that the porson still wants to tixperi­ence their witty banter and enlighten­ing intelligonce, but they'd rather trarle baseball cards with you than 
ever touch you again. 
This clause is liko flashing a sign that reads, "It's not so much your per­sonality that turns me off, it's your overall physical appearance." I mean, it's hard enough not eating mashed potatoes and gravy every time you go to the dining hall, but do you really need someone to explicitly tell you you're just not that attractive? Then again. it makes sense. No one ever said getting dumped was nice, did they? 
The fourth form of dumping is the "Clothesline." This is the least-used form probably because it's the easiest for the dumped to swallow. This, of course, is where the dumper 11attens the dumped with a straight-up, flat­out rejcction to their face. Though at first this knocks you over like a WWF wrestler. the effects have less duration because of the outward cruelty of the act. 
How great could the person be if they are so heartless as to not even mask their contempt for you with lies? These people were not willing to take any blame for the break-up, even if they knew it was a lie just to lessen the blow against you. I mean, if a per­son does this, they are clearly vicious and life-sucking anyway, so you can move on much quicker now that you know they have no soul. 
These aren't nice thoughts, but I'm sorry, the train is inevitably going to chug on down the line and most likely run you over just when you think you're in the clear. Spring is coming people. and if you're not careful, you could be on the wrong side of this inevitable collision. Don't worry about this though, beacuse if anyone asks you you can always say you just need­ed some time for yoursell', anyway. 
Joe Larson is a senior English and history major. His column appears every other Wednesday. lie can be reached aljlarson@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those qf the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Kif1in Turner Laura Keliy Sarah Rykowski Graphics Van Giles Jimmy Atkinson Sports Production Bryan Kronk No-ab Amstadter Viewpoint Lab Tech Teresa Fralish Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should "The Vagina Monologues" be performed at Notre Dame? 

Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ never.forget a.face but in your case I'll make an exception." 
Groucho Marx writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 page 1 I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bengal Bouts participants persevere valiantly 
In tlw far conrnr of' the Nolrn Dame Boxing B.oom, in lht> bas1mmnt of' tlw Joy1'.P C!'nter. tbert>'s a poPm hy TP<ldy llooscvcll handwritten by someone onlo a large postnr board. Th,l poem is called "Tht! Man in th11 l\r!'na." It's a p,wm any fairly athletic stud<mt has probably hnard countless tinrns in his lifo, whether from a hock!ly ('oad1 in high school or a social dam:1• instructor fn\shrnan ynar. Its point is fairly simple, as HoosevPlt wasn't WaHarn Stuvens. and ean be summa­rizml in IhrPP [i1ws. "Thi• cnidit bl'longs to/ the man in tlw arnna / whn strives valiantly." It's not really a high­light in any ,1\m1lrirnn podry anthology or anything, but it's a good mad, <'S(Jl'Cially for any of' 100 or morn BPngal Boutcrs llvery ypar. in !'act. written above the pm•m on thn beat-up pnstor board is a personal mes­sagn from om~ ol' tlm boxing coachns to thn boxnrs: "This is each ol' you." 
Tlw nwn or Notn• Dame who box for two months l'vcry SJlring sonwstnr rpitomiz<' Hoosewlt's idealized man in tlw arnna. To partidµate in tlw Bm,gal Bouts program is. lirst and t'orcrnost. not a pfPasurnblr physi­rnl l'XIJPri(mcP. It is a commitnwnt to a challenging liVP-W('Pk training rt\ginwn tu prepan' for. at bnst. about 20 minutt•s in tlw ring. A typical day lasts any­wlwrP from two to thrt•I' hours and involves distance running to gain stamina. push-ups. sit-ups.jumping­jacks and morP to build sln·ngth and 1•ndurance and an almost cndlPss n·pPtition of' shac!ovv boxing, work 011 llw !wavy bag and sparring to p(:rfoct the tnc!JnicaJ asp11cts of tlw sciPnce that is boxing. 
Thn program is not a particularly pleasant nwntal <'Xp(iriPnrn dtlwr. Some boxers will tdl you how disap­pointing il is to losP pn•rious aflPrnoon napping liml'. Ollwrs will tl'll of tlw sa,-rilicP of tinw and pffort that \rnuld normally lw chivotml to tlwir studies or to ser­vin•. Finally. n;1d most intriguingly. most will tell you almut llw 1-rilical comnwnL-; ai!d vicious glares they r1•n'iVP l'rom roomnmt,is. rhL-;smates and teachers bPntUSP of tlwir participation in sul'h a "violent" sport that should be n's<1rrnd for NnamlPrtlmls. 
Hut 1w1 otw of tlw boxers would trade his experience for anv ollwr at Notr·p Damn. That is a fact atlirmcd bv tlm ge~1tlenwn who participall! in the Bengal BouL<; · y,,ar allm year, even after getting pounded on like Danny i.aHusso in a Kobra Kai Dojo. In my four years of boxing at Notrl' Dame. through tho ,1xample of coaehes and follow boxers alike. I've discovered the meaning of words such as passion, dedication, intensi­ty. competition and sportsmanship. Boxing is certainly an individu.tl sport; there are, as the saying goes, "no timeouts and no excuses." 
In the face of pain and suffering, this sport, more than any other, forces lhe athlete to ask himself con­stantly, "Arn you going to ¢ve up or are you going to persevere'?" Indeed, tlrn boxer cannot look to anyone but himself. Yet the team element of Notre Dame Boxing makes this question easy to answer. All of the boxers train together and daily prepare for lights alongside their eventual opponents. In this way, for the boxi•rs. the question, "Will I persevere?" answers it..-;elf. The Notre Dame boxer need only look to his team­mates to know the answer. 
The boxing, however, is just the physical manifesta­tion of' what Bm1gal BouL'> truly is. H is a charitable ven­ture designed to help people in need. Tim annual tour­nament raises incredible amounts of money and the Boxing Club sends every cent to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. Last year. the Club raisPd mom than $75,000 and this year the goal is $100,000. In Bangladesh. the value of such figures increases ten­fold. Tim profoundly positive effect of the Notre Dame boxing program will never be fully felt by any of us in South Bend. but those who have been to Bangladesh, such as Coach Tom Suddes, have seen the impact first­hand and seem overwhelmed by what the money pro­duces. 
On a personal note. I will not be fighting in this year's 8Pngal Bout-;, so any of you who were lining up for tickets to see me get my face bashed will just have to hold on to that dream. I was injured in a sparring ses­sion a couple of' weeks ago and am unable to fight. I regrnt that I will 11ot have tlw opportunity to be "the man in the arnna" one more time. but I write this as a tribute to the boxers who will. You truly spend yourself "in a worthy cause," as Roosevelt says. Please buy tick­ets to the fights or just donate a few dollars even if you don't want to go. Your donation, like the Bengal Bouts, may not seem significant, but il is. 
Bob Kennedy 
senior 
of1:campus February 17, 2002 

Academic freedom at stake 
Tlw sµerter of "Tlw Vagina Monologues" contimws to sµook tlw Saint Mary's College administration in Li-Mans llall. Two years aftPr the otlicially sanctioned pwsPnlation of tlw popular play and a year aftPr an oflicially opposnd. grassroots production in the resi­rlPrn·1· halls. "Thi• Vagina Monologues" rises again, this tinw as thP principal caus1-1 of a statenwnt on acadmnic l'r!\Pdom issund by Urn student Board ol' Governance. 
This statenwnt. which so slavishly "allirm[sl the administration's decision to pursu1· differm1t avenues of programming <bding with tlm topics raisl1d in 'The Vagina Monologups' and 1·.0111111nndlsl tlw steps taken bv Lill' administration to l'dttcaw the womPn of Saint \tary's CnllPgP" through programs and lnctures other than "Th<' Vagina Monologuf's," dr'monstr-aws a trou­bling lark of ind<'µm1dnnt thinking. 
IL Sl'\!lllS rnriouslv lPSS lhan roincidental that such a statnnwnt should b;\ macle during the vnry week when \'-Day produdions of'tlw play ani boing presented around tlw ,rnrld to raisli our awarmwss ol' tlw vio­lPrn·1• intli,·tpd on womc•n WhPn tlw 13()(; atlirms tlw uclministration ·s program ol' (•ducalion about "topics rnisl'd i11 "Tlw Vagina Monologues," dons it or does it not appron~ ol' ll11• prnsPlllation on campus of' ''The \'agina !\lonulog1U's'?" 
\\'hil1• 1warly 450 rnlh•ges nationwide and 700 world­wid1• ari' pn'St'nting "'Tlw Vagina Monologues," includ­ing local productions at Indiana University-South Bm1d and Notrt\ Danw. Saint Mary's excuses itself under the guise of' academic l'rnndom. [t is nven morn troubling thal tlw admi11istrnlion has b<w11 r<'luctant to discuss outsidl' of the dosed oflices of LeMans Pxactlv what it..-; r.oncPpt or acadl~mic l'nicdom should be. • 
What is the BOG's position on ucadmnic freedom for students on campus? Saint Mary's students should insist that their BOG be absolutely clear about its posi­tion on academic freedom so that they can be held responsible for their position. 
The BOG's encomium for the administration should worry students and faculty alike in that it crosses the line that rightfully should separate the two dilTerent, if complimentary, governing bodies of the College, the administration and student government. Unfortunately, this latest issuance from the Nagle and Matha student administration is another example ofits practice of giv­ing a rubber stamp to the administration's policies rPgarding student lifo and thought. 
A'i a librarian for 25 years at Saint Mary's College, I am committed to providing our student-; with the widest spectrum of opinion and information and have encouraged them to discover and speak the truth for themselves. Hat.her than scekini smiles of approval from t.he administration. the students and thHir rcpre­scmalivcs should tako pride in knowing that their pre­decpssors wern the first to bring "The Vagina Monologues" to the th1•ater-going public of Michiana and that by their vision. permission was given lo other womlm mid institutions in our larger community to do the sanrn. 
Whnn women's self-expression is forced under­ground. as happt>ned with "The Vagina Monologues" production at Saint Mary's College last year, and women are required to practice their "mysteries" by the light of the moon. women th.emselves are buried and a patriurchy which demeans them is supported. 
Robert J. Hohl reference librarian Saine Mary's College February l5, 2002 

Incorporate community 
into classes 
I am convinced that community engagement by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student<; and faculty needs to be enhanced by imaginative decisions about curriculum in future strategic planning. Recent experiences of communi­ty engagement with partners in South Bend and beyond 
have taught me how much al! of us Father Don need to learn about commumty engagement and curriculum McNeil! 
enhancement. 
Two years ago around this time, Fora More I stood one evening with an archi­Just and tecture student, Rona Reodica, in Humane World my team-taught Christian LeadPrship course in a dimly lit, dusty and open space of 8,000 square feet which used to be the Goodwill Store in the Northeast Neighborhood ('.'JEN). Rona had listened to the Northeast Neighborhood Couucil (NENC) and other community groups express their hopes and dreams for a community center which would respond to their gifts and needs. Soon after, Rona, with four other architecture students and Professor Bob Amico, developed plans for the space. We had an animated discus­sion with the neighbors. Rona and the team later provided drawings which assisted the final architectural plans for what is now the Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC). 
This Friday the RCLC celebrates one year of community engagement with service and learning in the Northeast and Notre Dame communities. Father Malloy and many neighbors, partners and Notre Dame constituents will be present. You are welcome. I will be there and will remem­ber Rona and three other students in my theology course whose academic study and insights joined many partners in the final proposal for the RCLC. 
This Monday I co-facilitated with junior Maura Kelly a meeting of 15 neighborhood and community partners and Notre Dame students and staff. We decided to plan and expedite an early gathering of NEN neighbors, off-campus students and partners before classes in August. The group also confirmed the importance of two new initiatives in the NEN: "Turning Over a New Leaf' and "Green Impact." This curriculum will provide them time to study neighbor­hood revitalization and link it with interdisciplinary and theological exploration of these community and faith-based initiatives. 
I have recently learned new ideas for community-based learning through community engagement. In Mary Beckman's course this semester. "Restoring Economic • Vitality to the Inner City: What Works. What Doesn't, and Why," which she co-teaches with David Hay, she connects research of students ""ith questions of interest to both the RCLC and SBHF. In addition, she is exploring an initiative ""ith Professor Dennis Jacobs in chemistry: the possibility oflinking the skills of chemistry students with partners in the South Bend area concerned about the impact of lead paint on low income families. Mary is discovering the many forms orexcellent service and community-based learning. 
My colleagues and I have explored creative current and future initiatives for cross-cultural partnerships for educa­tion, social entrepreneurship and social concerns. Although we were visioning possibilities in Chicago (includ­ing a futurn semester abroad linked with community and public service learning) and other national and interna­tional sites, we realized major commitments must continue to grow with South Bend. More creative curricular forms of community engagement in researching, teaching and learning are possible thanks to the trust develo1wd by mul­tiple Nol.re Dame partners and South Bend l'esidents as co­partners for social change. 
Our CSC wants to continue to be a partner envisioning our curriculum for the future. Local and global community and academic engagmnent is integral to our Noln\ Damn and CSC mission lo respond to the call to "bring al.)out a more just and humane world." 
I am gratel'ul that students, faculty. alumni/an. staff and community partners are up to these challenges of curricu­lum enhancement in the days ahead. 
"For a More Just and llurnane World" is the Center for Social Concerns' bi-weekly column. The author, Father Don McNeil[, class of'58, is executive director ofthe Center for Social Concerns. a priest of the Congregation ofHoly Cross, and a resident in McGlinn Hall. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 Wednesday, February 20, 2002 

The wri 
Watch your back under the Dome after reading Mclnernys latest ND mystery 


By BILL RINNER 
Scene Writer 
Ralph Mclnerny, Notre Dame's director of the Jacques Maritain Center of Philosophy, presents a delightfully familiar mystery in "The Book of Kills." 
An author of more than 30 books and a Notre Dame professor of 40 years, Mcinerny has received critical acclaim for his previous works. particularly the Father Dowling and Andrew Broom series. Mclnerny was also a winner of the Boucbercon Lifetime Achievement 

'.Book of 
'Kt{(s 
by 'Ra(ph 'M.c'lnerny 
Award. With his latest book, the reader will feel right at home. 
When a potential scandal at Notre Dame arises, reaching back to the founder himself, foul play inevitably results and an intriguing narrative unfolds. 
A disagreeable graduate student, who manages to antagonize everyone from his wife to his girlfriend to his academic advisors, uncovers evidence that Notre Dame's land was stolen from Potawatomi Indians. After the president of the University is kidnapped dur­
ing a 

football game against tho Florida State Seminoles, the scholar suffers a gruesome death. 

The two brothers Roger and Philip Knight, one a professor and the other a private investigator, seek to uncover the truth behind the complex web of mystery and deceit by finding the murderer and uncovering his motive. 
Multiple twists and an unforeseeable ending place the book within the classical mystery genre. 
The book reads smoothly and invigo­rates even the most casual reader. Mclnerny's attention to detail places the reader directly into the scene as familiar Notre Dame locations will perk the inter­est of students and alumni. 
One must wonder whether the non­Domer will read "The Book of Kills" with a similar verve, but the meticulous details about the campus and city will leave no one clueless. 
An interesting issue in the book is Mclnerny's critique of academic issues at Notre Dame. The "Ex Corde Ecclesiae" ­the document concerning academic free­dom at Catholic colleges and universities -is discussed, and the students in the book are far from geniuses as well. 
Nevertheless, Mclnerny's years of experience of teaching Notre Dame students and living in South Bend cause certain character traits to resonate on various levels for the reader. 
Overall, the book is recommended for any fan of the mystery genre, but the context of the narrative may not captivate anyone outside of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Mcinerny certainly lives up to his reputation as an author and a scholar as University issues provoke self­evaluation. 
Contact Bill Rinner at Rinner.2@nd.edu 
Spiritual reflections inspire Fr. Ayo s 'Signs ofGrace' 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
It would seem that the last thing anyone needs is yet another guide to Notre Dame. But Father Nicholas Ayo's new book, "Signs of Grace: Meditations on the Notre Dame Campus," is perhaps the panacea for the humdrum campus guide. 
The book doesn't deal with just specific places on the campus, but rather it is a collections of Ayo's musings on the meaning of campus spaces. It is a spiritual 
s~.·.·.·.ns. o.if
§race: 
1vteditatfons on the 'lfotre Vame 
Camyus 
by 'Father rificfio(as 'Ayo 
guide to finding meaning at Notre Dame. 

Ayo, a professor in the Program of Liberal Studies, compiled the writings to help people find meaning in lives that all to often exist in the work-a-day world. 
"We all need a dream. We cannot live without a dream. We want our story, the story of our life, to be part of a larger story. We cannot live without meaning, and our own life in isolation has no compelling pur­pose," Ayo wrote. 
"Signs of Grace" is, in fact, the perfect chance for over-worked and over-stressed Notre Dame students to take a minute and reflect on their lives. 
It may sound silly at first, but Ayo's hon­est and beautiful writing and poetry will capture the heart of even the most ardent skeptic. But Ayo's writings go beyond the basic "what's great about Notre Dame" drivel. 
For example, Ayo not only addresses Notre Dame spiritual standards such as the Dome and the Grotto. but he also shares his reflections on often-overlooked places like the Notre Dame power plant ­a building he feels represents the fragility of human life. 
The book is, as would be expected, deeply religious in nature. It is not, how­ever, meant to preach. Ayo isn't trying to convert or convince, rather he is simply sharing what he finds beautiful in his life. But Ayo's eloquent prose will undoubtedly make many readers realize that they share his views. 
"Signs of Grace" relates aspects of Notre Dame to stories in the Bible and the Great Books. For example, Ayo points out the relation of the reflection of Christ the teacher in "The Word of Life" (Touchdown Jesus) in the Hesburgh Library's reflecting pool to Dante's "Commedia" and the story of the unnamed woman who washes the feet of Jesus with her tears and dries them with her hair. 
The book is a wonderfully uplifting read, despite per­sonal beliefs or religious and philosophical differences. "Signs of Grace" is a leisurely read that enthusiasts will reread over and over again for hope and wisdom. 
Ayo's eclectic use of literature. art. religion and his­tory presents an interesting depiction of personal meaning for the book's readers. Whether or not read­ers agree with Ayo. they will certainly be moved by his meditations. 
In the end, Signs of Grace is a book about love: Ayo's undying affection for God, life, Notre Dame and her children. It is, at once, his love poem, prayer and pre­sent for the Notre Dame community. 
"I know not where there could be better students," Ayo wrote. "That is not to say that Notre Dame stu­dents always behave well. They are human, and they are sinful too. But thev are the best students in the world, in part because· they are on this campus best loved." 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
~HE
vnSERVER 


CENE ­
campus
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
page 13 

ing Irish 
Small town reporter longs for invigoration of 'Truth' in Collins' new novel 
ByJULIE BENDER 
Scene Writer 
Murder, mystery and the desperation of a quiet American town are the central themes of this novel by Michael Collins. Shortlisted for the Booker Prize, "The Keepers of Truth" takes the drama of a small town in the late 1970s and turns it into a national mystery. 
The novel opens with a gloomy description of the desolation and emptiness of this post-industrial town. Dilapidated and crumbling, ancient factories provide the backdrop of the loneliness, hopelessness and sui­cide that haunts the history of the town. Once bustling and important, the town has now become a void on the map. 
Mirroring this wretchedness is the life of Bill, the central character of the novel. Bill is the progeny of once-important figures from the days of production and abundance of the town. 
A reporter for the daily newspaper, The Truth, Bill yearns to write essays examining the current state of America and why what was once enlivening hope has faded into mere hopelessness. 
Condemned for his post-college enthusiasm, Bill is confined to writing reports of high school sporting events and town bake-offs. This drear monotony casts 
a sour shadow over life.for Bill. 
He sees his future already carved for him down a path of inescapable barren­ness. Hope died with the suicide of his father a few years prior. 
Very quickly, however, the pace of the novel accelerates when a town resident, Ronny Lawson, reports that his father is missing. Rumors of murder and betrayal filter among the people, and Bill latches on to the case with a newfound intensity. 
Seeing a possibility for national recogni­tion, and in that a chance to free himself from the shackles of middle-American dreariness, Bill entangles himself in the story and uncovers an unknown dimen­sion of the town. This discovery reveals the true nature of humanity. one that transcends rules and law. 
Collins writes this novel with a rare pre­cision of language. Detailed are the minor occurrences of everyday life, which con­tribute to the universality of the town and its inhabitants. 
With elaborate descriptions of the desti­tute town and its despondent people, a scene unfolds effortlessly in the minds of readers. 
Perhaps most striking is Collins' ability to spawn characters of true humanity and reality. Such personalities are captivating and aid in the vacuuming suspense of the novel. 

A truly enjoyable read, "The Keepers of Truth" engages the reader in not just a mystery, but a search for the essence of humanity. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 

The Keepers of Truth ,~:;;~~­
of 'Trutli" 
Gy 'Micfiae( Co(Cins 



~eepers 

By KATIE McVOY 
Scene Writer 
Seventy-five years ago, a man used to walk into the barbershop and ask, "And how are all the coaches today?" He also threw insults, threatened to quit his job in the middle of important employment opportunities and said he aimed for maximum deception. And no, he wasn't one of Al Capone's thugs. 
This man was Knute Rockne. Since his death in 1931, Notre Dame's Rockne has lived on in legend and is famous for perfecting the forward pass, coaching such greats as George Gipp and the Four Horsemen and hold­ing the highest winning percentage in college football. 
But the most famous stories about this football legend find their home in locker room speeches and motivation­al quips that could turn a losing team into an unstop­pable predator. 
In the latest book immortalizing him, "Quotable Rockne," his most famous words on coaching. winning, losing, life and Notre Dame find their way into print. Author John Heisler, Notre Dame's associate athletic director for sports information, has done a thorough job of compiling this comprehensive collection of witticisms, criticisms and inspirational phrases from Notre Dame's most legendary coach. 
The book, which covers Rockne on topics as varied as defensive strategy and teaching techniques, is part of an 
'Quotable Rockne' speaks from beyond the grave 
ongoing series of "Potent Quotables" books published by Towle House. The 110 pages of quotes from Rockne include all the important ones that die-hard Notre Dame fans use as part of common banter: "Pardon me girls, I thought this was the Notre Dame team." "That's when we go -that's when we lift our knees high and go inside of 'em and outside of 'em -inside of 'em and outside of 'em -that's when we charge down the field -that's when we go! Go! Go!" And of course: "Win just one for the Gipper." 
But the pocket-sized book is more than a simple col­lection of quotes. It captures the true spirit of Notre Dame in its celebration of Rockne's life, not only as a coach, but as a mentor and a motivator as well. 
The book captures Rockne's wit on such subjects as what the football team was doing in the off-season: "I don't know whether we ought to have spring practice this year or not. It might take too much time from your drinking and necking." 
The coach's wisdom on personal pride is found here as well: "The one thing no one can ever take away from you is your integrity." And he gives lessons in humility, "the lesson every athlete must learn in secret commune with his soul -or he gets it in big sour doses on the field as thou­sands roar." 
In his introduction, Hoisler revisits Rockne's tenure at Notre Dame and the power of the legend that he left behind. The short passages of the opening pages relive the shock surrounding Rockne's death. the highlights of his 13 years at l':otre Dame and the remembrances that still exist today. 
The book's final pages are dedicated to quotes about the great coach from people such as president Ronald Reagan, former University President Charles L. O'Donnell, and Will Rogers. They set in stone what the previous pages have established: that Knute Rockne was capable of moving mountains with his words and leaving an impression upon the spir­it ofNotre Dame that is incalculable. 

In short, the words chosen from Rockne's long list of famous sayings and copied down in "Quotable Rockne" have captured the heart of Notre Dame's hero and still offer inspiration to today's readers. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@nd.edu 

--
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CENE.
music 
page 14 Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
CONCERT REVIEW 

DiFranco's dynamism doesn't disappoint 
-·· 
I I ! I 
I I 
r 
I 
I 
I 
I 
r 
I I I I 
sia."
By MAUREEN SMITHE 

Bringing in songs off her new album,
Scene Music Critic 

Revelling/Reckoning, as well as some 
"resuscitated'' tunes off Dilate, Not A 
In one word, Ani DiFranco's show at Pretty Girl and Out of Range, Difranco the Morris Performing Arts Center last aimed to please new and old fans alike. night was amazing. In many ways, Tuesday's concert 
However, DiFranco's artistic might fused her tidy folk history with a dis­cannot and should not he summed up in tinct experimental yet experienced funk a single word. In fact, the entire sound. Horns, courtesy of Todd English-language dictionary probably Horntime and Hans Teuber, were pre­could not supply the vocabulary neces­sent on nearly every song, as was a sary to fully describe her all-encom­choppy retro organ. passing stage presence. As always, her familiar bassist Jason 
In the first show of her winter 2002 Mercer and hearty drummer Daren tour, Difranco took Hahn kept all these control of the audience 
members in friendly just like she took con­
accordance. Working 

Set List
trol of her own destiny together to create a

Feb. 19,2002
by starting her own 
tantric mix of high

Morris Performing Arts Center
record company, 

and low, this quintet Righteous Babe 
busted out tunes 

&1;_
Records, more than a 

impregnated with decade ago. 
Diner 
the soul of a music Her success rests in 
32 Flavors 
genre all their own. her intricate braiding 
Letter to John 
Her first song, of melody, emotion and 
What How When Where 
"Diner" (originally

(Why Who)
obsession into one 

off of Out of Range), authentic artistic expe­
Marrow 
introduced

Here For Nowrience. She knows that 
DiFranco's new horn pleasing herself must 
Hour Follows It 
sound with thought-be of the utmost impor­
OMyMy 
fulness, piquing the tance; the rest will just 
Napoleon 
audience's interest. fall into place. 
Fuel 
The cult classic "32 DiFranco's commit­
Subdivision 
Flavors" was more ment to an organic con­
Educated 
funkified and cert atmosphere 
Names and Dates 
breathy than the brought her fans to 
Done Wrong 
album counterpart,

In the Way their feet the moment 
due in part to Wolfs she slipped into the 
Jukebox 
retro organ hum­light. 
ming in the back­The diverse crowd's 
Encore: 
ground.· Despite the 

Joyful Girl 
unrestrained enthusi­

slight change from asm welcomed her to 
the norm, the audi­

the stage, where she ence had no problem opened her 17-song set singing along with their favorite riot with her "Welcome to the Freak Show" grrl. 
mantra alongside keyboardist Julie 
The new songs proved to be carefully
Wolf. 

chosen. "What How When Where (Why
With miles of traveling the concert Who)" was no exception. In a breathlesscircuit already behind her, DiFranco's echoing race, Difranco and her band­
seasoned stage presence was well 
mates fought out through the song,
groomed. She said that waiting for this leaving the audience gasping for air
latest tour felt like forever. "Well, this is the first hit of the tour ... 
along with them. It feels like 30 years," Difranco said. Also off the new album, "Marrow" "Total amnesia. Total menstrual amne-proved to be a heartfelt, genuine song in concert. Its lullabye prose silenced the audience. Difranco tells stories. Like k.indergarteners, her fans wait patiently for recognition or resolution or revelation. She is a selfless teacher of street wisdom and female ingenu­ity. 

Her new song, "Here for Now," brought in a captivating Latin beat unique to DiFranco's tried and true sound. Fierce and ener­getic, DiFranco considers it to be "all about all of us playing as fast was we humanlv can." 

DiFra.nco also brought back "Hour Follows It," in an attempt to satis­fy her "mission to resuscitate some older tunes." An hon­est, heartfelt and grasping song, DiFranco carefully pon­dered unspoken issues, all the while incorpo­rating the audience in her soul search. 
Putting down the guitar is a rare event for DiFranco. Known for her mus­cle-building strumming and skin-burn­ing finger picking, she is quite the mas­ter of her craft. 
However, she joined Wolf on the key­boards for "Oh My My," one of her new songs. A funky, retro beat kept the audience entranced even though their shining star left center stage. 
There wasn't a silent voice in the crowd when DiFranco introduced a rockin' version of her much adored "Napoleon." With a gospel organ in the background and fierce instrumentation throughout, this Dilate champion filled an overflowing show over the top. 
Shrouded in aquamarine light for most of the show, Difranco floated from one favorite to the next. Appeasing a rather desperate audience, she played an impromptu version of "Fuel," the first in line of her brave reflections on the ugly sides of contemporary American culture. Followed by "Subdivision," it seemed as though the audience knew ~Fuel" deserved to pre­cede. 
DiFranco is known for her courage to spit in the face of normalcy, and this willingness to step outside the box gives her an unparalleled ability to reflect on her perceived inconsistencies of Americana. She led Tuesday night's audience on a journey through her tor­tured brain and the resolutions she has created. 
The boys exited the stage whlle Wolf left her keyboards to join Difranco up front. With Wolf on accordion and DiFranco on guitar, "Educated" turned out to be an exceJlent new song. 

Bathed in a rainbow white ethereal glow, the two nicely blended their sepa­rate talents to create a potential future fan favorite. 
DiFranco's solo strumming on "Names and Dates" melded her acoustic talent with thoughtful lyrics. The audi­ence remained silent while she fiercely fingerpicked her way through a tense batch of words. 
The concert tied up nicely with "Done Wrong" from Dilate and a jam session version of "In The Way" in which the band was introduced. By the time they took their bows after "Jukebox" the audience was already prepared to usher in the encore. 
What ensued was a beautiful version of "Joyful Girl," in which DiFranco coyly reflected on the past year. 
"l don't know about you, but the new year that just occurred was so cathar­tic," she said as she brought the show full circle. "We are fixin' to attach so much meaning." 
If possible, their encore version of "Joyful Girl" was more soulful and rem­iniscent than the album version. Slowed down and restrained, it proved DiFranco's stamina and focus. 
She recognizes her grassroots upbringing, and she knows the impact of a powerful live show. 
Word of mouth may be responsible for Difranco's current fame, but the words from her mouth are the substance behind the phenomenon. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
-
Rose, Artest switch teams in megadeal 
As•odated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Indiana Pacers president Donnie Walsh insisted he wasn't shopping Jalcn Rose, but he would listen to offers. 
He heard one he liked Tuesday. 
The Pacers traded Rose, Travis Best, rookie Norm Richardson and a condi­tional second-round draft pick to the Chicago Bulls for Brad Miller, Ron Mercer. Ron Artest and Kevin Ollie, two days before the NBA trading deadline. 
"We're better along." Walsh said. "We have some parts we didn't have and are hard to get. That's why it calls for a Jalen Rose." 
Walsh said Bulls general manager Jerry Krause called him right berore he left for the All-Star break and made an offer for Rose. Walsh discussed a poten­tial trade with Chicago later in tho week and the deal was tentatively made Sunday. 
"We feel Jalen is an outstanding all­around player who can play three posi­tions offensively and defensively," Krause said. 
Some hang-ups developed -tlrn Bulls substituted Mercer for forward Charles Oakley -before Walsh agreed to the deal Tuesday morning. Walsh said he wanted Oakley in the deal but tho Bulls pulled him off the table because of salary-cap issues. 
"He would have been a good player to have here," Walsh said. "They fdt they needed his mentoring for their two young big guys." 
Rose said after Indiana's victory over Philadelphia that Walsh promised him he wouldn't be traded. Walsh said he never made that promise, and added that speculation that Rose and coach Isiah Thomas could not coexist was not a factor in the deal. 
Hose's agent, David Falk, blamed Thomas for tho trade. 
"I think he's disillusioned with his for­mer coach," Falk said. "About 18 months ago, Jalen recommended Isiah as his coach. This is the way Isiah reciprocated his loyalty. 
"He could have had Jalen eating out of his hands, but instead he injected petty. personal issues that drove a wedge between them. Look at his track record, like the CBA, and that's the way he is." 
Falk said he was on the phone almost daily with Walsh to improve the situation brought on by a decrease in playing time that started in December. Falk said he never asked for a trade. 
"If you're going to be a good coach, you're job is to manage good relations with players," Falk said. "He should have the easiest time on earth taking Jalen under his wing and helping him achieve what his talents allowed him to achieve. He did just the opposite this year. He made the relationship personal." 
Walsh said Tuesday night that he was the one responsible for the trade and reiterated it was not made because of any problems between Thomas and Rose. 
"There was a time they were going through communication problems hut they got through that," Walsh said. "Those are David's feelings. That isn't why we made this trade. I have a lot of respect for David and a deep feeling for Jalen. In the end, I try to do what's best for the team." 
Falk released a statement from Rose, saying, "In every adverse situation, sue­
cessful people find opportunity." Thomas was not immediately available for comment. 
The deal significantly upgrades a Pacers frontcourt lacking size and depth. Walsh said the 7-foot, 260-pound Miller and 6-7, 245-pound Artest have the big bodies he was looking to acquire. 
Walsh has practically completed the dismantling of a franchise that reached the NBA Finals two years ago. Only Reggie Miller and Austin Croshere are regulars left from that team. Since then, the Pacers are 67-68. 
"It's hard thinking about all the guys I came in with and played my first three years with," Croshere said. "Now Reggie is the only guy left from my rookie year. I understand that's part of the business, and I guess Jalen did too.'' 
Rose was leading the Pacers in scoring 
(18 .5) for the third straight season and said he had no desire to be traded. Be had taken a backseat in the offense as the focus shifted inside to Jermaine O'Neal. The additions of Artest and Miller allow the Pacers to shift O'Neal to a more natural power forward spot. 
Best, in the final year of his contract, had requested a trade earlier this season as rookie Jamaal Tinsley played the majority of minutes at point guard. 
The Pacers are four games out of first place in the Central Division while Chicago (12-40) has the NBA's worst record. 
Mercer, who signed with the Bulls as a free agent two summers ago. has been traded three times during his 4 1/2 sea­sons in the NBA. He was leading the Bulls in scoring, averaging 16.8 points. 
Miller, an Indiana native who played at Purdue, averaged 12.7 points and 8.4 
rebounds for Chicago. He was involved in an altercation with Lakers center Shaquille O'Neal earlier this season that led to a three-game suspension for O'Neal. 
Artest, in his third season, averaged 
15.6 points for Chicago. 
Ollie, who had been Chicago's starting point guard since Greg Anthony was injured in January, will replace Best as the backup point guard. 
Richardson had played in only three games this season for Indiana. 
Rose had five years remaining on his contract, with $72 million guaranteed. Walsh said dumping Rose's contract helps clear space to potentially re-sign O'Neal. Jonathan Bender and Jeff Foster, whose contract.c; expire at the end of next season. 
Thomas said he would slot Bender into Rose's small forward spot to try to keep some sort of chemistry on the court. He would like to start Miller at center. Thomas said he envisioned Mercer play­ing more minutes at small forward. 
Walsh, who has made only three mid­season deals since he took over the Pacers in 1986, said he might not be done dealing but said it would be hard to make another trade. 
"Do I have a trade going out of this room? No, I don't," he said. "But I don't know what's going to happen." 
Falk said he had great respect for Walsh and the trade wouldn't affect their relationship. 
"When he signed (Rose) to a maximum contract, he made the commitment the team would be built around him," Falk said. "Isiah interfered with those com­mitments. One of them had to go. I think they chose the wrong one." 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Canseco's search for 500 to continue in Montreal 
Associated Press  in recent years, the outfielder will try to make  incentive since he is trying to reach the  games, almost all of them as a DH.  Oakland, Toronto,  Texas, Tampa  Boston. Bay, the  
JUPITER, Fla. Jose Canseco, needing 38 home runs to reach 500 for  his first NL team. "He was a free  "He was afree agent and available, so I thought he  500-home run mark." Canseco  In the last three seasons, he has played just 13 games in the field. He made two  Yankees and the White Sox. The AL Rookie of the Year in 1986, Canseco was the AL  
his career, signed a minor league contract with the Montreal Expos on Tuesday and was invited to spring  agent and was available, so I thought he was worth trying,"  was worth trying. ,, Omar Minaya  signed last June with t h e Chicago  appearances last season. Canseco is a six-time All­Star and ranks 22nd on the career home run list with 462,  MVP in 198 8, the year he became the first player in major league history to hit 40 home runs and steal 40 bases  
training. Canseco, 3 7, is expected to  Expos general manager Omar  Expos general manager  White Sox and hit  three behind Dave Winfield. He is second among active  in the same season. Canseco and Fred McGriff  
join the Expos for their first  Minaya  said.  .258  with  players. trailing only Barry  are the only players ever to  
full-squad workout Thursday. Primarily a designated hitter  "He is a veteran player. a power hitter who still has  16 home runs and 49 RBI in 256 at-bats. He played 76  Bonds (567). Canseco has  played  for  hit 30 home runs in a season for four different teams.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES FOR SALE 
2000 grad seeking room or apart-Shared Living Opportunity Enjoy New 3-4 bdrms, 3-bath homes tea-Spring Break with STS, Americas ment to sublease/rent in New the benefits of a luxurious private luring fireplace, skylights, cathedral #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, home without the expense and ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck, trips on-campus earn cash and free 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 upkeep. Private bath and room 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232-trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648­
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed-Collectors plates -Avon, Norman or email krup78@hotmail.com which you may furnish to your own 4527 or 616-683-5038. 4849 www.ststravel.com room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896 Rockwell. All in perfect condition taste (sizes ranging from 340 to 400 
with boxes and papers. Christmas Need tutor for Quicken 2000. Call square feet) Common areas (over 3-4 person house, Close to cam-#1 Spring Break Vacations! Lost Gold Cross w/ Rhinestones Past, Easter and Mothers Day 234-6698 or 234-9543. Leave mes-2000 square feet) are maintained pus, c/a Available June 1 Call 219-Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Sentimental Value Please call 634-plates also available Call 574-234-sage if necessary by a professional staff and include 298-3800 Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, 4464 9782 spacious living room, dining room, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1­
library, fully equipped shared mod-River Condo For Rent $1050 MO 800-234-7007 www.endlesssum­2-story, 3 bedrooms, formal dining FOR RENT ern kitchen, laundry and parking Mishawaka 219-532-1537. mertours.comLOST AND FOUND & living rooms. All appliances good. facilities. Within walking distance to 
Carpeting & drapes throughout. MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm-Tippecanoe, the library, St. Joseph 4 bdrm/2. bath house. Available Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it LOST: Womens reading glasses Many closets. Gas heat & upper rentals@aol.com River, Memorial Health and after 6/1. 3 block from campus. Call alone. If you or someone you love with tortoise shell rims. and lower air conditioners. Finished Lifestyle Center and medical facili-(773)-486-8862. needs confidential support or assis-Lost between Nieuwland & Campus basement w/pool table. Call 574-5 mins from ND!4-€ student house ties. 800 per month includes utilities lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Ministry on Jan. 30. 234-9782. w/large common areas-prkg lot, and hosting by a congenial couple Gude, CSC. at 1-7819. For more Email: emcnassa@nd.edu appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209 with professional backgrounds. PERSONAL information, see our weekly ad in 
THE OBSERVER. FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies Wt.NTED Excellent house 3·4 students. Call 234-1002 for information and Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE room of Nieuwland Hall. Will gladly Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291-appointment. MTV audience ticket to select Got an interest in Sports? Want to return with correct description. Testr.:asters is looking for responsi-2209 shows when you book your Spring watch Notre Dame or Saint Mary's 
ble people to distribute information, MMMRentals.com Break through StudentCity.com1 Go games from the best seats in the Call Meg at 4-3477. post t1yers and proctor \rests. THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU-to MTV.com or call StudentCity.com house? Write sports tor The 
S10/1:r. DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT 3-bdrrn, 1-1/2 bath trHevel, safe at 1-800-293-1443 for details! Observer. LOST: Small platinum ring with 1-80(•-029-7724 AREA 2773097 neighborhood, new appliances, 2-Call Noah at 631-4543 channel-set diamonds, $200 car garage, fenced yard, /VC, gas Tours and tickets are limited! ­Reward. IM LAX officials needed. Good SUPER HOME GREAT AREA heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. Good at finding the real story Please call Payl! Some exp necessary CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STU-$1,050/mo. 232-4527 Good luck to the men's and behind the story? Like Student 
283-0811. Cont~ct Tara Fisher @ 1-3536. DENTS 2773097 or 616-683-5038 women's basketball teams. Government? Call Jason 1 ·5323 
t 
t 
I 
I 
-page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
NFL EXPANSION DRAFT 
Texans nab Boselli with first pick 
Asaociaud Press 
HOUSTON 

With face-painted fans shout­ing his name, Tony Boselli became the Houston Texans' top pick Monday -the second time an expansion team began building a franchise around him. 
"We have a Hall-of-Farner and we haven't played a game," general manager Charley Casserly said. 
After five Pro Bowl seasons as an offensive tackle with the Jacksonville Jaguars, Boselli proved to be too attractive for the Texans to pass up, even at a huge cost. 
Hundreds of Texans fans wearing blue-and-red jerseys and helmets with bulls' horns cheered the choice of Boselli, who missed most of last season with a shoulder injury that makes him something of a question mark. He seemed equally enthused about joining the new team. 
"I've been with a group of guys that no one thought could play before," Boselli said. "The sooner this team comes togeth­er and becomes cohesive the sooner we can be good." 
Boselli was the first player chosen by the expansion Jaguars in 1995 and quickly became a dominant offensive lineman. He has allowed 15 sacks in his seven pro seasons. 
The first eight choices came from just three teams -the Jaguars. the New York Jets and Baltimore, all of whom had serious cap problems. 

"Obviously Charley knew the teams in cap trouble -us, Baltimore and Jacksonville," said Terry Bradway, general manager of the Jets, who lost starting right tackle Ryan Young and both starting cor­nerbacks, Aaron Glenn and Marcus Coleman. 
The Texans, who will play their first game against the New York Giants on Aug. 5 in the Hall of Fame game in Canton, Ohio, also took three players from Jacksonville, including defensive tackles Seth Payne and Gary Walker. Baltimore, the 2001 Super Bowl winner, lost starting linc­backer Jamie Sharper and Jermaine Lewis, one of the NFL's best kick returners. 
The Texans took 19 players in the expansion draft. They also planned to make use of free agency and will get the first pick in the college draft on April 20. 
"We got experience at posi­tions that are hard," coach Dom Capers said. "We got two starting offensive tackles, two starting defensive lineman and a playmaker in Jermaine Lewis." 
Glenn, who played college football at nearby Texas A&M, said he was happy to be com­ing home. 
"I don't know what the Jets were thinking," Glenn said. David Carr their first pick in "But I'll tell you, they did a the college player draft in favor for us. I think me and April. In the 17th round Marcus will do well on this Monday, they chose quarter­team. The fact that we played back Danny Wuerffel from the together in New York will make Chicago Bears. it easier on us to communicate. Wuerffel has been strictly a 
"Inside. you guys can never third-stringer for most of his know how I feel. I've always career, meaning Carr will have been a fan of any team in to learn quickly. That was one Texas ... except the Longhorns. reason the Texans concentrat­I never thought I'd get a ed on quality offensive linemen chance to come back home and -or, beyond Boselli and play football." Young, what pass for quality in 
The Texans are expected to an expansion draft. make Fresno State quarterback Sharper was a mainstay of the Baltimore defense that led the Ravens to their Super Bowl victory. 
'Tm definitely ready to move on, I can get out of Ray Lewis' shadow," Sharper said. "I can play for Dom Capers' defense, the 3-4, where linebackers have a bigger part to play. I'll be able to get more sacks." 
The Texans had to take at least 30 players in the draft or a lesser number of players totaling 38 percent of the league's $71.8 million salary cap. 

IIUIDIUi 
Well maintained houses near campus 
• 
Washers and dryers provided 

• 
Security systems 

• 
24-hour maintainance staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, 4-, 5-, & 8-bedroom houses 


Only 4 left for the 2002,2003 school year Also leasing for the 2003,2004 school year 
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571 
Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College proudly announces its Sixth Annual GALA-ND/SMC Memorial Grants 
GALA-ND/SMC is now accepting applications for the Sixth Annual GALA-ND/SMC Memorial Grants. Two $2,000.00 grants will be presented to students of Notre Dame and/or Saint Mary's College to honor leadership and to support the students' participation in a six­to eight-week summer service project benefiting the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered community. Projects at agencies providing services to individuals with HIV/ AIDS or agencies providing services to gay and lesbian youth are encouraged. 
The deadline for applications is April 4, 2002. Grant applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame, the SURV Office at Saint Mary's, or by e-mail request from: GALANDSMC@aol.com. Names of grant recipients will be kept confidential pending their consent. 
Past winners have included students from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Grant winners have performed a variety of summer service projects including: the AIDS Project Los Angeles; the Massachusetts Attorney General's Office in Boston; Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders in Boston; Better Existence with HIV in the Chicago area; AIDS Referral & Information Services in San Jose, CA; performing civil rights research in Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa; and archiving a collection of lesbigay newspa­pers from a collection held at the University of California, Santa Cruz. 
It is anticipated that the grants will be conferred at the OUTreachND April Follies by representatives of GAlA-ND/SMC in South Bend/ Mishawaka. 
The Gay and Lesbian AlumnVae of the University ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's College is an independent 501 (c)(3) charitable organization with no official affiliation with either the University ofNotre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Our strength comes from our membership and our numbers. 

page 17

Wednesday, Februarv 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS ­
NBA 


dretirement plan, a good one, should be designed by clearly defining your goals and by 
carefully checking your calendar. The investments you make 20 years fro~ retirement may 
be very different from the ones you'd make 10, 5, or even 2 years away. No matter what your . retirement date, our Retirement Specialists can help. Our 
goal is to keep your assets working long after you've stopped. 
Come join us on February 27, March 12 and April 9, from 8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. for one-on-one counseling. 


Call Vanguard at 1-800-662-0106, ext. 69000 to schedule. THMlnguar<nouP. 
www.vanguard.com 

© 2002 The Vanguard Group, Inc. All rights reserved. Vanguard Marketing Corporation, Distributor. 
Kidd leads Nets with triple-double 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. 
Jason Kidd had 26 points, 12 assists and 12 rebounds for his league-high sixth triple-double, and 44th of his career, to lead the New Jersey J\iets to a 123-115 vic­tory over the Golden State Warriors on Tuesday night. 
Lucious Harris added 19 points as New Jersey finishrd with seven players in double figures in winning their third straight game. and sending the Warriors to their eighth straight road loss and 16th in 17 games. 
Antawn Jamison and Jason 
Richardson each had 25 
points for Golden State in the 
wild game in which the Nets 
opened a 24-point halftime 
lead and then had to hold off 
a late charge by the 
Warriors. 

The game also featured 190 
shots, 100 rebounds, five 
technicals, including two 
against Warriors forward 
Danny Fortson that resulted 
in his ejection in the third 
quarter. 

Golden State, which trailed 
by as many as 25 points, got 
throws by Richardson with 
1: 1 7 to play. After New Jersey's Keith 
Van Horn missed a 3-pointer on the ensuing possession, Richardson drove the lane after making a move from the left wing. 
However. his shot was blocked by Kenyon Martin near the rim. The Warriors screamed at the officials. but no call was made. 
Kerry Kittles added two free throws with 45.2 seconds to play and Kidd hit another after Richardson missed another shut, and the Warriors never threatened again. 
New Jersey seemed on the 
verge of a runaway at the ­
half. They shot 60 percent 
from the field and scored a 
season-high 75 first-half 
points in taking a 24-point 
lead. 
Golden State made a game 
of it with a 16-2 spurt td open 
the second half. Even the 
ejection of Fortson, who had 
16 points and nine rebounds, 
midway through the third 
didn't slow them down. 
Down 116-105 with 3:09 to 
go, Richardson scored six 
points in an 8-0 run to cut 
the lead to three, but Golden 
State never got closer. 
Larry Hughes added 20 
points and 13 assists for 
Golden State. Kittles had 18 
points for New Jersey. 

... 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
- 
- 
1 II  .,_  

t 
I 
I I 
I 
I I 
I I I I 
I 
~ 
McGraw said. "That's what we've been working on in
Irish 
practice. I think she's doing a 
greatjob ofit."
continued from page 24 
After the Mountaineers and in transition. Notre Dame jumped out to a 7-2 lead early scored 23 
and extended 

points off of it to 12-7 
W e s t "When I got in the locker midway through the
Virginia room [Joyce] was getting 
turnovers, first half, the
taped and dressed. 
many com­Irish went on ing after Everybody else seemed to a 16-2 run to build a 23-14
each of know I was joking except point guard lead. Ratay
Jeneka."
Le'Tania and Haney Severe's six each scored steals. Muffet McGraw 
11 in the first 
half as the

The Irish 
head coach 
Irish built a 3 5 held a 47­
34-26 lead rebounding advantage, as six • heading into the locker room. players finished with at least six rebounds. McGraw was 
Notes: 
pleased that her team domi­
. After the Irish committed a 
nated the boards without 
costly turnover in the first half, 
Batteast, the team's leading McGraw looked down the 
rebounder. 
bench at backup point guard"When she's in the game we 
Jeneka Joyce -who was in tend to stand around and 
street clothes nursing a heel 
watch her go to work, and 
injury -and joked, "'J, you'rewhen she's not in there I think going to have to suit up for the everybody thinks, 'Boy, we bet­second half." 
ter get in there and rebound,"' 
When the Irish returned 
McGraw said. "I think that's from the locker room for the 
what we're doing now. 
final 20 minutes, Joyce had her 
Everybody's getting a little 
leg taped up and her uniform 
more aggressive hitting the 
on. But Joyce's name wasn't on backboard." ­
the scoresheet, so McGraw 
Also appearing more aggres­would have been called for a 
sive was Severe, who ended up 
technical if the sophomore
entered the game.
high nine rebounds while play­
"When I got in the locker 
ing the entire game. The 
ro.om she was getting taped
sophomore showed off her foot 
and dressed," McGraw said. 
speed, twice stealing the ball 
"Everybody else seemed to 
and driving past opponents for know I was joking except for impressive lay-ups. 
Jeneka." 
"We're trying to get her to penetrate and kick, and when they don't come to guard her, Contact Noah Amstadter at then she goes all the way in," namstadt@ncl.edu. 
Assistant Student Union Treasurer Applications Are Now Available 
Here's·an opportunity for you to gain valuable accounting experience and possibly become the next Student Union Treasurer. 
As an Assistant Treasurer you will: 
•Become 
an integral part of the Student Union Treasurer's Office, the primary controlling body of student activities funds 

•Be 
responsible for managing, consulting, and maintaining various student accounts 

•Serve 
as financial liaison for "The Shirt" Project ($200,000+ revenue operation) or for the Student businesses (Adworks, Irish Gardens, Dome Designs) 

•Sit 
on the Financial Management Board, which is responsible for allocating over $600,000 in student activities fees among various student body organizations 


This commitment requires approximately 5-6 hours per week and further it is a possible two-year commitment, as one assistant shall take over the role of Student Union Treasurer the following year. 
Applications are now available outside the Treasurer's Office (3rd floor Lafortune, in the CRC) and are due no later than 5pm Monday, February 25th Interviews will be held Tuesday, February 26th (Please sign up for an interview upon submitting your application) 
Questions? Contact Jennifer Wolfe atjwolfe@nd.edu or the Office ofthe Treasurer at 631-4557 
--
... 
,-------~----------------­
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
five points with 13 minutes to the Belles take the court have the greatest physical returning for next season's go in the game, but could again. abilities, {she may] not [be] club.
Belles 
never overtake the most talented athlete out "I think we have a great Adrian. ca n ' t there, but she works her butt opportunity [to be success­
continued from page 24 ''These seniors have 
For Saint Mary's e v e n off and she's very competitive. ful]." said Smith. "These
really laid the ground­

and win." seniors Elizab cth imagine With Jamie, I'll miss that seniors have really laid the The Belles cut the lead to Linkous, Anne work for this program to how we shooting of hers. She's got groundwork for this program 31-30 with 18:37 left in the Blair and Jamie a r e such a beautiful touch on her to take off next year. It's going 
take offnext year.,,

game, but could not take the Dineen, the loss going to shot." to depend on what they do in ­
lead, thanks again to Vincke, signifies the end of replace Despite the loss of the the off-season." 
who drilled 3-pointers on their careers as .Suzanne Smith [Blair] seniors, the Belles seem to 
back-to-back Adrian posses­collegiate basket­head coach as a have a very bright future 
sions, helping extend the ball players. Each leader," ahead of them, with six fresh­
Bulldogs lead to 39-31. will be missed s a i d men and one sophomore -as Contact Joe Hettler at The Belles pulled as close as immensely next season when Smith. "[Linkous] may not well as three juniors -jhettler@nd.edu. 
7he 'Best of1fooustica{e 

Auditions this Thursday 9-12pm, La Fortune Huddle 
Brought to you by SUB 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES= PQ.ESENTS... =1J 
: An evening with recently : • returned overseas volunteers. • 
Come hear about the experiences of return­ing Holy Cross Associates, Cap Corps Volun­teers, Jesuit Volunteers, and others who served in various countries including: 
C!Jife, ,.Soufh fl{merica 
Ken~a, Atrica 
NICARAGUA, SOUTH AMERICA 
f>er~. So~+h America 
When: Tomorrow, Thurs., February 21, 
6:30 p.m. Where: Siegfried Hall Lounge Who: Anyone who is interested in meeting and hearing the experiences of these returned volunteers. 
Th• University of Not.-. Dame Departmentof Music Prasenb 
THE WESTERN WIND nulNTET 
WESTERN MICHIG>.N~NIVERSITY 

Wednesday, February 20, 2002  Performing Woodwind  
8:00 pm., Annenberg Auditorium  Chamber Music of Latin~  
American Composers  #  


--
-
.. 

SALT LAKE 2002 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
-FIGURE SKATING 
Kwan leads Slutskaya in•short program 

Associated Press 
SALT lAKE CITY 
Not even the roars and shouts of the wildly patriotic crowd could disturb the serenity within Michelle Kwan. . 
Sure, she heard the frenzied noise even before she skated onto the ice -and found it inspiring. She captured Tuesday night's Olympic short program as much because of her calm as her desire to win one for her country. 
'Tm proud to be an American and I tried to skate from my heart. tried to make Americans proud," Kwan said after edging Russian rival Irina Slutskaya. "It was an incredible moment for me." 
"I am well prepared, in good shape, healthy. You've just got to feel you are fortunate already, before the start of the program. What I have done. no regrets. Just go out and have fun." 
The cool and relaxed Kwan led a strong showing by the Americans, with Sasha Cohen placing third and Sarah Hughes fourth heading into Thursday night's free skate, worth two­thirds of the total score. 
"It's amazing being part of the Olympics," the 21-year-old Kwan said, "but actually having the Olympics in your home country is very special." 

Particularly after her 1998 experience. The silver medalist at the Nagano Games now regrets not spending more· time in Japan. She has been in Salt Lake City from the beginning of these Olympics, attending hockey games, hanging out in the ath­letes· village and generally enjoy­ing her stay. 
Even when TV coverage seems to show all Michelle, all the time. "You can't get away from me," she said. laughing. 
And when she took the ice for the short program, the four-time world champion and six-time U.S. title winner was composed and beaming. 
That smile continued to light up her face after a terrific, if not per­fect, performance. Although she under-rotated her triple flip, drop­ping her technical mark a bit, the showmanship was brilliant. At one point, she spiraled across more than half the rink. her arms extended and her face glowing with joy. · "Just let it all go," she said. "It's not worth holding back, because I've seen what can happen." 
When Kwan was finished, she shouted, "Go U-S-A" as dozens of flags waved and the standing ova­tion swelled. Then. sho picked up a stuffed animal thrown onto the ice -along with hundreds of flowers -and sat down to watch her marks. 
A stream of nine 5.9s for artistry, always her strength. made the difference as she edged Slutskaya. But Slutskaya also had three third-place votes. 
"My program is harder -hard­er jumps, harder spins. harder steps," Slutskaya said when asked about three judges placing her behind Cohen. "Oh. well, it's sport. Judges judge." 
The Hussian. who landed a slightly more difficult combina­tion, has beaten Kwan six times in their last eight meetings, but was runner-up to her at the last two world championships. In those events, Slutskaya won the short program, Kwan took the free skate. 
On Thursday. Kwan skates next­to-last, followed by Slutskaya. 
Slutskaya's performance, to music by Schubert. lacked spark but was technically sharp. Especially nice were her layback and combination spins, and her jumps were as smooth as freshly shaved ice. 

5PEEDSKATING 
Parra wins gold, sets 1,500-meter record 
Associated Press 
KEARNS, Utah 

Derek Parra set a world record in the 1,500 meters to claim Olympic gold Tuesday, becoming the first double­
. medalist for the Americans at the speedskating oval. 
Parra's stunning time of 1 minute, 43.95 seconds was more than a second lower than the pre-Olympic mark of 
1:45.20 held by South Korea's Lee Kyu-hyuk. 
"You give up so much. hop­ing for a moment like this, and it happens," Parra said, his voice cracking with emotion as he wiped his eyes. 
Parra, a former inline skater from San Bernardino, Calif., added to the surprising silver he won in the 5,000. 
Jochem Uytdehaage of the Netherlands. who took gold in the 5,000, settled for silver this time. He was the first skater to break the world record, but his time of 1:44.57 was best for only about an hour. 
In the 5,000, Parra was the first skater to break the world 
... 
record. only to have the Dutch skater• take the mark even lower. Norway's Adne Sondra!. the defending 1,500 champion, made a late charge to steal the 
..,. bronze away from American sprinter Joey Cheek, who was on world-record pace until fading badly on the final lap. 
Cheek, who won bronze in the 1,000, missed a second medal by just 0.08 seconds. Anoth.er U.S. skater. Nick Pearson, was sixth, as Americans claimed half of the top six places, continuing their remarkable performance at the Utah Olympic Oval. 
Defense Secretary Donald numsfeld was among the sell­out crowd that applauded the 5-foot-4 American, who car­ried a U.S. flag that was taller than him on his victory lap. 
"I can't dunk, so I've got to skate," Parra said. 
The home team has won seven medals in seven long­track events, just one short of its best performance ever with three events to go. 
If you count Apolo Anton Ohno's short-track silver, the Anwric:ms have matched the mark of the 1980 team, which was dominated by Eric Ilcidcn's five gold medals. 
Parra became the third i\nwrican speedskater to win gold, joining Casey Filzltandolph and Chris Witty. 
Parra blew kisses to the crowd and pointed toward somr) 30 family and friends, all wearing "Team Parra" S\\'('atshirts. When he spotted his wife, Tiffany, he mouthed, "I Juve you." 
"Out of all the cro\vd, I could see her face." Parra said. "It was really uplifting because we've been apart so much." 
Tiffany Parra wasn't in the arena when her husband won his surprising silver in the 5,000. She watched on televi­sion from her parent's Florida home with their newborn daughter, Mia Elizabeth. 
This time, Tiffany Parra was in the stands to see an even better performance by her husband, making so much racket on the temporary medal bleachers that she wor­ried about falling through. 
"I was a little more emotion­al than I thought I would be," she said. "I usually keep all that on the inside." 
After Parra took part in the medals ceremony, he bounded off the podium -still in his clap skates -to embrace his wife, the couple breaking down in tears as they embraced for nearly a minute. 
Parra, who eats Fig Newtons the night before every race, still has another event left, the 10,000. While the Dutch usu­ally dominate at the sport's longest race, don't discount America's newest Olympic star. 
"The bronze is next," his brother, Gilbert, said. "He deserves all three colors." 
Parra was clearly relaxed as he warmed up. He waved his hands like a conductor as he passed a Dutch band. Kleintje Pils ("Small Beer"), which was serenading from the stands. 
Uytdehaage, racing in the ninth of 24 pairs, became the first skater to break Lee's mark. A distance specialist, the Dutchman had a great fin ­ishing kick. 
The orange-clad Dutch con­tingent erupted in cheers, holding up signs that said "If It Ain't Dutch. It Ain't Much" and "The UnDutchables." 


-
52750 IN 933 (Formerly U.S. 31/33 -N. DI Cleveland Rd.) 2"3-1122 Serving St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, & Holy Cross Larue Piz~a OR lwo'lm4~ Cheese & Any 1 Topping Subs s Additional Pizza Toppings $1.00 Ea.ONLY Specialty Pizzas Deluxe: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Green Peppers, Onions, Italian Sausage, & Extra Cheese All Meat: Pepperoni, Italian Sausage, Ham, Bacon,1W 1~ 1~ 1W & Extra CheeseMENU Small Medium Large Xlarge Toppings Hawaiian: Extra Ham, Bacon, Pineapple, & Cheese Pizza $5,95 $7.45 $9,95 $11.45 Pepperoni Mushrooms Chicken Club: Seasoned Chicken, Bacon, Onions, Cheese, & TomatoesHam Green Peppers White Cheezy: Garlic Butter Sauce with 4 BlendedTbpi~~s $.75 $1.00 $1.00 s1,50 Italian Sausage Fresh Onions Cheeses, Feta Cheese, Sliced Tomatoes, Bacon, &Onions Ground Beel Bacon Garden: Cheese, Mushrooms, Black Olives, Onions,Specialty $9,95 $11,45 $12.95 $17,45Pizzas Sliced Tomatoes, & Feta CheeseBlack Olives Seasoned Chicken DOUBLES Pineapple Banana Peppers 2nd Pizza of Anchovies Feta Cheese ...-~ubs $4.69=~~a!~dlesser $4,99 $5,99 $5,99 $7,99 toppings only... Fresh Tomatoes • Italian Sub • Ham & Cheese Sub ....8 \\• Steak & Cheese Sub • Veggie Sub CRUST STYLES • Classic Crust • Pan Style • Crispy Thin 1.,,a1 PIZZA TOPPERS lhee~;i~;g;. $3.491'ia11\ • Roma Seasoning • Parmesan Cheese • Hot 'N Sweet Fresh-Baked Bread Strips with 3 Kinds of Cheeses &Garlic Butter, Topped with Parmesan &Roma Seasoning.SIDES Served with aSide of Pizza Sauce &Ranch Dipping Sauce• Roma Seasoning Packet • Garlic Butter Dipping Sauce '­• Banana Peppers • Ranch Dipping Sauce *1st Side With Pizza Free. Additional Sides 25¢ Each. Marco's Salad $1.99 * DELICIOUS FRESH QUALITY PIZZA * Crisp Lettuce, Pepperoni, Cheese, Tomatoes, Minimum Delivery Order $7.00. Gratuities Not Included. Free Delivery. Prices are subject to change. Banana Peppers, Black Olives, Feta Cheese &Italian Dressing  

Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com @2002 Marco's, Inc. 2401-102 
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hungry Mountaineers ready for Irish feast 
By KERRY SMlTH Spom Writer 
/\n 8-16 team with a lone confere11c11 wiu ordinarily would not scare the Irish. 
But the West Virginia squad 
coming to thr Joyce Center tonight is no onlinary struggling team. 
T h e Mountain­


eers arc Graves hungry. They blnw a 15-point lead in a home loss to Llw Irish in January. They havP no chance at post-season play. Their head coach Gale Catlett just resigned in the midst of his worst season in 30 years. And with just four games remaining in the regular sea­son. they havo nothing to.lose. /\nd tlw Irish know it. "West Virginia scares the hell out of tnfl. that's for sum," Irish forward David Craves said, fol-
Y. 
. 
,; 
~ 
~ 
~:· 
~ 
, 
ffl
J
}"~.i
,... 
~."""'
,. 
lowing a Sunday loss to Syracuse. "They're a scnry team. Thfl coach dismisses himself and you never know how the kids arc going to resµond." 
Yel without knowing exactly how the team will react, Graves is in a good position to guess ~ playing under three coaches in four seasons, he's bl:'ell there. 
''I've been in that situation and when a coach is let go or retirf's, you foe! like you failed him,'' Graves said Tuesdav. "You feel like you'rp the play~r that goes out and performs and you didn't get the job done and he's tlrn one who has to pay the consequences for it. I've been in those shoes lrnf'ore ... You just kind of pin your ears back and play." 
That type of reaction from Mountaineer players could be all Ow more likely. as Catlett publicly attacked his players for their lack of pride after los­ing to Virginia Tech Fi>b. 13, the day before he resigned. 
Now, with Catlett's nephew, assistant coach Drew Catlett, 
manning the bench, the with nothing to lose," 13rey Mountaineers find thP.mselves said. "I think for us, we still in the role of spoiler. want to play fearlessly and go 
"I think for them it's thei.r Big after thorn and attack. That's a East tournament," Irish head tricky situation to be in.'' coach Mike Brey said. "They Winning games is key for the don't go to thf' Big East tourna­[rish, who at 17-8 overall and 
ment,  so  to  7-5 in the Big  
beat  Notre  East  confer­ 
Dame  or  "West Virginia scares the  ence,  are con­ 
Georgetown at homP, that's their  hell out ofrne, that'sfor sure. They're a scary  tending for a high seed in the confer­ 
Big East tour­ team."  ence's  West  
narnent  - to  Division and a  
try to get one of those."  David Graves  berth in the NCAA tourna- 
The  Irish,  Irish tri-captain  ment.  

who have stumbled in their last two outings, know how important it is to pick up wins in their final leg of the regular season -especially when their opposition has nothing to lose. 
Because the Mountaineers threaten to come out and upset the Irish, Brey wants his team to stf~P on the court with the same mental attitude. 
·· [The Mountaineers! are going to play very fearlessly 


It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. 
Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. 

Iii· 
The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful 
.·. : J 
k·' 
services, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and 
services designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk 
to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. 
It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
(574) 654...2250 
31869 Chicago Trail 
~ 
New Carlisle, IN 46552-0836
HAMILTON 
Website: http://www.hamiltoncomm.org 
COMMUNITIES 
A Ricli Tradition of Caring for Older Adults Since t 922 . --·--·--·--·--·--··-·--·--·--·--·--·--·--··-·--·--·-··--·-•·---······••·•-·--·--·--·••·••·••·••·••·••···-··-·•·••·••··· .... -~ 
! To find out more, clip and mail the following information to: · · · · i 
! Hamilton Communities, 31869 Chicago Trail, New Carlisle, IN 465,2 i 
; :
Name: __________________________ 
Address: ______________________ 
City: ___________State: ______Zip: ____ !O 
Telephone: ( -----+--------------i L=I
L----··----•··---.....-----·---............_ 0/F ,
................_________________________________________________________________________ ---­
I 
No one 

knows that better than point guard Chris Thomas. who has strugg!fid in the team's two consecutive losses. 
"Our hacks are against the wall and we just have to get it done," point guard Chris Thomas said. 
The freshman shot 0-14 from the field in Notre Dame's three• point loss to Rutgers and 3-11 in another three-point loss to Syracuse Sunday. Typically a deadly 3-point weapon, Thomas went a combined 1-14 from behind the arc in both 
games. But Brey is not overly wor­ried about his starter. 
"I haven't overanalyzed it with him. l think Chris is the kind of guy who can bounce back," he said. "He went through a little segment like that before. I have confidence he'll bounce back. I don't want him dwelling on his shot that 
much." 
What Brey does want his team dwelling on is the keys to a victory against the '.\1ountaineers. 
Citing transition defense, rebounding and taking care of freshman guard Jonathan Hargett and senior forward Chris Moss, two of the team's most flxplosive offensive threats, Brey is focused on keeping his team's attention on 
. tho game at hand. 
"We're in the stretch now, and Pvery time Wf' take tlrn floor it will be important/ Brey said. "West Virginia -their record isn't good but all I know is we were down 15 at the half. And so we have to be really ready to play." · 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 
1~ij2/2~~j FINANCIAL AID DEADLINE 
Your Renewal FAFSA and PROFILE Application must be 
received by the processing centers on or before the dates listed below ifyou wish to apply for financial aid for ilie 2002/WOJ academic year: 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's February 2~, 1002 March 1, 2002 
For additional infonnation or applications, please contact your financial aid office. 

page 22 The Obsurver . SPORTS Wednesday, February 20, 2002 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Surging No. 7 Irish ready for No. 63 Spartans 
Taborga was previously Morales will play fourth, and up there," Bayliss said. "Casey at six. Right now we have nine or
By KATIE HUGHES 
ranked No. 95 in the nation but Matt Scott will play fifth. At sixth has overall a 5-5 record, and at 10 [members] who have played." 
Assistant Sports Editor 
may have moved up in Tuesday's singles, either Brian Farrell, one, two and three he's holding 
rankings. Andrew Laflin or Brent D'Amico his own. Luis has been playing
After a sweep of Purdue and a -Aaron Talarico and No. 88 will play. great at four, and Matt Scott is near sweep of Wisconsin last Casey Smith will play No. 2 and "(Javier] has really gotten the unstoppable at five. We're still Contact Katie Hughes at weekend, the No. 7 Irish face No. No. 3 singles. Luis Haddock-job done at one since he moved waiting for someone to step up khughes@nd.edu.63 Michigan State today. 
"Two years ago we beat (Michigan State] really decisive­ly," said head coach Bob Bayliss. "But they were awfully young and inexperienced. Now they have a lot of juniors and seniors, and they've gone from being able to hit hard to being able to hit hard and in the court. [ expect a tough match." 
Bayliss said he wasn't set on who would be playing in which spot today. But he has some room to move people around, especially at first and sixth sin­gles, and at second and third doubles -for now. 
Send A Can Of Crt1&h
"It gets sticky as season ends," said Bayliss. "The NCAA only lets you have a roster of eight, but 
To A triend. A Crt!!sh Or~ Whomever!
that's a decision I'll have to make as the season goes on." 
II 11111 lili--ii;: I all
The Irish, who defeated Purdue by a 7-0 score over the 
~ Come To Nori.h Or So{Jth Dining Hall on 'fr}{Jrsdag and Frtd(lq. Feb. 7.l and 7J..
weekend, are 4-1 against Big Ten teams this season, with their 
To Bag Y0<1r Can OfGrosh

only loss coming at the hands of No. 32 Minnesota. They defeated No. 64 Wisconsin, 6-1. 
-All Porcboses Are ADOl)(Jmons. However. Ile Or She Most Give Bet:wccn $1 cmd $?.O 
Senior Javier Taborga, who is 
To Proi:ect Their Anon({m1tu. The Grushcc Goo Mut.cb 1'hot Amount To Find The
10-2 in dual-match play and 17­7 overall, could play No. 1 sin­
ldentff{! Of Their Grush.

gles today. His string of impressive wins 
~ All Goos ~ltll Be DeHtcrcd O,rcr Tbc Weekend. And Crusbres Con Match The
includes victories over defending NCAA singles and doubles cham­
Amouot Pafd B. Tbcir Grosh On Mondog Aod Tucsdag. Feb. 25 and 26.
pion Matias Bocker of Georgia (No. 1 in preseason singles rank­ings). No. 20 Jeremy Wurtzman of Ohio State, No. 21 Alex Hartman of Mississippi and No. 
~ 

24 Michael Yani of Duke -with all these wins coming in straight sets. 
Wednesdays and Thursdays are student nights. Students receive 20% of meal price with student I.D. 
U£1 
Michiana's most unique dining experience. Located in the brewery at the Historic 100 Center in Mishawaka (219) 257-1792 www.1OOcenter.com 
Discoteca ND 
Club Beats from 
Europe and Latin America 
AFREE event Saturday, February 23, 2002 
Alumni-Senior Club 
All Ages Welcome! 
9p.m.-10 p.m. Dance Lessons 10 p.m.-1:30 a.m. Dance-Fiesta! Come for food, drinks and fun! 
Sponsored by The Spanish Club 

Wednesday, February 20, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED CUNNINtJm
FOURTH AND INCHES 
t>O YOU REALIZE THtl.T 

THAT' 5 357 IDEAS YOU WH1ft WILL YOU 00 WHEN 
THJ:s CAUOON WIU. BE 
CAN NEV£R vse Aw.A.IN. ,I THE WELi. RUNS l>RYi> IT'S 
THE 357th Of YOVR 

MEAN, HOW MANY MORE BOVNb TO HAPPEN SOONER CAREER? 
IDEAS CAN YOU POSSIBLY OR LATER. WHAT bO YOU
---~ 
HAVE? .SUREI.Y THERE MUS DO THEN, TOM? WHAT ae SOME ICINt> OF LIMIT DO YOU DO? 

BILL AMEND FOXTROT 

BEST•..

AND THEY ot-lL'Y CHARGED I GUESS HAIRCUT... 
t-tow'O IT 

I SPENT '+5 MINUTES IN 
HALF•PRlcE 8ECAUSE SHE'S STILL IN 8EAUTICIAlll'S 
A CHAii? WITH A FoRMEfl
How'o GO? PICTURE 
Tl-IE HALF­E'-IER. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Java holder 64 Path in Paris 1 Skinny tie 34_-dink 65 "My Life as _" .....______._ 5 Specimen 36 Pythagorean (1985 film) holder triangle? 66 Ural River city 
9 Barely 37 German article 67 Exploits maintaining, 39 Thought, part 2 68 Golf's with "out" 41 "Titanic" Ballesteros 
14 Jannings of "The soundtrack 69 One of Maris's Blue Angel" singer overtakers 15 "That 42 It'll make you 
excuse!" sweat DOWN 16 "Long time_• 44 Silas Mamer's 1 "Little Women" 17 Start of a foundling woman 
thought by 46 Green light 2 Sequel to 
29-Across 47 Thought, part 3 Melville's 19 Trough diners 49 Major keys? "Typee· 20 Upright 51 Prov. bordering 3 MGM icon 
21 Imitated a Hudson Bay 4 Mexican natives peacock, maybe 52 Fancy-dress dos of old 23 Tedious 53 Light into 5 "We are not 
business 57 Seat of amused" 25 _-Magnon Parliament speaker 26 Start or a Doris 61 Jump for joy 6 Suffix with bull 
Day song title 62 End of the 
or bear 7Win by_
29 See 17-Across thought 8 Send up 9 Guaranteed 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Bowed and scraped
AC ~:=:+::+:--SLUMP 
11 "From where 

CO ,.;,.+.,..+,;.+-,-TATAR . 
=t-:+::+.,1-:+.:E,-t 12 Hawaiian goose 31 Prepared for the 58 1970's coif 
13 Made a right 53 Front-runner's
anthem, say

tum edge 59 Weak one 
32 Aquariums
18 Family name in 60 _-Seltzer
35 Keystone fellow 54 Wheel shaft a Poe story 63 Remembrance
38 Exalted
22 Camcorder 55 Stubborn sort Day mo. maker 
40 Knock loose 24 Extends 43 Relatives on i-;...+....+.....,;.+;..t 26 Pilgrimage father's side Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:
27 Bathsheba's 45 Make happy 
1·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute).

husband 48 Roy Orbison's 
..,.,...,,,,.._~;,.i 28 Lassitude ·_over" Annual subscriptions are available for the E R A ..;,;,+~~=-t 29 Mr. Magoo's 50 Nolan Ryan and best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 RAY OS IRMA problem others years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Puzzle by SUAn HarrfnlJIOn Smllh 30 Name in 2000 52 Sparkly 56 Start of a headlines paperweight Yuletide reading 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $9 5 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ____________________ 
Address __________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON trust is probably trying to steal your TIIlS DAY: Robert Altman, Sidney ideas. Don't share your intentions Poitiet; Andrew Shue, Brian Uttrell with anyone. It's best to work by 
Happy Birthday: Don't get yourselffor the time being. 00 
involved in fast--cash schemes this LIBRA (SepL 23-0cL 22): Your year. Be reserved in your invest­interest in different philosophies and ments and cautious when dealing cultures -will draw you to all sorts of with other people's money or pos­interesting events and seminars ses.9ons. You may be asked to take today. You stand to make new 
care of the personal papers of an friends as well as discover informa. older individual who can no longer tion that will help you in the future. do the job alone. Your numbers are 00000 
9, 13, 19, 24,, 31, 44 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may have to deal with an older ,,. 
Friendships should take lop priority relative today. Be prepared to trou­today. Do something special for bleshoot if you have to regard!ng his someone who has stood by you m or her financial, legal and health the past. Your kind words and ges­matters. The more you do for this tures will be well received and recip­person the better you will feel about rocated 0000 yourself. CI00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be SAGITD\RIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): careful of anyone trying to talk you Partnerships will be important into parting with your rash. Llrnita· today. If you are in a relationship, tions will result ifyou spend foolish­nurture it and it will flourish Hyou 
ly on something that is an out-and­aren't, get out, attend functions and outrisk 000 be open and receptive to people 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): who could possibly become an Don't be so down If you let emo­important part of your future. 000 tional matters cause upse~ you will CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): miss out on some rather unusual Focus on work and you won't be 
opportunities to meet interesting sorry. Whether you are at home, vol• people.000 unteering or in the work force you CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can make a difference and you can will have to keep a close watch on get ahead. 1he more you do to help 
who's doing what today. Gossip others the greater the rewan:ls will and misinformation will cause you be inretum. 000 grief if you don't keep things AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
straight and refuse to getinvolved in You should plan to get out and have 
petty discussions. ()00 some fun with good friends. The 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You11 be information you discover through in the limelight today, so be pre­the conversations you have will be pared to stand tall and make your­surprising. 00000 self heard. You should offer sugges­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
tions and do whatever research is Concentrate on small but important necessary in order to make your details and you will avoid some of ideas fly. 0000 the backlash that you may receive 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): should you get involved in a debate. Someone you thought you could Work quietly by yourself. 00 
Birthday Baby: You have exceptional creative ability that must be 
:.,
expressed through art or entertainment You have a desire to be first in all 
that you do. You are a dreamer and a survivor: 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
... BSERVER 
. Men's Tennis, p. 22 
. Olympics, p. 20 
. 
Men's Basketball, p. 21 . NFL, p. 16 . NBA,p. 15, 16 


. MLB, p. 15

PORTS 
Wednesday, February 20, 2002 

MIAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
Allllost an upset 
Belles fight back but season ends in Michigan as Bulldogs win 62-54 
the game.ByJOE HETTLER "J didn't think she had played as Sports Writer 
well the two other times we had played [Adrian] this season, but I 
ADRIAN, Mich. knew from last year that she was a 
The No. 6 Saint Mary's basketball great player that could hit some big team has battled all season long, and shots," said Smith. "I think we fell Tuesday's MIAA first-round game ver­asleep on her and she got open." sus No. 3 Adrian College was no The Belles fought back to cut the exception. Bulldogs' lead to 31­
The Belles' 28 at halftime,
"If we couldjust get those 
effort was not despite shooting 
quite enough to shots to fall and focus a little only seven-for-26 pull off an upset. bit better and get a stronger from the field. 
Sarah Vincke At halftime Smith
mentality in the second half,
had 17 points on just felt happy to six-for-10 shoot­we really thought we could still be within strik­...__ 
ing, and Kim Hill ing distance of
come back and win." 
Suzanne Smith 
Adrian defeated good chance of Saint Mary's 62-head coach making a second­
54. The loss elimi­half comeback. nated the Belles "We were just from the post-season tournament. happy with where we were at because 
"They do have a lot of fight in we hadn't played our best," said them," said Belles head coach Smith. "To be only three down at half­Suzanne Smith. "They definitely want time, we were very positive with what to win and they're getting to learn we could do in the second half. If we what it takes to win and beat these could just get those shots to fall and teams and win these big games." focus a little bit better and get a 
Adrian grabbed an early 16-6 lead stronger mentality in the second half, almost solely on the shooting of we really thought we could come back Photo by Lynn Kachmarik Vincke, who had nine points and two Belles point guard Katie Miller battles for the rebound as teammate Anne Blair 3-pointers in the first few minutes of see BELLES/page 19 looks on during Tuesday's game. Miller scored three points and had four assists. 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Shorthanded Irish top Mountaineers 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
With just under five minutes remaining Tuesday night, a Brandi Batch free throw pulled West Virginia within 59-56 of Notre Dame. The Irish were playing with their leading scor­er, freshman Jacqueline Batteast, in street clothes with a knee injury, so the team's 50­game winning streak on the Joyce Center court looked to be in jeopardy. 
Then Alicia Ratay took over. 
Ratay. who finished with a season-high 31 points, buried a 3-pointer from the left wing on the next possession, then fol­lowed up with a 3-point play a minute later. 

-
West Virginia never pulled closer than within eight as the Irish finished off the Mountaineers 72-63. 
With the win, the Irish move 
to 18-7 overall, and 12-2 in the Big East, clinching a first-round bye in the Big East Tournament for Notre Dame. 


The ever-modest Ratay, who scored the most points by an Irish player since Ruth Riley's 32 in Notre Dame's NCAA tour­nament victory over Vanderbilt last spring, said she's just try­ing to help out, with Batteast sidelined until the Big East Tournament. 
"She's such a great scorer that everyone else needs to pick it up a little bit," Ratay said. "So that's what r tried to do." 
Ratay wasn't the only veter­an who excelled for the home team Tuesday. Ericka Haney, the team's lone senior, scored a season-high 15 points and added six rebounds in 37 min­utes. Haney also provided superb defense on Mountaineer guard Kate Bulger, who finished with 17 points on just 6-of-16 shooting from the field. 
"I thought Ericka Haney just played a great game," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought start to finish she came out of the gate well, got us on the board, did a great job on the block, taking advan­tage of the mismatch." 
With Batteast out, Haney has found more of an opportunity on offense. The senior, who can shoot the ball from 15 feet as well as drive to the basket and score inside, has found a greater opportunity to do both in recent games. 
"When Jackie's on the floor, she's a tough matchup for everybody in the league," McGraw said. "Some teams put a guard on her, so we send her down to the block. Other teams put a post player on her, and so we send her to the perime­ter. Now we're doing that same thing with Ericka." 
Despite the game's close score late in the second half, the Irish dominated the Mountaineers both on defense 
see IRISH/page I 8 

. ND Women's Tennis vs. Iowa, Friday, 3:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER
. Baseball vs. Missouri, Friday, 2:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
online 

. Men's Lacrosse vs. Penn State, Sunday, 1p.m.ATA GLANCE . Men's Tennis vs. Miami, Sunday, 1 p.m . hftp:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
.,,, 


