
September 9, 2002


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Da111e and Saint Mary's 
VO . XX VII NO.. o/ 

Local leaders analyze Sept. 11 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Assistant News Editor 
With the first anniversary of Sept. 11 approaching, the Northern Indiana Center for History presented a panel dis­cussion, "September 11: How Have We Changed?" Sunday afternoon to reflect on the after­math and consequences of the terrorist attacks. 
Tim Harmon, managing editor of the South Bend Tribune, mod­erated the discussion and pan­elists included Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame; Lester Lamon, history professor at Indiana University South Bend and Wes Taylor, president and chief executive of Family and Children's Center. 
Hesburgh said the United States is a country with open and friendly people and many were shocked that "not every­one loved us and that some would like to destroy us." 
Americans were left with a 
MEGHANNE DOWNE&'The Observer 
President emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, IUSB professor Lester Lamon, South Bend Tribune managing editor Tim Harmon, Director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies Scott Appleby and Wes Taylor, president and CEO of Family and Children's Center discuss lasting effects of 9/11. on the nation. 
sincere and fundamental disqui­et because they thought they were so well-liked, he added. 
"It's a curious thing to come from the world of peace and calmness and serenity ... and then suddenly to wake up ... [to] a small lunatic fringe who car­ried out a willingness to destroy us and a willingness to shake their fist in our face and then dare to say this is just a begin­ning," Hesburgh said. 
Xenophobia, the abuse of gov­ernment powers, thoughtful reflection, concerned voices, patriotism and mistrust were present in the culture prior to Sept. 11, Appleby said, but these elements became deeper in the aftermath of the attacks. Mourning the victims, celebrat­ing the heroism and rallying around the flag gave the United States a greater conciousness. 
With this renewed compas­sion, Americans must also rec­ognize that it was a small faction of Islam, not representative of the whole of Islam. that carried out these attacks, he stressed. 
Dismantling our vulnerability 

Lamon said he did not see much change fundamental change in the attitude of Americans. While its true Americans fly the flag more, wait in longer lines for security and tune into the evening news more frequently, the military has not increased in size, church attendance has returned to nor­mal levels and blood donations have dropped after an initial increase. 
·'The initial national response is still our primary response ­based on fear and anger ... we are still on a defensive mode," said Lamon. 
Lamon said Americans must 
see P ANEU page 6 

Coach 
•
wins home debut 


Ir1sitier 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

West Nile suspected 
•

1n area 
. Officials find dead birds with symptoms of virus 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
Several dead crows and blue jays have raised concern about the possibility of West Nile virus at Notre Dame. 
Although the birds have not yet been tested for the virus, local experts say the cause of the animals' death seems to be closely associated to the disease. 
"We have to assume it is [West Nile]," said biology professor Paul Grimstad, who has been researching mosquito-borne viral diseases that cause brain inflammation since 197 4. 
West Nile virus, contracted 
see WEST NILE/ page 4 


First home game excites students 
. Freshmen follow traditions, seniors adjust to new rules 
By SOFIA BALLON 
News Writer 
After the victory against Maryland on Aug. 31, Irish fans waited in anticipation for the first home game of the season against Purdue. Psyched Notre Dame students were ready to root for the team at the pep rally and cheer them on to yet another victory -this time against the Boilermakers. Freshmen were especially enthusiastic about the game since it was their first time cheering on the Irish as students. 
Early Saturday morning, keeping with the longstanding "Freshmen Fire Drill" tradi­tion, upperclassmen from many dorms hurried the freshmen outside in their pajamas to cheer the band and jump into the fountain. The tradition succeeded in cementing Irish pride into the hearts of those who would later become part of a sea of green that dominated the Stadium's bleachers. 
While freshmen struggled to learn the cheers, they par­ticipating enthusiastically at the pep rally and initiating cheers to get in to the spirit. Notre Dame freshman Ben LeRoy said he especially enjoyed watching the push-up tradition whenever the Irish scored. With the Irish off to a 2-0 start, many are excited about the upcoming games. 
"I'm looking forward for the rest of the season, as long as the offense starts scoring some points," said Laura Maclean. 
Many students this year were concerned about the new tailgating policy, which outlined a specified area where tailgates were to be hosted under Notre Dame and Indiana state police supervi­sion. Only students who were over 21 could host a tailgater that served alcohol, and law enforcement officials fre­quently walked through the student tailgating lot checking IDs. 
Hillary Castrop, a Notre Dame senior who hosted a tailgate for the first time, said she had an overall pleasant experience. 
"There were about 15 peo­ple at my tailgate including myself and the police didn't really bother," said Castrop. 
However, the majority of the pre-game partying took place off-campus, where rules were not as strictly enforced, stu­dents said. 
Although the tailgating rules have changed and fresh­men continue to get the seats 
see GAME/page 4 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE LETTER "W" 


page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Monday, September 9, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 


Beginning of the end 
When someone asks me what my dream job is, I tell them it's to be a professional sports photographer. I've loved photography for almost my whole life, and sports pho­Lisa Velte tography runs in my blood. Still, 
News Photo 
when asked 
Editor

numerous times 
if I wanted to be 
on the field this 
past Saturday to shoot the game for The Observer, I turned the opportu­
nity down in an instant. Why would I give up something that is part of 
my dream? For something that I feel is an even more priceless expe­
rience: my last first home game in 
the student section. 
Football was not new to me when I came to Notre Dame. At the time I was born, my father was the ticket director for the Seattle Seahawks. When I was growing up, Sundays were dedicated to both church and football. My father would not let anything keep him from Monday Night Football. When he had to drive me to my Monday night ballet class, my father would watch the game on his portable television in the car. 
Before I came to Notre Dame, I had only known football as a game. But here, football is an experience. As well as the actual sporting event, there's the addition of pep rallies, tailgating, The Shirt, and the great­est University band. But aside from the added events and traditions, there's an energy present on this campus on football weekends. I first felt it the morning of the Notre Dame-Kansas game three years ago. I had never seen this campus more alive, heard the fight song more times, or seen more kids aspiring to be future Irish players as they tossed footballs around with their dads. It is an image that will stay with me for the rest of my life. And as much as I may complain about how crazy and crowded this campus gets on football weekends. after Nov. 23, I will truly miss it. Sure, I'll be back for games in the years to come (especially Washington State and Washington), but the experience will never be the same. 
So, for the last first time, I joined the "Sea of Green" on Saturday. this time in my coveted spot in the some­times shaded senior section. It was crowded, horribly hot, loud, and I was surrounded by a few people who had tailgated too enthusiastical­ly. I loved every minute of it. Next week, I will again trade my ticket for a press pass and a camera. But the excitement of the first home game is too much for me to miss -especial­ly when it's my last. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a error at the printing facility in Milford, Ind., three headlines were misprinted in Friday's edition. They should have read "Bush tackles national security ac South Bend rally," "2002 Shirt and towel gear ready for action" and "Irish hope to shipwreck 6th-ranked Pirates." 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Interim VP fills shoes at Saint Mary's  Israeli tanks enter Gaza before Arafat speech  
Saint Mary's appoints a new director of finance while the search continues for a per­manent replace­ment.  Tanks roll into the Gaza Strip just hours before Arafat was scheduled to ask the Palistinian parliament to out­law suicide bomb­ings.  
page 3  page 5  

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. 
Lecture, "One Year Later: Global He percussions of September 11," 2 p.m. at Ilcsburgh Library Auditorium. 

. 
British Di·awings from the col­lection of Mr. & Mrs. Allan J. Hiley. Exhibition at the Snitc Museum of Art, all day. 


0 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Author Paula Kanien, Tues., 
7:00 pm, IICCY\iVclsh Parlor. 
. Alumnae Board of Directors Fall Meeting. Thurs. Sept. 12, Campus \Vide. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Tomato Soup, Broccoli­Potato-Leek Soup, Sausage Pineapple Pizza, Scalloped Corn Casserole, Petite Carrots, Cherry Crisp, Philly Steak Sandwich, Steakhouse Fries, Grilled Tilapia, Potatoes with Spinach, Broccoli Spears, Oatmeal, Sausage Patties, Scrambled Eggs, Potato Triangles 
Today Dinner: Tomato Soup, Broccoli-Potato-Leek Soup, Sausage Pineapple Pizza, Sauerbraten. Zurn Zurn Potato Salad, Peas & Pearl Onions. Cherry Crisp, Chicken Teriyaki, Baked Lemon Perch, Rice Valencienne. Baked Sweet Potato, Home-Style Chicken Sandwich, Meatball Grinder. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a::: 
LI.I 
:c 
ti 
LI.I 
~ 
..J 
ca: 
(.) 
0 

HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW LOW 



BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT
NEWS 

Cheney addresses his tenure at Halliburton  On the other side of the podium  
Vice President Cheney defends his management of Halliburton.  ACE volunteer Laura Rompf dis­cusses her first year as a teacher in Oklahoma City.  
page 7  page 8  

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 


Police issue alcohol citations 
Indiana State Excise Police issued 25 state citations on campus Thursday for minor consumption of alcohol, 7 state citations for minor in possession of alcohol, 1 state citation for minor transporting alcohol, and 1 state citation for possession of false ID. 

Student taken to hospital 

A student was transported by ambulance from McGlinn Fields to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 

BP student cited for drinking 
NDSP issued a University citation for minor consumption of alcohol and possession of false ID in Breen­Phillips Hall. Case is being referred for admininstrative review. 

Food Services employee hurt 
NDSP transported a University employee to the University Health Center for treatment of a laceration. The employee was injured while working at the Food Services Support Facility. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Basil-Garlic Linguine, Southwestern Pasta Sauce, Spaghettini Puttanesca, Hawaiian Pizza, Pretzel Sticks, Cheese & Vegetable Pie, Winter­Blend Vegetables, Beef Chop Suey. Cajun-Baked Pollock, Roast Top Round, Baked Sweet Potatoes, Whipped Potatoes. 
Today Dinner: Spaghettini Puttanesca, Southwestern Pasta Sauce, Basil-Garlic Linguine, Hawaiian Pizza, Pretzel Sticks. Potato Pancakes, Hot Chunky Applesauce, Beef-Stuffed Peppers, Tuna Casserole, Roast Turkey Breast, Whipped Potatoes. Baked Sweet Potatoes. 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
SCENE SPORTS 
Does vinyl still 
Irish edge rule? 
Purdue to remain undefeated 

Scene looks at the 
The Irish debate between 
improved their LPsandCDs. 
record to 2-0 in Saturday's game against the Boilermakers. 
Irish Insiderpage 10 


Vandalism reclassified 
An incident ofvandalism that occurred in August at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies has been reclassified by NDSP as a larce­ny. 


Police issue seat belt tickets 
NDSP issused over 15 citations for seat belt violations Thursday on Juniper and Douglas Roads. 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta, Marinara, Hummus and Cucumber Pita, Rice veg­etable Asparagus roll up, Baked potato, Sizzling Seared Beef, Salad, Hamburgers, Vegetable Patties, Turkey melt, French Fries. Chicken Kebabs. Saffron Rice Pilaf, Chefs Vegetables, Tomato Basil Pizza, Cheese Pizza. 
Today Lunch: Chers pasta, Marinara sauce, Steamed Broccoli, Asian tofu sticky rice, Cuban sandwich, Chicken Breast, Fried Cheese Ravioli, Bread sticks, Cajun Beef tips with Mushroom, Peppers and Onion, Potato Skins, Red Beans and Rice. Chers Vegetables, Sausage Pie, Cheese Pizza. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 72 LOW 40 


Atlanta 88 I 63 Boston 90 I 68 Chicago 85 / 65 Denver 72 / 51 Houston 90 / 72 Los Angeles 80 / 60 Minneapolis 80 / 58 New York 90 / 58 Philadelphia 92 / 67 Phoenix 105 / 82 Seattle 73 / 55 St. Louis 93 / 70 Tampa 89 / 73 Washington 88/68 
-
.vlonday, September 9, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's appoints new department head 
The Office for Students with Disabilities 1s looking to hire students for the following position: 
Student Aide: This person will help a Notre Dame student travel to events on campus. Evening hours weekdays and weekends Flexible hours. $10.00 per hour. 
If you are interested, please call the Office for Students with Disabilities at 631-7157 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 

Following the departure of Keith Dennis as Saint Mary's vice president of finance, John 
~~~et~~a~t:;~!i:~nt~~pi~~e~~ im basis. Hollenkamp will serve until a committee headed by College President Marilou Eldred hires someone to the position perma­nently. "I am now in the process of forming a search committee composed of faculty and staff," Eldred said. "I believe the search will begin by early October. It is hard to estimate how long it will 


'=· .. 
:it};!:u·.. ,,· 
"iJ··
i· 
;.-. 

·U ·.take.• Ca:rE(,.o·:r.· ··t-1:iEr .• pa:trent.s' ·· ~,.'11 help f8.~:Ef care· Of ·in..e · 
'"··· I'. 


i;!''ft:U i:·~:.i, ()n]..... 

< ' i •. . . . .·. ' '}J,~fJ~~i;,\i0c < 
lf you want to give yo~r nursing career a shot in the arm, you need expe,ience..:.. 
. ,,;:;, •• ,< •. : i ..· .·.,·. .. . > . · •· . . · '' '\il}Jicf~?,;,;+ ·. 
not the headache ofhoWto·pay your tuition. Qualify for an Army ROlOfriursing . 
•_. ':r, _:,, •.• :.} , • • • • .':•' • •, • • • • f-,;~.,;~~:.,~·•, •.:p.}-.:' •,?1~=, :,,,:•..._•. 
scholarship, and you'll not C>QIY get hands-on 'tHnical training, you'll deveJop;:J;,}~)l\t; V 
. . ·-,.,,_. --_ · · . : -· -__ -:;::.: ~<-~~-};~t:·~• r'.,~~ leadership skills you'll be able to tap into for your entire:career. ·Talk tO us tit,Jh. · 
':..:~-i -_ :)_ . ' . . . . ' . . ,.-;,·,•<(. • . : . . 
Army ROTC departmenLWe'll take care :bf ,you. '.~. , . i•: 
'",• .. . . 
,. 

;:-).<·­
;ff: ' . 
1:.~~Wi··~···· :•:fqr)nore information on our Nursing Scholarship Pro·g~atrls,.· ;J~Iy:' :,.,,}.contact Captain Hennessey at (219) 631-6264or 631:-4656 ·. ·. 
.'· .:.f:· 
........ < -~t_ "'4, 
. 1 
' ·~ 
., . ., 
' 


CHRISTINA REITANotrhe Observer 
John Hollenkamp, Saint Mary's Interim vice president of finance. 
take -probably a few months. 
We will keep the search in 
process until we find the best 
person for this important posi­
tion at Saint Mary's. 
Eldred refused to comment on 
the circumstances of Dennis' 
leaving the College. She said the 
search process would yield a 
qualified candidate for the posi­
tion. 
"We are always looking at how 
we can improve service to stu­
dents and the Saint Mary's com­
munity, so I'm sure the next per­
son will try to do that." 
Though Hollenkamp has been 
in the finance office for only a 
few days now, is not new to the 
Saint Mary's campus. He previ­
ously worked with the 
Congregation through Holy Cross 
Resources through its insurance 
benefits, retirement trusts and 
health care plans. 
Currently, Hollenkamp is familiarizing himself with College staff, administrators and directors. He also plans to review procedures and reports to explore if "there is any way to streamline or make it more effi­cient." 
"Things appear to be very well-run. It's more taking the next step in information systems and making the process more efficient," Hollenkamp said. "I want to explore using technology by providing a Web-based sys­tem so that information can be available to faculty and financial aid information to parents and students." 
He plans to submit his name for consideration by the commit­tee formed to hire the new vice president. In the meantime, he has plans to resolve imminent issue, but realizes that the scope of some of his projects may be limited. 
"Communication is the key right now," Hollenkamp said. 



• • • • ' • , • • _. • : •: • , • ,c I '" • • 1 ' -. • • • • •• ' • • • • • • • , • ~ • • < : • I > • • • ... • ' • ~ • :• I • • • • ,. • • • < ' A ' ., ' •~ ' • • • ,,J. 
page 4 Monday, September 9, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Septeniber 1 0 5:30-8:30 


Come win a pair of tickets to the ND-Michigan State game in East Lansing on 9/21. Show your ID card for a raffle ticket between 5:30-8:30 on the 10th in LaFortune Ballroom. VVinners will be selected at 8:30 and posted outside the SUB office at 201 LaFortune at 9. VVinners must buy their tickets at the SUB office on Thursday, September 12 between 1 and 5, at which point alternates will be given the chance to buy any 
__ remaining tickets. 





West Nile 
continued from page I 
from certain types of mosqui­toes, causes viral brain inflam­mation, also called encephalitis, which has no cure. 
Though Grimstad said those over 55 were at a greater risk of being susceptible to West Nile, he said students are in far less danger after exposure to the virus. 
"A young person is least likely to show serious clinical signs unless they have some level of compromised immune system," he said. 
Examples of those with com­promised immune systems are people undergoing chemothera­py and radiation as well as those with Hrv or other biological con­ditions that reduce immunity. 
Grimstad said typical symp­toms of West Nile are headaches, fevers or the flu. He added, however, that these symptoms cannot predict all cases. Rather. those symptoms, and sometimes no symptoms at all, can be just the tip of an ice­berg. 
"The major part of the iceberg is below water so the major part of individual groups who become affected never know they are 
Game 
continued from page I 
furthest from the 50-yard line, many Irish fans said they 
never showing any symptoms whatsoever," he said. 
He said those symptoms that are waiting to manifest them­selves are called subclinical. 
As for the current cases sprouting in St. Joseph County and the Michiana region, Grimstad says it is unprecedent­ed but no cause for panic. 
"We're not going to see an aer­ial spray program," he said. "That's the least efTective way to control this." 
What students can do, howev­er, is wear long pants or long sleeves to avoid mosquito bites. he said. The mosquitoes are attracted to the carbon dioxide and heat that humans give off during daily activities. 
"They are honing in on that invisible chemical signal," he said. 
Nevertheless, he added that mosquitoes are usually attracted to dry weather. Thus, polluted, standstill waters are highly appealing, but he said rain is good for cleansing areas. 
"I would not go strolling around the woods, around the lakes or anywhere for that mat• ter in the evening unless I'm running faster than mosquitoes," he said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
enjoyed a triumphant 24-17 defeat over the Boilermakers Saturday. 
Contact Sofia Ballon at sballon@nd.edu 



Monday, September 9, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 


Cheney defends pre-emptive action against Iraq 
Associated Press 
\iVASHINGTON 

Saddam Hussein is aggres­sively seeking nuclear and bio­logical weapons and "the United States may well become the tar­get" of an attack, Vice President Dick Cheney said Sunday as the Bush administration pressed its case for toppling the Iraqi leader. 
Cheney and top administration officials took to the Sunday talk shows as part of President Bush's effort to convince the public, Congress and other countries that action against Saddam is urgently needed. The officials cited the Sept. 11 attacks in making the case that the world cannot wait to find out whether the Iraqi president has weapons of mass destruc­tion. 
"The problem here is that there will always be some uncertainty about how quickly he can acquire nuclear weapons. But we don't want the smoking gun to be a mushroom cloud," national security adviser Condoleezza Rice told CNN's "Late Edition." 
"How long are we going to wait to deal with what is clearly a gathering threat against the United States, against our allies and against his own region?" 
Added Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld on CBS's "Face the Nation": "Imagine, a September 11 with weapons of mass destruction. It's not 3,000; it's tens of thousands of inno­cent men, women and children," 
Cheney said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that the United States is justified in striking any coun­try it believes is planning an attack against America, apply­ing the Bush administration's new foreign policy doctrine on pre-emptive military action to Iraq. 
Cheney, citing unspecified intelligence gathered over the past 12 months to 14 months, said Saddam has the technical expertise and designs for a nuclear weapon, and has been seeking a type of aluminum tube needed to enrich uranium for a weapon. The tubes have been intercepted through one known channel, Cheney said. 
"We know we have a part of the picture and that part of the picture tells us that he is in fact actively and aggressively seek• ing to acquire nuclear weapons," Cheney said. 
Cheney said he did not know for sure whether Saddam already has a nuclear weapon. Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said he did not think so. 
Bush will address the United Nations on Thursday to build his case for action against Iraq. But Secretary of State Colin Powell said whatever the United Nations decides, Bush will reserve the right to go it alone 
number of Sunday political talk shows. 
against Iraq. to defend ourselves," Powell 
"The president will retain all said on "Fox News Sunday." of his authority and options to Bush outlined a new doctrine act in a way that may be appro­in June warning he will take priate for us to act unilaterally "pre-emptive action, when nee-

· 
essary, to defend our liberty and to defend our lives." He men­tioned no specific nations at the time. On Sunday, Cheney point­ed a finger directly at Iraq. 

GAZA STRIP 

Israeli tanks enter Gaza Strip before Arafat's address 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY 
Israeli tankg pushed into central Gaza early Monday, hours before Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat was to ask his par­liament to outlaw suicide bombings and reaffirm a commitment to peace with Israel. 
A draft copy of the speech Arafat was to make at a key meeting of the Palestinian parliament Monday was given to The Associated Press by his office. It said that the world was waiting for a clear signal the Palestinians saw peaceful negotiations as the way to resolve their dispute with Israel. 
"The Palestinian people are standing against all types of terrorism, whether it is state terror or individual terror. The Palestinian Legislative Council has to protect Palestinian national interests through final recognition of the state of Israel and the right of its people to live in peace and security.", the text said. 
The speech also argued that Palestinian bomb attacks gave Israel justification for harsh retaliation. 
"Suicide attacks against Israeli civil­ians in buses, restaurants, cafes and universities give the Israeli government the ability to hide its crimes," the draft said. 
Violence continued Sunday ahead of the parliamentary session in the West Bank. Palestinian security officials said two people were killed by Israeli tank fire in the southern Gaza town of Rafah, as Israeli forces advanced along the main Gaza road, encircling three refugee camps. 
Israeli military sources said troops identified two men on foot moving under cover of darkness toward the fence between Israeli and Palestinian territory and opened fire. 
Residents of the Bourej camp said sol­diers ordered families out of a two-story house where a suspected militant lived and blew up the building. The militant has been underground for several months, the residents said. 
Troops searched the Nusseirat camp, across the main highway from Bourej, residents said, and also surrounded the nearby Mughazi camp. Some exchanges of fire were heard, but no casualties were reported. 
Israeli military sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the opera­tion in Gaza was local, not an attempt to reoccupy the area. When the mission was completed, the soldiers would with­draw, he said. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Quake kills two in Papua New Guinea 
A strong earthquake struck just off Papua New Guinea's north coast Monday, reportedly killing at least two people and ripping seaside homes from their foundations. 
Some houses and roads in the coastal town of Wewak collapsed after the magnitude 7.6 quake and the local hospital was evacuated after cracks appeared in its foundations, Chief Sergeant James Japele from Wewak police said by telephone. 

Blair musters support for Iraq mission 
Fresh from talks with President Bush, British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Sunday he believed those opposed to war against Iraq would change their minds when they saw evidence of Baghdad's threat. 
Blair, who has been Bush's strongest backer in Europe for action against Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, returned to Britain from a hastily prepared meeting Saturday with Bush at Camp David to discuss Iraq policy. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Young child killed in overpass collapse 
A truck driver whose rig crashed into an interstate overpass Sunday was freed almost eight hours after the structure collapsed on top of him. The man's 19­month-old son died. 
Rescuers cut away at the cab to get to the driver. Cleaster Broadway, 41, of Moro, Ark., had been com­municating with sherifrs and Department of Public Safety officials since the collapse, said Lt. Gary Myles. 
Moral lessons drawn out of 9/11 tragedy 
Clergy nationwide sought to draw moral lessons from tragedy and comfort churchgoers during the Sunday services before Sept. 11. 
A Texas pastor urged congregants to let go of their anger over the terrorist attacks and "live with mercy." The nation's top Mormon official said the devastation was a reminder to cherish life. Several preachers urged Americans to pray for the nation as the war continued. 

Rainstorms plague southwestern U.S. 
The remnants of tropical storm Fay spread heavy rain across parts of Texas and adjoining states Sunday, and monsoon rainfall was scattered through the Southwest. 
The stormy weather left from the breakup of Fay was centered over southern Texas for a second day, and the National Weather Service posted a flash flood watch for parts of the area plus flood warnings along several rivers. 

22 houses damaged in Utah tornado 
A tornado destroyed two houses, damaged 20 others and tore down power lines and trees in this central Utah town Sunday. No injuries were reported. 
"The windows just blew out and everything came fly­ing in," said Joe Bennett, a Sanpete County sheriffs dis­patcher whose house was destroyed. "We're just lucky no one got hurt." By evening, most of the damaged homes had been secured, with plastic over the roofs. 


page 6 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 9, 2002 
Taylor said reuniting the actors With the November elections detaining suspects and endorsing flag," Appleby said. "Whenever who worked together in the approaching, Lamon called on secret trial courts. we suspend the principle, we lose

Panel 
continued from page 1 
decide how they want to be remembered for their responses to Sept. 11. Americans can either choose now to seek and destroy terrorists or they can seek out the root of terrorism. 
"Before Sept. 11 we thought that no one could touch us," Taylor said. "The issue of vulner­ability is something our country has painfully learned again." 
Although security mechanisms, such as enhanced airport check­in procedures, were put in place, it probably was not the mecha­nisms or procedures that failed us but ourselves. "We have lulled ourselves into complacency." Taylor said. "It is events of such consequence and horror that unfortunately are needed to pro­duce the glue to bring us togeth­er." 
Taylor said Americans must follow the example of countries such as Israel with its heightened alerts and drills. "If we do not want to have another Sept. 11, we have to do something different and learn from others who have been successful," Lamon said. 
The Iraq situation 
"I am very hesitant. I feel as though I fell asleep on Sept. 10 and am still dreaming," said Appleby, who opposed attacking Iraq. "I find the attack on Iraq to be surreal. 
"There are other ways, eco­nomically and diplomatically. rather than a massive attack on Iraq, [which] would risk American lives, Iraqi lives and have serious repercussions." 
Desert Storm invasion is neces­
sary. 
"Until more than one actor 
expresses dissatisfaction, it will 
be difficult for us to bring this to 
the table where we can come to a 
diplomatic conclusion," Taylor 
said. 
Although Taylor said other actors agree that Saddam Hussein must be ousted, the route that the United States is currently taking is an unpleasant one. 
"We certainly are leaving the impression that we are willing to be a unilateral bully and it cer­tainly generates fear for me and the members of the coalition that we are trying to forge," Lamon said. 
The nation's current stance towards Iraq is "psychological warfare more than anything else" echoed Hesburgh. 
To destroy an entire country in order to get rid of Hussein would not only be wrong, Hesburgh said, but would fail to eradicate the problem because there are still officials behind him willing to take up the cause. 
What now? 
The panelists gave different routes towards moving forward since Sept. 11. 
"The world today is simply not just," Hesburgh said. 
If Americans are to promote peace and just causes in the world, Hesburgh believes they must first work to create a just society of their own. He recog­nized how 80 percent of Notre Dame students work towards this goal through tutoring and service projects. 


LOOKING TO BE PARl. OF A GROUP? 



AIR FORCE ROTC Make your decisionl 
ntact: 1Lt. Alan Acree@ 631-467 or acree.1@nd.edu 
citizens to voice their opinions Lamon said that it is difficult to and hold their representatives protect freedom and keep our accountable to substantive issues. principles at the same time. 
A larger issues that must be "Those that fought in the war explored is how the government to protect the flag did so to pro­will uphold its democracy while tect those who burn that same 
csc  Fall Break SEMINAR INFORMATION Sessions TONIGHT!  
c  E  N  T  E  R  F  O  R  Are you interested in participating in a fall break seminar?  
SOCIAL  
CONCERNS  THERE .ARE MANY OPPORTUNJ:T.t:ESI  

WHEN: MONDAY, SEPT gTH! WHERE: CSC CLASSROOM WHAT: Short Presentation & Time for Questions for each seminar 


~:7:45 LIVING THE ' GOSPEL OF LIFE 11: , .,,... ,Seminar 
'";'f'.i~t· :~/ En~ounter
·' '. "c;: 1~; TI1c Gospel of 
. -. :if LIFE 
~ A t--ir• • ~I.~ 
___...,.___,....,___ 

APPUCATION DEADLINE FOR ALL SEMXNARS: 
WED, SEPT 11™, 10 P.M. AT THE CSC 
You do not need to attend to apply for a seminar. 
***For More Information on These Seminars, and Other CSC Programs, visit the Center's website at: http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu 


Remembering September I I 



Prayers for Peace, Hope and Healing 
Bells tolled at: 
7:45 a.m.  AA Flight 11 crashed into North Tower  (8:45 a.m. EDT)  
8:30 c1.m.  VA Flight 175 crashed into South Tower (9:03 a.m. EDT)  
8:45 a.m.  AA Flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon (9:43 a.m. EDT)  
9:10 c}.m.  VA Flight 93 crashed in Pennsylvania  (10:10 a.m. EDT)  

You c1re invited to t:;ke ,1 moment ofsilence for the victims c1nd their ~milies .;:JS well :;s to prc1y for pec1ce c1nd justice throughout the world. 
Prayer carc\s available outside the chapels and the Great Hall otle Mans 

Interfaith Memorial Prayer Service 
Noon, Regina Chapel 

Mass for Peace and Justice 
9:30 p.m., Holy Spirit Ch'1pel, Le Mans Hall 
Office of campus Ministry Saint M:,sCollege 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


. .· ,•. ,lf'.'t:..f.,~--~. ,~.,.....-,·\f:''-:;'.:•.. ·... ,:...-;;,,(;t:~. ~Lt· 
. 'i 
•:1 . =:' 
15 WASHINGTON~Sefriih 
:i,~·~?~~tif 



Gullc1h 

sovm CAROU:\JA '. ~:i"!St~U 
7:30 GULLAH S~minar 
·.1•:;. 


,--~---J 
' 



the battle." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, September 9, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 6 
DowJones 

8,427.20  1!t  + 143.50  
1,295.30  NASDAQ1!t  +44.30  
893.92  S&P5001!t  +14.77  
AMEX  
866.49  ~  +4.47  
NYSE  
484.64  +6.61  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) +3.07 +0.6822.8~ 
tir:et::;:'.CORPf:1~Niei::i;:E~i:~:;:fa::::;·~id1,;:;ii.,1·:faI;J;~:;i,i•i:;11 
IN BRIEF 
Disney raises prices at Fla. parks 
The price for an adult single-day ticket to any of Disney's four central Florida theme parks was raised $2 on Sunday to $50 before taxes, making the parks the area's most expensive by a nickel. 
The increase was timed for the end of the summer vacation season, said Disney spokesman Rick Sylvain. 
The company also is raising the price of multiday passes but said it will offer a dis­count to visitors who purchase them in advance. 
The price of a four-day pass bought at the park will rise $7 to $199. but will be avail­able for $192 if purchased online, over the phone, at Disney Stores outside the state or through a travel agent. 
The company said that through Nov. 17, Florida residents will be able to buy a four­day pass good for admission to all Disney parks for $109. 
Disney last raised prices in January 2001. 
SeaWorld raised its prices in January 2002, and Universal Orlando last raised its prices in March 2002. 
Universal Orlando's adult single-day price is $49.95, and Sea World charges $44.95 per adult. 

US Airways eases fare restrictions 
US Airways plans to  ease  some  of the  
restrictions it recently announced  on its  
nonrefundable discount fares.  

The Arlington-based airline, which is operating under bankruptcy court protec­tion. had said it would honor nonrefundable tickets only for the flights for which they were bought. If a passenger missed the scheduled flight, for example, the ticket would be worthless. 
But the company said Friday it will allow passengers to pay a $100 fee to fly standby on another flight on the same day as the originally scheduled flight. 
In addition, US Airways said it will credit mileage earned on nonrefundable tickets toward its frequent-flier program. 
"We heard from many customers about our changes, and we are responding in a way that should please most of them," said company spokesman B. Ben Baldanza. 
Greenspan target of criticism 
. Greenspan accused of being evasive 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
As he begins his 16th 
year in America's tough­
est economic policy post, 
Federal Reserve Chairman 
Alan Greenspan has seen 
better days. He is beset by 
second-guessers who 
blame him for a range of 
economic woes, from last 
year's recession to the $7 
trillion meltdown on Wall 
Street. 

Greenspan himself set 
off the latest round of nay­
saying. In a recent speech, 
he addressed one of crit­
ics' biggest complaints ­

that the Fed was asleep at 
the switch in the late 
1990s and failed to avert 
Wall Street's speculative 
bubble. 

Instead of resolving the 
debate, Greenspan gener­
ated more heat. Princeton 
economist Paul Krugman, 
for one, contended that 
Greenspan had been "dis­
turbingly evasive." 

It is all a marked rever­
sal from the view of 
Greenspan during the 
heady 1990s. Then, he 
held a near cult-like sta­
tus on Wall Street. Books 
such as the best seller 
"Maestro" praised his 
management of the U.S. 
economy and cited his 
steady hand in helping 
world markets recovery 
from the Asian financial 
crisis. 

But America's record 10-year-long economic expansion ended in March 2001 and Wall Street has racked up huge losses over the past two years. 
"Greenspan was a great hero when everybody was getting wealthy. but now that people have lost a lot of money, he is the goat," former Fed board member Lyle Gramley said. 
Critics fault Greenspan on both sides of the inter­est rate equation. 
They complain he failed to raise interest rates soon enough in the late 1990s to keep the specu­lative stock market frenzy from getting out of con­trol. They say he overdid the credit tightening in 2000, thereby triggering a full recession. 

Greenspan's tenure as Fed chairman is exceeded only by William McChesney Martin, who had a 19-year run in the 1950s and 1960s. 
The current chairman has been the target of sec­ond-guessing before ­during the only other recession on his watch, in 1990-91. ' 
At that time, much of the criticism came not from economists but from the administration of the first President Bush. His economic team tried to get Greenspan to cut rates more aggressively before the 1992 presidential race. Greenspan and the Fed resisted; Bush blamed his defeat in part on Greenspan's obstinacy. 
By contrast, the current Bush administration has given no hints of unhappi­ness with Greenspan. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill takes every oppor­tunity to link his economic views with those of Greenspan, who has been content to leave interest rates at a 40-year low this year in an effort to revive the economy. 
Despite those low rates, Democrats and Republicans outside the administration have chal­lenged the Fed to do more to spur growth. Greenspan probably will hear those demands repeated Thursday when he delivers his latest assessment of economic conditions in congression­al testimony. 
Greenspan's main argu­ment in his recent speech to a Fed symposium was that any effort to prick the stock bubble would have required pushing interest rates so high as to bring on that which policy-mak­ers wanted to avoid: a recession. 
Noted Wall Street econ­omist Henry Kaufman and other analysts say the Fed could have used interest rates and other tools to keep stock prices from ris­ing so high. One example: the Fed's power to increase margin require­ments, the amount of cash an investor must put up when financing a stock purchase with a loan. 

Cheney defends Halliburton Co. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Vice President Dick Cheney defend­
ed his ment  manage-of  See Also  
Halliburton Co.. saying he had assumed the oil  "Cheney defends pre­ 
giant's insurance would shield it against asbestos  emptive action agains Iraq"  
lawsuits that have  Page 5.  

cost it hundreds of millions of dollars and helped devalue its stock. 
The $7.7 billion acquisition of rival Dresser Industries Inc. in 1998 -when Cheney was chief executive -doubled the Texas company's size overnight and allowed it to claim the title of the world's leading oilfield services company. Most of Halliburton 's current asbestos claims were inherited from Dresser. 
His appearance on NBC's "Meet the Press" on Sunday was the first time Cheney fielded questions from a journalist on Halliburton since May 28, when the Securities and Exchange Commission informed the company it was investigating its accounting practices. Cheney was chairman and chief executive of Halliburton from 1995 to 2000. 
He said asbestos "afflicts a great many companies," and said "most of the difficulties arose since I left two years ago." Without elaborat­ing, Cheney also blamed plaintiffs' lawyers, a favorite target of conser­vatives. 
Last year. Halliburton was hit with verdicts in Texas, Mississippi and Maryland totaling $152 million. The last verdict triggered a sell-off that sent Halliburton shares plung­ing 40 percent in one day because investors feared it was the tip of the liability iceberg. 
"Our experience with asbestos at 
Halliburton  was  that  we  were  
insured.  we  were  indemni fied,"  
Cheney said.  

I .. 
/ 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 8 Monday, September 9, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason Mcfarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSI.NESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Fed.erico 
ScrNE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
C0NTR0UER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGE.RIGENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.................................................... : ..... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MAR\"'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well a., cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q,mtions rtgarding Obseroapolicies should bt dirtct­td to F.ditor in Chief Jason Mi:Farky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th< O~(USPS 599 2--IOOO) ia published Monday ,hrough Friday napr during aam and vac.ition periods. Asubscription .,The Ob.rrva i, S100 for one ,acad,mic ycar. $55 fo,on<-«r-
Th< Obt.erwr ia pubwh<d '" POSfMASTER 
024 Sourh Dining H.U Send address conecc:ioru to: 
Noa.: D....._ IN 46556-0n9 The Obocrv.r 
Pcriodi.:.I po,1.g. paid ., Noo,, Dame P.O.llo.Q 
and additional m.iling offica. 024 South Dining H.U 
Nottt Dame, IN 46556-0779 

The Obtcr,e, ia • member ai d,c As.ociaud r..... All n:prodUL'tion ri1ha .,. 
.........i. 

Standing in a teacher's shoes 
I remember vividly a night in mid­dle school when I went out to dinner with my parents. It took forever to get our drinks, even longer to place our orders, and by the time our food got to the table, it was cold. While 
Laura Rompf
my mom, my siblings and I were initially 

Beyond the 
upset by the 

Bubble 
service, my dad said something that caught my attention: "This place is packed tonight and it's not like she's sitting around doing nothing. Waiting tables is a hard job, and I think it is something everyone should have to do before they can critique service." For the first time that evening, I saw things from the wait­ress's point of view. 
Almost a month ago, I moved 850 miles away from my home of Winchester, Ky., and began my two­year Alliance for Catholic Education experience. While I believe my father's statement was correct for waitresses and waiters, I am seeing even more clearly how true it rings for teachers. 
For example, we all know the teachers in high school who may not have been the brightest. They often made mistakes in lecture, couldn't always answer questions and some­times even conceded to the smart kids in class to draw conclusions about the material. 
I never sympathized with those teachers. In fact, I was the first to criticize them. Until now. 
My first day of teaching, I handed out reading to my honors students. A little Locke, a little Montesquieu and a little Hobbes. "You don't actually have to read Hobbes' 'The Leviathan,' I told my students. "It's a bit long and wordy, and this introduction I'm giv­ing you actually summarizes it well." 
A student in the front row raised his hand and quickly corrected me. "I read 'The Leviathan' this summer, and I don't think Hobbes is wordy at all." I'm not sure if my mouth dropped open, but I felt my face turn hot and red. 
"Is this kid for real?" I thought. "Who in the world reads 'The · Leviathan• for fun?" For the first time, I regretted giving my high school teachers a hard time. I regret­ted making one of them feel so dumb that he left the room and screamed, "Fine, then you teach the class!" 
As I stood in front of my genius stu­dent a little dumfounded and a little embarrassed, I saw from my high school teachers' perspective. Another example comes from last year during my final semester at Notre Dame. I will admit, senioritis had set in and I was more interested in picking out an outfit for Heartland than doing extra reading for my classes. In one class I took, my professor assigned reading and a one-page reflection due at the beginning of class each day. "Am I still in sophomore year Core class?" I thought to myself. "Does she really need to make sure I read?" 
While I saw some immediate effects of those assignments last year (i.e., I actually had to read) it wasn't until two weekends ago, when I sat and graded for seven and a half hours straight, that I saw the effects of those assignments on my professor. While I only had to turn in one reflec­tion each day, she had to grade 18 each night. And she did. 
Each day of class we would get back a reflection with numerous comments and a grade. Last year. I assumed she was only giving the assignments to be mean and petty and to create busy work for me. However, in actuality, the assignments created more work for her, and only ensured that I gained something from the hour and 15 minutes I sat in class in DeBartolo Hall. 
After teaching for only a month, and seeing the hours of lesson planning, grading and reading that goes into the job, I have gained the utmost respect for my previous teachers and professors. It's more work than I ever expected, and I realize now that dur­ing the first 22 years of my life, I never had the right to criticize or complain about how an educator did her job. In fact, just like my father's advice about criticizing waiters and waitresses, I believe all critics of edu­cators should first have to teach. 
Laura Rompf is a 2002 graduate of Notre Dame. Currently she is teaching in Oklahoma City as a member of the Alliance for Catholic Education. Her column appears every other Monday. Contact her at lrompf@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Finn Pressly Chris Federico Helena Payne Katie McVoy Laura Coristin Scene 
Viewpoint C. Spencer Beggs Teresa Fralish Lab Tech Graphics Nellie Williams Katie McKenna Illustrator Patrick Quill 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should students in air-conditioned dorms pay more for room and board? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The whole art ofteaching is only the art of awakening the natural curiosity ofyoung minds for the purpose ofsatisfying it afterwards ... 
Anatole France French novelist 

--------------------------------------·---·-···· 
O
THE BSERVER 

Monday, September 9, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Police action leads to brutality 
As a senior at Notre Dame, one of my favorite tradi­tions has been the partying at Lafayette. Students get together during the evening on weekends and party to their heart's content. The main problems that have been occurring are local teenagers walking through the com­plex and occasionally taking property. However, last Friday, some other problems began occurring at Lafayette. 
First of al1, students were ordered by a local South Bend police officer to either "party inside or in the back­yard." This changes the party atmosphere completely. We couldn't see what the problem was about partying in the parking lot. but we respectfully relocated the party­ing to the backyard and the kegs to the kitchen. 
Secondly. police officers began walking through the backyards and occasionally lecturing students. I person­ally witnessed a girl talking to a guy in the backyard near the fence of the unit I was visiting. A police officer yelled at her, "what you're doing makes me suspicious." She began walking away and the officer grabbed her arm in a hurtful fashion. He demanded her age. When she stated, "21" he screamed. "You're lying to me," and led her away. Police brutality at its best, no doubt. 
I believe this to be related to the jealousy that locals have of Notre Dame and Saint Mary;s students. There was no reason to do what they were doing Friday night, but they insisted on doing it anyhow -just as the police officers parked their car in a "no-parking.. zone. Students would have been towed by the local towing company for the same thing. They do this because, "we are South Bend Police." 
It sounds like they are starting to act like Notre Dame police. Where's justice when you really need it? 
Matt Roberts 
senior off-campus Sept. 7 

American flag proclaims freedom and diversity 
Anna Nussbaum, in her Sept. 4 letter, said that we should "hang an Earth flag" in exchange for an American flag. Earlier in the letter she said, "Patriotism ... I think, is no antidote to hatred." If patriotism, as she claims, is no antidote to hatred, then why would Nussbaum subsequently support global patriotism expressed through an "Earth flag?" 
According to Nussbaum. there is a taboo on the patriotic act of hang­ing an American flag, but it is exceptional to commit the glob­ally patriotic act of hanging an "Earth flag." If Nussbaum is so averse to divisions of peo­ple and only believes in global unity, then how can she participate in this University which just requires another division of her individual loyalties that seem to be totally devoted to the Earth? 
This "Earth flag" is hung, she writes, "in the hope that we might someday live as brothers and sisters with all people regard­less of nationality." This hope seems familiar. In fact, it is the very hope that is central to the American concept of patrio­tism. From a plethora of backgrounds and regardless of nationality, Americans live as brothers and sisters. 
We are a society composed of extremely diverse history. yet Americans live in the freest society in the world and remain unified. Nussbaum misun­derstands America's necessary patriotic role when she expresses this hope. America's patriot­ic values of unity amidst diversity are not a con­tradiction to Nussbaum's "Earth" patriotism; rather, America's exhibition of unity amidst diversity serves as a microcosm for the rest of the Earth to follow. Hanging the flag is a manifesta­tion of her "hope" for unity. not an offense to it. 
It is not sufficient for Americans to write "pray for peace" or "we remember" in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist crimes as Nussbaum urges us 
to do. Idle thoughts do not change situations. I off er a response to Sept. 11 that is opposite to Nussbaum. Hang the American flag. Hang it because of the freedom for which it stands. Hang it in support of the impenetrable will our nation holds. Hang it for our ability 
to remain the most united nation on earth, not in spite of our diverse history. but in celebration of it. Hang it in the hope that we might continue to live as brothers and sisters with all people 

regardless of nationality. Hang the flag for the purpose of propagandizing all the superior values that it stands for in opposition to the evil val­ues of terrorist nations and groups. Hang it in support of the war that we are fighting against those 
realms of terror that have rejected our American patriotism that projects unity amidst diversity. Hang it in order to proclaim to the whole earth that America will not be bullied by freedom-haters but will continue toward its pos­sible destiny of converting the entire world to its patriotism. 
Thomas Witherspoon 
freshman Keenan Hall Sept. 6 

Appreciate life through service 
During the course of a semester, it en your horizon. Experiencing the is easy to become dissatisfied with complex and difficult issues other things that could hardly matter out­people face daily can help put one's side our well-protected community. own life in perspective. Perhaps only It is easy to lose touch with the fact in recognizing our own comfort can that being at Notre Dame is what we cease to worry about inconse­many students dream about and that quential things and learn to appreci­being a part of this community rep­ate each day. resents opportunities and a certain Side benefits? Economically, the fortuity 99 percent of this globe's cost of participating is small or negli­population will never experience. gible, plus, you might receive acade­
Yet, it is hard to stop worrying mic credit. Geographically and cul­about things that later turn out to be turally, the seminars present oppor­inconsequential as long as one does tunities to explore areas that other­not realize their inconsequentiality. wise might lie outside one's tradi­As an excellent antidote to worrying tional environment. PsychologicaHy -an antidote that happens to have and spiritually, helping others is wonderful side effects -let me sug­foundational in most religious teach­gest some service and experiential ing and is what ultimately also helps learning activities. If you went to oneself. Even very little help or just activities night, you would have seen an open ear can bring enriching hap­the vast array of service organiza­piness to others. The return is per­tions on campus. If you walk by the sonal happiness, increased satisfac­Center for Social Concerns, you can tion and more energy for classes and pick up a flyer about an equally everyday life. Make the most of your remarkable range of seminars across breaks, both the little breaks in the United States and other countries between and after classes, and the during break. cherished one-week or several week 
Participating in such opportunities breaks. can raise awareness of issues such as poverty, education or politics, put Michael Wolz you in touch with fascinating people law student (both fellow students and the people Fischer Graduate Residence on your way) and remarkably broad-Sept. 7 
I wish they all could be Notre Dame girls 
As I stood laughing with the crowd Coleman-Morse. They are the ones at the Dillon Pep Rally last Thursday who are wearing pajama bottoms and night, I became increasingly aware of glasses, with their hair up and their a subject that has long been burden­nose buried in "Plato's Republic" or ing my conscience. The pep rally was "General Chemistry." True, there is a a chance for the good ol' boys of definite lack of teenie-bopping, Dillon Hall to poke a little fun at just bleached-blonde, fake-tanned, cleav­about everybody from radio D.J. age-touting, flesh parades on campus. Taylor Richards to the president of Thank God. Find me a girl who is Purdue University. But one group that interested in stimulating a more was attacked in almost militaristic important organ -my brain. Now fashion were the female students of that's arousing. our own Notre Dame. Personally, having a girlfriend at 
Now I can take a joke, and I'm sure Saint Mary's (we were together before that all was meant in fun at the pep either of us went to college} has freed rally. but the zings hurled by the me to look at women much more actors on stage only echo a much objectively. I'm not looking for a date. larger and seemingly growing senti­or even a hook-up, but I would say ment against Notre Dame girls. It is this to the single men of this whispered from upperclassmen to University: Look at the fine women freshmen in the first few weeks of around you. The ones who are self. school. It is laughed about in the din­respecting. The ones who are intelli­ing hall, the classrooms and on the gent. The ones you know will someday quad. "Notre Dame girls aren't that have great careers, make amazing good looking." contributions to all corners of acade­
But every day I spend waiting for mia and maybe someday make the friends at the dining hall, watching wonderful families of tomorrow. That the multitudes of female Notre Dame is more than beautiful. That's drop­students pass me, I think to myself, dead gorgeous. "You've gotta be kidding me." 
Fact is, girls at Notre Dame are gor• Brian Grundy geous. Pretty girls flock by me on my sophomore way to class. Beautiful ladies abound Keough Hall at the tables in LaFortune and Sept. 7 
" 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 10 Monday, September 9, 2002 
That valuable vinyl: Confessions of a closet LP junkie 
When I was in 6th grade, I found a secret joy in having the house to myself. I would perch myself at the window and watch until I saw my parents' cars dis­appear from view. I would then make a dash around the downstairs of our house closing all the curtains and sealing all the windows. Finally assured of being all alone and obscured from the view of my neighbors, it was time to begin. 
Creeping into our family room, I would slowly open the cupboard and a take a deep breath in awe of the beauty amassed before me: my parents forbidden vinyl collec­tion. My dad, being a perfectionist, would polish his records after every use, dusting off every speck of dust or fingerprint that might appear after one round on the turntable. If he had known that the greedy hands of a child (me) explored his record collection each time he left the house. his horror could have only been measured by a seismograph. I, however, couldn't help myself. There was something so glorious about the feeling of vinyl in my hand, the slightly musty smell of the tissue paper and the worn fray of the cardboard cover. 
And then there was the sound. I got such inexpressible joy in placing the record on the turntable, moving the pin onto the groove and hearing that groggy crackle rustle through the speakers. Nothing was more grand to my ears. No, this wasn't 1967 and I wasn't a rebellious teenager. It was 1995 and I was a 12 year old with one hell of a taste in music. 
Sure, CDs were pretty mainstream by '95, in fact I even owned a few, but that smooth, modern sound lacked something when compared to vinyl, some­thing even my 12-ycar-old ears could pick up. There was an absence in the quality of sound, in the richness that diffused from a record's workings of gui­tar, bass and drums. 
There was the obvious size difference as well. With records and CDs it seems the myth that "bigger is better" is true. Records came complete with legible liner notes, tantalizing pictures and sometimes even bonus add-ins. The Beatles' Sgt. Pepper LP came complete with cut out mustaches and badges for those inclined to play psychedelic dress-up. 
I must admit, I was a bit different from most people my age in 1995. I tended to shy away from the mainstream pop the radio fed us. I was never a fan of TLC, Salt 'n'Pepa, or any other type of supposed "music" the industry bottled up and spit out in those days. I restricted my listening to solely to what was quality. I was a huge Beatles fanatic, almost bordering on the ridiculous. I would dress in Beatles garb nearly everyday, talk in a British accent and bake cupcakes to pass out at school on each of the Beatles birthdays. Every book I read was Beatie-related and to this day I still have my Beatles scrapbook of every article that appeared in a newspaper or magazine concerning the life of one of the Fab Four. I guess you could say I was obsessed. 
My musical interest didn't end with the Beatles, however. As I grew bold enough to explore my dad's record collection further I discovered the joy of Bob Dylan. I hung on his every word and intonation, something which was magnified all the more splendidly on vinyl. The harmonies of Crosby, Stills and Nash, the soft whine of Neil Young, the rough edginess of the Rolling Stones ­I had become addicted to rock and roll from another era. Or maybe I simply loved the sound of another era. 
Vinyl records are due in part to my taking up the guitar. On those days when I was home alone with my father's albums singing along with them and playing air-guitar ala Tom Cruise in "Risky Business," I longed for a guitar of my own s~ I could really play along. One Christmas morning under the tree sat a lovely Gibson and after two months of self-induced torture practicing and freshly cal­loused ~nge~tips, I was finally able to put on a Dylan album and play right along with him. Unfortunately, even with all my practicing, my own voice never i1!1proved. The situation was rectified however, by the rich sound quality of the vmyl record. Dylan's own voice, which embarrassingly can hold a tune better than my own, would drown me out beautifully. 
Now that I'm in college, I am forced to be apart from my dad's collection on a regular basis. My only resort is listening to my own CDs with a set of giant headphones in an effort to improve the quality of sound. Still there is nothing I look forward to more than returning home and throwing on an LP as I lie sprawled on the couch. It's an experience close to heaven. 
As music technology continues to change with MP3s, streaming and other forms of downloadable music, I continue to believe that real music lovers will stay true to vinyl. I know I certainly will. Even with all its impracticalities, nothing can beat the thrill derived from the crackle of the needle in the grooves and rich, fluid sound pouring forth from the speakers. Perhaps that is why I rece?tly told my parents this over the phone: "When you die, you can leave my sister all the Jewelry and good china. You can divide the house and estate between my two brothers. But for me, all I want is your record collec­ti~n." Some might call me morbid for thinking of death before its time, but I thm~ of myself as wise for staking my claim in my parents most valuable pos­session. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Julie Bender is a not-so-recovering vinyl junkie and an Assistant Scene Editor at The Observer. She can be contacted at bender. I O@nd.edu. 



Why music afficionados are 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

When Thomas Edison recorded his voice singing "Mary Had a Little Lamb" in 1877, music took a quan­tum forward. No longer would artists' masterpieces vanish into thin air as soon as they were played. \Vhen the first list of commercial recordings became available in 1890, the American public began a love affair with collecting music. 
But after a little over a hundred years of availability and numerous improvements from cylinder phono­graphs, magnetic tapes, compact discs to MP3s, why are collectors turning back to one of the oldest standards -records? 
The record has gone through almost too many incarnations to count. Vinyl was first offered as a production material in 1929 for radio stations, but world record standards weren't introduced until 1958. Though technology has offered numerous competing standards the LP has persevered even in the digital age. 
One reason for vinyl's staying power may be that audiophiles swear LPs offer better sound quality than CDs. The debate may never be set­tled, but hardcore LP fans point out that the benefits CDs offer are not necessarily unique. When CDs first came on the market, Sony and Phillips, the companies that devised the standard, advertised them with the motto "perfect sound forever." 
While CDs have high sound quality, best estimates put them at lasting for about 100 years. LPs have consistent­ly defied expectations; at this point it is uncertain how long they can last. 
CDs claim to perfect sound isn't necessarily perfect either. Most vinyl fans know that those pops and clicks that consumers associate with poor aging of LPs is actually caused by dirt and dust in grooves. Even CDs are affected by the quality of the player and physical condition of the disc, they are just more durable. In fact, with an investment in a decent player, a little bit of cleaning and proper storage, only a true audio guru could tell between CD and LP playback. 
Though CDs can produce sounds in higher frequencies than LPs, which accounts for the "brighter" sound of the recording, LPs have a low-end than is far beyond what CDs can reach, which is the reason club DJs prefer LPs. Audiophiles also contend that CDs only offer a digital sampling of music while the analog process of LPs reproduces the whole perfor­mance. 
"If you have a good hi-fi system. LP sounds better than CD. The range is so much larger on LP. It sounds so much more mechanical, so much more clean. The real world has the pops and click of an LP," said third­year law student and vinylphile Matt Holmes. 

Despite CDs' claim to sound superi­ority, quality has never really been the reason for technological medium changes. Looking back, VHS won out over Betamax, a video format with 


LPs can reach low-range frequencies that C LPs for professional mixing. 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, September 9, 2002 
page 11 
• 


returning to their vinyl roots 

superior quality, because it was mar­keted better and was more conve­nient to use. 
But unlike Betamax, LPs never went out of production. In fact, record companies still regularly pro­duce LPs. For smaller labels and independent artists, pressing LPs offers higher profits and can produce smaller yields than minting CDs. Music connoisseurs looking for some­thing off the beaten track can find it readily available in LP. 

For those looking backward, as the Baby Boomer generation has aged, more and more of their album collec­tions have ended up in second-hand music shops. At a time when CD prices are pushing $17 or more for older music, $5 LPs have become an affordable alternative for those addicted to buying albums. 
Vinylphiles also contend that listen­ing to LPs are more experiential than CDs. The convenience of that advanced technology affords the music consumer is not necessarily a good thing. The average CD pushes 80 minutes of straight playtime while LPs offer much less. 
Even worse, MP3s offer instant access to music. The digital age of music has ushered in a type to atten­tion deficit disorder; the skip track button looms and. Changing songs on a record player requires a bit more work. 
Artists record albums, not just a collection of singles. Too often music fans may find the_mselves playing the hit single to death without listening to the way an album is constructed as a whole. 
Lastly, records used to be produced in smaller runs than CDs, which are produced in large international releases. One of the oldest traditions of the LP era was cover art. The Beatles· "White Album" was known by its cover not by a name. 
Who can forget the burning zep­pelin from Led Zeppelin's I or the psychedelic look of the Grateful Dead's albums. The small space on CD covers and non-existent art of electronic distribution have made this art form a rare one indeed. Modern 
art exhibitions have recently been 
running collections of LP covers as 
whole shows. 
"When you get a CD you get a, little four by four picture ... In the old days of rock and roll, cover art was a way to express as much on the outside of an album visually as in the album did itself inside. There are liner notes written by Shel Silverstein, important artistic works them­selves," Holmes said. 
While CDs and electronic music 
are the wave of the future, LPs 
aren't dead. And with the recent 
strength of the LP publishing indus­
try, it doesn't look to be going any­
where anytime soon. 
Vinylphiles may never win to ongo­ing debate fought in college dorm rooms and online music discussion groups, but each year more and more music aficionados are going back to their vinyl roots. 

it SMC Sports Roundup 

Monday, September 9, 2002 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
IN BRIEF 
Golf 
The Belles teed off exactly the way they want­ed to Saturday. 
In the first MIAA tournament of the season, the Belles finished in a tie for second place with the Hope Flying Dutch with a team total of 346 strokes. 
Saint Mary's had three golfers in the top 10. Sophomore Stefanie Simmerman tied with Alma's Courtney Rheinhart for third place with 81 strokes. just two behind medallist Stacey Chapman. Megan Mattia and Liz Hanlon fin­ished in eighth and tenth place, respectively. with 86 and 87 strokes. 
Albion, who finished in second place last sea­son. took home first place in the tournament with a total of 330 strokes. 
Hope and Saint Mary's finished 34 points ahead of the next competitor -Olivet -who had a team total of 380 strokes. 
Rounding out the Belles four finshers was Jaclyn Thompson with a total of 92 strokes. 
Cross Country 
The Belles finished in fourth place out of five teams in the Run for One Invitational at Grace College Saturday. 
Saint Mary's finished 77 points behind first place finisher Hunitngton College and just 14 points ahead of last place finisher University of Saint Francis. 
Goshen College's Heidi Saunders finished first with a time of 18 min. 58 sec. The Belles showed some solid pack running, with their first place runner finishing within seven places of their last. Laura Ficker led the Belles with an 18th place finish and a time of 22:41. Jackie Bauters, Erin Thayer and Risa Zander finished in 20th, 21st and 22nd place with times of 22:43, 23:08 and 23:18, respectively. Jennifer Bartalino finished in 25th place with a time of 24:04. 

VOLLEYBALL 


By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Spores Editor 

The simple fact is that the Belles are young. 
They began their season 1-4 and showed their youth last Tuesday in a disap­pointing loss to Kalamazoo. But this weekend, they took the initiative to learn from their mistakes and they brought home a win. 
..After Tuesday we had a really bad match and we just wanted to turn things around," junior Alison Shevik said. "We're a young team and we're figuring out what we need to do to win." 
On Saturday, what they needed to do was communi­cate. In a 3-2 (30-25, 23-30, 30-28, 26-30, 15-11) win against Division I foe Chicago, the Belles talked themselves past their mis­takes to victory. 
"Communication was our big key," Shevik said. "Everyone was really posi­tive and they didn't let mis­takes get them down." 
Following the win against Chicago, Saint Mary's fell to Edgewood College in a closely fought 1-3 loss (21­30, 23-30, 33-31, 25-30). 
Edgewood, whose offense didn't look as solid as Saint Mary's, managed to capital­ize on some Belles' mis­takes. If its skills weren't as solid, its will to win was. 
"They were really, really scrappy," Shevik said. "They didn't have as good an offense as we did but they dug for everything. It was annoying more than anything." 
Shevik led the Belles defensive effort with 46 digs. She and freshman Talia Matury-Vacaro led Saint Mary's with 18 and 19 digs, respectively. Sophomore Bridget Wakaruk turned in another stellar performance with 76 assists on the weekend. 
Saint Mary's will have 
one day of practice before facing off at Adrian Tuesday. The Bulldogs fin­ished last season just three places above the Belles, but are off to a solid start this season with a 7-2 record. 
Before the match gets under way at 7 p.m., Saint Mary's is looking to get a little work done on funda­mentals. 
"We're smarter than the other teams we play, but we're young and we need to work on fundamentals and basics," Shevik said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED: Notre Dame VS Michigan  Awesome! We have a 2 bedroom 2  Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich. game.  
tickets Date: Sept. 14, 2002 Need  bath apartment available now at  
NOTICES  tickets for a special anniversary sur- FOR RENT  College Park Condos on Bulla.  255-8256.  PERSONAL  
prise. Please call John Jacob  Celebrate Junior or Senior living at  
its best. Call Patti 235-7234.  WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST  
Phone# (814) 893-5701  PRICES PAID  
CJs Pub See whats happening  Room in Home for rent. $400.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
www.cjspub.com  ND family looking for babysitter in  Utilities incl. 8 min. to campus. Furn  251-1570  not go it alone. If you or someone  
home-Tues. 3-6pm AND/OR  or unfurn. Jacuzzi.  TICKETS  you love needs confidential support  
Attention Spring Breakers Travel  Thurs. 5-8pm. Some flex. Great  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals  kids, good pay.  Call Donna 255-4737.  PRICES  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  
Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  289-9280  more information, see our bi-weekly  
Most Reliable www.sunsplash- Call Michelle 233-2921.  Available immediately -Fall semes­ check our prices.  ad in THE OBSERVER.  
tours.com 1-800-426-7710  ter only • 2 BR cottage five min from  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  
Housemate in 3 bdrm house in a  campus. Dave 243-5353.  273-3911.  SALE.  PPV MOFO power is back.  
Need Money? Officiate Flag  quiet nbrhood. close to campus.  
Football! Call RecSports 631-6100.  $350/mo incl all util.  Furnished rooms for rent in a spa- NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  AM 232·2378 PM 288-2726  Es siempre justo y necesario.  
Training Clinic 9/11/02 7pm RSRC.  Call Niki 574-287-7869.  cious comfortable home. Includes  GAME.  
kitchen privileges, washer/dryer,  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT- The basement is a big hole, and  
AJC, internet, quiet reading rooms,  CALL JACK 674-6593.  ED  you just can't get out.  
swimming pool and patio. 2 miles  
WANTED  FOR SALE  from campus. $330 month.  Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets.  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  God's prediction was right. Now we  
have to live with that junk for a  
Call Tom at 574-243-4749.  289-8048 or astrog999@aol.com  Philadelphia-area alum needs one  week.  
BENCHWARMERS SPORTS  91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal,  ticket for U. of Michigan game.  
LOUNGE 236 So. Michigan Needs  clean, 1 -owner, very good condi- All size homes available for 2003­ Needed: large quantity of Stanford  Party at the Chiefs house.  
bartenders, OJ and promotional  tion. $4200.  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  tickets for reunion.  Call John 610-688-1710  
people.  277-0189.  www.mmmrentals.com  Isn't the Chief a choir boy???  
232-0022.  Please help. 289-8048.  3 MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED.  Nah, he just sings with 'em.  
Large one-bedroom condo for sale.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Seats can be separated.  
$250 a day potential/bartending.  One mile to NO. Non-rental. Newly  RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS.  Need 2 or 4 GA tix to home games.  Hey Lauren, it's Hot in Herrel  
Training provided  remodeled. Fully equipped  276-8507.  Need many tickets(6)for BC game.  
1-800-293-3985 ext. 556  $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu  CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  Call 288-2877 after 5.  Call Brian at 4-0881  Votre Mere y Tu Mama Tambien.  


Monday, September 9, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 13 
U.S. OPEN 




Asso<:iated Press 

NEW YORK 
Pete Sampras was right all along: He did have a 14th Grand Slam title in him. And just like the first. rall th'ose years ago, it came in a U.S. Open final against his old rival Andre Agassi. 
His serve clicking, his volleys on target, his fore­h and as fluid as ever, Sampras beat Agassi 6-3, 6-4. 5-7, 6-4 Sunday to win America's major for. the fifth time. 
At 31, Sampras is the Open's oldest champion since 1970 and joins Jimmy Connors atop the 
Open list with five singles titles. 
And though he stopped short of saying he'II quit. Sampras did sound like someone who's thinking about retiring on a high. 
"To beat a rival like Andre, in a storybook ending, it might be nice to stop," he said. "But I still love to compete. I'll see in a couple of months where my heart is and my mind. My head is spinning." 
Sampras' play faded in the third set and the fourth, and it was hard to tell whether Agassi or time was taking the big­ger toll. But Sampras managed to hold on, the rebuke to his doubters as loud as the sound made by his 33 aces as they slapped the walls behind the baselines: Pop! 
Sampras hadn't won a title since Wimbledon in July 2000, a drought of 33 tournaments, and he was seeded just 17th at the Open. He's deflected questions about whether he'd keep going for some time now. insisting he still could produce on the big stage. After all, he fig­ured, his 13 major titles were a record. 
When the 3 2-year-old Agassi put a backhand into the net to give Sampras the last break he would need, making it 5-4 in the fourth set, Sampras was so drained he barely lifted a fist, slowly pump­ing it once as he trudged to the changeover. 
He then served it out. with an ace to match point. and a volley winner to end it. And he had enough energy to climb the stairs in the stands to kiss and hug his pregnant wife. actress Bridgette Wilson. 
Sampras played his best tennis at the U.S. Open the past two years. mak­ing it to the championship match before losing in straight sets to a pair of 20-year-old first-time Grand Slam finalists: Lleyton Hewitt in 2001, Marat Satin in 2000. 
IN BRIEF 

Offensive song lyricsblared at Fenway Park 
A song that included profanity and drug-themed lyrics was broadcast over the loudspeakers in Boston's Fenway. Park before Manny Ramirez's first at-bat Sunday, forc­ing the Red Sox to alter their policy on allowing players to choose their own music. 
Spokesman Charles Steinberg said the song "I get high," by Styles, was requested during the game by a clubhouse attendant who was appar­ently relaying Ramirez's wishes. When the song was checked to make sure it was appropriate, it was not played all the way through. 
Ramirez declined comment after accommodate spontaneous requests," Steinberg said during Boston's game against the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Shaq's surgery a go 
Doctors have cleared Los Angeles Lakers center Shaquille O'Neal for foot surgery, which is scheduled for Sept. 11. 
Doctors told O'Neal's agent, Perry Rogers, that blood tests administered earlier this week were normal, the Los Angeles Times reported Saturday. 
O'Neal had been fighting a virus in recent weeks, which could have pushed back the surgery and further delayed O'Neal's return. O'Neal the season Oct. 29. 
Jones stops Woods in sixth round 
Roy Jones Jr. came to put on a 
show ­ and that was before he even  
threw  a  punch against  Clinton  
Woods.  

Jones opened his light heavyweight title defense with a dancing, rapping exhibition in the stands Saturday night, then came down into the ring to show Woods what he really does best. 
For the better part of six rounds he did just that, pounding a game but badly outclassed Woods with light­ning-quick punches until the chal­lenger's corner finally told the refer­
twice had been admitted to an ee to stop it at 1 :29 of the sixth.
the game. 

Jones kept his undisputed light
The 12-letter profanity appears 54 Orlando-area hospital with a fever 
seconds into the song, Steinberg and other complications, including a heavyweight titles and did nothing to hurt his chances of moving up to the
said, and there isn't usually that swollen liver. 
Rogers has said O'Neal's recovery heavyweight division later this yearmuch time before the first pitch to a could take six weeks, meaning he for a possible fight with WBA cham­batter. 
"To avoid that, we will no longer might not be ready for the start of pion John Ruiz. 
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, Saptember 9, 2002 

LONDONPROG 



Ii 


APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALI.~ 2003 AND SPRING 2004 
~ruesday, Septen1be1· l_ CJ, 2002 10l DeBartolo 6:30 pm 
ALL SOPHO~IORES WELCOME! 
, 'I 
i 
l !! ( 
i 
I 
I 
I 
I
I ­
i; 
;, 1, 
,, 

Monday, September 9, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish men, women impressive in opening meet 
inaugural adidas Invitational. junior All-American Todd Footlocker Cross Country
SpeciaJ to The Observer 
The Invitational, held this Mobley who won the men's race Champion, was running in his 
The mens cross country team Friday at Notre Dame's Burke in a time of 24:51 for his second first collegiate meet. showed that it should have little Memorial Golf Course, was the career victory. The other Irish runners who trouble rebounding from the loss first cross country meet of the Mobley was chased home by scored points in the meet were: of three All-Americans this past year for the Irish. teammate Tim Moore, who fin­freshman Kaleb Van Ort (8th, off-season. The men posted a The top finisher for the Irish in ished second in a time of 25:02. 25:13); senior John Keane (15th, strong second-place finish at the the field of 40 runners was Moore, a freshman and 2001 25:35); and junior David Alber 
MAKE WAVES 
~j_ ~2%"~~f: .·•' !'.'~. ,.,v. t .; 
\.C''·" 

j ••· .. · ;r . , ;~i-,,.·::•.i'>• ..
;1;.>,~.:..t•·r•· ,~ ~ ··,•1£:C(,'~ _.-· 
·-.,-:, ,,:y ~I ;i,>"J,\ . .'. ,·_.• ''c'!' rwfoYYMat£.oM, sesstoM, foy 
sophomor-es aa,,.,d j w.~i.oYS 
5PM 
"I"'~,..; 
' 
O' ""•'\f:,

"''' 1,-~,•...•:"' ...~:;c; ·--"'·"' 
.....,.., ._r<, .. I' I'. ,-\,C•·~ 
··~, i~., ~.:. ,~it?~ septtmbeY 1..0 
i:: ·r, "r,-. 

-·-•·· .
;;• ,f· · · 

· , ' :201.. t)t"BArtoLo 
=..-·•· 
~~ ,·•*. ,

· -.. , .·;·. :·•,..~•-: 
TOKYO, JAPAN 
2003 
(16th, 25:43). 
The mens team entered the 
meet ranked 25th nationally, 
and will likely improve that 
ranking after this second-place 
finish. The Irish were only best­
ed by North Carolina State, who 
entered with a No. 7 ranking. 
Notre Dame defeated 13th 
ranked Arizona State as well as 
Tennessee, which was in the 
"also receiving votes" category. 
North Carolina State took first 
place with a score of 32, Notre 
Dame was second scoring 42 
points, Tennessee was third with 
70 points and Arizona State was 
fourth with a score of 72. 
The womens cross country team entered Friday's adidas Invitational ranked 10th in the country, its highest ranking ever, and will almost certainly rise in the next poll after winning the meet. The women, who ran none of their freshmen, beat No. 3 North Carolina State and No. 19 Arizona State. Notre Dame won the meet with a score of 32, NC State was second with 43 points.and Arizona State was fourth with 45 points. 
The top Irish finisher was sophomore All-American Lauren King, who finished second with a time of 17 :24 in the field of 32. Behind King, Irish runners swept positions six through nine. In order, those finishers were: All Big East senior Jennifer Handley 
(17 :47). junior Katie Wales (18:10), junior Megan Johnson (18:12), and senior Jennifer Fibuch (18:13). 


Llniwrsity ofNotre Damt 


SUMMER 2003 
Four and a half weeks for six hours of academic credit (May 14 -June 15, 2003) 
ORIENTATION -/NFORMA TION MEETING 
for all admitted participants (Those interested in 2003 and 2004 are also invited) 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10th at 7 P.M. in 131 DEBARTOLO HALL 
Or call 1-0622 (Summer London Program office) for an application and program information 

page 16 

~ 
\ 
\ i VOLLEYBALL
I 
I 
l ~ ) Loyola-Marymount, 
J 
l 
i 
l Colorado beat Irish 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Editor 
The volleyball team suffered its first setback of the season Friday in the Loyola­Marymount Classic in Los Angeles. The Irish dropped their opening 

their front line as the team managed only four blocks. 
Junior Jessica Kinder lead the team in digs for the match with 11 while classmate Kim Fletcher was impressive in her first start, leading the team in kills with 10. 
"My first start could have 
been better. 

game of the considering
"It was disappointing for 
tournament to we lost,"
us. I don 't think we
the host Lions Fletcher said. 3-1 (30-26, expected to lose so early "But it was 16-30, 23-30, good to be out
in the season. ,,
24-30). Notre there." 
Dame stum­Later that bled again in Emily Loomis night, the their next Irish outside hitter Irish earned a 
m a t c h Saturday, los­ing a tight match to Colorado in straight sets (30-25, 30-24, 30­26). 
"It was disappointing for us," Irish sophomore Emily Loomis said. "I don't think we expected to lose so early in the season." 
The Irish salvaged the tour­nament with a little redemp­

tion with the victory over the Billikens. 
The team greatly improved its hitting Saturday night, earn­ing a solid .430 team hitting average. Loomis was the leader on the team with 15 kills. 
"That win was great for us ­everything just clicked." Fletcher said. 
victory over Junior
"[My first start] could 
Saint Louis Kristen 
University in have been better, Kinder fin­
the nightcap considering we lost. But ished the Saturday. weekend with
it was good to be out 
Notre Dame 11 kills, 97
there . .,
cruised over assists and 15 the Billikens digs and was in three named to the
Kim Fletcher 
games (30-25, all-tourna­
Irish middle blocker
30-13, 30-19). 

"I think it was good for our confidence to get that win Saturday," Loomis said. "We played very strong and showed a lot of heart in that match. It was good to be able to come back home with at least that win." 
The Irish won the first set of the opener against Loyola before falling victim to some sloppy hitting. The combination of their .106 team hitting per­centage and the 26 kills and 15 digs of Loyola-Marymount's Kristen Gallup was too much for the Irish to overcome. 
In their second loss of the tournament, the Irish had diffi­culty getting production from ment team for 
the second week in a row. Two weeks ago, Kinder was named the MVP of the Shamrock Invitational. held at the Joyce Center. 
The 1-2 performance during the tournament brings the team's record to 4-2 overall. 
The Irish return to action Tuesday, as they travel to Valparaiso to wrap up their four-game road trip. 
"Valparaiso hasn't been con­sistently all that strong," Fletcher said. "But it will be a good match for us, and it will give us a chance to get back playing soon." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
DAILYSPECIALS Raced # l Hot ·wings in che area  Big Screen TVs  
Monday Night Football Buckets of Wings & Half-Priced Pitchers  


The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 9, 2002 

SANTIAGO, CHILE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Carmen Nanni 
Student Returnees 
Tuesday, September 10, 2002 129 Hayes-Healy 6:00-7:30 p.m. & Wed.,Sept. 18,2002 129 Hayes-Healy 4:45-6:15 pm. 
Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 
Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall '03 and All Year 2003-04 Applications Available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
The Standing Comittee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
invites Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends and supporters to an 
infonnal coffee at the Co-Mo. Everyone is welcome. 


Coffee and refreshments will be served 

Monday, September 9, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 

Meeting friends? They've got to be here somewhere. 
) DIGITAL WiUhlE·TAUm: 
7'5',000 .P"'\.\s? N.c pv-cbletM.. N.e"'t-el .,ives
) SPEAKERPHONE ) WIRELESS WEB ACCESS yc1>. sc lM."'"'Y w"'ys t-c .Pi\.\.:A whc cv-wh"'+­) AOL@ INSTANT MESSENGER'" ser\lire yc1>.1v-e lcc~i"'-8 .Pcv-. ~eet-yct..\v-.Pv-ie\.\.:As ) TWO-WA\' ~ffSSAGING 
U:il , I 
"exrn 

' 
""'t-t-he N.e"'i-el kics~-be.Pcye t-he """'1.-\1\e
) JAVA'" GA~tES & APPLICATIONS ) DIGITAL CELLULAR C\\ $<'1.f-1>.v.:A"'y t-c .,et-l-\cc~e.:A 1>.p witl-\ f-l-\e \.\ewes+-phc\.\es1 ccclesf-.Pe"'H>.v-es "'"".:A sweet-est-..."'t-e pl"'"'-S. }'{cw yc1>.1 
...e 

...e "'.:Ay -B...i"'--' It-. 
1'(c,A/s""' ~ve""'i-i-i!Me h, ~ei-N.exi-el:
\ 

""'ll N,che D""'!Me s+-!A.:Ae\\¼-s ~e+-"" 
\o,:• ~\SL~""'t° Y.,._re
Cl\ e,,.\\y 
pie,,.\\ """.:A'$\00., ~.p.p """Y p\.-.cl.\e. 
_,,,,. 

-re b!Ay: 
• 
jC t-c \.\e)(-\-el.cctM./i...ish-sH..\J.e\.\t-. 

• 
c"'ll t-cll-.Pvee I-8'77-<;0,-212,. 


• t-c .Pi\.\J. "' N.e"'i-el-Ow\.\e.J. Reh"il <;t-c ... e \.\e"'... ycv.1 c"'H I -8'00-8'2<;-S1,'3<;,
NEXr.--------cl--­" 

•Offer is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31. 2002. While supplies last. Requires new activation. one year Service Agreement and credit approval. $200 early termination fee applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. In-store purchases require at least 2lorms of valid identification. Account set-up lee ot $35 per phone: maximum $70 per account. Fees may vary by market. $100 instant savings is off the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point of sale. 10% off monthly rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this offer. Other restrictions may apply Rate plans are subject to taxes, fees and other charges. Current prices are subject to change. Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 Nextel Communications, Inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Nextel logo are registered trademarks of Nextel Communications. Inc. Motorola and the Stylized M logo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and all other 
Java-based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems. Inc. AOL AIM, Buddy Lisi and the triangle design are registered trademarks of Amenca Online. Inc. Instant Messenger is a trademark of America Onhne, Inc. · 
Shutouts 
continued from page 20 
more was named the tourna­
ment's top defensive player for 
her effort over the weekend. 
Chapman, who missed the Irish 's first two games while playing with the Canadian national team in the Under-19 World Championships, saved a young Irish defense time and time again. Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum placed Chapman at all three field posi­tions in an effort to try to get her the ball and let her speed take over. 
"It's hard for us out there because we were playing with­out three of last year's starters on defense," Chapman said. "I just had to pick it up and try to lead out there." 
The first half of Friday nights game was closely contested as neither team was able to dictate the game. The second half was a different story. 
The visiting Broncos dominat­ed thanks to the brilliant play of sophomore forward Megan Kakadelas. The reigning Pac-10 Rookie of the Year for USC last year made quite an impression on her new teammates in her 
and Amy Warner beat us to 
every ball we went after. We just 
didn't have an understanding of 
her speed. 
"Today was Megan's day to be 
in that situation." 
Santa Clara added a third goal 
off an incredible shot by Micaela 
Esqivel. The freshman midfield­
er chipped a ball from 20 yards 
out of the goalie box that 
swerved past the outstretched 
arms of Kent. With ten minutes 
remam1ng in the game, 
Kakadelas' put the finishing 
touches on the Broncos' victory 
with her second goal of the 
game. 
"These games are great for us 
and Notre Dame. Notre Dame's 
in the same situation as we were 
a week ago." Smith said. " 
Stanford handed our heads to us 
and we had to regroup. You look 
at yourself and see where you 
need to improve. Notre Dame 
will regroup from this. Randy 
and I have the same philosophy 
when we put together our sched­
ules and that is you want to play 
as many top teams as possible so 
you can expose all of your weak­
nesses at the beginning of the 
season." 
The Notre Dame defense 
recovered Sunday to shut down 
the high powered Portland 
attack for nearly the entire 
game. With a little under eight 
minutes remaining, All­
American Christine Sinclair 
finally broke free from the Irish 
defense and scored the game 
winning goal. 
Sinclair, last weekend's MVP. of the U-19 World Championships as a member of the Canadian national team, tracked down a deflected pass, creating a prime scoring oppor­tunity for herself. 
For the second game in a row, the Irish offense struggled. Notre Dame's only real opportunity to score was when freshman Maggie Manning broke loose from the Portland defense, but Pilot goalie Lauren Arase made a kick-save to deny the shot. 
After Sunday's game, the Irish play~rs were trying to figure out what went wrong this weekend. 
"We just need to work on maintaining the ball and spread­ing the ball around on offense," said Chapman. "We need to get tougher." 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Braun's chip shot went just over the Seton Hall goalie and into the net for Notre Dame's 4-0 lead. 
The lopsided score allowed Clark to give some valuable playing experience to Notre Dame's substitutes, as the Irish played all but five of their 23 offensive players. 
"(Tonight] was a good oppor­tunity to get some of our younger players who don't usu­ally get into the game a run," Clark said. 
Clark decided to keep sopho­more goalie Chris Sawyer in goal for the duration. allowing Sawyer to collect a full shutout victory. recording two saves on the night. 
The Irish have six days before their next match, which will take place Friday as part of the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. The Irish will face Cornell at 7:30 p.m. before a Sunday match against No. 23 Furman. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at kronk.3@nd.edu 

first game in a Broncos' uniform. 
When Notre Dame All­American defender Vanessa Pruzinsky left the field five min­utes into the second half with leg injury, the Irish could no longer contain the speed of Kakadelas. The transfer added two second half goals and an assist to propel the Broncos to victory. 
Eight minutes into the second half, Kakadelas chased down a loose ball and took a strong shot on goal. Irish goalkeeper Lauren Kent denied the speedy for­ward's first effort, but Kakadelas· rebound shot beat Kent for the game's first goal. 
Five minutes later, Santa Clara struck again when Kakadelas switched fields and tapped a lead pass to an onrushing Kristi Candau who promptly shot the hall to the lower right corner of the net. 
"People underestimate Megan•s speed and quickness all the time." Santa Clara coach Jerry Smith said. "This was her first game for Santa Clara University. She was obviously really pumped up. I think she has an acceleration that most people just don't anticipate. It reminds me of when we came out here and played Notre Dame two years ago and Amy Warner was a freshman. We lost 6-1, page 18 


The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 9, 2002 
f'R,awA1ERHOLJsf[aJPfRS I 


VOTED NUMBER ONE IDEAL EMPLOYER. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers was voted the number one ideal employer in the 2002 Universum Undergraduate Survey of more than 4,000 business students and the number one recruiter in our profession in the 2002 Emerson Company Campus Recruiting Survey. 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere. 
Look beyond the numben. 
C 2002 PncewatarhouseCoopers LLP. PncewatarhouseCoopers refers to the U.S frm of PticewaterhouseCoopers LLP and otw rmmoors of the wor1dWide PncewalerhouseCoopers Olg8llizat1on. We ate proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportumty Employer, 


Monday, September 9, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 
OVE'R ffiE SUMMe" · Af NtEtHTt I WAITED . AND J: N'VER .. ;~1~~N~~ _~sANPa£AH£0 _!!~_-EJR_~~OJ-.....B_· .. _E""""'?~---
Rok_· 
e · · r:J...'Uft .OfFICt$~x.. · ~~'Wo< N~t l'¥i 1 
-,-H£-.-~---~--~--"""". 
··t!'ttT~\~~\tEA
fl.YJN<q : 
A C! 

. '-·::, 
fl 
6 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ROBEW 

t 
CJ I IJ 
02002 Tri>une Media Services, Inc. All Righla Reserved. 
TONCH 
rIJ 
I JUNIER j 
WWW.jumble.com 
•

tJLATHEC I 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A:TOTHE( I I I)"( I I I I I I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: KHAKI KETCH TIMING BAZAAR Answer: What the TV reporter increased when he became a pilot -HIS "AIR" TIME 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 29 • To order, und your name, addreA and $5.115 ¦ nd make check payable to Tribune Medi¦ Servlcft, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL ~­
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 Colorado ski 58 Cube inventor 
I

resort Rubik
1 Old-time oath 31 Brother of Cain 59 Phoenix's state: 1
5 Threaded Abbr.

fastener 33 Sign after 60 Lab containersTaurus10 Went out, as a 61 Slippery part of 

fire 35 1961 Sinatra 

a bananaalbum14 Auntie of 62 Tennis greatBroadway 39 Divulge 
Sampras15 Fight site 40 He played Ricky 
63 White, to 16 Memo starter on SO'S TV Latinos 
17 Elvis's middle 41 Took too much 64 Canvas bag name of a drug, briefly 
18 First line of a 42 Copycat DOWN nursery rhyme 44 Japanese 1 Sends a 20 Creative guy restaurant fare message by computer
22 Make a goof 49 "No " (Chinese menu 2 Madison
23 Matt of phrase) Square_

"Friends" 50 601, in old 3 One-celled
24 Delivery room Rome protozoandoctors, for 4 National park inshort 51 Place to play jai Alaska

alai
25 Hwy. 

5 Brand of wrap53 Pamper27 Symbol of 6 Chewed noisily
slowness 55 J. P. Morgan Puzzle by Pater Gordon
7 Soldier in Dixieand others
28 Submarine 30 Rival school of 37 Actor Beatty 50 Banned
8 Fill with love
sandwich 56 Knocking sound The Citadel: insecticide
38 Spongelike toy9 All-Star third 
Abbr. 

52 "Midnightbaseman. 39CD·_
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 32 Skier's 
Cowboy"1985-96 43 Frisbee's
headgear characterinspiration,


-+-+--1 10 Have _ on 
34 The Wizard of

(claim) supposedly 54 Stupefy
Menlo Park 11 Five-time Tour 45 Given away 56 Run-D.M.C.'s
35 Old anti•

de France 46 Not mono music
Communistwinner Miguel 

reaction 47 Big stinger 57 "You're it!" -..+...+-_...,_~ 12 Ejecting lava 36 "Eureka!" 48 Shoe part game 13 Cotillion girl 19 Battleship 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone letters 
phone: 1-900·285·5656. $1.20 per minute. ~::+;,~ 21 Spanish 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundayprovince or its crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
wine 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ..,..+,,,.........,-+,-,+.....i,.,,..t 26 Yale player past puzzles. nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 
-=+~.+::,,+.;,,,.~~ 29 Omit in Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, pronunciation nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­
Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michael Keaton, Hugh Grant Henry Thomas, Adam Sandler 
Happy Birthday: This can be a fabulous year as long as you recognize yom attributes and what you can do to get ahead. You will have the added strengtt and stamina to tum your dreams into a reality. Don't let someone in your lift who is negative lower your expectations. If you really want to do something believe that you can and don't let anything stand in your way. Your numben are 4, 19, 23, 26, 31, 44 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your emotional relationship can go either wa) today. Plan to have a passionate evening pleasing one another. Avoid othe, people who like to meddle in your personal affairs. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Consider your professional options and tht changes you can make. If you aren't working you may want to do a little wori around your place in order to make it more aesthetically pleasing. **.._ GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make some great improvements today i1 you are intent on looking your very best. Use your imagination, be creative anc reinvent yourself. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be careful not to take on more than you car handle today. Financial difficulties due to overextending yourself will caust worry. Making a move may be necessary. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got the right idea today and if you organize ar event that includes friends and neighbors, you will meet people in your are, who will influence your life. The people who have stood behind you anc supported your efforts will be the ones who introduce you to new friends 
**** 

VIRGO (Au~. 23-Sept. 22): Moneymaking ventures or professional change~ will prove to be profitable. This is the time to make your money work for you Put it into whatever will bring you the highest returns. **.._ . LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will be an emotional mess today if you haven't completed all the things you were supposed to do. Try to think before you takt action or you may hurt someone's feelings without just cause. **.._ SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Double-check your route if you are traveling b} car today. You may have a problem with authority figures if you don't abide b} the rules. Puttering around the house will bring enjoyment. **.._ SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Relationships and partnerships should ht 
..,,

your prime concern today. Be direct and let everyone know your intentions 
Don't lend or borrow money or possessions. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep a low profile today. Financia difficulty is apparent. Take heed of the advice given by good friends anc relatives. Your motives may be all wrong.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Let your creative mind wander or surf tht Internet searching for exotic destinations. You will be receptive to differen1 lifestyles that you encounter if you attend a cultural event. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It's probably time to do something about yom financial situation. If you can't manage to live by a budget you set up, you ma} want to hire a financial advisor. *** Birthday Baby: You will be bright, creative and a little ahead of your time You'll be very competitive. The last thing you'll want to hear is that you can'1 do something. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com astromate.com. · 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 


i: 
f 
~ 
lJ 
I 
v 
\ 
f 
i 
l 
J
' 
,} ' 
I'
( 
~ 
" 
ll 
l~ 
...
~ 
WOMENS SOCCER 

Monday, September 9, 2002 
Facing a firing squad 

. Irish shut out twice against Santa Clara and Portland in Notre Dame Classic 
ByJOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
It was a tough weekend for the womens soccer team at the annual Notre Dame Classic as the Irish were shutout twice in three days. Friday night, the Irish suffered the worst home loss in school history, dropping a 4-0 contest to defending national champion Santa Clara. The shutout ended a streak of 31 games where the Irish scored at least one goal. 
Two days later, the Irish returned to the field against 2001 Final Four participant Portland, hoping to avenge Friday's loss, but Notre Dame (2-2) came up short again los­ing 1-0. 
The lone bright spot for Notre Dame was the play of Candace Chapman. The versatile sopho­
see SHUTOUTS/page 17 

Four Irish goals sink No. 6 Pirates in shutout 
squad, however. The Pirates Seton Hall goalie to give the
By BRYAN KRONK 

entered the match coming off a Irish a 2-0 lead with 32:10 left 
Sports Writer 

last-minute 3-2 upset of Big to play. 
East power and fifth-ranked Frustrations began to mount 
Using its successful formula Connecticut last weekend. for the Pirates just a few min­from last season, the mens soc­And the Pirates were not utes later as Erich Braun cer team once again used a going to hand this game over to scored a goal off a breakawaycombination of tough defense the Irish, as Seton Hall aggres­pass. After the goal, a scuffle and high-powered offense to sively defended Notre Dame's broke out inside the Seton Hall topple sixth-ranked Seton Hall offensive attack in the first half. goal. The result of the conflict Saturday, 4-0. Nevertheless, Notre Dame's was an ejection of Seton Hall's 
"We don't look at the rank­solid fundamental play allowed Jerrod Laventure, who had 
ings much, but anytime you get them to get on the scoreboard already received a yellow card a chance to compete with a first. Midway through the first late in the first half. good Seton Hall team it's a half, Irish midfielder Kevin "Seton Hall was a feisty team plus," Irish coach Bobby Clark Goldthwaite launched a pass tonight, but it was good that we said. "And anytime you get a from the left corner which were able to compete with 
shutout is a plus as well." found forward Rafael Garcia them," Clark said. "I thought 
The win marks the first time open in front of the Seton Hall that we kind of let them back the Irish have defeated the net. Garcia promptly deposited into the game [after getting out Pirates since 1998. The shutout the ball in the back of the net to to an early lead] ... [but] once victory marks the second give the Irish a 1-0 lead. we scored the third goal I knew straight year in which Notre Goldthwaite continued his it was set." Dame has held its season-open­offensive assistance in the sec­Just minutes later, Braun ing Big East opponent score­ond half. After Irish midfielder notched his second goal of the 
less. Last year, the Irish clob­Chad Riley faked an indirect game -and fourth of the sea­bered a struggling Villanova kick from just outside Seton son -on another breakawayteam, 5-0. Hall's penalty area, along the left side, this time 
This Seton Hall squad Goldthwaite booted a perfect from a high pass from Riley.brought more talent to Alumni pass to teammate Justin Detter, Field than last year's Wildcats who redirected the ball past the see SOCCER/page 17 

{,f 

VOLLEYBALL 
SMC ROUND«UP

CROSS COUNTRY 
FOOTBALL 

~. 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at adidas 
Notre Dame 24
SMC Volleyball 

Loyola-Marymount 
Invitational 
Purdue 17

The Belles moved their season 
{ 
( 
Classic 

Both the mens and womens 
Cornerback Vontez Duff had a

record to 2-5 as they defeated 
The Irish dropped their first two 
33-yard interception return for

squads proved their might in the 
Div. I Chicago 3-1 before drop­
~ 
matches to Loyola-Marymount 
the winning touchdown. The

opening meet. The men finished sec­
ping a match to Edgewood 

and Colorado. They defeated 
Irish moved to 2-0 on the year

ond, behind North Carolina State, 
College 3-2. Talia Matury-Vacaro 
Saint Louis for a 1-2 finish. 
with the victory. 

and the women placed first. 
led the team in kills with 19. 
Irish Insider

page 16 
page 12
page 15 

O
THE Monday, September 9, 2002 BSERVER Notre Dame 24, Purdue 17 

e returns are in 
Irish defense does the job the offense couldn't do -score 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Spores Wrirer 
For the second straight 
week, cornerback Vontez Duff 
scored a touchdown. senior 
linebacker Courtney Watson 
did not dress and the Irish 
offense failed to score a 
touchdown. 
For the second straight 
week, the Irish won a football 
game -which is really all 
that matters. 
"But the whole key as much 
as you may like to see us 
throw the ball and do it suc­
cessfully -the whole key is 
to win," Notre Dame coach 
Tyrone Willingham said. 
"When I arrived, I said I 
wanted an offense that wins, 
a defense that wins and a 
special teams that wins. 
Winning is the great thing, 
and to be 2-0 right now is 
special." 
In a defensive extravagan­
za, Notre Dame returned 
three of .Purdue's four 
turnovers for touchdowns and 
defeated the Boilermakers 
24-17. 
In the span of 11 seconds, the game went from a 0-0 tie to Notre Dame leading 14-0. Boilermaker running back Montrell Lowe fumbled on a screen pass and Irish safety Gerome Sapp picked up the loose ball and ran 56 yards to put the Irish on the board. 
"While I was running, I actually thought of some high school days when I was play­ing running back," Sapp said. "I don't know what came over me. I was just determined to get in the end zone and my teammates made some really good blocks and they met me and celebrated." 
On the ensuing kickoff, back Carlyle Holiday had a returned Joey Hildbold's punt gave Setta two cha,nces to put all you know is touchdown," Deaunte Ferrell lost the ball tougher time against the 76 yards to bring the them ahead. He missed a 38-Duff said. "I got in. I got the and Lionel Bolen returned the Boilermakers. Holiday went Boilermakers within 10. yarder and had a 42-yard ball in, that's all that mat­ball four yards for the score. 7-for-22 and only threw for In the third, Purdue put attempt blocked. ters." 
"Those are the great things 50 yards. together a 10-play, 71-yard "That's football. You have to Although the offense has yet that happen when the team is "I thought Carlyle hung in drive highlighted by a 38-yard have a team and with that to find the end zone, the flying around and playing there well, especially when it pass from Kyle Orton to John team when you aren't playing defense is confident the team football," Willingham was trying and things were Standeford. Jerod Void scored up to par, they've got to step offense will provide points said. "One guy makes a play, very frustrating," said Notre from three yards out to cut up and show themselves, and when necessary. and the other guy is right Dame offensive coordinator the Irish lead to three. Berin that's what they did all day," "The offense will probably there to cover his backside Bill Diedrick. "He was very Lacevic made a 45-yard field Setta said. have 600 yards next week and pick it up the other way poised. He wasn't in a panic goal on Purdue's next drive to Once again, the Notre Dame against Michigan," Sapp said. to go in the end zone." mode. He was seeing what tie the game at 17. defense stepped up. Orton's "We' re not worried at a 11. 
That was a good cushion for was actually happening out "We made some big plays. pass to Seth Morales was They'll step up when they a Notre Dame offense that there, and I think that's what We were down 17-0 and came tipped, and Duff made the need to." had trouble scoring all day. you look for." back and tied the game up interception. He went 33 Ryan Grant led the Notre The passing game, which was After Nicholas Setta's 19-and had a chance to win the yards and dove into the end Dame rushing attack with 99 moderately successful last yard field goal put Notre football game," Purdue coach zone to put the Irish ahead yards, and Rashon Powers­week against Maryland, fell Dame ahead 1 7 -0 in the sec­Joe Tiller said. "There was a for good. Neal averaged more six yards totally flat on Saturday. ond quarter, Purdue struck lot more positive things than "It's the best feeling, espe­a carry on seven touches. 
After looking composed and back with its own special negative things except the cially on defense, you don't confident last week, throwing teams touchdown before the great big negative is the 'L.'" get to see a touchdown too Contact Matt Lozar at for 226 yards, Irish quarter-half. Anthony Chambers The Irish responded and much, but when you get close, mlozar@nd.edu 

player of the game 
stat of the game 

play of the game 
quote of the game 
Mike Goolsby 

Vontez Duff's 33-yard interception 
..Once I get the ball in my hands, rm
3 

The junior linebacker had 11 tackles 
return 
going to score. " 

and forced afumble in the second 
Irish touchdowns. all scored by 
quarter. Gerome Sapp returned the 
defensive backs. 
Vontez Duff

Duffs33-yardretum broke a 17-17 
Jumble to put the first score on the 
tie and gave the Irish the win. 
Irish comerback 
board. 

,E?> 
page 2 Monday, September 9, 2002
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
8­
C­
D+ 
A­
A A 8­B 
quarterbacks: Carlyle Holiday only com­pleted 7 -of-22 passes for 50 yards. Not until seven minutes remained in the second quarter did he completed his first pass. 
running backs: The Irish rushed for 
153 yards, an improvement on last week, hut the running backs missed 
their blocks. 

receivers: Receivers did a poor job of running routes, didn't get open and had several drops. Only two receivers caught passes. 
offensive line: The offensive line pro­vided almost no protection for 
Holiday. It allowed four sacks. 
defensive line: The line didn't wear 
down despite spending a lot of time 
on the field. They put good pressure 
on Orton in the second half and had 
two sacks. 

linebackers: Mike Goolsby had 11 tackles, 
Hoyte had nine. Goolsby forced a fwnble 
that was returned for a touchdown. 
defensive backs: The Irish defensive backs 
were the scoring force. Sapp, Duffand 
Bolen each scored a touchdown. They 
also held Purdue to 147 rushing yards. 
special teams: Nicholas Setta missed two field goals, one from 38 yards the other from 42 yards. The special teams allowed a 76-yard punt return. Lionel Bolen did return an fumble for a touchdown. 
coaching: Despite offensive difficul­
ties, the Irish did win. Penalties were 
down from last week and the coach­
ing staff had to work with Purdue's 
solid blitzing scheme. 


2.77 
overall: The offense showed it's weakness, but the defense is a scoring power­house. Is it OK for the Irish to punt on first down? 
adding up the numbers 
number of quarters the Irish offense has 
8 

played and not scored a single touchdown 
16 total number of punts -each team had eight 
Irish passing yards, less than one quarter of Irish passing yards last Saturday 
50 
time before Holiday completed a pass to a receiver -Carlos
22:06 
Campbell for nine yards. 
number of rushing yards by Joey Harris. } 
Qg
Harris carried the ball 25 times with an average carry of four yards 
4 
Irish touchdowns this year -all by defen­sive backs 
number of Purdue tumbles, two were returned 
3 

for touchdowns. 
11 
seconds elapsed between the first two Irish touchdowns 
Notre Dame is 2-0 -that's the good news. 
Here's the bad news: 
Carlyle Holiday hasn't fired one pass into a receiver's hands in the end zone. Ryan 
Grant hasn't plowed through the line to score six. And Arnaz Battle has yet to fly past opposing defensive backs and dance across the goal 


line. 

Chris Federico 
The Irish have scored four touchdowns in 
Sports
their first two 
Editor

games this sea­son -defensive backs scored all four. That says a lot for the defense. Most teams can only hope for that sort of production. But for the offense. that's scary. 
Yes, the Irish are 2-0, and yes many people expected them to be 0­2 at this point in the season, but the offensive production has been lousy. 
If the Irish hope to finish any bet­ter than 2-9, Holiday and his pool of talented receivers will need to put points on the board. 
"It's frustrating that [cornerback] Vontez [Dum is the leading scorer on the team right now," Holiday said. "A couple of guys on the team and I feel very embarrassed. I guess we shouldn't, but we felt like that towards the end of the game. We know as an offensive team that we've got to score touchdowns to help the team win, we've really got to work on those things in order for us to be a better ball club." 
Over the last three games, includ­ing the Purdue game at the end of last season, Duff has three touch­down returns. Unfortunately, the odds are that he won't be able to average one a game for the rest of the season. 
After a decent performance in the opener last week against Maryland, the Irish passing attack was almost non-existent in Saturday's victory against the Boilermakers. Holiday was only 7-for-22 for 50 yards. His first completion to a wide receiver didn't come until 7:06 into the sec­ond quarter -a nine-yard pass to Carlos Campbell. 
"Where I was the most disappoint­ed today was in our passing game," said Irish offen­sive coordinator scoring]," Diedrick said. "Anytime you go on the field you expect to be very efficient in you execution, and you expect to score. But we haven't put the ball in the end zone. We've got to make the running game bet­ter, and get more efficient in the passing game, and scoring will come with all of that.., 
If the Irish are to be successful, it's going to be up to the offense to do its job and score points, because the Irish can only rely on the defense and special teams for so long. Most coaches say special teams are good for two wins a year. 
By that count, the 
Irish offense 

Bill Diedrick. "It's frustrating that should be on its 
"Purdue did a own to put points 
[Dufj] is the leading 
nice job with their on the scoreboard 
packages.and scorer on the team right for the next 10 
they really kept now. A couple ofthe guys games. us off balance "We're fortu­
on the team and I feel 
early in the game. nate right now in
embarassed ...
I just wasn't very that it's not just happy with how our defense that we executed in has the ability to
Carlyle Holiday 
the passing score,"
Irish quarterback
game." Willingham said. 
Notre Dame had trouble most of the day picking up on Purdue's blitz schemes. The Boilermakers moved in and out of different cover­age packages to keep the relatively untested Irish offense off balance. 
"I thought Purdue did a good job with their blitz packages. especially coming in and out of it," said Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham. "It forced our quarterback to put us in checks. And sometimes it put us in protections that worked against us." 
While it seemed clear with the game Saturday that there are sever­al areas of concern for the offense, Irish coaches and players are not ready to go into panic mode. 
'Tm always concerned about [not "Right now we're 
getting points from our special teams, too. When you have all of your segments that can put points on the board, it makes you dangerous. But I shouldn't say all of our elements can put points on the board, because right now we haven't scored points with one of our ele­ments. But that will come, and we know that." 
Ifthe Irish want another win, it needs to come soon. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 
,~ 
' 

Monday, September 9, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Irish defense finds the end zone 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spores Writer 
The ball bounced out of the hands of 
Purdue's Montrell Lowe, and Gerome 
Sapp's eyes opened wide. 
Sapp scooped up the ball and, remi­
niscent of his days as a high school tail­
back, weaved 54 yards through traffic to 
score the first Irish touchdown of the 
day. Just like that, Sapp had scored 
more points than the entire Notre Dame 
offense. 
"The defense knew we had to step 
onto the field and stay strong," Sapp 
said. "A 'bend, not break' mentality." 
While Notre Dame's offense scrapped for yards at 2001-like proportions, the Irish defense withstood the blistering heat Saturday to generate its own points. Including Vontez Duff's punt return last week and interception return Saturday and Lionel Bolen's fumble return, defensive backs have accounted for all four of Notre Dame's touchdowns this season -a feat that made defen­sive coordinator Kent Baer smile. 
"They were talking in the sideline about how they want to be the best defense in the country. It was gratifying to be around," Baer said before backpedaling seconds later. "No, I wouldn't even begin to say [they are the best in the country]. I shouldn't have said that. You're only as good as your next practice, you're only as good as your next game, and as long as we win, I don't care about the other stuff." 
Still, Baer was pleased with the point­generating ability of his defense. And after the game, all Irish players would talk about was that if the offense didn't score points, the defense had to. 
And score they did. Bolen's recovery decidedly swung the momentum back 
ANDREW KENNA/The Observer

toward the Irish and Duffs interception 
was the deciding score. Senior safety Gerome Sapp returns an fumble for a touchdown In the second quar­
"On a team with one element that is ter of the 24-17 Irish victory against the Boilennakers on Saturday. not performing as well as you would like it to, another element has to step up," coach Tyrone Willingham said. "I think time Purdue's offense threatened, Notre Mike Goolsby broke up a reverse on sec­our football team did that." Dame's defense responded. ond down. Tight coverage forced 
But Notre Dame's defense didn't dis­"I think the defense, we have that Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton to over­tinguish itself by its ability to score as mindset that we shouldn't be scored on, throw his receiver on third down. On much as it did by its ability to hold we take it personally when it happens," the pivotal fourth down, Ryan Roberts Purdue. One of the defensive team goals said linebacker Brandon Hoyte, who chased Orton out of the pocket and is not to allow a point in the fourth recorded nine tackles. "I think every guy Hoyte grabbed the Boilermaker quarter­quarter. Facing Purdue's multi-dimen­on our defense stepped it up a notch [in back, causing his desperation heave to sional offense, the Irish used five defen­the fourth quarter]." fall short of its target. sive backs to try to shut down the pass And since the defense had kept Notre "That's all we talk about is dominate, while relying on their front six to con­Dame in the game, \t seemed fitting that that's all we want to do is dominate on tain the run.At times, Purdue running the Irish would have to stop Purdue one defense," Duff said. " ... We got to have back Joey Harris rolled through the last time before winning. Slowly, steadi­focus, we got to have poise, we got to Irish defense and Notre Dame seemed ly, Purdue drove down the field, con­have pride in ourselves. We come down, incapable of stopping the Purdue offen­verting one long fourth-down opportuni­we have that focus and know what we sive juggernaut that gained 318 yards. ty and moving the ball to the Notre have to do." 
Yet the Boilermakers only had seven Dame 33-yard line. Bend. don't break. or more plays in a drive twice -their That's when the Irish buckled down. touchdown drive in the third quarter Harris only gained three yards going up Contact Andrew Soukup at and the final drive of the game. Each the middle on first down. Linebacker asoukup@nd.edu 

Not once, but twice, Setta looks human 
appeared to get partially Winning the turnover battle turnover margin,"
Observer Staff Report 
deflected at the line of scrim­Already, the 2002 Irish are Willingham said. "Usually 
Although Setta connected mage and sailed left of the winning whatever on a 19-yard field goal mid­uprights. games much team wins way through the second "I hit [the first one] solid," like the "The offense will t h e quarter. he missed a pair of Setta said. "It was going in, Fiesta Bowl­turnover
probably have 600 yards
field goals in the fourth quar­but all of a sudden it took a bound Irish margin ter that would have given the real big slice and got pushed did two next week ... We're not wins the Irish the lead. His mediocre out." years ago -game ... I
worried at all. ·· 
performance Saturday came by taking think I cal­one week after he made 5-of-care of the
Bold prediction culated 
field goals against football. Gerome Sapp once in the 
At least one member of
Maryland. Just two safety NFL thatNotre Dame's defense isn't
But coach Tyrone games into when a
worried about when the
Willingham 's confidence the season, 
t e a m

offense will come around.
wasn't shattered by Setta's 1-Notre Dame has a plus-six
"The offense will probably scores on turnovers, you've
for-3 day. turnover margin. They picked 
have 600 yards next week," got a 90 percent chance or
"He'll hit the next one." off three passes against
safety Gerome Sapp said. better of winning the game.
Willingham said. "It's that Maryland and one against simple and I have confidence When a reporter pointed out Purdue and recovered three That's a great statistic." that he'll hit the next one.... that the Irish would be play­Boilermaker fumbles. The 
ing No. 7 Michigan, who have 
He's a good kicker and he lone Irish turnover this year Garneday captainsknows that." allowed 724 yards this sea­came Saturday, when Holiday Notre Dame's four game Setta's first miss was a 38-son, Sapp confidently fumbled the ball in the third day captains for Saturday
yard kick that sliced just responded, "We're not wor­quarter. were defensive tackle Cedric inches right of the upright. ried at all. They'll step up "One of the goals we list for Hilliard, tight end GaryHis second kick, a 42-yarder, when they need to." our team each week is the Godsey, Sapp and Setta. 
•
scoring 
summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame Purdue  o O  17 7  o 7  7 3  24 17  
First quarter No score  

Second quarter Notre Dame 7, Purdue 0 
Gerome Sapp 54-yard fumble recovery (Nicholas Setta kick) with 13:48 remaining 
Notre Dame 14, Purdue 0 
Lionel Bolen 4-yard fumble recovery (Setta kick) with 13:37 remaining 
Notre Dame 17. Purdue 0 Setta 19-yard FG with 6:25 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 68 yards, 5:14 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17. Purdue 7 
Anthony Chambers 76-yard punt return (Berln Lacevlc kick) with 2:03 remaining 
Third quarter Notre Dame 16, Purdue 14 
Jerod Void 3-yard run with 2:50 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 71 yards, 4:32 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Purdue 17 
Lacevlc 35-yard field goal wHh 14:53 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 46 yards, 1:00 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, Purdue 17 
Vontez Duff 33-yard Interception return (Setta kick) with 5:09 remaining 
statistics 

total yards 
ll&fllll:l:!:l::n~~~::m::11:::::1 
rushing yards 
Mtllf~IB:~'.:11111~~3 
passing yards 
NOTRE DAME 50 

-0.e,:}}t::::::r:t':,:::(:EtF:: :: ::ru:I 111
-

return yards 211 
time of possession 
43

ll~lll~l~I ~=~~= 
-4·::.:·.·.. 
.·· .

• 
45-143 rushes-yards 38-147 22-7-0 comp-att-int 30-14-1 8-44.6 punts-yards 8-41.4 
3-3

1-1 fumbles-lost 4-30 penalties-yards 1-4 15
11 first downs 
passing 

Holiday 22-7-50 Orton 30-14-1 
rushing 

Grant  21-96  Harris  25-109  
Powers-Neal  7-43  Lowe  1-23  
Holiday  11-25  Orton  7-20  
Loplenskl Battle  2-2 1-(-1)  Vold Chambers  3-5 1-(-1)  
Williams  1-(-6)  

receiving 

Godsey  4-30  Standeford  5·110  
Jenkins  1-9  Davis  3-29  
Campbell  1-9  Chambers  3-17  
Grant  1-2  Noel  1-16  
Lowe  1-10  
Harris  1-(-1)  

tackling 

Goolsby 11 Schweigert 12 Hoyte 9 Koutouvldes 10 Sapp 
8 Phillips 6 

Earl 7 Turner 6Duff 6 Odom 6Roberts 
5

Walton 
4 

O
THE Notre Dame 24, Purdue 17 BSERVER Monday, September 9, 2002 

The Notre Dame defense got its 
job done-and the offense's job. The Irish scored three offensive touchdowns against Purdue, including an interception return and two fumble returns. Cornerback Vontez Duff is current­ly Notre Dame's leading scorer. In addition to its offensive feats, the defense shut down Purdue's pass­ing game and, except for some long runs by Joey Harris, limited the Boilermakers' run game. 


OMINATING ON 
EFENSE 


The Irish defense dominated against Purdue Saturday. Derrick Curry (top left) tackled Joey Harris. Gerome Sapp (top right) returned a fumble for a touchdown. Mike Goolsby (bottom left, No. 41) had 11 tackles and forced a fumble. Harris (bottom left) gets his legs taken out from under him. 









