
Tuesday,., December 10, 2002 
New album 

•
reviews 
page 12-13 
The Independent Newspaper Seroing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 71 HTTP://OBSFRVER.ND.EDU 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Saint Mary's elections go digital 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
New< Wri1er 
The election process at Saint Mary's is going digital. During the next election cycle this spring students on campus and abroad will be voting via PlUSM, the same progrnm used for student registration. 
/\s stated in the most up-to­date constitution, online polls will open from 8 a.m. on the day of the election to 8 a.m. the next morning. Each stu­dent must log on to PRISM using her PHISM login and password. Once logged in she will have the ability to vote by clicking on "Answer A Survey" and then proceed to vote in the appropriate election. This proc:ess ensures that each stu­dent may only vote once. 
"This will be a good system for the school to implement because it will allow for better access to the ballot for all stu­dents and hopefully it will increase voter turnout," said Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, stu­dent body vice-president. "0ff­ca mp us students, student nurses and teachers that are not in the dining hall during the election times will now have the chance to vote from the computer clusters and from their own personal com­puters." 
There will also be an elec­
tion center established in one of the computer clusters with reserved computers, specifical­ly designated for the election. There will also be election rep• resentatives available through­out the day. 
"This will help to avoid any possible technology problems," said Jablonski-Diehl. 
According to Jablonski-Die h1, this 
on

"This will be a good
new way of the day of voting has system for the school to elections 
increased implement because it will including but­turnout al a tons, sweat­
allow for better access to
number of shirts, cloth­
universities the ballot for all students ing and stick­
1 i k e and hopefully it will ers. Carnegie "It is worth
increase voter turnout." 
M c I I o n trying where voter because it is a turnout Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl system that improved by will help the
student body vice-president
10 to 20 per­cent. 
T h e r e were a few concerns regarding the worka­bility of this new voting proce­dure. Members of the student government were concerned about the possibility of stu­dents being pressured by the candidates on the day of the election because the polling place will be less centralized. 
This argument was coun­tered by pointing out that the Saint Mary's community works on a policy of trust and if a problem was encountered it would be most likely reported immediately. 
The Saint Mary's Constitution addresses th is issue. It states that no active campaigning by the candidates will be allowed during the 24 hours that voting is permitted. 
Passive cam­
paigning is 
allowed 
student body who voted in this current administra­
tion," said Kim Jensen, student body president. 
The motion to implement this voting system passed after a debate that resulted in a roll call vote. The vote passed with five members of BOG voting present. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu 




ND student named Rhodes Scholar 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Edicor 
On Saturday, senior Andrew Serazin became the fourteenth Notre Dame stu­dent in history to receive the prestigious Rhodes Scholarship. 
T h e 
award, w h i C h sends its Scholars to Oxford University i n England for two to 

t h r e e Serazin years, chose Serazin and 31 other students out of almost 1,000 applicants from across the United States. The last two Notre Dame Rhodes Scholars received their awards in 1997. 
Serazin, a biology major, plans to use the scholarship to continue research on malaria mosquito genomics. 
"Scientists really need to pay more attention to these neglected diseases," said Serazin, adding that he would like to see more funding go toward the study of malaria, a "huge global problem." 
In December 2001, Serazin traveled with Professor Nora Besansky to Burkina Faso in West Africa to study the role of mosqui­toes in the transmission of malaria. While becoming immersed in the local cul­ture and observing the con­ditions, Serazin also began to envision -the long-term possibilities of his research. 
"At that point I decided. 'Wow, this is fascinating,"' he said. 
Since his project last year, he has continued his research at Notre Dame. lie also became the youngest lead author in the journal. Science, when he published an article with Besansky. 
Other honors Serazin has received include the 2002­03 Barry Goldwater Scholarship, which honors students in math, natural science and engineering. He also received two National Science Foundation fellow­ships and was selected in the spring of his junior year to study in the Biosphere 
see RHODES/page 4 



Exec. Cab. debates opening records 
"Criticism from students is better than apathy," said Joyce DeLeon, cultural chair of the Club Coordination Council. "If you're spending legitimate­ly ... you shouldn't be afraid of what the records will show." 
Student Body President Libby Bishop proposed making the documents available to focus groups ­not the public at large -to garner feedback. 
In other Executive Cabinet news, Danielle Ledesma presented the Judicial Council's strategic plan that included a move next semester to online elections and a peer advo­cate database. 
The elections for student body president and vice president, class officers and off-campus senators and presidents would change to a Web-based system, Ledesma said. All hall elec­tions would still be conduct­ed on paper ballot. 
Judicial Council peer advocates, students trained to help University under­graduates who face discipli­nary action, will begin annual catalogues of their cases to track charges and sanctions against students. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu 


By JASON MCFARLEY 
News Writer 
Show them the money. 
Notre Dame sophomores may receive unfettered access to class financial records if class council leaders adopt the change as part of their strategic plan, Jeremy Lao told Executive Cabinet Monday. 
Lao, the class president, said class officials were considering opening the records to the public as "a matter of letting people know" how class money was being spent. 
"The [ongoing] debate is about how much we want people to know about how much we spend," Lao said. 
The freshman, junior and senior classes currently do not make their records publicly available. 
Cabinet members' opin­ions were split on the issue. 
Club Coordinator Amy O'Connor recommended keeping the records dosed. She said the documents would show expenses but not necessarily the reasons behind the spending. 
Off-campus co-president Dan Barabas agreed, say­ing opening the records would invite widespread criticism of cill.S'i leaders. 
But others said such criti­cism would be beneficial. 

SMC runs leadership 
•


campaign 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Senior Leadership campaign, a fundraiser run by seniors to benefit the College, is on sched­ule to exceeded collection and participation goals for this fall. 
The campaign committee has already collected $950 of their $6,000 yearly goal. The partici­pation rate stands at 32 per­cent. 
A senior fundraiser has exist­ed at Saint Mary's College since the early '80s, with the money raised given to the college as a gift. The program, however, was lackluster and poorly pro­moted, said JudeAnne Wilson, Senior Leadership Campaign coordinator. Until two years ago, it had never eclipsed a 20 percent participation rate. 
Reorganization and renewed interest in the campaign in recent years has resulted in increasingly successful drives. The campaign now consists of two senior co·chairs. Lindsey Brubaker and Katie Zigler, as well as a 12-member commit-
see LEADERSHIP/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . ,WHAT'S UP Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Banquet

draws 

nation's best 
This was a very exciting weekend for Notre Dame Football and the Irish didn't even play. The annual football banquet was held Friday night. This banquet is no ordinary meal. In addition to being Mark J. a celebration of the 
Zavodnyik
past season, it is a key recruiting event. Many Sports Wire recruits descended Editor upon campus Friday afternoon to see what this "return to glory" is all about. 
During the Lou Holtz yea1s, the foot­ball banquet was legendary in recruiting circles. Notre Dame would routinely gain commitments from several players solely based on their experience at the banquet. 
Tyrone Willingham is off to a great start in his first full recruiting season as Notre Dame head coach. He has already received the commitments of numerous prep stars including Dublin, Ohio quar­terback Brady Quinn. Quinn is certainly the most heralded recruit to commit thus far. 
Other notable commitments include Apple Valley, Minn. defensive tackle Trevor Laws. Virginia Beach, Va. defen­sive back Isaiah Gardner, and most recently, St. Paul, Minn. offensive line­man Ryan Harris. Harris, rated third nationally among guards and centers, committed Friday before the banquet started. 
The news of Harris' commitment must have sent a wave of energy through the other recruits at the banquet and hope­fully that helped them make their deci­sion as to which college they should choose. 
A number of highly touted players whom the Irish are hoping to hear from soon were at the banquet. These includ­ed Baltimore, Md. defensive back/run­ning back Ambrose Wooden and defen­sive end Victor Abiamiri. Both Wooden and Abiamiri play for the same school. Wooden, is among the most athletic play­ers in the country. Ahiamiri is a super pass-rusher who can also play the run. 
One player who was not at the ban­quet was La Mesa, Calif. running back Reggie Bush. Bush is rated one of the top running backs in the country and is considering Notre Dame as well as Stanford and USC. 
It is very important that the Irish get Bush, not only because he is so talented, but also to show the nation that we can land the biggest fish, something the Irish have had trouble doing recently. The most recent loss being last year when Lorenzo Booker snubbed the Irish for Florida State on ESPN's SportsCenter. If Bush were to sign, he could be a major force in curing the offensive woes that have plagued the Irish in recent years. 
Now it is important to realize that these guys are still in high school. It makes no sense to put all of our faith into them as the saviors of Notre Dame football. But I can see it now, Reggie Bush running for 400 yards and eight touchdowns as Notre Dame demolishes USC next year. 
Oh yes. the future ofthe Irish is very bright. I just hope that the dinner was good. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Mark Zavodnyik at mzavodny@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­rion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all cimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, pl=e contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 

CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Ethics 

Massive Iraqirequirement 
declaration established 
details weapons program 
Inspectors are expected to USE! 
All sophomore stu­
dents entering the Iraq's 11,807-page

Mendoza College 

arms declaration inof Business in 2003 
assessing which
will be required to 

weapons sites to 
take an ethics search. 

course. 
page3 



BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS 

United files for bankruptcy  Scene reviews newly released albums  Appreciate the moment while it lasts  Coach Willingham to receive Home Depot's 'Coach of the  
Year' award  
United filed for bankruptcy after the government refused to help with their financial troubles.  Scene gives its opinion on the new sounds being pro­duced by Dave Matthews Band, Foo Fighters, the Wallflowers and Missy Elliott.  A columnist describes the foibles that can occur at an off­campus party and the enjoyment they can bring.  Irish football coach Tyrone Willingham will receive the award this Thursday.  
page 7  page 12  page 10  page 24  

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Employee receives towing fine 
A University employee's vehicle was being towed for a parking violation, when the owner arrived and paid the towing fee at the Stadium Circle on December 6. 
Computer parts stolen in DeBartolo 
A University employee reported the theft of com­puter parts from a room in DeBartolo Hall on December 6. There are no suspects. 
Drug paraphernalia found by NDSP 
A visitor was arrested by NDSP for possession of drug paraphernalia on Angela Blvd. on December 5. 
Suspicious signs removed 
Unapproved signs found posted in DeBartolo Hall were removed and turned over to NDSP on December 5. 
Seat belt citations issued by NDSP 
NDSP issued three state citations for seat belt vio­lations on both Ivy Road and Bulla Road on 
December 5. 
WHAT'S COOKING 


North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Boiled linguine, boiled tri-color rotini, boiled mostaccioli, pep­peroni pizza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza, bianco pizza, breadsticks, cream of broccoli soup, tomato soup, Texas chili, chicken sea gumbo, honey glazed pork chops and white beans with ham. 
Today Dinner: Boiled linguine, boil€,d tri-color rotini, boiled mostaccioli, pep­peroni pizza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza, bianco pizza, breadsticks, cream of broccoli soup, tomato soup, Texas chili, chicken sea gumbo, buffalo chiclk­en wings, macaroni and cheese, baked potatoes, green beans, whole beets, onions and mushrooms and plain rice. 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Linguine with vegeta­bles, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, Hawiian pizza, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, winter-blend vegetables, boulangere potatoes, herb­baked pol!ock, wild rice pilaf with pine nuts and tangy grilled chicken. 
Today Dinner: Wassail, eggnog, sherried seafood bisque, french onion soup, gemelli shrimp with tomato and walnut parsley sauce, four-cheese pizza, apple turnover, roast prime rib of beef, au jus, baked orange roughy jardiniere, Italian-blend vegetables, broccoli spears and roasted red-skin potatoes with rosemary. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LIJ
:c 
~ 
LIJ 
3: 
..I 
c( CJ 





0 

HIGH 33 HIGH HIGH HIGH
..J 

LOW 22 LOW LOW LOW 
27 20 
40 24 
47 
25 

Compiled by NDSP Crime Blotter. 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Seafood creole, cream of mushroom soup, beef and chedder­loafer sandwich, cheese pizza, vegan grilled vegetable pizza, fried rice, chicken fried rice, yang chow fried rice, pork fried rice and hot open faced turkey sandwich. 
Today Dinner: Seafood creole, cream of mushroom soup, herb rotisserie­style chicken, garlic smashed potatoes, corn on the cob, corn muffins, brown rice, coconut rice, fried plantain chips, chocolate fudge pudding cake, lemon meringue pie, cajun spiced shrimp, caesar chicken breast and pasta pri­mavera. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 43 / 39 Boston 38 / 30 Chicago 37 / 27 Denver 51 / 28 Houston 55 / 38 Los Angeles 69 / 45 Minneapolis 35 / 24 New York 39 / 34 Philadelphia 38 / 2~1 Phoenix 67 / 44 Seattle 48 / 42 St. Louis 42 / 29 Tampa 76 / 62 Washington 40 / 34 

Tuesday, December 10, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Info remains private 
By CAITLIN EARLY 
News Writer 
In a recent letter sent to vari­ous colleges and universities throughout the lJ.S., the Federal Bureau of Investigation peti­tioned institutions for informa­tion concerning foreign students. 
The FBI specifically requests that universities release the names, addresses. telephone numbers. citizenship informa­tion, places of birth, dates of birth and any foreign contact information of their international student populations. 
The Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) governs the ways in which colleges and universities r.an release student. information to third parties. 
Under FEHPA, institutions must provide students with the abi lily to withhold such personal infor­mation. 
T h e 
Association of American C o II e g e Registrars and Admissions OIIicers issued a statement in 
response to the letter which claims that the FBl's acquisition of student information without a court order infringes on the fed­eral privacy law. 
"If Notre Dame did receive a request from the FBI, our first rnsponsc would be to contact the University's General Counsel before rnleasing any kind of stu­dent information," said Lora Spaulding. associate registrar. "Hegardless of if the FBI or another institution were to seek out information about an inter-
Lun~o~Ga~~~a~B~e~u~:n~~~e!t\~i~ 
Students at Notre Dame 

Thursday, December 12 -1:00 -3:00 pm 
16 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Corniffee 
for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites Gay,Lesbian, 
and Bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends andsupporters to an 
informal lunch andstudy break at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality 
is assured. 

*Lunch will be served* 

"IfNotre Dame did receive a request from the f~I. our first response would be to contact the University's General Counsel ... " 
Lora Spaulding assistant registrar 
natfonal student, the request would be dealt with according to University guidelines and would be handled with the same care and concern as any other stu­dent's situation." 
While the FBI continues its attempt to acquire foreign stu­dent information to assist in the war on terrorism, the govern­ment has also tried to tighten its grip over the number of interna­tional student acceptances into American colleges and universi­ties. 
"In the wake of Sept. 11th, the percentage of international stu­dents enrolled in the University has increased," said Maureen f<'itzgibbon, director of International Student Services and Activities. "This increase is partly due to the three years of concerted effort Notre Dame has 
Dame continues to work toward its goal of a five percent interna­tional student population. As it currently stands. international students comprise of 268 under­graduate and 696 graduate stu­dents. 
"Notre Dame values its inter­national students and the impor­tant cultural experiences and understanding that they bring with them," said Fitzgibbon. 
Contact Caitlin Early at Caitlin.J.Early.2@nd.edu 
focused on recruiting international students and providing funding for their educa­tions." 
Despite government crackdowns on interna­tional stu­dents accep­tances, Notre 

Ethics requiretnent established 
. Mendoza College of Business makes course mandatory 
By STEPHANIE SELLINGER 
News Writer 
Starting in the fall of 2003, the undergraduate curriculum for the Mendoza College of Business will include a mandatory course in ethics. 
All sophomore students entering the Mendoza College of Business next year will be required to take the course, whereas it will be offered to juniors and seniors as an optional elective. 
"We feel strongly that business students need to have a good knowledge of ethics. While students may gain some of this knowl• ed gc in their philosophy and theology classes, we want to enforce ethics in the business school, as well," said Patrick Murphy, professor in the Mendoza College of Business. "We want to provide more of the formal training and background in ethics that most other business schools offer and that many people expect Notre Dame students to have when they graduate." 

The Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business, the interna­tional accrediting body for business education, requires that the topic of ethics be covered, but does not specify how. 
Currently, the business 

school offers a series of College of Business will to one-credit optional cours­continue to provide oppor­es. The first in the series. tunities to expose students Introduction to Business to ethics. In spring 2003, a Ethics, focuses on basic new 1.5 credit course, theories to Global be used to Business guide stu­Ethics
"We feel strongly that
dents' Lecture
business students need to
problem Series, solving in have a good knowledge will also ethical sit­be offered.
ofethics."
uations The class, encoun­which will tered in Patrick Murphy meet eight 
business. business professor Mondays 
The second course, Topics in 
Business Ethics, is based on case analyses of ethical problems in all the busi­ness disciplines, including accounting, marketing, management, finance and management information systems. The third and final course in the series. Business Ethics: Field Project, integrates class study with volunteer work within the business com­munity. 
T h e 

first in ''.An ethics course would 25 years ago, t h i s recently
be helpful in establishing 
series sponsored 
will be basic concepts and the O'Hara t h e rules." Lecture required Series, which course showcased
Nicole Phillips
for busi­speakers n e s s business student from compa­
s t u ­
dents. There will be eight to 10 sections consisting of 30 students in each, and classes will be discussion oriented. 
"An ethics course would be helpful in establishing basic concepts and rules," said Nicole Phillips, a sophomore business stu­dent. "By learning these concepts in a course geared specifically toward ethics and then by applying what I learned to practical situations presented in my regular business classes, I feel I will be better pre­pared to deal with the ethi­cal dilemmas I will face in the business world in the future." 
Along with the new ethics requirement, the Mendoza 

Give your car aChristmas present 
Store your automobile indoors during vacation. 
Avoid theft, vandalism, and weather damage. 
To reserve callAbe,"The Dorm Storage Man" 
574-239-1310 or email storage@sbwd.com. Free ride from storage facility to campus or airport! 
through­
out the 

semester, will invite business figures from the United States and Europe to address current ethical issues facing the business world. both inter­nationally and domestical­ly. 
Outside the classroom. the Mendoza College of Business also organizes lectures and seminars on ethics. Tho Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. established 
nies such as 

Baxter International and United Technologies, Inc. 
The University will also sponsor a conference this summer of tlie Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide, which will invite professors from Catholic universities in the United States and world­wide to discuss ways to teach students about busi­ness ethics. 
April Garcia, sophomore business student. said, "I think that including the ethics course as part of the required curriculum is a great idea. Not only will it help to make the business student a more well-round­ed individual, but the course will also establish a firm foundation of ethical principles, which is neces­sary for anyone in business to be successful today." 
Contact Stephanie Sellinger at sselling@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observe,· . NEWS Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
Leadership 
continued from page 1 
tee. 
One of the changes made to the program was to kick off the fundraiser earlier and earlier each year. While previously launched in February or March, Senior Campaign events now start in the fall. One such event this year was the raffling of Notre Dame football tickets dur­ing the Senior Dads Weekend. The raffie raised $743. 
Most of the campaign's recent success, however, should be attributed to the new and cre­ative fundraising ideas that seniors themselves have initiat­ed, Wilson said. The senior class of 2002 started both the . Le Mans Tower Tours as well as the Senior Spaghetti dinner. Both of these events, along with several others made last year's Senior Leadership campaign the most successful to date. The class surpassed their goal of $3,000, bringing in $4,800 as well as had a record participa­tion of 72 percent. 
Saint Mary's students are enthusiastic about being able to leave their mark on their alma mater. 
"I think it [the Senior Leadership Campaign} is cool because when we come back we can see our contribution to the school," said senior Liz Bailey. 
This year's goal for the cam­paign is $6,000, and a partici­pation rate of 80 percent. This amount will be doubled by a matching fund from a Lilly grant. 
Wilson is confident those numbers can be met t,hrough strong participation in planned campaign events second semes­ter. 
One of those events is a work­shop aimed at educating women about their finances entitled "Smart Women Finish Rich." 
"We want students to know that how you budget in the year or two after college can affect your retirement," Wilson said. 
Past senior classes have gifted their raised money to various campus funds. including finan­cial aid and scholarships, as well as construction funds. 
The Class of 2003 hopes to make a significant contribution to the new Saint Mary's student center, which is currently under construction. 
It does not seem to bother the alumnae that they are already being asked to donate to Saint Mary's College. 
"Personally, I have already started giving to the Senior Leadership Campaign," said senior Karen Fink. "I will be giving to Saint Mary's for the rest ofmy life." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Rhodes 
continued from page 1 
located in Tucson, Ariz. 
Serazin, who most recent­ly traveled to Johannesburg for the United Nations World Summit on Sustainable Development, attributes his steady accu­mulation of scientific expe­riences and honors to an early introduction. While many teens were working at the mall or sitting by the pool, Serazin said his first summer job at 15 years old was different. 
"I wanted to work in a lab," he said. 
Through an acquain­tance, he was able to pro­cure a job with his city's health department in Elyria, Ohio. 
Serazin said working in the public health system broadened his growing interest in biology while exposing to him the social inequities of health care. 
He compared the lack of primary care for the less fortunate in his hometown to how it is for people suf­fering from malaria in places like Burkina Faso. 
"It takes its toll on people who don't have much lever­age," Serazin said of malaria. 
As Serazin tries to be an advocate for health through his research, he said his short-term goals include getting a doctorate in mole­cular biology. He has long­term plans of working in higher education or public policy. 
Serazin said he also wants to continue under­standing the role of health in developing countries and how the role of science can be expanded in the world. 
"I've learned that no global problem has ever been solved without an understanding of the condi­tions of the Third World," he said. "If you never have understanding between people of very different backgrounds, you'll never solve these global prob­lems." 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 

Call 259-1000 for more details 
When all is calm and all is bright, you really might sleep in heavenly peace. 
Get There Safely. ~ 
For information and tips on how to safely drive home, email UBWell2@nd.edu. 


Power restored in Carolinas 
Associated P re,;s 

FRANKLINTON, N.C. 
While most of the Carolinas had power restored Monday following several days coated in ice, people in tiny towns like thii: one were beginning to wonder if they'd been for­gotten. 
More than half of Franklinton's 1,800 residents shivered for a fifth straight day without power while util­ity companies prioritized lines that served the most people. 
"We',re had it bad," said Devero Martin, 74. "Look at all the dothes I have on. It's everything I have." 
He and his 73-year-old wife, Mildred, shivered as they came outside to check on the borrowed generator runnin~l their furnace. Before that, they'd gotten by on a small heater plugged into a nearby building that had power after most of the area went dark after last Wednei;day's ice storm. 
"You should see the covers we've tlad to sleep under," Mildred Martin said. "Everything in the refrigera­tor and freezer is soft and soggy." 
Two of the town's five stop­lights worked .. Carolina Power & Light 
said some long lines coming was lrying to return power to into the town are down and about 88,000 customers. The are taking more time to state's electric cooperatives repair. reported about 7,035 without 
"They're not forgotten," power Monday. company spokeswoman Julie Meanwhile, Gov. Mike Hans said. She acknowl­Easley formally asked the edged, however, that in rural Bush Administration to areas it takes the same effort declare a disaster in the to restore power to a few state, which would make 
customers  N  o r  t  h  
as it does  Carolina  
to restore hundreds in a city I i k e  "Everything in the refrigerator and freezer is soft and soggy. "  eligible for compensa­tion from the federal  
Raleigh.  govern­ 
In the storm's  Mildred Martin  ment. National  
aftermath,  North Carolina resident  Guard vol­ 

the lights went out on more than 2 mil­lion people in the Carolinas. By late Monday, utilities said that number was down to nearly 600,000. 
Duke Power, which sup­plies electricity for most of the state between Durham and the Tennessee border. said it will take it until mid­night Wednesday before it can restore power to most of its 337,000 North Carolina customers and 24,520 South Carolina customers still with­out electricity. 
CP&L. which serves most of the state east of Durham, 
unteers 
have been 
going door 
to door since Saturday in 21 coun­ties, making sure residents arc safe and that they know how to safely heat their homes without being poi­soned by carbon monoxide from poorly ventilated heaters. 
The invisible, odorless gas apparently was involved in three deaths during the weekend. 
The total number of deaths blamed on the storm and its aftermath was 30. in states extending from Arkansas to New York. 
A holiday invitation to the University ofNot:re Dame Press's 
~~ ......~ 21;;:~6ag!JJooicS% 
for all Faculty 11nd Staff 
• December 11th and 12th 
\ll,o,-...-:~
~-II 
~ ~ 
~~ 
{t•,t;_,,, 
'·-~ 
'
C)>. 
. 
' 
·.. ,.-,.,-.--'
>·.' 
• fjf!-!-,:,_% 
;,;/ 
. 
'.\ iii, •·. ···· .. 
.
C) . 
~ 

10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
@310 Flanner Hall 
for sweets and coffee, 
AND take advantage ofthe great 
.
savings on all our titles at 
40%off. 

WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Massive Iraqi declaration details weapons program 
Some 2,100 pages are devoted
Associated P rcss 
to Iraq's current nuclear pro­
gram and the program it main­
UNITED NATIONS tained until the Gulf War -as 
Iraq's mammoth arms deda­well as information on sites and ral.ion covers its nuclear pro­companies involved in both. gram up until the 1991 Persian Lt. Gen. Amer al-Saadi, a Gulf War, the names of compa­senior adviser to Iraqi President nies and foreign governments Saddam Hussein, said Sunday that assisted its former chemical that Iraq's pre-1991 nuclear weapons program and details of program may have been close to Haghdad 's efforts to build bio­building au atomic bomb, but he logical weapons. said Baghdad no longer has 
Tlw details from the report such ambitions. w1H·n listed in l11e declaration's In the declaration, Iraq uine-pal{e table of contents, asserts that it no longer has which was made public Monday weapons or ma:;s destruction or and quickly distributed by a U.S. the means to deliver them. ollicial. The chemical declaration is 
Washington has obtained the several thousand pages and 
U.N. Sncurity Council's copy or bcgi~s w,\t,h a chronologr of the complete 12,000-pagf\ decla­Iraq s former chemical ration, which has not been wAapons program." Sections made public, and plans to share dealing with the chemical pro­it only with Hussia. Britain, gram include: Hesearch and Franc~ and Chinn. development activities, the pro­
In exchange for getting their duction of chemical agents, rela­own copies, the five Security tions with companies nnd a ter­Council powers will provide minated radiation bomb project. weapons inspectors with experts The biological declaration is and intelligence data that could much shorter that the previous help hasten a determination of two and includes information on whether Saddam llussein is try­military institutions connected ing to rearm, diplomats told The with the former biological Associated Press. weapons program. activities at 
Other council members will the foot-and-mouth facility and only get an edited copy with a list of supporting documents. missiles with a range greater The other copy was taken to Syria and Mexico, because it sensitive material censored, an The ballistic missile declara­than 94 miles. Washington on Monday by U.S. reversed an agreement among arrangement that has angered tion is the briefest of the four The complete report arrived officials who planned to dupli­council members Friday that some members. sections and totals some 1,200 at U.N. headquarters in New cate the material and distribute would have let inspectors 
The table of contents is bro­pages on the chronology of York on Sunday. One copy is in it to Moscow, London, Paris and remove sensitive material from ken down into four sections: Iraq's ballistic missile program. the hands of weapons inspectors Beijing. the 12,000 page document nuclear, chemical, biological Under U.N. Security Council res­who have been combing The deal for the distribution, before showing the report to and ballistic missile programs. olutions, Iraq is banned from through it for details and tips. reached late Sunday, outraged any council members. 

China vow-s to press North Korea on nuclear w-eapons 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Chinese military officials. in their first high-level discussions with the Pentagon in years, said Monday they would try to pressure North Korea to drop its nuclear weapons programs, 
U.S. officials said. 
At the same time, the Chinese offi­cials refused to rule out military force over Taiwan. 
Douglas Feith, the Pentagon's No. 3 ol"ficial who hr,aded the U.S. delegation at Monday's meeting in Washington, said the talks were useful and profes­sional. Gen. Xiong Guangkai, deputy chief of the general staff of China's People's Liberation Army, led the dele­gation from Beijing. 
"They were real discussions. They were not just stilted set pieces," said Feith, undersecretary of defense for policy. "We came away with some additional understanding of the per­sonalities on the other side and the ideas on the other side." 
While lunching on salmon, Chinese officials also presented a detailed pro­posal for military-to-military contacts with the United States, Feith said. He said it was too soon to offer a U.S. reactions to the proposals. 
The Pentagon wants the exchanges to be more than just port calls and photo opportunities, Feith said. 
"If the exchanges are structured properly, they will serve our interests, 
our common interests, providing insights, to reduce the possibility of mistakes, of misunderstanding," Feith said. 
The talks are the latest sign of warm­ing in military relations between the two countries. A low point was April 2001, when a Chinese fighter jet collid­ed with a U.S. Navy surveillance plane over the South China Sea. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld was angered by China's accusation that the Navy's EP-3 sur­veillance violated Chinese sovereignty by landing at a Chinese airfield after the aerial collision. He also was unhap­py that China detained the crew for 11 days and refused to let the United States repair and fly the plane off the airfield. The Chinese fighter jet crashed in the sea, killing the pilot. 
But relations have improved since then, with U.S. Navy ships resuming port calls in China last month and increasing contacts among higher level officials. 
The Chinese said they would try to persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program, Feith said. The Chinese also insisted they no longer sell missile technology or equip­ment to North Korea, Feith said. 
"I don't know whether they're going to take concrete steps," Feith said, adding, "There is a common interest that exists between China and the United States ... to stop the North Korean nuclear program." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Indonesia government, rebels sign pact: 
The Indonesian government signed a peace deal with rebels from Aceh province Monday, taking a major step toward ending a 26-year cont1ict that threatened to destabilize the world's most populous Muslim nation. The deal with the insurgents in Aceh, a region the size of Maryland that is rich in oil and timber. grants its 4.1 million people autonomy but not independence. It sets a cease-fire and calls for the eventual disarmamentof the rebels. 
U.N. lifts sanctions on ex-Angola rebels: 
The Security Council lifted 9-year-old sanctions against Angola':; UNITA movement Monday, wel­coming efforts by the government and the former rebel group to end the country's civil war. The 15­momber council voted unanimously to lift the sanc­lions, lirst imposed in 1993 in hopes of forcing the rebels to end fighting that began after Angola won independence from Portugal in 1975. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Rail exec nominated for Treasury chief: 
President Bush turned to railroad executive John 
W. Snow to be his new Treasury secretary on Monday and signaled his determination to push ahead with a new round of tax cuts to jump-start the sluggish economy. Three days after shaking up his economic team by firing Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and Lawrence Lindsey, the head of his National Economic Council, Bush announced he would nominate Snow, the president of Richmond­based CSX Corp., one of the nation's largest railroad freight lines, a:; O'Neill':; :;uccessor at Treasury. 
Television actor Tom Sizemore arrested: 
Actor Tom Sizemore, who plays a police detective in the CBS series "Robbery Homicide Division," was arrested after a woman claimed he hit and threatened her, police said Monday. Sizemore's attorney, Robert Barta, called the allegations trnfounded and said they were partof a "shakedown" for money by the woman. 
Embattled Cardinal Law consults Vatican: 
Cardinal Bernard Law consulted with tho Vatican on Monday during an abrupt trip to Home, stir­ring speculation that he was stepping down or arranging for the Boston Archdiocese to declare bankruptcy. The archdiocese shed no light Monday on the purpose of Law's visit, which came amid a new groundswell of criticism among once-loyal parishioners and priests about his handling of sexual abuse cases against priests. "~Ie's lost his diocese," said the llev. Hobert Bullock, a leader of the Boston Priests Forum, a group that represents about half of the approxi­mately 600 priests in the archdiocese. "lle's in hiding. He can't appear in public here. We need new leadership." Law's trip comes a week after thousands of pages of the archdiocese's person­nel files were released, painting a grim picture of rogue priests who used drugs and engaged in sex. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
Trainee charged in priest's death 
Snow nominated as 
Treasury secretary 
Associated Ptes• 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush turned to 
railroad executive John W. 
Snow to be his new Treasury 
secretary on Monday and sig­
naled his determination to 
push ahead with a new round 
of tax cuts to jump-start the 
sluggish economy. 
Three days after shaking up his economic team by firing Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and Lawrence Lindsey, the head of his National Economic Council. Bush announced he would nomi­nate Snow, the president of Richmond-based CSX Corp., one of the nation's largest railroad freight lines, as O'Neill's successor at Treasury. 
In many ways, Snow, 63, has a resume similar to O'Neill's. Both men served in the Ford administration where they worked with Dick Cheney and then both left the government to pursue busi­ness careers. 
However, O'Neill, the for­mer head of Alcoa Corp., proved to be a gaffe-prone economic spokesman for Bush, infuriating Republicans in Congress and roiling finan­cial markets with his com­ments. Snow is seen as a more cautious public speaker and a politically savvy opera­tor who will be better able to sell the Bush program in Congress and on Wall Street. 
"I look forward to joining your economic team to advance a pro-growth, pro­jobs agenda," said Snow, who holds a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Virginia and has been an active partic­ipant in public policy debates in Washington, at one time as chairman of the influential Business Roundtable. 
Determined not to repeat his father's mistake of appearing to be insensitive to rising joblessness during eco­nomic hard times, Bush told reporters that he would soon be proposing "specific steps to increase the momentum of our economic recovery and the treasury secretary will be at the center of this effort." 
Bush pledged to provide more tax relief, saying "many Americans have very little money left over after taxes." He also said he wanted to put forward proposals to bolster investor confidence, which has been shaken by the loss of trillions of dollars in stock market wealth, and to help Americans save for retire­ment. 
Congressional and business lobbyists who have been briefed by administration offi­cials said Monday that Bush was considering a package of tax cuts and spending mea­sures that would cost between $250 billion and $300 billion over 10 years. 
These officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the major tax cuts the administration was con­sidering were accelerating the personal tax rate reductions scheduled to take effect in 2004 and 2006, lowering the tax on corporate stock divi­dends, long a Republican goal, and boosting tax breaks to encourage businesses to invest in new plants and equipment. 

Some congressional sources said that the administration might be willing to consider proposals such as cutting the Social Security payroll tax or extending unemployment benefits as a way to attract Democratic votes for the package. 
Snow, who spent part of Monday making telephone calls to key lawmakers, was expected to encounter ques­tioning during his Senate nomination hearing about government support for CSX. One potentially damaging issue was dealt with on Monday when Fleischer announced that Snow was resigning his membership in Augusta National, the Georgia golf club under fire for not admitting women. 
Sen. Charles Grasslev, R­Iowa, incoming chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said he hoped to move forward as quickly as possible with hearings on Snow's nomination. Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., said he had known Snow for 20 years and looked forward to work­ing with him on a "new jobs growth package that witl improve America's economic security." 
Stephen Friedman, formerly head of the investment bank­ing giant Goldman Sachs, had been viewed as a virtual cer­tainty to get the job as head of the National Economic Council to replace Lindsey. But White House officials said Monday that certain personal and professional obstacles had arisen that Friedman would need to work through and Bush might turn to other candidates. 
While business groups hailed Snow's nomination, Democrats contended that the president needed to change policies rather than simply switching personnel to fix the economy. 
"It isn't the names, but the plan that is of concern to us," said Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle. "Trickle­do wn economics doesn't work." 
Some House Democrats, attending their own two-day economic forum, noted that Snow had been a past cham­pion of balanced government budgets, a stance that might put him at odds with the administration's heavy reliance on tax cuts to get the economy moving again. 
"I frankly think Mr. Snow is going to tell the truth about what's going to work and what's not," said Rep. Steny Hoyer, D-Md., No. 2 leader of House Democrats. 
In addition to Lindsey's position, the White House is also searching for a replace­ment for Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Havey Pitt, who resigned under criticism from Republicans that he had failed to shield Bush politically from the corporate abuse scandals. 
As chairman, president and chief executive of CSX Corp., which runs the largest rail freight network in the Eastern United States, Snow's total direct compensation in 2001 was $20.5 million. CSX posted $8.1 billion in revenue last year. 
A,sociatcd Pres;, 
CLEVELAND 
A man recently dropped from a training program to become a Franciscan brother was charged Monday in the slaying of a Roman Catholic priest who was shot to death and burned in a rectory fire, police said. 

Daniel Montgomery, 37, had been training to he an assistant at 1.he priesi's parish but not to conduct religious rites. He was charged with murder and arson, Police Chief Edward Lohn said. 
Investigawrs have not given a motive for the killing of the Rev. William Gulas, 68, pastor of St. Stanislaus Church for nine years. 
Montgomery was in the sev­enth year of an internship to become a Franciscan brother, or parish assistant. when the order's head of training trav­eled from Chicago last week to tell him that he was being fired, said the Rev. Thomas Luczak, an official with the Franciscarn,. 
Montgomery had been trans­ferred from Chicago to St. Stanislaus this summer. Gulas reported on Montgomery's per­formance but did not conduct or discuss a review with him, Luczak said. Luczak also said it was clear Montgomery was not suited to b1} a brother, but did not give specifics. 
Gulas WfaS shot once in the chest and struck on the head Saturday before the fire was 

set, the coroner said. His body was found inside his first-floor office. 
Montgomery had spoken with television reporters Saturday as authorities removed Gulas' body from St. Stanislaus. 
"The flames were that high, 1 could not do anything," Montgomery, who was com­forting parishioners outside, told the media. "I couldn't hear him, he was probably over­come by lhe flames by the time I got there." 
Franciscan 

in 1993. He was previously pastor of St. Thomas Aquinas parish in Saginaw. Mich. 
Parishioners said Gulas was a beloved pastor who led a recent $1.5 million campaign to renovate the church and was helping to rehabilitate the working-class, residential neighborhood. 
City Councilman Edward Hybka, a member of St. Stanislaus Church, called the slaying "incomprehensible." 
spokesman "He was a good, holy Ned Whelan person who cared about 
s a i d 

other people ... " 
Montgomery had been an assistant with Edward Rybka St. Stanislaus 
Cleveland city council member 
since the sum­mer. 

"He was doing a vari­ety of tasks -elementary, fun­damental tasks -housekeep­ing to helping out at the parish house," Whelan said. 
Church members said Montgomery attended Mass on Sunday. He was arrested Monday and jailed pending an arraignment scheduled for Tuesday; it couldn't immedi­ately be determined if he had obtained an attorney. 
The fire caused an estimated $50,000 damage to the church, which was dedicated in 1891 and is on the National Register of Historic Places. 
Gulas came to St. Stanislaus 
"He was a good, holy person who cared about other peo­ple and for him to be the victim of an inci­dent like that at a holy place during a 
holy time of the year demon­strates the mind of a person who lacked respect for life," he said. 
Mass at St. Stanislaus is sometimes celebrated in Polish, since about a third of the 1,500 parishioner speak the language. Lech Walesa, former president of Poland, spoke there in 1999. 
Hundreds of parishioners gathered for a prayer vigil out­side the church in bitter cold Monday evening. 
"The light of hope is always here, here at St. Stanislaus," Mayor Jane Campbell said. 
The Virgin of Guadalupe and the Significance of December 1 2 
Panel Discussion Tuesday, December 10, 5:30 pm The Institute for Latino Studies McKenna Hall, Roomm 208 Reception and book signing to follow 
Please also join us on Thursday, December 12 Virgin of Guadalupe Mass 
5: 1 5 pm at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Its too late for the SYS, but you can till write for News. Call Helena at 1-5323. Do it. Now. 

Tuesday, December IO, 2002 COMPILED f•ROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch December 9 
Dow Jones 

8,473.41 • -172.36 
NASDAQ 

1,367.14 • -55.30 
S&P500 

892.00 • -20.23 
AMFX 

818.25 • -7.00 
NYSE 

476.72 • -8.62 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ)-4.72 -1.25 25.22 
rNTEt•.·•cooe•·•·••r••f~Tt•,•••·•••::••••t;t•il;Ii!l;!l:1!1[~:ll!;~l!;!I 
LUCENT TECH (NDRU) -19.63 -0.32 1.31 
stt~:.•••~rq~~SJ?1!~::i:l~~-~f11!!1J:iBl:!lllll!il)I 
UAL CORP (UAL) -0.00 -0.00 0.93 
IN BRIEF 
Fed likely to hold interest steady 
t\mid a stagnant job market, stock market turbulence and a shake-up of President Bush's economic team, the Federal Reserve is expected to hold short-term interest rates at 41-year lows Tuesday at its last meeting of lhe year. 
That's the feeling among economists who believe that although the country will not fall into a new recession, the economy probably wiJI struggle with tepid growth this quarter and in the first quarter of 2003. 
Knocked down by last year's recession, the economy has experienced an uneven recovery this year. The seesawing economic growth ­a below-par 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter, rising to a brisk 4 percent rate in the third quarter -troubles the Bush adminis­tration, Fed policy-makers, Wall Street and Main Street. 
EDS outlines lease deal with United 
Electronic Data Systems Corp. said Monday its earnings would be reduced by aircraft leas­es with United Airlines, which filed for bank­ruptcy Monday. 
EDS said writing down the value of the leas­es, struck in 1991, would cut its fourth-quarter and full-year earnings by 5 cents per share. 
Plano-based EDS said the balance of its investment on the aircraft leases is about $40 million. EDS does not expect a quick decision from United about what to do with Urn leases now that t!w rnrricr has sought bankruptcy protection from creditors. 
EDS, which operates computer systems for other companies and government agencies, said it has no other significant commercial relationships with United. 
Company ol11cials had disclosed the leases during a conference call in September, but they had not quantified the impact on earnings until Monday. 
In trading Monday. EDS shares foll 57 cents. or 3.4 percent, lo $16.32 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
United files for bankruptcy 
. Airline vows to reorganize, cut costs 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
United Airlines pledged itself to an "agonizing" reorganization Monday as it surrendered to unpayable debts and billion-dollar losses, seeking shelter in the biggest airline bank­ruptcy filing ever. 
!loping to prevent passen­gers from defecting to rivals, CEO Glenn Tilton promised United would keep flying as usual and said the Chapter 11 filing provides the world's No. 2 carrier a chance to remake itself. 
United's filing, the sixth largest by any company, came less than a week after the federal government rejected a plea for financial assistance and amid the industry's worst downturn. 
The bleak numbers in its petition, filed before dawn in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Chicago, underscored what the company portrayed as an urgent need to slash costs, including wages. The company said it has been losing $20 million to $22 million a day in recent weeks, much worse than previously reported. 
"The only conceivable 1,700 flights a day, or about forced to become more like than twice the value of the way for the debtors (United 20 percent of all U.S. flights. their low-cost rivals, flying assets held by Continental and parent UAL Corp.) to It has the most extensive fewer and smaller planes Airlines in its last annual reorganize into a profitable worldwide route structure and paying out less in report before filing for and vibrant airline capable of any airline, but also the wages. bankruptcy in 1990. of providing stable employ­industry's highest costs. United, based in suburban It said it obtained $1.5 bil­ment will be to reduce their Asked what routes might Chicago, has lost $4 billion lion in financing l'rom sever­labor and other costs dra­be eliminated, Tilton in the past two years due to al banks to continue operat­matically," the carrier said replied: "We're going to rig­a weakened economy, ing in bankruptcy and had in its filing. orously stress-test every flawed business strategies $800 million cash on hand 
United attorney James single route against what and the reduction in air -not enough to pay off Sprayregen told a bank­we perceive to be the future travel after the Sept. 11 $875 million in debt that ruptcy judge the nation's market. ... lf J can't see attacks. It said in its filing came due this week. No. 2 airline faces "pro­United being competitive in that the impact of low-cost At a bankruptcy hearing, found and agonizing that market even with a sig­carriers has been "particu­Chief Judge Eugene IL change." nificantly better cost struc­larly severe," helping send Wedoff approved an order 
United did not specify the ture, it goes." its passenger revenues giving United access in 11 cuts to be made in a bank­Passengers aren't likely to plunging from $16. 9 billion days to $800 million of the ruptcy that Tilton expects to see any immediate effect on in 2000 to a projected $11.8 $1.5 billion. Wedo!T will rule last about 18 months, but flights or frequent-flier billion for 2002. on whether United gets the they are certain to include miles, according to both United listed assets of balance after creditors and reducing the number of United and industry ana­$22.8 billion and liabilities other interested parties flights, dropping unprof­lysts. But the filing could set of $21.2 billion in its filing have a chance to object. itable routes and slashing in motion a restructuring of Monday. In its latest annual The judge scheduled a employees' wages. the entire industry. Experts report, it listed almost $25.2 hearing on the issue for 
United operates about say large carriers may be billion in assets -more Dec. 30. 

CUBA 

Kansas, Cuba discuss agriculture 
Associated Press 
Ht\VANA 

Political and farm officials from Kansas met Monday with Cuban President Fidel Castro after calling for the United Stales to normalize relations with the communist nation. A Cuban official said his country will have purchased about $175 million from U.S. producers by the year's end. 
Lt. Gov. Gary Sherrer. a Republican, told a news conference that there should be a "normal political relationship" between the United States and Cuba. John Moore, the Democrat who will replace Sherrer as lieutenant gov­ernor on Jan. 13, said he also sup­ports "normalization of relations." 
No deals were signed during the five-day outing, but Sherrer said he believed that the trip "will be very meaningful in terms of dollars of trade for Kansas." 
The delegation had a 2-hour, 45­minute meeting and lunch with the Cuban leader immediately before leaving for home. 
"Jt was talking about farming and crops and sorghum and soybeans," said trip organizer Kirby Jones. But Castro "didn't get into any specilics" about a trade deal, Jones said. 
"Castro said he'd ... hundreds or thousands of American farmers and said he'd learned a lot about American agriculture," Jones said. 
During a news conference earlier, Sherrer said he believes that "the majority of the Congress and a majority of the American people believe that relaxing the embargo is the proper direction." 
President Bush has opposed such measures, however. 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
BRAZIL

VENEZUELA 
At least 34 dead in 
Venezuelans stock up on food 
Associated Press 
CARACAS 

Venezuelans waited up to four hours for gasoline and stocked up on food and water Monday as a strike seeking President Hugo Chavez's ouster created shortages at markets, banks, pharmacies and service stations. 
The growing shutdown increased pressure on Chavez to give in to opposition demands to call a referendum on his government or resign. Already, the eight-day strike has crippled the oil industry ­the world's fifth-largest and Venezuela's main source of revenue. 
Strike leader Carlos Ortega said the action will continue until Chavez leaves office. 
"The people you never lis­tened to are going to oust you," Ortega said, referring to Chavez. 
Gas, drinking water and cash at automatic teller machines were increasingly scarce in Caracas and other cities. Dozens of domestic flights were canceled. Banks closed. Motorists waited in a mile-long line for gas in the central city Valencia. 
"There has been lots of panic buying," said Caracas shop­keeper Dulce Araujo. 
Jose Perez. a liquor store manager, tended to dozens of customers -but they didn't want liquor. 
"People are only coming to ask if we've got water or soft drinks," Perez said. "We've got enough right now, but water might be gone today and we might have to close tomor­row." 
'Tm buying lots of canned goods because they can last for months. I hope things are going to get normal, but some products are already starting to run out," said shopper Luisa de Perez. 
Dozens of treasury and cus­toms agents joined the opposi­tion strike. which began Dec. 2. 
Harbor pilots and cargo han­dlers closed Venezuela's biggest port, Puerto Cabello, 90 miles west of Caracas, said Jorge Serrano, president of the National Ports Institute. Puerto Cabello handles most of Venezuela's non-oil imports and exports. 
Chavez ordered the military to help the Energy Ministry guarantee gas supplies and oil exports by all means necessary -including by temporarily seizing private truck fleets. 
The United States, which consumes more than half of Venezuela's exported oil, urged opposition and govern­ment delegates to resume talks sponsored by the Organization of American States. Delegates began meeting with OAS Secretary General Cesar Gaviria late Monday. 
Venezuela's crisis caused international oil prices to rise Monday. January 


relievers 
study break before finals 
SUNDAY DECEMBER 15 If.~~,.~-8 to Midnight 
Lafortune Ballroom 

massages

8-11 food 
crafts 


Y o r k Mercantile Exchange. January c r u d e increased by 27 cents to $27.20 a barrel. 
Citing economic and political turmoil, Venezuela's opposi­tion had demanded that Chavez call a nonbinding ref­erendum on his presidency in February. After three people were killed and 28 wounded at an opposition rally Friday, strike leaders demanded that Chavez either call a binding referendum on his presidency or resign. 
Chavez, a populist _former army paratrooper elected in 1998 and re-elected in 2000, 

s ors 

Cold Weather Experts 
Sminutes from Campus 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
~n
:xk~E....S......6 
refuses to call elections that could cut his term. which ends 
Brazilian mudslides 
in 2007 -though he's offered to take on challengers in a binding referendum next year. 
Associated Press 

The president accuses strik­
ANGRA DOS REIS
ers and Venezuela's news 
Mudslides triggered by tor­
media of inciting a coup. 
rential rains slashed throughChavez was brlefly ousted in April by dissident military offi­
this southeastern city cers after a general strike and 
Monday, burying houses and the slayings of 1 9 people at an 
killing at least 34 people, opposition march. 
firefighters said. Some 1,500 people were
Polls suggest the leftist Chavez has the steadfast sup­
driven from their homes by port of up to 45 percent of 
the torrent of water and mud Venezuela's poor majority, 
in Angra dos Reis, a city of based on his "peaceful revolu­
about 60,000 tucked between tion" to eradicate poverty. 
mountains and the Atlantic Ocean, 100 miles west of RioMany supporter:, are organized in neighborhood "Bolivarian 
de Janeiro. Circles," ready to take to the 
"The numbers could rise a streets to defend their presi­
little but we don't expect it to dent. 
grow much more than this," said Col. Sergio Simoes of theBut his 
local fire department, which rose 1.09 ularity has 
heating oil "There has been lots of overall pop­
led the search for survivors
panic buying." 
and victims.

cents to plunged to 
In 24 hours. the city got per gallon Dulce Araujo because of 
75.82 cents 30 percent 
more than 5 inches of rain ­nearly as much as the aver­
on the New Caracas shopkeeper the shrink­
age rainfall for two weeks, and unrest. 
ing economy the National Weather Institute in Rio said.

So far. the a r m e d 

In the poor district of Areal. forces have 
the Japuida River breached supported 
its banks and caused a hill­the president. despite calls for 
side to slip away before dawn rebellion from more than 100 
Monday in a mudslide that officers who ha\e been demon­
covered at least 10 houses. strating at an eastern Caracas 
Most of the houses were little plaza since October. After a 
more than shacks built on popular rebellion restored him 
hillsides. The slide of red to power in April, Chavez 
mud ripped up trees and purged the military and placed 
buried entire families. resi­loyalists in top positions. 
dents said. The strike has shut down the 
Carlos Alberto Oliveira oil industry, which produces 
Porto, a 37-year-old taxi dri­30 percent of Venezuela's 
ver, heard the roar at about $100 billion gross domestic 
2 a.m. "I heard a big noise, product and i'O percent of 
and my neighbor said, 'Let's export earnings. 
run because death is coming down,"'he said. "The water 

came and carried me, my son. my wife." 
Porto said he returned later to find a grisly scene. "I found legs in my back yard,"he said. "Children died. Lots of people died." 
Dozens of firefighters waded through thigh-high mud near the site. Firefighters from neighboring cities joined the search for victims and tried to persuade hundreds of families in high­risk areas to leave their homes and go to shelters improvised in public schools. 
The city's mayor. Fernando Jordao, declared a state of public calamity as the rain continued to fall late Monday. 
"It's not torrential rain like earlier, but it's still raining," he said in a radio interview. ''I've never seen anything like it in 20 years in Angra dos Reis." 
Jordao also asked govern­ment energy authorities to shut down the city's two nuclear plants. Angra 1 and Angra 2, on grounds that exit roads were closed and the area could not be evacuated in an emergency. 
Eletronuclear. which run the two plants. said they were operating normally and not affected by the rain. Workers were clearing mud and rocks from the main Rio­Santos highway, which was partially reopened to traffic late Monday. 
Angra dos Reis is a popular departure point for boats heading to the resort islands that dot the coast, but the city itself is largely poor. 

This new biography details the life of a gentle giant who roamed the Fighting lrlsh campus as a player, coach, athletic director and sports ambassador for over 50 years. $2L,.95 cloth • ISBN 1-888698-40-3 Diamond Communlcations 
Notre Dame Game Day 
Getting There, Getting In and Getting in the Splrit By Todd Tucker Foreword By Lou Holtz For the first time, Notre Dame fans have a travel book to call their very own -one tailored to making the most out of the home football game experience. $16.95 paper• b &w photos throughout ISBN 1-888698-30-6 Dlamond Communicatlons 
Loyal Sons and Daughters 
A Notre Dame Memoir By jean Lenz, OSF In 1972, after 125 years of all-male education, the Unlversity of Notre Dame went co-ed. Lenz, the rectress of the all-female dorm Farley Hall the first year gives readers a peek at life for the first class of women, and the men who welcomed them. $27.95 cloth • ISBN 0-7425-2274-1 Rowman & Littlefield Publlshers 
Signs of Grace 

Meditations on the Notre Dame Campus By Father Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. The perfect guide to a campus tour or a keepsake of the vivid picture of the splritual side to Notre Dame. $19.95 cloth• ISBN 0-7425-2189-3 Rowman & Littlefield Publishers 


Tuesday, December l 0, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Students fear school violence 
As.o~iated P,e.. 
WASI-IINGTON 

Metal delectors and surveil­lance cameras have sharply reduced weapons and crime at the nation's schools. buL a gov• ernment report says students are more afraid on school grounds than off because of a problem that hasn't changed: the school bully. 
"Away from school, kids can stay away from their enemy. On campus they can't really escape," said Curt Lavarello, who works with school police officers. 
Over the years, the percent­age of assaults, theft and other crimes at schools has steadily gone down. Six percent of stu­dents ages 12 to 18 said they were victims of crimes last year, compared with 10 percent in 1995. The largest drop came for studenLc; in seventh, eighth and ninth grades. 
In a 1993 survey, 12 pr.rcent or high school students said they carrit!d a weapon at school in the past 30 days. That dropped to G percent in 2001, accnr<ling W a joint rnport by the Education and Justice departments. 
But while security measures have helped stop guns and knives from getting into schools, they can't do much about the bully. 
Nine percent of the students said they had been threatened or injured with a weapon last year, up slightly from two years ago. There also was a 3 percent in increase in students who reported being bullied. 
"Rullylng was accepted as part of the tradition of the school. That has to change," said William Modzeleski, who heads the federal Safe and Drug-Free Schools Program. "We're starting to recognize that this is a serious issue and beginning to address it." 
Modzeleski said school administrators need to treat bullying the same way they treat other aggressive behavior. 
"Bullying can lead to more assaultive behavior," Modzeleski said. 
A survey last year by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed that 10,000 children stayed home from school at least once a month because they feared bullies, and half the children surveyed said they were bullied once a week. 
Sandy Clifton-Bacon. an assis­tant superintendent at Redondo Beach Unified School District near Los Angeles, said teachers and other adulls on campus are becoming better trained to deal with bullies. 
"We have to. It's a serious problem. And lately, schools are becoming more liable for those Lhings," she said. 
Last month, for example, par­ents of a 13-year-old-boy filed a federal lawsuit against a rural school district in central Pennsylvania for allegedly ignoring the bullying of their son. 
Also, a growing number of schools across the country have adopted bullying intervention programs. 
The government report, com­piled from police reports and interviews with students and principals, also found: 
. 
The percentage of students who reported street gangs in their school fell from 29 percent in 1995 to 20 percent in 2001. 

. 
Twenty-nine percent of stu­dents said drugs were available on campus -3 percent fewer than in 1995. There was no change found in the percentage of students who had used mari­juana.. 

. 
Twelve percent of students said someone at school had called them a derogatory word having to do with race, religion, ethnicity, disability, gender or sexual orientation. About 36 percent saw hate-related graffi­ti at school. 


Lavarello said school officials have been doing a better job in recent years of balancing pre­vcn tion programs and crime intervention. But he said the dropping crime statistics may not be entirely accurate. 
A Sept. 25 survey by the National Association of School Resource Officers found that 89 percent of oflicers said crime on campus is underreported to police. Lavarello, the group's executive director, said princi­pals are often pressured to min­imize crime statistics at their school. As a result, he said, they often refer to thefts as missing property and assaults simply as fights. 
"A kid may be a victim of assault and battery but they treat it as a horse-playing inci­dent," Lavarello said. 
WTC surveillance tapes feared tnissing 
Asso~iated Press 
NEW YORK 

Surveillance tapes and main­tenance logs are among the missing evidence as investiga­tors try to figure out why the World Trade Center collapsed, federal officials said Monday. 
Many documents destroyed in the disaster "are pretty key in carrying out the work," lead investigator Shyam Sunder said. 
The 110­story towers 
"[Many documents 
collapsed Hesearchers after two destroyed in the disaster] plan to spend hijacked jet­two years on
are pretty key in
liners plowed the study. 
into the build­carrying out the work." They will ana­ings in lower lyze trade Manhattan on center wreck­
Shyam Sunder 
Sept. 11. age, rely on
lead investigator
2001. Nearly steel manu­
tain vital information that could help answer questions, Sunder said. Investigators arc trying to locate copies of many destroyed documents from the building's owners and city agencies. 
Also missing are the original contract specifications for the buildings from the early 1970s. Many believed the towers were built to withstand the impact of a Boeing 707 -the largest air­craft at the time, but much smaller than the jets that 
crashed into 
the buildings 

2,800 people were killed. 
Two hypotheses on the cause of the collapse have emerged since the National Institute of Standards and Technology began its $23 million probe three months ago. 
Both theories agree the jetlin­ers damaged floor joints and columns inside and outside the buildings. But they vary on whether the fire-weakened columns failed and alone brought down the buildings or whether floor trusses sagged in the intense heat, pulling the columns inward to collapse. 
The lost records probably con-
f act u ring 

experts and interview survivors, victims' rel­atives and rescue workers. 
They have also created a data­base of more than 1,900 pho­tographs shot that day as the towers burned and rel! and urn asking for more. They arc espe­cially interested in photographs showing the south face of 7 World Trade Center, which was not hit by a plane but burned for hours before collapsing. 
An earlier federal study directed by a civil engineering group was criticized for not examining evacuation proce­dures. 

THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE 


THERE WILL BE A MASS SAID FOR ALL THOSE WHO ARE REMEMBERED BY ORNAMENTS ON THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE AT 10PM ON THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12TH IN THE PASQUERILLA WEST CHAPEL. FATHER SAM PETERS WILL PRESIDE. 
PLEASE VISIT THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE LOCATED OUTSIDE THE DOOLEY ROOM ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. DEDICATE AN ORNAMENT TO SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY ALCOHOL, SUCH AS IN AN ALCOHOL-RELATED ACCIDENT OR A CASE OF ALCOHOL ABUSE. ALL DEDICATIONS ARE CONFIDENTIAL. TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10TH FROM 6-9PM WILL BE THE LAST CHANCE TO BUY ORNAMENTS AT THE TREE'S LOCATION. ORNAMENTS WILL STILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION (311 LAFORTUNE) FROM 8AM TO 5PM DAILY. THERE IS A SUGGESTED DONATION OF $1 PER ORNAMENT AND ALL PROCEEDS WILL GO TO THE ALCOHOL AND ADDICTIONS RESOURCE CENTER OF SOUTH BEND. THANK YOU FOR YOUR KIND SUPPORT. 
SPONSORED BY PILLARS 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Racism deb;1te continues 
Questioning motives for attending Notre Dame implies lack of acceptance 
So why did you come to ~otre. Dame? q,, 
I have been asked this question way too many times and it's beginning to bother me. I wonder why this question is asked. Maybe it's because in asking, one is actually referring to my minority status ­whether it be the fact that I'm black, Protestant or perhaps the fact that I choose not to drink. In each case, I do not fit the status quo, and it seems that I am automatically disqualified from having the right to attend Notre Dame. 
"Why would you, Shanida, want to attend a school that is 85 percent white and Catholic? Why would you want to attend a school where drinking is con­sidered the main social activity?" For a majority of the students here at Notre Dame, if they were asked why they came here, it would he relatively easy for them to answer since they are part of the majority culture. I can't understand why the question is not 
-· ­

. ,11 • , · · , ..r 
. as simple for me to answor, or why I am even asked the question in the first place. To me, it seems that the question is actually trying to ask, "Why would you want to attend a school where you will stand out, racially, religiously, socially, politically and oth­erwise'?" 
To the people who pose this implication, I would say, "Why not?" Coming to Notre Dame was an opportunity I could not pHss up. lt offers a great edu­cation and challenges me on many levels. By coming here, I am adding a bit of diversity, and diversity is something Notre Dame could benefit from. 
So the next time the question is asked of someone, anyone, why he or she chose Notre Dame instead of a less-antagonistic university, take a minute to think about what is really being asked. The question implies a lack of belonging, a lack of feeling welcome and a lack of acceptance. It implies that someone 
r, 

· who goes to Notre Dame knowing that it will be dif• ferent racially, politically, socially, ethically and reli­giously should have known better. It insinuates that he or she should have gone somewhere else and should just keep their mouths shut because they should have known going in what it would be like. Maybe I am taking this question the wrong way; per­haps people sincerely want to know why I chose to attend Notre Dame, but I am uncertain. I get asked the question so frequently, and there always seems to be an accent on the "you." No matter what my reason is, I belong here and should not have to explain myself. 
Shanida Sharp junior Lewis Hall Dec. S 
Racism is a system, not simply an action or belief 
Christian Braunlich and Peter Scott tern cannot act to maintain the privilege asked questions of us regarding our defi­they do not have. nition of racism in their Dec. 9 letters. Braunlich asks why our view of race is Here are our answers. not skewed by the system of racism. This 
Braunlich first says that we provide no system affects everyone. Our view comes substantiation for the claim that from years of dialogue between and American society is still seething with across racial lines (which includes discus­white supremacy. You can find manifes­sions between the two ofus). tations to substantiate such claims nearly Through discussion, we have begun to anywhere when you begin looking at the realize that basic definitions of racism do over-representation of whites in the high­not reflect racial reality for many. Anyone est positions within U.S. politics. econom­can do that; sadly, few choose to. ics and institutions of higher education. Scott thanks us for clarifying 
One example close to home would be to our definition, and for that say that right here in South Bend, both we would like to commu­the student body of Notre Dame and the nicate to him that he is resident population of the Center for the welcome. Yet, Scott Homeless are racially skewed from both accuses us of "edu­local and national averages. At Notre cational suprema­Dame, a gross over-representation of cy." Actually, our whites shows how this system of white views come supremacy delegates the positions of edu­largely from cational privilege to whites, while the having dis­over representation of minorities at the cussed race Center for the Homeless shows how the with many peo­same system delegates the positions of ple of different economic poverty to minorities. colors and differ­
Note here that the system we talk of is ent social classes, not just Notre Dame or the Center for the including those Homeless, but rather the whole societal who never had the workings ofthe United States (and per­privilege to achieve haps the world for that matter). an educationally 
Braunlich also asks if a minority owned supreme position. The business hiring only minorities is an view we present is what we example of racism. Remember that feel best represents the stories we racism is not an individual action but have heard repeated by many different rather a broad system for the preserva­people. tion and maintenance of privilege. That Rather than educational supremacy, we means that in order for an act ofracial think of this more as educational democ­discrimination to constitute an act of racy in that it includes input from a ½ide racism, it must be complimentary to the and representative range of people. As broader system of racism. The racial dis­mentioned earlier, educational suprema­crimination of the minority-owned busi­cy more accurately describes the way ness does not participate in this system, racism in the United States allots place­and so it is not racist. ments in higher education. 
Fortunately, Braunlich agrees with us that all racial discrimination is wrong. Tona Boyd The point being missed is that racial dis­sen.1.0r crimination is only racist when it com­McGlinn Hall plies with the greater social system of Shamus Rohn racial privilege. Racism is a system. not senior simply an action or belief. People who do off-campus not hold the privilege allotted by that sys-Dec. -9 
Look past knee-jerk reactions to understand racist social system 
"Knee-jerk" is defined in everyone's may ultimately be your solution. favorite book -Webster's English Braunlich's business example has Dictionary -as ''reacting in a readily found the one way in which a minority predictable way." Peter Scott and in today's America can be racist. But Christian Braunlich acted in such a the moment that they step outside of way in their Dec. 9 letters. I must admit their shop into another business, or that I, too. reacted initially in such a even in the filing of appropriate legal way when confronted with the idea the documents, they again find themselves way in which I act constitutes racism. I in the prevailing white racial structure. invite a second look at such issues. In regards to Braunlich's reference to 
Academics around the globe who affirmative action we see why an study such phenomena as racism have agreement upon definitions is so begun to use the definition of imperative. If we do accept the prevail­racism provided by Ken ing academic definition of racism, affir­Seifert's Dec. 3 letter and mative action could not be racist. reiterated by Tona There is no attempt in it to consolidate Boyd and Shamus power for one race. Rohn in their Dec. 6 Affirmative action is no different in letter. They are not some of the reasons that many of us alone in their were accepted into Notre Dame. 
"magical ability Perhaps one ofour North Dakota stu­to tweak defini­dents was admitted over another tions" or to chal­Chicago applicant due to regional lenge reference diversity. Some oboe player was per­texts. In fact, haps admitted due to his proficiency in such challenges music over an all-state athlete. The 
occur in the aca­bottom line is that the admissions 
demic setting department discriminated for every every day. student reading this paper over anoth­The true power er equally qualified student. Diversity 
that racism yields among the student body is a great cannot be encompassed thing, and this includes racial diversity by the 1936 dictionary def­as well. inition. Words and meanings \!\/hen a definition of racism is provid­
change. Such is true ofthe term ed that seems to encompass oneself, it "racism." Society has had great strides initially seems appropriate to deny in the way we think since 1936, espe­such sentiments and definition. cially pertaining to race. I would like to suggest an alternative 
Yet every day individuals still face to that reaction. Instead, try and exam­racism in a social system in which ine the ways in which you benefit from power is wielded by a white majority. a racist social structure. I invite anyone To make light of this real issue in an whosxxxxxxxxxxxxxa wishes to discuss attempt at hyperbole in regards to the with me their feeling on racism to con­"intellectually underprivileged" is tact me. Once we are able to realize the morally repugnant. This provides just ways in which we gain advantage at one example of many daily examples of the expense of others the closer we are racism and its symptoms. to correcting racism in society. 
In regards to Braunlich's letter, you do not have to be white or any other Coleman Barker race to be able to examine race and its sophomore consequences objectively. A wholesale diversity educator rejection of white culture is not neces­O'Neill Hall sary to begin an examination, though it Dec. 9 

O
TI-IE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Da.me, IN 46556 024 Sou1h Dining I fall. N0<r< Dame. IN 46~56 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Jason McParley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OP.ERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR, Hdcna Payne VIEWPOINT EDITORt Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EU1TOR1 Katie McKenna 

ADvER·nstNG MANAGER: Matt' Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mcghan Goran SYSTIMS ADMINISTRATOR, Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Todd Nieto 
CoNTROlllR: Lori 1...cwalski 

CONTACT Us 
Oma: Mi.NAGERIG.ENEML (NF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 Al>VERTISING.•......•............................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF .•..•...••....•.•..•.....•..........•... 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 N1:-ws .... ......................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observcr.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 obscrver.sporcs. l@nd.edu '>CENE.........................................................631-4540 observcr.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAllv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEIi ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire al http:!!obsfflJer.nd. edu for daily upd:ites ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion coh,mns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s Coll~. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on contcnc. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lecrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters 10 the Editor must be signed and must include contact informarion. 
Q~stiom regarding Obmver policies should bt dirt:et­td to Editor in ChiefJason McFar~. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obwrwr (USPS 599 240) Mpuhli,hc-J MonJ..y 1hrough Frid~ c=xapt Juring -cum mJ ,,._M"in pmcwb. A,ub1erirrion m TkcOrurr.,cd1 SJOO foronr acadmik year: JS~ fur oM -nlff 
nv Ob-ltrwr .. putih,kd 11: PUSTMASTF.R OH lluwth l>inin1 H.ill 'lc;nJ .ukl,cn .:ern:clWn, m: Nmn-rl;un~. IN . 6S56 Th"Ol.cr,,w:r 
l'.0.&,:Q Pcnodka.l f'O"-V p1id ,, Not,c O,rnc Notrr Dvnc, 1N '461~6-07?9 ancl .Jdi1ioruJ ,.,uli,,.off'5ll$,. 
llw Obinwr u I mttnber of che Anoci•fffl Pn:u. IJI rq,roduir:1ion ri1ht1 arr rom<J. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Freshmen need more class options 
I am writing in agreement and elaboration of Patrick Dunn's Dec. 5 letter, "Registration system frustrates fresh­men." I also am angry about the registration process for freshmen. 
I came to the University of Notre Dame expecting plenti­ful academic opportunities. Before arriving on campus, one of my primary goals for my freshman year was to dis­cover a possible career route. or at least to expand my academic horizon. Initially, I was not disappointed. This semester, I have had many excellent professors, and I have learned a great deal about the world and myself, both inside and outside of the classroom. 
For the coming spring semester, I was excited to take Introduction to Anthropology. I was really interested in the subject, and it sounded like an intriguing class. Unfortunately I was an unlucky one. I received a late reg­istration time, and when I finally was able to log on the registration site, the class was filled. So much for anthro­pology. I was not discouraged yet. because Introduction to Social Psychology also sounded interesting. 
Appreciate the moment while it lasts 
He was dressed like a young corpo­rate executive, an attorney or a stock­broker as he gazed intently at the keg in the center of the kitchen. Seconds later, his polished shoes shot upward into the air, the nozzle went into Joanna Mlkulskl 
his mouth and the guests started to count. I knew at that moment that Tuesday Voice 
our party had lost any pretense of class, sobriety or maturity. 

It had started with the best of inten­tions. Last year, my roommates and I attended Christmas "SYRs" at the apartments of our off-campus friends. They were semi-formal, bring-a-date, apparently grown-up affairs, and we wanted to have one of our own. So last week we told our friends to find a friend, a date or a significant other, dress nicely and come on Friday, bearing either hors d'oeuvres or a "spirit" of choice. 
As the evening approached, we hur­ried to clean, hang Christmas lights and decorate our artificial tree. Our apartment looked like a serene win­ter wonderland as we waited in our dresses, skirts and strappy sandals for the first guests to arrive. We could almost imagine that we -mature, even adult -had already entered the "real" world that awaits us after graduation. 
But then two friends burst through the door with a barrel of "punch" as their party contribution, and we were forced to reconsider our original vision of the evening. By 11 p.m., my roommates and I realized that our group of friends (ourselves included) defined the aphorism, "You can dress the~ up. but you can't take them out. 
Our "soiree" featured the atmos­phere of a tailgate and stunts like those in a teen movie staring Jennifer Love Hewitt or Seth Green_ For exam­ple, two male invitees decided that a futon frame would make a great lad­der to assist their entrance into a sec­ond floor room. They had carried it halfway up the basement stairs before my roommate caught them and ordered them -to their dismay -to return the furniture to 
its appropriate place. over-achievers at this University. 
A group ofjeans We plan, plot and prepare for and T-shirt clad careers, graduate school. sophomores volunteer work or whatev­meandered to er, but so much of our our door happiness depends upon around enjoying the present 
11:30 p.m. and forgetting the rest and were -no matter how berated impossible that is in by two of the face of concerned my room­parents and profes­mates for sors. their I realize that my inappro­insights (seize the priate day!) aren't anything attire. students haven't They no heard before. I just doubt won­find it rmazing when dered why it experiences suddenly mattered at a make me listen. party where On Saturday morning, my strategically placed roommates and I awoke mistletoe had become thankful that our party never 
irrelevant. Enough said. 
As I realized that our social gather­ing had degenerated into a dorm party, a certain friend, nice enough to come as my date, said something to the effect of "Enjoy it. You'll never see anything like this again in your entire life." 
I suppose he was right. 
Although going to school here hasn't always been easy for me, I've realized this semester that there is 
However, this class was also full, and so was Introduction to Film, Television and Theater. It was in fact hard to find a freshman elective which was not full. 
For most students, the purpose of First Year Studies, and by extension the freshman year of college. is to sam­ple new academic areas to see just where their interests lie. As a world-renowned university. this should be one of Notre Dame's primary goals. and perhaps it is. But it has failed me and many other freshmen. We had bad luck. 
I love Notre Dame and consider it a great place to be, but I am very disappointed that I have to pay top dollar for classes I don't want to take and am unable to fully pursue my interests. The administration should be disappointed with itself for failing to afford many of its freshmen this opportunity. 
Jeff Golen 

freshman Alumni Hall Dec. 8 
something unique and unrepeatable about where I am with great friends and an excuse to be ridiculous. 
It's amazing to think that the same people who participated in Friday's antics will become the corporate executives, attorneys and stockbro­kers that we resembled when the party began. 
Yet, at the same time, it's amazing to realize how little our futures often matter. We are perfectionists and 
really got out of control -except of course for the incident with the keg in the kitchen. 
Joanna Mikulski is a senior English and German major. Her column appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at mikulski.J@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Justin Krivickas Joe Hettler 
Will Puckett Lauren Dasso Maureen Christine Reynolds Armstrong 
Viewpoint Scene Kristin Yemm Julie Bender Graphics Lab Tech Andy Devoto Lisa Velte 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Are you going to the Gator Bowl? Vote at NDToday.com by Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The best laid plans ofmice and men go often awry ... 
Robert Bums Scottish poet 
Onu 
BS,ERVER 


CE 
page 12 Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
New DMB lacks usual charm. 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Critic 
Over the past decade the Dave Matthews Band has created one of the largest fan bases in music today. They have released seven very successful studio albums to date that have seen the band evolve from the loose acoustic jams of Remember Two Things to the structured radio friendly songs on Everyday. 
But it's not these studio albums that make Dave Matthews Band as popular as they are; their incredible live shows are what have built up the band's popularity. They consistently sell out huge stadiums and arenas as millions of people come every year to see their unique blend of rock, jazz and folk music explode on stage. To recreate the feeling of seeing them live, Dave Matthews Band has released five live albums in addition to their studio work. While all attempt to capture the beauty of the band's music and their intense jams that are absent from studio albums, some do it better than others. 
Their latest addition to their extensive catalogue, Live at Folsom Field, doesn't measure up to the band's previous live releases. The sound on Live at Folsom Field is the worst on any live album. Matthews' coarse yet smooth voice echoes greatly, and the guitar, keyboard, and vio­lin are at times impossible to hear. 
Llve at Folsom Field doesn't have a very diverse set list either. On the first disc alone eight of the 11 songs are from their two most recent studio albums, which makes for a very boring sound. The sec­ond disc is much better than the first with several older songs that showcase the band's great musical ability. The shortest song on the second disc is five minutes long. This is compared to five minutes being the average length of a song on the first disc. 
The second disc features a 14-minute version of "Angel." The band completely revamped the song adding a long jam in the middle featuring the "lovely ladies" singing the praises of each band member as they solo. Also on the second disc is a rocking version of a Dave Matthews Band concert classic, "All Along the Watchtower." The song starts off with the normal introduction, in which the crowd screams in between the musical breaks and then enters into a stunning electric guitar solo in the middle. Boyd Tinsley's famous violin is very prevalent in "Watchtower" and on the rest of the second disc as well. 
Dave Matthews Band classics such as "Stay," "Ants Marching" and "Recently" also make 
appearances on the second disc and fea­ture some excellent moments of musical brilliance. 
Despite the strength of theses songs on paper, many do not live up to their usual intensity. For instance "Two Step," which normally features several solos, on this album seems very rushed. This is a com­mon theme throughout the entire album, mainly on the first disc. The band, which in prior releases has played very tight and relaxed jams, seems to rush through songs that fall apart at times. On the first disc songs such as "So Right," "I Did It" and "If I Had it All" sound forced and the band never quite comes together. Even a for­merly powerful song such as "Big Eyed Fish" becomes a boring song that only functions as an intro into the album's standout track "Bartender." 
"Bartender" has the potential to save the 
Photo courtesy of rollingstone.com Dave Matthews Band consistently sells out tours due to their energetic llve performances. 
album, hut even Leroi Moore's beautiful pennywhistle solo to the tune of "If I Only Had a Brain" from the Wizard of Oz seems lost in the overpowering screams of the crowd. 
In short, this is a decent album. If this were a live -album from any other band than the Dave Matthews Band, then it would be much better. But because the band has released such superior live albums in the past, Live at Folsom Field is not up to par. This album is very boring and does not capture the true explosive­ness of a Dave Matthews Band concert. Coupled with a horrible recording and rushed songs, Live at Folsom Field floun­ders in the shadow of such releases as Listener Supported and Live at Luther College. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at 
rafferty.3@nd.edu 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Wallflowers stay true to their sound 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Smart lyrics, catchy guitar hooks and clean-cut songs are at the heart of the Wallflowers newest release, Red Letter Days. This album is the band's fourth in 10 years. and despite the divergent sound of popular music over the last decade, the Wallflowers have managed to stay faithful to their American pop-rock sound. Each album has had subtle differences, however, and Red Letter Days shows growth in vocals and other musical stylings from the band's earlier releases. 

Red Letter Days' smoothly constructed melodies and sing-along choruses are most closely related to 1996's multi-platinum selling Bringing Down the Horse, which had success with songs like "One Headlight" and "6th Avenue Heartache." The band's millennium release, Breach, was an album of less radio-friendly songs, but its darker themes have been trans­ferred to Red Letter Days on a several of the tracks. 
This album also clearly demonstrates the 
Wallflowers influences from American 
rockers such as Tom Petty, Bruce 
Springsteen and perhaps even the Byrds' 
Roger McGuinn. The song "See You When 
I Get There," in particular feels like it 
could be track of Petty's Full Moon Fever 
with its edgy guitar and succinct lyrics. 
Lead singer Jakob Dylan sings, ''I'm look­
ing up I At the moving clouds / I've been 
hit so hard / This time / I just might stay 
down." Later he adds some typical Petty 
love vengeance with the line, "Now some­
times you're an angel/ But you're usually/ 
A pain in the ass." 

Probably the most noteworthy element 
of this album is Dvlan's vocals. His voice 
shows much maturation from earlier 
songs with its deep and soothing intona­
tions. Every track is laden vi.ith passionate 
vocals that seep through the rhythms and 
bleed the emotion of the lyrics. 
The album opens with its first single 
"When You're on Top." Quite different from t h e typical rock sound, a syn­the ­sized guitar pulse starts things 
o r f with Dylan almost speak-

Red letter oavs The 
Wallflowers 
Interscope Records 
ing the lyrics. The chorus reacquaints lis­teners with the traditional Wallflowers' sound with its summery sing-along feel, "I feel fine / With the sun in my eyes / The wind in my hair / When I'm falling out of this sky I I'm doing better than I thought I would I But nothing's ever as good I As when you're on top." 
Perhaps the best song on the album is the touching "Closer to You." Muted, but dominant piano chords open the song, which is soon inliJtrated by Dylan's smoky vocals. The smoke clears to silk as he sings the repeated verse, "I remember that everyday l get a little bit closer to you." As with most Wailllower songs, Dylan's lyrics hint at a deep well of complicated emo­tions, but don't reveal their mystery. "How soft a whisper can get/ When you're walk­ing through a / crowded space / I hear every word being said ... And I don't hear a thing." 


Overall, this album is a good fourth effort, however in certain places it lacks in musical originality. Many of the tracks fit the cookie-cutter predictability of radio pop songs, like the harsh "Too Late to Quit" and the breezy ''If You Never Got Sick." As well, the synthesized beats opening many of'the songs don't mesh well with their gui­tar-driven choruses. 
On a lighter note, Red Letter Days is a mover and shaker album. It has quick­paced rhythms and an intensity that earlier Wailllower albums lack. It is an all-around good listen for Wallflower fans and fans of the pop-rock genre. 
Contact Julie Bender at bender. IO@nd.edu 
THE 
OBSERVER 


Tuesday, December 10, 2002 page 13 
--~~-----------------------------------------------------------­
ALBUM REVIEW 
Elliott constructs album '80's style 
By ARIENNE THOMPSON 
Scrnr Music Critic 
lfarkening back to the era of she!ltops and Kangols, Missy Elliott gets in touch with her 1980s side in her latest release, lJndor Construction. In addition to the presence of an old-school vibe is her inar­guably creative sibrr1ature production style, much of which she generates with her long-time friend and frequent co-producer ·nm "Tunbaland" Moseley. 
Ilowevor, beyond the consistency of her production and various collaborations, 

By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scene Music Critic 
Amidst the ongoing legal battle sur­rounding Dave Groh! and the rights to Nirvana's vast catalogue, the Foo Fighters have managed to release a new album with Groh! at the helm. Recording this album, however, was by no means smooth sailing. After a tiring four months of recording, the fighters of foo decided to discard an entire album's worth of material, deeming it too glossy. 

Under Construction marks the emergence of a new Missy Elliott. Considering her appearance alone, Elliott has created a more svelte and healthier body image by shedding at least 30 pounds within the past year. Furthermore, since the untimely death of her close friend and musical asso­ciate Aaliyah, Elliott proclaims through the song "Can You Hear Mo" that the pop singer's passing has had a profound effect on her perspective on life. Balancing the effects of these highs and lows in her per­sonal life, Elliott asserts that the title of her album, Under Coustruction, reveals tho effort she is putting into rejuvenating and 
exploring herself as an artist and as a person. 
As with her past three albums, Under Construction, features unique lyrics, tight production and star-stud­ded collaborations. Standout tracks include the radio-favorite "Work It," which features backwards-rapping, off-the-wall phrasing and odd refer­ences that are undoubtedly "Missy­isms." The mellow and sexual "Pussycat" also stands out, as Elliott offers colorful commentary on the maintenance of relationships between women and unruly men. The closest the album comes to pro­ducing a ballad is with the track "Nothing Out There for Me," which features Beyonce Knowles of Destiny's Child. 
Though Elliott, like other rappers, including Nelly and Eminem, has been known to do her fair share of singing, she reclaims her role as a rapper and leaves much of the 
Grohl took some time off to play drums for Queens of the Stone Age's latest album, and even joined them on tour, sparking rumors that the end of the Foo Fighters was at hand. 
The band has squelched all such rumors with the release of their latest album, One by One, re-establishing themselves as a perpetual staple of the alt-rock genre. Partially inspired by drummer Taylor Hawkins' near fatal drug overdose, One By One shows a moodier side of the typically light-heart­ed band. 
"What happened to Taylor forced me to grow up," Groh! told !lolling Stone Magazine. "I don't need to be wild and crazy. I want to get married and have kids. The fact that my mom is outside this bus right now grilling burgers for everybody is the greatest thing in the world." 
With song titles like "Tired of' You," "Low," "Disenchanted Lullaby" and "Lonely as You," one might think that the Foo Fighters were mourning the loss of' their drummer rather than celebrating his survival. The darker tone of One by One does not possess the same infectious quality found on 
the Foo Fighters· self-titled debut or their 1997 release The Colour and the Shape. But it is inar­guably true that the songs from singing to others. 
Under Construction
I n keeping with the ' 8 0 s 

Missy Elliott 
theme, Elliott's 

Elektra/Asylum Records
affinity for that 
decade is made most evi­


dent on the nos-

t al g i a-inducing "Back in the Day," as she and Jay-Z reminisce about the not-so-distant past. Elliott laments the passing of that time saying wistfully, "Go back in the day / British Knights and gold chains / Do the 'prep' and 'cabbage patch' / And wear ya laces all fat/ Back in the day/ Hip hop has changed."' In addition to these unmistak­ably '80s allusions, the album's artwork features the most prominent symbols of the era, from graffiti to multi-fmger ID rings to boom boxes. Elliott also plays up the fun and excitement of the '80s on the pulsing, yet silly "Funky Fresh Dressed," which fea­tures newcomer Ms. Jade. 
Considering Elliott's history, Under Construction is arguably an original in the Missy collection. Though her creativity and style have not changed all that much, a certain maturity graces this album, which may be directly connected to the events of the past year, including the previously mentioned death of Aaliyah, and the more recent death of Lisa "Left Eye" Lopes, a 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Drug overdose inspires Foo's latest 
One by One have m o r e depth and are lyrically, rhythmi­cally and techni­cally bet­ter than any from t h e i r previous albums. 

A n d th at is where the conflict begins. Does techni­cally better music equal music people want to listen to? Not always. Many of the tracks on One by One seem tired or whiny, lacking the explosive quality of previous hits like "I'll Stick Around" or "Everlong." However, there are some excellent tracks on the album that are worth checking out. In fact, the first four tracks form a pretty impressive line-up, so striking. in fact, that the rest of the album cannot live up to the standard they set. The second half of the album, though not bad. leaves listeners wishing the Foos had continued in the same manner that they started. 
Dave Groh! expressed great satisfac­tion with the end result of One by One in an interview with Dotmusic. He said, former member of the successful girl­group TLC. Whatever the source of her newfound self-investment, the !act remains that Elliott seems more at ease on this album and expects more from herself as well as her listeners. 

Her interest in the listener is made apparent throughout, as Elliott provides commentary about her thoughts and moti­vations, which, in essence, seem to be checking in with her audience. As she says in her introduction, '"Under Construction' simply states that I'm a work in progress. ... From the World Trade families ... to the hip-hop family, we all under construction trying to rebuild ourselves. So all I'm say­ing is, let's take hip-hop back to rope. Follow me." With these statements, Missy reveals her mission, and with confidence knows that listeners will, in fact, follow her as far as she'd like to go. 
Contact Arienne Thompson at thompson.98@nd.edu 

"And this album being the best album we've ever made, I feel like it definitely deserves 100 percent of your attention and now it's time to give it everything that you have. I'm excited about it and I want the world to hear it because I am so proud of it." 
Though the Colour and the Shape should still retain its status as the Foo Fighters' best album, One by One, despite a few inconsistencies, manages tu showcase the band's talent at orches­trating multi-layered rock songs. The harder edge of this album may take a few listens to grow accustomed to. but all in all. it's not ha.If bad. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at tumhrink. l@nd.edu 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 

NBA 

Bucks outgun Davis, Cavs in 2 overtimes 
..::: 
Associated Press 

CLEVELAND 
Sam Cassell scored 39 points and Anthony Mason added six in the second overtime as the Milwaukee Bucks overcame Ricky Davis' 45 points to beat the Cleveland Cavaliers Monday night. 
Davis and rookie Smush Parker, who scored 16 of his 20 points after the start of the fourth quarter, helped Cleveland overcome a 21-point deficit to send the game into overtime. 
Milwaukee's Michael Redd had a career-high 35 points and Ray Allen added 27 in his third game back from a sprained ankle. Allen and Redd each made six 3-point shots as the Bucks shot 16-for-33 from beyond the arc. 
The Bucks finally wore down the Cavaliers with a strong inside game. Mason, who scored 12 points, hit two quick baskets to open the second overtime. Tim Thomas, who finished with 22 points, scored four more points in close. 
Allen hit a 3-pointer to finally put Milwaukee in command at 129-124. 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 20 points and 11 rebounds for Cleveland, but did not play in the second overtime. The 7-foot-3 center, who has a history of foot problems, is on a strict limit of playing time. 
Cassell, who missed a 94-88 home Joss to New Orleans on Saturday night with a strained hip flexor muscle, had a triple­double as he also had 10 rebounds and 10 assists. 
Thomas hit an 18-foot jumper with 56 seconds left in the fourth quarter to give the Bucks a 102­100 lead. Cassell hit one of two free throws with 12.5 seconds to play for a 103-100 advantage. 
After a timeout, Davis took an inbound pass from Parker and hit a 3-pointer from the baseline right in front of the Bucks bench to tie it with 8.6 seconds left. 
Cassell missed a 10-footer with two seconds left in regula­tion. 
The Bucks battled back to 
force the second overtime when Thomas scored on a pick-and­roll from Cassell with 3.5 sec­onds left to tie it at 118. 
Milwaukee made seven of its first 10 shots from 3-point range in the third quarter to open a 90-69 lead with 2:15 to play in the period. Redd and Allen each hit three of the long-range shots during the spurt. 
Cavs rookie Dajuan Wagner. who had averaged 25.8 points in his previous five games, scored just seven and shot 1-for-6 from the field. 
Celtics 11.4, Magic 109 
Paul Pierce scored 28 points, including 10 of Boston's final 12 in regulation, and Antoine Walker added 28 points and nine rebounds as the Celtics beat the Orlando Magic overtime on Monday night. 
Orlando's Tracy McGrady led all scorers with 31 points, Mike Miller added 29 and Grant Hill had 20 points, 14 rebounds and seven turnovers. 
Tony Delle scored 20 points for the second consecutive game for Boston. 
With the Celtics trailing 85-83 with 5:14 remaining in the fourth, Pierce scored 10 straight points for Boston to help the Celtics tie the game at 93 with 
2:39 remaining. 
Walker than followed with a runner in the lane to give the Celtics a 95-93 lead. McGrady tipped in his own miss with 1.3 seconds remaining to send the game into overtime. 
The Celtics controlled the overtime, jumping out to a 105­96 lead courtesy of a pair of 3­pointers by Delk and Walker. Orlando closed to 107 -101 with 
37.1 remaining, but a free throw by Pierce sealed the victory. 
The Celtics have won eight of 10 overall and are 5-1 in their last six against Orlando. 
Pierce has 57 points, 17 rebounds and 14 assists in the Celtics' two victories over the Magic this season. Boston won the previous meeting 102-97 in Orlando. 
Delk also had six rebounds and six assists, while Pierce chipped in with seven rebounds and six assists. 
McGrady had nine rebounds, but was held to only six points in the fourth quarter and overtime. He was coming off his poorest outing of the season, shooting 4­for-20 in a 121-88 loss to New Jersey on Saturday. 
Tony Battie was ejected for the first time ir, his career with 6:04 remaining .in the third when he challenged a call by referee Mark Wunderlich. Battie kicked the ball in disgust off Wunderlich 's backside. 
Nets 106, !iuns 93 
Jason K:dd had 20 points, seven assists and six rebounds and the New Jersey Nets made amends for a dismal game in Phoenix Jes:, than two weeks ago by ripping the Suns Monday night. 
Richard Jefferson added 19 points and Rodney Rogers had 18 as the Nets had six players in double figw•es in atoning for an 82-75 loss ill Phoenix on Nov. 27 -New Jersey's lowest-scoring game of the season. 
The Nets wiped out that mem­ory by shooting 43-for-88 from the field (48.9 percent), includ­ing 14-for-,!5 in the third quar­ter when they took control by outscoring Phoenix 34-13. 
Rookie Arn.are Stoudemire had 19 points and 14 rebounds for the Suns, who have lost five straight away from America West Arena and are 1-7 on the road this se.itson. 
Stephan Marbury, who was sent to Phoenix in the trade that brought Kidd to New Jersey and transformed the Nets into a con­tender, added 16 points. 
Phoenix built a 12-point lead early in the second quarter, but New Jersey started pushing the ball inside midway through the second quarter and it tied the game at 49 at halftime. 
The Nets blew the game open in the third quarter with an early 18-2 burst that featured five points by Kidd and four apiece by Jefferson, Kenyon Martin and :'...ucious Harris. 
New Jersey led 83-62 after three quarter and the final 12 minutes wue garbage time as the Nets won for the 10th time in 11 home games. 

Kidd and company didn't get going until the starters were put back on the floor with 6:14 left in the half. The ball suddenly found its way inside and Kidd, Martin and Jefferson each scored six points in a 20-11 run that tied the game at 49 at the half. 
Clippers 94, Hornets 90 

Elton Brand scored 13 of a season-high 29 points in fourth quarter as the Los Angeles Clippers handed the New Orleans Hornets their first home loss of the season, 94-90 on Monday night. 
Brand, who surpassed 20 points for the sixth straight game, scored seven straight points after Baron Davis' 3­pointer gave New Orleans an 81­79 lead. 
The Hornets, meanwhile, uncharacteristically fell apart in the final three minutes, turning the ball over twice and missing a pair of long jump shots. 
Jamal Mashburn, who started 2-for-16 shooting, suddenly got hot, hitting a 3-pointer and a couple of jump shots between Clippers free throws to pull New Orleans within 92-90 with eight seconds left. 
But Quentin Richardson, after being fouled on the ensuing inbound pass, made pair of free throws to put the game away. 
The Hornets had won their first 11 home games and the loss also snapped a four-game win­ning streak. The Clippers have won three straight. 
Andre Miller scored 18 for Los Angeles, including some key free throws in the final minute, and Richardson added 16. 
Davis led New Orleans with 33 but fouled out chasing a loose ball in the final minute. David Wesley scored 16, including four 3-pointers, and Mashburn had nine of his 15 points in the fourth quarter. He was 5-of-20 from the field. 
After taking an 11-6 lead, the Hornets began to have trouble getting the ball inside on the Clippers' zone defense. New Orleans couldn't hit an outside shot either -a combination that allowed Los Angeles to go on a 19-4 run and take a 25-15 lead. 
The Hornets scored a season­low 15 points in the first quarter and hit only 10 of their first 31 shots. 
Everything went right early on for the Clippers, who shot 49 percent for the first half. Cherokee Parks, who had one field goal on the season corning in, hit a 20-foot jumper and had a dunk that put Los Angeles ahead 36-22. Brand had 14 points in the first half. 
Mashburn started 0-for-7 shooting, while Wesley started O-of-5. But Wesley hit four straight shots -three of them 3-pointers -late in the second quarter to pull New Orleans within 43-35 at halftime. 
New Orleans came back with a 9-0 run early in the third quar­ter and stayed close until Wesley's fourth 3-pointer put New Orleans briefly in the lead at58-57. 
Tlmberwolves 92, Nuggets 84 
Troy Hudson scored 10 of his 22 points in the fourth quarter and Kevin Garnett had 20 points and 13 rebounds to lead the Minnesota Timberwolves past the Denver Nuggets 92-84 Monday night. 
Hudson and Garnett combined for 18 points in the fourth quar­ter for the Timberwolves, who had lost two of their previous three games. Garnett has dou­ble-doubles in 11 straight games . 
Juwan Howard led the Nuggets with 16 points and seven rebounds. 
Garnett's two baskets gave Minnesota the lead for good, 77­75, with 4:45 to go. Two free throws by Howard got the Nuggets as close as 79-77, but Hudson began an 8-0 run and finished it for Minnesota with two free throws after Garnett blocked Howard's shot. 
Minnesota held a 47-44 lead at halftime after leading by as much as 34-26 after Anthony Peeler's 3-pointer with 7:58 left. The Nuggets cut the lead to three points on a 3-pointer by James Posey and Howard's jumper. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES WANTED 
3-bedroom Horne 1 mile from ND. Keys and wallet Wallet is red, keys Powerful prayer to the Holy Spirit. Garage, alarm system, NC. Avail. with pink swiss army knife and 3 You who solve all my problems, 
lrnmed. $650/mo. monkeys on chain. If found please who lights all roads so that I can Call 220-0499 or 614-262-5880. call Sofia Ballon. 634-3560 obtain my goals. You who give me 
the Divine gift to forgive and forget ..At Last Spring Break** Book now, Bartenders needed! Earn up to Turtle Creek Townhouse available Gator Bowl Tix. all evil against me and in all Free meals, Parties, drinks, 2 free $300 Per day. No experience nee-at discounted rate for Spring 20(13. Call 800-272-8553 or 654-0168 instances of my live, You are with trips, Lowest prices. essary. Maximum 3 people. 2 bedrooms. 2 FOR SALE (local). me. I want in this short prayer to Sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426· Gall 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. bathrooms, AC, dishwasher. thank you for all things and to con­7710 Call 277-0900 for details. 1987 Buick LeSabre, runs-well BCS COWL TICKETS FOR SALE firm that I never want to be separat­
111 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, $1000. (ALL LOCATIONS) Local (574)654-ed from you, even in spite of all ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI• Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! All sizes homes available for 2003-Call 239-8406 or 232-7667 0168. TOLL FREE(800)272-8553 material illusions. I wish to be with TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only Free Parties & Mealsl 1-800-234-2004 mmmrentals@aol.com you in eternal glory. Thank you for company exclusive to Acapulco! 7007 endlesssummertours.com www.mmmrentals.com Immediate Occupancy. your mercy toward me and mine. That's why we're the BEST. "Go Newly remodeled 4 Bedroom house E.J.P. Loco in Acapulco" with the #1 WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME 2 & 4-bdrm houses for 2003. 6 blocks from campus. Central air, 
TICKETS 
PERSONAL

Spring Break Company in Acapulco YEARBOOKS. Close to ND. 616-699-5841. security system.Call 289-4071. Extra room in the car? ND grad for 16 years! call 800-875-4526 CALL 233-1296. moving -will pay you to take stuff Today. www.bianehi-rossi.com. Be House for Rent: 2BR. 1 bath. Juday Lake 3 bdrm ranch on lake. UNPLANNED PREGANCY? Do to NYC, Philly or DC. a rep, travel FREE -ask howl Males roommate for Spring semes-1/2mlle ND, completely remodelud, Walk/bike to campus. Broker not go it alone. If you or someone Call 514-7407. !er, Turtle Creek Town Home. very quieVsafe neighborhood, owned. 272-6306, 329-0241. you love needs confidential support 
SPRING BREAK INSANITY! Gall Leonard 272-8582. includes stove, refrig., washer & or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Don't be tooled by the rocks that I WWW INTER-CAMPUS .COM OR dryer. LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For got. I'm still Lauren from the block CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN-$620 per month. FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. more information, see our bi-weekly TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE Gall 273-1717 NON-RENTAL. NEWLY AEMOD-ad in THE OBSERVER Sports Cups will be back in action
FOR RENT
MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN, ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. this Thursday! JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND $99,500. Williamson. t @nd.edu BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! 17 Graduate Students and Professors Hey Adam, get ready to losel
LOST & FOUND
YEARS EXP.I REPS WANTED! Clean, affordable houses and apart-Notre Dame insignia medium black SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS 
ments. Prices range from $345-men's leather coat -brand new -Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Congrats on being done Comm HOUSES FOR RENT FOR $450.Catl 272-1265 for more infor-Found: Nomination Bracelet @ !\ID Sacrifice ... $200. Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free majorslll 200312004: Anlan Properties, L.L.C. mation or see Notre Dame Off-cam-Stadium @ BC game. Call 271-Call Diana at 631-6234 or (269) Information/Reservations 1-800­532-1896 can Bill. pus housing list. 0462. 684-6692. 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com News sucks 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
.... 
NHL 
Coyotes, Blue Jackets battle to 3-3 draw 

was I thought our work ethic lose a lead on the road," Blue scored first. the injured Jarome Iginla for
. Phoenix home 
was outstanding. If we contin­Jackets coach Dave King said. Sanderson scored from in the first time in two years,winless streak now ue that trend. l think justice "But they're a very desperate front at the 19-minute mark remained unbeaten (2-0-1)
hockey team, and you've got
nine games will be served." of the first period. Andrew since Al MacNeil took over for
to give them some credit.
Marc Denis made 20 of his Cassels earned his .,23rd assist fired coach Greg Gilbert on an
They kept fighting back and 
Associated Press 38 saves in the third period never quit." on the play, tying with Joe interim basis. and overtime for Columbus, Thornton of Boston for second Calgary had lost 11 of 12
Phoenix had three goals
outshot 41 -22. The BI u e in the NHL. games before the coaching
PHOENIX waved off, two because the 
Jackets killed six of seven Columbus made it 2-0 just switch.
The Phoenix Coyotes ran referee had blown the whistle 
Phoenix power plays, includ­2:25 into the second period on Artem Chubarov scored for
their home winless streak to just before the puck went into 
ing one five-on-three advan­a goal by Rick Nash, with an the Canucks, who have lost
nine games, but they saw a the nei. The last occurred at 
tage. assist from Rostislav Klesla. two straight games and three
little hope in their 3-3 tie with 3:47 of overtime. when Shane 
"We certainly did battle in Phoenix rallied to tie it with of four since a 10-game win­
the Columbus Blue Jackets on Doan's deflection was waved .....
the penalty kills," Denis said. two goals in a 1:08 span of ning streak was snapped last
Monday night. off because the official 
"That's what gave us the the second period, both on week.
Geoff Sanderson, left, of the believed Denis had trapped
point." rebound shots. Vancouver outshot the
Blue Jackets drives past the puck.
The game was played in Mike Johnson's shot hit the Flames 30-15, but couldn't t
Phoenix defenseman Paul "That might have been one 
front of 9,639, the smallest post, but Daymond Langkow beat Turek, who has given up
Mara. of the whistles that was a lit­
home crowd for the Coyotes slapped the rebound past one goal in all three games
Branko Radivojevic scored tle quick," Denis acknowl­
since the franchise moved goalie Denis to cut the lead to since the coaching change.
midway through the third edged."The referee was on 
from Winnipeg in 1996. The 2-1 at 7:23 of the second peri­At the other end Calgary's
period -his third goal in five the other side of the puck."
Coyotes have won just one of od. It was only Langkow's 27th-ranked power play capi­
games -as the Coyotes over­But Francis refused to com­
their last 11 overall. second goal of the season. talized on two of seven
came 2-0 and 3-2 deficits. plain.
Geoff Sanderson scored his Moments later, Radoslav chances against a Canucks
"We have to turn things "You could understand how
15th goal for Columbus, Suchy's shot was deflected off penalty-killing unit ranked
around, and sometimes you the referee lost sight of the
which was forced to with­
the post by teammate second in the NHL.
have to do it with baby steps," stand a Phoenix power play in puck," he said. 
Ladislav Nagy, and Johnson The Flames got three of
Phoenix coach Bobby Francis the final 2: 19 of overtime. For the 21st time in 28 knocked in the rebound to their five first-period shots onsaid. "What impressed me "You never like it when you games, the Coyotes' opponent make it 2-2 at 8:47. the power play after Marek 
Columbus regained the lead Malik was called for holding at 14:46 of the second period 19 seconds into the game. on Jaroslav Spacek's fifth Peter Skudra, making just his goal. third start of the season, 
"We've got to stay positive," stopped the first two from Langkow said. "We can't get close range, but Johansson down. It's been a pretty rough converted the second rebound go of it lately, but we've just from the side of the net. got to keep our heads up Chubarov tied it 17 seconds high, come to practice with a into the second period, col­lot of enthusiasm and get lecting a loose puck behind ready for the next game." the net and sliding a wrap­
Phoenix's Kelly Buchberger around under Turek after and Columbus' Sean Pranger Matt Cooke beat an icing call. got five-minute penalties for Vancouver dominated the sec­fighting late in the second ond period, outshooting the period. It was a rematch of Flames 15-6 and pinning the fight they had in the them in their own end for Coyotes' 4-2 victory in prolonged stretches. Columbus on Oct. 14. But Turek came up big and 
In that one, Pranger decked the Canucks continuously Buchberger with one punch. killed their own momentum This time, Buchberger got in by reacting to Calgary s phys­more punches, but none as ical play with undisciplined serious as the blow the Blue penalties. Jackets' center delivered two Todd Bertuzzi got caught on months ago. a post-whistle punch of Denis 
Gauthier in the offensive end, Flames 2, Canucks 1 and Clarke restored the 
Mattias Johansson and Calgary lead on the ensuing Chris Clark had a goal and an power play. assist each on the power play, Clarke, providing a screen and Roman Turek made 29 in the high slot, got his stick saves as the Calgary Flames on Chris Drury's low, slow beat the Vancouver Canucks. point shot, redirecting it past 
The Flames, playing without Skudra on the glove side. 

,------------­1 
I I 
I I ­
I 
page 16 Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Center for Socia( Concerns 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


~.$ 

http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
JPILAN .AIHIJEAD: §JPJRITNG JE11t1EAK §JEMITNAJitS} 
Do you havc plans /or spring break? 
FOLLOWING SEMINARS AVAILABLE NEXT SEMESTER! Appalachia Seminar sends 100+ students to 3 states in the Appalachia region to work with and learn from different local parlners. Sites range from building and repairing homes, working in alternative schools, and assisting in small Catholic parishes. 
Encoun~r 

Living the Gospel of Life Seminar This pilot seminar focuses on a variety of pro-life issues (death penalty, 
TI1-e Gospel of 

euthanasia, stem cell research, abortion, etc) in Washington, D.C. Students meet with Church, legislative, and
LIFE 

non-governmental organizations that work on "life issues". 
ll)l,abC:1-v!n~ 

Washington Seminar By visiting a Benedictine monastery, a Catholic Worker farm, and several Catholic public policy organizations in D.C., this seminar will explore how we, as Christians, are called to live and work in the world. (Note: Topic may change; Check at the CSC and this advertisement in the spring semester for notice of any changes.) Children and Poverty This seminar focuses on concerns that affect the youth of our nation, including poverty and violence, 

and examines the efforts to foster positive youth developmEnt. Immersion tal<es place jn New York. 
Holy Cross Seminar Students explore parish-based collaborative ministry of the Priests of Holy Cross in the Coachella Valley of Southern California. This seminar has the feel of a pilgrimage based in the parish's model of evangelization amongst Hispanics and outreach to the poor. Co-sponsored by Campus Ministry. 
FOOD PANTRY NEEDS! 
Migrant Experiences Seminar oHers an immersion into the lives of 
L;tt/e Flower Catho/;c Parish is in great need 
migrant farmworkers in Florida during the spring harvest. Students work in 
o//ood /or its pantry. 
The Pantry, in this season, assists more than 60 families on the five days it is open. Little Flower is located very close to campus ­
the fields, live with migrant families and meet community leaders. 
[Arche Seminar centers around travel to a IA.rche community in Toronto, 
54191 North Ironwood Road. 
Canada, to share community life with people with developmental challenges. 
Questions? Contact the parish at 272-7070
**All learning agreements will be available at the CSC afa~r Christmas break** 
·············"·····················
•

Road Trip: Washington D. C. 
Holiday Volunteer Opportunity
:Faculty Op11ortunities...
March for Life 
for Students, Faculty and Staff 
: Congratulations to our Faculty Fellow, Dennis 
Wednesday, January 22, 2003 
WSBT-TV 22 Ways of Giving
: Jacobs! Profess1r:,r Jacobs has just received the 
Two trip options; 
Come out, Help collect drive-by 
• Carnegie Foundation's national award for excel-
Trip 1: Monday 
donations, Have some food, Meet
lence in teaching at a research university. He was
Depart ND Jan. 20 -One night hotel 
22 wonderful agencies and Be
selected from more than 400 applicants and 
2 days in DC -Price $70. 
entertained for a bit!
honored at a luncheon at the National Press Club in Washington D.C. on November 21st. As the 
Friday, December 13th
Tri.p2: Tuesday . . .I· 
Center's Fellow, Professor Jacobs has worked 
Depart ND Jan. 21 -One day m DC ·· · 
At Gurley Leep Automotive
•

with CSC staff, students, and a coalition including 
Price $55 
(Intersection o/ Grape and Douglas,
Memorial Hospital, Greentree Environmental, the 
Noon to 8 p.m.)

Robinson Community Learning Center, and the 
Both trips include: 
City of South Bend to develop a new course,
Return 8 a.m. for classes Thurs. Jan. 23 
To volunteer or for more
"Chemistry in Service to the Community." 
Free T-shirt 
information. Contact:
This semester, students in the class tested for 
Mary Dunbar, (674) 472-8004 
lead paint in homes in the Northeast Neighbor­
To sign up or with questions, Director of Community Affairs
hood and learned about related social issues 
Contact Jan~l at Daufenbach.1@nd.edu 
22WSBT

facing local residents . 
EXTENDED

--------------------------------------------· 
: CURRENT VOLUNTEER NEEDS : 
DEADLINE! 
Mexico Seminar

I Tutors: I 
Seminar dates:: A tutor is needed for a high school junior in Gov-Elderly: . . : 

May 16 "'. June 1 in

I emment and Algebra. He is most available M-W Volunt~rs a~ need~d at Southe~ Care_~osp1ce. ~olunteer~ would I 
· Oaxaca, Mexico

I from 4-5. It would be best if he could be tutored at spend time with patients and theJr fam1ltes, work m the office and I Applications Due:
I his house. Contact: Rosemary Collin@ 291-7965. do special projects. They can choose which they would like to I Tues, Dec 17 
I do. There are times available both during the day and in the I I A tutor is needed for a 7-year old boy. He could evening. Contact Diane Heinburger@ 259-0895. 
1----------­
I come to Hesburgh Library on Thursdays at 5. I NEVER DOUBT I Contact Raebel Scrugs @ 287-6573 or 1-4682. An elderly couple needs help cleaning their basement on a Satur-I THAT A SMALL I day. A group of about 3-4 students would be needed for this one I GROUP OF : Special Projects: time volunteer opportunity. Contact: Grady Thompson @ 234-I THOUGHTFUL, 
COMMITTED

I A student who is familiar with Desktop Publishing 0300. : 
PEOPLE CAN

I is needed for a 5-10 hour project that would involve . I 
CHANGE THE

I advising the staff on the application and helping An elderly couple needs help with filing and paperwork. This I 
WORLD, INDEED

I design program note cards. Contact: Rev. Mike would probably not take more than a few hours, Contact I 
IT'S THE ONLY

I Mather@ 289-0333. Mrs. Thompson@ 234-0300. I 
THING iHAT

I I 
EVER HAS.

I ***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects, please email cscvols@nd.edu.*** I 
~Margaret Mead 
·-------------------------------------------· 

r-------------------------. .. 
·JiJesday, December I0, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
,.,· 

API Photo Tom Glavlne ended his 16-year run with the Atlanta Braves by signing with the New York Mets. Galvlne won two Cy Younj! awards while with the Braves. 
INNDUNCIN 



ol'ENSTUD~ 
DeBartolo Hall: 

Dec 12 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 13 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 14  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 15  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  

Dec 16, 17, 18, 19: 8am to 3:00am 36 Non-technology rooms, first come first serve basis. If you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person for assistance. Room 104, 105. 
Mendoza: Dec 12 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 13 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 14 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 15 1:00pm to 3:00am Dec 16, 17, 18, 19 5:30pm to 1:00am Rooms: 121, 122, 203B, 266, 369. 
Coleman-Morse: 1st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Always Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 1:00am. Monday-Thursday 7:00am-1 :OOam. Rooms: 108, 109, 203, 203A, 204,206,207,208, 209. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Glavine right at home with Mets 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Tom Glavinc quickly noticed the difference between being with the Atlanta Braves and the New York Mets. 
"I've had a few people already come up to me on the street and it's been positive. That's a lot dif­ferent than it usuaUy is," Glavine said Monday during his first trip to New York since signing the $35 million, three-year contract. 
Instead of being the enemy for crushing the Mets' hopes each year, Glavinc is being counted on by New York fans to reverse two years of disappointment. 
A group of fans waited in the cold outside Shea Stadium to greet Glavine and his family as they arrived for the news confer­ence announcing the deal. 
Glavine then put on a Mets jer­sey, with his usual No. 47, and the transformation was com­plete: His 16-year run in Atlanta is over. 
"It probably will be strange until I start pitching here," Glavine said. "Great players change teams. I told myself when Wayne Gretzky got traded that it can happen to anyone. Playing your whole career with one team is not the norm any­more." 
The 36-year-old Glavine never really thought he would leave Atlanta, where he won two Cy Young Awards. posted five 20­win seasons and helped lead the Braves to 11 straight division titles. 
Eight of those titles came after the Braves moved to the NL East -with the Mets finishing second four times. Glavine was 16-7 against the Mets and also pitched seven scoreless innings to beat New York in Game 3 of the 1999 NL championship 
/J·V~ 1·1·f~~f~j:~. /'~, 1 1 n
t""~j·\ J/~ft1~?\.
t,.-,, iy t.l} ~ .l-iJ t-J,.} 
FLEECE 
Selecti:'. 
/ram CUTP~ 
Campus --1•Z•Ji£: 
Cold WNthar Experu 
,, te Rento\\ 

free s"a 
7-9 pm Joyce Center Ice Rink 
Hot Chocolate and Cookies provided! 
series. 
'Tm hoping my string of NL division titles continues next year," he said. "I'm joining a quality team. If I thought the team didn't have a chance to win I wouldn't have come." 
Glavine repeatedly credited owner Fred Wilpon and his son, Jeff, for persuading him to sign with the Mel._, 
Wilpon personally called Glavine to express the Mets' interest last month and made a big impression on the pitcher's family when he asked that Glavine's wife, Christine. be on the phone, too. 
"You feel a warmth talking to him that you get when you're talking to your father," Glavinc said. "It makes a big impression on you." 
The Glavincs also were impressed by the relationship Wilpon had with Mets pitchers Al Leiter and John Franco and their wives at a recruiting lunch. 
Glavine repeatedly stressed how committed the Wilpons are to winning after two disappoint­ing seasons. 
"We had an aberrational year last year," Fred Wilpon said. "We had good players who didn't play well and we think they will next year. We estab­lished that we needed a No. 1 pitcher and Tom Glavine was the best one on the marketplace." 
The Mets have been seeking that since Mike Hampton left after the 2000 season. New York struggled the next season to an 82-80 record and dropped even further last season despite the addition of big-name players such as Roberto Alomar and Mo Vaughn. 
The Mets stumbled to a 75-86 last-place finish, leaving them 26 1/2 games behind the Braves and costing manager Bobby Valentine his job. 
"It's easy to look at the New York Mets and look at last year's club and say, 'What are you thinking? Why are you going there?"' Glavine said. "The flip side is if you look at the talent on the field, what's the chance those guys won't be successful again. Those guys on the field have a history of being success­ful. If they don't, the Wilpons are committed to changing that." 
Getting Glavine was a good start. 
-
B,.,~ '9You 
,,.. -lD,1 

Saturday December 14 
page 18 The Obser11er . SPORTS Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Banks named AP College Player of the Year 
Associated Press 
For a guy who never started a college football game before this season, Iowa quarterback Brad Banks caught on pretty fast. 
Not only did Banks become the nation's top-rated passer, he also led the Hawkeyes (11-1} back to national prominence and into the Fedex Orange Bowl. 
"I can't imagine a better suc­cess story," Iowa coach Kirk Ferentz said. "Brad wasn't on anyone's radar screen in late August. But he improved every week, and played his best in our biggest games." 
Other than two fumbles in a loss to Iowa State, Banks was nearly perfect in No. 3 Iowa's winningest season ever. The miscues did nothing to take away from his sensational play, and Banks was chosen Monday as The Associated Press College Player of the Year. 
'Tm kind of shocked to hear I've won this," said Banks, among the leading Heisman Trophy contenders. ''I'm very happy the way the season went, and the way everyone on this team made Iowa a household name. I'm glad to play a part in all this." 
The 6-foot-1, 202-pound Banks received 24 votes in bal­loting by 71 members of the AP college football poll board, which includes representatives of newspapers, TV and radio stations. He edged Southern California quarterback Carson Palmer by three votes, with Miami running back Willis McGahee third with 10 votes. 
Penn State running back Larry Johnson was fourth with six votes, Miami quarterback Ken Dorsey had five votes, and Washington State quarterback Jason Gesser had three votes. 
Banks completed 155 of 258 passes for 2,369 yards, with 25 touchdowns and just four inter­ceptions. He also ran for 387 yards and five scores. 
In the Orange Bowl on Jan. 2, Banks will match passes with Palmer, who threw for 3,639 yards and 32 TDs. "Should be a great game," Banks said. 'Tm really looking forward to it." 
Iowa and Ohio State were co­Big Ten champions, both with 8-0 league marks. It's the first league title for the Hawkeyes since 1990 and first time since 1922 the team went unbeaten in conference play. 
Banks, a senior from Belle Glade, Fla., made his presence known in his first start. He threw first-quarter touchdown passes of 56 and 36 yards as the Hawkeyes rolled to a 57-21 win over Akron. 
Two games later, Iowa and Banks got a taste of national exposure against Iowa State. It did not end well. Banks fum­bled on consecutive possessions in the third quarter, allowing the Cyclones to rally from a 17 ­point halftime deficit for a 36­31 victory. 
"We just foll apart for a little bit," Banks ;;aid. "Plays broke down, and I made mistakes. I think we learned from that game." 
Yes they did. Two games later, Iowa played at Penn State. And Banks was awe­some, leading the Hawkeyes to a 35-13 th;,rd-quarter lead before the Lons staged a furi­ous rally to force overtime. 
But Banks settled down, threw a 6-yard TD pass in OT, and Iowa prevailed, 42-35. 
"That showed me something," Ferentz said. "He kept his poise, and even though things were a little hairy, he came up with the play when he needed to." 
Up next was Purdue, perhaps Banks' defining game. 
Iowa trailod 28-24 and had the ball with 2:16 left and no time outs. Banks calmly drove the Hawkeyes 87 yards for the winning touchdown -a 7-yard pass to Dalla.s Clark on fourth down with l :07 to go. Final score: Iowa 31, Purdue 28. 
"I sprinted out to the left, and Dallas sneaked out and ran across the field away from me," Banks said. "Everyone was coming toward me, and I held the ball as long as I could before putting it up for Dallas." 
Ferentz said: "To win cham­pionships, you have to make plays like that. And that's what Brad has don,~ all year." 

Associated Press 
IA QUINTA, Calif. 

Casey Martin fell apart in the final round of the PGA Tour qualifying tournament Monday, costing himself a chance to play in the big leagues next year. 
Martin, who has a circulato­ry disorder ir. his right leg that requires him to ride a cart, was in positic,n to make it until running into trouble on the last six holes. 
"This hurts, but it's not the

-
end of the world," Martin said. "I don't know if my swing got quick or wha.t, but I hit shots where you couldn't hit them." 
Winner Je[' Brehaut held it together for a 1-over 73. He finished at Hi-under 416 and won $50,000 in the six-round tournament, one of the most grueling in golf. 
None of the top 24 players going into the final round broke 70. 
The top 35 players and ties earned exempt status on the PGA Tour next year, a list that included 44-year-old tour vet­eran Ken Green and Andy Miller, the son of former U.S. Open and British Open cham­pion Johnny Miller. 
Martin str,rtcd the final round in a tie for 21st and was in good position at 9-under par through 12 holes. That's when it quickly fell apart. 
He hit into ·'.he water on the par-3 13th a;1d made double 

PGA 
Difficult holes cost Mar·tin chance on PGA Tour 
bogey. On the next hole, he flew the green with a sand wedge and caught a fluffy lie at the base of the hill. His flop shot didn't make it up the slope and he wound up with another double bogey. 
Martin closed with a 77 and finished at 427 in a tie for 57th, which at least assures him of full status on the Nationwide Tour next year. 
Martin won the right to ride a cart when he successfully sued the PGA Tour in 1998, a decision that was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court last year. 
He earned his card three years ago through the Nike Tour, finishing in the top 15 on the money list. Martin's best finish in his only full season on the PGA Tour was a tie for 17th in the 2000 Tucson Open, and he missed the cut 15 times in 29 tournaments. 
Getting his card through six rounds of Q-school is much more difficult, and Martin nearly pulled it off. 
"I was playing well enough to get through, but today was ugly," he said. 
Martin had some company. 

Ted Purdy was at the cutoff -8 under --when he hit his tee shot into the water on the island-green 17th hole on the Stadium Course at PGA West, leading to a bogey. Barry Cheesman started the final round in a tie for 11th but took a quadruple-bogey on the 13th hole and wound up with an 82. 
Tom Scherrer needed a par on his final hole to secure his card. He drove into a bunker, and his approach went into the water. Scherrer flung the club at his bag in disgust, a com­mon emotion at Q-school. 
Miller had a few anxious moments, too. 
He was at 11 under when his tee shot on the 17th -a hole named "Alcatraz" -caromed off the rocks surrounding the green and went into the pond for double bogey. Miller split the fairway with his next tee shot and got his par to earn his card with one stroke to spare. 
"I'm sure I put a few years on your life," Miller said to his father, who works as a golf analyst for NBC Sports. 
Brehaut finished one stroke ahead of James McLean (70). Chris Anderson (72) and Alex Cejka (72), although most of the drama in the final round centered around the bottom 35 to see who would earn the right to play on the PGA Tour. 
Others to earn their cards were Dave Stockton Jr., son of the two-time PGA champion, who chipped in for birdie on the difficult 15th hole to give himself some breathing room. 
The best round Monday belonged to Hichard Johnson, whose 66 moved him up 37 places into a tie for 11th. The best finish belonged to Woody Austin, the 1995 rookie of the year on the PGA Tour who was in danger of going back to the developmental tour. 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Toledo fired after six years at UCLA 
API Photo After two disappointing losses at the end of the season, UCLA decided to cut coach Bob Toledo after six years with the Bruins. UCLA has lost four straight games to USC under Toledo. 
The November 25, 2002 Medjguorje message 
from our Mother, the Queen ofPeace! 
"I)ear children! I call you also today lo conver­sion. Open your heart to God, Lillie children, l11rough I /ufy Confession and prepare your soul so tlwl Iii/le ./esus can /Je born anew in your hearl. Permit Him to transform you and lead you on the W<(Y of peace and joy. Lillie children, decide for prayer. Especially now, in this lime ofgrace, may your heart yearn.for prayer: I am close to you and intercede before God.for all Q/'J'Oll. 11iank you.for having responded lo my call." 

If you're a Windows 2000 or Windows XP user who logs on to a Notre Dame net­work domain and you plan to take your computer home to use over the holidays, please follow the steps listed here before you take off for Christmas break. Else, you may not be 

able to use your computer while away from campus. It isn't necessary for Macintosh 
users to take these precautions. 
When you get home 

Use exactly the same log-on procedure in Step #2 for logging on to your computer when you get home. 
If you don't follow this procedure 
If you don't follow this procedure, your 
(1) 
Physically connect (via wire or wireless) the computer you'll take home to the Notre Dame Network. 

(2) 
Log on to your networkdomain using ,·our AFSID. But use theformat jdoe@ND.EDU · (ND.EDU must be in uppercase) instead oftheformat you usually use, such as jdoe. 


(j) 

Enteryourpassword, and log on. 
computer may lock you out, and you won't.___________________. 
Blotfice of Information Technologies 
have access to your files and applications until you return to campus and log on to the network again.  For more information, go to the O/T home page, www.nd.edu/~ndoit, or call the Help Desk at 1-8111 .  


Associated Pre.ss 
LOS ANGELES 
Bob Toledo was fired by UCLA on Monday after two lopsided losses to finish the regular season. 
Toledo coached UCLA to a school-record 20-game win­ning streak in 1997-98, but the Bruins have gone 24-24 since then and have lost four 

straight  to  rival  Southern  
California.  
Toledo's  firing  was  
announced  by  school  

spokesman Steve Rourke. 
.Ed Kezerian, the assistant director of academic services, was named interim head foot• ball coach. Kezerian last coached in 1992 under former UCLA head coach Terry Donahue. From 1982-92. the 50-year-old Kezerian coached the offensive line or tight ends. 
Toledo will not coach UCLA in the Dec. 25 Las Vegas Bowl, where the Bruins will play New Mexico. Offensive coordi­nator Kelly Skipper and defen­sive coordinator Phil Snow will be responsible for devel­oping game plans for the bowl game, the school announced. 
The 56-year-old Toledo guided UCLA to a 49-32 record in seven seasons, the third-most wins for a football coach in school history. Toledo was hired in January 1996, succeeding Terry Donahue, who retired after coaching the Bruins for 20 seasons and is now general manager of the San Francisco 49ers. 
The Bruins are 7-5 this sea­son, including a 52-21 loss to USC on Nov. 23, and a 48-27 loss to Washington State on Saturday. 
Boosters have reportedly pledged to pay the $1.3 mil­lion buyout of Toledo's con­tract. He was under a rollover six-year contract. 

"This was an extremely hard decision to make but one I felt was necessary for the future of the program," said athletics director Dan Guerrero, who succeeded Peter Dalis on the job July 1. "During the last five months. I developed a very good relationship with Bob and learned to have respect for all that he has accomplished at UCLA. This made the decision even more difficult. 
"That being said, I believe that in order to revitalize our program and move it forward, a change of leadership is required. The circumstances over the past four years. both on and off the field, created an environment that. in my opin­ion, hindered long-term suc­cess." 
UCLA was picked to finish 
sixth in the Pac-10 in a pre­
season media poll. but wound 
up tied for fourth with a 4-4 
record despite losing fifth-year 
senior quarterback Cory Paus. 
who broke his right ankle dur­
ing a 17-12 loss at California 
on Oct. 19, dropping the 
Bruins to 3-3. 

With true freshmen Drew 
Olson and Matt Moore playing 
quarterback and redshirt 
freshman Tyler Ebell !Aading a 
potent ground game. the 
Bruins beat Stan ford. 
Washington and Arizona in 
their next three games. 

Then came the one-sided 
losses to Southern Cal and 
Washington State. prompting 
fans to leave the games early 
and infuriating hardcore UCLA 
supporters. 

The Bruins had only 14 seniors on this year's team including Paus. but that was enough to sway Guerrero in the end. 
Toledo is the first football 
coach fired by UCLA since Bill 
Barnes was let go following 
the 1964 season. Toledo was 
the offensive coordinator for 
two years before succeeding 
Donahue. 

Donahue's 151 wins are by far the most in school history. William Spaulding. who coached the Bruins from 1925-38, won 72 games. 
UCLA was on the verge of playing in the national cham­pionship game in 1998, win­ning its first 10 games before losing at Miami 49-45. The Bruins were then beaten 38­31 in the Hose Bowl by Wisconsin. 
UCLA was 4-7 in 1999 and 6-6 in 2000, including a 21-20 loss to Wisconsin in the Sun Bowl. 
The Bruins won their first six games in 2001 to rise to No. 4 in the rankings. but lost the next four, capped by a humiliating 27-0 setback to 
use. 

Off-the-field problems dur­ing Toledo's tenure included a handicapped parking scandal in 1999, and star running back DeShaun Foster's sea­son-ending suspension in 2001 for driving a new car leased by actor-director Eric Laneuville. 
The contract buyout consists 
-
of one year of the full package of $578,000 and five years at the base salary of $153,000, UCLA said. 
"I came to UCLA with class and dignity and I will leave with class and dignity," Toledo said. "I have nothing but great things lo say about UCLA." 
He was offensive coordinator at Oregon from 1983-88 and at Texas A&M from 1989-93 before going to UCLA. 

theclogstore .com 
l-800-948-CLO.G 

page 20 COMPILED FROM lHE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 20, 2002 
-
IN BRIEF 

Indiana starts 7-0 foi· first 
time since '89 
Bracey Wright scored 20 of his career-high 31 points in the first half, and No. 7 Indiana made 10 3­pointers in a 73-56 victory over Vanderbilt on Monday. 
The Hoosiers (7-0) are off to their best start since 1989-90 and protect­ed their highest ranking in the Top 25 since finishing the 1992-S-3 sea­son ranked No. 1. 
NFL 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Ricky Williams put on a show Monday night that Roone Arledge would have loved. 
Williams ran for 216 yards, including a career­best 63-yard touchdown run, and the Miami Dolphins moved into a tie for the AFC East lead by beating the Chicago Bears 27-9. 
It was the first game on Monday Night Football since the death Thursday of Arledge, who created the show in 1970. 
Williams became just the Williams into the sec­ondary, and from there he outran the Bears for a 63­yard score and a 21-3 lead. 

For the Bears, the game ranked with the worst in a dismal season. Head coach Dick Jauron started sore­armed Jim Miller at quar­terback, tried Henry Burris in spot relief and turned to Chris Chandler in the sec­ond half, but none could get Chicago into the end zone until the final minute. 
And injuries continued to mount. Miller departed on a cart midway through the third period with a sprained left knee, and guard Chris Villarrial sat out the second half with back spasms. 
third running back to reach the 200-yard milestone in consecutive games, and the first since Earl Campbell in 1980. He carried 31 times, scored twice and overtook Kansas City's Priest Holmes for the NFL rushing lead with 1,500 yards. 
With Jay Fiedler throwing a TD pass in his return from a broken right thumb, Miami (8-5) tied New England atop the AFC East and moved one game ahead of the New York Jets. The Dolphins host Oakland (9-4) in a conference showdown Sunday. 
Injury-plagued Chicago (3-10) lost for the 10th time in 11 games since a 2-0 start. 
The Dolphins outgained Chicago 436 yards to 195 and forced four turnovers. 
Dave Wannstedt was vic­torious coaching for the first time against the team that fired him following the 1998 season. 
Williams, who ran for a team-record 228 yards last week in a loss at Buffalo, managed an impressive encore. He had 119 yards by halftime for his fourth 100-yard game in a row, and his eighth this season. 
Williams sealed the victo­ry in the third quarter on a simple counter up the mid­dle .A block by tight end Randy McMichael sprung 
35-17 before the Commodores used an 8-0 run to close to 35-25 with 
2:10 remaining. But Vanderbilt never seriously challenged. Indiana led by double digits the entire second half and extended the lead to 6 7-4 7 when Kyle Hornsby hit a 3 with 6:00 to go. 
Spartans interview Redskins' 
Lewis 

Washington Redskins defensive coordinator Marvin Lewis inter­
Morris Watts. The team finished 4-8, its worst record since 1991. 
Hill, former Texas Western star, dead at 59 
Bobby Joe Hill, who led Texas Western to a NCM basketball cham­pionship in 1966, has died at his home. He was 59. 
Hill died of a heart attack Sunday night, his daughter Michelle Shetfield said in Monday's online edition of the El Paso Times. 
It was Wright, a freshman, who viewed for the vacant Michigan State "I am deeply, deeply saddened by dominated the game. He was 1 l-of-head coaching position and said the death of Bobby Joe Hill. Bobby
around the dial 
20 from the field, 5-of-9 from 3-point Monday he will quickly decide Joe was the greatest leader, the range, 4-of-5 from the free-throw whether to take the job. greatest competitor I have ever had," line and played a huge part in the Lewis did not say whether he was said Hall of rame coach Don 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Hoosiers' quick start. He finished 16 offered the job, but he indicated he Haskins, who fielded Hill and four points short of tying Indiana's :,ingle­could announce a decision as early other black starters for the team.
Boston College at Iowa State 7 p.m., ESPN 
game scoring record by a freshman as Tuesday. The sticking point could Underdog Texas Western, now
Kentucky at Tulane 9 p.m., ESPN 
set by Jay Edwards in 1988. Wright be the lengthy commitment that called UTEP, beat Kentucky 72-65 in took control almost from the opening would deter him from seeking an the championship game. 
NHL HOCKEY tip. He scored the first eight points of NFL head job anytime soon. The team's success has been cred­Blackhawks at Islanders 7 p.m., FOX the game and his 3-pointer with 9:28 Michigan State fired Bobby ited with opening the doors of uni­left in the half gave the Hoosiers a Williams late in the season and versities across the nation to black 
23-8 lead. Indiana led by as much as replaced him with interim coach athletes. 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
SENDWICH INDEX 
Dynastic Miami finishes season ranked No. 1 
The Ming dynasty of China. The receiver Andre Johnson and tight receiving touchdown.i;. Johnson 1lapsburg dynasty of Austria. The end Kellen Winslow Hin the became only the ninth 2.000-yard Homanov dynasty of Hussia. The Swiss cheese-esque Buckeyes rusher in NCAA Division IA histo­1lurricane dynasty of Miami? secondary. ry. 
Okay, so maybe the Miami The Hurricanes, however, can­Sendwich Index Coach of the Hurricanes haven't exactly ruled not survive on the pass alone. Year honors go to Notre Dame's a nation for hundreds or years, Since becoming a starter in the own Tyrone Willingham. After but. with 34 second game taking over a program with seri­consecutive 
of the sea­ous issues, both on and off the wins, they son, field, Willingham has single­arc certain­McGahee handedly turned the Irish the ly inching has been around. Though he is notorious closer to held under for deflecting all credit to his the elite 100yards players and assistant coaches, as classifica­rushing by well as his suppression of emo­tion of only Horida tion, it's finally time for "dynasty". State. Willingham to smile and take a 
Miami Eric Eric Interestingly bow. finished up Chanowlch Sendelbach enough, that Finally. we present a dubious lhcir sec­was Miami's award of sorts, the Nate Newton ond straight closest game Achievement Award in Football
Sports Sports
undefeated of the sea­and Narcotics. ThLs year's recipi­
Columnist Columnist
regular sea­son, as they ent is fonner Arizona tight end son with a escaped with Justin Levasseur. When 56-45 a 28-27 vie-Levasseur was puUed over for shootout victory against Virginia tory. speeding about 140 miles outside Tech. Miami running back Willis On the opposite end of the spec­ofChicago a week ago, he was McGahee scored an incredible six trum, Wisconsin's Anthony Davis found to be toting 87 pounds of touchdowns on 205 yards rush­was the only ball carrier to gain marijuana. For those scoring at ing, while quarterback Ken 100 yards in a game against Ohio home, Levasseur's extra baggage Dorsey accounted for 300 yards State all yflar. Penn State had a street value of $150,000, or and two touchdowns passing. Heisman candidate Larry approximately one Notre Dame 
The Ilurricanes are now own­Johnson was able to muster only diploma. ers of' a 12-0 record and attained 66 yards on the ground. The interesting twist in this the forgone conclusion of a berth So is Ohio State's run defense story is that just weeks earlier, in the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl to play good enough to stop McGahee Arizona head coach John for the national championship and the ridiculously talented Mackovic called Levasseur "a Jan. 3 against Ohio State. Miami offensive line? embarrassment to his family" 
Miami should win convincingly Maybe next season. and "a disgrace to his team" dur­behind the Dorscy/McGahee ing a game against UCLA. offensive machine. The Miami Sendwlch Awards Mackovic soon apologized for his pass defense and the Ohio State Maybe they aren't as presti­statements and faced abundant a1!rial attack are both sketchy at gious as the Heisman trophy, but criticism from players and media bt\SL we're giving out awards nonethe­alike. We can't help but wonder, 
So the game should be decided less. is Mackovic some sort of vision­when the Hurricanes' offense Larry Johnson is this year's ary? squares off against the Buckeyes Sendwich Player of the Year. The The opinions expressed in this defense. Penn State senior running back column are those ofthe authors 
Ohio State's bend-but-don't­rushed for 2,015 yards and and not necessarily those ofThe break defense makes a living scored 20 touchdowns on 252 Observer. Contact Eric slopping the run. but they arc carries, good for an insane 8.0 Chanowich at echanowic@nd,edu atrocious against the pass. Dorsey yards per carry. He also caught and Eric Sendelbach at esendel­should be able to easily find wide 39 passes for 341 yards and three ba@nd.edu. 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges the following businesses which support our student caller incentive program. 
All Star Comics & Games Hanayori of Japan Bai-Ju's Express Hair Cuttery Barnaby's Honkers Beacon Bowl IHOP in Mishawaka Between the Buns JC Penney Blue Lantern Steak & Seafood House KFC Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Corporation Logan's Roadhouse Brewsters Italian Cafe Luigi's Pizza Bruno's Pizza Lula's Cafe Burger King Mastercuts Family Haircutters The ultimate club's mens 
Buffalo Wild Wings Grill & Bar Outback Steak House squad fell to Michigan this weekend in the finals of the
The Carriage House Dining Room Papa John's Pizza David Baldwin Memorial .... College Football Hall of Fame Perkins Family Restaurant Tournament. Unforced errors 
, R proved costly as the Irish
Cosimo & Susie's "A Bit of Italy" Rocco s estaurant dropped a 15-10 decision. 
Emporium/Doc Pierce's/Matterhorn Salon Artistry despite some stellar play II C ff & w· from Jesse Moore. The B
k

Famous Dave's Bar-B-Que Say "Cheeseca e O ee ine squad squared off with its Fiesta Hair & Tanning Salons Shear Phazes Michigan counterpart, and 
· R emerged victorious, 13-11.
h

Flowerama of America Siam T a, estaural"lt _., The club has high expecta­Francesco's Restaurant Skip's Other Place lfyouarereadyfor tions for the coming spring 
something diffe11nt,ff s e as o n . 
d f
Fun Tan, Inc. South Ben Museum O Art rbadosiswaitingforyou/ 
1 

aw111Mlliflll111atJ.._..;;illli'~ ~
!f~i~;!;;:;::;::~:_c. ~}J~I'.lfff1~I::t~1;¥:~~ ~.!e:!..·~ ~ lli~llt
1111 111 111111111 

~---------------------------~ _,,_w,_,,.->~>~7-·•-···---~~ 
.. 





page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish rout undefealted Sun Devils 81--52 
By KATIE McVOY 
As.ocia,c Spons Editor 

Heading into Saturday's game, Arizona State wasn't just hot. The Sun Devils were unbeaten and working on win No. 14 in their home-win streak. They were on tire. 
But on Saturday, it was Notre Dame that was tiring. The ninth ranked Irish lined-up, fired their shots and executed the Sun Devils perfect record. 
They went home victorious, 81-52. 
"Notre Dame executes as well as I've ever seen when it comes to putting pc?,ple in position to s c o r e , 
half. Her 24 points were only 
two short of her career best, as 
she shot 10-for-15 from the 
field and 3-for-4 at the foul 
line. In addition, she tallied 
eight rebounds and three · steals. 
The mismatch McGraw said 
she was hoping for worked. 
Arizona State had no answer 
for Batteast. As far as the Sun 
Devils were concerned, she siz­
zled. 
'Tm not sure we have any­
body capable of guarding a 
player that talented," Thorne 
said. 
After a half-time speech 
intended to rally her team, 
Thorne man­

aged to get 

Arizona State the Sun Devils

"Notre Dame executes as
coach CharIi to play with 

Turner well as I've ever seen 
Notre Dame in 

Thorne said. when it comes to putting tho second Arizona 
people in position to half. Both 
S t a t e 
teams scored

score.,.
promised to 35 points in 
play with the 
the second 
Irish -for all 

Charil Turner half, but it 
of six minutes. 
was too little,

Arizona State coach 
_, 
In the open­ing minutes of the game, Jacqueline Batteast, who would lead the Irish in scoring, hit a shot to put Notre Dame ahead. But the Irish managed to miss 10 consecu­tive shots before freshman Courtney LaVere put one in. 
"Missing 10 in a row didn't bother me because we were getting good shots," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We set­tled in pretty quickly." 
After the Sun Devils hit a shot to bring the score to 6-5, Notre Dame quenched their fire and their chances for a victory. 
Batteast, who scored 20 of her 24 points in the first half, tipped off a 21-0 run capped off by seven straight to give the Irish the 27 -5 lead with 7 min­utes, 28 seconds remaining in the first half. 
"Jacqui sort of took over the game in the first half," McGraw told the Associated Press after Saturday's game. "That's the kind of game she's capable of playing. It was a thrill to watch a game like that." 
The sophomore post player couldn't be stopped in the first 

too late for 

the Sun Devils. They couldn't overcome the 29-point Irish lead at the half. 
"There's no doubt in my mind that we can play with this team," Thorne said. "Could we beat them? Yes, if we execute our game plan and don't drive the baseline." 
But when it came to execu­tion, it was all Notre Dame's game on Saturday. 
The Irish team that had struggled to execute against USC the Friday before and had squeaked by a weaker Valparaiso team on Wednesday night, found its groove and ran the floor. The Irish had four players in double figures ­Theresa Borton had 14 points and nine rebounds, Le'Tania Severe had 11 points, and Katy Flecky rounded out the Irish effort with 10 points. 
"After the Valparaiso game we talked about coming ready to play," Severe said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
$59.00 


Returning to campus early after Christmas break? The Morris Inn will be offering a special rate for returning students on Saturday, January Il. S59.00/ single or double occupancy. Please call to reserve aroom with us. 
The Morris Inn "On Tbe Campus" Notre Dame, IN (574) 631-2000 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

SCHOOL DAZE 


JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HETAB 
CIJ 
02002 Tribune Madia Sarvk:aa, Inc, 
All Righls Reserved. 
ROJEK 
j
I rr 
I J 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: Answer. 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
WHAT THE: SWf:.ATY
c,owe,OI 
DID ON A HOT 'OAY. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

UNWED WAGON KNOTTY CUDDLE ... Received by the student pilot before his first landing -THE "LOWDOWN" 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
gt,eNtwlorklhnt$ j
Crossword Edited by Will Shortz No. 1029 
ACROSS 30 "le 81 Pearl Harbor d'Arthur" locale
1 Nickname in the 

N.B.A. 32 Royal wish 62 Seaport south of Milan
5 Part of a 33 Resigned

musical refrain 63 Architect
remark Saarinen9 Hill's partner 37 Really self­64 Bad spot for a

13 'To Sir With salisfied nailLove" singer 41 Thetis bathed 65 Tear

14 Majestic poem Achilles in it, in myth 66 Formerly,
15 They hold water formerly17 Mine: Fr. 42 Battle of Britain 

grp. 67 They're18 Cauldron 
sometimes slirrers, maybe 43 Southpaw 
candied 19 Something 44 Grow old pushed by a 
47 Link DOWN
trailer? 48 Really stylish 1 Indication of
20 Drink garnish indignation53 Some Crimeans21 ·_binein 2 'History ofBerliner" 54 Benzene source England" author 

22 Treat with 55 "Hold _ your David cart>on dioxide 
hall" 

3 Lotion 23 Really taut ingredient
59 Isolated 26 Where the 60 Dr. ~ TV 4 Coverlet outboard motor adviser on life 5 Tributary of the Puulo by Richard Huglwo goes and 
Delaware Tr Construction of 39 souci 50 Make amends 29 Two-time relationships 
e Geronimo, e.g. snow, maybe 
40 Actor Baldwin 51 Talked and 7 Really ethereal 28 City of Paris talked
44 Two-page ad 8 Southern 31 Prom wear 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Weirdish
45 Link between comforts?: Abbr. 33 Do well on 
stories? 58Mom'smom 9 Humiliate 34 Garret 
48 Where trade-ins 57_McAn 10 •-.-to the wise 35 Start of a play 
are made shoes 
48 Just for men 58 Inning closers 
11 Burton of "Star 38 Hebrides island 
Trek: T.N.G." 38 Regions 49 More healthy 60 Dee river 12 Verdi aria For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800-814-5554.
22 Unanimously Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
drinks 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 25 Al the peak of past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year) . Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, equipment nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Susan Dey, Gloria Loring, Harold Gould, 
Kenneth Branagh 

Happy Birthday: This will be a busy year, full of excitement and adventure. Love and romance will be all around you. You will excel in whatever you decide to pursue by following your intuition. Your numbers are 3, 19, 27, 31, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Unexpected expenses will put you over your budget. Do not over;pend or you could find yourself way overextended, paying the price in the New Year. Restraint and nnleratirn will re the key. ~ TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't take your pt.,'1SOl1al problems to wock with you. The .> tensirn and stress at home are a direct result of the additirnal wcrk fumily members have placed on yru Deleg;ite sare 1asks to ams. "k-Jrlrlr GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will attract a new partner with your ability to chann, using your quick wit and open-minded concept of life. Your growing awareness has been instrumental in aiding you to become a free spirit who is ready for anything. **** CANCER (JW1e 21-July 22): Your temper will be explosive. Try to think before you say something that you will regret. Work on your own where you can stay out oftrwble. ~ LEO (July 2.1-Aug. 22): Your commwiication skills will be great with everyone but thc one. you love. It will re hanl fer you to hick your hue feeling;. Just tell it like it is, try to sat out your differences 300 get 00 with your day. ~ VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Concentrate on work-related maners. Small details will make a difference. Don't allow anyone to lead you astray er upset your routine. ** LIBRA (Sept. 2.1-0ct. 22): You can find that great bargain if you get out and shop tcxlay. Try to get to the gym You need to keep active and in shape er you will be Wlhappy with y=lf tt SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): Someone you live with will not be too stable. Tread carefully if you want to keep the peace. 1ry to help figure out a solution to the present situatim "k-Jrlrlr SAGITli\RIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Business trip, shoukl IIingalun interesting cwnunitics. Doo't hesitate to make move, if thcy will brrnden your chances of success. Listen when cwnuni1Y koocks. tt CAPRICORN (Doc. 22-Jan. 19): Put your energy into 11D1eymaking projects. An older relative may try to put unreasonable demands on you. Don't make promises that you koow you rrooobly can\ keep. "k-Jrlrlr AQUARIUS (JaIL 20-Feb. 18): Everyone you live with is stressed out Don't be too concerned, just get your duties out of the way and do the best you can. Doo\ let others drag you into a rolll.'ddetale. "**'* PISCF.S (Feb. 19-March 20): Dealing with instirutions will be upsetting. Clear mancrs up as quickly as possible and tum your thoughts to happier endeavors. A yOWJger relative will need you tt 
Binhday Baby: You wiU rock down fiun nothing in your life and will always koow the best route to follow. You will relish the trought of being the renter of attention and wiU oo ~is necessary to re in the li.treligtt. 
Omout E.ugroia's Web Sites a1. astroodvia:.can, eugt:nialast.can, astrc:rnale.can 
COPYRIGHT2002 UNIVF.RSALPRESS SYNDICATE 
---------------------------------------------------------------~-~-------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



PORTS 
Tuesday, December 10, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Simply the best 
. Willingham wins Home Depot Coach of the Year award 
ByJOE HETTLER As.ociace Spores Editor 
Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham knew he could turn around the Irish foot­ball program. And now that it's happened, he's getting his just 
.,. 
rewards . 
Willingham will be named the Home Depot Coach of the Year Thursday during The Home Depot College Football Award show on ESPN ailer leading Notre Dame to a 10-2 rncord and a berth in the Toyota Gator Bowl Jan. 1. 
"To be named Home Depot Coach of the Year is an honor, but in choosing the word 'honor,' it falls short of the respect and emo­tions that I feel for this award and its presentation," Willingham said in a press release. "It would be a stretch to say that I thought this day could happen in my life. However, because of the work. courage and character of the Notre Dame family, coaches and players, it is a reality." 
Willingham took over an Irish program that had experienced its share of recent troubles. But Willingham made the Irish national championship con­tenders once again. 
"Home Depot is proud to spon­sor this award and recognizes the hard work, team work and deter­mination Coach Willingham dis­played in motivating his team and putting together an excellent 2002 season," said John Costello, exec­utive vice president and chief marketing officer of The Home Depot. 
Willingham became the first Notre Dame coach to win 10 games in his first season. The Irish also had the third best turn­around in school history with a 
4.5 game improvement heading into its match-up against North Carolina State in the Gator Bowl. 
This was Willingham's first national coach of the year award, although he was a finalist in 1999 when he coached the Stanford Cardinals. Willingham also won the Pac-10 coach of the year award twice, in 1995 and 1999. 
Willingham also has experience in turning programs around. In his first season at Stanford in 1994, Willingham led the Cardinal to a 7-4-1 record, which was a vast improvement from the team's 3-7-1 mark a year earlier. 
Willingham won't be the only person honored Thursday. The award show will give out the Maxwell Award for best all­around player, the Chuck Bednarik trophy for best defen­sive player, the Outland trophy for best interior lineman and the Jim Thrope award for best defensive back to name a few. 
The Home Depot Coach of the Year award has been given out since 1994. when Florida State coach Bobby Bowden received the award. ESPN and ABC college analysts select the award winners annually. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

MENS BASKETBALL 
Irish ranked No. 10 after impressive wins 
Associated Press  there is a long way to go." Creighton, the only team to  and San Diego State last week and was No. 1 for the fifth  school history, while Oklahoma, Indiana, Texas, Connecticut and  day how important it is to remain the same as individuals  
beat Notre Dame this season,  straight poll. Alabama (6-0)  Notre Dame rounded out the  and players and not to forget  
Notre Dame's week of upsets  and College of Charleston also  moved up one spot to second,  Top 10.  the lesson plan," Brey said.  
landed the Fighting Irish in the  moved  into  the  Top  25. the highest ranking in school  Missouri jumped from 15th to  "We've always been able to stay  
Top 10 in The Associated Press  Creighton (6-0), which beat the  history.  11th, and  was  followed  by  level. We've never jumped off  
college basketball poll Monday.  Irish in the championship game  The Wildcats received 70  Kentucky,  Xavier,  Florida,  the Golden Dome after a tough  
Wins  over  Marquette,  of the Guardians Classic, is 23rd  first-place  votes and 1,774  Illinois,  Marquette,  Tulsa,  loss, and we've  never had  a  
Maryland and Texas improved  -its first rankingsince 1974­ points from the national media  Maryland; Stanford and Kansas.  parade after a big win."  
Notre Dame's record to 8-1 and  75, when the Bluejays got as  panel,  137 more  than  the  The last five ranked teams  The 92-71 victory over then­ 
transformed the Irish from  an  high as 13th.  Crimson Tide.  were Michigan State, North  No. 13 Marquette was at home,  
unranked team to No. 10 in the  College of Charleston (6-0).  No. 3 Duke (5-0) and No. 4  Carolina, Creighton, Mississippi  but the wins over then-No. 9  
weekly media voting.  which  beat  Wyoming.  Pittsburgh (5-0) each moved up  State and College of Charleston.  Maryland and then-No. 2 Texas  
"These kids did  a  great job  Oklahoma State and Villanova  one  place.  The  Panthers  Notre Dame was ranked for  came in the BB&T Classic in  
this week, and I told them that  in the Great Alaska Shootout  received the only other first­ all but two weeks of 2000-01,  Washington, D.C.  
and then told them we're in  over Thanksgiving weekend,  place vote and the ranking is  Brey's first season, reaching No.  Freshman  forward  Torin  
new territory now," Notre Dame  moved in at No. 25, its first  their best since they were sec­ 10 for one week.  Francis played well in all three  
coach Mike Brey said. "Now we  appearance in the poll since  ond Jan. 5. 1988.  ''I'm glad we don't play again  games for the Irish, capping the  
have to stay consistent and lev­ 1998-99.  •  Oregon moved up two spots to  until Saturday, because I want  run with 21 points, 10 rebounds  
elheaded. It is December and  Arizona (4-0) beat Saint Louis  fifth, the highest ranking in  to emphasize to the team every  and eight blocks against Texas.  


WOMENS BASKETBALL 

SENDWICH INDEX 
Miami ends its season No. 1 atop the Sendwich Index. Notre Dame found
Notre Dame 81 
itself at No. 7. Notre Dame players Courtney Watson and Shane Walton were named to the All-Sendwich Team, while coach Tyrone Willingham was named The Irish decisively defeated unbeaten Arizona State Saturday. Jaqueline 
Arizona State 52 
Coach of the Year. Batteast led the team with 24 points. The Irish jumped out to a 27-5 first half lead and took a 29 point lead into halftime. 
page 21page 22 







