
'Monologues' review
CLOUDY 

Monday
The Observer reviews a dress rehearsal of "The Vagina Monologues" before the play's scheduled opening tonight at Notre Dame. 
FEBRUARY 25, 
HIGH 48° 
Scene . pages 10-11
LOW25° 
2002 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 96 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Alumnae share experiences as lesbians 
They also said the administra­

By SARAH NESTOR 
tion does not recognize the 

News Writer 
mwds of lesbian students. 
"The fact that "The Courier" 

StudPnts and faculty gath­la Saint Mary's alumnae mag­ernd in l\1or1\au O•ntPr Sunday azineI is not here is annoying Pvening for tlw pa1wl discus­to nm," Harrison said. "This is sion " Bo u nd a r i t) s Past a n d the second year that we have Prnsent: Sharing ExperiPnces held the panel and they have with Alumnae." The discussion been invited." allow(•d l<!shian alumnae to Th(~ pa1wlists shared their sharn witlr tlw Saint Mary's thoughts on what their bound-· community tlwir aries and e x p (' r i e n c n s obstacles were about bPing a "/ wasn't very out, while attend-lesbian collPgP ing Saint
but didn't have lo

student. Mary's and
hide. I was running

"This Iisl Saint how they Marv's chanct• to from my hometown ... reacted to w e I<'. onw a n cl them.
but I cannot live a lie

honor )Psbian "I wasn't
and hide what I am."

alumnae." pro­very out, but I fessor Ann Clark didn't have to said. hide," Traudt
Claudia Traudt 

The panel, part said. "I was
1973 Saint Mary's alumna

of Saint Mary's running from Sistnrhood WoPk. my hometown consistPd ol' l'ivP alumnae: which was very suffocating, Claudia Traudt '73, ViviPn but I cannot live a lie and hide 
Strasky '85. Ktdly Harrison what lam." 
'98, Jpnnifor Warner '98 and But Strasky did not share Ann Dromino '01. and was these feelings. While at Saint moderated by professor Mary's. she shared shared her Catherine Pittman. sexuality with only lwo people. The wonrnn discussed how In recent years Harrison, 
th e ir 11 x p (Hie n c es at Sain t Warner and Dromino said they Mary's varied through the were open with their sexuality decades, but noted that many ol' tlrn same problems persist. see PANEL/page 4 


AND THE WINNER IS ••• 
Campout begins today 
Mass, the Peace Coalition to call attention to the sit­
• Students hold 

will hold an Afghan dinner uation of the Afghanistan
demonstration to in Pasquerilla East Hall. refugees so that they ,viii 
show solidarity All events are open to the not be forgotten. They, 
public. too, are victims in this war

with refugees 

Although organizers on terrorism." hope to raise awareness In fact, organizers were on the plight of Afghan motivated by a belief that
By ERIN LaRUFFA 

refugees, the U.S.
Associate News Editor 

t h e y media has
"We do not intend to

a d d e d forgotten Students in the Notre t h e i r re-create the conditions a b o u t Dame Peace Coalition will cam pout refugees in
ofa refugee camp

set up tents on South Quad will not their report­
because it would be 

this morning for a two-day reflect ing on the campout to demonstrate what life impossible to recreate war in solidarity with refugees in is really Afghanistan.
either the physical

Afghanistan. like in according to
conditions or the mental

"Our main purpose is to refugee Henner. 
educate people about the camps. stress refugees have "We're 
situation," said Megan "We do really not
to endure." 

Henner, a member of' the n o t hearing Coalition and planner of intend to much about the carnpout. "It is true re-create Krista Schoening the refugees that the Americans and the condi­Peace Coalition member anymore, the United Nations and tions of a she said. some other organizations refugee "\\le wanted are sending a lot of aid, camp, because it would be to make sure the refugees but many obstacles need impossible to re-create stay in the thoughts and to be cleared before that either the physical condi­prayers of other people as will be effective." tions or the mental stress well." 
Following a 24-hour refugees have to endure,'' Some 4. million refugees prayer vigil, the event will said Krista Schoening, a have fled Afghanistan and conclude Tm~sday evening campout organizer and more than 1.3 million peo­with a Mass at the camp­member of the Peace site at 5 p.m. After the Coalition. "\,Ye simply want see CAMPOUT/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, February 25, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 


NotAfraid 
Tonight, women will unite to tell stories of courage and strength: women of different orien­tations will join together to dcfond female sexual­ity; women of different backgrounds will join together to end violence. 
Tonight. women of different sexual histories will join together to fight sexual assault; women of all colors will join together to celebrate diver• sity; women of all ages will 
join together to celebrate tradition. 
Tonight. women of all majors will join together to celebrate academic freedom. 
Most importantly. tonight. women will gather together to celebrate women. 
Many people are opposed 

to "The Vagina Monologues." Kelly Hager Whether discussed pubHcly 
Copy Editor 
or privately. there seems to be an ongoing battle between those who support it and those who oppose it. It seems like the argument, and those involved. will never settle on common ground. And. it will never settle completely until one thing is real· ized: Everyone is different. Every person has their own personal views regarding "The Vagina Monologues," just like everyone roots for their own sports team for to their own reasons. There is however, one thing that unites us all -we are all students. Students want to learn. 
With this in mind, schools encourage students to seek knowledge in and out of the classroom. Students, as citizens, are guaranteed the right of petition, freedom of speech and peaceful assem• bly. With these freedoms, a student is able to make his or her own personal choice to attend lectures and events that they deem educational. It is this freedom of' choice that empowers each student to pursue his or her individual passion. By discouraging students to attend any event that centers on controversial material, people not only prevent this academic exploration, but also commit a disservice to anyone seeking know!• edge. For that reason, school administration encourages students to get involved with their education and take interest in issues that inspire them. 
The same academic freedom which allows a student to speak freely in a classroom also ensures that a student has the ability to make his or her own drn:isions regarding his or her educa­tion outside the classroom. Students have the right. vvithout foar of penalty, to engage in acad­emic inquiry concerning attitudes, doctrines, or fact<; about vvhich they desire to learn. 
To those who constantly bash the Monologues, I urge you to find another topic out of rnspect for your peors. Petty bickering is neither thought stimulating or necessary. Hurl your stones else­where. Eve Ensler and all the other women whose stories have been immortalized through the Monologues are way out ofyour league. 
Tonight, I will speak to other women about sexuality. I will speak to other women exclaiming the beauty and importance of diversity and sup­port thosp who have been sexually assaulted. I will speak to other women with hopes of inspir­ing them to find their special place in the world. 
Tonight. I will speak in cel(~bration of women in support of all the women who shared their most intimate fears to make the Monologues pos· sible. 1will find strength in knowing I have the support of other women who have gone before me. 
Tonight. I will speak to other women through tlrn gift of academic freedom. I urgP you to respnct this freedom, and turn your ears accordingly. My name is Kelly !lager, and I am not afraid. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those qf The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
An arcich: that appean:d in Thursday's Observer incorrecrly stat­ed the time and location of"The Vagina Monolougues" at Saine Mary's. The performance will take place mday at 9 p.m. in the Regina Norrh Lounge. The Observer reg?rds itself as a professional publica1ion and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that ,ve will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake. please contact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Tiu: Ohsnver (USPS 'i9'J 2-4000) i, puhli,hc:d Monday through Friday c-x,c-pr during c-xdm and va.:ation period,. The Ob,c:rver is a member of1hc A"ociatc:d Pre". All reproduction rights are re,c:rvc<l. 


THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
_Monday  Tuesday  
. Exhibit: "Djawid C.  . Exhibit: "Masks and  
Borower: Portraits of  Fidgures, Form and Style:  
Money," Snite Museum of  The Christensen Family  
Art, all day.  collects African Art," Snite  
. lecture: "Cybercrimc:  Museum of Art. all day.  
Challfmges and  
Controversies," DeBartolo  
Hall, 4 to 6 p.m.  

Wednesday 
. 
Event: Bengal Bouts, semifinals. Joyce Center, 7 to 9 p.m. 

. 
Event: "The History of Henry IV, Part I," Hesburgh Auditorium, 


7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
Thursday 
. lecture: "Alcohol use and Policies on the Notre Dame Campus: Ilow do they impact student ath­letes?" Holfs, 8 to 9:30 a.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Colorado State U. granted $350,000 for drug court 
FOHT COLLINS, Colo. 

Students who have violated Colorado State University's drug and alcohol policy now have a choice. The Department of Education granted CSU $350,000 to institute the nation's first collegiate drug court this semester. 
"Day IV: Drugs, Alcohol and You" will offer students who have violated the university's drug or alcohol policy an alternative option to disciplinary probation or dismissal from CSU. but students must first qualify to partici­pate in the program. 
"The program is totally voluntary and works with our judicial system in order to deal with drug and alcohol issues," said Lisa Miller. interim assis• tant director of Judicial Affairs. 
For example, a student may qualify if he or she has been charged with more than two alcohol or drug resi• dence hall violations or has multiple minor in possessions, Miller said. 

The program was in the pilot stage during the fall 2001 semester and had a success rate of' 86 percent. Until now, a college campus has never 


UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH FLORIDA 
Gov't probe of professor confirmed 
The U.S. Department of' Justice on Thursday acknowl­edged that the federal government is conducting an ongoing investigation into the actions of controversial USF professor Sarni Al•Arian. The information came in the form of a news release from Mac Cauley, U.S. Attorney for the Middlf} District of Florida. Cauley said in the release that although the government is typically prohibited from disclosing the information on the status of investigations, "there are exceptions to this policy, such as wlrnn the community needs to be reassured that the appropriate law enforcement agency is investigating the matter." The FBI has investigated Al•Arian before but never produced enough evidence to warrant charg­ing the tenured professor with a crime. Al-Arian said he wasn't surprised by the announcement of the "ongoing and activP investigation." "My understanding is that the FBI will always have an investigation and will very rarely close one," Al·Arian said. 
The Oracle 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
, 
;' 
I I 
/ /''-••···················....... . 
'-~............."" 

:1,:111[:'::':::::::::!:~i::1:m1
i::11i::::::1:::!::1:1::~1:1:::~:111i 


-'8Jliffl'I! 
lllilililll!iii!;i!!il!lilil!i;iill!!ill!111!!:Jili;l1 
,11119Jll11¦1,11g, 
.,..,1111Qt!
r ~ .....,..,:·....,... r.,,. ·....,, ~
,_> .._t .... ,,j -... 
Q,Q,~A,@Q t) ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Ctoudy v,a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
attempted to implement a drug court. 
Day IV begins when a student facing disciplinary probation or dismissal from the university for substance abuse accept.., responsibility for break­ing the student rights and responsibil• ities agreement. The student can then apply to participate in the program, and if accepted, he or she would meet with a case manager and create an individual contract. "There is no way you can use and not get caught," said project director Cheryl Asmus. 
In previous years, every student with serious charges of alcohol or drug-related instances has been dis­missed from the university. Asmus said. This has resulted in an estimated loss of $1 million tuition money over the past five years. 
Rocky Mountain Collegian 




UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS -AUSTIN 
Student sold fake IDs nationally 
Police arrested a University of Texas studc~nt \Nednesday for allegedly selling hundreds of' f'ake clri• ver's licenses to people around the country. DPS officials said Thursday. The arrest was part of DPS' ongoing investigation to prosecute those who produce f'raudulcnt driver's licenses. Imran Ali Karim, an economics sopho• more, faces the charge of tampering with a government document. is a second-degree felony punishable by a maximum of 20 years in prison and a $10,000 line. The IDs were the best fake documents the DPS has seen so far, said Jerald Sams, a DPS oflicer. "I took tlwm down to Polaroid, whfire they actually make the actual driver's Iicens(~S for DPS, and they thought they were excellent," Sams said. "They w1~re of good. good quality." Tlw department detected the fake IDs through security fea­tures absent from the driver's licenses. on which they would not elaborate. 
Daily Texan 


NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Monday, Feb. 25. 
.......,.. 
•e •
C 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
p,.uur•:
® © D B D . . . .C) <:~t,k 
.,:t;:;;.::::_ 

High Low Showers Rain T-atorm& Flurrie• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy-
v,.. Ass.oc,ated Pr~$S 


page 3

Monday, February 25, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


Ate You /!,ist 
Activities that speak to the 

FEBRUARY Aa 

/lt.011dt11(, Y.e6'lut1'l1( 25 7p111 Sozi11 Room, /!,a CAREfrontation -How can I help someon an eating disorder? 
\[,uesda.1(, d-e6'lua'l1( 26 7:30pm R.eckets, S'l:) . 
Join Mark Sties for this message ofhopetis lie shares his story of recovery from anorexia and obsessive exercise through words and music. 
Wed11esda.1t, d-e61uat1t 27 7-9pm \[,est Kitchen, /\17:)d-{ 
Learn to create Pasta Perfect dishes with Chef Ellis. Register by calling l-7253 
Wed11esda.1t, d-e61uat1( 27 7:3op111 'l:JeBattolo 102 
I am Beautiful. Join Dana Carpenter ofSole Sisters, Inc. and discover what it means to be beautiful! An engaging seminar to inspire women to celebrate their unique strengths,accomplishments and worth. 
Sponsoud 6'f the eounselintJ Cente'l, "g-ood Se'ltJices, c/-{ea.lth Se'luices, j"'R,!JScl-{ea.lth, the '?,)h'(sica.l 2.duca.tion 'l)epa.'ltntent, 'RecSpo'lts, Student :Actir.,ities and the Womens "'Resou'lce eente'l. 


Summer 2002 
Internships with NGOs in Washington, DC. 
If you have studied Spanish, are interested in public policy, are motivated to work hard and want a great experience contact Jean Olson, 207 Hesburgh Center, 631-6023 or see our web­site at www.nd.edu/-kellogg. 
Applications accepted until March 9 or until posi­tions are filled-whichever comes first! 
Visit The Observer Online. http:/ /www.nd.edu/-observer 
SMC sponsors week to celebrate women 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's is educating its students outside the classroom this week with the series "Celebrating Women -Mind. Body and Soul." It features a variety of events sponsored by various departments and aims to increase awareness of intel­lectual, physical and spiritual issues. 
The week begins with tonight's presentation by Rebecca Walker, writer, editor and cofounder of the Third Wave Foundation, the only national philanthropic activist organization for young women. Her latest book, "Black. White & Jewish: Autobiography of a Shifting Self' provides material for her speech, "Growing Up Multiracial & Changing the Face of Feminism." 
Walker's presentation and 
book signing will begin at 7 
p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 
"She's considered one of the most audible voices of young women," said Marie Willis, assistant director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs. "Basically, we want to be able to acknowledge the needs of students, bringing diversity on campus and bringing diversity into the community." 
The week continues with its holistic approach to women's well-being with" the services provided by the Counseling and Career Development Center. In addition to the Center's normal hours, there will be counselors available Tuesday from 12 to 1:30 p.m. and Thursday from 2 to 3:30 
p.m. to talk with students who are concerned about their eat­ing patterns and body images. 
"We work with individual 
students on a daily basis who 
have difficulty with body 
image and food issues," said 
Kristina Pendley, assistant 
director of Counseling and 
Career Development Center 
As another part of the 
series, the Athletic 
Department and Student 
Activities Board are sponsor­
ing "Food For Thought: What 
to Eat. When to Eat. And How 
to Talk About Food," a lecture 
given by registered dietitian 
Dawn Fulmer. 
Athletic director Lynn 
Kachmarik hopes that stu­
dents will come away with a 
new attitude about food and 
exercise. 
"I hope they walk away real­izing that some of the dietary issues that they may be strug-
·.-·•;•,;::~:~ 

And stick to the beautiful beach babe ~itte;-sf 
gling with are also society issues at large ... I hope that the speaker will also help our women to see that they can eat healthy in our dining hall," Kachmarik said. 
This series also explores women's attitudes towards God. Campus Ministry is spon­soring "Seasonal Preparation for Lent and Easter: An Evening of Reflection" and "Communal Praise and Gospel Worship." Beginning at 7 p.m. on Thursday, students will be able to take part in discussion about Lent. 
"This is an evening of relaxed prayer and conversa­tion that will focus on several symbols that are central to the Church's celebration of Lent. Triduum, and the whole 50 days of the Easter Season," campus minister Sr. Elizabeth Smoyer said. 
The "Communal Praise and 
Gospel Worship" will take 
place Thursday at 9:30 p.m. in 
Sacred Heart Chapel in Holy 
Cross Hall. Smoyer hopes it 
will be a chance for all mem­
bers of the community to 
unite. 
"This is a student-led prayer 
celebration that honors the 
faith, devotion, strength and 
challenge of African American 
men and women," said 
Smoyer. "This is an opportuni­
ty for the racial majority_mem­
bers of our community to 
stand in solidarity with women 
of color on our campus and to 
learn from an experience that 
is not their own." 
In addition to exploring the 
Catholic faith, this week stu­
dents will also be able to 
exhibit Catholic charity. 
Health Services is coordinat­
ing the clothing drive "Don't 
fight your genes, Just change 
your jeans." Blue jean collec­
tion boxes are located in each 
residence hall to be donated to 
St. Margaret House. Nurse 
Cyndie Cavanaugh hope_s that 
this drive will benQf1t the 
recipients as well as the dona­
tors. 
"It's kind of a fun awareness 
concept that we're all. given a 
set of genes and instead of 
worrying about body genes ... 
it's easier to change your 
jeans than to fret about your 
genes," Cavanaugh said. 
With each pair donated. stu­
dents place a raffle ticket in 
the pocket for prizes from 
local salons. Saint Mary's Inn 
and movie theaters. The drive 
ends with the raffle drawing 
on March 1. 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, February 25, 2002 
Campout 
continued from page 1 
pie are displaced within its borders. Most observers agree that at least 4,000 Afghan civilians were killed in the bombing between Oct. 7 and Dec. 29. 
Despite the end of the bombing campaign. the routing of the Taliban regime, and some $35 million in emergency humani­tarian aid from the United States. the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNIICH) reports that more than 50,000 people have sought safety in Pakistan since Dec. 31. 
The idea for the campout originated with the Peace Coalition's Nonviolent Social Change committee last semester, Henncr said. Plans for the event have been in progress since January. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu 

Panel 
continued from page I 
and that everyone on campus knew. "It was a strange dynamic for me," Harrison said. 
"Jennifer and I wt:~re a cou­ple, still are, but at one point we were the only out couple on campus. People related to m<:~ as 'the lesbian' or as the other half of 'the cou­
'..

p1e. 
The panelists also dis­cussed the image of Saint \iary's and the lack of acknowledgement by the administration of not only lesbian issues but also women's issues in general. 
"Saint Mary's is like a dys­functional family. It is an all­women's college that is afraid to say the word 'femi­nist."' Warner said. "What is Saint Mary's about if we don't know our own identi­ty.?" 
The discussion then led to what current students at Saint Mary's can do to fight politically and intellectually 
"Saint Mary's is like a dysfunctional family. It is an all-womens college that is afraid to say the word 'feminist.... 
Jennifer Warner 1998 Saint Mary's alumna 
for what they believe is right and wrong. lss ues that students brought up are gay and lesbian cur­riculum, diversity on campus that includes les­bians and 
general sexuality. 
"You need to look at what battles there are to be fought and then pick what your bat­tle is going to be," Harrison said. "The battles are every­one's battles." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

''CYBERCRIME: Challenges ·and Controversies'' 
a lecture by 

SCOTT CHARNEY 
• FORMER CHIEF FEDERAL PROSECUTOR FOR COMPUTER CRIME & ECONOMIC ESPIONAGE 
• INCOMING CHIEF OF SECURITY STRATEGY FOR MICROSOFT 
Scott Charney will detail the history and curmnt state of cybercrime, and talk about the challenges governments, industry and the public face as they attempt to prevent and respond to computer abuse. 
FEBRUARY 25, 2002 (Monday) 4:15 -5:45 p.m. 102 DeBartolo 
(reception to follow) 
COSPONSORED BY: Science. Technology & Values Program Kellogg Institute for International Studies Computer Applications Program Computer Science & Engineering Department 
Scott Brodfuehrer 
ec-ve-1,,il'\.,9-t/4.e-C,-~ftt,PU,j C, c-I'\,,~ t1,,u.,e,,t i-c-1'\,, t,. e-a-t ••. 







'Queen' reigns over box office 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Audiences went vampire hunting as "Queen of the Damned," featuring the late pop singer Aaliyah as an ancient bloodsucker, debuted as the top weekend movie with $15.2 million. 
"John Q," last weekend's No.
1 film, dropped to second place r: 
with $12.5 million, pushing its 10-day total to $39.9 million, according to studio estimates Sunday. Kevin Costner's super­natural love story "Dragonfly" opened in third place with $10.4 million. 
Though generally trashed by critics. "Queen of the Damned" got a big boost from young fans of Aaliyah, who was killed in a plane crash last sum mer. Women under 25 made up 30 to 40 percent of the film's audi­ence, said Dan Fellman, head of distribution for Warner Bros., which released "Queen of the Damned." 
"Her fans liked the movie," Fellman said. "I think they were drawn by their loyalty and curiosity and desire to see Aaliyah on the big screen." 
Based on Anne Rice's "Vampire Chronicles," the movie stars Aaliyah as the mother of all bloodsuckers and Stuart Townsend as the vam­pire Lestat. 
Playing in 2,511 locations, "Queen of the Damned" aver­aged a healthy $6,035 a the­ater, compared with a $5,000 average in 2,505 theaters for "John Q" and $4,148 in 2,507 cinemas for "Dragonfly." 
Director Mira Nair's "Monsoon Wedding" had an impressive debut in limited release, grossing $66,000 at 

two New York City theaters. Overall, the top 12 films 
The ensemble comedy follows grossed $85.5 million, up 14 
the clash of tradition and mod­percent from the same week­
ern times during frenzied end last year. For the first two 
preparations for a wedding in months of the year, 
Delhi, India. Hollywood's revenues are run­
Distributor USA Films plans ning virtually even with the 
to expand the film to more pace of last year, when the 
cities over the next two week­industry grossed a record $8.35 
ends. billion. 
~=======================71 
Q: WHAT HAS rREE raao, WNDU PERSONALITIES, ND ATHLETES, AND 
1. SPORTS GENIUSES COMPETING F'CR A PLAYSTATICN2? 
A: THE WVFI SPORTS ijUIZ! 

TUESDAY, F'EB, 26 LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 7·8:30 PM 


tt 


§• { , . 

DEPARTMENT OF SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 
8:00 A.M. TO 5:00 P.M. 
~J <· •y \, ~O~DAY ~HROUG~ F~~AY ·. ~,;::.~ ··'<·'····~ '"~...... .. \ ~-~ 1;·.t ~ ,··\ ·~. -~:~· j ·~ · .~ .i' J ·.,.i f\, ~•~"......... .. .. ~.•..",,;;;,'(·.. :.·.· ··•. •\··.·•.~···.!.:.i.•.·,.·•.i.:.:.:.·•·~.•"··•·:.•.~.•.·.·•···'·'..·•···0Jl.·.·-.., •··. ...··.·.•.·.ii "' · i,¥ ~· (ij; 1" ·~•. ••~. (~ ,
· 
.. ·'. .. '.~, K;.. · ~.,..•:,I:·:..~\l]:,:.. ~.... ~::··>~:·:.,· ...,.,.:1,.~ -j:~ 
~] 

!. i 


>'J1tc:; 
~···.··.·~ 
\.~;l,•~:-~at. ./.N'-•1 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. may advise Afghanistan: Thn United States may stmd military advisers to try to rnin in feuding Afghan warlords, the 
U.S. t'nvoy to Afghanistan said Sunday. Zalmay Khalilzad told reporters that con­flicts betwet!n rival Afghan militias are a 1·onc1ffn for tlw United States, which sup­purls the administration of interim Prime \1inister llamid Karzai. 
U.S. pr~ures U.N. on Khmer Rouge: 
The Unitt1d States and other nations are press­ing the United Nations to rPverse its decision to ¼ithdraw from a planned genocide tribunal for former Khnwr Hougf' leaders. U.S. Ambassador Ktmt Wif!demann told The Associated Press that Washington would aggressively lobby the U.N. becausP thP proposPd U.N.-assisted Cambodian tribunal provid1~s "tlw best possible chance that Khmer Hougt• ltmdcrs will face justice." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Senator wants aid for '93 WfC dead: 
HelatiV(!S of six pcopl<~ killed in the 1993 World TradP Center bombing should lH~ compPnsated along with people who lost lov,~d ones on Sept. 11, SPn. Charles Schumer said Sunday. "The conditions that madP the ev1mts or Sept. 11 possible am a result or our failurn as a nation tu take tlrn 19<J3 bombing seriously," Schumer, a 
I)e m o c rat. s a icl at a n 1nvs co n fe re n c e . Familh!s of S11pt. 11 victims could get $1.6 million on average in federal compensation. 
Senate considers energy bill: The Senate is ready to take up broad energy leg­islation that has caused splits over automo­bil<! gas mileage, drilling in an Arctic refuge and eh•ctricity competition in the shadow of Enron Corp. 's collapse. The House passed its version. but in the Senate. majority n,~mocrats have offered legislation that relies more heavily on conservation. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Baby-sitter charged in porn case: A 
Porter County ,voman offered to baby-sit a friend's 2-year-old daughtPr so her 51-year-old boyfriPncl could have sex with the child and photograph the experienc11. State Policn said. Carl Smith was being held Sunday on charges of child molPsting and child exploitation. Dornnn Sootwy also was charged with aiding in child molesting. child exptoitation and neglect. 
Jury selection set for officer: Jurors will be pickt>d in South Bend this week to decide whether a fornwr Fort Wayne policeman shot two nwn -one fatally -owr a November 1997 drug dispute. Gentry MoslPy is accused of killing Martin Slrntnnld and wounding Jnrmaine Lewis. 


Same: • Composite
f\t'?-;:::·· Volume:
202 
1.388,5 14,048 

AMEXr ) ><,856.31 }$8334­NASDAQ: 1,724.54 + 8.30 
•••·••...N'YSB:••·•• ••>••••>••••••>1568;28>••••••••• r+•.4.70.,...•••• 
S&P 500: 1,089.84 + 8.89 , TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS  +0.85  +0.13  15.24  
NASDAQ-100 INDEX  +0.51  +0.17  35.65  
INTEL CORP  +0.17  +0.05  29.53  
SUN  MICROSYSTEM  -1.10  -0.09  8.07  
WORLDCOM  INC-WO  +5.51  +0.37  7.09  







ATION 
i\1onday, February 25, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 


PAKISTAN 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD 
The hunt for th<~ killers of \Vall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl is targeting three Arab nationals -an indication. investigators say, that the perpetrators may be linked to Osama bin Laden's al­Qaida terrorist network. 
Authorities offered little information Sunday about the Arabs' identity or what role they may have played. But their alleged involve­m en t -combined with investigators' revelation that a key suspect now in custody said he met per­sonally with bin Laden in 
Afghanistan -suggested an al-Qaida link. 
Police believe a dozen or more people were involved in Pearl's abduction and murder, and that most of them have spent time in Afghanistan as supporters of that country's ousted Taliban regime. Their links to al-Qaida -the group believed responsible for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States -are being stud­ied, investigators said. 
Four key suspects were already in police custody when U.S. and Pakistani authorities revealed the contents of a videotape Friday that showed images 
of the 38-year-old journal­ist getting his throat slit. 
Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, the British-born Islamic militant who police believe masterminded Pearl's abduction, has been in police custody since early February. At one point he told inter­rogators that he met with bin Laden in Afghanistan after the Sept. 11 attacks. a senior police investigator said on condition of anonymity. 
Saeed also told investiga­tors that his group wanted to teach the United States a lesson and Pearl's mur­der was just a first step, intelligence oflicials said. 
On Monday, prosecutors will formally charge Saeed and three co-defendants with kidnapping and mur­der, a senior government official said. 
The three others are accused of having sent e­mails announcing Pearl's abduction, including one showing the journalist with a gun pointed to his head. 
Fearing the slaying may signal a widnr plan to thwart tho government's drive against terrorism, Pakistani authoritins have warned U.S. and other for­eign diplomatic missions and businesses to boost their security. 

Case questions fingerprint evidence 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA 
Ninety-one years after fingerprint evidence was first presented in an American courtroom, its reputation as an infallible forensic tool is under attack in a court challenge that could change how criminal cases are tried. 
On Monday, federal prosecutors will try to persuade U.S. District Judge Louis H. Pollak to reverse his recent decision barring experts from testifying about whether a finger­print taken from a crime scene matches a defendant. If the judge doesn't change his mind, the decision could change the way forensic evi­dence is gathered and presented in court. 
While prosecutors and some foren­sic experts say Pollak's ruling could have grave consequences, critics of fingerprint analysis say it's about time the process was reviewed. 
"There are a lot of emperors out there testifying who have no clothes," said David L. Faigman of University of California's Hastings College of Law. "Where's the science behind it? ½'here's the data?" 
The ruling, believed to be the first of its kind, involves a death penalty case in which three men are charged with operating a multimillion-dollar drug ring and are linked to four killings. 
Lawyers for Carlos Llera-Plaza, Wilfredo Acosta and Victor Rodriguez asked the judge to bar fin­gerprint evidence. Under Pollak's ruling, experts can testify about and show illustrations of similarities or dissimilarities between "latent" fin­gerprints from a crime scene and "rolled" fingerprints on file, but they cannot testify that crime scene prints match a defendant's fingerprints. 
_____________:...___________________
--·······-·······----·­

Enron projects used government loans 
Associated Press 
As Enron Corp. reached for markets overseas. power plants it helped build from Guatemala to India received $1.2 billion in government­backed loans from two U.S. agencies. 
The Overseas Private Investment Corp. still is owed $453 million from the Enron­re lated projects while the Export-Import Bank is due $512 million. 
"They're 

no net cost to
"The disclosure ofthis
definitely U.S. taxpay­
among our top information sheds light on ers -the l O borrow­
the government's actions business fees 
ers," OPIC 
cover its
in support ofEnron over
spokesman 
costs -and Larry Spinelli the years. ,, earned $215 said. 
million last T h o u g h 
year.

Charles Grassley
Enron is now 
OPIC's loan
United States Senator
bankrupt. four 
of its projects financed by OPIC am making its payments on time. Regarding a fifth pro­ject, Enron and two other U.S. corporations are seeking to have OPIC pay off a huge 
insurance claim. 
When it filed for bankruptcy in December, Enron was pur­suing OPIC help on two more projects in Brazil. Those appli­cations have been abandoned. 
Enron 's relationship with the government is part of a two-pronged business strate­gy. Inside the United States, Enron has sought to free ener­gy companies from govern­ment regulation. Internationallv, Enron has embraced Washington's help in the form of federally backed loans and insurance protec­tion. 
The irony is not lost on con­gressional critics. 
OPIC "gave hundreds of mil­lions of dollars in loans and other support to Enron-relat­ed projects during the Clinton administration," said Sen. Charles Grassley. the ranking Hepublican on the Senate Pinance Committee who recently obtained records showing Enron-related pro­jects received $544 million in loans from OPIC. 
Snparattdy. the Ex-Im Bank made mon' than $650 million in loans to Enron-related pro­jects overseas. 
"Tlwsc projects obviously were a tremendous benefit to Enron 's operation. The disclo­sun• of this information sheds light on the gov11rnmcnt's actions in support of Enron over the years," Grasslcy add1~d. 
Enron's bankruptcy docs not place the loans in jeopardy. Separately create.d corpora­tions handled the overseas projects for Enron and other 
U.S. companies. 
OPIC and Ex-Im loans are backed with the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. 
Though it has just 200 employees. OPIC has deep pockets -a $4 billion reserve that comes from the user fees 
U.S. busi nesscs pay for its 
loans and insurance. OPIC operates at 
and insur­
ance portfo­lio totals $14 billion; the Ex-Im Bank's portfolio exposure is $62 billion. 
A financially troubled Enron plant in India. -financed in part with OPIC loans -is cited by congressional critics who say the company got too much government help. 
OPIC provided $160 million to Enron and two other corpo­rations to help build the $2.9 

. . 
f:.. FRee SPRING B.REAKI 
·.· -Ho9t.!Sf ~llnatiUIIS/PaT11os1 LOWdSI 
Prices G11c11antuttd! BesI Ahlines/Holels! Free Fopd! 2 f=rl_ju Trips on 15 Sale8. Earn C,rnh! Group DlscounJ::;! 8oo"•nnlino. www.sunsplashto11rs.com 
1-800-42G-7710 


Neighborhood Grill & Bor 
Servers Bartenders Hosts/Hostesses Kitchen Help 
Cooks 


Pt.EASE APPLY IN PERSON: 
Applebee's 

3703 Portage Rd.,South Bend, IN 46526 Tel: (219) 277-2975 
www.applesauceinc.com 
billion Dabhol plant. 1t now stands idle because prospec­tive customers do not want the power. 
The Ex-Im bank says it is still owed $20:{ million on the India project, but that it can call on guarantees from five Indian financial institutions for repayment if necessary. 
Enron and the other two companies filed an insurance claim in December asking OPIC to pay $200 million. The claim is based on "political risk insurance" bought at the outset of the Dabhol project. 
The companies say the Indian government has broken promises to stand behind the project, in effect denying the 
U.S. corporations their asset and therefore requiring OPIC to pay the insurance policy. 
The claims process will take months to resolve. 
The other four Enron pro­jects that got OPIC money are operating successfully and are paying back their loans in a timely fashion. The payback comes from the revenue com­ing into the operating power plants. 
Those power plants are in the Philippines, Turkey, Venezuela and Guatemala. 
The Ex-Im Banks Enron-relat­ed projects are in Colombia and at the same plants that OPIC is hi~lping in. Turkey and Vonezuela. 
Enron's bankruptcy stopped two OPIC applications in their tracks: two power projects in Brazil that would have received $390 million in OPIC loans. 
Alonune 500•Design• lnnontians •Marketing, Cansultanrs Seminar 
Learn The Methods Of A Professional Business Man's Priceless Achievements An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
JI One DarSeminar, ABoat attw111 Ten Years OfInvaluable Exoerlance. 
This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must have in business to move forward in high level business. The class is taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, •ct,ange the course of an entire industry." 
~ ~ARE For class dates, private classes &
~ =
7?fbrnsoAR more information, go to our web
Undtl•let,_,_,..,..tlltllWI site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 Wflllllll.USIISland.com E-mail • lnventor@usastand.com · 

•
Studyinthe nation's capitol 

•
Workin aninternship 

•
Fulfillphilosophy, theology,andfme arts requirements 


•Studypublic affairs 
•Liveinanexciting city 
being accepted online 
•Open to Sophomores,Juniors, and Seniors from all colleges 
John Eriksen, Director 346 O'Shaughnex,-y Eriksen. l@nd.edu 

. · \:V\VW. nd.cdu/~scn1cster 

Monday, February 25, 2002 
The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Businesses continue to leave Manhattan 
four jobs in lower Manhattan neighborhood, surveys have 
Associated Press 
has been lost, and half of the found. businesses whose buildings The surveys solidify the Five months aft,,r tlw Sept. w11rp destroyed or damaged growing sense that the 11 attack. more than o,w in do not plan to return to the world's financial capital will 
Ill 


'% 

APR* As Low As 
¦ 
Financing On New & used Vehicles 

It'll Get Your Motor Runnin'! 

-~ 
' I . -~ J '§.a 
L. n;,••···'---------"---...i I NOTRE DAME
r 

FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 
800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 
•Annual Percentage Rate. As lowas 6.25%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 

INSTITUTE ji1r 
Hispanic Leadership 
~~~ 
Latino studies Intern Program (HLIP)
·-·--. 

UMIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
The yuryose ofthis internsh9' is to immerse students in '1-lis_panic communities where they respond to s_pecific areas efneeatfirouafi various yroarams. Student interns wi(( Cive in a '1-l1syanic communityfor eiaht weeks aurin9 tfie summer. 
General Inlormation: 
* 
An eight-week summer internship in the Latino" ·; • communities in metropolitan Chicago working with youth, community organizing, or a health clinic., 

* 
Leadership is emphasized 

* 
$2300 tuition stipend plus living stipend 

* 
Room and board, 



-1r 

Three Theology credits 
DEADLINE EXTENDED to Tuesday, February 26th, 2002 Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for Latino Studies Contact cknight2@nd.edu with any questions 
" ... Finally, I realized that "service" is not so much about 
-what you do; it is where you are. While my soccer game and 
my Spanish eventually improved, I learned that my most important job in Pilsen, was just living there. The act of "being present" for others necessarily begins with sharing a CENTER 
FOR 
,,h

ome.... SOCIAL -Miguel Vieyra (ND '03) CONCERNS 
Participated in the HLIP last year in the Chicago Pilsen neighborhood 
1 
not be same even as the Express and Lehman buildings are repaired or Brothers, j oint own c rs of :1 rebuilt. World Financial Center, a 51­About 100,000 of the story tower directly across tlw 
370,000 jobs that wern once street from the World Trade in downtown Manhattan Center. have been lost entirely or Lehman Brothers spokesman 
have been moved to mid­Jason Farrago said the lower town, out of town or out of floors occupied by the invest­state, according to the ment bank were severely dam­Alliance for Downtown New aged by flying girders. "We York. have a hole where some of the 
M. Myers Mermel, chief offices used to be," he said. executive of Unwilling tu wait fur the TenantWise.com, an online Cesar Pelli-designed tower to commercial real estate be repaired, Lehman Brothers firm, said 49 percent of the bought a new headquarters at tenants in destroyed or Seventh Avenue and 49th damaged office buildings Street and is moving in gradu­say they are leaving down­ally. The investment bank town for good. Those ten­plans to lease or sell the floors ants once occupied 17 mil­it occupied at the World lion square feet. Financial Center. 
Many companies that are American Express will move not leaving outright are back, beginning in April. It decentral-had about izing -or 3 , 0 0 0 spreading ..Where it's leading is employees at out their 3 World
that there is risk of
employees Financial
continuing loss ofjobs
at different Center and offices -in lower Manhattan" 1,000 at for fear of other down­suffering a town sites.
M. Myers Mermel 
devastating Dow Jones 
loss in CEO of tenantwise.com & Co. had another about 800 terrorist employees at attack. 1 World Financial Center. It 
"The trend once upon a plans to move about half that time was to have the corpo­number back in once asbestos rate campus, to have removal has been completed. everyone in one place," spokesman Steven Goldstein said Valerie Lewis, a said. Other departments, spokeswoman for the including The Wall Street Alliance for Downtown, a Journal's copy desk and business improvement graphics department, will organization. "9-11 has work out of South Brunswick, flipped that around. Now N.J., where they have been 
I 
dispersal is in." located since the attacks. Citywide, 94,000 jobs Lewis, of the Downtown have been lost permanently Alliance, said an incentive plan 
1
since the Sept. 11 attack, announced by Gov. George 
l .1
Mayor Michael Bloomberg Pataki last month should help 1 
said this week as he deliv­keep businesses in lower ered a delivered a budget Manhattan. She said there is address that called for $80 million in state money for spending cuts and heavy small-business grants and borrowing. $170 million in loans and 
Companies displaced by grants for large businesses the attacks include finan­that stay in lower Manhattan cial giants American or seek to locate there. 
-M 
College of Engineering 
Spotlight Nights 2002 
for First-Year Students 
C:IVIL 
EnGlnEERlnG 
ana GECLCGIC:/ll
SC:IEnC:ES 
..

CPEn HCUSE 
FCR 
FIRST-YE/lR 
STUaEnTS 
m. n .llY, FEBRU/lRY 25 
6:.. T. 7:3. P.m. 
303 CUSHlnG HJlLL 

WE ST/lRT SERVlnG 
/lT li:DD P.m. 
I 
! 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 8 Monday, February 25, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING. EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-747 l FAX.............................................................63I-6927 ADVERTISING.•...................................63 J-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF......•• : ....................:..........631-4542 MANAGING Eo!TOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63I-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWP0INT.................................................63 l-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.sccne. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PliOT0........................................................63I-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at lmp:llobserver.11d.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-che 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 

weekly srudem reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and races of prim ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published ali:er 

co meet the editors and 
sraff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the smdems ofche University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the ,1dministration ofeither inscicucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on concent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chiet: Managing Editor, As.~istam Managing Edicor and depanmem editors. Comn1cntaries. leners and columns present the views of the authors and nm necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners co che Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quemom regarding Observe.r policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMike Connolly. 


The absurdity of international anti-Americanism 
Author's note: This column is a par­ody. All names hai,e been changed, or made up entirely. 
Washington President George V.F.\V. Bush is confused. 
"Maybe I'm Mike Marchand just stupid or something," the President said Undistinguished after returning Alumnus from a trip to Japan, South Korea and China. "I don't know how so many people could be so confused about what we're trying to accomplish in the war on 'tera.· I don't get it." 
Since his State Of The Union Address on Jan. 29, Bush has been the recipient of mostly high praise in America, but mostly condescending criticism from abroad. Most of the response centers on a snippet of the speech in which he labeled the coun­tries of Iraq, Iran, North Korea and other terrorism-sponsoring countries, as an "axis of evil." 
Some European diplomats. who have never thought highly of the Texan President, scoffed at that char­acterization. German Foreign Minister Poschka Wischer said such a view­point "gf~ts us nowhere." European Union External Affairs Commissioner Priss Hatten called the comments "absolutist" and in "unilateralist over­drive." And French Foreign Minister Pubert Vedrasinine clamored that Bush's speech was "absurd" and "sim­plistic." . 
Asked to elaborate on the comments that American foreign policy under President Bush was too na'ive and unsophisticated, French Undersecretary of Snootiness E. Letist Prix noted, "Ignorant Americans and their practicality. Everyom~ who's any­one knows that the only good foreign policy is a complicated one, indeci­pherable to friend and foe alike. Who cares if America's allies and enemies know where America stands against terrorism'? It's overrated, I tell you." When confronted by the fact that he was French, and they evidently don't know how to judge figure skating, much less world politics, Undersecn,tary Prix turned his nose up in the air and turned on a Jerry Lewis movie. 
As for the critique of the United States being too "unilateralist," European Union Deputy of Stiffassed Condescension Arrow Gant Parvenu declared, "The greatest threat the world faces is an America that doesn't respect the efforts of its European allies." When challenged by Bush's belief that the world's greatest threat is actually rogue nations with weapons of mass destruction, like Iraq, Iran and North Korea, Parvenu said, "What? Who'?" Then, after being questioned about what exactly the efforts ot' Europe in the war on terror actually were, he stuck his lingers in his ears and said, 'Tm not listening, la la la la la la la la." 
However, Bush has also been chal­lenged stateside. Senate Majority Leader Born Weasle said, "we've.got to be very careful with rhetoric of that kind," and further asserted that the case had not yet been made for going after Iraq. Bush's challenger in the election, former Vice President Hal Bore, warned that the United States ran the risk of alienating its allies. And former President Ninny Farter called the "axis of evil" label "counter­productive ... I think it will take years before we can repair the damage done by that statement." 
Faced with a situation where it seems that the world, even his allies, are against him, Bush responded to th<~ criticism that his new policy is too simple: "Of course it's simple," the President continued. "That's the whole idea. I want every American, every American ally and every American enemy to know that we will eliminate the threat of terrorism against us. What's wrong with that'? We've never won wars by being com­plicated. We've won them by standing up to the evil we face. And when I tried to say that, I was attacked, not 
them. 
"Oh. and thon to top it all off, this whole 'unilateralist' thing. I never said we wouldn't consult with our allies and include them in any military action. I just said that we would no longer let evildoers threaten us with 'tera.· If that means neutralizing thorn before they can attack us again, that's what we'll do. If that's wrong, then I'll be wrong, if' it means defending our country and our citizons." 
Meanwhile. we tracked down an average Iraqi citizen and asked him about Bush's comments, and wheth<~r or not he believes the Iraqi dictator, S0 damn IllSSClll,. .IS " (WI·1 . " "JI CII yes. 
he's evil. lie gassed Kurds and Iranians, and launched Scud missiles at Tel Aviv. lle's holding chemical and biological weapons, is trying to get a nuke, and is using us, his starving subjects, as human shields so America doesn't bomb them." Ile would have continw1d, but he was intnrrupt<~d by governm<mt agents who dragged him into the street and shot him. 
So, evidently it's official: if regimes are evil,. that's one thing, but actually stepping out and calling them evil is far worse. This is a theory lost on President Bush, who is wondPring why so many people wPre lnft conf"usnd by his speech. "I tried to say that there am brutal leaders who want to destroy us with WE~apons of mass destruction," Bush said, "and they're quibbling over how I said it. Did they miss it entirely?" 
Vice President Chick Dcney leaned into the Oval Office and said, "Big time." 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, an analyst for RealClearPolitics and a contributor to The Polili:r Group, is no stranger to being made fun of If you 'cl like to lake your best shot. e-mail him at A1archand.3@nd:edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" appears e1,ery other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarfly those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Erin LaHuffa Meghanne Downes Joe Ackerman 
Sports 
Matt l,ozar 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Y mnrn 

Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Katie Malmquist 
Production 
Rachael 
Protzman 
Lab Tech 
Peter Hichardson 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The American is a new man. who acts upon 
Should the dining halls serve meat 
new principles; he must therefore entertain 
on Fridays during Lent? 
new ideas, andform new opinions.·· 
Vote at NDToday.corn by Thursday at 5 p.n1. 
J. Hector St. John de Crevecoeur French-American explorer, writer 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, February 25, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Free speech is not always positive 
Paul Srholit-ld's lPtt1ir printed Feb. 21 is a lanwntabl<' and all too common m1.111il'.-station of' tlw lwrn~volPnt but ulLimalt•ly noxious ovm·nxt1\nsion of' what is PSSPntially a positivP principlP, 
i.e.. l'rn1' sp<'Pch. Mr. Schofield advo­cates free spnoch. I le is to be applaud­I'd for such advocacy. Mr. Schofield advocalPs wPlcoming "Tim Vagina Monologtws" to Notn• Dame. I le is to bl' rc~bukNI l'or such advocacy. 
Mr. Sd1offold's ess1•ntial mistake is to promotP "Tlw Vagina Monologues" on the ground that PVPn if they bo trash, they ought to lw \.Vl'lcomed for tlH\ sake ol' "op1•11 discussion" and tlw "discourse that l"ollows Itlwm I." Some discussion is worthlPss. SomP discours<• is valll(~less. 
Pondor tlw following hypothetical sit­uation. An intellignnt young rustic from the foothills of Arkansas has written "ThP Fist MonologuPs." In a witty and shocking s,•ries of soliloquies, our rus­tic (111t's call him Adam) dnclaims the uttPrly ;,,·onderrut and ornpowering fist. a ft•atun~ of' his anatomy which ho has discovornd is a sourcP of incredible dPlight and ind11pPndPnn\. lie can strik<· his wifo with it. 11<' can heat his childn•n ,vith it. If(' can PV('ll knock that annoying CIPtus rwxt door right on tlw kissnr \.vith it! It enablt•s him to control his destiny -it is a veritable font of power and confidence. 
Will Adam be invited to Notre Dame to put 01~ "The Fist Monologues?" It ...,~ would be unprof-, H...,......,.._a itabln to make a wager on it, big .. , or small. Ile advocates vio-. lencn. lie is an enemy of justice. It is I e:rNA of' no conse­qucnce that tiolOj \.Vhat he is a.+ preaching . • may actually empower him. People of intelligPncc \ simply do not countenance such things. · People of cduca­lion do not entertain the notion that domes-~ tic violence wrought by a '~ list might be good. And this is --........-­right -pcoph~ should not think that domestic violfrncc perpetrated by some-
one's fists is a positive thing, even if it After all, we believe in free speech, 
is empowering. Hight? Ponder the following historical situ­ation. A young artist of above average intelligence from the land of Austria {let's call him Adolf) has written "Nation and Race," the 11th chapter of the first volume of some book which I can't remem­ber. In passionate and arresting prose, our Austrian speaks at length of the glory and pride of being Aryan. Ile speaks of Aryan nobility, of Aryan puissance, of Aryan superiority. His ideas are bold. His words are energetic. There is a shocking and yet deeply moving quality to his work. And people are listening to him. Should we listen to him, too? Should our young Austrian be 
invited to Notre Dame to present his 
ideas? Shall we discourse over the 
merit of his thoughts? 
and its resultant environment (the one replete with open discourse) is always a good thing, always a desirable thing, always a positive thing. People couldn't possibly get the wrong idea or embrace what isn't the truth or be corrupted by lies. Right? 
And just so with "The Vagina Monologues," a sensationalistic and neurotic garbage which degrades those unlucky enough to be touched by it. Whether one reads or hears it, and whether or not it may empower indi­vidual women (though to what end who can venture to divine?). it categorically reduces women to a portion of their anatomy. A dear friend of mine who is virtuous and well-liked informed me that for a time aftt~r reading the mono­logues, all he could think when he saw a woman was "vagina." 
The monologues objectify women as vaginas in a sort of perverse synec­
-doche. So let's not clutter our minds and souls with the tripe of "The Vagina Monologues." 
Nicholas Salazar 
junior Fisher H.1II Feb. 21, 2002 

Showing 
solidarity with 
refugees 
On Monday, Feb. 25 and Tuesday, Feb. 2(> the Notre Datrn~/Saint Mary's Peace Coalition will be holding a campout on South Quad in solidarity with tlrn Afghanistan refugees. Tents will b1• SPl up in front of O'Shaughnossy today at 9 a.m. at which tim<' a small cer<'nwny will also initiate a 32-hour prayt!r vigil. Both campout and vigil will conclude with a mass by tlw tents Ttwsday at 5 p.m., immediately followed by an auth<'ntic Afghani dinner in Pasquerilla East Hall. 
This event has been organized to raise campus and local awareness on behalf of the refugees, whose plight has been downplayod, if not of'ton ignored, in nwaia coverage of the "war on terrorism." 
In tlw words of Krista Schoening, "\Ve do not intend to rPcrnaLP or dramatize the conditions of a refugee camp -it would be impossible to recreate either the physical conditions or tlw nwntal stress refugcos hav11 to endure. We simply want to call attPntinn to tlrn situation of the Afghanistan refugees, so that thf~Y will not bt~ forgotten. They, too. are victims in this war on wrrorism." 
Th.-campout stems from our desire, not only to highlight tlw dim situation of the refugees, but also to strnss the inade­quacy of current solutions to the problem. Currently tlrnre are four million refugn(~S who have fled outsidf~ Afghanistan and mon• than 1.3 million displaced inside their homeland. llowovnr. despite the end of massive U.S.•lcd bombing and the defoat of the Taliban rngime. tlw U.N. lligh Commissioner f'or Hcfugecs reported last week that more than 50,000 per­sons have sought safnty in Pakistan even since Dec. 31. 
Although thP Unitnd States, United Nations and others have plPdg,~d substantial financial assistance and humanitarian aid. it is just not that simple. Many obstaclns must be crossed and isstws resolved within Afghanistan before this aid can be dfrictivPly put to usu. The "war" against the Taliban and al Qaeda may bn over, but for the refugees tnw peace remains a distant. dream. On that note, this will be a time of education, rennction. and prayer for us. All are invited to stop by the tents to learn more or to join us for any part of these events. AbovP all, we hope the refugees will remain in the minds, hearts and prayers of our entire community. 
Megan Renner 

NO/SMC Peace Coalition Feb.24,2002 
Success of 'Monologues' is in the issues they raise 
The student participants in the upcoming production of "The Vagina Monologues" have already accomplished something important by sparking a lively and intelligent discussion on the value and limits of free speech here at a national Catholic research university and in the culture as a whole. The Viewpoint page in The Observer has been the most public forum in which that debate has taken place, but it is also going on in dorms, classrooms and in the homes of parents, alumni and others across the country. 
Those in favor of the "Monologues," those who dislike them but support free speech and intellectual and cultural debate, and those who want the performance stopped -all have participated in the debate, and I'd venture to say that in the long run all have benefitted from it. This kind of discussion is what being at a university -and, for that matter, living in a democracy -is all about. 
I do want to ·clarify one point made in the wonderfully supportive editorial in Friday's Observer. The editorial said that "Notre Dame will host an official production" of the play. As far as I know, the University isn't in the busi­ness of hosting "official" productions of any theatrical performances, films or other works of art, nor does the University as a whole '.'officially host" most of the speakers on vari­ous topics that departments and student groups bring to campus. 
"The Vagina Monologues" is a student-initi­ated performance co-sponsored by the Department of Film, Television and Theater and the program in Gender Studies because the play is a serious theatrical examination of important gender issues. The V-Day obser­vance as a whole includes a service project at a domestic violence shelter, a poetry reading, an art exhibit and a "talkback" on Wednesday night after the two performances. It is thus precisely the kind of thoughtful and practical engagement with social concerns -violence against women, gender identity, etc.-that a Gender Studies Program at a Catholic univer­sity should be encouraging. 
But again, the University does not and should not be asked to lend its "official" endorsement to every event that takes place on campus. To put it in political terms: Notre Dame is by no means a pure democracy, but it's also not a totalitarian state. For any kind of academic freedom to exist, there has to be a "public sphere" or "civil society" in which discussions and cultural events take place, an area where speech and other acts take place without "official" approval or disapproval from the University as a whole. Thus, there's nothing "official" about this production -nor should there be. 
All that said, we should turn to the impor­tant issues that the play itself raises. I hope that those who actually see the performances on Monday and Tuesday nights go back to their friends at their dorms and apartments, call their parents and whatever alumni they know and have discussions about the political meanings of violence against women, the cul­tural construction of women' s bodies and sexuality and the other major questions addressed by "The Vagina Monologues." 
Even the hostile letters we have received about the play agree that these are important issues. I hope that those who don't believe this play is the best way to approach those issues are willing to put aside their differences with those of us who see great value in the perfor­mance, and will join in the efforts of Kerry Walsh and the other sincere, dedicated and talented students who have put so much time and energy into organizing this week's V-Day activities. They deserve praise and commen­dation for their hard work, and the eauses they are working for deserve support from all of us. 
Glenn Hendler associace professor of English acting director of che program in gender studies Feb.22, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 Monday, February 25, 2002 

ina warriors' com 
Scene reviews "The Vagina Monologues" G 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Edirot 
Vagina, vagina, vagina. 

The word often shocks, surprises and, in the case of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television and Theatre and Gender Studies Program's production of "The Vagina Monologues," it may enlighten. 
The controversial production is part of Notre Dame's V-Day activities. The V-Day movement began in New York City in 1998 to help bring awareness to women's issues such as violence, rape, female slave trading. genital mutilation, subjuga­tion, sexual abuse and harassment as well as the recognition of women's roles as sexual beings. 
Since it's inception, the staged reading of Eve Ensler's play, "The Vagina Monologues," has served as the center­piece of V-Day. Ensler began writing the play after she had a conversation with a woman about menopause; Ensler real­ized that she didn't understand how women conceived of their vaginas. "The Vagina Monologues" is a compilation of women's testimonies about their vaginas; Ensler interviewed hundreds of women from around the world about tlrnir cxpc­riences. Somt~ of thP monologues are tak<!n almost verbatim from a single woman's account: others are composed from many women's interviews. 
Although the V-Day launch was a suc­cessful fundraiser for women's charities, the event's organizers wanted to extend the message to women across the nation and around the world, especially young women who thev see as being the pro­gressive leaders ·or the future. The orga­nizers chose Ensler's Obie award-win­ning show to help spread that message. 
'"The Vagina Monologues' on college campuses and in communities and every­where it has been brought is an unusual vehicle for putting forward the message that violence against women and girls around the world is a tremendous prob­lem that touches all our lives and has to be brought to an..end," said Karen Obel, V-Day's director of the college campaign. 
Obel thinks that "The Vagina Monologues" are particularly pertinent to college campuses because of the preva­lence of dat(~ rape. She believes that because many young women have never been informed of their rights or under­stand their own sexual nature they are not equipped to stand up for themselves. "The Vagina Monologues," in her opin­ion, is meant to break the secretive nature of female sexuality and e_mpower women. 
"!Young women] need to know that their bodies are their own, how they operate and to be able to not give away things they don't want to give away," Obel said. 
In the four years since V-Day launched its college campaign, it has grown from 65 schools in the United States and Canada to 550 schools worldwide. Obcl notes that of those schools, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have had the most resistance to the production. 

EVAN AGOSTINl/lmageO,rect "The Vagina Monologues" author Eve Ensler performing a monologue at V-Oay 2002 in New York City. ­
After "The Vagina Monologues" was performed on Saint Mary's campus and sponsored by the Feminist Collective in 2000, College president Marilou Eldred banned officially-recognized campus groups from sponsoring the show and subsequently sanctioned participants in an individual production in 2001. 
This year, the College will allow the show to go on, but it has not been offi­cially recognized by Saint Mary's or any of its departments. Notre Dame's show is recognized by the University and is spon­sored by two departments, although many students and campus organizations have organized to protest the University's consent in the matter. 
"It's not surprising to me that a rape­prone zone is having the hardest time with V-Day ... of all the colleges that we work with [the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities] have had the most difficulty ... When people have something to protect and have something to cover, they don't want anything to come in and change the status of things ... it's not sur­prising to me that [there's an attempt to have it] kept out," Ensler said. 
The message of "The Vagina Monologues" has been hotly disputed. Critics have called the show immoral, desensitizing and offensive because they believe it encourages and depicts behav­ior that violates sotrn~thing they believe should be held sacred. But Enslcr doesn't think those criticisms arc valid. 
'Tm always surprised when people an~ afraid of' vaginas ... when they'tc not afraid of words like anthrax, smallpox and nuclear weapons. They can put those on the headlines, but they're suddenly terrified about vaginas," Ensler said. "Vagina is not a slang word, it is not a dirty word, it's actually a part of the body. And I think, that people's fear of vaginas really stems from their profound fear of being alive and being connected and being intimate and being fully pre­sent in the 1vvorld. And I think that's a scary thing to be." 
Often, criticism has been religious in nature. Some feel that "The Vagina Monologues" contradicts religious teach­ings. specifically Christian religious teachings. Ensler, however, feels that the show is in keeping vvith Christianity. She believes that Christ would not have \vant­ed anyone to be ashamed of anything that God gave him or her. She points out that many devout Christians arc and have been involved with V-Day and "The Vagina Monologues," but there is a brand of Christianity that shames women and often mistakes sexual purity with silence in regard to women's sexuality. 
Ensler thinks that people who lind her play shocking or profane have issues in themselves that they need to investigate. In her eyes, thn play is describing some­thing entirely natural and normal; slw sens the vagina as being both metaphori­cal and literal in her play. For Ensler, the interplay botween those two ways of' looking at vaginas is what her play is all about. 
"I want wonH\ll to think about tlwir vaginas. I want women and men to lovP vaginas and hold tlwm sacred. I want women to know what gives them plea­sure so they can know how to get plea­sure. And mainly I want women to b11 safo and protected and I want tlrn vio-

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, February 25, 2002 

page 11 

znd interviews the shows author, Eve Ens/er 
lencc -which is absolutely pervasive on this planet -to f?nd toward vaginas,·· Enslcr said. 
But Ensler welcomes discussion from critics and fans alike. She thinks that the dialoguP "Ttw Vagina Monologues" g•m­crates is productive, In the end, she thinks that the show does exactly the opposite of desensitizing people t6 women's issues. 
"So many women and men that I inter­view have no idea what to do with vagi­nas. they don't know how to phmsure vaginas ... they don't have any idea of their own bodies becaus,~ they've been taught to be so asham~~d of it. so shut down and isolated and invisible and secretive about it. I think that secretive reality rnally damages everyone because WP can no longer communicate \Vhat is most t~ssential in our lives," Ensler said. "So, I think the opposite happens: I think that when people talk about vaginas it stops boing shameful and jaded and con­temptuous and in can becomes normal and part of' an ongoing daily dialogue as opposed to prurient and scary and per­verse.,. 
Tlw NotrP l>anw production of' "The Vagina Monologues" foaturns 35 femaln actors from tlw UnivPrsity and one from Saint Mary's as wPII as a number of peo­plP of both SPXPS involved in tlw produc­tion but not on stage. All involved affec­tionately n~f'er to themselves as "vagina warriors." 
Senior Kerry \Valsh, who directs the show, decidNI to gPl involved with V-Day artPr reading about the controversy over tlw show last year while slw was abroad in FratH'P. Walsh. who has always bnt)ll active in women's issues and wants to go to law school to become a lawyer special­izing in gender law, solicited the University to put on the production and found surprisingly little objection. 
"I've been tickled pink that the admin­istration has been so open-minded about putting on the production; I've probably had the least resistance from them. I wouldn't say that they've supported. because that's not the right terminology, but they have been extremely open-mind about the production and having it on campus," Walsh said. 
\,Valsh rehearsed with her cast two nights a week for five weeks to produce the show. Most of the women involved are not particularly experienced in the­atre. In fact, part of the relevance of "The Vagina Monologues" is that it does not feature actors, but rather uses real women to pass its message. Most of the show is reader's theatre: the women carry note cards with their lines on them. 
The stage is bare except for three microphones that the actors step to when they are performing. Behind the micro­phones, the rest of the cast sits patiently in chairs. 
Walsh had the actors dress in red and black; two colors that have symbolic meaning. They represent things such as love, violence. women and (of course) vaginas. 
The monologues range from humorous, such as junior Mary Beth Asmussen's rendition of the different types of plea­surable moans in "Thn Woman Who Loved to Make Vaginas llappy," to intensely dramatic. such as senior Maura Malloy's portrayal of female genital muti-

Photo courtesy of LESHA ZIELINSKI 
y Anne Lewis, Katy Hall, Lauren Wilson, Rosa Garcia, Mary Beth Radley, Maura Malloy, itine Carey, (middle row) Molly Janicki, Kerry Walsh, Thandi Gordon, Amy Sellers, Jessica :relli, Melinda Redding, Jessie Potish, Molly Morin, Nicole Kenny, Linda Malchor, Lindsey n and Michelle Bruno. 
lation of Bosnian women in "My Vagina Was My Village." Each story is the story of real women; some are more discom­forting than others. 
But "The Vagina Monologues" are meant to be a iittle rough around the edges. It's what makes the show mean­ingful: it's real. Even the members of the cast are not always in agreement about the show. 
"For me [being in "The Vagina Monologues"] has been an opportunity to meet more like-minded women and women who want to discuss these issues whether we agree on them or not," senior Molly Morin said. 
The show is supposed to be dialectic. 
"People tell me: 'Oh Kerry, you've done such a great thing for this campus.' I really don't sec it as me doing a great thing for this campus, I see it as a group of women who have come together to do a great thing for this campus," Walsh said. . 
Some audience members may find the content offensive. The play uses very 
frank language and describes things that are often not spoken about freely in pub­
lic. But the cast of the show is not being edgy for the sake of being edgy; it's really is important to the meaning they are try­ing to convey. 
People uninterested in the message of "The Vagina Monologues" will most likely find the show dull. But those who are interested in discussion of the issues in the show will be pleased with the thought-provoking delivery of the Notre Dame cast. 
"The Vagina Monologues" will be per­formed tonight and tomorrow night at 8 
p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. General admission is $7, $5 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Call or visit the LaFortune Student Center box office at 
(574) 631-8128 to purchase tickets. Proceeds from ticket sales will benefit the women's rights group SOS. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 25, 2002 
BENGAL BOUTS 125 POUNDS -160 POUNDS 
Bravo scores unanimous decision with experience 
By KEVIN BERCHOU AND 
PAUL CAMARATA 
Sports Wricers 
St. Edward's Hall senior Dei~rick Bravo knew experience would play a significant role in his bout with freshman Mike Feduska. His prediction came true as he scored a unanimous decision over his inexperienced foe. 
Bravo combined his experi­ence with a quick jab and pow­erful left hook to carefully pick apart Feduska. Holding Feduska at bay for much of the fight, Bravo picked his spots with precision. 
Lance Hendron. a junior from Las Vegas, gambled a bit in gaining a unanimous verdict over Sung Hoon Kim. Coming out hard in the first round, Hendron set the early pace then held on in the later rounds for a relatively easy win. 
In other 125-pound action. Jason McMahon defeated Mark Burdick when the referee brought the fight to an early end 1 :05 into the third round. 
135-pounds 
In perhaps the most thrilling match of the afternoon, off­campus senior Matt Fumagalli nipped Zahm Hall sophomore Luke Dillon in the narrowest of split decisions. 
After a stunning early-round loss last year, Fumagalli is back this year looking to recap­ture the glory of his sophomore year when he took home a title. Dillon, supported by a rowdy contingent of fellow Zahm resi­dents. almost sent the senior co-captain home early again. 
In a fight that turned into a brutal slugfest, the opponents used aggressive strategies try­ing to win the decision. Fumagalli, having the longer reach, dictated the pace for much of the fight, coming fiercely at Dillon, who stood his ground and fired right back. 
After making an impressive run to the finals as a freshman last year. Tony Hallowell is back this year, intent on win­ning a title. Sunday afternoon he took his first step toward doing that, dominating Jon Valenzuela in a unanimous decision. 
Strongest in the second round, Hallowell battered the first-year boxer from Dillon before the referee stepped in to administer a standing 8-count. 
Sophomore T.J. D'Agostino earned the right to lock horns with Hallowell after notching a TKO victory over junior Chris Hoffman. 
Fumagalli-will next tangle. with fellow off-campus student, senior Rich Redina who earned a unanimous decision in his bout with Jacob Cusack. 
145-pounds 
O'Neill Hall freshman Sam Fuller might still be a bit dazed, but he'll live with it. 
After being knocked down ­but not out -in the opening round of his match with Alumni's Jon Pribaz. Fuller ral­lied to win a split decision with a fierce third-round flurry over a fellow southpaw. 
Summoning the last of his energies, he outgunned Pribaz, whc, had the fight won in the third. 
Senior Jemar Tisby, fighting with a severe reach disadvan­tage, overcame his short stature to stand tall in a unani­mous decision over Sorin fresh­man Ryan Rodgers. 
Throwing a myriad of combi­nations, Tisby worked to offset Rodger's reach, a tactic that demonstrated an advantage he did have -experience. 
In battles of freshmen, Nathan Lohmayer outdueled Andy Callan in a split decision, while Andrew Harms bested Keough's Timothy Hurni. 
Though Harms was impres­sive, he feels his best fights are ahead of him. 
155-pounds 
Brock Heckmann began his quest for a second consecutive Bengal Bouts title in the pre­liminaries Friday night by scor­ing a unanimous decision over Dan McCoy. Throughout, Heckmann used a quick left jab and threw smooth overhand rights. With straight punches and fluid footwork, Heckmann maintained tight control of the ring space against McCoy, and then again on Sunday versus Mike McCabe. 
McCabe had strong technique on Friday night, using his entire lower body to pack power into his punches. It was enough to defeat Paul Robinson in a unanimous decision in the preliminaries, but fell short against Heckmann. Against McCabe, Heckmann dictated the tempo of the fighting to move on to the semifinals. 
Wednesday night. he'll take on Chris Pettit, who used the same formula for success in both of his early round fights. Mixing an aggressive left hand with his ability to move in and out of space, Pettit won a unan­imous decision in the prelimi­nary round against Andy Baum. On Sunday, Pettit again utilized his strong left hook to win another unanimous deci­sion over sophomore Julian DeVoe. 
A long jab and combinations of punches helped DeVoe win a split decision over freshman Colin Kerrigan on Friday night, but against Pettit he could never establish a rhythm. 
In the lower half of the 155­p o u n d bracket, Siegfried sophomore John Nowak won two unanimous decisions over the weekend to advance to the semifinals. A southpaw and the second seed, Nowak estab­lished a sturdy posture against senior Mike Messina on Friday night. enabling him to keep landing his left hand. Nowak's third round combinations clinched the victory, and he picked up with the same inten­sity on Sunday against fresh­man Jesse Shallcross. 
After his preliminary oppo­nent defaulted, Shallcross fought with resolve in his first ever Bengal Bout on Sunday. But Nowak used his left to cause three standing 8-counts during the fight, and will now fight Mike Melby on Wednesday night. 
A junior from Dillon Hall, 
Melby advanced to the quarter­finals after scoring a technical knockout over sophomore Chris Henry on Friday night. Melby stayed aggressive by fighting from the center of the ring and controlling the angles of his attacks. He started snapping a long and steady jab shortly after the Henry fight began and kept working the punch until he had won his second fight, a unanimous decision in the quarterfinals over sophomore Brandon Gasser. 
In the preliminaries Gasser used an active step and a series of combinations to win a unani­mous decision over sophomore Christopher Solis. It was not enough on Sunday, however, as Gasser was forced to fight uphill against Melby's long reach. 
160-pounds 
Top-seeded Chris Kitalong opened the action in the 160­pound division on Friday night by showing off his fiery speed and agility against Ethan McKinney. Kitalong's bouncing feet, hair trigger attacks and huge right hook helped him dominate the first round. It was a left hook that dazed McKinney and prompted the referee to stop the contest 18 seconds into the second round. 
Showing similar skills on Sunday. Kitalong advanced to the semifinals after a unani­mous decision over freshman Mike Panzica. After using his jab to earn a split decision in an evenly fought preliminary bout versus Galen Loughrey, Panzica was unable to deter the unflappable Kitalong in the quarterfinals. 
Next for Kitalong is relentless third year law student John Murphy, who brawled his way into the semifinals with two decisions over the weekend. Shorter than both of his first two opponents and less than a technician in the ring, Murphy used a dogged, bullrushing style to keep his opponents off balance. 
It earned him a unanimous decision over senior Dan Probst in the preliminaries, and then helped Murphy outlast junior Jason Voss for a split decision on Sunday. 
Voss, owner of a powerful left hook and polished footwork. won a convincing unanimous decision over sophomore Dusty Segretto on Friday night. Against Murphy, however. he could never maintain the strategic distance and angles that worked so well in the prc­1imi nar i es and lost on the judges' cards by failing to win a narrow battle inside. 
Hometown sophomore Pat Dillon is the second seed in the 160-pound weight class, and fought as such in two unani­mous decisions that moved him to the semifinals. On Friday night he was undaunted by the reach advantage and straight punching of sophomore Brent Burish. [).,illon's strong right hand got faster as the fight went on,. causing a standing eight count in the third round en route to the victory. 
In the quarterfinals, Dillon faced Matt McDonald, a junior who scored a split decision in the pn~liminaries over Pat Hobbins. Dillon combined his quick feet and flurries of punches to gain control in the first round against McDonald. After getting a standing 8­count in the first round, McDonald came out lighting in the second and remained aggressive for the remainder of the fight, but never had enough to slow Dillon, whose unrelent­ing combinations attacked both the head and body in th<~ third round. 
freshman Mark DeSplinter, the youngest 160-pound semifi­nalist, will challenge Dillon on Wednesday night. In his first ever Bengal Bout, the tenacious DeSplinter used repeated com­binations in a unanimous deci­sion over senior Eric Saul. On Sunday, DeSplinter showed his stamina by outlasting sopho­more John Enterline for a split decision victory. 
Contact Kevin Berchou at kberchou@nd.edu and Paul Camarata at pcamarat@nd.edu 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 31).m. ac the Nocre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit  
all classifieds for content withouc issuing refunds .  
...  
TestMasters is looking for responsi- For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N.  Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting  Shared living Opportunity  5 tastefully decorated rooms for  
NOTICES  ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1 •  Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN Remedied in 1998 new insulated windows hot  furnished, air-conditioned room in NW DC house,  Enjoy the benefits of a luxurious pri­vate home without the expense and upkeep.  rent for Graduation/ND Football weekends in private home, less than 2 miles north of campus.  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed­ 800-929-7724  water heater & plumbing 200 amp  mem. day wknd. to sept. 1 2002,  Private bath and room which you  Continental breakfast included.  
room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896  electric update  three roommates (2M, 1 F)  may furnish to your own taste (sizes  many happy repeat customers! Call  
Need tutor for Quicken 2000.  newer furnace & roof basement  ranging from 340 to 400 square  Kim 277-8340  
4-7 BDRM HOMES.WALK TO  Call 234-6698 or  laundry room privacy fenced back- Sale neighborhood, free street  feet)  
ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03. 272-6306  234-9543. Leave message ii  yard w/ deck 10x12 utlity garage excellent area  parking, washer/dryer in house. two blocks from bus to downtown.  Common areas (over 2000 square feet) are maintained  PERSONAL  
necessary.  $59500 Jim•  by a professional staff and include  
LOST & FOUND FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies  FOR SALE  Day 574-233-253 Eve 574-259·6843 FOR RENT  1-1/2 miles from Tacoma Metro, $390/month + 1/4 utilties, call  spacious living room, dining room, library, fully equipped shared mod­em kitchen, laundry and parking facilities. Within walking distance to  Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648­ 
room of Nieuwland Hall. Will gladly return with correct description. Call  2•story, 3 bedrooms, formal dining & living rooms.  Michelle 202/829-3725. or krup78@hotmail.com  Tippecanoe, the library, St. Joseph River, Memorial Health and  4849 www.ststravel.com  
Meg at 4-3477.  All appliances good.  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm•  Lifestyle Center and medical  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
Carpeting & drapes throughout.  rentals@aol.com  River Condo  facilities.  atone. If you or someone you love  
LOST: Small platinum ring with  Many closets. Gas heat & upper  For Rent  800 per month includes utilities and  needs confidential support or assis­ 
channel-set diamonds. $200  and lower air  5 mins from ND!4-6 student house  hosting by a congenial couple with  lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
Reward. Please call  283-0811.  conditioners.  w/large common areas-prkg lot.  $1050 MO Mishawaka  professional backgrounds.  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
Finished basement w/pool table.  appl. Fall  219-532-1537.  Call 234-1002 for information and  information, see our weekly ad in  
Call 574-234·9782.  2002 Dave 291-2209  appointment.  THE OBSERVER.  
WANTED  ..  2001 Honda Accord Coupe.  Excellent house 3·4 students.  4 bdrm/2 bath house . Available after 6/1.  THE BEST OFF CAMPUS HOUSE  #1 Spring Break Vacations!  
Loaded.  Air,appl.  IDEAL FOR 4-5 STUDENTS ALL  Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas &  
TestMasler is looking for responsi- Excellent condition.  5 min from ND.  3 block from campus.  THE AMENITIES WASHER  Florida! Best Parties,  
ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests.  $19,000. Call Heather  Dave 291-2209  Call  DRYER FRIDGE STOVE ETC GREAT AREA  Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1-800-234· 7007  
$10/hr. 1-800-929·7724  631-3578.  MMMRentals.com  (773)-486·8862.  2773097  www .endlesssummertours.com  

.. 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Invites You to Hear 

presenting 
. REFUSE TO CHOOSE: 

®

RE ·LA/MING FEMINISM 
ALSO: Monday, February 25 Tuesday, February 26 DeBartolo 138 LaFortune, Sorin Rm. 
7:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. 
Question Period to Discussion of Aborlion as Follow the Address Violence Against Women 
For more information, contact: 
Cathy Kolf Feminists for Life 
ND/SMC Right to Life OR 202-737-FFLA 
(219) 634-4311 info@feministsforlife.org 
ckolf@nd.edu www.feministsforlife.org 
Men 
continued from page 20 
All five Notre Dame seniors swam on Saturday night and all five posted lifotinw best times in their events. leaving a legacy fiw the underclassmm1. 
"It will be hard to replace great swimmers like Jonathan Pierce, but we have a lot of youth in this team," said sophomore distance swimmer J.H. Teddy. "This was a growing t\Xperience for us." 
According to \i\'rlsh, the only disappointments stemmed from a misplaced focus on the meet. The Irish focused on a team place that they could not control instead of on team improvement that they could control. 
"It's frustrating not to see progress. But if you look at total points scorPd and how much the conference has improved, we've made a tremendous jump," said senior co-captain Mike Koss. "\Ve got some great recruits coming in next year. I'm really excited for the guys. In the future, I think we can take sec­ond and even first." 
Notre Dame finished ,vith 390 points, but hoped to eventually conquer Pittsburgh, who won the conference championship with 807 points. 
"Today was two days for our toam," said Welsh. "It was a strong last day of this season, and a strong first day for next season." 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 

Irish swimmers cheer on their teammate, Jonathan Pierce, as he swims in the Big East Championships. Pierce set a Notre Dame record in the 400-yard individual medley. 
BIG EAST SWIMMING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Pierce finishes fourth, fails to qualify for NCAA games 
until Pittsburgh sophomore Eric As captain of the team, Pierce out as I hoped." ''I've really enjoyed coming in 
By SHEILA EGTS 
Limkemann stripped him of the has received constant praise from According to Pierce, he was as a freshman and having guys Sporrs Writer 
title last year. He was positioned his coaches and his fellow swim­concerned that he had not ful­like Jonathan to train with," said 
in second place behind mers for his positive attitude and filled his obligation to the team fellow distance swimmer Matt 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. Limkemann for the majority of team-oriented focus. He lived up when he placed fifth in the 500-Bertke. "By his actions and the 
Seven Irish swimmers lined the the race, but he swam the first to that praise on Saturday. freestyle on Thursday. But for the way he swims, he has definitely poolside with "Go Irish" painted half too fast and could not main­Where spectators saw a disap­effort he made as leader and role been a leader." on their bare chests Saturday, tain the pace. The growing gap pointing drop from secondto model, Pierce means more to his Pierce will swim in his final waving green shirts and yelling between first and second became fourth in the last few laps, Pierce teammates that points on the meet next week at Holfs Aquatic for senior Jonathan Pierce as he impossible to close. saw a finishing time that scoreboard. Center. Even with only one meet launched off the starting block for In the last few laps, St. John's improved on his personal best by "I don't know how we are going left in the season, Pierce is again the 1,650-yard freestyle. Michal Szapiel and Virginia three seconds. He saw the points to cope without him swimming focusing at the positive aspects of 
Pierce passed that group of Tech's Greg Kubovcik picked up he had scored for the team as the with us next year, without him his college career. seven a total of 66 times, tearing the pace and pushed Pierce all lrish's top performer at Big East. encouraging us and pacing us in "I love swimming. I love rac­back and forth through the water the way back to fourth place. He saw memories of team sup­the distance lane." said sopho­ing. I'm even a pretty big fan of at a pace faster than he had "I saw them approaching, but port that pushed him to top his more J.R. Teddy, who swam practice at times," said Pierce. swum in his entire life. there was really nothing I could season off with the best swim of alongside Pierce in the the 1,650-''I'm disappointed that I'm nearly 
But when he pulled himself out do. I knew I had gone out fast his career. yard freestyle Saturday. done swimming, but I'm also of the water, Pierce stared up at because I had to go for the win, "I saw them the whole time Pierce was especially close to looking forward to just being a a scoreboard that showed a but then I just hit a wall," said standing there cheering and wav­his fellow distance swimmers, a normal college student for the fourth-place finishing time of 15 Pierce about his racing strategy. ing shirts for fifteen minutes," close-knit group within the team. last two or three months. It's a minutes, 32.37 seconds, less than "When you go 1,500 yards as said Pierce. "I probably would Pierce and the other distance disappointment and yet little bit four short seconds shy of the hard as you can, it kinda catches have fallen off sooner if not for swimmers printed shirts for the of relief." NCM qualifying time. up with you. I didn't have what I those guys. I was working as season that read "Welcome to the 
Pierce was a two-year champi­needed, but I'll always know that hard as I could to come through D-House," a name they give 
Contact Sheila Egts at 

on in the 1,650-yard freestyle I gave it everything I had." for the team, but it just didn't pan themselves as a cohesive unit. 
egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 


Call Broadway Theatre League Box Office for tickets. 234-4044 or toll free 1-877-315-1234 Morris Performing Arts Center 
40'111001 
BENGAL BOUTS 165 POUNDS -170 POUNDS 
Quarterfinal rounds produce no surprise victories 
By BRIAN BURKE 
Sports Wric~r 
Tho quarterfinal round in the 165-pound division held few sur­prises on Sunday as the favoritE~s advanced with relativelv one­sided victories. Both fighters with preliminary round byes, f.lay Cosst\ and Chris Matassa earned unanimous decision wins and controllt!d their fighL'i throughout. Matassa defeated Justin Myers, while Cosse stopped Mike MacHitrhifl to move on to the semifinals. 
Matassa went into the fight with the strategy of countering Myers and avoiding a brawl. Myers, who advanced to the quarterlinals by defoating \.Yyatt Shitlett, trind to set the pace of tlw fight by moving in close and working inside on Matassa with jabs and hooks. Matassa, a much more polished fighter, was able to answnr any typP of combination thrown by Myers and consistnntly punislwd him for opPning up his guard inside. 
"I Jward that was his styh~ [to bnnvl],".Matassa said. "I just tried to sit back, use my jab and make him pay." 
Myers was able to land some jabs \vorking inside. ·but in the second round Matassa took con­trol of' the fight. landing five and six clean shots at a time to the Myers' head. The precision punching of Matassa resulted in standing-8 counts for Myers in both rounds two and thrne. 
"My corner told mP I was ahead !after the second round]. but that 1 still needed to watch out because he would keep coming after me," Matassa said. "He wore out some towards the end. I think my experience paid off. you know, this is my fourth year." 
Cosse did not dominate his fight to quite the extnnt of Matassa, but nevertheless turned in a solid performance in defeat­ing MacHitchie. Cosse was con­tent to stay low and work the body in the first round, moving in and out and allowing MacRitchie to come at him with lefl jabs and right hooks. \'\'hen the two stood toe to toe, they both landed their share. but Cosse won most of the exchanges. In the second round he became more aggressive, standing toe to toe more often with MacHitcie. By the third round, Cosse had broken through, scoring a standing 8 and sealing the decision. 
The closest fight in the division was between Mark Yost and Mathew Klobucher. Yost defeated \Viii Holley in the prnliminaries while Klnbucher bested David Cannon. Both fighters took a more conscrvativ(~ approach, especially early on, feeling each other out with jabs and crosses. After one close exchange in the first round, the referee issued a standing 8 count on Yost, although it appeared Yost simply slipped while backing away. 
In the second round both fight­nrs let down their guards more, taking morn chances, but neither took full advantage of the oppor­tunities to score points. In the end Yost landed a few more jabs and hooks to pull out a split decision victory. 
The bout between Matt and Nick Nanovic was one of chang­ing momentum. Seidler defeated Michael McDonald to advance to the quarterfinals. Nanovic, who advanced with a win over Patrick Muehr, was the taller and lankier of the two fighters, and took advantage of a longer reach early on. 
After struggling in the first round, Seidler turned the tide in the second, getting inside more often, working the body with a good left hook. The third round was more of a brawl with very lit­tle defense on the part of either boxer. Seidler, the stronger of the two fighters was able to negate the reach advantage of Nanovic and landed a punishing hook to the head of Nanovic that knocked him to the canvas. A'i a result the fight was stopped and Seidler won by technical knockout. 
170-pounds 

The four quarterfinal bouts in the l 70•pound bracket were all one-sided contests where it was apparent who the eventual win­ner would be by the end of the first round. Hyan Hernandez earned a unanimous decision win over Eric Barroso in a sloppy match where technique seldom came into play. Hernandez, who advanced with a win over James Ward. was able to overpower Barroso and back him into the ropes, where he did the most damage. The fight never seemed to stay in one place for very long, with both boxers off balance and punching wildly. 
"lie was moving around a lot more than I expected," I lernandez said. "I had to try and cut down on the distance between us. since that's more of the type of fighter I am. I love a good brawl." 
Barosso did somewhat better in the last two rounds avoiding the charge from Hernandez, but Hernandez was simply more ath­letic and overwhelmed Barroso when the two stood toe to toe. Barroso had advanced with a win over Patrick McGarry. 
Another fighter with more of a brawling style was Domingo Maynes, who came after William Phillip with a strong jab that he worked both to the head and body in the first round. Maynes chased Phillip around for much of the fight, capitg.lizing on an advantage in strength. Phillip was given standing eight counts in both the second and third rounds, and his lack of offense did little to deter Maynes from backing him into the ropes. Maynes emerged with the win by unanimous deci­sion. Maynes defeated T.J. Strachota Friday in the prelimi­naries while Phillip won over Geoff Dennie. 
In much the same way, Evan Oliver realized early on in his bout with Matt Padilla that work­ing inside was most effective. Oliver defeated Kraigh Kotteman, and Padilla came out on top over Nate Scheid on Friday. Oliver did a good job of moving his head and landing hooks, and Padilla was unable to capitalize anytime Oliver exposed himself' to counter punches. Padilla received a standing 8 count in the second round, and while he was never in major trouble, the fight was stopped in the third round because Padilla's corner could not stop him from bleeding. Oliver emerged with the TKO win. 
Matt Knust employed a differ­ent strategy than his fellow win­ners in the 170 pound bracket, making Craig Oliver chase after him, and effectively countering with a strong jab to the head. 
"Both guys had gotten tired in their last fight [preliminaries)," Knust said. "My corner told me to make sure to move around, throw my punches and get out of there. I knew he was a bigger fighter, I just had to move around, tire him out, and get my shol'i in." 
Oliver often looked as if he were blindly throwing hooks and was especially hurt by Knust's countering style because he put his head down. IIc often seemed out of control and got spun around on several occasions. Oliver was knocked down and received a standing 8 in the sec­ond round. and the fight was eventually stopped in the third, giving Knust the win. Knust defeated Chris Milliron in the pre­limina r i es, while Oliver beat Shaun Iversen. 
Contact Brian Burke at 
bburkel@nd.edu. 

Ce~ebrate the 30th Anniversary of V\lomen at Notre Dame 
with these special events: 
Orange Crush 
They entered your name, 
Now ...­Ge Your secret admirer will be revealed. 
Women 
continued from page 20 
stroke events. Becking won the 100 title for the fourth time in her career, and the 200 for thP third. 
Hecking and Peterson guar­anteed trips to Austin. Texas for tho NCAA Championships with finishes in the 200-yard backstrokf~. with llecking finish­ing in 1 minutP. 57.70 seconds and Peterson following in 
l :58.41. both automatic qualify­ing times. All threw backstro­kers made the consideration times for NCAAs in tlw 100­vard backstroke and Ilulick also made a consideration time in the 200-yard backstroke. 
Peterson and llecking traded the lead in the 200-vard back­stroke twice during the race before Hecking pulled slightly ahead during the last 75 yards. 
"Kristen was out fast during the 200, and we were just trying to pac(' each other," llecking said. "I \Vas so excited. Especially with Kristen and Danielle right behind me, and their times close to NCAAs, too.'' 
Senior Alison Lloyd also earned an individual title, clos­ing out her Big East career with a win in the 200-yard breas­troke Saturday. She won the event in 2:15.60, just a second shy of the automatic cut for NCAAs. Lloyd \Vas second in the 100-yard breastrokP Friday, clipped at the finish by Hyan Redmann of Pittsburgh. 
Senior diver !leather Mattingly overcame a difficult performance on the 1-meter board Thursday to take home the runner-up position on the 3­meter board rriday. 
"That was definitely the worst I've ever done at the meet," Mattingly said about her fourth­pIace finish on the 1-meter board Thursday. "Tonight, Ijust thought, This is the last time, I just want to go out and have fun and do what I do in practice."' 
Sophomore Lisa Garcia also had a solid meet, earning an NCAA automatic cut in the 200­yard butterfly with a time of 
1:57.79 and placing second in the event. Garcia also won sec­ond in the 100-yard butterfly. 
But in a meet where 11 records were broken by teams across the conference and point margins separating teams were closer than in the past. the Irish struggled through inconsistent performances during much of the wm~kend. 
One struggle was the 400­yard freestyle relay. where the Irish team of Ilecking. senior Carrie Nixon. freshman Katie Eckholt and Hulick were passed by University of Miami in the final five yards. 
The anchor on the relay. Miami's Manon Van Hooijen. earned the mect's top honors of Most Outstanding Swimmer after winning four individual <went'i. 
Both relay teams made the NCAA consideration time for the event. but the Irish loss was evidence the conference has gotten faster during Notre Dame's tenure on top. 
"If the Miami relay hadn't been right there with us, we probably wouldn't have gone that fast if there wasn't some­body to race," said co-captain Tara Riggs after the meet. "There was better competition ... I think it caught us off guard because we didn't expect people to be fast." 
Nixon struggled in her two final individual races of the weekend after winning the SO­yard freestyle Thursday. Unable 
to defond her 1999 titles in both BIG EAST SWIMMING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
events. Nixon placed second in the 100-yard freestyle and fifth in the 100-yard butterfly and 
Despite loss, Ntxon remains a champion 
saw her meet records in both event'i get broken. 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. Ten yards from the finish. the But Nixon didn't. 
Sophomore Marie Labosky, 
Carrie Nixon stood behind the race wa'i decided when Miami She walks away with the samewho qualified for NCI\J\s in the block before the 100-yard sophomorn Manon Van Rooijen determined attitude she brought400-yard individual medley in freestyle. and everything around surged ahead and touched the to the pool this weekend, looking January and won the 200-yard 
hl~r was different. wall almost a full second ahead of ahead to the next race, ready to individual medley at last year's 
She tried the former champion. try again. 
Big East Championships also 
to make it And then. everything really was "It's hard being here knowingstruggled through the weektmd. 
the same as different. that I'm faster than that but l justI.abosky placed sixth in the 400 
her record­In that touch, Van Hooijen took can't go," Nixon said, through a 
1\1 in a field that included 
setting s\vim everything that used to b('long to raspy voice worn thin from Sydney Olympian and Villanova 
in the event Nixon. She took her title. took her cheering for teammaws duringswimmer Maddy Crippen. could 
two years record and at the end ofthe the three-day meet. "It's hard not defend her 200 Il\1 title and 
ago. Tried to meet, took the honor that was being at this meet and not doing placed 12th in the 1,650-yard 
make it the once Nixon's: Big East Swimmer as well as I wanwd to do. But I freestyle. 
same as it of the Year. know l can dn well [at NCMsl. "I think they're both awfully 
was before She also took what can never Now it's just calming myself down tired." Weathers said about 
she had to be replaced: a win in Nixon's and tell_ing .!nysdf I bnlong with Labosky and Nixon, neither of 
sit out a sea­senior season, at tht~ conforcnce those girls. whom fully tapered for the meet 
son for championship. in one of her sig­She may not walk away from shoulder nature event-;. this year's Big East
to focus more seriously on 
surgery. "I really wanted to win it," Championships with the normalNCMs. ''They're pretty incredi­
Tried to Nixon said, trying hard to hold additions to her resume. and she
ble athletes. and neither of 
make it the back tears as her eyes reddern~d may walk away a title short ofthem likes to get beat. Even if same as it was before, when she and welled after the meet. "I just her expectations. But she won'tthey were run over with a truck won the title. Even tried to make wanted to go out on a good note. walk away bitter or angi·y. She
in the parking lot before the 
it the same as it was Thursday It's hard ... to be in the heat may walk away disappointed, butmeet, they'd still be upset about night. when she won the 50-yard where a girl breaks your record." she won't walk away discour­
it.., 

freestyle title. In the water though. neither aged.
The Irish did have success in She snapped on her goggles, Van Rooijen nor her teammates And atop the medal stand 
qualifying swimmers for 
sucking the rubber sockets to her would see those tears. After Saturday night. from a descended
NCAAs. however. llccking, 
eyes until they were precisely touching the wall and letting the step one level away from tlw win­Peterson. Nixon and Labosky all glued. She leaned over into the clock confirm what she already ner, Nixon gave Van Hooijen one 
have guaranteed trips to the 
pool and splashed water on her knew, Nixon turned and hugg,!d more hug. perhaps to cement her national meet after the champi­arms and back. She shook out the swimmers in the lanes next to congratulations for the athlde onship this weekend. The 200­
her legs one at a time, making her, pausing even longer in the who took her crown. y a rd and 400-yard medley 
sure the muscles werP limber embrace of the athlete who took rt couldn't have bPen Pasy. relays, freshmen Kelli Barton. 
and ready to race. what was hers. After sitting out from tlw champi­Georgia Healey, Hannah 
It wa.<, the same routine she She knmv she could never haw~ onships for a year for shoulder Pawlewicz, Brooke Taylor, 
does before every race -and it back, knew that it was different surgery and rehabilitation, Nixon sophomores Hulick and Lisa 
every race here at the Big East now. But she also knew that this came back wanting, for one more D'Olier. junior Nicole Kohrt, and 
Championships where she's won is how the game works. She knew time, to stand on top of the medal Lloyd have all earned NCAA 
the event three times. there were good days and bad stand. She didn't want to lose to a consideration times, and will 
But this time, it was different days, days that belong to her and sophomore, didn't want to lose Nixon stood behind lane five, days that belong to others. She her records when she had a
find out by the end of the week the consequence of a second­knew that today wasn't her day. chance to keep them, didn't wantif they will swim at the meet. 
place preliminary S\\·im. A,;; the And even through tears. slm to be second best.
"We won't be completely sat­defending title-holder and record knew Van Ruoijen deservPd her But when she turned to Van
isfied until we send a full 
holder in the event. socond place due. Hooijen, when she offored her
squad," said co-captain Tara 
isn't a place where Nixon is used "It's always been my thing to congratulations, when she smiled Higgs. "We could send up to 13 
to standing. congratulate people," Nixon said. and put her performance behind
-that's Just a handful away 
But at night, on the evening "I always do. You wanted to win, her to cheer for her ttmmmates, from a full squad." 
when her team would win its and you were out there, but it's she proved something. 
But with plaques in hand as sixth consecutive Big East an everyone-did-their-best type of Even without the title, she they jumped into the water with 
Championship, in one of the last thing." walks away a champion.
coaches to celebrate their victo­
races of her senior sea.'inn, the Atop the medal stand, Nixon 
ry Saturday, the best team in 
preliminary swim didn't matter. stood a step below Van Hooijen, Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
the Big East conference cheer­She could turn it around. She descended from her usual stance gill0843@saintmar.t1s.edu.
fully celebrated a victory that 
could win it, take it back. at the top. Things were different The views in ofthis column are 
they had to work a little bit 
So she took her mark, and dove than they were in 1999. Things those ofthe author and nol neces­
harder to earn. 
into the pool as she'd done had changed. · sarily those ofThe Observer. "Talking to Tara after the first 
before. Took the first stroke. Ilit day, I was a little bit discour­
the first turn. aged," said co-captain Maureen 
But in the lane next to her, a Hillenmeyer. "This is surreal. I 
fiery sophomore from Miami think we've come a long way." 
surged ahead, after splitting a dangerously fast first lap and leaving Nixon in a place that wa'i 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
also diflerent -in the wake. 
gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 
You MADE IT!! 
Happy 21st
MASTER of SCIENCE in ACCOUNTANCY PROGRAM 
Birthday, 
You Are Invited To An Informational Meeting 
Stephanie!
Jordan Auditorium Wednesday, February 27, 2002 at 5:00 PM 
Love, 'Mom, Val&' :Jocelyn 
• Learn about the 150 -hour educational requirements for the CPA Exam 
r------------------------, 
• Overview of Specialization Tracks 
Managerial Accounting &Operations €AIT~0~...!·East of Chicago Pizza
Tax Services 

CHICAGO• FREE BREADSTICKS! PiZZA COMPANYi! 
Financial Reporting &Assurance Services 
• Cutting Edge Curriculum 6 Free Breadsticks & Sauce with 
• Admissions Process 
Any Regular Pizza (with coupon) 
• Scholarship Opportunities 
Not good with other discounts or offers One Free breadstick order per customer 
271-1277
™Ask Questions &Pick Up Application Material 
54533 Terrace Lane (Off of S.R. 23) For More Information Contact: Angie Kase at 631-833 7 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! We Take Visa & Mastercard! 
Expires 3/3/02 
L-~----------------------J 



-
BENGAL BOUTS 180 POUNDS -HEAVYWEIGHTS 
-Callahan begins quest for third title with prelim victory 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spores Writer 
After receiving a bye in Friday's preliminary 180-pound bouts. two-time champion Mark Criniti opened his quest for a third title with a unanimous decision against sophomore Eric Callahan. 
Callahan's wild brawling style that defoated Alex Wood in a split decision in the prelims was no match for Criniti's experi­<mced controlled boxing. 
Criniti stood back and pum­meled Callahan with 1-2 combi­nations and straight right hands. Callahan tried to charge Criniti but the veteran's jabs kept Callahan at bay. 
At the very end of both the second and third rounds, Criniti crushed Callahan with a series ofjabs befon• hitting him with a hard right that stunned Callahan. Callahan received standing 8 counts at tlw end of both rounds. 
"l try to pace mysolf at the beginning of the round," Criniti said. "I just really try to work on my footwork and my technique and use the whole ring. The last 30 seconds, I n~ally try to throw hard punches and work really hard in the last 30 seconds." 
Criniti will face one of the hardPst punchers in his division in tlH' 1rnxt round as Keith Arnold b1~at KPvin Conosccnti. 
The referee stopped the bout 46 seconds into the third. 
Conoscenti had a height advantage against Arnold but the off-campus senior moved inside on the taller fighter and thrnw a flurry of punches. 
"Everyone I've fought pretty much has a reach advantage on me," Arnold said. "I just try to throvv flurries and hopefully that keeps the jab away." 
In the bottom half of the bracket. walk-on football player Matt Sarb abused Jim Christoforetti's midsection as he won a unanimous decision. 
Christoforetti had a height advantage on Sarb but he charged right through Christoforetti's jabs and pound­ed his ribs. 
"It's what I am more comfort­able with because guys havf~ a height advantage on me," Sarb said about his body blows. "I just get low and stick them in the stomach because everyone forgets about that." 
Sarb will face another tall fighter in the semifinals as Tommy Demko picked up a unanimous decision against Doug Lawrence. 
Lawrence tried to move inside and get into Demko's body but Demko effectively used his jab to punch his way out of trouble and score points. Lawrence threw more punches but Demko landed more of his. 
Demko admitted it was tough staying disciplined against Lawrence's wild style and resisting the urge to stand toe to toe and throw punches. 
"That's how I fought last year and I lost," the senior said. "I am trying not to do that too much this year. It just wears you down. If you throw con­trolled punches, you are going to do much better. A straight punch gets there much quicker than a looping punch." 
190-pounds 
All the fighters in the 190­pound weight class advanced to the semifinals each N either with the referee stopping the bout or unanimous decisions. 
Both of John Lynk's fights during the weekend ended before the final bell rang. He beat Shane Cooper when the referee stopped the contest 1 minute into the second round while Douglas Pope lasted just 50 seconds into the second round of the quarterfinals. 
Sophomore William Zizic need just 3 minutes and 24 seconds to finish off Jason Mayes in the quarterfinals. Zizic hit Mayes with a series of jabs that blood­ied him. When trainers were unable to stop the bleeding, the referee called the fight in the second round. 
At the bottom of the bracket, Kevin Brandl kept Eddy Vulin at bay for most of the bout with a combination of right and left crosses. Late in the third round, however, Brandl got tired and Vulin took advantage of some holes in his defenses to land a series of hard shots to Brandi's face. The late rally was not enough, however, as Brandl won a unanimous decision. 
Brandl said he let the shorter Vulin slip inside on him late in the bout which led to the break­downs in Brandi's defense. 
"Once you left someone slip inside on a tall person. you lost a lot of your leverage and some of your strength," Brandl said. 
The fighter with the quickest hands in the division slipped inside the defenses of a taller fighter to win a unanimous deci­sion in the last 190-pound fight. 
Joshua Kaakua slipped quick jabs and combinations into the midsection of Jose Ronchetta to win his fight. 
Although Kaakua is a first time fighter, he has a controlled, mature style that doesn't fit with his inexperience. Unlike most new fighters who mostly brawl in the ring, Kaakua is very con­trolled and uses his quick moves to his advantage. 
"I just try to stay inside and under control," Kaakua said. "I try not to thro_w too many hooks." 
Heavyweight 
Two walk-on football players advanced to the semifinals of the heavyweight division in the only two heavyweight bouts this weekend. 
Jeffrey Campbell held off the wild attacks of Kevin Herrity to score two standing-8 counts with a good jab in the first round. 
After a series of jabs and crosses stunned llerrity for a third time in the first round, the referee stopped the bout 1:28 into the first round. 
"I thought I did pretty good," Campbell said. "I just tried to keep my punches straight so I could reach a little more." 
Fellow walk-on Eric Nelson went the full three rounds with John Hinchman before scoring a unanimous decision win. 
The taller Hinchman charged Nelson several times but Nelson scored points off quick jabs while Hinchman's looping punches didn't score any points. 
Nelson said he tried to counter attack against Hinchman's charges since Hinchman was much taller than he was. 
"You kind of have to move off their punches first," said Nelson, who is the shortest heavyweight. "You don't want to stick yours out first. If we both throw jabs at the same time, his is going to reach me first." 
Contact Mike Connolly at 
connolly.28@nd.edu. 

B-ball 
continued from page 20 
an injury sustained Wednesday against Wflst Virginia. 
But they didn't have to worry about who would replace him. Jones surpassed his previous scoring high of seven points and limited Miami's second-leading scorer, John Salmons, to just three points. 
"Somebody had to step up tonight," Jones said. "It was a night where I was in the right place at the right time. My dri­ves were open and I was taking what the defense was giving me. They were leaving me open 
University ofNotre Dame 

Preliminaries February 22 
Finals 
Quarterfinals February 24 
March 1 
Semifinals February 27 
7:00pm 
because I was the least known player, and I just took advantage of it." 
If Jones hadn't played so well, the game probably would have turned out differently, especially when Miami's Darius Rice came 
out red-hot at the start of the 
second half. 
Rice, who scored 20 of his 23 points in the second half, quick­ly erased a 39-34 Miami half­time deficit by connective on two straight 3-pointers, putting the Hurricanes ahead by a point. 
Jones responded by scoring six of Notre Dame's next nine points in a one-minute span that killed tlw Miami run. He hit a 15-foot jumper, made a steal that resulted in a fast break lay­up, and scored on a hard, slash­ing drive to give the Irish a 48­42 lead. 
"Torrian Jones was just amazing," Brey said. "They were making a run, and he had some big time drives to hold them off and keep us in a safe position with the lead." 
The Hurricanes, frustrated by Notre Dame's zone defense, had trouble finding the basket after that. They settled for long perimeter shots and only con­nected on 7-of-20 3-pointers in the second half. 
Notre Dame used a 13-4 spurt midway through the second half to break the game wide open, with all 13 Irish points coming from David Graves and Thomas. By the time Thomas hit a 3­pointer with 4: 13 left in the game, the Irish had built a 14­point lead, their largest of the night. 
Miami mounted one last charge, drm-\'ing to 81-73 \Vith 
2:03 left. but the Irish made 9­of-11 free throws in the final two minutes to st~al the game. 
Despite their size, Miami is 
the second-worst team in the Big East in rebounding, and the Irish exploited that advantage. Notre Dame dominated Miami on the boards 44-31, led by Ryan Humphrey. who finished with 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
"Coach Brey has been pound­ing rebounding into our minds, that's been our Achilles heel at some points this season," Jones said. "But since we've got into the second half of the Big East season, it's been our strong point." 
Notre Dame has two more games remaining in the regular season. The Irish travel to St. John's on Wednesday and host Pruvidence Saturday. 
"This kind of sets the tonn for the rest of the season," Thomas said. "\Ve showed the selection committee what we're capable 
o.f." 
Notes: 

. Brey said he thought Matt Carroll wou1d be able to play Wednesday against St. John's. 
"It's the same philosophy I told Harold Swanagan," Brey said. "We've got to get him healthy. Tonight was a game where if you won, it was a huge deposit in the postseason game. If you lost it, it wasn't thn end of the world." 
Prior to Saturday night, Carroll had played in all 93 games of his collegiate career and had started the last 64 games. 
. Former Notre Dame All­American Huth Hiley was in attt1 ndance at Saturday's game. 
Hiley, who plays for the WNBA's Miami Sol, won~ Notre Dame shorts when she partic­ipated in a celebrity 2-Ball com­petition at halftime. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish come back from halftime deficit for 86-66 victory 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Editor 
For a while Saturday afternoon at Georgetown. it looked like the Boyas were going to give the Irish a challenge -then Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw took her team into the locker room. 
The Boyas held a 38-37 lead heading into halftime, but McGraw found her team's weak­nesses and gave a pep talk that resulted in a 49-point second­half output and an 86-66 victory for the Irish. 
The win is the ninth in a row for No. 22 Notre Dame, which owns a 19-7 overall and 13-2 Big East record. 
"Coach McGraw said we need­ed to work on our zone a lot more," said freshman guard Allison Bustamante, who con­tributed 14 points ofT the bench for the Irish. "She gave us a little bit of a pep talk in the locker room, saying that a couple of people had to step up. A bunch of people stepped up." 
One of those people was junior guard Alicia Hatay, who has stepped up as Notre Dame's go­to player in the three games since freshman Jacqueline Batteast went down with a knee injury. Hatay led the Irish with 24 points, 20 in the second half. Ratay pushed her total career points to 1,:101, moving her to 10th place on Notre Dame's all­time scoring list. Freshman for­ward Katy Flecky. starting in Batteast's place, added 14 points and seven rebounds in 38 min­utes while senior Ericka Haney put out another solid perfor­mance with 13 poinls in 22 min­utes. 
Sophomore point guard Le'Tania Severe played 37 min­utes. scoring seven points while dishing out eight assists and grabbing six rebounds. 
"We're really looking for dif­ferent things with. Jackie [Battcast] out and it's going to make us that much better when she comes back," McGraw told the Associated Press after the game. 
One of the keys Saturday was getting the ball to Bustamante with Ratay on the floor. When the freshman, who was scoreless in Notre Dame's last two games, saw that Georgetown played a zone defense. she knew she had a chance to have a good game. 
"Whenever any team plays the zone, my eyes widen," Bustamante said. "I love playing against zones. I love finding the open spots. After getting the scouting report and seeing the tapes of Georgetown, seeing that they played the 2-3 zone, I stayed after in the gym and kept shooting around." 
It was Notre Dame's third win in a row without Batteast, who is expected to return for the team's first Big East Tournament game Sunday. With the win, the Irish clinched second place in the Big East regular-season standings, a major turnaround for a team that began the season 2-4. 
"It just took a while for all of us to come together and find a rhythm playing with each other " Bustamante said. "I think we've actually started to do that, some­what. I still don't think we've really gelled perfectly together yet. But there's still a little bit more of the season left for that to happen." 
As the second-seednd team in the Big East Tournament. Notre Dame is on course for a re­match of last year's conference championship game against No. I-ranked Connecticut. The Irish have gone undefeated since a 27-point loss to the lluskies in Hartford, Conn., on Jan. 21. 
"Whenever you get to play UConn it's a great challenge." Bustamante said. "It's a game that you can look forward to and improve your overall game no mati ·r what the outcome is I~ Just playing them and coming off that game you learn a lot about your weaknesses and your strengths, and you can build on that after you've played them." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at namstadt@nds.edu. 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles finish strong for fifth place in MIAA tournaments 
By KATIE McVOY Associace Sports Editor 
Amidst the confusion of chore­ographed dances, men laden with construction gear and a bagpiper, the Belles simply made a statement with a strong third­day performance and a fifth­place MIM tournament finish. 
As Hope, Calvin, Kalamazoo and Alma announced the arrival of their teams in costumes and with live music, Saint Mary's watched from the side of the pool wondering how to make iL,; pres­ence known. Their choice: through action. 
After a slow start in days one and two of MIAA Tournament competition, the Belles had eight top-12 finishers and four who finished in the top six on day three and they left with everyone knowing that they would be back to compete next year. 
"Especially on the third day, I had so many coaches come up and say, 'Wow, what a day you had."' said head coach Greg P(ltcoff. "Other people noticed and I think that means that they'll keep working hard to try and stay ahead of us." 
"Getting fifth was a huge state­ment for us," added junior co­captain Lane Herrington. "Since we usually finish sixth, it's kind of lie we're climbing up the rungs of the ladder. To have such a great third day let (the MIM] know we'll be back.'' • 
In addition to the fifth place finish after the three-day compe­tition, Saint Mary's took home three top-three finishes. PetcofT had expected close competition between Saint Mary's, Albion, Kalamazoo and Alma and was not surprised that those four teams were the closest. In the end, the Belles finished just under 30 points behind the Albion Britons. 
"I think we didn't get off to as strong (if a start as we needed to on the first day or day and a half to make it a tight four-team race," PetcofT said. "So I think if we had started a little stronger. I think w,~ would have be(m a little closer and put a little more 
worry into Kalamazoo and Albion." 
However, that 30-point differ­ence had nothing to do with the way Saint Mary's competed on day three. They averaged nearly three points more per event and had three place finishers in both the 200-yard breaststroke and the 200-yard butterfly. In addi­tion, six women took home their career-best times. 
"Physically, we were ready and when it came to mental tough­ness they were ready and they put everything out there," PctcofT said. "And it kind of snowballed into one person and the next per­son and the next, and those are the kind of snowballs you like to see." 
The snowball efTect started off in the finals when Herrington grabbed her personal-best time of two minutes, 19.54 seconds in the 200-yard backstroke. 
"It was a run race. It was the last session," Herrington said. "Greg [Petcolll has been working us hard all year and it finally paid off." 
Herrington's time was good enough for her to win the conso­lation heat she was swimming in and bring home a seventh place finish for her team. 
From that seventh place finish in the second event of the evening, the Belles took off. 
Sophomore Maureen Palchak had a career-best time in the 100-yard freestyle, using her 
55.05 to win her heat and take home a seventh place finish. 
But it was the next two events that really showcased the Belles' talent. In morning preliminaries, three women qualified to swim for a place in both the 200-yard breaststroke and the 200-yard butterfly. When awards rolled around for the 200-yard breast­stroke, Petcoff (who handled the awards for that event) was glad to meet two of his swimmers in the top six finishers. 
Junior Lauren Smith had the highest finish, taking third in the event with a career high time of 2:32.65. 
"I was just really focused and relaxed and just happy to be there," Smith said. "Everyone was just having a good meet. It and teammates Julie was fun, it just kind of clicked, McGranahan, who finished fifth kind of came together." and Amy Nicholson, who finished 
Smith was joined on the 12th, both had their career bests. awards stage by teammate Katy On day two, Herrington took Lebeidz, who had a career best home sixth place in the 100-yard of 2:35.79. And teammate backstroke, Smith finished sixth Michelle Stanforth watched. in the 100-yard breaststroke happy with her 10th place finish while Leheidz finished 10th, with a career best of 2:37.83. Palchak finished sixth in the 100­
The Belles also had three top-yard freestyle and Ramsey and 12 finishers in the 200-yard but­McGranahan finished third and terfly. Sophomore Meg Ramsey 10th respectively in the 100-yard took home a third place finish butterfly. 

But with a finish like the Belles had on day three, they'rn ready to come back next season. 
"I think a fow more divers and a few more swimmers next year and we'll be right tlrnr(! with everyone else," Smith said...... Anything can happen next year. Everyone's working really hard and I think our team will prove [that we can compete!.'' 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Senior Thank You Picture Frame 



Don't miss this unique opportunity to give something back to those who have made your ND education possible! Sold Monday and Tuesday from 2-4 p.m. in Lafortune. Look for more sale dates later! 
Cost of the Frame: $25. Cost of the album: $7. • Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! • 
This year's quote on the frame: "The educated person is deeply rooted in wisdom, open to new perspectives and experiences, and committed to the service of the human community." Ed "Monk" Malloy, CSC. 
• Please make checks payable to the ND Management Club, 200 • Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 and visit our site at www.nd.edu/~mgtclub for more information. 
-


Monday, February 25, 2002 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
.... 
FOURTH AND INCHES 

WHOEVEA SAID "THE BEST GIFTS ARE THOSE THAT ARE HOMEMADE" NEVER RECEIVED A CLAY POT 
I MADE IT IN CLASS 
\,V" 
FOXTROT 
PETER Fox, STEVE AND WHERE oN l WENT To EARTH HAVE THE L18RARY, 
... 

RYAN
TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 
.,, 

,. 
BILL AMEND 

..,. 
A 8IT OF HOW COULD
KEEP •••LUt<:,1'S PlZZA, 
ADVICE: YOU PoSSI8LY
(?,OING. GUITAR LAND, 
AND THEN HUN6 
SENTENCES TELL?! 
\ __..
DoN'T ENO


CROSSWORD ACROSS 33 Designer 59 Composer 1 Little lies 
Chanel Khachaturian 34 McGwire's 60 Narrow street
5 "_ 'er up!" 

onetime home­61 London's
9 Yuri's love, in a 

run rival Gallery
Pasternak book 

35 "Quiet, please!" 62 Mislay
13 Fit of fever 

38 Weapons in 63 Greek war god
14 Most qualified to 

shootdowns, for 
serve? 

short DOWN15 Wind-borne toys 
39" kleine 1 Cobra's weapon16 Nick's wife in Nachtmusik" 
2 Frankenstein's 
"The Thin Man" 

40 New coins assistant 17 2002 Olympics 3 Extrashort
41 Couple
locale 

haircut
42 Grain holders 

18 W.W. II sub 4 Burn
43 Artist Max 19 Response to a 5 Early time to 
44 Long time 

vet, maybe arise
45 Suffix with 

22 Motorist's org. 6 Prefix with 
absorb 

venous
23 "This test 
46 Hive output? 

7 Shakespearean
" 

55 Children's song 
king
24 Sacred song refrain 

8 Bert of "The27 Phone hook-up 56 Mysterious: Var. Wizard of Oz" 29 Mischievous 57 Woodwind 9 Person born 32 B.M.1. alternative 58 Gyrates October 1 10 Suffix with origin 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Bring up ~+---+--+-­r-:T"!""P.,.,....,,.....,,.,.....,,........., 12 Study of the stars: Abbr. Puwe by M1,:11..1 Shteyman 15 Ill-fated Russian 30 Like in the 45 Poet Pound and 50 Nil ~~~~....+-!!!"'l-i,.,I sub of 8/12/00 dark others 
51 Writer Emile 
20 Designer Lauren 31 Partners of dits 46 Tops
_.,_.,__-' 21 Big copier 52 Letter-shaped company 32 Aide: Abbr. 47 "_-Dee-Doo-construction Dah• piece
24 "I don't believe 33 Where a sock it!. goes? 48 Time: Ger. 53 Part of DMZ 
25 Jerk s 49 Ardor 54 Sleep symbols
34

26 Satisfied sounds tay away from ..,,..+-+.....,.-4 27 _ Hopkins 36 Ketchup brand Answers to any clues in this puzzle are
University 37 Avis rival 
available by touch-tone phone:
28 Fluish feeling 42 Clowns 
1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute) . 
....+,,......... 29 Father-and-son . Nobel Prize --43 Pepsin, e.g. Annual subscriptions are available for the winners in « Online best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 physics publication years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Con1n1unity. 
Join the n1ore than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please co1nplete the accompa­nying for111 and mail it today to receive The Observer in your hon1e. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and 1nail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Daine, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Nan1e --------------------------­Address------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON may have to dig deep in order to TIIlS DAY: George Harrison, Sally find out exactly what's going on JI:.'$}' Raphae~ Sean Astin, Justin Jef­today. If someone isn't giving you 
fre the informatiQn you need, don't 
Happy Birthday: You will be hesitate to go above his or her head. creative in your approach to work Butbe JX)Sitive. 0CIO this year. You will come into secret LIBRA (Sept 23-0d. 22): You information that ·will make a differ­will have a lot on your mind Your 
ence to your plans, that will influ­inh.rition will lead you in the right ence your future and that will help direction. Your desire to learn will you get ahead with financial invest­probably lead you to your local ments. You'll likely inherit property library. 0000 or possessions. Your numbers are SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be 
13, 16,28,33,35,47 careful not to let your emotions ARIES (March 21-April 19): You take over today. You could easily 
will be in a creative mood today. give the wrong impression. Focus Being aggressive in your actions on listening, learning and observ­will result in getting what you ing. 00 want, when you want it. You willbe SAGfITARIUS (Nc,y Z2-Dec. ZJ.): lucky in your pursuits. 00000 You'll be in the mood to take a trip. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be Visit your travel agent or look careful what you wish for. You may through your most recent travel not get the response expected if you magazine. Dreaming about distant 
are trying to coerce family members lands will be almost as enjoyable as to do what you want. Stay calm and traveling to these places. 00000 bide your time for now. 00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your mind will be on money mat­You'll feel like stepping into the ters. Don't hesitate to make changes limelight. Your thoughts will hold to your personal investments. Luck 
the attention of those you speak is with you today especially where with. Take the initiative and start real estate, winnings and taking something that will raise your pnr. care of other people's money are file and bring you acclaim. 0000 roncemed.000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your efforts into making money. Your versatile nature and your need The more time spent dealing with to experience all sorts of unusual 
your financial plan for the future, activities may lead to emotional the better you'll do. Don't overreact banter with people you are dose to. just because you don't have as Explain your actions instead of mu,h in the bank as you would being secretive and you won't have 
as much to contend with. 000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): want to think before you take Focus on your future direction. You action Your emotions will be a little can make career changes if you are dose to the surface and that could bored with your present work situa­
spell trouble. Take it nice and slow tion. nusis a great time to go for an 
today.OCIO interview or put some effort into VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): You self-improvement 0CIO 
like.OCIO 

Birthday Baby: You express yourself dramati.cally. You have great 
insight into what is hot and what is not. You aren't likely to tolerate anyone 
curtailing your freedom. You need to be allowed to follow the small voice 
within you.(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
©2002 Universal Press Syndicate 


Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Bengal Bouts, p. 12, 15, 17
. Women's Basketball, p. 18 
. Men's Swimming, p. 14
. 
SMC Swimming, p. 18 

. 
ND Women's Swimming, p. 16 



Monday, February 25, 2002 
BIG EAST SWIMMING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Notre Dame 
Irish dominate in title win 
. Notre Dame collects its sixth consecutive Big East Championship 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Spons Writer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
As they climbed onto the podium to collect their sixth consecutive Big East Championship. the Irish acted like seasoned champions. throw­ing tlrnir hands up in the air, holding their plaques high and erupting into cheers. 
Irish head coach Bailey Weathers knew the routine, too -before the team award \Vas announced, he unlaced his shoes. knowing he'd inevitably end up getting thrown into the pool by his exuberant swimmers~ 
Saturday, the Irish proved they had winning down to a concise routine ns they collected their sixth consecutive conference title at the Goodwill Games Aquatic Center. 
The meet belonged to the Irish from day one, when they jumped to a 100-plus point lead after only six events. They held on throughout the three-day competition, securing the title with 727 points, 275 points ahead of closest competi­tor Rutgers. 
"It feels pretty good," said vVeathers, who earned the Big East Coach of the Year award for the second consecutive year. "\Ve were pretty confident going in, but you never want to take it for granted." 
The standout-, of the weekend were the back­stroke trio of senior Kelly Ilecking, freshman Kristen Peterson and sophomore Danielle llulick, who took the top three positions on the medal stand in both the 100-yard ;rnd 200-yard back-
see WOMEN/page 16 
-----------· 

Irish swimmers celebrate their sixth consecutive Big East Championship by pushing coach Bailey Weathers into the pool. 
rallies to place fourth 
By SHEILA EGTS Sp<;ms Writer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
The Irish did not claim the second-place finish they hoped for Pntering the Big East Championships. but Saturday was a night of celebration nonetheless. 
"We got faster and scored more points, we just stayed in the same place. It's clearly a sign of how much impn.1vement is taking place throughout the Big East Conference," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "We are getting better and so is thn meet:" 
The men rebounded from a rough set of races on Thursday and moved up from sixth place to fourth by the end of Friday's events. Matt Bet tke, Jonathan Pierce, and .J.lt Teddv swam personal bests in the 1650-yard freestyle on Saturday, finishing fourth, fifth and seventh respectively. Pierce also set a Notre Dame record in the 400-vard individ­ual medlny with a tiinc of 3:56~34, finishing second for the Irish. 
Notre Dame's top diver, Andy Maggio, placed sixth in the three-meter diving and fifth in the one-meter diving. 
Top eight finishes from Jason Colettis in the 200-yard backstroke and Jason Fitzpatrick in lhe 200-yard breaststroke on Saturday helped the team maintain their fourth-place standing while trying to close the gap o-n Virginia Tech in third. 
see MEN/page 14 
------_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:::-_:::-_-_-_-_-_-_:::-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:::-_:::-_:::-_-_:::-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:_-_-_-_-_:::-_-_:::-_:::-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:::-_:::-_-_:::-_-_-_::-_-_-_-_-,-_-_-_-_-_-_:::-_-_:::-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:::-_-_-_:::-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish upset No. 13 Hurricanes for 90-77 win 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Spores Editor 
MIAMI 

J. No matter how close No. 13 
I 
Miami pulled to Notre Dame, the Irish made sure the Hurricanes never had a chance to take over the game. 
Chris Thomas tied his career­high with 32 points and Torrian Jones scored a career-high 17 points as Notre Dame knocked off Miami, 90-77 
"When a t(~am makes a run on us. we don't sit back," Jones said. "\Ve kept attacking no matter what kind of run thcv went on and focused on playing our ganrn and kept them from getting back in their defense and stopping us." 
Notre Dame's thrre perimeter players -Jones, Thomas and David Graves -combined for 62 of Notre Dame's 90 points and frustrah~d the Hurricanes on defense. Whenever the Irish forced a turnover, it seemed as if Thomas was throwing a long pass for an easy fast-bn~ak lay­up. 
Thomas connected on 6-of-12 3-poir;iters and finished a perfect 1O-for-10 from the free-throw line. He also added 12 assists. 
Graves had trouble getting open in the first half. but he shot 4-for-5 from 3-point range in the second half and finished 
•vvith 18 points. 
"They were shocked to see us going up and down the court that fast," Thomas said. "Coach said that teams watch it on tape, but they really don't know how fast we get up and down the court until they see us in per­son." 
Saturday's win should propel the Irish in to the NCAA Tournament for the second con­secutive yfrnr. The Hurricanes had an RPI of 17 -Notre Dame's was 41 -and prior to Saturday night, had only lost one game at home. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame improved to 11-4 on the road this season and earned their third win this season over a ranked team. At 19-8 overall and 9-5 in the Big East, the Irish have won six of their last eight games and are tied with Syracuse for second place in the West Division. 
The Irish received some bad news before the game wht~n they learned Carroll would have to sit out the entire game with 
see B-BALL/page 17 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer Ryan Humphrey passes the ball away during Notre Dame's 90­77 victory against No. 13 Miami 
-------------~--------------­
. Women's Basketball vs. Villanova,Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Men's Basketball at St. John's, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
online 

. Fencing, Midwest Conference Championships,AT AGLANCE Saturday -Sunday http:/www.nd.edu/-observer 

