
View from the top
SNOW 
Monday

SHOWERS 
So what does student government do? Scene looks at the structure of 
student leadership from the second floor of LaFortune on down. 
FEBRUARY 11,

HIGH 41° 
Scene . page 10-11

LOW24° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 76 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Palko/Mercanti campaign on NDToday.com 
•Website's founders also encourage subscribers to vote for ticket 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Editor 
Despite promises they would not use the independent, student­run Web site NDToday.com to endorse themselves, student body president and vice presi­dent candidates Scott Palko and 
P.J. Mercanti got some campaign help from the Web site this week­end. 
Palko is both a student body presidential candidate and presi­dent of the Web site. 
NDToday.com displayed a pic­ture of Palko and Mercanti with a member of their campaign staff dressed in a Winnie-the-Pooh costume and holding a sign that reads, "Vote Like a Champion Today: Scott and P.J." There is also a link to Palko and Mercanti's personal campaign Web site which promises "an honest, non-political response to wrongly printed information in an ND media source." 
The founders of NDToday.com, Frank Helgesen, Nick Fellers, Andy \Varzon and Rob Pazornik also sent out an e-mail at 10:55 
p.m. Sunday night encouraging NDToday.com subscribers to vote for Palko/Mercanti. 
Judicial Council president Tim Jarotkiewicz said the e-mail was not a campaign violation, because the Web site was inde­pendent and it was sent before the campaign period ended at midnight. 
Palko said he used the website to correct misconceptions printed in a campus media source. 
"Because of the lies that were 
see NDTODAY/page 4 
NDToday's President Scott Palko & PJ Mercanti Run For Student Government President & Vice-President 
best 

Scott & P J -Setting The Record 
Straight 
Scott Palko snd PJ Mercanti off er the students of Notre Dame an honest, non­political response to wrongly printed information in an ND media source. Take time to read their response.. .learn the truth...see who Scott end PJ really are...and understand the student based motivations behind this ticket. 
(NDToday .com photo album) 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer Above, the front page of NDToday.com, the media source where candidates Scott Palko/P.J. Mercanti rebutted media reports about platform promises this weekend. Palko is the president of the student-run, Independent Web site, and also a candidate for student body president. 
Student life goals reach maturity 
• Poorman gives progress report on student life 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
What a difference two years made for the goals Father Mark Poorman established for student life. 
When he visited the Campus Life Council in February 2000, Poorman, Notre Dame's vice president for Student Affairs, outlined several prior­ities that his office would tackle: gay student issues, gender relations, eat­ing disorders and alcohol use. 
Last week when Poorman spoke publicly to the CLC for the first time in two years, the priorities hadn't changed. But the progress toward them had. 
"I'm proud to say that we've suc­cessfully wrapped up work on all the priorities," Poorman joked about the goals he announced in 2000. 
Poorman used the occasion to publi­cize programs and services estab­lished by the Office of Student Affairs in the past 24 months. He also dis­cussed future Student Affairs initia­tives that sprang from the two-year­old goals. 
Gay issues 
Poorman noted two programs in place at the University for gay, lesbian and bisexual students: a network pro­gram and an educational initiative. 
The network program offers training to gay and non-gay students to act as resources for homosexual and bisexu-

Thieves take $4,000 during O'Neill Mardi Gras party 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Editor 
Thieves stole more than $4,000 from 
O'Neill Hall this weekend during the 
dorm's annual Mardi Gras celebration, 
hall officials said. 
At a hall•wide meeting Sunday, O'Neill rector Father John Herman told students that the money was likely stolen Saturday night from the first­floor hall government office. The money came from ticket sales to Mardi Gras, the hall's signature event. 
Herman, who was in Detroit over the weekend, discovered the funds •missing Sunday morning. He did not file a report with Notre Dame Security/Police. 
He left a voice mail message with hall residents early Monday morning, offer­ing a $500 reward for information leading to the money's return. 
Herman told The Observer he believed the culprit lives in the hall. He said someone lifted keys from one of the hall president's rooms and used them to unlock the hall government office. The keys remained missing late Sunday. 
No report has been filed yet with NDSP in hope that the money would be turned over willingly by whomever took it, Herman said. 
see THIEVES/page 6 

al students. 

The educational initiative began last spring as a program for freshman to promote awareness and understand­ing of sexuality. A University adminis­trator and two gay student members of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Needs give presentations to residence halls in January and February each year. 
Upcoming sessions include presenta­tions in Cavanaugh and Zahm halls on Feb. 20, Farley and Zahm halls on Feb. 21 and Keenan, Knott, Lewis and Pasquerilla East halls on Feb. 28. 
Gender relations 
Student Affairs' mos1. significant achievement gender relations in the past two years was the creation of the "Establishing Healthy Relationships" program. 
Sponsored for freshmen by Poorman's office and the Physical Education Department, the program explores friendship, intimacy and sex­uality issues between men and women. It provides understanding of these issues within the context of the 

see GOALS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, February 11, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Choosing to have a voice 
A recent poll by The Observer found that 43 percent of students "couldn't care less" about today's student body presidential election. 
Yet these are most likely the same students that complain when Student Affairs starts cit­ing 21-year-old tailgaters. These are the same stu­dents that complain about parietals, gender relations and dining hall meal plans. These are the same stu­dents that say student gov­ernment is ineffective and inconsequential. 
And, as long as 43 per­cent of the student body "couldn't care less" about student government, stu­dent government will remain powerless. 
In the grand scheme of things, student government has very little power. It can allot funding to clubs, plari some activities and survey student opinions. The Student Senate can pass resolu­tions that only get tossed from University com­mittee to University committee before they can even be considered by the Board of Trustees ­which will simple ignore and dismiss them. Even when student leaders are given the opportunity to address the people that make the decisions around here, they are casually shrugged off as was the case last fall when stu­dents leaders presented a proposal for an off­campus commercial complex. 
So considering the little official power that student government does have, why should stu­dents even care about who wins today? Because, unofficially, student government could be the most power group on campus. If student government unites almost 10,000 peo­ple behind a single goal or initiative, it will get passed -no matter how much the administra­tion hates it. 
Years ago, the administration tried to ban alcohol from campus. But students leaders and the student body didn't just sit idly by and watch it happen. Notre Dame students united, protested and the administration pulled back its plan to restrict alcohol. Thousands of screaming college students in front of the Dome sends a strong message. 
So if students want student government to be effective, they need to stop sitting in their dorm rooms and complaining. Student government is only ineffective if students don't participate. 
If students want a more reasonable tailgating policy, they need to attend the town meetings organized by student government and make their voices heard. It's easy for administrators to ignore a petition from a few students on the second floor of Lafortune. It's much harder to glance over thousands of students united behind one goal. 
So make sure you vote today. Make your choice for the person who will best lead the student body in 2002-2003. But then, make a much more important choice. Choose to become an active voice on campus. Choose to give student government the power it needs to be effective. Choose to stop sitting in your dorm room and complaining and start doing some­thing. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
In Friday's Scene feature on off-campus coffee shops, Lula's Cafe was misspelled. The Observer regrets the error. The Observer rcgwis itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 54I so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  
. Election: Student Body President  . Sophomore Literary Festival:  . Ash Wednesday: Mass, noon and  
and Vice President Elections, all  Candace Bushnell lecture, 7 :30  6 p.m., Regina Chapel,  
day. Ballots will be available in  p.m., Washington Hall  . Ash Wednesday: Mass, Basilica  
every dorm.  of the Sacred Heart, 11:30 a.m. and  
. Sophomore Literary Festival:  5:15 p.m.  
noon, Jean Hollander book signing,  
Notre Dame Bookstore  

Compiled from U-Wire reports 
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Georgetown VP expected to reject gay resource center 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
group," to exist, though not a Georgetown University Vice resource center. President for Student Affairs Juan Gonzalez's Executive Assistant 
· Gonzalez is today releasing his writ­Raymond Acevedo said at this time, ten decision on the fate of the pro­Gonzalez has declined comment. posed gay lesbian bisexual and "He will be willing to comment as transgender resource center. The soon as an official response is decision, however, will not come as made," Acevedo said. a surprise to supporters of the cen­According to supporters, in the ter. ™ meeting last Friday Gonzalez said 
According to supporters, Gonzalez no, but we don't know what else · while the center would not conflict met with GLBT center proponents he's going to say," GUPride member with Catholic identity because it Feb. 1 and informed them of his and GLBT center proponent Rob does not deal with issues of sexual decision to reject the creation of the Anderson said. morality, he couldn't support the center. Gonzalez previously had Anderson said a meeting he and center. announced he would release his other members of GUPride had with According to Anderson, who decision the third week of January. Gonzalez, Director of Student attended the meeting, "it may be 
GU Pride students credit their Programs Mary Kay Schneider and perceived by others as promoting a recent phone campaign to Associate Roman Catholic Chaplain certain sexual ethic, or in the future Gonzalez's office for his decision Barbara Humphrey McCrabb on it may cause the promotion of a. cer­now to release a formal decision. Wednesday "hammered out the par­tain sexual ethic." 
"We know that he's going to say ticulars of a [gay rights] working The Hoya 
UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 
Chief Justice teaches law class 
TUSCON, Ariz. 
U.S. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist finished teach­ing his annual class at the James E. Rogers College of Law Friday. Kay Kavanagh, associate dean for academic affairs at the College of Law, said Rehnquist is very gen­erous with his time during his visits and participates in a number of professional programs and events -mainly focused on the U.S. judicial system. Rehnquist first was appointed to the U.S. Supreme Court as an associate jus­tice by President Richard Nixon in 1972. After serving 15 years, President Ronald Reagan appointed Rehnquist chief justice of the United States in 1986. Before being appointed to the U.S. Supreme Court, Rehnquist was appointed assistant attorney general for the ·office of legal counsel in the Department of Justice by President Nixon in 1969. His two-week course, titled "Supreme Court in the History of the U.S.•" a one unit, pass-or­fail course, is primarily for second-and third-year law students. 
Arizona Daily Wildcat 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

PENN STATE 
Police still look for missing student 
UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. 
One hundred days since the disappearance of Pennsylvania State University student Cindy Song, the Ferguson Township Police Department is employing the help of the Pennsylvania State Police Criminal Investigative Assessment Unit to assist in the investi­gation of the missing 21-year-old. Police plan to per­form a complete search of Song's apartment, where she was last seen in the early morning hours of Nov. 
1. They also intend to contact a forensics team to con­duct a search of her bedroom. "There were a num­ber of events that took place in her bedroom to dis­turb evidence," Ferguson Township Police Chief Edward J. Conner said. "But investigators of a differ­ent discipline think there is still forensic evidence available... Investigators have been unable to perform the search of Cindy Song's apartment because it has not been labelel a crime scene. They are going in search of the possibility of new leads. 
Daily Collegian 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 11. 
20 

®4u..."r--.m::~----=--­
50s~~:u--~ 30 
FRONTS: 
e e

• • •e •

C 2002 AccuWeathef, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
® Pr-© . . c:TI ~ m . -t"-
Hlgh Low Showen Rein T-•to""" FlurrlN Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy \lie Assoda.llld Press 
Atlanta 51 32 Las Vegas 62 40 Portland 32 23 Baltimore 43 24 Memphis 47 30 Sacramento 61 38 Boston 44 18 Milwaukee 35 30 St. Louis 44 32 Chicago 38 31 New Yor1< 43 23 Tampa 71 56 Houston 52 36 Philadelphia 42 24 Washington, DC 44 26 
... .. ... ... . . . . .. -..-. .
~ : ...... 

Monday, February 11, 2002 • The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Enron's Lay will take Fifth Amendment 
. Former executive will not self-incriminate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Former Enron chairman Kenneth Lay will assert his right against self-incrimination and refuse to answer questions when he appears before Congress under subpoena this week, his spokeswoman said Sunday night. 
"Under the instruction of counsel, Mr. Lay will exercise his Fifth Amendment rights at the Tuesday hearing," Kelly Kimberly said in Houston. 
She declined further com­
ment. 
Two committees snubbed by Lay a week ago have issued subpoenas compelling him to appear. Some lawmakers had said they expected he would assert his constitutional right against self-incrimination, though his attorney had not previously indicated he would do so. 
Lay joins four other current and former top Enron execu­tives, including ex-chief finan­cial officer Andrew Fastow ­the mastermind behind the complex web of partnerships that brought the company to ruin -who last week invoked the privilege and refused to answer questions. David Duncan, the lead Enron auditor fired by his accounting firm Arthur Andersen for destroying Enron-related documents, also has taken the Fifth Amendment before Congress. 
"I'm disappointed [Lay is] going to do that," said Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., chair­man of a Senate Commerce panel on consumer affairs. "He has talked for some while about wanting to tell his side of the story to the American peo­ple.... Ultimately, we will get to the bottom of this, with or without his cooperation." 
Lay has been subpoenaed to appear Tuesday before the Senate Commerce Committee and on Thursday at a hearing of the House Financial Services subcommittee on capital mar­kets. 
Lawmakers say they have not considered granting immunity from prosecution to Lay or other Enron executives in return for their testimony, because they do not want to interfere with the Justice Department's criminal investi­gation of Enron. Congress can compel witnesses to show up but cannot force them to answer potentially incriminat­ing questions without granting them immunity from criminal prosecution. 
Lay's colleague at Enron, for­mer chief executive officer Jeffrey Skilling, did testify last week. 
But a number of leaders of Congress' investigations of the Enron collapse made clear ear­lier Sunday that they didn't believe the sworn testimony of Skilling. One suggested Skilling could face accusations of per­jury as a result of his testimo­ny. 
Lay, who was a friend and political backer of President Bush, has not spoken publicly about the Enron disast1:>r since the company entered bankrupt­cy in December. 
Lay's wife, Linda, said recently there were some things about Enron's finances her husband wasn't told about by other company officials. 
After an intense week of hearings, lawmakers say they have strong evidence of illegal activity surrounding the failure of the energy-trading company, which slid into the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history on Dec. 2. 
Study says appeals likely to reverse death penalty 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

When jurors choose a death sentence in cases that are not among the "worst of the worst," the sentence is more likely to be overturned on appeal, a study spanning 23 years of court records found. 
Overall, states and counties where juries or judges impose the death penalty most often also tend to have the highest number of cases overturned because of errors or problems at trial, says the study being released Monday. 
All but one of the 10 states with the highest death-sentenc­

'i~.l.~.i Sinus Infection ·~ Research Study i NOWenrolling! 
Have you been suffering from any of the following symptoms for at least the past week but less than amonth? 
• 
Yellow-to-green discharge from nose 

• 
Pain, pressure or tightness on cheeks 


• Nasal congestion If you answered YES and you are older than 18 years of age, you may be eligible to participate in astudy evaluating aresearch medication for sinus infections. Volunteers participating in the study 
will receive 
• 
Associated medical care 

• 
Study medicine 



If you are interested or would like to learn more, please contact Irene Ege at (219} 239-1576, Robs. (219) 237.9337 
ND Depart1nent of Music Presents 
AGraduate Recital 

91-Eun Byun, piano 
Monday, February 11, 2002 
3:30 pin, Annenberg Auditorium 
Free and open to the public Call 631-6201 for program information 
ing rates had those sentences reversed as often or more often than the average rate national­ly, said James Liebman, a Columbia University law profes­sor and the study's lead author. 
Death sentences are most often overturned because lawyers performed poorly at trial, prosecutors kept legiti­mate evidence out of the trial or judges gave flawed instructions to the jury, Liebman said his research showed. 
The report found a state or federal court threw out a con­viction or death sentence in 68 percent of the cases it studied in which at least one round of appeals had been completed. The study looked at 5,760 cases in the 34 states where the• death penalty is actively applied. 
Other researchers attacked findings in an earlier study on reversals by the same authors, and one review concluded that death sentences were really only overturned in 52 percent of cases or less. 
The Criminal Justice Legal Foundation took issue with Liebman's central premise that errors are responsible for over­turned sentences. 
It's not new or surprising that a large percentage of capital verdicts are overturned, the foundation said. It said the issue is whether that happens because of mistakes, as death­penalty opponents contend, or because of unreasonable obstructions placed in the way of such sentences, as advocates of capital punishment assert. 
Liebman's study does not take a position on whether the death penalty is ever appropriate. But in an interview, he said his research shows that if they are imposed at all, death sentences should be reserved for the worst cases. 
"Imposing the death penalty in cases that are not the worst of the worst is a recipe for unreliability and error," the report said. 
The greater the number of what courts call aggravating factors in a given capital crime, the less likely it is that a death sentence will be overturned, Liebman said. Aggravating fac­tors can include whether the victim was a police officer, for example, or whether the killing was especially gruesome. 
The reverse is also true, Liebman said. 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 11, 2002 
NDToday 
continued from page 1 
made about us, we felt we were at a disadvantage and we wanted to set the record straight," said Palko. "It's not an endorsement." 
Although the link never explicitly names The Observer, Palko and Mercanti appear to be responding to comments printed in the just like writing an editorial for IThe Observer]." 
McCarthy equated NDToday.com to The Observer and Scholastic, two media sources the Judicial Council has no control over. However, McCarthy added that if any candidate used NDToday.com to insult their opponents, the coun­cil would step in. 
Palko and Mercanti's opponents said they agree with McCarthy that 
Palko  and  
Mercanti  acted  
reasonably.  

"It doesn't both­er me. It's an indi­vidual Web site, so they can put their opinion on it," said candidate Brian Moscona, who is running with Keri Oxley. 
Nick Williams, who is running for vice president with Nikki McCord, said 
Goals 

continued from page 1 
Catholic faith and includes 
small-group discussion with 
rectors, campus ministers, 
counselors and Student Affairs 
senior staff as facilitators. 
"It's critically important for 
our first-year students to do 
• this because they should have an idea about healthy gender relations," Poorman said. 
Eating disorders 

Poorman identified two improvements to come out of Student Affairs' work in the area of student eating disor­ders: the hiring of a specialist and the creation of a survivors support group. 
Last spring Valerie Staples became the University's first full-time staff counselor who specializes in eating disorders. 
Also since last spring, Chandra Johnson, an execu­tive assistant to University President Father Edward Malloy and assistant director of Campus Ministry, has offered A Life Uncommon for women who have had eating disorders. The non-clinical support group meets weekly during the academic year. 
Alcohol use 

"I think alcohol use and abuse on campus deserves some scrutiny," Poorman said. 
In academic year 2000­2001, that scrutiny came in the form of Student Affairs­conducted focus groups. The groups polled the opinions and suggestions of wide-ranging constituencies: undergraduate and graduate students, rec­tors, law enforcement officials, alumni, admissions staff, fac­ulty and parents, among oth­ers. 
Poorman said his office was still processing data that came from the groups but that right now he was concerned mainly with lax enforcement of University rules governing stu­dent alcohol use. 
The administrator addressed an issue that touched a nerve with many students last fall -Notre Dame officials' crackdown on student tailgaters. 
He said officials last summer devised their plan to cut down on underage drinking and alcohol-focused tailgating. The Sept. 11 attacks, he said, dis­rupted rollout of the plan, as the University found itself devoting more of its personnel to safeguarding the Stadium rather than implementing the tailgating initiative. The result was a hasty effort between administrators and police to enforce the rules. 
"Early on, maybe some of the signals got crossed," Poorman said. 
He pledged to continue the crackdown in the fall, saying Student Affairs would estab­lish a clearer definition of what the tailgating policy is and communicate it more effectively than last fall to stu­dents and fans. 
Other initiatives 

In the past two years. Student Affairs officials have taken several steps to inte­grate academic and student life: organizing A Week of Peace and War Education, revitalizing the role of resi­dence hall academic commis­sioners, founding a diversity education program and a first­year student-athlete orienta­tion and establishing the Advisory Committee for Academic and Student Life that reports directly to Poorman and Provost Nathan Hatch. 
Poorman has continued his office's tradition of every year giving each residence hall $1,500 to sponsor academic programming in the dorm. 
Student Affairs, along with the rest of the University, has begun its strategic planning, and synchronizing academic and student life will be a pri­ority, Poorman said. The Strategic Plan formulates a comprehensive 10-year plan for departments. 
Poorman said his office will seek and be interested in receiving student input into the plan. Senior Student Affairs staff will also visit Notre Dame peer institutions North western, Rice. Dartmouth and Duke to benchmark programs at those school with offerings in place here. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

newspaper's voter guide last Thursday. In particular, the Web site addresses the paper's repre­sentation of Palko and Mercanti's position on 
"They haven't used {NDToday] in an unfair way. It's just like writing an editorial for {The Observer]. ,. 
John McCarthy Judicial Council vice president for elections 
student tail­gating and duLac -a representation that Palko described as containing "lies." 
"Students see that and it influ­ences them," he said. "No one's going to vote for someone that's against tailgating." 
Palko, who told The Observer last Monday that he did not "want to abuse the situation and just take advantage of NDToday," said on Sunday that he and Mercanti have not yet decided whether they will use NDToday.com in any addition­al capacity. 
According to Judicial Council vice president of elections John McCarthy, the ticket's use of NDToday.com does not represent a campaign violation. 
"They haven't used it in an unfair way," said McCarthy. ''It's Palko's use of NDToday.com would be similar to any candidate spread­ing information to a group of his or her friends. · 
"I don't think [NDToday.com] represents a true cross-section of the students," added Williams. 
For candidate Libby Bishop, it was important that Palko only set up a link to his campaign Web site. 
"That's better than them posting it completely on NDToday," said Bishop, who is running with Trip Foley. "In a sense, they are using it as an implicit campaign tool. but they're not bombarding you with 'vote for us.'" 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruf­fa@nd.edu, 

is now accepting applications for the 
2002-2003 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Jason McFarley by Friday, Feb. 15, at 3 p.m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542 or 631-5323. 
NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. · 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account e>..ecutives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities ofthe site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 

ATI 

Monday, February 11, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Saudis expect citizens to return: 
Saudi Arabia is expecting more of its citizens to return from Afghanistan, the kingdom's top security official said Sunday, indicating some would face prosecution. Interior Minister Prince Nayef said some Saudis now in custody at home had been in Afghanistan in the past. More than 30 were detained based on U.S.­provided lists, he said. 
Iran closes warlord's office: Iran has closed the office of a former Afghan war­lord who opposes Afghanistan's interim gov­ernment and the strong U.S. role in that coun­try. The closing of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's offices in Tehran and Mashhad appears to be a conciliatory gesture toward the U.S., where officials have accused Iran of trying to desta­bilize the new Afghan government. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Calif. fire engulfs I00 acres: A fire propelled by high winds destroyed five homes Sunday and threatened several others north of San Diego.The homes were lost in Fallbrook shortly after the fire was reported about at about noon, said Audrey Higgen, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry. No one was injured.The fire had consumed 100 acres just an hour after it was reported, Higgen said. 
Woman mysteriously dies in N.J.: 
A mystery illness killed one woman attending a weekend convention and sent seven others to hospitals, but health officials said Sunday they didn't think anyone else who didn't already have symptoms would get sick.The woman had a flu-like illness for about two days before becoming seriously ill Saturday night. Joanne Hemstreet was attending a con­vention at the Cherry Hill Hilton with about 500 other employees of Cendant Mortgage. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Toddler accidentally run over: An 
18-month-old girl was killed Saturday when her mother accidentally drove over the tod­dler in the family's driveway. Julia Willemsen was pronounced dead shortly after she was taken to Community Hospital in Anderson suf­fering from head injuries, Madison County Deputy Coroner Ned Dunnichay said. Alberdine Willemsen, 29, backed her sport­utility vehicle out of garage and did not see her daughter, who was 18 feet from the garage, police said. The mother was unaware the girl had wandered behind the vehicle. 
Market Watch Februarv 8 
., 
Dow 9,744.24 +118.80 Jones 

CompositeSame: 

Volume:
225 

1,356,205,056 
AMEX: 834.97 +8.28 NASDAQ: 1818.88 +36.77 NYSE:-565.34 +7.85 S&P 500: 1096.22 +16.05 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
OMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.75 -0.30 16. 76 
•SDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +2. 78 +0.98 36.17 RLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) +3.78 +0.66 8.18 I NTEL CORP (INTC) +0.65 +0.21 32.52 I UALCOMM INC (QCOM) -4.22 -1.65 37 .46 
GAZA STRIP 

Associated Press 
GAZA CITY, GAZA STRIP 
Israeli  warplanes  
bombed  a  Palestinian  
security  building  on  

Sunday near the head­quarters of Palestinian Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat, in apparent retaliation for a previous shooting attack against Israel earlier 
The warplanes, believed to be F-16s, fired two bombs at the Palestinian security complex on the Mediterranean coast, just a few hundred yards from Arafat's offices. 
There was no immediate word on casualties. However, the planes cir­cled overhead for several minutes before striking, and Palestinian security officials dashed out of the complex before the bomb­ing began. 
The security complex had already been badly damaged in previous Israeli air strikes. 
Israel has confined Arafat to the West Bank city of Ramallah for the past two months, demand­ing that he arrest 
Palestinian militants. He has not been in Gaza since November. 
The air strikes came hours after two Palestinian gunmen opened fire out­side an Israeli military base in the southern city of Beersheba, killing two women soldiers and injur­ing five people before they were shot dead by the troops. 
Cardinal vows to stay on the job 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

A confident Cardinal Bernard. Law was interrupted by applause Sunday when he vowed he would not step down despite increasing pressure over a sexual abuse scandal involv­ing priests who had worked in the archdiocese. 
"Archbishop is not a corporate executive. He's not a politician," Law said before his homily during Mass at the Cathedral of the Holy Cross. "It's a role of a pastor. It's a role of a teacher. It's a role of a father." 
"When there are problems in the family, you don't walk away. You work them out together with God's help," he said. 
The pressure on Law has been escalating since the Jan. 18 convic­tion of defrocked priest John Geoghan, who faces 10 years in prison for indecent assault and bat­tery on a 10-year-old boy. Geoghan also faces two more criminal trials and 80 civil lawsuits. 
Law subsequently apologized to abuse victims and announced a poli­cy of "zero tolerance" for sexual abuse. The change in policy came after documents showed Law knew of the accusations against Geoghan but stayed silent and allowed him to remain a priest. 
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston gave authorities the names of 40 accused priests and said that none was active, but in the past week, eight active priests were sus­pended because of allegations of abuse. 
More than 80 names now have been given to district attorneys in the five counties comprising the Boston archdiocese. 
Law said it's "terribly painful" to risk damaging priests' reputations by suspending them or giving their names to authorities. Some, he noted, had one allegation from decades ago and some might simply be innocent. 
"But unless there is a higher wis­dom that someone else has, I believe that the only responsible way for us to handle this issue is with a zero tol­erance policy," he said. "Yes. I am concerned for the pain that people suffer in the process of implementing that but I think we have to do that." 
The archdiocese has yet to give the names of victims of suspected pedophile priests to prosecutors, some of whom are growing impatient as they consider filing charges against the priests. 
Without names of victims, district attorneys say they can't investigate priests accused of molestation. It's too early to threaten subpoenas to obtain names, they say, but they haven't ruled it out. 
Law repeated that, to his knowl­edge, there are no active priests with any accusations against them. "I am as confident as I can be that all names are out," he told reporters after Mass, although he added that the records review is "ongoing." 
Monday, February 11, 2002
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Powell: Time for 'regime change' in Iraq 
. Iraqi vice president disputes American comments 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 

Iraq's vice president scoffed Sunday at Secretary of State Colin Powell's comments about bringing about a "regime change" in Iraq as typical of the "American invaders." 
Taha Yassin Ramadan also said Powell's negative 
Thieves 
continued from page 1 
Herman expected to contact NDSP this morning if the money wasn't recovered. He said Mardi Gras would be cancelled in the future if the robbery went unsolved. 
The event typically draws a large turnout of students who travel freely between separate parties being held in rooms throughout the hall. Traditionally, men who live in the hall were permitted to invite two women to the festivi­ties, which also include a parade around campus to pick up the men's dates. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
response to an Iraqi offer for a dialogue with the United Nations doesn't concern Iraq. 
Powell said Tuesday "it should be a very short discussion," adding that that Iraq must allow weapons inspectors back in "on our terms." 
"It's up to t h e m . We've said we are ready for an unconditional dialogue with 


the [U.N .] secretary general and the international body." Ramadan responded. 
Iraq has been under U.N. sanctions since its invasion of Kuwait in 1990, which led to the Gulf war. The sanctions cannot be lifted unless U .N inspectors verify Baghdad has dismantled its weapons of mass destruction. 
U.N. inspectors left Baghdad in December 1998 ahead of 
U.S. and British airstrikes. Iraq has barred them from returning and has demanded an end to the sanctions, saying it complied with all U .N. reso-
Atria Salon 
Specializing in Color 

NOW OPEN ON SUNDAY 
(57 4)289-5080 1357 N. IRONWOOD DR. 
Haircut & Style Highlight & Cur Color & Cut $24 $69 $59 
MUST PRESENT AD ON SUNDAYS ONLY 
Please recycle • 
lutions. 

Also on Sunday, a U.N. offi­cial visiting Baghdad said the organization's humanitariau program in Iraq is bogged down by politics and outdated regulations requiring adjust­ment. 
Benon Sevan, director of the 
U.N. oil-for-food program, spoke at a news conference at the end of three-week visit to Iraq -his first in nearly 1 1/2 years. 
Under the program. Iraq is allowed to sell unlimited amounts of oil to buy food, medicine and other humani­
tarian supplies, and to pay war reparations while sanctions are in place. 
Sevan noted the program was designed to be temporary. but has been extended repeat­edly and, over the years, has grown in scope while its regu­lations have remained the same. 
Sevan said talk about improving the program shouldn't be seen as a sign it should remain in place forev­er. "But as long as sanctions are in place, there is no alter­native for this program," he said. 
JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW 
JPW TICKET DISTRmUTION 
7-:lOPM 
ROOM:108LAFORTUNE 
Tuesday, Feb. 12 Wednesday,Feb. 13 
Traditionally, a $2 donation is requested from each junior participating in JPW. This donation benefits a local charity and is collected at tick.et distribution. Our selected charity this year is the Center £or the Homeless. Please give generously. 
JPW JPW .JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW 
~· Atria Salon 

~.....-..P 

On Mondays only ~ ~. We have training days 
a,!JJii:1. 

All services performed by stylist in training 
HILITES ..................... $19.00 COLOR & CUT.......... $19.00 Please ask for stylist in training when scheduling an appointment Certain restrictions apply 289-5080 1357 Ironwood Dr. & Edison I Mile from Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
Jean Hollander Poetry reading & Book signing Monday, February I 1, 12 pm Hammes Bookstore 

"Virgil's Hard Afterlife" presented by Robert Hollander Monday, February 11, 10:30 am Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 
Co-sponsored hy the Core Course, Student Union Board. Sophomore l.iterary Festival, The Devers Program in DanHi Studies, and The Medieval Cluh of ND, SMC & HCC 
NEW INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
BRAZIL -Spring 2003 
RIO DE JANEIRO 
-

SAO PAULO 



INFORMATION SESSIONS 
1'LJl~Sl)A\/, f"E~RLL\l< Y 12TH 
5:30-6:30 125 Hayes-Healy 
"fHlJl<SD,.\.·y, FEBRlJi\l~\' 21 sr 5:30-6:30 125 Hayes-llealy
.., .... 


Monday, February 11, 2002 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
AFGHANISTAN 
Suffering families uproot to find relief aid 
Junior
csc 

CENTER FOR 
Business Majors
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Internships available 
•
Ill 

ACCION Offices 
Accion is a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans to improve and build their businesses. 
• 
12 week summer program 

• 
$2,500.00 tuition scholarship 

• 
housing paid and food stipend 

• 
3 elective academic credits Theo359A Course includes journal, paper, follow up session 


Available in cities: Atlanta Albuquerq ue, Chicago, New York City, San Diego, 
• • Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns & MCOB Undergraduate office :#: due Fehrua ry 20th 
Interviews in early March at the Center for Social Concerns with a representative from ACCION 
--------~----------------------------------­
Infor01ation Meeting : February 14th Rooin 203 B, MCOB 6:00 PM 
"We sold everything to come diesel and, moments later, was here: our homes, our land, our in flames. belongings," said Mohammad "The children tried to put it Asur, a leader in the Dashteh out. It was too much. They were Arzana camp. "How can we go yelling, 'Daddy is on fire,"' back?" Jamela recalled. "It was a horri­
Asur grabbed his wool blanket, ble sight that will live with us for­part of one of the few aid ship· ever." ments to reach the camp. "We Friends ran to the closest vil­are going to the bazaar to sell lage to fetch a car. They brought these for bread," he said. him to Barat Hospital, a private 
Local farmers, he added, have facility helped by U .N. funds. started to shoot at camp dwellers Doctors didn't think he would trying to steal handfuls of carrots survive. Sadeq had second­or onions from the nearby fields. degree burns over 60 percent of 
Sadeq's family -a wife and his body, mostly his arms and children ranging in age from legs, said Dr. Jowid, who like seven mo.nths to 12 years -live many Afghans goes by one in a 6-by-6-foot hole covered by name. a tent ofstitched-together sacks. "But he has fmproved. 
His wife, Jamela, has kept the He will recover physically," said charred clothes Sadeq wore Jowid. He wasn't sure about when all seemed lost. Sadeq's mental state. 
The chil-SadC:q's fam­dren had ily has not
"We sold everything to
been plead­come to visit ing for bread, come here: our homes, our him in the hos­she said. pital room ­
land, our belongings. How 
Sadeq spent packed with 
can we go back?"
the entire day about 20 other looking in the patients and garbage for the contrary
Mohammad Asur 
any scraps smells of anti­
camp leader
and begging septic and filth. for money. "I don't want He came to see my chil­back with dren. I am use­nothing. less to them," said Sadeq, whose 
"The children were crying. He face is mottled with burns. couldn't take it anymore. It was "There is nothing left. Life has his pride," she said. been bad. I promise I will try to 
Sadeq doused himself with kill myself again." 

-~•-•'••-~~ 

OBC ENGLISH ii CONVERSATION SCH L 
is seeking university graduates for aone year teaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benefits and travel opportunilies. 
KECllll/TIN6 DATES: February 13 Er 14J 2002 at Career and Placement SerYices. 
j/lJIJ>IJ/JYJ!.f9!.f /lA/JY/rDIJ/ltllrD!.f $!J{J/~!!..9 liYl@!{ !£!IftfJff/£!I!l)o 
Open to all mt(jors. S/6N UPS NOW OPEN 

w~;.-}i•:. /2 ·. . : . ·1; 
0 i·:'.~,c:~~~/:;:,:~;::/;·,/
m l 
•,-..,-'· 1
e 

n 
~ ~,-",~-~..:r:~ ~ 
ofNotre: Dame; 
The Office for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Notre Dame Career Center proudly present another Women of Notre Dame Visitor Series. 
The Women of Notre Dame Project is a joint project intended to celebrate 30 years of co• education by providing strong female role models and mentors for our students and women supporters for our campus community. In the Visitor's Series, we invite women alums to campus to talk about their careers and particular expertise. 
Eileen Connell Publisher with W.W. Norton 
Eileen Connell is a 1988 English Dept. graduate of Notre Dame 
An English Major with a job!!! 
"My (Brilliant) Career: Life After Graduation" 
Monday, February 11, in 119 O'Shaughnessy, 11 :30 a.m. 
A light lunch will be served 
• Father of 8 attempts suicide to escape from pain, vows to try again 
Associated Press 
DASHTEH ARZANA CAMP 

Hunger drove him to leave his village. Bad luck. led him to a camp mostly bypassed by aid groups. 
And his children's cries for the bread he couldn't provide pushed Mohammad Sadeq to douse himself with diesel fuel and strike a match. 
Outside a leaky tent -like the thousands of others along a for­lorn ridge outside Mazar-e-Sharif -Sadeq's eight children screamed and tried to put out the flames engulfing their 40-year­old father. They ripped off his burning clothes, pulling away strips of smoking flesh as well, witnesses said. 
"I am fed up with life," Sadeq said from his hospital bed Saturday, four days after his sui­cide attempt. "I cannot even offer food to my crying children. Dying is the only escape from all this." 
Sadeq's journey from the 
northern mountain village of Charholak to a cot in surgical room No. 3 of the Barat Hospital passes through levels of misery familiar across Afghanistan. 
Families around the country have pulled up stakes to chase • 
the most basic "I am Jed up with life. I said Arnault necessity: a cannot even offer food to S e r r a ­
reliable supply Horguelin, head
my crying children. Dying 
of food. of the 
Staging areas is the only escape from International for interna­·all this. ,, Rescue tional relief. Committee, or such as IRC, in Mazar­
Mohammad Sadeq 
Mazar-e­e -Sh a r if. Sharif. have father of eight "Clearly, there 
The limited distribution is part­ly intentional. Relief agencies, conscious of what they call "the pull factor," do not want to encourage a continued exodus from villages. 
"It's a difficult 
balancing act," 
drawn most of the migrant wave, estimat­ed to be at least 1 million people. 
Sadeq believed -like others -thc1.t aid would be quick and plentiful. 
But relief agencies are clearly overwhelmed by the numbers and need. Supplies of donated wheat are moving through U.N. channels to key distribution points in the countryside, but only a trickle of help has reached the nearly 20 camps around Mazar-e-Sharif -a mix of inter­nal migrants like Sadeq and so­called local "cheaters" hoping for aid. 
are people who 
need help, but 
we don't want to create permanent camps that keep drawing new people." 
The IRC, one of the lead agen­cies dealing with internal migrants, plans to begin disman­tling the "spontaneous" camps around Mazar-e-Sharif this week and consolidating the migrants in two or three areas. The effort intends to weed out cheaters and help focus the aid distribution, said Serra-Horguelin. 
Ultimately, aid groups want to persuade migrants to return home. Many refugees say that is impossible. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 8 Monday, February 11, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VI.EWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MA.Ry's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROll.ER: Kevin Ryan 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIBF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.............. : ........................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.......................................·......... .631-5303 observer.viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.......... .......631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archivq to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~swns regarding Observerpolims should bt direct­ed to Editor in Chief Mike Connolly. 

As President George W. Bush's words of plainspoken eloquence echoed through the chamber of the 
U.S. House on Jan. 29, it seemed that even history itself was pausing to obse.rve and docu­ment the moment. 
This was the speech of George 
W. Bush's life. While in terms of sheer numbers, more people watched his address nine days after the devas­tating attacks on our country, it would be at this point in history where George W. Bush would be judged. 
With his Democratic opposition aligning its forces to take back the House, expand their majority in the Senate and even prepare for the 2004 presidential election, Bush brought down the House. Rather than offer a banal "laundry list" of domestic pro­grams. Bush announced bold, vision­ary changes for both the immediate and the long-term future of the Union. 
First, Bush announced that he would make the war on terrorism the first priority, both fighting it overseas and defending against it stateside. Although fighting the terrorists has been Issue One for Bush since Sept. 11, what surprised many was the lack of equal time domestic issues received. All told, they were less than one-fifth of the President's speech, and they were mentioned only in bul­let-point style: Improve education. End our dependence on foreign ener­gy sources. Expand trade. Accelerate and finalize tax cuts. Reform welfare, health care and Social Security. And then it was back to how we should fight the terrorists. 
For the most part, Bush's domestic proposals didn't need details, because on some things, like trade, energy and taxes, he has pl-ans that have already passed the House, which is in Republican hands, but are languishing at the bottom of the Democrat-con­trolled Senate's to-do list. But even then, meticulous details are just not the President's style. He's more a rapid-fire Texas gunslinger than a poet, linguistically speaking. 


The second and even more intrepid statement Bush made was that he would no longer wait for the next ter­rorist attack before launching a mili­tary offensive. Bush defined Iraq, Iran, North Korea and other nations like them as an "axis of evil," a phrase that harkens back to the enemies of the 20th Century: the Nazi-fascist­imperialist axis of the Second World War and the "evil empire" of the Cold War. In both of those occasions, the forces of freedom tried for years to merely contain or isolate our foes, rather than destroy them. No longer. America will now work to annihilate the enemies of the 21st Century·_ before they can do it to us. 
With those bold pronouncements, Bush may very well have built on his unprecedented high approval ratings. An astonishing 94 percent of viewers said that their response was positive; 74 percent said very positive. On Bush's antiterrorism proposals, 97 percent approved, and on his econom­ic plans, 88 percent approved. When last year the story was of an America divided into red states and blue states, the turnaround and the unity behind George W. Bush has been nothing short of extraordinary. 
So although Bush went out on a couple of limbs, he appears to have a massive groundswell of public sup­port. This bodes very ill for his Democratic opposition. In order to win, they have to hammer away on the domestic issues. This has the odd effect of making it so that the Democrats have to pretend like Sept. 11 didn't happen, because once that or the war is brought up, voters will rally around the President. 
The Democratic National Committee's home page asks volun­teers to "Help the Democratic Party put America's priorities first: getting our fiscal house in order, adding a prescription drug benefit for Medicare, enacting a real patients' bill of rights and other initiatives to help America's hardworking families." Sept. 11? Not on this list. 
All of the potential domestic prob­lems are being blamed on Bush. The recession: Bush's fault. The budget deficit: Bush's fault. The fact that, oh yeah, the biggest catastrophe in American history happened, and we have to spend billions to clean up, defend another one, and bring the "evildoers" to justice doesn't seem to enter their minds. 
Last year, the Conventional Wisdom on George W. Bush was that he was an intellectual lightweight who couldn't even garner a majority vote. But since Sept. 11, he's been riding high. He hasn't changed any: he still governs from the center as much as possible, he's still a straight talker and he still believes the things he believes in passionately. The events of the world have made us change how we view him. He's done what all great leaders do: lead. Talk about "changing the tone." The Conventional Wisdom has proven to be neither conventional nor wise. 
For the most part, America is in union with George W. Bush. And the state of that union has never been stronger. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001, is an analyst for RealClearPolitics and a contributor to The Politix Group. He's more than willing to go into quadru­ple-overtime with his Valentine. Eh, he's lying there: he doesn't have a Valentine. If you'd like to be.., e-mail him at Marchand.3@nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Noreen Gillespie Joe Ackerman 
Sports 
Katie Hughes 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemm 

Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics 
Katie Malmquist 
Production 
Rachael Protzman 
Lab Tech 
Peter Richardson 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
What is the most important issue for the next student body president's administration to address? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Vi,ctory at all costs, victory in spite ofterror, victory however long and hard the road may be; for without victory there is no survival." 
Sir Winston Churchill British Prime Minister, statesman 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, February 11, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Walker should 'die by the sword' he chose 
There has been much discussion about John Walker Lindh, the infamous "American Taliban," these last several weeks. But unfor­tunately. there has been little discussion about one of the most important questions. What in the hell is he doing back in the United States? Why is this man in the custody of the country he holds so much animosity for, instead of the custody of his captors? 
Many have tried to justify Walker's actions by labeling it a "quest for truth." His quest may very well have started out as one for truth, however, as soon as he found jJy in the death of 3,000 innocent civilians and picked up arms with al-Qaeda, his quest for truth was transformed into a mission of violence and inhumanity. 
Walker's new mission ended with his cap­ture by not the U.S. military, but by the Northern Alliance. Yet after U.S. officials caught wind of his capture they rescued him from what most likely would have been a painful, yet well deserved death, at the hands of his captors. 
I say well deserved because Walker knew what he was getting into, knew the conse­quences of his actions, yet still made the con­scious choice to fight with al-Qaeda, thus accepting those consequences. Because of this, the Northern Alliance should have been able to execute him as they did many of his parasitic comrades. But they didn't. 
Even more unfortunate is the fact that none of his charges carry with them the possibility of the death penalty. Thus, taxpayers like you and me will foot the bill for Walker to get three squares a day, clothing, medical atten­tion and shelter for the rest of his natural life. 
Why should we have to pay for someone who turned his back on all of us and took up arms with our most heinous enemy? He should not even be considered a citizen of this country anymore, let alone, be supported by U.S. tax dollars. With any luck, once in prison, Walker will have an "accident" that will rid us of this financial and social burden for good. 
The situation with John Walker Lindh is not about religious tolerance or compassion or forgiveness. It is about justice and accepting responsibility for one's actions. Walker chose to live his life by the sword and fight with al­Qaeda and the Taliban, two groups that bas­tardized Muslim beliefs into inhumane and murderous laws and practices. The old say­ing rings truer than ever, "Those who live by the sword, die by the sword." And so should John Walker Lindh. 
David Fulton 
senior off-campus Feb. 8,2002 

Criticism of French film falls short 
In his remarks on "Brotherhood of the Wolf' in the Feb. 7 Scene section, Matt Nania makes two over-reaching statements that point to unfortunate prejudice on his part. 
The first of these has to do with French films -in his estima­tion/expertise, virtually all of them. In his initial rhetorical gambit where he seems to speak for a generalized population -always a dangerous move -Nania proposes that in our collective judgment and memory, French films are characterized by "stuffy characters and unexciting, artsy narratives." 
Although I myself would be at a loss to define precisely what an "artsy narrative" is, I do understand what he seems to be getting at. Unfortunately, it is, at bottom. not much, in that it seems to be arguing for a simplicity of plot and character, which, strangely, are the very things he goes on to criticize in "Brotherhood." 
Similarly, he takes a swipe at subtitles, an "unfortunate distrac­tion," to quote him. To this, my own passion for film authorizes the airing of a basic fact: with a modicum of experience and open­mindedness, subtitles become wholly unintrusive. I will. however, admit they are often inadequate in representing what is actually mouthed on the screen. They are, however, entirely less distract­ing than dubbed dialogue. . 
Happily there is a solution to both of Mr. Nania's problems: learn French. Even more happily, one of the means towards that solu­tion is to take on the "artsy," "stuffy" but remarkably rich, tradi­tion called "le cinema franvais" -that's "French cinema" if there be need of a subtitle. 
Louis MacKenzie 
associate professor of French Feb. 7, 2002 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Arafat should not be tolerated 
Sometimes we want something so badly that we will convince ourselves of any­train them in the arts of bomb-making and the use of weaponry. Arafat himself, in a thing to get it. Peace in Israel certainly seems to be exactly one of those things. recent speech, called recent suicide bombers "martyrs," offering stipends and cash Unfortunately, sometimes our desire for an end to the violence leads to a sort of rewards to their families. · willfull amnesia about the past. Those who are constantly excoriating Israel for its As of late, Israel has taken more drastic steps toward holding the Palestinians role in the increased violence as of late suffer from this forgetfulness about the accountable for their actions. They have punished Arafat and his police forces for 
region's history. 
In his Feb. 5 letter, Tony Lusvardi critiques President Bush's ---Oll!l"li!~--_,,,,___ holding of Yasser Arafat and the Palestinian Authority primar­ily responsible for the on-going violence in the region. He claims that Israel has provoked the violence by assassi­nating Palestinian "political leaders" and pursuing policies that show that Israel does not truly want to negotiate a peace with Arafat and the Palestinian Authority. This take on the issue, however, is more than a little misleading. 
Contrary to what Mr. Lusvardi would have one believe, Israel has been more than patient with the Palestinians over the last 20 or more years. despite the fact that Arafat and his cohorts have done nothing of substance in all that time to further the peace process. Time and again, Israel has made concessions to the Palestinians, agreeing to withdraw troops from heavily­Arab areas under the Hebron Accords and Oslo Accords. This despite the fact that sev­eral such areas are of great strategic import when it comes to defending the majority of Israel's industrial base, which happens to lie right next to the West Bank. Under Ehud Barak, Israel had a concrete plan for Palestinian statehood on the table, but it was off-handedly rejected by Arafat without even so much as a counter-proposal. 
What has Israel to show for their efforts? Nada. The number of Israelis killed by Arab terrorists in the years since the Oslo Accords has been higher than in the 10 years prior. The Palestinian Authority has not tried even a little to live up to its promise to reduce the anti-Israeli sentiment among its peoples. To the contrary, Palestinian television, controlled by Arafat, continues to run programs encouraging children to pursue "glorious martyrdom." Arafat's police forces engage in terrorist acts, in some instances even firing on Israeli security forces. The Palestinian Authority continues to take children as young as 12 from their homes to 
their complicity in the violence and have assassinated prominent leaders of Hamas, Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad (who are anything but the "politi­cal leaders" Mr. Lusvardi describes). Has this approach helped _£) escalate the violence in Palestine? Probably so, but what would -_/,(_ one have them otherwise do? Concessions and patience ~ obviously have not paid-off in the past (a fact we all seem · to so quickly forget), and the remaining alternatives have quickly dwindled. The pressure on Arafat to reduce violence has been up until now a dead end. Even Barak, who once would have handed Arafat statehood now states that he was wrong to have tried to negoti­ate with the Palestinian leader. Ex-President Clinton expressed similar thoughts when he told current Secretary of State Powell that Arafat was a liar and wholly unreliable. As if to further drive the point home, Arafat's own forces were caught trying to smuggle 50 tons --.-. of Katyusha missiles, land mines, plastic explo­sives and other weapons of war into Palestine. Despite all this, Ariel Sharon's government has a peace offer on the table that would grant the Palestinians their own state in the West Bank and Gaza (with other details to be hammered-out in the next couple years). Unfortunately. no one on the other side is listening. As for our own President, he is wise to side with Sharon, Barak. Shimon Peres and other Israeli leaders in finally holding Arafat and · ' his Palestinian Authority accountable for their actions. No longer will the world ignore the antics and duplicity of Yasser Arafat, and no longer should they. 
Seth Hiland senior Morrissey Manor Feb. 5,2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


campus
page 10 Monday, February 11, 2002 
By SHELIA FLYNN 
Scene Writer 
Notre Dame students will vote today to elect offi­cials who will run a Student Union administration about which the student body knows very little. In fact, many students are unaware that the Student Union is the representative body at the University for students. 
"While I know a lot of the members of Student Union, I don't really know exactly what they do," said sophomore Molly Walsh, echoing the senti­ments of many University students as they contem­plate the elections and the candidates. 
Campaign posters elucidate proposed reforms and goals, but many voters are unsure of how these plans relate to the responsibilities and powers of the president and vice president. Candidates greet students and discuss issues, but many voters do not know how these politicians can affect their lives on campus. And the activities of the other branches of student government, which are less widely publi­cized than the executive council, are even more hazy in the minds of students; a large percentage of the student body is unaware of what these groups do and how they do it. 
But even as students go about their lives with very little information about student government, the organization works diligently to improve the Notre Dame campus and institutes changes for which stu­dents do not even know they are responsible. The Student Union has a structure headed by the stu­dent body president and spanning six major and a number of other minor councils. 
Student Body President and Vice President 
The office of the student body president and vice president is the fac·et of the Student Union that acts as the liaison between the students and the admin­istration; the first and foremost responsibility of the student body president is to represent and speak for the students of the University and ensure the effi­cient operation of all student entities and organiza­tions. 
After the president and vice president take office, they choose cabinet members to oversee the differ­ent council divisions, which include spiritual, acad­emic, athletic, diversity and gender issues. These cabinet members also serve as advisors to the pres­ident and vice president. Run by the chief-of-staff, these advisors and officers comprise the office of the president branch of Student Union. This staff is designed to protect the interests of students in all areas of University life, provide services to the undergraduate student body and advance the policy priorities of the Student Union. 
While the cabinet members are working on the various council divisions, the vice president pre• sides over the Student Senate and the president serves as chair of the Executive Cabinet. This group includes the off-campus co-presidents, class presi­dents, club coordinator division representatives, Student Union Board manager, chief of staff, Hall Presidents Council co-chairs and several dorm sen­ators. 
The cabinet meets once a week and works to increase awareness among different clubs and cam­pus groups. It controls the Collaboration Fund. which is comprised from sales of The Shirt. Various clubs and organizations can apply to use this money, and the Executive Cabinet controls who receives the money and how much will be allotted. 
Student Senate 
The Student Senate is composed of one represen­tative from each dorm; the elections for these dele­gates are held in March. The senate meets weekly and the meetings are open to all members of the Notre Dame student body. In addition, the senate holds open forum nights throughout the year that students can attend and voice their opinions. 
This branch of the Student Union researches cam­pus issues and drafts proposals for changing vari­ous conditions at the University; the senators each serve on two committees which study different con-

Ins and outs of st· 
Scene details the responsibilities of, 
cerns or problems and write resolutions. 
"The awesome thing about Student Senate is you can set up your own little com­mittee if you want," said Meghan O'Donnell, a sopho­more senator from Pasquerilla Hall West. "If you have an issue you can basically experiment with it and make suggestions for policy." 
Proposals drafted by the senate which involve alter­ing student life conditions or regulations set forth in the duLac handbook are sent to the Campus Life Council. which encompasses between 15 and 20 members includ­ing senators, rectors, and members of the administra• tion and faculty. If this body approves the proposal, it is passed on to Father Mark Poorman, the vice president of student affairs. 
Recent proposals include: improving lighting on cam­pus, determining the status of the missing clock hands on O'Shaughnessy Hall and offering more vegetarian dishes in the dining halls. 
Class Councils 
Each class council is formed of the respective class' officers (president, vice president, treasurer, secretary) and various com­mittees, such as spiritual, social, service,· fundraising and publicity. The Sophomore, Junior and Senior Class Councils are elected annually, but the process through which the Freshman Class Council is created is somewhat differ­ent: each dorm selects a representative and this group of delegates votes amongst itself to choose the class officers and committee heads. 
The class councils plan and organize events for their respective years, such as class masses. dances, service projects and other affairs. The officers are free to create council committees to serve any rising needs of a class in a given year. 
"This year we decided we had a need for an abroad committee because there are so many juniors abroad," said junior class vice president Karen 
Financial Management Board 
Lysaght. "They've done things such as sending out This group is chaired by the Student Union trea­abroad postcards, which is when people from here surer and composed of two assistant treasurers and can send notes to their friends abroad for free. And 
the controllers or treasurers of the Executive 
we're in the works of possibly organizing a class Cabinet. These members prepare an annual budgetdinner for people in London." 
in accordance with guidelines established by the Student Senate. The Financial Management Board Judicial Council also considers requests for additional funds and is 
The Judicial Council monitors all elections to responsible for the production and markeUng of ensure that guidelines set by the senate are fol­The Shirt, and oversees the operations of the stu­lowed and it provides student advocates to assist dent businesses through the Student Business undergraduates accused of violating University reg­Board. ulations. The board is chaired by the Judicial Council President and aided by the Vice Presidents 
Hall Presidents' Council 
of Elections and Advocacy. The council is made up 
Each of Notre Dame's 27 residence halls sends 
of the election coordinators of each dorm and the 
one to three representatives, depending upon the 
student advocates. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, February 11, 2002 
page 11 

udent government 
the various offices ofthe Student Union 

number of hall residents, to a weekly meeting of the Hall Presidents Council. This group serves as a forum through which residence halls share infor­mation about their respective events, programs or goals and receive updates about campus affairs. An athletic department representative. for example, attends the council's meetings every week to inform hall representatives about games and other athletic events planned for the week. The representatives then bring this information back to their halls and share it with the residents. 
Club Coordination Council 
The Club Coordination Council, headed by the club coordinator, consists of 15 other Club Council representatives, three from each of the five club divisions. These officers divide the funds allocated by the FMB among the over 200 undergraduate stu­dent organizations. The CCC also enforces rules regarding the usage of funds and the sponsoring of events. 
Off-campus Council 
The Off-campus Council represents the off-cam­pus population of Notre Dame undergraduate stu­dents and promotes the well-being of this group by sponsoring functions and disseminating information to off-campus residents. The structure and organi­zation of this particular group is left to the discre­tion of the two elected Off-campus Council presi­dents. 
Student Union Board Programming Body 
The Student Union Board Programming Body is, perhaps, the branch of the Student Union with which the student body is most familiar. SUB Programming Body works to provide social, intel­lectual and cultural opportunities that enhance undergraduate student life. The organization coor­dinates many campus-wide events, such as AnTostal. concerts, comedy performances and weekend movies. Weekly SUB-sponsored events and further SUB information can be viewed by reading the away message of the Instant Messenger screen name ndSUBinfo. 
Contact Shelia Flynn at flynn.58@nd.edu. 

Monday, February 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 12 
NBA 
j Bryant hears boos, but wins MVP in West win 

Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

Back in his hometown where the fans show him no love, Kobe Bryant kept making shots and kept hearing boos. 
Bryant scored 31 points Sunday -the most in an All-· Star game since Michael Jordan had 40 in 1988 -in the arena where he walked off the court last June with his second championship, leading the Western Conference over the East 135-120 Sunday. 
Bryant, who grew up in Lower Merion, Pa. and whose father, Joe, played for the 76ers, played with tremendous hustle and flair in helping the West build a big halftime lead that they never surrendered. 
But he was booed louder than anyone during player introduc­tions, then heard more of the same every time he touched the ball during the second half. When the game ended and he was given the MVP trophy, they let him have it long and loud one last time. 
"My feelings are hurt. I'm just trying to play and have a good time, and my feelings are hurt," he said on the NBC telecast midway through the fourth quarter. 
Bryant became the first play­er to reach 30 points since Jordan did it in 1993, and he relegated Jordan, hometown hero Allen Iverson and every other All-Star into an after­thought by throroughly domi­nating the game nearly every moment he was on the floor. 
He also had five rebounds and five assists, shooting 12­for-25 from the field. 
Right from the get-go, Bryant showed he was onto something special. 
Bryant got off to the best start of anybody, scoring eight points in the first six minutes and getting an assist by going around Jason Kidd with a deft crossover move and then feed­ing Tim Duncan for a dunk. Bryant also showcased some impressive ballhandling, drib­bling through his legs as he came upcourt practically squat­ting. 
Jordan was the next to reel off a series of spiffy plays, going baseline for a driving dunk, fol­lowing with a fast-break layup and feeding a no-look alley-oop pass to Antoine Walker that he failed to convert. 
Jordan was all alone ahead of the field a few moments later but blew a one-handed dunk, causing his Eastern teammates to rise off the bench laughing in unison. Jordan laughed off the moment, too. 
Bryant led all scorers with 12 points as the West led 32-24 after one quarter. 
Tracy McGrady had a spec­tacular dunk early in the sec­ond quarter, banging a pass to himself off the backboard, zip­ping past three players and slamming the ball through with such authority that the crowd didn't stop buzzing for a good 30 seconds. 
McGrady scored 11 points in the quarter to keep the East in it, but Bryant had a three-point play immediately after check­ing back in, then made four more baskets over the final 
1:47 of the quarter -including a layup just before the halftime buzzer -as the West closed the half with a 24-7 run for a 72-55 lead. 
The East chipped away at the lead during the third quarter, but Bryant wouldn't let them get too close. He scored one basket on a putback after the ball bounced over the top of the backboard, then had another bucket off an offensive rebound with 4:20 left to restore a 20­point lead, 88-68. 
The boos for Bryant were fairly loud after both of those buckets, but that is nothing new for the Lakers star who received far worse treatment from Philadelphia fans during last year's NBA Finals. 
As the quarter progressed, Bryant was booed every time he touched the ball as it became clear that the West was headed for a lopsided victory. 
Bryant surpassed 30 points by making a pair of foul shots with 1 :20 left in the third, and the West got to 100 with 22 seconds left in the quarter on an alley•oop dunk by Kevin Garnett off a pass from Gary Payton. 
The West held a 23-point lead entering the fourth quar­ter, and the East started to rally after Bryant left for good Allen hit a 3•pointer to com• with 10:42 left. Paul Pierce plete a 13·0 run and make it scored the first four points of 100-90. the quarter, McGrady also The next five baskets were all scored four in a row and Ray 3-pointers, including a pair by Payton that helped the West maintain a double-digit lead, and a 7 -0 run ending with a dunk by Elton Brand all but locked up the victory. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SAINT JUDE NOVENA May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified, lived and preserved throughout the world now and forever. Sacred heart of Jesus, pray for us. Saint Jude, worker of miracles, pray for us. Saint Jude, helper of the hopeless, pray for us. Say this prayer nine times a day, by the eighth your prayer will be answered. Say it for nine days. It has never been known to fail. Publication must be promised. 
WANTED 
TestMaster is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1 ·800·929·7724 TestMasters is looking for responsi• ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1·800-929-7724 
FOR SALE 
1998 Saturn Great Winter Car, Sweet Stereo, 40mpg $8,600/offer, 283·0901 
3 bdrm, 1·1/2 bath, 2•story home w/2-car garage. Finished basement w/pool table, washer/dryer and freezer. All drapes, appliances & carpeting included. Close to Holy Cross church, shopping, & restau­rants. Call Patricia at 574-234· 9782. 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272•1525 mmm• rentals@aol.com 
·-······-··---­
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9­bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532· 1896 
HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03 YR.FURN. 272·6306 
·····-························--­5 mins from ND!4-6 student house w/large common areas•prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291 ·2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291 • 2209 
THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5·8 STU· DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT AREA 
· 2773097 ························-········--­SUPER HOME GREAT AREA CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STUDENTS 2773097 
----------·· 
MMMRentals.com 
3·bdrm, 1-1/2 bath trHevel, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2· car garage, m\ fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232-4527 or 616-683· 
5038. . 
New 3-4 bdrms, 3•bath homes tea• turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, family room, 1Ox20 deck, 2•car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232· 4527 or 616·683·5038. 
TICKETS 
Wanted: Tix for Syracuse game. Call Tim at472•1229 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648· 4849 www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1 ·800-234-7007 · www.endlesssummertours.com 
SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! Book your trip with StudentCity.com and save up to $100 per person to Cancun. Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre or Florida. Most popular student hotels including the Oasis and the Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! Prices start at $3991 Sale ends soon! CALL NOW! 1 ·800-293· 1443 or go to StudentCity.coml 
···········-·············-···--­

Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to select shows when you book your Spring Break through StudentCity.com! Go to MTV.com or call StudentCity.com at 1·800·293-1443 lor details! Tours and tickets are limited! 
___...........-..............___.., ___________ 
ADOPTION Young, loving happily married couple interested in adopt• ing a baby. Please call Matt & Robin 1 ·800-484-6411 PIN#6463 
Please Recycle The Observer 

--····-··························· 
Buy Observer classifieds for just pennies a day Call today! 
Monday, February 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
"I was pretty nervous about Liles, who fired one past Cey. being on the ice with him," The goal gave the Spartans a
Hockey 
said Cey. "It was a challenge 1-0 lead and a lot of momen­continued from page 20 to play against Ryan Miller." tum going into the third. In the first period both The third period proved to 
Friday's game also fea­goalies saved 16 -shots. With be more of the same, as the tured a good defensive strug­less than two minutes to go goalies continued to be test­gle. MSU's Miller and Notre in the second the Spartans ed. \Vith 1:05 left Irish coach Dame's Cey went head to went on the power play. Dave Poulin pulled Cey in head in goal for the duration Notre Dame tried to clear the favor of a sixth attacker. 
of the game. Miller ended up puck, but MSU's Ash Goldie However. instead of Notre making 39 saves for the knocked it down, keeping it Dame coming up with the shutout. while Cey saved 41 in the zone. Goldie passed to game-tying goal, Michiganshots, gave up the game-win­a wide-open John-Michael State was able to put in the 
ning goal late in the second. empty-netter to seal the --------------=-----------------game. 
Notre Dame Film. Television, and Theatre presents Despite splitting the weekend, there was a lot of satisfaction for the Irish. For one, they beat the No. 3 team in the country on its home ice. And the Irish defensive unit finally showed up. After giving up 13 goals the previous weekend, the Notre Dame defense only gave up three (the fourth being the empty net goal) in the series. 
Next week the Irish have a bye weekend. They won't take the ice again until Feb. 22 and 2 3 at Lake Superior State. It will be important for them to keep the momentum they gained from this

Wednesday, February 20 ............. 7:30 p.m. 
weekend. 
Thursday, February 21 ................. 7:30 p.m. 
. "In the next couple of Friday, February 22 ...................... 7:30 p.m. weeks we need to keep a level head," said Cey. "We
Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 
can't get too high from this win. We need to keep Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame our conditioning up and have a good stretch run."
Reserved Seats $1 6 • Seniors $1 4 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. Contact Matt Orenchuk at MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 ·8128. morenchu@nd.edu. 



Monday, February 11, 2002
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 

SALT LAKE 2002 
U.S. wins gold in wo01en's halfpipe 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Snowboarder Kelly Clark, in an Olympic event that's all of four-years old, soared above the halfpipe course to win America's first Winter Games gold on a day when other coun­tries snapped decades-old win­less streaks in more traditional sports. 
Clark nailed her final run on Sunday to give the United States its first victory in its first home­town Winter Olympics since 1980 -three years before the 18-year-old snowboarder was born. 
She was cheered wildly by the partisan crowd, which included three barechested men in the freezing weather, the letters "U­S-A" painted across their chests. Guns 'n Roses' "Welcome to the Jungle" blared as she launched her high-flying, dominating per­formance.
f 
Doriane Vidal of France won the silver and Fabienne Reuteler of Switzerland won the bronze. 
The halfpipe debuted as an Olympic event at Nagano in 1998, where America's Shannon Dunn took a bronze medal. 
In two days in Salt Lake City, the Americans -who hope to capture 20 medals, the most ever for a U.S. winter team ­had one gold and two silver medals. 
Earlier, Swiss skier Simon Ammann returned from injury 
and soared to victory in the 90-slalom, finished 16th. earned the first Swiss medal in "I definitely have a shot at the It was the second record in 
I meter ski jump -the first Swiss "It's a tough one to swallow," ski jumping since the 1972 medal podium in the next few two days at the track, which is skijumping medal since 1972. Rahlves said. Sapporo Games. After nailing races, but that's not all I'm look­considered the world's fastest 
t 
That was hardly much of a his 323-foot jump. the 5-foot-8. ing for." she said. ·"I'm looking ice. 
i streak compared to the 54-year Nordic Combined 120-pound Ammann peered for a personal best." Friesinger wound up fourth, stretch of Finnish futility that Waving a Finnish flag and anxiously at the giant score­Friesinger had won every fading badly on her final lap to Samppa Lajunen ended with his slowing down as he approached board -and learned he was 3,000 race during the World finish in 3:59.39. Cooling down gold medal in the Nordic com­the finish line, Samppa Lajunen the winner. Cup season and hoped to get on the inner track, she watched bined. relished the moments as he "He came out of nowhere," started on capturing three gold helplessly as three skaters 
The nine gold medals award­skied to a gold medal in the said America's Alan Alborn, medals at the Salt Lake City eclipsed her time. ed so far have gone to nine dif­Nordic combined -his coun­who had hoped to end a 78-year Games. "This time, the last laps were ferent countries, an Olympic 
try's first individual gold in the medal drought for the U.S. team Instead, she didn't even win a extremely hard on me," sharing of the wealth. Austria, discipline since 1948. but finished 11th. medal. Pechstein shattered her Friesinger said. with five total medals, was atop It wasn't as easy as it looked. Favorite Sven Hannawald of own world record, crossing the Pechstein has already estab­the medals chart. he said. Germany took the silver, and line in 3 minutes, 57. 70 seconds lished herself as one of the great 
"It is hard work to be 23 years Adam Malysz of Poland the -more than 1 1/2 seconds skaters in Olympic history. She Men's Downhill old and win an Olympic medal," bronze. ahead of the old mark of won gold in her third straightIn one of the games' tradi­said Lajunen, who finished 3:59.26. Olympics, adding the 3,000 title tionally glamour events, tradi­Speedskating "Maybe I had an advantage,,. to consecutive victories in the
ahead of silver medal-winning·
tion was served as Austrian Anni Friesinger is the new said Pechstein, who turns 30 on 5,000 at Lillehammer and
teammate Jaakko Talluse. Felix
Fritz Strobl -long overshad­face of German speedskating, a Feb. 22. "Anni real~ was the Nagano. Overall, she has won
Gottwald of Austria won the
owed by more illustrious Bavarian free spirit who poses favorite. All the journalists talk six medals. 
bronze.
Austrian teammates -swept to for erotic photos and revels in to her. It's difficult for Anni Friesinger and Rodriguez
U.S. medal hopeful Todd
the gold medal. taking on what she considers to being the favorite all the time." raced together in the 13th of 16
Lodwick wound up seventh, the
He became the sixth Austrian be the stodgy establishment. The German stars have an icy pairs. The German blew away
highest finish for an American
to win the downhill in the 15 Claudia Pechstein is a product relationship. Friesinger has crit• the American and was on
in the sport's Olympic history. 
races since Alpine skiing of the East German sports icized Pechstein's training regi­world-record pace until the final 
"It's a little bit disappointing,
debuted in 1948, although the machine, a taciturn competitor men as too methodological. 400 meters.
because I had expectations of
first in a decade. who did as she was told and Both skaters have accused the "I wasn't excited to be with
moving up," said Lodwick. 
"It's sensational," said Strobl, would never consider the antics ·other of feigning illness to gain her, because we skate different
Americans Matt Dayton and
a 29-year-old police officer who of her younger rival. a competitive edge. races," Rodriguez said. "But I
Bill Demong were 18th and
had never won a medal in a Score one for the old guard Pechstein touched on "our so­knew if I wanted a chance at a
19th, respectively. Rolf
major competition. "I didn't Sunday. called quarrels" during a post­medal, I had to go out with her." 
l 
Monsen's ninth-place showing
expect it. I was just thinking of Pechstein set another world race news conference, but Rodriguez pushed herself too
in 1932 was the previous best
racing down the course, not of speedskating record at the Utah balked when asked to describe hard in the opening laps and
finish for a U.S. athlete.
winning." Olympic Oval, winning the 3,000 her relations with the 25-year­wound up paying at the end. Pre-race favorite Stephan meters while upstaging the old Friesinger. "You just want to chop yourEberharter, one of the Austrians Ski Jumping flamboyant Friesinger. "Every time, the same""t:hing," legs off and toss them in the 
was

who typically trumps Strobl, fin­When he sitting out Jennifer Rodriguez broke her Pechstein muttered. "We do garbage," she said. ished third to take the bronze. weeks of the World Cup season own American record with a have a relationship away from Despite falling short of the
with injuries to his back and
Lasse Kjus of Norway finished time of 4:04.99, but she dropped the sport. but we are competi­world record, Friesinger still
head, an Olympic gold medal
second to win his fourth three spots from her surprising tors." seemed pleased with her time. 
Olympic medal. seemed an impossibility for 
fourth-place showing at Renate Groenewold of the smiling and waving to the 
American medal hopeful Switzerland's Simon Ammann. 
Nagano. Netherlands (3 :58.94) and crowd. She easily eclipsed the Daron Rahlves, fifth in the On Sunday, the impossible Rodriguez, a former inline Canada's Cindy Klassen Olympic record set by another 
downhill at last year's world happened. skater from Miami, still has (3:58.97) also went under the German great, Gunda Niemann­championships and the reigning With a clutch, final jump on three other chances for her first previous world record to claim Stirnemann, who won gold at world champion in super giant the 90-meter hill, Ammann Olympic medal. silver and bronze. Nagano in 4:07.29. 

Monday, February 11, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles outlast Olivet for 65-61 conference victory 
By JOE HETTLER 
Spores Writer 
Saint Mary's freshman forward Emily Creachbaum scored a career-high 26 points and sopho­more Katie Miller added 11 points to lead the Belles to a 65­61 conference victory against Olivet College Saturday after­noon. 
A slow start helped Olivet take an early lead and eventually con­trol the game at halftime, 28-25. 
"In the beginning we came out kind of slow," said Miller. "They were really to come at us and that made us become more intense and before the end ofthe half we started to do really well." 
The Belles outscored Olivet 40­33 in the second half, thanks to the shooting of Creachbaum who connected on 11-15 shots during the game and made 67 percent of her free throws. 
"Emily Creachbaum played really well," said Miller. "She really picked up her game." 
game during the second half. "It's a very big win," said Miller. "It puts us on top of Olivet 
r-------------------------------------•;Srill nailed eight of her nine 
,hots and fmished the game with and Alma. It gives us confidence 
Arts & Letters 

Spotlight 
Which College should I choose? 
Arts & L~tters ?potlight ~ill help you decide by providing information and d1scuss1on on maJors, career possibilities and maybe shed some LIGHT on your College decision. 
February 11, 2002 141 DeBartolo 7:00 p.m. 
Go wild for Valentine's Day with a wildflower bouquet! 

Heaven and Earth 143 Dixie Way South (US31/933) 3 Blocks from Campus (547) 273-2212 




Miller also hit some big shots, including 3-6 from behind the arc. 
"In the second half we attacked them and we never backed down and we kept going," said Miller. "We hit some really big shots, too." 
Olivet relied on the shooting of Louisa Grill to keep them in the 
The Belles won the game despite being out-rebounded by Olivet 40-27 and shooting only 42 percent to Olivet's 46 percent. 
The Belles' win, coupled with Alma College's loss to Hope on Saturday. pushed Saint Mary's another spot higher in the MIM standings. The Belles sit at 4-8 in the conference and 8-15 overall. 
18 points. Stephanie Elise added for the rest of the season." 12 points for Olivet and Emily Fix had a double-double with 12 Contact Joe Hettler at points and 10 rebounds. jhettler@nd.edu. 
Men's 
continued from page 20 

long time, and I've never been in one of those." 
The Irish, who led by as many as 12 points in the first half, battled the Hoyas through three overtime periods before finally gaining control in the fourth overtime. 
Jordan Cornette scored the first three points of the final overtime for the Irish. His only field goal of the night came off a pass from Ryan Humphrey that put the Irish up 105-103. But the Hoyas responded with five quick points to take a three­point advantage, their largest lead of the afternoon. 
But with 2:20 left in the game, Ryan Humphrey, who played the final 35 minutes with four fouls and yet avoided fouling out, drove to the basket and drew a crucial fifth foul on Georgetown's Mike Sweetney. The Georgetown power domi­nated the inside all afternoon and finished with 35 points and 20 rebounds, but his absence left the Hoyas without an inside presence. 
"That was huge," Brey said. "We had a hard time guarding him, and it opened it up more for our other guys." 
Humphrey, who finished with 23 points and 14 rebounds, 
(jre8 andCindy Powe(( 

Vesi3ners/Owners 
1215 Liberty Drive Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 1-800-862-0772 Fax (219) 259-4849 
made both of his free throws 
and Thomas made a 10-foot 
jump shot to put the Irish up 
109-108 and give them the lead 
for good. 
"I guess it was just meant to 

be," Carroll said. ''\Ve said, 'We 
don't know what it's going to 
take, but we 're going to do 
whatever it takes to win this 
game."' 
Hoya point guard Kevin 

Braswell had a dubious role in 
making sure the game reached 
quadruple-overtime. Braswell, 
who usually takes the final shot 
for the Hoyas when the game is 
on the line, missed three 
chances to win the at the end of 
regulation and_ again at the end 
of the first two overtimes. 
With the scored tied at 84 and 

5.2 seconds remaining in regu­lation. Georgetown in-bounded the ball to Braswell, who drove the length of the floor and threw up a shot that was par­tially blocked by Tom Timmermans. At the end of the first five-minute period, he missed a shot with the score tied at 88, and his 3-pointer at the buzzer in the second over­time ricocheted off the back of the rim. 
The closest scare for the Irish 

came at the end of the third 
overtime. Georgetown's Gerald 
Riley fired a 15-footjumper that 
Humphrey blocked. The ball 
went straight to Braswell, who 
fired a 3-pointer that swished 
through the net as the game 
clock expired, sending 
Georgetown fans into a frenzy. 
But the basket was waved off 

because the shot clock had 
expired, and both teams 
entered the fourth overtime tied 
at 102. 
"They were getting a lot of shots to win it, but we took away their opportunities," Graves said. "I don't know what it was -maybe fate or divine intervention." 
The game got so wild that at one point Brey tried to insert Timmermans into the game, only to have his assistant coach­es tell him the sophomore for­ward had fouled out the over­time period before. 
In all, 54 personal fouls were called and both teams shot a combined 72 free throws. By the end of the game, four Georgetown starters Sweetney, Braswell, Hiley and Wesley Wilson -had fouled out, leaving the Hoyas with an inexperienced lineup in the final two minutes, while the Irish had only lost Harold Swanagan and Timmermans 
"We knew we were going to leave the place with a smile on our face," Thomas said. "We would have gone through six overtimes as long as we would have come out on top. That's all that mattered to us." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, Fel;,ruary 11, 2002 

1, 
I 
I 
I 
I 


r 
,· 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Maryland matches best overall start with 92-77 win 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
Maryland wasn't partjcularly sharp a week before its Atlantic Coast Conference showdown with No. 1 Duke. Then again. the third-ranked Terrapins were playing North Carolina. 
Maryland matched its best overall and ACC starts in school history. getting 18 points from Juan Dixon in a 92-77 victory over the strug­gling Tar Heels on Sunday night. 
The Terrapins (19-3, 9-1) registered their 19th win after 22 games for the sixth time. The most recent was in 1999. 
The last time Maryland won nine of its first 10 league games was 22 seasons ago. 
Lonny Baxter and Byron Mouton each added 16 points for Maryland. 
The victory kept Maryland one-half game behind Duke for first place in the ACC race. The teams, each with one ACC loss, meet next Sunday in College Park, Md. 
Meanwhile, the slumping Tar Heels (6-15, 2-9) matched the school record for losses in a season. It happened twice in the early 1950s. 
North Carolina also set a record for ACC losses in what has been a disastrous second season for coach Matt Doherty's inexperienced team. The program's previous worst ACC season was 6-8 in Dean Smith's third season in 1963­64. 
Kris Lang led North Carolina with 23 points, while Jawad Williams, a freshman who has shown steady improvement, had 21 points, 11 rebounds and five assists. 
North Carolina surrendered a school-record 112 points to Maryland on Jan. 9, en route to a 33-point loss. 
At least this time, the Tar Heels showed signs of life in the second half after going down by 17 at the break. 
A 3-pointer by Brian Morrison pulled North Carolina to 58-44 with 15:05 left, but Dixon made two shots behind the arc over the next 3 1/2 minutes to push Maryland's lead to 19. 
Chris Wilcox then put the margin over 20 a minute later with a slam dunk and two free throws as Jason Capel fouled out with 10:27 left and North Carolina was on its way to its eighth ACC loss by double dig-
Please Recycle The Observer. 


A FREE SPRING BREAK! 

Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food' 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book•online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 

its. beat Duke." 
With about a minute left, The Terrapins made 12 of one North Carolina fan yelled their first 18 shots to go up by at Maryland coach Gary 14 points less than nine min­Williams: "Hey Gary, please utes in. 
r------------------------,
1 East of Chicago Pizz~ : FREE BREADSTICKS! 
I 
6 Free Breadsticks & Sauce with Any Regular Pizza (with coupon) 
Not good with other discounts or offers One Free breadstick order per customer 
271-1277 
54533 Terrace Lane 
(Off of S.R. 23) 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! We Take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 3/3/02 
L------------------------J 
The biggest concern for Capel. The sophpmore was on Maryland in the first half was the floor for several minutes. the health of Wilcox, who hit but left under his own power his head when he crashed to and was back in the game the hardwood after fouling minutes later. 

we throw al.l. kinds of 
[obstacles] at you. 
tuition isn't one of them. 
Sheer cliffs, rope bridges, final exams. With obstacles like these in your way, 
tuition's the last thing you should have to worry about. But if you qualify, you can 
get a 2-or 3-year Army ROTC scholarship that'll help make life easier over the long 
haul. Talk to your U.S. Army ROTC representative. And get a leg up on your future. 
ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 

For more details about our Campus Scholarship Programs, call Captain Hennessey at (219) 631-6264/4656 
' I t, , ,.. _. , ~ .., 

' 
~· ----­
• 

Monday, February 11, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Veterans lead Irish to sole possession of No. 2 in the Big East 
ing her teammates to the top midway through the second step up and take that leader­game with one purpose -to
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
3-point percentage in the half. ship role." block shots. Riley took care of
Sports Editor 
nation. "I don't know why my shots For all three veterans whose the offense. Barksdale's job Stepherson finished with just are falling after not shooting play stood out Sunday, this was to come in for a few min­
When Muffet McGraw sat 
four points and two assists for a while," Joyce, who season has been an adjust­utes when Riley committed a down on the podium following while Boston College convert­wasn't allowed on the court ment. Playing alongside Kelley foul and take her place in the
Notre Dame's win against 
ed only two of 17 attempts while her leg healed, said with Siemon at forward last year, lane.
Boston College Sunday, from beyond the arc for a 11.8 a smile after H a n e y This year Barksdale starts. 
McGraw had a freshman and percentage. the game. 'Tm thrived in She needs to contribute on
"I thought that they 
sophomore on one side, a 
"I think my role on the team so thankful her role offense, so she developed an
junior and senior on the other. really all stepped up and
is to go out and be the defen­that they cleaning up effective jump shot. And sheWhile Notre Dame's highly­
sive stopper and get on the were." played at a really high after her needs to rebound, where she 
touted freshman class has car­
boards and things like that," And to level defensively. teammates. contributed seven boards 
ried much of the load for the 
said Haney, who also scored McGraw's She would Sunday.team all season, Sunday's vic­11 points, one off her season immediate Offensively, I thought we be the one And Joyce, who was always
tory to move into sole posses­played better as a team
high. right was with the put­the first guard off the bench as sion of second piace in the Big 
On the far end of the table freshman for­than we have maybe all backs and a freshman last year. has had 
East was spearheaded by 
next to Haney was junior w a r d the extra to rotate in with classmate
year long. I was just
Notre Dame's veterans. 
Amanda Barksdale, who set a Jacqueline rebounds. Le'Tania Severe and freshmen 
To McGraw's immediate left really pleased to see the
Notre Dame record for blocked Batteast, a She'd also Kelsey Wicks and Allison 
was senior Ericka Haney. 
shots with 11 in 30 minutes. national veterans step up and be there to Bustamante. She has taken a 
Haney, the team's lone senior, Barksdale was such a pres­Freshman of hit an open greater role leading from the
take that leadership 
has seemed lost at times in the ence in the lane, she allowed the Year candi­shot when bench, calling out instructions 
transition from last year's role.··
her team to keep the defensive date who led the defense and using her mind for the national championship team to 
pressure on without commit­the Irish with focused too game. But when healthy and 
this year's younger squad. But ting costly fouls. 18 points and Muffet McGraw much on asked to make a shot, she hits 
on Sunday Haney took her 
"We fouled a lot less because 10 rebounds. Ruth Riley them.
Irish coach
place in the starting lineup at we had so much faith in Batteast's ath­or Siemon. With Sunday's win, the Irish small forward and led a defen­Mandy coming up with some leticism and This year, have an easy road to the No. 2 sive effort that shut down one big blocks at some critical scoring ability sealed the win, playing next the more versa­seed in the Big East of the top offenses in the coun­times," McGraw said. but it was the improved efforts tile Batteast, her role became Tournament. All they need to try. 
At the other end of the table of her elders that made it pos­less defined. Haney had to do is beat St. John's, West 
Haney is the team's best 
was the sophomore, Jeneka sible. adjust, first to finding a place Virginia and Villanova at defender, always assigned to Joyce: Joyce, who hadn't "I thought that they really all on offense, then to playing home while stopping Rutgersstop the opponent's best offen­played since Ja~. 21 due to an stepped up and played at a reduced minutes to allow the and Georgetown away. And sive player. Sunday, Haney's Achilles heel injury, hit two really high level defensively," team's deep bench to con­the talented core can do it. 
victim was Golden Eagles' 
key 3-pointers, one to bring McGraw said. "Offensively, I tribute. Only after Sunday, they finally 
point guard Brianne 
the Irish within three early thought we played better as a While Haney had to adjust to have veterans to lead the way. 
Stepherson, who came in aver­
after Boston College went out team than we have maybe all a smaller role, Barksdale has 
aging 11 points and four 
to an 8-2 lead and another to year long. I was just really moved into a larger one. Last Contact Noah Amstadter at assists per game, while lead-give Notre Dame a 44-33 lead pleased to see the veterans year she would come into the namstdt@nd.edu. 
8-ball 
continued from page 20 
defensive effort that held the Eagles to the lowest number of points they have scored all sea­son. As a team, Notre Dame blocked 16 Boston College shots, just two less than the school record. 
Coming into Sunday's game, Boston College was the best 3­point-shooting team in the coun­try, hitting upwards of 40 per­cent. The Irish defense shut. down the outside attack, holding them to only 11.8 percent from the 3-point line. 
"Notre Dame had some great defense and we just couldn't find the bucket," Inglese said. 
A main player in that Irish defense was senior Ericka Haney. With the Eagles' solid core of veteran players, the lone senior had to step up her play on defense to lead the younger Irish team. 
..I think my role on the team is to go out and be the defensive stopper and get on the boards," said Haney, who grabbed four rebounds and scored 11 points during the game. 
Defensively, the Irish were able to shut Boston College, even though they allowed 27 points on 
Please Recycle The Observer. 

The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
turnovers. The Eagles shot just under 24 percent from the field. 
Early in the game, it didn't look like that would be the case. Seven minutes into the first half, Boston College was leading by six points and Notre Dame was shooting approximately 12 per­cent from the field. But when Jeneka Joyce hit the court, something changed. Joyce, who has not even dressed for the last four games due to an Achilles' 
\j 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You con bank on us to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 

574/239-661 l • 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 

.@
fQUll JOUSINC 
LENDER Independent oflhe University 
tendon injury, had not taken 
very much shooting practice in 
the last few weeks. But within 
the minute she entered the 
game, she hit a 3-point shot to 
score the first three of 10 Irish 
points in the next minute. 
"I don't know why my shots were falling after not shooting for awhile," Joyce laughed after the game. "... I was just happy to be out there again." 
Those 10 points gave Notre Dame the lead, one of seven lead changes in the first half. With three minutes left in the first half a steal and lay-up by Nicole Conway gave the Eagles a one­point lead. But the Irish respond­ed when freshman Jackie Batteast, who collected her 11th double-double, hit a two-point shot and completed the three­point play on the foul shot. The Irish did not give up the lead for the rest of the game. 
The win gives Notre Dame sole possession of the No. 2 spot in the Big East, the spot it formerly shared with Boston College. It also marked the Irish's 49th straight home victory, in front of the third largest crowd in pro­gram history. 
The Irish will have two days off before facing St. John's on Wednesday at the Joyce Center. 
Notes 
. 
Eagles' forward Kim Mackie left the game in the second half after she hit her nose on the floor. Her status for Boston College's next game was unclear on Sunday. 

. 
Junior Alicia Ratay added 11 points on Sunday, to bring her career total to 1,207. With those points, she moved up two posi­tions in the Notre Dame all-time leading scorers, to 12th. 


Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

t ,. ?.~f,, 
·1 
~ 
11 
'I
:i,,, 
{{, i 
~ 
:~v !­
J _J 
Monday, February 11, 2002 page 18
The Observer . SPORTS 
SWIMMING 

Notre Dame swimmers qualify for Big East championships 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Spores Writer 

When he finished the 200-yard butterfly Saturday, sophomore Brian Coughlan looked up at the score­board in disappointment. 
The time he saw wasn't fast enough to qualify for Big East Championships, when~ most of his team will compete in two weeks. 
But that's because he was looking at the wrong time. 
Coughlan misread the scoreboard and accidentally read the lane next to him. In his lane, the scoreboard read 1:55.08 -good enough for a Big East berth. 
··1 heard my roommate yelling down at me," Coughlan said. "I was like, 'Why are you yelling at me? I didn't make the cut!"' 
Coughlan's finish undercut the qualifying time of 1 minute, 55.09 seconds by one hundredth of a sec­ond -a fingernail's difference in the finish. 
The finish was so close to the standard he sent coaches and score­keepers scurrying to look up the time standard to ensure he had made the cut. 
"He really put the work in," said senior co-captain Mike Koss. "He missed it by a couple of seconds last year, and to make it at the last pos­sible meet is just amazing." 
Coughlan was one of three mem­bers of the men's and women's teams who qualified for the Big East Championships Saturday in the men's team victory against Cleveland State University. Members of the women's team also competed in exhibition races to log qualifying times for the championships. 
On the women's side, junior Katie Cavadini moved most of her team to tears when she qualified for the 1,650 yard freestyle. 
Cavadini inspired the women's team, men's team and Cleveland State team to cheer throughout the 66-lap race, creating a deafening roar in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Cavadini swam the race in 17:39. 36, just about two seconds under the time standard. Teammate and distance standout Marie Labosky swam next to Cavadini throughout the race to keep her on track for the cut. 
"It was nice to have someone right there with me," Cavadini said ...She and her counter had the pace and signals worked out. I knew I only had about four seconds there with her.... I couldn't have done it with­out her." 
Sophomore Liane Watkins also earned herself a ticket to New York, qualifying in the 100-yard freestyle. Watkins missed making the cut ear­lier in the day in the 50-yard freestyle by only 6 one hundredths of a second. 
Both teams will compete at the Big East Championships in Uniondale, NY at the Goodwill Games Aquatic Center Feb. 21-23. The women will defend their Big East Title for the sixth consecutive year. The men placed fourth last year. 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gill0843@saintmarys.edu. 

Choosing a Major? You too can unlock the secrets of the ages in PLS! 
u I 

10v llt:. ~1t>D1..i~ (ng 'Sl\i.l.1)ot,4-T"'"T1 ~ ~ ~\.. "'BE.Alt> ?.1 
I 
I 
E~'-4 REA
I 
ft'u\1 i\11\•. 
l 
..J.,
,.
1 
I 
:­

\.l 
Bu,-i+,u'u OHL'-\ TEN ~aAt.s O\..t>! ~ow h1141~ "?c,~:11tu:?f 
Wi.lL, J: ~AVPU•t.l>To ~ A.\JE. 'ST\Jfl'\11.t.P U90N A 1'"S~A~£ \N EAA:smus 
~IC.~ !'t!Al>'­~Eftit.N,r. To 
~ Ate ~ttc.,~tn-~~ ~µ..,.,-" F,ll,ITill'!l,,llo-f 
\ 
~""' ~--l.£qi.lo&.'t, 'J: C11tt1c1Jll'1 Eft•UC.-', \,-~s h\tt'4Ult)T..,-UA1J'INS u~o,,., A ~n~L Q,. 
lJp"Bu,. ~!Jlhfl~To A ~'-~illiW~'-OF f-1u. ~' ifll C1.fffll•~ ISiJl'r. S~t,n~­1,-WAS °1fti,E "Th,.,. :I: 0Nil \l.o,n:... f.u..o \It£ Fo~MU\.A•••• 

*see tomorrow's Observer for the riveting rebuttal to this cartoon 
Informational meeting about the Program of Liberal Studies February 13, 2002 5:30pm LaFortune's Montgomery Auditorium 

·( Monday, February 11, 2002 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 

,,.,, 
~i+ FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED CUNNIG/J~ 

GOD YOUA PAP I HAD THE STRANGEST AWFUL! AND I DREAM UST NIGHT! I IVE JVST HAVE TO TSJ. YOU ABOUT IT! 
FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
' 

LET THE J'ASoN F1RST EVENT: ANO MARC.US WtNTER CRoSS-CouN~'t' GAMES COMMENCE.' SICEOAOOLING. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Light touch 57 Seward Peninsula city
1 Pointed a pistol 29 "Get lost!" 58 All set
6 Blockhead 31 Bootlegger's New Year 60 Pack away 
10 Quantities: Abbr. 
resolution? 62 Quentin
14 Mix-up 
33 Highlands hat 63 100-meter, e.g. 
15 Nabisco cookie 35 _ es Salaam 64 Scrabble
16 Epitome of player's Newredness 36 French girlfriend 
Year resolution? 17 Teetotaler's 37 Came in 
67 Cruise stopover New Year 
41 "I'm a Believer" 

68 Use a beeperresolution? 
band, with "the" 

69 Donnybrook19 Cotton unit 
43 Monopoly card 

70 Choreography20 Best guess: 44 Singer's syllable move
Abbr, 46 Born: Fr. 71 Not barefoot 
21 " Can" (Sammy Davis 47 Executioner's 72 Has a need for Jr. book) New Year Rogaine resolution?
22 French explorer La 50 Making sounds DOWN 
23 _-do-well 54 Oils and 1 Trembling trees watercolors
25 Comment of 2 Shortly approval 55 Lady-killers 3 Guru 
4 Flunking letters ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s Assigned task 


6 Has some success 7 Circled the sun 8 Meadow 9 Bare peak 
32 Hire

10 Palindromic pop group 34 "Same here" 
11 When to eat 37 John Glenn player in "The
12 Fib Right StuW13 Places for 38 Biblical landschurch bells 
18 Rooster's mate 39 Octopus's arm • 22 60's radical org. 40 Bongo, for one 24 Family-friendly, 42 Carson City's 
in cinema state: Abbr. 
Translation: That is not fine and if you value your ability to reproduce, you won't go. 
HOROSCOPE 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2002 CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Sidney Sheldon, Burt Reynolds, Jennifer Aniston, Sheryl Crow 
Happy Birthday: Get involved in groups and organizations this year that respond to causes you believe in. You will experience greater responsibilities involving institutions and large corporations. It is best to work behind the scenes where you will achieve the most. Your numbers are 19, 23, 25, 31, 34, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): There is no obstacle that you can't handle if you believe in yourself. It's time you made yourself heard, so speak up. Use your know-how to get things accomplished. Please yourself first and don't wony about what others think. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't be daunted by life's little set­backs. Take your time and let things unfold Limitations due to a lack of open communication are apparent so try hard to be honest and direct. 
00 

GEMlNI (May 21-June 20): Let your creative talents rise to the sur­face. You'll accomplish the most if you travel for business purposes. Your communication skills will help you achieve your goals, If you have an idea, present it Ot.l000 
CANCER Oune 21-July 22): Be
area 61 Embryo's site 
careful not to take on more than you
51 Sportscaster 64 Family M.O.'s 
can handle foday. Someone may tryHoward 65 "Yay, team!" · to burden you with all sorts of prob­
52 Dumbfounded 66 _ culpa lems that really don't concern you. It's time you learned to say no. Focus on yourself and your own chores.000
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You are
available by touch-tone phone: 

going through all sorts of changes. 
1-900-285·5656 ($1.20 per minute). 

Don't make hasty decisions regard­Annual subscriptions are available for the ing your relationships. Bide your best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 time and wait until you have a years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
EUGENIA LAST 

clearer assessment of your situation 
000 
VffiGO (Aug. 23-~epl 22): Use your creative talents to make your job more interesting. Your ability to work with fine but important detail will be admired and rewarded. 
000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0cl 22): You will be in a very good position today. You can have whatever you want if you use your intellectual charm. Your passionate mood will be well received by someone who .... interests you. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be alarmed by the changes taking place at home. Know in your heart that the end result will be to your advantage. Acceptance is the key to moving forward positively. 
00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nw 22-Dec. 21): Consider planning your next vaca­tion. It will lift your spirits and give you something to look forward to. It's time to talk to someone who may be able to shed some light on your future directicn. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Listen to the advice given by respected friends, Someone is likely to fead you into a new profes&onal direction that will be stimulating and make you money. 000 
AQUARIUS Oan. 20-Feb. 18): You can expect to have someone from your past on your mind. Don't hesitate to track him or her down. The connection should be much better this time. Be prepared to com­promise and make changes. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Opportunities to socialize with peo­ple from different backgrounds will spark all sorts of new ideas. You should try to create some of the innovative ideas you have been mulling over in your mind. 000 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
02002 UniverHI Pies Syndicate 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Birthday Baby: You are a generous friend and ~mpanion. You ~y sharing all that you know and all that you have with those you befriend. Your warmth and generosity will le.ad you into many interesting partner­
shi 

~eed advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name -------------------------­Address ------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 


l 
\· I 
' 
I . l 
h 

J 
i.
) 
I 
"­
f, 
f ',) 
I r 
I 
I 1 
I { 
I 
;> 
~} 
~ 
\l 
! 
! 
,1 
) 
t, 
1
,; 
'! 
,,,; 
'i 
t 
I J 
,/ 
f'i 
(
I '; I 
i i 
I I 
J 
I I 
,) 
i 
r 
t 
Campus Sports 

. 
Women's Basketball, p. 17 

. 
Swimming, p. 18 

. 
SMC Basketball, p. 15 



O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, February 11, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish defeat Hoyas in quadruple overtime 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Associate Sports Editor 

During one of the four overtime periods in Saturday's Notre Dame-Georgetown marathon game, Irish coach Mike Brey called his players around him and asked them a question. 
"I've got nothing to do this afternoon, what about you guys?" he said during a break in action. "Let's just stay 'til we win it." 
Notre Dame ended up sticking around awhile as the Irish beat the Hoyas 116-111 in the first quadru­ple-overtime game in Notre Dame basketball history. 
The two teams combined to score the most points in a Big East basketball game and were just two points behind tying the Division I record for points in a game set 12 years ago. It was also the longest game in Big East history. 
Chris Thomas set a school record for minutes played by staying in the game for all 60 minutes. The freshman point guard, who is now averaging 41.1 minutes per Big East game, finished with 22 points, 12 assists and eight rebounds. He committed just five turnovers, only one of which came in the final 40 minutes. 
"Who wouldn't want to be in a game like that?" Thomas said. "I felt if I took a break or asked for a breather, I'd be missing a beat. Coach asked me once in the first half if I needed a break, and he never asked me after that." 
Matt Carroll's 30 points set a new career high for the junior point guard. But his biggest shot of the night was a 3-pointer he made with 1:16 left in the final overtime period. The basket put the Irish up by four. The Hoyas would never draw closer than two the rest of the game. 
"Matty stepped up and kinda jolted us ahead," said David Graves, who finished with 15 points. "It was going to take a big shot like he had to win the game." 
Notre Dame also tied a Big East record for most rebounds in a game with 64, 10 more than the Hoyas grabbed. It was a strong change from the teams' first meeting, when Georgetown out-muscled and out­played the Irish around the basket. 
"It was a heck of a day," said Brey, who was an assistant at Duke during the legendary 1992 Duke­Kentucky regional final. "I've been in coaching for a 
see MEN'S/page 15 

> ' 
HOCKEY 

Irish come back to top No. 2 Michigan State 
By MATI ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 

In a season of ups and downs, the Notre Dame hock­ey team really needed its vic­tory against Michigan State Saturday. After dropping a 2­0 decision to the No. 3 Michigan State Spartans on Friday night, the Irish came back to beat MSU 3-2 on Saturday. 
The win ended a couple of streaks. For Notre Dame it was their first win after drop­
-.-~ 
ping four straight and seven of its last eight. For Michigan 
SPORTS 
AT AGLANCE 

AP Photo Ryan Humphrey and Torrain Jones go up to block a Georgetown shot in Notre Dame's 116-111 quadruple overtime win over the Hoyas. 
State, it was its first loss on home ice since October 2000. In the past 16 months the Spartans had amassed a 30­0-3 record in that time before falling to the Irish on Saturday night. 
More importantly for Notre Dame is the confidence gained from defeating a ranked opponent on the road. 
"This was a good win for us," said junior Connor Dunlop. "We have been strug­gling as of late, so this will really help our confidence." 
The Irish get out to an early lead on Saturday. At 14:02 into the first period Neil Komadoski put the puck past Michigan State goalie Ryan Miller. and Notre Dame took a 1-0 lead. The Spartans struck back quickly. Just 2:48 after Komadoski 's goal Duncan Keith tied the game when he beat Irish goalie Morgan Cey. 
The Irish weren't done in the first. David Inman came through with 18 seconds left in the first to put Notre Dame up 2-1. 
In the second period Notre Dame picked up where they left off. At 1 :43 into the sec­ond Brett Lebda increased the Irish lead to 3-1. Rob Globke had a break away down the right side. Lebda jumped in late and was fed a perfect pass from Globke that he put away for the score. 
The Spartans came back once again. At 6:36 into the second Brad Fast added a goal to cut the Notre Dame lead to 3-2. 
After that the defenses took over. Although they were out­shot 20-4 in the second peri­od, the Irish hung onto their 3-2 lead through the second. In the third Cey stoned the Spartans. and the Irish walked away with the victory. 
see HOCKEY/page 13 
National Sports 

. 
Olympics, p. 14 


. 
NCAA Basketba II , p. 16 . NBA,p. 12 


WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Barksdale leads Irish in victory 
By KATIE MCVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 

On Thursday Muffet McGraw said Amanda Barksdale was due for a breakout game. With the amount of work the junior center was doing. she was look­ing for the numbers to show up on the score sheet. But, not even McGraw was expecting the per­formance she got from Barksdale cin Sunday. 
During a 60-44 victory against the Boston College Eagles, Barksdale set a new school record in blocks and led the Irish to sole possession of the No. 2 spot in the Big East. 
"I think [Barksdale] definitely exceeded our expectations today with 11 blocked shots," McGraw said. "She is a great shot block­er, probably the best in the country ... she did a great job of being there, of being a presence in the lane." 
Barksdale, who sat out several games early this season due to a stress injury in her right leg, topped her former career best of eight blocked shots. Eight blocked shots had also been the school record. Now, it's 11. 
Boston College's size may have had something to do with those 11 blocked shots. 
"They had a shorter line-up than we did," Barksdale said. 
But more likely was the fact that the Eagles tried to drive the ball into the lane and shoot over Barksdale. In recent games, teams have kept more to the outside. The Eagles, who often drive the ball inside and then kick it out to the outside, tried plenty of shots from in the paint. 
"I think that lately teams have been trying to drive around her," McGraw said. "We've been doing some stuff to let her work on people driving in." 
Apparently, that included blocking lots of shots. In the first half, Barksdale was on pace to tie her previous career high eight blocks, knocking down four in the first 20 minutes. But in the second half she caught fire, preventing seven shots from even getting near the bas­ket. 
"When you get in there [Barksdale] just seems to be try­ing a lot of things," Eagles head coach Cathy Inglese said. 
Barksdale's record-setting blocks, impressive as they were, were only part of a solid Irish 
see B-BALL/page 17 
. Men's Basketball at Rutgers, Thursday, 9 p.m. 
OBSERVER
. Women's Basketball vs. St. John's, Wednesday, 
onl!ne
7 p.m. 

. Track and Field, Big East Championships, Saturday ­
http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 
Sunday 







