


. National Rice Month, Food History Month to be celebrated 
ByJOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
From the mountain bike rest­ing in the corner of the entrance to the brightly colored display promoting National Rice Month to the sounds of Creed complementing a meal, North Dining Hall has been awash with new ideas. 
"The dining hall is not only about eating, but also about entertaining," said John Glon, North Dining Hall manager and previous general manager of the food service support facility on campus. "We want to make this a hang-out place for stu­dents." 
One such way to keep stu­dents entertained has been through various food-related contests and promotions. Glon and his staff have been busy offering educational and nutri­tional information related to rice in September to honor National Hice Month. Other rice-related endeavors include a cooking class led by Executive Chef Denis Ellis on preparing difl'erent rice combi­nations, and a contest in which students guess the amount of rice in a jar. The person who comes closest to the actual amount will receive a CD play­er. 
"We want to give information to the students that they may be able to use later in life. Our goal is to help impart knowl­edge while also making it entertaining and fun," Glon said. 
Eighty students participated in the Rice Hace held this week, another addition to National Rice Month activities. The par­ticipants ran from North Dining Hall to South Dining Hall, picked up a secret item, then returned to North Dining Hall. The person or team that com­pleted the race closest to the 
Friday, September20, 2002 ND's best 


friends 
page 12 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 19 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Bishop, Foley demand Smith's resignation 
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
Erik Smith, former Student Union Secretary, was persuaded to resign Sunday night after serving at the post for the past five months. 
"It caught me completely off guard," said Smith. 
Pat Hallahan, chief of staff, informed Smith that there were problems with the minutes that he records and asked him to resign at an impromptu meeting late Sunday night, said Smith. 
Before resigning, Smith asked to meet with Libby Bishop, stu­dent body president, and Trip Foley, student body vice president. Hallahan 

informed him Bishop and Foley were not available Sunday night or Monday. Hallahan could not be· reached for comment Thursday night. 
Foley said that this should not have come as a shock to Smith. 
"We had had talks throughout the year and we had decided that this was the best decision," Foley said. 
No formal memos were given to Smith concerning his job performance, Smith said. 
Smith's job as secretary was to record the minutes for Student Senate, Campus Life Council and Executive Cabinet. Foley and Smith had discussed the format, font style and length of the minutes pre­viously, Smith said. 
The former secretary said those changes were made as requested and was under the impression that the minutes were acceptable. Following the Sept. 12 Senate meeting Bishop told him they were 
what she was looking for, Smith said. "They never told me they worried about my ability to do the job," said Smith. 
Smith mPt with Foley and Hallahan Monday before the CLC meeting. Bishop was not in attendance due to a doctor's appointment, Smith said. 
"I went in thinking we could sit down, work things out and reconcile our difference," Smith said. 
He said he was informed that if he did not resign actions would be taken to remove him, regardless of his approval by the Senate. 
Foley denied that Smith was given the ultimatum of either leaving on his own terms or being removed. "We [Bishop, Smith and I] came to a con­sensus," said Foley. 
At Tuesday's Senate Oversight Committee meeting, senators were informed that Smith would likely be 
see SMITH/page6 
North Dining Hall revamps image 

amount of time they predicted dining rooms have remained conscious of vegan and vege­won a mountain bike. No music-free. tarian dining preferences, watches were allowed. "Although I don't personally ensuring that there is at least Promotions and contests have care for some of the music they one vegetarian and vegan alter­
not  been  
the  only  
n  e  w  

changes that North Dining Hall has under­gone since last year. The addi­tion of music has created, according to 
"The dining hall is not only about eating, but also about entertaining.,, 
John Glon 
manager 
Glon, a "fun 
atmosphere for students to dine in and socialize." For students who prefer a quiet meal, two 
such as 
offered in response to student Activities Office and the comments. Additionally, North Student Union Board to ensure Dining I lall has been especially 
see DINING HALL/page 4 
Speaker addresses SMC's Catholic identity 
. Symposium identifies Catholic aspects of College campus 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 
Many Catholics follow the doctrine and beliefs of the Church but often do not reflect or question why the doctrine is taught and followed, Monika Hellwig told the Saint Mary's community Thursday. 
College students, f acuity and administration gathered on campus for the "Catholic Identity Symposium," led by Hellwig, executive director for the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities. 
The purpose of the discus­sion was to delve into those issues affecting Catholic col­leges and how they particular­ly affect the identity of Saint Mary's. 
"This is a very significant topic for Saint Mary's College, our Catholic identity and how it affects our campus," College President Marilou Eldred said. 
Prior to Hellwig's lecture, attendees viewed a video pre­sentation of students and fac­ulty sharing their thoughts on Catholicism at the College. 
"What is so interesting about the comments is that they were all grateful for what they have found at Saint Mary's, but not analytical or inquisi­tive of what they have found," said Hellwig. 
see CATHOLIC/page 4 
play. I think that it is a good idea and that many people will pre­fer it," said sophomore Eric Wooldridge. 
Food selection and variety have also become a priority. An increase in healthy choices, 
soy milk, are now 
native on the menu every day. Greater selections of fresh fruits, grilled vegetables, fish and grilled or roasted meats have added healthy variety to the dining hall menu. 
Glon said that many of the changes students have been seeing came from student com­ments. Comment cards and verbal suggestions are taken very seriously by the dining hall staff, which works together with hall rectors, the Student 
Friday, September 20, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
Keg theft 
Keg stealing is the latest college sport to hit off-campus living since the invention of playing cups on the back porch. And believe us, as unwilling participants we should know. 
The goal of the Shamon game is to pro­Nelligan and tect the keg at 
Sarah Nestor
any cost from 
unsuspecting 
party crashers. News 
A few options Wire Editor include, but are 
and 
not limited to: 
Saint Mary's 
Sitting on your 
News Editor 
keg, but of 
course this limits 
any possible keg 
stand marathons. 
Employing the biggest, badest, guy you know to be your "keg bouncer" and of course this means free beer for him all night long (we are now accepting applications). 
Rent a guard dog, preferably one big and mean but still cute enough to interest the opposite sex, to pro­tect the keg. 
Or you could get a decoy keg of Natty Light, because who really wants to drink that anyway. 
Always stay in the vicinity of your keg, no matter how tempting it is to wonder to the party twenty houses away. 
If need arises to go on the defense here are some tried and true methods for the recovery of the keg: 
Send your quickest friends to run after the keg thieves. 
Make sure you take off any cum­bersome shoes and fly after the keg (high highs all not the most con­ducive shoes when such a situation occurs). 
And this we know from experi­ence, "PUT DOWN THAT 40, it makes you a lot lighter and agile." 
Remember to cover your own house because you don't need the thieves coming back in and taking advantage of the remainder of your partying supplies or anything else for that matter. 
Most importantly do not let this ruin your night, because there's always the 'Backer waiting for you. 
When hosting a party remember that it is always about having fun but sometimes there are unfortu­nate incidents that occur, such as having your keg stolen. In the end it is about the memories you make and you'll always have a story to tell the grandkids. 
Heck, your license plate could be stolen next weekend but fight the social hierarchy and have a good time. And by the way has anyone seen an extra tap hanging about. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu and Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Correction: A picture in yesterday's Scene section· ac.cidentally misidentified the actors Gary Cooper and Ingrid Berkman as Humphrey Bogart and Mary Astir. The Observer regrets the error. 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Dayton 
Bush looks for Contemporary 
authority from Dance 
Congress company moves SMC 
President George dance troupe per­
African style 
W. Bush requests forms at Saint 
military force to Mary's with work­
overthrow Iraqi shop. 
leader Saddam Hussein. 
page 8 page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Sophomore Hoad Trip Buses leave at 4 p.111. to an unknown destination. Students return Sunday by 1 p.m. 

. 
Latino Freshman Hctrcat' Sacred Ileart Parish Center 

. 
Asian Amcri_can Students Hctreat, Sacred Heart Parish Center 


. 807 Mass, 8 p.m. llammes Student Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Dayton Contemporary Dance Company, ()'Laughlin Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today"s Lunch: Texas chili, chicken seafood gumbo, sausage pineapple pizza, meatloaf, scalloped corn casserole, car­rots with honey-orange sauce, cherry crisp. Szechuan vegetable stir-fry. grilled Tilapia, potatoes with spinach, broccoli spears, oatmeal, scrambled eggs. sausage patties, potato triangles, bread­ed cheese sticks, Chicken Fajita, Lone Star rice 
Today's Dinner: Texas chili, chicken seafood gumbo, sausage pineapple pizza, sauerbraten, Zurn-Zurn potato salad, peas & pearl onions, cherry crisp, chicken teriyaki, meatball grinder 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
IJ.I
:c 
ti 
IJ.I 
~ 
~ 
<
(.) 

..I 0 HIGH 81 HIGH 
73 
LOW 69 LOW 59 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Wring out the old, bring in the new 
Saint Michael's Laundry looks for ways to attract stu­dents to use their various laundry services. 
VIEWPOINT 
The Observer editorial: Stadium health care 
After the recent death of a 64-year­old Notre Dame alumnus at the Michigan football game, it could be time to update sta­
SCENE 
Dogs In the dorms 
Man's best friend is all over campus and Scene intro­duces readers to the dogs of Notre Dame residence halls. 
dium health facili­ties. 
page 10page 7 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student reports stolen box 
A student reported the theft of a cable box from his unlocked Keenan Hall room between 8 p.m. and 10:15 p.m. on Wednesday. The case is still pending with no suspects. 
Assault goes to prosecutor 
NDSP is turning an assault case from the summer over to the pros­ecutor's office for review of crimi­nal charges. The case was first reported July 22 to have occurred at the LaFortune Student Center and it has been under investiga­
tion since.  The case is also being  
referred  for  administrative  
review.  

Visitor reports missing bike 
NDSP relocated eight vehicles Wednesday in the D06 North Lot to a different location to due to work in the parking lot. 
NDSP respond to accident 
NDSP responded to a two-car accident in the drive between 
Corby Hall and the Basilica. injuries were reported. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Spaghettini Puttanesca, Southwestern pasta sauce, basil-garlic linguine. Hawaiian pizza, cheese & vegetable pie, Winter-blend vegetables, beef chop suey, Cajun­baked Pollack, roast top round, baked sweet potatoes, long grain & wild rice, ham & cheese on white, Steakhouse fries, soft pretzel, chicken tempura, California Eldorado casserole 
Today's Dinner: Potato Pancakes, Hot Chunky Applesauce, Stuffed Green Peppers, Tuna Casserole, roast turkey Breast, Bread Stuffing, Baked Sweet Potatoes, Sauteed Chicken Breast, Steakhouse Fries, Soft Pretzel, Broccoli­Garlic Tofu, BBQ Caribbean chicken, 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 75 HIGH 67 LOW 50 LOW 47 
No 
SPORTS 
Taking off 
Notre  Dame  
men's  and  
women's  cross  

country teams pre­pare for their invi­tational 
page 12 
page 24 
Locked bike reported stolen 
NDSP received a report of a locked bike being taken from a bike rack outside St. Edward's Hall on Sept. 12. There are no suspects. 
Visitor reports mi~ing bike 
NDSP relocated eight vehicles Wednesday in the D06 North Lot to a different location to due to work in the parking lot. 
Police investigate car thefts 
Police are investigating two sep­arate reports of motor vehicle thefts in the student South Stadium lot. One case was report­ed to have occurred Wednesday between 7 a.m. and 3:20 p.m. The other case was also reported to have occurred Wednesday between 12:30 p.m. and 3:20 p.m. 
Missing bike reported 
NDSP rece: ved a report of a missing bike that was unlocked and taken from a bike rack out­side DeBartolo Hall. The incident was reported to have occurred Tuesday between 12:30 p.m. and 
1:20 p.m. There are no suspects. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pasta, marinara sauce, cheese quesadillas, Texas rice, black bean, vegetable chili, corn bread, sizzling chicken, cesar salads, fish & chips, Egyptian BBQ chicken, macaroni & cheese, Chefs vegetable, Meat Lover's pizza, cheese pizza, deli bar with egg salad 
Today's Dinner: Chefs pasta, mari­nara sauce, cabbage roll with bulgar & cheese, roasted carrots, baked potatoes, steak sandwich turkey burger, vegetable patty, French fries, chicken parmesan. pasta parmesan, Chefs vegetable, garlic bread, turkey swiss, calzones, cheese pizza, deli bar with egg salad 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 68 HIGH 66 LOW 45 LOW 50 
Atlanta 83 / 70 Boston 78 / 67 Chicago 74 / 57 Denver 78 / 47 Houston 83 / 61 Las Vegas 92 I 68 Miami 86 / 78 Nashville 83 / 68 New York 77 / 67 Pittsburgh 84 / 55 Salt Lake City 73 / 51 San Francisco 76 / 57 Seattle 70 / 47 Washington 83 / 64 

Friday, September 20, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . NEWS 
University disputes controversial birth-control survey 
sy. In 2000, the organization In addition, University per­"When a woman is preg­more Kevin Burke, disagreed.
ByMATI BRAMANTI 
called on the United Nations sonnel are not permitted to nant, care for the student is ''I don't think it's up to the 
News Writer 
to expel Vatican City from its refer students to organiza­primary." said Gude, adding school to provide contracep­ranks. Kissling has referred to tions that provide contracep­that unmarried female stu­tion," said Burke, adding that 
Most Catholic universities in Cardinal John O'Connor as "a tive methods or services. This dents who become pregnant Notre Dame should follow the United States fail to pro­bully" and Pope John Paul II mandate extends to student are not subject to disciplinary Catholic doctrine. vide adequate reproductive as "an authoritarian." organizations as well. In 1996, action. The Catholic Church forbids health options to their female The group's survey of Notre the Women's Resource Center, "No matter how life starts, all artificial forms of birth students, said a recent study Dame found that certain ser­which provides information on life is sacred," Gude added, in control, including induced by a radical Catholic splinter vices are offered at the women's issues, including sex­response to CFFC's calls for abortion, oral contraceptives, group. University Health Center, uality and health, was sanc­easier access to abortion for and condoms. 
The report "Student Bodies: including pap smears, breast tioned by administrators for students in Catholic institu­Other students feel that, as Reproductive Health Care at cancer screenings, and tests distributing literature with tions. private institutions, Catholic Catholic Universities," com­for HIV and other sexually positive references to artificial Students offered differing universities have the right to piled survey results from 133 transmitted diseases. contraception. responses to the birth-control set policies for their students, Catholic colleges and universi­However, other services were Notre Dame administrators issue, which has provoked Catholic or not. ties and determined that only not available; the center does came out against many of the heated debate on campus and "I think the ban on contra­12 percent of Catholic institu­not provide condoms or oral study's conclusions. in the editorial pages The ception should be upheld," tions provide some form of contraceptives, in keeping The report's claim that Observer. said Holy Cross second-year contraception to their stu­with Notre Dame policy. "Catholic universities fail to "The infirmary is the only student MacKenzie Ulm. "If dents. University medical person­provide support option we have, so they should you don't like it, don't come 
Organizers of the study. nel declined to comment. but services for [pregnant] stu­be able to refer students" to here." Catholics For a Free Choice, a sources in the administration dents" is simply untrue. said facilities that offer contracep­pro-choice think-tank, and its confirmed that birth control Sister Mary Louise Gude, tion, said Notre Dame sopho­president, Frances Kissling, measures are not available on assistant vice president for more Lauren Wills. Contact Matt Brarnanti at are no strangers to controver-campus. Student Affairs. Other students, such sopho-mbramant@nd.edu 
·,' ·:.:...,..~.~. ~/:-~·-:.·...:-··,,. -:· -. -· .. ·:'?} 1" • 
. ' 
BA3~~~~ ,, 
•ii• . · 
1 .U. Michigan lawyers: Court · should not hear suit's appeal 
court's decision in Grutter student body, but these
" Michigan Daily 
v. Bollinger. "It just won't advantages require the 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. get any better than that University to have repre­The U.S. Supreme Court no matter what the Court sentatives from minority
We do not live in asustainaMe dvi&1ation. 
decides." groups.
should refuse to hear an
Thus, sustalnabUity ls the most in,ortant single The event headlined ..If you want to solve any
·cf, appeal in the lawsuit
idea for universities for the next century, Sci•tists and engineers are the 
panelists including problem, you need a team
./ challenging the
prindpal wstodians of the technological components of the sustainablity dUemma. 
. University of Michigan University interim Provost of people with many
As quickly as possible, we must leat1 how to fully develop the edu<ational ud 
Paul Courant and General skills," he said. "A diverseLaw School's admissions
researdi programs that wiU steer our profeuional thinking ud our tedinology base 
in sustainable dlredions. policy, outside counsel for Counsel Marvin Krislov, as student body provides our the University said well as outside counsel for students an experience Wednesday during the the University and those within the world we live."
The need for deon replacements for poluting proatsses represents one of the thret maior challenges fadng 
filing amicus briefs. In regard to the specifics
green cheni$try. In this area, the reliance of oxidation tedinologles upon chlorine or biochenic11Uy un<0mmcm University Admissions metol Ions often burdens the environment with persistent artd/or bloaccumulatlve pollutants. However, Lawsuits program. "The whole country has of the admissions policy biochemical oxidations, which usually employ dloxygen or hydrogen peroxide activated by iron e111ymes, "We will ask the court a stake in these cases," currently under consider­occur without a,mparable pollutfon. Thus, green diemlsts need to develop non•toxic catalysts that activate to deny the appeal and President Mary Sue ation in the Grutter case, the natural oxidants In water, die most Important ,-een solvent, to attain e<onomlcally attractive proce55es. not to hear the case." Coleman said. She said Law School Dean Jeffrey Historimly, rapid oxidative and/or hydrolytk catalyst degradation has defeated . · University attorney the event was a way to Lehman said the most attempts to advance this fleld. Wt have solved the cata~st degradation Maureen Mahoney said. present an overview of University desires in each problem. , . . ..... ;.,.,) 
cu~tu.. She said the 6th U.S. where the admissions entering class a "critical 
;f~;/::,l .. -.~. i~~~i}~i~)<· ,-' ~·--nmental lawsuits currently stand mass" of minority students
Science & Circuit Court of Appeals
·· . . Over t~J!J~.tw~ de:cades, my grm tas developed higWy effective peraxlde• . as well as a way to illus­who feel comfortable in
Technology based its decisio~ on the
··:: ·~ a,cli~atpip c,a!*sts, !!,~n}ter11@~•1~ process in which oxfdt~ a~d ·-?,. trate the University's deep their environment.
~tfN11trt, 0utu, • . " Su~re ~ e Co1:1 rt s .1 9 7 8 
ydraljSJ~•ltivf ~pot!!@ ,;.J !!I. cataly~f !IIOlf'ules II'..• 1de\1Jified ?·. : , and unwavering commit­In doing so, he said the
-'·. ·. .. . ·w ..~; Clld··-,.··.1-1v,.~.ta .. f ·:;,., ... ,. ,y,.'2; rulmg 1n Un1vers1ty of 
•" * '"' ~·-;p;.-.:. t"'' < +~ ·,:,:~""-"-~•California Board of ment to diversity. University looks at each 
. tor·· des1 · ,·.
!Jfllrllt'l··11111 J • ,.,. , Regents v. Bakke, which "I am proud of application individually, found diversity to be a Michigan's leadership in using race as one of many compelling interest, and developing admissions factors in evaluating 
therefore simply policies that are fair and applicants. equal," Coleman said. ..It is important to us to
approved the status quo. 
"The Law School has Courant said there are be able to say unequivo­
won the case,,. she said, enormous concrete educa­cally that anyone who is referrin to the a pellate tional benefits to a diverse here is qualified to be 
Friday, September 20th 
"Como nace una novela" (How a Novel Is Born): On El vuelo de la reina (Alfaguara Award) and The Tango Singer (forthcoming) (presented in Spanish) . Tomas Eloy Martinez, Rutgers University 
4:30 p.m. in the Department ofSpecial Collections, Hesburgh Library 
5:30 p.m. Reception in Department ofSpecial Collections to follow 
!lenowned author, joun:ialist, and literary scholar, Tomas Eloy Martinez recently won the imp~rtant Alfaguara Pnze for the novel El vuelo de la reina (novel 2002). He has also pub!ished among others_El suefio argentino (essays, 1999); Lugar comun la muerte (short stories, 1998); Santa Evita (novel, 1995), which was translated to more than 30 languages); La rnano del amo (novel, 1991); The Peron Novel (novel, 1985 J, translated to 
12 languages). 
Co-sponsor:d b~ the ~epartment ofRomance Languages and Literatures and the Hes?urgh Li branes wi_th support from the Kellogg Institute ofInternational Studies, the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, and the College ofArts and Letters" 
here," Lehman said. 
The event marked the first opportunity for the public to hear directly from the outside counsel representing the University in both the Law School and undergraduate cases. Both John Payton and Mahoney clarified legal issues and highlight­ed the national impor­tance of the pending deci­sions. 
Attorneys for the inter­venors were also invited to clarify their parties' interest in the cases. 
Miranda Massie, attor­ney for the intervenors in the Law School case, said she had three goals --to make sure what is at stake involves fundamen­tal questions of democra­cy, to show affirmative action is a step toward fairness and to increase activism. 
"In a society as segre­gated as ours it shouldn't be a surprise that we still have gaps to address," she said. 

Friday, September 20, 2002 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
GABRIEL TORRES/The Observer Students participate In North Dining Hall's Rice Race, a promotion that the cafeteria Is running for Natlonal Rice Month. Participants raced from North to South Dining Hall, where they retrieved a secret Item and rushed back to the starting point. The winner received a mountain bike. 
Catholic 
continued from page 1 
said Hellwig. 
While Hellwig generalizes Catholics into two categories, she explained that no one fits perfectly into either group. 
"There is polarity in the Church, not between bad and good guys, but between Catholics in the Church," said Hellwig. "There are people who greatly fear we will lose the core teachings, and still believe in the Church before the sec­ond Vatican council. Then there are people who have gone deeper into Scripture and read the historical context." 
These two categories of peo-
HAPPY 
20TH 
MEGAN! DON'T 
BE dSCARED ! LOVE, 
2 
M CN 
pie affect Catholic identity because there are varying opin­ions on the correct way to operate as a Catholic college. 
'Tm not coming here with a magic potion, because it is something we have to struggle through," said Hellwig. "We have to take responsibility but there is not an easy answer." 
Hellwig divided the aspects that affect Catholic identity on campus into two categories, one being the quality of life on campus. into which she includ­ed the interrogation between study, socialization and prayer. 
"What distinguishes Catholic institutions from secular col­leges is the interrogation of prayer," she said. "There is a concern for everyone on cam­pus, from the president to the janitor, because we are all formed in the image of God." 
The second category, the educational and intellectual quality of the campus, relates to the curriculum construction. educational goals, understand­ing of community dimensions and the importance of stimulat­ing the imagination. 
"A critical aspect of Catholic identity of colleges is that we not think of the future as what position we will have or how much money we will make, but to see the future not in terms of a career but as a vocation," said Hellwig. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

MAYBE YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT Us. 
USDA "Prime" Steaks 
Dry Aged & Cut to Order. 
Exquisite Fresh Fish and Seafood. Wine Spectator Award of Excellence. Live Entertainment. Reservations too! 
We're EasternPacific Grille and Bar. Featuring the Fusion Cuisine of Chef Sean Garrett and his staff. 
Private Dining Rooms Available. 
. ~~01li1CT>~«.ml« 
grille & bar 
EASTERN PA(lfl( GRILLE AND BAR-50I NORTH MILES AVENUE .. SOUTH BEHD, IN 46617 -514-Z33-1300 
Dining Hall 
continued from page 1 
that customer suggestions are heard and implemented. 
"We have worked very hard at getting customer comments and doing something about them," Glon said. "We are not going to please everybody, but we are sure going to try. This is the stu­dents' dining hall ... they are our guests." 
Future ideas include implementing trial periods for different kinds of food, such as Mediterranean or Cuban dishes, and addi­tions like spice racks or a shrimp option in the stir-fry bar. October is Food History Month and North Dining Hall plans to make December a Bakery month with cooking demonstrations, displays and a gingerbread house contest. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 


Law Fair 
Friday, September 27 11:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Joyce Athletic &Convocation Center 
-·y. 
t
~._~-;: 
Representatives from approximately 60 law schools will be available to answer questions and to distribute application materials and bulletins. 

Friday, September 20, 2002, COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Bush looks for authority from Congress 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush asked Congress Thursday for authority to "use all means," including military force if necessary, to disarm and overthrow Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein if he does not quickly meet United Nations demands that he aban­don all weapons of mass destruction. 
At the U.N., Iraqi President Saddam Hussein delivered a defiant written message taunting the United States while claiming that Iraq has no chemical, bio­logical or nuclear weapons and saying he welcomed inspections to prove it. 
Secretary of State Colin Powell said that Saddam's latest state­ment itself represented a back­ing away from his earlier promise to grant weapons inspectors unfettered access. 
The proposal Bush sent to Capitol Hill would give him broad war-making authority. "If you want to keep the peace, you've got to have the authoriza­tion to use force," he told reporters in the Oval Office. 
The president worked to build support for a vote by Congress before lawmakers go home to campaign for the Nov. 5 elec­tions, and legislative leaders said the vote could come in two weeks. Bush's proposed resolu­tion says Iraq has repeatedly violated U .N. resolutions and international law by possessing chemical and biological weapons, seeking nuclear weapons, repressing the Iraqi people and consorting with ter­rorists. 
Although Democratic leaders predicted quick approval of a resolution on Iraq, they said they might want to make changes. 
uwe don't want to be a rubber stamp, but we do want to be helpful and supportive," said Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D. "Congress has a role here, and we'll assert that role whenever it is necessary or appropriate." 
Some Senate Democrats, who met behind closed doors Thursday evening to discuss Iraq, assailed Bush's proposal. Sen. Russ Feingold, D-Wis., said the measure was "incredibly broad" and unacceptable. 
Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin, D-Mich., said he would like the resolution to specify that Bush needs a U.N. resolution backing the use of force. "Going alone has some very significant risks," Levin said. 
Republicans disagreed. 
"One veto in the U.N. Security Council shouldn't obstruct us doing what we have to do," said Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala. 

President George W. Bush Insisted Thursday that military force must be used If Iraqi president Saddam Hussein does not relanqulsh all weapons of mass destruction. 
GOP leaders praised Bush's October. It reads: "The president is proposal. 'Tm perfectly happy As drafted, Bush's resolution authorized to use all means that with the language," said Senate would authorize him to use force he determines to be appropriate, Minority Leader Trent Lott, R­unilaterally if he deemed neces­including force, in order to Miss. He said he expected a sary without waiting for the U.N. enforce the United Nations Senate vote the first week in to act. Security Council resolutions." 
AUSTRIA 
U.N. weapons inspectors gear up for return to Baghdad 
Associated Press 
VIENNA 
U.N. weapons inspectors gearing up for a return mission to Iraq will have to overcome daunting obstacles to shed light on Saddam Hussein's nuclear pro­gram, the chief nuclear arm inspector said Thursday. 
Four years after they were pulled out of Baghdad, the International Atomic Energy Agency's core team of 18 nuclear inspectors will rely heavily on new sleuthing technology if they're deployed to uncover evidence Saddam may have concealed, head inspector Jacques Baute told reporters. 
Although the nuclear inspectors have been in and out of Iraq since 1991, enduring sandstorms, scorpions and subterfuge, the stakes have never been higher: Their findings could stoke or undermine the U.S. effort to galvanize global support for an invasion. 
"We're like policemen trying to find one murderer among millions of peo­ple," Baute conceded. "The probability seems quite low. The group of inspectors is small, while the country is quite big." 
"But if you use the right techniques, the chances become quite good," he added. "A nuclear program needs a 
large infrastructure. That's something that benefits us." 
The Vienna-based IAEA, the United Nations' nuclear watchdog, put its team on alert after Iraq's surprise announce­ment this week that it would accept the inspectors' return. 
The agency says the team could leave as soon as the U.N. Security Council clears the mission and visa and travel arrangements are nailed down. 
In New York, Hans Blix. the chief U.N. weapons inspector. told the Security Council Thursday that if all goes well at talks scheduled with the Iraqis in Vienna for Sept. 30, he could have an advance team on the ground by Oct. 15 and that some early inspections could be con­ducted soon afterward. 
With council approval, Blix later told reporters, "will go there with a small advance team as soon as possible. We will select some sites that we think are interesting to go to in the early phases, so it's not like it takes two months before we can send any guys out there in the field. It will be much earlier than that." Blix said. 
Blix had recently said his inspectors would need several weeks from the time they arrived in Baghdad until monitor­ing could actually begin. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hurricane Isidore Heads Toward Cuba: 
Hurricane Isidore gathered strength and moved slowly Thursday toward Cuba's western tip and its small Isle of Youth, prompting the government to board up schools and move tens of thousands of people to safer areas. Isidore, the second Atlantic hurricane of the 2002 season, was expected to drench Cuba's western half through the weekend, with a possible 2 feet of rain. 
Greenspan to be knighted by Queen: 
Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan will receive an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth II next week, Buckingham Palace said Thursday. Greenspan, who has helped steer the U.S. economy for 15 years, will be honored for his con­tribution to global economic stability. Because he is not a British citizen, Greenspan cannot use "Sir" in front of his name, but he can put the letters KBE after his name. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Experts warn on food supply threat: 
A year after the Sept. 11 attacks, the United States remains vulnerable to bioterrorism aimed at farms that produce the nation's food, a panel of scientists said in a report released Thursday. "It's not a mat­ter of 'if.' It's a matter of 'when,"' said R. James Cook, a committee member from Washington State University. "While there may be a very low proba­bility now, what about in 20 years?" 
West Nile kills 23rd adult in Illinois: 
The death toll from West Nile virus in Illinois climbed to 23 Thursday in what is by far the worst outbreak in the nation since the disease was first detected in the United States in 1999. The Illinois Health Department announced anoth­er death and 33 new human cases of the virus, bringing the state's total to 457. The most recent death was that of a 73-year-old woman from Chicago. She died Tuesday. 
Doctor accused of molesting 2 people: 
A doctor who once headed the Presidential Advisory Council on AIDS and HIV has been accused by state regulators of sexually molesting two patients at his office. Dr. R. Scott Hitt, an AIDS specialist and gay activist, said he touched one patient inappropriately in August 2000 and crossed a boundary with anoth­er patient one month earlier, according to a formal accusation filed by the Medical Board of California. 
Detroit Hit With Syphilis Epidemic: Detroit has been hit with the biggest outbreak of syphilis in the nationan epidemic that has led to a shake-up in the state Health Department. Health offi­cials said the reason for the crisis is that city and state officials became lax in their battle against the disease after a drop-off in cases during the 1990s. Detroit had 245 new cases of syphilis this year as of July 30, and the number is likely to reach 500 by year's end. 

Friday, September 20, 2002 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
U-WIRE
"I also would like you to with them," said Smith. 
know, however, that I am only Bishop nominated Smith last
Smith 
resigning because I am being spring. In her recommenda­firmly persuaded to do so," tion letter to the Senate, she 
Police: Missing IU 
continued from page 1 
Smith said in his letter. spoke highly of Smith and 
resigning and were asked to review the process for impeachment as stated in the constitution, should he not resign, 
said Rick Harris, a senator f r o m Siegfried Hall. 
" W e didn't have t h e 

s t r a i g h t Smith word," said Fisher Hall Senator Neil Vargas. "Trip asked us to go over that to see that we had the same interpretation of the constitution... 
Article IV. Section 1, No. 4 of the constitution states that any official appointed and approved by the Senate is subject to removal for miscon­duct of office following a two­thirds vote by the Senate. 
Harris said that it was con­fusing at Tuesday's meeting as to what the misconduct pertained to. 
"Eric did a good job while he was secretary and in my opinion there has been no evidence presented to me that would constitute a removable or impeachable offense," said Harris. 
Smith met with Bishop on Wednesday to submit his let­ter of resignation. During the meeting, Bishop suggested that he rephrase his letter because parts of it were too harsh, Smith said. 
Bishop couldn't be reached for comment Thursday. 
Bishop informed senators at Wednesday's Senate meet­ing that Smith had submitted his letter of resignation. The letter was not provided to senators because Smith resigned to Bishop -not the Senate. said Foley. Senators received an e-mailed version of the letter from Smith Wednesday night following the meeting. 
In his resignation letter, Smith said, "Officially, I am resigning to spend more time on the real reason I am here at Notre Dame: my studies. I also feel that I need to give more of myself through gen­eral community service." 
He also wrote that he could perform the job correctly and would be an asset to the bod­ies that he would serve. 
The letter also said, "I sup­pose that there is a difference of opinion where it matters most, however, and I am not being allowed to continue the job asked of me." 
Smith said the minutes for Senate have never been late. He admits that he was at fault for not sending the minutes to senators via e-mail before the meetings as requested. 
"Our conflict was where my style and Trip's style did not meet in the middle," said Smith. 
Smith said he decided to be professional and resign and hopes he can work with stu­dent government again. 
"I don't want this to be messy. All that was messy was the way it was handled. Student government is not about this type of thing. It shouldn't be this political. It's about serving the needs of the students and taking them to the administration to work referred to his previous expe­rience as district secretary for the community service-based organization Key Club in high school. 
Smith has been replaced by freshman Emily Chin. Chin signed up to become involved with student government at this year's activity fair and had not previously been in the student government office, said Foley. 
Bishop said one of her quali­fications was being student body president last year in high school. when she was making her official recom­mendation of Chin to the Senate. The Senate approved Chin without question or the usual formal letter of recom­mendation from the student body president. 
Chin attended this week's Campus Life Council and Executive Cabinet meetings, said Bishop. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
student in area creek 
Indiana Daily Student 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Evidence found during a search of Salt Creek confirms missing Indiana University stu­dent Jill Behrman was placed there, investigators said Wednesday. 
At a press conference near Salt Creek, investigators said they are consulting with the IU Geological Department and with crews on site about the possibility of using ground-penetrating radar to find Behrman. who disap peared while riding her bike in May 2000. 
Investigators now have addi­tional hope they will find Behrman, FBI Special Agent Gary Dunn said. 
"We found items that once again reinforce to us that Jill was placed here, and that gives us that much more encouragement that we're going to find what we're looking for," Dunn said. 

The perfect home: That's been your dream. 
Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your horrte. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
Search crews have spent the past week draining and search­ing for evidence in Salt Creek. Natural conditions have stifled work as rain, mud and water seepage from the ground fed back into the creek bed. 
Dunn said the 27 person Salt Creek crew spends 10 to 15 min­utes removing one worker stuck in the sludge on average. Wednesday's effort saw two workers stuck in the sludge. 
Bloomington Police Department Detective Marty Deckard said while parts of the creek bed are now showing, pools of water dot the 1.4-mile stretch of the creek. Workers have been concentrating on the few hundred yards south of the north dam. 
"We've exposed an area of land that has been under water for hundreds of years. I don't expect that mud to dry up any more," Deckard said. "You end up with mud up 6 inches above the knee, stuck and it stinks." 
'0a 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
574/239-6611 · 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4 540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 

@ 
UUAl NOUSl!C 
LENDER 
Independent of lhe University 


We carry American Crew & Be~ \-\e"'~ 
10" offboth 
$2QQOFF SHAMPOO & CUT 
Expires September 31 st 2002. 
O
THE 

Friday, September 20, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 19 
Dow Jones 
7,942.39 •tiJ -230.06 
1\TASDAQ 
1,216.45  '  -35.68  
S&P500  
843.32  '  -26.14  
AMEX  
843.58  '  -12.03  
NYSE  
457.99  -13.70  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
' 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW}l0.00-0.30 2.70 
iEt:~§@~:~iiNi~:i:i~~-;::,:~:j~ii!i~ji:1w1:~:11~1llll*::11 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +11.70+0.ll 1.05 
1~~~·:1:§m~m~~~:;::~:~s1e~:::~::.:!:.:':::::·~:-f~:~::~~:~:~!;::!:~~:~1~~ 
ELECTRONIC DATA (EDS) -52.8119.26 17.20 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. Leads Oil Boom in 'Other Gulf' 
In the run up to a possible U.S. led offensive on Iraq, U.S. oil companies and strategic planners have their sights on another gulf West Africa's Gulf of Guinea, a booming back­water surpassing Saudi Arabia in oil exports to the United States. 
Giant U.S. oil rigs and tankers offshore, and American oil roustabouts sporting coveralls and the flat drawls of Oklahoma and Texas onshore, are vanguards of a U.S. led oil boom in the region. It's one the United States is acknowledging as a strategic interest to be safeguarded militarily. 
..It's like the Persian Gulf in the 1960s," said Paul Michael Wihbey, a resource special­ist who has led Washington-and Jerusalem­based lobby groups in urging the United States to turn from Mideast to West African oil. 
Money Funds Fell in Latest Week 
Assets of the nation's retail money market mutual funds fell by $118.2 million in the latest week to $1.045 trillion, the Investment Company Institute said Thursday. 
Assets of taxable money market funds in the retail category rose by $607.6 million to $855. 95 billion for the week ended Wednesday, the Washington-based mutual fund trade group said. Tax exempt fund assets fell by $725.8 million to $188. 96 bil­lion. 
Assets of institutional money market funds fell by $15.07 billion to $1.200 trillion for the same period. Among institutional funds, tax­able money market fund assets fell by $14.74 billion to $1.120 trillion; assets of tax-exempt funds fell by $322.9 million to $80.29 billion. 
Total money market assets stood at $2.245 trillion for the week. 
Assets for the previous week were revised to $2.260 trillion to reflect reporting errors and a change in the number of funds report­ing. 
Wring out the old, bring in the new 
. On-campus 
laundry service expands 
By JANELLE BEADLE 
Nc:ws Writer 
The small laundry ser­
vice tucked away on the 
north side of campus is 
making moves to estab­
lish more ties to students 
with new packaging 
plans. 
Currently, Saint Michael's provides a direct drop-off service to each residence hall for students who use the wash/dry/fold clothes plan, but business direc­tor David Bartholomew worries that students are unaware of the additional services the laundry offers. 
"It appears that many students think that the laundry just provides a wash/dry/folding service for everyday laundry," he said. "Often students think, 'Well. I can wash that kind of laundry the number of students of Lewis Hall. that have been tailored myself.' One of our goals who use it has varied over " You don't have to pre­and dry cleaned along this year is to explain all the years. According to pay or be on any plan; it with other services. of the aspects our full­statistics calculated by will just go onto your stu­"No longer will you service laundry offers." the laundry, 26 percent of dent account," Bartho­have to walk over to the 
Each year. Saint freshmen use Saint lomew laundry's Michael's turns out Michael's compared with said. distribu­30,000 bundles, or 1.5 14 percent of the sopho­In addi­"We offer dry-cleaning. tion cen­million pounds of laundry. more class and 10 per­tion to shirt pressing and full­ter near 
"We also offer dry-cent of the junior class. the laun­Z a h m
service tailoring.·· 
cleaning, shirt/pants However, there is a jump dry ser­Hall to press-in the v i C e S pick up a ing, and senior S a i n t Robin Kramer formal for full-ser­class with Michael's a dance
"One ofour goals this Saint Michael's assistant 
vice tai­30 percent already because it
business director
loring," year is to explain all of of seniors provides, w i l 1 assis­the aspects our full also using Bartho-already t a n t this ser­lomew be includ­
service laundry offers ...
director vice. said the ed in your Robin S a i n t business is awaiting the package," Kramer said. Kramer David Bartholomew Michael's installation of a new com­"You will just have to wait s a i d , Saint Michael's business also said puter system to offer ser­two days after you send it adding men out­vices more suited to the in to receive all of your
director
that the number individual student cus­clothes back whether l au n -women by tomer. everyday or formal ­d r y ' s 50 percent Saint Michael's is most­cleaned, folded, pressed prices as users of ly known for its bundle or dry-cleaned." were competitive with the service. Despite the delivery of students on local cleaners. numbers Bartholomew the wash/dry/fold clothes 
Despite the numerous stressed that using the plan. but with the new services that Saint laundry service was as computer system, the Michael's offers, the laun­easy as walking into the laundry service will be Contact Janelle Beadle at dry's statistics show that building located in front able to deliver clothes jbeadle@nd.edu. 

Tyco executive free on $100M bond 
A.uociated Press 
NEW YORK 
A judge allowed former Tyco International Ltd. chief executive L. Dennis Kozlowski and former chief financial officer Mark Swartz to remain free on bail Thursday, pending a hearing on whether assets pledged for the bonds came from alleged multimillion dollar fraud. 
State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus set a Sept. 27 hearing to discuss the source of the money, which prosecutors contend was stolen from the company and should not be used for their bail. 
Assistant District Attorney John Moscow also said, "We expect to bring additional charges against additional defendants." He declined to elaborate. 
Meanwhile, a person with knowl­edge of the case told The Associated Press on Thursday that Tyco is in the process of selling the posh Fifth Avenue apartment and its antiques and furnishings that Kozlowski allegedly bought with Tyco money. 
The auction house, Sotheby's, has been in the $16.8 million home once to look it over, but it has not yet been appraised, the person said. 
Kozlowski and Swartz were charged last week with enterprise corruption and grand larceny for allegedly stealing some $600 mil­lion from Tyco. They face up to 25 years in prison on each of those charges if convicted. 
Lawyers for Kozlowski and Swartz had complained earlier this week that the men's personal assets had been frozen, and money offered by relatives and others for the bail had been rejected by prosecutors as possible proceeds of the crimes with which they are charged. 
Kozlowski's ex-wife, Angie, was expected to post $10 million in cash later Thursday on Kozlowski's $100 million bond, said his lawyer, Stephen Kaufman. 
Swartz's lawyer, James Mitchell, said his client would post $5 million security on $50 million with shares of Tyco stock, either Thursday or Friday. That was 4.02 million shares of Tyco stock, worth $6.7 million, based on Wednesday prices. 

Friday, September 20, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Dayton Contemporary Dance Company moves SMC 


Large Pizza 
Cheese & 1Topping 
DELIVER~ 
No Coupon Necessary. Plus Tax 
FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 Minimum 
For Delivery. Not Valid With Any 
Other Offer. Valid On~ Al Listed 
Marco·s Pim locations. Expires 
12-15·02 
E~cll 
ACCEPTED HERE 
Musi pr1N1de c•edit ~ro 111tor~,ation w11!ll oroenno to• delivery 
CHECH OUl OUR DRILY SPEC\RLS 
1ooi I 
N:t~:t!me 52750 IN 633 .......574-243•1122 
& Sf. Mary's Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday! 
Others, such as senior dance minor Sara Pendley, found Bariel a competent and encour­aging instructor. 
"She really helped out all the dancers. She gave us comments and helped us correct our tech­nique. and she was really nice about it." Pendley said. 
Thursday's instruction served as a supplement to the compa­ny's performance tonight in the O'Laughlin Auditorium, where, Bariel said, it will be reaching back to its African roots. 
"I find that this company, because we're a repertory com­pany. we have so many choreog­raphers and so many different styles of dance. Llke, you'll see in the concert that there are four different choreographers' works in one evening. So we get the most recent contemporary modern to the oldest style of modern or jazz, because we do things that are very balletic modern and things that are more jazzy modern and things that are very modern modern. So we have this huge range," Bariel said. 
The evening's show will open with "Children of Passage," choreographed by Donald McKayle and Ronald Brown. and originally set to the live music of the Dirty Dozen Brass Band. Described by Bariel as a "spiritual ascent," it finds strong basis in African movement and tells the story of lost souls who are led by sprites to their ances­tral heritage. 
"Promontory," another aspect of the show. will be performed by an all-male cast, challenging the traditional male roles in dance and society. The dancers nurture each other, wrapping their arms in comfort and strength. This piece demon­strates the subtle power of the men. who execute lengthy one­legged balances and strength­draining lifts that demonstrate the versatility of the show. 
Sheri "Sparkle" Williams. who has danced with the company since its origin, explores the plight of the dancer on a quest for personal perfection in her solo entitled "Growth (A Part of a Bigger Picture)." 
"It is the raw experience of a dancer coming into their own, where they've come from, how hard they worked. The first thing she says is 'Stamina, resis­tance,' and it's all about that struggle of the dancer trying to reach that peak, reach their excellence," Bariel said. 
Choreographed by Debbie Blunden-Diggs, the Dayton­based company's artistic direc­tor, "In My Father's House" out­lines a religious journey that begins with entering a place of worship and ends in joyous cele­bration, set to gospel music pro­vided by Kirk Franklin and the Family. 
Involving such a fusion of styles, the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company aims to broad­en its appeal to the entire com­munity. Dieckgrafe hopes that the company will offer more than simply aesthetic enjoyment to the audience, providing it with a strong multicultural art­form. 
"I think it's really special that this company has a lot of roots in the black tradition of modern dance, and I think it offers us a cultural insight into that," Dieckgrafe said. 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@saintmarys.edu 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
Students crowded into Saint Mary's Regina Hall dance studio Thursday for a master tech­nique class offered by the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company. 
Led by company member Monnette Bariel, the Saint Mary's community received a lesson in the Horton tradition of modern dance. 
"The opportunity to be exposed to a professional-level technique and different styles ­there's something about the hype of it being different, having someone special brought in that makes it really exciting. The newness of it and the adventure is good for the students," said Indi Dieckgrafe, director of the College's dance program. 
Friday, September 20, 2002 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Peace thrown to wayside as bomber interrupts cabinet 
Wednesday that killed an diers. The military had no officers were wounded as the force to achieve its objec­Associated Press Israeli policeman -ended a comment. tanks moved into the com­tives." relative lull that lasted six Hours after the Tel Aviv pound firing shells and The bus exploded at the cor­TEL AVIV weeks and raised hopes that blast, tanks were sent into the machine guns, Palestinian offi­ner of Allenby and Rothschild 
A Palestinian suicide 
two years of violence might be Ramallah compound. cials said. Israel TV reported a streets in downtown Tel Aviv,bomber blew himself up on a winding down. The burst of The Israeli military said that huge bulldozer knocked down a diverse area that houses a 
crowded Tel Aviv bus killing violence came after Israe1 "in response to the terrorist some trailers in the compound Starbucks coffee shop, the Tel 
five other people Thursday. 
turned down a Palestinian attack, Israeli forces sur­where Palestinian security Aviv Great Synagogue, upscale and Israeli offer for a phased cease-fire. rounded the compound." officers cafes and t a n k s 
In Gaza City early Friday. Soldiers with loudspeakers were sta-working-class
roared 
Israeli forces entered a mixed called on wanted Palestinians tioned. bars in close
"If you want people to
back into 
industrial-residential neigh­inside to surrender, naming Israel proximity.Yasser borhood and blew up three Tawfik Tirawi, a senior secu­s a y s grow up in a peaceful "People were Arafat's metal workshops, witnesses rity commander, an Israeli Arafat's world, all parties must yelling, 'Take 
West Bank said. Two Palestinians, a 25-official said. Palestinian us out of
do everything they can to
compound. 
year-old woman and a 35-After its session, the Israeli Authority here,"' said a The vio­year-old man, were killed by Cabinet issued a statement has done reject and stop violence." witness, Herzl l e n c e gunfire, doctors said. Nearby blaming the violence on nothing to Ben-Moshe,snuffed out Bush houses were damaged by the Arafat, "who established the stop terror who rushed to
George Bush
hopes that explosions. Israeli tanks were coalition of terror.,. It said attacks the bus to help
U.S. president
after a six-week lull the con­withdrawing from the area operational decisions were despite rescue passen­flict was winding down. before daybreak, residents made, but did not elaborate. issuing gers.The nail-studded bomb said. The Israeli military had Israel Radio said the Cabinet occasional One man with scorched the bus and sent 
no immediate comment. In the decided to isolate Arafat in his condemna-blood over his 
passengers fleeing out of shat­past, the Israelis have office and demand the surren­tions. The Palestinians say bare chest was wheeled awaytered windows, as the vehicle destroyed workshops where der of wanted Palestinians Israel's reoccupation of most by paramedics. Another man lurched forward for 50 feet on they said weapons were made. inside. Sharon resisted calls to Palestinian cities and decima­sat on the sidewalk, crying. the downtown boulevard, the And in expel Arafat, tion of Arafat's security forces After the attack, Hamas driver's burned body slouched Abu Dis, a saying such a has robbed him of any ability spokesman Ismail Abu Shanab over the wheel. Forty-nine West Bank "Civilians are measure to stop the militants. told The Associated Press he people were wounded. suburb of paying the price for the would cause After the suicide bombing, expected to see ..a series of 
Hours later tanks moved in Jerusalem. Israel political the authority issued a state­operations against the Zionist
policy ofSharon.,,
and fired in the direction of Israeli bull­damage. Last ment condemning attacks enemy. as a result of the dailythe Palestinian leader's bat­dozers spring, Israeli against all civilians, Israeli brutal crimes against our peo­tered office as Prime Minister destroyed Ghassan Khatib tanks con­and Palestinian. It denounced ple." But he stopped short of a Ariel Sharon convened his the family Palestinian cabinet minister fined Arafat the bombing, saying it "gives Hamas claim of responsibility.Cabinet in emergency session, homes of to his office Sharon's government and his The Islamic Jihad group said fueling speculation about t W 0 for nearly six occupation army the pretext to it sent the bomber in whether he intended to con­Palestinians weeks. continue killing." Wednesday's attack, who blew fine Arafat to the building or who killed Nabil Abu Palestinian Cabinet Minister himself up a bus stop in perhaps to expel him from the 11 people and themselves in Rdeneh, a senior Arafat aide, Ghassan Khatib said Sharon Israel's north, killing a police­West Bank. Jerusalem in a Dec. 1 bomb­said the Israelis were target­had provoked the attacks man. 
There was no immediate ing. ing Arafat and called for inter­because of Israel's months of In Washington. President claim of responsibility, though Earlier Thursday, a 12-year­national intervention to stop curfew imposed on West Bank Bush condemned the bomb­media reported conflicting old Palestinian boy was killed the incursion. "Arafat is fine, population centers. "Civilians ings. "If you want people to claims from the militant in Ramallah when he broke an but the situation in the com­are paying the price for the grow up in a peaceful world, Islamic Jihad and Hamas Israeli curfew to buy ciga­pound is very dangerous," Abu policy of Sharon," he said. all parties must do everything groups. The attack-along rettes for his father. Witnesses Rdeneh said. "The Israeli government has they can to reject and stopwith a suicide bombing said he was shot by Israeli sol-Two Palestinia._11_ §ecurity to stop its strategy of using violence," he said. 
SIT Program in Uganda 
• Interestecfin}ljrica? 
e Nile-• Interestecfin Cha{fenges et 
• -UGAND
ulu · 
· 1 Lake , Morot 
Issues of(J)eve{oping ¾ations? 
; ;)Kwania Sorod 
~Lake 
,J': . · N·' -J · Kyoga • Interestecfin Jfo{y Cross Work,
· 
,.,ctona ,,e a • 
Kampa f · 
in P.ast ;4.frica?
Ente
a~i--­
orge
• 
··~ -~:~~=~f~~=~r 
(})on 't miss a study a6roac£opportunity tfirougfi tfie Scfioo{for Intemationa['Training. 
Infonnation :Meetino on: 'I'uesday Septem6er 24th 2002 
(JlJ,om 129 ¾ayes -Healy 
At 5:00vm 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 10 Friday, September 20, 2002 
Safety measures need improvement 
Last Saturday, J. Terence Reilly, 64, of Northbrook, Ill., al laceration or spout of nausea, but is clearly lacking for suffered a massive heart attack while sitting in his seat in more serious or possibly fatal injuries that could occur. Section 118 of Notre Dame Stadium during the football game How is a spectator sitting in the upper section supposed to against Michigan. The 1960 Notre Dame alumnus passed do to get down to one of the two emergency stations on the away while waiting for paramedics to reach him in the ground level in the case of an emergency? crowd of spectators. More worrisome is the lack of communication 
While Northbrook's death was probably among stadium employees over the large area
Ofilerver
unavoidable due to the severity of his heart of the arena. Spectators noted Saturday that attack, the unfortunate incident draws atten­ushers seemed to be unprepared to deal with tion to a problem in Notre Dame Stadium and the situation. When a physician who happened
Editorial 
Accepting excuses trivializes crimes 
TODAY'S STAFF 
,.' 
News Sports 
Helena Payne Chris Federico 
Meghan Martin Joe Hettler Shannon Joe Lindsley Nelligan Scene 
Viewpoint Sarah Vabulous Lauren Beck Lab Tech Graphics Tim Kacmar Jimmy Atkinson Lauren Forbes 
Illustrator 
Pat Quill 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Has the new alcohol policy prompted you to tailgate off campus? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 268 responses. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"'My country, right or wrong· is a thing no patriot would think ofsaying except in a desperate case. It is like saying, 'My mother, drunk or sober..,, 
G. K. Chesterton writer 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR lN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSTNF.SS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
Sc.ENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROll.ER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
Orne£ MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoin t.1@nd.edu SPORTS.............:..........................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obserwr.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obsm;erpolicks should be direct­ed to £Jitor in Chief fawn McFarlq. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obo<m:r (USPS 599 2 ..tooo) ia publi.,hcJ Monday ,hrough Friday m:q,1 during o.am and -ncation periods. A I ubscription ro 11W' ~rvcr ia S100 fot OM acadrmk I'"'' SSS fo, Oil< ICm<ft«. 
Th< ~is publi,h<d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Holl Send add.tu• ooNKtium to: Nou. Dunr. IN 46556-0m Th,~ Periodical po•<ag< paid II Nolte D.unc P.O. Bo,Q and .ddinonal m&iling offica. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norn: Dom<e. IN 46556-0Tl'J 
TI,, Ob..rvrr is , member of the Anoci,t<d p,..._ All r<pt<>duction righr, ""'
.~ 
other large venues on campus. 
Ana Kleva, director of University Health Services, said that it took at least 10 minutes for help to reach Northbrook, though some near the scene estimated that help did not actually arrive for nearly 20 minutes. Regardless, Notre Dame Stadium officials need to re-evaluate their emergency response procedures. 
The six doctors employed by the University in the Stadium's two emergency stations on game days simply are not enough. Six years ago, when the stadium only held 50,000 and had just one level of seating, that may have been adequate. Now, with over 80,000 people in the Stadium and an upper and lower deck, public safety measures in the Stadium need to be updated. 
The personnel supplied now is functional for the occasion-
to be sitting near Reilly began performing CPR and requested a defibrilator, the ushers were unable to obtain one. 
Of the 800-plus ushers in the stadium on a Saturday, only 20 carry radios to coordinate responses with medical service workers. Those 20 ushers are spread very thin over the 7 2 sections in the stadium. 
Even if it is merely consists of placing an usher with a radio at each section entrance, the Stadium needs to update its policy on safety. While Saturday's events may have been unavoidable, University Health Services should see it as a message that there are problems with the current system. 
Those 10 minutes or more that it took paramedics to arrive with defibrilators and proper equipment could mean saving a life next time. 
So just give me his name and I will kill whomever it is you want dead. 
I'll get away with it, too. 
In fact, to make it even more interest­ing I'll get away with it without even denying that I killed him in the 
John Litle 
first place. You're reading this think­ing I'm joking, but 
Frankly
I'm not. Think 
Obnoxious
about it. 
First off, let me set the stage. I'm going to hang around parties where I know" there'll be a good chance he, or one of the other persons I've been com­missioned to do in, will be socializing. I'll stick to the walls, making sure to have a beer in my hand all the time, but rarely drinking anything from it. I'll probably spot him from across the room, noticing either that his speech has started to slur, or he's stumbling and leaning on the wall or such. That's when I'll make my move. 
I'll head over, just start to make some small talk, friendly banter, you know the stuff. "What's your major?," "Where do you live?" I'll get him another drink so he doesn't have to wait in that big long keg line. A little later on the party is breaking up, it comes time to go. What the hell, I'll give him a ride home. And why wouldn't he accept; I've been nice all evening. 
That's when it will happen. I'll save you the details, but sometime between when he gets in my car and before the next day when he doesn't show up in his dorm, the crime will have occurred. I'm not going to deny the fact that the guy is dead, you see; it just wasn't murder. When you ask me if I murdered the guy, here's what I'll explain. 
First of all. you should have seen what this guy was wearing. Clearly he must shop at Goodwill, and no, not for the chic, "I shop at Goodwill" cool clothes, just nasty unkempt frumpy clothes that say to the world, "I am miserable, I hate my life." I got the message loud and clear from what he was wearing. This kid did not want to live, he was begging for it. I just gave him what he wanted. 
What? That's not a satisfying answer? Well, it doesn't matter either, 
that night. I had a beer the whole time I was there. I know I drove him, but I drive drunk all the time, and plus, when I got him to the place, I took out a bottle of Jack Daniels and I "caught up." We were both drunk. No one's at fault here. We were both victims. 
Hey, it was con­sensual, too. You doubt me? We were in the car and I said, "Hey man, I'm going to kill you." 
He said, "Ha ha man, go ahead, ha ha." 
It was a little slurred, but that is definitely what he said. I don't need anything other than that, so you just need to back off. 
I know I don't need any more evidence, but there's still more. You know about his past don't you? This isn't the first time he's done it. No, last year, I heard he tried to take his own life. Yeah, when someone has a past like that, you know it's not possible to murder them because they like it. It's what they want. 
You guys need to back off. Everyone always jumps on blaming the accused, but you're not adequately questioning and challenging the victim. You just need to be objective. With all the evidence I've shown you, how could you possibly think there was a murder? It's completely clear. It was consensual. I'm innocent. 
make sense, but when you apply the same exact excus­es to a murder it seems ludicrous? Perhaps it is because we just don't want to believe that rape occurs on our campus. 
Perhaps it is because we don't want to think of someone we know as having committed this crime. 
Perhaps it is just an awful betrayal we seek to impose on the 
women of our communi­
Regardless, I urge you to think about accepting such excuses and what it 
John Litle is a senior MIS major who wants to make it clear that the sce­nario proposed in this column is Jalse and meant only to illustrate a point. His column runs every other Friday. Contact him at jlitle@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, September 20, 2002 page 11 
UNICEF's world is unfit for children 
The U .N. Child Summit convened in New York City last May to promote the welfare of children. Two intriguing concepts of child welfare emerged. 
First, only a coalition of the United States, the Holy See and various Muslim and African nations prevented the inclusion of a right to abortion in the Summit's final action document, "A World Fit for Children." 
Abortion, of course, protects children· by killing 
Right or
them because they 
Wrong?
are not fit for the world. The Vatican and Muslim nations had acted together to oppose 
U.N. endorsements of abortion at Cairo and other conferences during the Clinton Administration. 
The second odd concept of child wel­fare surfaced when it was disclosed at the Summit that UNICEF, the U.N. Children's Fund, had financed the 1999 publication and distribution by the Mexican government of a book called "Theoretic Elements for Working with Mothers and Pregnant Teens." 

The book states: "Reproductive health includes the following compo­nents: counseling on sexuality, preg­nancy, methods of contraception, abor­tion, infertility, infections and dis­eases." 
An accompanying workshop book tells mothers and teens about ways to obtain sexual pleasure. On "sexual relations with a partner," the book says, "Here we should insist there is (sic) no ideal or perfect relations between two or several people ... This is why we encounter many differences among women. Some women like to have relations with men. And others with another woman." 
UNICEF spokesman, Alfred Ironside, said the book was, "a product of the Mexican government supported by UNICEF financially." He described it as. "a training manual for people working with adolescent women to prevent teen pregnancy." Ironside and Carol Bellamy, UNICEF executive director, said the book had been withdrawn from circulation. Leonara Valdes, a for­mer official with the Mexican govern­ment department that produced the book, denied that claim and said the book is still being used in some Mexican states. 
UNICEF is no stranger to controversy over such matters. Since at least 1966, UNICEF has promoted contraception, 
sterilization and other birth-reduction programs. In 1996, the Vatican Mission to the 
U.N. suspended its "symbolic" contribu­tion of $2,000 a year to UNICEF. "The new involvement of UNICEF in the areas of concern" the Vatican Mission said, "had forced the Holy See to take this visible step." The Vatican charged that UNICEF had participated in the publication of a U.N. manual "advocat­ing the distribution of post-coital con­traceptives to refugee women in emer­gency situations" and had become "involved in advocacy work" on abor­tion legislation. "Post-coital contracep­tives" are not really contraceptives. They cause abortion early in pregnan­cy. 
The Vatican also said that UNICEF workers in various countries had "dis­tributed contraceptives and counseled people on using them." Archbishop Renato Martino said the decision was made after UNICEF announced that it would distribute "contraceptives and drugs to terminate pregnancies" to refugees in Rwanda and Zaire. The Vatican still refuses to contribute to UNICEF. 
In October of 2000, Archbishop Saenz Lacalle of San Salvador denounced from the pulpit an "insinuating and grotesque" 170-page sex-education booklet designed by UNICEF and El Salvador's Ministries of Health and 
Education for training adolescents on 
sexuality issues including contracep­
tion, homosexuality and abortion. 
These comments are not meant to criticize the little kids carrying the UNICEF donation cans on Halloween and the many persons who send UNICEF "holiday cards." Last year in the United States, UNICEF enlisted 2.5 million "Trick-or-Treaters" to forego asking for candy and instead to raise nearly $4 million for UNICEF. The "hol­iday cards" raised in the United States another $13 million for UNICEF. The kids and the users of the cards want to help needy children, which UNICEF does in various respects. 
But it would seem to be time for truth-in-labeling, for full disclosure that UNICEF's idea of promoting "A World Fit for Children" includes the prevention of children coming into existence and the distribution of aborti­f acients which kill children because somebody thinks they are unfit for the world. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law Schoolfaculty. His column normally appears every other Tuesday. Contact him at plawekci. I@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Get the facts before you get some 
The subject of birth control is a very weighty issue. Many women, especially college-aged women, choose to take the pill as a form of contraception. 
Whereas I do not think it's necessarily the duty ofthe University, a Catholic institution, to provide birth control in the form of the pill, condoms or the like, I do not think that women should be discour­aged from using these methods to prevent pregnancy and disease, as Becket Gremmels suggested in his Sept. 18 letter. 
Yes, this is Notre Dame, but no, you can't stop students from hav­ing sex. 
Rather than admonish women for having sex and condemning them for using contraception, however, it should be encouraged for them to practice safe sex. Sex, when undertaken with responsibility and with the right forms of contraception, can be very safe. 
I'd like to point out some inaccuracies in Gremmels' letter. He claims that 3 out of 10 condoms fail. When used properly, condoms are 87 percent effective. When used with spermicide, the percent­age increases. Even more effective -and more recommended by doctors to women between the ages of 20 and 30 -is the pill. Birth control pills, when taken properly, are 99 percent effective. If women are responsible enough to take the pill properly, then the pill is only 1 percent defective. Used with a condom. the pill is even more effective. 
I am astonished at Gremmels' claim that for those whose pills fail, the pill is abortifacient. First of all, the pill is a preventive measure. To give Gremmels a little health lesson, the pill tricks a woman's body into thinking she's pregnant and it prevents the egg from being fertilized. Usually if a woman's pill fails (though if taken prop­erly this will almost never happen), the pill does not abort the fetus. She will most likely miss her next period and will know that she's pregnant. Ask any doctor, and he or she will tell you the same. 
Yes, Notre Dame's sex policy is Catholic. And I am not one to tell the University to act against its mandate as a Catholic institution. Men and women of this college can go obtain birth control on their own -for the most part, it's inexpensive and easily used. As for the claims Gremmels has made, rather than shake a finger at those who are having sex and tell them, "Birth control is not the answer," inform them of ways to avoid unwanted pregnancies and disease. 
Amanda Rubio 
off-campus Notre Dame senior Sept. 18 
GUEST COLUMN 
Patriotism entails criticizing the government 
KENT, Ohio 
During the past year there has been a lot of talk about patriotism. As we all display our American flags (often incorrectly) and cheer America on in the fight against terrorism, there has been a lot of debate about what patriotism really means. 
Notice that the definition M lchael Collins 
does not include words like 
government or flag. It only 
refers to the country. It 
Daily Kent
also does not include the 
Stater
word hate, only love and 
devotion. 
Yet oflate all these other words seem to have been added to the definition of patriotism in the minds of citizens. One cannot be patriotic if one disagrees with the govern­ment. One cannot be patriotic if one burns the flag or flies it upside down. 
In order to be patriotic, you must hate those who do not agree with our government, or those who aren't in our country. 
These definitions are not true patriotism. Our government is not our country and neither is our flag. Our country stands alone, independent of these other things. Our flag is only a symbol, granted it is a very powerful symbol. but it is still a symbol nonetheless. Although the government runs our country. it cannot stand alone. It relies on the consent of the governed. If there is one object or organization that can be defined as our country, it is our constitution. 
Our constitution creates and defir.es our coun­try. It gives the values that we as Americans should hold closest to our hearts. Our govern­ment can change, our flag can change, but only the entire country working together can change the constitution. Our constitution creates our most sacred values like freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of religion. These are the ideas that give birth to "love for or devotion to" my country. These are the things that make me feel patriotic. 
Our flag is a symbol of our freedom. That free­dom includes the right to fly the flag upside down or even to burn it. The code for displaying the flag states that the flag should only be flown upside down "as a signal of dire distress in instances of extreme danger to life or property." Many people feel that our freedoms are in a state of "dire distress." not by planes flying into buildings, but by our own government. When they burn the flag, they are not saying that they hate our country. They are saying that they believe our own government is destroying the freedoms that our country holds most dear. They believe that our freedom itself is indeed burning. 
Our freedom of expression gives us the right to question our government's actions. Citizens who blindly accept the battles we are fighting are not exercising that right. Many seem perfectly happy to take that right away from us. This is not patri­otism. To not exercise the rights that make our country great is to risk losing them. The patriots are the ones fighting for the ideals for which our country stands, not those mindlessly bobbing their heads in agreement. 

Whether you agree with the government's actions or not isn't what is important. It is the questioning itself. I do agree with some of the government's actions, and I disagree with oth­ers. But it is the fact that I am actually forming my own opinion that makes me patriotic. 
The next time someone talks about patriotism, take a moment to stop and think about what the word really means. You may find patriots in places you did not expect. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 19 edi­tion ofthe Daily Kent Stater. the campus news­paper ofKent State University. It is reprinted here courtesy ofU-W/RE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE 
OBSERVER 


us 
page 12 Friday, September 20, 2002 

By MARIA SMITH Scene Writer 
Domer Dogs 
What is it that m'a'kes people love their dogs so much? Is it the drool? The noise? The cost of getting rid of fleas? Of course, the answer is that despite any of these things, all dogs off er something invaluable and rare --unconditional 
love.  And  no  dogs  get  more  love  in  
return than the six livin g in dorms  on  
Notre Dame campus.  

Between lonely freshmen looking for a friend and older students missing their own puppies, the dorm dogs get plenty of attention. The entire campus knows and loves these furry friends. 
Anyone who lives with a dog long enough begins to talk to their pet.like_ a little person. Dogs are very much hke ht-tie people --they have their own tastes, favorite pastimes, and personalities. Here at Notre Dame, our dogs represent all dif­ferent aspects of the dog spectrum. 
Farley
What's the most recognizable face on campus? Father Hesburgh? Father Malloy? How about Farley? The little light brown Pekingese can be seen almost every warm day lying outside on the grass or stretch­ing her leash across the side­walk looking for bits of bologna sandwiches and other treats from students on their way back from North Dining Hall. 
Farley has lived in Farley Hall since December 2000. Sister Carrine Etheridge took her in after she was found by the Notre Dame lakes in the cold with her little sister. Etheridge was initial­ly a little reluctant to take her in, but by now the dog has become an institution of Farley Hall life. 
Farley may appear lethargic at times while lying on the lawn but she wakes up for football games and parties like any Notre Dame girl. Farley has her own shirt for football games as well as a Notre Dame cheerleading outfit and loves running around the benches. 
The girls dress her up for the dances. including a grass skirt and walnut shells for last year's luau. This year, she and her owner are going to Farley's "A Perfect Match" as Lady and the Tramp, which has yet to be announced. However, Etheridge does not trust her alone at parties since an incident that occurred last year. 
"Those Siegfried boys," said Etheridge. "They had citrus vodka in squirt gun.s, and they squirted her... she came m licking her coat, and pretty soon she-just passed out. I escort her to the dances now." 
Farley is automatically popula.r around campus. "I go for walks, and 1t used to be, 'Hi, Sister,"' said her owner. "Now it's, 'Hi, Farley.'" 
Despite living at a top university, Farley is not an intellectual animal. "She's not really God's brightest dog," said Etheridge. However, Farley has learned to sit, lie down, dance, and 
watch the door after parietals. "We're 
going to train her to detect boys," said 
Etheridge. 
Eli 
No one can walk into Fisher without 
running into Eli, Fisher's droopy-eared 
Basset Hound and Beagle mix. She's 
lived there since Nov. 4, 2001, when two 
doctors donated her to Father Rob 
Moss, hoping she would get more atten­
tion than at her old home. 
The 2 1/2 year-old dog is quiet and 
complacent for her age, but she perks 
up at the word "outside." She loves to 
go for walks, and will play with 
McGlinn's dogs Lucy and Gus. 
"Sometimes Gus will act all tough, 
like, 'Oh, I'm the male,"' said owner 
Betsy Bright. "But Eli won't back 
down." 
Nevertheless, Eli is usually a sleepy 
dog. "Friday night, one of the freshmen 
came from a party and asked to take 
her for a walk about midnight," said 
Moss. "So she went out and ran around. 
That was unusual for her... she slept 
most of the weekend after that." 
Like any dog, Eli enjoys the treats res­
idents bring her. She isn't a picky eater, 
and enjoys everything. "Once she stood 
up against the counter and pulled dow~ 
an entire pineapple upside down cake,' 
said Moss. "Another time, I was coming 
home ... and some people ran up to me 
~ . .-:-.:,'" :­
-~1:f 
., ........ _,., • -~ C 
~ '«i' 
-~­
and told me she'd torn apart her bed and eaten some of it." 
Eli can usually be found lounging across the stairs of Fisher Hall, but don't be intimidated. She likes to be petted, and she'll never bite. 
Honey 
Stanfora Hall's Berney was the first dog to move into a dorm after the University ruled that rectors could have pets in the fall of 1999. Father Thomas Gaughan found her on a Golden Retriever rescue Web site and she first moved in March 2000. Honey recently returned from minor surgery at the vet, and can cur­rently be recognized by her giant satel­lite dish collar and bald spots on her head and leg. 
"She's smart; she's going to try to hide behind the chair and lick her stitches," said Gaughan as the dog walked around the apartment. "But I still see you, Honey." 
Unlike her neighbor Farley, the 2 1/2 year-old Golden Retriever and Sheltie mix likes staying with her owner more than meeting and greeting on the quad "She likes hanging out with dad," said Gaughan. 
Honey also loves going on trips and taking car rides. "She gets excited when she knows I'm getting ready to go out," said Gaughan. "If I ask her, 'Can you stay here and watch the room?', her eyes droop and her head drops, like, Tm not going, am I?'" 
Like all the dorm dogs, Honey gets lots of treats from residents. ''I've had resi­dents send her home-baked dog cook­ies," said Gaughan. "I never get cookies, she always gets them." 
Outside, Honey loves to chase chip­munks and rabbits and stalk squirrels. "She'll get down and sort of follow them before she chases them . . . when the 



OBSERVER 
us 
Friday, September 20, 2002 page 13 


Ajax barked at everything. "He thought and the girls. I think it's a really smart it was his house, and that he had to pro­things they let rectors have dogs." tect it," Rakoczy said. Now he only barks at a few people. "Ajax is a parietals dog; he loves women, but he doesn't like men." 
Ajax has never sniffed out boys after parietals, but he has caught other illegal intruders. "He used to go to this one door every time we went out," said Rakoczy. "Finally I knocked on it; it Contact Maria Smith at turned out the girl was keeping a cat in msmith4@nd.edu there." 
Despite his brave name and brave bark, Ajax isn't an outgoing dog. "He likes Eli, and he likes Honey," said Rakoczy, "but he doesn't like every dog." 
A dog of unusu­al tastes, Ajax prefers mint-fla­vored things like cough drops, gum and candy canes to dog treats. "Once last year he found one of those giant thick candy canes; he thought it was the find of the year," said Rakoczy. "I think the girls leave them around for him. All the dogs are really pretty spoiled. 
"He's great company for me squirrels go up a tree, she does what we call the 'Honey dance,' sort of hopping around the tree and trying to climb it." 



In the winter Honey sometimes wears reindeer antlers. "That's about the only time I dress her up," said Gaughan. "She runs around in the snow, and it's pretty funny to watch. During finals, it's a good stress relief." 
Lucy and Gus 
Lucy and Augustus, better known as Gus, are the newest dogs to the campus. Owner Betsy Bright almost did not take the job as rector of McGlinn when she heard that she could bring only one pet under 50 pounds. Lucy, a Black Labrador, weighs 68 pounds, and Gus, an Akita and Husky mix, weighs 102 pounds. After hearing about the dogs, Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman made an exception to the rule and allowed them to stay. The dogs love their new home. "They're spoiled rotten and loving every minute of it," said Bright. 
Lucy was seven months old when Bright's boyfriend's brother decided he couldn't keep the dog and needed to find her a new home. "Black Labs need a lot of attention," said Bright. "He didn't realize how much work she'd be." Gus, who was something of a miracle puppy, moved in a few months later. 
Gus was born to a mother who had supposedly been spayed and was not breathing when he was born. He was small and the other puppies would not let him eat so he was hand-fed until Valentine's Day, when he moved in with his new family. 
Lucy and Gus are inseparable now, but they weren't at first. "I used to take Gus to work with me every day," said Bright. "Lucy would try to eat him." Now, the dogs are almost always together, either 
curling up next to 
each other for 
naps or keeping 
an eye on each 
other outside. 
Lucy and Gus used to accompa­ny Bright when she volunteered as a minister of care in St. Norbert Parish in Chicago. Bright said her dogs always had enormous thera­peutic value. "I think every dog has a potential to be empathetic and sympathetic to your every need," she said. "I've had girls come in here saying they've had a bad day, and they don't even want to talk about it. They just ask if they can sit here with the dogs for awhile. Twenty minutes later they 
get up and leave, 
and they feel a lot 
better." 
Lucy and Gus are both active outside dogs. Lucy loves to swim and is a talent­ed Frisbee player, while Gus helped Bright's brother Billy train for a marathon in Chicago. "I throw the Frisbee and she'll run out after it," said Bright. "She's like a wide receiver ... I have to spell some words in front of them like w-a-l-k, or w-a-t-e-r, or defi­nitely F-r-i-s-b-e-e. They're smart, they know a lot of words." 
Unlike most dogs, Gus and Lucy's favorites treats are health food. They don't like lettuce, but they love baby carrots, peanut butter, green peppers and grapes. "Watching them eat grapes is hilarious," said Bright. ·'They don't want to break the skin of the grape and hurt it, and yet that's exactly what they want to do, because they want to eat it. It takes Gus about five minutes to eat a grape." 
Gus has moved right into the dorm occasionally barking at suspiciou~ intruders such as new FedEx men. "You can see his white face in the window watching the lawn outside," said Bright. "We joke that he's watching the O'Neill boys, protecting our ladies." 
Telamon Aj,ax
Pangborn Hal 's cocker spaniel, Telamon Ajax, was named after the Greek hero of the Iliad who engaged Hector in single combat and rescued Achilles' body from the Trojans. "He's a little wimpy dog," owner Heather Rakoczy said. "So he needed a big name." 
Ajax had lived with Rakoczy for 5 years before he came to Notre Dame in 1998, the year before rectors were first a~lowed to keep pets. Hakoczy brought him to the dorm as soon as possible. 
For the first year he lived in the dorm, 
, ------·--------------------------------------------------------------------¦ 
Friday, September 20, 2002 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
ROWING 
Ro\t\Ters ready for Mil\t\Taukee race 


NOTRE DAME SPORTS INF M N Members of the womens rowing team work together during a recent practice. The team begins its fall season with a meet at the Milwaukee Challenge Saturday. The Irish were ranked as high as no. 9 in the country last season and finished at no. 14, which included a trip to the NCAA Rowing Championships. 

•••ACT NOW! Guarantee the best PART-TIME WORK $14.05 HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003: LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do spring break prices! South Padre, base-appt Flex. around classes. We have a variety of houses includ-FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. not go it alone. If you or someone NOTICES Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, We train. All majors. Cust service & ing two of the best undergrad hous-NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD-you love needs confidential support 
~ 
( Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. sales. No door-to-door telemarket-es you can rent Call Bill at ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary
' 
I CJs Pub See whats happening TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, ing Build resume. Internships. cond. 532-1896 $99,500.Williamson.1@nd.edu Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For www.cjspub.com EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. apply.www. workforstudents. com more information, see our bi-week­1 888 THINK SUN (1 574-282-2357 That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast ly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
i ~ 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel 888-844-6578 dept has space available for football/par­
))/ TICKETS
Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals 2626)/www.springbreakdiscounts.c #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, Give adoption a chance ... we are Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations om Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! hot breakfast, $80-$115, happily married and need your help 
:, '< ' l ~ , 
I. Most Reliable www.sunsplash-Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please in starting a family. Will provide a I, < tours.com 1-80G-426-7710 Sports car,88 Mazda RX7.Runs Free Parties & Meals! Toll Road, Exit 107, check our prices. 273-3911. lifetime of love, laughter and end-
great,no rust $3,950 o/b/o. 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer-800-418-9487. less opportunities. Call our attorney Available Game Weekends: COUN• 291-4048, tours.com NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME toll free at 866-215-2229. TRY ESTATE Three Bedroom ROOMS AVAILABLE FOR RENT-GAME, CALL JACK 674-6593. 
ill / 
'{ ( Home, Country Setting on Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski WALKING DISTANCE TO CAM• SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS 
Operating Horse Farm, 20 min from and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. PUS. $250 MONTH INCLUDES Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. Americas #1 Student Tour Operator '} > campus. Contact Mitch Magari-Ya LOST & FOUND positions available now. Largest UTILITIES. CALL 472-0054 289-8048 or astrog999@aol.com Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free ·~ ~ Stables and Equestrian Center commissions. Travel Free! EMAIL: leopei@hotmail.com Information/Reservations 
574-299-1607 or magariyasta-LOST: SIGNET RING AT MICHi-1-800-SUNCHASE ext 123. WANTED: ND tickets-HIGHEST 1-800-648-4849 or www.ststrav• ' ? bles@aol.com GAN GAME ON 9/14. PLEASE WWW.SUNCHASECOM Comfy, 5bdr home, 30 min.from PRICES PAID 251-1570 el.com 
CALL JOHN AT 634-1090. N.D, On Indian Lake, Dowagiac, Ml.
:~ 
l ~ 
,} SPRING BREAK INSANITY! Next to golf course. $1300-Thurs ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST Some people hope. Coop wishes. 
i > WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR Found: Womans gold watch on thru Mon, $1,000 sec dep. Call Ron PRICES 289-9280 He wishes a,,, would!!
FOR RENT
CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN-Saturday, September 14th in The 312-907-9708 email: TEED LOWEST PRICES! CAN• Huddle. Call 245-3508 to identify. ron@gsec9.com ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR O'Shag hippies stay @ Los Mochis CUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND All size homes available for SALE. AM 232-.2378 PM 288-2726 BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! FIF-2003-2004 mmmrentals@aol.com Alum owned,5Bdrm/2Bath,W/D, Mr. X threw a chair in the lake. 
' 
~ 
TEEN YEARS EXPERIENCE! www.mmmrentals.com Security,10 ft ceilings, HUGE ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­
WANTED
~ FREE TRIPS FOR CAMPUS Yard.very close to campus&well ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Giving a shout out to the Coyote 
l 
REPS! ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR kept2Bdrm w/view of dome also and "Intense" the fencer 
I 
I a day potentiaVbartending. Training RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS, available.Call 674-0709, ALL NOTRE DAME vs MICHIGAN www.workforstudents.com provided 1-800-293-3985 ext 556 CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. ST ATE FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR Happy Birthday Beyonce!!!!! 574-282-2357 SALE AT 517-351-1992 OR LOG 
~ 
RIDING INSTRUCTORS; ENGLISH DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW ON TO: www.Jamesthe Justin Timberlake, yes. I'll marry 
FOR SALE
I Australia? Do you feel you might /WESTERN PART-TIME POSI-LEASING FOR 2003-2004 ticketman.com you!!! Whenever, wherever!!!! have a calling to become a dioce-TIONS TO WORK AROUND SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN-Drafting tables -$25-30 Student
~ 
{ san priest Down Under? (All CLASSES 20 MIN FROM CAM· TANI ED HOUSES NEAR CAM-desks $25 631-4969 Need 8 tix for Pittsburgh game. Call Toothless Kentucky Derby-winning 
( 
expenses are convered throughout PUS. Contact Mitch Nihart PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED· Jeff, 610-574-2939. E-mail: thouroughbred seeks pre-med 
>I the seminary/university formation.) Magari-Ya Stables and Equestrian ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT 99 Jeep Wrangler. Maroon w/tan jro22@comcast.net major with singing aptitude If interested, please contact Rev Dr Center 574-299-1607 NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY top. Good cond.,CD,hitch,rack. 43K Armando I Carandang, Vocation SYSTEM -MAINTENANCE STAFF b/o. 315-4176 Progression in T-minus 2 days 
f Director of the Archdiocese of #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, ON CALL -WASHER/DRYERS ­
, 
PERSONAL
Perth, Western Australia, now inter-Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING Completely remodeled 2 bdrm. The Return to Glory looms 
' viewing in the US, Sept 15-29. Tel: Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. FAST-CONTACT: KRAMER home in Oakmont Park near ND grad with Ph.D. domg chtld 617 786 9661 (late evenings) 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer-(574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 -University of ND, Must see to care/tutoting (ages 4-7)in home KM,? Email: prvocation@hotmail.com tours.com (574)674-2471 appreciate. Call 243-7434. near campus. 234-8004 
! 
I 
' 
-
including Ashlee Warren, who named to the second-team. Dame's fight to the top," junior year's successes.
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG became the first Notre Dame "The NCAA's was a great Kerri Murphy said. "I believe "Flat out, we want to take the 
Sports Writer 
rower to be named to the sec• experience for me in that it we will be able to field some team ·to the NCAA 
\ 
ond-team All American squad. motivated me that much more excellent boats and really put Championships this year.
\ The womens varsity rowing 
\ team, led by coach Martine Katherine Burnett, Becky to be the best," Warren said. in a great team performance in Everything we do this year has Luckett, Katie Besson, Natalie 
1) ' ' ~ Stone, kicks off its fall season "After racing against that level the spring." that goal in mind," Warren . ~ Saturday with the Milwaukee Ladine, Cassie Markstahler and of competition it was easy to When asked about the fall said. "This weekend is just the 
Challenge. The team, entering Diane Price were also honored see that we belonged amongst season, Stone, a finalist for last first step toward that goal as ; ' its fifth year, is coming off its with the 2002 Collegiate the best in the country." year's NCAA Rowing Coach of far as racing goes, but it's real­
:··lt' '.­
best season to date. Rowing Coaches Association Though there have been the Year honors, said, "We will ly the work we put in everyday / This past spring, the young National Scholar-Athlete many changes to the team, the work very hard in order to pre­that will get us there. I think 
:, Award.
team, which was ranked as Irish are both enthusiastic and pare for the Spring Season. We the team really has an amazing
Numerous rowers were also
'1 high as 9th in season polls and confident about the upcoming will have some races and I chemistry this year. We are a
' 
( finished 13th, made its first trip named to the 2002 Collegiate year. expect us to be competitive. very close group and have been to the NCAA Rowing Rowing Coaches Association "We graduated eight seniors Our main focus this fall is to lay really pushing each other hard Championship. The team's var• All-Central Region team. Senior last year and while this is a the groundwork for our winter in practice." sity eight boat finished 16th. Michelle Olsgard and Warren tremendous loss to our pro­training and spring racing." 
Besides completing a stellar earned first-team honors for a gram, I feel confident that The Milwaukee Challenge season, several team members second consecutive season, there are individuals willing to will be the first opportunity for Contact Christine Armstrong at garnered impressive accolades, while Burnett and Ladine were step up and continue in Notre the Irish to build off of last carmstrong.23@nd.edu 
The Observer acc_epts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
page 15
Friday, September 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND 
• _;("~. 
, . ·:t .,.,,,,.,, a
& V . 
'.' .• y ....-. j 
«»I•IICI• 
Bookends and Doorstops 

We~ will decorate bricks tl1at express wl10 _you are and can be usecl as bookencls or cloorstops. Bricks and paint will Ix• provided. 
Frida_y~ September 20~ 2002 9:00pm-11:00pm in the LaFortune Student Center 
Sponsored ~y the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
urt ec 
~ree 

APARTMENTS WEARE NOW TAKING APPLICATIONSFoR 
THE 2003-04 SCHOOL YEARf 
YOU CAN GET YOUR APPLICATIONS AT ~DJURTLECREEKND.COM OR 
YOU CAN VISIT US AT THE LEASING OFFICE! 
WE ALSO HAVE SELECT STUDIOS AVAILABLB FOR EITHER THE REMAINDER OF THIS SEMESTER, NEXT SEMESTER AND EVEN BOTH!! 
GO ONLINE OR PICK UP YOUR APPLICATIONS TODAY! 
TIJRTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 1710 TURTLE CREEK DRIVE SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 P: 574-272-8124 WWW.1URTLECREB~D.COM 

WOMENS GOLF 
Irish begin season at Michigan State 
By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 
In the past few years, Notre Dame has made an increased commitment to its golf programs with the building of the Warren Golf Course and the hiring of full­time coaches John Jasinski and Debby King. 
The womens golf team hopes to continue to show the results of this improvement as it begins its season by heading to the Mary Fossum Invitational at Michigan State University this weekend. 
Head coach Debby King is opti­mistic that her squad will improve in her second year at the helm. 
"We had a scoring average last year of 324," King said. "Our goal this year is 312, and I think we can reach that." 
This year's team will rely on a combination of returning golfers and a number of quality freshmen that will compete for varsity time. 
"The freshmen's scoring aver­ages are quite low from their summer competition." King said. "If they play that well now, they could jump into the lineup, and indeed some of them already have." 
Two freshmen, Katie Brophy and Sarah Bassett, will start in th~ top two positions for the Irish this weekend. Both hail from Spokane, Wash., but while they competed against each other in high school, they made their deci­sions to come to Notre Dame independent of each other. 
One of the upperclassmen join­ing them will be junior Shannon Byrne, who recently won the Notre Dame Campus Championship. Also competing for the Irish will be sophomore Karen Lotta, whose 79.8 average led the team last year. 
Rounding out the squad for the Irish will be 2000 Notre Dame Invitational Champion Rebecca Rogers and freshman Lauren Gebauer. 
Contact Andy Traeger atroeger@nd.edu 
CARDINALCHARTEBS 
IF QUALITY COUNTS... ~ Ole ~/­

•Since 1923  ,Group Services  •Professional Drivers  
•Luxury Buses  •Competnive Rates  •Wheelchair Accessible  
DIAL TOLL FREE  

1-800-348•7487 
www.cardinalbuses.com 





page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, September 20, 2002 


1. 

around the dial 

TODAY 
TENNIS 
Davis Cup Semifinals, France vs. U.S. Noon, ESPN 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Marlins at Braves 7:30 p.m., TBS 
SATURDAY COLLEGE FOOTBALL Utah at Michigan Noon, ESPN Arizona at Wisconsin Noon,ESPN2 NC State at Texas Tech Noon, FOX Sports Net NOTRE DAME at MSU 3:30 p.m.,ABC Florida at Tennessee 3:30 p.m.,CBS Ohio State at Cincinatti 3:30 p.m.,ESPN USC at Kansas State 7 p.m.,TBS Wyoming at Washington 1 O 
p.m.,FOXSports Net 
SUNDAY 
NFL 
Colts at Texans 1 p.m.,CBS Saints at Bears 1 p.m.,FOX Packers at Lions 4:15 p.m.,FOX Bills at Broncos 4 p.m., CBS 
TENNIS 
Davis Cup Semifinals -U.S. vs. France 1:30 p.m.1ESPN2 
GOLF 

Associated Press "Why? I can think of a These are the best players cially after the great million reasons," Woods in the world," he said. debate over Ryder Cup said. "You're playing stroke revePues in 1999. 
THOMASTOWN, Ireland Woods has never had play on a great golf course. And Woods isn't hurting
No one can accuse Tiger 
much success in the Ryder That's pretty important. for money. His endorse­Woods of looking ahead to 
next week's Ryder Cup. Cup, going 3-6-1. Earlier I'm not saying the Ryder is ments pay him about $60 Woods birdied the last this week, he complained not important. It's a com­million a year. He gets two holes Thursday for a that the team concept pletely-different animal. more than $2 million just doesn't allow him to pre­"You can play absolutely for showing up at most
7-under 65 to take a one­stroke lead in the pare for the matches the lousy and the team can tournaments overseas, and American Express way he would any other win, or you can play his PGA Tour earnings Championship, a tourna­big tournament. absolutely great and win already have surpassed ment he said means more And he made it clear all five matches, and lose $31 million. to him than winning that after setting his bogey­the Ryder Cup." Woods said he enjoys the little exhibition next week free 65 at Mount Juliet It was a blunt assess­Ryder Cup when the at The Belfry. that his focus is squarely ment about the Ryder Cup, matches are played from 
Asked which was more on winning his sixth tour­one sure to delight the Friday to Sunday, but he important, Woods chose nament of the year, and a British tabloids. doesn't like the galas and an individual title and the World Golf Championship The Americans already black-tie dinners. The $1 million check over a event for the fourth con­are perceived as 12 Ryder Cup has never been 
team victory and a 14-inch secutive season. money-hungry individuals a top priority for him. gold chalice. "This is a big event. instead of one team. espe-Woods said he was dis-
IN BRIEF 
shuffling between Cobb and Jason by a bare-chested father and son in
Auburn defeats Miss. 
Campbell. Cobb had to beat out the ninth inning Thursday night,
State 
Campbell in the preseason for the prompting players from both teamsDaniel Cobb gave a little chuckle starting job. to rush to his rescue.
when told of his 1-for-9 first quarter. 
Cobb settled down and finished 10-Gamboa had several cuts and a
"Is that what I was? Oh man. 
of-21 for a season-high 183 yards large bruise on his forehead. HeThat's pretty bad," he said. 
with no interceptions. walked off the field to a standingCobb could laugh off the slow start Kevin Fant passed well when he ovation from the crowd at Comiskeybecause he threw three touchdown had time to throw for Mississippi Park, where the Royals beat the 
passes in the second quarter as 
State (1-2, 0-1). He was 19-of-31 for Chicago White Sox 2-1. 
Auburn beat Mississippi State 42-14 215 yards with an interception and "I had my hands on my hips and I on Thursday night. 
two fumbles while facing steady was looking at the next batter. I felt Carnell Williams rushed for two pressure from the Tigers. like a football team had hit me from
TDs in the fourth quarter for the 
"Turnovers kill you. especially behind. Next thing I knew, I'm on 
Tigers (3-1, 2-1 Southeastern when you play a good team like the ground trying to defend 
Conference), who scored the final 21 Auburn," said Fant, who was sacked myself," Gamboa said. 
points to win their third straight. 
five times. A folded-up pocket knife was 
Cobb, a senior who has had an up­The Bulldogs turned the ball over found near first base at the scene. and-down career, also caught an six times. White Sox outfielder Aaron Rowand early break when an interception "I thought we had to have five said he saw it fall out of one of the 
returned for a touchdown by 
turnovers to win -we got six," said fan's pockets, and Royals closer 
Mississippi State was nullified when Tuberville, the former Mississippi Roberto Hernandez said he saw the play was blown dead because of coach who is 3-2 in Starkville. security guards place it in an evi­an Auburn penalty. dence bag. 
"We weren't going to pull him," Royals coach attacked "I'm just stiff and sore," said said Auburn coach Tommy Kansas City first-base coach Tom Gamboa, 54. Tuberville, who spent last season Gamboa was ambushed on the field 
. 
Friday, September 20, 2002 page 17 
The Observer . SPORTS 
-
VOLLEYBALL 
Another Michigan team to challenge Irish 
them. Boilermaker junior Saturday. Loomis getting significant play­The Wolverines are not veryByMATTLOZAR Joanna Lowry recorded a "We actually didn't play well ing time, inconsistency is not deep, with only six players
Sports Writer 
game-high 29 kills while her in games one or two," Brown surprising. appearing in all of their match­
teammate Kim McConaha con­said. " ... Our passing and ball "I think we just need to es -eight Irish players have 
Notre Dame volleyball coach tributed with 21 kills. Both control weren't where we remember that we are a young played in every match -but Debbie Brown wants her team Lowry and McConaha hit .400 
wanted them to be." team. We have a lot of poten­the lack of depth does not 
to treat 
or better "I don't think tial," Loomis mean the Wolverines are not
Wednesday's 
for the we overlooked said. ..Last talented. Each player on the
"/ think we just need to 
loss against "After any win and loss. match. them at all," night we court for Michigan can hurt an 
Purdue just like remember that we are a
" W e outside hitter didn't come opponent.
we just get back in the 
a win in prepar­
weren't Emily Loomis young team . ... I think we out ready to "I think one of the thingsing for gym and work on things 
able to stop said. "We play. I think Michigan has is a balanced
still have a long way to 
Saturday's con­that didn't go well/or their [mid­knew it would we still have offense. So it is hard to key on 
test against go to get there. but we
us ... dle hitters] be a tough a long way to one player," Brown said.
Michigan. 
at all," match. We just have time in our season go to get "Their middles get up quick
"After any win B r o w n weren't exe­where we and are hard to stop. We need
to get there ...
and loss, we just Debbie Brown said. cuting well." want to be, to do a better job than we did 
get back in the 
Irish coach Despite Against the but we have against Purdue." 
gym and work dominating Boilermakers, Emily Loomis time in our Notre Dame looks to extend on the things 
the first Loomis led the Irish sophomore season to get its school record 28-game
that didn't go well for us," she game against Purdue and Irish with 21 there." home-court win streak 
said. "There is no other cure. squeaking out a win in the sec­kills. The Heading Saturday. The Irish and We have to get in and improve ond, Brown was not happy with 
sophomore was second on the into Thursday's game against Wolverines play at 7 p.m. at 
on our deficiencies." 
the team's performance. The team with a .471 hitting per­Toledo, Michigan (5-3) suffered the Joyce Center. 
Brown was concerned with loss to the Boilermakers 
centage and 10 digs. all three of its losses to ranked 
Purdue's middle hitters head­snapped a five-game winning On a team that features only teams. Three weeks ago,
ing into Wednesday's match, streak and came right after a two seniors and three fresh­Michigan lost to Pepperdine Contact Matt Lozar at and her team failed to contain win over No. 10 Pepperdine men, with the sopmohore 28-30, 35-33, 30-23. 30-21. mlozar@nd.edu 

Loolli111 for a fun and exclt.lt.111 job for t.he 2002-2003 academic year? •• •··· 
Program Assistant 
in the Student Activities Oiiice 

* 
Approximately 7 hours per week primarily on weekend nights and late night hours 

* 
Assist in the planning and implementa'tion of Student Ac"tivities sponsored events, in­cluding ticket sales, facili1y setup and clean up and more 


*Some events you might be working with include crafting, karaoke, an intercultural arts series and more 
Applications are available in the Student Activities Office at 315 Lafortune. 
For more information call 631-7308. 

1 score &' 1 year a30, '1-(eather was 6rou31itforth to this nation. 'lfow we are enga3ed in ce(e6rat­in8 lier 2 lt :B-day. See you at the 6ars Ueathal 
~~6e ~friends 

VOLLEYBALL 
SATURDAY9/21 -7pm ND vs. MICHIGAN JOYCE CENTER 
It's CIRCUS Nightl *Come see the 9 foot leprechaun *FREE FOODI *Giveaways ALL MATCH LONGII 
13908 Scout Lane Mishawaka in The Res Priced at $235,900 4 BR, 2.5 baths, 2600 sf 2 acres and Stream More trees than you can count 
6906 Roby Road, Culver 
Priced at $220,000 Your own waterfront lodge 
Open House Sunday 2 to 4 Call for directions Judy Karst 283*2630 
CROSS-COUNTRY 
23rd Annual National Catholic Championship 
FRIDAY, 9/20 
Burke Memorial Golf Course 
Women's Race: 4:15pm Men's Race: 5:00pm 
Admission is free! 
r 
' 
,\ ,\ 
,\ 
page 18 Friday, September 20, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 

WOMENS SOCCER 
No. 7 Irish seek to avenge last year's loss 

• Notre Dame ready for Big East rival Rutgers 
ByJOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
Payback will be on the mind of the Notre Dame women's soccer team this weekend. Last year, Rutgers shocked Notre Dame 2-1, marking the first time an Irish womens soccer team had ever lost a game to Rutgers. 
Tonight at 7:30, the 7th­ranked Irish will have the opportunity for revenge when they host the Scarlet Knights. On Sunday, the Irish, who enter this game with a record of 4-2, will host another Big East opponent in Seton Hall. Game time is set for 2 p.m. to immediately follow the Irish men's game against Providence. 
Three weeks ago, the Irish won their first two opening Big East Conference games against Providence and Virginia Tech in impressive fashion. They are hoping their strong conference play will continue this week-

Notre Dame has faced some of the toughest competition in the coun­try. Two weekends ago, the Irish lost to defending national Carli Lloyd caught the
"We need to come out 
Notre Dame this weekend with the defense totally off guard. The
same passion as we did 
All-American
last week." 
and reigning Big East fresh­Randy Waldrum man of the 
year torched
coach 
the Irish for two goals in 
week," said Waldrum. "Players like Melissa Tancredi and Amanda Guertin really need to step up again on offense. Amy Warner needs to keep playing consistently like she has all season. Our midfield has to dominate. Ashley Dryer and Randi Scheller have to really play well for us to win." 
The Notre Dame offense came to life in Sunday's game against Maryland. After falling behind 2-0, the Irish stormed back with five goals in the final 25 minutes for an unbelievable 5-2 victory. The Irish may need another similar performance this weekend against a strong Rutgers defense. The Scarlet Knights, who enter today's game with a record of 4-4-1, have posted three consecutive shutouts. 
After three straight weeks of trying to discover the right combination of players on defense, Waldrum believes he 


Take Lots of Pictures ... 
...and make them last! 
Pages in Time has absolutely everything you need for your college scrapbook! Make memories last ... forever! 

41 50 Grape Road, next to Don Pablos, (574) 252-5300 
GO IRISH! BEAT SPARTANS! 

has finally found a strong defensive lineup to replace injured starters Vanessa Pruzinsky and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir. Midfielders Kim Carpenter and Mary Boland, who started the first games of their career at defense against Maryland Sunday, will hold on to the outside fullback posi­tions. Sophomore Candace Chapman will move from her traditional outside back posi­tion to the inside to assist freshman Catherine Sigler. 
"We're going to go with the same defensive lineup we played against Maryland," said Waldrum. "I thought they all played really well, especially for the first time ever playing together. We need them to really play well again this weekend." 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu 
end. 
"These two games are crucial for us," said Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum. "Both of these teams are on our side of the Big East Conference. We need to win these games so we can be a first-round host in the conference tournament." 
Over the past two weeks, 
and Maryland. 
"There are no easy games on our schedule," said Waldrum. "We need to come out this weekend with the same passion as we did last week. Rutgers upset us last year, so I think that is motivation enough for us to give our best effort." 
Last year, Rutgers forward 
champion Santa Clara 4-0 and 2001 Final Four qualifier Portland 1-0. 
The Irish rebounded this past weekend with two dramatic comeback victories over peren­nial NCAA Tournament teams Hartford and Maryland. The Notre Dame coaching staff believes the difference between last weekend and two week­ends ago is simple -the Irish played with more passion and more heart against Hartford the Scarlet Knight's 2-1 upset victory. With a young, inexperi­enced defense and a freshman goalie in Erika Bohn, Waldrum will be relying upon his veteran offense and midfield to take some of the pres­
sure  off  his  
defense.  
"We  need to  

come out this weekend with the same passion as we did last 
2002-03 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

At,l<JrS 1~1r()lll rr11e l_i)ll(l()ll Sttlgt· 

~ff'. Much Ado About Nothing 
by William Shakespeare 
Thursday, September 19 ... 7:30 p.m. Friday, September 20 ... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, September 21 ...7:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $16 Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
/\r:ri\?1:/f\i/\(\\?········... 


Close to Campus Social Event Friendly Dishwasher, Disposal, Stove, Refridgerator, Carpeting, Central Heat & Air 
Student Atmosphere 
Campus View Apartments 1801 Irish Way (574) 272-1441 
*Call office for details 
Friday, September 20, 2002 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS INTERHALL 
Potter works magic in Breen-Phillips win 
low sophomore Lindsay Walz had one. 
Team co-captain Kelly Deckerman had the other touchdown reception for the Babes (2-0). 
Senior quarterback Atasha Potter led the Babes offense. Potter's numbers were not stel­lar, completing 8 of 17 for 137 yards, but she did make her passes count, as four of those completions were touchdowns. 
"I think we played really well out there," said Deckerman. "It 
and back  quarter­Leslie  "/ think we played really  skin or the webbed feet,  
Schmidt said. "Our defense really shut them down,"  well out there. It was tough slipping around in the mud.··  but they cer­tainly proved that they could get the  
Deckerman  job done in  
said. A  critical  Kely Deckerman  or out of the water as  
point  in  the  Breen-Phillips co-captain  t  h  e  y  
game occurred  trounced the  
early in the first  Wild Women  

half, when the Purple Weasels of Walsh, 19-6, on a rain­elected to go for a fourth down soaked Riehle field Thursday conversion on their own 30-night. yard line. Both Badin and Walsh were 
The conversion failed, and the in it for redemption after losses Babes were able to march down in both of their individual sea­the field to score their first son-opener games on Sunday touchdown. against Breen-Phillips and 
"It was definitely a risk worth Welsh Family, respectively. taking," Schmidt said. "We trust "We really need to improve our defense." our offense," said Walsh cap-
The Purple tain Alison 
Weasels only one  had first  "With this team. there :S  T r o y "Moving the  
down from that point onward. Despite the  always something to be fired up about. ••  ball up the field is a big part of the  
loss,  Schmidt  game  that  
said that the team had sever­al positives it  Betsy Schroeder Badin linebacker  we are doing." In  not the  
could take from  opening  

the game. half, it seemed that Walsh had 
"We were able to move the made the necessary adjust­ball once we got going," ments as receiver Carey Schmidt said. "We never got too Campbell ran the ball 70 yards down. We moved the ball best off a lateral for the game's first in the second half, and people touchdown. hustled throughout the game. "Our running game has really We just have to kick it up a improved," said Campbell. notch next time." "Putting points on the board is On the other side of the score, important, and it's good to see 
that we have an offense that 
can do that." 
Despite a strong Walsh 
offense backed by a relentless 
defense, Badin quarterback 
Erin Zachry was able to guide 
her offense on a few key plays 
that turned the tables in their 
favor. Zachry completed seven 
of nine passes in the first half, 
including one to receiver 
Stephanie Heath who followed 
through to Amy Marshall for 
the Bullfrogs' first touchdown. 
"We knew our receivers could 
run really crisp routes," said 
Zachry. "It was all just a matter 
of pulling it off." 
Going into the second half, a pumped Badin defense upped its game to shut down Walsh. The Bullfrogs had a triad of power in linebackers Betsy Schroeder and Cindy Adimari and safety Jen Carter. The three had a combined nine tackles in the final five minutes of the game, including a key tackle by Carter on a Walsh fourth down. 
"We really got fired up at the end," said Schroeder. "With this team, there's always something to be fired up about." 
The game was clenched by Badin in the last six minutes with a touchdown by Heath fol­lowed up by a one-point conver­sion pass from Zachry to Heath. 
"We really just relaxed, fell into place and had fun ," said captain Katie Bares of the turn­around performance. 
Schroeder felt that only good times were ahead for Badin. 
"We played our game tonight," said Schroeder. "This is what real Badin football is all about." 
Contact Justin Shuver at jsbuver@nd.edu and Trey Williams at williams.3 l 7@nd.edu 
ByJUSTIN SHUVER and TREY WILLIAMS 
Sports Writers 
A pair of speedy sophomore wide receivers and an efficient quarterback proved the differ­ence as Breen-Phillips shutout Pasquerilla West 27-0 in Gold League interhall action Thursday night. 
Sophomore wide receiver Lauren Ohlenforst had two touchdown receptions, and fel­was tough slipping around in the mud." 
The Purple Weasels (0-1) were never able to generate a genuine scoring drive as they were plagued by five turnovers. including four interceptions. 
"I need to make better deci­sions with the ball," Purple Weasels captain 

the Babes aren't willing to 
declare themselves unbeatable just yet, either. 
"There's still a lot we can improve on," Potter said. 
Badin 19, Walsh 6 
The Bullfrogs of Badin Hall may not actually have the watertight 

HAPPY 21ST KAREN! 

LOVE, FROM ALL OF US 

-.. 
{ ·, 
I 
. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 20, 2002 
Keough looks to capitalize on Harrington are expected to help "When you're the champions, with a semifinal victory over the improvements of last year's O'Neill get in the end zone. you have a big target on your Fisher. The Green Wave haven't
Inter hall 
team that made it to the first With several returning line­back," Esper said. "If we're forgotten that season-ending loss continued from page 24 round of playoffs, only to lose 20-backers anchoring the line, going to be as good as we were and are ready for Sunday's 6 to Siegfried. O'Neill's defense anticipates a last year, we're going to have to rematch at Riehle Fields. 
.. We 're looking to rebound The Kangaroos lost only one strong showing Sunday. work at it." Fisher's team is young again, from that year," team captain senior to graduation and boast a "The teams seem to be on the The Alumni squad did not with plenty of freshman on the Justin Williams said. "We want young roster with plenty of same level and the game could make it past the second round of roster. To help the new players to go out and show everyone that speed and talent at the skill posi­go either way, but our passing the playoffs last season. This adjust, the team has been prac­
J I we're happy to field a team." tions. game will give us the advan­year they have instituted a three­ticing three to four times a week. 
Four players from the 2000 Keough and O'Neill did not tage," Montgomery said. a-week practice schedule in the The underclassmen will be need­team will be members of this play each other last season, so Keough and O'Neill play hopes of improving on an ed in Sunday's game, as the year's Vermin squad. Fullback the two teams are eager to see Sunday at 2 p.m. at Stepan already solid base. Keppel says Green Wave lost seven seniors to 
!
Geoff Polk, linebacker Jim Butts. the differences since their last Fields. the team has increased prepara­graduation and three others are and defensive end Tex Sieter. in meeting two years ago. tion due to its upcoming oppo­studying abroad. addition to Williams at center, "This game will be a litmus nent and possibly its biggest With the same coaching staff I 
Dillon versus Alumni
will be the experience on a team test of where we're at, after we rivalry. returning, the offense will look to 
It is the beginning of a new
that is almost completely new­shake off the rust and get ready "Once we got Dillon as first on heat up and the defense will try
interhall football season, and the 
comers. to raise the bar this season," said the schedule, we knew we'd to maintain its trademark consis­
defending champions, the Dillon
Williams said that the team the Kangaroo's senior quarter­have to get in gear and work tency.
Hall Big Red, are already out of 
expects big things out of fresh­back and co-captain Andy Hess. hard," said Keppel. Captain Tom Gorman expects
T.O.'s. 
man quarterback Uel Titts and Acknowledging O'Neill's first The Wing-T offense Odom ran the Green Wave to be a "little
Not "timeouts," -Tayt Odom. 
defensive lineman Bill Jenista. interhall victory last season to perfection last season is again more of a high-flying, big-play
Odom quarterbacked an
"A lot of people are looking at against St. Ed's, Hess is confi­the cornerstone of the Dillon team than last year.'' 
offense that outscored its oppo­
us to be underdogs," he said. "I dent that his team is ready for game plan. The team believes it Junior running back Kameron
nents 143-21 last season and led 
don't mind being the underdog, more victories. has the personnel to fill the gaps Chappell should get the ball
the Big Red on its undefeated
just look at the Michigan game. "This year's team is not the and construct a repeat title early as Fisher will try to keep a
streak during its 2001 champi­
We heard Zahm at the captains' O'Neill of the old days; they are a team. steady offense with a balanced
onship run.
meeting talk about how excited good squad with good numbers," The Alumni Dawgs, featuring a offensive attack. 
Odom, however, is lost to grad­
they were to play Carroll their said Hess. strong defensive line and sec­The Ramblers are also looking
uation. Dillon now searches for
first game." Look for Hess and co-captain ondary, are stressing organiza­forward to Sunday's 2 p.m. kick­
answers in defending its title. 
Zahmbies captain Nick Paul Buser. a veteran of the tion and staying focused. Captain off. "[Our players] are excited to
The search begins Sunday ver­
Passafiume didn't sound so bold. offensive line, to lead Keough Billy Siegfried is out for the sea­play Fisher, we know they'll be
sus rival Alumni Hall at McGlinn
"We want to go out and take it Sunday. Additional help will son after injuring himself in pretty fired up because we took
fields. 
one game at a time," he said. come from standout sophomore practice. but his role as a coach them out of the playoffs last
Alumni coach Steve Keppel
"We have a schedule this year wide receiver John Tritschler, will be vital to the Dawgs' suc­year," coach John Torgenson
recalls losing twice at the hands 
we can take advantage of. cess. said.
who scored several touchdowns of Odom and the Big Red last
Carroll is number one on our list Dillon's schedule will not get Undefeated in the regular sea­
as a freshman last season. season. He sees this season as a
this week." any easier after its contest with son last year. Siegfried fell to
While the rivalry of these West new opportunity.
Zahm will be looking to Alumni, as every dorm will be Dillon in the interhall champi­
Quad dorms might not yet equal "We're hoping to avenge both
improve on last year's team, out to topple the defending onship game 21-0. 
that of Dillon and Alumni, the losses by beginning with a win
which went 2-2 during the regu­champions. The Ramblers have reloaded
teams are certainly looking for­on Sunday," said Keppel. 
lar season and lost to Dillon in "No matter how good we think and Torgenson said his team is
ward to the game. The men of Odom's graduation has left a
the first round of the playoffs. we are, we still have room to ready for this weekend. 
Keough are "excited to get out void on both sides of the ball for improve," said Esper. "We're "[We're] excited to get going there and crash some helmets," the Big Red. 
taking one game at a time, and and looking to make it back toKeough versus O'Neill according to Hess. "Tayt Odom is irreplaceable," we'll see how things go.'' the Stadium," Torgenson said. 
The bragging rights for the The Angry Mob is also revved senior co-captain and center Pat best mens interhall football team up, with junior quarterback Troy Esper said. "The most important on West Quad will be on the line Montgomery leading a revamped quality he brought to the team Siegfried versus Fisher Contact Justin Shuver at Sunday as Keough and O'Neill offense featuring two new talent­was his leadership." Last year, Siegfried's interhall jshuver@nd.edu, Lisa Reijula at face off in both dorms' season ed wide receivers. Freshman Still, confidence runs high on football team won a berth to its lreijula@nd.edu and Pat opener. Johnny Griffin and Jack the Dillon sidelines. first-ever championship game Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
THE WASHINGTON PROG 

APPLICATION MEETING 
I
For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Wednesday, September 25 
7:00 P.M. 136 DeBartolo 
FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 
Friday, September 20, 2002 
The Observer. SPORTS page 21 
it." 
The competition on Friday probably will not do much to continued from page 24 change their ranking, but the Irish have some tough trails 
Cross 
"This puts a bunch of people 
ahead, particularly with the 
in that position early on, so 
Notre Dame Invitational in two 
when the time comes down the weeks. road, they know they can do 
"I think [Friday's race] will
it." 
be a real good opener for 
The fifth-ranked Irish have 
them," Connelly said. "It's a 
yet to show the collegiate run­
big field. There are 28 teams,
ning world their complete 
but it's not the type of competi­
prowess. 
The upcoming Notre Dame Invitational, which brings some of the best teams in the nation to Notre Dame in two weeks, will be the first time the Irish women have their best nine runners 
at the starting line together. 
While the mens squad is not "It's kind of crazy [that the ranked as high as the women Irish are ranked 5th], because are, they too are reaching for we haven't lined up our whole the NCMs, and Friday's race team yet," Connelly said with a will serve as an indicator of 
laugh. "I think we're good. I where they stand as a team. 
think our kids know that." 
"The last two years whoever 
But the coach never discuss­won the open race at the es their early-season high 
National Catholic 
ranking to his team. 
Championships ended up being "We're trying not to think of in the top five at nationals," 
tion we saw two weeks and ago and its not
"/ think we 're good. I 
the type
think our kids know 
of com­
that." petition we· re going to
Tim Connelly 
see two 
Womens coach weeks fr o m now." 
SPfAKERPIIONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL' INSTANT MESSENGER'" service TWO-WAY MESSAGING JAVA'" GAMES & APPLICATIONS 
DIGfTAL CELLULAR 
i<!fOc 
'"fo.A""y t-Y.e .:A.i~it-""l woo.lkie+"'l~ie wovks cvev sevev"'I hl.\"1.Ave.A ~iles. A"I.A +-o~oV'V'OW, ""'t'io\\wi.Ae. 
NEXTEl 
"We're really focusing on 
MENS SOCCER
just having the top seven run together for as long as we can, and still have probably all seven towards the top ten," 
Large crowd sees
said Mobley, an All-American, who led the Irish at the adidas Invitational two weeks ago. 
-
Even though the Irish win this 
Bradley upset Irish
meet annually, Friday's com­petition is expected to be less challenging than usual, with 
a very good team." 
the notable absence of 
By JOE HETTLER 
The Braves won the Mike
Marquette. 
Associate Sports Editor 
Berticelli Memorial
"The talent level is a little 
Tournament at Notre Damedown compared to most 
The biggest crowd to ever 
last weekend and are unde­years," Mobley said. "Every watch a mens regular-season 
feated this season at 5-0-2.
time we go into this meet we 
soccer game at Bradley didn't Both Notre Dame and Bradleyexpect to win. We expect noth­
go home disappointed 
went 1-0-1 in the tournament,ing less than that." 
Thursday night. 
but Bradley won the tiebreak­For the team, the upcoming 
The Braves scored two sec­_,..
er by scoring the most goalsmeet with the nation's Catholic ond-half goals, including the 
for the tournament. Through
schools -minus the Big East game winner with 
their frist
Catholic universities -is the 
less than nine 
··we've got to get this S i X
beginning of their annual quest 
minutes remain­
games,
for the NCMs. 
ing, to hand the ship back on an even 
t h e
"Annually we want to get to 
No. 5 Irish their keel." Braves
the NCAAs," Piane said. "So 
first loss of the 
h a d
that's got to be the number 
season, 3-2. 
outscoredone goal, to get to the NCAAs. 
Bobby Clark 
"It shows you
Hopefully we can come back 
that if you 're 
with an All American or two 
going to be a top
from the NCAAs. Everyone's 
team and you go
goal is to get in the top ten in 
to another team's grounds,
the country." 
they will be very, very excited 
to play the No. 5 team in the
that," Johnson said. "Our junior Todd Mobley said. "The Contact Joe Lindsley at 
country," coach Bobby Clark
coach hasn't even mentioned lineup is definitely not set." jlindsle@nd.edu 
said. "We played some very good soccer. I think they were 
. ,_,, , .. ,. ... ' , ... ,. •--· 
You're the Homecoming chairperson. All you have to do is organize 10,000 students, 20 events and 1 parad~.· 
Tuey'v-e "'n COV.\\M\\B 0\\ yov.. Which is why 
yol.\ \\eeJ. ~e)Ctel's .:AiBH-"'\ w"'l~ie+"'l\:.ie .Pe"'tl.\ve. lt let-s yol.\ Bet vi.Bht thvov.8V\ witV\ the fl.\SV\ o.P "' \:,I.\H-o\\. TuOl.t 1Me01.\\S 
\\0 IMlSSe.:A Cc,\lls, voice ""'"'n ov pho\\e tt, ..B· 
'5¼-c:"y i\\ co\\t"'ct wii-h everyo\\e .PvoiM. the Floe'!.t Co1M1MiH-ee to the All..\1M\\i. (OIMIM.iH-ee, wi.t\.\ov.t IM.lSSl\\~ "' J.et"'a. 
Now yol..\1ve vec,i.J.y-Bvi\\B H·. 
Now's "' e,ve"'t ti\41\e to e,et Ne;,ctel: "'" t-to\-ve l)"'""'e stl..\J.e\\t-s e,et "' \0%'\~~iSCOlA.\\T" "" et\\\y ve'l.te 
r'"'" "'".:A $\00* o.P.P "'"Y fV\O\\e. 
-ro t>l.\y: , 80 to \\e,<te\.co~/ivisl..'\-stv.J.e\\t. , Cc?\ll toll...Pvee \-811-s-o,-2.12,. , co\\¼-&?\ci-Jt)I-\ Co~~IA\\lC-"\t-iO\\S 
c?\t" 574-24'3-'38' 18' 

IIf:h{J½\};/fffWA?}i"'(i{;; (~F,,,;>:;C/~iitt~; IS vaud 1or N~re Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002. While supplies last. Requires new activation, on& year Service_ Aoreement and '}{Jifi/:\J:ij,dltappft>vilJ.. $2()0 i:arly termination fee applies. Must be 18 years of aat to porcl1ase. In-store pur~ases require at least 2 fonns _of valid 1d_ent1f1cat1on. Account 'f/J;:?::,:==:\sit~u tee'o!$35:j:)er im.one; maximum $70 per account Fees may vary by market $11J0 mstani savings ts off the Regular Retail Pnce and will be applied at point()·:ffaf}/:m:s:J;:1!}% off m6nttily 'raltl plan ls. valid on any rate plan activated with this offer. Other restnct1ons may _apply. Rate plans_ are sub1ect to taxes, fees and other,f/''''" "':'_' Wr~(Ctitrtmlprices. ate subject to change. Read Service Agreement tor details. ©2002 Nextel Communicatwns, Inc. All nghts reserved. Nextel and the Nextel .. . <, ,.,., A > ' ' :f®J'lai't1,rti11(Sieredtra<l•marks of Nextel Communications, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized M 1000 are registered m the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and /iM\,,:::..,;:::·:i=:::::.\,:,:,,, ,iJ):/{,,::,.. <-·,:: all,~theiJava:-basedmarks are registered trademark& of SUll M1crosystems,. Inc. AOL, AIM, Buddy List and tha Triangle design are registered trad&marks of
::;:~;I~i'.:::;~::[:'.iz(':~''.f~:~~:·~{~8;:'.i~!'.tf:\:i~~;??''~fmfei~;1~. ~
M~senger is atrademark af kneoca Onlme, tnc. 
Irish coach  0 p p O -nents 11­ 
3.  
"They  were  very excited  

about the game,,. Clark said. "They're a good team in their own right, and they played us tough." 
Justin Detter put the Irish in front with a goal in the 32nd minute to give Notre Dame the 1-0 lead. The lead was short­lived as Bradley answered with Preston Good ·s goal just one minute 15 seconds later. 
Notre Dame regained the lead when Chris Riley scored 
18:50 into the second half. The braves Ryan Glynn tied the game in the 77th minute before Tim Regan scored the deciding goal less than five minutes later off an assist from Ryan Raschke. 
"We did some good things, and there are some things we need to work on," Clark said. "It was tight, they really domi­nated for about 10 minutes in the second half. It was one of those games that seesaws, when there are spells when we're in the games and spells when they're in the game." 
Irish goalie Chris Sawyer tallied a season-high seven saves, while Bradley outshot the Notre Dame 22-10 and had a 6-4 corner kick advan­tage. 
"Sawyer was tremendous," Clark said. 
The game was delayed because of intense rain and lightning, which marks the second time this season the Irish have had a game stopped for lightning. 
The Irish don't have time to dwell on this loss because they face Big East rival Providence Sunday. The Friars lost 3-0 to Rhode Island Thursday night, dropping their record to 1-5 overall and 0-3 in conference. 
"We have a game Sunday, so there's not too much time to sit and lick our wounds," Clark said. "It's a Big East game and every Big East game is a tough game. We've got to get this ship back on an even keel." 
Contact Joe Hetler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion (574) 674-0022 Fax (574} 674-0033 ND themed baskets our specialty! 


Friday, September 20, 2002 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS TENNIS 
Young players look to contribute right away 
By MARK ZAVODNYIK Sports Writer  Team captain Katie Cunha has also enjoyed the new additions to the team.  from the Midwest as well. The host, Ohio State, is another proven team that will field quali­ every member of the team par­ticipate this weekend. The Prince Cup Invitational is  situations. The new members on the team mean new responsibilities  
"It's great having five new  ty players. Eastern Michigan  the first event in a long season  for captain Cunha. Whether it be  
Some say that age is nothing  faces. It's been a good change,"  and Miami of Ohio, both from  that has two sections during the  making sure classes are going  
but a number. That is exactly  said Cunha.  the  Mid- fall and spring semesters. The  well. having team dinners at her  
what the Notre Dame womens tennis team believes a.5 it heads  The Prince Cup Invitational will  "It's great having five  American Conference,  fall season is crucial for a team with young players like Notre  apartment or just having a talk, Cunha ha.5 set a good example of  
into the season-opening Prince  be an early test  new faces. It's been a  will  be  in  Dame to get some experience.  how to be a collegiate athlete ­ 
Cup Invitational in Columbus, Ohio.  for the Irish  young squad.  good change ...  attendance. The Irish  "The fall is important to get matches in," said Louderback.  and a team leader. "It's a challenge and a respon­ 
After graduating numerous  Notre Dame will  can  expect  Cunha agreed that the fall sea­ sibllity, but it makes me work  
monogram winners, the Irish  face  some  very  Katie Cunha  tough  com­ son is vital for the team to get  harder," said Cunha.  
have welcomed five new faces this year. Freshmen Lauren  good competition this weekend.  Irish captain  petition from t h e m  practice in real matches. Louderback also intends on  The Prince Cup Invitational will be the first college event for  
Connelly, Liz Donohue, Kelly  Eight teams that  because they  using different combinations of  the Notre Dame freshmen.  That  
Nelson. Jennifer Smith and  advanced to the Sweet 16 ofla.5t  are sending their very best play­ players at doubles, to see which  means better competition. high­ 
Kristina Stastny hope to prove  year's NCAA Championship will  ers.  players fit best with each other.  er tension and higher stakes.  
they are mature beyond their  be in attendance. Some of those  The tournament is set up as  National rankings do not come  However, it also means being  
years.  squads are outside the Midwest  one big bracket for both singles  out until December, so the Irish  part of a team effort in which  
The new members of the team  and therefore don't face the  and doubles.  have time to gain experience.  many goals can be reached.  
have impressed team leaders so  Irish very often.  "Three of our four events this  The rankings are mainly based  "I think they will like the  
far.  "It's good for the kids to see  fall are in the same draw," said  on the previous year's perfor­ change," said Cunha.  
"All five have been impressive,  teams we don't see often, said  Louderback. "It's good because  mance, not on how the team fin­ 
they have played really well,"  Louderback. "LSU and Baylor  it allows the kids to play against  ished in the fall. This gives  
said  head  coach  Jay  are very good."  the same competition."  Louderback more ability to test  Contact Mark Zavodnyik at  
Louderback.  The Irish will face tough teams  Notre Dame hopes to have  his players in different playing  mzavodny@nd.edu  

H"'-PPY BivtL'\~"'Y Liz. F"'-llo\\! 

Dayton Contemporary Dance 
, ,;. .;, t'·.-J  Company Friday  
September 20  
8:00 p.m.  
O'Laughlin  
Auditorium  

.,, 
For ticket information contact Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
574/284-4626 

11,•t, fl.ii. l

.. --~...... . __ ,..,..,..
~ 
_.,.., -·~ '··­

The Office of Students with Disabilities 
is looking for students interested in being a 
personal care attendant 
for a female student with physical challenges. Attendants will assist the student with dressing, grooming, and other daily activities. Evening, morning, and weekend hours are available. 
~ ¦ ~ The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
¦ ~ ¦ and ~-~~--l_h_e_m_s_m_u_re_fi_or_E_t_h1_~_l_B_u_~_n_~_s_~_o_n_~_,_~_e_~ 
Proudly Present 
Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Mr. Milton Cole CEO, Cole Hardwoods 
"Business Ethics in a Time of Crisis" 
Tuesday, September 24, 2002 
7:00 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

-
Friday, September 20, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 ,... 
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 

JACK MONAHAN 
: M;i~,,, (W1~~->11:c~ ~~ ~~­t~1MM JI.ft'!~-~~ 

I
/ ..11:fn<:i o1 ~~tJ<m a u.1 · 


HENRJ ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LABAN 

j 
02002 Trbune Media Service6, Inc. All Rights AesetVed. 
SOSYM j
I (I I FLOUNDj 
www.jurmle.com
tTROGOTj r 
IJ r I I 
Ans: A rI X X I I ] "( I I I )"
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday' I Jumbles: BRAND TOXIC GIGGLE INVADE s Answer: How he felt about climbing the steep hill -HE WAS "INCLINED" 

~ nti l'l!iST" 
FRlarft'S SI lr\liPJiQ 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 20 • To orar, send your name, addreu and $5.45 and make cheek payable to Tribune Medi• Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, ll 60680-4330. 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  26 Sepulcher  53 Didn't start all at  
 
1 Subject for Aristotle 7 "Idylls of the King" character  28 April letters 29 Tower 31 Hero worship  once 55 Shade of red 56 Restaurant activity  
 
14 Drifted  33 Carouse  57 Illinois River city  
 
15 Big shot  38 Ne'er-do-well  58 Savings  
16 Fiction  39 Air  59 Brittle ingredient  
17 Recurring Broadway role first played by Maude Adams, 1905 18 Model  40 Lick 43 "A blind mule kicking by guess·: Josh Billings  DOWN 1 2002 British Open champion 2 "Later!"  
19 Christmas cries  44 Skye cap  3 Flip out  
20 Key letter  45 Mark successor  4 "Er ... wm ... "  
21 Grand style 22 Law school  47 Set 48 Relatives of  5 Alternative to office or home  
class  pollacks  6 March grp.,  
24 New York 49 Giving great tickertape service? honorees, 1962, 51 Force, in'69 and '86 ancient Rome 25 Intl. org. begun in 1958 52 Tony winner Uta ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  once 7 Cracks up 8 Number on a check: Abbr. 9 Welsh symbol 1oPresident Garfield's middle name 11 Exuberant, with "up" 12 Tailors 13 Potentate 15 Specialized reporting 19 What an average person tries to earn 22 Santa (Arizona mountains) 23 Got wind of  Puzzil by Marlln Ashwood-Smith 27 A following? 37 1946 British 50 "Power" star, 198630 Hay loft Open champion 40 Category in the 52 Blackguard32"_Louse" game Clue (Burns poem) 41 Game with right 54 Get to th8 34 60's cont lict and left bowers bottom of zone, familiarly things? 42 Threesomes35 Cousin of a 55 Producer of helicopter 46 Birth columns, for 36 Exchanges (for) 48 Glance short Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes.com/learning/xwords.  



EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Anne Meara, Sophia Loren, Matthew and Gunnar Nelson Happy Birthday: This can be a highly romantic and creative year if you take the time to develop your talents or nurture your relationship. Although you may find yourself working hard, the payoff will be worth it. Strive to reach your goals and this time next year you will be glad that you put in all the time and effort. Yournumbers are 8. 13, 19, 24, 31, 38 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Dealing with an authority figure could prove to be difficult tcxiay. Stay out of trouble. Make sure you get your job done quickly and efficiently so you don't have to deal with any criticism *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Children will play a major role in your life whether or not you have any. Get involved in the events that youngsters are panicipating in and you'll be surprised who you will meet.**** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This is not the day to start open commwtications with a loved one or, for that matter, with anyone. Keep your thoughts to yourself and let others do as they please. A creative outlet will be a necessity. 
***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your growing interest in philosophy and history will spark a desire to travel and see things firsthand. Talk to someone who is a seasoned traveler. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This isn't the day to be lazy and put things aside, especially when it comes to your own personal paperwork. Make sure that you have everything in order. Take a little time to help an older relative. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This will be a highly emotional and sensitive day, especially if you are in love. Don't let anyone at work put demands on you that will cause trouble at home. *** LIBRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will have a creative flare today that will spark enthusiasm in your peers as well as bring new meaning to your work. Your extra efforts will be appreciated by others. Start a new regime to get back into 
sh.ape.***SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will find yourself involved in a passionate encowtter if you get out and socialize. Keep in mind that if you are already 
attached, you must weigh the pros and coos before you do something you might regret ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't expect everyone to be on your side 
today. Problems with family members will escalate if you try to evade issues that need to be dealt with. Face the music; you'll feel much better. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You11 have all sorts of interesting talks with friends, neighbors and relatives. The things you discover will help you anderstand yourself better. You should be able to put things in perspective. 
**** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Creative ideas will surface and you should be able to use your ingenuity to move forward. Be careful not to let someone slow you down or lead you astray with empty promises. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): You are likely to take things the wrong way if you don't listen. Don't be too quick to judge others. You need to follow your own needs and directions. *** Birthday Baby: You will be intuitive and creative with the initiative and discipline to finish whatever you start. You will be powerful, engaging and willing to go the extra mile. Oteck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com. astromate.com. COPYRIGITT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
----------------------------------------------~--------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-• • • ~ -4 • • ' •• , -: 
. . . . 


Friday, September 20, 2002 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Breaking away 
. Irish look to continue success in National Catholic Championships 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Every September, both the mens and womens cross coun­try teams welcome squads from many of the nation's Catholic colleges and universities to the Burke Memorial Golf Course for the National Catholic Championships. 
And every September, with about 28 colleges in attendance, the Irish dominate -both men and women, team and individu­ally. They expect their winning streak to continue today. 
The 20th-ranked Irish men have won the last seven teams titles, while the fifth ranked women's squad has claimed the title each of the last eight sea­sons. 
Because of such success, this race has come to be, in a sense, an experimental meet for the Irish, one in which the coaches can play around with the lineup to see who will lead the team in the upcoming season. 
"It's an opportunity for us to gain a little confidence and to run as a group," Irish mens head coach Joe Piane said. "We approach this race totally dif­ferently than we will the one in two weeks, the Notre Dame Invitational. This is a great opportunity for our kids to develop confidence." 
The Irish lineup will consist of the runners who finished in the top seven at their first race of the season two weeks ago and the race will give them an opportunity to run together as a team. 
"I won't say it's a workout, but it's going to be what we call a fast continuous run." Piane said. "What we really want to work on tomorrow is running as a group." 
The women's team will also be focusing on running as a group, but coach Tim Connel1y doesn't plan to run all of his top runners. 
"This is one of the real early­season meets," Connelly said. "What we're doing with this meet is trying to develop our depth. We're going to hold out some of our top kids." 
Seniors Jenn Handley and Jenn Fibuch, freshman Molly Huddle and sophomore All American Lauren King will sit out the National Catholic Championships. In their place, Connelly wants to put some of the younger runners in order to give the less experienced more experience. Even without the top runners, the Irish are not expecting to finish anywhere but first. 
"We want to win it. We don't take it lightly," sophomore Megan Johnson said. "It's so early in the season. We're all trying to run as a team. run as a pack, work together. We want to have a really strong pack near the front of the race." 
"I think that the athletes we 

have in there are definitely one of the keys to Notre Dame's said. "That was one of the rea­capable of winning the meet," success on the trails throughout sons why we had a lot of suc­Connelly said. "But I want to the season. cess last year was that we put some of the younger kids in "As the year goes on, you get always seem to have some run­a position where they have to situations where all of the sud­ners step up. step up." den someone gets sick and you 
Connelly believes this meet is need people to -step up," he see CROSS/page 21 
INTERHALL 
Knott hopes to turn around winless season 
innovation," said Juggs captain really improved his game," receiver Tom Doar and Carney Riehle football field near Stepan
By JUSTIN SHUVER, LISA 
Looe Baker. "Last year practice Baker said. at quarterback. Center. REIJULA and PAT LEONARD was a lot of standing around. The Juggs are also looking to Carney said several freshmen Sports Writers This year we're going to throw new freshmen running back linemen have also impressed the 
new things at [our players]." Brian Segobiano and fullback team. Carrol versus Zahm 
In 2000, Knott faced Sorin for The Juggs have four returning Joe McCarthy to contribute on "I can't wait to see these guys Every dorm at Notre Dame the interhall football champi­starters on offense and three offense. hit guys on the other team rather looks forward to the beginning of onship. returning starters from last Sorin hopes to improve on last than our guys in practice," he a new interhall football season 
In this year's matchup, the year's defensive squad. year's team, which amassed a 3-said. as a chance to either improve stakes aren't quite as high but One of the most interesting 1 record going into the playoffs Despite the fact that the Juggs their team or continue the suc­that doesn't mean that the teams starters this year should be only to lose to Alumni in the went 0-4 last year, including a cess of last year's squad are taking the game any less senior wide receiver Jonathan semifinals. big loss to the Otters, Carney For Carroll, it's neither of lightly. Smith, Baker said. "We have a realistic chance," said that his team realizes the those reasons. They're just 
The Juggs are especially anx­Smith played on the team two said Otters captain Greg Carney. parity of interhall football. happy they have a team. ious to get back on the field and years ago and walked on to the "It relies on the second half and "In this league, you don't know Carroll, the smallest men's dorm on campus, has not fielded
are hoping to show that last Notre Dame varsity team. He left fourth quarter... coming through what you're going to get until year's 0-4 record was only an the varsity team this year and in the clutch." you see the other team five min­a team since 2000. That year, aberration. will be returning to be a crucial The offense will be led by run­utes before the game," he said. the Vermin went 0-3 with a for­
"We got a much more part of the Juggs' offense. ning back Ryan Rogers. slot The Juggs face the Otters feit. improved offense with more "The varsity experience has receiver Dave Knesek, wide Sunday at 2:00 p.m. at the north see INTERHALL/page 20 
WOMENS TENNIS 
MENS SOCCER 
WOMENS INTERHALL 
VOLLEYBALL FOOTBALL
WOMENS SOCCER
t--I.I.I 
Notre Dame at Notre Dame at
B.P. 27, 
Rutgers at NotreBradleO 3 
Michifn at
a: il Prince Cup Notre ame 2 Notre ame 
Michigan State Invitational 
P.W. 0 Dame 
Bradley scored two 
Badin 17,
c,; 
Saturday, 2:30 p.m.Friday-Sunday 
late goals to overtake 
Walsh 6 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, 7 p.m. 
the fifth-ranked Irish. It 
The Babes blanked the 
The Irish look to breaka_c Irish begin their sea-
The Irish look to 
The Irish try to bounce 
is Notre Dame's first 
Weasels and Badin 
a five-game losing streak son with five freshmen. 
back from a five-set loss avenge last season's loss 
loss of the season. 
against the Spartans. 
dropped its second. 
to Purdue. 
to the Scarlett Knights. 
page 17en Ii page 22 page 21 page 19 Irish Insiderpage 18 
> . i 
n. 
(~
(({ 
I ,1( 
, ( 
'.' ·, 
I 

... 

. . . '. \ '\ . ·, . I 1 t f 
J 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 20, 2002 

Loo 
• for the true testament 
The first question Tyrone Willingham was asked at his weekly press conference was in reference to the signifi­cance of fac­ing anoth­er black head coach in this week­end's game a­gainst 
Michi­
gan State. 
He an­swered in his usual straightforward manner. 
"I think I consistently said that my situation here at Notre Dame, the fact that two coaches of African-American decent will go against each other this weekend is significant, but it also points to a shortcoming in the system and that is disappointing." 
It is disappointing. And I won't be the only one to say that. 
You'll hear that it's disappointing from every columnist and broadcast­er who gives any focus to this weekend's game. You'll hear that it's dis­appointing from the few students on both cam­puses who realize that it is the case. You may don't know what it's like supporting the system ­even hear that it's disap­to grow up without a role injustices and all. So for pointing from people model of my own race in me to rail against it outside the football the profession I want to when I've never railed world. pursue. To be perfectly against it before would 

Then Saturday will honest, I don't really be hypocritical. come and go and that know what it feels like to The shortcomings in 
will be all. be a So why would you want minori­to hear it from me? ty. I just 
I could do that. I could don't join the rest of the media know. world in pontificating So for about the horrors of a me to system that only has four write African-American coach­about es. I could use that inter­disap­esting tidbit of informa­point­tion -that both Tyrone ment in Willingham and Bobby a sys­Williams are black -tem that and formulate my own is just short, 17-inch thesis oh recently the shortcomings of begin­American athletics and ning to the injustices of this look for world. equal 
But really, what do I oppor­know about it? tunity 
What do I know about would growing up and not be being able to play foot­unfair ball because of my skin to the color? What do I know strug-
You ·u hear that it's disappointing from every columnist and broadcaster who gives any focus to this weekend's game. You'll hear that it's disappointing from the few students on both campuses who realize that it is the case. You may even hear that it's disappointing from people outside the football world. Then Saturday will come and go and that will be all. 
the sys­tem exist. I don't deny that. But who am I to discuss their real impact? 
So I won't spill ink while dis­cussing inequali­ties I don't always under­stand or preju­dices I've never faced. I will only say this. On 
about limited opportuni­gles coaches like ties? What do I know Willingham and Williams about being forced to have taken part in. It leave my home because a would be hopping on the football team there is as bandwagon to get some likely to let a black walk­good press and then for­on play as elect the Pope getting about it Sunday president? What do I morning. know about coaching in Every one of us who a system in which I am a watches college football minority? on Saturday, who has 
I don't know what it's entered a college stadi­like to have to struggle um, who owns a hat with because of my race. I a team logo, has been 
Saturday two coaches 
will look across the field at each other and be a testament to the fact that just talking about the system doesn't change it. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
game hype 

Courtney Watson Irish linebacker 
..We have to get ready for work on Monday and come out here and get a win against Notre 
Dame.,, 

Omar Jenkins Irish wide receiver 
"We're the hunted right 
.. 
now. 
''We're not going to let it come down to one play." 

Charles Rogers Spartan wide receiver 
"You'll see. Something special's going to come out ofthis ... 

If you've ever thought about a vocation as a priest or brother, join Fr. Sam Peters, C.S.C. and the Holy Cross community at ND for an hour of prayer, pizza, and informal discussion. 
Tuesday, Sept. 24, 9:00-10:00 pm at Corby Hall 
www.nd.edu/....vocation 


--., 
Friday, September 20, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Not this time, not this year 
After five consecutive losses, the Irish are looking to turn the tide and win 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
With just under eight min­utes left in the game, with the wounds from the previous season's victory still tender, with the memory of a slip that cost them the game still fresh in their minds, the Irish fell back into a nightmare. 
One year ago, during the third game of the season, Notre Dame was facing Michigan State. With eight minutes left the score was tied at 10. Then it happened. · Spartan quarterback Ryan Van Dyke connected with Charles Rogers, hoping to con­vert a third-and-six into a first down. Instead, he won the game ·and left Notre Dame 0-5 against Michigan State in their last five contests. 
''I've never beat Michigan State since I was here," said S h a n e 
Michigan State, Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie stated quite clearly what Michigan State had and what his team lacked -explosiveness. 
Tht~ Spartans, for the second year in a row, had scored on the big play and the Irish watched as their team fell flat. 
In 2001, it was Van Dyke's pass to Rogers. Vontez Duff just couldn't catch the young receiver and Walton was left holding nothing when he made a last-ditch, diving grab for Rogers. Rogers was left holding the football -in the end zone. 
"I didn't make the tackle," Duff said after the game. " ... It's all about making plays and I just didn't make that play." 
Had that been the first time Notre Dame had been burned on a Spartan play, it would have hurt. But the fact that it was the second year in a row was so much worse than that. 
During the 
Walton, 2000 loss to
..They had a stud
who missed Michigan State,
running back and a stud
the final it was a differ­tackle that quarterback and a wide ent quarter­allowed back and a dif­
receiver and tight end. 
Rogers to ferent receiver.
We gave up things here 
score, after But it was that game. and there and shouldn't almost the "It's a same play and
have been that close. ,,
blow." exactly the Now, on same result. Saturday, Courtney Watson That time, Walton has Irish linebacker Jeff Smoker 

one final chance to beat Michigan State and leave Notre Dame with the memory of a victory instead of the pain of defeat. 
The Embarrassment of defeat 
Notre Dame has lost to 
Michigan State five years in a 
row. The Irish have not 
recorded a victory against the 
Spartans since 1994. Bob 
Davie faced off against Bobby 
Williams five times. He lost 
five times. That's the third­
longest Irish losing streak to 
one team. 
"It's ridiculous," said Irish center Jeff Faine. " ... It's very frustrating and this team is ready to flip it around." 
In 1997 it was a blowout. The No. 17 Spartans defeated the Irish 23-7 in front of a Notre Dame stadium crowd of 80,000. In 1998 it was worse. With the home crowd behind them, the Spartans scored 45 points on the way to a victory against Notre Dame. That was the first year fifth-year seniors such as Walton were at Notre Dame. That was the first time they watched their team lose. 
But it didn't get any better. The next three years Notre Dame teams fell one after the other to Michigan State. The Spartans didn't need a Trojan horse. They just walked onto the field and, after four quar­ters or play, they would have caught the Irish off guard at some point and come home with the victory. It was a 10­point difference in 1999, a six­point difference in 2000 and a mere touchdown in 2001 that separated the victors from the losers. And every time Notre Dame had the same position -the Irish are the enemy. 
Playmakers 
After last year's loss to 
fired the pass 
to Herb 
Haygood who ran for the 
touchdown. Tony Driver had 
fallen on the Spartan Astroturf. 
Haygood was never touched. 
So when the same slant pat­tern on the same side gave the Spartans the win again last year, it was like reliving a nightmare. 
"It's always in my head that that last play they always seem to catch a slant and go score on it," Irish receiver Omar Jenkins said. " ... I couldn't believe that it happened." 
"They had a stud running back and a stud quarterback and wide receiver and a tight end," Irish linebacker Courtney Watson said. "We gave up things here and there and shouldn't have been that close.... We're taking that per­sonal now and we're just not going to let that happen." 
Something to prove 
Now, 12 mpnths, one new coach and a new playing sur­face later, these two teams will face off once again. And they both have something to prove. 
Under the leadership of new head coach Tyrone Willingham, the Irish want to prove to Michigan State that they are a new team. That there is something inexplicable that is part of this program that will make it the first team in six years that will not fall to the Spartans. 
Over the summer, Jenkins met some Michigan State fans and they were already talking trash. They were questioning how the Irish defense would contain Rogers. They reminded Jenkins that no one in Notre Dame's program has defeated Michigan State. But Jenkins had a response ready. 
"You'll see. Something spe­cial 's going to come out of 
this," Jenkins told the Spartans. 
For the Irish, they hope that something special is a win. Michigan State has been a thorn in their side long enough. It's time to take con­trol. 
"We're all hungry to beat Michigan State," quarterback Carlyle Holiday said. "We 
game. "We never showed up. It was very disappointing. Mainly, I'm disappointed in myself and the coaching." 
But as early as Saturday, the loss was prompting the Spartans to start over this week and prove to the nation that they can win, starting with a victory against Notre Dame. 
"We have to get ready for 
haven't ,qe,3;t them in fi,\e,,. work on Monday and come out years. Just to beat them m · here and get a win against their home would be so much Notre Dame," Rogers said. better for the team." The Irish may be ranked No. 
But Notre Dame isn't the only team 
with some­thing to p r o v e . 
M i c h i g a n State has its own need to prove itself to the world. 
T h e 
Spartans ani coming off of an em bar­
..You have to be pumped up. We're the hunted 
right now, we're No. 12, we ·re going to see their_ best shot" 
Arnaz Battle Irish wide receiver 
12, but they are No. 1 on t h e 
Spartan 's 
list -the No. 1 team 
the Spartans are going to be looking to beat. 
"You have to be 
p u m p e d up," said 
rassing loss to California. The 15th-ranked Spartans were humbled by the unranked 
Bears in the devastating 46-22 loss. 
"It was very frustrating out there," said Spartans head coach Bobby Williams after the wide receiver Arnaz Battle. "We're the hunted right now, we're No. 12, we're going to see their best shot." 
Ta king the field 
On Saturday, thP Spartans and the Irish will spar once 
again and the bookies have given the Spartans a two-point advantage. 
The Irish wiJJ travel to East Lansing to the noise and the yells of Michigan State. They will travel with an alumnus as their coach. But even that may not help. 
"I've always been on the other side of the stadium," Willingham said. "So the sourids, the dynamics are totally different. ... It's going to be loud. Every movement that we make will be echoed by their cheers or boos or jeers or whatever they decide to throw at us." 
Michigan State will be look­ing to hit Notre Dame, and hit hard. The Spartans will be looking to make the big play one more time. 
"We're not going to let it come down to one play," Watson said. "We're not going to let it come down to one drive or one series. We're going to do what we got to do from the beginning of the game and just take care of our busint1ss and so it won't have to come down to that." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 20, 2002 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 3-0 
AP: No. 12 Coaches: No. 12 

Tyrone Willingham first season at Notre Dame career record: 
80-52-1 
at Notre Dame: 
3-0 
Willingham against Michigan head coach State: 0-1 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 228 JR 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine JLB 6-3 245 SR 2 Dan Novakov QB 6-1 218 SR 3 Amaz Battle WR 6-1 213 SR 4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 211 so 5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 190 FR 6 Carlos Campbell WR 5-11 194 so 7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 214 JR 8 Matt Krueger QB 5-10 180 JR 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 188 SR 9 Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 209 so 11 Marcus Wilson RB 5-11 199 so 12 Chris Olsen QB 6-4 220 FR 13 Nick Setta K/P 5-11 177 SR 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 259 SR 15 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 176 JR 16 Stan Revelle QB 5-11 182 so 17 Joey Hildbold 5-10 191 SR
p 18 Ronnie Rodamer WR 6-4 206 JR 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 205 SR 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick K/P 6-1 192 so 20 Gerome Sapp ss 6-0 218 SR 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-3 205 FR 23 Chris Yura FB 6-0 220 SR 25 Nate Schiccatano RB 6-3 220 FR 26 Garron Bible FS 5-10 197 JR 26 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 207 so 27 Lionel Bolen ss 6-0 195 so 27 Mike Profeta TB 5-11 208 so 28 Cole Laux FB 5-10 236 JR 29 Quentin Burrell CB 6-0 178 so 
COACHING
30 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 180 FR 31 Jake Camey DB 6-0 180 FR 32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 195 FR 33 Courtney Watson ILB 6-1 232 SR 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 194 JR 35 David Miller K 5-11 210 SR 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 172 SR 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 245 SR 
LI.I
37 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 179 so 38 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 176 so 
~ 
<(
39 Brandon Hoyte ILB 6--0 226 so 
39 David Bemenderfer ss 5-11 195 JR 
C
40 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 160 FR 41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 243 JR 
LI.I 
42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 185 SR 
0::: 
43 Rashon Powers-Neal TB 6-2 224 so 
l­
44 Justin Tuck DE 6-5 238 so 
o 
46 Corey Mays !LB 6-1 235 so 
z
47 MikcMcNair FB 6-0 230 SR 48 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 256 JR 49 Derek Curry !LB 6-3 233 JR 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 290 SR 51 Jamie Ryan OT 6-5 285 FR 52 Jeff Faine C 6-3 298 SR 53 John Crowther C 6-2 239 SR 
LI.I
54 Jason Halverson DL 6-1 246 SR 55 Zachary Giles C 6-3 281 so 
~ 
56 Pat Ryan !LB 6-3 231 SR 
I­
57 Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 243 SR 
t,/)
58 Chad DeBolt !LB 6-0 202 SR 60 Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 288 SR 
z 
61 Charles Hedman LB 6-1 215 SR 
<(
62 Scott Raridon OT 6-7 285 FR 
C,
63 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 305 SR 
-
64 Casey Dunn OT/OC 6-4 255 so 
:c 
65 Sean Milligan oc 6-4 300 SR 
(J 
66 Derek Landri NG 6-2 275 FR 
-
67 Ryan Gillis oc 6-3 305 SR 
:E
68 Ed O'Connell LB 6-3 212 JR 69 Darin Mitchell OL 6-4 280 so 70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 297 SR 71 David Kowalski oc 6-2 249 JR 71 James Bonelli OC/OT 6-6 285 FR 72 Ryan Scarola C/OC 6-5 310 SR 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 309 so 74 Dan Stevenson oc 6-5 292 so 75 Chris Frome DE 6-5 240 FR 76 Bob Morton C .6;4 305 FR 77 Greg Pauly OT • ,..i, 280 JR 78 Jmdan Black OT 6-6 305 SR 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-3 285 SR 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 204 so 82 Bernard Akatu WR 5-10 193 SR 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 172 so 83 Matt Root TE 6-6 258 so 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 251 JR 86 Brendan Hart TE 6-2 240 JR 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 240 FR 87 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 246 so 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 237 FR 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-4 269 so 91 Jeff Thompson NG/OT 6-4 273 so 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 269 JR 93 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 250 FR 94 Brian Mattes DE 6-6 250 FR 95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 258 SR 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 250 FR 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 249 JR 

NOTRE DAME 2002 Schedule  
Aug. 31 Maryland ­W Sept. 7 PURDUE -W Sept. 14 MICHIGAN -W Sept. 21 at Michigan State Oct. 5 STANFORD Oct. 12 PITTSBURGH Oct. 19 at Air Force Oct. 26 at Florida State Nov. 2 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 9 at Navy Nov. 23 RUTGERS Nov. 30 at USC  


EAD TC 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 
TAILBACK 
4•Gralll 
CORNER BACK
11-WillOfl 
21-Nelson 

1 •Suggs 
OUTSIDELEFT GUARD LINEBACKER
79-Mahan 
44-Stanley
67-GHlis 40-Bazemore 
OEFeNS!VE END 14-Taplln 
93-Hamilton 
/ 
j ''I
;,'1 
SIVI: ·~
FULLBACK 
36-Lopienski FREE 
47-McNalr ns ~c SAFETY 
~ 
25-Hannon 
33-Flagg 
OUTSIDE )) 
LINEBACKER 
42-labinln 
48-Mitchell 
RIGHT TACKLE 
&a-Curtin 
<°'.'.'~J 
70-Motlnaro 
TIGHT ENO 
14-Godsey 
85-Palmer 
12~,,~ ~ 
WIDE RECI 
C 
DEFENSIVE
3-Battle 
TACKLE
6-Gampbet 
91 ·Vlckerson 
OO•Yeaslllr 

INSIDE .J
2 LINEBACKER 
45-Wedlow
DEFENSIVE END J 
58-COoper
95-Askew .:..i 
59-0ukes 

Michigan State I~
CORNERBACK 
37-Henry 
DEFENSE ~ J
17-Maples 
QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Willingham will be returning to his alma mater and coaching on the other sidelines for the first time and he knows the sights and sounds of East Lansing. He has led the Irish to 3­0, the first time that has happened in six years.  Holiday has been, to say the least, inconsistent. He threw 226 yards one week but only 50 the next. However, he settled into his role against Michigan and proved that he is danger­ous on the run and on the pass. If he can stay off the ground, he will be a chal­lenge for the MSU defense.  Led by Grant, the Irish rushing game showed major improvement last weekend against Michigan. Despite a fum­ble, the Irish gained 157 passing yards. The Irish are gaining an average of 14 7 rushing yards a game and scored two touch­downs last weekend.  The Irish receiving corps is averaging 13.5 yards a reception. If the offen­sive line and the running backs can protect Holiday and he can get a pass off, the Irish pass gamr could be a force to contend with. However, Holiday was sacked six times last week.  
Williams is only 15-12 overall, giving him a .555 winning percent­age. However, he seems to have Notre Dame's number. The Spartan head coach has defeated the Irish both years his team has faced off against them.  Smoker can throw -especially to Rogers. The veteran quarterback averages eight yards a pass and has completed more than 56 percent of his passes. However, he's already thrown three interceptions this season and does not use a variety of receivers.  If last week's perfor­mance is any indica­tion, the Irish run shouldn't face too many problems. The Spartans allowed over 150 yards of rush offense and didn't recover either of Cal's fumbles. However, the Spartans did have six tackles for a loss.  Cal passed for 246 yards against the Spartans last weekend and completed 57 percent of its passes. However, Michigan State is averaging an interception per game. If the real Michigan State pass defense arrives, it could spell trouble for the Irish.  
Willingham has the advantage in this catego­ry. Although Williams has managed to beat the Irish, Williifgliam has more experience and ha5 had more success than his Spartan counterpart. Bis team has been pre­pared for anything an opponent throws at them.  Both quarterbacks have experience with their ~liiW.S1 Sfl19~xf.Ji<\~ h~d piore l exp(1r1enqe i:n ~fchigan. State•s offe~~~ than Holiday has had in the new Irish offense, but is limited in the receivers he throws to.  With the strides the Irish running backs made last weekend, they are begin­nin~ to be a real thre,at to opposing teams. Grant keeps improving every week and as he continues his aggressive running, he's going to take defend­ers with him right into the end zone.  Notre Dame's passing has been inconsistent, ~ffi{½!iiF~game, the Irish can gain some serious yardage, but that is still a big if.  


Don't underestimate the Spartans based Michigan State showed no semblance of a on their poor showing against California running game against its last two opponents. last week. Chances are Michigan State Rogers has been the lone standout for the
Irish 
was looking ahead to the big showdown, Spartan offense. If the Irish defensive backs and that makes the Spartans very dan­can key in on him, it will be a long day for gerous. Still, Notre Dame shouldn't have Smoker. Look for Holiday to have a solid day
experts 
too much trouble defeating Michigan against a Spartan defense that has only State -finally. recorded two sacks all year. Andrew Soukup 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 assistant managing editor Michigan State 20 Michigan State 14 
Chris Federico sports editor 


Friday, September 13, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Michigan State 
Spartans
) EAD 
Record: 2-1 

CORNERBACK 
42·WllltDII 
37-Ellick 
TAILBACK 
49-Moss 
INSIDE ~ 
34•Dortch 

LINEBACKER 
•, ~
41-Goolslly
--·""~~ 
I 
/1 
,, ~TY 
19-Earl 
_ 29-Burrell 
LINEBACKER 
~ 
FLANKER 6-LoY11H 
a2-Kavanaoht 
1ii:ISTRONG 
SAFETY 
20-Sapp 
/ J 26-B,ble
,,,, 
NOTREIJAIIE
CORNERBACK ,/ 1 
34-Dulf 
15-Jackson 
DEFENSE 

l!-hlllllnll 
90-Beidatsch 
SPARTAN RUSHING SPARTAN PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
The Irish rush defense is only allowing 85 rush yards a game. They managed to shut down Chris Perry last weekend but had trouble with Purdue's Joey Harris. Every fumble Notre Dame has forced, it has recovered. And now Watson is back.  Notre Dame's secondary continues to be solid. It shut down the passing game and totaled four interceptions this season, holding opposing teams to a 43 completion per­centage. The Irish have intercepted five times this season and returned one for a touchdown.  The Irish special teams have not lived up to their potential recently. They allowed a blocked field goal last weekend and Setta missed two the weekend before. However, Sett.a can still be considered danger­ous from as far as 60 yards out and Duff is always a threat on returns.  Notre Dame has a vendetta to settle. The Irish have lost to the Spartans five times and they are out to prove that can win against this team. ln addition, they have an alum as a coach who has played for years in Spartan Stadium.  
The Spartans are still  Michigan State's passing  Kicker Hayner made two  Michigan State is com­ 
looking to fill the shoes  game is its most danger­ of his three field goal  ing off of an embar­ 
of T .J. Duckett.  ous offensive weapon.  attempts this season,  rassing loss to Cal.  
However, Dawn Moss,  With Rogers at the receiv­ making a 50-yarder. The  They will be hungry for  
David Richard and  er position, any pass can  Spartans have not allowed  a victory. In addition,  
Jaren llayes have begun  go all the way to the end­ any of his field goals to be  they have defeated the  
to contribute to a solid  zone. With Smoker as the  blocked. Kick returners  Irish five years in a row  
Spartans rushing game  veteran quarterback, the  are averaging over 25  and aren't going to let  
that is averaging 171  Spartans are averaging  yards a return, with  that streak end without  
rushing yards a game  244 plus passing yards a  Hayes having a long 74­ putting up a solid  
and making first downs.  game.  yard return.  fight.  
The Irish run defense continues to shut down opponents' run games and the Michigan State offense hasn't seen 'such a tough defense yet this season. With Watson back in th~ lineup, the Irish should be able to slow, if not stop, the Spartans run game.  The Spartan passing game is going to be a battle. The Irish sec-i~~!iii to escape the Irish sec­ondary. Neither has faced an opponent so solid.  Irish special teams con­tinue to make big plays. Setta had a solid ,field :goal last week and, despite the blocked attempt, is'. always.; dan­gerous. Michigan State's special teams haven't mad~ the big plays for the Spartans yet.  Michigan ~ta,.t~ has the edge here. The Spartans are going to be very, very hungry to win.. Notre Dame's desire for a win may draw focus away J.r.om the game and Michigan State is used to winning this series.  


It's going tu be a game of intangibles. Both teams have been inconsistent this season -Notre Dame on offense, Michigan State on defense. What it comes down to is which team can focus their emotional energy into physical energy and take home the victory. Notre Dame wants it more. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Michigan State 24 Joe Hettler associate sports editor 
AP: not ranked Coaches: not ranked 
Bobby Williams
MICHIGAN STATE 
eighth season at Michigan State career record:
15-12 
Sept. 7  RICE -W  at Michigan State: 15-12  
Sep. 14  CALIFORNIA ­L  against Notre Dame: 2-0  Williams head coach  
Sept. 21  NOTRE DAME  Roster  
Sept. 28  NORTHWESTERN  No. Name Pos.  Ht. Wt. YR  
Oct. 12  at Iowa  1 Charles Rogers WR 2 AgimShabaj WR 3 Kyle Brown WR 4 Eric Knott TE  6--4 205 JR 5-10 185 FR 6-1 195 FR 6-3 251 so  
Oct. 19  MINNESOTA  5 Drew Stanton QB 6 BJ Lovett WR 6 Mark Bojovic K  6--3 220 FR 6--4 208 so 5-11 196 JR  
Oct. 26  WISCONSIN  7 Damon Dowdell QB 8 Brandon Fields p 9 Jeff Smoker QB 10 Chris ChrL~toff K  6--1 211 so 215 6--6 FR 6--3 214 JR 5-8 179 JR  
Nov. 2  at Michigan  10 Aaron Alexander QB 11 David Richard TB 12 Ashton Watson CB  6--5 191 FR 6--2 230 FR 6-0 170 FR  
Nov. 9  at Indiana  13 Chad Simon CB 14 Todd Acchione WR 15 J,J. Danhof K 15 Brandon Massey CB  5--8 194 so 6--0 175 FR 5-9 176 FR 6--1 195 FR  
Nov. 16  PURDUE  16 Dave Rayner K 17 Roderick Maples CB  6--2 208 so 5-10 180 so  

It won't be easy beating Michigan State in East Lansing. The Irish need Holiday, Grant and the rest of the offense to step up while the defense must con­tain Smoker and Hogers. In the end, the Irish win a shoot-out and snap their five-ganw losing streak to the Spartans. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35 Michigan State 28 
• 
180 JR 
197 SR 
185 so 
182 FR 
171 SR 
185 FR 
170 FR 
178 SR 
183 JR 
189 so 
170 SR 205 FR 191 JR 218 SR 230 JR 235 so 180 FR 185 FR 197 so 195 JR 237 JR 197 FR 182 SR 172 so 250 so 242 FR 235 FR 254 JR 193 SR 220 so 227 FR 198 JR 251 so 246 FR 226 SR 225 FR 285 FR 260 FR 
200 so 210 so 265 JR 242 so 245 FR 298 SR 229 so 
254 so ... 
280 JR 307 JR 266 so 247 so 305 JR 300 FR 315 JR 293 JR 290 FR 325 FR 300 FR 310 FR 305 JR 301 so 308 so 310 JR 301 so 208 FR 250 so 
182 JR 210 FR 248 JR 226 SR 174 so 272 JR 248 FR 285 so 290 so 235 so 256 JR 286 so 269 so 287 JR 240 SR 293 so 
p
18 Jason Daily 6--1 
INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-I 
:a 
'" 
C 
J> 
'" 3: 
-
(') 
:::c 
a; 
J> 
z 
tA 
~ 
..... 
'" 
l> 
z 
~ 
In 
(/)­
19 19 20 21 22 23 23 
24 
25 26 27 28 
'}fJ 
30 30 31 32 33 34 35 
36 
37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 45 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 
73 
74 
76 I 77 
79 80 81 82 83 85 86 87 88 89 91 92 93 94 95 % 97 98 
99 
DeMario Suggs Amish Patel Jason Teague Broderick Nelson Darren Barnett Carlos Alexander Jeremy Rolinski Jeremiah McLaurin Jason Harmon Tim James Derron Ware Marc Wilson Richard Bryce Chris Smith Mitch Herrema Jaren Hayes Jerramy Scott Robert Flagg Tyrell Dortch Mark Goebel Eric Smith Cedric Henry Damien Forston Nick Thompson Michael Bazemore David Herron, Jr. Mike Labinjo Thomas Wright Ronald Stanley Jason Rhoades Monquiz Wedlow Jason Bradley Seth Mitchell DawanMoss Steve Kelp Chris Morris Clifton Ryan Marshall Campbell Andrew Petterson Dominick Brown Matt Ott Brian Bury Paul Harker James Cooper Clifford Dukes Joe Brooks Joe Patrick Matt Hasbrook Brian Davies UlishBooker Nate Weber DeMarco Monroe Joe Tate 
Kyle Cook 
Joe Karaska Gordon Nieblski Stefon Wheeler Brian Ottney Alphonso Townsend William Whitticker Steve Stewart Sean Poule Ben Steckler Jasun Randall Ziehl Kavanagh! Matt Trannon Matt Walters Eric Easter Paul Cummings Luc Mullinder Ryan Woods Kevin Vickersun Lonnie Simmons Darrell Hamilton Greg Taplin Matthias Askew Greg Yeastcr Kyle Rasmussen Brian Dieckman Brandon McKinney 
CB 5-11 QB 6-0 TB 5-10 CB 6-0 DB 6-1 CB 5-11 p 5-10 DB 5-11 s 5-11 TB 5-8 s 6--3 s 6--1 LB 6--3 LB 6--2 FB 5-11 TB 5-10 TB 5-10 s 6-2 TB 5-11 FB 6--2 s 6--2 CB 5-10 CB 5-11 FB 6--3 LB 6--3 FB 6--2 LB 6--1 s 6--1 LB 6-0 FB 6--2 LB 5-11 FB 6-0 LB 6--2 TB 5-10 LB 6--6 C 6--4 LB 6--3 LB 6--0 SN 6-0 DE 603 LB 6--2 C 6--0 0G 6--3 LB 6--3 DE 6--3 0G 6-3 0G 6--5 DT 6--2 DL 6-5 OT 6-7 OL 6-5 C 6-4 OT 6--5 
OL 6-4 OL 6--3 0G t;..3 0G 6--5 C 6--6 OL 6--6 0G 6--i OT 6-5 OT 6--6 WR 6-4 TE 6--5 WR 5-11 WR 6--7 TE 6--2 TE 6-4 WR 6-0 DE 6--4 
TE 6--4 
DT 6--5 DT 6--3 DE 6--4 DE 6--5 DT 6--6 DT 6--1 OT 6-4 TE 6--3 DT 6-3 
..,.. 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 20, 2002 
.. 
Sizing up the Irish and the Spartans 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE MICHIGAN STATE'S OFFENSE 
vs vs
AVERAGE PER GAME 
MICHIGAN STATE'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 
total yards gained 
290 
MICHIGAN STATE 416 
total yards allowed 

257.3 
rushing yards gained 
__,171.3 rushing yards allowed NOTRE DAME 84. 
passing yards gained 
244. passing yards allowed 172.6 k~ck return yards gained !'!'!!?~6 I 
kick return yards allowed I ··A~ ·. · 92.3 

punt return yards gained !~llll ¦tffll~ 54.6 I 
MlCHlGAN STATE 64.3 punt return yards MICHIGAN STATE 33 36.6 
yards per punt 

42.3 
punts blocked 
MICHIGAN STATE j 36.5 
I--'--'---'-"-~~--~----'-----' 
NOTRE DAME 0 
turnovers lost 
1.6 

tlCH1GAN•s~ 
turnovers recovered 
1.6 
it•i•di•t-iSi · 
yards penalized yards penalized 


points scored 23.6 

35
----~ 
points allowed 
NOTRE DAME 13.3 
ND 
~  ~nff  
C•>r11-er  
Bookends  and  Doorstops  


We will decorate bricks that express who you are and can be used as bookends or doorstops. Bricks and paint will be provided. 
Friday~ SepteD1ber 20~ 2002 9:00pm-11:00pDl in the LaFortune Student Center 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
KEY MATCHUP 
NOTRE DAME MSU RECEIVER SECONDARY CHARLES ROGERS 

Big Michigan State passing plays have been the determining factor in the last two Irish losses to the Spartans. 
The Irish secondary has been the strong point of its defense this season, but Walton, Duff, Earl and Sapp will have their work cut out for them against Heisman potential Rogers. Rogers had a phenomenal season last year and his size will present a challenge. 
by the numbers 
number of years in a row the Irish have lost to Michigan State 
5 
197 7 year Irish coach Tyrone Willingham graduated from Michigan State 
last time Notre Dame beat Michigan 
199 4 
State 


page 7 
Friday, September 20, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Watson back on the field where he belongs 
Goolsby, the other inside line­
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
backer, and Brandon Hoyte,
Sports Writer 
Watson's replacement, had 
never played a defensive down. 
It killed Courtney \,Vatson to But Watson's illness allowed watch the Irish defense from Hoyte to gain valuable experi­
the sideline instead of lining up ence, strengthening the line­
at his familiar inside linebacker backer corps to the point where position. 
the Irish can switch Watson,After he spent most of the 
Goolsby and Hoyte seamlessly
Thursday night before the during a game.Maryland game developing a "I don't know if I'd want to 
friendship with the porcelain 
compare them, [Watson and throne in his hotel room, he 
Hoyte] both do so many things," 
realized he couldn't play in defensive coordinator Kent Notre Dame's season opener. A Baer said. "Obviously we 
week later, when his viral infec­
proved we can win with tion continued to sap his Brandon too, but it gives us that 
strength, he watched his team­
much more depth with those mates prepare for the Purdue guys that can rotate through." game without him. Still, Watson, who is expected 
As he recovered, \Vatson had to play as many snaps against no idea how many snaps he'd the Spartans as he did againstbe able to play against the Wolverines, brings intangi­
Michigan. It could be six, he ble elements to the Irish said before the game, or it could 
defense that Hoyte needs yearsbe 60. to acquire. A healthy Watson,
It turns out Watson wasn't as who brings outstanding leader­tired as he thought he might be. ship and an advanced knowl­He returned to the field in a big edge of the game, only strength­way, leading the Irish ½ith nine ens an already talented Irish tackles. · 
defense. 
"I really had no idea how it Against Michigan, Irish coach­was going to play out, and I es deferred to the more experi­don't think the coaches did enced Watson over the youngereither. I think it kind of just Hoyte. Watson still kept his fel­
worked out that way," he said. low linebacker aware of what "As the game went on, I didn't was going on. Much as he did get really fatigued. We thought during the Maryland game, the that I might ... I was just feeling veteran kept the rookie updated 
well the whole game." on defensive adjustments the 
In a way, Watson's departure Irish made. Denman's play kept Watson set the tone for his teammates, offense knows that you're back was a blessing in disguise for The only difference was that standing outside the white lines. he's just happy that he can in the game." 
the Irish. Entering the Maryland Hoyte, and not Watson, was A year ago as a first-year finally do it on the field. 
game, the only linebacker with 
watching from the sidelines. starter, Watson followed the "It felt great to know what's game experience was Derek Watson intently understands example set by Rocky Boirnan going and be a part of the gameCurry -and he only played Hoyte's situation. Two years and Tyreo Harrison. plan," Watson said. "It's even Contact Andrew Soukup at -· 
minimally last year. Mike 
ago, All-American Anthony Now that its Watson's turn to better knowing the opposing asoukup@nd.edu 

Jenkins never misses out on practice or a play 
Jenkins practice hasn't just set him 
By JOE HETTLER 
up as a leader. It's led to personal
Associate Sports Editor 
improvement and helped him become a 
problem for opposing defenses . .Jenkins 
There has been one constant at every offers a dependable offensive threat, Notre Dame football practice during the something that is crucial for a team past three seasons -Omar Jenkins. learning a new offense. 
Jenkins has not missed a practice "The problem he presents opponents since he came to Notre Dame and his is the fact that he's going to be where work ethic has helped the junior he needs to be, when he needs to be become one of the most reliable and there," Miles said. "!Tho opposition is] consistent players for the Irish. not going to be able to count on a guy 
"We're all striving for consistency making mental mistakes from him or a and by no means are guy that's going to be any of us there where in a bad position. we want to be," said "You have to be out there They know they're 
going against a guy
wide receivers coach everyday to improve. If 
Trent Miles. "But I that runs good routes, 
people see you there 
would say !Jenkins) is dependable as far has been very consis­everyday, it gives them a as catching the foot­tent and I would say ball and being a very
leadership to look up to. " 
he's probably been physical blocker. So one of the most con­they're looking at a sistent players ~m the Omar Jenkins guy that's doing his football team.1' • · ' Irish wide receiver ·.;:. job and that presents · 
For Jenkins, it is a problem." important to be an Jenkins made two example for his team-clutch receptions mates, nspncially the younger receivers against Michigan last Saturday with the like Maurice Stovall and Rhema Irish trailing for the first time this sea­McKnight. son, 17-16. Holiday connected with him 
"You have to be out there everyday to for gains of 29 and 47 yards to set up a 
improve," Jenkins said. "ff people see pivotal touchdown, getting Notre Dame you there evnryday it gives them a the lead back. In all, Jenkins grabbed leadership to look up to becausn being three balls for 8:1 yards against there everyday is important f'or yourself Michigan. 
and for the team." Ile also leads the team with nine 
The consistency has led the junior to catches and 185 yards receiving, which take big strides in recent games and already surpassed his career totals those big strides don't just show on his before the season began of seven 47-yard receptions or his focus on the receptions and 111 yards receiving. field. "Overall he's learned the system a lot 
"Omar's not a big verbal leader, but I better," Miles said. "His route running think he's a leader by his actions," has taken off and he's catching the ball. Miles said. "Everybody sees him out His total game has improved and it's a there every day busting his butt, block­pleasure to watch." ing, catching running, you know, he's always first in line and he and Arnaz IBattle I set the tempo for us. He's a Contact Joe Hettler at leader by example." jhettler@nd.edu 

-~-·,·w,rt,'. -~,.. -. ."'f-7· 
~ 
! 
. 
. -----.,~~----------------------~ 
t OTHE Notre Dame vs. Michigan State BSERVER Friday, September 20, 2002 ===============================-===--===----==--==---==---==---==---==-----==------=-----_-=---_-_-_-_---__-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ 

j The llanley Leclure Series on PohHcs anJ Pubhc Pohcy I 

• 
.... .. 
. . 

tonne, 
r. 

Washington Post Columnist andAuthor Senior Fellow, The Brookings Institution 
1 
will deliver a public lecture 
1· 
1 
I ­
l 
"Will Enron or Saddam Dominate 

This Year's Election?" 
Tuesday, September 24 
4:15 p.tn. 
Auditoriurn Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Sponsored by: The Washington Program 

THE WASHINGTON PROG 
APPLICATION MEETING 


For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Wednesday, September 25 
. , . 
' ' . . • I '
.. · . 7:00 P.M. :::·. 136 DeBartolo 
FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 
. 
.. 



