
VOL. XXXVII NO. 28 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Former Ireland president Robinson visits SMC. 
Robinson spoke about her not balanced, and having said. known for taking a stance on
By SARAH NESTOR 
experiences as a former pres­traveled the world for the In-1997 Robinson resigned issues, even in the face of 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
ident and her role in the past five years, I can tell you from her presidency to take opposition. Most recently U.N., tackling current issues that we all do not have digni­her position as the U.N. High Robinson's opinion on IraqMary Robinson, former such as ty and worth." Commissioner for Human has come under scrutiny.president of Ireland and for­the situa­In 1990, Robinson was Rights, which she held until "I found it necessary to 
mer U.N. High Commissioner tion in inaugurated as the seventh September 2002. draw attention to the U.S. 
for Human Rights, no longer Israel and president· of Ireland and "A great deal of what is and their treatment of.the holds a public position but 
Iraq. became known as the done at the International prisoners of Guantanamo Bay
still plans to be an advocate 
"Lead­"President of the people" level is to make sure coun­and the immigrants who were for human rights, she said ership in bringing world issues to the tries are upholding their being held without beingThursday at Saint Mary's. the mod­attention of the Irish and commitments," Robinson given lawyers for representa­
Robinson's speech, ern world becoming a world leader. said. "lt is not about words tion," Robinson said. 
"Leadership in an 
should be "I thought of it as an oppor­and rhetoric but about the "President Bush says he is Intercultural World," was thought of tunity to deepen the Irish law, which the countries fighting for the freedom of arranged by the Center for as in the sense of culture and to reach sign." the world but to do that you
Women's Intercultural 
intercultural out to the communities of As the Commissioner for Leadership. Hobinson said. Northern Ireland," Robinson Human Rights Robinson was 
see ROBINSON/page 4 




Cainpus celebrates coed Week 
By JASON McFARLEY. 
News Writer 
Events ranging from a screening of "The Godfather" to a campus kickball tournament will be part of a weeklong student government­organized celebration of the 30th anniversary of co-education at Notre Dame. 
Events begin Sunday with a charity run to benefit breast can­cer and end Oct. 13 with a Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and an ice cream social in the din­ing halls. 
"We really want to recognize this important anniversary, and we want students to talk about it and participate in the events," said Student Body President Libby Bishop. 
Organizers wanted the week to be a balance of fun and serious events, said Katy Hall, chairman of the gender division of Bishop's office. 
Chandra Johnson, assistant to University President Father Edward Malloy. will give a lecture on gender relations Monday. On Wednesday, Bishop will moderate a panel WPdnrsday that includes students, faculty and administra­tors who were on campus in 1972, when Notre Damp first admitted women as undergraduates. 
The week also includes a kick­ball compntitinn between quads on Tuesday and a Thursday show­ing on North Quad of "The Godfather," the 1972 Best Picture Oscar winnrr. 
"We were looking to do things 


Scientists unlock inosquito gene 
. Results affect malaria research 
By ANDREW THAGARD News Writer 
A sequence of 260 million let­ters, consisting of only A, T, C and G specifically arranged ­that's what Notre Daine's Center for Tropical Disease Research and Training Director Frank Collins and his fellow researchers have to show for over two years of work. 
This sequence, however, isn't a random assortment of letters. It represents the genome of Anopheles gambiae, the primary mosquito species responsible for transmitting the malaria parasite to humans. It is the second insect genome to be sequenced ever. 

Collins and a team of researchers, including scientists at Celera Genomics presented their fimlings earlier this week at a Washington D.C. press confer­ence sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), the organiza­tion that provided the bulk of the funding for this endeavor, and in a series of articles featured in the journal "Science." 
Getting started 
Sequencing the mosquito genome involved a combination of preliminary research, laborato­ry work, computerized sequenc­ing machines and gene place­ment. 
According to Collins, researchers raised a laboratory population of genetically similar insects, ground them up, extract­ed and amplified the DNA and usPd maclrines housed in Celera to do the actual sequencing using human derived algorithms. 
"I would say it [the sequencing process} is really tedious," said Nora Besansky, Associate Professor of Biology and fellow researcher at the Center. "It's what you do with it [the genome} afterward that's fascinating. Just determining the order of four nucleotides isn't very interesting; in fact it's mind-bogglingly bor­ing. It's deciphering the code and figuring out what it means that's that's going to take years." 


The machines, however, do "shotgun" sequencing, printing out sequences of DNA segments in the .order that they're processed. It · was up to researchers like Maureen Hillenmeyer, a 2002 Notre Dame graduate and assistant to Collins at the Center, to ,put the sequences together using bioin­formatics, a computational tech­nique. 
"Our lab was involved in assembling 50 to 100 scaffolds in tho right order," she said. 

In fact, the result,; presented by Collins and other researchers are just a rough draft of the mosqui­to's genornP. Scientists have to analyze and present the informa­tion in a computerized database complete with interpretative information before it can be truly used by the scientific community. 
"[The genome] has got gaps and interpretations of what are supposed to be genes based on SQftware, not on biological experi­mentation," Collins said. "There's going to be a continuing effort ... of 'fulish.i.ng' and some additional experiments to validate the data." 
been a massive collaborative effort between scientists and lab­oratories around the world and when the genome is presented in database format it will be avail­able to anyone interested in doing additional research. 
Assessing the implications 
The mapping of. I.he mosquito's genome, according to Besansky, completes the genome sequenc­ing of organisms involved in the malaria cycle. The disease, prominent in sub-Saharan Africa. is caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum which first resides in mosquito and then human host'l. 
Scientists recently sequenced the human genome and researchers presented the 23 mil­lion base pair sequence of the malaria parasite at a press con­ference this week. 
"This is a big milestone," Besansky said. "We've sequenced the genome. All of these bits of data were integrated to give a product that is biologically real. It will enable us to locate g~:nes of interest that affoct specific biolog­ical phenomena." 
Coach wants sea 



of green 
By ANDREW SOUKUP News Writer 
When Notre Dame beat Michigan three weeks ago, Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham donned a green shirt to 
match the Kelly green "Return to Glory" shirts. · 
Now, he's calling for Irish fans to follow 

his lead Willlngham 
and turn N o t r e Dame Stadium into a "Sea of Green" for Saturday's game 
against Stanford. 
"Our fans should buy into making our stadiums some­thing special," he said Wednesday. "When we have 80,000 of them ... unifying around our colors and buy­ing into the spirit and the enthusiasm and participating 

1 
in the game, then you create 

I 
1
that special environment and that's what we want this place to be, to be that special environment." 
To help Willingham's vision turn into a reality, Irish offi­
cials printed 70,000 green placards -similar to the flags printed to commemo­rate Sept. 11 last year -and plan to distribute them Saturday at the Stadium gates. School officials are also calling on fans to wear green clothes to the game. 
The idea to create a single unified color inside Notre Dame Stadium started bouncing through adminis­trators' minds last year. After The Shirt committee selected a Kelly green design and the Irish jumped out to a quick start, Willingham felt it was a good time to make a 

going to be interesting -and From the start, the project has 
see COED/page 6 see MALARIA/page 9 sec GREEN/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Friday, October 4, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Give education majors respect. 
When people hear education major, they instantly think it is a blow off easy major. However, secondary and middle school education majors do not receive the credit they deserve. 
Think about it, 
not only do these pre-service teach­ers carry a full course load in their major. but they also spend their time in class­es devoted to learning teaching 


techniques, how to Courtney Boyle make their sub­jects come alive 
Assistant
with the youth of 

News Editor 
tomorrow and how to keep a classroom under control. 

As if this weren't enough, these pre­service teachers also spend numerous hours in a high school or middle school classroom putting all the things that they have learned together while actually teat.bing students and learning from experienced cooperat­ing teachers. 
While this all seems clean cut and possibly just time consuming, let me assure you it is also a challenge to live up to the standards that the Saint Mary's education department places on their students. For instance, when the pre-service teacher is expected to teach it cannot be a lecture, even though that is what we are all used to. But rather a "hands on, minds on" activity that provides a big idea for the students to strive to achieve. What does this mean for the pre-service teacher? A lot of planning and tweak­ing of unique unit plans to ensure the students are receiving all they can possibly get out of an individual unit. 
Now when I'm talking unit. I'm not talking about a day-by-day lesson plan. I'm talking about what activities the students will be working on for several weeks. and what is the ulti­mate assignment to test the students of their understanding without using a traditional test. For the pre-service teacher, this entails reading all the material prior to assigning it, working out the activities, figuring out a way to grab the student's attention and keep it for the length of the unit and keep the students in order and deal­ing with behavioral problems, all the while completing their own class work for their major. 
For example, if pre-service teachers are in their content classroom twice a week chances are they are also plan­ning lessons and grading papers at least twice a week as well and going to school activities and getting their foot in the door attending professional developments. For pre-service teach­ers who also work this becomes quite a balancing act for them to deal with. Therefore, when someone says he's an education major, think twice before making the "coloring is easy" cracks about the major, it's all not like that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Courtney Boyle at 

boyl5460@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

On the back page of Thursday's edition, Walsh Hall interhall fomba.11 re.om capiain Alison Troy's name was misspelled. The Observer regre1s 1his error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT SCENE SPORTS
NEWS NATION NEWS 
ND shows 

Learn about 
Womens

Anthropologist 5 killed In 16-Martha 
hypocrisy in 

the Four 
soccer needs
explains hour period in Stewart 
win


its recognition 

Horsemen
NGO's role in Washington, resigns 
of clubs

Bangladesh D.C. 
Womens soccer
Take a look back
Progressive stu­

needs to win
Police are look­
After being 

in history to the
Lamia Karim 
dent Alliance 

against West
ing for a skilled 
fought for gay
accused of insider 

Four Horsemen. 
presented research 
shooter who killed 

Virginia · and
righ1s in the p~sf1
trading Martha

gathered during five randorri people 
but has now demea 

Pittsburgh to
Stewart has

fieldwork in in 16 hours. 
the Irish Friends of 

improve their
resigned from the

Bangladesh 
Lesbians and Gays 
record.
club status.
NYSE board of
Thursday. 
directors. 
page 7 
page 18
page 16

page :LO page 5 
page 36 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. Leclurc "Let Erin Hcrnembcr: Moore's Melodies," Seamus Deane, Keough Chair in Irish Studies. :{ p.m., Flannr.r llull, Hoom 424. 
. Marching band assembly, 4:10 p.m., Main Building. 
/ 

. Football Pep Hally, 6 p.m., Joyce Center. 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Confidential M Meeting, 9:30 a.m.-11 :30 a.m., llavican Hall Hoom 20. 

. 
Student Athletic Advisory Committee, 12 p.m.-1 p.m., IICC Boom 303. 

. 
Parent's Council Meeting -Fall 2002, Stapleton Lounge, 


Dinning Ilall -North Wedge Hc}()m, all day. 



WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Chicken & dumpling soup, tomato soup, fried cheese ravioli, cheese french bread pizza, swiss steak, herb garlic russet potatoes, minted peas & carrots, cherry crisp, Japanese ginger, chicken tenders, haddock with herbs, curried rice vegetable pilaf and sugar-snap peas 
Today Dinner: Chicken & dumpling soup, tomato soup, fried cheese ravioli, cheese french bread pizza, sherried chicken thighs, long grain & wild rice, broccoli spears, cher­ry crisp, chicken & pea pod, stir-fry, grilled reddish, tajine baked sweet potato, french dip sandwich and complete mod­erno feijoada 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY 
D:: 
LLI 
:c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..J 
<
(J 


..I 0 HIGH 76 HIGH 76 HIGH 65 LOW 53 LOW 53 LOW 53 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Suspicious person reported 
A suspi.cious person was reported by CarroJJ Hall Thursday. NDPD is currently investigating this complaint. 

Bikes found abandoned 
Two abandoned bikes were found and brought to NDPD for safe keeping Thursday. One bike was found in the C0l Student South Stadium Lot and the second was found in D02 South lot. 

Lost wallets claimed 
A student claimed his lost wallet from NDPD on Thursday. The wallet was found outside DeBartolo Hall. A visitor also lost his wallet at Hesburgh Center for International Studies Thursday. This wallet was t;laimed by the owner at NDPD. 

University rules violated 
NDPD is currently investigating a rules violation of University rules at the Joyce Center on Thursday. 
.. 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, boiled mostaccioli, boiled tri-color rotini, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza, cheery turnover, whipped potatoes, broccoli cuts, spinach, chicken jambalaya, beef and noodle casserole, rotisserie chicken, fried cheese ravioli, krinkle cut fries and chicken acapulco 
Today Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, boiled mostaccioli, boiled tri-color rotini, pepperoni pizza, four cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, sausage pizza, cheery turnover, whipped potatoes, broccoli cuts, spinach, Italian blend vegetables, marinated beef, pork chops, hamburger, grilled hot dog, chicken patty and sesame chicken breast 
SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 68 HIGH 59 HIGH 71 LOW 43 LOW 50 LOW 50 
Atlanta 78 / 69 Boston 63/ 61 Chicago 73 / 50 Denver 57 / 42 Houston 91 / 67 Los Angeles 80 / 58 Minneapolis 54 / 40 New York 70 / 65 Philadelphia 74 / 67 Phoenix 87 / 66 Seattle 62 / 47 St. Louis 80 / 52 Tampa 90 / 73 Washington 83 / 68 
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Trustees, adm.inistrators support dorm improvements 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
The University's top student life official praised a student govern­ment report 1.0 the Board of Trustees Thursday, saying trustees and administrators were "almost entirely in agreement with" student leaders' plan to improve campus housing. 
But timing and money will 
detem1i.ne whether the University makes the changes that Student Body President Libby Bishop's office proposes in the report, said Father Mark Poorman, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs. 
"The report jibed really nicely with what we'll be looking at in residentiality in the next 10 years." Poorman said of the "Plan to Improve Residential Life." "I don't think there was anyone from my_ office or th~ trustees who 




CARDINAL CHARTERS 
IF QUALITY COUNTS... eome ~ ~/· 

•Since 1923 ,Group Services •Professional Drivers 
•Luxury Buses •Competnive Rates •Wheelchair Accessible 

Large Pizza 
Cheese & 1Topping 

Pi11m 
OU\CH tRRRYOUl 
tt FREE UEU~f.RV 
No Cou1){m Necessary Plus Tax FREE OELl~EHY. SI 00 Mm,mum 
for Delivery Uol Valid Wilo Any Ol~e! Oller va:id On~ At L1stw Marco's l'lua locauons Expires 
12·15·02 
~:me~ 
ACCEPTED HERE Musi prnvide C!fditrnd 1rilmmalir,,n"""'0111,,;,qrorl/,li,,i!!'/. 
CHECH om 
OUR llH\LV 
SPECIRLS 
100\ 


Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday! 
\l'lsit us on !he 'Nib al www.marcos.com 02002 Marccis, Inc. 26S2(a)•002 


wasn't almost entirely in agree­tee of the trustees and to senior ment with it. staff from the Office of Student "Unfortunately, as with anything Affairs. The trustees are on cam-
else, acting on the plan is a matter of time and money." 
The 52-page report recom­mends building new residence halls to solve the current problem of on-campus overcrowding. It also proposes upgrading exist­ing halls to 
"The feedback was amazing. Members ofthe committee seemed com­mitted to meeting student needs." 
Libby Bishop student body president 
pus through today for their annual fall meeting. 
Officials were very responsive to the stu­dent plan, Bishop said in an inter­view follow­ing the meeting. 

include apartment-style conve­niences such ~ kitchens, private bathrooms and suites. 
Bishop, Vice President Trip Foley and report chairman Jordan Linville presented the report in an holli'-long closed session Thursday to the Student Affairs subcommit-
I 
"The feedback was amazing," Bishop said. "Members of the committee seemed committed to meeting student needs." 
The report comes as the University is finishing strategic planning for the next 10 years and arrives on school officials' desks 

: University Location: S.R. 23 & Ironwood . 
: Corner of Grape & McKinley : Corner of Ireland & Ironwood

L ____________________________________________________________________________ 1 
r 

I I I I I 
I 
just as Student Affairs completes the first draft of its strategic plan. 
Poorman said. 
That timing will hopefully spur administrators to re-evaluate their plans to include the improvements that the report proposes, Bishop said. 
"It feels really good to be able to tell them what student priorities are, and I'm so pleased. so proud that we put together this report that supplements what the University is already talking about," she said. 
The 2002 fall report and past reports are available for the public to read in Bishop's office on the second floor of La.Fortune Student Center. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 
~ 1985 FUN f.&N INC 
272-7653 
256-9656 

291-2000 J 

The number one free web site for Notre Dame athletics 
is looking for students to help with on-campus stories and site maintenance. No pay. All the glory. Email: boardops@ndnation.com if interested. 
.. 
Good thru 10/11 

I I I 
127 S. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46601 I 288-7337 
I I


I 
I 1 I 
I
I 
I 
N:,;:t!rne 52750 IN 633 .......574-243•1122 .,.._1111 ,1 I 
& St. Marv's 
I 


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 4, 2002 

ing a memorial service in human rights issues every­honor of the lives lost in last where. you don't need to go

Robinson 

year's terrorist attacks. to exotic places." "The following day I
continued from page 1 

became citizen Mary have to uphold the freedoms Robinson but I was not going of the world." to forget my duties," 
Robinson's last day as the Robinson said. "The calling is 
U.N. High Commissioner for to shape globilization so that 
Human Rights fell on Sept. it is more ethical and the 11, which she spent in individual can make a differ­Contact Sarah Nestor at Geneva. Switzerland, attend-ence because there are nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
got news? 1-5323. 
--------~ 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Former Republlc of Ireland president Mary Robinson addresses a crowd at Saint Mary's Thursday. 

Sean, Happy 22nd Birthday to someone who's always known what he wants 




ANNOUNCING 

ol'IENSTUOJ, 
-Administrative Services cordially invites You-
Individuals., and small groups of' 10 or less., to utilize classrooms f'or quiet study ' af'ter class bookings 
DeBartolo Hall: Sunday 12:00noon till 12:00am. IVIonday through Thursday S:30pm-12:00midnight. Non-technology rooms, first come first serve basis. If' you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person Cor assistance. Room 104, 10S. 
:Mendoza: Sunday 12:00noon till 1 :OOam. 
Saturday 12:00 noon until 8:00pm.* non-Cootball weekends only• .Monday through Thursday S:30pm-1 :OOam Rooms: 121, 122, 266, 366. 
O"Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 1:00am. .Monday-Thursday S:30p-1 :OOam. Rooms: 108,109,203,203A,204,206,207,208,209. 

prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 8, 2002. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end ofMay 2003) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information contact Mrs. Lisa Tranberg (_631-6676). 
I 
I 
I I 


WORLD & NATION 

Friday, October 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
•

Bush Iraq policy approved 1n Congress 
against Iraq even if the United 

Associated Press 
Nations does not. Bush did not 
say who would sign on, though
WASHINGTON U.S. officials mention Britain,

President Bush's request for 
Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, authority to use U.S. force Bahrain and Kuwait amongagainst Iraq advanced in 
others. 

Congress on Thursday, with a 
"The choice is up to the House committee voting its 

United Nations to show its approval and Senate leaders resolve. The choice is up to predicting wide margins of Saddam Hussein to fulfill his bipartisan support. word," Bush said. "And if nei­
"It's up to us today to send a ther of them acts, the United 
message to the world," said 
States in deliberate fashion will Senate Minority Leader Trent lead a coalition to take awayLott, R-Miss. He predicted the world's worst weapons from Congress would give Bush the one of the world's worst lead­
authority ho wants by next ers." week and "set in motion the 
The House International 

beginning of the end of Saddam 
Relations Committee turned 

Hussein." 
back efforts to weaken the reso­Re1lecting the Senate's deter• lution embraced by Bush and mination to move ahead, the 
House leaders and approved it, chamber then voted 95-1 on a 

31-11, sending it to the full 

procedural motion that clears 
House for debate next week. 

the way for votes next week. Rep. Henry Hyde, R-111., the The lone dissenter was Sen. chairman, asked members "to Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. 
support not the president but 

The Bush administration was the cause that is embodied in 
having less success winning 
this resolution." 

over the U.N. Security Council 
Senate Majority Leader Tom 

for a new resolution to disarm Daschle, D-S.D., announced Baghdad. separate votes would be held 
After veto-holding Russia sug• next week on two alternatives 

gested such a resolution was 
that would put more limits on unnecessary, Bush showed presidential authority. Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., he anticipated broad bipartisan member Security Council got a 
clear frustration with the lack 
"I think it's too early to give was an improvement over the support when a final vote is closed-door briefing from the of headway. up on making the effort," he administration's original pro­taken. "There is no difference chief U.N. weapons inspector,He suggested he would build said. Daschle said the latest posal. of opinion with regard to our Hans Blix. He was to meet with a coalition of world leaders White House draft, negotiated Daschle, like Lott, told Senate ultimate goal," Daschle said. State Department officials 
willing to join the United States 
in part by House Minority colleagues as debate began that In New York, the full 15· Friday. 
Five killed in 16 hours •In D.C. suburb 
More than 24 hours after the mur­indication the victims were related or case. Police said they had no eyewit•
Associated Press 
ders began, officers called in on over• had any conflicts. None appeared to nesses, though one person reported time were patrolling the streets of the have been robbed. seeing a white van with two occupantsSILVER SPRING, Md. 
affluent county as a state police heli• Police also said race did not appear speed away from one of the slayings.
Five people were gunned down one copter flew overhead. Officers were to be a motive, noting the victims Police said they were searching for aby one in the Washington suburbs in posted at malls in nearby Rockville, included two white men, a white white cargo van with black lettering,
less than 16 hours, and authorities 
where the citys afternoon and evening woman, a Hispanic woman and a man possibly with damage to the lift in thesaid Thursday they were looking for a 
recreation programs were canceled. from India. back. White vans across the region"skilled shooter" suspected of felling The victims were killed in Maryland "We're across the board in genders were still being pulled over by authori­each victim with a single bullet. 
suburbs north of the nation's capital and ethnic backgrounds," police ties Thursday night.
While cautioning that the slayings 
between 6 p.m. Wednesday and 10 spokeswoman Nancy Demme said. The Officers were also collecting security had not definitely been linked, police a.m. Thursday. One was shot as he ages of the victims ranged from to 25 camera videos from various businessessaid it was a strong possibility. 
mowed a lawn, another while cleaning to 55. near the shooting scenes. Police set up"We do have someone that so far has her car at a gas station, a third outside Nearly 150 state troopers and federal a tip hotline and offered a reward of
been very accurate in what they are 
a post office. authorities, including the FBI and up to $50,000 for information leading
attempting to do," Montgomery County 1
Investigators said they had found no Secret Service, were involved in the to arrests and indictments.
Police Chief Charles Moose said. . 
1 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Shots fired at U.N. headquarters: 
A Korean-American protesting against the North Korean government emptied a seven-shot pistol in fr,ont of U.N. headquarters Thursday, hitting several offices but injuring no one, authorities said. The gunman was identified as Steve Kim, 57, a natural­ized U.S. citizen. He's married with two sons, works for the U.S. postal service and lives in Des Plaines, Ill. FBI spokesman Jim Margolin said Kim was prob­ably born in Korea. 
Nigeria urges U.N. on arms deal: 
Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo urged U.N. members Sunday to seek a legally binding agree­ment to curb trafficking in small arms, which he said worsens many conflicts in Africa. The United Nations has passed an action plan calling on gov­ernments to require manufacturers to mark such weapons and keep records so illegally trafficked arms could be traced. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Bush declares La. a disaster area: 
President Bush on Thursday declared a disaster in Louisiana, acting just hours after a downgraded but still powerful Hurricane Lili bit the state's coast. The declaration makes people in the affected areas eligi­ble for federal financial aid, which can include disas­ter housing and low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses. Bush last week designated about a dozen counties in the state as disaster areas in the wake of Tropical Storm Isidore. 


Jeb Bush angers gay rights groups: 
Florida Gov. Jeb Bush told a delegation of law­makers that he had "some juicy detail" about the sexual orientation of a missing Miami girl's care­takers. During a meeting Wednesday, Bush implied that the two women, who had just been charged with fraud stemming from the investiga• tion into Rilya Wilson's disappearance, were les­bians. 
8 youths charged in mob beating: 
One boy said he does not attend school because his mother does not know where to send him. Another was arrested for burglary before he was 10. His father is dead and, at 14, he's a father himself. A third in the mob of boys accused of beating a man to death with broomsticks, shovels and poles said he took part because he didn't want anyone calling him scared. It was still unclear Thursday how many boys were in custody overall, or why they beat Young so brutally. 

NYC schools chief announces reforms: 
The city will begin an effort to reform its 1,100 public schools with a $3.75 million analysis of the system, Chancellor Joel Klein announced Thursday. "The simple, universally acknowledged fact is that our schools are not doing the job they must and should do for our kids," said Klein, the former Justice Department lawyer chosen by Mayor Michael Bloomberg in July to head the school system. 
----------------------' 
page 6 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 4, 2002 

Green 
continued from page l 
push for a sea of green inside Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We had a group called the spirit committee working on a lot of things," said Chuck Lennon, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. "(The green signs] are just one of them." 
Lennon said fans can also purchase The Shirt for $15 and the towel for $5 from the bookstore. Notre Dame 

Co-ed 
continued from page 1 
that would be fun and unique, and we really wanted to make this an all-campus event," Hall said. 
The anniversary of co-education holds special meaning for Bishop, Notre Dame's second female stu­dent body president. Both her par­ents are 1977 alumni. the second four-year co-ed class to graduate from Notre Dame. 
"The stories I've heard, espe­cially from my mother, are all so interesting," Bishop said. "It was a different time then, and women just had to work so hard to estab­lish themselves." 
A co-education week was part of Bishop's campaign platform when she was running for office in February. After their election, Bishop and Vice President Trip Foley immediately began organiz­ing the project. 
The Women's Resource Center, Department of Gender Studies. Student Activities Office, A Llfe Uncommon. RecSports and Lewis Hall are co-sponsors of the events. 
A competition between resi­dence halls to create banners observing co-education will begin this weekend. A panel will judge the banners Tuesday and announce a winner at an Oct. 11 pep rally. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 
received an additional ship­ment of 20,000 shirts this week after the initial run of 44,000 sold out after the Michigan game. 
"When alumni turn on the television, they'll see the green," Lennon said. "That will travel by word of mouth, and by the time we get to Boston College [on Nov. 21. 
all  you'll  see  is  them.  
Everything  else  will  be  
green."  

Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

Thursday
3pm
Mov-ie: The G oclmher 
~orth t1uod 
FrJday 
Pep~Uy 
JACiC 
Saturday
7:30pm
Folk Choir Cone ert Bo~lica 
Sunday
11.i1-5 a5m 


lf~~1rn 
Ic~~fiw~!j~BRal 

(574) 288-7777 CHECKER CAB OF NORTHERN IN. 
The South Bend area has a new cab company, formed by the former drivers of Yellow Cab of Michiana. We are serving ND/St. Mary's and all of St. Joe County. 
Ask about our special student rates 

Reservations Accepted 


·· 'i i; 




Take Lots of Pictures ... 
...and make them last! 

Pages in Time has absolutely everything you need for your college scrapbook! Make memories last ... forever! 

4150 Grape Road, next to Don Pablos, 
(S74) 252-5300 
GO IRISH! BEAT SPARTANS! 




r--------------------------•
I I I I I I I I I I I

~ ~111,ec1r ll)tia1z,es of 
I I

"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
I I I

We carry American Crew 
I 

& Bed Head 10% off both $2.00 off Shampoo & Cut 
1811 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 5 7 4-2 71-7 6 7 4 
Expires 10/18/02 



~--------------------------· 
DID 
IOI 
.l. 

The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business and 
~__Th_e_m_su_,u_refi_o_rE_ffl_ic_al_Bu_si_ne_ss_~_or_~_i_~_ __. 
Proudly Present 

Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series 
Mr. Gale C. Andrews 
V.P. Office of Ethics &Business Conduct Boeing Company 
"Ethics at Boeing" 

Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
7:00 p.m. 

Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631-5323. 
O
THE 



BusiNEss 
Friday, October 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch for October 3 
Dow Jones 

7,717.19 -38.42 
N4SDAQ 

1,165.56  -21.74  
S&P5lXJ  
818.95  '  -8.96  
AMEX  
824.05  +l.92  
NYSE  
446.24  -4.13 

' 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -8.14 -0.89 10.05 
11

illll~II!lll!lilll¦lllll!il!ll!! !l!lll1llllf:illll 1! 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2. 52 -0. 37 14. 30 
i§gijJitiiii1iiiiil:liiiiii::llllil:l:1i~i;~:~mi:iJ:tii~i:~ii:l:il~ililiii 
MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) -1.47 -0.47 47.47 
IN BRll:F 
McDonald's experiences troubles 
Changing tastes have knocked McDonald's Corp. off the fast track and some industry analysts are wondering whether changes at the top aren't necessary to get the company moving again. 
The fast food industry is struggling to adjust to changing consumer tastes and McDonald's has drawn the most attention. 
Since Jack Greenberg took over as chief executive in 1998 the market capitalization of the world's largest fast-food company has dropped from $42.5 billion to $23.2 billion. 
"For shareholders I hope that they make some changes," said Allan Hickok, restaurant analyst for U.S. Bancorp's Piper Jaffray unit. 
"You've given this team long enough .... The company would benefit from some new blood and fresh ideas." 
And a recent Merrill Lynch note on McDonald's asserted that "more investors are calling for a management shake-up," though there is no evidence of one happening. 
Texas farmers blast water treaty 
It's the time of year when growers take their ledger books to the bank, negotiat­ing loan terms on how many acres of crop or grove they plan to tend in early spring. 
But with irrigation in question, some are staying home. 
During prolonged drought, the grid of irrigation canals crisscrossing the tip of Texas depends on water that comes from Rio Grande tributaries far away in Mexico. 
A U .S.-Mexico water sharing treaty negotiated in 1944 secured that water, until recently. 
On Wednesday, another of the treaty's five-year accounting cycles ended with Mexico about 450 billion gallons in arrears, and the Rio Grande as low as ever. 
Farmers here blame Mexico for over­planting and now hoard_ing the water. They blame the U.S. government for fail• ing to enforce the treaty. 
NYSE chairman regrets Stewart's resignation 
. Stewart resigns from 




NYSE 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Martha Stewart, dogged by questions about her role in the ImClone Systems Inc. insider trad­ing scandal, has resigned from the New York Stock Exchange's board of direc­tors. 
The decorating entre­preneur announced her departure Thursday, a day after an assistant to her stockbroker agreed to help 
prosecutors investigating 
Stewart's sale of lmClone stock before the pharma­ceutical company's shares plunged. 
"I did not want the media attention currently surrounding me to distract from the important work of the NYSE and thus felt it was appropriate to resign," Stewart said in a statement after she sent her resignation letter to Dick Grasso, the NYSE's chairman and chief execu­tive. 
Grasso said the board would miss "Ms. Stewart's counsel and insight," and said her departure was her own. 

"We are saddened to She sold her lmClone "Given the allegations pleaded innocent. lose Martha Stewart, who shares in December. a day floating around about Court papers say that on has built a brand and a before the stock started Stewart, it becomes prob­Dec. 27, Faneuil's boss let company admired around plunging on news that the lematic and more difficult the "tippee" know Waksal the world," he said. Food and Drug for her to sit on the board was trying to sell all of the 
On Wednesday, an assis­Administration would not of the New York Stock ImClone stock he held at tant at Merrill Lynch to review ImClone's applica­Exchange," said Charles Merrill Lynch. Stewart's broker Peter tion for its highly touted Elson, director of the "The tippee then sold all Bacanovic pleaded guilty cancer drug, Erbitux. The Center for Corporate of the tippee's shares of to a misdemeanor charge FDA decision meant Governance at the ImClone stock, approxi­of taking a payoff to keep Erbitux's approval would University of Delaware. mately 3,928 shares, quiet about Stewart's sale be significantly delayed, "When you sit on the yielding proceeds of of 4,000 shares of and the company's for­board of the exchange you approximately $228,000," ImClone. As part of his tunes relied on Erbitux. are responsible for hold­the court papers said. plea, Douglas Faneuil Stewart, who has denied ing up the standards of the Experts said Faneuil's agreed to testify against any wrongdoing, has said exchange." plea signals prosecutors' Stewart and others who she had a standing order Stewart is a friend of intention to pursue a case might be charged in con­to sell the ImClone shares ImClone co-founder and against Stewart. nection with the stock if they fell below $60. former chief executive "They are really ratchet­scandal. Faneuil initially backed Sam Waksal. Waksal was ing up the pressure," said 
Congressional investiga­Stewart's account, but told indicted in August for Robert Mintz, a former tors have asked the a judge in his plea that he allegedly telling family federal prosecutor. Justice Department to had withheld the truth members to dump millions "Prosecutors wouldn't begin a criminal investiga­from SEC investigators of dollars worth of have made the deal with tion into whether Stewart and FBI agents when first ImClone stock before the Faneuil if they didn't think knowingly lied to lawmak­interviewed about the bad news about Erbitux it would lead them right to ers about her stock sale. trading activity. hit the markets. He has Stewart's door." 


New claims for jobless benefits 
A.socia.ted Press 
New claims for jobless benefits rose last week, highlighting the difficulties workers and companies are facing as the economy struggles to return to full health. 
For the work week ending Sept. 28, new applications for unemployment insurance climbed by a seasonally adjusted 5,000 to 417,000, the Labor Department reported Thursday. The increase was slightly larger than ana­lysts were predicting and followed a drop of 18,000 in the prior week. 
For six weeks straight, new claims for unemployment benefits have been above the 400,000 mark, a level asso­ciated with a stagnant job market. 

"The claims data thus point to a marked deterioration in job conditions in late summer but the deterioration so far is not cascading as it would do in a recession," said Maury Harris, chief economist at UBS Warburg. 
Separately, the Commerce Department reported that orders to 
U.S. factories were flat in August, after jumping by 4.4 percent in July. While the performance was better than the decline in orders forecast by analysts, a more forward-looking report released this week suggested that manufacturing is stalling. 
A third report Thursday showed activity in the service sector grew at a faster than expected pace in September. providing a dose of good news for the economy. 
The Institute for Supply Management said its nonmanufactur­ing index, which mostly includes busi­nesses in the service sector, rose to 
53.9 in September from 50.9 in August. Analysts were expecting a reading of 52. A reading higher than 50 signifies growth; a reading under 50 indicates a contraction. 
"The solid bounce ... provides some hope that the economy really is not turning south," said economist Joel NaroiT of Naroff Economic Advisors. 
Nonetheless, the overall labor pic­ture looks weak. 
. 11.e.:••-•1 ¦ . .,i,;: ¦ 11•~1aa1 ¦¦ 1 ¦ a•1•1;1 ¦ 1lll.all ¦¦;. 
----------------.-----­
page 8 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 4, 2002 
Saint Mary's parental advisers to meet today 
By MELANIE BECKER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Parents 
Council is scheduled to meet 
on today in Stapleton for its 
fall semester meeting. · 
The Parents Council was 
founded in 1966 to bridge the 
gap between the students, 
parents and the college. The 
mission of the council is to 
serve the college and other 
parents of students by provid­
ing communication between 
the two. 
"They are an advisory board that represents the rest of the pa.rents." Susan Dampeer, Assistant to the President, explained. 
The council consists of par­ents who have students in all classes, differing occupations and geographic diversity. This year there arc several alumni and trustees on the council. 
Gathering twice a year the group meets to discuss the needs of the student body. Council members are able to keep other parents informed by providing a website that is specifically for parents of the college. 
Members of the council offer further financial support to the college. Over the years the council has raised money to fund programs, student scholarships, the Trumper Computer Center and the Dalloway coffee house. 
Additionally, the council for the parents will be to act 
promotes  as  a  focus  
the college  "Oar purpose [in going] is to  group for the  
through­out the  raise awareness."  development office and  
country a n d recruits  Elizabeth Jablonskl-Dlehl Student body vice president  discuss what is happening on campus.  
perspec- Representing  

tive students. Today's agenda the student body will be stu­




dent trustee Kristen Matha, testimony will be presented. Student Body President Kim "Our purpose [in going] is to Jensen and Student Body Vice raise awareness outside of President Elizabeth Jablonski­just the student body."Diehl. 
Jablonski-Diehl said. 

Jenson and Jablonski-Diehl "Parents want to know what plan to present the reading the students want." day proposal to the council. Information pamphlets and Contact Melanie Becker at statistics, as well as student beck093 l@saintmarys.edu 

r-1D11lYEnl~~------1 
I II  Music from the British Isles .;--------------//"_';i.  !  
lI  Friday  '  
I  October 4, 2002 Little Theatre  
I  7:30 p.m. .(,lnfM.irt·•Coll~l{r~ MOfjf,fR..,/  
THE ARTS  
NOTIIE DAME, IN  
For ticket information call the  
Saint Mary's Box Office  
574/284-4626  
l  
I  
;!  ~  
!  
L__~  A  ~~->--­ 



The College ofArts and Letters invites you to the presentation ofthe 
S:HE.ED1Y-,; Aw-·/·./A,,··.. R:jD:} F'OR

. ~ ., .......-" ... ··-~ . . . . ..... ,. ··-..,.;·· .. ' --· ... ' 

Honoring 

PROFESSOR ANDREW WEIGERT 
Department of Sociology 


Friday, October 11 , 2002 
4:00 p.m. Mdkenna Hall Auditorium 
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
toes that are genetically engi­vectors. cides. "We do have a renowned center neered not to carry the disease­"The hope was that the map for Besansky, however. warned for vector biology. It [the results] 
Malaria 
spreading parasite. gambiae would also work for that seeing today's research can definitely transfer into some funestus," Besansky said. "It applied directly in nature will not public health measures. Ifs an
Work at Notre Dame

continued from page 1 
doesn't. The order of genes occur overnight. outgro'Nth of Notre Dame's social 
Already, researchers at Notre 

between "From the point justice mission and disease
"Now everyone interested in Dame's Center have studied pro­
the mos­of view of technol­research is definitely involved in
working on this mosquito is teins found on the mosquito and "[The results are] an out­
quitoes ogy, there's that."
bumped so far ahead of where compared the gambiae to that of has been growth ofNotre Dame's already something David Severson, a professor of
thev were," Collins added. "It's another malaria-transmitting 
so scram­out there that biological sciences and a col­
going to speed up research." mosquito, Anopheles funestus. social justice mission. " 
bled [over works pretty well league of Collins and Besansky,
Knowing the genomes of the Notre Dame Biology major 
evolution­in the lab," she has just received a grant to map
parasite and two hosts involved in Andrew Serazin and Besansky ary histo­Andrew Sarazin said. "Maybe 10 the genome of Aedes aegypti, athe spread of malaria allows sci­have published an article in 
ry] that biology major years from now mosquito that transmits yellow
entists to better understand the "Science" to supplement Collins' 
you can­we might be pre-fever.
disease and pursue more specific article that compares the two 
not pre-pared to do some "I think it points out that there
preventative and treatment tech­mosquitoes' genetic information. 
dict the release." will be a lot of noteworthy infor­
niques. The article concludes that 
locations of sequences on one mation coming out of this center
Researchers, for example, can although the insects are only sep­Down the road
using the other with any degree of in the near future," Besansky
use the parasite genome to assess arated by five million years -a Helping to sequence the gambi­
accuracy." said.
vaccines and drugs used to com­relatively short time in evolulion­ae genome is jusl one of many
Cate Hill, another undergradu­

bat malaria, and knowledge of ary history -there are significant research projects currently taking 
ate involved with the Center, con­

the mosquito genome will aid in differences in their genomes, sug­place at the Center, a facility that
tributed to a study of transmem­

the development of better insecti­gesting that different methods the Notre Dame community is
brane proteins that may serve as Contact Andrew Thagard at 
cides and possibly the creation need to be used to combat the largely unaware of.
possible targets for new insecti-athagard@nd.edu
and release of competing mosqui-spread of malaria from these two "It's pretty cool," Serazin said. 



Veteran journalist to
Qtee and Conversation 
for Gay, Lesbian. Bisexual and Questioning 


serve in-residence 
Students at Notre Dame 
Special to the Observer 
Tuesday, October 8, 2002 
Jay T. Harris, former pub­lisher of the San Jose
...and every second Tuesday of the month 
Mercury News and executive editor of the Philadelphia Daily News, will deliver a lec­ture, "Journalism, Democracy and the 'American

316 Coleman-Morse Experiment"' 7 
7:00 -9:30 pm 
at p.m. 
Tuesday at 
t h e 
University
The Standing 

of Notre Comittee for Gay Dame. The lecture,
and Lesbian 

which is Student Needs free and 
open to the
invites Gay, Lesbian, 
public, will be held in Harris
and Bisexual 
Room 127
rnernbers ofthe 
Hayes-Healy Center. 
Harris, who recently was appointed Annenberg 
Noire Darne farnily, 
their friends and 
Professor of Journalism and Communication at the Annenberg School for
supporters to an 
informal coffee at 
Communication at the University of Southern California, is the 2002-03 journalist-in-residence at Notre Dame. During his time 
the Co-Mo. 
on campus, he'll meet with students and faculty as well as speak in classes associated 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
with the University's John W. Gallivan Program in 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 

-;:=======================::::=:~~~----·~
TAILGATING, I FRIENDS, FUN, PRIVACY. 
YOU CAN HAVE lT ALL BY APPLYING TO LIVE AT 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS!! 
WE HAVE ONLY 2 STUDIO (SINGLE) APARTl\1ENTS AVAILABLE FOR THE REMAINDER OF THIS SEMESTER AND NEXT SEMESTER. 
HURRY... HURRY... HURRY... TIME IS RUNNING OUT! 
APPLICATIONS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR. APPLY SOON TO GET BEST SELECTION. APPLY TO LIVE NEXT TO A FRIEND OR MAYBE EVEN 5 FR1ENDS! 
SPACES ARE FI.I1LING FAST!! 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS *•SO CLOSE IT'S JUST LIKE BEING ON CAMPUS•~· WI1]JOYI ALL THE RULEfil 

Journalism, Ethics & Democracy. 
Currently the Robert C. Maynard Fellow in the Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley, Harris will be founding director of the Center for the Study of Journalism and Democracy at use. His move to journalism education follows a career that includes wide-ranging experience as a reporter, columnist, editor and publish­er. 
From 1994 to 2001, Harris was chairman and publisher of the San Jose Mercury News, a position from which he resigned to protest the economic expectations of the newspaper's parent corpora­tion. His resignation sparked a national debate within the news business over what are reasonable and legitimate levels of profit in work pro­tected by the First Amendment and involving the public trust. 
Harris was executive editor of the Philadelphia Daily News from 1985 to 1988. Previously he served in Washington as a national cor­respondent and columnist for Gannett News Service. 
Between 1975 and 1982, he was on the faculty of the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University, where he was assistant dean. In 1978, he designed the American Society of Newspaper Editors' annual census of minority employ­ment in daily newspapers. 
A member of the Pulitzer Prize Board of Directors and the National Advisory Board of the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Fla., Harris has received honorary doctorates from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania (his alma mater) and Santa Clara Universitv in California. · 
Activities of the journalist­in-residence are sponsored with a gift from Keiko and Matt Storin of South Bend. A 1964 Notre Dame alumnus, Matt Starin was editor of the Boston Globe from 1993 until 2001. He recently became associate vice president for news and information at Notre Dame, where he served as the University's first jour­nalist-in-residence in 1997. 
CALL US TODAYt P:272-8 !24 
OR CHECK US OUT ON THE WEB AT turtlecreek.ND.COM 


page 10 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 4, 2002 

Anthropologist explains NGOs' role in Bangladesh 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
Rockefeller VISiting Fellow and anthropologist Lamia Karim pre­sented research gathered during her fieldwork in Bangladesh Thursday at a lecture for International Studies. 
Her talk "The 'Surrogate' 
Capitalist: Women-Targeted Programs and the Emergence of New Technologies of Control in Bangladesh," is part of the Kroc Center's lecture series on reli­gion, conflict, and peace building. She focused on the role that non­governmental organizations (NGOs) have played in the social and economic lives of poor Bangladeshi women. 
"[NGOs] has resulted in the reproduction of usury in rural society," Karim said, "and women have emerged as a new class of small moneylenders. The poorer the borrower, the lower is her ability to invest money pro­ductively." 
The NGOs present in Bangladesh are large and corpo­rate, having millions of clients and tens of thousands of employ­ees. These organizations clain1 to promote the empowerment of women as investors and econom­ic providers, but Karim showed how the system's structure instead fosters to further control and subjugate women. Most women are ordered by their hus­bands to participate in the NGOs microlending program; they have no control over the matter, Karim said. 
"It LNGOs] has reallv become a business -in the 1990s, more and more NGOs have moved away from providing social ser­vices to providing microcredit lending," she said. 
The system of microlending works as the World Bank lends money to these non-governmen­tal organizations in Bangladesh at extremely low interest rates. The NGOs then lend money to groups of poor Bangladeshi woman at proposed interest rates of 16 percent. 
However. due to hidden fees and obligations, the interest rates climb to about 50 percent, a practice Karim called loanshark­ing. 
Those women organize them­selves into groups and are then expected to lend the money to their established network of rela­tions and kin. When a single woman is unable to pay her loan back on time, the NGO withholds new loans from all the women. 
Karim said that while in Bangladesh, she witnessed women selling the pot of rice they needed to feed their children so that they could pay back the NGOs the following morning. 
"Everyone from the fieldworker to the management director of the NGO knows what is going on," Karim said. "There is no desire to raise the issue because they have a very good [economic] system in place." 
Further complicating matters is the system of social violence and public shaming that punish women who default on their loans. If a woman is unable to 
pay back her loan, the matter is turned over to the woman's hus­band and hor kin, who often break apart the family's house simply to take and sell the build­ing materials so that the NGO can recover its money. Pubic shame, verbal abuse, forced selling, and repossession are all common tac­tics that these NGOs capitalize on. "What is particularly interest­
ing is that we have kin members doing it [tearing apart the family home]. The NGOs have inserted themselves to make the commu­nity internalize these codes of violence," Karim said. 
The NGOs have also recently launched police cases against defaulting members -these women, branded as criminals, dishonor both themselves and their husband and his lineage, and it is often very difficult for a woman to come back to her hus­band's home after such public shaming, Karim said. 
"Women embody men's honor and reassure the NGOs of secur­ing their investments," she said. 
Karim proposed a dual-fold system to improve the situation of poor Bangladeshi women. She said that the NGOs should make contracts with indMdual women as opposed to enforcing group contracts and should also find and train women to provide them with skills so that they could do something with they money they have been lent. 
"[We have a] total brutalization of human beings -using shame as a means of social control. Poor women have become pawns of the political agendas of NGOs," 

2002-0:I l\faiusta~e Sea~on Notre Dume, Film. Tde,•i~ion, and Theutre presents 
THE ANDRAKE 
by Niccolo Machiavelli ~!!!!::!!!!!!!~~ Translated by Wallace Shawn 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Wednesday, October 9 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Octob"'r 10 7:30 p.m. Friday, October l 1 7::-m p.m. Saturday. October 12 7:30 p.m. Stmday. October 13 2:30 p.m. 
H.eserved Seats $10 Seniors $9 • All Students $7 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune 81udenl Center. 
MasterCard and Visa orders, call 6:l1-8128. 
Please visit our Web site at www.nd.t•du/-l'H 
Karim said. 

Karim, who earned a doctorate in Anthropology from Rice University, was the winner of the John W. Gardner Award in Humanities and Social Sciences for the most outstanding doctoral dissertation while at Rice. She is also the recipient of a Fulbright Scholarship and a Guggenheim Fellowship. 
The Program on Religion, Conflict, and Peaccbuilding will continue Oct. 17 as Visiting Fellow Patricia Lawrence gives a lecture on violence, suffering. and healing in Sri Lanka's war zone. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu. 

"May the Blessed Mother bless this "This CD reaches out to ND.friends, "You have much to be proud qf' in this work and all who enjoy it." family, and.fans ofall ages." mus,ca en eavor.
· I d " 

Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C. Jim O'Connor Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Notre Dame President Emeritus Manager, Hammes ND Bookstore Vice President for Student Affairs 
A NOTRE DAME ·l EXPERIENCE 


"I am an ND parent and have.Just "This one should be a big hit returnedf1·om seeing my two sons with the ND crowd during the get settled.fhr another year. I 
upcoming football season!'' believe that you have tntly cap­tured the Spirit <~{Our Lady's Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C. University. Thanks!" Executive Vice President -The H uebners Emeritus Winston-Salem, NC ND Parents 
Exclusively available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Titn & Ryan O'Neill (ND '94 & '97) have sold over 700,000 copies oftheir relaxing piano music. Their music has been featured on HBO's, Sex & the City, 
and they recently performed for George Bush. To find out more about their 15 CD's available and future performances, visit: 
www.pianobrothers.com 
..... -·,-..,,...t.•.::1:•--'T"-... --••.,,. ..... 4r,.......... 411 ............................................ . 
-----------------~-------------------------------------------, Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 11 

Fisher men pledge to sit for Betsy as dorm celebrates 50th 
. Celebration of dorm's 50 years benefits child 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS News Writer 
This weekend, the 180 resi­dents of Fisher Hall plan to show how the dorm's presence on campus since 1952 can make a difference for one fami­ly. 
The 50-year-old residence hall will commemorate its gold­en anniversary by presenting "50's at Fisher," a benefit event for the familv of Adam Greenwood, a second-year law student at Notre Dame. 
Greenwood's daughter Betsy, just over one year old, was diagnosed with a brain tumor last May. "50's at Fisher" will raise money to help alleviate the cost of treating Betsy's con­dition. 
"50's at Fisher" was original­ly scheduled to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Fisher Hall, but organizers decided to make the event a benefit for the Greenwood family when they were informed about the situa­tion. 
"We had been planning on celebrating our 50 years as a dorm and, basically, we wanted to put on an event for campus. But, when we heard about the situation there was a plea for dorms to help raise money and we thought, 'Why not combine the two?' lt's a perfect opportu­nity," Fisher assistant rector Tony Desapio said. "The administration and facilities have been really supportive." 
The fundraiser, which revolves around the number "50," will feature a 50-hour roof-sit, where 11 members of the hall staff -including the rector and both priests-in-resi­dence, Father Richard Warner and Father Tim Scully -will take turns sitting on the roof of the dorm for 50 straight hours, rain or shine. At least two members of hall staff will occupy space on the roof at any given time. 
The University has pledged to donate $50 to the Greenwood family on behalf of each dorm that has 50 resi­dents visit tho benefit. Members of the Student Bar Association of the Notre Dame Law School also recently teamed up last month to raise money for Betsey by sponsor­ing the Dean Links Hoop Classic. 
Fisher also will hold a silent auction for a Time Magazine with U2's Bono on the cover autographed by the Irish band's lead singer. Other prizes throughout the evening include autographed copies of one of former head football coach Lou Holtz's books. 
The dorm will have live music from The Kinky Boot Beasts. kicking off with their SO-song pop medley, and have refresh­ments available. Fisher resi­dents will also perform Fisher's "Feats of Strength," including eating 50 raw eggs and a 50­lap tricycle race. 
"One guy said if someone donates a dollar, he'll eat a 


donut," said sophomore Joe strength and a big screen pre­Caruso. a Fisher resident. sentation of a 1988 champi­
Since "50" will be the number onship season highlights video of significance for the weekend, while attempting to create a Caruso added that the same tailgate atmosphere. student said he would eat at The staff will be accepting least 50 donuts, provided that donations all weekend and all people keep donating. proceeds will go to the 
"50's at Fisher" will begin at Greenwood family. 
7:50 p.m. tonight in front of Though residents want to Fisher Hall and run until 9:50 keep this year's celebration as 
p.m. Sunday night. The Kinky a benefit for the Greenwoods, Boot Beasts will play at 8:50 Fisher co-president Ryan Bui 
p.m.• followed by the feats of said he envisions 51-hour and 52-hour roof-sits for future anniversaries. 
"We might have this as our second signature event [along with the Fisher Regatta in the spring]." he said. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at cbeggs@nd.edu 
Helena Payne contributed to this article. 

The Notre Dame German Club proudly presents 

Saturday October 5 th 9:00 p.rn. -1:30 a.rn. LaFortune Ballroom FREE 
Join us for free food, beverage~ and authentic German music 

page 12 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 4, 2002 
NORWAY 

Nobel Peace Prize com.mittee chooses next winner 
through the year. leading the war against terrorism but were agreed Haakan Wiberg, a senior
As.odated Press 

"We have noted in the media that there seen as unlikely winners in the wake of researcher at the Copenhagen Peace is no clear favorite," Lundestad said about unpopular efforts to convince the world of Research Institute in Denmark. In a recent
OSLO 

speculation on the coveted prize, first the need to overthrow Iraqi leader Saddam survey, about 75 percent of theThe Nobel Peace Prize committee chose awarded in 1901. A record 156 -117 Hussein. Norwegians polled opposed a new war inits next award winner Thursday, a selec­
individuals and 39 groups -were nomi-"The committee isn't that crazy," said Iraq.
tion aimed at sending hope to a world still nated by a Feb. 1 deadline. Sverre Lodgaard, director of the Fonner Sen. Sam Nunn and Sen. Richard reeling from last year's terrorist attacks on Many reflected the Sept. 11, 2001, terror Norwegian Institute of International Lugar, the architects of the decade-oldNew York and Washington. 

attacks on the United States and their al.fairs. campaign to safeguard the former SovietThe choice -drawn from a widespread aftermath, including former New York "Impossible," said Stein Toennesson, Union's nuclear waste and its arsenal andfield that includes the Salvation Anny, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. director of the International Peace voices of moderation in U.S. foreign policy,Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai and Karzai, who has sought unity in Research Institute, Oslo. "The Nobel Peace emerged as favorites on some lists. 
the U.S. Peace Corps -will be revealed on Afghanistan deeply divided by war, ethnic Prize committee would Jose all credibility "Many would see this as at least asOct. 11. As usual, the panel offered no hint anger and armed rivalries after the hard-in Europe." important as going to war against Iraq: Toof the winner. 

line Taliban was ousted by U.S.-led air Both said any prize to an American remove the nuclear weapons and materials Committee secretary Geir Lundestad, strikes, was among the known nommees. would probably be an indirect criticism of that could fall into the hands of terrorists. 
would only say that a decision was made President Bush and British Prime current U.S. policies. And this is very much Sept. I I-related," 

Thursday after a series of meetings 

Minister Tony Blair were nominated for "You have to think like a Norwegian," Lodgaard said. 
--------------------==------=--------------­
AUSTRALIA 


Australia investigates East Tiinor violations 
bodies of several hundred peo­
Associated Press 
ple killed during East Timor's troubled transition to indepen­CANBERRA dence.
The Australian army is 
He did not say whyinvestigating accusations its Australian investigators were
peacekeepers tortured and 
focusing on two particular
executed pro-Indonesian mili­
bodies or how they weretiamen in East Timor three 
killed.
years ago, an official said 
Defense Minister Sen. RobertThursday. 
Hill said no judgments should
Two bodies were exhumed 
be made ahead of the investi­
in the newly independent 
gation's final report.
country and would undergo 
"[ believe in the presumptionforensic testing as part of a of innocence," he said.
two-year probe into "serious Investigators are cooperat­allegations of mistreatment of ing with the United Nations,detainees" by Australian sol­the Australian Federal Police
die rs, said Col. Terry and the British and New
McCullagh, the army's direc­Zealand military, which alsotor of personnel operations. 
participated in the initial
Australian newspapers have 
international peacekeeping
carried claims that members force, defense officials said. 
of Australia's elite Special Air U.N. officials in East TimorService in 1999 inflicted atroc­could not immediately be con­
ities against militia fighters 
tacted for comment.
who unleashed a wave of vio­The Australian-led interna­lence after East Tirnor voted 
tional peacekeeping contin­
to break free from Indonesian gent was sent to East Timor in rule. 
September 1999 to end militiaOn Thursday, Sydney's Daily violence. It later was replaced
Telegraph alleged that an 
by a U.N.-mandated force thatAustralian soldier shot a mili­
remains in East Timor, the
tiaman in the head at close 
world's newest nation.
range following a gun battle in 
The country formallywhich two militiamen were declared its independence
killed, nine were injured and from temporary U.N. adminis­more than 100 were captured. 
tration on May 20. 
Two Australians were wounded in the Oct. 6, 1999, clash near Suai on East Timor's border with Indonesian-controlled West Timar. 
"If there is a case to answer by any soldier, they will face the military justice system and will be given a fair and just hearing," McCullagh said. 
Defense officials would not comment directly on the media claims, the source of the allegations or specific details of allegations. 
McCullagh told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio that Australian investigators were examining the bodies of two militiamen recovered from graves in East Timor's capital, Oili. 
He said the U.N.'s Serious Crimes Unit has exhumed the 

MAYBE YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT US. 
USDA "Prime" Steaks 
Dry Aged & Cut to Order. 
Exquisite Fresh Fish and Seafood. Wine Spectator Awars ofExcellence. Live Entertainment. Reservations too! 
We're Eastern Pacific Grille and Bar. Featuring the Fusion Cuisine ofChefSean Garrett and his staff. 
Private Dining Rooms Available. 
FRIDAY: "LITTLE FRANK AND THE IMPERIALS" -Friday Night SATURDAY: "E2 ED WRIGHT" -Saturday Night. 

EASTERN PACIFIC GRlllE AND BAR-501 NORTH NllES AVENUE -SOUTH BEND. IN 46617-574-233-1300 

~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bonk on us 
to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
574/239-661 l •800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 

The perfect home: That's been your dream. 

Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixed or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! Still dreaming of your perfect 
G)

home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. iffP.fif.11 IQUll MOUSINC 
~ LENDER 
Independent of the University 

' 
. 
. 
L...______________
. 

---------------------~--------------------~-, 
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . HEALTH NEWS page 13 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
Monday, October 7, 7:00 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, SMC 
or 

Wednesday, October 9, 6:45 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND Open to all ND/SMC students 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart Collei:e in Cochin, India. 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Hong Kong, Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Lhasa (Tibet), Singapore, Bangkok, Saigon, Bali, Delhi, Agra, Jaipur, Ajanta, Ellora, Bombay, Mahabalipuram, Pondicherry, Tanjore, Trichy, Madurai, Periyar, l\ilunnar, Cochin. More travel opportunities in Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 


Scientists suspend gene therapy studies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Scientists have suspended studies of the first gene therapy ever to work -a treatment that appears to cure a rare immune disorder called "bub­ble boy disease" -as they scramble to tell whether the therapy gave a French toddler a leukemia-like side effect. 
It's unclear if the gene thera­py actually caused the boy's ill­ness, although there are clues that a virus used in the treat­ment may be to blame. No other children given gene ther­apy for the disease -severe combined immunodeficiency, or SCID -have shown such a side effect. 
The French boy's gene thera­py, performed in October 1999, was successful, giving him a strong immune system. But in late summer, doctors discov­ered his body had far overpro­duced a type of white blood cell, a disorder they call leukemia­like. Now 3, he is responding well to chemotherapy, scientists said Thursday. 
France and the United States suspended further studies of gene therapy for SCID while they evaluate what happened and notify parents of previous gene therapy recipients of the possible risk. 
Advisers to the Food and Drug Administration will con­sult with French scientists and meet next Thursday to debate 
--~-­Saint Mfil:J'S Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 
The Nation's Preml!lrCBrnoirc Women's C.01/ege 
what steps are needed before the U.S. studies could resume, said Dr. Phil Noguchi, FDA's director of gene therapy. 
The highly publicized moves were unusual -in studies of regular drugs, many people typically become ill before research is put on hold or gen­erates public debate. But gene therapy has been a publicly charged topic since the 1999 death of 18-year-old Jesse Gelsinger, who was given a dif­ferent type of gene therapy for another disease. Many scien­tists now believe that openly discussing potential risks as they're discovered is important to educate people about the new technology. 
SCID gene therapy "has been a spectacularly successful endeavor up to this point," said Savio Woo of the American Society of Gene Therapy. If it truly poses a risk of leukemia, "then we have discovered a new enemy. Once we know the enemy, then the experts in the field will...be able to come up with strategies of how to deal with it." 
SCID is a very rare inherited disease, occurring in about 1 in 75,000 births, in which patients' bodies don't make cer­tain proteins crucial to develop­ing disease-fighting immune cells. Without treatment they die very young. The best-known victim was David, Houston's famous "bubble boy" who lived in a germ-proof enclosure until his death at age 12 in 1984. 




Researchers test anthrax vaccine 
Associated Press 
vVASHINGTON 
The government has created a new, genetically engineered anthrax vaccine that promises to cut in half the six shots now needed for protection, and chose a pair of biotechnology companies to begin testing it. 
The contracts, awarded Thursday for $22.5 million, will allow California-based VaxGen Inc. and Britain's Avccia to test the experimental vaccine on people to see if it is safe and, if so, to see if it provides protec­tion against the deadly bacte­ria. 
Federal authorities hope that together. the two companies will pave the way toward Food and Drug Administration approval for the vaccine. Eventually. the government wants 25 million doses manu­
factured and  added  to  the  
National  Pharmac eut ical  
Stockpile.  

VaxGen said it plans to begin testing for safety by mid-2003 and finish by the end of next year. 
The current anthrax vaccine works well, experts say, but it requires six shots over 18 months plus an annual booster and it causes certain side effects. Last spring, a scientific advisory panel endorsed the existing shots, but recommend­ed development of the next generation of vaccine, one that would require fewer shots and cause fewer side effects. 
The search for a replacement took on new urgency after last fall's anthrax attacks, discov­ered a year ago Friday when health officials announced that a Florida man had mysteriously contracted the disease. Later, as more cases emerged, investi­gators learned that the spores were being spread through the mail. 

"There is an urgent need to devise more effective measures to protect U.S. citizens from the harmful effects of anthrax spores used as instruments of terror," Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson said in a statement Thursday announcing his agency's grants. 
Federal scientists working at the Army's lab at Ft. Detrick, Md., have already developed the science behind the promis• ing new vaccine. There arc three proteins that make anthrax deadly, and all must work in concert to cause infec­tion. The experimental vaccine engineers one of them, called protective antigen, which stim­ulates the body's immune sys­tem so that it can recognize and fight anthrax should the person actually be infected later. 
The private companies must now try and translate this tech­nology into a practical vaccine. They must create samples for testing, then test the vaccine on a few people to see if it is safe. If these so-called Phase I trials work, the vaccine would be tested on larger groups of peo­ple to ensure it protects against infection -steps vital for FDA to ultimately approve its sale. 
On Thursday's news, VaxGen stock-rose 13 percent, or $1.17 per share, to close at $10.17 in trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Avecia is privately held. 
The existing vaccine, manu­factured by BioPort of Lansing, Mich., also uses the protective antigen, but the protein was not genetically modified using today's modern techniques, said Robert Myers, BioPort's executive vice president. He added that his company's vac­cine may also be effective when delivered in two or three doses, testing that is now under way. 
The current vaccine is not now offered to civilians who have not been exposed to anthrax. It is, however, routine­ly used by the Pentagon. 
All existing vaccine was under control of the Defense Department until this summer, when HHS and the Pentagon agreed to split the stockpile and each take half. 
It's not clear if the vaccine could protect when adminis­tered after exposure to anthrax. Still, federal health workers offered it to congressional staffers and postal workers who were exposed during last fall's attacks in hopes it might offer greater protection than antibi­otics alone. Only about 100 peo­ple opted to receive it, though. 
That's partly because the gov­ernment gave no recommenda­tion about the vaccine, leaving it up to each person to decide whether to get the shots. That caused a lot of confusion, some­thing officials said Thursday they are trying to avoid as they plan to eventually offer a vac­cine against another potential bioterror agent -smallpox. 

EVERYONE ~,COME-! 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) 284-4866 e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw 

Friday, October 4, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
THE FOLLOWING EVENTS ARE HAPPENING AT 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE: 
Author Events: 

Murray Sperber will be signing copies of Shake Down the Thunder, on Friday, October 4th from 1 :00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. and Saturday, October 5th from 9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
Tom Pagna, Former Football Assistant Coach under Ara Parseghian, will be signing copies of Petals from a Rose on Friday, October 4th from 1 :00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
Ted Mandell, ND professor of Film, Television, & Theatre, will be signing copies of Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys, on Football Friday Hon1e Games from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.n1. 
John Heisler, ND Director of Sports Infonnation, will be signing copies of Quotable Rockne, on Saturday, October 5th from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. 

Paul Hornung will be signing copies of Magnificent Seven: The Charnpionship that Built the Lombardi Dynasty, on Saturday, October 5th from 9:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 
Jason Kelly will be signing copies of MR. Notre Dame, on Saturday, October 5th from 10:00 a.m. to 11 :00 a.m. 

KhalH ¥·,~M~t~, J.>h.D., ND College of Business f Adm1n1;tration,'.' will be signing copies of Thou shalt not invest foolishly, on Saturday, October 5th fro1n 10:00 p.m. to Noon. 
Bob Hammel will be signing copies of Knight: My Story, on Saturday, October 5th from 10:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
Coach Gerrr.. f~R~t,,-will be signing copies of The Golden Drean?,tqµ §c!t:lfrday;:October 5th from 11 :00 a.m. co Noon. ·.·-·"i,··ai?;;;;i:,iiNi~~if~:ri;Jr:?::t:'t{{½:,~;•':}/J,J:: ·.·'. 
Musicali!'Event: 

,)y,: ·?/~{ ~:'./':t"'~f~ .. ·: ;-. . 
,The Und~~9,~(!s', l'fotre Dame acappella group, will perf~rm , ~n Sa.turda:-7~n~ h99r following each home game. · . . 


·:~riS\t(,_, . 

::ii:'.;F(' ·,~\:J J:\.: y, -. ,::: ~l{[~, ~:<\· <--,: ... 
'. · _: ·JOYCE CENTER i< /('.', / 
•,· ,, .·• '. . --l-" ,'. 
F'ooTBALL WEEKEND Houis 
Hammes N~tre Dame Bookstore i,.. Narsity Shop (i~ th_e Joyce Center) IN THE ECK CENTER Friday 9:00 am -10:00 pm · ifriday. , 9:00 am -5:00 pm Satur<lay 8:00 am -10:00 pm Saturday 8:00 am -7:00 pm
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 

Sunday 9:00 am -I0:00 pm Sunday 10:00 am -4:00 pm 
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 15 
Designers, celebrities descend on Paris for fashion week 
Paris fashion shows. It included pink or green thong bikinis on ruby red short dress in real 
Asrociated Press 
actresses Penelope Cruz and platform shoes. leather. alligator-patterned, Laura Dern, magician David A khaki chiffon cutout sunsuit dangling various ruffles. 
PARIS Copperfield, and tennis star showed more flesh than fabric, The clothes were pretty off­The colors of war mixed with Marat Satin. while fun for apres-beach came beat, but perhaps less costumey teeny bikinis Thursday at John The show began with khaki in the way of big feather trim on than Galliano's past offerings,Galliano's show of spring ready­mini-stretch numbers and skirts or tops. Galliano is a mas­which have included influencesto-war for Christian Dior, offer­moved onto low-waisted olive ter at fluid clothes and some of of Native American tribal gearing an eye-popping opening to a army pants coupled with tiny, the very baggy silky blousons, and other exotic looks. 

big week ahead. 
shiny bikini tops. But war mostly worn with little under­And there are always acces­The crowd in a tent facing the themes were only part of it, as neath, were quite attractive. sories, the high success point of Eiffel Tower was studded with models pranced out in electric In a tighter style was a stretch this leading house. Watch outstars to kick off the week of 
Student Government would like to thank the following student clubs and 
organizations for making the Notre Dame Campus Wide Fair agreat success on 
Saturday the 28th of September: 
Har:m.onia, Filipino American Student Organization, Porn Pon Squad, Bagpipe Band, t:;uLt~rPltt~ers Assod~HoV\,, 6Ymnastics Team, t;~p 11D, PAKISTAN CLUB, India Club, aoro Pri11ta11ora, BalletFDlkllDriCO, SWING CLUB, ftMt tlm S"'ff'W, Irish Dance Team, tfo10t,t of hri, Russian Club, Polish Club, th"~· C'M, Asian American 
Association, CARIBBEAN STUDENT ORGANIZATION Of TH£ UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME, Korean Student Association, G-um Club, Vietnamese Student Association, Irish Club, la n1ian1a, Zuu/ C¾,/, CamPu, Ministo', !fa&« !taiettt1m6iatl,,, e;reeo K, WVFI. 
We would also like to thank our sponsors-Campus Ministry, Student Activities, MSPS, SUB, Student Affairs. Winners for the DVD players that afternoon were Zahm Hall and Bekki Miski from McGlinn Hall. 
for the shoes. They are strapped, studded with nails. high on platforms and always brightly colored. They may be better than stilettos for balance, but are hardly intended to make walking easy. 
Slithery patchwork-print chif­
fon dresses are matched up 
with some patchwork clutch 
bags. 

The wide hip belt with a rhinestone Dior on the back takes logo to the max, even as it is a fading fad. 
For evening, any of this stuff goes, depending on how daring you want to be. The excellent black silk tuxedo jacket could be worn as shown -over noth­ing but legs -and a dangling pair of rhinestone necklaces for the hips. Or you could match it with one of the fancy skirts or pants. 
Or, for the real comic-strip look, another of the show's themes, you could don a ser­pentine black cat woman look with wing effects and sequined skirt. 
At Torrente, things were calmer and charming. Designer Rose Mett gave youthful pep to her collection, with plenty of white and beige safari-style clothes. Neat, slim trouser suits or outfits with low belts and some bare midriffs, are surely looks for next spring. 
White leather hot pants and bras with a leather short coat would be swell for St. Tropez in the spring. 
For those who love romance, Mett shows plenty of silky and sequined outfits in the most del­icate baby pinks and blues. 
Aperfect meeting place throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday DJring ND. Home Football Weekends. 
Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2~ 6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages 60" Screen TV's 

:-·--:-::~ -:-•:,•..·.::-:-. 
.•.·-·::-:-·:....· •, ,•.) 
(f;f; orris tJim 
......,..•.•,•,·,--•:,•.·.•. .._, .. ,., , ..
Fully Enclosed Tent 
631-2000 
next to the N.D. Bookstore. www.themorrisinn.com 

O
THE BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 16 Friday, October 4, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EorroR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
A.sS'r. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EmmR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDimR, Chris Federico Sa:NE Emroi., C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EolroR, Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR, Kacie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Matt Lutl. AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Niew 
COl"Jll0UER: Lori L:walski 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERiGENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME.................... 631-454I BUSINESS OmcE........................................631-5313 NEWS............·······--··...................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWJ>0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 

SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu 

SAINT MARy's.............................................631-4324 
observe,.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://olmrver.nd.edu fo, daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maiy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is noc governed by pclicies ofche adminisuacion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves che right co refuse advertisements based on concenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depamnent editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofche authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Edicor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions ro/.arding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer {USPS 599 240) U published Monday i:hroug.h Friday aa:pt du.ring Cli.zm and vai:ation pcri-ods. A 1ul,tuipQIJn OJ The Oblc-rvcr is $JOO for one: aca.dcmlC year. S5 5 fot one 1Ctncster. 
The 01:u.::rver Upuhl.i,1.ed 1~: l'OSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Scttd. ~sro~Mtu ro: Nottt DmH", IN 16\56.0719 Tb<:"~t Periodical Po''• p,t,id at Nor« Dame P.O.U..Q and .:lditioaal m:.tibng ofl'1.1.C1. Noue o-. IN 46S)6-<>77'J 
The Observer is :1 m~m~ ofthcAncx:iau:d Press.All rcpCOW-la.ian 1ighu an: rv.uved. 
BOT must make housing changes 
The Board of Trustees should take the 0flice of the Student off-campus should indicate that there i5 a pervasive dissatisfac­Body President's "Plan to Improve Residential Life" seriously. tion with the current state of on-campus housing concerning With more than half of the senior class currently living off­parietals and single-sex only dorms, which students cite as a campus and the exodus from campus housing increasing each reason for leaving campus. year. it is time for the Notre Dame administration to take a The recommendation does not come as a surprise. Student hard look at the status of residential life at discontent with on-campus policy has been vocal, the University. OJhe yet ignored. From the parietals campout two years 
Student sentiment regarding on-campus userver ago to the alcohol policy protests last year, students housing has been consistently ignored by the have time and again challenged an administration BOT. As a result, the campus-centered that has categorically stonewalled them. 
Editorial 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ND shows law in N.J. race 
Democrats disregard 
hypocrisy 

The Democratic Party is disre­cases of death or resignation. Yet, garding the law of the United the Democrats feel that New 
lll ltS

States once again, in order for Jersey law is merely an inconve­Tom Daschle (D-S.D.) and other nience in their attempt to change party leaders to retain their slim the dynamics of the election in hold on power in the United States their favor. The New Jersey Senate. 
Supreme Court, with the 
recognition of 
Bob Torricelli (D-N.J.) advice and consent of has finally removed him­Governor self from the New McGreevey and Jersey Senate race in the Attorney 
clubs 

disgrace after his General, took opponent, Doug the side of the In September 1998, the University admin­Forrester, made Democrats. 
istration recognized a student group thatthe incumbent's This is promised in a foreword to its constitution toJack of ethics an clearly a work for multiple issues, including, "Gay issue with the corrupt and Rights: support the gay community in theirNew Jersey vot­malicious struggle to attain both human and civil ers. Torricelli attempt by rights both in the University and beyond."
disgraced him­the Not only did the Progressive Studentself, his state Democratic Alliance (PSA) promise to work for gay and the U.S. Party to rights, but during the previous semester itSenate, and he manipulate had helped to organize a rally, a teach-inand his party the democra­and a National Day of Silence. After being both deserve to tic system. 
recognized, PSA continued to focus on pay the price for his Once again. the adding sexual orientation to the University'sflaws of character. GOP will have to non-discrimination clause for about a year,Now the Democratic turn to the before we switched to sweatshops.
Senatorial Campaign Federal Courts to Now the same administration that recog­Committee and the New uphold election laws nized PSA has denied club status to IrishJersey Democrats want to be that the Democrats seem Friends of Lesbians and Gays (IFLAG).
able to replace Torricelli's name to be so willing to disregard when What could possibly justify this discrepan­on the ballot with former Senator it suits them. 
cy?
Frank Lautenberg. New Jersey election law clearly Danny O'Driscoll 
Aaron Kreider 
states that names cannot be sophomore Progressive Student Alliance founder 
changed on the ballot within 51 Fisher Hall 
Philadelphia
days of the election, except in Oct. 3 
Oct. 3 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Meghan Martin Matt Lozar 
Courtney Boyle Chris Federico Shannon Joe Lindsley Nelligan Scene 
Viewpoint C. Spencer Beggs Kurt Bogaard Lab Tech Graphics Brian Pucevich Jimmy Atkinson Illustrator Pat Quill 
atmosphere of the University has been put in jeopardy. When former student body presi­

dent Brooke Norton proposed her off-campus village plan last year, board members disregarded her and carried on their 
own conversation during her presentation. This time. they 
must listen. If Notre Dame wants to preserve its unique com­munity tradition, changes must be made. 
The proposed plan to build new dorms on campus that include suite and/or apartment style amenities and to renovate other dorms to also include those features reflects a positive step in student-administration relations. The students are reaching out and the administration needs to do the same. 
Most students responding to last year's Campus Life Council survey concerning on-campus housing indicated that they would prefer suite and/or apartment style housing to the cur­rent dorm system. This study and the trend of students moving But the CLC report was not all dismal. The study 
showed that 80 percent of students who were either living or planning to live off campus would move back or stay if they were offered more acceptable housing options. 
The Board of Trustees needs to seriously consider the Office of the Student Body President's plan. But whether or not they accept it, they need to make changes to the current system of on-campus housing. As the University has developed, its hous­ing system has been left behind. It's time for Notre Dame to give students a campus on which they want to live by offering a choice of on campus housing styles. ending the single-sex only dorm system and abolishing parietals. 
Time and again. the students have called for these changes and time and again they have been denied. But now the Board ofTrustees is faced with an option: make changes or watch Notre Dame's campus atmosphere continue to deteriorate. 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does the new honor code, which provides for the use of the Web site tumitin.com, diminish trust between students and professors? 
*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 144 responses. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There's many a man has more hair than wit." 
WIiiiam Shakespeare playwright 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 4, 2002 page 17 
Where's the class? 
Watching the Michigan game a few weeks back, it became apparent to all of us just what "Lack of class" was. We watched the definition of low class as a Michigan player overtly attempted to injure Carlyle Holiday. But talk­
John Litle 

ing about classless­ness and Michigan is a redundancy in 
Frankly

terms. And 
Obnoxious·

Michigan State makes Michigan look like the Charisse Leroux School of Etiquette for girls, But enough about football, I want to talk about the low class that I see on this campus -the lack of common human courtesy that we endure every day. 
Topping the list of classless members of the Notre Dame community is the Notre Dame Security Police. Oh wow. attacking the agency that both knows me and my car by name and sight ­yes. Let's redefine low class. On Sept. 11, between about 4 and 7 p.m.. can any of you remember where you were? For almost everyone on campus the answer is, "At the Sept. 11 Mass in front of the Reflecting Pool." 
But if you were a Notre Dame securi­ty officer, your answer would be, "Walking through D2 handing out $50 no decal tickets like candy, since I 
knew lots of people from off campus 
would probably be parking there to get 
to the Mass.'' 
Am I saying that the NDSP doesn't have the right to ticket people during perhaps the three most sensitive hours . on the most sensitive day of the year? 
Of course not. I'm just saying it shows a 
complete and total lack of class. 
Though outdone by the NDSP, Father 
Mark Poorman strives for low class 
excellence. Father Poorman, it seems, 
thought that it wasn't enough to ticket 
38-year olds last year for tailgating ... 
no, no, no. There is far more to come 
from this generous contributor to our 
low class administration. Poorman 
decided that he'd make all the students 
think of him as generous by allowing 
student tailgates -in a roped off 20­
by-20 yard pen the absolute farthest 
distance from campus he could possibly 
find. And he named it "Blue Field 
South." 
So. on top of his undeniable total lack 
of regard for student input, and his 
unbelievable ability to treat students -like children as he did last year. he has now chosen to be offensively demean­ing with his "student playpen" out back of Blue Field. Try again, Father Poorman; you've come up once more as straight no class. 

Oh, I can go on. In fact, I think I will. Striding hard not to be outdone are the stadium ushers. Words cannot express the abject hatred I feel for these power-tripping, rent-a-cop wannabes, or at least for the one in charge of their new ID checking policy. Why is it nec­essary that I wait 10 mjnutes in a line to get into my section? Becattse some over-eager authoritarian megalomania­cal jerk in charge of the ushers decided that.all tickets and IDs must be checked to let people into the student section. 
Well let me tell you tliis. It's not working, Hans. First, you're just anger­ing students by creating this attempt at keeping their guests out of the student section. Notre Dame students don't care if other student's guests come in our section. We've all had guests. and we are more than willing to allow oth­ers to bring theirs (assuming they don't puke on us). We have class. We are generous and giving. To whomever is in charge of the ushers, if you really have to get out all that pent up angst or something, go beat up schoolchildren or smash mailboxes. Stop interfering with my game. Low, low class. 
Lastly, circling back to my favorite clown and yours, Father Poorman, we come to last week's SYRs, if you can call them that. Sure they got mixed reviews; I read that article. Father Poorman and Father Doyle liked them; everyone else didn't. But that's fine. I love being forcibly exiled from my home for six hours a night so I can go to a dance. Sounds like a sacrifice you'd love to make. What, Father Poorman, would you say if I told you that every time you go to Mass, you have to wait six hours to go back home? I'm sure you'd put your time to use by finding some students to terror­ize, but still it'd be quite an inconve­nience. Thanks anyway for getting stu­dent input on the policy change. Classless. 
One more thing -let me catch you before you start writing your Viewpoint letter. You're probably going to say that this column was low class, and that I exemplify everything I complain about. Fair enough, I'll take the blame. Someone needed to say it. 
John Litle is a senior MIS major who will be hiding on campus somewhere away from his room. He hopes you enjoyed his musings today. He will be anxiously anticipating your angry retorts atjlitle@nd.edu. His column runs every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
War pigs, aristocrats and reality TV: Our only choices for 2004 

IOWA CITY, Iowa 

"Naturally. the common people don't want war. 
But, after all, it is the leaders of the country who 
determine the policy, and it is always a simple matter 
to drag the people along ... Voice or no voice, the peo­
ple can always be brought to the bidding of the lead­
ers. That is easy. All you have to 
do is tell them they are being Calvin Hennick 
attacked and denounce the peace­
makers for lack of patriotism and 
exposing the country to danger. It The Daily
works the same in any country," 
Iowan 

· said Hermann Goring, Nazi war 
criminal 
"After all, this is the guy who tried to kill my dad," 
said President Bush on Saddam Hussein 
The FX network, Fox TV's red-headed stepchild, has 
plans for a 2004 television series called "American 
Candidate," which will allow viewers to phone in their 
votes as 100 regular people (two from each state) com­
pete for the presidency of the United States. 
No, really. 
Actually, I'm starting to think it might be a good 
idea; in fact, I may even end up voting for the TV win­
ner. God knows that, albeit commercial, this system 
has at least as much merit as our current one, which, 
although it is known as "democracy," more resembles 
the aristocracy of royalty. 
Think about it. George W. Bush is the son of a for­
n1er president who was the vice president of yet anoth­
er president. That's Reagan, for those of you keeping 
track (and who would, anymore?), which means our 
current president is part of a royal family that began 
its reign in 1980. 
Sure, there was a Democrat somewhere in there, but 
that's a whole different bloodline. After Clinton-Gore, 
there was almost Gore, and now another Clinton is 
likely licking her chops in anticipation of the throne. If 
she indeed is elected, we could be in the middle of a 
36-year stretch that really only includes two adminis• 
trations. 
So what is the result of our royalty? We have a presi­
dent (who was appointed not by the Supreme Court, but by breeding) on the warpath, apparently subscrib­national security -at least not as much as they do the ing to Goring's theory of propaganda, with no real midterm elections. If they did, they wouldn't sit idly by choice for someone better in 2004. as the war pigs of the Bush administration march us 
Let's examine the knights and bishops in our little into Iraq. political chess game: Hillary Rodham Clinton -The better half of the 
Al Gore -There's a pretty good shot that creepiest power couple since the Kennedys this guy will run again, and here's won't run in 2004, and here's why: She's why: He really, really, really wants smarter than Gore. She knows that her to be president. So much so that best shot is to wait until 2008, when he's stayed out of the public she won't have to run against an eye for two years to keep his incumbent president. What this
ho options open, coming out means, though, is that she'll of his cave only occasion­likely be rooting for Bush in 
ontro

ally to rip apart Bush's 2004 (because if he loses, policies. she'll be facing an incum­
There's a problem, though: Gore doesn't 
\\e
care about the poli­cies he's ripping apart, and he's just as much an empty 
r.t 
heir to a throne as Bush was (see Gore's non-presence as vice president and the fact that his father, too, was a major 

politician). IfGore  sess the courage to try oust­ 
aetually wanted to initi­ ing a sitting wartime presi­ 
ate any positive change,  dent.  
he would have used his  In 2004, we may be faced  
political downtime to pro­ with the choice of voting for a  
mote activism rather than  career aristocrat or someone cho­ 
teaching journalism and mak;  sen by the American public on  
ing a few strategic ~ublic appear- national TV. Ifthat is the case, I may  
ances.  just find myself putting my check mark  
Tom Daschle ­ OK, this guy probably  --.---­ next to this name: "Kelly Clarkson."  

isn't even going to run, but he may have a dark-­horse following after his little outburst last week. This column first appeared in the Oct. 2 issue ofThe Daschle's tirade was in response to Bush's accusation Daily Iowan. the campus newspaper ofthe University that Senate Democrats don't care about national secu­ofIowa. It is reprinted here courtesy of U-WIRE. rity. Frankly, Bush was right, but (big surprise) for all The views expressed in this column are those ofthe the wrong reasons. Senate Democrats don't care about author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
bent from her own party in 2008). So that's it. We've got three people who care about their political careers in public service more than public service as an actual part of their political careers. It may not matter, anyway, because it is doubtful 
whether any of them pos­
0 
THF 
BSERVER 


us 
page 18 Friday, October 4, 2002 
By EMILY HOWALD Assisram Scene Editor 
"Outlined against a blue, gray October sky the Four Horsemen rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction and death. Th1c•sc are only aliases. Their real names are: Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden." 
These words have become a symbol and legacy to Notre Dame students, as we recall four great men of our past. Four men who are now known as the most fabled quartet in college history; four men who returned glory to the Notre Dame Football Stadium. 
Their presence surrounds us and we can feel their power within the stadi­um, but do we really know much else about the Great Four Horsemen truly arc? 
Seventy-eight years ago, these four 



': ,:_[ ' .. -. . -~··• ·":' '--., .· 
~--/,,.:a.. o····"··•c LJ·.··1.··.·.·.
.. ·:'"' 
. .
' 


men led Notre Dame to a perfect 10-0 figures of their time. · season and the National Championship. The Word~ 'Rice used to describe the .. 
Quarterback Harry Stuhldrnher. left men reJJlain today as the most ~.mp'l.ls, ;k' halfback Jim Crowley. right halfback . Jead ever \'ritten on <k!iports ev~'.ttt' "'.;'1 Don Miller and fullback Elmer Layden ,r UAt the ti1ne, I rl~dn't realizeU)e. destroyed Irish opponents' deferi~_es m).paet'it wd'uld havei'But theJhi.ng JQ,$1;. with the lineup that Coach Knu,te killd ofnmshroomed, After th~s_pJurge :; Rockne devised for them during thi>.ir ·. ilt' the press, the ~ports {llns ofJhe sophomore year in 1922. . >...,. ~jtion ~ofiJ}tet'eSted;,in uS'along ~ 
They were a legacy, but only in'"1'/',;/tff.her sportswriters. ®r record bel~ minds of Notre Dame students. That is too. If WilU'.J~f ll; .s;~le, I don/(( until Grantland Rice, a sportswriter for ,W,t:\, · · ;b~~li remeIJl 
the New York Herald-Tribune, created ~~C' · 'yEfu.rs late11? 
their name that would aid them in · If Ho 
achieving football immortality. · · 
He derived the name from a halft 
conversation that he overheard in 
press box of the Notre Dame-A. 
game on Oct. 18, 1924. Ge 
Strickler, a student assistant i · . • •. ·. 
winning team's sports informa ert, hoffoven h 
ofl1ce, had been describing a m rd thefuselv~s. 
that featured biblical features of d Stu.hldreher, Crowl 
and disaster. Hice thought he w played asJ~imit~ 
borrow the terms to describe th0 th 1.Q 'NiJljfitska. T 
men that led to Notre Dame's 13-7 vie-.tt¢b&l>fo, and unbe;'. 
tory. ·.·-.•• , one ,cati't be snarnlf 
Strickler later thought he would do\{' . . d t somewhere· 
anything he could to make sure th gh •p on going;;{· 
the name remained with the four me e s rom South · · 
After the team arrived back in Sou ndle Jiglg,s still gleam fH 
Bend from the Army game in N a s · ·· · res, those in 
York, he posed the four players in th tak torm cellar 
uniforms, complete with helmets a •: Ri te about the 
footballs, on the backs of four hors he · ame. 
from a livery stable in town. emen, although 
After the photo was released on all brought the 
the wire services, the four me cteristics to the. 
ensured the position as famous footbal ·· •·...... owley, . . n as "Sleepy .or 
hhfdrows)"-eyed appearance, was a 
skilled and intelligent ball carrier that 


often left defenses bailed by his slick and unpredictable maneuvers. He came to South Bend from Green Bay, Wiss., he brought his witty attitude with him. 
Rice recalled in his autobiography that Rockne liked to pick on Crowley because of his clever personality. He recalls when Rockne found a reason to yell at Crowley for blowing a play in practice, Rockne quipped "What's dumber than a dumb Irishman?" 
"A smart Swede," Crowley responded with a grin. 
Stuhldreher, an Ohioan, proved to be a great leader on the team. Leading the team at quarterback, he could not only utilize his throwing abilities, but he also 


11111--------------------------------------------­
0 
THE 
BSERVER 


us 
page 19

Friday, October 4, 2002 
========--==--==: =----=-=============================================================================== 

returnedicptints and could block well. He was lmown,;f/.S cocky, ambitiou_~•'.and feisty~ aij,~~µi;l,.I'~teristics that prove!l to be bAUEJfieittt':iriileading the team t<f\lic­tory. -· . ,,Lay 
Ji-etur' / _.~the spe _ ·· became1the·defensive star o bee.team with his-niany interceptions.,He ~as the fastest Q(tlie fo,ur, bo~t.iug a, :W.~col\li 100-yatddash. ' > · '., k t ."­Miller:cartied on tbili 'tradition in his 
famUy.:iil9-fpllowed his tht*·btij:tfi~rs· . to Notr'e':tD ·· Miller · ner h _ ~iJ,,/· 
Ho· was forever gra creating.their immor article. He received his~ Rice duringareunion. 
"Granny, the day you· the Four flpt"il~Ul~n.·Yimmo~tlit:t~ff'tts;tbaf
~~:~r::rt~:~~~·­
uation as.any:1other b had~'t paintqd that tag ~-~'tt'.un' faster. block. niore 'foiitntlowns than e · we ate, tb,~younger we ond, An · ,, business, tl:ia 4pened . doors -ha to1us in ociations, war 'l.tlip an . evenue than 

know," rvffller said as relat itr-Ac· t~s ·rts. 
his autobitigraphy, "The T 
Shuutin~rc _;;_,,The srrii\11 men, none__ in r 1b2 pound§; left their matkon both this 
university and the football world around them. They all took coaching jobs and occupied top positions, although they were reluctant to enter 
into the business world. 
"We were showered with praise when we played at Notre Dame, but I had my doubts about how things might work out in professional ranks," Stuhldreher said after pro football. 
Crowley coached at Michigan State and Fordham, where Vince Lombardi of the Green Bay Packers played for him, and in 1946 became the first commissioner of the professional All­American Football Conference. 
Layden got his law degree but then began coaching at Notre Dame for seven years and ended with a 4 7 -13-3 record in 1940. Ile also served as an 
athletic director at the University. Later .!;le became the NFL's first commissioner, ..although he never played in the league. 
Stuhldreher coached at Villanova and Wisconsin and was also Wisconsin's l.f.thletic director. He later became an .~fcutive at U.S. Steel. 
''tlfflilJer coached football at Georgia Tech'Jmd began practicing law in the Cl~,Y.eland area. In 1941, he was 
'iipl'tointed a U.S. District Attorney by ·,·President Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
Layden died in 1973, and was induct­ed ii o the National Football ·on Hall of Fame in 1951. He 
rst of the four to be inducted her died in 1965 at the age e was inducted into the all of Fame in 1958. 
's induction into the Hall of me in 1970, and he died at the 7. y died at the age of 83 and 
~ft~i~t.into the Football Hall 
ough the four men have now ed. their memories will live on at 
niversity forever. u can look into dorm rooms and the four of them staring back at from a poster, hear their cry to e from announcers discussing e Dame, or you can scan the book-
and see their figures etched onto now Ty Willingham. 

The Four Horsemen are considered special because they are among the first who started the long-standing tra­dition of Notre Dame football. They helped in giving the small Catholic col­Jt, ge, located here in South Bend, Indiana, a home, and they brought recognition to the phrase "Notre Dame football." 
They are a part of Notre name. They arc symbols of the past glory that was felt within the football stadium. They are symbols of the dedication and hard work that brings success and national championships. They are symbols of the marvelous mystique that surrounds the . Notre Dame football legacy and leaves them as immortals of football history. 
But most importantly they are sym­bols of Notre Dame that enrich the campus tradition. 
Contact Emily Howald at howald.2@nd.edu 
·-·· There are many facets of this univer­sity that make it unique to all others. We have Knute Rockne, the Gipper, "Fair Catch" Corby, Ara Parseghian. the "Rocket, Frank Leahy's "lads," Touchdown Jesus, Rudy, Lou Holtz and 


-

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 4, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cardinals slip by Schilling, take 2-0 lead 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

They battered Randy Johnson and eased past Curt Schilling. The St. Louis Cardinals headed home needing one victory to fin­ish off the World Series champi­ons Arizona Diamondbacks. 
But an injury to Scott Rolen dampened the Cardinals' 2-1 tri­umph over the Diamondbacks. 
Miguel Cairo's ninth-inning single off reliever Mike Koplove drove in Edgar Renteria with the go-ahead run for the Cardinals, who swept the first two games of the best-of-five series. 
"A split would have been good for us," said Chuck Finley, who blanked Arizona for 6 1/3 innings. "Obviously, coming out of here 2-0 looks very, very good. This is what we dreamed of doing," 
Rolen left after he was clipped in the left side by pinch-runner Alex Cintron while scooping up a grounder in the seventh inning. X-rays were negative, and the preliminary diagnosis was a sprained shoulder. Further tests were scheduled for Friday in St. Louis. 
"I do think that his continuing to play for sure in this series is very questionable," manager Tony La Russa: said. "We'll have our fingers crossed through tomorrow, but I think there's a chance he might have played his last game (this year)." 
The Diamondbacks, who had trailed 1-0 since the third inning on J.D. Drew's two-out horner off Schilling, tied it with an unearned run in the eighth. 
Quinton McCracken doubled over the outstretched glove of the right fielder Drew to score Greg Colbrunn, who had reached on a fielding error by Albert Pujols -Rolen's replace­ment at third. 
With the late Darryl Kile's widow Flynn again in the stands, as she was for the opener Tuesday night, the inspired Cardinals moved within a victory of returning to the National League Championship Series for the second time in three sea­sons. 
''They're the world champions and will keep fighting until the end," the Cardinals' Fernando Vina said, "but it will be a nice flight back to St. Louis." 
After enduring the death of Kile and longtime broadcaster Jack Buck during the season, St. Louis can complete the first­round sweep with a victory at Busch Stadium on Saturday. Miguel Batista pitches for the Diamondbacks against Andy Benes. 
Finley, two months shy of his 40th birthday, held Arizona to four hits innings before leaving with a muscle cramp in his pitching hand. 
Acquired from Cleveland on July 19, Finley went 7-4 with the Cardinals. The left-hander had been 0-2 in the postseason com­ing in, losing twice to Seattle in the first round last year. 
"You can't give him enough credit," La Russa said. "The first couple of innings, he made great pitches, then he pitched even better. He showed up so big for us." 
The Cardinals pelted Johnson for 10 hits in a 12-2 rout Tuesday night. Schilling, who had struggled in his last seven starts, proved a much tougher challenge. He scattered seven hits, struck out seven and walked one. 
·"Sometimes you do your job and still get beat," he said. 
Even the 2-2 pitch that Drew hit into the left-field seats was a good one. 
"That was not your typical hanging home run pitch," Diamondbacks manager Bob 


Brenly said. "It was a fastball down around the knees." Catcher Damian Miller called it "a perfect pitch." 
"It was down and away, maybe off the plate a little bit and below the knees," Miller said. "It probably wasn't even a strike, but J.D. 's a pretty good hitter." 
Drew had one of two three-run homers off Schilling last week in Arizona's 6-1 defeat in St. Louis, but struck out in his first at-bat. 
"That pitch was one I had used to get him out several times," Schilling said. 
A year ago, Schilling beat the Cardinals 1-0 in his first division series start. In Game 5, Drew's eighth-inning homer off Schilling tied the score 1-1, but Arizona advanced on Tony Womack's run-scoring single in the ninth. 
Schilling, 27-3 in the regular season, escaped a jam in the seventh inning. 
Mike Matheny singled with one out, then was forced at second on Finley's sacrifice attempt. That brought up Vina, who was hit in the leg near the strike zone while attempting to bunt. Vina got into a heated argument with plate umpire Bill Miller, who ordered the runner back to first, and Vina singled on the next pitch, putting runners at the corners. Schilling walked Drew on four pitches, loading the bases, then struck out Jim Edmonds to the cheers of the capacity crowd. 
Renteria, the hero of Game 7 for Florida in the 1997 World Series and persistent trouble­maker against Arizona, led off the ninth with a single, then was sacrificed to secol'J.d. 
Cairo, who had entered during a double-switch an inning earli­er, singled up the middle. 
'Tm blessed right now," Cairo said. 'Tm in the best organiza­tion in baseball. They have been treating me so well. To get that base hit makes it much better. What a beautiful day today for me." 
Jason lsringhausen pitched a perfect ninth for the save. Vina was 4-for-5, making him 7-for­11 in the series. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
CJs Pub See whats happening www.cjspub.com 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable 
www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800­426-7710 
SPRING BREAK INSANITY! WWW.INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­TEED LOWEST PRICES! CAN• CUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA ANO BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! FIF­TEEN YEARS EXPERIENCE! FREE TRIPS FOR CAMPUS REPS! 
Pff SALES WOMENS BOUTIQUE RETAIL EXP PFRD. $8/HR 10-20 HRS/WK. SEND RESUME TO NOELLES 2500 TOPSFIELD RO #207 SOUTH BEND, IN 46614 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
ROOMS B&B Near Campus for FOOTBALL GAMES Call 288-5377 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST-Signet Ring 14K while gold initials JME, size 1 O 3/4; engraved within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14 Michigan game. stadium student section or on field. Jon Mack 309 Zahm, 634-1090. 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacalions!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Mealsl 1·800-234· 7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Make $320 Weeki Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Free! 1-800­SUNCHASE ext 123. WWW.SUN­CHASE.COM 
Earn extra money evenings sched• uling appointments and making customer calls for local State Farm agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, you choose from Tuesday­Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Musi be enthusiastic with great telephone presence. Fax resume to 574-232-9984. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD· ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. 
Williamson.1@nd.edu 
If you enjoy natural woodwork and ~ beautiful spacious older home with a well-manicured yard, then see this 4-bedroom , 1·-1/2 bath with formal dining room with crystal chandelier. Close to NO. 
Call Ellen Baker 255-5858. 
2 · 1988 National Champion foot­balls signed by players, coaches & LOU Holtz. Call 271-2843. 
; 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
ROOMS fN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223 

DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR · WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM· PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM · MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL · WASHER/DRYERS • CALL TODAY • HOUSES GOING FAST • CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-24361-4 (574)274-9955 · (574)674-2471 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for footbalVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. 
Alum owned, 5Bdrm/2Balh ,W/O,Security,10 It ceilings, HUGE Varel.very close to campus&well 
· kept.2Bdrm w/view of dome also available.Call 674-0709. 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 11 /26-5/12 Call Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607 • 723-7363 
LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from ND. Basement, garage, safe and private. $640/mo. Great location ­1122 Woodward Ave. 
Call 360-2500 Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame • Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 

TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911 . 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593. 
Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­8048 or astrog999@aol.com 
WANTED: ND tickets· HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT• ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
FSU vs. Notre Dame The Maxwell House 2 tickets, 2 nights, full break­fast 229.872.3680 
Need Home GA tix. Call 276-8507, after 5 call 288-2877. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER 
Give adoption a chance..we are happily married and need your help in starting a family. Will provide a lifetime ot love, laughter and end­less opportunities. Call our attorney toll free at 866-215-2229. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800· 648-4849 or www ststravel.com 
These computers/printers are killing me. 
The Observer week from Hell is almost over. Four nights out of five -never again. 
He's having sex with a 16-year old. Even LB is amazed! 
KM, I just want to do to your mom what The Obsever is doing to me. 


Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
-
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Braves even series -with Giants 
Associated Press 
ATIANTA Kevin Millwood is back, and :;o are the Atlanta Braves. 
Millwood allowed only three hits in six innings and the Braves evened their NL Division Series with San Francisco at one game apiece, beating the Giants 7-3. 
Filling in for Greg Maddux, Millwood earned his first post­season win since 1999 with a strong performance, which neatly summed up his recovery from two poor seasons. 
"I was real fired up," he said. "I knew this was a big game for us. We definitely didn't want to go to San Francisco down two games. That was probably as excited or pumped as I've been all year." 
Millwood, who threw only 72 pitches, was replaced by a pinch-hitter shortly after he hit the ground on a fielding play at first base. The Braves ini­tially said he wasn't hurt, but Millwood conceded his groin was sore. 
"It's nothing that would real­ly affect anything," he said. "I don't think it would bother me for a Game 5." 
Barry Bonds went l-for-4, hitting a massive, meaningless homer off John Smoltz in the ninth. It was only the second postseason homer for Bonds, 

Drummettes 
Beef and 

• F-Auxa.'Vllll!O """' • &ll!P TlllB 
Cheeseburgers
• TnllAll4 Q.iSaluEN DrA.w • 181 Cl'WH!L Ti.Nm ~U'l't' 'mfirSlo.-nUBt 
ta\ 
18-P.ack Sweet 
Coors Or ItalianBudweiser1 9 9 9 
Miller ''iji 
Ham Sub 
i:!! ~999
Party Tray

t2-CJvat.•. Noll­
Sandwio.h 

RtflllrMII.. Battle~ t "Grt111tfer t 
the other coming off Atlanta's Tom Glavine in the 1992 NL Championship Series. 
"I was able to have the luxu­ry of messing with Barry," Smoltz said. "In that situation, he couldn't hurt me." 
The Braves wasted no time bouncing back from an 8-5 loss in Game l. Chipper Jones had an RBI single in the first, and Atlanta went ahead for good when Javy Lopez and Vinny Castilla led off the sec­ond with back-to-back homers off Kirk Rueter. 
Mark DeRosa, making his first postseason start, doubled his first time up and came in to score on Rafael Furcal's bloop single, capping a three­run second. 
DeRosa drove in two runs of his own in the fourth, slicing a triple into the right-field cor­ner. He trotted home to make it 6-1 on Benito Santiago's passed ball, the All-Star catch­er's second defensive miscue of the series. 
Rueter lasted only three-plus innings, allowing seven hits and six earned runs. In his two previous postseason appear­ances, he gave up one earned run in 11 1/3 innings. 
"Kirk got some balls up," Giants manager Dusty Baker said. "His ball was not sinking as much as usual. He was throwing about 77, 78 {mph], which is almost too hard for the ball to sink." 
Chicken 

Charbroiled 
Millwood's only major mis­takes wound up in the seats. 
J.T. Snow hit an opposite-field homer in the second, and Rich Aurilia went deep in the sixth. Santiago had the other hit off Millwood, a leadoff single in the fifth. 
The Atlanta starter threw just 18 balls, struck out seven and walked none. His most trying play came in the sixth, when first baseman Julio Franco let a grounder by Kenny Lofton skip off his glove. Franco recovered and flipped to Millwood, who stretched far enough to get Lofton before tumbling to the dirt. 
On the very next pitch, Aurilia homered into the left­field seats. Jeff Kent grounded out to end the inning, and Millwood was done for the night with the Braves holding a five-run cushion. 
"He was so fired up he just about wore himself out," man­ager Bobby Cox said. "He was absolutely done after the last out he got." 
Millwood was originally scheduled to pitch Game 3, but the Braves moved him up because they were worried about a blister on Maddux's pitching hand. 
That turned out to be a huge break for Atlanta, which avoided falling behind 0-2 in the best-of-5 series before it shifted to San Francisco. 

,._.ifiii<..l_,;z-:~.::j.j~ h~dcr V{I.I will receive, _,_,;:;.--tt--+"t-._........-....-==;#.!ti • (:dra snrus oo trcger IPlldllS! 
• 
(:dra SIUIOd IIIOOIDI! 

• 
~IIIGIIIDIIT noC(Jd811S & tw8BPSUl~81! 


• UaJBI al ollNI loGal IDIIBMII a'OIDIIOIWI!! 
NFL 

Crouch thinking about return as QB 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN. Neb. 
Heisman Trophy winner Eric Crouch, who quit the St. Louis Rams three weeks ago, said he would consider returning to professional football if he can play quarterback. 
The Rams drafted the for­m er Nebraska quarterback last spring as a wide receiver. 
"If I play again I'd definitely say it would be as a quarter­back," Crouch said. "My whole life I've been a quarterback. I've molded myself that way. 
"My best football is when the ball's in my hands and I have some control over what hap­pens." 
Crouch left the Rams after playing in only one preseason game and seeing no regular­season action. Crouch said his decision was based primarily on lingering injuries, not because he was turned into a wide receiver. 
Crouch, 23, said he has a serious thigh bruise and other nagging problems, including wear and tear on an ankle that will require surgery next week. 
"I need to get away from it a little bit to get my health back," he said. "It's going to 
•TIE cam IS abs:lJUl~V RUB -sagn-l(J rae alloUl 
ooo Mnuu 

•00[ lOUr aam lmne113El,VI 
mu ¦ LIU 5IDI 1111' aDIRlll'Slf,I 1111111 1111'111 '.#11 IRJlJ 
Is aSb.llenl Plus Ca-d 
be a goal of mine to get back in shape." 
Crouch was the starting quarterback for three years at Nebraska. He said his body didn't respond well to practic­ing a new position in the NFL. 
"The way I was playing wasn't up to the standard I thought I could play," he said. "It was just too hard to contin­ue the way I was feeling." 
Crouch said he has no time­line for a return to profession­al football, but he said it will only be after he is healthy. 
He said the odds of a return 
are 50-50.  
And  if he never  played  
again?  
''I'd  be  OK  with  that,"  

Crouch said. 
Crouch, drafted in the third round in April, quit the sport only nine months after playing in his last college game. The Cornhuskers lost that game against Miami in the Rose Bowl for the national champi­onship 37-14. 
The Huskers have struggled since Crouch left, falling to 3-2 and dropping out of the Top 25 for the first time since 1981. The team practiced on the field at Memorial Stadium as Crouch answered questions from reporters for more than 30 minutes. 

--
-
Sltlactll~ 
&!111Clkln9" 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 4, 2002 
-
PGA TOUR 

Duval returns to old form by firing a 64 
Associated Pre11 
WILLIAMSBURG, Va. 
With his passion for golf renewed by his Ryder Cup expe­rience and his game in a better state than it has been for some time, David Duval once again made Kingsmill Golf Club look easy. 
Duval shot a 7-under 64 -his best round of the season -and shared a two-stroke lead after the first round of the Michelob Championship. 
"Out there playing last week at the Ryder Cup and today, I felt like me," Duval said. The intense competition against Europe, he said, restored "some passion that I found I had been missing for quite some time." 
Hidemichi Tanaka, at 5-foot-6 and 132 pounds likely the smallest player in the field, birdied three of the last four holes for a 64. He missed a right-to-left, 11-foot birdie putt on the par-4 18th. 
"I was thinking if I put this in, I will be on top of it and I knew I would come to the interview room and I was wondering what I would speak about in here, that pressure," Tanaka said through a translator. 
Tanaka, who has been in 28 PGA events this year as a rook­ie, had eight birdies and one bogey -the par-4 10th -and said bouncing back right away with a birdie at the par-4 11th kept him going. 
Duval tried building on his experience in England, where he posted a 1-1-1 record for the 
U.S. team in its defeat against Europe and felt like he played well. 
With his back feeling better, a nagging shoulder injury finally healed and his game coming around, Duval is planning to play in three or four events the rest of the year -and antici­pating doing great things. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mets continue to lose as $2 m.illion is stolen 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Even with their baseball sea­son over, the New York Mets' losing streak continues. 
A trusted ex-team employee, three of his co-workers and two other suspects surrendered for allegedly stealing $2 million from the team between 1994 and 2000, Queens District Attorney Richard A. Brown announced. 
Former Mets executive Russell Richardson, 46, of Hempstead, was identified as the reputed ringleader of the group. Richardson, who spent 17 years with the club, used his insider's position to illegally make $600,000, Brown said. 
"There was a series of schemes involving bribes, kick­backs and other illegal pay­ment," Brown said. The money was taken from Sterling Doubleday Enterprises, the Mets' parent company, through five separate scams, the prose­cutor said. 
It was the latest in a series of

-
embarrassing off-field foibles for the Mets, from All Star catcher Mike Piazza's 'Tm not gay" news conference to allega­tions of widespread marijuana use to the firing of manager Bobby Valentine. 
,The on-field effort wasn't much better, with the Mets fin­ishing last in the NL East despite a $95 million payroll. 
The Mets, after an internal audit turned up irregularities, turned the case over to the dis­vices, faces up to 25 years in prison for alleged grand larce­ny, falsifying business records and other crimes. 
Co-defendant Haim Shaked, 47, of Brooklyn, a vendor who did business with the Mets, faced the same possible sen­tence as Richardson. 
According to Brown, the scams operated in a variety of ways. The simplest involved overbillling the Mets, like charging $50 for a $25 box of copy paper. The most complex involved the creation of a phony company that collected $350,000 for nonexistent com­puter and telephone equipment. 
"It's alleged the Mets were ripped off to the tune of $2 mil­lion over 6 years," Brown said. 


It doesn't hurt that he earned River Course, making seven his first career victory here in birdies and an eagle against two 1997, repeated as champion the bogeys to lead an uncharacter­next year and would love to win istic scoring parade on the lay­the final PGA event played here. out. Next year, the course will host Despite thick rough that made the less expensive LPGA Tour. it hard to see errant shots even 
"The thinking I have is I can while standing right over them, clean up this year with three soft, receptive greens helped wins pretty easy, that I can turn with scoring and rewarded what's been a had golf year into players for hitting the fairway, another multiple win season. especially Tanaka. That's how I feel about my golf "For my height, it is very diffi­right now," he said. cult," he joked, speaking of the 
Duval hasn't won since the tall, gnarly Bermuda that lines 2001 British Open, but he got a the fairways. "I have to wear good start on the 6,853-yard higher shoes." 
His only bogey came when he twice hit into the Bermuda grass. 
Scott Hoch, another llyder Cup team member, was at 66 along with Loren Roberts, who won the Texas Open last week, Corey Pavin, Bart Bryant and Jose Coceres also had opening 66s. 
Peter Jacobsen led a group of 10 at 67. 
Roberts. 47. last week became the oldest winner since 48-year­old Tom Watson in 1998, and started Thursday with birdies at Nos. 10 and 11. 


trict attorney in 2000. Mets spokesman Jay Horwitz said the team fully supported the deci­

Get Wild! Get Loud! Be a STAR! sion to "vigorously prosecute" the case, but declined any addi­tional comment. 
"Since this is an ongoing criminal investigation, it inap­propriate for us to discuss it any further," said Horwitz. 
Richardson, the team's one­time director of technical ser-


Hey Irish Fans! 
October 5 th 1 0:00 am -1 :30 pm 
The Coca-Cola Football Town USA Video Crew will be parked inside the Joyce Center. Stop by and show your school pride before the ND/Stanford game! You'll have 15 seconds on camera. 
-· 
z

The Best Notre Dame Football Fan wins a pre-game sideline pass to the Boston College vs. Notre Dame game, plus 4 tickets in the stands! 
-

Only a few schools throughout the Country will have this chance -so take advantage of it, Irish fans! A selection of clips may be chosen for use in Coke's National Advertising in 2003. 





....--------------------·--------------------------­
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

FOUR CULTURES OF WESTERN 


-
HRISTI ~ ITY 
Rev. John W. O'Malley s.J. 
Professor of Church History Weston Jesuit School of Theology 
AUTHOR OF The First Jesuits (1993) AND Trent and All That: Renaming Catholicism in the Early Modern Era (2000) 
TuesdayandThursdaynights October 8, 10, 15 & 17 
7:30 -9:30 pm 138 DeBartolo Hall 
Students may earn half a credit by registering for the course, THEO 3878 4 Cultures West Christianity. Please contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department (631-7811) for more information. 
T H E S E L E C T U R E S A R E S P O N S O R E D B Y T H E D E P A R T M E N T O F T H E O L 0. G Y , MADE POSSIBLE BY A GRANT FROM THE DILENSCHNEIDER FAMILY. 
-
----------------------------, 
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 24 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Bobby Bowden 'whips' Tommy and Clemson 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Bobby Bowden defeated his son one more time, and he said this time it hurt to do it. 
"I had to win the stinking game and I had to whip him to do it," Bowden said after No. 11 Florida State beat son Tommy's Clemson Tigers 48-31. "It's not fun when you whip your son. [But] I didn't tell him to get into coaching." 
The 72-year-old Bowden has won 328 games, including four straight over his 48-year-old son. The 328 wins are two fewer than all time-leader Joe Paterno of Penn State. 
The Seminoles (5-1, 4-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) showed little confi­dence in their passing game and benched sophomore quarterback Chris

.... 
Rix for most of the second quarter, cap­italizing on four Clemson turnovers and a punishing ground game for the victo­ry. 
And their schedule gets tougher with No. 1 Miami next on Oct. 12. 
"From what I see, it's Miami and the rest of the world," Bowden said. "We're not at that level yet." 
But he was glad to bounce back from last week's 26-20 defeat at Louisville. 
"Clemson is playing with a lot of con­fidence and enthusiasm," Bobby Bowden said. "They scared us." 
Greg Jones ran for three touchdowns, breaking eight tackles on the final one, and set up a fourth with a long run that helped the Seminoles take a 28-24 half­time lead. 
"I was just wanted to play good against the home team," said Jones, 


who is from South Carolina and visited many of his former high school acquaintances in the Clemson locker room after the game. 
"I don't know how many tackles I broke." Jones said. "I was just trying to make it look good." 
The Seminoles took advantage of poor special teams play by Clemson (3-2, 1­
1) to take the lead at halftime. They took control behind Jones and a punish­ing running game in the second half. 
Jones, who gained 160 yards last year at Clemson, finished with 165 yards on 22 carries to give the Seminoles their 11th straight win over Clemson since they joined the ACC in 1992. 
Florida State's go-ahead touchdown was set up by Jones' 64-yard run on Florida State's first play after Clemson took its last lead, 24-21, on Willie Simmons' second touchdown pass of the half. 

Jones. a 240-pound junior, scored on runs of 20, 1 and 21 yards. His second TD gave Florida State a 35-24 lead mid­way through the third quarter. He ripped through virtually the entire Clemson team on his final TD which points. was intercepted twice. sealed the Florida State victory. Clemson dominated the half, amass­Clemson guard Nick Black was taken 
Clemson dominated the first half sta­ing 341 yards while Florida State stum­out on a stretcher after he broke his tistically, but trailed. bled on offense, using backup quarter­right leg in the first half. 
Rix rifled a 5-yard touchdown pass to back Adrian McPherson for most of the Florida State called off classes for Talman Gardner to give Florida State second quarter. Thursday and Friday, anticipating cam­the halftime lead with only 6 seconds Aaron Hunt's 20-yard field goal with pus traffic problems because of the left in a wild 30 minutes highlighted by 6:20 left in the half gave Clemson a 17-weeknight game. Fans would be coming an onside kick, a kickoff return for a 14 lead. Leon Washington, Florida's Mr. into the stadium just as state workers touchdown and a pass play off a fake Football last year, returned the ensuing would be leaving their jobs only a few double reverse that led to a Clemson kickoff 97 yards and Florida State led blocks away. field goal. 21-17. School officials claimed the early "fall 
Although the Seminoles had the ball "We couldn't get it done in the end," break" has been in the works for sever­for only a little more than four minutes said Simmons, who was 17-of-27 for al years and this was a good opportuni­in the second quarter, they scored 21 293 yards and two touchdowns, but ty to get it started. 
-
Witness an Undefeated Season Again 
Tonight, After the Pep Rally, Fisher Hall Presents: 
ND Football ''Feats of Strength'' 
Sho,Ning Highlight Videos of the 1988 National Championship Season 
Serving Free Subs, Soda, Popcorn, Hot Coco, & Cookies 
Starting at 8:50pm* in the Fisher Basement Lounge 
*All Part of Fisher Hall's 50th Anniversary "Roof-Sit" Celebration* Hall Residents spending 50 consecutive hours on the roof to raise donations for a Law School student and his young child in need of assistance. Visit, donate, and bid on a special item signed by U2's Bono! 
Made Possible through funding from DICE and Student Activities 
-
page 25 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 4, 2002 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
NFL 
Gophers defeat struggling Illini 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

With a short week to prepare, Minnesota rebounded nicely from a poor showing in its Big Ten opener. 
Defending conference cham­pion Illinois continued to strug­gle. 
Terry Jackson II rushed for a career-high 159 yards and Thomas Tapeh added 113 yards and a touchdown to lead the Golden Gophers past the Fighting Illini 31-10. 
After the offense sputtered in a 28-15 loss to Purdue last week, Minnesota was much bet­ter. 
"I'm pleased," coach Glen Mason said. "We did fairly well." 
Illinois coach Ron Turner obviously wasn't able to be as positive. 
"We need some success ­we've got to fight through it," Turner said. "We're frustrated -we've got to keep fighting and turn this thing around." 
Asad Abdul-Khaliq was 15­for-27 for 144 yards, throwing one touchdown pass and an interception. He also ran for a touchdown. 
"We had something to prove," Abdul-Khaliq said. "We flopped last week. myself especially. So we came out with more focus this week and made plays." 
Abdul-Khaliq. who sprained his right ankle against Purdue, suffered a leg cramp in the fourth quarter and watched on crutches from the sideline, but he said he would be all right. 
Brandon Lloyd caught five passes for 139 yards for the Fighting Illini (1-5, 0-2), who replaced quarterback Jon Bcutjer late in the third quarter with Dustin Ward. 
Turner didn't know who would start in the next game, Oct. 26 against Indiana. 
"It's a tough situation," he said. "Every mistake is magni­fied." 
The Illini had switched from Ward to Beutjer for the home opener against Arkansas State, their lone victory, after the offense scored just two touch­downs in losses to Southern Mississippi and Missouri. 
A sign that, again, it wasn't Illinois' night: Ward hit Lloyd for a 49-yard pass on his first drive to the Minnesota 8, but fullback Carey Davis fumbled on the next play and the Gophers recovered. 
Beutjer was 14-for-29 for 165 yards and a touchdown. He fumbled three times, losing one. 
"We're beating ourselves," Beutjer said. "We're making too many mistakes and that'll kill you. We know what we're capa­ble of -we've just got to think positive." 
The Gophers, who surpassed last season's victory total of four, were missing defensive captain Mike Lehan, their best defensive back, to a deep thigh bruise against the conference's top passing offense. 

The Illini punted on their first six possessions (five in the first quarter) and the offense didn't score until Walter Young's 16­yard touchdown reception mid­way through the second quar­ter. 
Beutjer's pass on the 2-point conversion attempt was tipped, but Young snagged it and got one foot in the end zone before he fell out of bounds to tie the game at 10. 
Eugene Wilson intercepted Abdul-Khaliq on the next pos­session, the Illini's first pick of the season after 185 pass attempts by their opponents. But after driving Illinois 7 3 yards in 10 plays to the Minnesota 2, Beutjer fumbled as he was sacked by Bradley Vance. 
Mike Losli fell on the ball for the Gophers with 2: 10 left before halftime. 
"Lucky," Vance said. "I saw a pulling guard come across, so I knew it wasn't a run. I just went to the quarterback." 

Do you see a windy day or a way to generate power for 1000 homes? 
Single wind turbines that can light entire communities. We're developing them right now at GE. If you're like us and see the world as full of possibilities, then you belong here. From advanced medical technology to jet engines, from financial services to power generation, the diverse businesses of GE will give you unlimited opportunities to make our world a better place. All you have to do is bring energy, ideas and passion to work every day. Visit us at gecareers.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
GE Information Night 
OCTOBER 7TH, 6:30 PM -8:30 PM ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 

Meet GE reps from several different GE Businesses and Leadership Programs. All majors/years are welcome to attend! 
We bring good things to life. 
• 

L.,___________________________________________________J 
Coughlin gets shrink for Jaguars 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

Tom Coughlin wants the Jacksonville Jaguars to get in touch with their inner football player. 
Never known as a real touchy-feely guy, Coughlin has hired a sports psychologist to help his players absorb the long grind of a difficult foot­ball season. 
Sports psychologists aren't a totally unheard-of notion ­some golf and tennis players have one or two on call at all times. 
But this sport? This team? This coach? "It's surprising, because Tom is a little old-school," 
~ quarterback Mark Brunell 
~ said. Coughlin said he hired psy­chologists Chad Bohling and Trevor Moawad from IMG Academies in Bradenton because he heard they've had a positive impact on other athletes. The Jaguars arc the only NFL team Bohling and Moawad work with. 
"There can be some real progress made, particularly if you have a young team and a team you'd like to get started in the right phase," Coughlin said. 
Coughlin said the Jaguars psychologists have spoken to the team in a group setting a handful of times. Individual players can schedule time with the psychologists, as well. 
Fred Taylor is among those taking biggest advantage of the service. 
"I thought I was fine," he said. "I didn't think I needed a shrink. I'm not a nut case. But I told them, I'll do it any way. If it's free, it's me." 
Actually, Taylor had some experience with this kind of thing when he played at Florida, where he did a lot of visualization exercises before 
games. 
The fifth-year pro. who has struggled to stay healthy through his short career, said this might have helped him get through last season's long ordeal with a groin injury. 
"You get rid of everything negative, and just try to get your focus on something that's positive," Taylor said. 
Through a series of videos and lectures, Coughlin wants the psychologists to help play­ers set individual and team goals, then teach them how to achieve them. 
The coach, not always known for being deft in his relationships with players. said it's all part of trying to deal with a young team. 
"I just think it's an impor­

tant thing for our football 
team, and probably for all 
young people, to be able to 
deal with all the things that go 
on around the professional 
athlete today," Coughlin said. 
Does the coach ever go in 

for any one-on-one with the psychologist? 
-

"For myself, no," he said. "A psychiatrist, but not a psy­
chologist." 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 26 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Friday, October 4, 2002 

around the dial 
TODAY MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

ALDS: A's at Twins 4 p.m., FAM ALDS: Yankees at Angles 8 p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Colorado State at Fresno State 8 p.m., ESPN 
NASCAR 

Winston Cup Qualifying, Talladega 4 p.m., SPEED 
SATURDAY COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Purdue at Iowa noon, ESPN Maryland at West Virginia noon, ESPN2 Florida at Mississippi noon, CBS Stanford at NOTRE DAME 2:30 p.m., NBC Penn State at Wisconsin 3:30 p.m., ABC Georgia at Alabama 3:30 p.m., CBS 
-
Ohio State at Northwestern 7 p.m., ESPN2 Arkansas at Tennessee 7:45 p.m., ESPN 
SUNDAY NFL 

-Bengals at Colts 1 p.m., CBS 
Redskins at Titans 1 p.m., FOX Rams at 49ers 4:15 p.rn., FOX Ravens at Browns 8:30 p.m., ESPN 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


catcher Bill Haselman and ager. Rocker was 3-7 with 11, retroactive to July 4,
Associated Press 

announced that Ron four saves and a 5.45 ERA with left shoulder and neck Hopkins has been named in 38 games for Cleveland, pain. He reported recurring 
ARLINGTON, Texas but Hart traded for the
coordinator of scouting. pain following his rehab 
For the third time in 16 hard-throwing lefty Dec. 18
In Rocker's first full major assignment at Tulsa and
months, relief pitcher John after becoming GM in
league season, he had 38 did not pitch again. 
Rocker has been sent pack­Texas.
saves in 1999, when The Rangers demoted
ing. Rocker was 2-3 with a
Atlanta went to the World Rocker twice during the
The Texas Rangers 6.66 earned-run average
Series. The Braves went to season because of contin­
placed the one-time star and one save in 30 appear­
the playoffs again in 2000, ued poor pitching, primarily 
closer of the Atlanta Braves ances with the Rangers this 
when Rocker had 24 saves. against left-handed hitters. 
on irrevocable waivers season. He also was 1-0
But Rocker hasn't been Rocker's agent, Joe
Thursday for the purpose of with 8.2 scoreless innings in
the same dominating pitch­Sambito, did not immedi­
giving him his uncondition­six appearances at the
er since a Sports Illustrated ately return a call left onal release. article before the 2000 sea­club's Triple A Oklahoma Sambito's answering
Rocker is 13-22 with 88 franchise from May 21­
son in which he made dis­machine Thursday after-
saves in 278 major league June 9 and 0-1 with a 13.50
paraging remarks about noon. appearances with Atlanta, gays, minorities and others. ERA in three rehab outings Rocker was initially
Cleveland and Texas. with Double A Tulsa from
The Braves traded Rocker optioned on April 16, after 
The club also announced in the 2001 season to Aug. 8-12. he gave up two runs in the that it will not exercise its Cleveland, where John Hart Rocker was placed on the 10th inning of a 6-5 loss at 2003 contract option on was then the general man-15-day disabled list on July Anaheim. 
IN BRIEF 

other 29 clubs last winter from 1999, and again in 2001. The World
Expos explore Puerto Rico 

Jeffrey Loria, who bought the Florida All-Stars triumphed in 2000 and lastExecutives of the Expos and the Marlins from John Henry, who head­season in Los Angeles, just weeks
commissioner's office met with 

ed the group that purchased the before the league took its second­Puerto Rican officials Thursday to Boston Red Sox. ever Olympic break to allow playersdiscuss moving some of Montreal's to represent their countries. 
home games to Hiram Bithorn Stadium next year. NHL changes All-Star format There have only been three East 
The NHL All-Star Game is return­against West games, and the EastAmong those who traveled to the ing to an Eastern Conference against won them all. The conferences
Caribbean island were Claude 

the Western Conference format for changed names from Wales (East)Delorme, the Expos' executive vice the first time since 1997. and Campbell (West) before the 1994 
president of business affairs, and Lou Melendez, vice president of The past five midseason games season. 
pitted North American All-Stars
international .baseball operations in the commissioner's office. against the league's World All-Stars -Cuban ballplayers missing 
-inspired by the first time NHL play­Amid rumors that they had defected, 
"They are making an exploratory trip to Puerto Rico to see if they can ers took part in the Winter Olympics two members of the Cuban baseball 
in 1998. team -including top pitcher Jose
bring some games," said Ramon 

Cantero Frau, Puerto Rico's econom­"We're moving away from North Contreras -didn't show up to play ic development secretary. "Bringing America versus the world," commis­Venezuela during the Americas Series the team here (permanently) was sioner Gary Bettman said Thursday. baseball tournament Thursday in never discussed." "We think it worked well, particular­Mexico. 
Atlanta businessman Charles ly in the Olympic years, but we think Cuban officials refused to talk to the Vaughn and a group of Puerto Rican in terms of fan identification with media during the game, throwing sev­investors are interested in buying the players in the game, it makes sense eral photographers out of the bullpen. Expos and moving the team to San to go back to a more traditional for­Earlier, Roberto Pacheco, a team 
Juan in 2004. mat." spokesman, said he had no informa­The team was purchased by the North America won in 1998 and tion about Contreras defecting. 
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
SWIMMING 
Irish and Belles start season as opponents 
NCAA meet last year, the wom­

Special to The Observer 
ens team is deeper than they 

The Notre Dame mens and have ever been and are striving womens and Saint Mary's swim to capture their seventh consec­teams start their seasons this utive Big East Conference title. weekend at the Notre Dame The team also wants to qualify Relays. more than the record nine ath­
After finishing 19th at the letes they brought a year ago to 

Irish Football, Basketball & other Sports news, information & licensed I merchandise 
Register for a free email address at notredamesports.com; your name@notredamesports.com. 
Win Coach Ty's sideline hat by playing our weekly contest. Check the site for details. Good luck and Go lrlsh! 
This organization is not affiliated with the University. 
the 2002 NCM Swimming and Diving Championships. 
The Irish graduated freestyle/butterfly specialist Carrie Nixon, backstroker and freestyler Kelly Hecking, breast­stroker Allison Lloyd and diver Heather Mattingly. However, the team returns 23 swimmers and divers to the team and five NCAA Championships qualifiers. 
Last season, junior butterfliers Lisa Garcia and Lisa D'Olier qualified for the NCAA Championships in both the 100 and 200 events after placing second and third, respectively, in the 100 at the BIG EAST Championships. 
Sophomore Brooke Taylor will add depth to the event, and per­haps the biggest addition to the roster is Singapore Olympian Christel Bouvron. Bouvron par­ticipated in the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games in the 100 and 200 fly. She enters her Notre Dame career with the fastest incoming time ever posted by a freshman and could challenge Nixon's record of 54.07 before the end of the season. 
Led by All-American Marie Labosky, as well as Garcia, D'Olier, senior Amy Deger and sophomore Kelli Barton, the Irish look to be extremely com­petitive and deep in both the 200 and 400 individual medley races. 
Senior Heidi Hendrick, Danielle Hulick and sophomore Katie Eckholt look to replace Nixon in the 50-yard freestyle. 

A weakness the past few sea­sons, the Irish addressed the middle distances this season. Sophomore Sarah Alwen will 
'move from backstroke to the 200 and 500 freestyle, while freshmen Bouvron, Courtney Campbell, Mary Steffan and Kalei Walker make the Irish even deeper. Notre Dame will have to make up for the loss of Mattingly, who became the first diving All­American in Irish history and qualified for the NCAA meet three times in her career. Junior Meghan Perry-Eaton has returned to full strength after missing the 2001 season with an injury. In the distance races, NCAA qualifier Barton will lead the Irish. She will be helped by seniors Nicole Kohrt, Christina Jackson, Katie Cavadini and Sara Cerreta. Also, Deger, Cavadini and Hendrick will pro­vide leadership as they were all voted captains by their team­mates for the 2002-03 season. The mens team lost eight from the 2001-02 roster including Notre Dame recordholders David Horak and Johnathan Pierce, but Welsh welcomes back 20 men from last year, as well as nine talented freshmen. Even with the loss of Horak, Notre Dame's strongest stroke this season could be the butter­fly.The 200 race looks extremely deep as junior J .R. Teddy returns with the fastest time on the Irish roster at 1:52.13. 
-
Juniors Lucas Wymore and Brian Coughlan and sophomore Frank Krakowski also strength­en this event. 
Three of the incoming fresh­men -Bryan Guarnier, Patrick Heffernan and Partick O'Berry ­also boast the 200 as their strongest event and their dcvcl• opment will be critical in Notre Dame's success in butterfly. 
Teddy is the fastest returning 1,000 freestyler on the roster and has the third-fastest 500 time on the team. Freshmen Patrick Davis, Heffernan and O'Berry should also contribute immediately in the distance races, as well as senior Michael Flanagan, sophomore Matt Bertke, who has the fastest returning time in the 1,650, and junior Matt Obringer, who has the quickest returning 500 free time. 
In the sprint freestyle events, the Irish should be improved, but will be very young. Krakowski returns with the fastest times from last season swimming a 21.05 in the 50 free and a 46.14 in the 100. Drew Pittman, Adam Cahill, Travis Kline and Obringer will also be back, but freshmen Tim Randolph, Doug Bauman, Chris Barnes could see a lot of early season action. 
In the 200, Notre Dame will be deeper this year with juniors Coughlan, Obringer and Wymore and sophomore Dave Moisan helping develop the freshmen in this event. 


tt 

-t1... G .... ....1,..~_... c..... ...t... 
4'lt , .. + iftr~' . " M.,~.~ S9g~~(lilii~t U:~.;, 
Ce1.1tcJ; £0.a;i< tll., ·· ;L, .;s;~r dis h~ . Q
.,;/,, ~qss. ~ L;~i ~~~,~~¥ ~'./;;th~ ptob.~•µ~ g.ij,
;, 
h.om~~s~1A,~~:: ap~,htJtUli5~ •'.' 



r 
. .
t f 
.
.
' 
! 
I 
t 
.
. 
• ~ 
....
~ 
(. 
.
r 
. . 
~ 
. . . . . . I. 
. 
• ~ . 
' I 
t 
i. 
.
t 
I 
. 
,. 
page 28 
WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Walsh qualifies for playoffs with 7-0 victory 
ByJUSTIN SHUVER and PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writers 
The Wild Women of Walsh were true to their name as they celebrated on the sideline after defeating Pasquerilla West 7-0 in Thursday's interhall football action. 
They had good reason to be excited. The Wild Women will continue on to the playoffs, The Purple Weasels will not. 
"All of our touchdowns this year have been important," Walsh captain Alison Troy said. "It was a great play." 
The "great play" occurred late in the fourth quarter after Walsh started a drive with good field position on the PW 28-yard line. 
Three runs gave Walsh a first down on the PW 20-yard line, and the Wild Women were finally able to break the scoreless tie. 
On second down, the Wild Women ran a 20-yard reverse to running back Katie Hesmond that drew almost the entire Purple Weasels defense to the right side. as Hesmond was able to rumble down the left sideline untouched for the touchdown. 
Facing a heavy pass rush. quarterback Carrie Campbell was able to complete a pass to Claire Hadley for the point after the touchdown, giving Walsh a 7­0 lead. 
The Purple Weasels were unable to score on their answer­ing drive, and were unable to stop the clock from running out as the Wild Women rushed onto the field to celebrate their play­off-clinchjng v1dn. 
"This was definitely a strong defensive game," Troy said. "But our offense has been steadily improving in the past few games as well." 
One positive Armstrong and the Purple Weasels can take solace in is the fact that several receivers had excellent days catching the ball by taking advantage of at least three tips by Wild Women defensive backs. 
"We've got some athletic girls and they're just sacrificing their body and going up to make that catch," Armstrong said. 
His team's best chance to score came near the end of the second half, when the Purple Weasels drove from the PW 21-yard line to the Walsh 3-yard line before turning the ball over on downs. 
"We should have scored on that two-minute drive," Armstrong said. "The game should've been ours!' 
Welsh 18, Badin 0 
Lauren "L-Train" Hoeck tossed three touchdown passes, two of them to senior wide receiver and captain Vanessa Lichon. as the Welsh Family Whirlwinds beat the Badin Bullfrogs 18-0 at Stepan fields on Thursday night. 
Badin entered the contest with a 3-1 record, coming off a 26-6 win over Pasquerilla East The Whirlwinds smothered the Bullfrogs' offense and threw the ball at will in their shutout victo­ry. A loss early in the season to Breen-Phrnips shocked the defending champion Whirlwinds. 
ROWING 
Irish travel to Head of Ohio in Pittsburgh 
go into these upcoming races 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG with more confidence." 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will travel to 
Contact Christine Armstrong at 
Pittsburgh for the Head of Ohio 
carmstro@nd.edu
this weekend, where they expect 
to date, The team, which has 
performed well in its first two season races. expects to contin­
ue its success. 
In its first competition, the Milwaukee River Challenge, the team took home first-and fourth-place finishes. Last week­end, in the races against Kansas, held on the St. Joseph River, the Notre Dame varsity boats A. B. C all placed before the first Kansas boat The A boat of Cassie Markstahler (cox), Natalie Ladine, Ashlee Warren, Elizabeth Specht, Alice Bartek, Becky Luckett. Erica Drennen, Kerri Murphy and Kathleen Welsh secured first place. 
"Finishing 1-2-3 [in the varsity eight races] on our home course was a great accomplishment for the team," Welsh said. "We have been spending much of our practice time rowing smaller boats [mostly pairs! so getting this extra race against Kansas in team boats should help us to increase the level of intensity as well as our ability to race together, as we look towards the Head of the OWo in Pittsburgh. 
"These past two races have given us a better idea of where we need to focus and allow us to 

I'•• 
~ 

, . 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 4, 2002 
Now. however, they see them­selves as back on track. 
"BP played a zone and con­fused us a bit," Hoeck said. "But now we practice against man-to­man and zone defenses. We're ready for everything teams throw at us." 
Hoeck was ready Thursday. She tossed 30-yard and 40-yard touchdown passes to Llchon and another 18-yard touchdown, col­lecting 153 yards in the air. The option also worked well for the Welsh offense. 
"It's such a different atmos­phere [around the team since the Breen Phillips loss]," said Hoeck. "It's fun to play again." 
Badin crossed midfield only once the entire game on a long pass to the Whirlwinds' 20-yard line, only to be intercepted the next play. 
"We couldn't get the first downs tonight," captain Courtney Giel said. "Our defense played great, but we had a few miscal­culations there as well. We lost. of course. hut we're not out of it. We're looking forward to our game next Thursday. ___ .. 
The Welsh Family coaches are all business and are pleased with the team's rebound from the pre­vious loss. 
"We started the season well then hit some rough spots. There was a little bit of team discord," coach Joe Blaney said. "But we've practiced hard and now we're back to where we should be." 
Contact Justin Shover at jshuver@nd.edu and Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

to face their fiercest opposition ---------==----.;;;;=:::-----;;;;;;------~;;;;;-------;--;s•---;,.;-::---:--::;t~--------7
0). Frequent erv,ce 0 Ch.1·c.:!!lg,...land Airnorts 
111.f V f" 
Save Time, Save Money. 
Coach USA City Express makes travel­
ling to O'Hare International Airport and 
Midway Airport more convenient and 
affordable than ever. Daily service and a 
flexible departure schedule makes get­
ting to both airports a cinch. You may 
purchase tickets from Anthony Travel or 
from the driver, 

1-800-833-5555 
www.coachusa.com 
13 trips daily! Board at Holy Cross Drive and Notre Dame Ave. 
~ 
Coachlll~A 



-

Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Undefeated Alumni, Morrissey square off 
ward to the challenge Sunday's 

By LISA REIJUIA , JUSTIN 
game with Alumni presents. The SHUVER and TREY WILLIAMS Manorites beat Keough last week 

Spcrts Write" 
10-7, limiting the Kangaroos to only 50 yards offensively. Matt Werger's field goal in the fourthOnly two teams in the men's quarter clinched the_ victory forinterhaH gold league, Alumni the Manorites. 

and Morrissey, remain unbeaten "The score looked a lot closerthis season. 
than it really was," Werger said. 

Only one team will be able to "We dominated the game, andsay that after this Sunday's. 
our defense was really overpow­Alumni (2-0) might appear to ering."

have the edge, having knocked The Morrissey offense will look off defending champion Dillon in to make minor improvements for the season opener and pounding Sunday. There was an error on aO'Neill 22-6 last week. 
field goal snap and another

The Dawgs boast a tough attempt was blocked. Other than defense and a strong rushing that, the Manorites will not beoffense. Junior tailback Alex 
changing their game for the

Roodhouse was the offensive Dawgs.
standout against O'Neill, piling "Alumni seems to be the teamup the majority of the team's to beat this year," Werger said.
yardage. 
"It's our first real major test andThe Alumni passing game is it should be a great game. It

led by quarterback Chris 
should be a good battle betweenCottingham, who connected with our teams." 

receiver Corey Harkins for a touchdown against O'Neill. O'Neill vs. Stanford 
Senior co-captain Bailey With both teams coming off Siegfried is confident about his lopsided losses, either O'Neill or team's chances against the Stanford will have a chance to Manorites. reverse their fortunes Sunday. 
"We're sticking to a game-by­O'Neill lost to Alumni 22-6 in game plan and trying for their last game, while Stanford shutouts," he said. "We're not fell to Dillon 20-8. going to be affected by any hype The Griffins (1-1) are disap­about being undefeated." pointed in their record, but still 
Morrissey (1-0) is looking for-feel that they are in a good posi­
-~ '..-.f· _-,~?~•-!?-~-:. . 
.No·r ALLP,lR rOR -. . . .-'"':":r •"i 
5TUDE:.NT5 FLY f'~NE:.S 
•• 1j 
.t \ GE:.rfJNG Ti-J.E:JR WlTJ().~ 
"fi-JE: AJR FOFICE. JS "frJ?.JI 
. . . 
._,' 
.AF'~CrJ'C.COM 'l ~:.:ISS--423-7-S92 

tion to have a successful season. for Carroll, the dorm that didn't Zahm vs. St. Ed's 
"Ideally after two games we even field a team last season. No matter if you shoot it or run wanted to be 2-0," Griffins cap­Last Sunday, the Vermin (0-2) it over, a zombie always comes tain Adam Oyster said. "We plan lost their second game of the back for more. The Zahmbies of on winning these next games tleason to Fisher 7-0. Zahm Hall are no exception. and getting in the playoffs." This Sunday, they get the Last Sunday, Zahm (1-1) suf­
Oyster said he was disappoint­chance to play Siegfried, a team fered its first loss at the hands of ed in his team's fundamentals that lost in the championship Knott, being shut out 7-0. The against Dillon. game last year and has had two loss was a disappointing one 
"We didn't play disciplined weeks to prepare for Carroll. after having played Knott equal ball," he said. "We weren't Despite the look of an apparent in every way during the first defensively sound. We had a lot mismatch, Carroll captain Justin half, matching strong defense of bad arm tackling, so we Williams said his team hasn't with stronger defense and firm focused on that in practice." changed its outlook. offense with firmer offense. 
The Angry Mob (0-2) was not 'Tm sure it's going to be a This weekend, however, is a any happier with their result last tougher game, but the fact that new week, and Zahm is back for Sunday. they were in the championship revenge with a new opponent 
"We came out and didn't open game last year doesn't change and a new strategy as they take up holes on offense," O'Neill cap­how we practice," he said. "We on St. Edward's (0-1). tain Jesse Norman said, "This still have to make blocks and "This week, we really focused game, we need to come out tackles." on offense in practice," Zahm aggressive and play hard the Carroll does have emotion on outside back Eric Tarnowski whole way through." its side Sunday, looking to said. "We tried to fine tune 

Norman praised the play of bounce back from the heart­everything and get everyone linebacker/fullback Phil Kierl breaking loss to Fisher. back on the same page." and linebacker Mark Yost in last "It was a hard-fought loss," Offense proved to be Zahm's Sunday's loss. Williams said. "We shot our­Achilles heal last weekend. The 
"We need to win our last selves in the foot with a lot of offense was unable to break games," he said. "It's definitely mistakes. We played better than grips with the relentless Knott possible for us. We have the tal­our last game, but just made too defense and went scoreless. ent to do it. This is the best team many mistakes at the wrong "We really weren't on top of that O'Neill's ever had.'' times." our game," Tarnowski said. "Our 
Oyster said that he admired They will have to win with a offense struggled a lot in the first the play of linebacker Vin depleted starting lineup howev­half and relied on the solid play Monaco in the Dillon game. er, as one player was injured of the defense." Monaco was forced to shift from and another suspended in last The Zahm defense may have outside linebacker to middle week's game. less trouble with St. Ed's, who linebacker after the usual "That really hurts us," went scoreless last week in a Stanford middle linebacker was Williams said. shut loss to Sorin, 20-0. unable to play. Siegfried co-captain and quar­"Basically, we're just trying to 
Oyster also said that he terback Bill Bingle said that his get back to where we were," said believes his team is ready to face team has a little extra motivation Tarnowski of the Zahmbie game the Angry Mob. this year to get back to the plan. "We're going in with a dif­
"One thing we've looked at is championship game. ferent strategy and approach.that they're one of the few teams "Because we lost [the champi­We want to play with a little who run the shotgun often," onship]. we don't think that more integrity this week." Oyster said. 'Their offense is a we're ever going to lose this lot like ours, so we're getting year," he said. 'That's motivated Contact Lisa Reiju.la at 
ready for that." 

us to come out and just try to lreiju1a@nd.edu, Justin Shuver at Carroll vs. Siegfried beat every team that we play this jshuver@nd.edu and Trey It just doesn't get any easier year." Williams at twilliam@nd.edu 
t tancer Research SAwa.
~tis · at the 3rd annual 1'BIJ~ 
lewis Hall 


1-­
. . 
page 30 The Ohserver . SPORTS Friday, October 4, 2002
I. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles get pair of victories 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sporrs Editor 
After dropping a competitive match to MIAA leader Alma last weekend, the Saint Mary's volleyball team enjoyed a week of non-conference competition this week. 

The Belles rolled through Manchester College in straight sets Tuesday night 31-29, 30­21 and 30-22. 
The Belles used some domi­nating serves from outside hit­ter Alison Shevik to pull ahead of Manchester in the first game. 
"Alison was a key player for us in that first game." Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said. "She went back to the line to serve with us down 20-27 and single-handedly turned it around. She served seven points in a row and was very aggressive to give us that victory." 
Shevik finished the match with eight kills for the Belles. Freshman Heidi Superczynski paced the squad in kills with 
12. She committed no errors and had a season-high .632 hitting percentage. 
Sophomore setter Bridget Wakaruk had 11 assists and four aces for Saint Mary's. 
Thursday night, the Belles swept an overmatched Tri­State University squad 30-24, 30-20, 30-26. The victory marks the second time this season the Belles have beaten Tri-State, the first time coming in Saint Mary's second match of the season in the Alma College Tournament. 
"We saw Tri-State once this year in the Alma tournament and beat them then as well," Shroeder-Biek said. "They have gone through a lot of transition in the last two years with three coaching changes, so their pro­gram is not the strongest right now." 
Superczynski again paced the Belles in kills with eight. Wakaruk contributed 15 assists, 10 digs and had four aces for her second consecutive match. Shevik led the team in 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles stay close to Knights, look to Calvin 
fifth with Alma. 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
The Belles' next game is 

Sports Editor 
against conference leader Calvin College, who is 7-3 on the yearOn the heels of a solid 6-0 vic­and 4-1 in MIAA play.

tory over Olivet College, the 
The matchup affords the 

Belles soccer team hoped to Belles a chance to make a state­
avenge a pair of one-handed 
ment and make up some grounddefeats to Kalamazoo College 

in the MIAA. 

from last season in which the "I think if we can beat them in 
Belles were outscored 17-1 in this game it will give us more the two contests. 
confidence for the rest of the 
The Hornets had different 
season," Concannon said. 

plans, however, and downed the The Belles will have their 
Belles 3-1 on Wednesday. 
hands full with the talented 
"We played alright in the 
Knights, however. Calvin boasts match, but we could have played the top two scorers in the league

much better," Belles forward 
in Tricia Dyk and Noell Jen Concannon said. "It was a Berghuis, who have 21 and 11 

big difference from the two 
points, respectively. Dyk leads games they beat us in last year, the league in both goals, withhowever." 

eight. and assists, with five. 
The sophomore Concannon 
"[Calvin] was at the top of the scored the lone goal for Saint conference last year. and theyMary's, pushing her team-lead­are strong this year," Concannon ing total for goals to five on the said. "They are very fast and 

season. 
athletic. It should be a very good The teams entered the game game between our two teams." 

in the middle of the pack of the The Belles and Knights square MIAA standings, hoping to move off Saturday at 10 a.m. at Saint near the top. With the victory, Mary's.
Kalamazoo improves to 3-2 in conference play, and is in a tie for third place with Albion. 
Saint Mary's fell to 2-2-1 in the Contact Chri:s Federico at MIM and moved into a tie for cfederic@nd.edu 

digs with 13, while sophomore libero Jenny Wilkins finished with 12. 
"Everybody got significant playing time in this match," Schroeder-Biek said. "We've really been improving through the last four matches, even with the losses to Alma and Calvin, who are at the top of the conference. We've celebrat­ed a lot of successes in those matches." 
After the week off from MIAA competition, Saint Mary's returns to conference play Wednesday at Kalamazoo at 7 
p.m. Kalamazoo is currently in third place in the MIAA with a 13-5 record, 5-2 in conference play. 
"We've had a week of from MIAA play, but we're excited to be getting back to conference this week with Kalamazoo," Schroeder-Biek said. 
With the victories, Saint Mary's moves to 5-14 on the season. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

WOMENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Ducks battle for postseason 
ByHFATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer  has found its rhythm, and our defense always dominates." Meanwhile, Howard's motiva­tion must come from within, as  are 2-1-1. Lewis is led on offense by quarterback Erin Nasrallah, who has been a major factor in  
While McGlinn (2-1) has vir­tually made the playoffs, Howard (1-3) is battling for the last playoff spot in the seven­team Blue Division. The Ducks must fight for their postseason life on Sunday, as their shot at a Stadium appearance rides on their performance. The Shamrocks have momen­tum coming off a 24-0 win over a struggling Pangborn team Tuesday. Their defense had four sacks and dominated the entire game. The Shamrocks were led by linebacker Jessica  they try to stay alive in the play­off race. The Ducks come off a 24-0 loss to Pasquerilla East, where they were unable to sus­tain any kind of offensive drive. Howard is led by left-handed quarterback Sheena Ketchum, who is optimistic about the Ducks' chances as they look to rebound from a tough loss. The Ducks will have to play their best game of the season if they are to spoil the luck of the Shamrocks. The teams meet Sunday at 3 p.m. at the McGlinn fields.  leading the Chicks during their exceptional turnaround season. Her favorite target, wide receiv­er Lynne McChrystal, leads a receiving corps that catches everything in sight. While Lewis follows the lead of their offense, Lyons prefers to let their defense do the scor­ing. Last week, defensive back Becky Wynne intercepted a deflected pass and ran it back for a touchdown against McGlinn. This score happened to be the only one of the game for either team, the Lyons defense shutout McGlinn.  
Fedor, who has scored two defensive touchdowns in three games. On the other side of the ball, McGlinn is led by quarterback Julie Kremer, who threw for 61 yards and two touchdowns in Tuesday's victory. Kremer has had great pass protection all season, allowing her a lot of time to throw to wide receiver Liz Maher, who caught a touch­ Lewis vs. Lyons Lewis may be one of the biggest surprises in this year's interhall flag football season. Making a complete turnaround from last year. the Chicks are 3-1 going into Sunday's game against the Lions of Lyons. Lyons, however, will not be an easy win by any means. Coming off a week-long break,  Lyons can also pass the ball on offense. Leading wide receiver Holly Law is the favorite target of quarterback Sara Jenkins. The two have combined for many big plays this season. In the battle for seedings in the playoffs, it looks to be a defensive-minded game on Sunday afternoon at McGlinn fields at 2:00.  
down pass against Pangborn.  the Lions will be rested and  
"Our team has really grown  fired up for Sunday's game,  
 
since the beginning of the sea­ which could be the difference in  Contact Heather Van Hoegarden  
son," Maher said. "The offense  their playoff hopes, as the Lions  at hvanhoeg@nd.edu  
r:Frr1@l@W11 ®©lu ~1ln1 = if[J)[ruU 


HOCKEY 

~@ ~LJ LI@~[Jl}~@ 
; Joyce Center 
*FREE long sleeved t-shirts to the first 500 ND students* 

*Free Papa John's
*Win ND pizza to ND
vs. Stanford students
football tickets! 

(while supplies last) 

Support Your 3rd Ranked Irish Women and 20th Ranked Irish Men 
Women's Race -4:15 Men's Race -o:00 Burke Golf Course 


Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
-
While Pittsburgh might be conference play. Chrissie Abbott. Through 10 the last three years, every the bottom-feeder of the Big The Irish defense, which has games this season, Abbott game against them has been
Soccer 
East, no team has been hotter had to replace injured starting leads the Big East in scoring decided by a goal. I expect a 
ND vs USC WEEKEND '02 
November 28th -December 1st 
Game tickets are still available 
Order forms can be found at our web address: 
www.ndcoc.com 
or call 714.563.6321 if questions. 
For Hotel Reservations: 
Call The Marriott@ 714.750.8000 (ask for Notre Dame Weekend Rate of $89.00 p/night) 
continued from page 36 
first time ever. Our kids understand the importance of this game. We know we have to give our best effo~~-" 
rERFoRM1NcAR1s cENTER *s01J11{ eENo, 1N Box Office, or charge by phone 
FRIDAY. ~~~~ER 11TH ~ij~m-MlJ J1~BHl~ij 
online@www.MorrisCenter.org 

A NiteLite Promotions Presentation 
lately then West Virginia. After dropping their first game of the season to Auburn, the Mountaineers are in the midst of a nine-game winning streak, including a 3-0 start in 
Ticl<ets available at the 
Morris Performing Arts Center 
defenders Vanessa Pruzinsky and Gudrun Gunnarsdottir over the past three weeks. must be able to contain the powerful West Virginia scoring attack -particularlv forward with 13 goals. Notre Dame will be relying upon their top defender Candace Chapman to keep Abbott in check. 

"West Virginia is a very good team," Waldrum said. "Over 

Finally! 
Happy 21st Officer Unsworth 

really difficult game for us on Sunday." 
Injuries have decimated the Irish since the beginning of this season and this weekend is no different. The midfield 
will be a major question mark 
heading into this weekend. 
Starting midfielder Ashley 
Dryer will not play again this 
weekend due to an ankle she 
suffered two weeks ago 
against Rutgers. Starting mid­
fielders Randi Scheller and 
Katie Thorlakson did not 
practice this week either and 
their status remains uncertain 
The Irish did receive a bit of 
good news when forward 
Melissa Tancredi and 
Gunnarsdottir returned to 
practice on Wednesday. 
Waldrum is hopeful that both 
players will see action this 
weekend. The Notre Dame 
defense will still be without 
Pruzinsky, who has seen 
action in only one game this 
year. Her future availability 
for the rest of the season 
remains highly doubtful. 
"Every team has its injuries," Notre Dame forward Amy Warner said. "Ours might be worse than others, but we cannot use that as an excuse. At this level. you can't expect to have the same ten or eleven players healthy for each game. You need at least fifteen or sixteen to be a good team. 
"We have to turn around 
our season this weekend. We 
don't have a lot of time left." 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro. l@nd.edu 
page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 4, 2002 
.... 
MENS SOCCER 

Solid play, no results not enough to satisfy Irish 
By JOE HETTLER Associate Sports Ediror 
The No. 16 Notre Dame mens soccer team played well on the road last weekend but didn't win either of its games. They don't want that happening again this weekend when they face Pittsburgh and Akron. 
Coach Bobby Clark's team looks to improve their Big East record on Friday before travel­ing to Ohio to face the Zips in a non-conference game on Sunday. 
"Last week we played really well, they were probably two of our better games but we didn't get the results we wanted," mid­fielder Justin Detter said. "We're just catching some bad luck right now, but that's ok." 
The Irish hope to turn that luck around by taking advantage of their home game against the Panthers. 
"Our big philosophy is no one comes in our house and out-
Holiday 
continued from page 36 
me. They want what's in the best interests for me and they know what's right." 
Earlier in the week, Willingham said the Irish wouldn't have a definitive timetable on reaching a decision. When asked Thursday if he had works us," Detter said. "So we have to work hard against Pittsburgh because they're big, they're strong and they start all seniors. I think if we just go out and play our game and out work them then we'll be fine." 
One of the positives that came from last weekend's games was the confidence the Irish received from playing well against two for the best teams in the country. 
"My freshman year [the team was] like 'We're going to pack the box and just hope we maybe get a breakaway or something,' " Detter said. "But now it's like we go into these places and we expect to win. I think we just know that we're there now and just progress that last step and win big games when the chance is there." 
Notre Dame has only beaten Pittsburgh one time in their seven previous meetings. That lone victory was a 3-0 Irish shutout in 1996 at Alumni field. The Irish have never beaten Akron. losing six games and tying two others. But the two teams have not met since 1989. 

The Irish offense is led by Erich Braun's six goals and Detter's four. Defensively, goalie Chris Sawyer has been solid in the box allowing only 1.12 goals per game. 
The major disadvantage for Notre Dame may be the amount of games they have played lately. Playing two games over the weekend, especially on the road wears players and coaches down. 
"It's starting to get a little old, but that's one thing coa:ch Clark talks about," Detter said. "He always refers to the Premier league overseas, they play so many games that your bench players are going to have to step up every once in a while. It's getting harder but coach Clark is really big on preparing us." 
The Pittsburgh game begins at 
7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


a possible starter in mind, Willingham quickly responded. 
"I knew someone would ask me that," he said, "and I knew I wouldn't answer that." 
If Holiday is unable to play, Dillingham will make his first college start just two weeks after he threw a 60-yard game-win­ning touchdown pass against Michigan State. Offensive coordi­nator Bill Diedrick said Notre Dame's preparation won't change for Saturday even though he's not sure who will start. 

Earlier in the week. Diedrick suggested the Irish would make a preliminary decision on Holiday's status after Thursday's practice. But Thursday, the offensive coordinator said the decision might not be made until the Irish return to the locker room after warm-ups Saturday. 
"I think the thing you always look at along the line of those endless lists ... is what's best for the team, what is best for Carlyle. what is the best for everybody," Diedrick said. "There are a lot of factors that will go into it and have already gone into it." 
Right now, the Irish are bal­ancing starting Holiday -the clear-cut starter if he is healthy ­against the idea that a big hit could knock him out for the rest of the season. On the flip side, Dillingham has played only 20 minutes of college football. Additionally. the Irish haven't decided if Holiday would take over if Dillingham can't move the ball. 
The only thing the Irish know for certain is that they know nothing. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


Before the Stanford Game on 10/9/02, stop by The Tent Resburgh Library Quad 
10:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Srheduled student perforrnanc:es by the Porn Pon Squad -Swing Club -Humor Artists Troop ND -World Taekwando Federation ­Ballroom Dance Club -Irish Dance Club Bagpipe Band -Harmonia 
ND/SMC/HC students may purchase burgers, 
brats, soda and hotdogs for $1.00 each. sponsored by the Club Coordination Council and the Student Activities Office 

..---------------------------------------------------------------------------i 
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 ­
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Squads face difficult fields 
-

By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
Until now, the Notre Dame mens and womens cross coun­try teams have been dominant in both of this season's races on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
Today, though. as the Irish runners host the Notre Dame Invitational, both squads are setting their sights on second, not first place. 
, The reason -cross-country 

Friday~ October 4~ 9:00pm ll:00pD1 LaFortune Student 
Dooley Room 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/craf-ting 
Purse 
2002 ID-the Center 

powerhouse Stanford Cardinal is flying in for a little racing on the links. 
"We just want to compete well and see how we compare to Stanford," sophomore Todd Mobley said. "We'd like to get second at least, and see what happens from there." 
"I want to go out and compete really, really well and if we get second in the race, I'll be real happy," added Irish womens coach Tim Connelly. "Ifwe go in and compete as well as we can, that's what I'm looking for. We're not focusing on 
"We just want to compete
any one team. dard of five The goal is well and see how we kilometers to just to keep the collegiate
compare to Stanford. 
getting better eight.
We'd like to get second at 
every time we "I'm just go out." least, and see what going to hold In addition on for as long
happens from there." 
to No. 2 as possible," Stanford, the freshman Tim third-ranked Todd Mobley Moore said. Notre Dame Irish runner 'Tm basically 
womens team will take on No. 18 Wisconsin, No. 27 Indiana and a variety of other teams ranging from talented Washington to top-ranked Division III squads. 
Although the competitive level will be raised in today's race compared to the previous two, the Irish will still try to employ their strategy of running in packs. 
Two weeks ago, against less formidable competition at the National Catholic Championships, Connelly had his runners stick together at the front of the field during the entire race. The approach to the Notre Dame Invitational will be similar, although implementing of the strategy will be altered because of the caliber of teams present. 
"The race plan will be the same," Connelly said. "We have to look for each other early and find each other and race togeth­er. We're not going to say, 'Okay all nine of you go out and be together every step of the way.' We have certain groups that we'll try to get to be with each other." 
Connelly has also been impressed with how the fresh­men on his team are adapting to collegiate running. 
"Most of those freshmen didn't have people on their [high school] team[s] to race with them," he said. "It's a whole new thing learning to race and train. They're doing a really great job." 
The freshmen on the mens squad have also seemingly made the transition to collegiate cross country well, despite the added challenge of having to increase their race distance from the high school stan­
going to try to 

let the older guys do the work for me and try to reap the benefits by sitting on their shoulders for most of the race, and run as hard as I can." 
Moore, who trained with Mobley when they were both in high school, won last year's Foot Locker National Championships -the nation's premier high school cross coun­try race. 
With freshman talent like 

·Moore on board, the 23rd­ranked Irish are confident they can handle all of Friday's com­petition, except for Stanford, the number one team in the nation. Mobley, Notre Dame's fastest runner, is expecting to see a challenge on the individual level too. 
"It's my first tough individual competition," he said. 
Mobley will be pitted against such top runners as Stanford's Don Sage, who, like Mobley, achieved All-America status last year. 
Although the Burke Memorial will be filled with some intense racing this weekend, Notre Dame has even more challeng­ing days ahead. 
"It's the first important meet 

on the schedule," Mobley said. "It's still nothing compared to the later meets." 
ContactJoe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion (574) 674-0022 Fax (574) 674-0033 ND themed baske!s our specialM 
Make $320Week! 
Sunohase S~ and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext 123 
WWW,SUNCHASE. C.PM 


-
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 4, 2002 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Lineup change may be in cards for Irish 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Spores Writer 
Despite starting Big East 
action with two wins Jast week­
end, Notre Dame volleyball 
coach Debbie Brown was not 
satisfied with her team's pass­
ing. This week in practice, 
Brown has been experimenting 
with a lineup change to get the 
Irish's passing to be more con­
sistent and improve the team's 
defense. 
Traveling to Hutgers and 
Seton Hall this weekend, Brown 
may put outside hitters Meg 
Henican or Jessica Kinder at 
the libero position. If Jessica 
Kinder, who usuallv starts at 
outside hitter, is used at libero, 
then Henican will take her 
place in the starting lineup. 
After surviving a scare from 
Connecticut last Friday and get­
ting an ugly win last Sunday 
against St. John's, Brown needs 
to get her team performing bet­
ter with every Big East team 
gunning for the three-time 
defending regular season con­
ference champ. 
"We don't prepare any differ­
ently for conference road 
matches than non-conferences 
road matches," Brown said. 
"But, I think the one thing that 
when we go into conference 
play is that in the conference 
we are definitely the team they 
want to knock off with us being 
the defending champions. 
"l think there is more of an 
intensity from the other teams 
to beat us. I think sometimes 
that might be more in confer­
ence than in non-conference 
matches." 
The Irish (11-3, 2-0 in the Big 
East) look to continue a num­
ber of streaks on this week­
end's road trip. They have 
never lost to Seton Hall in 
seven previous matches and 
Rutgers in nine previous 
matches. Notre Dame's current 
Big East regular season win­
ning streak is at 36. 
Despite neither the Red Storm nor the Pirates playing a Big East match this season, Brown is not worried about being surprised by this week­end's opponents. 
"Both of the teams haven't 
changed a lot from last year," 
she said. "We are really famil­
iar with their tendencies." 
Rutgers (11-4, 0-0) finished second in the Big East last year but was swept by Notre Dame at the Joyce Center. The Scarlet Knights are currently first in the Big East in opponents hit­ting percentage and have the conference's leader in kills in outside hitter Shayla Bush. 
"Shayla Bush is Rutgers' best player and was their go to play­er last year," Brown said. "She is a very good outside hitter and is good all-around. A focus for us is to stop her." 
.. The Pirates (8-10, 0-0) were 6-6 in the Big East last year and were also swept by the Irish at the Joyce Center. They have lost three in a row and four of their last six matches. Setter Shawn McDonald is third in the Big East in assists. 
"Seton Hall has Kari Belin 
who has been playing well and 
their setter has done a good job 
keeping their offense bal­
anced," Brown said. "We feel 
pretty good about what they 
are going to do and feel better than we did last weekend going against UConn and St. John's." 
Notre Dame plays Rutgers on Saturday and travels to Seton Hall on Sunday. 
Notes: 
. 
With their impressive block­ing performance last weekend, including 22.5 team blocks against St. John's, the Irish are currently the top blocking team in the country with a 3.82 blocks per game average. Middle blocker Lauren Brewster's 1.58 blocks per game average ranks her sev­enth nationaJ!y. 

. 
In the Big East conference. the Irish are third in hitting percentage, fourth in assists, third in opponents' hitting per­centage and third in kills. 


Contact Matt Loz.ar at mloz.ar@nd.edu 


THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 
Thursday, October 10 
7:00 P.M. 
208 DeBartolo 
FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME 
Saturday Scholar Series Fall 20O2 

A different game plan from the College of Arts and Letters 


Shakespeare on Film: Beginnings 
with Peter Holland 
McMeel Professor 
of Shakespeare Studies 10 a.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Join us for all upcoming Saturday Scholar presentations: 
OcL 12, 1O a.m. -''The Historical Jesus" with Rev. John P. Meier, William K. Warren IV Professor of Theology. 
Nov. 2, 11 a.m. -"The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict" with Alan Dowty, professor of political science and a faculty fellow in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Nov. 23, 10 a.m. -"Art and the Religious Imagination" with Meredith Gill, assistant professor of art, art history and design and a historian of the Italian Renaissance. For more infomration, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 35 ,,. 
SCHOOL DAZE HE:Y! l-¥J,\I W!r(; 1'Ull.. ~SE:c.LA~?  TI\/( e>EEN"Tl-llNi.dNf:i... £ ~l-tS 10 l:JET lHE NTION' OfSDHE: SWN 1D 1-fELP )t'.lU , 5HOUTI INC:J ELSE Ml t-1  CLARE O'BRIEN OffMY@-IT'S  
HAPPY TOWN  JACK MONAHAN  


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 "Nothing beats 58 Brute strength 1 Punchlike _"(beer 59 High-stepping beverage · slogan) occasion? 33 Pacifist's dream 60 "Nana" star, 
9 Sub 37 "Almost 1934
15 Not right 
finished," as to

16 Prepare to slip 
a decathlete 
DOWN

out of, perhaps 
38 Group with the 1 The 1ide, of 

17 Battered and 
1967 hit "Come 
college sports 

sauteed in 
On Down to My 
2 Potsdam

butter 
Boar 

preposition18 Chaucer's "The 39 Typists' settings 
3 Serengeti herd 

Tale" 
40 Southern 
4 Actor Favreau 

19 Skill, in old 
constellation 5 Sch. in Kingston Rome 41 Tenor Schipa 
6 Freudian slip 

20 Cold war worry and others. 
follower 22 Northern 42 Andean tuber 
7 French square 

Ireland's 43 Not only that 
8 I, for one: Abbr.

Shannon-_ 
44 Rigging pro 
9 It may bring

Waterway 
46 It may be given down the house24 "Get !" a slug 
10 When last call 

(victim's cry) 
49 Run in 

may be 25 Org. that 52 #1 Beach Boys announced included the 
hit 11 Jazz pianist

Kentucky 
54 Famous French Templeton

Colonels 
roundelay 12 Helped up

28 Veil material 
57 Tony winner 13 Bar stock 31 Quotation Worth and 
14 Some M.l.T. 

qualification others 
grads 21 Civil War battle ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE site 22 Young, 
transparent fish 
--+,.,,.,,,,..,,,.--1 23 Slender --+...+-..+,-t 26 Thick, spk:y 
stew 27 Peripherals I 28 Find on the dial 1-A,+,;H,+,,,-fll!I =-t-,,,....,""'""',+,.,. ~..,,+.;,+...+~;.1 29 Technological F E introduction of 
1951 u N 
30 Red-dogger, e.g. ~ ; .,.,......+,.,.....+e-1 31 Recipient of many wish lists 32 Is a part of, as 

aplay 
WILLSHORTZ 


50To 
51 Where Einstein published his special theory 
purposes that's Irish for of relativity 36 Altoids "unity" 
52 Laotian money 
alternative 48 Pasternak
43 About to be 53 Mouths
heroinefired, perhaps 55 Work sweat
44 Pakistan's 49 Packing info: Pass Abbr. · 56 Canon camera 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-88S-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and mc.r~ than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nyt\mes.com/leaming/xwords. 
JUMBLE 

JJ~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TESED 
j 

C2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Righle Reoar,od. 
YUINT ~ 
1 
rr 
RAMMOT 
tXJ 
www.jumble.com 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
l'llalil!lllil'NIII 

-

.... 
1111 -IIJ . 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
An•: THE ( 

I I I)TO( I I I I I I) 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' j Jumbles: BASSO HONOR SPEEDY CAUCUS s Answer: The comedians turned the poker parlor inlo this -A HOUSE OF "CARDS" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To ordor, und your name. lddre111 and $5.Q& and r!U>ke cMoCk peylble lo Tribune Media Servk<oo, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, ll ll0880-4330. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Armand Assante, Susan Sarandon, Charlton Heston, Alicia Silverstone Happy Birthday: It's time to start believing in yourself. Express yourself 
openly and assess your situation with unfiltered truthfulness if you want to make the changes necessary to turn you life around. Turn your desires into a reality. Your numbers are 6, 17, 23, 31, 35, 48 ARIES (March 21-April 19): It may take a little longer, but give your job 
all you've got so the results are stellar. Those in charge will appreciate your enthusiasm. Your emotional partner will get angry over trivial matters.** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Explore creative hobbies that could evolve 
into an inspiring and original profession. It could lead to your own business. Purchases for your home will cost more than you can afford. ...-tt GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will spend beyond your means, creating 
tension on the home front. You must budget wisely. Look to competitive athletic dubs to help you get physically fit. Discipline yourself to work out regularly. ***-k* CANCER (June 21-July 22): Friends could introduce you to new love interests. Be ready to socialize. Your keen sense of recollection will come 
in handy when you are relating to those who are confused about the details. H*tt LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take the initiative at work. Fellow employees 
can introduce you to new love interests. Explore different methods for creating a more enjoyable home environment. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get emotional. Try to remain calm. Make sure you know all the particulars before you proceed. You will be successful in activities that require perseverance and drive. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Secret affairs will not be in your best interest. Take a moment to make your domestic surroundings more comfortable. You will have to ipake some alterations to keep the peace. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your involvement in organizational events will open doors to new and exciting friendships. Special privileges can be yours. Today youngsters will have a genuine effect in your life. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's evident you need to make some alterations in your life, Search for employment opportunities that offer the stimulation you require and higher~aming power. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Enroll in programs that you find interesting and especially relevant. Your creative juices need a form of expression. Talk to experts in those areas. *H** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Moneymaking ventures will pleasantly surprise you. Don't be afraid to participate. If you discipline yourself, you can complete unfinished business in your private affairs. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 10): Your partner is ready to make a lifelong commitment. You should discuss your future together. You can make a difference if you get involved in group functions. tt* Birthday Baby: You will be sensible and guarded in everything that you do. You will tend to hold yourself back if you feel that there might be a slight risk involved. Balance will be needed to reach your highest potential. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
r--------------------------------------~ 
PORTS 

Friday, October 4, 2002 

-
ND WOMENS SOCCER 
No time better than now 
. Irish face pair of must-win games against Pittsburgh and West Virginia 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
The phrase "must-win
"' 
game" is an overused expres­sion in sports. For the Notre Dame womens soccer team, there is no better way to describe this weekend games with its back against the wall after two home losses last weekend. 
On Friday, Notre Dame plays Pittsburgh and on Sunday they travel to West Virginia in two critical Big East matchups. 
The Irish are reeling right now after suffering two heart­breaking, one-goal losses last weekend against Villanova and Georgetown. Even worse, Notre Dame fell to fourth place in the Mid-Atlantic Division of the Big East Conference, putting their hopes for an unprecedented eighth straight Big East title in jeopardy. With an overall record of 6-4 and a divisional record of 2-2, the Irish des­perately need to win this weekend to stay in the race for a berth in the Big East 
SMC GOLF 
post-season tournament. 
"This is a must-win for us. We've discussed the impor­tance of this weekend as much as you could possibly discuss it," Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum said. "We've had a really good week of practice, but we've had good weeks of practice before. The focus has been there. We're pleased, but it is not enough to do it just in practice. We have to do it on thfl tield." 
Pittsburgh historically has finished at the bottom of the Mid-Atlantic Division. This year is no different as the Panthers are winless in tlrn division (0-4) and own an overall record of just 3-8. They have had some close contests with Notre Dame in recent years. The Irish only defeated the Panthers 1-0 the last time Pittsburgh visited Notre Dame during 'the 2000 season. Given the lrish's two upset losses last weekend Notre Dame is not treating any opponent lightly. 
"They came here two years ago and almost beat us. I don't think we'll come into this game worrying about records. We can't afford to take anyone lightly," Waldrum said. "Last weekend, Villanova and Georgetown beat us for the 
see'SOCCER/page 31 


Belles soar into tourney 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's golf team proved its dominance in the MIAA during the regular sea­son, winning two of three MIAA Jamborees and the Baldwin-Wallace Yellow Jacket Invitational along the way. 
Now it's time for the Belles to make their mark in the MIAA Conference Tournament this weekend on the Zolner Golf Course at Tri­State University. 
The Belles have been on a roll in recent weeks of com­petition, winning their last three tournaments. Two weeks ago, Saint Mary's set the school n~cord for team strokes in a tournament at 
..,. 
338, and then shattered it the followed weekend, shooting a 325 to capture the MIAA Jamboree hosted by Hope College. 
Freshman Meg Mattia fin­ished in second one shot behind the medallist with a 
78. Three other Belles ­sophomores Julia Adams and Stefanie Simmerman and junior Llz Hanlon -finished in the top 10 to help Saint Mary's to the victory. 
"We've been playing very well this fall," Hanlon said. "Julia Adams has been play­ing very well for us, and Meg [Mattia] is definitely coming around, and she's really com­ing on right now. I think it's important that we're all play­ing at the right time." 
The Belles will have the advantage of being familiar with the Zolner Course, as the upperclassmen played it in competition in last spring. 
"We were able to play the course last spring, so that could be a big advantage for us," Hanlon said. 
The Belles have shown continued improvement in play through the season. In their last five tournaments, they have finished second twice and have three victo­ries. 
The victories and top fin• ishes should provide some momentum heading into the conference tournament. 
"We're all playing for the same goal right now," Hanlon said. "That is to win the conference tournament." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL 
Holiday's fate will be game-time decision 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Carlyle Holiday says he's ready to play Saturday. But his coaches aren't quite convinced yet, saying they'd be willing to wait until just before kickoff Saturday before· deciding whether to start Holiday or backup Pat Dillingham. 
"We'll wait right up until the last moment," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "Carlyle has pro­gressed very well, and we'll make a decision on game day." 
Speaking to reporters for the first time this week, Holiday said his left shoulder is still a little tender but doesn't significanUy affcct his throwing. He practiced in shoulder pads every day this week, but hasn't done any full contact drills since injuring his shoulder against Michigan State two weeks ago and doesn't know if his non-throwing arm could sustain a hard hit. 
Perhaps the clearest sign about Holiday's health came in the inter­view room after practice. The Irish quarterback normally gestures with both hands when he talks, but rarely moved his injured arm Thursday afternoon. 
"I think that the coaches and the doctors should make the decision," said Holiday, who did not elaborate on the specific nature of his injury. "I always want to play, I'm a com­petitor and I want to be in there to support my team and help win ball­games, but I realize that's, not up to 
see HOLIDAY/page 32 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
CROSS COUNTRY 
MENS SOCCER 
INTERHAU.

SMC SOCCER
SMC VOLlEYBAU
Cl) LU 
In action this Sunday: 
Notre Dame at 
Pittsburgh at 

Saint Mary's 3, 
Kalamazoo 3, 
Notre Dame at 
Alumni vs. Morrissey,

1--c., Rutgers 
Notre Dame 

Manchester O 
Saint Mary's 1 
Notre Dame 
Invitational 

The Belles dropped an 
O'Neill vs. Stanford,

Saint Ma8''s 3, 
.. a:s 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

Tri-State
Saturday, 2 p.m. 
The mens and worn-

MIAA game to 
Zahm vs. St Ed's, Carroll 

== The Belles get a pair 
Kalamazoo. Jen
ens squads face a tough
The Irish begin their 
The Irish hope to get a 
vs. Siegfried, McG!inn 
field, including No. 2 

of three-set, non-confer-
Concannon had the lone 
l:Hg east weekend at 
conference win at home 
vs. Howard and Lewis 
Stanford, in the meet. 

ence wins. 
goal for the Belles.
Rutgers Saturday. 
against the Panthers. 
vs. Lyons 
page 33 
page 30 
page 30

A. ti page 34 
page 32 
page 30, 28

Cl) 
-
.. 
Photo illustration by ~TIE Mc::KENNA, 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 4, 2002 
'Walk-on' hopes to lose his tide 
Nobody else got a label in front of their name a couple weeks ago. 
Arnaz Battle wasn't called "former quarter­
back" 
when he dartPd 
yards 
for a 
touch­down against Mich­igan State two ,-.·eeks ago. Tyrone 
· Willingham wasn't called "f'ormi>r Stanford head coach." Kevin White wasn't called an athl1itic director formerly praying for a good season. Yet virtually every single article about the Michigan State game had "former walk-on" right before Pat Dillingham's name. Three Saturdays ago. Dillingham was a backup. Two Saturdays ago, he was a hero. And he can't shake the walk-on label, no matter how hard he tries·. His story is the stuff of legends, but only because he is a walk-on. Rudy played 27 seconds in garbage time and got a movie named after him. Dillingham quarterbacked the Irish during a 30 sec-

ond game-winning: touch­
down drive and got asked if he felt like Rudy. 
No disrespect toward Notre Dame's most famous walk-on, hut Dillingham ain't no Rudy. He's a poised, confident football playP-r who handles the media crunch just as well as -hf1 faced a Michigan State pass rush. 
At the beginning of the season, before the media crunch :mrrounded him. when he was thrilled to work as Carlyle Holiday's backup in practice, coach­es told Dillingham he would see some playing time against Maryland. At the time, Dillingham was just happy to get a chance to get in a game. 
"I hope l don't do any­thing to make the students mad," Dillingham said in an empty interview room. 
Heck, Dillingham would have been happy if stu­dents had known his name. The PA announcer at Giants Stadium didn't -he announced the back­up corncrback with a defensive back sidelirn~d with an arm injury. 
That's the life of a quar­terback who rose up the depth chart thanks to a war of attrition that knocked out two of the top three scholarship quarter­backs and cleared the way for the son of an orthope­dic surgeon to take snaps with Notre Dame's offense. 
That's the life of a quar­terback who had so much confidence in himself that didn't receive a single Division I-A scholarship and still walked onto Notre Dame's team think­ing he was a Division I cal­iber player. 
Even l\'otre Dame's media guide refers to Dillingliam as an unknown. 
All the "unknown" did was dump a. pass off' to Battle who raced in for the game-winning touchdown lwo weeks ago. 
And in an instant, the backup, not the receiver, becanrn a celebrity. 
Suddenly, people stoµped asking Dillingham a.bout his comrnction to Tyrone Willingham' s eldest daughter -the two went to the same high school and were casual friends -and began ask­ing him whether he could run the Irish offense. 
Willingham praises Dillingham as a bright quarterback, as someone who has a solid under­standing of Notre Dame's complicated offense. Veteran offensive linemen talk about how the team already rallies behind Dillingham even though they don't know which quarterback will start. 
If Holiday is unable to play, the Irish aren't exactly in horrible shape. In the four games Holiday has played this year, he's completed a meager 44 percent of his passes. By contrast, last season, when everyone lambasted the ineffective Notre Dame offense. lloliday completed a little more than half his passes. Even if Holiday starts, one hard hit could send Dillingham back into the game. 

l'iow, with Holiday's sta­tus in doubt, the weight of Notrn Dame's undefoated season is resting on the shoulders of a quarter­back who hadn't started a game since high school. Dillingham's fat.her, who works as an orthopedic surgeon for Stanford, couldn't have picked a betuir away game to work. 
But if f)i!Jingham gets into the game, Dad may not recognize the player his son has become. There won't. be any clipboard holding. There won't be any self-confidence issues. There won't be any wor­ries about whether Dillingham can run the Irish offense. 
Don't call Dillingham a walk-on. Call him a foot­ball player. Since he threw himself into the spotlight two weeks ago, that's what he has become. 
The opinions expressed in 
· this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
game hype 

"It's going to be an emotional game, but it's all positive. " 
Teyo Johnson Stanford wide receiver 
"We're not playing the coaching staff,· we 're playing the players." 

Buddy Teevens Stanford head coach 


'The most 
import.ant 
thing is to win." 

Darrell Campbell Irish defensive tackle 
"There is a great deal of passion about both 
programs. 


"May the Blessed Mother bless th;s "Th;s CD reaches out to NDfi•;ends, "You have much to he proud ,fin this work and all who enjoy it. '' family, and.fans ofall ages. " musical endeavor." 
Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C. Jim O'Connor Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S.C. Notre Dame President Emeritus Manager, Hammes ND Bookstore Vice President for Student Affairs 
.. 
A NOTRE DAME EXPERIENCE 


"I am an ND parent and havejust "This one should be a big hit returnedfi·om seeing my two sons with the ND crowd during the get seflled.fhr another year. I 
upcomingfootball season!" believe that you have truly cap­tured the Spirit r~f'Our J,ady 's Fr. Bill Beauchamp, C.S.C. University. 71wnks!" Executive Vice President -The H uebners Emeritus Winston-Salem, NC ND Parents 
Exclusively available at the Hammes.Notre Dame Bookstore 
Tim & Ryan O'Neill (ND '94 & '97) have sold over 700,000 copies of their relaxing piano music. Their music has been featured on HBO's, Sex & the City, 
and they recently perfonned for George Bush. To find out more about their 15 CD's available and future perfonnances, visit: 
www.pianobrothers.com 

Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The game they all circled 
Irish coach Tyrone Willingham takes on his former Stanford players 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports W ricer 
Normally. hell has a better chance of freezing over before Tyrone Willingham admits a football game is anything more than a football game. 
Yet tho lrish head coach shocked the world Tuesdav by saying Saturday's game will be a little more difficult for him to coach. 
Willingham knows every single player 
Willingham met Greem, who desperately needed a rac­quetball partner early in the morning. The two talked often, and when Green got the Stanford coaching job, he offered Willingham a spot on his staff as running backs coach. 
Three years later, Willingham followed Green again, this time to Minnf'sota tu coach the Vik.ings. And after Bill Walsh left Stanford, Cardinal athletic director Ted Leland called WiHingham and 
offered him 


on Stanford's his first
"As much as execution is 

roster. knows head coach­each player's a part of the game. so is ing job, an 
parents, sat emotion, and ifa team o f f e r 
in their living Willingham
can reach an emotional

rooms and leapL at. convinced level, it can accomplish W h e n them to play Willingham
great things. " 

for · the took over, Cardinal, and t h e 
then left the Tyrone WIiiingham Cardinal team he Irish coach had a repu­wanted to tation as a build for scrappy South Bend. Ind., dragging team that rarely made any most of the Cardinal coaching noise outside the Pac-10. staff with him. His impact was immediate. 
Willingham won't exactly The year before Willingham wax poetic on the emotional arrived, the Cardinal finished importance of Saturday's 3-7-1. In his first year, game. But for him to even Willingham turned the team suggest Notre Dame-Stanford into a 7-4-1 squad that played has any significance for him in a bowl game. Three years is quite a leap for a man later, Stanford won the Pac­accustomed to dodging ques­10 and played in the Rose tions about his personal feel­Bowl. ings. As the offers poured in for 
For 10 years, Willingham coaching jobs, Willingham worked at Stanford. three as stood pat. Although his Bay a running backs coach under Area club was overshadowed Dennis Green and seven as a bv multitudes of California head coach. For 10 years, professional teams in many Willingham poured his entire different sports, Willingham existence into making the wasn't fazed. He even reject­Cardinal a football power. lie ed an offer from his alma spurned NFL jobs, college mater, Michigan State, in jobs, any kind of job, until 2000. Notre Dame came along. But when the Irish called, 
Then he hopped on a char­Willingham listened. ter plane from Palo Alto to "There is a great deal of South Bend. leaving the pro­passion about both programs. gram he worked at.for a fifth Stanford's is displayed a little of his life for another pro­bit different probably by a gram where success comes to few less people but still at the so few. same time great passion," he 
In his wake, Willingham said. "Notre Dame is dis­knows he left a Stanford foot­played by a lot of people and b a 11 team anxious to play has tremendous past." their own coach. And he After two losing seasons in knows they circled Oct. 5 on three years, Willingham the calendar even as wanted to try his hand at Willingham stood before waking up the echoes in national media on New Year's South Bend. Day as the Notre Dame foot­ball coach. 
Changing places 

"As much as execution is a 
Teyo Johnson remembered 

part of the game, so is emo­
being surprised when he

tion, and if a team can r.each 
heard the news \,Villingham

an emotional level, it can 
left to coach the Irish. The 6­

accomplish greaL things." 
foot-7 Stanford wide receiver

Willingham said. "So this barely got a chance to say
football team, Stanford, is not goodbye to his former coach,
o,nly skilled, in my opinion, that''s how fast Willinghambut they will bring their high­left Palo Alto and moved to 
est level of emotion Lhat 
South Bend.

maybe they have had in quite "I personally felt that whensometime." 
you have a coach in college that's as good as Coach Early beginnings Willingham, you don't expect 
In 1988, Willingham was him to be with you for very busy toiling in obscurity in long," Johnson said. "I per­the college coaching ranks. sonally thought he would go He'd sloshed through losing to the NFL, but when I heard se~sons at Michigan State, he got the job at Notre Dame, North Carolina Statl' and I was more upse'l at George Hit;e, always wondering O'Leary than anything else." whether or not he'd get a Johnson and his teammates shot at moving up in the keep tabs on their former coaching ranks. coach -although it's not a 
During a program with the dil'ficult thing to do consider­San Francisco 49ers, ing the national media alten­
tion surrounding Notre Stanford's team for the first Dame's 4-0 start. What the time since he flew to Notre Cardinal wide receiver Dame as the Irish head notices is how Willingham is coach, just days after the essentially the same coach Cardinal's final game of the with the Irish that he was at season. Stanford. And likewise, "He hasn't said much about Johnson noticed that the Irish it," Irish cornerback Vontez 
play  with  Duff  said.  
an attitude  "But I think  
Willingham  "I personally felt that .  it's a  big deal  
used inspire t h  to in e  when you have a coach in college that's as good  for him." Willingham still maintains  
Cardinal.  as Coach Wzllingham,  close  connec­ 
" T h e proof is in the pud­ding as far  you don't expect him to be with you for very long."  tions to the Stanford com­munity connecti.ons  
as what he  he  hopes  to  
goes out there and does. He's  Teyo Johnson Stanford wide receiver  preserve for the rest of his life. Before  

4 -0 , " Johnson said. "At first. when he comes in, it seems like it's too much, but you see how much of a better player you become." 
Swirl of emotions 
Saturday's game will bn a reunion for Willingham and many other Irish coaches. as he will face much of all," Johnson said. "I think if we were in his situation, we would have left as well." 
Willingham and the six other former Stanford coach­es on the current Irish staff know the emotional impact of Saturday's game. 
But at 1:30 Saturday after­noon, emotions will give way to reason. 
"Once we get to the ball­game what I know from those guys. having been with them. that they will be fierce com­petitors when game time aris­c s and they will do all the things that competitors do to put themselves in a position to be successful," Willingham said. "Before we will have emotions and after we will have emotions and there will probably be a lot or hugs and conversation. 
"But by game time, I think they will be fierce competi­tors and I know that will be tho mindset that I will be in." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
the game, he 

expects to shake hands and reminisce a little with his former players. After the game, he expects to spend timfl on the 11eld with men he recruited, Lrained and coached for years. 
It's a reunion many Stanford players arc looking forward to. 
"We don't blame him at 

page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 4, 2002 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 4-0 AP: No. 9 Coaches: No. 9 


Tyrone Willingham first season at 
NOTRE DAME 
Notre Dame 
2002 Schedule 
career record: 
81-52-1 
Sept. 7 PURDUE· W
4-0 
Willingham against Stanford: 
Sept. 14 MICHIGAN -W
head coach 0-0 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. lit. 
J Jared Clark TE 6--4 2 Carloo Pierru ..Antoinc ILB 6-J 2 Dan Novakov QB 6-1. 3 Arnaz Battle WR (r\ 4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 6 Carlos Campbell WR 5-ll 7 Carlyle Holiday QB (>-3 6 Mc11t1<ruegP£ QB 5-10 9 Jason Beckstrom CB 5-10 9 Pat Dillingham QB 6-1 11 Mart;us Wilson RB 5-11 12 Chris Ols<en QB 6--4 13 NickSctta K/1" 5-11 14 Gary Godsey TE 6-fi 15 Preston Jackson CB 5-9 16 Stan Revelle QB 5-11 17 Joey Hildbold r 5-10 
· 18 Ronnie Rodarn~r WR 6--4 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick K/P 6-1 20 Gerome Sapp ss 6-0 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-3 23 Chris Yura FB 6-0 25 NateSchiccatano RB 6-3 26 Garron Bible FS 5-10 26 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 27 Lionel Bolen ss 6-0 27 Mike Profeta TB 5-11 28 Cole Laux FB 5-10 29 Quentin Burrell CB 6-0 30 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 31 Jake Carney DB 6-0 32 Jeff Jenkin.s RB 6-0 33 Courtney \i\1atson !LB 6-1 34 Vontez Duff CB 5-11 35 David Miller K 5:11 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 37 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 39 Brandon Hoyte JLB 6-0 39 David Bem~nderfer ss 5-11 40 Nate Schomas WR 5-10 41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 43 Rashon Powers-Neal TB r,.2 44 Justin Tuck DE 6-5 46 Corey Mays !LB 6-1 47 f\.fike.McNalr FB 6-0 48 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 49 Derek Curry !LB 6-3 50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 51 Jamie Ryan m 6-5 52 Jeff Faine C 6-3 53 John Crowther C 6-2 54 Jason Ha Iverson DL 6-1 55 Zachary Giles C 6-3 56 Pat Ryan lLB &3 57 Justin ThornJs OLB 6-1 58 Chad DeBolt !LB 6-0 60 Darrell Campbell DT 6-4 61 Charles 1-ledman LB 6-1 62 Scott Rariddn m 6-7 63 Brennan Curtin m 6-8 n4 Casey Dunn OT/OG 6-4 65 Sean Milligan 0G 6-4 66 Derek Landri NG 6-2 67 Ryan Gillis 0G 6-3 68 Ed O'Connell LB 6-3 69 Darin Mitchell Ol 6-4 70 Jim Molinaro m 6-6 71 David Kowalski 0G 6-2 71 }amesBonelli OG/OT 6-6 72 Ryan Scarola C!OG 6-5 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 74 Dan Stevenson 0G 6-5 75 Chris Frome DE 6-5 76 Bob Mor.ton C 6-4 77 Greg Pauly ITT 6-6 78 Jordan Black OT 6-6 79 Sean Mahan m 6-3 80 Omar Jenkins WR 6-2 82 Bernard Aka tu WR 5-10 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-1 83 Matt Root TE 6-6
I ' 85 Billy Palmer TE 6-3 86 Brendan Hart TE 6-2 I 87 Md.fcus Freeman TE 6-4 87 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 90 llrlMl Bcidatsch DL 6-4 91 Jeff Thompson NG/D'f 6-4 92 Kyle Budinscak DE 6-4 93 Dan Santucci DE 6-5 94 Brian Mattes DE 6-6 95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 97 Travis Leitko DE 6-6 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 
Irish 

experts 
HEADT 
Sept. 21 afMSU -W 
Wt. YR 
228 JR 245 SR 218 SR 213 SR 211 so 190 FR 194 so 
Oct. 26 at Florida State 
214 JR 180 JR 188 SR 
Nov. 2 BOSTON COLLEGE
209 so 199 so 220 FR 
Nov.9 at Navy
177 SR 259 SR 176 JR 
Nov. 23 RUTGERS
182 so 
191 SR 206 JR 205 SR 
Nov. 30 at USC 
192 so 218 SR 205 FR 220 SR 220 FR 197 JR 207 so 195 so 208 so 236 JR 178 so 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING
180 FR 180 FR 195 FR 232 SR 194 JR 210 SR 172 SR 245 SR 
l&.I 
179 so 226 so 
:E 
c(
195 JR 
160 FR 
0 
243 JR 185 SR 
l&.I 
224 so 
a:: 
238 so 
l­
235 so 
o 
230 SR 256 JR 
z 
233 JR 290 SR 285 FR 298 SR 239 SR 246 SR 281 so 231 SR 243 SR 
0
202 SR 
a::
288 SR 215 SR 
~ 
285 FR 305 SR 
z 
255 so 300 SR 
~ 
(I)
275 FR 305 SR 212 JR 280 so 297 SR 249 JR 285 FR 310 SR 309 so 292 so 240 FR 305 FR 280 JR 305 SR 
28.5 SR 204 so 193 SR 172 so 
258 so 251 JR 240 JR 240 FR 246 so 237 FR 269 50 273 50 269 JR 250 FR 250 PR 258 SR 250 FR 249 JR 


Willingham and his assistants will be coach­ing many of the players they recruited and men­tored. In three of Notre Dame's first four games, Willingham's team has found a way to win. The last Irish coach to begin his career 4-0 was Ara Parseghian.  Holiday has been less than spectacular. but he has, nonetheless, led the Irish to a 4-0 record. If he can't play, Dillingham will have to be ready. Dillingham took the bulk of snaps in practic~ and led the Irish on a game-winning drive over Michigan State two week ago.  Notre Dame has nearly doubled its opponenl<; this season in rushing yardage per game. The offensive line has been opening up some solid holes for Grant and Powers-Neal. Both runners are averaging 4.3 yards per carry. Holiday always presents a threat to run out of the pocket.  Notre Dame only aver­ages 157 yards a game passing -less than its running output. Holiday has completed just 44.6 percent of his passes, while Dillingham has thrown only six passes all season. They have only two interceptions in 89 attempts, however.  

Teevens had some rough years in his last head coaching role at Tulane. He brought the Fun 'n' Gun that he learned under Steve Spurrier at Florida to Stanford along with eight new offensive coaches. His overall head coaching record is 51-7 8­2.  The freshman Kyle Matter has been more efficient in his three games, but Lewis is the starter. Lewis has thrown five interceptions and three touchdowns in two games, and has a 48.8 completion percentage ..  Stanford has held its opponents to under 100 rushings yards a game this season. Middle linebacker Jake Covault leads the team in tack­les with 16 through three games. The team has eight players with 10 or more tackles.  Last week Arizona State quarterback Andrew Walter threw for five touchdowns and 421 yards against the Cardinal defense in his first start. Stanford has allowed 286 passing yards per game to its opponents.  
Stanford'.s pass d~fense is weak. If there1is a team for' Dillin ,, to bethro-wn Stanf · aui . s  
Both coashes are)!hJheir first years with a''new team, b .·· · · · wh '.· m Te is: go taL  Holiday's health may be an issue. No• matter which quarterback r.ts foreHpcr team,has rk ······ · alJ;ia r Di1Ilin 1[ Matter has better stats lhan Lewis, but Lewis L<; the starter for the Cardinal.  Both Irish tailbacks aver­age four yards per carry, as the Notre Dame run­hp:s im verl t f defense is against the run. This should provide a solid matchup of strengh against strength.  


Saturday will feature a classic matchup Stanford will be hungry against the undefeated between a passing offense that has trou­Irish. The Cardinal has upset Notre Dame two ble moving the ball versus a passing of the last three times they have faced a top-10 defense lhat loves lo give up yards. While Irish team. Notre Dame will need to get pres­the game will be surrounded by emotions sure on Lewis, or Johnson will hurt the shorter on both sides, the Irish shouldn't have Irish defensive backs all day. There will be a too much trouble staying undefeated lot of emotion on the field Saturday, but emo­regardless of Holiday's status. tion doesn't win games. Talent docs. 
Andrew Soukup 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 assistant managing editor Stanford 17 Stanford 14 




Friday, Octoher 4, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Stanford Cardinal
) HEAD Record: 1-2 AP: not ranked 
CARDINAL RUSHING 
Stanford uses a corps of talented backs. Fullback Casey Moore has aver­aged eight yards on 30 carries. while freshman Kenneth Tolon has 16 carries for 126 yards and two touchdowns. There are five Cardinal backs with 10 or more carries this season. 

::::::::::::::::::::::::::;=======================.:: 
The Irish defense has allowed a meager 76.8 yards a game to oppo­nents. Hilliard and Campbell have been solid in stopping the run in the middle. In just his first two games back from injury, Watson has 19 tackles. 
The Notre Dame_!irun 
defense has b1aen o~r­powering this semfon. Stanford has.so,mf ~1­enled .runners\f,tf4 .. ;,. ywill have a di. ·· k 
of gettmipast
four ofcthe Irish 

Notre Dame has several things working in its favor -a coaching staff that knows Stanford players even if they don't know the playbook, a Stanford defense that is giving up nearly 42 points a game. and a Stanford quarterback that Duff and Walton must be dying to intercept. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35


Katie McVoy 
Stanford 17 Joe Hettler 
CARDINAL PASSING 
This should be the focus of Stanford's offense as Tcevens has brought Spurrier's Fun-n-Gun to the West Coast. The 6­f'oot-7 Johnson has 16 catches for 245 yards. Matter and Lewis have combined to throw seven interceptions in three games. 
The Irish defensive back­field has been tested already this year by Purdue's spread sets and Michigan State's Rogers. Notre Dame has seven interceptions, and the Irish defensive backs have been there all year to make the big play. 
Stanford has a special weapon in Johnson, but Lewis has thrown five 

~P -oli{ 
' tu 
wi§ ffl tfird't some bad balls_ Stanford's Ilarris could play a big role in pro­tecting Lewis. 


STANFORD 
2002 Schedule 
Sept. 7 at Boston College -L Sep. 14 SAN JOSE STATE -W Sept. 28 at Arizona State -L 
Oct. 19  ARIZONA  
Oct. 26  at UCLA  
Nov.2  at Oregon  
Nov.9  USC  
Nov. 16  OREGON STATE  
Nov. 23  at California  

INTANGIBLES 
The Irish are 4-0 and coming off a bye week. 
z

They've had time to heal 
0

and settle down to Earth 
-I

::aafter the dramatic win 
over Michigan State. 
'" 

Seven of Notre Dame's 
C 

coa_ches will be going 
> 

against their former 
3: 

players from Stanford 
'" 
Saturday. 

Stanford has nothing to lose in this game. The Cardinal is 1-2 and an 
tn

underdog. Many Stanford players played 
i! 
z

for Willingham and his 
.,,

assistants and would 
0 

like nothing• more than 
::a 
C

to gain some respect 
from their old coach with an upset victory. 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
Setta has looked more and more human in recent weeks, missing five of 12 field goal attempts. Hildbold missed some punts two weeks ago with an opportunity to pin the Spartans deep. Duff, Battle and Walton are always dangerous returning kicks. 
Stanford kicker Michael Sgroi is 3-for-3 on field goal attempts, with two over 40 yards. Eric Johnson averages a solid 
40.2 yards per punt. Stanford averages only 
13.9 yards per kick return, but 12.5 yards on punts. 
Duff adds that factor of fear in the 01,i'n.qs of 
The Cardin edge here.. smarting embarras Arizona$ and loo • undefeat' Dame m 
stagnant,. bye wee~ 

Even if Holiday is unable to play, the Irish offense will put points on the board against the Stanford team that allowed 65 points to Arfzona State last week. The defense needs to key in on the Cardinal rushing game, which leads the Pac-10 in rush yards per game. Look for tho Irish to easily beat Willingham's former team. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 
Coaches: not ranked 
Buddy Teevens first season at Stanford career record: 
51-78-2 
at Stanford: 
l-2 

Teevens

against Notre 
head coach

Dame: 0-0 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
2  Stanley Wilson  CB  6-0  184  so  
3  Caleb Bowman  WR  6-1  185  SR  
4  Ryan Wells  FL  6-0  195  SR  
5  Teyo Johnson  WR  6-7  240  so  
6  Luke Powell  FL  5--8  175  JR  
7  Justin McCullum  FL  6-4  215  FR  
8  Kerry Carter  RB  6-2  235  SR  
9  Chijioke Asomugha  CB  5-11  190  SR  
10  Chris Lewis  QB  6-3  215  JR  
11  Kyle Matter  QB  6-3  205  FR  
12  Trent lldwards  QB  6-4  194  FR  
13  David Lofton  QB  6-4  200  FR  
14  Ryan Eklund  Qll  6-7  215  so  
15  Michael Sgroi  PK  5-11  200  FR  
17  Jared Newberry  MLB  6-3  235  so  
18  Amon Gordon  DE  6-3  275  so  
19  Eran Landry  Fll  6-3  237  JR  
20  Colin Branch  FS  6-0  207  SR  
21  Oshiomogho Atogwe CB  5--11  190  so  
22  Nick Salvas  CB  5--10  180  FR  
22  Evan Combs  WR  5--9  176  SR  
23  Greg Camarillo  WR  6-2  195  so  
24  Trevor Hooper  FS  6-1  190  FR  
25  Calvin Armstrong  CB  6-1  195  FR  
26  Kenneth Tolon  RB  6-1  190  so  
27  Jim Johnson  ss  5-11  190  JR  
28  J.R Lemon  RB  6-1  213  FR  
29  Leigh Torrence  CB  6-0  177  so  
30  Brandon Royster  WR  6-0  205  so  
31  Gary Cobb  CB  5--11  188  SR  
32  Justin Faust  RB  6-0  220  JR  
33  Casey Moore  FB  6-2  250  SR  
34  Marcus McCutcheon  CB  6-0  180  FR  
35  T.J. Rushing  CB  5--10  170  FR  
36  Pat Jacobs  FB  6-2  236  JR  
37  Jon Alston  lLB  6-1  210  FR  
38  Jake Covault  MLB  6-3  230  JR  
39  Eric Johnson  p  5--11  187  JR  
40  Scott Giles  OLIJ  6-4  240  SR  
41  Cooper Blackhurst  FB  6-4  245  JR  
41  Bryan Bentrott  FS  6-1  180  FR  
42  Michael Craven '  OLB  6-1  215  FR  
43  Jason White  FS  6-0  192  SR  
44  Brian Brant  OLB  6-3  235  JR  
45  Capp Culver  OLB  6-2  222  FR  
46  TimiWusu  FS  6-3  195  FR  
46  Travis James  PK  5--10  180  SR  
47  Kevin Schimmelmann FS  6-3  215  FR  
48  David Bergeron  OLB  6-4  245  so  
49  Gerald Cornmissiong  SS  6-0  201  FR  
54  Brian Gaffney  MLB  6-2  233  JR  
56  Taualai Fonotil  LB  6-2  245  FR  
58  MikvSilva  LB  6-3  220  FR  
59  Kris Bonifas  MLB  6-1  230  FR  
60  Ian Shelswell  NT  6-4  320  JR  
62  Tim Mattran  OL  6-5  292  FR  
63  Mike Sullivan  OT  6-7  310  JR  
64  Andy Clavin  C  6-2  265  so  
65  Josiah Vinson ·  OL  6-4  310  FR  
66  Edmund O'Neill Ill  or  6-5  290  JR  
67  Kirk Chambers  OT  6-7  307  JR  
68  Ismael Simpson  OL  6-5  300  FR  
69  Greg Schindler  0G  6-5  317  SR  
70  Jeff Edwards  OL  6-7  265  FR  
71  Brian Head  C/OG  6-4  290  FR  
72  Dustin Stimson  0G  6-3  305  JR  
73  Tom Kolich  C  6-6  295  SR  
74  David Beall  OL  6-5  300  FR  
75  Matt McClea'n-.an  OL  6-6  260  FR  
76  Paul Weinacht  0G  6-5  295  SR  
77  Kwame Harris  OT  6-7  308  JR  
78  Jon Cochran  OL  6-6  290  FR  
79  Craig Albrecht  NT  6-4  294  SR  
80  Nick Sebes  WR  5-11  175  so  
81  . Alex Smith  TE  6-5  245  so  
82  Grant Mason  FL  6-0  190  FR  
83  Dan Knickerbocker  WR  6-2  170  FR  
84  Chris Ryan!  WR  6-1  180  FR  
85  WillSvitek  DE  6-7  270  so  
86  Gerren Crochet  WR  6-1  160  FR  
87  Matt Traverso  TE  6-6  245  FR  
88  Brett Pierce  TE  6-6  248  JR  
89  Jay Goff  p  6-3  200  JR  
90  Louis Hobson  DE  6-3  255  JR  
91  Michael Lovelady  DE  6-5  255  FR  
92  Casey Carroll  or  6-3  275  FR  
93  Trey Freeman  NT  6-3  295  SR  
94  Julian Jenkins  DE  6-4  240  FR  
95  Drew Caylor  DE  6-6  270  JR  
96  Babatunde Oshinowo NT  6-2  308  FR  
97  Chris Gaines  DE  6-1  250  FR  
98  Scott Scharff  or  6-5  260  so  
99  Matt I,eonard  DT  6-4  299  SR  



associate sports editor associate sports editor Stanford 10 



---·--. ---··-------------------------, 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 4, 2002 
KEY MATCHUP

Sizing up the Irish and the Cardinal 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA Wourn LIKE TO WELCOME BACK S100ENTS FROM SAN FRANCISCO & W1snEs THEM ALL THE BEST FDR A GREAT 2002 -2003 ScnooL YEAR STEPHEN ANDRES JUSTIN FULLER ASHLEY LITTLEFIEND CATHERINE SIGLER FRANCISCO ARAGON GREGORY GESSNER WHITNEY MARCH ERIN SJOSTROM KATHRYN AVESON CASSANDRA GOMEZ DAVID MARCHIANAO ELIZABETH SPECHT ELIZABETH AYALA KRISTIN GRAHAM BIANCA MARTINEZ LUKE STANTON DANIEL BAK KENDALL HANNON JUSTIN MARX ]AMES THOMPSON JUSTIN BALLEK Toon HARPER MATTHEW' MARX KERGER TRUESDELL CHRIS BANNISTER ELIZABETH HARTMANN MICHAEL McCARTHY RAYANNE TRUESDELL RYAN BANNISTER THOMAS HAYES JENNIFER MoLIDOR BENJAMIN TscHANN !CRISTINE BOHLING PATRICK HEALY ANA MORALES SALLY VANCE-TREMBATH JILL BunNY BENJAMIN HOLBROOK AUSTIN MUNN HOLLY VANDE WALL STEFAN CAMPBELL LANCE HOLDS-WORTH MARITA MURPHY CATHERINE WHARTON DANIEL CAREY JENNIFER HUGHES ANDREW-NELSON ]OHN WITEK MEGHAN COLGAN MATTHEW-HuM SH.AWN NE-W-BURG ]OHN WOJCIK BRIAN COUGHLAN DOUGLAS ILER MICHAEL O'CONNOR STEPHANIE YAHN MARK COUGHLAN GREGORY KROUSE U.KACHI OKORONKWO ]AKE ZARAH JOHN ERDOS KRISTIN KROUSE KRISTIN PENE LINDSAY ZIKA ANGELA FAULCONER AioAs KuoLAs ASHLEY PERT BRIAN FORD CHRISTOPHER LAGOS MIRIAM RAINBIRD GAVIN FosTER DER.EK LA.NORI KEITH RA.UENBUEHLER JENNIFER FRISELLA EUNICE LEE GRISEL Ruiz ELIZABETH FRUZYNSKI CAITLIN LEIVA MICHAEL SAVINO -www.sfnd.org ­ 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE AVERAGE PER GAME 
STANFORD"~ DEFENSE 

total yards gained total yards allowed 


rushing yards gained 
roHlii-hibl~?J

rushing yards allowed STANFORD . 95.7 passing yards gained 
157 _passing yards allowed 286 k~ck return yards gained ~~•tm••-74 " 
kick return yards allowed .·· 110.7 1 punt return yards gained ~1(•11di:tt~ 51.8 
punt return yards --· -• . 20 yards per punt 
r[Qli..•--41

punts blocked STANFORD 0 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 


yards penalized 
~it•iiiJ••t411. 53

yards penalized OPPONENTS -·-_ -_--_-----_-49.5 
points scored 
23 points allowed 41.71 
STANFORD'S OFFENSE 
vs 

NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

187.3

-----~ 
NOTRE DAME 76.8 
~STANFORDI~
it•iidi•M i~.s 
\STANFORD-·•-~ 
~lt•udi•ffilf~_3_ ___. 

§1:ANfPRO 40.2 
NOTRE DAME 0 



38 
NOTRE DAME 14.2 
NOTRE DAME STANFORD WR 
CORNERBACKS TEVO JOHNSON 

Stanford wide receiver Tcyo Johnson stands 6-foot-7 and has a significant height advan­tage over Irish corners Shane Walton and Vontez Duff. Stanford could move the baJI aJI afternoon taking advantage of Johnson's size. 
Duff, Walton and the Irish defense must find a way to neutralize Johnson. If Lewis can't throw to him at will, the Stanford offense will have a long day. 
by the numbers 
current streak of games in the Stanford-Notre Dame series won by the home team. 
6 

1992 
the las! lime Stanford won a game in Notre Dame Stadium 
number of current Irish coaches that coached at Stanford last season 
7 

-
Friday, October 4, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Defensive line puts squeeze on opponents 
By JOE HETTLER Asociate Spom Editor 
Darrell Campbell knew Notre Dame's defense was missing something last season. 
Now he knows what it was. 
"[Pressuring the quartcrbackJ is the difference between the defense of last year and the de_len~e of this )'.ear," \aITipbeli said. T.ast year 1t wasn t neces­sarily four down linemen trying to get pressure on the quarter­baek, we had multiple linemen, outside bar.kers, corners com­ing .up and blitzing from oppo­site sides. This year we went back to that 4-3 mentality, old­style, hit them in the face, get up the field and take care of our gaps and just playing NotrP Dame defense. That's been the No. 1 thing, getting back there and doing some damage to the quarterback." 
Getting to the quarterback with only a four-man rush allows the Irish defense to havc an extra man in the secondary or in the middle of the field, which puts less pressurn on the defensive backs and lineback­ers. 
Defensive lineman coach Greg Mattison believes the front four of Campbell, Cedric Hilliard, Kyle Budinscak and Ryan Roberts have successfully pres­sured opposing quarterbacks for several reasons. 
"We've got some speed finally on the edges to be able to rush the edges, but that's only good if you have a push up the middle," Mattison said. "That's what (Campbell] and [Hilliard) both have understood and now are starting to get a great push up there, and that's why we're get­ting pressure from the outside more." 
In order to stop the pass, Notre Dame's lineman must first stop the other team's run­ning game. 
"The first thing you always have to do is stop the run," Mattison said. "If we don't stop the run, then it'll be a long day beca.usfl they'll bfl able to throw or run on us. So we've got to be able to stop the run, then get them in a true passing situation. Then it's_ time for us to put it in our advantage, because now we know what they're doing, and we have to be able to beat somebody one-on-one." 
All four starting llirnmen have made key plays in Notre Dame's first four victories this season. As a unit against Maryland, thev combined for four tackles for· a loss, including a sack. Hilliard recorded two sacks, blocked a field goal and forced a fumble against Michigan, while Hoberts had two sacks and sh tackles versus Michigan State. The line has lrnlped make Notre Dame's defense rank sixth among Division I teams in rushing yards allowed, holding opponents to 76. 75 yards per game. The Irish are also ranked 14th in the country in total defense, yielding only 276.50 yards per game. 
Mattison still sees room for improvement despite the line's success 
"[The defensive linemen] have a lot of pride and they know that they haven't played close to 


Irish defensive tackle Darrell Campbell makes a tackle against Purdue on Sept. 7. The senior Is an anchor of the Notre Dame defensive line that has held opponents to 76.8 rushing yards a game. 
their best game yet," Mattison got a chance." "The most important thing is said. "We have to get four guys The defensive line needs to win," Campbell said. "That's at one time playing well togeth­another solid performance if the No. 1 objective, that's our er. We've had a lot of situations they hope to stop this week's goal every week. If we do what where one or two guys played opponent Stanford. The we say we're going to do and real well and one or two guys Cardinal leads the Pac-10 con­we go out there and play hard­didn't play -as good as they ference in rushing, averaging nosed Notre Dame defense and could and we still were success­over 187 yards per game. hardnosed Notre Dame offense, ful. So if we can put four guys Campbell believes Notre then that'll happen." on the field at one time, all Dame can stop Stanford's run­doing the right thing, playing as ning game if they play to their Contact Joe Hettler at hard as they can, then we've own expectations. jhettler@nd.edu 
Johnson hopes to use size against Irish corners 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
If you had to build the perfect wide receiver, what attributes would you give him? 
You'd probably give him speed to get past defensive backs, good hands to grab anything thrown in his direc­tion, jumping ability to go up for long balls, size to stay above the shorter defenders and strength to break off cornerbacks' checks at the line. 
You're probably thinking Notre Dame already covered this guy two weeks ago against Michigan State's Charles Rogers. 
Hopefully. the Irish defensive backs got some good experience against Rogers: because there will be more of the same Saturday against Stanford wide receiver Tevo Johnson. 
"It seems Like ~verv team has those receivers," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "He's big, strong, I know the familv and I know the ath­lete. He's a tremendous football play­er. What makes him so good is his strength. And he's gong to be tough to handle. He's going to come in here and play his best football game." 
The 6-foot-7, 240-pound sophomore is Stanford's leading receiver with 16 catches for 245 vards and four touch­downs. · 
Rogers -who goes 6-foot-4 and 205 pounds -gave Notre Dame cor­nerbacks Shane Walton and Vontez Uuff troubles two weeks ago, grabbing seven receptions for 175 yards and two touchdowns over the shorter Irish cornerbacks. 
Johnson adds three inches and 35 pounds to Rogers' measurements. 
"l think if you look at the typical defensive back, they are under 6 feet and 200 pounds, but then you get guys that are my size and can run the same speed, it's so helpful," Johnson said. "If you want to make a tough pass it's very helpful. Football is all about mismatches, and that c-an be one of the keys in the game." 
But Johnson isn't just a tight end playing further down the line of scrimmage. He is also an accom­plished basketball player -he's a two-sport athlete at Stanford, playing for the Cardinal basketball team as well -and he can go up for jump balls like a center grabbing a rebound. 
"What I think Teyo brings that the other guys don't bring is a body that's probably unmatched," Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham said. "When you put a 245-pound body on a guy that's 200, you've got a difference­maker there, and he knows how to do that with his basketball experience of how to just leverage his body into position to make plays.... I think they do a great job of just putting him in position for jump balls just to have an opportunity to do that, because he does it so well." 
Duff and Walton !mid Rogers rela­tivel.ty quiet for three quarters two weeks ago, but when the Spartan wide receiver got single coverage, he caused trouble for the Irish. 
Johnson knows how Lalented the Irish defensive backs are, but he will be looking for that opportunity to use his height as an advantage and make the game-breaking play. 
"It's going to be physkal out on the perimeter," Johnson said. "[Duff and Walton] are both very good athletes. They can cover well and cover the deep ball well. We're just going to try to go out there and do what we do. If l can just be one-on-one· and physical with their defensive backs, I think it will be good for me." 
ContactChris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


Notre Dame vs. Stanford 

C-M 
Campus Ministry · 

, 
' 
oss~RVER 
Friday, October 4, 2002 

Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come-together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
• 

Stanford Football Weekend 
. 

October 5-6, 2002 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica _30 minutes after game -Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
. . 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:30, 8:00, 9:30 & 11:00 am 
'•'• •. •111, ... ·,•.~ ~•••••r•.,,.•.,.•~-•~•:.•,, .• 
0 
• ,_,' ~ •-~ ~,I_, 1 • -• , ..• -• • " ' ~ • • • • • _ j_ • I ., I • • • ' 










