

George
Friday, August 30, 2002 
Clinton

brings onda funk 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO. 4 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
ND letter responds to Catholic pri_est scandal 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
Throughout the spring and summer, as Americans tuned into watch the late-night news, they were informed of accusa­tions and cover-ups of priests sexually abusing minors. 
Following t h e s c reports, they were 
given the Mooney opportuni­ty to laugh at the Catholic Church as ]ate-night comedy used these scandals of a minority of priests to seemingly stigmatize the entire clergy. As this was unfolding, the American Catholic Church was in a serious state as members of the laity were developing a mistrust for the Church that they looked towards for guid­ance. As a result, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops 
decided to address these issues at its annual June conference in Dallas. What many are not aware of is that as these accu­sations were unfolding in the press, University President Father Edward Malloy had called for the formation of a Church Study Committee. 
The committee compiled a 13-page document entitled the "Challenges and Opportunities Arising from the Current Crisis." The committee chaired by Carol Mooney, law professor and vice president and associ­ate provost, included the fol­lowing members: Scott Appleby, John Borkowski, John Cavadini, Father John Jenkins, 
M. Cathleen Kaveny, Dennis Moore, Patricia O'Hara, Father Mark Poorman, Robert Schmuhl, and Father Richard Warner. 
In mid-March, the committee met with a lawyer, psychologist and journalist in order to get different perspectives. 
"The consultations helped our ideas to gel," said Mooney. 
According to Mooney, although this was an unusual step for members of the Notre 
Dame community to take, there had been discussions by Malloy's office, and bishops had responded that they would be receptive to input. 
Letter full of questions 
The extended letter was sent to the bishops on May 22 and during the June conference, Appleby was invited as a guest speaker, where he reiterated part of the proposals from the letter. 
The letter opened with a tes­timonial of belief in the Church, which was followed by questions directed towards priests and bishops. "How, then, can a priest, who partici­pated by grace of ordination in the priesthood of Christ, possi­bly subject a child to sexual abuse and the physical and psychological harm that comes in its wake? ... How, then, can a bishop, who is called to be a shepherd to Christ's flock, pos­sibly allow such abuse to con­tinue without protest -or what is worse, to transfer an offend­er to a situation where he has access to a new group of unsuspecting victims." 
The letter noted "there is no single measure which, if taken, will restore the Church's prac­tices and reputation to a state of wholeness." This is because of the complexity of the prob­lem and the variances between the particulars of each case and the manner in which indi­vidual cases were and will be handled. 
In addition, the letter states that a single measure will be effective because of the lack of uniformity in the organization between the different branches and dioceses and their inde­pendence. 
Restoring trust and bolster­ing the confidence of the laity, especially the youth, is essen­tial according to the document. Suggestions for accomplishing this included a listening session (where statements from victims would be heard at the confer­ence), victim outreach, a National Day of Penance and Hope and study/discussion packets. 
The committee strongly sug­gested the adoption of an inter­im national policy that would err .on the side of protecting the youth, which would be open to review and improve­ments. This policy would include consultation from members of the clergy and laity and non-Catholics and would require the bishop to hear each victim's complaint. A National Policy Review Board would be established to facilitate the pol­icy. The letter also suggests that bishops who decline to "follow the recommendation of the board should be required to provide a written statement of his reasons for doing so to the board." 
The addition of iaity is pre­sumably to ensure that the vic­tims are heard and to dispel the pattern of covering up accusations. 
According to the letter, "the consequence of sexual miscon­duct with a minor child now or in the future should be immedi­ate lacization following the provision of appropriate treat­ment." 
The letter also states that it would be irresponsible to remove a priest from the 
see LETTER/page 8 
SaintMary's passesIX)E inspections 
By SARAH NESTOR Saint Mary's News Editor 
More than a year after Sarah Alter, with the support of the Security on Campus organiza­tion, filed charges with the Department of Education claiming that Saint Mary's mis­represented its sexual assault statistics, the DOE has said the College complies with report­ing procedures. 
The DOE determined that the College "has not substan­tively misrepresented the crime statistics" and "the College's current overall inter­est and efforts in the area of campus safety were impres­sive." 
The complaint filed against Saint Mary's on May 13, 2001, alleged that Saint Mary's secu­rity was not in compliance with the Jeanne Clery Act, which requires that crime sta­tistics be updated yearly and students be educated about sexual assault and saft.)ty. 
Alter reported an assault to campus security in 1999. When the crime statistics came out in the fall of 2000, Alter found there was a zero under the 1999 forcible rape statis­tics. This was the basis of her complaint with DOE. 
"The thing they had found technically were things we had already been in the process of 
see DOE/page 6 


Many issues factor into off-campus moves 
By JIM GAFFEY News Wrirer 
More than 20 percent of the Notre Dame student body and half the senior class will call South Bend, and not the Notre Dame campus, home this semes­ter. 
The move has increased migra­tion off campus in recent years and has administrators con­cerned. 
Scott Kachmarik, associate director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing, thinks the trend is fueling a gradual loss of an important aspect of the Notre Dame experience. 
"When alumni meet, the first thing they ask each other is what dorm they lived in," he said. "At Notre Dame we are very fortu­nate and blessed to have our upperclass students a.'i role mod­els. The movement of seniors off campus hurt.'i the sense of com­munity on campus. We lose some valued community members." 
But Kachmarik also notes that the high number ofstudent<; mov­ing off campus alleviates a des­perate space crunch in the dorms. 
"We are over 100 percent capacity in the dorms," he said. "I need 1200-1300 people each year living off-campus," Kachmarik said, adding that 25 students are on a waiting list to get into dorm rooms. 
For some, the choice to live off­campus was based on financial considerations. Senior Ben Rickie, for example, said he moved off campus, "No. 1, for the money, and No. 2, for the freedom." 
Kachmarik cautions students against this line of thinking. "While it's true that in a limited number of cases it is possible to live m<JTe cheaply off campus," he said. "When you add it all up, the cost L'in't that big ofan issue." 
Another consideration for many moving off campus is the opportunity for co-ed housing. Kyle Fager, a senior English major. thinks a co-ed living arrangement would be beneficial. 
"I think living with the opposite sex brings things to the table that you would not otherwise think about," he said. "Living with women offers a different perspec­tive that a guy wouldn't have." 
Increased independence is one of the primary motives upper­cla.<,smen mention for moving off campus. "Throughout high school, I had a parent watching over me, punishing me for doing irresponsible things," Fager said. "It wa.'i the same feeling at Notre Dame [before I moved ofll." 
Mike Brown, a senior finance major, said living on-campus was too restrictive for the things he enjoyed doing. 
"Parietals didn't exactly figure into my decision to move off cam­pus," Brown said, "but it figures into the increased indepen­dence.'' 
Relatively few students, howev­er, directly blame the new alcohol policy as a motive for moving off campus. The Office of Residence Life and Housing reports that only 38 students took up their offer to refund housing contract deposits for those students who chose to live off campus as a result of the new alcohol policy. Although senior Jesse Hensley was not plea.-,ed with the intro­duction of the new policy, he had 
.• •..• •. ... ­
.. -...-. -: -. ­

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 
Kris Payovich and Patrick Dunnigan wash dishes together in their house on St. Peter's Street. They moved off campus with three other girls to have more freedom and responsibility. 
already made the decision to move otf-can1pus beforehand. 
Increased social opportunities also wPigh into the decisions to move out of' the dorms. Senior Matt Wilkerson, a former Knott fJail resident, cited the fact that there are only a limited number of people living in the same dorm and many more social evenl'> off­carnpus. And, Wilkerson said, "A nice perk is not eating dining hall 

see MOVE/page 4 
Friday, August 30, 2002
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
WHAT'S INSIDE
INSIDE COLUMN 
SYR in a tent? 
I'm sure that years from now when I look back on my time at Notre Dame, I'll always have a special place in my heart for that SYR at the Rock. There's nothing quite like dancing the night away in a non-air-conditioned gym scented with Andrew Thagard the sweat of past workouts and bas­ketball games. Assistant 
The scary part is News Editor that this may not be far from the truth. 
In case you've literally been living under the Rock, University officiaJs insti­tuted sweeping changes to the alcohol policy last spring. Although the new rules now permit student-hosted tailgates, offi­cials forbade "hard" alcohol on campus and in-hall SYR dances. 
Since that declaration, the University has published a list of alternate campus venues to host the popular dorm event. You've got to give the University credit. They may have instituted a draconian policy but they're determined not to kill the campus social scene . . . at least not just yet. 
In all seriousness. there are several decent locations on the list. Dorms have already hosted successful on-campus for­mals at Alumni Senior Club and the LaFortune Ballroom. 
And some of the locations, like the Main Building rotunda and the Warren GolfOub House, sound pretty cool. 
But quite a few seem to be a stretch. The Morris Inn outdoor tent? That should be fun come February. 
Stepan Center? The building's held together by duct tape, for God's sake. I'm already praying Hail Mary's so the thing doesn't collapse when I take my exams there. And that's in complete silence. I . can't even imagine cramming a couple of hundred people under there with move­ment and loud music. 
Or how about the first floor of Hesburgh library? One incident of an intoxicated student puking on a book or computer and that location gets crossed off the list real quick. 
Officials also list the DeBartolo 134 Lounge, Grace Hall basement and the Knights of Columbus building as potential locations. Those places sound great if you're a relatively small dorm like Bailin or Howard and then half the residents don't bother to show up. However, ifyour dorm plans to have more than six cou­ples attend, you better think twice before. reserving those venues. 
I can think of a few more locations for the administration to put on their list. They skipped right over the water tower and power plant. Let's not forget the guard gates. Combined they may have more square footage than the Notre Dame Room at LaFortune -which is on the list, incidently. 
I'm not wasting my time arguing for University officials to renege on the alco­hol policy. I've already gotten that e-mail. All I ask is for an ounce of respect. In their fervor to find SYR locations, officials have slipped in some crazy options. 
It's fine to require dorms to have their dances outside the hall, but don't insult our intelligence by offering locations that are both impractical and downright crap­py. 
By the way, I went ahead and reserved the Port-o-Johns outside the Joyce Center for the next Board of Trustees meeting. You may want to add that to the list as 
well. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, howe-ver, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT
NEWS 
Off-campus to resume 
Boeing refuses 
living may be negotiations 
dangerous 
The Observer tors ask the Boeing 
Federal media­
editorial examines to extend the con­
the problems with tract, but Boeing 
living life outside would not comply. 
of the protective­bubble on campus. 
page 10page 7 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Volleyball Shamrock Invitational at Joyce Center 
4:30 p.m. game -Cincinnati vs. University of \Visconsin, Milwaukee 
7 p.m. game -ND vs. University of \Visconsin, Milwaukee 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Exhibition of SISTAH Grant Project (Sandi Ginter and Lisa Hitter) in the exterior of Moreau Center for the Arts 

. 
C\VIL Diversity \Vorkshop Luncheon-discussion and dialogue with Dr. Kendall 12:00 noon, Ilaggar Parlor. 


WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Injury requires hospital care 
NDSP transported a student from Keenan Quad to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury early Thursday evening. The cause of the accident was not includ­ed in the report. 

Harassing messages left 
On Aug. 28, a victim reported receiving a harassing telephone message on her answering machine at an off-campus loca­tion. 

Property lost off campus 
Two victims reported losing their University Kontrol Kards at off­campus locations Thursday morn­ing. 


Palm Pilot reported missing 
NPSP received a report of a palm pilot being taken from the victim's room in Breen-Phillips Hall between Aug. 10 and Aug. 18. There are no suspects. The case is open and pend­ing. 

CAMPUS NEWS 
Police provide tips for home security 
South Bend police and local property owners collaborate to help off-campus students avoid becoming victims of burglary and other crime. 
page 4 
WORLD& NATION 
Skakel gets 20 years to life in prison 
A judge sen­tenced Michael Skakel to prison for murdering his neighbor with a golf club in 1975. 
page 5 
SCENE SPORTS 

Notre Dame at
Concert at ND 
Maryland
gets campus 
funked up 
Notre Dame
George Clinton 
begins its 2002 foot­
with P-Funk, Better 
ball season against
than Ezra and The 
Maryland at the
Green Room get 
Kickoff Classic in
ready to rock at 
East Rutherford,
Joyce Center. 
N. J., Saturday. 
page 12-13 

Insider 

Cars collide in parking lot 
NDSP responded to a two-car acci­dent in the Student South Stadium parking lot. 

2 trespassers arrested 
A 20-year-old and a 19•year-old were arrested by NDSP for trespass­ing on University property. 

Traffic violations cited 
NDSP issued four separate state citations for seat belt violations Thursday afternoon on Douglas and Edison roads. Two more state cita­tion were issued later in the day for missing tail lights and exceeding the posted speed limit on Edison Road. 
Information compiled from the Notre Dame Security/Police blotter. 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Dinner: Boiled Thin Spaghetti, Boiled Shells, Boiled Mostaccioli, Boiled Tri-Color Rotini, Boiled Linguine, Boiled Fettuccini, Pastaria Meat Sauce, Spaghetti Sauce, Alfredo Sauce, Meatball with Sauce, Baked Cheese Ravioli, Pesto Sauce, Pepperoni Pizza, Cheese Pizza, Vegetable Pizza, Pretzel Sticks, Mexican Beef Pizza, Whipped Potatoes, Cut Corn, Brown Sauce, Turkey Gravy, Plain Rice, Baked Potato, Broccoli Cuts, Baby Carrots, Frozen Cut Green Beans, Roasted Vegetables, Macaroni & Cheese, Cauliflower, BBQ Chicken, Grilled Tuna with Lemon, Turkey Breast, Bread Stuffing, Long Grain & Wild Rice, Hamburger, Grilled Hotdog, Chicken Patty, Grilled Cheese on White, Natures Burger, Reuben Sandwich, Seasoned Fries, Onion Rings, Grilled Chicken, Chinese Noodles, SDH Oriental Noodles, Vegetable Eggrolls, Chinese Steamed Rice, Fried Rice, Oriental Vegetables, Cantonese BBQ Pork, Chicken Taco, Taco Meat, Spanish Rice, SDH Mexican Bar, Arroz con Pollo 
Saturday's Lunch: Turkey Tetrazzini, Mushroom Marinara, Spinach Cheese Tortellini, Pizza, Garden Quiche, Beef Tips with Mushrooms, Roast Top Sirloin, Italian Chicken Sandwich, Szechuan Chicken Stir-Fry, Chicken Enchilada 




WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Dinner: Tomato Soup, Chicken and Dumplings, Meatballs with Sauce, Buffalo Chicken Lasagna, Roasted Turkey Breast. Bread Stuffing, Peas, Cherry Crisp, Chinese Noodles, Broccoli and Tofu, Tuna Casserole, Potato Pancakes, Applesauce, Baked Sweet Potato, Spinach, BBQ, Rib Sandwich 
Saturday's Lunch: Chicken Chowder, Tomato Soup, Chicken Fajita Pizza, Fried Cheese Ravioli, Mushroom Stroganoff, Kluski Noodles, Green Beans, Apple Cobbler, Gyro, Sausage Links, Blueberry Pancakes, Scrambled Eggs, Tater Tots, California Vegetable Blend 
SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 

$ • 
HIGH 81 HIGH 81 HIGH 82 HIGH 77 LOW 64 LOW 66 LOW 67 LOW 64 

TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
LI.I 
::c 
ti 
LI.I 
== 
..J ct CJ 0 


HIGH 81 HIGH 79
..J 

LOW 60 LOW 60 
Atlanta 82 / 71 Boston 70 / ~2 Chicago 81 / ~4 Denver 87 / 59 Houston 92 / 71 Los Angeles 80 / 62 Minneapolis 81 / 66 New York 75 / 67 Philadelphia 78 / 70 Phoenix 106 / 82 Seattle 75 / 55 St. Louis 86 / 67 Tampa 86/ 74 Washington 75/ 71 


SMC will open lot 

for seniors 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
Age can have its pnv1­
leges, as seniors at Saint 
Mary's will soon learn when 
a parking lot across from 
the Angela Athletic Facility 
constructed specifically for 
seniors opens. 
Senior class Vice 
President Candace 
McElligott attributes the 
idea's origin to her oppos­
ing candidates. 
"Originally, it was on the 
Prezioso-Harms ticket when 
they were running for office 
last spring," she said. "At 
"Meet the Candidates" the 
speaker asked us. 'What 
would you want to do if you 
win that's on somebody 
else's platform right now,' 
and we had said we would 
like to implement the senior 
parking because we thought 
that was a really good 
idea." 
Surveys distributed to the senior class were inundated with inquiries regarding senior parking. McElligott and Senior class President Rachel Finley communicat­ed the students' desire for reserved parking and col­laborated with their senior board members and the administration. 
"We were happy to work with [Nicole] Prezioso because it was her ticket's idea and we were happy to sort of collaborate our ideas regarding that because the whole point of this, the whole point of student gov­ernment is to make the rest of the students happy," McElligot said. "Hopefully this is just a stepping off point in doing that." 
Their efforts resulted in 180 spaces reserved for seniors, which will be allo­cated on a first-come, first­serve basis, according to Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs. Though the institution of a student­reserved lot can be viewed as a partial victory for seniors, some wish more could have been done. Senior Anne DeCleene had hoped the lot would be more conveniently located near the residence halls. 
"It's not close enough. But I really shouldn't complain because I went to a state school and had to park a mile away from my resi­dence hall," said DeCleene. 
McElligott agreed the lot's location is not the most favorable, but appreciated the efforts made by the administration. Those efforts include ensuring the availability of spots for seniors. 
"Non-seniors will be tick­eted for parking in the lot. It will be considered a restricted lot, a perk for being a senior," said Timm. 
The lot will be open by the end of next week as soon as installation of light poles and emergency phones is complete. 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6504@saintmarys.edu 
----------~---­

Friday, August 30, 2002 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
OIT upgrades boost student resources 
ByJUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame's Office of Information Technologies made a series of changes over the summer to designed to increase efficiency a c r o s s OIT Upgrades campus. 
. Internet Explorer
A new change 5.5 SP2 upgraded to imple­
6.0 

mented 
. FileMaker Pro 5.0
this year helped upgraded to 5.5 many 
. Microsoft
students configure Publisher 2000 t h e i r 
upgraded to XP 
comput­
. Corel Office 2000
ers for the Notre upgraded to Dame 
network. WordPerfect Office Res Net 2002 installa­tions were performed in each of 
the dorms for incoming fresh­men and other students at the beginning of the semester. 
Also, instead of the previous system of a resident computer consultant living in and han­dling computer problems within a particular dorm, OIT will dis­patch technical support from a centralized location to improve efficiency. Now, students do not have to wait for a single person, who might be backlogged with work, to trouble shoot a prob­lem. 
For the first time, new stu­dents, faculty and staff will be required to read and take a short online quiz. This exercise pertains to the Responsible Use of Information Technologies at Notre Dame. Only after complet­ing the quiz will new members of the University receive their AFS password, certifying that they will comply with the rules for using Notre Dame's net­work. 
In the basement of DeBartolo, 
\' 
' ~ 
i,. 
' 
the Multimedia Service Center will now provide CD/DVD dupli­cation, offer printing services and take passport photos. 
Computers on campus have been given Windows XP upgrades and Macintosh com­puters were given memory upgrades. 
Flat panel monitors were installed in large clusters and classrooms and a new system is in place to allow laptop support for classrooms. With this f unc­tion, professors can readily use their laptops to do Power Point presentations and work with other programs without the unplugging the computers pro­vided in the classrooms to use their laptops. 
Because of the XP upgrade in the computer clusters, printing from these stations has changed slightly from previous years. The new operating system required a modern Windows domain to be added to the cam­pus network. However, the print release stations run on an old NT domain that is not connected to the new Windows domain. So for the first few weeks of school, while the problem is being fixed, students using the print­ers will not have to "release" their print jobs in the clusters for the first few weeks of school. 

This system might be a hassle for some students in large clus­ters where printers are scat­tered and cannot direct their print job to a specific machine. 
"We are working around the clock to develop a fix for this problem and expect it to be back to normal soon," said Shiree Moreland, director of Education and Communication. "Our goal is to provide better service to students. We are anx­ious to get student input into how we can improve our sys­tems." 
Contact Justin Krivickas at 
jkrivick@nd.edu 

Welcome to Notre Dame. Your life just went from O to 90. 
.·, ·,,. '"•'"r:!11) .,.... 
it ~~: r_,.,~· 

) DIGITAL WALKIE-TALKIE ) SPEAKERPHONE ) WIRELESS WED ACCESS
Ulil ' I 
) AOL11 INSTANT MESSENGER'" service
Welcome To 
) TWO·WAV MESSAGING ) JAVA'" GAMES le APPLICATIONS ) DIGITAL CELLULAR 
NEXTEL, 
i'10c 
Wh<'\tevev-t-wists C\\\eA \-1.\YII\S cone.Be Hwcws "'t ycl.\ -ycl.\ CC\\\ eA.e"'-1. All\eA Ne,<te1 CAIi\ help. We've Bot the 11\ewest phc\\es, coolest .PeA½-1.\ves All\eA Sweetest­v-Ate ple"l\\S ycl.\ \\eeeA .Pcv the v-i.Ae o.P yol.\v-li.Pe. Yol.\1ve v-ee"l.Ay-Bv-i"'~ H-. 
Now's "' ,v-e"'t H""'e ¼-o -'e¼-Ne,c:tel: 
"'n Nohe D""""'e s+-v..Ae\.\½ """.A fc::i\Ye\.\½ 
t() ~/-r ~ ~ . . l 8e¼-"' . / • .:: ..t:-.; Col-\t1.r ""' "'"y v"'te 
pl"'"' "'"'.A ·i; lO O ~ of-P "'"Y pl-\o\.\e. 
10 t>l.\y: 
, ~o to \\e,ctel.co~v-i.sh-st".Ae\\t. , C<'\n toll--Pvee 1-877-sc,-2 '12,. 
, visit JDt--\ Co""'""'"\\ic"'tio\\s "'t: I''3'1 lv-o\\woo~ Dvive, CSol.\i-Lii. Be\\~ 574-24'3-'38 t8 


'i~ I
:~i~:. . . -. . -7-·J -[
J·,; ~Off~r 1s vahd for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002, While supplies last. Requires new activation. one year Service Agreemeht anti 
~f!oredit approval. $200 early termination fee applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. ln"slore purchases require at least 2 forms of valid identification. Account­
: ·-: Set-up fee of $35 per phone; maximum $70 per account. Fees may vary by market:$100 instant savings is off the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point
~!of sale. 10% off monthly rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this offer. Other restrictions may apply. Rate plans are subject to taxes, fees and other ,~•charges. Current prices are subiect to change, Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 NeXlel Communications, Inc. All rights reserved. NeXlel and the NeXlel _J;'iflogo are registered trademarks of Nextel Communications, Inc.. Motorola and the Stylized M logo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Java and ,, -. all other Java-based marks are regtstered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc, AOL, AIM, Buddy List and the Triangle design are registered trademarks of America_ 
• '. ':Onffne, Inc. Instant Messenger is a trademark of America Online, Inc. . . '-i•~,'. ---·-'----L._ -----.. 
-·:
iiiii 
,. 
:l 
iiiiiiiijO 
!!!!!!!'° ­
I 
I ­
+ I 



page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 30, 2002 
Police provide tips for off-campus students 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
In light of recent crimes involving Notre Dame stu­dents, South Bend police and local off-campus property owners are teaming up to ensure that students know how to take the right safety precautions to avoid becoming victims. 
Students living in Lafayette Square Apartments and the houses of Domus Square Properties will learn about home security during upcom­ing safety meetings, South Bend Police Capt. Wanda Shock said. 
Domus Properties, which Owns about 100 houses with two to six students in each home, was the first to propose making safety information fun by going beyond passing out information door-to-door, she said. Domus' information event will occur at a September cookout. 
"We've been asking for years for some apartment owners to help us," Shock said. 
Recently, Lafayette received an abatement notice from the city of South Bend to control the nuisance to locals caused by student parties. 
"Lafayette Square has been a real problem for us," Shock said, adding that weekend keg parties have caused non-stu­dent residents to complain. 
In response to the negative attention the apartment com­plex has received, Lafayette's managing agent, Real Estate Management, has teamed with local law enforcement to address the problem. 
"Things just seemed to get out of hand in many different communities last year, and we don't want to be put in that light this year," said Tracy Clark. vice president of Real Estate Management. 
On Wednesday. Lafayette and the police will sponsor an hour-long block party starting at 6:15 p.m., where police will answer questions about law enforcement during parties and tailgating. 
"They need to do their job, and we're not going to stop them," Clark said. 
In addition, Clark said Lafayette would invite a Notre Dame administrator to attend the block party. 
"We're all on the same team here," she said. 
Clark added Lafayette and the police would not tolerate kegs "outside every door" or underage drinking. 
Shock said that alcohol con­sumption can make students a prime target for criminals. She recalled two separate incidents last year when stu­dents were so intoxicated that they couldn't remember their addresses. 
"We couldn't even take them home. We had to find out through campus security," Shock said. 
Another problem Shock cited was students throwing large parties and inviting everyone to their home. 
"It becomes an open house for criminals," Shock said. "People just come and go." 
She said many of the crimi­nals who take advantage of students are opportunists, looking for a chance to get money or valuable items from an unsuspecting and often vul­nerable student. According to Shock, many of the criminals know the students will not be able to identify them, and they might not even be around when the case goes to court. 

Since the end of July, Shock said there have been three burglaries to student homes, which happens when a crimi­nal steals while the residents are either not around or not aware of the criminal's pres­ence. 
More recently, around mid­night on Sunday, three Notre Dame students were robbed at gunpoint after parking a car near Corby Street. 
In order to avoid future crimes, Shock suggested the following: 
. 
Be aware that crime hap­pens everywhere and be 

responsible for your own safe­ty. 

. 
South Bend is a safe place but be reasonable. Do not be publicly intoxicated or invite strangers into your home. 

. 
Mark property and keep track of serial numbers so the police can return stolen prop­erty to the owner. 


"It seems like common sense advice. but I guess students get a little careless when they're with other students," Shock said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 



Move 
continued from page 1 
food." 
Kachmarik thinks this transi­tion occurs. more smoothly in the first few years after college rather than during junior and senior year. 


One-Credit Courses 
offered by the Department of Theology 
in cooperation with the Office of Campus Ministry 

God 

Theo. 340M. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Brian Daley, S.J. 
Weekend: September 27-28, Friday, 4:00-10:00 p.m. & Saturday, 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center, Room 103 

At Papa Vino's8 1talian Kitchen you'll enjoy generous portions of Italian entrees and 
pastas like: 
• 
Chicken Parmesan 

• 
Shrimp Farfalle 

• 
Veal Marsala~ 

• 
Salmone alla Griglia 

• 
Chicken Scallopini 

• 
Shrimp & Scallop Scampi ~ 


And remember. Papa recommends you complement your meal with our delicious appetizers. desserts and wines. Magnifico! 





~~~t;~Z,:a:-1!>-­

ALIAN KITCHEN 

MISHAWAKA 
5110 Edison Lakes Pkwy. 574-271-1692 
RESERVATIONS ACCEPTED 
HOURS: Sunday~Thursday 11 :00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. Friday-Saturday 11 :00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. 
Theo. 340J. 
1 credit. S/U 
Instructor: 
J. Matthew Ashley 
Wednesdays September 4, 11, 18, 
Many of the students who choose to live off-campus are not really prepared for the level of independence required of them, said Kachmarik. "Some students living off-campus try to have it both ways," he said. "They're still hanging out in the halls, seeing friends, trying to still be a part of campus culture." 
Kachmarik also points out that 
... 
Come To Papa For A Celebration 
Of Great Taste! 
Original Sin 

25, & Oct. 2, 9 Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:05 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center, Room 331 


Faith 
Theo. 340K. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
Mondays September 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, and Oct. 7 Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m., Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 
Prayer 
Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U 
Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 
Sundays, September 15, 22, 29, Oct. 6, 13 Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 

when living off-campus becomes a hassle, such as last October when a tornado hit the Michiana area and knocked out power for much of the region, off-campus students flocked to campus to avoid the inconvenience of power outages. 
Contact Jim Gaffey at jgaffey@nd.edu 


For further information, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-7811. Syllabi for the courses can be obtained at the Theology Dept., 130 Malloy Hall. Register through DART or go to the Registrar's office. 


Friday, August 30, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Skakel gets 20 years to life for Moxley murder 
Associated Press 
NOHWALK. Conn. 

A judge sentenced Michael Skakel to 20 years to life in prison Thursday for bludgeon­ing his teenage neighbor with a golf club in 1975 after hear­ing the Kennedy cousin tearful­ly proclaim his innocence and link his suffering to that of Jesus Christ. 
Skakel told Norwalk Superior Court Judge John F. Kavanewsky Jr. he could not apologize for' a crime he had not committed. 
"I would love to be able to say I did this crime so the Moxley family could have rest and peace, but I can't," he said, sobbing. "To do that would be a lie." 
Kavanewsky said he was imposing a substantial sen­tence on Ethel Kennedy's nephew because of the brutali­ty of the crime and because Skakel was unrepentant. 
"For the last 25 years or more ... the defendant has been living a lie about his guilt," the judge said. "This defendant has accepted no responsibility, he has expressed no personal remorse." 
Skakel, 41, was convicted in June of kiJling Martha Moxley when they were 15-year-old neighbors in wealthy Greenwich. He plans to appeal. 
Skakel, who did not testify at his trial, gave a rambling, tear­ful speech in which he said he had screamed at God to protest his fate. 
Responding to prosecutors' arguments that Skakel was rarely employed, Skakel said, "And as far as a job is con­cerned, I mean, what did Jesus Christ do? He walked around the world telling people that he loved them. Should he go to jail for that?" 
Skakel also said that when he explained to his son on Easter that he might go to prison, he said the holiday was about "God's child, and they put him in prison." 
"It sounded to me like he was trying to compare himself with someone being crucified," prosecutor Jonathan Benedict said later. Benedict had urged the court to impose a maxi­mum sentence of 25 years to life, calling the murder "cold­bloodedly evil." 
Under 1975 sentencing guidelines, Skakel will become eligible for parole on April 27, 2013. Kavanewsky rejected a defense motion to free Skakel on bond while the conviction is appealed. 
Defense lawyer Michael Sherman submitted letters from numerous supporters, including Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Ethel Kennedy. 
"Financially privileged. 
Michael was growing emotion­extraordinary generosity." ally destitute," she wrote of Sherman also noted a pre­Skakel's difficult childhood. "It sentencing report compiled by pains me that others miss his a probation officer, which sweetness, kindness, good Sherman said did not recom­cheer and love of life; his per­mend a life sentence. ceptiveness, exuberance and In a steady rain outside the courthouse, Martha's mother, Dorthy Moxley, called the sen­tence reasonable. Brother John Moxley said he was numb. 


"There's no celebration," John Moxley said. "There's no party to go to." 

Bush wants congressonial support on Iraq 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Bush administration struggled Thursday with an increasingly skeptical Congress and international community as it tried to gain support for deposing President Saddam Hussein of Iraq. 
French President Jacques Chirac said he was worried President Bush might order a unilateral attack on Iraq. And a senior Democratic senator, Patrick Leahy of Vermont called for a full debate even though Bush has yet to decide how to seek regime change in Baghdad. 
Administration officials showed no sign of being flustered. "Is this a defini­tive moment of consultation and deci­sion?" State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said. "No. But there are plenty of questions and answers around." 
"Does that surprise us?" the spokesman went on. "No." 
Vice President Dick Cheney, who has struck the most hawkish stance publicly, offered reassurances in a speech Thursday to Korean War veterans in San Antonio, Tex. 
Cheney said Bush welcomes debate at home on attacking Iraq. "I know that he will proceed cautiously and deliberately and consider all possible options to deal with the threat that Iraq ruled by Saddam Hussein represents," the vice president said. 
Chirac, in a speech in Paris to French ambassadors, said unilateral action against Iraq would be contrary to "the cooperation of states, the respect of law and the authority of the (U.N.) Security Council." 
If Iraq continued to refuse to permit unfettered inspection of its suspect weapons sites it would be up to the Council to decide on a response, Chirac said. 
Even with Congress in recess the prospect of a U.S. attack raised ques­tions and doubts. Leahy, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said "the adminis­tration should not expect to commit American troops to war with a wink and a nod to Congress." 
"There should be a full debate and a vote," he said. "That is what the Constitution prescribes, and that is what the American people expect." 
Sen. Russ Feingold, D-Wis., a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said nothing short of formal approval of an attack on Iraq would be acceptable. 
China on Wednesday joined Germany, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Turkey in urging restraint. In Japan, seeking internnational support, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage said he could not provide a "laundry list" of countries that back the United States. 
In Washington, Secretary of State Colin Powell telephoned Foreign Ministers Dominique de Villepin of France, Jack Straw of Britain, Anna Palacio of Spain and Joschka Fischer on Germany. 

WORLD News BRIEFS 
U.N. chief wants AIDS under control: Efforts to uplift the world's poor will be meaningless without a massive international campaign to fight the AIDS pandemic ravaging Africa and other developing nations, a top U.N. official said Thursday. 
The pandemic is reducing life expectancies, dev­astating families and destroying economies. accord­ing to a report UNAIDS released Thursday in an effort to emphasize how crucial the AIDS fight is to development. 
Bomb destroys Zimbabwe radio office: A bomb attack Thursday gutted the office of a radio station critical of President Robert Mugabe's government, and authorities raided a human rights group and a camp for displaced farm workers run by a private charity. 
The actions heightened tensions in Zimbabwe, where independent media outlets and opposition activists say they have been subject to attacks by ruling party militants during n_early two years of political unrest. 
NATIONAL News BRIEFS 
Poll shows free spee·ch support down: Support for the First Amendment has eroded significantly since Sept. 11 and nearly half of Americans now think the constitutional amend­ment on free speech goes too far in the rights it guarantees, says a poll released Thursday. 
The sentiment that the First Amendment goes too far was already on the rise before the ter­rorist attacks a year ago, doubling to four in 10 between 2000 and 2001. 
The poll found that 49 percent think the First Amendment goes too far. a total about 10 points higher than in 2001. 
"Many Americans view these fundamental freedoms as possible obstacles in the war on terrorism," said Ken Paulson, executive direc­tor of the First Amendment Center, based in Arlington, Va., which commissioned the survey. 
Almost half also said the media has been too aggressive in asking the government questions about the war on terrorism. 
Muslim woman convicted of menacing: A Muslim woman has been convicted of threatening sheriff's deputies during a clash on an eastern Ohio high­way just hours after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
A judge Wednesday sentenced Jamilah Ali, 38, of Baltimore, Md., to the eight days she served in jail last September and suspended the rest of a 180­day sentence after finding her guilty of aggravated menacing. 
During her trial. Ali called the officers "bullish and aggressive" and said she feared for her life. 
The deputies testified they felt threatened, too, especially when Ali screamed she was a "warrior for Allah, and at war with the U.S." 
The Council on American-Islamic Relations said Thursday it will help Jamilah Ali appeal. 
"The judge had the opportunity to correct this travesty of justice, but he chose ... to continue this charade," said Jad Humeidan, executive director of the group's Ohio chapter. 

page 6 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 30, 2002 
New South Bend skate park hopes to attract students 
By JOHN FANNING News Writer 
Student skaters' and rollerbladers' prayers for an area skating park have been answered. 
South Bend Parks and Recreation recently opened the O'Brien Skate Park on Michigan Street just north of the bypass. The 13,000-square-foot concrete park, designed by the California Skate Company. features quarter­pi pes, half-pipes, bowls, steps, ramps and rails and caters to all ages and skill levels. 
"Skateboarders are probably the most neglected recreational facilities users that there are. They grow up being chased out of more public areas, and so we wanted to provide a safe place for them to skate," said Paul McMinn, a member of the city parks board who was a driving force behind the park's construction. 
In addition to providing for the needs of a typically neglected recreational group, McMinn also cited skate park construction as an increasing trend across the 
DOE 
continued from page 1 
correcting before the charges were filed," Linda Timm, vice president for Student Affairs said. "There were no incidents that were not represented, but they were represented in the wrong year." 
The DOE sent a representa­tive to Saint Mary's last November and found the College fulfilled its promise to correct the statistics and had plans to implement new pro­grams to teach students about safety. 
If Saint Mary's had been found not to be in compliance with the Clery Act, the College could have faced a fine as large as $25,000 and the loss of fed­eral financial aid. 
In its final report, the DOE noted "significant efforts" by the College to improve its reporting had been made even before the agency became involved. 
"I felt the College responded very openly, and I appreciated the way the DOE evaluated our responses," Timm said. "The fact remains the law is there and we are in compliance and that has been confirmed by the DOE." 
Although Alter has not been in contact with Saint Mary's since the DOE released its find­ings in June, she told the South Bend Tribune she believed Saint Mary's was more respon­sive to her and was satisfied that changes had been imple­mented. 
In its effort to improve stu­dent interaction with campus security, the College made changes this summer so that campus security is now a divi­sion of the Student Affairs office. Through this collabora­tion, the College has plans to implement new programs, the first being a personal security forum in O'Laughlin Auditorium on Sept. 4. 
"I think it is important that we have continued to look at ways to heighten awareness about what students can do to be attentive to themselves at all times and in all situations," Timm said. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at ncst9877@saintmarys.edu 
United States. hold an amateur skating competi­provide a safe place for those in Also, in order to ease concerns 
"Around 300 skate parks a year tion for both inline skaters and the''South Bend area to come and of skeptical parents, the facility are being built across the U.S.," skateboarders called "SK8 Jam practice a sport that is not tradi­invites parents to come in and McMinn said, "In fact, a lot of 2002." The two-day event, which tionally provided for. The park is watch and provides snack bar Notre Dame students probably takes place on Sept. 14 and 15, is staffed at all times in case of facilities as well as an extensive have them in their hometowns." sponsored by Pepsi and will fea­injury, and all participants are stereo system. 
Though at first South Bend offi­ture professional skateboarding required to wear helmets, though cials were skeptical that the facili­superstar Mike Frazier. McMinn said, "We have only had ty would be able to pay for itself, However, according to McMinn, a few minor injuries since we Contact John Fanning at as was the intention of the park the primary focus of the park L'i to opened in July." jfanning@nd.edu board, McMinn does not see this ,--------------------­as a problem. The park, which opened in July and cost about $400,000 to construct, charges a small entrance fee and is already generating around $4,000 per week. Admission during the week costs $2 for residents and $3 for non-residents -the category most Notre Dame students fit into -while on the weekends entry is $3 and $5, respectively. 
In addition to the daily skating, which is available from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m Monday to Wednesday, 10 
a.m. until 10 p.m, Thursday to Saturday and 12 p.m. until 9 p.m. on Sunday. there are also events and competitions periodically scheduled for more serious skaters. 
In the near future, the park will 



....,....,,-::, 

Here's your chance to do what other students only read about. To get hands-on clinical experience, one-on-one training, and a shot at a scholarship worth thousands. It's all part of the Army ROTC Nursing program. Talk to an Army ROTC advisor today to find out more. Because it's time you put your passion into practice. 
ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 



For more information, contact Captain Bart Hennessey at (219) 631-4656 or 1-800-UND-ARMY 
O
THE 



BSERVER 


ESS 
Friday, August 30, 2002 page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch August 29 
DowJones 

8,670.99  "  -23.10  
NASDAQ  
1,335.77  •S&P500  +21.39  
917.80  •AMEX  -0.07  
862.98  1'  +2.87  
NYSE  
495.20  •  -0.66  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 


IN BRIEF 
Bloomberg Ordered to Sell Stocks 
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg must sell at least $45 million in publicly traded stock and his interest in a hedge fund to com­ply with the city's conflict of interest laws, a panel ruled Thursday. 
The Conflict of Interest Board ruled that 
Bloomberg's stake in companies that do busi­
ness with the city violated the City Charter. 
The mayor was ordered to sell his holdings in 
some 95 publicly traded stocks within 90 
days. 
"Because Mr. Bloomberg owns his stock directly and not, for example, through a mutual fund, because many of the firms in his portfolio have business dealings with the city's executive branch, and because of the size of his holdings, many of Mr. Bloomberg's stock ownership interests violate" the City Charter, the report said. 
After he was elected last year, Bloomberg resigned as chief executive officer of Bloomberg L.P., the financial services infor­mation company he founded. The mayor is estimated to be worth more than $4 billion. 

United Asks Workers to OK Pay Cuts · 
United Airlines said Thursday it is asking its employees to approve cutting its labor costs by $1.5 billion annually over the next six years as part of its emergency restructur­ing plan. 
The labor cutbacks, to include pay reduc­tions and the scrapping of recently negotiat­ed raises, would provide the bulk of $2.5 bil­lion the struggling carrier has targeted in annual savings in order to ensure its recov­ery. 
But the powerful pilots union harshly criti­cized the proposals as unacceptable, illus­trating the challenges United faces in win­ning the concessions. 
The first specifics of United's plan to trans­form itself into a smaller, more cost-efficient carrier came at the halfway point of its self­imposed 30-day deadline for reaching agree­ments with labor and other groups on far­reaching cutbacks. 
Without a consensus on cuts, CEO Jack Creighton reminded employees this week, the airline might be forced to file for Chapter 11. bankruptcy. 







Boeing refuses to negotiate 
. Union leaders vote to accept Boeing's offer 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE 
Federal mediators asked 
Boeing Co. and its largest 
union to extend their con­
tract and resume negotia­
tions, but the big airplane 
maker refused Thursday, 
setting the stage for a pos­
sible strike next week. 

"There is nothing left to 
negotiate," the company 
said in a statement. 

Negotiators from Boeing 
and the machinists union 
were asked Thursday 
morning to report to the 
Federal Mediation and 
Conciliation Service head­
quarters in Washington, 
D.C., next Wednesday. 

The union already was voting Thursday on whether to accept Boeing's "best and final" offer, made Tuesday, or strike at midnight Sunday, when the current contract expires. 
A letter from mediation 
service director Peter 
Hurtgen said the agency 
was stepping in because 
"any job action threatens 
to cause a substantial dis­
ruption of commerce." 

The union quickly 
agreed to take part in the talks, said Richard process, but that the cerned about the econom­ble pensions and to secure Barnes, the mediation ser­results of Thursday's vote ic impact that a strike job guarantees linked to vice's deputy director. should be released. could have. aircraft deliveries, rev­
But Boeing refused. Calhoun also contended "We are just trying to enues or other business 
"The teams spent that the union had head off a train wreck," benchmarks. Boeing's months negotiating in requested the intervention said Barnes. "We're hop­final offer would have good faith," Boeing said. and was using it to manip­ing that cooler heads will raised pensions by 20 per­"The Boeing negotiating ulate the outcome -prevail. ... Thirty days will cent by the third year of team has done everything encouraging "no" votes to not hurt." the contract and included possible and within reason strengthen the machinists' The agency similarly no substantial changes to to craft an offer that is position in continued called both sides into its job security contract fair, competitive and negotiations. negotiation three years language. inciting union respectful." The mediation service ago for talks between leaders whose member­
In anticipation of resum­has said its decision was Boeing and its engineering ship has been slashed bying negotiations, the union made independently and and technical workers 25 percent since Sept 11. had said it would seal the not in response to a union union. The union ended The contract also calls ballots without counting request. up striking for 40 days for changes in employee them Thursday night. The The machinists union before resolving the dis­health care costs, includ­union and federal media­asked Boeing earlier this pute. ing increases in monthly to rs had no immediate week to extend the exist­Boeing's contract offer premiums. comment on Boeing's ing contract day-by-day as on Tuesday wrapped up In addition. Boeingrefusal. talks continued. The com­two weeks of intensive offered an 8 percent ratifi­
At a news conference, pany refused. saying negotiations for a contract cation bonus for acceptingchief Boeing negotiator negotiations had been to cover 25,000 machin­the contract, and raises of Jerry Calhoun said he under way for months. ists. 2 percent and 2.5 percentthought federal interven­Barnes said the media­Machinists had been in the second and third tion had tainted the tion service was con-seeking to more than dou-years of the contract. 



MEXICO 
Nation hit by U.S. slowdown 
the plants employed 1.22 million sent. Salaries are also on the rise in 

Associated Press 
people. Mexico, making the country less 
But the institute concluded that attractive to manufacturers who can 

MEXICO CITY the industry's month-to-month aver­look for cheaper work forces around 
Employment at Mexico's assem­age employment for the first half of the globe. bly-for-export plants dropped a star­the year had dropped even further, Average salaries and benefits at tling 15 percent during the first six falling 15.4 percent, before some maquiladoras, the vast majority of months of the year compared with workers were rehired in June. Those which are located in cities and the same period in 2001, authorities recently rehired were not likely to towns along the U.S. border, rose 6 said Thursday. keep their jobs very long, the insti­percent in the first half of this year. 
As of the end of June, 1.09 million tute concluded in a four-page report. Manufacturing salaries, padded with Mexicans worked at the plants, The maq uiladora ind ustry has things like food vouchers, average known as maquiladoras. That tally been hit by the economic slowdown $5.20 per hour in Mexico. Without represented a nearly 11 percent in the United States, where close to the subsidies, workers make about drop from late June last year, when 90 percent of Mexican exports are $2.40 an hour. 

Friday, August 30, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
ococcoooocccooccoaaooooaoooc0000000000aooccooooo a o 0 a September Topic: 0 C C ~ Finding Your Niche ~ 0 D 0 D O C 0 0 C O O O 0 C 0 0 C O C D D C Q O O C O O O O C O O D C C C C 0 C C Q C a O O O 0 The lnterrace Forum is a discussion and support group for people who are biracial, multicultural, involved in an interracial relationship, or interested in any of these re­lated issues. The group meets the first Wednesday of each month for discussion over dinner. An Advisory Board sets the agenda for the discussion and selects the ethnic meal. Date: Wednesday September 4th Time: 5:30 pm Place: Center For Social Concerns (Coffee H?use) Ethnic dinner will be provided. Please RSVP at l -6841 by Tuesday September 3rd.  
ND (2, ··· · inq or••e•· Pap_er Making We will be trying the ancient art or paper mak­ing usin,g newspaper and various other paper. Come out and try this unique process. Friday~ August 2002 9:00pm­11:00pin -ID the LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting  



Letter 
continued from page 1 
priesthood if it is possible that he would cause harm to the public. "To just abandon bad actors is not the most responsi­ble thing to do," said Mooney. 
The committee suggested that cases be reviewed individ­ually and that the circum­stances should be considered. The letter focuses solely on the sexual abuse of minors and does not provide suggestion for the sexual abuse of adults by priests because the latter was not to be addressed at the June conference. 
The committee called upon the bishops to set stricter guidelines and psychological examinations for the recruit­ment of seminarians and priests and suggests that the low number of men choosing to enter clergy has led to more lax screening. 
The letter also called for an examination of the relationship between church policy and sec­ular law. It was suggested that each diocese and priest be required "to report any current and future allegations of sexual abuse to civil authorities." 
Further suggestions included the creation of a national reg­istry of members of the clergy 
who had sexually abused  a  
minor, the  formation  of  a  
national  resource  team,  a  

panel of expert witnesses, and updating the financial struc­tures of the Church to possibly form a national fund to com­pensate victims. 

The root of the problem 
Appleby stated at the Dallas conference that the "root of the problem is the lack of account­ability on he part of the bish­ops, which allowed a severe 

.... .................................
• ~ •
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

• 1/2 MIif SWIM •
• & • 
• 2Mllr RUN • • RICISlTR IN ADVA;\Cf AT. • RfCSPORTS • VARSITY • 
• ,Z?.-.-..~ •
. -/ . 
• recsoorts.nd.edu •
................~ ..................... 
moral failure on the part of some priests and bishops ... [which] was fostered by a closed clerical culture that infects the priesthood . ., 
Appleby stated that some bishops have "behaved atro­ciously" and that the "Church's credibility on social justice as well as sexual teaching." 
"They [Catholics] are not comparing you to Christ and his apostles," said Appleby. 
Appleby went on to state that protecting abusive priests was "a sin, born of the arrogance of power." 
Appleby recognized that the laity is frustrated by the enlarging rift between church and society. 
He highlighted in his address that the fault lied with the bish­ops and that victims were cor­rect when they stated that the bishops were more concerned about their accused priests. 

One voice among many 
Mooney was careful to state that this letter was just one of many voices that the bishops heard from. "Our document may have been influential. but it would be presumptuous to say they followed what we said," said Mooney. 
Under the "Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People," the Bishops set forth the following standards. Dioceses are required to reach out to victims for healing and reconciliation and the bishop is to meet with victims. A review board will be established; a majority being members of the laity. 
A confidentiality agreement will not be granted unless under certain situations when requested by the victim. Dioceses will be required to report accusations to the authorities. Those who are accused will be required to 
Work for news. 
undergo psychological evalua­for his healing. However, if tion. A member of the clergy dismissal is not applied the who is found -past, present, offender will "lead a life of or future -to be guilty of sex­prayer and penance." An office ual abuse will be removed from for Child and Youth Protection ministry and offered assistance will be established to ensure that these points be consistent­ly applied, and a Review Board will assist. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes l@nd.edu 

Friday, August 30, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENTS page 9 
ATTENTION BU~INE~~ MAJOR~n IT'~ NOT TOO LATE TO ADO THE fOLLOWIN6 COUR~E~: 
UNDERGRADUATE ETHICS COURSES Fall 2002 
Each I-credit, tive-\veek long course is available to sophomores, juniors, and seniors. BA 241 Introduction to Business Ethics (8/27 -9/27) 
No prerequisite  1.0 credit  
BA 2-ll (01) BA 241 (02) BA 241 (03)  l\IWF 10:40-11:30 (Fr. P. Doyle} MWF 11:45-12:35 (D. Hemphill) TTh 2:00-3:15 (T. Klein)  

This course is Lksigned to give the student an introJucrion to the central questions :ind fundamental char:ictcr of ethic,; and morality. The course is focused on a discussion of ethic:il theories which c:in help guide the srudcnt's problem-solving in (.'thical ,aruations thcy will encounter in business. Ethic:il Jikmm:is facc.:<l by business persons \vill be integrated into the class for purposes of discussion and an:i.lysis. 
BA 341 Topics in Business Ethics (10/1-11/5) 
No prerequisite 1.0 crcdic BA 3-ll (01) ~fWF 10:-W-11:30 (P. Raiser) {Finance emphasis) BA 341 (02) MWF 11:45-12:35 (K. Piskadlo) (iJfanagement emphasis) BA 341 (03) TTh 2:00-3:15 (f. Klein) {ltfarketing emphasis) Students will use cases co :malyzc ethic:il problems in the bu~ine:;s discipline~ including accounring. management. marketing, finance, and :'\!IS. Ih_c srudcnt will be cxpccted to apply and mrcgrare the knowledge obtained from ocher courstJ'r:ikcn as a business major. 
BA 441 Business Ethics: Field Project (11/6 -12/10) No prerequisite 1.0 credit 
BA 441 (01) MWF 10:40-11:30 0-McManus Warnell) BA 4-41 (02) MWF 11:45-12:35 0-Mc.Manus Warnell) BA 441 (03) TTh 2:00-3:15 a. McManus Warnell) TI1e senior field project in ethics is designed to gi\·e the student practical experience in a social service setting. The objectives of the course are to (1) introduce the student to experiences outside of the university setting; (2) provide a mechanism for enhancing the spirirual and incellecrual awareness of students; (3) provide a mechanism for coordin:ui.ng existing student social service projects \',-ith the student's ac:idemic work; (-+) interact \vith people whose values ha,·c led them inro full-time work in the not-for-profit sector. 
For more information c1il Prufc,:-or~ P:it \lurphy :it 631-9092 or Je,:;ic:1 \k.\l:inu:-\X'arndl :it 631-9182. 

"Education that works for working adults" Accelerated Bachelor's Degree Completion Program 
*Organizational Management Program 
*Management Information Systems (OMP and MIS available as stand alone certificate programs) 
*Bachelor of Science in Nursing for RNs *General Education Electives 
Classes once a week 
6:00 p.in. until I 0:00p.m. 
4 to 6 weeks per class 18 to 20 months for the complete program 
Classes begin September 23, 2002 
Goshen College Division of Adult and External Studies 
(800) 390-3490 
www.goshen.edu 





GET INVOLVED! 

-.ti,"···•.. '.·
•' t­
. .
~ 
,•,.,•' a 
. ,.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 

7:00 PM -9:00 PM 

JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE (ENTER THROUGH GA TE 3) 
CHECK OUT THE LISTING OF THE 250+ PARTICIPATING CLUBS, ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICE AGENCIES ON.LINE AT: 
http://www.nd.edu/,....,sao/an/ 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Friday, August 30, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
C0NTROllER: Lori LewaJski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO••••.••..•....631-7 47 I FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr, ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..................................... .....................631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
YIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer .viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 
observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobmver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively 'as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 


POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob1c:r,er {USPS 59'J 2•4000) io published Monday 1hrough Friday cxccpr during cnm and vacation pttiods.. A •uhscriprion m Tbt' Obsnver iJ S 100 for one academic 
y,a,; $S5 fa, one ''"""""'· The Obocrvcr is pwbh,h«I at: POSTMA!>TER 
024 Soud, Dining Hall Send addrcu con«rions m: 
Nou, Dame, IN .6556-0779 Th, Oboc,v« 
P<riodiul l''"'"C" paid at Nom, Dam< P.O. lloxQ .nd .dJition,1 mailing olf-. 02. Soudi Dining Hall 
Nom Dame. IN -46556Al779 
The Obs,,.., is • 1n<111ba ofrhe AJ.oaa,cd P,,,... All «production righ<s .,., .-....1. 

Life outside the bubble draws students into danger 
For the average college student, off-campus often sounds like the place to be. Off-campus is where the best parties happen. Off-campus is where students can live beyond the stretch of parietals and other campus rules. Off-campus is the place for virtual freedom. 
However, as the recent robbery near Corby Street illustrated, there is a darker 

Ol5gerverside to off-campus life few students are aware of. 
Edi 
rity officials say certain areas of South Bend,
ton

At Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, stu­especially areas around the Lafayette apartment 
dents live within a protective bubble that shields them from the dangers of South Bend. Perhaps the reason so few crimes occur on campus is because so few people have access to campus. Face it -at night, both campuses are fairly safe places. Zealous security guards restrict access to visitors driving on-campus and most dorms post guards at the main entrances on weekends. 
In fact, there is little practical reason for students to move off-campus. Almost everything the average student needs to survive in college is provided on campus. 
complex and other popular off-campus sites, saw a dramatic increase in criminal activity over the summer. 
Unfortunately. many students will forget that South Bend is a city. As the Corby Street robbery showed, students wandering away from a party can be easy targets for crim­inal activity. 
For students still living in the residence halls, the off­campus life can provide an exciting alternative to regular campus activities. But students must realize life is different outside the bubble. 
.::~::::~:~:::::~:::i::!::::::::~:::::-::·· 
__,,,,. ' {~.e,Y.-,. 
,,..-~~~ t~~-v 
,.. ~·-i 
t ...,.,M.-•.-~ 
... 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Attacking claims ofmedia bias 
This letter is in response to the letter by Anthony Carbone from the Aug. 29 issue of The Observer. 
It is intriguing that Carbone believes that there are two primary lessons that should be learned from a young gay man being beaten to death. The first is that there exists a huge liberal bias in the U.S. media. This lesson is, of course, so much more important than any commentary on 
U.S. society's struggle to tolerate and integrate differ­ences, the fragility of contemporary masculinity or the commonplace nature of violence in U.S. society. 
The second lesson is that murder is clearly justifiable if someone makes a pass at you that you find disgusting. This argument would have given most of the women at Notre Dame the license to have tortured and killed any­where from 10 to 150 heterosexual men by the time that they have reached college age. 
While he is correct that the media gave little coverage to the atrocious act of child rape, torture and murder that took the life of Jesse Dirkhising in Arkansas in 1999, the real reason for inclusion of this story in his letter to the 
Nevertheless. students still flock to apartments and hous­es each year. According to University statistics, over 50 percent of the senior class moved off-campus. And if peo­ple move off-campus, the parties will go with them. 
Lost in the thrill of going to bars, wild parties or Rally in the Alley is the stark reality that just beyond campus is the same crime that plagues all urban
•a1 

areas. Both South Bend police and campus secu­
editor is to run the old "sick pedophiles" panic warning up the flagpole. 
We know that most sexual assaults of children occur by someone who knows them (and is often related to them) and who are heterosexual males. However, what is differ­ent is that the general public, when it hears about a hor­rific act of rape, torture and murder of a child by a hetero­sexual male, doesn't make the sweeping generalization that all heterosexual males are pedophiles. Get them out of the Boy Scouts, Youth Ministries and Little League sports! 
However, I do think Carbone and I agree on one thing. The media has gone too far to the left when someone who really wants to say, "I hate gays" has to wrap it up in so much verbiage just to get it into print. 
N. Eugene Walls 
graduate student sociology Aug. 29 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News 
Sheila Egts Sheila Flynn Shannon Nelligan 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Sports Chris Federico Matt Lozar Joe Lindsley Scene 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Lab Tech Tim Kacmar 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
To what extent do you understand the new alcohol policy? 


*Pol.I appears courtesy of NDToday.co~ -..•-•.·•. ·.···•--·•••.·•.•.44.~8··.··•.%.·•.•.•.•••.·•.··

and 1s based on 214 responses. ~-. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

..J,Vhen we got into office, the one thing that surprised me most was to find out that things were just as bad as we'd been saying they were.,, 
John F. Kennedy president 
O
THE 



BSERVER 


Friday, August 30, 2002 page 11 


Learning political survival in the Big Apple 
Thirty years ago this week, after an exciting sum­mer of volunteering in a New York City congressional campaign, I returned to Notre Dame to begin my senior year. For me, the summer had been an oppor­tunity of a lifetime. I met national celebrities, partied at Irish bars in Manhattan with fel­low Darners, worked the tough political neighborhoods of Brooklyn and learned how my four grand­parents who immigrated from Italy in the early 1900s survived in the melting pot society of a large city. 
A pied piper had enticed us stu­dents the spring of 1972 to help him in his quest to regain a con­gressional seat. Al Lowenstein, former Democratic congressman from Nassau County on Long Island expressed such conviction against the Vietnam War and for his vision of a just America that dozens of Ivy League and Notre Dame students made up legions of political volunteers that summer. 
Lowenstein, as a sitting Democratic congressman, spearheaded the "Dump Johnson" movement to unseat President Johnson in 1968. As a consequence, the Democratic political bosses in New York redrew his seat and successfully opposed his candidacy in 1970. In 1972, Lowenstein moved to Brooklyn to oppose an aging incumbent, John Rooney, the chair­man of the powerful House Appropriations Committee. The district comprised affiuent Brooklyn Heights, eth­nic working class neighborhoods of Italians, Jews and Polish along with the African-American poverty strick­en Bedford Stivesant. 
The primary election campaign featured notables such as Dustin Hoffman, Mrs. Martin Luther King, Jr., Kathleen Kennedy and other national figures visiting on Lowenstein's behalf. Voter registration and get­out-the-vote efforts were the campaign headquarters' top priorities. Lowenstein had to appeal to the poor and anti-war sentiments of the day while teaming with local ethnic neighborhood social clubs. 
Rooney's support came primarily from out-of-state special interests who had benefitted from appropria­tions related to the Brooklyn Naval Ship Yard, con­struction workers and what President Nixon had called the "Great Silent Majority." The election was a classic clash of the status quo versus a populist move-


Gary J. Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
ment for change. 

As the June primary approached, the election turned nasty. Our campaign staff wore small green buttons to identify ourselves. I wore mine on the inside of my suit jacket and flashed it only when I needed to identify myself. As I entered polling places, many thought I was a Rooney worker. 
Workers in both camps carried concealed handguns. The Lowenstein campaign worried their candidate might suffer the same fate as Robert F. 
, Kennedy, being gunned down to silence his opposition to the establishment. Ironically, it was not until a decade later when Lowenstein was mor­tally shot in his New York office by, of all people, a former campaign worker of our 1972 campaign effort. 
Lowenstein lost the pri­mary election by just a few hundred votes, but he successfully challenged 
'' ,' the election in federal court. For the first time in our nation's history, an election was nullified based on violations of the Voting Rights Act enacted the previ­ous decade. He proved that irregularities had systematically occurred only in his strongholds of poor and minority persons. 

So my senior year began with me spending only two weeks at Notre Dame before I returned to New York City for a special pri­mary election in Brooklyn. With much anticipation I yearned for the excitement of the campaign trail and the expectation of a certain win, a win for sanity in foreign policy and compassion for those least able to help themselves in our society. 
During my freshman year in college, when students were killed at Kent State by National Guardsmen, I had changed from a conservative who supported the Vietnam War to a liberal anti-war activist. That spring day of my junior year. when Lowenstein articulated what it meant to sacrifice a political career for one's conviction, assured me I had made the correct choice in politics. 
On election night of the special primary Rooney won by just about the same margin of a few hundred votes. Upon an analysis of the precinct results, the same poor and minority precincts had similar irregularities despite federal marshals located in each of them. Voting machines malfunctioned in those precincts but 
not in Rooney's strongholds. In Lowenstein's precincts, poll workers conducted busi­ness at an extremely slow pace, lines of voters circled the block and once again, busloads of unknown Hassidic Jews stormed their local polling places to vote for Rooney at each neighbor­hood precinct. Despite our frustration 
and disappointment, Lowenstein showed us that standing on one's 
principles and convictions can make a difference, if only in ordering a new primary election. And while that contest was 
bitter, it did not include the personal destructive elements that became vogue in 1994 when Newt 
Gingrich changed the politi­cal landscape. Thirty years ago this week, 
our nation was more turbulent than today, faced a more horrific threat of nuclear war th.an today and despite the bitter differences between us radicals and the hardhat silent majority, was 
more politically civil than today. As a potential war with Iraq overshadows the upcoming congressional elections, it will be interesting to see if the politics of personal destruction maintains a foothold in our polit­ical system or if a good old fashion Lowenstein versus Rooney brawl is the order of the day. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton ·s administration as a Congressional and pub­lic affairs director. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


GUEST COLUMN 

Sustainable growth: bad for people, environment 
RALEIGH, N.C. to clean up their environments, just as reforms in them. That way, capitalism is citizen of the greatest, most advanced . 
As the World Summit on Sustainable we have. Placing lots of "sustainable working at its best and Americans and nation in the world. We have come a l Development gets underway in growth targets" and other restrictions developing countries both benefit. long way in the last hundred years, and ' Johannesburg, South Africa this week, I on these countries will only prolong Only when these countries are well on unlike Europe, the United Nations and can't help but wonder why so many their period of environmentally damag­their way to industrialization will they the antiglobalization activists, I would 1 developed nations want to handicap the ing development. have the luxury to worry about the envi­very much like to see the rest of the developing nations President Bush has made the right ronment. It's odd that left-wing groups world do the same. in the name of Darren choice in not attending this summit. It is who claim to want to help the world's Worldwide prosperity and develop­"saving the planet." shaping up to be a combination of indig­poor are the chief proponents of policies ment is good for everyone, and it's the
O'Connor

The delegates nant Europeans scolding the United that would keep them in perpetual surest way to improve the state of the from the industrial-States for not doing more for sustainable poverty. (But. hey, as long the trees environment. 
ized world ostensi­development and leaders of corrupt aren't being hurt, right?) These organi­This is not a trivial issue as we enter
Technician

bly want to make Third World nations demanding more zations (Greenpeace, Friends of the the 21st century. The next time one of sure the Third U.S. aid money, which they will subse­Earth. etc.), as well as the socialist (and your professors spouts off a self-right­World continues to quently blow on weapons and palaces even not-so-socialist) European coun­eous criticism of President Bush's oppo­develop but with all sorts of environ­and other purposes to which foreign aid tries, are being incredibly disingenuous sition to economically damaging policies mental restrictions. The goal is econom­is typically diverted. in their empty rhetoric. They ought to like the Kyoto Protocol or sustainable ic growth without environmental dam­If we really want to help alleviate just come right out and say it: They're development targets, challenge him to age. Well, guess what. It doesn't work poverty and reduce environmental not interested in helping these countries provide some logical reasoning behind that way in the early stages of industri­degradation in developing countries, the develop at all. his position. It should be amusing to alization, and that's OK. last thing we want to do is continue to Judging by conversations I've had with hear the subsequent jumble of Marxist 
There will be some pollution and other subsidize their current practices by people in similar groups around here, catch phrases that pours out. damage as these countries develop, just throwing money at them. I'd bet money that these activists would as there was when the United States and Last I checked, the government like nothing more than for these coun­The column first appeared in the Aug. Britain started to industrialize. It's not already confiscated far too much of our tries to remain as they are and for the 28 edition a/Technician. the campus that big of a deal, people. The planet paychecks for such purposes domesti­rest of the world to degenerate to that newspaper ofNorth Carolina State and the human race have been through cally. The best thing to do for these same level. Human suffering seems to University. It is repri1lted here courtesy a great deal over the millennia, and it countries is reduce trade barriers (espe­be irrelevant to these people as long as ofU-WIRE. . turns out they're both pretty resilient. cially in industries in which those states we aren't choking our "Mother Earth" The views expressed in this column 
Besides, the faster these countries are have a comparative advantage) and with our evil, evil SUVs. are those ofthe author and not neces­able to develop, the sooner they'll begin encourage democratic and market I can safely say that I'm proud to be a sarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


s 

page 12 Friday, August 30, 2002 

. 
' 


·. 
,, 
I' 



AFP Photo Funk legend George Clinton and P-Funk will play in The Show tonight at the Joyce Center. Clinton has been honored by artists in almost every music genre. 

Notre Dame 

George Clinton with P-Funk, Better Than Ezra and The G, 
and P-Funk along with Better Than pioneers of disco, hip-hop, rap and "Sincerely Me" and "Misunderstood"
By MIKE SCHMUHL and EMILY Ezra and The Green Room. most modern dance music. Last sum­are the stand-out singles on the

HOWALD 

Originally named Parliament, mer, Clinton and all the P-Funk mem­album. 
Assistant Scene Editors 

Clinton formed another group, bers appeared on Nike commercials Opening for George Clinton and P­Funkadelic, after some difficulty with with rapper Snoop Dogg. Funk and Better Than Ezra is The The first official weekend of college competing record labels. Shortly after, Although P-Funk has influenced Green Room, a local band with obvi­
is upon us and the question that 

however, Clinton fused both groups many artists and recorded hundreds ous ties to alternative rock, punk and 
lingers is everyone's mind seems to 

into Parliament Funkadelic or "P­of songs, it is probably best known for emo.
be, "What are we going to do 

Funk." their extravagant stage performances. No matter what kind of music a per­tonight?" 
The group has Wearing vibrant cos-son likes,While the 
been sharing its tumes and landing a they will cer­
first weekend mixture of "mother ship" on stage, tainIy find 

of the year 

blues, soul, R & P-Funk is certainly a "We didn't want [the stigma of something to 
offers the stu­"/ think it's unfair the only time 

B and rock with show from another the Flipside name] going into enjoy at Thedent popula­the school puts on events like listeners for dimension. Show. 
tion the tradi­this. We wanted everyone to 
over 30 years. Better Than Ezra, a Even so,
tional ally to this is when they want to deter 

Their success popular mid-90s rock know that it is for both many stu­rally. there's students from parties. They peaked in the trio, will also perform. drinkers and non-drinkers. It's dents won­
one word on 

mid '70s with Operating out of New der if this 
the mouths of should do events like this just an opportunity for people 
hits like "Flash Orleans, Better Than concert is students all around other times, like as a Light," "P-Funk Ezra is similar to mod­to see George Clinton ... merely a 
over cam pus: 

break from finals.,, (Wants to Get ern rock groups such ploy by the 
funk. 

Funked Up)." as Matchbox Twenty administra­
Brian Adams
Funk. Th~ 

"Give Up the and Third Eye Blind. tion to lure 
word itself pro­Tom Reid The Show committee treasurer
Funk (Tear the The group achieved students
vides lush sophomore 

Roof Off the much popular success away fromimages of the Sucker)" and with their 1995 debut the usual days of disco, 
"Aqua Boogie." album Deluxe. which included the hits parties that occur the first weekend 
crazy clothing 

Multiple musi­"Good", and "Roselia." back and bring them into a non-drink­trends and one thumping' bass line. 
cians are involved in creating the lay­The band's sophomore effort, ing, regulated environment. The com­Notre Dame's campus, on the other ered grooves of the world's premiere Friction Baby, was not as successful in mittee putting the concert on, howev­hand, is not really known for having a 
funk ensemble. Percussionists, gui­sales, but included the chart-topper, er, simply sees this as a chance for funky attitude, unless the antics of a 
tarists, various synthetic technicians, "Desperately Wanting." After a slight students to see a good concert. 
football Saturday or an off-campus 

back up vocalists and the amusing remission, Better Than Ezra surfaced "We were told that the universitycelebration are taken into account. 
vocals of Clinton create a unique again in 2001 with their most recent wanted to have a big event as kind ofFunk or no funk, the "mother ship" sound album, Closer. Keeping with the pop­a continuation of freshman orienta­will arrive tonight with George Clinton P-Funk is also considered one of the rock rhythm of their early work, tion," said Brian Adams, treasurer of 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, August 30, 2002 
page 13 


AFP Photo Better Than Ezra will perform along side Clinton and local band The Green Room at tonight's concert. 
ets 
nked up 
,een Room get ready to rock at the Joyce Center tonight 
The Show committee organizing the lar to last year's Flip Stock that was concert. "It is the first weekend that held on this same weekend. freshmen are entirely on their own "We wanted to have the big event with what they want to do and the but we didn't want to put Flipside's university just wanted to have this name with it because of the stigma event as an option available to them." involved with the name," Adams said. 
Senior Jenna Spanbauer also said "We didn't want a stigma going into she and her friends would be attend­this. We wanted everyone to know that ing the concert just because the par­it is for both drinkers and non-ties that take place drinkers. It's just an at the beginning of opportunity for people the year have to see George become a bit old and "I'm assuming George Clinton." she isn't expecting Last year, several
Clinton will do some­

anything new from students mocked
thing that would provoke 

them this year. Flipstock for trying to "My friends and I his banishment from the provide an alternative are going just to Rally in the Alley, a
University and I'd like to 

because we have massive party at the
be there to see it. ,,

been doing the same nearby Turtle Creek thing for the past apartment complex. three years and this "It's not like Rally
Tony DeVlto 

is something differ­won't still be raging
sophomore

ent," Spanbauer at 11 :30 p.m. after said. "I can see Better than Ezra and where the adminis-P-Funk," sophomore tration would want to hold the concert Steve Salwierak said. on this weekend, however, because it Many others appear to be choosing is offering alternatives to the fresh­the concert over parties as well, some men who don't want to go off campus. because of the music and some just to There is a lot of pressure these first see George Clinton in person. couple of weeks for the freshmen and "I think it would be interesting to this concert will give them something see George Clinton because he is kind to do and not make them feel left out." of a weird guy and it would be fun. I'm 
The event is organized by an inde­also looking forward to seeing Better pendent concert committee and is not Than Ezra just because I like their associated with Flipside, nor is it simi-music," sophomore Nick Dailey said. 
''I'm assuming George Clinton will do mittee decided to charge $5 to help to something that would provoke his cover the costs. 22 dorms did not raise banishment from the University and enough money to cover the entire cost I'd like to be there to see it," Tony of the concert. DeVito said. The concert will be held at the Joyce 
Other students are upset the Center and Notre Dame, Saint Mary's University is planning the concert on and Holy Cross idnntification will be this weekend because they feel that required at the door. they are intentionally trying to take Doors will open at 6 p.m. and The students away from the traditions of Green Room, a local band, wi11 begin the past and they are playing at 6:30 p.m. not holding the con-Better Than Ezra will cert for entertain­be on at 7:30 p.m. ment purposes. "It ·s not like Rally won ·t followed by George 
"I would go if it Clinton and P-Funk
still be raging at 11:30

wasn't the same day at 9:30 p.m. The con­
as Rally," sophomore p. m. after Better Than cert is expected to Tom Reid said. "I Ezra and P-Funk. •• run until midnight. think it's unfair the Although contro­
only time the school versy remains as to 
Steve Salwlerak 

puts on events like why exactly the this is when they sophomore University chose this want to deter stu­weekend to hold a dents from parties. concert, students They should do now have more events like this around other times, options for the first night of the first like as a break from finals." weekend of the school year. 
Many students, especially the fresh­"This is just a big event for every­men, have little information about one," Adams said. "They should have informed of what occurs the first week fun and what they do afterward is on campus. their prerogative." 
"I am not going to the concert because there are off-campus parties that I would rather go to and I didn't know about it in time," freshman Brett Contact Mike Schmuhl at Hummel said. schmuhl.5@nd.edu and Emily Howald at 
While Flipstock was free, the com-howald.1O@nd.edu 
Friday, August 30, 2002 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
MLB 

Bellhom makes history with pair of homers 


Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Mark Bellhorn expected to spend the afternoon watching Sammy Sosa return to Chicago's lineup and give the Cubs some pop. 
Instead, with Sosa sidelined by a sore neck, Bellhorn provided a pair of home runs -and history. 
Bellhorn became the first play• er in National League ever to homer from both sides of the plate in the same inning as the Cubs beat the Milwaukee Brewers 13·10. 
"Sosa was going to play, but when he took some swings off the tee, there was no way he was going to go," Cubs manager Bruce Kimm said. 
So, Angel Echevarria moved from first base to right field to make room for Bellhorn, who ignited a 10-run burst in the fourth inning with a two-run shot off left-hander Andrew Lorraine that traveled 410 feet to center field at Miller Park. 
By the time he came up again with two outs in the inning, Lorraine had given way to right­hander Jose Cabrera. Batting from the left side, Bellhorn con­nected on a full-count fastball for a three-run. 380-foot drive that made it 9-0. 
"Sometimes it's tough," Bellhorn said of switching stances in the middle of a game. ''I've been facing a lot of left­handers lately. You get used to seeing the ball that way. Then 
· you step in the box against a righty and you feel kind of weird. After that first swing, I'm fine." Bill Mueller followed Bellhorn's second homer with one of his own, giving the Cubs their biggest inning since Sept. 11, 1990, when Chicago scored 10 times in the second inning against Montreal. Richie Sexson hit a grand slam for Milwaukee, highlighting a six-run ninth. With the teams combining to bat around three times, the game lasted 3 hours, 40 minutes. "It seemed like the game start­ed at 10 this morning," Brewers reliever Ray King said. "I though it would never end. It was ugly." The game featured 22 hits, four errors and 15 runners left on. Matt Clement (11-9) struck out 
10 in seven innings, giving him 187 for the season, third in the NL behind Arizona pitchers Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling. 
Among the many signs in the stands relating to the strike was one that read: "Savoring the last day of baseball." 
Giants 10, Rockies 6 
A four-game sweep and anoth­er home run barrage by Barry Bonds and Jeff Kent should have made for a happy team. There was little joy, however, in the San Francisco Giants clubhouse. 
With the specter of a strike hanging over baseball, the Giants found it hard to talk about their win over the Colorado Rockies. 
"We're fighting for a playoff spot, and this cheapens the thrill of beating a good team," Kent said. "And I think the Rockies are a good team. Guys really aren't focused on the wins. They're focused on whether we're going to play (Friday)." 
Bonds hit his 40th homer of the season and Kent went deep twice. 
Bonds hit his fifth homer in three games and Kent homered in his fourth straight game. They went back-to-back for the third straight game. The Giants won their fifth straight to move within two games of Los Angeles in the NL wild-card race. 
Greg Norton had a three-run homer and Todd Zeile had a two-run shot for the Rockies, who lost their sixth straight. 
Fans, upset at the possibility of a strike Friday, displayed several signs during the game, including one reading "Field of Greed." The crowd of 26,300 was the smallest in Rockies' history. 
Mariners 2, Twins 0 
The Seattle Mariners might go on strike Friday, but they won't be going hungry. 
Desi Relaford ruined Rick Reed's masterpiece with a lead­off homer in the eighth inning, helping Jamie Moyer and the Mariners salvage a disappointing week with a win over the Minnesota Twins. 
Relaford and Ben Davis, whose sacrifice fly gave Seattle insur­ance in the ninth. will be rewarded for their run-scoring swings by manager Lou Piniella. 

"I told the players before the game that I'm buying steaks for RBIs," Piniella said. "I guess I'm buying two steaks. I was hoping to have to buy eight or nine." 
The Mariners left the Metrodome to return to Seattle, where they're scheduled to play Kansas City this weekend -pro­vided a strike doesn't wipe out the series, or more. 
"Let's hope we swing the bats as well or better in our own ball­park and start getting on a roll," Piniella said. "It was good to win a ballgame, but the best thing we could all get would be to play a ballgame Friday night. We'll see what happens on that front. But we go home on a good note." 
Moyer, who struck out seven, gave up five hits and one walk in seven scoreless innings. Winning for the first time in four starts, Moyer (13-6) improved to 10-5 in his career against the Twins. He gave up an infield single to Denny Hocking leading off the eighth before yielding to Arthur Rhodes. 
Jacque Jones sacrificed and Luis Rivas moved Hocking to third with a groundout. but Corey Koskie ended the inning with a lineout to Jeff Cirillo at third and Kazuhiro Sasaki pitched the ninth for his 33rd save in 38 attempts. 
"Not a lot of offense today," Twins manager Ron Gardenhire said. "That's what happens when you get two high-caliber teams like we did in here." 
Minnesota, 1-8 against Seattle last year, won two of three in the series -a crisply played, well­attended series that had a post­season feel to it. That's some­thing fans here could miss out on if there's a lengthy strike, but the Twins, who have a 16-game lead on Chicago in the AL Central, were confident they'd be back this year. 
Blue Jays 7, Yankees 4 

Rookie Josh Phelps was too busy living out a boyhood dream to think about a strike. 
Phelps homered twice off Roger Clemens, leading Esteban Loaiza and the Toronto Blue Jays over the New York Yankees. 
"It was just one of those fairy tales that actually came true," the 24-year-old Phelps said. "It was one of those games you play in the back yard as a kid grow­ing up, and you think about who you are batting against." 
Phelps and Carlos Delgado both hit long shots against Clemens, helping prevent the Rocket from earning his 292nd career victory. 
A crowd of 32,679, including many Yankees fans, watched the final game at SkyDome before Friday's strike deadline. 
"When you are playing the game you don't have time to think about it," Phelps said. 
One fan held up a sign refer­ring to Yankees owner George Steinbrenner that read: "Save Baseball. Contract the Yanks. Sell George the Expos." 
Alfonso Soriano hit his 32nd homer for the Yankees, who saw their three-game winning streak end. Bernie Williams went 0-for­4, finishing his season-high 19­game hitting streak. 
"We couldn't do anything right," said New York manager Joe Torre, who was optimistic the Yankees would be playing Friday. 
"Both sides are at the table and I think that's significant." 
Loaiza (7-7) pitched his second complete game of the season. He gave up nine hits, walked three and struck out five. 
Phelps' second-inning homer off Clemens (11-5) landed in the first row of SkyDorne's upper deck in left field. just the 10th time in SkyDome history a ball has reached the fifth deck. 
Phelps' ninth homer, a solo shot off Clemens in the fifth, gave Toronto a 7-2 lead. 
Clemens, who entered the game 7-1 against his former team since being traded to New York, allowed seven runs on 10 hits in just five innings. 
"He just had bad location," Torre said. "He was laboring." 
Reds 7, Cardinals 0 
The final memory from Cinergy Field might be: Jimmy Haynes hitting. 
The right-hander singled twice, driving in three runs, and pitched eight innings as the Cincinnati Reds beat the St. Louis Cardinals in their final game before the players' strike deadline. 
"I just wanted to make pitches and win the ballgame," Haynes 

said. "I try not to do too much thinking out there." The circumstances were tough to ignore. 
There were several strike­related banners in the crowd of 20,503, including one in the out­field that read, "We'll Still Come." A young girl held up a sign that said, "Strikes Make Little Girls Cry." 
Several other banners deemed derogatory were confiscated at the gates. . 
There was one concession to the possibility that it was the final game at the stadium. Ushers punched holes in fans' tickets instead of tearing them, leaving them intact as a sou­venir. 
Haynes (13-8) was an unlikely star -he hadn't won since Aug. 3 and had never won 13 games in a season during his career with Baltimore, Oakland and Milwaukee. 
He gave up seven hits in eight innings and struck out a season­high seven before leaving for a pinch-hitter. 
Pirates 4, Braves 1 

Unfortunately for Torn Glavine and Greg Maddux, the strike ­at least that by the Atlanta Braves' offense -started two days early. 
Glavine's wildness led to Pittsburgh's first two runs and the Pirates. helped by Bronson Arroyo's effective start and Aramis Ramirez's homer, shut down Atlanta's offense again to beat the Braves. 
Playing their third straight game without injured outfielder Gary Sheffield (sprained thumb), the Braves again struggled for runs. They scored only one run in the final 21 innings of the three-game series, losing 1-0 Wednesday night in 10 innings to the recently recalled Brian Meadows and two relievers. 
"I think our offense went on strike a few days ago," Jones said. "It's fru.,trating. We're not getting too many opportunities and when we do, we're not com­ing through. It hasn't been real fun." 
Ramirez doubled and scored in the first, then hit a two-run homer -his 12th -off reliever Tim Spooneybarger in the eighth to make it 4-1. The Pirates have won five of six. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.rn. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.rn. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che right to edit all . classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FOR RENT  All size home available For 2003-2004 Mmmrentals.@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com  Large one•bedroom condo for sale. One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly remodeled. Fully equipped. $99,500.  TICKETS  ND Tickets For Sale Lowest Prices 289-9280  Benchwarmer's Sports Lounge 236 So. Michigan needs bar• tenders, DJ & promotional people 232-0022  
ND Football Tickets for  
ROOM AVAILABLE FOR PURDUE WEEKEND ST. MARY'S INN CALL JACKIE 273-1973 AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY­FALL SEMESTER ONLY ­ B&B Lodging w/alumni family for ND/SMC events.Football week­ends, JPW & graduation. 574-243• 2628 Or garyb@mvillage.com. Near N.D. Room for Rent  Williamson.1@nd.edu. Land Rover Discovery Series II. '99. Original owner, 45K, excellent con­dition, loaded $26,500. (574-233-2104).  Buy/Sell ND Football tickets 289-8048 or astrog999@aol.com. Needed: large quantity of Stanford tickets For reunion, please help. 289-8048.  Sale AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND Football Tickets Wanted AM 232-2378 • PM 288-2726 I need 3 tickets to the BC football game. 563-241-1082 (Travis)  STARVING/THRISTY STUDENT? DON'T SELL YOUR TICKET! CLASS OF '98 GRADS WANTING TO RENT OUT TURTLE CREEK APARTMENT SAT. NIGHT, SEPT 14 (MICHIGAN WEEKEND). WILL COMPENSATE W/CASH OR PRE· FEARED BEVERAGE CALL  
2 BR COTT AGE FIVE MIN FROM CAMPUS ­DAVE 243-5353 ROOM IN HOME FOR RENT  Call Angela 616-684-8877  Single Football Tic. For Purdue and Ml. Call 233-3618 after 6.  All Notre Dame vs Michigan State Football tickets for Sale 517-351-1992 or go to: www.jamestheticketman.com  WANTED: Notre Dame vs., Michigan tickets Date: Sept 14, 2002 NEED TICKETS FOR A SPECIAL ANNIVERSARY SURPRISE  ANDREW (949) 433-5087. GO IRISH! Seeking BABYSITTER for 3 small children in Granger-various  

$400 UTILITIES INCLUDE 8 MIN  FOR SALE  91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal,  Need 2 GA'S for  Please call John Jaco  hours/days. Refs. & car  
TO CAMPUS. FURN OR UN FURN.  clean, 1 owner, very good condition  Any home game. Call  Phone# (814) 893-5701  Rqrd! Call Laura:  243-4776  
JACUZZI  Jack 674-6593.  
1987 Ford Escort, 5-Speed. Only  $4200. 277-0189.  
CALL DONNA 255-4737  74K No Rust & Excellent Condition $1,750  Kitchen Table w/2 chairs. 1 year  ND Tickets Buy and Sell. Please check  WANTED  PERSONAL  
3 Bedroom Home 1 mile  Call 288-0380 & L V MSG.  old. Perfect Condition. $75  Our prices ­ 273-3911  
from ND. Garage, alarm system,  Seeking babysitter for 3 small chil- MIKE LANE IS THE WIND  
NC Avail. lmmed., $650/mo.  Used MAC G3 computer 300mhz,  259-0108.  WANTED:  dren in Granger-various  BENEATH MY WINGS  
6g hd; 192 mg memory $600; moni- ND Tickets ­ Highest Prices Paid  hours/days. Refs. & car rqrd.! Call  
Call 574-220-0499  tor $150; complete $700. 631-9388.  GATIX  271-1654  251-1570  Laura: 243-4776.  Maryland baby!  
- 

·--.-----------------------------------------------------·-­
Friday, August 30, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
TENNIS 

Rain does not stop top seeds at U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Andre Agassi got his day's work out of the way quickly. So did fellow U.S. Open champions Lleyton Hewitt, Venus Williams, Lindsay Davenport, and Martina Hingis. 
Once the rain stopped, the routs were on. The surprises were rather limited, too: fourth­seeded Yevgeny Kafelnikov lost to Dominik Hrbaty, and French Open champion Albert Costa was knocked off by Wayne Ferreira. 
Monica Seles, meanwhile, had to rally from a set down to beat Barbara Schwartz. 
Action didn't get under way until 4 p.m., five hours late, forcing postponement of all scheduled doubles matches and creating a logjam of stars on court. Jennifer Capriati was up first at Arthur Ashe Stadium and set the tone with an easy victory, despite nine double faults. 
With Agassi's wife, Steffi Graf, and 10-month-old son, 
Jaden, watching in the stands, he beat Justin Gimelstob 6-0, 6­1, 6-1 in 66 minutes to move into the third round. Agassi, who won the Open in 1994 and 1999, had 27 winners to six for Gimelstob. 
"It's nice not to spend more [time] than you need to," Agassi said. "You're glad you're not him. You're glad that it's not happening to you." 
Hewitt's 7-6 (7), 6-4, 6-1 vic­tory over Noam Okun put the defending champion into a Saturday rematch against 25th­seeded James Blake, who defeated Nikolay Davydenko 6­3, 4-6, 6-1, 6-3 to reach the third round of a major for the first time. 

Hewitt beat Blake in five sets at the 2001 U.S. Open in a sec­ond-round match tainted by remarks the Australian made that were perceived as racist. Hewitt demanded that linesman Marion Johnson be removed after calling two foot faults. Blake and Johnson are black. 
"Look at him, mate," Hewitt said to the chair umpire, refer-
The CSC No Longer Owns Vehicles 
!eJ7J 

~-D D TICE IMPORTA~T ~OV h" le For Transportation for
Using A University e IC
d. 1
For Anyone Intereste . n d S . l Action Programming
Service An ocia 
s · s Depart­. it called the Transportation ._ er:v1ce 

. fa new service at the Un1vers y d artment and academic As the-result of the cre~~on om requests for group, residence hall, .:r-n Services Department ment www.nd.edu/,...,un rans. ' ssed t rou •h t e Transpor to NON ERVI ~E activities will oce 
Important Policy Change . S rvices Vehicles ONLY for . , erns will schedule and rent Transportauon ._ c de artments with budget The Center for S0~1al <:~nc·fon. programming transportation. ?ro~ps orthe pTransportation Services use for service anct socia ac l ·1 to the Center:s cost of renung rom 
t m ay be asked to contn Jute
suppor Department. 
Training 

Trans ortation Services Department. attend 
l . I that the Center will rent from the . pf Social Concerns must complete a 
. how to request a ve uc e d I d th ugh the Center or d s which
For additional informat~on o? l All drivers of vehicles sche u e . ro t'on on CSC policies and proce ure 
of the training sessrnns hsted b_e ow.. . 
one . D artmenl Defensive Dnvrng
Transportation ep ,JoHows:~,,.. , • . 
T . ·ng Course as well a bnef presenta l 
ram1 
. 1 Sunday, September 8 Sunday, September Sunday, September 15 Sunday, September 22 Sunday, September 29 
6:45 p.m., Room 102 DeUartolo 
ring to Johnson. "Look at him 
and tell me what the similarity 
is." Hewitt later said "similari­
ty" referred to both faults being 
called by Johnson. 
"We put it behind us the next 
day in the locker room," said 
Blake. who won his first career 
title last week in Washington. 
"Since then, I don't think we've 
really talked about it. We just 
moved on." 
Williams, the two-time 
defending Open champion, 
improved her 2002 match 
record to 56-6 -she's 0-3 
against sister Serena -with a 
6-1, 6-2 defeat of Alicia Molik; 
1998 winner Davenport 
wrapped up her 6-4, 6-2 victory 
over Petra Mandula in a match 
halted by rain Wednesday night 
at 2-2 in the second set; and 
1997 champion Hingis eliminat­
ed Antonella Serra Zanetti 6-4, 
6-1. 
Seles won the U.S. bpen in 
1991 and 1992 and had the 
crowd firmly behind her as she 
worked her way out of a big 
deficit to construct a 1-6. 7•6 
(5). 6-2 win over Schwartz, who 
was two points away from vic­
tory in the second set. 
Capriati hopes to add an Open trophy to the three Grand Slam titles she's won in Australia and France in the past two years. But she'll need to serve better than she did in ousting Tina Pisnik 6-4. 6-2. 
Still, her biggest flub of the day came on a news conference question that had nothing to do with the match. Instead. it was a query about Title IX, federal legislation mandating equal opportunity for women in col­lege sports. The law marked its 30th anniversary last month. 
Capriati's reply: "I have no idea what Title IX is. Sorry." 
. 
. 

-, ·-' ~ 
· · ~ Cong~egation ofHoly Cross 
"The footsteps ofthose men who called us to wal!c in their company left deep prints, as ofmen carrying heavy burdens, but they did not trudge; they strode. For they had the hope." 
(Constitutions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross, VIII.122) 

Tom Eckert, C.S.C. Sam Peters, C.S.C. 
Diaconate/Priesthood Ordination at the Basilica on Sunday, September 1, 2002 at 2:00 p.m. 
www.nd.edu/ ,-;vocation 
ANSWER ~ 
fflECALL '<1::1 

) \ I \ 

Friday, August 30, 2002
-"\ 
' 
) ' 
' 
) ; 

,, 
\ 
( 
f 
t 
\ 

training/ orientation session sponsored by transportation services! 
Ifyou are going to operate rental vehicles from the new motor pool or drive a depart­mental vehicle, you must attend one of the training/ orientation sessions! 
Students who have not attended a session as of October 1, 2002 will not be eligible to drive university vehicles!!! 
Students only need to attend the training/ orientation session once during their four years at Notre Dame. 
Training/ orientation sessions are required for any type ofvehicle being operated (sedans, mini-vans etc.) 
Sessions will be held in DeBartolo Hall, room 102, each Sunday evening in September (1st, 8th, 15th, 22nd, 29th). 
Sessions will start at 6:45 pm and last no longer than one hour! 
Please bring a pen and your driver's license! 

Friday, August 30, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 17 

around the dial 
TODAY 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 11 a.m., USA 
SATURDAY 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Maryland at NOTRE DAME 8 p.rn., ABC Central Florida at Penn State noon, ESPN Washington at Michigan noon, ABC Colorado at Colorado State 1 p.rn., ESPN2 Virginia at Florida State 3:30 p.rn., ABC 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 11 a.m., CBS 
SUNDAY 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL LSU at Virginia Tech 2:30 p.m., ABC 
MLB 

~EPLAC£HEN.· PLAYER 
'-~ 
..
-.,i•.. : 
~ IC 
AFP Photo 

In anticipation of the strike, a baseball fan offers his services while at a Rockies game Thursday in Denver. With the Friday deadline here, negotiators are continuing to attempt to forge a deal that would avoid a work stoppage. 
Pressure rises as strike hour approaches 
baseball's chief operating close to a deal. players to that stadium to 
Associated Press 

officer. "I've been prepared A union official told take batting practice and 
NEW YORK to stay for the night all ESPN.com's Jayson Stark open up the gates and all 
Baseball negotiators week. that the union is unlikely to that stuff, where if a deal worked relentlessly "Of course there is an agree to an extension. doesn't get worked out they Thursday to avert a strike increase in sense or "I think that would have would have to leave," just hours before the dead­urgency," he said. "No one to be a decision at the last Tarrwa Bay player repre­line, leaving players, own­wants to lose a single game minute," Loretta is quoted sentative John Flaherty ers and fans across the or a single day of games." as saying on MLB.com. "It said. "We wouldn't want to country wondering whether Milwaukee Brewers could happen. Anything is put anyone in that situa­the season would continue. infielder and union execu­possible at this point." tion." 
Lawyers for both sides, tive board member Mark There was no set time for After five bargaining ses• carrying proposals and Loretta told a reporter from the start of a strike, which sions Wednesday and three umbrellas, shuttled MLB.com that the strike would be the sport's ninth on Thursday, the sides between the commission­deadline could be extended work stoppage since 1972. remained apart on the key er's office and union head­past 3:20 p.m. ET on The first game affected issues: levels for a luxury quarters on a gray. rainy Friday, the scheduled first would be St. Louis at tax and revenue sharing. day. trying to reach agree­pitch of the first game at Chicago, which is scheduled Other unresolved issues ment on a labor contract Wrigley Field. Loretta said to begin at 3:20 p.m. ET. were the owners' desire to before Friday's games. the players had not formal­Fourteen games are sched­fold two teams and the 
"We're just going to keep ly discussed the plan, but uled at night. expiration date of any new working," said Bob DuPuy, could if the sides seemed "We're not going to send settlement. 
IN BRIEF 

Mickelson to sit out said. "Though he had indicated to Mexico City in November. and all Canadian Open us earlier that he hoped to come, three endangered sports are vowing injuries do occur and we under­to fight for their Olympic status. Phil Mickelson will not play in stand that his health is a priority." Aldo Notari, the Italian president of the International Baseball
next week's Canadian Open after Federation, said Thursday he was
slightly injuring his back. 

Baseball leaders appeal to "surprised and worried" by the
Mickelson felt a twinge in his back while lifting luggage after IOC moves to get rid of his sport. 
"We have 113 countries officiallyreturning from the NEC Invitational playing baseball in the world," he

in Seattle earlier this week. Baseball's international federa­
told The Associated Press. "Now itMickelson spokesman T.R. Reinman tion is seeking urgent meetings in seems that the IOC Olympic pro­said the injury is not serious, but Lausanne, Switzerland with base­gram commission doesn't want todoctors recommended a few weeks ball leaders around the world to recognize it."

of rest. save the sport from being eliminat­Notari said he would call meet•Reinman said Mickelson had a ed, from the Olympics. 
ings with officials of internationalsimilar injury two years ago, and it Baseball is one of three sports, 

baseball, the U.S. Olympic

didn't last long. He's expected to along with softball and modern Committee, Major League Baseball, return in three weeks to play at the pentathlon, being recommended for 
players associations and pro

American Express Championship in removal from the summer games. 
leagues in Japan and other coun­

Ireland, followed by the Ryder Cup. Golf and rugby are being consid­Mickelson has not played in the ered for addition to the program. tries. 
"All the baseball officials must

Canadian Open since 1994 and was The International Olympic expected to be the top attraction at Committee executive board is work together to keep our sport on Angus Glen Golf Club near Toronto. studying the proposals made by its the program," he said. "We must 
. "Naturally we are disappointed program commission. make IOC members understand that Phil won't be joining us this No final decisions will be made why baseball cannot be excluded year," tournament director Bill Paul until the full IOC assembly in from the Olympic program." 




page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 30, 2002 
> 
I 
. 
.f . • . . 
i. 


~ 
~ 
\ 11. 
\ 

ow en:
.' 

n-am us ranc 




n e a or une 
. :.,... 
!-, .-: ~·-: .-, -·:z 


en en er! 

__ Hours
·:, ; ..:·.. 

Mopday-Wednesday 8:30am -5:00pm 
'(, 
i
',{' · ....
fl--~­
' 
:{ . 
:~ ~ Thursday & Friday :~ 
8:30am -7:00pm
t 
:~ 
I 
:~ 
! · . Plus, we oner 10 ATMs on camnusl 

', , ... ·~ 


. ' 
. ...... --. , .. 
. ' . 
-. ,· ~-'.
, 
:, .. 
. . . ;-.f. ._:; 
, 
., 
_,;,-~'.\: _:~_~·-,:· ~.:': ..
. ' .
' ! . 

I l 
p( ( ( ( 


f~ -/ 
NOTRE DAME 
!j( ( FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
) i ,./ 
H 574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
ij 1B Independent of the University
( ____________________________. 
. f 
i { ' (
(( ..,)
'., 
,.i 
-

Friday, August 30, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
I 
: For more information contact: .' Rick Donnelly, Dept of Film, Television, and Theatre, _108 Washington Hal~ Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (574) 631-5958 R1chard.E.Donnelly.4@nd.edu
interested in RHODES, MARSHALL, & MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIPS 
Prof. Brad Gibson will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on Sept. 2nd in Haggar 117 at 4:30 p.m. If you are unable to attend this meeting, information may be obtained at the Fellowship office in 99 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

• "' ,. ,._,~.,.,~~.-·~~to,~~•,,"l+.;l .. ~~--••,..~~~-•.·~~~._~-d,• ,~.......J~•,• .-,--~--.-• )._ ~!i' ;>~,i¾~-:i:'1-?.}~~~ ~?~~~~.::i~)~~~~fur~~~--~~-?~J5~~1:f:/~ ~;>. :}j{~;;~,t••'.·~~-;;},;~~·~:_;t';i'¥~·~i~:-;~1:f;~1~~-:~~~~-:~;~~'f,~~-1,Ki/t;~~:~"f!l~€~:"f ~-.tf;~~:i/!Ji:i;~F:~-~ :r.~ ~~J,~~;.f ~~f:f:~1',i;~{it¥f1!;:::-n.•,r~~:t~r~~,!.1
·i•:·.::)"'.·-3'::1;:.:.,,r:·:--,;,.. 
-;.-f:·t:··:: • ..:.·~•-;:-•:-·;:..,..t,~-;j"'.::-,,.··_._..• 7,"'.'t::· ;-.. .,, ,_-~'i.,·.·7; ..... :;·~}..., • .,...:,..1.}-...,,. ·•· ""'·;,r.·· ~•r~·G·"'a -."¥-e-:~~••,t~-. I..,::-.' 1· ..;
' ,,, ;, --,.,.. ,·.,. •.,-,. .,..,_n . • ,,., . • f c § ¼ ,.;.--, ....-. •• '\VVIi.aHI I , ,., 
i ~ -~~~-.J/
,t;;' • 't,....,.,:.i,. "t 
.it···.·.. ; '· ';•~;-,,•',...., J
·•. 't-2,·. ~ t::~.-~.;.·• ¼~-l'."' ,,·
,,,r ·:;,:,,\ m"'"''':.:·-..;• ftfJj,____ 
,i~:''" ~cl~';:-~

;• '-~.!:.·Ul,,..,:-_ ·;t.,. ~; • ••'::t' ,--~: 
rr.... ~yJt¢e";> '<':,~ ·: , 'it··•. ). ... ­
>h,•>,. ·•~·t,~ .,........ ., 'It'." ;tt, "'''ifl'". ' .
Ht.• · (:;;fl:..,_' !!! " • '1~:i' ::..;,$\ ~;.,,..;, ;i
;r-:g:f/':.;:-, · .... __ ,,:::-;:,..'f'-1 =~~.;r.t,,,\~:-:~:; ''!';:.~::~ 
... , .:c,Ji)".. ~~•--'." .... • -···'·~·:s•'••"•t ·-"~ .. -· 
·t

\~~;t~0-~r .(~,!Pt:,;_~~:~ ,? ·:;;r&::f:l1~:~:~-~.~lJi~{lt ~i}-:\
J:!,~11:-~~ · ?J...~,.::::;l~~ ~IIINM•lll111lltl!llf!~ t1bix~1,i:~:;.,. ~:·-r~1~t-'; u~,~
·.;..71-.:_t~,.~,.;,• . ~P_; i. ~'1-~'<::I ~. :;; i.•;-:..,,..;.-~~~~ •-i<>',':·-..,, ":~.:• ·..1:,.. ~ 
;;_.,-• .,,<,·~...·, ,,•.. ~·.;;..;., • •~ ,,.••·.l'....}•..-:•.•·li; :::-;:-,!f••.,,n,-:•,t;,,1. ~--~ , .: . · ~ -•-.1~:e.:-~'?:5~; ;:-._;7~.... ~ ~"! .;1,:;.,:.;;; L: ;µ.~,;_ ~ i>,Jf,:;; -:.: ;·.,
~.y , .........~.-·~,, ... ;.... ),;._ .. ~ -,.~ ~,.,..,.,.,"<· .:.:-~..,,.,..,_ ::,)!· •., . ---· 
il.. ,<; ~..--..'"'·~-li:!,;.., ....'lf~,s'..tr.r~~1:~..1;-... -~~ .. :... •· .. r----... ·11111!11P-lt'.!9!'! t E -~-t:h·..:: ';?",;._:;.;;.It. ...,,:_,.t, ~-~ .... , 
r~{~ :,i~{~/r~.:,';.:~+Y\;-.'J fa-}:t~l~· ;~·;iit:t;;J~~,lfi;· •~ \t'J)t.:ff\l1~:.E~ ;~?~;/} ~-;;\
.....,,j,;j,....."!":. 

.._,,. i ;'\.::.~:!... ~~"iP.!..: -~r.... :... ~~,.,,.,:-l'r'... 1~...: -~r~--r:-.. ,,_.,._111 •:,, ".:if'J~~\ <•...,·---t,;: !:'Jj"'..J41" .._...~I"":<~:.....!... 
-~-:. ..u-.....,tk"" -.... -...:i<•-·-w, .-!'..l. • ~ -\;' • \../; ,-t'.•,t, ;.'Ii.,,._·,.:,,.;•.~~~. :.;-!,•r,i; ·.;..1
~::--lir ." • .'I/ 
.....·..;,':,:.1,.,1:,;·~-c ..•=!•·•:..; :1­

-~::. . ..::.. · . -. ·ti•i•i~~N~lf _Jj:. ·i_;t;~~~~~?;i~~~r:;~:/i
... • -. . , • • , . ,. • -'-.•i;:r><~,...,. •••, .•,_ ,;.~ , ...,_.,.,1. ~--.!.":!'""..·,... , •:
t~1t. ~. -~?tt•~~;;.. ~".~·~ -~;-il~J!"J;;.~, .,..~•, _·~ ::itl:-;·p~ti.:~-~~tfr.~~~t{J;_\}
<(<.,.,-.,-. · ·,"''"• · :-,, .. ~..-<'. · ••~,.;,tA-~ ~ .••._,.,i•;:;• o..~.':f"·-~'i,_:,.:· :..,-,"';;.::·•,->'!'·•;"
itt~4~!~t lfi..s;rf t~i __.tt.~ ;~t.-~r#t/Yf:tiJ~t~r1~1~t{it
-!.'· • ,·,~ -.,,..,.J. ~..!,_-=.-,.. ,..,_,_,.,~--... ~:~.,lit. ..~•-~,,,,'::, t-~-:-~'1i,.. ., ·;'.r.. '$',,.,...'/_.,.., J;;:~.;.-,-.~ ·,~-.. ,-'1i:\,"' ~.•.~' '.,.,,,,,.,~.
t~~~t:5~t~;~~\..:~.:~fi:~~•;{~:-?-.f-~2.J::r ··-:it,t;,;}~f.gt[J~ttJ1~:?t~~~~··;_:>. -·· ·~ .~. -::.~~'i:-~";,.·· {'.~ /,-.:.:~tt~l!t~i.~,(t~t~~-~-:?? ·~:-.!1-f~:."h/c:..:;.J::~·-'
" , , .•,, -. ,.•.,•,. ·-.;·,· .,....,__• .,,,~. ••·""'• .. .._ _.,..,.z,)'j,;,;,-,•:;;.:,~·.,,,. ~.#;,t.~ ··, •• ~..~~~<,:"~ ·"'-" •·• J~;:.. ,"'--.,. ¥ 'l!'''·•'J':.,-~ ••,. •·':i,' •~'. , ?.•• ..,'J, ~ 1 ·· .· • .,-a.. ·-~ .· ' •... , 
'"-~~ 

·.-·-· --:_:~. '?: ".=·:· '. . . ' :. . . -' .· . -~ -'.~·:·_;~;-._-.-..::::.. ·..·.•:.. ·_;_~-.• ' .:·_'.:.:-.~ :~ ,:/ • ---.·.:~:.--:r'I.:~... 
-·~ ::..• . -~ . __ ... --:, .:. --~·-· ·7:.. -'"'~ · "· -.·_: --·· ., .. ~ --~~ -···-. ·:·-~> :; a ..,...._
·t~\)__-,.:·._:.,· .--,~-:~.~ --~'· ~./,::-::·a.:---~, · -:,,.. ·· ,:}.··.. ···-·---.--. · -_··-.. · ....__ _____· ?M
..~~ a_··-•--=-_. 
.....~.... ­

~ ·~· ',·--·----------·:·_,,..·· . .. ___ .. ·--------•· ~ ---.... ~---·--:.-.. --•· --. ____ .._..... _
I =· ····--~-·-.... _. ·· ... _,._..__ ._ .. ·---· .·-· --···-·~--· -~·-··-----------·':·_ 
MENS SOCCER 
Team's season looks bright 
ed in exhibition games during goals from Rafael Garcia, Greg
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
the summer. Notre Dame fin­Martin, Devon Prescod and
Sports Editor 
ished a two-week tour of Justin Detter. Scotland in early August with a The only starters the Irish
The Irish mens soccer team 4-0-1 record playing against lost from last year's squad arekicks off its 2002 season this both professional and semi-pro­defenders Andreas Forstner
weekend in the Diadora 
fessional teams, outscoring and Griffin Howard. The teamChallenge in Omaha, Neb. 
opponents 18-3. returns its top six scorers.
Notre Dame will play Last weekend at Alumni With a year of ~xperience
Southwest Missouri State in its Field, the Irish won a pair of with second-year coach Bobbyseason-opener Saturday and 
exhibition matches against Clark, the Irish look to continue
will wrap up the tournament 
Bethel and Michigan,. 5-1 and the climb in the national soccerwith a match against No. 19 4-1, respectively.· 
rankings that they began a yearCreighton. 
In the first game, 2001 lead­ago.
Notre Dame enters the sea­
ing scorer Erich Braun netted After the tournament this 
son ranked No. 23 by Soccer all five goals for the Irish weekend, the Irish return forAmerica following last year's 
against Bethel. Braun, the their home opener on Sept. 7
12-7 performance that culmi­senior tri-captain has been hot against Big East opponent
nated with the team's first 
during the preseason, netting Seton Hall at Alumni Field. 
appearance in the NCAA 
nine of the team's 28 goals.
Tournament in five years. 
In the match against
The Irish will hope to contin­Michigan, the Irish displayed a Contact Chris Federico at ue the play they've demonstrat­
more balanced attack, getting cfederic@nd.edu 
ATTENTION SENIORS 

Join the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre for 
A TALE OF TWO CITIES 
A 16-day Theatre/Art Tour to London & Paris Friday, December 27, 2002 -Sunday, January 12, 2003 Last day to register: October 23, 2002 -or until tour is filled 
Join us for a Theatre/Art tour to London (7 nights) and Paris (8 nights), or choose just London. The tour includes a balance of theatre performances, museum visits, and sightseeing -with ample free time. 
The trip is open to students, parents, faculty, staff, and community members 
Single, Double, and Triple Rooms available 
THE TOUR INCLUDES: -Roundtrip transportation from Notre Dame -7 nights Mornington Hotel (Lancaster Gate) -Buffet Breakfast -8 nights Hotel la Beaugency -Continental Breakfast -Tube and bus passes in London and Paris -4 plays/musicals in London -Round trip transportation to Canterbury for a guided tour -Tour of New Globe Theatre, National Gallery, Tate Gallery -One-way ticket on Euro Star to Paris 
-Theatre ticket in Paris -Evening at the Moulin Rouge -Tour of the Paris Opera House, Louvre, Orsay Museum -Day trip to Versailles 






"" 
E"'ery Saturday trom 10:00pm to 1:00am in the Huddle in LaFortune Student Center 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information con-tact the St"udent" Activit"ies at 631 -7308. 

--~------------------------------,¦ 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 30, 2002 


Irish 
continued from page 24 
Joyce, who prefer a long warm­up period, didn't enjoy the on­the-spot playing as much as the sophomores did. But the young members of the team flourished, even under the changed condi­tions. McGraw tried some new offensive schemes, one of which involved letting whomever got the ball try to score. 
"Alicia was one of the leading scorers, then Kelsey was or Katie was," McGraw said. "We had a lot of different people, and that's the good thing about this team is the balance ... I think what the sophomore class learned was that I need to be more aggressive· scoring ... They're capable of scoring. so I think this season you will see them." 
Although she was playing with a knee brace, sophomore Jackie Batteast was finally back at full strength. After a knee injury sidelined her in the middle of the season for several games, Batteast struggled to play at peak form. But when she hit the courts in Italy. she was back. 

"She played with the brace, but she looked great," McGraw said. "In the last game, she just took over the game." 
Batteast scored 23 points in that game. 
In addition, McGraw saw some other young members of the team stepping up. 
"Katy Flecky came out and shot on the perimeter," McGraw said. "She ran the floor, she looked great." 
Although Flecky and fellow teammate Theresa Borton found themselves in foul trouble more than once, and teammates were jokingly referring to Flecky as the "Euro-hacker," McGraw was very impressed with the overall improvement her young team showed. 
"Those five really played well," McGraw said. "That was good." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

Are you a Notre Dame undergraduate student interested in tailgating? 
If so, be sure to check out the Student Tailgate web site at: 
www.nd.edu/~tailgate/ 
On the site, you'll find: Joyce Parking 
¦ On-Line Application to host 


EDISOIROAO 
tailgate (available 8 a.m. Mon.) 
¦ 
Policies 

¦ 
Frequently Asked Questions 

¦ 
Map (Blue Field So. -"radio towers") · 

¦ 
Home Football Schedule ofEvents 


In order to apply, you will need: 
¦ Your AFS ID 

¦ Auto make/model/license plate number N/A=Non-alcohol entrance A=Alcohol entrance 
¦ 
ND decal number (if the car to be used has one) 


¦ 
Names ofup to 3 co-hosts. (Host and co-hosts must be ND students. Ifalcohol will be served, host and all co-hosts must be 21.) 

¦ 
Access to a printer 



NOTE: The web site will be available throughout the football season: however. the on-line application will only be aYailable from 8:00 a.m. Monday until 6:00 
a.m. Thursday in the week preceding each home game. You will only be able to apply for the current week's game. Not all applications may be approved. Hangtag pickup will be Fridays from 10-3 (3rd Floor Lafortune). Graduate students are not required to register (see web site for details). 
Questions? E-mail tailgate@nd.edu. 
The 2002 Football Student Registration process is a joint collaboration between the Office ofResidence Life and Housing and the Student Activities Office. 



,( 

-



Friday, August 30, 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish begin season at Shamrock Invitational 



rotating its defensive special­
7!Uf ,~·
?'b>~u«it! ~ . 
fresh baked and buttery-topped with cinnamon 

LOOKING TO BE 
ists into the game to improve
sugar. Complete with aside of vanilla topping.Mmmm...try some toda ! 
their defense. Senior tri-cap­

PART OF A GROUP? 
tains Janie Aldrete and Keara Coughlin and junior Christa 
Medium Pizia 
Cheese & 1Topping * 
Moen will be used in the new libero position. 
"It definitely helps our team because it allows us to have better defensive players and ball-control players on the
--,, 


court a larger percentage of the time," Brown said. "We
.]
• 
can replace our two most inexperienced players with our two most experienced
Large Pizza 
defensive specialists. It allows 

Cheese & 1Topping 

more flexibility in substitut­ing."
• The new rule also changes the style of play on the court. 
"It is a little bit different. It makes the passing a little bit
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
different on both sides of the

AIR FORCE ROTC net," said Fletcher, the 2001
52750 IN 633 .......574-243-1122 
Shamrock Invitational MVP.
Now Open Until 3:00am Friday &Saturday! 
Tournament the past four sea­sons and prove to be a worthy season-opening opponent for

PARK JEFFERSON APARTMENTS 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
A taller, deeper, but inexpe­rienced Notre Dame volleyball team opens its march toward an 11th consecutive NCAA 

No Qlupon Necessary Plus Tax. FREE DELMRY. 
$7.00 Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With Any 
Other Otter. Valid On~ At listed Marco's Pizza 
Locations. Expires 12-15-02. 
~ allj li:ll ACCEmD HER£ 
Must prlliide credit card riformation n ordering for de!M!ry 
V•it ua on the Web at www.marcoa.com 02002 Marco's. Inc. 2682-802 
LOCATION 
11 
LOCATION. LOCATION! 
"We are able to run a quicker
Serving Bethel College 

Make your decisionl 
offense, but it is also harder to 
326 N. lronwood ...574-243-1111 
defend since the other team 
Corner of Ironwood & McKinley 

Contact: 1Lt. Alan Acree@ 631-467 can pass faster." 
Kathy Litzau coachesHAVING A BIG PARTY? -Wisconsin-Milwaukee and
or acree.1@nd.edu
WE CAN CATER YOUR EVENT! returns to Notre Dame, where ­
~ ' ~' l.. -'. 
she had a successful career in 
the mid-80s. The Panthers 
have qualified for the NCAA 
the Irish. Cal-Poly coach Steve Schlick also returns to Notre Dame 

-Now accepting deposits for 1 & 2 bedroom apartments this weekend. Schlick worked 
as a top assistant for the Irish 

-Spacious apartments with two full baths from 1990 to 1995. 
"With Wisconsin-Milwaukee, -Rents starting at $466 per month we need to make adjustments 
in the match as we go on and learn how to make adjust­
-Located on bus line 
ments," Brown said. "We will 

-Within minutes from the University & shopping have no game tape prior to 
that match. -Ask about our rent specials! "Cincinnati and Cal Poly 
both return five starters. -Come in now to reserve for next school year! Cincinnati has a good defense 
Park Jefferson Apartments 3001 E. Jefferson Blvd. South Bend. IN 46615 
574-232-3333 
www.parkjcffcrson.com 
Tournament appearance this players at least 5-feet-11 to weekend as they host the replace the graduated seniors. Shamrock Invitational. One volleyball magazine 
After graduating the starting ranked the Irish freshmen front row from last year's class third in the nation and team, coach Debbie Brown another publication ranked it compiled a nationally ranked fifth. recruiting class filled with six vVith the added depth pro­
vided by the freshmen comes inexperience. The Irish have only three seniors, and nine team members are under­classmen. 
"The balance between the seniors and freshmen is differ­ent this year," junior Kim Fletcher said. "But it's really exciting [to start the season], and we are going to have a great time this year." 
The new-look Irish are eager to finally be facing somebody other than themselves after a summer filled with intrasquad scrimmages. 
"We want to get out and play. We have only been scrimmaging against our­selves," Brown said. "We want 
tion. Notre Dame plans on
,,. -u• I M-3 
and is strong serving. Cal-Poly is a good blocking team. They had an individual player in the top five in the country and I think they were top 10 in blocking as a team."
21 MILES No. 25 Notre Dame plays at 7 p.m. Friday and Saturday and at 3:30 p.m. Sunday. All of
.,~i-i< 
the games are at the Joyce Center.
Not'lliI~rJ~ME! 

our young players to be tested Even with two untested in match situations. We want freshmen in the starting line­to win the tournament and up, Brown feels confident that think the competition will be her team will be ready for the good. We want to get comfort­challenges that lie ahead. able with playing the starting "I am not worried because of 
lineup we have decid­ed on and "/ am not worried to get the 
because ofthe great 

key subs 
scrimmages we have had

some play­ing time." in preseason. I know it is Starting 
different in a live match, 

for Notre 
but I feel they have been 

Dame this weekend tested well.,. on the front row are 
Debbie Brown

junior set­
Irish coach

ter Kristen Kinder and outside hit­
ters junior Jessica Kinder and plays in the back row and can­sophomore Emily Loomis. In not serve, spike or block the the back, junior Katie Neff and ball. freshmen Lauren Brewster Creating the new position and Lauren Kelbley will earn serves as an advantage to the start. teams because substituting the 
libero into the game does not count as an official substitu­the great scrim· mages we have had in presea­son," the coach said. "I know it is different in a live match, but I feel they have been tested well." 
A change this year involves the libero posi­tion. This defen­sive specialist wears a differ­ent color jersey, 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 





page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, August 30, 2002 

would be like telling [Notre ignite the Irish attack from the Dame mens basketball coach] midfield.
Soccer 

Mike Brey to play Duke with­"Amy Warner and Randi continued from page 24 out [point Scheller were guard] really good this the first time the Irish have C h r i s "We want to come out last weekend ever played the Hokies. Thomas," [against North
strong this weekend. We 

Despite the relative obscuri­Wald rum Carolina and
need to set the standard 

ty of their opponents, the Irish s a i d . Kentucky]." said players plan to focus on their "We're in the Big East again.·· Waldrum. "Amy own play before worrying going to has her fitness about the unknown playing be very and speed back
Ashley Dryer 

styles of their opponents. young, but from her fresh­
Irish captain

"We want to come out strong o u r man year, while this weekend. We need to set younger Randi will step the standard in the Big East players into the national again," captain Ashley Dryer have really come along in the picture this year. We hope said. "We have a lot of fresh­preseason. Because of the "Guerty" can have a repeat of men in the program this year. injuries, these younger players last year. I look for her to These games will be a good have had the opportunity to score a lot of goals again for opportunity to integrate them step up and really help us." us this year." into our style of play. To be Another question mark for BRIAN PUCEVICH/fhe Observer honest, we do not know very-­the Irish entering this week­Contact Joe Licandro at An Irish player slide tackles her teammate in practice this much about our opponents end's games is the starting licandro. l@nd.edu summer at the fields along Edison Road. even though they are in our goalie. The Irish must replace conference, but we need to two-year starter Liz Wagner 
I I
focus more on ourselves." from last year's squad. Junior ·------------------------------------· 
Notre Dame will not be play­Lauren Kent and heralded ing at full strength this week­freshman Erika Bohn are still 

: I Have you thought about : I 
end. Pruzinsky, forward battling for the starting posi­Melissa Tancredi and midfield­tion. er Mary Boland are not Kent has seen extremely lim­

: I teaching Religion and : I 
expected to return to action ited playing time over the past I I this weekend after sustaining two years while serving as I I pre-season injuries, and Wagner's backup. The starter Gudrun Gunnarsdottir's avail­for Friday's game against 
I becoming a Catechist? I 
ability for the weekend is also Providence will be a game I I a question mark. time decision, but both players I I To make are expected to matters see action. 
! •• !
worse, "Playing without players "We have not 

I (6MPUS I
highly tout­yet made a deci­
like Gunna, Vanessa and 

I tv11NISTRY I
ed fresh­sion on the goal­

Candace would be like I I 
man Annie keeping situa­

I * Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? ¦
Schefter is telling [Notre Dame mens tion," said expected to Waldrum. " We : * Can you give one~two hours ofyour time each week? :
basketball coach] Mike 

miss the want to find ¦ * Do you welcollze the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? ¦
Brey to play Duke 

entire sea­someone who I * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? ¦ 
son after a without Chris Thomas. ,, will give us con­

: * Would you like to work towards catechist certification? : 
severe ACL sistency. Neither injury. Two one separated I I
Randy Waldrum 

o t h e r themselves from I I expected Irish coach the other. The I I defensive battle is still I If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, I 
starters, on." 

sophomore Candace Chapman While defense and goalkeep­I come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. I I I
and freshman Katie ing are the two primary con­

I I
Thorlakson, are currently cerns for Notre Dame as the 

I I
competing with the Canadian team enters the season, the 

I I
national team at the under-19 Irish will look to their offense World Championships. Both to carry them to victory this : Important InJ:ormational Meeting: I players will miss Friday's weekend. Junior forwards game, but their status for Amanda Guertin and Warner : Thursday, September 5 I Sunday's game is still up in will be expected to carry the the air. scoring load this season, while I 5:00-6:00 P.M. = 

The injuries and absences junior Randi Scheller and have been so devastating that Dryer will be relied upon to : Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center : the Irish may be forced to play I I this weekend with a starting I I 
I I
defensive line completely dif­ferent from last year's. 

Waldrum hopes this last week II Call .John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 : I 
of practice, coupled with the 

I I
experience of the exhibition games will remedy last week­

·-----------------------------------~~ 
end's defensive mishaps and acclimate some of the new players to the system. 
"Playing without players like 
Aperfect meeting place
Gunn a, Vanessa and Candace, 
throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday D.uing 
ND. Home Football Weekends. 

Everyone Welcome 
Live Music Fridays, 2 -6p.m. 
Grilled Burgers,Brats, and Other Specialties 
f\ 
tii\!!!i!l 
Cold Beverages & Spirits f.t:t: 60" Screen TV's Fully EnclosedTent ~~~~ 
11

1 631-2000
liii !~.l.i_!.:.:.i.l_l.i.1.·•.:.i.:.1...!_•.1.1.•.·~-··.l.,l.·. 1.I.\.i.:i.l.i.l.1.i.i.!..:.[.i.\.i.!.i·i.1.1..·.·.•.•1.•..1.,.\.••.•.;·;·;·,···.·•.·.·.·•····•·:.~.:.·• 

next to the N.D. Bookstore. www.themorrisinn.com
:1t~/ffeiltit't 



.' . 

Friday, August 30, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 

J BE[P ntgrvtlL.. BEEP ' 

BEEP 
i
•"""6---.i 
HENRl ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRJON 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GUJED 
j
I I r t J 
C2002 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
T~r~··1 
I r J 

I NEEGIN j 

form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer; 
HE "( I I I I I )" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Ysesterday' I Jumbles: BISON MINUS SUPERB DAHLIA Answer: When the zoo built a monkey house, the crowds grew by -LEAPS AND BOUNDS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To order, Hnd your name, llddrHa and $5.115 •nd make check payabla to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 6068M330. 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  34 Signature piece  54 Alabama and  
1 E.T.0. commander 4 Go against 8 Cool daddy  35 Musical evenings 36 Do ground work?  Georgia Indians of old 55 Gets 56 Tentacled sea creatures  
14 Connected sets of points, in math  37 "Women Ironing" artist 39 It was left on  57 Keep in 58 Soak (up)  
16 Builder of a  the Titanic  
hanging nest  40 TV newswoman  DOWN  
17 "Feed me!"  Beth  1 Early seventh­ 
18 Charge 19 "Measure for Measure" villain 20 "Funny Girl" actor 21 Packer's employer 23 Chuckleheads 24 Kitchen device  41 Like some ballerinas 42 "0 Sanctissima," e.g. 45 Tries to shoot 47 Descent of a deity to earth 49 Peter who wrote "Live From the  century year 2 Term of address in a monastery 3 Touching up 4 Problem drinker 5 Half of the Odd Couple 6 Order that a cook never gets straight  
25 Prepares for  Battlefield"  7 Huge hit  56  
frying, in a way  50 Some 1990's  
29 Runner Zatopek  music  46 Words with  
30 Police actions  51 Eh  39 Ancient Roman  clear or air  
magistrate  48 Friend in  
41 Ready already  -Friends"  
49 Cuckoos  
44 Tore  53 Recipe amt.  
~~~~~  21 Brunch serving  
....+...+,,...,.... .,,.,,+~~  22 Like guns 26 Supersized 27 Like some valuable property  Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).  
.,,...."'l'+~!!!"'t"l~-:1  28 Cousins of  Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network,  
banjos  nytimes.com/leaming/xwords.  

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIE5 BORN ONTIDS DAY: Kitty Wells, R Gurrt>, Eliza.octhAshley, Lisa Ling, Carmoo Diaz Happy Birthday: You should be able to achieve both recognition and financial security. Your confidence level should be up, ensuring your ability to dazzle ~with yoorattributes and mative ability. Yoo will Ix: shrewd when it comes to business and able to cut deals that will be in your best interest. Your honesty will pay off. Your numbers are 4, 19, 28, 33, 41, 47 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Expect to get something interesting in the mail. You will probably get a lot of phone calls today. Listen to the advice you gel fiunsm1ecre yoo resJX!dand tru5t * * • • 
ThURUS(Apil20-May20):Yoostnik:llx:abletomake~ 
ctiangcs ~yoor future directicn Rx::us en yoor rrofessicml er financial goals. Opportunities to make gains are apparent. Don't hold yourself 
wck."ktt GEMINI (May21-Jllllf20): Use acticns nl'iteadci wcro; ifyoo have trouble expressing yourself. If someone has impressed you, do something nice in return. Ifyoo smre yoor criginal ideas, yoo will get 1mnoffire 
grooirl *'1rlf 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should be dealing with money matters and any issues that arise at home. Communications can solve many problems if you are open and to the point. Sudden changes regarding an investment could 
fllY offoow. 1'tt 
LEO (July 2."-Aug. 22): Get involved in activities that will bring you in contact with interesting individuals. You can gain support if you use your charm to persuade others to follow your ideas and beliefs. Relationships or partnerships 
alJ1 Ix: fcrmulated tcx:lay. *'*'1rif VIRGO (Aug. 2.~22): It will Ix: difficultto oomplete yoor wok. Consider the changes you · Jn make to enhance yourself. Career options should Ix: qJetling up SOJ1 and yoo w:int to Ix: at yoor rest wren trey dl. ** LIBRA (Sept. 2.l-Oct. 22): You'll be feeling great about your abilities and your future. Educational pursuits or anything that will bring you greater knowledge will be a draw. Changes concerning friendships and social activities will be 
lx:neficial. **'*'*'* 
SCORPIO (Od.23-Nov. 21): Putyoorti.m: n!effotinro investments, fixing up your home and getting involved in groups that can offer yoo SlJPIXIl. Yoor secretive nature will be intriguing. 1'tt SAGITrARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Emotional matters can be resolved if you are loving, affectionate and generous. Your concern with environmental issues will lead you to new groups and acquaintances. Socializing should be on your
~tt• 
CAPRICORN (Doc. 22-Jan.19): \fuksoouk:I Ix: yoorµirre an:em today. If you don't have a job, it is a gocx:I time to look for one or to volunteer fa-a WClthy cause. D:n\ let ywrselfget nm cbwn. '1rlf* AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-F. • 18): Yoorcreative~to life and everything you do will attract a lot of attention. Don't be afraid to show your wclk er talk alnJt yoor iools. Yoo will be well receiva:l. ** * * * 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Steer clear of debates, arguments, disputes or any other kind of negative encounter at home today. Do not try to deal with older relatives or any kind of contractual work that will change your living qti.111tn. tt Birthday Baby: You were born with great wisdom and you want to put it to ~tR rigj1 away. Yoo will be \fflalile. ronrrunicative nl inlereslro injustatmt every1hing. Oieck oot Eugenia's Web Sites ata51roodvice.o:m. eu~a:m. a5tnrnare.mn 
rnPYRICTITT:m2 l INTVFRSALPRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receiye The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ____________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

. Irish finish summer tour with 3-1 record 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish ended the summer with more than some new plays. 
As June began, coach Muffet McGraw and her team had something complete­ly new to add to their list of basketball experiences -dribbling in Italian. Or more appropriately put, playing bas­ketball in Italy under some new rules, with refs speaking a different language and with a whole scrapbook full of new 

I~ team memories. "The objective was we wanted to do something with a young team," said McGraw. "Traveling overseas and see­ing a different lifestyle was, I thought, really educational I think for the team.and for me." The Irish spent two weeks in Italy and France, ending their European tour with a 3-1 record. Headed by
i!i.)x'
I 
McGraw, who had never travelled to I ¥ Europe before, the Irish traveled to
:.I~
I > 
cities such as Niece, France, Venice, 

:,I , 
Milan, Bologna and Como, Italy. 

,: The Irish opened their European tour with a 79-63 win against Acquarino Palestrina and ended the trip with an 82-76 victory against Pool Comense 1872. But the wins and losses weren't the focus of the trip. What was'? 

Friday, August, 30, 2002 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 

Taking Europe by storm 
"The shopping," McGraw said. "We shopped our way across Italy.'' 
Most days for the Irish involved more than just basketball. The team had a chance to ride the gondolas in Venice, visit St. Peter's in Rome and view the Alps in Como. 
But when thev were involved in bas­ketball, the Irish had the opportunity to try some new things they wouldn't nor­mally have been able to try during the season. 
"It was, ·1 want to try this, and if it doesn't work, I can throw it away'," McGraw said. "You can't do that in the season, you have to know what you're going to do." 
Since there were already differences in the playing style, not knowing exact­ly what they were going to do didn't seem detrimental to the Irish. Italian­speaking opponents weren't the only difference for the Irish playing in Italy. The lanes were wider, substitution rules were different and the ball was bigger. 
Because of playing style and rules in Italy, there was no time for the Irish to warm up before the games. After get­ting lost a few times, McGraw said, the team would arrive at the arena, get the ball and get under way. 
"The facilities were horrible," McGraw said. "But we'd get to the gym and they say •oK, let's play.' " 
Senior Alicia Hatay and junior Jeneka 
see IRISH/page 20 



WOMENS SOCCER 

Irish to begin season with conference games 

. Program hopes to add 8th straight Big East Conference title 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Sports Writer 
After a month of grueling practices and two tough exhi­bition games last weekend, the Notre Dame womens soc­cer team is ready to begin its quest for a trip to the Final Four. 
The No. 7 Irish open the 2002 regular season this weekend with two pivotal Big East contests. 
Today, the Irish travel to Providence, R.I., to take on the Friars. Two days later, the Irish will return home to host the Virgina Tech llokies for a Sunday afternoon clash. 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum hopes his team will use the games to re-establish supremacy in the Big East. Since joining the conference in 1995, Notre Dame has won seven straight Big East Championships. 

"We need to re-establish our dominance in the Big East this weekend," Waldrum said. "I thought we had a very strong pre-season in certain areas ,especially offensively. "Ultimately, I was extremely proud of the effort given by the girls in the pre-season and that some real leadership has started to emerge among our veterans particularly Ashley Dryer, Amy Warner, and Randi Scheller." 
Notre Dame last played Providence in 1998 when the Irish trounced the Friars 8-0. Virginia Tech is new to the Big East this year in womens soc­cer. Sunday's game will mark 
see SOCCER/page 22 
VOLLEYBALL 
MENS SOCCER 
FOOTBALL
t--I.I.I 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame at 

Notre Dame at Maryland
Shamrock 
Diadora
a:i 
Invitational 
Challenge 
Saturday 7 p.m.
c:, ~ 
All weekend 
All weekend 

The Irish travel to East Rutherford, N.J., to take on Maryland in the Kickoff Classic. The game marks the
a.. cs: 
The Irish start season 
Team to open play in 

first of Notre Dame's season and the first of the Tyrone Willingham era. The Irish hope to improve on last 
Omaha,Neb.
as tournament hosts. 

year's 5-6 record by opening their season with a win over the Terps.
en ti 
page 21 
page 19 

Insider 

~,;.., 
,~-~: 

-·:·',~-~­
J 

espite enduring the 
rockiest off-season in 
ollege football, the Irish 
claim they are more of a 
feam than ever. 

ut is that enough? 
<·-photo illlustration by BRIAN PUCEVICH and KATIE McKENNA 




page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 30, 2002 
Tradition worth bell----• tn• 
Why believe? 
Why believe in a team kicked around more than a soccer ball during the off-sea­son, a team that shou]d be talking about a winning season, not a national champi­onship? 
Why believe in players who watched The Associ­ated Press give them a meager three votes in the preseason poll, one ahead of toilet-bowl­worthy Bowling Green and Boise State and two votes ahead of Sun Belt powerhouse Middle Tennessee State? 
Why believe the Irish seniors, who have endured two losing seasons in three years, can transform their careers, their tradition, their legacy from forgettable to respectable? 
Why believe Tyrone Willingham can awaken the echoes, when Notre Dame insultingly appears headed straight for a level on college football's pantheon usually reserved for teams like Purdue or Ohio State ­schools that are good, but that struggle to reach great­ness. 
Why believe this team has a shot? 

and forget about every bad thing  fznd a die hard who lost his enthusiasm for Notre  academic reasons, players  
that has  Dame. Look for a fan who  booted for  
happened to Notre Dame during the  doesn't believe the Irish will return to greatness.  criminal reasons, players  
off-season.  Discover someone who  booting  
Instead, they'll remember  isn't filled with optimism. Right next the them.  themselves to other schools­ 
the lore of Rockne, Leahy and Parseghian.  you'llfind Elvis. Amelia Earhart and good dining hall food.  wonderful fodder for a Michigan fan. Pious  
They'll hear  Notre Dame  
7-11 and  had been  

think Heisman trophy winners caught eating meat on a and national championships, Friday. not Slurpees. They'll think But find a die-hard who lost back to the days when the his enthusiasm for Notre Four Horseman stood out­Dame. Look for a fan that lined against a blue-gray doesn't believe the Irish will October sky and swept Army return to greatness. Discover over the precipice at the Polo someone who isn't filled with Grounds. optimism. Right next to them, 
Notre Dame is a funny you'll find Elvis, Amelia place. The saying, "Nowhere Earhart and good dining hall else but Notre Dame" is strik­food. ingly accurate. Few institu­Notre Dame teams can lose. tions receive criticism for fail­They can fall short of expecta­ing like Notre Dame does. tions. But when the season is over, the Dome is still gold, Touchdown Jesus hasn't cov­ered his eyes, Corby is still waiting for the punt and the date of the next game is already circled on the calen­dar. 
That's when Notre Dame fans start clamoring "Wait 'till next year." They wait, excite­ment coiled tighter than a spring, expectation waiting like a tiger for his prey. 
And when game time rolls around, everything explodes. 
Saturday night, Irish fans across America will buckle themselves in for a wild 12­game roller coaster ride. They'll analyze, criticize, hypothesize and say they can do a better job than Tyrone Willingham. They'll rip every aspect of the Irish team that stinks, call for the head of the position coach and bemoan everything about college foot­ball in South Bend. 
But Saturday afternoon, those same armchair quarter­backs believe anything is pos­sible. The family of four mak­ing its first trip to campus believes. The 80-year-old Irish immigrant believes. The subway alum believes. The helmet-painting manager believes. The stadium-sweep­ing janitor believes. The Internet junkie believes. The campus believes. 
Why believe? 
Why not? 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 

game hype 
Because when the Irish charge out of the tunnel Saturday night with gold hel­mets glinting under the glare of thousands of flashbulbs 
and the watchful eye of 
national television cameras 
capturing their every move, 
they'll captivate the nation 
once again. 
Around 7 p.m. Notre Dame time, Irish fans will flip on the television, turn to ABC, see Brent Musberger waxing poetic, watch the Irish warm­ing up in their white road uniforms That's life as the deity of foot­ball tradition. 
The American populace can be divided into two groups ­those who love Notre Dame and those who hate Notre Dame. There's no gray area, no room for the faint of heart to straddle a fence. Pick your side and stick with it. 
Those who love to hate Notre Dame have plenty of reason to laugh at the other group. NCAA sanctions, the Fiesta Bowl debacle, the coaching scandal, players 
booted for 

Carlyle Holiday Irish quarterback 
..There are a lot ofguys who will have their hands on the ball.'' 

Scooter Monroe Comhusker receiver 
..I may be like Steve {Spurrier] and say you'll find out[who the starter is] when the guy takes the field.,, "/ know we have to start out fast out there and we have to get the season off to a good 

start.,, 


Arnaz Battle Irish receiver 
"I'm looking at this game like we 'fl be playing against our scout team.,, 


Friday, August 30, 2002 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Staying focused 
Despite a tumultous ojf­season, Notre Dame's focus remains locked on the game 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
By all rights, Notre Dame defies 
reason. 
It boggles the mind to imagine 
that the team that endured the 
most difficult off-season in col­
lege football is just that -a team. 
However, Irish players claim that 
they are closer now than they 
have ever been. 
Ac; the Irish prepare to take on 
Maryland Saturday, as Tyrone 
Willingham gets ready to make 
his Notre Dame debut, as the 
pro-style offense moves from Xs 
and Os to actual plays on the 
field, the Irish are arguably more 
united now than at any point in 
their careers. 
Granted, it is the preseason. 
Granted, hope springs eternal 
under a new coach. Granted, 
every tradition-rich institution 
opens the season thinking nation­
al championship. 
Rut those teams didn't have to 
endure eight months of intense 
scrutiny and constant criticism. 
Those teams didn't resist every 
opportunity to fracture apart and 
become separate individuals. 

"Imagine, if you will, that this team has taken everything that has happened to it and somehow turned it into a positive," Willingham said. "I know that may not be believable, and it doesn't make for interesting writ­ing, unfortunately. But somehow, the negative has been turned into a positive." 
A year to forget 
For the Irish, 2001 opened with a crushing 41-9 loss to Oregon State in the Fiesta Bowl. It ended with Willingham signing a six­year contract. In between, nobody really knows what went wrong. All they know is Notre Dame finished 5-6 -its second losing season in three years -and the former head coach headed for an ESPN broadcasting booth. 
"When we reached the Fiesta Bowl in the BCS, I think we kind of thought we were there as a team, and now it's time to reap the benefits as individuals," line­backer Courtney Watson said. "Now we realize, after what we've gone through last season and this off-season, that's not it at all. It's all about us as a team and a coaching staff." 
The Irish didn't run into the 2001 season as much as they stumbled into it. After a 0-3 start. the worst in school history, play­ers started to give up and lose focus. It was hard to stay moti­vated on playing while questions about the future of Bob Davie swirled around the team. 
"There were some times where guys got emotional struggle," quarterback Carlyle Holiday said. "They would break off and think of themselves." 
By the time the Irish lost to Willingham's Stanford squad in late November, Notre Dame 
wasn't going to a bowl and Davie finding the final result, I myself wasn't going to be back. prayed that justice would be done for everyone involved." The hits kept coming. In late
An off-season to forget 
May, Matt Lovecchio transferredWhen Willingham was hired, 
to Indiana without a word of
players fell in love with his no­
explanation to teammates or
nonsense approach on the foot­coaches. Shortly thereafter, tail­ball field. He used PowerPoint 
back Cory Jones left for
presentations to illustrate the Washington. The final straw
ideal Notre Dame athlete to his 
came when Julius Jones was
players and created a fountain of kicked out of
enthusiasm by Notre Dame
visiting dorms 
across campus. "We ,re just tired of for academic 
reasons.
But the rug losing. This is Notre 
As the loss­
was yanked 
Dame, we're not es kept piling 
from beneath Notre Dame's supposed to lose.,, up and the 
criticism
feet even before 
grew more
the Irish started 
Gerome Sapp intense,
spring practice. 
Irish safety Notre Dame
When police players could and University only stand inofficials began the middle and watch their pro­to investigate one former and gram get torn to pieces.
three current Notre Dame foot­"There was so much negative
ball players for their alleged 
stuff going on outside of us, and
involvement in the rape of a 
there's this small group of guys in female Notre Dame student, the the middle who can't do anything shadow Willingham and Co. so about it," Watson said. "You can'tdesperately hoped to chase away 
go anywhere, and no one elsehad moved back over South 
knows how you feel except theBend. 
100 or so other guys on the team. 
"There were a lot of negative And I think that makes us bondthings going on in the press that more when you have things likepeople who weren't directly affili­
that."
ated with Notre Dame know nothing about," Watson said. "They pick up a paper and read A summer to remember 
, about that stuff, and that's the Over the summer, things began only thing they may know. In that to click into place. Players aspect. its kind of embarrassing, learned to shut out the distrac­you get one chance to reach peo­tions and focus on practice and ple, and it came out to be a nega­conditioning. Part of the emotion tive." came from a frustrated senior 
Shortly after spring practice class who endured a very un­ended, Donald Dykes, Abe Elam Notre Dame-like two losing sea­and Lorenzo Crawford were sons. expelled from Notre Dame for "We're just tired of losing," sexual misconduct. At the end of Sapp said. "This is Notre Dame, May, the St. Joseph County we're not supposed to lose. I Prosecutor's office decided to know that's a bold statement, but charge the three expelled players its true. That's how we're and Justin Smith with rape-relat­approaching the season, we're ed charges. tired of losing and we're not 
"It was hard at first," safety going to settle for anything other Gerome Sapp said. "That's like than winning." never seeing your friends again. I At the center of the team-build­didn't know what was going to ing project stood Willingham ­happen, and as hard as it was the man whose proteges called "The Prophet," the man who was one-third coach, one-third teacher and one-third philoso­pher. He constantly reminded players they were a team, not a group of individuals. During two­a-days, one offensive player roomed with one defensive play­er to build unitv rather than establish the typical rivalry that exists between offense and defense. He expected certain things from his team, and his team responded. 


"I heard other players say they would run through a wall for him," center Jeff Faine said. "Before, I didn't really under­stand it. Now I do." 
Willingham also erased the tra­ditional notion of selecting team captains. He ridiculed the notion that a team could only have four leaders. Instead, Willingham planned to select game captains to emphasize leadership across the board. 
"I feel like the core of our team was always in place while the outside stuff was going on," Sapp said. "But when Coach Willingham came, he calcified the whole process, he made us into a team." 
A season to remember? 

Anticipation for the start of Notre Dame's 2002 season is higher now than it has been at any other point in recent Notre Dame history. Tickets for the Kickoff Classic at 80,000-seat Giants Stadium sold out in less than a half-hour. Students plan to caravan out to see Willingham's Notre Dame debut. 
"There's an added dimension of excitement that the game's finally arrived," Willingham said. "Now is the time to crank it into gear. That everything you've been working for has now started to have a real focus point." 
Ironically, the only person who doesn't seem particularly excited for the season opener is Willingham himself. Notoriously tight-lipped about thP status of his team, Willingham claims the game will be just another game 
and says the media will make a 
bigger issue of the season opener 
than he will. 
But despite all the positive talk 
coming out of fall camp, the Irish 
know their team strength means 
nothing if they don't win. And 
they only need to glance back one 
year to see the importance of 
leaping out to a fast start. 
"I know we have to start fast out there and we have to get the season off to a good start, and I'm really anxious to do that," Holiday said. "We have to set the team off on a positive note. Everybody put [what happened last year) behind them. We tried to step aside and work hard for this upcoming season, and I think we did that for the most part. I think everybody's excited, we just have to wait and see how we're going to do." 
"Games are what counts. You really find out how people handle situations in a game," Willingham said. "So there will be mountains that we will learn about our football team, not only this game, but I would probably say in about the first three games that we will have a gigantic amount of learning that will take place about the true personality of this team:• 
Yet dozens of questions remain, questions that Notre Dame has been waiting more than eight months to answer, questions that cannot be answered on a practice field in 90-degree heat. How will Holiday handle the new offense? How will the lack of depth at running back and safety, two positions deci­mated by off-season problems, affect the Irish as the season wears on? How will Willingham handle the intense spotlight that comes with being a Notre Dame coach? Can Notre Dame ever become a national championship contender again? 
The Irish start answering ques­tions Saturday. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
L. 
f, .L,r•­

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 30, 2002 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 


EADT 
Record: 0-0 AP: unranked 
Coaches: unranked 
Tyrone Willingham 

NOTRE DAME 2002 Schedule  
Aug. 31 Maryland Sept. 7 PURDUE Sept. 14 MICHIGAN Sept. 21 at Michigan State Oct. 5 STANFORD Oct. 12 PITTSBURGH Oct. 19 at Air Force Oct. 26 at Florida State Nov. 2 BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 9 at Navy Nov. 23 RUTGERS Nov. 30 at USC  

NOTRE DAME
first season at 

OFFENSE
Notre Dame 

TAILBACK 

4-Grant LEFT TACKLE CORNERBACK
career record: 

78-Black &-Fo1worth~ 11-Wllson 
73-LeVoir 38-McPtiearson
44-36-1 
at Notre Dame: 
LEFT GUARD 
79-Mahan
0-0 
67-GUlis 
Willingham against head coach Maryland: 0-0 

FULLBACK
Roster 

36-Lopienski
47-McNair 
No. Name Pos. HI. Wt. YR 
1 Jared Clark TE 6-4 228 JR 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine !LB 6-3 245 SR 2 Dan Novakov QB 6-1 218 SR 

RIGHT TACKLE
3 Amaz Battle FL 6-1 213 SR 

63-Curlin 
4 Ryan Grant RB 6-1 211 so 

70·Molinaro 
5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-2 190 FR 

TIGHT ENO
6 Carlos Campbell WR 5--11 194 so 

14-GDdHy
7 Carlyle Holiday QB 6-3 214 JR 

85-Palmer , 
~ 
FREE
8 Matt Krueger QB 5--10 180 JR 
SAfETY
' 
40-Willlams
9 Pat Dillingham QB 5-10 209 so 
)) 2&-Cuslis
11 Marcus Wilson RB 5--11 199 so 12 Chris Olsen QB 6-4 220 FR 13 Nick Setta K/P 5--11 1757 SR 
WEAK SIDE 
LINEBACKER
14 Gary Godsey TE 6-6 259 SR 
~ ?
32-Joe
15 Preston Jackson DB 5-9 176 JR 
15-Wttliams 
16 Stan Revelle QB 5--11 182 so 
CORNERBACK /~
p
17 Joey Hildbo!d 5-10 191 SR 
30-CoI ~ 
37-Chanca
18 Ronnie Rodamer SE 6-4 206 JR 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick KIP 6-1 192 so 19 Glenn Earl FS 6-1 205 JR 20 Gerome Sapp ss 6-0 218 SR 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 205 FR 23 Chris Yura TB 6-0 220 SR 25 Nick Schiccatano RB 6-3 220 FR 26 Josh Schmidt FB 6-1 207 so 26 Garron Bible CB 5--10 197 JR 27 Lionel Bolen CB 6-0 195 so 27 Mike Profeta TB 5--11 208 so 30 Mike Richardson DB 6-1 180 FR 31 Jake Camey DB 6-0 180 FR 32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 195 FR 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING
33 Courtney Watson ILB 6-1 232 SR 34 Vontez Duff CB 5--11 194 JR 35 David Miller K 5-11 210 SR 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5,-6 172 SR 36 Tom Lopicnski FB 6-1 245 SR 
37 Dwight Ellick CB 5-10 179 so 

•
Holiday is the Notre 
Notre Dame lost its two 

The Irish head into the
39 Brand,m Hoyte ILB 6-0 226 so 
Willingham, the first­Dame starter after out­

leading rushers in Julius season with a new pro­

39 David Bcmcnderfcr DB 5--11 195 JR 
I.I.I 
year head coach, has
40 Nate Schomas WR 5--11 165 JR 

lasting Lovecchio and 
Jones and Tony Fisher. 

style offense but without
:i!: 
managed to unify the
41 Mike Goolsby LB 6-3 243 so 

Clark in the race for the Grant has, at best, limited any experience. Holiday
ct
42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 185 SR 
players' spirits, but it is 

position. Ile struggled 
game experience. Despite 
43 Rashon Powers-Neal TB 6-2 224 so 

was mainly a rushing
Q 
unclear if he's made a
44 Justin Tuck OLB 6-5 238 so 

through the end of last 
the fact that the rush will 

quarterback last season
I.I.I
46 Corey Mays !LB 6-1 235 so 
real winning football 

season, rushing most of be less vital to the Irish 
and receivers Battle,
0::47 MikeMcNair FB 6-0 230 SR 
team. Only two coaches
l­48 Jerome Collins OLB 6-4 256 JR 

the way. His limited pass­offense, it remains to be 
Jenkins and Campbell
have lost their first
o49 Derek Curry ILB 6-3 233 JR 

ing experience may ham­seen whether Grant and have only two TDs and 
50 Cedric Hilliard NG 6-2 290 SR 
game with the Irish. Will 
z 

per him in Willingham's Wilson can get the job 
13 career receptions
51 Jamie Ryan OL 6-5 285 FR 
Willingham join them?
52 Jeff Faine C 6-3 298 SR 

new pro-style offense. 
done. 
between them. 
53 John Crowther C/LS 6-2 239 SR 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 280 FR 54 Jason Halvorson DL 6-1 246 SR 55 Zachary Giles C 6-3 281 so 

The signal caller is the 
Last season Maryland 

Maryland's pass defense
Friedgen, last season's
56 Pat Ryan !LB 6-3 231 SR 57 Justin Thomas OLB 6-1 243 SR 

big question mark for the is about as questionablehad the best rushing and 
Coach of the Year, is 
58 Chad DeBolt !LB 6-() 202 SR 


Terps. Kelley was the scoring defense in the 
as Notre Dame's pass
entering his second 
59 James Bent OL 6-2 260 .FR 

front-runner this spring 
ACC. The Terps return 

offense. The Terps lost
season at Maryland
60 Darrell Campbell OT 6-4 288 SR 61 Charles Hedman LB 6-1 215 SR 

until an injury sat him 
their most recognizable three of its four starters

after leading his team 
62 Scott Ra rid on OL 6-7 285 FR 

down. [t will be a game­
defender E.J. 

at defensive back.
to a BCS berth last sea­
63 Brennan Curtin OT 6-8 305 SR 

day decision whether 
Henderson -but follow­However, Williams, who

son. He's worked with
64 Casey Dunn OT 6-4 255 so 65 Sean Milligan ex; 6-4 300 SR 

Friedgen goes with Kelly 
ing back surgery, how 

had to sit out last seasonhis team for over a year 
66 Derek Landri DL 6-2 275 FR 

or southpaw McBrien, much playing time he 
due to NCAA regulations,
and, with his new
67 Ryan Gillis ex:; 6-3 305 SR 68 Ed O'Connell LB 6-3 212 SR 

who had some game 
will see on Saturday is may prove to be ample

weight loss program, 
69 Darin Mitchell ex::; 6-3 280 so 
experience. 
still questionable. 
trouble for the Irish. 
he's in great shape.
70 Jim Molinaro OT 6-6 297 SR 72 Ryan Scarola C 6-5 310 SR 73 Mark LeVoir TE 6-7 309 so 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 240 FR 76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 305 FR 

It's a matter of who is
With Coach of the Year 
If Henderson was for

Since Notre Dame has
77 Greg Pauly OT 6-6 280 JR 

weaker -Maryland's
honors ancla year more sure full strength, things actually named its signal 

78 Jordan Black OT 6-6 305 SR 
e X perienr.~~ /with his 

secondary or Notre
might be different. But
79 Sean Mahan OT 6-3 285 SR 
fJ) 

caller, the Irish hold Jheteam than Willingham,
80 OmarJPnkins FL 6-2 204 JR 

ijamc;t, pa.'i~ing g~me~tl;l:eJri~h rµn gam~>ha~
-

advantage here.
82 Bernard Akatu SE 5--10 193 SR 
Maryland tak.,~t$ a slight \'Viihou~ aJiy gaweirtiprn

~»'~YS benn tqe offqhsp'~
~ 

Although he is adapting82 Matt Shelton WR 5-11 172 so 
advantage J\.-er the 
strongest point. AlthtmgJ), 

rt.i~..diFfi<~uittp s"ay .~f
83 Matt Root TE 6-6 258 so 

to a new offense, Holiday
~ 
····•-"''1/''·.,.··1 ...d.. •·•""·••t·· ·,. :: ...
84 Mike O'Hara WR 5-10 175 FR 
Irish. Neither coach has either team ~a's able to

Mary an re urns a
z 

has had game experi­
85 Billy Palmer TE 6-4 251 JR 

gain enough experiencea long his'lnry with his 
strong run defense,
c(
86 Brendan llart TE 6-2 240 JR 

ence with the frish while in the off-season to have
program, but Friedgen 
Holiday, as well as Notre
87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-4 240 FR 

Evans hasn't seen play­
87 Patrick Nally TE 6-3 246 so 

the advantage in thishas at least seen his 
Dame's rushers, will pre­ing time with the Terps. 

88 Anthony Salvador DB 6-2 195 FR 
category.
players in games. 
sent problems.
88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-4 2.17 FR 90 Brian Bcidatsch DL 6-4 269 so 91 Jeff Thompson DL 6-4 273 so 92 Kyle Budin,;cak DE 6-4 265 so 93 Dan Santucci DL 6-5 250 FR 94 Brian Mattes DL 6-6 250 FR 95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 258 SR 97 Travis Leitko DL 6-6 250 FR 99 Jason Sapp DE 6-3 249 JR 


Andrew Soukup assistant managing editor Chris Federico sports editor 

Lightning in a bottle -that's what the The 2002 Maryland squad is much different 
Terrapins caught last year. Maryland had than the one that beat out Florida State for 
a freakish year, and they've taken too the ACC title last year. They return only five
Irish 

many personel hits in the off-season. While starters on defense, don't have a solid starting 
Henderson will wreak havoc on an Irish quarterback and ACC Offensive Player of the 
offense that will probably sputter out of the Year Bruce Perry is injured.
experts 

gate, Maryland's offensive woes will tip the balance toward the Irish. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 Maryland 10 Maryland 13 



,t, 
-rZ"._;) 
Friday, August 30, 2002 page 5
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
-·-····-··-·--·­
Maryland
Terrapins

'O EAD 

Maryland 
C.:
OFFENSE .¥­
FULLBACK 
5-L= 
~-~ 
~ LEFTGUARD 
INSIDE 
&&-Wille LINEBACKER 61-Tyler 
at·Goolslly 
RIGHT END 
95-ftoberts 
44-Tuck 
TAILBACK~ FREE
1-Perry 
cJ,1 SAFETY
S..Crawford · RIGHT GUARD (_, 
19-Ean73-Bryant 29-Burrell
INSIDE69-Kemp 
LINEBACKER 
33-Watson 
39-Hoyte -. RIGHT TACKLE . . \ 
78-Crawford 
79-Lombardo 
(! 
STRONG 
~ 
SAFETY 
20-Sapp 
26-Bible 

OUTSIDE 
LINEBACKER 
ff.Curry
-Dugan · 
57-Thomas
-Milter 
CORNERBACK _,LEFT END 
34-Duff '
92-Bvdlnsi:at 
NOTRE DAME
15-Jackson
90-Beidatsch 
DEFENSE 
TERPS RUSHING TERPS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 

.,. • i The Irish return three starting linemen and one starting linebacker. They allowed an aver­age of 132 rushing yards per game and sacked the opposing team's quarterback 26 times for a loss of 126 yards last year.  ' The· lrlsh 0 ser:onda.ry h~s its strong points in returning starters Duff, Walton and Sapp. However, the safety position still has its weaknesses and Earl, who was plagued with inuries, is the only other safety with game experi­ence.  The kicking game will be a strong point for the Irish again this season, with the return of Setta and Hild bold. Duff returns at the kick returner position, but the Irish will miss Julius Jones at that position.  The Irish have the benefit of a fresh start. In addi­tion to the game being Willingham's first as the head coach, the Irish will be looking for redemp­tion. The team has been talking about unity all fall camp and Saturday will give them the chance to showcase it.  
Maryland's rush game  The Terps return all but  Maryland returns one of  The Terps are coming  
looked to be a solid sitck­ one of their receivers  the best kickers in the  off a fairy-tale season.  
ing point for its offense  who saw significant  country in Brooks  Maryland defeated  
until junior Bruce Perry  playing time last season.  Barnard. He and Novak  Florida State to become  
was sidelined due to an  Monroe and Williams  should provide the  the first team to take the  
injury during fall camp.  both had their best sea­ Terps with a solid kick­ ACC title away from the  
Who will step up to fill  sons in 2001. Williams  ing game while Merills  Seminoles since 1991  
the ACC Player of the  has the size and  and Suter will be taking  and they start the sea­ 
Year's position is unclear  strength Friedgen looks  the lead at the return  son ranked in both the  
as Maryland heads into  for. Monroe should be a  position. Both had game  AP and the Coaches  
the game.  good compliment.  experience last year.  polls.  
Notre Dame's run defense was quite possi­bly its strongest asset last season. Without Perry, Maryland doesn't boast having much of a running game. The rela­tively experi~nced Trish defense should be able to contain what the Terps throw at it.  Despite the question mark at quarterback, Mary~pd.,b~._,,~ str~ng core ·· of · rHturmng receivers. The Irish sec­ondari<~" tha,t¾ took a heavy blow 1n the off season, wtiU have its work cut oiil as it tries to catch up with the experi­ence Maryland brings.  The Irish special teams wiJI still be adjusting to the new system and spe­qial >teamsyi~ usually a lit,tlE! behi,fidi'i4e.. rest of the tea&&Hdwevet. the itisli' still h'r'tf'"'st'ron"g players. Maryland's kicking game, however, will present its own set of problems.  Neither team has home field advantage, but the Irish should have a stronger fan base. And, despite what Willingham says, the fact that Saturday is his first game will have an efrect on the team. The Irish have the drive to win.  

Katie McVoy 
associate sports editor 
Saturday's game does not promise to be an offensive extravaganza. Neither the Irish, with a new scheme, or the Terps, without Perry. can boast that they have an offense that is tried and tested. But once the Irish get into the game, they should settle into the new scheme and manage to squeak by the Terps. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 17 Maryland 14 
Joe Hettler 
associate sports editor 
Ralph Friedgen

MARYLAND 
second season at Maryland career record: 



10-2

Aug. 31 Notre Dame 
at Maryland: 
10-2

Sept. 7 AKRON 
Friedgen
against Notre 
head coach
Dame: 0-0

Sep. 14 FLORIDA STATE 

Roster 

Sept. 21 EASTERN MICHIGAN 
No. Name Pos. Ht. 
1 Bruce Perry RB S-.9 2 Chris Kelley QB 6-2 3 Rob Abiamiri WR 6-3 4 Latrez Harrison WR 6-3 5 James Lynch FB 5-11 6 Domonique Foxworth CB 5-11 

Sept. 28 WOFFORD 
7 Scott McBrien 8 Mario Merrills 9 Jason Crawford 
1() Madieu Williams 11 Orlando Evans 12 Sal Aragona 12 Marcus Wimbush 13 Dennard Wilson 14 Sam Hollenbach 14 Matt Brant 15 Curtis Williams 
16 Brooks Bernard 17 Hunter Cross 17 Reuben Haigler 18 Chris Choice 

Nov. 2 at North Carolina 
Nov. 9 NC STATE 
18 Maurice Shanks 19 Jafar Williams 20 Chris Downs 21 Luke Kim 21 Joel Statham 22 Rich Parson 23 Andrew Smith, Jr. 24 Leroy Ambush 25 Scooter Monroe 26 Raymond Custis 27 Jo Jo Walker 29 Ty Stewart

INTANGIBLES 
z 
30 CuromeCox 31 Chad Killian 32 Leon Joe 33 Josh Allen 34 Steve Suter 35 J.PHumber 35 Michael Miller 36 Adam Podlesh 
36 Alan Grantham 
36 David Holloway
0 
-I 
37 Jamal Chance 
38 Gerrick McPhearson 
:a 
38 Pau I Ste llacci 39 Drew Phelan 
m 
C 41 Justin Duffie 41 Kevin Eli 42 E.J. Henderson 
l> 
~ 
44 Bernie Fiddler
m 
s: 
45 Shawne Merriman 46 Nick Novak 47 Jon Condo 48 William Kershaw 49 Richard Benjamin 49 Jamahl Cochran 50 Andrew Wojcik 51 Andrew Henley 52 D'Qwell Jackson 53 Reggie Holmes 
54 Scott Smith
l> 
56 Jesse Kluttz 
57 Randy Starks -< 58 Ricardo Dickerson· 
:a 
59 Maurice Smith 
~ 
60 Aki! Patterson 
z 61 Ed Tyler 
63 Patrick O'Brien 64 Nathaniel Clayton 65 Matt Powell 66 Todd Wike 67 Mike Steele 70 St<'phon Heyer 71 Durrand Roundtree 72 Kyle Schmitt 73 Lamarr Bryant 74 CJ. Brooks 75 Eric Dumas 76 Henry Scott 77 Russell Bonham 78 Matt Crawford 79 Lou Lombardo 80 Onnie Onwuemene 81 Paschal Abiamiri 82 Jeff Dugan 83 Derrick Fenner 84 Derek Miller 85 Aaron Smith 85 Dan Melendez 86 Brad Schell 87 Ryan Flynn 88 Dave Quantaince 92 Darren Sanders 93 Davian Bryan 95 William Shime % C.). Fcldheim (fl Tosin Abari 98 Randy Earle 99 Landon Jones 
C 


Willingham will have the troops ready for a depleted Maryland team that is missing it's best offensive player. Look for Notre Dame's offense to break open a close game in the second half and give Willingham his first victory as Irish head coach. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 Maryland 17 
Wt. YR 
1% JR 213 so 216 so 219 JR 271 so 175 so 180 JR 197 FR 220 so 193 JR 202 JR 183 JR 190 FR 186 JR 215 FR 170 FR 199 so 188 SR 211 JR 179 JR 175 FR 191 so 195 JR 193 SR 190 SR 185 FR 174 so 197 so 229 JR 194 SR 194 so 165 FR 202 SR 199 JR 265 SR 223 JR 194 FR 187 so 196 FR 225 FR 185 FR 185 FR 210 FR 196 SR 190 FR 208 FR 195 FR 
250 FR 260 so 250 SR 234 JR 240 FR 189 so 237 so 205 FR 241 JR 241 so 240 JR 237 JR 220 FR 234 FR 262 JR 232 FR 302 so 230 FR 218 so 294 FR 304 JR 310 FR 310 FR 319 FR 303 SR 291 FR 290 FR 256 SR 298 so 302 JR 309 so 308 JR 248 so 297 FR 313 SR 3Q1 so 1~4 so 191 FR 261 JR 183 FR 257 FR 203 FR 175 FR 220 so 262 FR 266 FR 220 JR 281 so 285 SR 282 JR 259 JR 229 FR 259 JR 
QB RB RB FS 
QB WR FS 
s.s 
QB FS FS 
p QB CB WR WR WR RB CB QB WR 
s.s 
LB WR FS WR 
s..s 
CB FB LB RB WR RB 
LB p FS LB CB CB WR PK FB DE LB FB LB PK LB LB LB LB LB LB LB LB DE lS DT LB LB OL 
lX; 
0G 
C 
OT 
0G 
ex; OT DE C 0G 
OT OT DE OT OT OT WR WR 
TE 
WR TE WR 
WR 
TE TE DT TE DT 
NT 
NT DT LB DE 6-0 S-.10 6-2 6-1 6-0 
5-8 
5-11 
5-11 
6-5 
6-0 
6-2 
6-2 
6-3 
6-0 
5-11 6-4 6-2 5-8 5-9 6-1 5-10 
6-0 
6-1 
6-2 
5-8 
5-10 
6-0 
6-1 
6-2 
6-1 
5-11 
5-9 
5-11 
6--0 
5-10 5-9 6-4 6-1 5-11 6-2 6-0 6-2 6-4 6-2 6-1 6-3 6-0 6-3 6-3 6-1 6-0 6-2 5-11 6-1 6-1 6-4 6-3 6-4 6-3 
6-{J 
6-3 6-3 6-5 6-5 6-4 6-3 
6-5 
6-6 6-3 6-5 6-3 6-6 
6-6 
6-1 
6-4 
6-6 6-6 6-0 6-2 
6-4 
5-11 
6-8 
6-5 6-2 6-5 6-4 6-5 6-4 6-3 6-3 l>-2 6-3 6-3 6-3 


I 
I \ 
.
f i I I 
I ., I l 
if . ' 
I '.
I . 
i \ I 
r 
I 
i 


Sizing up the Irish and the Terrapins · 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 
kick return yards gained 

NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE MARYLAND'S OFFENSE 
vs 

MARYLANri~ DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 




24.3 


yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 


yards penalized yards penalized 
points scored points allowed 


-.. 

--··--··---·--···------­
Friday, August 30, 2002 
by the numbers 
number of consecutive night games the Irish have lost 

9 
2 number of quarterbacks that could start for the Terrapins on Saturday 
career receptions by Battle, Jenkins and } 

3 
Campbell combined 

9 consecutive years Florida State won the ACC before Maryland won it last season 
AP preseason rank the last time the Irish 

2 
played in the Kickoff Classic 

3 number of votes the Irish received in the AP preseason poll this year 
Notre Dame coaches who lost their first 

2 
game -Lou Holtz and Elmer Hayden 

6 number of times E.J. Henderson was named ACC Defensive Player of the Week last season 
percent of passes starting quarterback 

5Q 7 
Carlyle Holiday completed last season • 




scri, 
e to 
server 
Make checks payable to: The Obseruer and mail to: P.O. BoH Q Notr Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name________________________ Rdress______________________ City ___________ State ____ Zip ___ 


I
I 
i' 
I 
I -" '

,t..•"i_-~ 
Friday, August 30, 2002 page 7
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Goolsby relishes chance to finally contribute 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 
Finally. 
That's what junior Mike Goolsby thought when defen­sive coordinator Kent Baer told him earlier this week he would start at middle linebacker against Maryland. 
College football has been a rough life for Goolsby, a highly recruited linebacker out of high school who expected to come in and make an immediate contri­bution. But when he came to Notre Dame, Goolsby only saw duty on special teams and grew frustrated that he couldn't get into the game as a linebacker. Saturday will be the first day he plays a down at linebacker for Notre Dame. 
"Me and Coach Baer had a conversation {at the end of spring practice]," said Goolsby, who beat out fifth-year senior Carlos Pierre-Antoine for the starting job. "He told me I had done some good things up to that point, and that's what I worked on, being more consis­tent." 
He's just lucky he had a chance to show what he can do. 
Goolsby expected more when he arrived in South Bend. Coming out of high school, he was on virtually every major prospect list and earned Parade All-American honors. As a line­backer and a tight end, he led his Joliet, Ill., high school team to the state title his senior year. 
Initially, Goolsby was pleased with his college debut. Goolsby, quarterback Matt LoVecchio 
and cornerback Vontez Duff 
were the only freshmen to earn 
monograms two years ago. 
But over Notre Dame's 5-6 campaign last year, Goolsby grew increasingly frustrated. Slotted on the depth chart behind Tyreo Harrison at line­backer, Goolsby could only stand on the sideline as his sec­ond year of eligibility spun away with the rest of Notre Dame's season. 
"I WI\S pretty upset at the end of the year, especially with the way·the season went and the fact I couldn't do anything to turn the season around," he said. "It was pretty frustrating." 
Perhaps no player benefited more from the coaching change than Goolsby. He was waiting for a chance to prove himself, and when head coach Tyrone Willingham said players would have to earn their playing time, Goolsby seized his opportunity. 
During spring practice, Goolsby initially impressed the Irish coaching staff with his grasp of the system and his brash style of play. Teammates describe him as a Chicago-style linebacker, someone who plays in the mold of legendary Bears linebacker Dick Butkus. 
"I guess you could say I got lucky in the sense of the new staff and everything else and I got another shot. I thank God for that," Goolsby said. " I kept my nose to the grindstone, and everything worked out for me. With the new staff, there's a new fresh start over for me. Everybody had to go out there and prove themselves, and that's kinda what I was looking for." 
Although Goolsby hasn't played a down, the lrish are expecting big things from the junior linebacker. Essentially the quarterback of the defense, the linebackers are responsible for getting the defensive cover­age from the coaches and relaying it to the team while making sure players line up in the correct spots. 
"Mike is probably as quick as anyone ... and mastered our defensive system in terms of understanding what has to take place, adjustments and changes that have to take place, and that has given him a real advantage on the other players at his position," coach Tyrone Willingham said. "Along with that, he has been physical, which we expected out of a linebacker, and that is very pleasing to have him bring all of those ingredients together." 
Goolsby doesn't have to go far for advice if the pressure of being a first-year starter begins to bother him. Fellow line­backer Courtney Watson, whose locker is adjacent to Goolsby's, was in a similar situ­ation last season. Largely unproven, unknown and unreli­able, Watson had to fill the shoes of a solid graduated vet­eran. He surprised the Irish with good play throughout the season and, after just one sea­son on the field, has established himself as a pivotal player on the Irish defense. 
It's an example Goolsby is hoping to duplicate. 
"rStarting is] a tremendous deal for me," he said. "Over the 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Obseiver 
Notre Dame linebacker Mike Goolsby, who was highly recruit­ed coming out of high school, will finally get his chance to start at linebacker for the Irish on Saturday. 
past few years, it's been rough there and showing what I'm on me. Football is such a big about." part of my life here at Notre Dame, and there's a tremen­
Contact Andrew Soukup at 
dous amount of pride lining up 
asoukup@nd.edu 

-
Maryland looks to revisit its fairy tale season 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Associate Sports Editor 
Last season, Maryland shocked the college football world, finishing 10-2 and beating perennial powerhouse Florida State for the ACC title. The Terps played in the Orange Bowl, where they were pounded by Florida 56-2:3, but still finished 10th and 11th in the USA Today Coaches and Associated Press polls, respec­tivelv. 
Th.ey won seven conference games for the first time in school history and became the first team other than Florida State to win the ACC title since 1992. 
The question weighing on a lot of minds heading into this season is: Can Maryland put up the same performance as last year? 

The 2002 squad will be one much different from the team the Terps fielded just a year ago. Maryland returns only five starters off last season's defense that held opponents to just 90.6 yards rushing per game and ranked second in the ACC. 
A bright spot for the Terps is middle linebacker E.J. Henderson, the 2001 ACC Defensive Player of the Year and Butkus Award candidate. Henderson, however, under­went back surgery in April and sat out the entire spring and most of summer drills because of the injury. Even if Henderson plays against the ation looked much brighter heading into the first couple of weeks of summer camp. The Terps return eight starters from an offense that sconid 
35.5 points a game in 2001, with the only real question mark coming at quarterback. Maryland must replace Shaun Hill, the leader of that 2001 Terp offense. 
The original choice for the spot was sophomore Chris Kelley over West Virginia transfer Scott McBrien. After Kelley suffered a torn ACL in the spring game, people fig­ured the left-handed transfer McBrien would take the helm, but Kelley has made great progress despite the injury, and the two quarterbacks are dead even at week's end, as coach Ralph Friedgen has not committed to a starter for Saturday. 
"Today was so close," said coach Ralph Friedgen about the race for the starting quar­terback spot after an Aug. 20 scrimmage. "I may be like [Redskins coach] Steve [Spurrier) and say you'll find out {who the starter is] when the guy takes the field [against Notre Darnel." 
If there was one area where Maryland felt confident head­ing into the Kickoff Classic it was tailback, as the Terps return ACC Offensive Player of the Year Bruce Perry to the lineup. But just over a week ago, Perry -the Terps lead­ing returner in both rushing and receiving -injured his groin muscle and was side­


Gary Rothstein/Icon SMI 

Terrapins receiver Jafar Williams makes a carry during Maryland's 56-23 loss to Florida during the Orange Bowl. The question is whether or not Maryland can succeed two seasons in a row. 
"Bruce's injury is very mined to rehab and get back unfortunate for us as a team," on the field as soon a possi­Friedgen said following the ble." injury. "The good news is that The injury leaves a gaping he did not tear the tendon off hole at the position. of the bone, and it looks like Sophomore Jason Crawford he will be able to come back and freshman Mario Mills will season battered and bruised, many questions remain as to how good they can be and whether they can match last year's stellar performance. 
Irish Saturday, he will proba­lined for four to eight weeks, at some point this year. If be the leading candidates for 
Contact Chris Federico at

bly be less than 100 percent. keeping him from action in the there is some silver lining, I the starting tailback job. 
cfederic@nd.edu

Offensively, Maryland's situ-opener against the Irish. think that's it. Bruce is deter-With the Terps entering the 
~ 
t ' 
I ! ' . -' 
'.! =====~a;e8=================================================0====BSERVE=====R=================================-=F=====rida»A=====ugust3======0,2002 
i! !ij .~ 
: ~ 
i ( i '. ' 
f 
' 
I . 
l ~ 
f • ~ \ ·. 
' 
; ' 
Looking for
I I, 
: t I 
' .. 
I \ 
' 
L . 
r '· 
[ ', 
! 
something to do
ti 
i !), 
' \ 
: :_t\
I '. I \ 
. . ~ I ',! I \ I I 
with your free time?
I 
I ' 
I 
I 
i 
: j 
' ', 
I I 
I 
' 
I 
' 
I 
Sports 631-4543 
News 631-5323 
Scene 631-4540 
Photo 631-8767 
!
!' 
(' 
!l t.' ·•· (:
:: 
rite for
i,'
; 
Ji 
i 
1 
. 
I 
. 1 
i 
ii 
The bserver.
,•,
" ,/ ! ­
n
,, 
/i 
Ji I I 
I 
I 
e want you! 










