
VOL XXXVII NO. 61 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Senate attendance policy may not have ended issues 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor  dance policy violations. Likewise, Emily Chin, student union secretary, who is responsible for taking atten­ absences have not become a prob­lem and are fine. He has been working ¼itl1 his committee and he  posed to attend their hall council meetings. Williams, a member of the  larly attending meetings. Watson was added to the RcsUfc committee because the meeting  
In the seven weeks since senators unanimously passed the Attendance Policy Amendment to the Scnale bylaws, two senators  dance and said she did not inform Cornwell of any senators in danger ofviolating the amendment. In reference to Watson's absences, C.hin said she took into  is actually presenting a resolution [at Wednesday's meeting!," said Foley. "As for Omrtney Watson, his absence has been noted and we arc dealing with the issue. Courtney has  Gender and ResUfe committees. is in compliance with Senate commit­tee attendance regulations. said Courtney Badgcly and Kevin Conley, chairs of the Gender and  time did not conflict with his sched­ule. Senators are expected to work on projects in their assigned commit­tees. I lowever, Conley said Watson  
may have violated the policy due to  account his scheduled football prac­ a situation and it will be addressed."  ResLife committees respectively.  currently has no project.  
oul'iidc commitments. The policy requires that the stu­dent union SL>eretary and all senate committee chairs mark senator  tices and was aware of them ahead of ti.mo. She did not provide a rea­son for failing to report Williams. Williams, a member of ROTC,  Foley declined to comment on the specifics of the situation, but  "Students ofZahm and St. Ed's elected these individuals  Williams said he missed only one hall council meeting.  Colin I larding. Zahm Ifall presi­dent, estimated Watson attended half of his dorm meetings. He said, "Everyone realizes he is a busy guy.  
ab:mnces at their own discretion. but alert the Ethics committee  said he has a ROTC class on Wednesdays beginning at 4 p.rn.  said both men are contributing  knowing their rommitments. "  Williams also sits on the  We appreciate the effort he puts forth."  
when a senator has reached four absences. Missing a meeting or the  and ending at 6:30 p.m .. but added that instructors can and often do  to Senate. Their situation was  Trip Foley  Ethics commit­tee and voted in  The Ethics Commit.tee originally addressed the attendance issue  
accumulation of three tardies sig­ keep the class later. Senate meet­ discussed and  student body vice president  favor  of  the  because of the repeated absences of  
nals an absence, according to the  ings begin Wednesdays at 6 p.m.  by the Senate  attendance poli­ some previous senators.  
Sept. 15 amendment.  Williams said he informed Trip  Steering  cy amendment  "Last year tl1ere wa.c;n't any type  
According to Senate minutes,  Foley. student body vice president,  Committee, composed of committee  in September.  of clear policy and there was a sen­ 
Courtney Watson, senator f'rom Zahm Hall and linebacker for the  of the conflict last April. Watson was unavailable for com­ chairs. According to Foley, they committee is comfortable with  Watson, a member of the ResLife committee, is not in violation of the  ator that was neglecting a.II respon­sibilities and not showing up for  
Irish football team. has missed  ment Tuesday night.  Watson and Williams' positions.  committee attendance policy since  meetings and not doing committee  
three meetings and was tardy three times; Scan Williams, senator from St. Edward's llall, missed four  According to Williams, he, Watson and Foley met to discllS.5 his and Watson's conflicts and both  "Students of Zahm and St. Ed's elected these individuals knowing their commitments," he said.  he joined in October, said Sarah Bates, vice committee chair of the committee. Bates, however, has  work," Cornwell said. "A clear idea [about absences] was absent from the constitution."  
mer,tings and was tardy once.  said they would try to attend meet­ According to the Student Union  also missed two meetings since  
Joanna Cornwell, chair of the  ings if they could and are allowed to  Constitution, senators are required  Watson was added and does not  
Et.hies Committee, said no one offi­ vote by proxy.  to be active members of at least two  have records for those meetings.  Contact Meghanne Downes at  
cially informed her of' any atten­ "Regarding Sean Williams his  committees. Senators are also sup- Conley said Watson was not regu­ mdownesl@nd.edu  

Lecture pro111otes peace 
By LINDA SKALSKI 
News Writer 
Michael Griffin, CSC of the Catholic Peace !<ellowship, spoke of a Christian's duty in Wednesday's lecture "The War in Iraq: What's a Christian to Think?" 
Griffin presented arguments on the side of Catholic non-vio­lence, explaining that anyone who wanted to hear the other side just needed to turn on the television or ask someone in the quad. 
"In wartime people tend to rally around the flag," said Griffin. "But it is important that as Christians we look deeply at the issue and not just rally around the cause." 
Gritlin said the Church has a long Lradition of being critical of the state and skeptical of the military. He said this ability to criticize the state is not just a priority of the citizens. but an important Catholic value. 
"We are called to be soldiers of Christ and not of the state," said Griffin. "It's an awesome prophetic tradition to not let the state determine our faith, even if we will have to die and suffer for it." 
The Pope is not a pacifist, but according to just war theory there must first be an attack on the United States. or on innocent persons, from a legitimate authority in Iraq to morally per­mit military action, which has 
see IRAQ/page 4 


ND profs design entry for 9 / 11 memorial 
By CHRISTlNA CEPERO 
News Wrirer 

Notre Dame architecture professors and principals from the South Bend firm Marcantonio Architects designed one of the top 75 entries out of 1,100 submis­sions in an international com­petition for a memorial to the victims of the Sept. 11 attack on the Pentagon. 
Dino Marcantonio and Paloma Pajares' classical design consisted of a large cenotaph, or monument to the dead, set on a pedestal that displays the names of' the 184 victims of the terrorist attack. 
The model for the idea was the Cenotaph in London, which was designed by the English architect Edwin Lutyens in 1919 and placed in front of Whitehall Palace to commemo­rate the victims of World War I. 
"The cenotaph symbolizes the dead but does not mark the actual place of burial." said Marcantonio. 
They wanted to make the monument 75 feet high, so it would be as tall as the Pentagon and visible from the surrounding highways as if it was cut against the sky. 
The designers surrounded the memorial with trees as a way of making the area a place of seclusion. They used cherry trees, which bloom very briefly. 
as way of capturing the sud­and to make a connection to memorial into the family of The Pentagon Memorial denness of the terrorist attack. the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington monuments," said Competition is sponsored by
A gate frames the wall that was mall. Marcantonio. the Defense Department and struck in remembrance of all They used a sepulcher to Although the Marcantonio­organized by the U.S. Army those who lost their lives there. draw a link to the tomb of the Pajares plan was not selected Corps of Engineers. 
Marcantonio and Pajares Unknown Soldier in Arlington as one of the finalists, it was on 
placed a reflecting pool in front Cemetery and to the display at the National Building of the memorial to give a sense Washington Monument. Museum in Washington. D.C. Contact Christina Cepero at of tranquility and purification "We wanted to bring this from Oct. 30 through Nov. 9. ccepero@nd.edu 

.. ..... 
' , ' ...... , 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, November 20, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Fighting the Leprecfiaun 
I feel obliged to commend the November 19 letter that has alerted us to the racial slurs being used insid­iously in Observer comic strips. I would also like to alert everyone to another abusive occurrence of Seamus "Chip" racism on our Mark campus. 
As an lrish-American I am 
Labtech
offended by the use of the term "Fighting Irish." I assume, and sincerely hope that it has been mere thoughtlessness and not deliberate racism that has perpetuat­ed this image on our campus. 
The portrayal of the Irish race as small, green coat-wearing midgets with red hair is deeply troubling to me. 
Do you know when we celebrate Irish-American Heritage Week? 
I cannot comprehend how Notre Dame officials contained their embar­rassment when former Irish Prime Minister Mary Robinson spoke at Saint Mary's last month across the street from the hotbed of slander. 
Siding with Ms. Kingsbury I implore all members of the Notre Dame family to banish the phrase "Fighting Irish" from their vocabularies along with "Indian Giver" and to reflect on the true history of the Irish people. They have suffered great wrongs over the centuries at the hands of Europe and the United States. Anyone who uses "Fighting Irish" continues this oppres­sion and is wrong. 
As if the Irish Potato famine were not bad enough, now Irish-Americans are forced to see themselves por­trayed weekly as shillelagh-toting, limerick-writing maniacs that are not properly respected. In New York in the early 1900's the discrimination against the Irish was rampant. Did my ancestors endure that so they could be associated with a Top 10 football team? 
An entire day of the year is even dedicated to this belittlement and per­petuation of stereotypes. Everyone wears green, claims to be Irish, and drinks beer (another common stereo­type about Ireland). Forget about erasing a simple phrase from the lan­guage here, we need to completely revise the way that the Irish are per­ceived. Maybe we should dedicate our time to changing huge cultural stereo­types instead of picking on comic strips ... 
Shame on the University of Notre Dame for perpetuating racial stereo­types and the oppression of the Irish people! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Seamus "Chip» Marks at cmarks1@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In Monday's article "University Libraries announce budget cutbacks," it incorrectly read chat chc Hcsburgh Library will have storage space for almost 7,000 volumes in the basement once it is completed. It will actually have space for 700,000 volumes. 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for che highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we wi!! make mistakes. ff we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Show raises money tor cause 
A fashion show at Saint Mary's on Tuesday raised money for cancers that affect women. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
Anti-terrorist bill passed 
The Senate passed the anti-ter­rorist Homeland Security Bill Tuesday. 
page 5 
. BOG Meeting, HCC #304, 4:30 p.m. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Fettuccine with fen­nel, boulangere potatoes, mixed vegeta­bles, cherry crisp, orzo with Portobello, cheddar broccoli quiche, stewed toma­toes, breakfast ham, scrambled eggs, raisin bread French toast, hash browns, Szechuan beef and pepper stir-fry, chicken and cheese chimichanga, lone star rice 
Today's Dinner: Honey-glazed ham, baked beans, cherry crisp, turbot amandine, vegetables rabat, couscous, scrambled eggs with cheese, French toast sticks, lyonnaise potatoes, BBQ chicken sandwich, fried potato skins, Oriental shrimp with noodles 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a:: 
LIi 
8 ::z: ;: 
..I 
<
(,) 

0 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Tanker breaks and sinks 
An oil tanker split in two and sunk, spilling 20 million gallons of fuel near Spain. 
page 7 
South Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Chicken mozzarella, red clam sauce, chicken fajita pizza, mushroom stroganoff, sauteed zucchini and yellow squash, meatloaf, Mississippi fried catfish, baked ham, baked red-skin mashed potatoes, sweet and sour pork, chili crispitos. roasted corn and black beans 
Today Dinner: Chicken vesuvio, cac­ciatore sauce, chicken fajita pizza, veal parmigiana, spinach, rice with olives, beef stew, roasted pork loin, roasted poupon potatoes, chicken strips, potato skins, onion rings, beef Mongolian, chili frito 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 





HIGH LOW 
...I HIGH 51 47 HIGH 32 LOW 45 41 LOW 28 
43 28 
HIGH LOW 
SCENE SPORTS 

Cornette steps to drive? 

Have you leamed 
up 
Scene critic, C. 

Jordan Cornette, Spencer Beggs, 
.sophomore for­reviews "How I 
ward, makes an learned to drive." 
early impact for mens basketball. 

page 24
page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Wallet found off campus 
A student's wallet was turned into NDSP and was released to its owner on Monday. 
Sport goes too far and ends 
a hospital 
A student, with a sport injury, was transported by NDSP form Rolfs Sports Recreation Center to Saint Joseph's Medical Center on Monday. 
~ployee vehicle vandal­


ized 
An employee reported her vehicle was vandalized at an off-campus location on Tuesday. 
Purse recovered at Hesburgh 
A purse, found at the Hesburgh Library, was given to NDSP for safe­keeping on Tuesday. 
Cell phone recovered 
A cell phone discovered at an off­campus location was turned into NDSP for safekeeping on Monday. 

Compiled by NDSP Crime Blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Italian loafer, mush­room and garlic pizza, potato bacon chowder, cream of broccoli soup, cream of tomato soup, French dip sandwich, rissotto with mushrooms, whole green beans, cilantro rice salad, bow tie pasta, broiled herb tomato, Japanese cucumber salad, chocolate chunk cookie, Kung Pao-style chicken 
Today's Dinner: French onion soup, potato bacon chowder, savory shep­herd's pie, caesar chicken breast, Italian meatballs, Italian sausage, breaded fried pollock with dill sauce, macaroni and cheese, yellow squash, falafels, fusili, yellow cake 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



41 46 39 26 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
VIEWPOINT 
Protest leads to reflection 

A student return­ing from the School of the Americas protest reflects on his experiences. 

page 11 
. 
Lecture: In the Line of Fire: Children in Israel and the Occupied Territories, DeBartolo room 140, 7 p.m. 

. 
Drama: Ilow I Learned to Drive, Washington Ilall, 7:30 p.m. 

. 
Teachers as Scholars, McKenna Hall room 208, 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. 

. 
Student Senate: Podium speaker: Lee Svete, director of the Career Center, resolutions supporting the creation of a bike deposit program, the South Bend Old Boy's Rugby Team. and the sexual assault aware­ness poster and an open letter Regarding Distance Learning, LaForttine Notre Dame room, 6 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Brown Bag Luncheon with speaker Bobbie Wren Banks,"Follow the Money: Women. War, and the Future of Our Country," DH-Wedge Hoom, 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. 

. 
Recital Forum, Little Theatre, 12 to 1 p.m. 


Atlanta 61/ 49 Boston 53 / 43 Chicago 51 / 42 Denver 59 / 38 Houston 71 / 46 Los Angeles 89 / 56 Minneapolis 45 / 28 New York 56 I 41 Philadelphia 58 / 39 Phoenix 84 / 54 Seattle 59 / 46 St. Louis 59 / 43 Tampa 78 / 63 Washington 58 / 42 
Wednesday, November 20, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Saint Mary's hosts fashion fund.:.raiser 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News. Writer 
Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium was transformed Tuesday into a runway fashion 
show benefiting the prevention and treatment of female cancers. 
The show, "Della Donne: A Night of fashion," raised pro­ceeds to support Memorial Hospital's Spirit of Women Foundation. 

Win AFree Music Massage CD! Q 
Email us with the correct answer at UBWelll{g,ld.edu to be entered into adrawing to win uBWELL2@ND 

True or False! 
.EDU 

Going to bed on an empty stomach will improve the quality ofyour sleep. Look in tomorrow'~ Ob~erver for a chance to win aDVD 
"All proceeds will go toward women in the South Bend com­munity who fall between insur­ance cracks to get care after being diagnosed with gynecologi­cal cancer or other women's health issues," said Klm Poulin of 
Babiole, her home-based jewelry business. 
The event brought in South Bend community members and surrounding areas along with members of the Saint Mary's community. Organizers expected the event to meet its goat to raise $10,000. 
Poulin is one of five local businesswomen that make up Della Donne, a fund-rais­ing organization dedicated to giving back to the community. Vikic Mason, owner of Illusions Salon, Lenore Tracy and Jennifer Cole, co-owners of Glance Optique, and Anne Feferman of Teacher's Credit Union complete the quintet that hosted Tuesday's program. 
"We decided to pool our talents and resources to design an event to give back," Poulin said. "People suppo11 us and we feel it's impor­tant to support the community in return." 
Sponsors, mostly women entre­preneurs, were then given a chance to showcase their prod­ucts and services. Tables were set up in the lobby dL<;p)aying various assortments of clothing, jewelry, pottery and eyewear for pur­chase. 
Follu:wing d'oeuvres, guests moved into the auditorium for a · runway show featuring many of the latest European fashions. Models were outfitted head-to-toe in hairstyles, clothing and acces­sories provided by the women of Della Donne and other Michiana area businesses. Some of the models included in the show were cancer survivors them­selves. 
Plans are being made to estab­lish a fund in it,; name within the Spirit of' Women Foundation at Memorial l lospital. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 


Models take the runway at O'Laughlin Auditorium's "Della Donne: A Night of Fashion" Tuesday night. The show benefited Memorial Hospital's Spirit of Women Foundation, which works for the prevention and treatment of female cancers. Della Donne Is made up of area businesswomen Kim Poulin, Vikie Mason, Lenore Tracy, Jennifer Cole and Anne Feferman. 

HuddleMart  
311 LaFortune  9am  -noon, 1pm ­ 4pm  Decio Commons  
Huddle North Dining Hall  llam-lpm 11am ­lpm  Cafe Poche (Bond Hall) Irish Cafe (Law School) Waddicks (O'Shaughnessy)  
South Dining Hall  llam-lpm  Common Stock Sandwich Co.  
Cafe de Grasta  llam-lpm  Cafe de Grasta  
This program is sponsored by:  
IRISHealth, American Cancer Society,  
Notre Drune Food Services, PILLARS, and  
Alcohol and Drug Education.  


page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 20, 2002 
Brown bag lecture focuses on Native An1erican education 
Join the Notre Dame Community on Thursday, November 21, 2002 for 
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 
Turn in your tobacco products and receive Coupons for aFREE turkey sandwich acoupon for aFREE turkey sandwich. may be redeemed at these locations: 
Reckers
.
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following 


Greenfields
locations and times: 



Iraq 
continued from page I 
not happened yet, said Griffin. 
"The Pope and Vatican are very clear about saying that the United States must not and can­not launch an attack right now," said Griffin. "We do not have the right." 
The clash between what the president said and what the 



NOTRE 
Church said is something all Christians confront. 
"A lot of people think of our­selves first and foremost as Americans and second as Catholics," said Griffin. "Maybe it is our job as Catholics to come out and say things more strong­
..
!
y. 
When students asked what practical action should be taken for peace, Griffin said the answer was complex and complicated. 
"A non-military overthrow of 

DAME 
Saddam Hussein would be possi­ble if the people were not impov­erished and had the strength," he said. "It's difficult for a mother to think about changing the govern­ment when she is worried about finding Penicillin for her child." 
Peace for the United States will be reached only to the extent that the United States draws back from being an absolute super­power, said Griffin. 
"We need to livr proportionally to our population and not domi-

GOES 
nate in terms of food, oil and weapons. We live at a level the rest of the world can only be sus­picious of," he said. "Every inch the United States draws back is an inch closer to security." 
Griffin said his belief in con­scious and deliberate giving away of power was something perhaps only a Christian could say. 
"Only in weakness does one find strength," he said. The lecture concluded by show­ing a video of suffering in Iraq as 

COLD TURKEY 
a result of United Nation sanc­tions, and left many students dis­cussing how they could help the situation. 
Catholic Peace Fellowship is a national organization founded in 1964 to educate Catholics as to the moral implications of partici­pation in war. The founder's aim was to "create a mighty league of Catholic conscious objectors." 
Contact Linda Skalski at lskalski@nd.edu 
Hy SARAH NESTOR '>..int Mary's News Editor 
As part of Native American heritage month Marie Willis, Saint Mary's office of multi­cultural affairs assistant director, presented a brief history on the education of Native American children and how this affects Native com­munities today at Tuesday's brown bag discussion "The History of Indian Education: Why Does it Matter Now?" 
Willis, a member of the Pokagon band -a faction of Potawatomi Tribe -shared her personal experiences as a Native American and the research she has done about the history of Native American education. 
"One of the reasons I think the history of Indian educa­tion is important is because a lot of perceptions stem from Indian education," Willis said. 
Willis said the perception that Native Americans receive free education was not true. This idea stemmed from the boarding schools, day schools and reservation schools that the government set up specifi­cally for Native American chil­dren. 
WHlis said that these schools really intended to assimilate Native Americans into white American culture. Willis explained that there was a "kill the Indian, save the man" attitude at many of these schools, especially the board­ing schools. 
One boarding school that Willis used as an example for the attitude about Native American education was the Carlisle Boarding School in Carlisle, Penn., started by Col. Richard Henry Pratt in 1879. At this school, Native American children were required to wear uniforms, boys were required to cut their long hair, children were forbidden from speaking their native language, students were given new names and a conversion to Christianity was essential. 
"One of the things that did happen is that children from many tribes met together. It opened up lines of communi­cation between tribes, includ­ing bi-lingual pamphlets that were started," Willis said. 
It was not until 1934 that Indians were considered American citizens and after that education reforms began to take place but there was still emphasis on the assimila­tion of Native Americans into white culture. This still affect­ed the wav that Native Americans view education and the education system, especially as tribe elders remember the boarding schools, Willis said. 
Willis explained that when she began to work with the Pokagon tribe, after attending college that some tribe mem­bers did not accept her or were skeptical of her because of the association between being educated and assimila­tion. 
"My experience being edu­cated and then going back to the tribe that there are some who no longer think you are Indian. That you are less of an Indian than those who are not educated," Willis said. 
Willis worked with the Pokagon tribe in its education of tribal children for four years. There are government resources such as title VII of the No Child Left Behind Act available for children and adults to learn about culture. 
"Title VII gives tribes the opportunity and resources to educate their own children. They are able to bring back the language and show chil­dren the positive things about their culture," Willis said. 
The legislation in place does not come without its chal­lenges as the government also expects results. or assess­ments to be completed. 
"How do you get assess­ments of culture? Dealing with Indian education they want to include the tribe, but in order to get the funding we need the test results," Willis said. 
As the different tribes work to enhance the education Native American children receive, Willis said that an important aspect is that the children meet college-educat­ed role models and encour­ages volunteers to work with the Pokagon tribe children. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 


WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, November 20, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.N. urges Iraq to report weapons during visit 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

The chief U.N. weapons inspectors, wrapping up a criti­cal two-day visit, urged Iraqi officials on Tuesday to look again in their nuclear, chemical and biological "stocks and 
stores" to ensure they have  no  
weapons-making to report.  
Iraq's position that it has  no  

weapons of' mass destruction "must be convincingly shown by documenlution. by evidence," said llans Jllix, head of the U.N. weapons-hunting team. 
"We don't think that has yet been convincingly done." 
Blix and chief ll.N. nuclear watchdog Mohamed EIBarndei spoke with reporters after Iraqi officials confirmed they would meet a U.N deadline and file by Dec. 8 a comprehensive list of nuclear, chemical and biological programs, including any meant to develop weapons. 
The two U.N. officials offered a "light al the end of the tunnel" for Iraq, however, saying that if the Baghdad government coop­erates fully with their inspec­tions, they might be able to report in about one year that it has complied with Security Council requirements and U.N. economic sanctions on Iraq should be lifted. 
Blix and EIBaradei, who 
depart on Wednesday, led advance teams of about two dozen U.N. officials who returned to Baghdad on Monday to resume the weapons inspec­tion program that ended abruptly four years ago. Additional inspectors arrive next Monday, and their first field operations are expected by Nov. 27. 
The latest Security Council resolution calls the inspections a "final opportunity" for lraq to meet its post-Gulf War obliga­tions to give up any weapons of mass destruction. President Bush has threatened military action if the Iraqis don't disarm. 
A seven-year inspection regime in the 1990s dismantled Iraq's nuclear program before it could build a bomb, and destroyed large amounts of chemical and biological weapons and longer-range mis­siles forbidden by postwar U.N. resolutions. 
But some chemical weapons in particular were believed never destroyed, and U.S. intel­ligence reports suggest the Iraqis may have rebuilt some weapons programs since the inspectors pulled out in 1998. 
The new Security Council res­olution gives the U.N. teams greater powers to inspect Iraqi sites anywhere at any time. 
The most senior official on the Blix-EIBaradei schedule of 

Iraqi Foreign Minister Naji Sabri meets with U.N. chief weapons Inspector Hans Blix in Baghdad on Tuesday. Bllx and a team of about 30 experts began their first full day of work in Iraq, paving the way for a mission to search for weapons of mass destruction. 
meetings here was Foreign we heard from the Iraqi side the northern city of Mosul, and Minister Naji Sabri. After that they will do everything humanly to expand their Baghdad office session late Tuesday. EIBaradei, possible to cooperate." to accommodate the hundreds director general of the Blix said the Iraqis had of international weapons International Atomic Energy agreed in their discussions to experts who will come and go in Agency, told reporters, "I think open a U.N. inspectors office in coming months. 
Senate passes anti-terrorist Homeland Security Bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate voted decisively Tuesday to create a Homeland Security Department, delivering a triumph to President Bush and setting the stage for the biggest gov­ernment reshuffiing in a half-century as a way to thwart and respond to terrorist attacks. 
The final vote was 90-9, belying bitter clashes that pitted Congress against the White House and the two parties against each other and that prolonged work on the legislation for nearly a year. 
"It is landmark in its scope and it ends a session which has seen two years worth of legislative work which has been very pro­ductive for the American people," Bush told Senate GOP leaders from Air Force One as he new to NATO meetings in Europe. 
The new Cabinet-level agency will merge 22 agencies with combined bud­gets of about $40 billion and employ 170,000 workers -the most grandiose federal reorganization since the Defense Department's birth in 1947. 
Even so, it will take months for the new agency to get fully off the ground. And a budget stalemate continues to block most of the extra money for domestic security enhancements both sides want for the federal fiscal year that began Oct. 1. 
The House overwhelmingly approved the bill on Nov. 13, so the Senate vote was the crucial, final test. Because of technical changes the Senate made, however, the House is expected to provide final con­gressional approval later this week with an anticlimactic voice vote. 
Senators cleared the way for the final vote by rejecting, 52-47, a Democratic bid to block provisions that will aid vaccine producers and other industries. That vote came after Republican leaders made last­minute concessions that ensured support from four moderate senators. 
"This bill still needs work," said Senate Majority Leader Torn Daschle, D-S.D., voicing the misgivings of Democrats who opposed the pro-industry provisions. But he said he supported the legislation because of "the tremendous challenge facing the country" to combat terror. 
As Congress neared adjournment for the year, lawmakers also planned to com• plete a bill making the government the insurer of last resort for terrorist attacks, with a maximum annual tab to taxpayers of $90 billion. 

They readied a measure keeping federal agencies open through Jan. 11, needed due to unfinished spending bills. A vote was also planned on Bush's nomination of 
U.S. District Court Judge Dennis Shedd to be an appeals court judge, which has sparked a fight with Democrats over civil rights. 
The work came in the final hours of the 107th Congress, which has seen the world change around it during a tumultuous two-year run. 
Bush won a $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut but saw a vibrant economy stall and federal surpluses become deficits. Terrorists killed nearly 3,000 in last year's attacks on Washington and New York. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Troops prevent clash in Venezuela: 
National Guard troops fired tear gas Tuesday to keep pro-government militants away from thou­sands of whistle-blowing, nag-waving marchers protesting President Hugo Chavez's military takeover of city police. Having prevented a street battle. soldiers with riot shields hurriedly prodded opposition mayors and governors into Congress to deliver a petition demanding Chavez restore autono­my to the 9,000-strong police department. 
U.K. proposes sex offense law reforms: 
Prime Minister Tony Blair's government on Tuesday proposed an overhaul of Britain's Victorian-era sex olTense laws, urging Parliament to crack down on sexual predators and to repeal remaining laws against gay male sex. "The law on sexual offenses is archaic and incoherent." Home Secretary David Blunkett told tho House of Commons. The last major sex offense act was passed 46 years ago. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush in Prague carrying Iraq message: 
President Bush urged NATO allies to "come with us" and help disarm Saddam Hussein. even as summit diplomats said Tuesday the alliance will not take up arms collectively against Iraq. Bush, arriving first among 19 NATO leaders for a two­day gathering shadowed by intense security, said alliance nations can find ways individually to sup­port his campaign against Saddam. 
Thurmond aide granted U.S. judgeship: 
In a nod to Republican Sen. Strom Thurmond at the close of his 48-year Senate career, the Democratic-controlled Senate on Tuesday approved the nomination of a Thurmond protege to a U.S. appeals court. The 55-44 vote agreed to the promotion of U.S. District Court Judge Dennis Shedd to the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va., despite accusations of discrimina­tion against the South Carolina federal judge. 
Judge denies Malvo psychiatrist request: 
A judge on Tuesday rejected a request from lawyers for sniper suspect John Lee Malvo to hire a psychia­trist to determine whether the 17-year-old should seek an insanity defense. Malva's lawyer, Michael Arif, said he needs a psychiatrist to evaluate Malvo because "we're not certain what makes Mr. Malvo tick." But the judge said the request was premature. Malvo would likely be entitled to such experts when the case moves to trial, she said. 
U.S. completes airport security takeover: 
The government completed its security takeover at the nation's airports Tuesday, winning praise from travelers who said they felt more confident and were happy with the short lines at the X-ray machines. The Transportation Security Administration. created after the Sept. 11 attacks, met its deadline to put more than 47,000 federal employees in place to han­dle security at 424 airports nationwide. 
~ '
' ~ . ' . ' . . . . . . . ' . . ' ' ' . 
' ' • • • • • • , • • I O • ~ • I ' > o I f • 
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 20, 2002 


Anti-death penalty series to raise awareness 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Writer 
Speakers will provide the Catholic Church's view on death penalty at Thursday and Friday's anti-death penalty series, "An American Paradox: Justice and the Practice of the Death Penalty," according to Daniel Philpott, faculty fellow and coordinator of the series. 
The series is sponsored· by the Kroc Institute and the Sant'Egidio Community, a Catholic lay association focused on living out the Christian gospel through prayer. friendship and solidarity with the poor. The Sant'Egidio Community's South Bend chapter started a personal relationship with Dominique Green a prisoner on death row in Texas. 
Sheila Murphy, the keynote speaker and former Illinois Cook County District Court judge, is a current advocate for Dominique Green. As a judge, she ordered crucial DNA testing for several death row inmates, exonerating them of their crimes. 
"Judge Murphy speaks in a colorful way with firsthand experience," Philpott said. "She represents someone who has been in the trenches." 
The series will feature a dis­cussion where panelists with varying viewpoints will discuss the death penalty. Mike Collins, News Anchor from Channel 22, will moderate the discussion. 
The lecture series hopes to raise the awareness of the death penalty issue on campus. Philpott believes the death penalty issue is, "a burning issue and intrinsically unjust." 
Murphy will speak at 4 p.m. Thursday at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium and at 7 p.m. at Saint Mary's in the Carroll Auditorium. The panel discus­sion is scheduled for Thursday at 8 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu 




Enjoy a good challenge? 
You want apersonal life, but you also want acareer that challenges you. At Ernst & Young, you can have both. True, we have high expectations. And some tasks will no doubt rack your brain. But rest assured. We help our people face assignments with some remarkably handy tools, such as the most advanced technology, information, and resources, bar none. And with a talented pool of colleagues and mentors by your side, success is closer than you think_ And so are the rewards. 
FORTUNE. 


190 BEST

0 MPANIESg

TOWORKFORc-..a 

ey.com/us/carcers . ~ fRNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH."• 

Wednesday, November 20, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch November 19 
DowJones 

8,474.78 -11.79 


NASDAQ 

1,374.51 . -19.18
•

S&P500 

896.74 -3.62
•


AMEX 

819.05 -1.90 



NYSE 

477.11 -1.17
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
r.ORLOCOM INC (W:::OEQ) -6.57 -0.02 0.27 

'::,,;:li1'i!~l1ii!li!ii'::ll~:l!i1;i!ll'!il 

CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1. 80 -0. 25 13. 66 
~~!!:.l'.fll!!!!!J~i::l!;tl~1i:ltj::::trlfii~11!!~i:~J.ltl!~li~!I 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -2 .16 -0 .40 18. 15 
IN BRIEF 
SEC suggests new Indy auditor rules 
The Securities and Exchange Commission proposed new regulations Tuesday to require independence in the accounting pro­fession and crack down on conflicts of inter­est by firms and the companies they audit. 
The rules, subject to a 30-day public com­ment period, were ordered by Congress in response to accounting scandals that shook public confidence in the stock market and corporate America. The rules must be in place by Jan. 26. 
Such regulations "should have and could have been adopted by the accounting pro­fession beforehand," said Commissioner Paul Atkins. But the government instead was forced to step in to help boost investor confidence, he said. 

Conseco reports $1.8 billion loss 
Conseco Inc. plans to seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection if the insurance and finance company can strike a restructuring pact with creditors owed billions of dollars, executives said Tuesday as they reported a hefty $1.8 billion quarterly loss. 
Debt holders could at any time file a peti­tion to force Conseco into bankruptcy or refuse to extend a debt-repayment waiver that expires next Wednesday, possibly lead­ing to the same fate. 
Conseco. saddled with $6.5 billion in debt from 1990s acquisitions that soured, has said it hoped to reach a so-called pre-pack­aged bankruptcy plan that would be submit­ted for a judge's review. 

Qwest said to plan exchange offer 
Qwest Communications International Inc. is planning a debt exchange offer for some of its $22 billion in junk bonds, according to sources familiar with the matter. The move, coming after Qwest averted a liquidity crisis this sum­mer, would allow the company to restructure some of its $25 billion in overall debt outside of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy. 








Oil tanker sinks near Spain 

EFE Photos 

A tanker laden with 70,000 tons of fuel oil split in two off northwest Spain on Tuesday and its stern section sank, triggering what ecologists said could become one of the world's worst oil spills. 
oil. according to govern­Bunkerworld. a London­aground and lost 21.5 mil­
• Spills poses 
ment estimates. SMIT, the based news service for the lion gallons near Agreat economic Dutch salvage company marine fuels industry. Coruna. along a ship­damage hired to keep the ship The Spanish govern­wreck-prone shore known 
afloat, estimated the ment declined to estimate as the "coast of death." spillage at 13 percent of economic or ecological The ship is owned by
Associated Press its load. Nor was it clear damage. Liberian-registered Mare MADRID much oil might reach The hope is that most of Shipping Inc. But it will be An oil tanker carrying land, or where. Portugal the fuel oil went down represented in damage 20 million gallons of fuel said it was monitoring a with the ship. "If it sinks claims by Universe oil broke in two and sank slick 22 miles by one-third into cold water, this stuff Maritime, said a Tuesday in the Atlantic of a mile. solidifies so much that it spokesman for the latter, Ocean, threatening a spill At stake in Spain's basically stays there," said Stephen Askins. nearly twice as big as the misty, green, northwest Einemo. Mare Shipping's only Exxon Valdez's and an corner is a fishing and Greenpeace said it office is in Monrovia but environmental catastro­seafood industry that wasn't so sure. "We hope through the ship's man­phe along a scenic feeds much of the country that the sunken part does agers the firm is eager to Spanish coastline. and does more than $330 not spill its fuel. But still work with Spanish The hope was that the million in annual busi­it's a time bomb at the authorities, insurance oil would sink and harden ness. It employs tens of bottom of the sea," said companies and interna­in waters more than two thousands of people who Maria Jose Caballero who tional maritime insurance miles deep before it could catch, process or sell heads the environmental funds, Askins said. inflict disaster and engulf everything from monkfish group's coastal protection "There is no suggestion the area's rich fishing to mussels. project. that the owner, as a small grounds. But it has Fuel oil, used to power "There's nothing that Liberian company, would already soiled 125 miles ship engines and electrici­makes us believe it won't be expecting people to try of Spanish coastline, and ty plants, is harder to finally burst and leak all to find it in Liberia and its highly viscous and clean up than the crude its oil," she added. "It's register their claims," toxic load is far bigger spilled by the Exxon insoluble, viscous and Askins said. "I don't need than the 10.92 million gal­Valdez. Crude disperses in sticky, which makes it dif­to tell you how big this is lons dumped off Alaska by sea water but fuel oil ficult for the clean-up as an incident." the Exxon Valdez in 1989. turns to sticky lumps. operations." The new EU inspection As the Bahamas-flagged "It's a big, sticky, gooey Northwest Spain suf­measures were adopted tanker Prestige sank, it mess -a bit like molten fered a disastrous spill 10 after the 1999 Erika oil leaked between 800,000 asphalt," said Unni years ago when the Greek spill polluted 250 miles of to 1.02 million gallons of Einemo. senior editor at tanker Aegean Sea ran French coastline. 
Xerox cuts more than 2,400 jobs 
A.nociated Press 
STAMFORD, Conn. 
Xerox Corp. said Tuesday it will cut more than 2,400 jobs, or 3.4 percent of its worldwide work force, through a combination of lay­offs and voluntary departures in a bid to reduce costs and boost effi­ciency. 
"For Xerox to continue building momentum in this uncertain econo­my, we need to accelerate our drive to improve efficiency while deliver­ing competitive products and ser­vices to our customers," said Anne 
M. Mulcahy, Xerox chairman and chief executive. "Today's difficult economic challenges require diffi­cult decisions." 
The cuts will result in a pretax charge against earnings of $350 million to $400 million in the fourth quarter. The charge includes sever­ance costs and about $50 million associated with facility consolida­tions and closings. 
Among the facility consolidations and closings, a call cent~r in St. Petersburg. Fla., will be closed and consolidated with a similar opera­tion in Lewisville, Texas. A call cen­ter in Irving, Texas, will be closed and consolidated with a similar operation in Nova Scotia, spokes­woman Christa Carone said. 

Some small direct sales offices will be downsized or closed around the country, Carone said. Those sales representatives will work from home, she said. 
Some small direct sales offices will be downsized or closed around the country. Carone said. 
The charge is larger than the $100 million originally anticipated. Xerox wanted to accelerate the benefits of cost savings, Carone said. 
Xerox. a Stamford-based maker of printers and copiers. will pre­serve its direct sales force and research and development invest­ments. Mulcahy said_ 
page8 The Observer . TECHNOLOGY NEWS Wednesday, November 20, 2002 
Salon.com launches unusual ad program 
cent of the content on Salon's its debut last week, said sponsors besides Mercedes­oped by cash-strapped
Associated Press 

Web site. The remaining 80 Cheryl Lucanegro. Salon's Benz. Internet companies hoping to 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Fighting for survival, the online magazine Salon.com has introduced an unusual advertising program that waives subscription fees for readers willing to wade through an interactive com­mercial. 
Salon Media Group Inc. is offering "Ultramercials" spon­sored by Mercedes-Benz as an alternative to paying for pre­mium access, which costs from $18.50 to $30 a year. 
About 45,000 subscribers pay the fees to view 20 per-

percent of Salon's site remains free to all visitors. 
Readers who clicked through all four sections of an ad for Mercedes' E-Class sedan on Tuesday received a 12-hour pass to Salon's subscription­based content. 
Visitors can get additional 12-hour passes by sitting through more advertisements on different days. 
It takes about 10 seconds to click through the ad. 
The response to the new Mercedes promotion has exceeded expectations since 
Court reverses e-mail suppression 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS 
The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing a federal judge's decision, ruled Monday that police do not need to be present to collect evidence from an Internet service provider. 
A three-judge panel of the appeals court in St. Louis said the district court erred in suppressing e-mails collected by Yahoo! Inc. on a warrant obtained last year by St. Paul. Minn. police while investigat­ing Dale Robert Bach. a Minneapolis man who was charged with inducing a minor to engage in sexually explicit conduct. 
Yahoo technicians in California provided the evi­dence after St. Paul police faxed the search warrant they obtained, which permitted the retrieval of e-mails between Bach and possible victims. Bach was indicted in August 2001. 
The district court in Minnesota ruled the gather­ing of the e-mail evidence vio­lated Bach's Fourth Amendment protection 
• 
. 
0 Think your family
• 
drives
. 
0 you
• nuts? 
. 
You have no idea...
0 
• 
. 
0 
• 
. 
0 
• 
. 
0 
. 

against unreasonable search­es because it was executed outside the presence of a police officer. 
In reversing the district court ruling, the appellate judges noted the "reasonable­ness standard" governing the Fourth Amendment "should not be read to mandate rigid rules that ignore countervail­ing law enforcement inter­ests." 
The presence of police is one of several factors that can help determine when a search is reasonable. Other factors include the scope of the war­rant. behavior of officers and type of evidence being sought, the appellate judges wrote. 

.from 

Campus s ors 
Cold Wel"lher EKperts 
Call 259-1000 for more detail$ 
. 
. 
0 
• 
. 
0 
• 
. 
0 
• 
. 
0 
. 
. 
0 
. 
. 
0 
.
Co-sponsored by Multi-Cultural Arts and SUB Movies 

0 
senior vice president of sales. Salon is trying to sign up other 
Salon's new program is the latest marketing twist devel-
Imagine... 
drum up more business in the depressed advertising market. 
A sea of your design 
Design The Shin 
2003 

Entries due Friday, December 6 
Drop off in Student Activities Office 314 LaFortune 
Questions? Email schuster.13@nd.edu 
In commemoration of 

November 20th • Day of the Child 

Killed 4/27/02 llhile hiding under her bed 
more than 250 Palestinian and 72 Israeli children have been murdered in the last two years 
In The Line of Fire: children in Israel and the occupied Territories 
A Lecture and Question & Answer Opportunity Professor Garth Meintjes • Center of Civil and Human Rights Nov. 20 • 7PM DeBartolo • Room 140 
Presented by • Amnesty International-ND• The Joan B. Kroc lnstitllte • The Helen Kellogg Institute • • fhe Program in Middle Eastern Studies • The Center for Social Concerns • 

• • ! . • • • • • ' ' ... ' , 
• • • , •, , r" , , ,. t #, 

Wednesday, November 20, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
News and Info appoints Chapla 
Special to The Observer 
Shannon Chapla, most-recent­ly a radio news anchor and morning show personality in South Bend, has been appointed assistant director of news and inrormation at the University of Notre Dame. 
Chapla comes to Notre Dame from broadcast journalism. For the past seven years she deliv­ered the news and joined with Jack Reichert and Bruce Kayser on the popular "Jack. Shannon and Bruce" show on Sunny 
101.5 (WNSN-FM). She also served as a news reporter and anchor on Sunny's sister station, WSBT-AM, and for several years on WSBT-TV's News 22. 
Chapla entered the field with South Bend's WNDU Stations and served for 1 year as news director at WAOR-FM/WNIL­AM. formerly of Niles, Mich. 
She served as commencement speaker at Michiana College for the class of 2002 and has spo­ken at a wide variety of commu­nity events, including the South Bend Women's Show, DARE Program and IUSB Career Night. 
A native Hoosier, Chapla earned her bachelor's degree in telecommunications from Ball State University in 1993. 
GERMANY 
Jackson dangles child over balcony 
Associated Pres• 
BERLIN 

Michael Jackson rewarded fans outside his Berlin hotel with a brief appearance and a glimpse of his youngest child ­dangling the toddler over a fourth-floor balcony. 
The boy, his legs kicking. had what appeared to be a white cloth over his head as Jackson, briefly holding the child with one arm. displayed him Tuesday to dozens of fans waiting below the window of the luxurious Adlon llotel. 
The child, in a baby blue jumper, was the reclusive singer's third and youngest. Prince Michael I[, said Antje Sigesmund, a spokeswoman for the Bambi entertainment award ceremony, which Jackson is attending in Berlin. 
About 200 fans gathered out­side the hotel, just opposite Berlin's landmark Brandenburg Gate, and security had to remove some from the lobby. Several carried banners, includ­ing one that said "Save the Kids," with drawings of chil­dren's faces. Another said "Really good to see you." 
Jackson, wearing a bright red shirt, smiled and waved to the fans. at one point tossing a small white towel to the crowd below. The singer then went inside and retrieved the toddler, using one arm to hold the boy out over the iron rail of the hotel. 
Fans cheered as the pop star appeared with the child, but Jackson quickly retreated into his hotel room without making any statement. 
Little is known ahout Prince Michael II. People Magazine reported in August that he was six months old. The magazine, citing an anonymous friend, said the boy was not adopted and did not identify the mother. 
[n Berlin, Jackson was taking a break from a California court­room where he testified last week in a $21 million lawsuit claiming he backed out of con­certs. He arrived in Berlin to pick up a Bambi for life achieve­ment Thursday. 
He is to attend a benefit for homeless children and a charity auction where he will put a jack­et and hat on the block Wednesday. 
We have whatyou nl'edin off-campus living! Lotsofapartt11ents available for 2003-04! 
·4 & 5 Private Bedroom Apts the rent! ·3 Floors Tall/Patio Area 
•Central Air/Cable Hook-Up ·Stove, Fridge, Dishwasher ·Washer/Dryer in EACH Unit ·6 Blocks from Campus ·ADT Security Systems ·24-Hour Maintenance 
CALL TODAY FOR APERSONAL WALK-THROUGH! 
574-234-9223 
TCLARK@CBRESB.COM 
SPLIT 


"BEST VALUE PER STUDENT" -ONLY $281 PER STUDENT FOR A S BEDROOM PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. 
Ashanti nominated for five music a-wards 
Associated Press 
BEVERLY HILLS 
R&B newcomer Ashanti, whose singles "Foolish" and "Happy" transformed the 22­year-old singer into a soul sen­sation this year. received a leading five American Music Award nominations Tuesday. 
The songstress and her self­titled debut album were up for favorite album and new artist in the pop/rock category, and favorite remale artist. album and new artist in the hip­hop/R&B class. 
Rap stars Eminem and Nelly, whose albums "The Eminem Showff and "Nellyville" compet­ed throughout the summer for the top spot on the sales charts, had four nominations each, including favorite album and male artist in both the pop and hip-hop categories. 
The 20 awards will be pre­sented during a ceremony at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles on Jan. 13, aired live on ABC. 
The Osbourne family -rock­star dad Ozzy, wife Sharon, and kids Kelly and Jack -will host the event. 
The nominations are based on sales figures and radio play. Winners are selected by a sur­vey of about 20,000 listeners. 
Pop/Rock 
-Male Artist: Eminem, Enrique Iglesias, Nelly. -Female Artist: Sheryl Crow, Celine Dion, Pink. 
-Band, Duo or Group: Creed, Linkin Park, Nickel back. 
_:_ Album:"Ashanti," Ashan­ti; "The Eminem Show," Eminem; "Nellyville," Nelly; 

"M!ssundaztood," Pink. -New Artist: Ashanti, Kelly Clarkson. Puddle of Mudd. 
Hip-Hop/R&B 
-Male Artist: Eminem, Ja Rule. Nelly. -Female Artist: Ashanti, Mary J. Blige, Jennifer Lopez. -Band, Duo or Group: 82K, Nappy Roots, Outkast. 
Album: "Ashanti," Ashanti; "The Eminem Show," Emincm; "Word Of Mouf," Ludacris; "Nellyville." Nelly. 
-New Artist: Ashanti, 82K. Nappy Roots. 
Country 
-Male Artist: Alan Jackson. Toby Keith, Tim McGraw. 
-Female Artist: Martina McBride, Jo Dee Messina, Lee Ann Womack. 
-Band, Duo or Group: Brooks & Dunn, Dixie Chicks, Lonestar. 
-Album: "No Shoes, No Shirt, No Problems," Kenny Chesney; "Home," Dixie Chicks; "Drive," Alan Jackson; "Unleashed," Toby Keith. 
-New Artist: Kellie Coffey, Carolyn Dawn Johnson, Tommy Shane Steiner. 
Adult Contemporary 
-Artist: Vanessa Carlton, Celine Dion, Five For Fighting. 
Latin Music 
-Artist: Marc Anthony, Enrique Iglesias, Shakira. 
Alternative Music 
-Artist: Creed, Linkin Park, System of a Down. 
Contemporary Inspirational 
-Artist: Avalon, Jars Of Clay, P.O.D. 
Soundtrack 
"Lilo & Stitch," "The Scorpion King," "Spider-Man" 
' .. ' • ~ -' t • • ' • ' • • • '
"-~~ .. ~·····~···~······ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, November 20, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR, Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Sarah Nmor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLU!R: Lori l..ewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................63 l-6900/8840 
ohservad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.opsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................... ..............631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR'i's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofche University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lercers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th(' Observer (USPS 599 240) ir. publi1hcJ Monday through Friday c,cccp1 during cum and vacation periods. A 1ubiw:ripcion to The Ob~rvcr is $100 for one acadrmic yew; S5j forone 5C'llll<.'llltr. 
Th, Oiu"'rm \.t.. fl~I\\U!'d ~t.~ POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send a.ddru, c:orrttnoru rr,: 
Nor« Dame, IN 46S56 ThcOhiervcr 
r.o. Ro,Q l'aiud.ic~ pujf¥ p.jd .i: Notte Dunc Norrc Dame, IN 4655fi-Offl and ~Jdi1icm.J mai.llng ofli.cct. 
·nu ObR-rvff isl. member ofthe A.ociaccd f-ra5. All rq,roducrion right~ arc rescrvcd. 

ND faculty-students relations rely on unfair stereotypes 
Let's talk about the relationship between Notre Dame undergrads and fac­ulty. It's not good, kids. Now, on the indi­vidual level, it's OK. Trips to Decio aren't nearly as scary as they used to be, and I've managed to fool a couple of 
Amy Schill
professors into thinking I'm smart (It's amaz­ing what free Dazed and tickets to "Harry Amused Potter" can do). On a collective level, however, it's an entirely different story. In terms ofthe Notre Dame family, 
the faculty sees Notre Dame undergradu­
ates as the somewhat endearing but mostly moronic third cousin. 
To them, we're rich, conservative, homogenous and utterly lacking in intel­lectual curiosity. Professors manifest these judgments in not-so-subtle com­ments made in class, such as, "The les­bian subtext in this ... Oh wait, can't talk about that at Notre Dame," and "The character in this novel is incredibly stu­pid. Hey, just like you." 
They have an image ofus as walking around pretending we know everything, treating the classroom experience as a necessary evil to get our degree and six­digit salaries in the long run and an irri­tating obstacle to beer-guzzling and patri­otic rallies in the short run. At best we're entertaining, at worst we're a nuisance, and they gaze at us with a look of pity and contempt. 
Now, to a certain extent, I can't blame the faculty, because we have this stereo­type for a reason. It seems as though many Notre Dame undergrads missed the memo that said college was all about free thought and challenging accepted norms. 
The minority left has to scream to be 
heard on this campus and when they do 
they're automatically labeled as "whiny liberals," as if that alone were a valid cri­tique. 
People, college is all about being whiny and liberal. You're not supposed to sell out until later, when the credit card bill is coming to your address. But alas, I often restrain from voicing my "radical" views (I think it's wrong to call gays and les­bians inhuman -scandalous, I know) out offear of being called a Communist, or worse, a PSA member. So, when profes­sors stereotype Notre Dame undergrads as slightly unreceptive to new ideas, maybe they're not too far off the mark. 
There are other ways in which we put a strain on the student-faculty relationship, and that's through our lackluster class­room participation. I can't imagine how it must feel to have your questions greeted by blank stares and uncomfortable silence, but I'm guessing it doesn't make you like us any better. 
Now, I'm as guilty of this as anyone, if not more so. I fail to participate as much as I should either because I don't know the answer to the question, think I know but hesitate because of my paralyzing fear of being wrong, or simply don't hear the question because I'm thinking about candy. I don't know if this reasoning can explain all lack of participation, and I think we can do better. 
Part of the problem is that we sorely under-appreciate the brilliance of this fac­ulty. Do an internet search of your profes­sors sometime. You'll find that these peo­ple have all sorts offamous credentials to their names. At other schools, kids read their work to learn, and we actually have the benefit of their genius in person. We can touch them. I do not suggest actually touching them. The point is, I think ifwe realized how lucky we are to have teach­ers of this quality, we'd be more open to what they have to offer us. 

All right, I'm done praising the faculty. I understand the complaints against Notre Dame kids, but they're still my people, and I'll defend my Fighting Irish race with hurley sticks if necessary. Yeah. some of your assumptions are not unfounded, but it's still unfair and self-defeating to have these prejudices against all undergrads. l get frustrated when a teacher walks into class with presumptions abbut my poli­tics, fmancial situation and level of sexual repression, and looks at me as someone they have to change by force. I had a pro­fessor last year who was actually sur­prised that the first response of his upper level English class to Sept. 11 was not to kill all Arab-Americans. 
Give us a little bit of credit, please. We're not as smart as you are, but we're not idiots either, and it's hard to express that when we're constantly looked at con­descendingly. It's a shame that the people whose job it is to break down our assumptions sometimes are reluctant to let go of their assumptions about Notre Dame students. We're not perfect, but give us a chance and you may realize we're smarter than you think. lf not, l have two tickets for the "Harry Potter" matinee. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major. Her column normally appears every other Tuesday. Contact her at aschill@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Opening a dialogue about stem cell research 
Last Friday's episode of"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit" posed a very interesting ethical, moral, medical and quite possi­bly legal debate. In a nutshell, a rich man suffering from Parkinson's disease was paying two doctors to artificially insemi­nate comatose women who had little to no chance of recovery. The doctors would then terminate the pregnancy and harvest the stem cells for research in an attempt to cure the rich man. 
Obviously there is no question as to the morality and legality of taking advantage of the women depicted. However, the charac­ters found themselves trying to figure out who was the bigger vil­lain: the doctors for carrying out the procedures or the rich man for coming up with the idea in the first place and then funding it. At one point, the comment was made that purposely creating a human life just to end it for research was morally and ethically reprehensible. 
By making this comment, the show's producers inadvertently referred to the fetus as a life. Ifthis is the case it begs the ques­tion: If it's wrong to kill a life (via abortion) in the name of sci­ence, then why is OK to kill a life (via abortion) just because the mother doesn't want to have the baby? In addition, is it wrong (morally, ethically, medically or legally) for a woman to purposely become pregnant with the sole purpose of terminating the preg­nancy to collect the stem cells? Why or why not? 
I would be interested in reading the comments and argument'> from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. I would love to hear from both the pro-life and pro-choice sides of the issue, from those who support stem cell research to those who oppose it. Perhaps tl1is can create dialogue among our students, among our staff, among our faculty and among ourselves. 
J.B. Bailey 
assistant dirc-ctor ofscudent activities Saint Ma,y•s College Nov. 19 
TODAY'S STAFF NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 

News Sports Meghanne Chris Federico 

"The whole art of teaching is only the art of
Should Notre Dame reconsider the number of­
Downes Bryan Kronk 

awakening the natural curiosity ofyoung
Laura Coristin Mark Zavodnyk 

University requirements necessary 
minds for the purpose ofsatisfying it 
John Fanning Scene 

to graduate? 
afterwards. " 
Viewpoint C. Spencer Beggs Teresa Fralish Lab Tech 

Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Anatole France
Graphics Claire Kelly 
writer
Mike Harkins Illustrator 
Rachel Ourada 


• • o o O o • • • • .. .. I • o , • • ~ , • • • • ' '• I • • • ' 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, November 20, 2002 page 11 
It's time to start believing 

At a Catholic institution like Notre Dame, we're taught all about beliefs. We believe in God. We believe in our country. We believe in our team. llowever, lately, when it comes to relationships, maybe we need to find a reason to believe. 
We seem to spend so much time thinking about what may or could be wrong wilh our relationships that we begin to lose faith in ourselves. Are we good enough? Have we said Lhe right things and made the right moves? 
Eventually, we put so much 
Jacqueline 
Browder 
Happily Ever After 

effort into whittling away at all of the flaws in our 
relationships and ourselves that there is little more 
than a loolhpick's worth of material left when we've 
finished. 
No one is perfect. So why do we try to be for our significant others? We tend to have such a problem believing in ourselves that it affects not only our rela­tionships. but our own self worth. When we lose faith in ourselves. our relationships suffer, and so do we. Hather than believing in ourselves and in the possi­bility that we deserve all of the good things in our lives, we instead agonize over what's not right and what is wrong. 
Well. it's time to start believing. 
Not only do we need to have faith in ourselves. we need to have failh in each other. We live in a world where we give up on things far too easily. lt's as if we've given the idea of faith the shelf-life of a dairy product -we expect it to go bad after a week or so. Faith shouldn't have an expiration date. 
When we lose faith in our relationships, we ulti­mately leave behind our belief that something more is possible. The potential to discover something or someone beyond our own self is a matter of trust and one that is too often lost among those who do not let themselves experience it. After all, sometimes the things that are hardest to believe are the things that we don't understand until we experience them. 
It's time to start believing. 
By focusing on the negative, we make simple things far too complex. We are less likely to take chances and work through the problems in our relationships because acceptable excuses are readily at our finger­tips. We often become critical of ourselves. become indifferent in our relationships and s~off at the ideas of trust, hope and possibility. We throw around phrases like "it just can't happen now," and "it's just not worth the effort," giving way to the idea that, not only is the relationship not worth the effort, but maybe we're not worth the effort. 
Well, they are. And so are we. Relationships aren't always easy, but they are certainly worth having. However. they can only be good when we believe in the possibility of their success and of our own. We need to have faith in each other. Of course, there are always moments when romance gives way to reality, but that's never a reason to stop believing. It's about time we have a little faith, not only in ourselves but in our relationships. It's a quality that we need to apply daily. 
It's time to start believing. 
After all, we show our belief in God by lighting can­dles at the Grotto and bowing our heads in prayer during Mass each week. We show our belief in our country by hanging llags out our windows and stand­ing proudly during the national anthem. We show our belief in the football team by filling the student sec­tion with various shades of green six Saturdays each fall and cheering on the Irish no matter what the sea­son record. Now it is time to believe in ourselves. 
There's no need lo whittle away at our relation­ships, looking for !laws and embracing a defense of indifference. We have to have faith in the possibility of something more and something better. It's worth the effort. 
It's lime to start believing. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American Studies major and journalism minor. She would like to thank herJather. who inspired the idea for this column. Her column appears every other Wednesday. Contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Reflecting on protests at the 
School ofthe Americas 
I've just returned from the School of the Americas (SOA) rally and vigil at Fort Benning, Ga. It was my third time making this mid­November trip, but it wasn't quite the same as before. Once again, there were great speakers and mediocre ones, good music and the overtly cynical tunes, hopeful as well as solemn moods, along with information tables for various causes and a crowd of several thousand supporters and sympathizers hoping to help close this particu­lar military institution. In all, most of the week­end went as the two previous years. 
But my participation, motivations and feelings were different. My voice was not as loud in the cheers and chants calling for the closure of the Western Hemispheric Institute for Security Cooperation (WHISC or WHINSEC, formerly the School of the Americas). Also, I was not quite as eager to be a part of the symbolic procession on Sunday to the gates of Fort Benning. My change in atti­tude was clear. I admit that I had a lot on my mind, since I helped organize the travel of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents in atten­dance. But I knew even then that this was not the entire­ty of my distrac­tions. 
Last Tuesday, l heard an argument in defense of the WHISC by retired 
U.S. 
Colonel Kenneth LaPlante. His contention was based around cases that imply there to be no stronger a correla­tion of involvement in criminal activity among SOA and WHISC graduates than among those of any other institution of learning. He cited specific examples in which the perpe­trator was trained at the SOA or WHISC for something other than directly lethal tactics or had a period of 20 or 30 years from the time of graduation until involvement in human rights abuses. He furthered this sentiment by stating that the founder of this annual rally aiming to close the WHISC, Father Roy Bourgoise, began his mission out of personal conviction against 

U.S. 
foreign policy. 


Thus, Bourgoise would have chosen this mili­tary training center for the site of his personal protest because it symbolized United States intervention in Latin America rather than for any sound reasoning regarding questionable instruction at what is now the WHlSC. I give LaPlante credit for an informative and well-pre­sented argument. But knowing that in less than one week I would hear hundreds of names read at the vigil of those who had been killed by graduates of' this institution, I couldn't help but think that LaPlante wasn't telling us everything there was to know. With regard to both individ­uals, there is no perspective that bears no bias. 
Upon my arrival in Georgia on Saturday. I suppose I was frustrated at the inaccessibility of the truth. I wanted LaPlante to explain to me the outrageous number of deaths caused by SONWHISC graduates. I wanted Bourgoise to give me a reason for coarsely using the victims of the farther-distanced graduates (with respect to training and time) to further his cause. I still await honesty from both sides to better formu­late my opinions about WHISC. I still intend on seeking it. But I realized that the best part of 
attending this peaceful demonstration had not changed over the years. It was the people there. 
The most encouraging part of' the weekend was walking around on Sunday, seeing people who were concerned enough about our society and had hope enough that their presence would make a difference such that they made their separate journeys to Georgia. Do not be misled to believe that everyone there was just a bunch of "wanna-be hippies" itching for a cause, because the participants have amazingly diverse stories. 
Just talking to a few individuals quickly brings about the realization that these people hold a variety of experiences, perspectives and visions for a better tomorrow. But there is one constant among them. They believe in a better tomorrow. 
Most of them wouldn't be there otherwise. Certainly, there were those who are in attendance for the thrill of fighting 
"The Man," or to feel empowered, or for a variety of other rea­sons. But those were clearly not the majority. 
Most came because they wish to bring about posi­tive change in our soci­
ety. I would advise you not to tell me otherwise until you go for yourself 
and talk to the people. 
Going to Georgia this weekend was hopeful for me as well. Seeing the throngs of people voicing their passions 
nonviolently gave me greater hope in democ­racy. It seems largely 

ironic at first. However. while looking at the vari­ous information stands along Fort Benning Road, I was reminded of how a well­informed, intensely involved public was necessary for a functional democracy. I can't say that the United States is a democra­cy. Its status as a republic is also ques­
tionable. But in receiving literature about various movements, I knew they could be used in constructive ways. 
While some might use it as blind propaganda to call others to take up the cause, I plan to use it to engage others in discussion. I don't care about being wrong or diverging from my initial views. I've been wrong plenty of times before, and I've got no qualms about being wrong again if it gives me a more comprehensive under­standing of important issues. In my opinion, those who believe in true democracy believe that the dialogue, compromise and eventual execution of policy based on the well-informed opinions of the people will result in the best common end. 
I like the chalkings on campus when they are thoughtful. and I take them as jokes when they arc otherwise. I enjoy well-informed, dynamic arguments in the media and the discussion they affect. I treasure that look of simultaneous real­ization and concern moments before someone decides to do something about a disturbing fact. These are all expressions of a common longing for a better world. It's nice to see people con­cerned, simply because injustice loves apathy. Seeing the potential for greater awareness through peaceful means is a great sign of hope for me. I'm glad I was able to see it in action this weekend. 
Michael Zawada 
junior Saine Edward's Hall Nov. 19 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 12 Wednesday, November 20, 2002 

'How I LearJ 
FIT's second mainstage play this year 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Edi tor 
Drama is easy. Comedy is hard. VValking the tightrope between the two can be next to impossible. But that's exactly the feat that the Department of Film, Television and Theatre's second mainstage produc­tion of this year, Paula Vogel's "How I Learned to Drive" attempts to pull off. 
The show, which won the Pulitzer Prize in 1998, is the cathartic story of a small town girl, Li'l Bit (played by senior Tara Magnani), who was molested by her uncle as a child. As a grown woman, Li'I Bit nar­rates her experience from the time she leaves college as an 18-year-old to her first sexual encounter with her uncle when she was 11. The only catch is that the show runs primarily backward in time. 
Couched in a driver's education analogy. the show is not about a victim, but a sur­vivor. Li'l bit narrates vignettes of her life on the sparsely furnished stage against a projection screen that displays back­grounds and illustrates the narration. 
To explain her molestation, Li'! Bit looks back at her upbringing in a less than nor­mal family. In a white trash family that nicknames each other after various genital characteristics, Li'l Bit is taught the ways of men, sex and women from her overly honest mother (played by junior Megan 



Olive) and crotchety grandmother (played 

Senior Tara Magnani and sophomore Steve
by sophomore Molly Topper). Bit finds an 

this year; the Pulitzer Prize-winning "How I u 
escape in talking with her uncle-by-mar­riage, Uncle Peck (played by sophomore Steve Hoeplinger), a deeply wounded vet­Although the cast manages to pull off eran. some hauntingly beautiful and uncomfort­
The non-linear sequence of the show ably funny scenes, occasionally they falter puts a unique perspective on the way that changing between the two modes resulting 
Ll'l Bit has dealt with her expe­ in disappointing  
rience. It also helps to explain her  "J think everyone grows up carrying pain and  flashes of inau­thenticity in important  
relationship with her uncle, and thereby  whatever they ·ve grown up with. And it's about not letting those things haunt  moments. For the most part, however, the cast remains focused  
makes it all the more chilling.  you and being a stronger person for it. "  and captivating. Hoeplinger and Magnani have a  
Moreover, it  visible chemistry  
forces  the  Tara Magnani  between them. It  
audience to  actor  would have been  
try to under- easy to portray  
stand  why  Uncle  Peck  as  

the molestation hap­simply victimizing Li'! Bit, but Hocplinger pened, not just that it manages to create a chilling sense of sym­happened. pathy for his charac­
"I don't think it's nec­ter -a task in which essarily about incest or Magnani has a critical pedophilia. It's more role. In particular, the universally oriented pair has an explicit than that. It's a very scene of molestation family-oriented mes­on stage. Despite the sage. It's a survival Bit's verbal protests, story," Magnani said. Magnani plays the "Everyone feels that scene as if she enjoys they have challenges it. growing up, difficulties As uncomfortable as with their families, awk­the scene is to watch ward stages. I think as an audience mem­everyone grows up car­ber, it was much more rying pain and whatever difficult for Magnani 
Wednesday lo Saturda
they've grown up with. to learn to be com­
Sunday at 2:30 p.m. $
And it's about not let­fortable with as an 
seniors and $7 for stud
ting those things haunt actor. The show's you and being a director, Assistant Professor of Film, stronger person for it." Television and Theatre Wendy Arons 

THE 
OBSERVER 


Wednesday, November 20, 2002 page 13 

ed to Drive' 
is uncomfortably comfortable to watch 

C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observe, 

Hoepllnger star In FTT's second malnstage show arned to Drive" opens tonight In Washington Hall. 
delayed rehearsing the scene until later in the eight-week preparation of the show to give Magnani a n d 

lloeplinger "You get drawn in at the turbing thought with this show. 
time to 

"I think we're
beginning and laugh and
become com­all glad that that 
fortable with see that this is a real this is a comedy.
each other. On family. but then it kind of In other words, the first day the material is
jumps up and bites you
running the emotionally so scene, because you didn't difficult for all of Magnani bor­realize what was going on " us that thank God 
rowed a bra padded with Megan Ollve silicone from 
actor 
a friend so she couldn't feel herself being groped. Magnani said that the experience helped her understand what her character went through. 
"The one thing in this show that was 

Jarned to Drive" 
;~g~~ 

at 7:30 p.m. In Washington Hall, 
0 General admission, $9 tor nts. 
especially difficult for me was that Wendy had me do that scene very accepting. And that was hard, getting outside myself'," Magnani said. "Doing this scene, being forced to do those scenes. really forces you to be in the play and be con­scious of what you're doing." 
But the really uncomfortable thing about "How I Learned to Drive" is 

how completely comfortable the audience will feel while it watches the show. 
it's a comedy 
because if it 
weren't, we 
wouldn't have 
been able to go through the rehearsals," Arons said. 
"/low I Learned to Drive" opens tonight in Washington Half and will run until Saturday night with performances begin­ning at 7:30 p.m. There will be a matinee on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. General admission is $10, $9 for seniors and $7 for students. Tickets can be purchased in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office or at the door. Call (574) 631-8128 to make reservations. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 
"You get drawn in at the beginning and laugh and see that this is a real family, but then it kind of jumps up and bites you because you didn't realize what was going on," Olive said. 
Olive, Topper and sophomore Tom Ryan form a Greek chorus to fill in the rest of the characters in the show. The convention is rather weakly developed and unneces­sary, but it does display some of the ensemble's versatility. 
Olive stands out in her role as Bit's moth­er, Lucy, a slightly sinister fem fatal who tries to give her daughter a realistic sexual identity. Olive also plays Aunt Mary, Lucy's sister and Peck's domestic angel of a wife. While Olive leads the cast in rowdy high­energy one-liners, she also demonstrates an impressive range with Mary. who serves to remind the audience that Bit's family is not entirely unaware of what's going on. 
"One of the things I was working with conceptually with this play ... is that any­body at any point could have seen what was going on ... but nobody does anything to stop it and they all have their reasons and rationalizations on why they don't stop it. And. as I understand it, this is very com­mon in situations like this," Arons said. 
Topper and lloeplinger also deliver notable performances: Topper for her delightful timing and Hoeplinger for a masterful creation of a sympathetic villain. The two sophomores both step out of type­cast acting, especially lloeplinger who has typically played rather hotheaded charac­ters. 
All in all, "How I Learned to Drive" is a decent show that has some very captivat­ing moments despite a couple moments of weak acting. The audience will certainly laugh, which is a dis­



C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer Junior Megan Olive as Lucy expounds on the nature of men, women and sex as well as the ladylike way to drink everyone else under the table. 
Wednesday, November 20, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 
Flyers top Lightning 3-2 in battle of division leaders 
I 
i 
r­
1 
I 
i I 
Associated P reos 
TAMPA. Fla. The Philadelphia Flyers used size to their advantage. 
Simon Gagne had a goal and an assist as the Flyers beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 3-2 Tuesday night in a matchup of early-season division leaders. 
Jeremy Roenick and John LeClair also scored for the Atlantic Division-leading Flyers, who have lost just once in their last 11 games against Tampa Bay (8-1-2). 
The Flyers, who had tied their previous three games, ended a five-game winless streak (0-2-3). They had five goals over the stretch. 
Nikolai Khabibulin stopped 29 shots for the Southeast Division-leading Lightning, who fell to 7-1-0-1 at home. He kept the game close by making 25 saves through two periods. 
Vincent Lecavalier and Sheldon Keefe scored for Tampa Bay, which had 11 shots through the second and finished with 19. 
Flyers goalie Roman Cechmanek was trying to become just the second goalie since the NHL expanded for the 1967-68 season to shut out one opponent four consecutive times. 
But Lecavalier scored for the Lightning during a five-on­three power play at 6:20 of the first period. 
Dominik Hasek, while with Buffalo, blanked the New York Rangers four straight times from Dec. 1997-0ct. 1998. 
Cechmanek, who had shutouts in his first three starts against Tampa Bay, had his streak of not allowing a goal to the Lightning end at 191 minutes, 20 seconds. 
Philadelphia tied it at 1 on Gagne's first-period goal at 
8:39. It was his first goal in 13 games. 
Roenick put the Flyers up 2­1 with a second-period rebound goal at 4:15. 
LeClair gave Philadelphia a two-goal lead at 10:53 when he put a shot from behind the net in off Khabibulin. 
Tampa Bay pulled to 3-2 on Keefe's goal at 12:19 of the second. 
Maple Leafs 2, Bruins 0 
Ed Belfour made 29 saves for his second shutout since sign­ing with the Maple Leafs as Toronto beat the Eastern Conference-leading Boston Bruins 2-0 Tuesday night. 
Mikael Renberg and Paul Healey scored third-period goals for the Maple Leafs, who ended Boston's five-game unbeaten streak. 
Fans chanted "Ed-die! Ed­die!" as Belfour got his 60th career shutout. The 37-year­old goaltender, who signed with Toronto after Curtis Joseph left for Detroit, didn't make any spectacular saves but was steady throughout. 
Belfour struggled in his first month with his new team, but he's stopped 94 of the last 98 shots he's faced. 
The Maple Leafs (7-10-2) won despite playing without leading scorer Alexander Mogilny. who sat out with a sore neck. Toronto has won three of its last four. 
The Bruins have lost just three of their 18 games this season. 
Renberg skated around a defenseman and shot the puck between goalie Steve Shields' pads, giving Toronto a 1-0 lead at 1:29 of the third. 
Healey, recalled from the minors before the game, made it 2-0 on the power play at 
4:46 when he flicked a wrist shot in traffic past Shields. 
Shields made 25 saves, including several impressive stops in the third period. 
Rangers 3, Mighty Ducks 2 
Pavel Bure and Eric Lindros finally came through for the New York Rangers on a night their coach couldn't make it out of bed. 
Bure scored 57 seconds into overtime, snapping a nine­game drought, and Lindros added his first goal in 16 games as the Rangers beat the Anaheim Mighty Ducks 3-2 Tuesday night. 
Anaheim has earned points in eight straight games, win­ning five times and losing three others in overtime. The Mighty Ducks return home fol­lowing a 2-0-0-3 trip. 
New York coach Bryan Trottier missed his third game in the last four, this time because of a sore back that kept him at home. Trottier also missed two games while serv­ing a suspension on New York's four-game road trip. 
The 44-year-old Hall of Fame player has suffered from stenosis -a genetic narrow­ing of the spinal column ­since he was 19. He received a cortisone shot Monday follow­ing the Rangers' 2-2 road trip. 
Dan Blackburn, making his sixth straight start in place of an injured Mike Richter, was sharp in stopping 32 Anaheim shots. 
Jean-Sebastien Giguere recovered from a rough first period to finish with 23 saves. 
Bure, who assisted on Lindros' goal for his first point since Oct. 28, streaked down the right side -beating three Ducks as he cut to the net ­and scored with a backhand­to-forehand move. He threw both hands in the air in cele­bration and relief as he was mobbed by his teammates. 
Sharks 3, Capitals 2 
Evgeni Nabokov made 46 saves, frustrating the Washington Capitals and lead­ing the San Jose Sharks to a 3­2 victory Tuesday night. 
Teemu Selanne, Patrick Marleau and Owen Nolan scored for the Sharks, who climbed out of last place in the Pacific Division. 
Michael Nylander and Mike Grier scored for Washington, which had gone 129 minutes, 20 seconds without a goal. 
The Capitals had a season­high 48 shots, but Nabokov repeatedly stopped them, often in extra-man situations. He made a big stop on Jaromir Jagr with about 5 seconds left and the Capitals on the power play. 
Washington went only 1-for­9 on the power play, dropping to 4-for-30 in its last six games. The Sharks were 2-for­5 on the power play. 
Selanne gave San Jose a 1-0 lead by scoring at 7:15 of the second period. He outraced Washington defenseman J.F. Fortin to the puck, swept around the net and scored. 
Marleau made it 2-0 on the power play just 2:02 later, eas­ily tapping in a loose puck near the goal line following Olaf Kolzig's save. 
Washington cut the lead in half on its second five-on-three opportunity of the game. Nylander scored from in front following Robert Lang's pass at 2:35 of the second period, making it 2-1 and ending Washington's scoreless streak. 
Nolan gave the Sharks a 3-1 lead with a power-play goal at 
9:14 of the third period. 
Grier made it 3-2 with 7:20 left by tapping in a rebound. 
Devils 4, Sabres 3 (OT) 
Scott Niedermayer scored 
1 :23 into overtime Tuesday night to give the New Jersey Devils a 4-3 victory that extended the Buffalo Sabres' winless streak to 12 games, matching the team record. 
Oleg Tverdovsky, John Madden and Jeff Friesen also scored for the Devils, who overcame a 2-0 deficit. 
The Sabres turned to 22­year-old goaltender Ryan Miller in an effort to end their slump. The move almost paid off as Miller, making his first NHL start, held the Devils scoreless through two periods. But he wilted under constant pressure in the third period and overtime. 
Curtis Brown, Chris Gratton and J.P. Dumont scored for Buffalo, which has not won since Oct. 22 against Philadelphia. 
On the game-winner, Brian Rafalski passed the puck to Niedermayer between the cir­cles. His shot appeared to deflect off defenseman Alexei Zhitnik on its way past Miller. 
The Devils came roaring back in the third to take a 3-2 lead. Tverdovsky got a power­play goal at 2:52, and Madden scored the equalizer on a breakaway at 9:35. 
Friesen gave New Jersey its first lead at 10:41 with a shot from the bottom of the left cir­cle. 
Dumont responded for Buffalo at 14:50 as he convert­ed a backhand pass from Stu Barnes at 14:50 to send the game into overtime. 
Brown and Gratton scored power-play goals to support their rookie goalie. 
Miller, a star at Michigan State who passed up his senior year to sign with Buffalo, was recalled from Rochester of the AHL on Tuesday and thrust right into action. 
Brown staked Miller to a 1-0 lead at 9:43 of the first period. With Colin White and Niedermayer both serving minor penalties, Brown tipped Miroslav Satan's point shot past Martin Brodeur. 
Miller showed poise in the opening period. The lanky net• minder made his first save 5 minutes into the game as he gloved a blue-line shot from Madden. Miller made seven more stops in the period. 
Gratton gave Miller some breathing room in the second with his team-leading eighth goal at 12:51. Gratton scored on a shot from the top of the right circle that appeared to graze Devils defonseman Scott Stevens on its way past Brodeur. 
Thrashers 4, Panthers 3 
Shawn McEachern scored a power-play goal at 3:23 of overtime to give the Atlanta Thrashers a come-from-behind 4-3 victory over the Florida Panthers on Tuesday night. 
McEachern scored his sixth of the season on a two-on-one, converting a perfect crossing pass from Vyacheslav Kozlov. Florida defenseman Ivan Majesky was off for holding the stick, giving Atlanta a four-on­three in the extra period. 
Atlanta snapped a two-game losing streak and stayed ahead of Buffalo for the fewest points in the NHL. The Thrashers are 2-1-1 in overtime. 
Florida, which has gone to overtime in five of the last seven games, is winless in its last five (0-1-2-2). 
There was more good news for the Thrashers, who reached a tentative agreement on a contract with free-agent goalie Byron Dafoe. The deal was announced between peri­ods by general manager Don Waddell. who said he hoped to make it official on Wednesday. 
It was the second big move in a week made by the Thrashers, who acquired cen­ter Marc Savard from Calgary on Friday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
••• ACT NOWI Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578 dept 2626)/Www.springbreakdis­counts.com 
..At Last Spring Break•• Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices sunsplashlours.com 1800426771 o 
HAPPY 21 ST BIRTHDAY, JOR­DAN LOVE, MOM & DAD 
Buy/Sell N D Football Tickets. Student discount available. 289-8048 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004:Anlan Properties, l.L.C. 532-1896 Call Bill. 
ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI­TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only company exclusive to Acapulco! That s why we re the BEST. 'Go Loco In Acapulco· with the #1 Spring Break Company in Acapulco for 16 years! Call 800-875-4525 Today. www.bianchi-rossi.com. Be a Rep, travel FREE-ask how! 
WANTED 

#1 Spring Break VacationslMexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Mealsl 1-800-234-7007 endlesssummer­tours.com 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
TAX PREPARERS needed by local tax firm •full & part time for the upcoming tax season. Experience a plus. Call Mrs. Johnson 234-4564. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULI..Y EQUIPPED. $99,500.Williamson.1@nd.edu 
2 • 1988 National Champion Footballs. Autographed by players, coaches and Lou Holtz. 574-256­7322. 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units 
rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 
3-Bedroom Home 1 mile lrom ND. Garage, alarm system, A/C. Avail.immed., $650/mo Call 220­0499. 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. 
nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses. 288-9673. Avail now. 
3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.ft. house. Close to ND. All appli­ances.big yard,garage,C/A. Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo. 243-9901. 
3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.ft. house. Close lo ND. All appli­ances,big yard,garage,C/A Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo. 243-9901. 
2 & 4-bdrm houses for 2003. Close to ND. 616-699-5841. 

Very comfortable & clean home on ND Ave., beginning Summer or Fall, 2003. 4 BR, 1.5 BA, security system, washer/dryer. Huge rooms. owners have references from previ­ous tenants! Max of 5 seniors or grads. Lease details 255-5852, leave message with name and phone. 
TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please cneck our prices. 273-3911. 
WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
NO TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­
ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
NEED 2 TIX FOR RUTGERS 
PLEASE CALL 674-6593. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.stslravel.com 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, MY SWEET BABOO LOVE, MOM 
Beck, next time get a more stable chair. I'm outta here. 

Wednesday, November 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Maddox out of hospital, fully recovered 
over the emotional stress of the Now comes the ha.rd part:
Associ:u~d Pren 
scary experience may determine Putting the kind of injury that PITTSBURGH how quickly he returns -and every athlete fears behind him, 
Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback how well he plays once he does. something not all players can eas­Tommy Maddox is out of the hos­Maddox breezed through tests ily do. pital. fully recovered in less than for his cerebral and spinal cord "There certainly is a psycholog­two days from a spinal cord concussions Tuesday before being ical eftect," said Joseph Maroon, injury that easily could have been released from a Pittsburgh hospi­the neurosurgeon who treated much worse. tal, glad to be out but weary from Maddox. "When you're lying on a 
How long it takes him to get the frightful ordeal. football field, unable to feel your 

Titans linebacker Keith Bulluck hits Steelers quarterback Tommy Maddox Sunday, causing Maddox to spend two days In the hospital with a serious spinal cord Injury. Maddox was released Tuesday after fully recovering. 
arms or legs and unable to move, I can't imagine a more frighten-· ing experience. I've seen this in quite a few athletes, and they 
haven't returned to function." 
Maddox lay motionless for more than lO minutes Sunday after being hit in the upper back by Titans linebacker Keith Bulluck, causing Maddox to lose consciousness and twist his head as he struck the ground. Steelers players prayed and held hands as they watched Maddox being placed on a backboard and lifted into an ambulance. 
"What he's been through is quite a shock," Maroon said. 
That's why the Steelers are leaving the timing of Maddox's return up to him. Kordell Stewart will replace him Sunday against Cincinnati. and likely will start the following week against Jacksonville. 
Steelers coach Bill Cowher also isn't ready to say who will start once Maddox is back. Maddox hadn't started an NFL game in 10 years until last month, only to quickly become one of the league's most productive passers. He threw for a team-record 473 yards on Nov. 10, the week before he was hurt. 
"Right now. all we're looking at is Tommy Maddox's health," Cowher said. 'Tm not going down that road." 
For now, Maddox's only physi­cal problem is catching up on the sleep he lost during two days of tests and checkups in two hospi­tals in two cities. His body also must recover from a massive steroid injection, given as a pre­caution in case the spinal cord injury was severe. 
"When you get as high a dose of steroids as he got, you're flying, and it can lead to depression once you're off it," Maroon said. "But I asked another of his doctors about his mood, and he said he's been perfectly level. 
"He is perfectly normal. Everything is absolutely, perfectly normal." 
Ilis injury, however, wasn't so normal. 
In more than 20 years of treat­ing athletes, Maroon has seen only three other football players with spinal cord concussions, which occur when the spinal cord is jarred or shocked but there is no structural damage. 
The injury is so rare, Maroon wrote about it in a medical jour­nal several years ago after treat­ing a former Penn State tight end. 
A spinal cord concussion is less severe than a contusion. which Maddox was initially diagnosed as having. A spinal cord contusion is marked by bruising, bleeding and inflammation and sometimes can result in permanent damage. 
Asked if Maddox knows he is lucky the injury wasn't much worse, Maroon said, "lie knows very well that he was." 
Maddox also recovered much more quickly than normal from his cerebral concussion, the injury that led former quarter­backs Steve Young and Troy Aikman to retire. 
Maroon and several other Pittsburgh doctors designed the tests the NFL and NIIL use to determine when a player with a concussion can return to play. or the more than 5,000 athletes test­ed, Maddox's reaction time was among the highest 
"Maybe this comes from Arena Football," Maroon said, smiling at the reference to the fast-paced indoor league where Maddox played before returning to the NFL. 

You Can Have It All! 

lree/J 
B. --,
llllk/11g
Free Checking 



~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the Unlve111ity 



GREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan • Hunan · Cantonese • American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 1 o 

(574) 272-7376 • 222 Dlxleway South 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 20, 2002 
PGA 
Woods won't skip Masters 
Associated Press 
MIYAZAKI, Japan 

Tiger Woods hasn't changed his mind about play­ing at the all-male Augusta National Golf Club despite a New York Times editorial calling on him to skip the Masters. 
In the Trophy Room at Augusta National is the famous 
1885. 
That's right. 

Calamity Jane, the nick­name Bobby Jones gave his putter, is really Martha Burk. 
A more current Martha Burk, head of the National Council of Women's Organizations. wants Augusta National to admit a female member. 
Club chairman Hootie 
Johnson. how­
putter ever. has said.
"We do not intend to 

belonging "We do not 
to Bobby become a trophy in their intend to Jones, display case." become a tro­
which the phy in their dis­Grand play case." 
Hootle Johnson

S l a m "As I've said champion Augusta National chainnan before, every­
called "Calamity Jane." 
How Jones arrived at that nickname is not nearly as rel­evant as who she was. 
Calamity Jane was a hero­ine in the American West during the late 1800s. regarded as a woman ahead of her time. 
According to various bio­graphical sketches, she did not accept the roles women faced during the rugged pio­neer days. Calamity Jane dressed in men's clothing. drove stage coaches and could compete with any man when it came to drinking or handling a rifle. 
What does this have to do with Augusta National? 
Calamity Jane was born in 1852 as Martha Cannary. In the "Life and Adventures of Calamity Jane," which she is said to have written, she married Clinton Burk in 

Nom Dame Film, Television, and Theatre PRESENTS­
WRJTIEN BY paula vogel • DtRECfED BY wendy arons 
Washington Hall 
WED, NOVEMBER 20, 7:30-PM. THU, NOVEMBER 21, 7;30 P.M. FRJ. NOVEMBER 22, 7:30 I~M. SAT, NOVEMBER 23, 7:30 PM. SUN, NOVEMBER 24, 2:30 !'.M. 
Tickets 
RESERVED SF.ATS $10 SENIOR CITIZENS $9 ALL STUDENTS $7 Available at the Lafortune Student Center ticket office. Mastercard and Visa orders call 574-631-8128. 
This production is supported by rhe Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 

one is entitled 
to their own opinion," Woods said Tuesday. He is in Japan for this week's Dunlop Phoenix tournament. 
"I think there should be women members," Woods said. "But it's not up to me. I don't have voting rights. I'm just an honorary member." 
The editorial, published Monday. suggested that Woods not play at the Masters next year because of Augusta's all-male member­ship. 
"A tournament without Mr. Woods would send a powerful message that discrimination isn't good for the golfing busi­ness," the editorial said. 
Augusta National declined comment. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who says his Rainbow/PUSH Coalition will organize protests at the Masters if a woman is not a member by April. called the Times editor­ial "unfair and inconsistent" for singling out Woods. 

"I don't remember them saying to Ben Hogan and Jack Nicklaus to boycott the Masters because blacks are not playing," Jackson said Tuesday. 
Lee Elder became the first black to play the Masters. in 1975. 
Still. Jackson said he would encourage Woods to take a stronger stand. 
"He's much too intelligent and too much a beneficiary of our struggles to be neutral," Jackson said. "His point of view does matter. I think right now his challenge would be to the PGA Tour, to the golfers, to the (Augusta National) board of directors, to all speak together." 
In interviews this month. Augusta National chairman Hootie Johnson was adamant that a woman would not be among the 300 members at Augusta by the start of the Masters in April. 
Johnson's comments were the first on the subject since he criticized Martha Burk and the National Council of Women's Organizations for trying to coerce change at the golf course. 
The Times said that if Augusta National "can brazenly discriminate against women. that means others can choose not to support Mr. Johnson's golfing fraternity. That includes more enlight­ened members of the club, CBS Sports, which televises the Masters, and the players, especially Tiger Woods." 
'EllrtVLKO 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Paterno: Doll placed by someone I close' 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
The referee doll is back on Penn State coach Joe Paterno's door. Now he's got some compa­ny: a Paterno doll. 
Although he would not say Tuesday how the dolls got onto his door, Paterno hinted that his wife might be responsible -and that it was all done in fun. 
"I did not put them up. I can tell you that emphatically," said Paterno, who said last week that he went in and out. through t.he garage rather than the front door. "I'm sure you know this ­without naming anyone in partic­ular -it was put up there by somebody who is close to me." 
The Paterno doll, wearing the coach's trademark glasses but looking younger than his 75 years, appears to be poking the larger sleepy-eyed official. 


"You've got to have a laugh once in a while," Paterno said. "The whole thing is so ludicrous, it got so ridiculous, and I cannot believe that anybody would take that seriously." 
The football official doll, com­plete with yellow flag, hung for some time alone on Paterno's door and might have gone unno­ticed had it not been for the coach's vocal criticism of official• ing this year. All three or Penn State's losses have involved close calls late in the game that went against Penn State. . 
After Penn State's overtime loss to Iowa, Paterno rushed down the field and grabbed an official's jersey to protest two late calls. After the overtime loss to Michigan, Paterno would not allow any of his players or assis­tant coaches to speak with the media. 
Cheers Melissa! Hope you had a hair-raising 21st! 
Love, Your girls 


SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS. 
For details and application forms, go to: 

http://www.nd.edu/,..sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from tht Office of lntnatlonal Studlu. (154 Hurley Bulldlng. Ph1 ¦5203) 
application deadline: 3/7/03 


Spomored by the OfJiet oftbe Assisumt Pro,ostfor International Studies and tbe College ofArla and Ltttm 


Wednesday, November 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Robinson re-signs with Expos, predicts playoffs 
When he took over the team last or Bartolo Colon. 
A.s<X:iatcJ Press 
February, Robinson said it would "The assurance is that this MONTREAL be for just one year. He had such ballclub is not going to be Frank llobinson not only is a good time, the Expos could stripped as to where you look returning to manage the turn into a long-term gig. out there and say, 'That's a Montreal Expos for another sea­"I can see myself going past Triple-A ballclub, "' Robinson son, he thinks the team can the '03 sea.son," he said. said. "I really didn't get into the make the playolTs for the first The Expos, sold by Jeffrey financial part of what the team time since 1981. Loria to the other 29 teams was going to be like this season. 
"I think we should be serious before last season, haven't been I don't see the bottom falling out contenders for the Eastern given a budget by commissioner of this ballclub." Division," the Hall of Farner said Bud Selig, and if it doesn't rise Minaya is still in a holding pat­Tuesday afler agreeing to a sec­from 2002's $38 million to about tern, waiting for Selig to tell ond one-year contract to man­$50 million, general manager Expos president Tony Tavares age Montreal, a team still unsure Omar Minaya may have to deal how much the Expos can spend. of its budget and home field. stars such as Vladimir Guerrero "When that day comes and 
An American Paradox: Justice and the Practice of the Death 


Localed In Tl1e Upper Level Of Tlie BrewerlJ Al He llisloric 100 Cenler' t\1i>hawaka J-lours: Hur,dm,, f r·idm1 and Salurdu11 5:30-11 pm Pl10ne: 257-1792 
-25% Sludenl Discount Special~ on Thur~days­fhe pmdice of fondue, f inl used btJ llie Swis,, i\ ,lcrived from llie wor•J "fo11J1,e'' wl1id1 mean~ "lo melt". 
f-om/uf! wm inlroclurnd m, a nalional cli,/1 in Swilzer•land, II s11mbohzcd fliP. romirnJ loqellier of families and friend~. Al !l1ese gall1erin,J5 beauli­1111!11 Jr!rnr,11,:CI cPm111ic, pdlen1, or <2arll1e11w . re rnquelom of cl1ee,e awl oil ono111pf111il!J b,J uu,feJ LreuJs, lnrils, ,egelaLl1cs, rneul:., am/ burnLoo sf.ewers W<'fl? plaLcd ~n llw bLle so lliul que,ls cculd i11Julqe al llirir lei,urc. Tlw~ lodc1q .....mc11111 cenluries laler -!lie same !mdifion of liospil(llilq 011d ,,oucl lo,lc is ,idl alive ond wEell. Nov. qou dou'I l1ave lo go lo Sw,herlnnd lo e11jotJ il! 
fl1e I ·ornlue ! is llClpptJ lo book tJOur· pri,ale pml11. "A place lo go will, lo111il11 ancl lricncls." Call 257-1792 or ml ljOUP server for deluds. 
Thursdav, November 21 
4:00 pm, flesbnrgh Cemer Auditori1im, University of Notre Dame 
(firsl can1p11s bldg. on right of \otre danu• Ave., going north) 
Lecture: Sheila Murphy, Retired Presiding Judge of the Sixth Municipal District Circuit Court of Cook County An American Paradox: A First Hand 
ccount ofJustice on Death Row. 
'-----.-.-.-.-.-------' 
Sheila Murphy 

Penalty 
Thursday, November 21 7:00-9::30 pm, Carrol Auditorium, Madeleva 1Ial1, St. Mary's College 
(enter enmpus by muin entrance, follow signs to \.laddcva) 
Lecture: Sheila Murphy, 
n American Paradox: ustice and the Death Penalty Today 
Panel Discussion-8:00pm 
Moderator: Mike Collin;, News Anchor, 
WSBTTelcvision, Ch. 22 Judge Jerome Frese, S1. Joseph counry Superior Court 
Profc:,sor Paolo Caroll.a, Associate Professor, University of Notre Dame Law School Mr. Paolo Mancinelli, Sant' Egidio Communiry Ms. Charlotte D. Pfeifer, Dirccror of Student and Community Relations, IUSB Mr. John Maciejczyk, Chief Dcpury Pnm:curo,, St. Joseph County 
they tell me what that's going to be, we will act, and whatever it is, we're going to find a way to make it fit," Minaya said. 
Robinson, 67, took over the Expos on Feb. 12, just before the start of spring training. 
Montreal stayed in contention for a playoff berth until just after the All-Star break and went 83­79, a 15-victory improvement over 2001 and its best finish since 1996. 
Robinson. who finished third in NL Manager of the Year vot­ing, also has managed in Cleveland, San Francisco and Baltimore, compiling a 763-830 record as a major league man­ager. 
As the Expos faded from con­

Friday, November 22 
12:00-1 :30pm, 
Center for Social Concerns, University of Notre Dame 
Open discussion: The death penalty and the work of the Sant'Egidio Community 
Sheila Murphy Paolo Mancinelli, Sant'Egidio Community Darrin Belousek, Assistant Professor, Goshen College 
Sponsort>d by the Sant' Egidio Community and lht> .loan H. Kroc lnslituc for 
lntl.'rnalional peucc 
Studies 
tention, he tried to resign on July 16, angry with the effort he was seeing. But he wa"i talked out of it. 
"I got a little frustrated," Robinson said Tuesday. "I think all managers at times during the season. other than Joe Torre and Hobby Cox, get frustrated with the effort players give. It had nothing to do long range with my feeling about this ball­club. 
"I have a lot of confidence in this ballclub. With another year under their belt with me and me with them, I think they will play up to their abilities." 


Learn about our programs in: 
Argentina, Australia, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, England_, New Zealand, & Scotland 
Scholarships Available 
Sludv Abroad Fair Thursdav. November 21. 2002 
4:00 p.m. -5:30 P.DI. EST s1ap1e1on lounge -In lhe middle ol Lemans Hall 
Meet Renresentauve -Opal Leeman Banzls 
/FSA-Butler sllldy abroad programs are 
;:;,:::;-Dam, o, sa;,u Mary , 
Jo!~fJ'tf,tle 

800-85&-0229 A.or~a
www.ilsa-liutler.org 
au 1LE R uNI vE. s, Tv 

Shella. Murphy is an avid and outspoken opponent of the death penalty. She ls 
retired Presiding Judge oft.he Sixth Municipal District Ctrcut Court of Cook County, and ls now council to the Chicago law flrm of Rothschild, Barry &­Myers. As a judge, she ordered crucial DNA testing for Verneal Jimerson, lea.d­ing to the exoneration of him and the other members of the "Ford Heights Four• from death row, and gMng wide publicity to the problem of false convictions on de1ath row in Illinolse. She has also established children's rooms in courthouses, drug treatment courts, and a courthouse school for at risk defendants. 
Wednesday, November 20, 2002

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 
Cowboys lose Woodson, Allen for season 
Associated P rcss 
IRVING, Texas 

Dallas Cowboys safety Darren Woodson and offensive lineman Larry Allen will have 

season-ending surgery, a m o v e aimed at having both play­ers fully recovered for offsea­son work­outs. 
Allen, a seven-time Pro Bowl player. has. missed f o u r 
when the Cowboys start off­season workouts in April. 
Campo said it was unlikely Woodson would have recov­ered before the end of the sea­son without surgery. His surgery hasn't been sched­
"The bottom line is you can keep going until the end ofthe year, but one ofthe things we felt contributed to Larry's situation was not being able to practice in the offseason. " 
Dave Campo Dallas coach 

straight games and has played sparingly since injuring his left ankle in the first half against Tennessee in the sec­ond game of the season. 
Woodson. a five-time Pro Bowl player in the 1990s. severely strained his abdomen in the first half of last week­end's 20-3 loss at Indianapolis. 
The Cowboys are putting Allen on injured reserve, and most likely will fill his spot on the 53-man roster with anoth­er offensive lineman. Coach Dave Campo said Tuesday that no move would be made until later in the week. 
After Allen was unable to play last week following a bye week, Campo said the Cowboys knew the eighth-year 
lineman wouldn't play again 
this season. Allen will have surgery Dec. 3 to remove bone spurs from his left ankle. 
"We felt that the bye week was going to be the determin­ing factor on whether he was going to be physically able to go more than 15-20 plays a game," Campo said. 
"It did not respond. The bot­tom line is you can keep going until the end of the year, but one of the things we felt con­tributed to Larry's situation was not being able to practice in the offseason." 
Allen missed offseason workouts last summer and was limited in training camp because of shoulder surgery he had after last season. 
With an expected recovery time of three months, Allen should be fully recovered 

uled, but will require only about two months of recovery time. 
Allen and Woodson weren't avail­able for com­ment Tuesday, an off day for the players. 
Both players signed new contracts last March that were designed so they can 
end their careers in Dallas, 
the  only  team  both  have  
played for.  
Allen became  one  of the  

NFL's highest-paid lineman when he signed a four-year extension that put him under contract through 2007, when he will be 37. He got a $12 million signing bonus in the contract worth about $37 mil­lion. 
The 33-year-old Woodson, the oldest player on the Cowboys roster and the team's career-leading tackler, signed a five-year, $20 million con­tract rather than pursue free agency after last season. 
Ross Tucker, who made his first NFL start last weekend, most likely will remain at left guard for Allen. Second-year safety Tony Dixon, who has made just one career start, will take over for Woodson. 

Coll 259-1000 for more details 
·------.. ·------.. r-------. r-------. 
I I I I I I
$59 

I $15 I I $26 I I I I $68
I I I I I Color, Cut & I I 1 Mens Cut 1 I Cut & Style I I Style I I Perm, Cut & Style 
.. ______ .. .. ______
I I I ..I .I ______ ..I I.. ______ ..
One Process 

Please use this special savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 

-VALID WITH THE FOLLOWING SlYLISTS ONLY ­-NEW CLIENTS ONLY-. 
Mus bepresented to Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
r-------. 
$69 
Highlights, Cut & Style
.. ______ .. 

Melissa-Connie-Serge'-Kristin-Jennifer-Elaine -Michele -Elena -Jennifer 
ATRIA SALON 
Norvalid furspiral pmru. Longoninox! hair acid $IO. No od,cr disa,un15 apply. Ope'" <Orne evenings. ATRIA 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. Sal()n Il'5CIVC5 the righr to refuse servKe to any diem who.-..e hair rondmon is unrrcarahlc. Comer ofEdison 289-5080 
OFFER EXPIRES 11-30-02 
ATRIA SALON 2 
Martin's Shopping Center Next to Sprint 271-8804 
Less than I mile from campus 
-


1969-2002 lt"s 't:Last Call~" for the Alum·ni Senior Club,. so joi'n in the fun tonight and come say goodbye to an old friend. *Normal We·dne:sday night specials 
Going out--but going out in style like only ND can. 

r-----------------------------------------­
AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 20, 2002 
...-.·_:.:,·,:..• 
· team 
l) Mlaml{74f 

·$)J\'lWi ··•••••
~::::~~t!JI( 
t.. ffOTRE DAME 
f:. 1,1li~iima ·.·• 

)d>J<a11~3s.1a~
11 ,Texas: i? rttte~lgan ...... 

13 ·.Vlrghlia Tei:b :.··.. 14 norhla Stat& 1& PennJtai1r 
16 Col(!rado > 17 ··· Pltt1burgti 

18 .Mary1an11 19 fl0fida 20 Colorado State 21 LSI.I 22 TCU 23 Baise Stale 24 lexasTecll ·. 
25 -UCLA. 

Womens.. to,leg~ yjij~yf.$jJI Big East•·c9nf~r-ln~@ :. 
·.•·.·•.·..·.•·.E..•..•.•.. a.•.•.·•·.·•.!n•.•••···•········•D··•.·•.•·:·•··•·•lYl;l~,::i.Ili!:1!••pftff( <•••/'
..•.•._ •. •. .. .••..•~.. 

~!B.,~ilii '"~; :;;~ 
Pillsllurgb . . ·· ·••••-I ·Vllh111ova 
GeoroetoWI! Ru&ge,( ..... . · ·St<Jahn;s
Syracusa·· 
Sliton]falf Boston COiiege Wesl Virglala ·.·. 
Provldeace / 
·--,· .. · ··-·-· 

•... { ~--:-:·::·~:::::::YI>:~~t::~:~~L ;=;/:~;;:tm;w~(:; 
around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

West Virginia at Virginia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA BASKETBALL 76sers at Grizzlies 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL HOCKEY 

Blackhawks at Canucks 10:30 p.m., FOXCH 
COMPltED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 19 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Associated Press 
IRVlNG, Texas 
The Colorado Rockies put together their second big trade within a week, agreeing Tuesday to a tentative deal that would send Larry Walker to Arizona for Matt Williams and three other players 
Arizona also would send first baseman Erubiel Durazo, outfielder David Dellucci and reliever Bret Prinz to Colorado for the 1997 National League MVP. 
Walker and Williams, both five-time All-Stars, must waive no-trade clauses for the deal to be completed. Diamondbacks owner Jerry Colangelo said the teams were granted a 72-hour win­dow Tuesday to finalize the swap. 
"I met with Matt this morning. I'm going to speak with Larry tonight," Colangelo said after arriv­ing at the baseball own­ers' meetings. "Colorado is going to meet with Matt tomorrow in Phoenix." 
Arizona, which won the World Series in its fourth season in 2001, won the NL West again this year but was swept by St. Louis in the first round of the playoffs. 
The Rockies finished 

fourth in the NL West this year at 73-89, 25 games behind the Diamondbacks. Colorado chairman Jerry McMorris said it was diffi­cult to part with Walker, an outfielder who has won three National League batting titles. 
"He's our most popular player," McMorris said. "I think our baseball people felt we had a lot of holes and this gives us four players for one. And Larry's 36 years old." 
On Monday, the Rockies began their transforma­tion, completing a deal that sent left-hander Mike Hampton, outfielder Juan Pierre and $6.5 million to Florida for catcher Charles Johnson, outfield­er Preston Wilson, left­hander Vic Darensbourg and second baseman Pablo Ozuna. The Marlins then dealt Hampton and $30 million to Atlanta for right-handers Tim Spooneybarger and Ryan Baker. 
·In the Hampton deal, Colorado rid itself of $72 million in Hampton's salary over the next six seasons but took on $54 million it must pay to Wilson and Johnson over the next three years. 
Walker has said he is likely to waive his no­trade clause. 

IN BRIEF 
Sixers' Iverson thinks involved with one thing or another. Wells recounted that Graziosa, and it scares me. I know that if who was in the diner with friends,
police are targeting him 
there's a crooked cop out there, punched him without provocationPhiladelphia 76ers guard Allen they could do anything to me. He and then stood there "smiling likeIverson is afraid police are target­could do anything. Allen Iverson he did the best thing in the world."
ing him and he might want to leave could wind up dead tomorrow if a Wells described Graziosa as foul­
the city, according to published 
crooked cop wants him dead. It's as mouthed and insulting and said thereports. 
simple as that." defendant punched him after mak­"I want to be in Philadelphia, but ing insensitive remarks about his
I'm scared to be here," the NBA 
late mother.
star told The Philadelphia Inquirer Wells claims assault Wells said he was punched as he
and Philadelphia Daily News in New York Yankees pitcher David Tuesday's editions. Wells testified Tuesday he was walked toward the bathroom. 
They were Iverson's first public sucker-punched and "knocked for a "I turned to his buddies and said, 'Enough is enough,"' Wells testified.
comments aboul his off-the-court loop" in a late-night fight inside a "And then when I turned, he suck­troubles last summer. Manhattan diner in September. 
er-punched me .... I was knocked
Iverson and his wife, Tawanna, Wells testified about the one­
for a loop."
gave an interview to the newspa­punch fight in the early morning Wells, staggered by the blow, fellpers Monday at the 76ers' practice hours of Sept. 7 and said he never and gashed his forehead on a dinerfacility, to blunt the impact of what touched defendant Rocco Graziosa table, Assistant District Attorneythe couple said is an unflattering before he was hit in the jaw. 
Brian McCarthy said.
TV news report on lverson's per­The 27-year-old Graziosa was 
sonal life. The interview was charged with misdemeanor counts Wells, who had two teeth knocked attended by their lawyer. of assault. menacing and possession out in the fight, spent seven hours "I've heard about police officers of a weapon -a butter knife he is at a dentist the next day, the prose­
toasting to Allen Iverson's next accused of waving at Wells. He cutor said, adding work on the play­felony conviction," Iverson said. faces up to a year in jail if convict­er's teeth was not finished until "I'm hearing about them saying I'm ed. Monday. 
. .. --­
. ' ~ ......... ' . ' ' 
...... 
Wednesday, November 20, 2002

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
I , 
.
( 
I 
I 
' . 
I 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
"Childhood, Insanity, and 
lnfi~mity in the Law of Torts: x >\fTT:he Line Between JustifiCation and Excuse" 
..·..·.·•· ....·.O~:~J;;I:::IT:"'~~ .. . 
·. ·,,;~···*'·~ 
.t\.··,:: ' 
.· .. '•: 
. .:'"' 
' ,?"? ·, 
. . ...., . . ...~~ 
}',, . 

Upco~i~g Lectures 
... Patrick Kelley 

·William Galston 
::\ ~­

,,, · January 24 Professor 
~ ,.,..-. .. _~·--.~:-;}.• <~ :~ 
•:, 

Southern Illinois University Law School
Francis Cardinal George 
January 30 
Thursday, November 21, 2002 

4 p.m. 
• Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 

Wednesday, November 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Wireless Irish. 
Student discounts and other exclusive promos from Apple make the holidays merrier and using wireless Internet easier. 
It,-. . -----' '-!!..: ~ .,,.,,., '. . i 
!Boo~ 

!erowJe 1£Hlros 

In Sync.
'Setlings > 

!llboul > I iBook • Starting at $949
Holds up to 4,000 songs Discounted for the Notre Dame family

1 O hour battery life Download aCD in seconds 
iPod • Starting at $269 Discounted just for Students 
Apple has great promos going to help make buying a Mac and the act::ess-ories you need more affordable,a!I di1counted for Students. 
I!.~\\ Add AirPort Wireless to 
·~your iBook for only $93 
Special Promos 

MENS SOCCER 
Irish host Zips in NCAA first round match 

Special ro The Obscf\lcr 

For the first time in history, Alumni Field will be the site of mens soccer NCAA tour­nament action as Notre Dame (11-5-3) will play host to Mid-American Conference champion Akron (10-7-2) Friday at 7:30 p.m. 
The teams will meet for the second time this season, after the Irish downed the Zips 1-0 on Oct. 6 in Akron, on the strength of a Jack Stewart goal in the 72nd minute. 
The pairings for the 48-team field to the 2002 NCAA Division I Mens Soccer Tournament were announced on Monday afternoon. 
The winner of Friday's game will advance to the event's second round and will travel to Bloomington, Ind., on Wednesday, Nov. 27, to take on third­ranked Indiana (14-3-2). 
''We are very excited to be in the tourna­ment," said Irish head coach Bobby Clark. "It will be nice to be in South Bend for the lirsl round, bul it will be a tough game. Akron will be a very difficult opponent; they are a big, physical team. We snuck out of there with a win earlier this year so they will be looking for revenge." 
The at-large berth marks the sixth NCAA posL'icason appearance for the Irish. Clark has guided his team to the NCAA tourna­ment in each of his two seasons at Notre Dame, marking the second time in school history the Irish have earned consecutive NCM berths. 
Last season, his squad fell 1-0 to Maryland in College Park, Md. 
Notre Dame, ranked 22nd in the NSCAA coaches poll, finished fourth in the Big East regular-season standings with a 6-3-1 mark and was eliminated in the quarterfi­nals of the conference's soccer champi­onship, dropping a 2-1 overtime decision to Georgetown. 
Prior to this season, the teams had not played since 1989. The Zips, winners of eight of their last nine matches, gained entrance to this year's tournament by win­ning the Mid-American Conference tourna­ment tci gain the league's automatic berth. 
t\ year ago, Akron became the first MAC team ever to cam at-large entrance into 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer 

Notre Dame defender Jack Stewart brings the ball upfield against Georgetown In the Big East Tournament Nov. 9. The Irish will face Akron in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. When the Irish and Zips faced off this season, Stewart scored the only goal. 
the NCAA tournament. 
lndiana. who earned a first-round bye in this year's championship, was the NCAA runner-up a year ago, though it dropped a 1-0 decision to the Irish at home during the regular season. 
Prior to the '01 campaign, Notre Dame last appeared in the NCAA tournament in 1996 after winning the Big East tourna­ment crown to earn the league's automatic berth. That season, the Irish advanced to the second round of the NCAAs with a 1-0 win over second-seeded UNC Greensboro in the first round. 
Notre Dame has a 1-5 all-time mark in NCAA tournament competition. 
Boards 
continued from page 24 

put up 20 points," Cornette said Sunday. "I knew one of my main roles tonight was to try to shut down a guy like [Belmont's] Adam Sonn, and I tried to do that as best I could." 
Even though Cornette is only in his second year with the Irish, Brey said he has a strong enough grasp of the system to be able to lead and teach the talented group of freshman forwards that includes starter Torin Francis, Rick Cornett and Omari Peterkin. 
"One of the reasons I put him back in for a couple min­utes was because I wanted him to go back in and help Hicky [Cornett] to coach him a little bit," Brey said. "Early in the first week of practice, I was putting him with the freshmen to help me teach them how to play in our sys­tem, and he's been fabulous with that." 
Even though Cornette hasn't been the offensive force for the Irish that he could one day become ­through two games, he has only taken five shots and scored six points -his defen­sive play, awareness and tenacity on the boards in ­grabbing rebounds will keep the sophomore consistently in the Irish lineup. 
"To [Cornette'sl credit, he's mature enough and secure enough to understand that the coaches can't take [himl off the floor if he keeps play­ing," Brey said Sunday. "I told him at halftime that he had put me in a position where I was afraid to take him out. because [he] anchors us in every way shape or form." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
Double your memory. 

Double tne standard configuration of memory for only $40 on any Mac. 
Brighten your holidays. 
Buy a Mac and an HP OeskJet 3820or S550 
printer and receive a S99 rebate. 



for more information on rhese and other promotions, please visit www.apple.com/educotion/promosJ 
Room 112 Information Technology Center 
Get your student discount at: £'ofu{tohJ; c~ht6r http://solution.nd.edu/ 
Notre Dame's Computer Products Store 574-631-7477 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 22, 2002 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Three double-doubles lead Irish to 70-60 victory 

By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
With 14 minutes remaining in the second half of the Notre Dame womens exhibition game against the Ohio Girls Basketball Magazine All-Stars Tuesday night, Irish coach Muffet McGraw sat on the bench, scratched her head, squinted her eyes and gave a concerned look to the other end of the court where the action was taking place. 
It had been that kind of half for the Irish. 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, senior Alicia Ratay drilled a 3­pointer with just under threo minutes remaining to put away a pesky OGBM team and lead the lrish to a 70-60 victory in their second exhibition game. 
"I think [the close game] made us wonder who was going to take the shot. When Alicia hit that one 3-pointer at the end of the game, I think that was a huge, huge basket," McGraw said. "It was what you would expect from your team captain, to take a shot like that.... I thought that shot by Alicia was the one that broke their back." 
Notre Dame had three players reach double-doubles in scoring and rebounding. Ratay had 13 points and 10 rebounds, while Teresa Borton continued her solid play in the preseason by adding a game-high 21 points and 10 rebounds. 
Borton now has· made 16-20 shots from the field in two exhi­bition games and also has con­nected on 9 of 11 free throws. 
Borton shot under 50 percent from the charity stripe last sea­son. 
Jacqueline Batteast also had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Notre Dame. 
"I was really pleased with our rebounding effort tonight," McGraw said. "I think we're doing a great job on the boards. [We had] three people with a double-double and that's really impressive. I think the post game is really doing a great job." 
The Irish took a 42-26 half­time lead, but their cushion shrank to just seven at 64-57 with onlv 3 minutes, 43 seconds remaining in the game. But then Borton hit a free throw, Ratay nailed Notre Dame's only 3-pointer of the game. and Borton added another jumper to give the Irish a 70-57 lead. 
OGBM was able to get back into the game by using a zone defense that frustrated Notre Dame for several possessions. McGraw also grew upset with the Irish ·s play. 
"I just thought we lost our intensity for a little while," McGraw said. "They went zone and we didn't make a shot against the zone. We need to do a little better job of taking care of the ball. I think we had six possessions, at one point, and we had five turnovers and didn't even get a shot. So that was a real problem." 

The Irish had not played a game since their 87-50 win over the Houston Jaguars Nov. 
4. McGraw said she believes the layoff had an effect on the game against OGBM. 
"I think we might have lost our focus a little bit, which is why we got a little sloppy tonight," McGraw said. "I think we're ready for a game and we're so anxious to play a game we're not keeping up the inten­sity at practice." 
Notre Dame out-rebounded OGBM 37-27 and outscored the All-Stars 40-18 in the paint. But OGBM stayed in the game by shooting 41.4 percent from the floor in the second half. The All-Stars were led by Jarmon Roland's 16 points with Vita Redding and Helen Darling each adding 15. 
Monday night. the All-Stars lost to No. 7 Purdue 80-69. Larecha Jones scorched the Boilermakers for 33 points, but was held to only eight points against the Irish in 17 minutes. 
"We put our defensive stop­per on her and Jackie IBatteast} did a great job on her." McGraw said. "She only had eight points and only got off seven shots. I was really pleased with our effort on her." 
Notre Dame will open their regular season with a home game against Cleveland State Nov. 26. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 20, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE 
HAPPY TOWN 
Check me outl Behold: the Nintendo PowerGlc.we':' 
CLARE O'BRIEN 


JACK MONAHAN 

Dude.•. let me try It-Don't make me go all Wizard on you. 

CROSSWORD 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 


E)(PERl!=NC.!=D BY

IIJ II 
MOST WHEN PUT 
www.jurri>le.com 
ON HOLD. 
WEGNIT j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
rxx 

1 1 
III1 [IIIIIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: TABOO LINER ENSIGN VOYAGEYesterday's 
Answer: This improved when the optometrist's office was remodeled -HIS EYE SITE 
Stumped? Call 1-900-776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 
ACROSS 
1 Complaint 5 Singer Tori 9 Good place to 
be in a race 
14 Turturro of "The Sopranos" 
15 As it happens 
16 Spanish for "fox" 
17 Particular 
18 They can take a yoke 19 Small amount 20 Perfect score in a certain game 
23 Anago, at a Japanese restaurant 
24 Pool exercise 25 Sweet treats 27 Great fear 
29 IBM products 30 Vim 33 Esau and 
Jacob's mother 
37 Coop up 38 What the perfect game consists of 42 Literary 
collections 43 Rugby shirts 44 Rx writers 45 Lean­
(sheds) 46 Bullies' targets 50 All-Pro 
linebacker Junior of the Chargers 
52 Wings 55 Classified ad abbr. 56 How the perfect game is shown on the scoresheet 59 Part of a newspaper 
article 62 Nobelist Wiesel 63 What"++" 
means in Oe2++ 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 Diamond flaw? 65 Diamond of note 66 Tiger or Indian, 
briefly 
67 Dashboard display 68 Tag sale tag 69 Certain cameras: Abbr. 
DOWN 
1 Like fishhooks 2 Choice word 3 Channel 
swimmer Gertrude 
4 Renown 5 Ho hi 
6 Snafu 7 Bake-off needs 8 Cell phone 
button 
9 Quetzalcoatl worshipers 10 Throng 
11 Big time 12 Part of a sector 
13 Female rabbit 
22 Potsie's pal on "Happy Days" 26 Practice one's one-two 28 Fine things? 
31 Self-image 32 Sunday seat 
34 Exquisitely wrought trinkets 
35 Squeezes (out) 
plunk or plop 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Peter Gordon 37 Four six-packs 45 Levy imposers 53 XXI tripled 38 When "S.N.L." 47 Classic 54 Skating 
wraps in N. Y.C. drugstore name maneuvers 39 February _ 48 Saxophonist 57 Warrior princess (Groundhog of TV
Gordon 
Day) 49 Bobby-_ 
58 Present day? 40 Back talk 
(40's teenagers) 59 Proof letters 41 Old telecom­
51 Praise 60 Swiss canton
munications name 52 Cars' bars 61 _ pro nobis 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, nytimes. com/learn in g/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Sean Young, Dick Smothers, Alistair 
-
Cooke,RobertKennedy 

Happy Birthday: You will push yourself until you reach whatever goal you have set for yourself this year. You will take a strong stance to ensure lhat your ideas and beliefs aren't being overlooked. It will be a great year to expand your knowledge and your talents. Greater self-development will lead lo wonderful new beginnings. Your numbers are 8, 17, 22, 28, 3 I, 35 
ARIES {March 21-April 19): You should concentrate on investments and career goals. Your partner may not agree with your decisions. Act on your past experience. **** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your tendency to be stubborn with a business or emotional partner could lead to major upset. Recognize this trait in yourself and act accordingly. Put your efforts into working quietly on your own. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Avoid confrontations with your boss or peers. 
Your greatest accomplishments will come from working hard and staying oul of office politics. Do not allow anyone to involve you in their complaints and criticisms. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Involve yourself in group or activities but keep in mind that extravagance must be curtailed. There are many ways to entertain yourself without spending a lot. Children may try to make demands or take advantage of your kindness. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Activities in your home may lead lo heated discussions. Plan a quiet outing for you and your lover. Don't allow friends or relatives to interfere with your personal life. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can learn a lot if you listen to the words of someone who is older and more established. You'll be inspired to move in a new direction. Make plans to change what you don't like about yourself. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Deception and disillusionment will only lead to problems in your home environment. Try to be as honest as possible with yourself and others. Your ability lo attract potential partners must be kepi in perspective. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let your jealous tendency surface. Spend time communicating honestly with your partner. You can clear up a lot of misunderstandings that have been simmering beneath the surface. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't give your employer a reason to question your talents. Keep your emotions in check bolh al work and at home. Try to remain flexible and open to possibilities. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Setbacks regarding work will arise if you have been extravagant or too trusting of those you are doing business with. Take a close look at legal documents before you sign. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone you live with may be erratic or upset about changes in your domestic scene. Try to be understanding and compassionate about his or her needs. You may have to consider making a compromise. ***** PISCES {Feb. 19-March 20): This is a great day to engage in household projects or look into real estate opportunities. Be careful not to interfere in the personal problems of friends or relatives.** 
Birthday Baby: You will be full of ideas and forever asking questions. You will be well liked and quick to respond. You will want to experience all that life has to offer. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
-----~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ______________________ 
Address ---------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
• 

PORTS 
Wednesday, November 20, 2002 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Cornette makes early impact on boards 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Spom Editor 
Many around the Notre Dame bas­ketball program wondered how the Irish would compensate for the loss of first-round draft pick Ryan Humphrey and defensive specialist Harold Swanagan. The 6-foot-8 Humphrey 

and 6-foot-7 Swanagan provided playing experience, 
,r two big bodies and a strong defensive presence in the mid­dle of the court for the Irish that would surely be missed. But sophomore forward Jordan Cornette has been that answer so far, grabbing 19 rebounds and block­ing 19 shots in Notre Dame's first two games of the regular season. "That is a great 
"This is a great example ofhow you can have an impact on a game and you don't have to take a shot or score a bucket. To talk about people having an impact without scoring, it's just beautiful basketball." 
Mike Brey head coach 

example of how you can have an impact on a game, and you don't have to take a shot or score a bucket," Irish coach Mike Brey said after Notre Dame's season opening victory Sunday over Belmont. During that game, Cornette broke a 29-year-old Joyce Center record for blocks in a game with his 11 against the Bruins. 
"To talk about people having an impact without scoring, it's just beau­tiful basketball," said Brey. "His hands are unbelievable. He gets 
everything around him. He anchors us on both ends of the floor." 
But Cornette's defensive prowess shouldn't come as much of a shock. He spent his rookie season last year studying under Humphrey and Swanagan as they turned back shots and fought for rebounds. 
"I learned from some great leaders last year through Ryan [Humphrey] 
and Harold [Swanagan]," Cornette said after his record-breaking performance Sunday. "Basically I learned my college defense from those guys, and r just took what I learned last year and put it forth as best I could today." 
What's been most impressive about Cornette so far this year has been his ability to play beyond his years as a sophomore who played mostly off the 
bench last season. With a talented cast of scorers around him that includes seniors Dan Miller and Matt Carroll, and last season's National Freshman of the Year point guard Chris Thomas, Cornette understands and accepts his role as a defender on the court. 
"We have a lot of scorers on this team, so I know I'm not going to go out there night in and night out and 
see BOARDS/page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Irish try to get back to playing 'real' football 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish defense is ready to get back to playing "real" football. 
After taking a week off to recover from a less-than-successful defensive performance against the option, Notre Dame couldn't be happier to be back to focusing on playing a new team with a scheme they're used to. 
"We're all really happy," said Irish safety Gerome Sapp, who didn't dress for Navy due to an injury. "The option is just a horrible scheme, whoever invented it. We're really glad it's behind us." 
Before both of Notre Dame's service academy games, Irish defensive coor­dinator Kent Baer had likened defend• ing the option to stopping the season mid-stream and starting over. 
That's very disruptive for a defense, 
even a defense that claims to be the best in the nation. Against Navy, that defense showed how disruptive it can be. 
An Irish defense that had allowed opponents an average of 84 rushing yards a game, allowed Navy to gain 216 rushing yards. 
"We didn't play well," Irish safety Glenn Earl said. "Some things hap­pened in the game that kind of got us off balance." 
The main thing was the option. A defense that had successfully shut down the Air Force option attack was not so successful against Navy. They looked uncomfortable defending it and taken off guard. According to coaches, that's to be expected. 
"The option is so unusual," coach Tyrone Willingham said. "If you look at the 12 weeks of games, you only have two weekends where you prepare for the option. So that means the other 
10 weeks are similar in terms of 
preparation." 
On Tuesday, the Irish got back to 
practice. After spending the bye week 
healing injuries and working on basics, 
they are glad to be back at practice 
and back to playing what Sapp termed ·"real" football. 
"[We're focused] on working on tech­
nique," Sapp said. "[We're] making 
sure our technique is fundamentally 
sound, and then things will be alright." 
This week, the Irish will have less to 
focus on changing. They can stay 
focused on what stays the same. The 
Irish defense will head into Saturday's 
game against Rutgers with eight 
games of practice, rather than the one 
game of practice they had heading into 
Navy. Their responsibilities will be 
what they have been most of the sea­
son. 
"You don't have as much to change, 
as many things responsibility wise," Willingham said. "It means your play­ers can play a game they're more familiar with." 

Playing a game they're more familiar with will include defending Rutgers' more common running and passing games. The Scarlet Knights combine a pass game with a running game that uses quarterback scrambles and run­ning backs. The Irish don't have to focus on stopping the pitch, the dive or the keeper. 
Against teams that have played that kind of football, the Irish have stopped the run and the secondary has picked opposing quarterbacks 17 times. 
That's good news for Notre Dame. 
"I'm glad we're playing normal foot­ball now," Earl said. "It's good to just get back to playing and doing what we do well." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

WOMENS BASKETBAU 
MENS SOCCER 
Notre Dame 70 Ohio Girls Basketball Magazine All-Stars 60 
The NCAA announced its brackets for the 2002 postseason tournament, and the Irish earned a first-round home match against Akron on Friday Three Irish players -Jacqueline Batteast, Alicia Ratay and Teresa Borton 
night. -recorded double-doubles for the Irish in Tuesday's exhibition victory. 
page 22 page 21 






