

• 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
NCAA 
creates 

new 
volleyball 

position 
l)age 36 The lndtpendent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVII NO .. HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
ND student takes joy ride in pizza delivery car 
By lAUREN BECK News Writer Notre Dame Security/ Police and South Bend police apprehended a male Notre Dame student who had stolen a Papa John's delivery vehi­cle Friday evening, confirmed Chuck Hurley, associate director of NDSP. NDSP arrested the student at 7:48 p.m. on Ivy Road, near Eck Tennis Courts. The  ported him to St. Joseph County jail, where they charged him with motor vehi­cle theft. The student. a 20-year-old junior from Siegfried Hall, stole the car from the Papa John's restaurant located on Indiana 23, Hurley said. "He hadn't been driving long when the Papa John's driver came out of the restaurant and saw his car was gone. Two employees saw the car and followed it," he said.  restrained him on the crashed into a parked car. ground, police said. "Rally in the Alley was going There on nearby w a s [at Turtle"He [the thief} hadn't beendamage C r e e kdriving long when the Papato the Apartments} car that John's driver came out of the and the was not streets wererestaurant and saw his car there narrow was gone.,,prior to there," he t h e said. theft, OfficersChuck Hurleybut the said theyassociate director of Notre Damestudent smelledSecurity/Policedid not alcohol on  Hurley said. The student sustained minor abrasions to his arm and forehead. Police said they were not certain if he was injured in his crash or while grappling with the Papa John's employees. The St. Joseph County pros­ecutor will review the case, determine the final charges and set a court date later this week.  
South Bend Police Department arrived on the scene shortly after. hand­ When the Papa John's employees stopped the car on Ivy Road, the student stepped  know what he had hit, said Hurley. NDSP Director Rex Rakow  the stu­dent's breath, but they have not charged him with any  Contact Lauren Beck at  
cuffed the student and trans- out of the  car and the  men  suspected the student had  alcohol-related violations,  lbeck@nd.edu  



SMC Security office implements programs 
By MElANIE BECKER 
News Writer 

New security programs at Saint Mary's -including a Belle alert system, a designated driver program and a modified escort policy ­will be introduced and explained at a security forum tonight at 7 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

The goal is to bring the student body to a greater awareness of 
personal safety and security, said Dan Woods, interim security direc­
tor. and Belinda Rathert, College investigator. 
Working to keep up with the security needs of the 21st century, Saint Mary's security, in conjunction with Linda Timm. vice presi­dent of student affairs, the South Bend community and Student Activities. spent the summer researching and planning new pro­grams and policies to increase student security on campus. 
Security began to reconsider its campus policies, as a result of requests from students. Studies of other colleges and universities were considered when determining how to educate students to be responsible in potentially dangerous situations, said Rathert and Woods. 
Security has yet to explain the details of the Belle alert system, but plans to describe it in detail at the forum. 
The designated driver program will allow students who plan to be a sober driver for friends who might be drinking to pick up a bracelet which offers incentives like soda and nachos at some local bars, according to a campus-wide e-mail and information from hall directors. 
'Tm very excited about the new programs and that they are taking initiative in our safety. The designated driver bracelets are a won­derful incentive to go out, have a good time and also be safe," said Carrie Freeman, Saint Mary's junior. 
According to Rathert and Woods, Saint Mary's will be the pilot col­lege for several of these new security plans that are taking effect this year. 
Additionally, the security department has received requests from Indiana and Federal Law Enforcers for material on the programs. in hopes of using them as a model on the state and national levels, Rathert said. 
The new programs are in effect this school year. 
Also at the forum. Mauri Linke, deputy prosecutor of South Bend, will explain how sexual assault cases are handled. In addition, Lynn Bradford. from Sex Offense Services (SOS), will speak about student responsibility with regard to themselves and their friends. Alcohol poisoning, date-rape drugs and sexual assault will be discussed. 
Security plans to have other activities throughout the year. such as speakers and presentations. 
"This opens more doors in terms of possibilities which we really want to explore," said Woods. 
Woods and Rathert encourage the entire student body to attend the forum tonight. Security material will be handed out and door prizes will be available. 
Several clubs, groups and citizens of the South Bend community have also voiced their concern by making donations and sponsoring the programs. 
"We can provide security, but you also need to learn to protect yourself," Rathert said. 
Contact Melanie becker at Beck0931@saintmarys.edu 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 


TIFFANY GILLIAM/The Observer 
Owen McGovern discusses the sophomore road trip with John Glynn while David Esch looks on. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were given the opportunity to Investi­gate what Notre Dame clubs are active on campus at Activities Night Tuesday. 

~-------------------­
....... ­


Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Sprinkling the sidewafks 
It's early September. My dorm room isn't air-conditioned. I don't like any of my summer clothes. So of course all that adds up to one thing-it's really hot. But that's to be expected in the middle of Indiana at the end ofthe summer. 
Without air-condi­tioning, except for the endless hours I spend in the base­ment ofSouth Dining Hall where it is occasionally cold enough to anit­freeze, my room­


Katie McVoy 
mate and I have 
both spent several 
hours in the past 
Associate 
few days discussing 
Sports Editor 
ways to cool our 
room or us off. 

We thought about setting up a small pool in our room. complete with a blow­up palm tree ofcourse, then we remem­bered our 10 foot by 12 foot room wouldn't hold anything much larger than frying pan. 
We also considered drinking frozen drinks 24 hours a day. However. the likelihood that we would ever attend class or take care of other responsibilities was so low ifwe followed that course of action that we would both probably drop out ofschool and end up majoring in "would you like fries with that?" 
We considered giving up clothing. I don't need to explain why that would be a bad idea. 
Finally, the fine campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's solved our dilemma for us. The fine institutions where we spend our time have their stu­dents in mind. 
Thursday night as we left the dorm headed for Heartland on another sultry night in South Bend, we found the solu­tion to our problems. The Saint Mary's grounds crew had been kind ofenough to re-adjust the sprinkler heads so that they were aimed directly at the side­walks. They knew that the students would be hot and offered the solution ­playing in the sprinklers. 

But the benevolence doesn't end on Saint Mary's campus. As I stood outside the football stadium yesterday waiting for football practice to end yesterday, I found that the powers that be at Notre Dame would also like to encourage stu­dents to play in the sprinklers. These sprinkler heads were properly aligned to sprinkle right over the wall outside the tunnel entrance to the stadium and cool off those steamed reporters waiting out­side. What more could a student ask for? 
Never mind the fact that parts ofthe grass don't get watered or that there are sections ofthe grass that are so wet you're likely to lose the flip-flops you choose to wear to class. Never mind the fact that if. on some very rare occasion, you actually get dressed in real clothes for class you're likely to wind up looking like a drowned rat. 
Just think of it this way. On those days when it's so hot you would happily ignore the University's rules which, of course, would send you directly to hell, look outside the window. Your salvation lies outside. Remember to revisit child­hood and, because your school cares about you, run through the sprinklers. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Saint Mary's 
Iraqi nuclear gets new 
threat seems Intranet site 
imminent 
Following many 
According to the complaints of 
Bush administra­crowded email 
tion, Saddam boxes and difficul­
Hussein's govern­ties with football 
ment is close to ticket boards, the 
developing nuclear Information 
weapons. Technology depart­ment expands its network. 
page 3 page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, 4 to 6 p.m., McKenna Ifall. 

. 
Student Senate Meeting, 6 p.m., · Notre Dame Hoom. ' 

. 
Open llousc at Colcman~Morsc Center, 5 to 8 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
College Forum on Safety, 7 lo 9 p.m., ()'Laughlin Auditorium 

. 
Junior Kick Off, 12 tol 2:50 p.m., IICC/\Velsh Parlor 


WHAT'S COOKING North Dining Hall 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Hershey's sale protested by Pennsylvania 
The state is attempting to block the chocolate com­pany from being sold by the charita­ble trust that owns it. 
page 7 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 


NDSP recovers bikes 
NDSP recovered several bikes that were reported missing since the beginning of the school year. 
NDPD issued minor in possession citation 
A student, who was arrested for minor consumption of alcohol on August 30, was issued a University citation. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
Magazine solicitors 

apprehended 
Two solicitors who were appre­hended for selling magazine sub­scriptions in Siegfried Hall August 30 were issued no trespass warning let­ters and non contractual interest forms. 

Today Lunch: Tomato Soup, Tortilla Soup, Supreme Pizza, Meatless Ziti, Smoked Creole Flank Steak, Roast Poupon Potatoes, Corn, Cherry Crisp, Sweet and Sour Chicken, Pasta Primavera, Swiss Bake Chicken, Oriental Vegetables, cream of Wheat, Scrambled Eggs, Sausage Links, Apple Pancakes, O'Brien Potatoes, Rancho California Rice 
Today Dinner: Tomato Soup, Tortilla Soup, Supreme Pizza, Meatless Ziti, Pork Loin, Peas, Cherry Crisp, BBQ Chicken Cantonese, Baked Jardiniere Haddock, Lemon Mint Couscous, Romanoff Noodles, Baked Sweet Potato, Sea Nuggets, Cheese and Chicken Chimichanga 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY 
a: 
LIJ 
::c 
ti 
LIJ 
~ 

-I C( 
(.) 


...I 0 HIGH 82 HIGH 76 HIGH 82 LOW 71 LOW 57 LOW 58 
VIEWPOINT 
Labor Day is only for some laborers 
A Notre Dame student offers his opinion on the merits of determin­ing who was hon­ored on labor day. 
page 17 
SCENE 
Students learn all about the world of MP3s 
The world of MP3s is explored and a new file ser­vice, findlt, is made available to Notre Dame students. 
page 18 
SPORTS 
Will Willingham be victim of curse? 
A string of for­mer Notre Dame football coaches have lost their sec­ond game after winning their first. Will Willingham be next? 
page 36 



Credit card found 
A credit card that was reported missing on August 31 was found and given to NDPD for safekeeping. 
Information compiled from the Notre Dame Security/Police blotter. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta Shells Primavera, French Bread pizza, Turkey Turnovers, London Broil Wine Marinade, Cheddar Baked Pollack, Shrimp Creole, Potatoes au Gratin, Grilled Turley Sandwich, Chicken Teriyaki, Flatbread Fiesta Chicken 
Today Dinner: Chicken Cacciatore, Gorgonzola sauce, French Bread Pizza, Roasted Top Round, Oven Fried Chicken, Fresh Grilled Polish Sausage, Rotini with Vegetables, Polish Style Kluski Noodles, Boiled Cabbage, Onion Rings, Chicken and Snowpeas, Flatbread Beef Pizza 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 82 HIGH 82 HIGH 80 LOW 61 LOW 62 LOW 59 

Atlanta 92/ 71 Boston 82/ 63 Chicago 83/ 61 Denver 92/ 62 Houston 85/ 73 Los Angeles 94/ 67 Minneapolis 82/ 66 New York 84/ 63 Philadelphia 86/ 63 Phoenix 109/ 85 Seattle 66/ 50 St. Louis 88/ 66 Tampa 91/ 75 Washington 88/ 66 
..---------------------------------------------------------~. 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC gets Intranet, ticket trader Web site 
By I.AURA CORISTIN & SARAH NESTOR News Writer & Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's department of Information Technology intro­duced a campus-wide Intranet site this fall. The new web site called SMC @ Home ­http://home.saintmarys.edu ­is only available from comput­ers on campus and allows stu­dents and faculty to 

communi­"/ think it's beneficial to have trader bul­Board of cate with 
letin board
the Intranet service because 
e a c h 

will cut 
other. you have it all in one place. it's 
to access the most used information resources," Keith Fowlkes, director of Information Technology. said. 
Resources available at the Web site include the local 
, I
:.Iii 
WekomeTo 
NEXl'EL 
i<fOc 

weather, links to the College fall. Students complained of the discuss campus issues without phone book. Blackboard, amount of mass e-mail being the nuisance of mass e-mail. PRISM, Webmail, and a variety sent, mainly from students Fowlkes explained that Linda 
Timm, vice­president of
"The main webstite is for the 
Student 
public to view for insight into Affairs, and Karen Ristau,
Saint Marys, but this is a 
vice-president
place for the inner circle, 
of faculty, 
people at Saint Mary's . ., were instru­mental in the support of
Mary Pauline Moran 
Information BOG infonnation technology Technology commissioner for getting the site online. "This home 
Paper eyes 
Venezuelan 
agriculture 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO News Writer 
The domination of Venezuelan agriculture by indi­vidual native families, the effects of a 13-year war with Spain and nation's subsequent delay in economic development were the focus of Francisco Rodriguez's Tuesday lecture on his research paper, "Venezuelan Economic Institutions before the Advent of Oil" at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The director of the Economic and Financial Advisory Office of the Venezuelan National Assembly, Rodriguez began with an overview of Venezuelan agriculture, mainly cocoa plan­tations and cattle raising, which had existed since colonial times and contributed to a prosperous economy. However, they remained under the power of individual native families so they were "not amenable to political centralization," said Rodriguez. 
Rodriguez then focused on the economic decline that occurred in Venezuela from 1830 to 1908 after the destructive earthquake of 1812 and the violent 13-year war of independence against Spain. At this time, military leaders also began to expropri­ate land for military use, said Rodriguez. 
Internal instabilities contin­ued for the newly independent state, leading to civil war from 1859 to 1863 and President Antonio Guzman's attempt to consolidate the government. Venezuela's economic develop­ment lagged behind that of other countries, such as Argentina's and Brazil's, which built their first railroads in the 1850's, 30 years before Venezuela. 
Toward the end of the 19th century, Cipriano Castro emerged as the new leader and successfully instituted a strong centralized government, which was further strengthened by the dictator Juan Vicente Gomez, Rodriguez explained. 
"The main purpose of my work is to try to understand the institutions that were in place in 1920 which were going to con­dition the 20th century," said Rodriguez. 
According to Rodriguez, despite the repressive practices imposed by the "caudillos," the centralized government put Venezuela in a particularly good position when oil was discov­ered in 1920 to distribute and allocate oil rents. This is because the nation controlled all its public resources "from within the state," said Rodriguez. 
Since the commercial­financier class benefited from the export of oil and had all the political power, it met the resulting appreciation of the exchange rate with little resis­tance and few policy decisions, said Rodriguez. 
The economic security that ensued and the redistribution of the central government's resources to different sectors allowed Venezuela to remain at peace throughout the 1900s. 
Contact Christina Cepero at cccpcro@nd.edu 

of on-campus news. 
Fowlkes said that there are plans to further develop the site, including the addition of the Virtual Village. The Virtual Village, a link available through the new Web site, allows stu­dents to post notices and includes a ticket-trader bulletin board. 
"Having 
the ticket­looking to buy or sell foot­ball tick­ets. To resolve this prob­lem mass e-mails w e r e restrict­ed, as the 
down on Governance tried to find a site makes it easier to know 
"SMC @ more organized, and it cuts t h e solution. what is going on," MaryHome pro­down on the graffiti on unwanted "We tried to do something Pauline Moran, BOG informa­vides a e-mail that like this last year and it didn't tion technology commissioner, 
central campus." 

has been a seem to work," Brittany said. "The main Web site is for 
place for 

problem in McMahon, Saint Mary's junior, the public to view for insightstudents Brittany McMahon the past," said. "I think it's beneficial to into Saint Mary's, but this is a and faculty Fowlkes 
have the Intranet service place for the inner circle, peo­
junior 

said. "It's because you have it all in one ple at Saint Mary's." a new and place, it's more organized, and needed resource specifically for it cuts down on the graffiti on on-campus people." campus." Contact Laura Coristin at 
The Web site was created in An open discussion forum cori0333@saintmarys.edu and response to the problems with will also be available so that Sarah Nester at mass e-mails that occurred last students and faculty are able to nest9877@saintmary's.edu 
Welcome to Notre Dame. Your life just went from O to 90. 
> 
> 
> 
DIGITAL WALKIE-TALKIE SPEAkERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS 
> 
AOLlil INSTANT MESSENGER1" service 
> 
TWO·WAV MESSAGING 
> 
> 
JAVA'., 6AMES 6 APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 
Wh""+-evev ¼-wists C,,)\J. h.\Y"\\S ccne,e ½-hvcws "'½-yolA. -yov. COi.lo\ J.e""\. A\.\J. 
Ne"'te\ COi.lo\ helr. We've :,o+-+-he \.\ewes+­phc\.\es, coolest .Pe"'h"ves c:i\\.\J. Swee+-es+­v"'½-e plc:i\\\S yclA. \.\eeJ. .Pcv +-he viJ.e o.P ycv.v Ii.Pe. '{cv.'ve vec:i\J.y-Bvi\.\' I+-. 
t.{ow's "' -,ve"'t ti""'e +-o Bet ~e,ctel: 
"'" t.{oh-e ot:'\~e S+-v.J.e\\ts O'l.\\J. f>t:'\Ve\\ts t ').;;,./~· ~ ~ ' ~ ­
-,et"' ( ,. . ...:"d) c Ol1-.\1tr J o" "'-\.\Y vt11.+-e pl"'" t11.\\J. q()() ~ (11~ f! """Y pho\\e. 
10 b'-'y: 
1  ~o to \\e,ct-el.co\M/lvish-st-l.\c:Ae\\t-.  
1  c"'-1\ t-oll-,t!vee l-877-S-0,-2<J2,.  
#  visit-Jl)l-1\ (OlN\lN\l.\\\lCt:'\t-10\\S t:'\t-:  
1,,<f lvo\\wOOP. l)vive, "Sol.\t-h Be\\c:A  
S74-24'3-,8' l8'  


•otter is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002. While supplies last. Require~ new activation, one year ~rvic.e. Ag~eement and credit approval. $200 eartyterrnination fee applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. In-store purchases require at least 2 forms ?f vahd 1dent1flcatmn. Account Set-up tee of $35 per phone; maximum $70 per account fees may vary by market. $100 mstan) savings 1s off the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at pomt 0of sale. 10% off monthty rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this otter. Other restrictions may _ap~ty Rate plans_ are sub1ect to taxes, fees and other 
0

charges. Current prices are subject to change. Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 Nextel Comm,umcattons, Inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Nextel 
!!!!!«' 

togo are registered trademarks of Nextel Communications, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized M logo are registered mthe U.S: Patent and Trademark Office Java a.nd all other Java-based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. AOL, AIM. Buddy List and the Tnangle design are registered trademarks of Arnenca --­Online, Inc. Instant Messenger is a trademark of America Online, Inc. 
-t •• 
I 
--: ~ 
I 
.. ~­--L
i 
! ; 
-r· -,-,
l , 
-iiiiii 




page 4 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

book for Upcoming ev~nts to Comm~morat~ ~~pt~mb~r 11th... 
Social Concerns Seminars! ! 
Applications are available now at the CSC. 

Appalachia Seminar sends 190+ students to 3 states in the Appalachia region to work with and leru.n from 16 different local partners. Sites range from building and repairing homes, working in alternative schools, and assisting in small Catholica parishes. 
The Gullah Seminar examines the rich history and culture of the Gullah people, 
many of whom are descendants of slaves brought over from West Africa. Seminar 
Gullah 
50L'11 I CAROLINA consists of service and cultural opportunities. (Correction: This seminar is open to ALL classes.) 
Encounter 

Living the Gospel of Life Seminar 
The Gospel of 

This pilot seminar focuses on a variety of pro-life issues (death penalty, euthanasia, 
stem cell research, abortion, etc) in Washington, D.C. Students meet with Church, 
LIFE
,.,....s.vb~ 

legislative, and non-governmental organizations that work on "life issues". 

Washington Seminar By visiting a Benedictine monastery, a Catholic Worker farm, and several Catholic public policy organizations in D.C., this seminar will explore how we, as Christians, are called to Iive and work in the 
""-,,;,,,.....;;;....;;;;;;;;;;.;;;;;;;;a;;;;;;;~;;;....;;;;;;;;;;;.....;, 
world. 

Application Due Date: Wednesday, September 11th 
Current Volunteer Needs 
Every week this section will list various requests for volunteers that we have received from people in the local community. These requests will change from week to week, but all will remain posted at the CSC's website until they are filled. Please stop by the CSC ifyou are inter­ested in other service opportunities. 
Child Care El Campito Pat Richards at 232-0220 Two volunteers are needed to watch children during a parenting group, On the last Tuesday of every month from 5:30 to 7 p.m. 
Tutorin1: Drug Prevention Program Verlie Manns or Phyllis Turley at 232-9873 Tutors are needed for children in a drug prevention program set up by the government. It will run in six-week sessions, Mon/Wed, 4 to 5 p.m. 
SAT Prep Contact: Paula Muller at 271-8370 A tutor is needed for a high school student who needs to bring up her Math SAT scores; she is able to meet at Hesburgh Library. Tues/fh 4-5. 

9/10 -INFORMATION SESSION ON DOMESTIC POST­GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES: 5-6 PM AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

ISSLP 
*International Sum­mer Learning Pro­grams (ISSLP) appli­cations now available. 
*Internships available in 13 developing countries 
around the world. 
Deadline: November 1 
Vehicle Training/Orientation 

schedule and rent Transportation Services Vehicles ONLY for groups and individuals involved in service and social programming. For additional information on how to re­quest a vehicle through the CSC, attend one ofthe training sessions listed below. All drivers scheduled through the Centerfor Social Concerns must attend one ofthe vehicle/ training orientations before they are allowed to drive. We appreciate your cooperation. 
Dates: The following September Sundays: Js1, 8'\ 15'\ 22nd, and 29'h. 6:45 p.m., Room 102 DeBartolo. 
: Faculty Opportunities : 
! The Center offers resources to faculty : : members teaching community-vased : • learning and research courses. If you are 
• : interested in some support for your work : in this area, please contact Mary 
• Beckman, Ph.D., Center Associate 
•
• Director, Concurrent Associate Professor : of Economics, at beckman.9@nd.edu or : 1-4172. She can assist with course : development grants, workshops, reading • materials, and more. • 
• 


Wednesday, September 4, 2002 COMPILED FH0M THE OBSERVEH WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
U.S. offers evidence of Iraqi nuclear threat 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Bush administration has secret information supporting its claims that Saddam Hussein poses an unacceptable threat to the world and is close to devel­oping nuclear weapons, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld said Tuesday. 
President Bush could disclose the information through upcoming congressional hear­ings on Iraq, Rumsfeld hinted at a Pentagon press conference. 
Democrats on Capitol Hill urged Bush to be more forth­coming. "I think most Democrats believe the president has yet to make the case for taking action in Iraq," Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., told reporters. Bush plans to discuss Iraq in a White House meeting Wednesday with top Republican and Democratic leaders from both houses of Congress. Rumsfeld is also scheduled to discuss Iraq and the war on terrorism in sepa­rate closed-door sessions with members of the House and Senate. 
Both Rumsfeld and Secretary of State Colin Powell dismissed Iraq's latest offer -relayed by Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz· -to let U.N. weapons inspections resume, suggesting it was just a ploy. 

"It's the con that the Iraqi regime -and especially Mr. Tariq Aziz -have been pulling on the international community for years," Powell said. Aziz said Iraq was willing to discuss the return of weapons inspec­tors, but only if sanctions ended and Iraq regained sovereignty over all its territory, eliminating no-fly zones created after the 1991 Gulf War and enforced by 
U.S. and British warplanes. 
"If you want to find a solution, you have to find a solution for all these matters. not only pick up one certain aspect of it," Aziz said at an international development conference in Johannesburg, South Africa. "We are ready to find such a solution." 
"Tariq Aziz knows perfectly well what must be done," Powell told reporters as he flew to that South Africa meeting. "For years, he has been getting on television and manages to have reported without comment his assertion that they have no such weapons, which is non­sense -utter nonsense." 
Rumsfeld likened it to "a dance they engage in. And then you'll find at the last moment, they'll withdraw that carrot or that opportunity and go back into their other mode of thumb­ing their nose at the interna­tional community." 

Asked what evidence the Rumsfeld said, 'TU leave that acquire nuclear weapons, that administration has that Iraq is for the coming days and nuclear technologies have close to developing a nuclear weeks." spread in recent years and that weapon, as Vice President Dick He said it is already publicly Iraq has ways of obtaining Cheney asserted last week, known that Iraq wants to such materials. 
ISRAEL 

Israeli supreme court agrees to Palestinian expulsions 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Israel's Supreme Court gave the army a new tool in its two-year struggle against Palestinian violence Tuesday, allowing it to expel Palestinians from the West Bank to Gaza for aiding terrorist suspects. In the first case of its kind, the court upheld the expulsion of two relatives of a terror suspect, but overturned an order against a third person, ruling that expulsion must be limited only to relatives directly involved in terror attacks. 
Palestinians called for foreign interven­tion to stop the Israeli practice, while human rights groups said it violates international law, particularly the Geneva Conventions. 

Israel said the two, a brother and sister of a suspected terrorist, would be taken to Palestinian Authority territory on the edge of the Gaza Strip on Wednesday. Palestinian officials said they would stay in a hotel and then move to a housing project in Gaza City. In a separate devel­opment, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon dropped his earlier opposition to allowing the Palestinian parliament to convene in the West Bank town of Ramallah but said the ban stands for leg­islators he deems involved in terror. The parliament is to approve the new Palestinian Cabinet and consider reform measures. 
Sharon said a change is appearing among the Palestinians, who "are realiz­ing that we cannot be defeated by force, and this can certainly be an opening to our restoring calm." Sharon was address­ing Israeli police. Also Tuesday, Israeli troops killed two Palestinians walking near a Jewish settlement in the West Bank. A military official said soldiers saw one of the men carrying a weapon and fired a tank shell at him. Palestinians said both men were unarmed. 
In the Jenin refugee camp, seven Palestinians, including two children, were hurt when a bomb exploded, residents said. They said it was apparently left over from a battle with Israeli forces in April, when Palestinians planted hundreds of bombs in the camp. At the Supreme Court hearing, the Israeli military argued that expulsions are an effective deterrent against suicide bombings and other attacks. 
Human rights lawyers said the measure violates the Geneva Conventions, which forbid "individual or mass forcible trans­fers" or deportations of "protected per­sons from occupied territory." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Blair seeks more support for U.S. effort: 
Saddam Hussein poses a grave threat to the world and must be stopped, Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday, bucking the tide of public sentiment and trying to rally international support for U.S.-led action against Iraq. Hussia. however, insisted it would veto any measure for military action against Baghdad that is put before the U.N. Security Council. It urged Saddam to readmit U.N. weapons inspectors to avert the threat of war. 
Pakistani prisoners to return home: 
About 110 Pakistanis held in Afghanistan on suspicion of having fought for the Taliban will be released and sent to Pakistan on Wednesday, the government news agency reported. The Associated Press of Pakistan, quoting the Interior Ministry, said two special flights would bring the prisoners home. Twenty Afghans who have been jailed in Pakistan will be sent to Kabul on the \Vednesday flights, the news agency said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
DEA presses drug sales terrorist link: 
Attorney General John Ashcroft and former New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani helped open a museum exhibit Tuesday intended to show Americans that buying illegal drugs can support terrorist attacks. The exhibit, titled "Target America," includes Sept. 11 rubble from the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. It is housed at a museum in the Drug Enforcement Administration's headquarters. 
World Bank and IMF protests planned: 
Anti-globalization demonstrators, relatively subdued since the Sept. 11 terror attacks, are preparing a clamorous return to the streets this month when the World Bank and International Monetary Fund meet. Protest organizers said Tuesday they expect thou­sands to turn out on the weekend of Sept. 28 outside the Washington headquarters of the global financial institutions to oppose policies they say harm the envi­ronment and people in poor countries. 
Boston church abuse settlement reached: 
The Boston Archdiocese and alleged sex abuse vic­tims of defrocked priest John Geoghan have reached a tentative $10 million settlement, Cardinal Bernard Law's attorney said Tuesday. "Tentative is the opera­tive word," attorney J. Owen Todd said of a deal that could end civil suits brought by 86 people before a judge rules on the validity of a previous settlement worth up to $30 million. 
Denver police open activist 'Spy Files': 
The Police Department opened 3,200 "spy files"on religious. peace and other groups Tuesday. and activists lined up to see if their names were included. City officials conceded police went too far in collecting information in some cases. News that religious and peace groups were among those placed under surveillance since about 1999, when the files were computerized, drew charges of police misconduct, an investigation by a three-judge panel and the decision to let some people see their files before the reports are purged. 


Wednesday, September 4, 2002

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 
Boyle stresses need for link between theology, literature 
By JAMES GAFFEY 
News Writer 
Catholic theology and litera­ture are intrinsically linked, according to Nicholas Boyle, a visiting lecturer from Cambridge. Boyle's lecture Tuesday entitled "Sacred and Secular Scriptures: A Catholic Approach to Literature," was the first in a series of four lec­tures this semester sponsored by the Erasmus Institute. 
"Literature, both Biblical and non-Biblical, is the place where the sacred and secular meet," he said. "The words of sacred texts are in permanent intercourse with the words of texts which are not." 
"If literature is the site of theology." said Boyle. "The site is occupied by both sacred and secular Scriptures." Scholars must seek to inter­pret both the Bible and secu­lar literature in a way that doesn't constrain either. We don't want to see Huck Finn in a suit," said Boyle. 
Boyle spoke of "a Catholic way of reading literature," truth meet, said Boyle. God is which would allow for the revealed not so much through simultaneous and accurate the systematic presentation of interpretation of both the ideas but through the telling of sacred and secular messages the history of a people. 

in  a  Boyle  also  
work. It's the  "Literature, both Biblical and  gave pertinent historical  
unique advan­tage of a Catholic  non-Biblical, is the place where the sacred and secular meet. The words ofsacred  background to the origin of the concept of Bible as litera­ 
universi­ty like Notre Dame  text are in permanent intercourse with the words of text, which are not . .,  ture. The view of the Bible as a collection of historical doc­ 
that can  uments  took  
under­ Nicholas Boyle  centuries  to  

t a k e 

lecturer
such an investi­gation, Boyle said. 

Boyle's lecture focused on the Bible as a work that requires such a literary and theological perspective. "We need a Catholic approach not only to literature, but to the Bible as literature," said Boyle. 
The Bible is a place where human culture and Divine 
Nevada voters pick 
•

governor nominees 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
A state senator who favors raising casino taxes to trim Nevada's $180 million budget deficit won the Democratic nomination Tuesday to chal­lenge popular Republican Gov. Kenny Guinn this fall. 
State Sen. Joe Neal became the state's first black candi­date for governor to advance to the general election. 
Advertisement 
With 34 percent of precincts reporting, Neal had 24,763 votes, or 36 percent. The "none of the above" option drew 16,292 votes, or 24 per­cent. Three other candidates split the rest, led by former stripper Barbara Scott, who had 14,506 votes, or 21 per­cent. 
Neal will face Guinn, who trounced six little-known opponents in the GOP primary by winning more than 80 per­cent of the vote. The governor has reported raising nearly $3 million to win a second term, and polls have shown him with a commanding 3-1 lead over Neal in a potential fall matchup. 
That has not stopped Neal from mounting a populist campaign based on his long­time criticism of the state's powerful hotel-casino indus­try, which has $18 billion in annual profits. 
Neal has called for the first tax increase on those profits in 15 years to help soften the tax burden on others. It has won Neal statewide recogni­tion at a time he says there is growing discontent among a working class that ballooned in the 1990s as Nevada's pop­ulation skyrocketed 50 per­cent. 

"The key issue is the people who live here are bearing the burden of the tourism," Neal said. "We should do something to collect more taxes from the hotels." 
Guinn said he is waiting for a Nov. 15 report from a task force on ways to raise revenue for the state. He said casinos have indicated they are willing to pay their fair share. 
"We're running a state with 300,000 more people now than when I came in." Guinn said, referring to his 1998 win. "And we have 1.000 fewer people on the state pay­roll. I haven't raised taxes." 
Neal, 67, teaches constitu­tional democracy at Community College of Southern Nevada and has rep­resented North Las Vegas since 1972. 
Guinn, 66, announced earli­er this year that he has prostate cancer, but his doc­tors said it was detected early and would not affect his cam­paign or work. 
In the new 3rd Congressional District, Democrat Dario Herrera, a county commissioner, and for­mer Republican state Sen. Jon Porter easily defeated little­known opponents Tuesday. Their race could have implica­tions in the battle between Democrats and Republicans for control of the House. 
In the 1st District, Las Vegas City Councilwoman Lynette Boggs McDonald won the GOP primary and will take on Democratic Rep. Shelley Berkley this fall. Berkley was 

develop, and required a break from the Calvinist 
and Lutheran traditions that pervaded Europe in the 16th to 18th centuries. 
Boyle will speak again at 4 
p.m. Thursday at the Hesburgh Center on the topic of History and Hermeneutics. 
Contact James Gaffey at jgaffey@nd.edu 
· Write for Observer News. Call Helena at 631-5323. 

COMMUNITY 
Without you, Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer....... .. 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition ofthe Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visit our new website today/or information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 
http://www.nd.edu/~prayers/ 


..-------------------------------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 4, 2002 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Market Watch Se tember 3 
DowJones 

8,308.05 • -355.05 
NASDAQ 

1,263.84 -51.01 
S&P500 

878.02  •  -38.05  
AMEX  
857.16  •  -10.17  
476.33  NYSE.ij  -19.22  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) -3.62 -0.85 22.6i 
S:~i:1l1lliilii:~!:i:liltil:illilii!lffi1lilii1!~1ti!i:l~1i]:~il~[il 
PALM INC(PALM) -9.21 -0.07 0.6~ 
~1;:;1ll!;l!~llll!~ll!!:!!:lll!::1;1111tll;!!lll!!!l!!!l11111lil! 
CISCO SYSTEMS(CSCO) -5.43 -0.75 13.0: 
IN BRIEF 

Fla. judge approves Microsoft suit: 
Microsoft Corp. users in Florida can band 
together in a single class-action lawsuit to 
pursue antitrust claims against the software 
company, a judge has ruled. 
The lawsuit claims Microsoft violated a state 
law against unfair trade practices with an 
anticompetitive approach to sales of its oper­
ating system and applications software. It 
seeks monetary damages, but the amount 
does not have to be specified until the end of 
the trial. 
Circuit Judge Bernard Shapiro of Miami rejected Microsoft challenges to the ability to quantify alleged overcharges, the adequacy of named plaintiffs and whether they share com­mon issues. 
He concluded in a 31-page order last week that the issue of Microsoft's monopoly posi­tion, market definition and the alleged viola­tion of state law "are ideally suited for class­wide determination." 
Hong Kong money laundering up: 
Police have received 6,800 reports of money laundering in Hong Kong in the first eight months of 2002, more than in all of last year as people became more alert to the problem following the Sept. 11 attacks, a newspaper reported Wednesday. 
The South China Morning Post quoted Deputy Commissioner of Police Lau Yuk-kuen as disclosing the figure and saying it repre­sented increased vigilance since the terror attacks in New York and Washington. 
A report last week in The Washington Post cited a draft U.N. document on money laun­dering that named Hong Kong as one of sev­eral places around the world where Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terror network allegedly had bank accounts. 
Hong Kong officials have declined comment on whether they know of any al-Qaida funds being moved through this financial center. but they have said they will follow-up on the final 
U.N. report if necessary. 
State protests Hershey's sale 
. State fears major layoffs if company sold 
Associated Press 
HARRISBURG, Pa. 
The state went to court 
Tuesday to try to block any 
attempt by the charitable 
trust that controls Hershey 
Foods Corp. to sell the 
chocolate maker, warning 
that such a deal could lead 
to major layoffs in the town 
that bears the company's 
name. 

Lawyers for the $5.9 bil­
lion Hershey Trust Co., 
which benefits a school for 
disadvantaged children, 
argued that the state lacks 
the authority to stop the 
sale of the nation's largest 
candy maker. 
The trust controls 77 per­
cent of Hershey Foods' 
shareholder votes and 31 
percent of its common 
stock. In July it announced 
that it had ordered compa­
ny executives to seek bids 
for Hershey. Analysts say 
the price could be as high 
as $15 billion. 
Attorney General Mike Fisher sued to block any sale, contending that the loss of jobs and tax revenue could devastate the Hershey area, where about 6,200 people work for the company. 
Judge Warren G. Morgan to stop the sale, and has chief executive Richard A. funds the Milton Hershey met briefly with attorneys failed to show that it would Zimmerman, testifying as a School for disadvantagedfor both sides after damage the community. witness for the state, said children, founded by choco• adjourning the hearing, but Jack Stover, an attorney that a buyer would likely late magnate Milton did not rule on Fisher's for the trust and the school, slash jobs in Hershey to Hershey in 1909 and petition. A ruling was the trust's only beneficiary. help make up for the cost of entrusted in 1918 with his expected by the end of the displayed a chart showing buying the company. entire hoard of stock in the 
week, Fisher said, adding that 58.6 percent of the "There's no doubt in my chocolate company. that he was "confident" Milton Hershey Trust's mind there would be some Fisher has sought the 
that the company will not assets are invested in massive changes" to the injunction until the judge accept a bid on the candy Hershey Foods stock and candy maker's employment rules on a separate petition maker before then. said that diversifying the ranks in Hershey, by Fisher's office asking
Fisher, who is also the 
assets is a "legitimate. pru­Zimmerman said. him to review any sale Republican gubernatorial dent purpose" that the The two sides sparred based on the state's chari­
candidate, has opposed a trustees have every legal over the July 25 announce­table trusts law. 
sale, contending that a dev• 
right to carry out. ment that the Hershey By then, the attorneyastating loss of jobs and tax Stover's witness, James Trust had ordered Hershey general's office hopes to base in Hershey could Bailey, an investment Foods executives to seek have the state's charitable result. He attended adviser to the trustees, said bids on the company in an trust law amended to Tuesday's hearing but did that the trust's investment effort to determine whether requ;re trustees to consider not argue the case. in Hershey Foods stock bidders would pay a high the interests of the commu­
Lawyers for the Hershey means its "portfolio is twice enough price to warrant nity along on a par with Trust and the Milton as risky as the typical port­selling the controlling that of the trust's beneficia­Hershey School have con­folio of a college or univer­stake. ry when selling the control­
tended that Fisher has gone sity." The Hershey Trust Co. ling stake in a for-profitbeyond the reach of the law Former Hershey Foods manages the trust that company. 


McDonald's looks to cut some fat 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

McDonald's plans to use a new cooking oil for french fries and other fried foods that it says will do less damage to your diet. 
Nutritionists call the fast food giant's effort to reduce trans fatty acids a good first step but say the change doesn't make french fries a health food. 
"They're still french fries, and they're still high in fat," said Kathleen Zelman, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the American Dietetic Association. "But if people are going to eat them any­way, we can at least reduce the sat­urates which are artery-clogging." 
The Oak Brook-based company says the new oil, which will be used to cook all of its fried foods, will halve the trans fatty acid levels in its french fries while increasing the amount of the more beneficial polyunsaturated fat. 
Trans fatty acids increase the body's levels of bad cholesterol while simultaneously reducing its levels of good cholesterol, said Dr. Meir Stampfer, professor of epi­demiology and nutrition at Harvard School of Public Health. 
"People don't have to change their habits, they don't have to 
exert will power; without doing anything they would be eating a healthier diet," he said. 
McDonald's worked with its long­time supplier Cargill to develop the new oil. which a few restaurants will begin using in October. All 13,000 domestic restaurants will use the oil by February. 
Company executives say McDonald's is the first national fast-food chain to set a goal of elim­inating trans fatty acids in oil. 
Phil Sokolof, president of the National Heart Savers Association, said McDonald's announcement would give consumers a false sense of security when eating fast food. 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Lawyer: Church abuse deal reached 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
The Boston Archdiocese and alleged sex abuse victims of defrocked priest John Geoghan have reached a tentative $10 million settlement, Cardinal Bernard Law's attorney said Tuesday. 
"Tentative is the operative word," attorney J. Owen Todd said of a deal that could end civil suits brought by 86 people before a judge rules on the validity of a previous settlement worth up to $30 million. 
Church lawyers made the lat­est offer in late July. Todd said, before the sides went to court to determine if the previous settlement was binding. 
The lead attorney for the plaintiffs, Mitchell Garabedian did not return a message seek­ing comment left Tuesday night by The Associated Press. However, he told Boston TV station WCVB that he has been 
negotiating  with  church  
lawyers  and  said  he  was  
encouraged.  


Todd said Garabedian told him Tuesday morning that all but one of the plaintiffs had agreed to the settlement. 
All plaintiffs must agree for the deal to be finalized. 
The previous deal was announced in March. but the archdiocese backed out in May when its finance council reject­ed it. 
Garabedian asked Judge Constance Sweeney to enforce that earlier agreement. which called for the archdiocese to make payments to victims ranging from $10,000 to $938,000 each. 
The new offer has been approved by the finance coun­
cil. Todd said. 
The sexual abuse scandal engulfing the nation's Roman Catholic Church was sparked in January with revelations that church officials shuffled Geoghan from parish to parish despite knowing of abuse alle­gations against him. 
Geoghan was convicted in January of groping a boy and sentenced to up to 10 years in prison. 
Clinton and Dole launch college fund 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Former President Clinton and former Sen. Bob Dole announced Tuesday they've raised $105 million to create a college fund for families whose relatives were killed or injured in the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"Any victims' spouses or chil­dren -whether or not they're 
American citizens ­ can quali­ 
fy," Clinton said  on  CNN's  
"Larry King  
Live."  


"There were a lot of
Several cor­fund. porations and women who were preg­Dole recalls organizations that he was
nant at the time, so this 
donated on his way to
is going to go on for a
money to the a Washington effort, along long time ... hospital when with 20,000 he learned of private con­the attacks. 
Bill Clinton
tributors. "It's going Children of fonner president to be etched 
program for the future," Dole said. 
Dole and Clinton had aimed to raise $100 million for the scholarships, which will be dis­tributed for years. 
"There were a lot of women who were pregnant at the time, so this is going to go on for a long time," Clinton said. 
The federal government has set up a separate compensation fund for victims' relatives. 
At least nine families have accepted checks averaging 
$1.36 million, 
from that 

victims can apply for scholarships of up to $28,000, depending on their need. 
"It doesn't need to be a four­year college. It can be pilot training, it can be cosmetol­ogy," Dole said. "We all thought it would be a good idea if we could do something for the next 25, 30 years. It's going to be a gift that lasts." 
Dole said he and Clinton. rivals for the presidency in 1996, have mutual friends who led them to begin raising money for the college fund a few days after the hijacked planes crashed in New York, Washington and Somerset County. Pa., killing more than 3,000 people. 
"We've reached our goal and we hope it's going to be a great in our memo­

ries forever," he said. "You thought about it, you prayed about it. That's about all you could do." 
Clinton learned of the events in Australia when a friend called him described watching the World Trade Center col­lapse. 
The White House sent a plane to bring him back to New York. 
"I said (Osama) bin Laden did this. I said it because only bin Laden and the Iranians had the resources to do this," Clinton said. 
Dole and Clinton said they want to continue their work in public service, and Clinton said he doesn't intend to host a tele­vision talk show as has been speculated. 

Kerik haunted by 9/11 images 
Reports released in mid­on security consulting issues ­
Associated Press 
August by the police and fire -investigative issues to differ­
departments and manage­ent corporations, businesses, 
NEW YORK ment consultant McKinsey & government agencies. some 
In the past year Bernard Co. praised the rescuers' countries; and different secu­Kerik has published a tell-all heroism but found lapses in rity issues such as crime memoir. left communica­reduction, risk mitigation." his job as tion, organi­Kerik's autobiography, "The New York's "There are certain zation and Lost Son: A Life in Pursuit of police com­counterter­Justice," came out in
visuals ofthat day that 
missioner rorism train­November and made The New and joined will never go away.·· ing. York Times best-seller list. his former Kerik said Among the book's surprises: boss Rudolph Bernard Kerik he agreed the revelation that his mother Giuliani at a with some of was a prostitute who was
novelist 
start-up con­sulting firm. 
But in a recent interview at the firm's Times Square office, Kerik still seemed the tough-talking street cop ­though one scarred by Sept. 11. 
"There are certain visuals of that day that will never go away," he told The Associated Press. "The people jumping from the buildings.... Walking into the auditorium at Police Headquarters to talk to the family members of the cops who were missing. Those things stay with you forever." 
Twenty-three members of the New York Police Department died trying to res­cue survivors of the attack, along with 343 firefighters and 37 members of the Port Authority Police Department. 
the, conclu-beaten to death in 1964. 
sions, but he In the AP interview, he said was critical of the reports. he was "adamantly opposed" "The people who did the to building anything on the so­report were a business man­called "footprints" of the twin 
agement consulting 
"Those people 
firm," he said. "They disappeared. They ·re still 
consult in there. They're in the air. 
business 
They're in the ground, 
manage­
ment issues. they're in the dust." This was a paramilitary 
Bernard Kerik 
response to 
novelist
a wartime event. The two just 
towers. 
"Everything was pulver­i z e d Everything evaporated. And that includes the people that were there," he said. "Those people disappeared. They're still 
don't jibe." 
Of course, Kerik himself is now a member of a manage­ment consulting firm, Giuliani Partners. He described his duties as "primarily working there. They're in the air. They're in the ground, they're in the dust. I don't think we should ever forget that. I think we should memorialize that spot." 

Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5:00 PM 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2002 
TUESDAV,SEPTEMBER17,2002 240 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre-Professional students Huge variety of internships available in Puebla 
Engineering courses offered in Monterrey AL, BA courses offered in both locations 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 FOR SPRING 2003 DECEMBER 1 FOR FALL 2003 AND AY 2003-4 ' 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/n.1intlstud/ 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Two Florida boys on trial in dad's slaying 
Associated Press 
PENSACOLA, Fla. 
Lawyers for two boys accused of bludgeoning their father with a baseball bat blamed a family friend Tuesday. saying the man persuaded the boys to take the blame. 
In opening statements at the boys' trial, the defense also said prosecutors lack physical evi­dence linking Alex and Derek King, then 12 and 13, to their father's death. 
The prosecution in its opening alleged that Derek beat 40­year-old Terry King with the aluminum bat at Alex's urging on Nov. 26. Authorities say the boys confessed shortly after­ward to sherifrs deputies and their mother. 
Ricky Chavis, a friend of the victim and convicted child molester, was tried last week for the same crime before a dif­ferent jury. Friday's verdict will remain sealed until the boys' trial is complete. The brothers. now 13 and 14, are being tried as adults. 
The boys' la\vyers argued that Chavis' motive in the slaying was to prevent King from find­ing out about Chavis' sexual relationship with Alex. 
"He knows if that relation­ship is discovered he will go to jail forever," said James Stokes, the younger boy's attorney. 
The boys testified against Chavis last week. He has refused to take the stand against them, exercising his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. 

All three defendants face life in prison without parole if con­victed of first-degree murder. Each also is charged with arson. Firefighters found the victim's body inside his burning home in nearby Cantonment. 
Chavis, 40, also faces trial on a single count of committing a lewd and lascivious act against the younger brother. 
Tuesday's first prosecution witness, Nancy Lay, and her husband were Derek's guardians more than six years. Derek returned to his father, but was found by the couple in their neighborhood two days before the killing. 
The boy begged not to be returned home and said his brother had a plan to kill their father. Lay testified. 
Soon after the slaying, the boys allegedly told sheriff's deputies they killed their father for fear he would discipline them for running away. During testimony last week, they said Chavis killed their father as he slept and while they hid in the trunk of Chavis' car. 
Chavis has denied the killing. 
Telephone records support his claim that the boys called him after the killing and asked him to pick them up. They show a call was made from a conve• nience store's pay phone to Chavis' home at the same time a neighbor made a 911 call to report the fire. 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

The state and two Florida counties filed papers Tuesday to settle a federal lawsuit by civil rights groups alleging widespread voting problems during the disputed 2000 presidential election. 
Hillsborough and Orange counties, and the state, were the final defendants in the case, which ended without trial. Five other counties set• tied earlier. 
David Host, spokesman for the state Division of Elections, released a joint statement saying both sides were pleased to announce "a fair and equitable settlement." 
"It's a long time coming. We're glad to finally be here," said Thomasina Williams, an attorney for the National 
Association  for  the  
Advancement  of Colored  
People.  

Voters had claimed in the class-action lawsuit that they were disenfranchised during the election. 
Key provisions of the settle­ment would create a state coordinator for election law compliance, report on future election day problems, cor­rect mistakes in a purge of convicted felons from voting rolls and expand voter rights on provisional ballots. There were no admissions of wrongdoing. 
Plaintiffs' attorneys said the settlement goes beyond laws adopted since the state became the butt of jokes over the infamous butterfly ballot. hanging chads and antiquat• ed punchcard voting equip­ment. 
The new coordinator would devote at least three-quarters of his or her time to looking for election problems and solutions, in addition to pro­ducing reports before and after elections. 

Wildfires burn around Calif. forest 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

A pair of wildfires burned 40 miles apart Tuesday in and around the Angeles National Forest, destroying several ranch homes and forcing dozens of people to flee. 
On the north end of Los Angeles County, west of Palmdale, flames from a 3,200 acre blaze ringed the sprawl­ing homes on the edge of the forest. U.S. Forest Service Fire Chief Thomas Hutchinson said at least five homes were burned and that about 100 others were evacuated 
As flames romped through an area that had not seen fire already destroyed 14 build­in nearly two decades, volun­ings, including two homes, teers moved in to help save and continued its march animals and livestock. Tuesday across more than 
"We've  14,600  acres  
had so many [fires] down here  "We've had so many [fires] down here but  in the tains Azusa.  moun­above  
but they've never come this close,"  they've never come this close ...  The Azusa fire, which was ignited  
said Phyllis  Sunday,  was  
Tremblay, owner of Lazy T  Phyllis Tremblay store owner  only 10 per­cent contained Tuesday, said  
Ranch  in  U:S.  Forest  

Leona Valley, who said her 90 Service spokesman John horses were among the ani­Keeler. mals rescued. The fire forced about 8,000 
The second fire 30 miles campers to flee over the Labor northeast of Los Angeles has Day weekend. 

Fla., counties settle NAACP suit 
CAN YOU GET 10,000 ND FANS FIRED UP? 
STUDENT EMCEE & SPEAKER AUDITIONS FOR THE MICHIGAN PEP RALLY 
COME READY ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5TH AT 6:30PM IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE, 1ST FLOOR 
LAFORTUNE 
QUESTIONS? CAN'T MAKE IT? CONTACT: DONOHUE.8@ND.EDU 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ZIMBABWE 

Blair opts to criticize President Mugabe 
Associated Press 
HARARE 
Zimbabwe's main opposition party accused the government of President Robert Mugabe on Tuesday of mounting a cam­paign of violence, torture and intimidation ahead of rural elections this month. 
More than 20 opposition can­didates were assaulted during recent campaigning for the Sept. 28-29 poll, said Paul Themba-Nyati, the Movement for Democratic Change's elec­tions director. 
At least 70 candidates were arrested on trumped up charges and 46 withdrew from the race in two districts because they feared for their safety and that of their families, he said. 
Zimbabwe has been seized by more than two years of political and economic turmoil. widely blamed on Mugabe's increas­ingly unpopular ruling party. More than half Zimbabwe's 
12.5 million people face severe food shortages, blamed on drought and the government's program to seize white-owned farm for redistribution to poor blacks. 
Mugabe was also facing increasing criticism from abroad. 
In London, Prime Minister Tony Blair called on the inter­national community must do more to save Zimbabwe from financial ruin and derided Mugabe's claims that Britain was responsible for the African state's poverty. 
"Zimbabwe is potentially one of the richest grain nations in the world and yet because of the way he [Mugabe] has ruined the country, it is having to import grain for its people," Blair said. "It's a terrible, terri­ble tragedy." 
At the World Summit in Johannesburg on Monday. Mugabe blamed Britain and other rich countries for the 

poverty and despair in his coun­try. 
He also defended his seizure of white-owned farms. saying the program pitted the majority against an "obdurate" racial minority which he alleged was "supported and manipulated" by Blair. 
"We have not asked for any inch of Europe," said Mugabe. "So, Blair keep your England and let me keep my Zimbabwe." 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, in a speech Aug. 27, urged Zimbabwe to change its land policies to help stave off famine. Annan also called on Zimbabwe to observe its own laws and compensate displaced farmers. 
Mugabe claims the seizures are necessary to correct linger­ing colonial injustices and to empower thousands of poor, black, landless Zimbabweans. 
Blair said Tuesday money was available to Zimbabwe for land reform. 
He said the only demand is that it be.done through a United Nations program "to make sure the money goes to the poor peo­ple who need it, not into the pockets of him and his hench­men and the other people run­ning the show." 
In the recent violence in Zimbabwe, scores of opposition officials and supporters were driven from their homes and prevented open campaigning for the 1,397 local council posts, Themba-Nyati said. 
"Rural elections should be an affirmation of democratic rights. This is not the case in Zimbabwe," he said. 
Mugabe's ruling party nar­rowly won parliament elections in 20000, surviving the biggest threat to its hold on power since independence in 1980. Mugabe narrowly won a disputed presi­dential poll this year that inde­pendent observers said was swayed by violence, intimation and vote rigging. 
ITALY 

Investigators probe small bottle explosion 
Associated rress 
ROME 
Investigators worked Tuesday to establish links between a small explosion in a bottle of bubbles that injured a 5-year-old boy and other blasts that have gone off over the years in northeastern Italy. 
Italian officials have attrib­uted the explosions -most often pipe bombs that have caused injuries but no deaths 
to the work of a Unabomber, after the American recluse who sent dozens of pipe bombs through the U.S. mail over nearly 20 years. 
Italian news reports say 10 attacks have been pinned on the Italian suspect dating back to 1994. when a small explo­sive device placed on the ground went off, slightly injur­ing four people. 

In more recent years, the devices have been hidden in foodstuffs: a tube of mayon­naise in 2000, an egg a few months earlier. 
This year, two devices have been hidden in items children might use -the bottle of bub­bles that exploded Monday night. and a jar containing of chocolate-flavored spread that exploded in July, causing no injuries. 
The boy was hospitalized overnight with injuries to his hands and abdomen and released Tuesday, news reports said. 
"Investigators today have in hand a new element to deter­m ine the psychology of the Unabomber: the fact is that this criminal has turned his attention to children," prose­cutor Pasquale Labia said. 
GERMANY 
Stoiber meets with leaders 
Associated Press 
WOLFSBURG 
Venturing into Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's territory with a visit Tuesday to automaker Volkswagen, con­servative challenger Edmund Stoiber was met by protests from union members as he met with business leaders ahead of Sept. 22 elections. 
A smiling Stoiber posed with the automaker's latest models and held talks with a VW executive who headed a panel that drafted recommen­dations for getting more Germans back to work -the opposition's top campaign theme. 
Stoiber's conservative Christian Democratic camp has criticized the proposals by VW personnel chief Peter Hartz, but the candidate from Bavaria seemed intent on smoothing over those differ­ences. 
About 100 members of IG Metall, Germany's biggest industrial union, staged a symbolic protest, blowing whistles and waving union flags on a chartered steam­boat in the canal outside Volkswagen's Autostadt theme park. 
"Stoiber has said he will make changes that will reduce the rights of workers and unions," argued union 
spokesman Willi Doerr. citing fears that Stoiber would erode legal safeguards against firing and reduce employees' say in wage negotiations. 
Stoiber had the chancellor on the defensive for months over the anemic economy and a jobless rate nearing 10 per­cent. Until now, he has largely cast himself as an advocate for the small and midsize firms that make up agers, including chief execu­tive Bernd Pischetsrieder, that he wouldn't touch 42­year-old legislation that guar­antees the state government a 
dominant  position  in  
Volkswagen.  
The law, under which  no  

other shareholder is allowed to accumulate more voting rights than the state, in effect protects Volkswagen from a hostile takeover and 
the back­"Stoiber has said he is being bone of the will make changes reviewed by 
German the European
that will reduce the 
economy. Commission. 
B u t rights of workers and Stoiber said Schroeder unions . ., authorities h a s should keep regained their "hands 
Willi Doerr
ground by off the VW spearhead­union spokesman law" -echo­
ing a gov­ernment aid plan for victims of German flooding that caused billions in damage last month. 
Polls over the past week have shown the race too close to call, a fact acknowledged by Stoiber in an interview published Tuesday. 
Volkswagen is the flagship company of Lower Saxony state. a Social Democratic stronghold where Schroeder was governor -and VW board member -before win­ning national elections in 1998. 
Stoiber reassured man-
i n g 
Schroeder's position and adding that it has had a "stabilizing effect." 
Schroeder presented the Hartz commission's report on way to combat unemployment last month to try to bolster his administration's economic record. 
After-Tuesday's meeting, Stoiber told reporters that he and Hartz "agreed that job­lessness is the great scourge of this nation," but added that, along with allocating jobs, creating new posts and attracting new investment was also a priority. 



ERIN MORAN JOINS GLYNIS BELL & RHONDA ROSS ' 
[JONI( FROM HAPPY DAYS) 
Exactly what it sounds like. 
THE 

MONOLOGUES 
"SIMPLY SPECTACULAR! 

' ''' 

•
EffHRTMNMfNT WHKLY 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 11 
Stones kick off world tour 
and stadiums, but cozy concert the Stones' forthcoming album
Associated Press 

halls as well. "Forty Licks." The collection of Tour director Michael Cohl their greatest hits will be BOSTON said that like the "Voodoo released in October. The Rolling Stones launched a Lounge" and "Bridges to Two hours before the Stones 
25-city tour Tuesday night with Babylon" tours of the 1990s, the took the stage, crowds of mostly "Street Fightin' Man" as their stadium shows will be heavy on middle-aged fans -some wear­first song as if making a state­Stones staples such as "Jumpin' ing shirts with the Stones' 
ment that Jack Flash," famous lips and tongue emblem after 40 years "There's nothing so "Honky Tonk -waited for the doors to open. 
they're still in Woman," and Steve Mulcahey, 50, a police

exciting as starting an
fighting "Brown dispatcher from Warwick, R.I.,shape. American tour and there Sugar." said the Stones were worth the 
N e w l y 

is nothing so exciting ... By contrast, wait. 
knighted Mick the arena Why? "The music and the fact 
as starting here in
Jagger, griz­shows -like that they can still perform it live zled guitarist Boston . ., the one in onstage," he said, and "the elec­K e i t h Boston -will tricity in the air." Richards and include a large This was his 17th Stones con­
Mick Jagger

the rest of the collection of cert and Mulcahey planned to
singer

band have less familiar attend three others on the cur­
billed their "Licks" tour. as their most elaborate stage show ever, with eye-popping special effects. 
"There's nothing so exciting as starting an American tour and there is nothing so exciting ... as starting here in Boston," the 59­year-old Jagger told the concert­goers packed into the FleetCenter. 
It's the hottest ticket in rock; industry analysts expect it to be the year's top-grossing tour. Most tickets -some selling for up to $350 -were snapped up for the 40-show tour shortly after they went on sale. The band will not only play arenas 

songs  culled  rent tour.  
from band's 40-year history.  the  "I've got the tattoo on my butt. I'm all set," Mulcahey said of the  

Tuesday night, the Stones fol-Stones emblem. 1owed their opening num­
"I've got the tattoo on my
b er with "If 
You Can't butt. I'm all set." Rock Me" and "It's Only 
Steve Mulcahey 
Rock 'N' Roll," 
fan
during which Jagger. dressed in tight black pants, shed his blue jacket to reveal a white T-shirt underneath. 
During the fourth song, Jagger played guitar on "Don't Stop," one of four new numbers from 
While the number 40 might he a theme of the band's tour, the Stones would clearly like to stay clear of dis­cussing anoth­

er number: 60. That's the age Jagger and Richards will be by the end of next year. The third original member of the band, drummer Charlie Watts, is already 61. 

You Can Have It All! 



Free Checking 



'uJ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

57 4/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the University 
Today's idol will make a new pop star 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
One potential pop star. and another future trivia ques­tion, sang in their final duel on Fox's summer hit show "American Idol" on Tuesday. 
The two finalists, Justin Guarini and Kelly Clarkson, each sang three songs, two of which the winner will release on a CD by the end of this month. ­
Viewers voting by phone determine the winner, who will be announced on Wednesday night. 
The televised talent contest has been the summer's most popular new program. It drew more than 15 million viewers last week and has for several weeks been the most-watched program among teenaged and young adult viewers. 
The two finalists sang two songs written specifical1y for the show -"Before Your Love" and "A Moment Like 
This," both big, sappy bal­
lads that gave Guarini and 
Clarkson plenty of opportuni­
ty to emote. 
Given their choice of a 
third song, Guarini, 23, of 
Doylestown, Pa., used his 
falsetto for the song, "Get 
Here." Clarkson, 20, of 
Burleson, Texas, belted out 
the Aretha Franklin classic, 
"Respect." 
If the show's three judges had a vote -which they don't -Clarkson would come out on top, 2-0. Both Simon Cowell and Randy Jackson said they would sup­port her. The third judge, Paula Abdul. heaped praise on both finalists. 
"It makes me proud to he part of the show because you are such a phenomenal tal­ent," Jackson said to Clarkson. 
The winner gets a record­ing contract with a single to be released on Sept. 17 and an album to follow in November. 
RUSSIA 
Nation gives 'N Sync singer Bass the boot 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Russia told 'N Sync singer 
and aspiring cosmonaut Lance 
Bass "Bye Bye Bye" Tuesday 
after he again failed to pay the 
$20 million fee for his planned 
ride into space. 
The Russian space agency 
Rosaviakosmos ordered the 
23-year-old pop star to leave 
Russia's Star City cosmonaut 
training ground, where he had 
been since July, after missing 
several deadlines to pay for his 
October ride to the 
International Space Station. 
"It's over." said 
Rosaviakosmos spokesman 
Sergei Gorbunov. 
Russian space officials nego­tiated with Bass "in good faith," but "his sponsors didn't fulfill the conditions of the con­tract and we never received the money," Gorbunov said, adding that the trip was now an "impossibility." 
Bass will be replaced on the ride by a container packed with space•station supplies weighing about the same as him. 
However, Bass' publicist in New York disputed the Russian announcement, say­ing, "The trip is not over.'' 
"We are still in negotia­tions," Jill Fritzo said. "We feel very confident that there will be a resolution soon and the trip will go on as planned." 
The Los Angeles television producer behind the bid dis­missed the Russian announce­ment as a negotiating ploy. 
"The truth is that we simply need to finalize the delivery of the funds so that everyone is comfortable and he'll be back in the saddle again," said David Krieff, who plans a series about Bass' trip and is gathering sponsors. 
"The reality is that we do have a little grace period." 
Krieff expected Bass to be 
back on the crew list by week's 
end. 
The Russians agreed to sev­
eral deadline extensions 
because Bass' name had been 
forwarded to their space-sta­
tion partners, who endorsed 
the singer last week. Gorhunov 
said. Also, a short amount of 
time remained for training, 
making it impossible to begin 
work with another candidate, 
he said. 
Bass' supporters blame 
paperwork problems for the 
payment delay and insisted he 
still hopes to make the trip. 
"Lance is not stepping down by any means," said Jeff Manber, president of MirCorp, a company that helps arrange space-related adventures and is partly owned by Russia's Energia Space Corp., which built part of the International Space Station. 
Manber said he met with Russian space officials Tuesday. 
"It is a little dramatic to say he was kicked out," Manber said. "He will be back there [at Star City] probably tomorrow or the day after." 
Bass, whose group hits include "Bye Bye Bye," was training to become the world's third space tourist after California businessman Dennis Tito and South African Internet tycoon Mark Shuttleworth. Tito and Shuttleworth did not use cor­porate sponsors to pay for their trips. 
Bass returned to Russia Sunday after spending a week at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston with the other two crew members for the Oct. 28 flight aboard a Russian Soyuz rocket ­Russian cosmonaut Sergei Zaletin and Belgian astronaut Frank de Winne. 

,, ~-~ --=­,, 
\, 
:.," 
II,, 
., ·~ \ page 12 The Observer . TECHNOLOGY Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
<
.i, 
•"," .\_, 
\ 
,, .,., Web users opt for' 
1
l 
lit 
1 free online music 
~ 
"
~ 
Associated Press 

l ~ 
LOS ANGELES 
Online subscription music sites have finally arrived. But there's been little fanfare, and so far almost no one is buying. 
Free music-swapping ser­vices continue to attract mil­lions of new users despite the recording industry's legal efforts to shutter them, and few consumers are even aware of the handful of pay sites that have emerged over the last year. 
That's unlikely to change ­unless the new sites begin to offer compelling, innovative features that set them apart from the free networks, con­sumers and analysts say. 
Sean Withrow, a music lover and Silicon Valley executive, said he would consider using a subscription service if it could improve his shopping experi­ence and offer more than WinMX, the site on which he spends about two hours a week sampling and downloading music for free. 
'Tm music-savvy, but stores can be overwhelming. You can get frustrated," said the 33­year-old Withrow. "It's really not about the money." 


None of the leading pay sites, which include Listen.com, pressplay. MusicNet and FullAudio, have done much to employ clever technologies to spice up the experience of dis­covering and purchasing music. Instead, they offer limit­ed downloads that actually expire when a customer ends a subscription. 
"Every day they are not offer­ing widely compelling music across the board money is going out the window." said 
P.J. McNealy, research director at GartnerG2 in San Jose. 
Analysts estimate that less than 100,000 people have bought pay subscriptions. 
The major music labels themselves won't release the data. saying it's too early to start measuring success. They say they are still experimenting with their sites' look and feel. studying payment schemes and negotiating online royalty rates with hundreds of artists, labels and publishers. 
The logistics of building pay sites are indeed enormous, especially compared with the simplicity of the free services that are the stepchildren of Napster and rely on so-called peer-to-peer networking that allows users to share with oth­ers the downloaded music on their hard drives. 
Survey: Databases decrease privacy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Governments worldwide have made it easier for authorities to augment citizen databases and eavesdrop on telephone and online conversations in order to fight terror, according to a survey of privacy regulations released Tuesday. 
The report, written by priva­cy activists Electronic Privacy Information Center and Privacy International, show the United States was not alone in passing new laws that value increased security over personal privacy. 
"It's a general theme toward total identification," said Sarah Andrews, an author of the report. "When you 're outside in public or when you're online, you can be identified." 
That dismays privacy groups, who worry about free speech restrictions and abuses of power. They have fought new laws like the U.S. anti-terror legislation that lowered the bar on surveillance requirements by authorities. 
"They haven't been backed up by evidence that law enforcement and intelligence agencies were hampered before because they didn't have these powers," Andrews said. 
Stewart Baker, a former gen­eral counsel for the National Security Agency, said increased data sharing might have helpe~ identify the Sept. 11 hijackers. 
He said many surveillance proposals were already moving toward passage, and speeded up by legitimized fears of a ter­rorist threat. 
"They're really complaining about changes in the world rather than changes in the law," said Baker, now a lawyer with Steptoe & Johnson in Washington. 

In addition to the United States, the report listed new anti-terrorism legislation in Australia, Austria, Britain, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, India. Singapore and Sweden. 
In June of this year, the European Union allowed its member states to require that Internet providers retain traffic and location data of all people using any electronic communi­cations device. like mobile phones, faxes, e-mails, chat rooms or the Internet. 
The Russian internal security service recently tried to order all Internet providers to install surveillance software, at the company's cost, so that police could perform instant searches without a warrant. After an Internet company sued, a Russian court decided the rule was unconstitutional. 
There also is increased inter­est in personal surveillance through biometric technology and spy cameras. The report lists the use of cameras at the Super Bowl in Tampa, Fla., to search for suspected terrorists. Perhaps no country likes such cameras more than Britain, where an estimated 1.5 million cameras watch public streets and parks. 
The report found that gov­ernments also want to merge their existing databases, such as those for social programs and traffic infractions, to cre­ate profiles to catch suspected terrorists. 
CHINA 
Communists block Google 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
As China's government pre­pares for its annual Communist Party meeting in November and clamps down on various media sources, the country has been left without major Internet access: popular search engine Google. 
Attempts to look at the site through Chinese Internet ser­vices Tuesday were rejected with a notice saying it couldn't be found. Users and technical consultants who monitor the Chinese Internet said the site has been blocked for several days. 
"We were notified by our users that access to Google in China had been blocked. We are working with Chinese authorities to resolve the issue," said Google spokes­woman Cindy McCaffrey. 
She had no further informa­tion about what the discussion with Chinese authorities might involve or when Google access within China might be restored. 
China routinely tightens con­trols on news and information around politically sensitive dates, and state media quoted President Jiang Zemin in August as telling propaganda officials to create a "sound atmosphere" for the meeting. 
Google is hugely popular among China's 45 million Internet users because of its wide-ranging search capacity. A search in English for Jiang's name turns up links to 156,000 Web sites mentioning him. 
By contrast, a search on Sina.com, another portal that is popular in China, turns up just 1,600 mentions of Jiang. The Chinese-language service of American search engine Yahoo! turns up just 24 results. 
Google does not weed out material the Chinese govern­ment blocks as subversive. 
A search for Jiang on Google turns up a Web page posted by the banned Falun Gong spiri­tual movement entitled "Exposing the crimes of Jiang Zemin." The group accuses Jiang of killing its followers in the course of a crackdown aimed at eliminating the group, viewed as a threat to communist control. 
A spokeswoman for New york-based Human Rights Watch cautioned that attempts by Google to negotiate with China for the return of its ser­vice could mar its reputation as an unfettered Internet access point. 
"Any companies that are doing business in China, if they are negotiating, it should not be at the exp-ense of free expression," said Human Rights Watch spokeswoman Minky Worden. "What we're seeing ahead of the Party con­gress in November is a chill in a variety of areas in China." 



Student Government sponsors 11Who Knew?'' 
ads. 
Every Wednesday, the Office of the student Body President will run a "Who Knew?" column in The Observer. 
The ads will feature resources available at Notre Dame that few students know exist. 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Police charge man in nun slaying 
Associated Press 
KLAMATH FALLS, Ore. 
Police have charged a man with sexually assaulting a nun and strangling her with her rosary beads as she took a late-night stroll with anoth­er nun. The other woman was also sexually assaulted, police said. 
Sister Helen Chaska, 53, became the first homicide victim in Klamath County this year when she was attacked while reciting the rosary as she and her companion strolled down a bike path just after midnight Sunday. 

An autopsy showed she was strangled with her rosary beads, which became embed­ded in her neck. The other woman was treated at a hos­pital and released. Both were wearing their blue habits when they were attacked. 
Maximiliano Esparza, 32, was charged with aggravated murder, kidnapping, assault, sodomy, sexual abuse and possession and delivery of a controlled substance. He was being held without bail at the Klamath County Jail. It wasn't immediately clear if he had obtained an attorney. 
HUNGRY? 



free pizza from papa john's and snowcones 
An arraignment that had been scheduled for Tuesday was postponed until today. Prosecutors said they plan to seek the death penalty. 
Authorities described Esparza as a transient who arrived in Klamath Falls by train Friday. Police said they found him at a motel Sunday after getting a tip from some­one ,vho had seen a compos­ite drawing based on the sec­ond nun's description. 
The nuns, both of Bellevue, Wash., are members of the order of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, and were in Klamath Falls doing mission­
ary work. They are self­descri bed traditionalist orthodox Catholics, and are unaffiliated with the Roman Catholic Church. 
As shaken residents placed flowers in the fence along the bike path, the slain nun's brother expressed shock. 
"Why would anyone attack a nun?" Jim Chaska said during an interview with the Seattle Post­Intelligencer from his North Dakota home. "They cer­tainly didn't have any morn:~y." 
~·/.:_.,-'·.,. "../· 
,gOFnews? 
631-5323. 

Planned Parenthood, mysterious baby's death divide town 
Associated Press 
STORM LAKE, Iowa 
In her dozen years as manager of a Planned Parenthood clinic 
in small-town Iowa, Sue Thayer thought she had seen it all ­
pickets, threats and, locked away in a file cabinet, the records of 
women with problems she never imagined. 
But nothing comes close to the furor that has erupted in the 
months since the sheriff demanded to see some of those files in 
hopes of solving the gruesome death of a newborn. 
Planned Parenthood's refusal to turn over the records has 
stirred debate around the country and divided this farm town of 
about 10,000. 
It began in May. with the discovery of a baby boy who had 
been dismembered by machines at the county garbage sorting 
center. Unable to identify the baby or establish the cause of 
death, sheriff's deputies turned to the town's doctors and nurses 
to find out who the mother was. 
Two Storm Lake doctors' offices and the hospital provided 
investigators with the names of expectant mothers who could 
not be accounted for. Yet when deputies showed up with a sub­
poena for the names and addresses of women who had under­
gone pregnancy tests, Planned Parenthood said no. 
The organization, which claims that doing so would violate the 
privacy of the women, appealed to the Iowa Supreme Court. On 
Friday, the high court agreed to hear the case. 
"For many women, it's the most personal test they've ever had 
done," Thayer said. "They come in expecting the information 
will stay here. Some women even use the back door. Some don't 
use their real names." 
Buena Vista County Attorney Phil Havens said patients at the 
clinic cannot expect total privacy because in most cases, they do 
not see a doctor or even a nurse. 
As for any inconvenience caused by the opening of the records, 
'Tm sorry for that. I apologize," Havens said. "J,3ut a human 
being was thrown into the garbage and shredded and I think 
that crime was important enough to society to at least attempt to 
find out who did it." 
The case has been the talk of Storm Lake's cafes and the edito­
rial pages of the local papers. 
"I am not ashamed, nor am I embarrassed to admit that I have 
gone to Planned Parenthood," one teen wrote in a signed letter 
to the editor. Another, the daughter of a sheriffs deputy ­
argued that such issues shouldn't be discussed "with a law 
enforcement officer knocking at your door." 
"Let's face it. It's a small town we live in. People talk," she 
wrote. 
That is exactly why the records should be protected, Karen Hixon said as she ate lunch at the coffee shop across from the courthouse. 
"It isn't fair to those people who went in confidence," she said. "Just the idea that you can have someone come up and say, 'I heard you were pregnant,' is awful." 
"But if it were my granddaughter, I'd want to know about it and I'd want her punished," Sandra Morris said as she arranged flowers at the grocery store. 
The issue is clouded by anger over Planned Parenthood's very presence here, said Dana Larsen, editor of the Storm Lake Pilot Tribune. 
The clinic, which serves six counties, does not perform abor­tions. But that distinction is difficult for many to make in this conservative, mostly Christian community where hand-painted signs reading "You Know Abortion Is Wrong" rise out of corn­fields. Thayer, a churchgoing Methodist, said she has been called a "baby-killer" more than once. 
"I think people have forgotten what they were arguing about in the first place," Larsen said. "There's really nobody around talking about the baby or how to keep this from happening again." 
The uproar has surprised Sheriff Chuck Eddy, who said he half-expected Storm Lake's new mothers to hold their infants up to the window outside his office to prove they were not to blame. 
Sheriffs deputies trying to find the mother have inquired at schools and churches and ran DNA tests on a few women who were thought to have been pregnant. They have also looked for households using the same garbage bags the baby was found in, with no luck. The sheriff said he has run out of leads. 
The high court is not scheduled to hear arguments until December. Even then, the records may not help. The baby's mother could have been from out of state. She could have used a false name. Or she might never have gotten a pregnan­cy test or any other care; she might not have even known she was pregnant. 
At Phnned Parenthood, Thayer said the risk of finding a neighbor or a daughter on the list is too great in a town this size. After all, her own brother-in-law was the one who dis­covered the baby in the first place. And she said she has already seen a significant drop~off in the number of women coming in for pregnancy tests, usually about 75 to 100 a month. 
In her cramped office at Planned Parenthood, Thayer pulled out a foot-thick stack of newspaper clippings and letters about the uproar. A few letters includ~d threats. Thayer said she has also izotten sidelong glances at the grocery store. 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS 
U-WIRE 

Watchdog ranks U.S. among the least corrupt nations 
By Lauren Rcinlie 
Daily Texan 
An international watchdog group released its 2002 Corruption Perception Index of 102 countries Wednesday, showing that corruption is perceived as rampant in parts of Africa. South America and former mem­bers of the Soviet Union. 
The United States ranked as the 16th least corrupted, just ahead of No. 17, Chile, in the poll conducted by Transparency International. 
Bangladesh is rated the most corrupt, followed by Nigeria, Paraguay, Madagascar, Angola and Kenya. The least corrupt countries are Finland, Denmark, New Zealand, Iceland. Singapore, Sweden and Canada. 
Seven out of every 10 coun­tries scored below five out of a perfect score of 10. 

Some countries slipped down in the poll since last year's index. Argentina, for example, dropped from 57th in 2001 to 70th in this year's poll. 
"In the past year, we have seen setbacks to the credibili­ty of democratic rule," said Transparency International chairman Peter Eigen in a written statement. "In parts of South America, the graft and misrule of political elites have drained confidence in the democratic structures that emerged after the end of military rule." 
The Corruption Perceptions Index is a survey of polls taken between 2000 and 2002 from nine independent institutions, reflecting the perceptions of business peo­ple and country analysts, both resident and non-resi­dent. 
Nancy Boswell, 
Transparency International al problem, and that building managing director. said the trust will help eliminate cor­poll aims to air international ruption. corruption problems and "If you don't have trust in incite policy changes to crack political institutions. and you down on corruption. don't have trust in business 
"[The poll] serves to inspire institutions, you're not going countries to have trust to look at in . each
"If you don't have trust in
what they other," Camp are doing political institutions, and said. "It 
-to take you don't have trust in becomes self­
it seriously perpetuating."
business institutions 
and try to John Higley, 
come to you·re not going to have a University of terms with trust in each other. ., Texas-Austin 
what they government need to do professor, to improve Roderic Camp said distrust their rat­Claremont McKenna College and insecurity i n g . government professor le ad to cor­
Boswell ruption. He s a i d . attributes the Roderic level of cor­Camp, a ruption in the Claremont McKenna College United States in part to a government professor, said "scandalous" campaign corruption is a societal prob­finance system. lem, as well as an institution-"It's time to get serious and have public finance of cam­paigns that other democra­cies have," Higley said. 
The poll shows that corrup­tion is not linked to certain cultural traits. but is spread throughout many different regions. 
"A lot of people say that it's in the culture, but countries from every region are at the bottom and countries from every region are at the top [of the poll]." Boswell said. "There are no cultural barri­ers to fighting corruption." 
Mexico is rated 57th, despite dramatic steps_to eliminate corruption by the Fox administration in the past year. 
"It takes time to change perceptions," Boswell said. "The new administration in Mexico has taken tremendous steps to change -but it takes time. You may not see a change in score as quickly as you like." 


Students: Do you want to 
TAILGATE 
on Football Saturdays? All Notre Dame students can host tailgate parties in the Blue Field South (radio tower lot) but ONLY if they apply first. To REGISTER, follow these steps: 
1) Visit www.nd.edu/~tailgate 
2) Read the policies and procedures on the website 
3) Complete the Online Application form each week between 8AM Monday and 6AM Thursday 
4) Pick up your tailgating hang tag at Student Activities in 303 Lafortune on Friday between 1 0AM and 3PM 

Important things to note: 
• 
ANY student can host a tailgate but ONLY those students who are 21 years old may host a tailgate where alcohol is present 

• 
Up to 4 students can host a tailgate together but all must sign acknowledgement forms on Friday in the Student Activities Office 

• 
Students must abide by Indiana State Law and University Policies at tailgate parties. University, state & local police will enforce these rules 


For additional information: read the FAQ at www.nd.edu/~tailgate, e-mail tailgate@nd.edu, or call Student Government at 1-7668 
Ad Sponsored by Student Government 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Organ recipient dies of West Nile 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA 
Government health officials 
confirmed Tuesday that the 
recipient of a donated organ 
died of the West Nile virus, rais­
ing concern it can spread 
through blood transfusions and 
other medical procedures. 
Federal officials said they were 
speeding development of a West 
Nile blood test. 
Until now, the virus had been 
thought to be transmitted to peo­
ple only through the bite of an 
infected mosquito. 
Officials at the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention 
said the victim died in Atlanta 
after receiving an organ from a 
Georgia woman who died last 
month in a car accident. 
Three other people also received organs from the woman. The CDC said two of them have the virus and have developed encephalitis, an inflammation of the brain. West Nile has not been confirmed in the third person, who is recover­ing from a milder infection. 
Health officials said the organ recipients could have contracted the virus from mosquitoes, but it is unlikely. The cases are believed to be the first West Nile infections from a medical proce­dure, raising questions about whether the nation's blood sup­ply is safe. 
No blood test exists to detect the virus. even in people who show symptoms. Instead, patients are diagnosed based on their immune response to the virus, which takes about 15 days. 
Coming up with a quick blood test is a priority, said Dr. Lester Crawford, acting commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, which regulates the nation's blood supply. 

"We are discussing with the secretary possible strategies to stimulate the development of these tests," Crawford said before meeting with Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson. 
It may be impossible to find out where the Georgia woman contracted West Nile, since she could have been bitten by a mos­quito or gotten the virus from a blood transfusion. The CDC said she received blood parts from at least 60 people. 
Even if a test is developed, health officials said they were skeptical that all blood would be tested for such a rare disease. 
"0 n the list 
0 f "We don't even know for sure turned awaythings 
whether it's possible to if they've
I'd be recently had
transmit West Nile through 
worried malaria or 
about transfusion or organ visited an going donation.,. area where 
wrong the disease in a ·common. 
blood Dr. Jay Epstein C D C transfu­FDA official for regulating blood products Director Dr. 
Bachat:a • Sa-.nba 
The news came as six new probable West Nile deaths were reported in three states: Tennessee, Illinois and Kentucky. A seventh probable death was reported Monday in New York City. 
If confirmed by the CDC, the deaths would bring this year's toll to at least 37. 
Mosquito-borne diseases simi­lar to West Nile have been pre­sent in the United States for cen­turies, but doctors know of no cases where those diseases, such as St. Louis encephalitis. were spread through medical proce­dures. The CDC has documented cases where malaria was spread through blood donations, but donors already are 
sion. West Nile's way down at the bottom," said Dr. Louis Katz, president­elect of America's Blood Centers, an association of independent community blood centers. 
Many health officials say a practical screening test is months, maybe years, away, and the risk of catching West Nile through a blood transfusion is so remote some doctors wonder if it's worth screening for at all. 
"We're getting way, way ahead of ourselves. We don't even know for sure whether it's possible to transmit West Nile through transfusion or organ donation," said Dr. Jay Epstein, the FDA's top official for regulat­ing blood products. 
J u l i e 

Gerberding said the risks of forgoing a blood transfusion would be greater than the risks of contracting West Nile. 
"We can't guarantee the risk is zero," she said. "It's still as safe as it can be." 
Screeners are already told to reject donors who appear sick, which would eliminate the most serious West Nile carriers. Most people bitten by an infected bug never feel sick and wouldn't know not to give blood, Katz said, but those people are proba­bly not carrying enough of the virus to pass it to anyone else. 
Donated blood is currently tested at least 11 times for vari­ous diseases, including HIV and 
two kinds of hepatitis. 
Former anthrax researcher loses job 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Dr. Steven Hatfill, who says 
the federal government has 
ruined his life by linking him to 
the anthrax investigation, was 
fired Tuesday from his job as a 
researcher at Louisiana State 
University. 
Hatfill was hired by LSU's National Center for Biomedical Research and Training in July and put on administrative leave with pay on Aug. 2. 
"The university is making no judgment as to Hatfill's guilt or innocence regarding the FBI investigation," said Chancellor Mark Emmert in a brief state­ment released by the university on Tuesday. 
"Our ultimate concerns are the ability of the university to fulfill its role and mission as a land-grant university," he said. "In considering all of these objectives, I have concluded that it is clearly in the 
best interest "My life has been completely Infectious of LSU to and utterly destroyed by Diseases in 
terminate Maryland,
John Ashcroft and the FBI. I
this relation­which is the 
ship." do not understand why they primary P a t are doing this to me.,. custodian of 
Clawson, a the virulent spokesman Ames strain 
Steven Hatfill 
for Hatfill, of anthrax said the uni­fonner researcher found in versity called at Louisiana State University last fall's 
Hatfill's attorneys Tuesday afternoon and told him of their decision to fire him. No explanation was given. 
In a statement, Hatfill blamed the FBI's investigation for his firing. 
"My life has been completely and utterly destroyed by (Attorney General) John Ashcroft and the FBI," Hatfill said. "I do not understand why they are doing this to me. My professional reputation is in tat­ters. All I have left are my sav­ings and they will be exhausted soon because of my legal bills." 
Five people were killed by 
anthrax-laced letters sent 
through the mail last fall. 
The FBI has identified Hatfill as "person of interest" in its investigation but no more or less important than about 30 fellow scientists and researchers with the expertise and opportunity to conduct the attacks. 
However. Hatfill has been treated differently. FBI and Postal Service agents wearing protective gloves searched his apartment in Frederick, Md., twice, the second time with a search warrant. And his photo was the only one circulated last month in the Princeton. N.J., neighborhood where investiga­tors believe the anthrax letters may have been sent. 
Hatfill appeared at two news conferences in the last month to denounce the FBl's investiga­tion. 
Hatfill, 48, worked until 1999 for Fort Detrick's Army Medical 
Research 
Institute of 
deadly let­
ters. 
Hatfill and another scientist, Joseph Soukup, commissioned a study of a hypothetical anthrax attack in February 1999 as employees of defense contractor Science Applications International Corp., said Ben Haddad, spokesman for the San Diego-based company. 
Before he worked there, Hatfill spent about 15 years in southern Africa, where he earned a string of academic degrees but disturbed col­leagues with his right-wing rhetoric and exaggerated sto­ries about his military career. 


Friday Sept. 6 
2002 
7:30 p.m. 
Moreau Center for the Arts 
Little Theatre 
Indiana Folk Singe~ 
,..,...,,,.....0 

1M8_ttf.,f.R­
~,.0T111! DA.., I# 
For ticket information call {5 7 4)284-4626 

THE 
OBSERVER 


Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
page 16 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nacre Dame:, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWs.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISrRAT0RS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.nd.tdu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mruy's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Obse1Ver reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsm;erpolicil!S should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob><M:r (USPS 59';1 2-4000) is publi>bcd Monday ,hrough Friday cxccp< during a.&m and va:.at.,n periods.. A 1ub,uiprion co The Ob1erv~r i.i $JOO for one acadcmlt.'. 
year; SSS fut 01'1(' 'C'ffl('StCf. 
lnc Ob1ervc1 11. publiihed .ar: POSTMASTER 
024 South Uining Hall Send addrcn oornxrion, co: 
Not1< Dm1e. IN 46556-0779 The oi...,.., rc:riodical posragc-p.i.id ar No1rc Dame P.O. Box Q 
.and additk.Jnal mailing offi«a. 021 South Dining Hall 
Norte Dome. IN 46556-0779 

'· l'"hr Obw:rvcr l1 i, member of Ebe Allociact:d Prc:a. All ttprodoction rig.ha are rekl"n·J.. 

Everyday, we walk into stores, restaurants and even our dining halls, going about our business with our friends. 
We live life without any realization of the people behind the 
Paul Graham
scenes who serve us. We have been raised and served all of our Another lives by people, Perspective from educators to doctors to cooks; we have been raised in com­munities, not in isolation. We have a responsibility, whether we acknowl­edge it or not, to recognize our role in the community, in its development and in loving our neighbors. 
Yet we have been trained not to love our neighbor and not to chal­lenge the status quo, but instead to be individuals in a society where only the strong survive. 
The people serving us are part of a structure in which it is difficult, if not impossible, to make a comfortable life as a person holding a blue-collar job. Born with advantages or disadvan­tages (political, economic or racial). as humans we are called to recognize people as people, and not as employ­ees, cooks, servants or means to a profit. We have become part of a vicious system in which individuals neglect those who serve them, creat­ing a stigma such that their value and worth is less than ours. 
We are not meant to live life in such a way that we let people suffer because of systematic or structural problems; however, our system is deeply rooted in the idea that people are nothing more than a means to an end, cogs in the profit-making machine. Instead of debating and analyzing our current system, we blow our structural problems away with a simple "such is life" and go on overwhelmed, never pondering the possibility of social change. 
Consider our economy. The eco­nomic disparity between the rich and the poor is as large as it has been in decades. Research done by the Economic Policy Institute indicates that in the year 2000, 25 percent of all who worked earn less than pover­ty wages (this figure takes into account different family sizes). 
The victims of our system are not alone in their struggles, and they are becoming more numerous as this seg­ment of the work force grows. Our poor and working class neighbors struggle to make ends meet, while the typical Notre Dame student lives her or his life in comfort. Those who serve us have no voice because our economy and politics are dominated by money -something that the aver­age American generally lacks. 
For real, lasting structural change, we must organize and show our sup­port for and solidarity with those who are struggling everywhere, even here on campus. When we act as individu­als, we have little impact on the sys­tem. ·when we organize, we have a new power that can challenge the dominating structures that keep the system in place. When organized, we can affect positive change in our com­munities by creating a new power framework -one that puts value and worth in people, not in private capi­tal. 
As impossible or idealistic as this may seem, community and worker organizations have created some of the most powerful changes in our sys­tem. The 40-hour work week, worker compensation and benefits, Civil Rights. the 8-hour work day, rights for disabled people and more have all come about as a result of organizing. What we often take for granted (or are taught that a good president initi­ated) came about when people orga­nized and challenged our government and structure. 
Students have led the charge for social and structural change for many years. For example, students at Harvard were a crucial element in fighting for a Living Wage for their campus workers. Students all across the country put pressure on New Era Cap Company to recognize a union contract and not move a factory in search of cheaper labor. Students were also a vital element in the strug­gle for Civil Rights. Recently, here at Notre Dame, students were a funda­mental aspect in convincing the administration to join the Workers' Rights Consortium. 
When workers and students orga­nize, we are no longer powerless against a system that wants us to believe "life's tough." Instead, we force the structure to change so that the economy serves people, and not the other way around. As individuals, it becomes easy to believe that we are the only ones struggling or to believe that struggling is just a part of life. Life is not meant to be a struggle; it is about enjoying the world, life and the gifts that God has given us. 
When our economic and political structure causes stress, pain and depression, it robs people of the gift of life. As long as there are poor among us, we must always be willing to work for social justice. We need to recognize our solidarity with others and realize that we have a responsi­bility to people everywhere and to the communities to which we belong. 
Paul Graham is a senior sociology major with a minor in Catholic social tradition. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Meghanne Katie McVoy Downes Bryan Kronk Courtney Boyle Scene John Fanning C. Spencer Beggs Viewpoint Lab Tech Sheila Flynn Lisa Velte Graphics Katie McKenna 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you feel safe in South Bend? Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nowadays most people die ofa sort of creeping common sense. and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistakes.,. 
Oscar Wilde novelist 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
page 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

FlipSide facts revealed 
Let's just say this right from the start: FlipSide is for drinkers and non-drinkers alike. Now that we've got that essential point estab­lished, I can elaborate on it. 
I was reading Friday's article about "The Show" and was angered to see the offset quote: "We didn't want [the stigma ofthe FlipSide name] going into this." 
But I laughed when Mr. Adams ironically con­tinued his comment by spouting out the FlipSide mission statement: "We wanted everyone to know that it is for both drinkers and non­drinkers. It's just an opportunity for people to see George Clinton." 
Granted, we can't secure a performance by George Clinton every weekend; we simply don't have the budget. But the other part of the com­ment is what we've been working to tell people for some time now: we, too are for both non­drinkers and drinkers, and we just want people to have fun. 
"But aren't FlipSide events non-alcoholic?" you ask-and yes, they are. But don't confuse a "non-alcoholic event" with "non-drinkers only." We have absolutely nothing against people who make the decision to drink -that's a personal decision and not ours to judge. We ask that you don't come to our events intoxicated, but is that really so much for one evening? 
FlipSide can be an awesome resource: it's inexpensive, we provide free transportation to places in South Bend where fun exists, you can go with a large group offriends and you can take a night off from partying if that's what you want to do. 
If you love to party every night of every week­end, I say more power to you. I wish I had that much stamina. Personally, I like to take a night off every once in awhile to get off campus and out of the bubble and really get to visit with my friends rather than being one of 45 people crammed into a space built for three. Maybe that's just me. 
The reason FlipSide continues to have the "we think alcohol is bad" stigma is because people perpetuate it with no idea about who we are and what we do. If you have questions, ask; we're happy to answer them. 
And don't be afraid to come to a FlipSide event that looks fun just because you went out the night before. I'll tell you that I spent Thursday evening at a bar with some friends (and for those of you from ResLlfe who may be reading this, I am 21). But when that snow tubing trip comes up, or the haunted house trip or the cheap night of bowling are available, I'll be one ofthe first people in line -because it's fun, and FlipSide will take me no matter how I spent the night before. 
Erin Corbally senior Breen-Phillips Hall Aug. 30 


Off-campus outreach is a step in the right direction 
The Aug. 30 editorial titled "Life outside the bubble draws students into danger" continues to prove what I learned at Notre Dame some 11 years ago as an undergraduate: that Notre Dame students are woefully sheltered from the reali­ties of urban life. 
In 1991, I moved off campus, seeking a taste of indepen­dence and self-reliance. I moved into a decaying Northeast Neighborhood that was in much better shape my freshman year than my senior year. 
Two housemates were assaulted by neighborhood youths in our kitchen, and our landlord actually policed our parties with a revolver. It may not have been safe, but it certainly wasn't the exclusive, all-white suburbs that a majority of Domers call home. Even for a guy who grew up in a town similar to the Northeast Neighborhood, I found it to be a rude learning experience. 
I felt that the University's hands-off policy on off-campus life was one of indifference to our plight and the plight of the Northeast Neighborhood. As South Bend's largest employer, I found Notre Dame's attitude to border on being un-Christian. 
Eleven years later, it appears that the University has made some positive steps toward helping the student resi­dents and the year-round residents of the Northeast Neighborhood. Encouraging faculty and graduate students to live in the neighborhood and providing positive opportu­nities for the residents are two encouraging steps to help the Northeast Neighborhood get back on its feet. 
No, the Northeast Neighborhood will never be as safe or affluent as an Evanston or Winnetka. But thanks in part to a more thoughtful and forward-thinking Notre Dame, it's come a long way since the fall cf 1991. 
Jeff Jotz 
class of 1992 
Rahway, N.J. 
Sepe. 3 
Holidays show administration's hypocrisy 
Don't get me wrong. I love our school. I even think that for the most part, the administration is pretty competent. However, as I got up for class on Labor Day, I couldn't help but be slightly agitated by the fact that no one in our presti­gious administration was doing the same. 
It sort of reminded me of how I felt getting up for class on the first day of summer school, Memorial Day, when we were unable to enroll because the Registrar was on holiday. And I guess I was pretty annoyed, too, attending both class and lab on the 4th of July, and going home that night to study for an exam on the 5th. 
I don't mean to say that it's someone else's fault I failed physics the first time and had to be in summer school in the first place, or even that holding class on a national holiday is all that outrageous of an idea. It just seems hypocritical to me that the big cheeses in our administration go ahead and take off on holiday while the students, professors and Dining Hall, LaFortune, Reckers, maintenance and custodial work­ers keep doing their jobs. 
Steve Kelly 
senior Dillon Hall Sept. 2 
New dance guidelines offer new opportun1t1es 
With great enthusiasm, I read Andrew 
Thagard's Aug. 31 Inside Column on the state of the hall dance, now an exclusively out-of­dorm phenomenon. Though Mr. Thagard 
views the list of potential campus 
dance locations as a joke, per­
haps viewing them as a call to 
arms might be more appro­
priate. I was fortunate enough to be a hall manager during Reunion 2001, where I hosted the class of 1951, the celebrated 50-year class. As their week­end drew to a close, the men opened up to me a bit and showed me their senior yearbook, with a long photo spread of a spring dance in the Rock. The ladies wore dresses stuffed with crinoline and some men had white dinner jackets; mostly, they oozed class. There were pic­tures showing couples sit­ting outside on the roof, feeling a cool spring breeze and letting their hair get blown up in it. I looked into their young eyes on the page, and then looked up into those same eyes, 50 years older, misting up a bit, caught in a cloud of memories. 
It is true that the Rock is not what it once 
was. It is true that the Rock smells like sweat 
and old socks. So do boys' dorms, and I 
remember having an awfully good time at lots of dances in those dorms. Squeezing 100 people into a tiny room is silly, too, but we've all done it, and in 50 years I am willing to bet we might mist up a bit at the memories. The fun of being at Notre Dame is doing things a bit differently than you ever will do things again. The adminis­tration has altered campus practice a lit­tle, but now is an opportunity to create new practices and even rekindle some old ones. Find a 1951 "Dome" and live up to the class of 1951. You only get four years at Notre Dame, so make it worth your time and have fun. Places are important, but more important are the people inside them, and the great thing about great people is that they can fit almost anywhere. 
Katie Wild class of 200 I Sepe. I 
THE 
OBSERVER 


0 lo~esday,September 4, 2002 
page 18 



The mysteries ofMP3 explained and an introductic 

about 1:10. movies. This means that ByC. SPENCER BEGGS the owner of a copyright­Scene Editor How can I make an MP3? ed material may use the Most computers made within the last material under certain What exactly is MP3? four years can encode MP3s. restrictions. For exam­MP3 stands for MPEG Audio Layer Computers use programs called rip­ple. recording your 
III. MPEG stands for "Moving Pictures pers to encode MP3s. A number of favorite song to a tape Experts Group" and is a standardized commercial and shareware programs for personal use is con­format computers use to encode an work as rippers. Almost all rippers sidered fair under the electronic signal that represents a produce the same quality of MP3s law. Duplicating a CD to video image or audio track. Unlike assuming they rip at the same bitrate. sell, however, violates, televisions that use a constant signal The major difference between compet­the producer's copy­to translate an electrical current into ing programs is mostly cosmetic. rights. an image or sound, computers have to The advent of peer-to­store the information ahead of time. How can I play an MP3? peer file sharing chal-
Unfortunately, MP3s are digital .lenged the idea of what the amount of elec• information so was and was not fair use. tronic information they need a com­After almost two years of that describes a puter to play litigation, the final video or audio sig­"[Findlt] is no different them back. answer seems to be as it 
n a I takes up a Commercial and always was: It is legal to
than a service like Google 
large amount of shareware pro­use MP3s for personal space on a hard search, itjustindexes grams such as use only: This means that drive. Fortunately, what's out there and it's up Winamp, iTunes a user may duplicate a a lot of that space or Musicmatch song off a CD and use it
to users to protect the 
is unnecessary or Jukebox offer a on his or her computer
copyright laws...
overly complicated. full range of MP3 or portable MP3 device. For example, one organizing and However, distributing
Allan Cooke

frame of a movie is playback services. copies is not legal. not that different Findlt founder Many people have Liability is a different than the frame the given up on con• issue. If one puts his or comes right before ventional stereo her MP3s in an area that it, so instead of equipment and is accessible to the pub­describing each have begun using lic, he or she may still be frame computers can describe what is computers for all their home audio liable for violating copy­different in each frame. needs. rights. but most colleges either completely 
There are a many different types of restrict or severely limit the access encoding, for example compressing a Are MP3s legal? Where can I get MP3s? their network has to the servers. simple document may just take the MP3s are, indeed, legal in and of Besides producing MP3s on a per­While peer-to-peer powerhouses like spaces out of the text. MP3 encoding themselves. Works of art are protected sonal computer, getting MP3s from the Napster and Audiogalaxy have been runs the information through an algo­by copyright laws. But, there are two Internet is getting harder as commer­legally strong-armed into submission, rithm that compresses files at a ratio separate copyrights on every song; one cial file sharing services such as a number of independent file-sharing of about 1:12. protects the lyrics and music on paper Napster and Audiogalaxy have one by services have been springing up, 
The bitrate (amount of information and is generally owned by the artist, one closed down. including Notre Dame's own Findlt. per second) an MP3 is encoded at the other is a copyright of the perfor­Some Web sites and services have Findit was brought to Notre Dame by determines its quality. Generally mance of the song and is generally begun to offer pay-per-download ser­junior engineering major Allan Cooke. speaking an MP3 encoded at a bitrate owned by the record company that vices, but all have too slim of a selec­The program was created at the of 128 has effectively no quality loss produced the CD. US laws provides for tion to attract many users. University of Iowa. While visiting and compresses files at a ratio of fair use of works like music and A number of free services still exist, Cooke thought the idea was worth-



The rise and 
1972 

Copyright laws extend limited cov­erage to audio recordings. May 1999 
Shawn Fanning starts Napster. The 

1992 F~
Northeastern University freshman 

.JJIPEG-1 and MPEG Audio Layer Ill .. :.,.,::,~:::,~~~,m=,,,t.,... named the peer-to-peer file sharing pro­·reated. 
gram after the '70s hairstyle. 
;1a'\:r:::r,,:::<;::• .:-:=<•>:::::::::,::<-: .t@
1 

1978 ~I 
Clinl&tl:.;·igb~·i;.ugiial Millennium

Copyright terfrts~"extended to life of 
Copydgnt,:1Aet1'ffrovides first compre­

author plus 50 years. 
hensive Internet anti-piracy laws. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
page 19 



-


USIC 
>n to Notre Dames premiere file service Findlt 
query the server and retreive directions on 
how to retrieve the files 
·· Sliillill~ffiUll«56~ffii'ifif~ffi~f IC,· 
'' 

in the form of a hyper­link. Findlt indexes all 
•·· ·Fr!rc~t~~~~~:.e~0J::1iir:t;~~ie~~':il1ktrn~1i:t~~~k~~i~~r:t••~···•·····•····.

types of files including 
central database. .·. · · · · 

music, images, docu­ments and movies. 
Currently, FindIt has 285 gigabytes of infor­mation shared on 400 computers on its list, but only 70 are searchable. Instructions on how to share files are online. To get to Findlt type "findit" in the address bar of a Web browser, nothing else. You must be on the Notre Dame network to use this ser­vice. 
When Cooke first 
2. The server checks its index and 

launched Findlt in the 
gives directions to the proper file

middle of last semester, he discussed the legal ramifications with 
II~ 

Assistant Vice President 
...........................-.................... 

of Residence Life Bill 
3. Napster database says, Kirk. Due to the nature "Computer A has a song" r•m=h··. 
/ ••v.,,,,...,._..,.,... { <Adi§!·!!$:"•~

of Findlt's capabilities 
._. ·.-' ', __ .../ ~ii

Kirk felt it was accept­able to have on the net­
work. 
lli-·ilL··········WI 

Cooke sees Findlt as 
..... ...--~=,., 

being an asset for col­\........•···1;Jil
3. The user's computer then

while and brought the system, origi­
lege students. connects directly to the computer 
nally name Strange Search, to the 
"People are going to get it anyways, to download the file . 4. The user downloads the song
University. 
most of the things I used are just to 
i directly from Computer A
Unlike it commercial brethren, 
see if I like it. If I like, I'll go out and
FindIt doesn't provide database access :
buy it. Most college kids are too poor
to files, but merely indexes shared !
to buys stuff anyway, it's a good way
components and their locations. ~ 
to check it out before you buy it,"
"(Findit] is no different than a ser­Cooke said. 
¦1fil ¦I

vice like Google search. it just indexes 
what's out there and it's up to users to 
protect the copyright laws," Cooke 
said. 
.• E::11·11.. ¦I ••,L

Findlt indexes all the shared vol­Contact C. Spencer Beggs at umes it knows about once a day. Users beggs.3@nd.edu 
fall of Napster 
~. .·~:;·•·•:,.::,•··,·,:::.•.•.,..::,:c,·•··1·, 
,rf/"

December 1999 . . ·\@;<. .... ,.. ..=:@:: Major record labels file suit ag'~U~~-,.Nagi,r alleging that the company knowrn=gty-J:::#=tt-~·· encouraged illegal copying and distribution of copyrighted music. 
February 2001 
The 9th District Court of Appeals finds that Napster knowingly encouraged users to trade illegal copies of music. The music Web 
. ....,.............,..........,.. site shuts down. 
r~
:: 
Wt, ..,.· . .· . ,.:jf1t 
Octob4A*~OOO .··Wt 
Bertels'rtfa~:::~~~i~Jilfecord labe_l involved in the···tawsuit, drops its charges and announces that it will launch a pay service with Napster. 
compiled by C. Spencer Beggs 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Myette ejected after throwing two pitches 
doing what I've been doing." McDonald to bounce out to sec­Sanchez helped the Yankees Blue Jays, who have lost two 
Associated Press score twice more in the first. straight after winning three of
Detroit won for the first time ond to end the inning. 
four from the New York

in six games and snapped a "A couple of times, he got That was enough for BALTIMORE nine-game home losing streak. into jams," Pujols said. "But Clemens. He allowed one Yankees. 
Joaquin Benoit earned a Van Hekken was the first same as last year, he made the earned run and four hits in 7 Before the game. the Blue piece of baseball history, American League pitcher to pitch to get out of it." 1/3 innings against the team he Jays gave manager Carlos though not the way he pre­debut with a complete game started his brilliant career with Tosca and his staff two-year ferred. shutout since the Oakland A's before leaving as a free agent contract extensions. 
Yankees 4, Red Sox 2 
Jerry Hairston hit a leadoff Mike Norris on April 10, 1975, folio.wing the 1996 season. Jon Rauch {1-1) pitched two
Joe Torre walked up to Roger 
innings for his first major

triple in the ninth inning, ruin­and the first Tigers pitcher to 
Clemens about an hour before 
league win. Rauch gave up aing Benoit's bid to complete a do since April 15, 1933, when the game and delivered a mes­White Sox 5, Blue Jays 4 

two-run homer to Phelps in thecombined no-hitter, but the Schoolboy Rowe shut out the sage: "We need you today." Jose Valentin seems deter­

Texas Rangers handed the Chicago White Sox 3-0, accord­Clemens responded in style, mined to help Chicago finish sixth that tied the game at 4­
all.

Baltimore Orioles their 10th ing to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
striking out 10 in his 292nd with a winning record. 
straight loss, 7-1 Tuesday Van Hekken (1-0), a native of career victory as the New York Valentin's second homer of 
Angels :LO, Devils Rays 2

night. Holland, Mich., on the state's Yankees strengthened their the game broke a tie in the sev­Jarrod Washburn overcameRangers starter Aaron Myette west side, struck out one and grip on the AL East with a win enth inning as the White Sox control problems to become the was ejected after throwing two f walked two as he pitched in over the Boston Red Sox. won a season-high seventh Angels' first 16-game winner in pitches, and Todd Van Poppel front of more than 100 family "I heard him loud and clear," straight, over the Toronto Blue nine years. 
followed with two sharp and friends. Clemens said. "When your Jays. 
Washburn (16-5) allowed two

innings. "Those people were going to skipper mentions that, it's nice "I don't think we have a 
over five

Benoit then extended the no­shoot me if I took him out," runs and six hits 
when you can come through." chance to make the playoffs, innings, and Orlando Palmeirohitter through the eighth before Tigers' manager Luis Pujols Clemens said his manager but right now we are only two 
drove in a career-high four

allowing the Orioles' lone hit. said. 
gives him a similar message a games from .500 and that's 
runs as Anaheim beat the

"I really didn't think about it. Last season, the 23-year-old 
couple of what we 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 

If it's going to happen, it's lefty won all five of his deci­want,"
times a year, 
The last time an Angels pitch­going to happen, whatever," sions for Pujols, his manager at 

usually Valentin said.
"/ don't care how good er won 16 games in a season

the rookie said. Double-A Erie. " Hope fully ,
before a big was when
1993, Mark

Benoit had to be content with "When you 're a winner. postseason your team is. there's we can finish 
Langston and Chuck Finley

setting a major league record you're a winner," the Detroit with a
game. always a little uneasy win­
accomplished the feat. 

for the longest outing resulting manager said. "I haven't seen 
But with ning record.
feeling when you lose a Washburn .struck out six andin a save -seven innings. The him lose yet." 

the Yankees Let's finish on walked three during his 100­
previous record was six, by "He threw a fastball on the having lost couple ofgames in a a positive and
.. 
pitch outing. The Angels (83­Horatio Pina of the Rangers in outside corner," Cleveland 

row.

three straight see what hap-54) are 29 games over .500 for 1972. Saves were first kept as a manager Joel Skinner said. "He 
and their pens next 
the first time in franchise histo­

stat in 1969. just kind of moved everything 
biggest rivals year." ry.
Benoit struck out four, around." Joe Torre 
Valentin

in town, this "We won, so it went all
walked none and hit two bat­Terry Mulholland (2-1} Yankees manager
game war­also broke a 
right," Washburn said.

ters to earn his first big league allowed three earned runs on 
ranted spe­2-all tie in the "Anytime we can pull out a win save. But it's Hairston's hit that 11 hits in seven-plus innings, cial attention. fifth off when I'm that bad, it's a posi­he will remember the most. striking out five in his first start 
"We hadn't lost three in a Esteban Loaiza (7-8) and gave tive. I missed the middle of the On a 1-2 count, Hairston hit a since Oct. 2. He was acquired row for a while," Torre said. "I Chicago the lead for good in the plate a lot and gave up a fewsinking liner that dropped in from Los Angeles in a July 28 don't care how good your team seventh off Loaiza with his 21st hits I shouldn't have given up. I
front of sliding right fielder 

trade. is, there's always that little horner. Both were solo shots. think it's a little mechanical.,11
Carl Everett and rolled to the Detroit took a 2-0 lead in the uneasy feeling when you lose a Paul Konerko also homered flaw I'm going to have to trywall. 

second inning on Craig couple of games in a row." for the White Sox, whose streak and figure out." "I just wanted to have a good Paquette's double to right-cen­The win increased the is their longest since an eight­Washburn snapped a three­
at-bat -put the ball in play, ter and a double-play grounder Yankees' lead in the division to game run June 12-20, 2000. game winless streak, whichand hopefully it finds land," by Ramon Santiago. 

7112 games over Boston with "We are pretty much playing included two losses.
Hairston said. 

The Tigers added a run on one meeting left. with young kids. It would be a "His command was off,"Chris Richard followed with 
Robert Fick's RBI triple in the The Red Sox dropped 51/2 positive to finish the season Angels manager Mike Sciosciaan RBI groundout. third, and made it 4-0 in the behind Anaheim in the wild­strong with the young kids," 
said. "I think physically he's fourth when third baseman card race. Valentin said. "The last two OK. He's had to work his last 
Tigers 4, Indians 0 Greg LaRocca's throwing error "We can't worry about that," years we tried to add some couple of starts. He's main­Andy Van Hekken didn't feel allowed Paquette to score after manager Grady Little said. "We players with experfence and we tained his velocity and he's nervous at all before his major an infield single by Hiram have to worry about beating spent a little bit of money and it maintained his stuff. I don't league debut. Bocachica. those guys tomorrow." hasn't been a good two years think there's anything we're 
Van Hekken, who won all five Cleveland threatened in both Clemens (12-5) established for us. concerned about." of his decisions at Triple-A the second and sixth innings, himself from the start against "I think we'll probably go Washburn is 12-2 on the Toledo before he was called up but Van Hekken got double his former team, striking out back to the 2000 season with road, setting a franchise record Monday, pitched an eight-hit plays to get out of both jams, the first four batters and mak­young kids and see if we can for wins away from home in a shutout to lead Detroit past the finishing off a 3-6-1 double ing three first-inning runs play a lot better. Right now season. Cleveland Indians. play in the sixth. stand up. everything is looking pretty "If I knew what I was doing 
"The first batter that got in With two out and runners on Derek Jeter homered off good." on the road, I'd try to do that at there, it was just a ballgame," first and third in the seventh, Frank Castillo (5-13) and a rare Rookie Josh Phelps and Chris home," Washburn said. "I wish Van Hekken said. ··Just kept Van Hekken got John error by second baseman Rey Woodward homered for the I could explain it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

ND family looking for babysitter in Washer/dryer. Excellent condition. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­
'. 
home-Tues. 3-6pm AND/OR $360/pr. 634-4760. RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. 8048 or astrog999@aol.com 
LOST & FOUND Thurs. 5-8pm. Some flex. Great CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. PERSONAL kids, good pay. Call Michelle 233-Land Rover Discovery Series 11.. Needed: Large quantity of Stanford 2921. 1999. Original owner, 45K, excel-tickets for reunion. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
FOUND: Set of small keys between lent condition, loaded. $26,500. not go it alone. If you or someone BP & Farley. Call 4-4225. After school care for two children, (574-233-2104). Please help. 289-8048. you love needs confidential support 
TICKETS 

3PM-5:30PM, Monday thru or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Thursday. Good pay! Call Lisa at Need 2 or 4 GA tix to home games. Louise Gude, CSC, at 1­631-9947 or 277-8564. 276-8507. Call 288-2877 after 5. 7819. For more information, see our
WANTED FOR RENT 
We need Michigan tickets! Call 4-bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 

Room in Home for rent. $400. 2899 or 256-5633. Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich. game. BENCHWARMERS SPORTS Utilities incl. 8 min. to campus. Furn PLS Dis-Charge tomrrow night. All LOUNGE 236 So. Michigan Needs or unfurn. Jacuzzi. Call Donna 255-Wanted: 1 "GA" ticket tor any ND 255-8256. sophomores are expected to bartenders, DJ and promotional 4737. home football game. Call Jim 234· attend. Come to an enlightened
FOR SALE
people. 232-0022. 7228. WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST party. 
Available immediately -Fall semes-PRICES PAID 251-1570 $250 a day potential/bartending. ter only -2 BR cottage five min from For Sale: single football tic for JJ, can you guess what's buried Training provided 1·800-293-3985 91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal, campus. Dave 243-5353. Purdue and Ml. Call 233-3618 after ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST underneath my house? ext. 556 clean, 1-owner, very good condi-6. PRICES 289-9280 
tion. $4200. 277-Furnished rooms for rent in a spa-Hey second library -who's up tor Seeking BABYSITTER for 3 small 0189. cious comfortable home. Includes N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR some serious tailgating Saturday? children in Granger• various kitchen privileges. washer/dryer, check our prices. 273-3911 . SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Oh yeah, that's us! hours/days Refs & car rqrd! Call Large one-bedroom condo for sale. AJC, internet, quiet reading rooms, Laura 243-4776. One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly swimming pool and patio. 2 miles NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED Roomie­
remodeled. Fully equipped. from campus. $330 month. Call GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Guess who called for you. WANTED: Notre Dame vs Michigan $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu Tom at 574-243-4749. YOUR MOM!!! 
tickets Date: Sept. 14, 2002 Need All Notre Dame vs Michigan State Philadelphia-area alum needs one tickets for a special anniversary sur-1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee. All size homes available for 2003-football tickets for sale at 517-351-ticket for U. of Michigan game. Call Girls -Remember, there will prise. Please call John Jacob Excellent Condition $12,000. 631-2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 1992 or go to: John 610-always be disfunction but there will Phone# (814) 893-5701 7829. www.mmmrentals.com www.JamestheTicketman.com 688-1710 also always be The Captain!! 
I~ 
I 'SI 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Mets lose 15th consecutive home game 
Associated Press Brad Wilkerson singled home Francisco Giants, retired after Clement. with the bases loaded and one the winning run in the 10th the '97 season and spent the "He had 104 pitches, but he is out in the sixth inning and inning, and. the Expos turned a next three years as a $1,200-a in great shape and can throw struck out Greg Colbrunn. Left­

NEW YORK 

The New York Mets bungled triple play in a victory over the month pitching coach for 120 pitches," Kimm said. "I hander Jesse Orosco fanned their way to a National League Philadelphia Phillies. Montreal's affiliate in his native didn't want him to go over 105 Erubiel Durazo to escape the record 15th consecutive loss at "\Ve got some good pitching in Dominican Republic. because it is a long season, but I jam. 
the end and a couple of clutch He sat out most of last season, thought he handled everything
home. 
hits and we endured probably too, beginning his comeback in pretty good." 
Preston Wilson hit a tying Astros 6, Padres 2 
the ugliest triple play I've ever earnest when he signed with the Lenny Harris drove in the
horner in the ninth and Juan Roy Oswalt's biggest pitch of 
seen, but it was beautiful to my Pirates in January. Brewers' only run on a fielder's
Encarnacion had an RBI double the night came courtesy of a
eyes," Expos manager Frank After honing his game in choice in the fourth inning. 
in the 12th inning as the Florida personal scouting report. 
Robinson said. "We'll take it." Triple-A, Torres was called up "This guy is getting better and 
Marlins beat the Mets 3-2 Oswalt dodged a bases-loaded
With 3,879 on hand at by the Pirates on Monday. better," Brewers manager Jerry
Tuesday night in the first game jam in the sixth inning and won
Olympic Stadium, the Expos "When they told me I was Royster said. "He couldn't get it
of a doubleheader. his eighth straight start as the 
The Mets won the second turned the 11th triple play in coming up, I was like, 'Yeah!' together early tonight, couldn't 
Houston Astros beat the San

their 34-year history in the When they told me I was pitch­locate his pitches and we got
game 11-5 to end their epic Diego Padres 6-2 on Tuesday
eighth inning to escape a first­ing tonight, I was like, 'Yeah!' some hits, but once he got it
skid. night.
and-third jam and keep the When they told me I was pitch­together he was tough. He's as
The Mets surpassed the previ­Oswalt (18-6) was coming off
game tied at 6. ing against Tom Glavine ... " good as anyone right now." 
ous mark set in by Boston in a five-game suspension for
Torres stopped abruptly, wiping 
1911. throwing a pitch at Chicago's
the smile from his face. 
After an 0-for-August at home Pirates 3, Braves 0 Dodgers 3, Diamondbacks 2 Alex Gonzalez on Aug. 12. He -the first month in Mets' histo­Salomon Torres was thrilled The Los Angeles Dodgers are won for the second straight start ry that they went winless at to be back in the majors for the Cubs 10, Brewers 1 back in the NL West race, and against the Padres, whom he home -New York lost to first time since 1997 -until he Matt Clement didn't have his Kazuhisa Ishii is staying in their beat 2-1 in Houston last Philadelphia on Sept. 1, tying found out he'd be pitching best stuff, not that it mattered. rotation. Wednesday. the mark. against Tom Glavine and the Clement pitched his third Adrian Beltre homered for the With the Astros leading 3-1 
The Mets, losers of five in a Atlanta Braves. complete game of the season second night in a row and Ishii and two outs in the sixth, Oswalt row overall, have not won at Not to worry. and Alex Gonzalez and Todd shut out Arizona into the sixth put the heart of the Padres' Shea Stadium since beating the In a storyline akin to "The Hundley each hit a three-run inning as the Dodgers beat the order on base by allowing sin­Houston A<;tros 10-0 on July 31. Natural," Torres made a homer as the Chicago Cubs beat Diamondbacks 3-2 Tuesday gles to Ryan Klesko and Mark The 15 straight losses are the remarkable return to the big the Milwaukee Brewers 10-1 on night. Kotsay, and walking Bubba most in the majors since Detroit leagues, coming within two outs Tuesday night. On the heels of their 19-1 rout Trammell. Oswalt ended the dropped its final 17 games at of a shutout as the Pittsburgh Clement (12-9) struck out of Arizona on Monday, the threat on his next pitch when he Tiger Stadium in 1996. Pirates beat the Braves 3-0 seven and walked three. He has Dodgers won their fourth got rookie Sean Burroughs, Tuesday night. won his last three starts and straight. In eight days, Los recalled earlier Tuesday from "Not in my wildest dreams did two of them have been complete Angeles has sliced Arizona's Triple-A Portland, to fly out to
Expos 7, Phillies 6 
I think I could do something like games. division lead from nine games to left.
The Montreal Expos' latest 
this," said Torres, who allowed "I pitched without my slider four. Oswalt and Burroughs weretriple play was a sight to behold. 
only four hits before Mike for the first four innings," "I thought we were in the teammates on the U.S. Olympic
Third baseman Fernando 
Williams got a game-ending Clement said. "I basically never thick of it over the weekend," team that won the gold medal atTatis tags out Travis Lee to end double play. found a rhythm on it." Dodgers manager Jim Tracy Sydney two years ago, so thethe 11th triple play in the Expos' The 30-year-old Torres, once Cubs interim manager Bruce said. "It's thicker now." pitcher had become familiar34 years. 
a top prospect for the San Kimm didn't see any fatigue in Kevin Brown relieved Ishii with the hitter's tendencip,;; 
¦
¦
¦

¦ ¦ ¦ • ¦ • • • ¦ • • .,
r-. ---·. 
• 

I ¦ liltJfJ<l@tJH©@ fNJGJfJ(J{I fJJ........,m(t fr©@§Jv I 
•

• I
I • \7G](l]{J .©fi1CCJ[l1 [11 fil§J 6ctctfNJ I llfiW@©1Y1Yctll). Oft wmm {lij!{t{J I ¦ 
•

• II Gfil@fJ 00 ~<let ~ffi ©[jj©HfNlv I ¦ 
•

! ¦ mctcttJ ©@ t3mmtJ[l1 ~m©W ©fJ 
I 
•

! ~~m1 
tJll1 H~ iJ{l1 (l]{JW©fD. I 
• I ¦ I 
I • I • ¦ 
• 
I OOHUU©@ ~(l(y ra©U{fD ~moo~ I • ­I • ii[b m{JW ©fD ~~m I •
• II •
• 
¦ .J

L. • • • • • • ¦ • • • -¦ • ¦ • • 

Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Oklahom.a m.ourns death of Lem.ans 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
Abe Lemons, the folksy col­lege basketball coach who won 599 games and seemed to have a one-liner for any occa­sion, died at 79. 
He died Monday at his home after a long illness, said his wife, Betty. Lemons had Parkinson's disease for several years and his health worsened after he fell and broke his hip in July. 
Lemons was as well known for his humor as his coaching. He coached for 34 years in stops at Texas, Oklahoma City {twice) and Pan American. He retired in 1990. slowed by health problems. 
"It wasn't the same," he said in an interview with The Associated Press. "I don't know whether you change or the game changes. They all want to play, but they don't want to put the effort into what you want to do." 
Oklahoma coach Kelvin Sampson said his respect for 

Lemons grew as he watched him battle Parkinson's the last three or four years. 
"I've never met anybody with a sense of humor like his," he said. "And I hate to sound like a cliche here, but as great a coach as he was. he was even a better person." 
Texas Tech's Bob Knight remembered Lemons for his innovations and said Lemons was always worth listening to. 
"All he said was, 'You got to give them the corner.' That was it," Knight recalled. "But if you think about it, there are numerous implications to that. The corner is the most difficult spot on the floor to escape. It's the most difficult shot on the floor. and it's the easiest place to trap the ball. He wasn't say­ing, 'Let them shoot it from the corner.' He was saying, 'Force the ball to the corner.' In just a few words, he made a very telling observation." 
Lemons grew up in the southwestern Oklahoma town of Walters and was never at a loss for a wisecrack. After his center grabbed only one 
rebound in the first half of a titles. His firing as Longhorns' game, Lemons told him, coach in 1982 stu{lg Lemons "That's one more rebound for many years. than a dead guy." He finished his career by 
While at Oklahoma City, returning to Oklahoma City in Lemons tried to recruit Johnny 1983. He retired after the Bench, who was from the 1989-90 season with a record Oklahoma town of Binger. of 599-343. He lost by one 
"I  told  point in his  
Bench  once,  bid for vic­ 
'If you had come with me, you could be the princi­pal of a high  ..I've never met anybody with a sense ofhumor like his. And I hate to sound cliche here, but as  tory No. 600. Lemons was born Nov. 21,  
school by now."' He once told  great a coach as he was, he was even better a  1922. He played bas­ketball at  
broadcaster  person ...  South-west­ 
Howard  e  r  n  
Cosell, "You may be big in New York, but  Kelvin Sampson Oklahoma coach  Oklahoma State and at Oklahoma  
in  Walters,  City before  
Oklahoma,  getting into  
you're nobody."  coaching.  

Lemons' personality and up­He enjoyed great success at tempo style of play revitalized Oklahoma City, where he basketball at Texas in the late began his career in 1955. 1970s. As interest soared, the Using a wide-open offense, he Longhorns went 110-63 in six won more than 300 games in seasons, winning a share of 18 seasons before moving to two Southwest Conference Pan American. 
"On the court, he was all business," said Bud Koper, a star for Lemons in the early 1960s. "I think he was a man ahead of his time. They talk about people scoring a lot of points, but he was doing that years before the Billy Tubbses or any of them came along.'' 
Lemons said he never had very many rules, and used a story about Koper to illustrate why. 
On a road trip to SMU, Koper didn't show for the pregame meal. Lemons didn't say any­thing about it, and Koper scored 44 points in a victory. 
"I asked Koper after the game why he didn't show up to eat and he told me he wasn't hungry," Lemons recalled. "If I had a rule that said you couldn't start or couldn't play if you missed the pregame meal, then we would have lost the game. Sometimes it's better not to have that many rules." 
Lemons is survived by his wife, Betty Jo, his daughters Dana and Jan and his four grandchildren. 

Georgia players aquitted of rape charges 
"It is highly unlikely that
Associated Press 

any other jury would reach a different result." Mauldin saidATHENS, Ga. 
in his dismissal request.
Two Georgia basketball 

"Therefore, the cases against
players charged in a rape 

the two remaining defendants
were cleared a week after a are hereby dismissed, there

football player at the school 

not being sufficient evidencewas acquitted in the case. 
to prove guilt beyond a rea­
Charges against Steve 

sonable doubt."
Thomas and Tony Cole were The woman. who has since

dropped Friday by Superior 

left the school, testified she
Court Judge Steve Jones after 

had consensual sex with Cole,a request by District Attorney 
but then two other men
Ken Mauldin. 

emerged and forced them­
The inability to convict foot­selves on her.

ball player Brandon Williams Williams said he walked outled to the decision to dismiss of a closet and fondled a 19­

the charges against Thomas year-old female student. He

and Cole. 

told investigators he was
Thomas was charged with 

physically unable to have sex
the rape of a female student 

with the woman, although his
in a Georgia dormitory in 

DNA was found during a rape issue's been decided by exam. them.'' 
"This case was presented to A Clarke County grand jury 
the  grand  indicted the  
jury. who heard a day and a half of  "Twelve very good, decent folks in this  athletes in April, three months  
testimony. and the citi­zens of this community  community decided there was not sufficient evidence beyond a  after the woman told campus police she  
thought this case should  reasonable doubt.,,  had been accosted.  
go to trial," Mauldin said.  Ken Mauldin  "I think justice was  
"Twelve very  district attorney  done,"  
good, decent  Thomas'  
folks in this  attorney,  
community  M  a  r  k  

decided there was not suffi­Wiggins, said. "There's no cient evidence beyond a rea­doubt in my mind, there was sonable doubt. So I think the some very difficult decisions to be made and a lot of soul­searching by the state. 
"Steve claimed his inno­cence from the very beginning and never wavered from that," he said. 
Last week, Williams was reinstated to the football team on probationary status. but suspended for the first three games of the season. 
Thomas and Cole, who have been suspended from the team since their indictment, can apply for reinstatement. Athletic director Vince Dooley and coach Jim Harrick would decide whether to allow them back on the team. 
That process could take sev­eral days, Georgia basketball spokesman Tim Hix said. 
January. Cole faced a felony charge of aggravated assault with intent to commit rape. 

rffi1':>BEER FACTORrffii':> 

LOl)KING TO BE 

Mich,ara·s on'}· Reclity Contest -r,·s a Cc!llegc St:.idcnts ~Jigh•cnare 
SEP srn 
R..1.:il!) I?J!i M.i..x~~ LLve H-if H-op, R..:l?, R § "B,., 01..d sc~ool. PYog r-~sLvt .§ u.tt~"" 1-to....s.t 



WIN PRIZES -DOOR PRIZES. "'IUZES THIIT '"'"' SAVE YOUR uve 

AIR FORCE ROTC 
',IWW.(iXft'-.;."J!ON2•~.)IJ.C~ 
Make your decisionl

!...Dec"'-O.i'..te': tnis web sit! foy "'-Ort ~fc LJAJ t~~ 1 '-'= ttv~ 1Ft-~L.( ''t7.0 ~~ -"""""-°? O~.t wi.t.L rU,!i..·..·~ Q ~riLe1 
Wed. Nights Rump Shaker Contest 
Contact: 1Lt. Alan Acree@ 631-467 

$1.00 Draft Beer 
or acree.1@nd.edu 

Must be 21 with valid ID to purchase or consume alcohol. 
Both men are 21. 

~· IS
Williams, also 21, was 

~ COMING TO 
acquitted on Aug. 23.

,. I 
~ ~ BENCHWARMERI 
~ EVERY $2 THURSDAY ~ ~-,•~ 
P' fltOZEN T-51-<IRT CONTE5T $2 'l'OL-CAU-11 6ll"'D T..STE Tt~T 52 WELL ORINII.S 
KIDDY POOL FROl\.t HELL S2 2-lOl BEER 
LV n!IS S2 IMPORTS 
6E£R CHlJC $2 BURGERS 
SHOT 4 SHOT ,2 ~PEICALS BLENDER OF FfAR BEER AND MUCH MORE 
~ 
~ 
PARl. OF A GROUP? 
~ 
"'~ 
~. 

-,I 


• 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
NFL 

Couch hopes to be ready for opener 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio 
Tim Couch softly tossed 
some footballs during practice 
on Monday, and in doing so, 
the Browns quarterback 
passed his first test. 
Couch, sidelined the past 
week with a sore right arm, 
thinks he will be ready for 
Cleveland's regular season 
opener this Sunday against the 
Kansas City Chiefs. 
"In my mind, I think I'm going to go," said Couch, who sat out Friday night's presea­son finale against Carolina with what was called a bruised forearm. "I'm not going to know how it feels until after I throw a couple balls really hard." 
After watching Couch prac­tice on Monday, coach Butch Davis felt confident about his QB's chances of playing. 
"Right now, there's nothing that leads us to believe that Tim won't be the starter," Davis said. 
Couch revealed for the first time that scar tissue in his elbow -the result of years of tendinitis -pulled away from the ligament or muscle after he took a hit in last Monday night's game at Green Bay. 
Scar tissue is the fourth dif­ferent reason given in less than a week for Couch's pain. 
After he left in the second quarter against the Packers, the Browns initially said their starting QB had strained his elbow. Then, they said he had strained his forearm. 
Following an MRI taken last Tuesday, Browns coach Butch Davis said Couch had bruised 

his forearm. 
Now, it's scar tissue, which 
Couch thinks pulled free after 
he completed a second-quar­
ter pass to Quincy Morgan. 
"From what I understand it 
can break loose at any time," 
Couch said. "On a throw or a 
hit or anything like-that can 
cause it to break loose." 
Couch, who went 30-of-39 
during the best preseason of 
his four-year career, said 
surgery is not an option now, 
but it's a possibility in the off­
season. The swelling in his 
elbow has gone down, and 
he'll continue to treat it with 
ice and anti-inflammatory 
drugs. 
Couch does not want to sit, but he's not going to risk hurt­ing himself worse just to play in the opener. 
"I'm definitely willing to throw through the pain as long as it's not affecting the kind of throws I'm trying to make," he said. "If I can't go out there and throw a certain route, then I'm not going to go out there and hurt the team. If I can't make all the throws, then I'm not ready to go." 
During the first half-hour of practice that reporters were allowed to watch on Monday, Couch played catch with quar­terbacks coach Carl Smith and participated in a few passing drills, but didn't throw a pass longer than 10 yards. 
Davis said the only time Couch sat out was during the two-minute drill that ended practice as backup Kelly Holcomb worked with the starting offense. 
"He did everything," Davis 

said. "He did some easy throwing. He said after he got done throwing that it felt real­ly good. I thought he threw it fairly crisp." 
The Browns are off on Tuesday, but by Wednesday Davis said he'll have a better idea if Couch will start or 


Wet Your Whistle! 
( and stuff your face) 
DAILYSPECIALS 
Rated #1 Hot Wings 
in the area 
Wednesday: s1 so Domestic Bottles of Beer Family ~ight -Kids Eat Free* 
•one free meal for each adult meal purchased 
ND Strength & Conditioning Department 
is looking for a volunteer assistant strength coach -make contacts -see how the department operates -get your foot in the door 
Contact Tony Rolinski, Asst. Coordinator for more details 631-7784 

kickoff the year with 

's WELCOME WEEK 

rudy on the quad 
9:30 pm, north quad movie "rudy", popcorn, snowcones 


welcome picnic 
... :',~Ji",•5 

4-7 pm, f ieldhouse mall 
thurs 

free pizza and snowcones 


acousticafe 
9 pm, the huddle student bands 

jill sobule 
9 pm, lafortune ballroom loft show with "supermodel" singer 

dale k 
10 pm, washington hall· 
sot 

hypnotist 

henna festival
8 

3-6 pm, dooley room, lafortune 
sun 

free henna tattoos 
Cleveland's offense will be run 
by Holcomb, who has made just one career start. 
Holcomb went 8 of 9 for 90 yards on Friday night, and completed 75 percent (35-of­
47) of his passes with three touchdowns during the exhibi­tion season. 
Couch has accepted that if his arm isn't ready by mid­week, he'll have to watch. 
"I'll be disappointed," he said. "Obviously, I want to be out there on opening day when everyone is fired up to get the season started right. I want to be out there with my guys, but we have to see how it goes. 
"We don't want to do any­thing that's going to keep me out for a whole year if another week's rest would have done me some good." 



Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Maryland looks to rise from ashes of loss 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Maryland hopes to derive something positive from their humbling 22-0 loss to Notre Dame. 
The negative aspects of Saturday's defeat were obvious. Besides being embarrassed on national television by a team that finished 5-6 last year. the defending Atlantic Coast Conference champions tumbled out of the Top 25 for the first time in nearly a year. 
The offense managed only eight first downs and 16 yards rushing. The Terrapins had only 133 yards in offense and were shut out for the first time since 1998. 
Second-year coach Ralph Friedgen began yelling at his players in the first quarter, and still hadn't stopped by Monday afternoon, when he gathered the team for a meeting. 
"He was frustrated," tight end Jeff Dugan said Tuesday. "He was a little disappointed during the game, at halftime and after the game. He said he was disap­pointed after watching the tape and at meetings, too. Nothing changed." 

Friedgen said that his team could benefit from the loss -if the players learn from their mis­takes. 
"I told them a lot of people will jump off the bandwagon right now. That's human nature," he said. "I was disappointed in the way we played, but I was not disappointed in the effort. They did not play the way they were capable of playing." 
The Terrapins will face Akron on Saturday night at Byrd Stadium. 
"If we don't learn from these mistakes, then it is a tragedy," Friedgen said. "What we have to do is understand what we did wrong and grow from this expe­rience. Then we will be a better team." 
Friedgen also reminded his players that Maryland's basket­ball team lost its opener last sea­son and went on to win the national championship. 
"That loss probably brought them closer together," Friedgen said. "You play the whole sea­son, and their season turned out to be a magical one." 
Friedgen said his two quarter­backs, Scott McBrien and Chris Kelley, "didn't play well." He attributed much of their struggle to a lack of experience and 

expected McBrien to do better in 57-21 loss at Iowa. his second start. "It will be difficult to forget, 
Dugan says the worst thing the but it's something we need to Terrapins can do is bring memo­do," Dugan said. "It was a ries of the Notre Dame game missed opportunity; it's over and onto the field against Akron, done with." , which opened its season with a Said Maryland safety Dennard Wilson: "It's over with now. I don't dwell on it. That game was a tough game, but I think we'll bounce back." 
Friedgen is counting on it. 
"I'm still very proud of this football team," he said 

Aggies could face quarterback controversy 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Freshman quarterback Reggie McNeal has played only one series for No. 20 Texas A&M, but his successful debut has cre­ated a lot of excitement and a potential controversy. 
Now that coach R.C. Slocum has decided against redshirting McNeal. the Aggies have to determine how much the fresh­man will play. 
And if he plays well, does he get a chance to take over as the starter ahead of 27-year-old senior Mark Farris? 
"Most young guys need a year to develop and grow, but based on how Reggie did (in two-a­days), I made the determination to go ahead and use him," Slocum said. "Ifwe'd have had a clear-cut No. 2, then I probably would've redshirted him. But in seeing him practice, I said we'd have some competition for the backup spot and, who knows, maybe for the starting spot." 
McNeal only confirmed that when he completed both of his passes for 28 yards and had two rushes for 12 yards, the last a 7­yard gain on third-and-6, in his only series against Louisiana­Lafayette. He entered the game to a wild ovation from the Texas A&M fans, and only excited them more by leading the last TD drive of the game in the Aggies' season-opening 31-7 win. 
"They might need to calm down a bit. I still have work to do and things I need to learn," McNeal said. ''I'll just continue to go to practice everyday and 

d work hard and let the coaches make the decisions." Even though his first action came against a worn-down Lafayette team, McNeal realized how much faster the college game is. 
"In high school, I probably would have scored on a couple of those plays," said McNeal, who led Lufkin High to the Texas Class 5A Division II cham­pionship in December 
Farris is still the starter. despite going 13-of-32 for 171 yards in Saturday's opener. He was just 7-of-20 for 88 yards in the first half when the Aggies managed only a 3-0 lead even after Lafayette had six of its 10 turnovers. 
Slocum says he will start the best player at quarterback. And he gives Farris "the benefit of the doubt" because he missed some preseason drills with elbow soreness. 
"My intention has always been to play the player who gives us the best chance to win and we will continue to do that," Slocum said. 
Farris, whose college career began after he played profes­sional baseball, is 16-9 as the Aggies' starter and his .580 career completion percentage (430-of-742) is the best in school history. 
Still, the Aggies had the sec­ond-worst offense in the Big 12 last season. And while they had 423 yards against Lafayette, 150 of those came in the fourth quarter after the outcome was determined and when McNeal and sophomore Jason Carter (team-high 42 yards rushing) played. 
As for the potential controver­sy, Farris knows that is just part of playing quarterback. 
"It's really not an issue for me. You learn that quick playing quarterback, and that it's best not to be reading papers or lis­tening to the talk shows," Farris said. "You learn to go about your business, control what you have in front of you and let everything else take care of itself." 
Sophomore Dustin Long was the first quarterback off the for Saturday's game at bench against the Ragin' Cajuns, Pittsburgh. but he was 3-of-12 with two "I'll be ready for whatever interceptions. McNeal will prob­role they have for me," McNeal ably be No. 2 on the depth chart said. "They are getting us ready to be prepared for anything. Mark has the most experience and he will probably be the man." 
For now. 



page 25 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS Wednesday, September 4, 2002 ­
U-WIRE 
Michigan tightens security at stadiuin 
By Soojung Chang Michigan Daily ANN ARBOR, Mich. A new rule requiring a  binocular cases. LSA freshman Priya Bhasin experienced a wait of about 35 minutes. She complained about the prohibition of purs­es. "It's a pain in the butt to  "DPS estimate was that this year, one out of every two peo­ple had an item that had to be inspected," Martin said. Last year, DPS esti­mated that  concern over the planes with ad banners that flew above the stadium Saturday. "The airspace is all con­trolled by the FAA  right through," he said. First-year Law student Jeff Karek said he did not notice an unusually long wait, though he saw more police officers in the area and was asked to  
University of Michigan student ID or an MCard for admission and fewer open entrances to Michigan Stadium forced fans to endure longer lines and  hold everything like your cell phone and stuff," she said. Athletic Director Bill Martin said several representatives from the his department and  every one out of three stu­dents had items requir­ing inspection.  "We got in five minutes before kickoff so we waited in line for almost 45 minutes. which we've  (Federal Aviation Ad min• istration). City officials  show his M-Card. In some cases, students reported that their M-Cards were not checked and that they observed some students  
increased inspections at the gate at Saturday's season  the Department of Public Safety met Monday morning to  More gates will be opened  never done before.··  can't do anything.  getting in with prohibited items.  
opener against the University  review the situation at the  later this sea­ We can't do  "They didn't actually check  
of Washington.  gate.  son and video  Denny Busse  anything."  my M-Card, they just asked if I  
"We got in five minutes before kickoff so we waited in  Martin said the bottleneck at the gate was caused by the  cameras installed at all  Michigan sophomore  he said. He said  had it," Busse said. First-year Music student  
line for almost 45 minutes,  reduced number of gates open  four corners of  fans need to  Lauren Poluha  said, "They  
which  we've  never  done  at the game, though they had  the stadium so that stadium  help the situation by getting to  made me show them my ID,  
before," Kinesiology sopho­ exactly the same number of  officials can observe problems  the games earlier, and he  that was the only thing."  
more Denny Busse said. "It's  turnstiles operating as  last  before game time and notify  praised students for  their  Everyone using a  student  
always been show your ticket  year.  DPS, Martin said.  cooperation.  ticket must present a student  
and walk in."  The number of gates was  Martin added that the new  "Eighty to 90 percent of the  ID to be admitted into the sta­ 
Fans were  also unable to  reduced to aid with package  measures  were  necessary  students got in without any  dium, unless it has been vali­ 
bring bags or containers of  inspection, which increased  because of a need to increase  problem whatsoever  ...  they  dated beforehand, which they  
any kind. These containers  due to the newly prohibited  security after the Sept. 11  came with nothing but their ID  can do at several locations for  
include purses, backpacks and  items.  attacks. He also expressed  and their ticket and they got  $25.  

Edwards steps up after Scaife goes down 
By Bob Jones 
Daily Texan 
AUSTIN, Texas 

When the news came into Austin that tight end Bo Scaife had suffered a knee injury at his Denver home that would cause him to miss the entire 2002 season, prospects at the tight end position looked bleak for the Texas Longhorns. 


Scaife had hauled in 30 receptions for 396 yards the previous year, and his role was to be increased even more this year under offensive coordinator Greg Davis. 
So when the junior went down, Texas was left with only junior Brock Edwards, who had only caught 15 pass• es in his college career, senior Chad Stevens, who had played mostly on special teams and at fullback, and an untested freshman in David Thomas. 
Clearly, one of the three would have to step up for Texas to keep the chains mov­ing throughout the year. 
In Saturday's season opener against North Texas, it was Edwards. 
The Fort Worth native caught two balls, one for a touchdown, in helping the 


OUTREACH ND 
A student organization that offers support and social activities for gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning students 
For weekly meeting info, E-mail: Info@outreachND.org 
www.outreachND.org 

Longhorns to emerge victori­ous over the Green Machine 27-0. 
"I'm doing now what I knew I was capable of doing," Edwards said. "Hopefully I can do more of that in the future." 
The junior's first catch came on Texas' initial drive of the game, as the Longhorns lined up with two tight ends on sec­ond down and nine. After a 
play action 
"[Simms] put it on the
fake, quarter­run with 
back Chris money, and all I had to that -do Simms rolled do was step up and catch what God 
left and found has blessed
it. Credit goes to Chris on
Edwards in me with." the middle of that one ... Though the field for a Edwards 19-yard gain. did not
Brock Edwards 
Four Cedric have anoth­
Texas receiver 
Benson runs er catch in 
Edwards said. "Credit goes to Chris on that one." 
According to Davis, Edwards did some "good things, and he made some nice plays on the play action." 
"I'm really comfortable with it, and I'm settling down to where I'm actually able to play my game," Edwards said about his role at tight end. "I need to step up a little more at the tight end posi• tion and 
later, and Texas was up 
7-0. 
In the second quarter, Edwards and Simms hooked up again when Texas again went play-action, and Simms rolled out slightly to the right before hitting Edwards on a flag pattern in the front cor• ner of the end zone to extend the Longhorns' lead to 21-0. After scoring his fourth career touchdown, Edwards raised both arms into the air in tri­umph. 
"[SimmsJ put it on the money, and all I had to do was step up and catch it," 
the game, 
he took a step in the positive direction towards answering the ques­tion of whether or not there will be a falloff at the tight end position. 
However, Edwards, the lib­eral arts major who attended Fort Worth Christian, knows that it will not easy to fill the shoes of the injured Scaife. 
"I'm not Bo Scaife, I'm Brock Edwards, and I can only play my game," he said. "I am going to go out there and do what I'm capable of, and hopefully, what I did tonight, I can do every week." 


Wednesday, September 4, 2002 page 26
The Observer . SPORTS 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankee turns in jersey for batting helm.et 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Drew Henson could have been studying film and preparing for his first start as an NFL quarterback this week. 
Instead, the only studying Henson is doing is watching how his New York Yankees' teammates prepare for pen• nant-race baseball. 
"You get to see how major league baseball players go about their business," Henson said Tuesday after being recalled from Triple•A Columbus. "This is the high• light of my professional career so far. This is why I left school." 

.~ ~ 
Henson, one of the top quar• terbacks in the nation at the
Hl University of Michigan, gave
. ~ < 
. \ ~ up football to sign a $17 mil­(. lion, six-year contract with the Yankees in March 2001. 
' 
~ 
Despite some struggles at "Nobody ever said it was the plate and in the field, going to be easy," he said. "I Henson doesn't regret his never said it was going to be decision -even as the football easy. All I can do is stay posi­season is tive and it about to will all come
"He's not here for us to
open. together for 
''I'll always find out anything about me." miss playing Yankees
him."
football to manager Joe some respect Torre said because I Joe Torre there's no was good at Yankees manager pressure on it and had Henson this fun playing month. The it," he said. Yankees had "It's an exciting time for me to hoped he would be ready to be able to do all this and replace Robin Ventura next watch my old teammates." season, but Torre insists this 
Henson batted .240 with 18 is not a tryout. homers and 65 RBIs in his first "He's not here for us to find full season at Columbus. But out anything about him," he showed he has a long way Torre said. "We just want him to go to make the majors. to enjoy the lifestyle here and striking out 151 times in 471 the ambiance of Yankee at-bats and committing 35 Stadium." errors at third base. The one thing Torre hopes 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Toronto Blue Jays manager Carlos Tosca and his coaching staff received contract exten• tion. We've said all along that we wanted to change the per­ception that the Blue Jays were a team that didn't hustle or play hard." 

Tosca, 48, became third­
sions through the 2004 sea­son on Tuesday. 
Tosca took over the Blue Jays after B u C k Martinez was fired on June 3, and led the team to a 40­44 record going into Tuesday's game. 
"I knew real early that we had the right 

"We are going in the right direction. We ·ve said all along that we wanted to change the perception that the Blue Jays were a team that didn't hustle or play hard... 
J.P. Ricciardi general manager 
base coach i n December a f t e r Ricciardi replaced Gord Ash as general manager. Tosca had managed 1 , 7 5 9 games in the minor leagues. 
"We said we wanted to be a bet­ter club 
guy in charge," general man­going into September and I ager J.P. Ricciardi said. "We think we are," Ricciardi said. are going in the right direc-"If you talk to scouts, to a man Henson can learn is the differ• Rookie of the Year award the ences between the daily grind next season. of baseball and the weekly "Just being here and seeing pace on football. what the postseason was like 
·•··  ::>:f:'::;,::·::=::-:-, :JJ::1::•··•····.  

"It's a matter of conditioning helped me the following sea­mentally for him," Torre said. son," he said. "You're allowed to lose 60 The Yankees also activated games in baseball. In football, first baseman Nick Johnson it's. not a from the 15­good year if day disabled you lose "This is the highlight of list and more than a recalled
my professional career so
few games. 
It's a differ­far. This is why I left ent mentali­school.,. ty." Derek Jeter 
Drew Henson
knows how valuable this Yankees player 
experience can be for Henson. 
right-han­ders Brandon Knight and M i k e Thurman f r o m Columbus. 
Johnson, who missed three weeks 
Jeter spent the final month of the 1995 season watching players like Don Mattingly and Paul O'Neill. That experience paid off when Jeter won the with a bone bruise on his left wrist, went 1-for-11 in a rehab stint at Triple-A Columbus. 
"Not seeing the ball for a while was difficult," he said. 

: } 
I) 
' 
" 
Jays extend coaches' contracts to 2004 

they'll say we are different club, that we play hard, that we don't quit." 
'Tm so appreciative to J.P. because he went against the grain when he hired me," Tosca said. "It showed a lot of guts on his part to be able to do that. I don't have any pro­fessional playing experience and for some reason that's a hang up for some people." 
First baseman Carlos DP.laado. onr, of thr, few veter­ans on the team, said he was happy to see Tosca get an extension. 
"He did a very good job of getting the respect of the play­ers," Delgado said. "I think we've accomplished a lot since he took over." 
Tosca managed Atlanta's Triple-A affiliate in Richmond in 2001 and spent the previ­ous three years as bench coach" of the Arizona Diamondbacks. He has been a minor league manager for the New York Yankees and the Florida Marlins. 
The Blue Jays also extended the contracts of pitching coach Gil Patterson, hitting coach Mike Barnett, third­base coach Brian Butterfield, first-base coach John Gibbons and bullpen coach Bruce Walton. 
Tosca hasn't decided whether to hire a bench coach for next season. 
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
We all learn from one another The R(IA gives you achance to walk with rnmeone ai you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adventure offaith. 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz 
@ 
631-3016 308 Coleman­Morse Center 
C-M 
RCIA INFO 
SESSIONS 
Find out more about: 
•The Sacraments of Initiation BAPTISM, EUCHARIST & CONFIRMATION: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become amember of the Catholic Church. 
• FULL COMMUNION: 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
Sunday, Sept. 1 st Sunday, Sept. 8th 
Candidates & Sponsors 1:00pm -2:00pm Candidates 11:00am -12:00pm 2:00pm -3:00pm Sponsors 330 Coleman-Morse Center 330 Coleman-Morse Center 

I . 
i ­
, 
page 27 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
BASKETBALL WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Argentines may sink Americans 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
George Karl hears all the 
talk watch out for 
Argentina. 
The United States defeated 
Russia 106-82 Monday night 
at the World Championships. 
If the Americans beat New 
Zealand on Tuesday as easily 
as they defeated the Russians, 
Karl thinks his team will be 
ready the following night for 
what the U.S. coach says 
might be the toughest chal­
lenge. 
"Going into the tournament, we had a lot of scouts tell us that Argentina is the team," Karl said. "It wasn't just one guy, it was like seven or eight guys that kept calling us and saying Argentina is together, they're ready and they're playing very, very well." 
Argentina kept its record unblemished Monday with a 95-71 victory over China. 
Also remaining unbeaten with 4-0 records were Brazil, which held off Angola 86-83 in overtime, and Spain, which defeated Turkey 87-64. 
Paul Pierce had another of his scoring blitzes and cemented his status as the 
U.S. team's best offensive player. 
He made seven consecutive shots and scored 20 of his 27 points in the third quarter. 

Pierce has led the Americans in scoring in all four of their games at the World Championships. 
"He's one of those scorers who scores a big number of points in a very short period of time," Karl said. "It's kind of fun to watch. I told him after the game that I like shows, and that was a pretty good show." 
Pierce had 10 of his team's first 12 points of the second half and added consecutive 3­pointers later in the quarter 
Argentina 95, China 71 
Argentina opened the game with long-range accuracy, building an 18-point lead on 79 percent shooting. Argentina led 48-34 at the half and was never threat­ened thereafter, shooting 64 percent from the field and 50 percent (l 1-for-22) from 3­point range. 
China never resembled the team that led 28-16 after one quarter against the United States on Saturday and remained ahead for 
for an 80-59 lead. He then fol­ "Going into the tournament. we had a lot  all but the final 6.5 seconds of  
lowed a tip by  ofscouts tell us that  the second  
Ben Wallace with yet anoth­er 3 for an 85­61 edge. "I just tried to give us some energy. I  Argentina is the team. It wasn ·t just one guy. it was like seven or eight guys that kept calling us and saying Argentina is  quarter. Y a o Ming, the No. 1 pick in the NBA draft, turned the  
always believe the most important times of the game are the  together. they 're ready and they're playing very. very well . .,  ball over four times and scored 11 points in 28 min­ 
end of the half and the start of the second half," Pierce  George Karl U.S. coach  u t e s against Argentina but was  
said.  n  e  v  e  r  
Against  much of a  

Germany on Friday, Pierce factor. Twice he ran into scored eight points in 46 sec­double-teams in the paint onds to breakopen a close and threw the ball out of game. bounds. 
Brazil 86, Angola 83, OT Ibrahim Kutluay combined for 
Brazil trailed with 8.9 sec­just nine points. onds left in regulation, but Rogerio Klafke made three 
Puerto Rico 85, Yugoslavia 83
free throws to tie the score. In Carlos Arroyo led a fourth­overtime, Angola had one last 
quarter comeback and
chance to tie the game. but 
Daniel Santiago had 31
V i c t o r 
points and
Muzadi's 3­point attempt "/just tried to give us 1 0 
rebounds.
from the cor­
some energy. I always P e j a 
ner went out Stojakovic
believe the most 
of bounds. 
had 26
"Maybe we important times ofthe 
points for 
were looking 
game are the end ofthe Y U g O •
ahead," Brazil 
slavia,
halfand the start ofthe
forward 
which was
S a n d r o second period.,. 
consideredVarejao said, a gold­
referring to 
Paul Pierce medal con­
Tuesday's 
t ender 
game with post player 
before the
defending­
tourna­
ch amp ion 
ment.
Yugoslavia. "If we play the Losses to Spain and Puerto 
way we did today against 
Ricotempered some of that
Yugoslavia, we'd lose by 40, 
enthusiasm.
50 points. But wefound a way to win another close game." 
Germany 84, New Zealand 64 
Dirk Nowitzki, used to car­
Spain 87, Turkey 65 
rying the offensive load for
Spain was led again by Pau 
Germany, scored 17 points
Gasol, the NBA's rookie of the but had some help. Ademola year with Memphis. He scored 
Okulaja added 17 points,
19 points and Spain shot 12­Mithat Dernirel had 14 and of-24 from 3-point range. 
Misan Nikagbatse 13. 
Turkey entered the game 
New Zealand was without 
second in the championships 
Sean Marks of the Miami 
in 3-point shooting at 45 per­
Heat. cent, but went 4-for-14 He will miss the rest of the against Spain. Hidayet championships with a blood 
Turkoglu, Huseyin Besokand clot in his right eye. 


Notre Dame's Fraternal Catholic Organization 
Invites prospective members to visit us at ACTIVITIES NIGHT, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3BQ from 7 -10 pm at the JACC AND at our Open House, Wednesday, September 4th from 5-7 pm at the Knights Building on South Quad next to the Coleman-Morse Center. 
The Knights ofColumbus is an international organization focussing on charity and fraternal events. Membership is open to any Catholic Man of 18 years ofage. 

Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS 
U.S. OPEN 

Agassi doesn't miss a beat or drop a set 


expend it. 
Associated Press 
While other high-profile stars NEW YORK like Lindsay Davenport and Pete Sixth-seeded Andre Agassi is Sampras have been forced to wasting no time at the U.S. Open. play all or parts of matches for 
The two-time former champion three straight days, Agassi is on is into the quarterfinals of the a steady diet of days off between season's final Grand Slam, and matches. he got th.ere without dropping a His half of the men's draw has set in his first four matches. been undisturbed by the rain that 
It has been a serene Open for has dogged this event. Agassi, undisturbed by the rains "To a large degree, it boils that have turned some days into down to the luck of the draw, marathons, or by opponents who starting with it raining on the day have offered little challenge. It you 're playing or the day you has not rained on his parade and have off and ending with the he is enjoying the relatively easy scheduling that has to happen in ride compared to some of the adjustment to the chaos." Agassi adventures he has had in this said. tournament before. With the rain falling just right 
"There's only so many gut for him. Agassi seems to have checks you can really come plenty of gas left in his tank as through," he said. "I suppose I'd the Open reaches the serious rather save it for when it matters stage. the most. I feel pretty good about 'Tm in the quarters," he said. my game. I feel ready to go." "That's really all you can ask for 
The lack of a grueling pace is to give yourself that chance, could pay off for Agassi later this make sure you're playing well at week. the right time. Again, my game 
"It can be something that really feels ready to shift to another builds up on you if you have a lot gear. I'm going to need to." of tough matches," he said. "My And that means he gives him­body can certainly hold up to a self every ch·ance to still be pretty good beating, but it is nice standing when the men's final is not to expend it if you don't have played Sunday. 

Sixth-seeded Andre Agassl moved Into the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open without dropping to." "Yes," he said, "I do believe I And so far, Agassi hasn't had to can do it." 
a single set in his first four matches. 
Roddick overcomes injury and deficit for win 
ner of the Pete Sampras-that far in the first 28 majors of 
Associated Press 

Tommy Haas match which his career. He lost to Lleyton started later Tuesday night. Hewitt at that stage at NEW YORK Earlier Tuesday, Gustavo Wimbledon, but was the only 
Andy Roddick, playing on a Kuerten failed again to break-player to take a set from the heavily taped left foot, roared through on a Grand Slam on a eventual champion at the All into the quarterfinals at the surface other than clay. England Club. 
U.S. Open on Tuesday night, The three-time French Open Schalken now plays No. 28 coming from behind for a 5-7, champion was eliminated in Fernando Gonzalez of Chile. 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 victory over Juan the fourth round, making 55 Neither ever has been to a Ignacio Chela. unforced errors in a 6-3, 7-6 major semifinal. 
After double-faulting to lose (6), 6-7 (5), 7-6 (4) loss to 24th-Gonzalez reached the quar­the first set, Roddick asked for seeded Sjeng Schalken. terfinals by defeating Arnaud a medical timeout. ATP trainer Kuerten wasn't expected to Clement 6-4, 6-2. 6-3. Doug Spreen taped a pad to the even make it this far in the In women's action Tuesday, outside of Roddick's left foot to year's final major tournament, two-time defending U.S. Open treat a persistent inflammation. having been the first man in 31 champion Venus Williams, 
Roddick played through the years to go from being seeded 1991-92 winner Monica Seles. injury and then was energized No. 1 at the Open one year to and 1998 champion Lindsay by the crowd after a spectacu­being unseeded the next. But Davenport won. Williams will lar point. he knocked off second-seeded face Seles in a quarterfinal. 
The fans roared as he won Marat Safin in the second while Davenport already is into the point after Chela ran him round. the semifinals, where she will from one side of the court to Kuerten entered the Open play top-seeded Serena AFP Photo the other. Roddick's momen­with a 12-10 match record in Williams, who defeated Daniela Andy Roddick moved on to the quarterfinals despite playing tum on the winning shot car­2002. a season interrupted in Hantuchova 6-2, 6-2. with a heavily taped left foot. 

ried him to the side of the court and he high-fived fans. 
;::;t:; ~r.:i~~t ,~t t:u::~~~ _,iit~lf
When he won the second set, he pumped his fist and then !:~6%of;;~~e a:a~lT:g!~ a drop ·.'=:!-·bf::r;.,r1-·~.. :·: completed the comeback. con­Scha Ike n, meanw hi I e. .:.~'":;·.,,M~<u,.fisbl:.·.la'r.A'fln 
verting the second of three reached the quarterfinals at a =;. ~~!':~;;~~~~~·;.~:1~~;1#1. match points to finish Chela. second straight Grand Slam :·.:.?tmalf'·Maria}lt'.•:184.;..-:::
Next for Roddick is the win-event after never having been..........,.,,,<, .. · · .. · · · · 
,,,~, 
_, ..,.~-~. 
I 
I 
: i,.­
': '< 
I 
I . 
'RecycCe

I I 
> , I 
1tl ': 
1i i ' 
1/.· 
l. / 
1/ 
1 
>); 'Tlie
' r I I > 
1/1 ­
,, I ·, 
.1 I ·, I/, . I/ i .· 
IN 
. ). .• .. 
; 
,, . o6server
.1 
.•. 
1_; 
>, 
. 
' 
. 
J / _; ,,, 
I 

Volunteers Needed 
The Earl) Childhcxxl Development Center located at Saint Mary's J College and the University ofNotre Dame is looking for volunteers who enjoy young chi!dren. Ifyou would be interested in ~ng , 2how-s~ week .tmd~ and plaving with children, please call: Kari at ECOC-SMC 284-4693 oiSue at ECOC-ND 6.31-3344. (Employment oppommities at ECDC-ND -MI1IF 11:15-12:30.) 
Earl>' 
Childhood DevelopntMt 
Center., lffC. 
284..4693 (ECDC--SMC) 
631·3344 
(ECDC-ND) 

page 29 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS 
U.S. OPEN 

Sister-sister final looking m.ore likely 
Associated Press become the first woman since Steffi Graf to win three straight majors: Lindsay NEW YORK Davenport, a hard hitter manyNo one has come close to think has the best chance of testing Serena Williams at the coming between the sisters 
U.S. Open. Here's how older and a longer string of majorsister Venus responded to her titles. 
first challenge: She dug in, "We're the same style of pulled out a three-set victory, players. I actually like playing then went right out and prac­Lindsay. I can't wait," Serena ticed. said. "Win, lose or draw, I'm 
Both moved closer to anoth­going to have fun." er all-Williams final with vic­Serena has lost a total of 14 tories g a m e s Tuesday, through her though in five matches
"/feel I have nothing to 
vastly differ­so far. ent ways. lose. I don't know why. I spending an 
Serena feel so free and floating, average of 
reached the 51 minutes
so carefree ...
semifinals by on court. She dominating certainly Daniela Serena Williams seems on Hantuchova pace for
tennis player
6-2, 6-2 at night. Venus had plenty of problems against Chanda Rubin before emerging with a 6-2, 4-6, 7-5 victory to reach the quarterfinals for the 18th time in 20 Grand Slam events. 
Top-seeded Serena, the 1999 Open champion, had 29 win­ners to six for the 11th-seeded Hantuchova, and whipped 12 aces at up to 115 mph. When Hantuchova arrived at the National Tennis Center hours before the match. she was wearing heavy wrapping on her right thumb, injured Sunday night during her fourth-round match against Justine Henin. 
"I feel I have nothing to lose. I don't know why," Serena said. "I feel so free and float­ing, so carefree." 
Next up as she tries to 

another all­
in-the-family 
champi­onship match, having lost to Venus in last year's U.S. Open final and beaten her at the French Open and Wimbledon in 2002. 
Venus, meanwhile, lost seven more games against Rubin than she had in her pre­vious three matches combined. 
"Today just wasn't my best day," Venus said. "I had a lot of short balls that I just missed. It was definitely strange missing those shots, but I tried to stay calm." 
She'll play Monica Seles for a semifinal berth. Still grunt­ing on each shot and still hit­ting with two hands off both wings, Seles beat Martina Hingis 6-4. 6-2 to end Hingis' streak of six straight semifinal appearances at the year's final 

Venus Williams defeated Chanda Rubin to reach the U.S. Oopen quarterfinals. This is the 18th 
time she has reached the quarterfinals in a Grand Slam event. 
major. Hingis had ankle draw. 1998 champion surgery in May and made it Davenport moved into the into the field here as a wild­semifinals by eliminating card entry. unseeded Elena Bovina 3-6, 6­On the other half of the 0, 6-2. Davenport, playing just 
VIDEOTAPED 
• 
Improve your job interviewing skills through a practice interview with a company recruiter. 

• 
Recruiters will provide feedback on your verbal and non-verbal communication skills. 


MOCK 

Sign-up in 

The Career Center 
Interview Center--First Floor of Flanner Hall (No appointments taken by phone or email) 
Sign-ups Continue for SENIORS JUNIORS SOPHOMORES 
INTERVIEWS 
Sponsored by The Career Center 248 Flanner Hall 
her fifth tournament since right knee surgery performed by the same doctor who rebuilt Rubin's left knee, capi­talized on Bovina's 36 unforced errors. 
Against Rubin, Venus bailed herself out with the help of 41 winners and seven aces, snap­ping one at 121 mph. But she also made 41 errors. had six double faults, had her serve broken five times, and allowed her 25-set winning streak at the Open to end. 
Watching from the stands while snapping pictures through a 21/2-foot lens, the Williams sisters· father, Richard, wasn't pleased. 
"It looks like all her tech­niques are breaking down," he said. 
When the match ended, Venus walked off court and swung her racket in a fore­hand motion while looking at her father, as though to say, "I know, I know. We have some work to do." Sure enough, 20 minutes later, she was on an adjacent practice court, hitting while getting instructions from Richard. 
They might have been going over what went wrong when she was broken three straight times in the second set. 
Or what led to the trouble at 5-5 in the last set, with Williams facing two break points. 
But the 14th-seeded Rubin, who's had two operations on her left knee since January 2001 and appeared to be gasping for air after longer rallies, finally succumbed to Williams' constant pressure. 
Rubin sent a forehand wide on the first break point, then put another forehand into the net to close a 1 7 -stroke rally. She threw her head back, sighed, and staggered along the baseline. 
"I gave myself a chance in the match. As a competitor, you want to go out in every match and do that," Rubin said. "But it's disappointing not to win it when the chances were there. You look up ­you're right there for the match." 
Of Rubin's seven main draw 
losses in 2002, five came 
against players who have been 
ranked No. 1: the Williams sis­
ters, Davenport, and Seles. 
Hingis also used to be at the top, but the last of her five Grand Slam titles came at the 1999 Australian Open. 
Since then, she's lost in five major finals, while the Williams sisters have com­bined to win seven of the past 12. 
Now Hingis is coming back from ligament damage that one of her doctors said might end her career, and she didn't do much to push Seles off her game Tuesday. 
Seles figures to get a differ­ent test against Venus Williams, who has won seven of their eight meetings, includ­ing in the French Open quar­terfinals. 
It's been 10 years since Seles won her second straight U.S. Open title. and she talked Tuesday about how the game has changed. 
"The girls started to get big­ger, stronger, faster," the 28­year-old Seles said. "You see the girls now are 6 feet tall, have a 100 mph serve -that's the lowest." 
Hmmm, sounds a lot like her next opponent. And Davenport's. 


• 
Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS 
GOLF 

Golf recom.m.ended as Olympic sport 
Associated Press 
Golf cleared its first big hur­dle last week when an International Olympic Committee report recom­mended adding the sport to the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. 
Because the IOC refuses to increase the number of Olympic sports above the cur­rent level of 28, golf can only 

.. be admitted if another sport is dropped. Baseball, softball and the modern pentathlon are on the chopping block. A larger hurdle could be an IOC directive that a sport is added only if it attracts the best athletes. If Tiger Woods isn't inter­ested, does golf have a chance? "We have discussed this with the IOC," U.S. Golf Association executive director David Fay said last week before leaving for Switzerland to meet with IOC president Jaques Rogge. "They under­stand that golfers are inde­pendent contractors, and no one makes a decision for a player other than the player. 
"Who knows what will hap­pen in 2008? Tiger Woods might be racing yachts. You can't make an assumption six years out." 
Fay and Royal & Ancient secretary Peter Dawson are joint leaders of the World Amateur Golf Council, which the IOC recognizes as the offi­cial golf federation. 
Fay said the proposal endorsed by the IOC program commission was for two tour­naments (men and women) featuring 72 holes of stroke play with 50 players in each field. 
The players would be selected primarily from the world ranking, and no coun­try could send more than two players. Because that might exhaust the list quickly, Fay said he envisioned the WAGC selecting wild-card entries from countries not known as golf powers. 
Woods, meanwhile, has not said whether he would play. 
When the idea came up two years ago during the PGA Championship, he said the Olympics would not be a pri­ority because golf already has four major championships. Later that year during a stop in London, Woods said he would like to see golf in the Olympics. 
"It's impossible to make a judgment for '08," said his agent, Mark Steinberg of IMG. "The schedule is very crowd­ed right now, and crowded with other events that can be considered at this point de facto Olympics for golf, such as the Ryder Cup and the Presidents Cup." 
Another issue facing golf is scheduling, since the Olympics likely would fall between the British Open and the PGA Championship. 
Golf's fate in the Olympics will be decided by the IOC assembly meeting in Mexico in November. Cutting sports requires a majority vote of more than 120 members, while a two-thirds vote is required for adding sports. 
Keeping the action rolling 
Ryder Cup captains Curtis Strange and Sam Torrance are doing what they can to pick up the pace -and reduce the gamesmanship ­at the matches this year. 
Having already agreed to no longer allow practice putting at the conclusion of each hole, the captains last week set the first "slow play" policy in the Ryder Cup. 
"If you start getting timed, it will apply to everyone in the group," Strange said. "You have to keep pace." 
Players will be allowed two bad times. The third violation will be loss of the hole. 
Strange said John Paramor, chief referee of the European tour. will be in charge of tim­ing the players and issuing the warnings. 
That shouldn't be a problem because there are only four matches per session each of the first two days. 
Strange said the policy was Paramor's idea, and he and Torrance embraced it. 
"The only thing I said to John was, 'If you start this, you better have the guts to enforce it,"' Strange said. "The key is to keep them moving along. Let's play golf." 
One of the more memorable examples from the last Ryder Cup was Padraig Harrington walking 15 0 yards up to the 17th green to check out the hole location. 
Watching the rankings 
The American Express Championship in Ire land looked to be an ideal way for the U.S. Ryder Cup team to prepare a week before the matches. 
But as many as three Americans might not even qualify for the World Golf Championship event for the top 50 in the world ranking and top 30 on the PGA Tour money list. 
The cutoff is next Monday. Hal Sutton will not be eligible, and Stewart Cink dropped to No. 51 in the ranking this week. Paul Azinger is No. 49 and could be bumped. 
Another player on the bub­ble, with no Ryder Cup impli­cations, is Jeff Sluman. He thought he was in at the NEC Invitational at Sahalee, only to slip out of the top 50 the week of the tournament. 
This week, Sluman dropped from No. 49 to No. 53, and he's about $50,000 short of the top 30 on the money list. 

Fight between NCWO and club heats up 
Associated Press 
The fight between the Augusta National Golf Club and Martha Burk, the chairwoman of the National Council of Women's Organizations (NCWO). grew even a bit more testy on Tuesday. 
Augusta National's response 
Throughout the debate, Augusta National has respond­ed, citing several issues: 
1. 
This is not a legal issue. The Masters has a constitution­al right to its private member­ship. 

2. 
Martha Burk tries to equate this to the Shoal Creek racial issue in 1990, but they are totally different. In America, there are women's colleges, the Girl Scouts of America and women's health clubs through­out the country. In Canada and overseas, there are women-only golf clubs. 

3. 
The Club possibly will have a woman member in the future, but it should be the Club's deci­sion, not the decision of an out­side group that knows little about the Club or Tournament. In Ms. Burk's initial letter, she placed a deadline on the Club to have a woman member (2003), and discussed the sponsors of the Tournament. 

4. 
The winner in this sponsor­ship issue is the viewer. There will now be 12 1/2 hours of commercial free golf coverage. 

5. 
What is presently happen­ing is a coroorate camoaifln. 



The National Council of Women's Organizations is tar­geting anyone associated with the Masters. 
6. 
The reason we chose not to ask the sponsors to participate in 2003 was to spare them the inevitability of a continued cor­porate campaign that could have included protests and boy­cotts. 

7. 
Dr. Burk is now telling indi­viduals what to watch on televi­sion. In three online polls con­ducted this weekend, nearly 90 percent of respondents said they would continue to watch the Masters on CBS. Over 4.3 million women watched the Masters last year. 

8. 
The Masters and Augusta National are different. One is a private club, and the other is a world-class sporting event that is completely inclusive. 

9. 
The Masters is being used as a symbol. Several other Clubs do not allow women to play or even to enter the grounds. Women play at Augusta National regularly, and there are no restrictions on tee times. Women played over 1,000 rounds at the Club last year. 


Appearing on the Dan Patrick Show on ESPN Radio, Burk said that her organization will begin targeting PGA Tour players in a bid to force Augusta National to allow women members. 
The players ..need to take a moral stand," Burk told Patrick. "I think Augusta will eventu­
ally see that it will be in the points listed on the right -the best interests of their club ... to club's constitutional rights and do the right thing and allow the difference between Augusta women members,.. she later National, a private club, and said in the interview. The Masters, a major golf tour­
Throughout the debate, nament. Augusta National has respond­Last week, Burk said that she ed, citing -among the nine will talk with CBS about its tele­vising of The Masters, which will be commercial-free next year. Johnson announced that The Masters will drop its spon­sors -IBM, Coca-Cola and Citigroup -to shield them from any controversy over the club's all-male membership. 
STUDY IN BRAZIL 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
THURS. SEPT. 5, 2002 6:00-7:15 PM 
& 
THUR. SEPT. 19, 2002 5:00-6:15 PM 




Wednesday, September 4, 2002 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 31 

around the dial 
MLB 

Red Sox at Yankees 6 p.m., ESPN White Sox at Blue Jays 6 p.m., Fox Sports Royals at Athletics 9 p.m., ESPN2 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 6 p.m., USA 

BASKETBALL World Championships 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA BASEKTBALL 

John Biever/SI 

Bob Knight admitted to shoving former assistant coach Ron Felling and will pay $25,000 after signing an agreement that settled a lawsuit Felling filed. 
Knight admits to shoving assistant, pays $25,000 
called his bluff, he backed the settlement. A message in front of other assistants. 

Associated Press 
out." left at the Baker and When Felling attempted to A phone message left at Daniels law firm in leave, Felling said Knight

INDIANAPOLIS 
the office of Knight's attor­Indianapolis, which is rep­shoved him into a televi­Bob Knight will pay 

ney, Russell Yates in resenting the university sion.

$25,000 to a former assis­Denver, was not immedi­against Felling. was not Potter said Knighttant coach after signing an ately returned. A Texas returned. referred to it as "inadver­
agreement in which he 
Tech spokeswoman said "That lawsuit was in fed­tent brushing." 

admitted to shoving Rou 
neither Bob or Pat Knight eral court and ours is in Depositions were gath­Felling in anger, Felling's were available and state court, so we really ered from Knight, his son,attorney said Tuesday. 

referred all questions about don't feel it's appropriate to Pat, Steve Downing andWilliam Potter, Felling's the case to Yates. comment on that, "Stephan Felling last week, Potter

attorney, said Knight 
Knight also has agreed to said. said. Pat Knight also wasagreed to the conditions cooperate with Felling in a Felling, 60, was fired an assistant at Indiana at

Friday after coming to 
lawsuit against Indiana, Dec. 1, 1999, after claiming the time, while DowningIndianapolis for a media­Potter said. The suit, citing Knight overheard a conver­worked in the university'stion hearing. 

battery by Knight, alleges sation between him and athletic department. 

"I think it was clear when that the university was neg­Dan Dakich. Both were Downing, one of Knight's we walked out that we had ligent in supervising its for­Indiana assistant coaches former players, and bothcalled liis bluff, "Potter told mer coach. at the time. Knights have since gone toThe Associated Press. "It University spokesman Bill Felling said Knight called Texas Tech. Dakich is nowharkens back to the play­Stephan said he was him into the basketball the head coach at Bowling
ground, and when we 
unaware of the details of office and then berated him Green. 

IN BRIEF 
UCLA Player pleads no contest 
UCLA guard Shane Lehmann pleaded no contest to a misde­meanor battery charge on Tuesday and was suspended for the season opener against Colorado State. 
The fight happened in May at a bar in Westwood, where the univer­sity is located. 
Coach Bob Toledo said Lehmann, who started six games for the Bruins last season, told the coach­ing staff the day after the fight and was disciplined for violating team rules. 
"Shane was employed as security in the establishment at the time of the incident, although he was not working that night," Toledo said. "He told us he helped break up an altercation between the manager and the complainant." 
Another Bruins player, corner­back Ricky Manning Jr., turned himself in to police last week after he learned a felony warrant was issued for his arrest stemming from a fight outside a bar in April. 
Manning was released after post­ing bond for one count of felony assault, a school spokesman said. 
Toledo said then that Manning will remain a member of the team and will be allowed to play pending the outcome of the trial. 
The Bruins begin the season Saturday night against the Rams at the Rose Bowl. 
Burroghs rejoins Padres after shoulder Injury 
Sean Burroughs, the highly touted rookie who hurt his shoulder in May and then spent the last month and a half in the minors, rejoined the San Diego Padres on Tuesday. 
Also recalled from Triple-A Portland were outfielder Kory DeHaan, catcher Wil Nieves and infielder-outfielder Cesar Crespo. 
Burroughs started at third base and batted sixth against the Houston Astros. 
Burroughs, the son of 1974 AL MVP Jeff Burroughs, was San Diego's opening day third baseman, which forced the Padres to move Phil Nevin to first base and Ryan Klesko to right field. 
But Burroughs was benched on May 27 as his average dipped to .221, and four days later he was diagnosed as having a slight tear in his right rotator cuff. He originally hurt the shoulder last September while with Portland. When he came -· off the disabled list on July 15, he was sent to Portland. 
"We're sure he can play the kind of game he normally plays," manag­er Bruce Bochy said. 
Burroughs said his shoulder is .., fine. "It has its ups and its downs, sometimes it feels a little bit numb," he said. "Overall it's strong and it's not really bothering me." 
There is a chance Burroughs will need offseason surgery. 


page 32 Wednesday, September 4, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 

said. "You can put a clock out there and see if you can get that much yardage with 
Football 

the clock running and that's still hard to do." 
continued from page 36 

The Irish believe the key to containing Purdue's potent offense is to contain edly added another dimension to an either the running or passing game -a 
offense typically known for passing the difficult enough task in itself. 
ball. "We'd like to shut both down," line­
.. --, "They are a diverse offense that most backer Mike Goolsby said. "But going into people don't see as a game like this and 
being diverse, simply trying to shut one 
because you hear so aspect down, they're a
"We just have to stay
much about their talented football team." 
passing attack. But focused. Winning is the Notre Dame's with Harris, they've defense, however, is
basic thing; we can't get 
added that other still riding high after
gathered up in all this 
dimension, that really holding Maryland to stretches you as a .hype.,, zero points and just 16 
defensive team," rushing yards. 
Willingham said. And Irish historians
Carlyle Holiday
"They can spread you can take some solace in
Irish quarterback
with a number of 

the fact that when receivers and pound Parseghian and Devine 
you with their running won their second game, game. It really forces a defense to defend they both defeated the same opponent ­the entire field and that's very hard to Purdue. do." "We just have to stay focused," quarter­· Willingham isn't taking anything away back Carlyle Holiday said. "Winning is the 
from the offensive totals the Boilermakers basic thing, we can't get gathered up in posted, either, even though the offense all this hype." played a Division I-M foe. 
"If you amass the amount of yards that they amassed, I don't think it matters who Contact Andrew Soukup at you play. That's hard to do," Willingham asoukup@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Gophers return to practice after teammate's death 
Associated Press ber until 2005, when he didn't have a significant role on lineman who smiled so much," was the most hilarious guy. You would've been scheduled to the team. said quarterback and co-captain never saw him sad or upset. His MINNEAPOLIS graduate. But that doesn't mean he Asad Abdul-Khaliq. "Most all of future was limitless. man. He Minnesota's football players As a redshirt freshman and won't be missed. those guys are mean and tough, had some of the rawest talent I'd 
took the field Tuesday afternoon reserve defensive lineman. Hall "I've never seen a defensive but 95 percent of the time he ever seen." 
after attending their first classes of the fall semester, but their minds were far from the books 
or on blocking schemes. 
The Golden Gophers, still stunned by the shooting of team­mate Brandon Hall, practiced for the first time since his death early Sunday. 
"It's been a tough few days around here," coach Glen Mason said. 
The Gophers, who beat Southwest Texas State 42-0 in their season opener just a few hours before Hall was shot out­side a downtown dance club, will practice again Wednesday and Thursday before traveling south on Friday. 


They play Louisiana-Lafayette on Saturday. but nobody will be worrying about the Ragin' Cajuns much this week. , l 
"I haven't even thought about it all weekend," tight end Ben Utecht said. "The game disap­peared. Everything disap­peared." 
A memorial service, open to the public, will be held Thursday night for Hall at Williams Arena. and Mason plans to attend Monday's funeral in Detroit. 
The Gophers will wear a No. 71 patch on their jerseys for the rest of the season. In addition, the team will retire Hall's num-

The ~©tre Dame S@ccer Classic 
@ 
Presented By St. Andrews Products @ 
/ 
. 

Frida Se tember 6th 
,J 

#4 Portland vs. #14 Clemson 5:00PM #7 NOTRE DAME vs. #1 Santa Clara 7:30PM ***First 500 Fans Receive a Foam Shamrock Top Hat 






Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 33 --~----~..:.-• •••• ¦ ¦ -¦ ¦ ¦-------¦ ¦ -¦-II ¦ --¦ • -¦ ¦ ------¦--¦ -¦-----•-•-•-•-• ¦ •••••• ¦ • ¦ ¦ •
. ----.----'"-~-#·-. ·-. ... . 

AlLMajorK'W 

-

First Meeting of the semester! 
Come find out how you can earn an '" 
....

International Internship 
. 
1 
. 

j 
l 
. 
l .

Wednesday, 
I 
i 
. .
l 
i.

September 4th at 7pm l 4 
i 
4 
.j 
I 
,, I I 
I I I

141 DeBartolo Hall, . . I 
I 
j 
j 
1 
.
I 
j ~­
.

Notre Dame . I 
I 
. 
. ' 
' 
• 
•. 
I 
. 
I

AlL MajorK' W , _____. ..._.____ ! ~ 1 ' . 
' 
I 
•

-International Internships and Teaching opportunities---· . • l ' 
' 
' 
I 

---Hands on real life experiences---' 
'I 
•, I 

.,. Money prizes for competitions-­' ' j 
•
, 
' 
'

.,. Networking Opportunities-­

page 34 Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Don't blame Canada: Canuck coaches to bash heads 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Washington State to take a head­Sports Writer coaching job at Wyoming and Diedrick left for Canada. "He relates very well 
It may not seem apparent at first, but to the players," Diedrick said. "He's Canada, the land of Labatt Blue and very knowledgeable, good personality, "eh," will have a profound effect on has a good sense of humor but knows Saturday's football game between when to kick it into gear. He's a play­Notre Dame and Purdue. er's coach." 
Both Boilermaker head coach Joe Tiller and Irish offensive coordinator Good sportsmanship Bill Diedrick spent time coaching in the As Notre Dame's defense stopped Canadian Football League, a league Maryland possession after possession, where emphasis is placed on passing Irish players celebrated frequently. the ball and rushing attacks are virtu­Most notably, cornerback Shane ally non-existent. Walton swaggered toward the Irish 
Both coaches carried some of the sideline after making one interception. Canadian influence back with them to While Irish head coach Tyrone the United States. Willingham didn't 
Tiller, a defensive­have a problem his
"Ifwe trash talk to
oriented coach, players celebrating noticed the effective­ourselves. rm okay. but after big plays, he ness of a passing said he doesn't appre­
when we trash talk to our
offense and implant­ciate showboating
opponent. we have a
ed a spread offense after plays. when he took over at problem.·· "If we trash talk to Purdue. ourselves, I'm okay, 
Diedrick, mean­but when we trash
Tyrone Willingham 
while, loved throw­talk to our opponent, ing the ball so much Notre Dame head football coach we have a problem," that when he Willingham said. 
returned to "[Walton] respects, Washington in 1994, like most of our guys, he implemented a West Coast-style of our opponents. The only way you have really tired of seeing Nick run onto the Wide receiver Rhema McKnight, who 
offense. great competition is if you have great field," quarterback Carlyle Holiday left Giants Stadium with his arm in a 
"As a defensive coach, you know opponents." said, "Right now, he's the leading scor­sling, is listed as questionable for things that kind of hurt you and that er on the team, and that's not just Saturday's game, Willingham said you're weak against and as a defensive Golden foot right.... We have a lot of playmakers, after practice Tuesday. team, things that give you problems," The awards keep rolling in for Irish and Nick is a great kicker, but other Willingham also said that linebacker Diedrick said. "[Tiller] was around in kicker Nicholas Setta after he booted guys have to get in the end zone. We Courtney Watson, who missed Canada and was exposed to a lot of five field goals and was named Kickoff have to get seven instead of six.,. Saturday's game with a viral infection. open offenses. I think it was something Classic MVP last Saturday. Watson will be ready to play he caught onto and enjoyed." The senior ·was named Injured Irish Saturday. 
Tiller and Diedrick know each USAToday.com's National Player of the Running back Ryan Grant headed The other two Irish players sidelined other's offensive philosophies rather Week. toward the locker room after practice are Jason Beckstrom. who had arm well. Both served as co-offensive coor­Best of all for the Irish, Setta's suc­Saturday with a soft bandage wrapped surgery in the fall, and Jeff Thompson, dinators at Washington State from cess has caused some minor unrest around his left wrist. who has been out with an ankle injury. 1989-90, and have remained in contact among the offense. He said he injured his thumb stiff­even though they parted ways more "Nick, he's an automatic three arming a Maryland defender, and Contact Andrew Soukup at 
hopes to have it off by Thursday.

than a decade ago. In 1991, Tiller left [points], but at the same time, we're asoukup@nd.edu 
going to see teams get help 
I I

Volleyball ·------------------------------------· 
both offensively and defensive­
I I

ly," Brown said. "The reason 
why is the libero is going to be : Have you th_o11ght about :
continued from page 36 

a good passer. A good passer sons, as soon as the ball hit the is going to let you run a better net on a serve, it was a side­offense. A good defensive play­
I I teaching Religion and I I 
out. Because of the major rules er is going to dig a lot of balls. I I changes the past two seasons, We could see a little bit longer I I the competitive level between rallies and it's going to keep 
I becoming a Catechist? I
teams is closing. the game a little bit closer." 
I I
"It's hard to say [how the 

I I
game will be affected] since we have only done a little bit with Contact Matt Lozar at the libero, but I think you are mlozar@nd.edu = •• = 
I 01\(1PUS I 
I t'v11Nl5TRY I 
I I
Like sports? 
I * Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? ¦ = * Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week? : I * Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? ¦ I * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? ¦ : * Would you like to work towards catechist certification? = 
Like to write? 
Then write for· 
I I I I I I
Sports, 
I If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions~ I I come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. I I I I I I I I I 
You know you want 
: Important Informational Meeting: :
to, and we need. 
: Thursday, September 5 I 
,; 
your help! 
: 5:00-6:00 P.M. : : Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center I 
I I
Call Chris or Kat·ie 
I I 
I I 
at 1-4543. 
: I Call .John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 II 
I I 
·------------------------------------· 


Wednesday, September 4, 2002 page 35 
The Observer . TODAY 
HENRI ARNOLD

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 


HAPPY TOWN 
t-,-..\~
It's nice of you to share yoor love "of •creed' with all of \ us, but could you tum it down? 
No. Why should I? 
JACK MONAHAN 
My roommate's 
:,,-ca;,,,. 
trying to 
sleep. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
-
GALOW 
I (J
C2002 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Righta Res8'\led. 
UNGED 

CORCUN 
www.jUfOOle.com
tJMIRABU I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: A "( I I I I ) ( XX I I I ) 
(Answers Monday) 
Yesterday's j Jumbles: JUDGE PATIO ENGINE JOVIAL Answer: How the apprentice did on the carpentry test -HE "NAILEDn IT 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 28 • To order, Hnd your name, llddreu and $5.115 and make clMlck payable to Tribune Media Servtcn, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL ll0680-4330. 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD 

WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE ACROSS 34 Abby's late 64 Natural mimics sister
1 Puccini opera 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mitzi Gaynor, Tom Wats 35 Bygone Wayans
6 Grasslands DOWN 
Happy Birthday: Your ability to mix business with pleasure will Ix
37 Beyond tipsy

1oHole-making 1 Diner jarful your success. You will have innovative ideas and everyone will l 38 Hindmost brain for answers. You will be strong-willed and detennined to do thir
tool 2 Other, to Ortega
parts constructive. This should be an exciting year for you. Your number 
13 "_to Be You" 3 Stuck on board 13, 26, 38, 41
41 Rubbish 

14 Laceless shoes ARIES (March 21-April 19): Planning a quiet day at t
4 Italian aperitif 
43 Rich soil tum out to be dt_~PP,f?inp_ng. Gr4,Qµ,t, with friends instead. Some c
15 La-la lead-in 5 Sidewalk stand 
physical acti vit~flt>Ultll Yiel~1~Sl?your energy and your spirit.
44 Side by side 

drink TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It's time to deal with the b1
16 13 

46 13 vista --return those phone calls and personal e-mails. Then relax. Be
6 "Deathtrap"
18 Obedience to the sense of betrayal an in-law or close friend may provoke ii ­
50 "What's the director

school GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Gratuitous purchases are a bad i, command ?!" 7 Misappropriate moment. Put your money into entertaining yourself for a while. Once 51 Muzzleloader's something new, I.here is no telling what you might do with your new tak 
19 Defensive tackle e How fans may
load CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your family may not be too interes Warren go complaints, criticisms or disgruntled attitude. Just tty to be calm. It \\
52 Lacking thrills 
be like this, so learn to let things be.***

20 Suit to 9 Former Asian 
55 "Scram!" LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll have a tendency to take on
map abbr.
21 Smallest as well as overindulge today. Pace yourself before it's too late or ye
56 13 
yourself in a mess. It's a good time to make adjustments at he

postage hike 10 Perplexed
59 Bon_ 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be feeling critical of certain f

22 13 11 Dry with a twist 
now, but it may not be a good time to discuss the matter. Secret enen
60 Like bustards 

26 Abbreviate 12 Morning eye­
waiting for you to get into a heart-to-heart talk. You mustn't trust ·
and buzzards opener 

tell you.***
28 Letter after 61 One of the 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You can count on the people around

14 Apply (for)epsilon Muses 
whatever they can to help you reach your destination. 17 Dogtag info 
you talk about what it is you are trying to accomplish, the easier it \ 
29 "Family Feud" 62 "Chasing _ " 
to get the assistance you need. **** 
7/24102 (No. 0724)

host Anderson (1997 film) 21 Sleuth created 
by Biggers 
30 Aim for many 63 Gravitate 45 Some diner 53 Pref ix with models (toward) 23 Road sign abbr. orders tarsal 
--------------24 Thin blue line, 40 Place to go in 46 Science society 54 Grandson of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE say 
London? Xi Adam 25 It requires a PIN 
41 Capote 47 Colorful phrase 56 Hanger-on? 26 Dis nickname 
48 Los Angeles 57 Many a 42 Parish attraction, with Monopoly 30 New Left org. residence "the" property: Abbr. 
31 Controversial 44 Gild 49 Leading 58 Like l.B.J. 
Oscar recipient of 1999 Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
32 Tastes 
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. 33 "Never mind" to 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday an editor 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Norwegian past puzzles, nytimes.comldiversions ($19.95 a year). kings 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, 36 Giove material nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be very frugal and don't sh, moment The time to look out for yourself is now, and the sooner you your cash away for a rainy day, the better. ** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be confident and attracti, but when it comes to your family, you need to maintain your humilil.}' about what you say to whom. Be honest and direct. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Unpredictable distractions n some of the relationships in your life. You may want to backtrack to ll into a right, especially ifyou acted in haste. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone in a position of power may want to damage your reputation. Don't be too quick to make ct may be feeling unsettled, but now is not the time to le PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): People may want to pull you in directions today, but if you become a chameleon, you'll your point across. Listen to what others say, but form your own opin Birthday Baby: You will do everything with finesse and confidenc always take a lead position in any group you join. You are strong and intuitive. Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugen1 astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 


INTERESTED IN A CAREER IN SPORTS? 
-

The Notre Dame Sports Promotions Department is looking for Notre Dame students to help with: 
ADVERTISING GAME MANAGEMENT PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES 
Learn more at the informational meeting .... 
TONIGHT!! Wednesday, Sept. 4 -7pm Joyce Center Football Auditorium 
If interested, but unable to attend meeting, contact Kristin or Jeff at 631·8393 
.,. 

~ ---­

Wednesday, September 4, 2002 
ND VOLLEYBALL 


Irish hope to capitalize on new NCAA rule 
ByMATTLOZAR Sports Writer 
For the second consecutive season, a rule change has been made in collegiate volleyball to improve the game's overall quality and make the game more interesting. 
The libero position was added to a team's roster for the 2002 season. The primary purpose behind the libero is to help a team receive the serve and set up its offense. 
"It gives us good passing and good defense on the floor all the time," said Notre Dame volleyball coach Debbie Brown. "So I really like it." 
The libero position has numerous rules and condi­tions. She must play in the back row and can rotate in and out of the game numerous times. This player change is a rotation, not a substitution. When the libero leaves the game, she must be replaced by the player she replaced. 
"It's real easy when they go in and out, I don't have to keep track of subs. In the libero position, that's not counted as a sub," Brown said. "It really helps us in terms of giving us more flexibility to substitute other people." 
Wearing a different colored jersey from the rest of the team, the libero cannot serve, attack the net or set the ball inside the 10-foot attack line. 

One player is designated the tri-captain Keara Coughlin. every position since we do Alderete said. "It's good to get board when it wins the point, libero for an individual game Despite the restrictions move in and out depending on into the momentum of the regardless of what team in the match. A team can placed on the position in the who we are playing." game. It's a great opportunity served. Instead of playing to 15 decide to make a different game, the libero still has to Senior tri-captains Coughlin for more people to step into points, the teams play to 30. player the libero for another practice the other aspects of and Janie Alderete played the the roles they are strongest Only the deciding game of game. the game since she could be libero position at last week­in." the match is played to 15. 
"Whatever kind of serves used as a regular player. end's Shamrock Invitational. The 2001 season also saw a Also implemented in 2001 that we are coming up against, "We have the option of play­The new position provides rule change. It was the first was the continued play of a if one of us is more experi­ing in the game," Coughlin more chances for the two season when teams played by serve that hit the net and went enced in receiving those, then said. "We still need to practice seniors to contribute. the rally scoring system. over the net. In previous sea-we will be the libero for that serving. We still need to prac• "It's awesome to be on the Under rally scoring, a team individual game," said senior lice hitting and being ready for court the entire time," earns a point on the score-see VOLLEYBALL/page 34 

FOOTBALL 

Willingham looking to avoid second-game jinx 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Lou Holtz couldn't do it. Neither could Bob Davie. Gerry Faust, Terry Brennan Hugh Devore or Joe Kuharich, for that matter. 
Saturday against Purdue, Tyrone Willingham hopes to do something only two Irish coaches have done since 1950 -win his second game as Notre Dame's football coach, a feat only Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine accomplished. 

"I'll make sure I talk to Ara, then," Willingham joked at his Tuesday press conference after learning about the tendency of Irish coaches to lose the second time around. 
But Notre Dame's record in the second game of the season is far from a laughing matter. Under Davie, the Irish never won their second game of the season and Holtz won seven of 12 dur­ing his tenure with the Irish. That sobering statistic has the No. 23 Irish intently focused on beating the Boilermakers this weekend instead of relishing in their impressive 22-0 shutout of Maryland. 
However. fans and the media continue to rave about Notre Dame's impressive debut last Saturday. Players walking through the dining halls and around campus notice a renewed enthusiasm for Irish football early in this season that didn't exist last year. Couple Notre Dame's hot start with Willingham's home debut, and everyone seems to be fawning over the Irish. 
"The truth of the matter is we haven't done anything yet," Willingham said. "One game never makes a season." 
Saturday. the Irish will be fac­ing the Boilermakers for the sec­ond time in three games -Notre Dame beat Purdue 24-16 in the 2001 season finale. Since that meeting, the Irish changed coaches, scrapped the option offense that ranked 114th in the nation in scoring and instilled a pro-style offense which gained 356 yards against Maryland. 
But the Boilermakers aren't exactly the same offense squad the Irish faced last December. In its 51-10 blowout of Division I· AA Illinois State last week, Purdue quarterback Kyle Orton threw for 250 yards and three touchdowns to earn his first career victory as a starter. 
The big surprise, however. was the success of the Boilermakers' running game. Joey Harris, who gained 144 yards on 23 carries. single-hand­
see FOOTBALL/page 32 



FOOTBALL 

It's a battle for bragging rights in Canada, as former Canadian Football League coaches Joe Tiller (now head coach at Purdue} and Bill Diedrick (now offensive coor­dinator at Notre Dame) will go head-to-head on Saturday. Also, read about more honors for Irish kicker Nicholas Setta, and several Irish players who were bitten by the injury bug. 
page 34 







