
Mixing Marchers and Protesters
SUNNY 

Thursday

Members of Notre Dame ROTC participated in their annual Presidential Pass in Review in Loftus as students in Pax Christi protested near 
APRIL 25, 
HIGH 53° 
Stonehenge.
LOW3S0 
2002
News . page 3 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary~ 
VOL XXXVI NO. 132 

Suspect contests allegation 
threw a football at him and and registered a .00 on a
• Keenan Hall 
then tried to tackle him. The Breathalyzer test but did notresident claims he alleged victim then said he make a statement at that time. brandished knife "tried to just hold [the suspect] The alleged victim disagreed 
without any other scuffie." with the alleged suspect's
in self-defense 
After he released the suspect, account of the incident. the alleged victim said the sus­"All I have to say is that [his pect displayed a butterfly knife account of the incident] is aBy SCOTT BRODFUEHRER and moved towards him. The surprise to me and I have lots
Assisranr News Ediror 
man said he backed away from of witnesses who will tell other­the suspect into radiator at the wise [and confirm my account 
The suspect in Saturday end of the hallway. At that time, of the incident]." the victim morning's alleged assault con­the alleged victim said he tried said. tested the alleged victim's to diffuse the situation and the On Tuesday, NDSP Assistant 
account of the story Wednesday suspect eventually went into a Director Charles Hurley said and claimed he brandished his the suspect threatened the
room. 

knife in self-defense after the But Wednesday night, the alleged victim while holding a victim tackled him. suspect told The Observer that weapon, which the alleged vic­The Notre Dame the alleged victim threw the tim identified as a butterflySecurity/Police Department is football at him first and then he knife. investigating the incident that threw it back. He said that the "Apparently, there was a allegedly took place at 1:25 alleged victim then tackled him. statement made [by the sus­
a.m. in a hallway of the fourth­"He was kind of sitting on me, pect] that made the victim feel floor of Keenan Hall. and I couldn't breathe. I like there would be physical
In an interview with The 
showed him the knife because violence. There was contact 
Observer Tuesday, the alleged he was a lot bigger than me between the suspect and the 
victim, a St. Edward's Hall resi­and l didn't want to end up in victim and a weapon was seen dent, said that he left his the infirmary," said the suspect. in the hands of the suspect,"friends' Keenan Hall room to The suspect said that police said Hurley. pick up a pizza. He said he was officers and his rector spoke to walking down the hall when the him later that night in his RA's suspect, who lives in the room. He said that he was Contact Scott Brodfuehrer at Keenan room he was visiting, brought to the Security Building brodfuehrer. l@nd.edu. 
:/I · · 


Johnson reveals uncommon life 
ality as a basis to cope with By KIFLIN TURNER their own inner conflicts. 

Associate News Editor 
The group was formed one 
year ago by students who 

Speaking to a room full of wanted to confront eating dis• women who knew all too well orders from a spiritual per­what it as like to be uncom­spective. To achieve these mon, Chandra Johnson, assis-· goals. the students asked tant to University President Johnson to act as advisor for Father the group. Edward 
Johnson's own unconven­Malloy, tional, yet ambitious life-story voiced her provided inspiration to the story and group as she moved from her the stories family in Los Angeles to start of women a new and strikingly different Biblical life as a 38 year-old under­figures on graduate student at Notre the journey Dame. to over-Johnson "To literally recreate my life come chal-was the right thing to do," lenges in reaching a higher said Johnson. level of self-awareness. Now as a leader in the Notre 
The talk, sponsored by A Dame community, Johnson is Life Uncommon, a faith-based helping to redefine the lives of group of University women, other undergraduate women meets weekly to discuss eating disorder issues using spiritu-see LIFE/page 7 

Bishop, Senate voice student concerns 
• Bishop says student union is in the crossroads in annual address 
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES 
Assistant News Editor 
Student Body President Libby Bishop said the student union is at a crossroads dur­ing her State of the Student Union address. 
According to Bishop, this crossroads refers to the "huge group of students still feeling frustrated about the lack of input, but also the intersecting group of stu­dents who are writing in to the administration and voic­ing their opinion." 
"It is not necessarily two completely separate groups of students but also other signs of student voices emerging," said Bishop. 
Bishop stressed that the student union will only be strong if the correct path from this crossroads is fol­lowed. This path includes converting student concerns into constructive dialogue before student frustration becomes student apathy. 
"We are going to try to 
build upon this interest of student involvement to use it in a constructive ways to get students involved with stu­dent government," she said. 
According to Bishop, the number of e-mails in her inbox. the students that stop her on the quad and student letters to the administration are indicators that students are utilizing their voice. 
Bishop called on her staff and other student leaders to use their potential "by being effective in our communica­tion with administrators and also the student body." 
Citing the motivation of University administrators to improve Notre Dame, Bishop said that her direction is to work with the administra­tion. She said that she believes that by being honest and coordinating meetings with the administration that both bodies can benefit by strengthening the student union. 
Bishop and her staff have made some headway· by accomplishing effective com­munication with administra­tors. 
According to Bishop, their most encouraging meeting was with Bill Kirk, who was "open and honest about talk-
see SPEECH/page 7 


KYLIE CARTER/The Observer 

Student Body President Libby Bishop delivers her State of the Student Union address to the Senate during Its Wednesday meeting. 
. Senators pass revised hall dance resolution unanimously 

By MEGHANN£ DOWNES 
Assistant News Editor 
In their last meeting of the school year, the Senate revisit­ed the proposed alcohol policy and unanimously passed a new resolution concerning in-hall dances. 
This resolution differs from the 11th-hour resolution that the Senate passed before Father Mark Poorman,. vice president for Student Affairs, formally announced the pro­posed alcohol policy changes at a March 25 Campus Life Council meeting. That resolu­tion failed to make the 2/3 majority by one vote. 
Kevin Connolly, chair of the Residence Life Committee, said the first resolution "criticized the way in which the policy was drafted" and addressed more than in-hall dances. This resolution also strongly stressed the lack of student involvement in the formation of the alcohol policy. 
The first resolution stated 

see SENATE/page 7 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, April 25, 2002 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Wax Hands 

A few days ago, I saw a poster for Antostal, 
and, amidst all of the exciting planned events, I 
spotted the words "wax hand" for this Friday. I 
was immediately whisked back in time about five 
months. 
It's December, it's finals, and our wonderful student union board is con­cerned with us students being too stressed out. So they give us a stress reliever break by supplying us with crayons, cookies, music, jump ropes, massages, karaoke -in short, every­thing that comes to mind when you think of the word fun. And to top it all off, the event's posters proudly announce one thing that completely sparked my curiosity and interest: wax hands. 
Excited about this strange event, I convince my friend Charles to come along. "There will be wax hands!" I tell him. "I don't know what that means, but if SUB is bring­ing them in for us, it has to be wonderful. We'll love it!" So he's sold. 
We enter Lafortune Ballroom expectantly, and our eyes are dazzled with kids having fun all around us. Once in the wax hand line, we are asked to sign a waiver, and the first caution flag goes up in our minds. How can you get hurt or killed from something fun and relaxing? 
We're finally through the line, and the two carnies in charge of the event tell us to dip our hands in the cooler full of ice. OK. So we do. And our hands get cold. Then really cold. Then I start hopping around, waiting for the man to tell me that I am allowed to take my hands out of the ice. I want to cry, Charles is mad at me for coerc­ing him into this horror, and I wonder why I am doing this. How badly do I want a wax replica of my hand? Why was everyone else going along with this? 
Then, finally, we are allowed to take our hands out of the ice. To immediately have to dip them in a pot of hot wax. We are instructed to dip in for three seconds, then out for three, for about five minutes. Hot wax. 
My hands are numb from the ice, but after a while the numbness starts to wear off, and I acci­dentally dip too far in a couple times, past the numb area, burning my wrist. 
Once the wax is dry, one of the carnies whips out his credit card, cuts around the base of our hands, and yanks on this wax structure until our poor abused hands are finally free. 
And then I look at that strange wax hand, and think about when I was little, and I would stub my toe, and my dad would jokingly offer to step on my foot to help me forget about the first pain. Well, while I was killing off my nerve endings and immersing my hand in scorching wax I can tell you I was not thinking at all about any papers or finals. Thank you, SUB, for relieving my stress. Thanks, better yet, for giving me and all my friends the opportunity to relive this experience this Friday for Antostal. 
Whoo-hoo! 
Contact Kylie Carter at kcarter@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Kylie Carter 
Lab Tech 

CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publicacion and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xccpt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mcmbet of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday  Friday  
. Lecture: 5 p.m.,"Surprise  . Opera: 7:30 p.m., "The  
Twists in a Career Path,"  Magic Flute," Washington  
O'Shaughnessy, room 242  Hall  
. Antostal: 3 p.m., Tie-Dye  
Fun with snowcones and  
music, Fieldhouse Mall  

Saturday Sunday 
. Movies: 7:30 p.m. and . Concert: 3 p.m., Notre 10 p.m., "Vanilla Sky," Dame Brass Ensemble, DeBartolo, room 101 Band Building 
. Movie on the Quad: 9 
p.m., "Ferris Bueller's Day Off," North Quad 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Connecticut law requires students to get vaccine 
STORRS, Conn. 

Thousands of college students across the state of Connecticut are rolling up their sleeves to take a nee­dle in the arm. A state law now requires all college students who live in university housing to get the pre­ventative vaccine for Meningoccal disease. 
Meningitis is a bacterial infection that is potentially deadly. 
Sheila Burke, the assistant director of Health Services at Quinnipiac University, said that most students are responding to having to get the vaccine in a positive manner -as something they just have to do. 
"It is so new we haven't dealt with it before," Sheila Wheeler, the Heath Services Director at Sacred Heart University said. 
She also said that so far the stu­dents have not been affected because the law begins to take effect this fall. 

The state law requires that stu­dents who attend colleges or univer­sities in the state, public or private and live in housing must receive the vaccine. 
The law also requires that the uni­versities and colleges provide infor­mation to students and prospective students about meningitis. 
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Student newspaper files complaint 
MINNEAPOLIS 
The Minnesota Daily filed a complaint Tuesday with the Minneapolis Police Department's Internal Affairs Division. The complaint claimed officers infringed on Daily journalists' First Amendment rights during the April 7 riot following the Gophers NCAA hockey champi­onship, Daily Editor in Chief Mike Wereschagin said. ''We feel what happened to the photographers and reporters was wrong, and this is the sort of thing police should not do," he said. According to written statements in the com­plaint, a photographer was pushed to the ground from behind and kicked in the back. When a reporter went to help the photographer, she was sprayed directly in the face with chemical irritant. Two other photographers were sprayed in the face with chemical irritant and hit repeatedly with a riot stick. Two photographers had press passes displayed in the middle of their chests, and the others told police officers they were members of the press, according to the complaint. "The Minnesota Daily strongly objects to what we feel was the specific and sys­tematic targeting of members of the press by the Minneapolis Police Department," the complaint said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWcather'" forecast for daytime conditions and hi h temperatures 

~,._~9'~~~ b~ 

Showets T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Asoociatsd p,-G,.,,,,,k:sNet 
State Rep. Mary Eberle, the co­chair of the public health committee, said that the vaccine is very safe and is a preventative measure for stu­dents. 
"For a couple of reasons, [meningi­tis] attacks very quickly and is often fatal," she said. "Kids away from home don't realize they might be sick." 
The Centers for Disease Control's Web site states that meningitis is an infection of spinal cord and the fluid that surrounds a person's brain. It also states the difference between viral and bacterial meningitis is very important in treating it. According to the Web site, viral meningitis is not as serious and can be taken care of without specific treatment while bac­terial meningitis can be treated with antibiotics. 
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Protest mocks Mideast tension 
NEW YORK 
Three New York University students gathered on Union Square in New York last night to protest the American and Canadian occupation of -each other. The students stood within three feet of each other, held small signs of protest and shouted at each other, attracting attention and a crowd of about 10 friends and passersby. "We're in a rally to end the Canadian occupation of the United States. Meanwhile, he's in a rally to end the American occupation of Canada," freshman Jesse Unkenholz said. Meanwhile, freshman Ron Hackel explained the true motive behind the rally. "There have been lots of demon­strations here recently about occupation and aggression -Israeli aggression -the occupation of Palestine and all this stuff," Hackel said. "We're trying to point out that that kind of language can be really misleading -language of occupation and aggression." Hackel added holding oppos­ing protests, as Israeli and Palestinian groups did on cam­pus last week, is pointless. "The Israeli protesters yell and shout, and then the Palestinian protesters yell and shout. They all argue with each other, and it doesn't us get any­where," he said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon,Thursday, April 25. 

C 2002 AccuWeather, Inc.  COLO  WARM  STATIONARY  
Prnlurt: ® © High Low  filJ IT;].Showue ~¦ In T4 ¦ torme  ,~ Flurrtea  lfil' Snow  ETI Ice  0 Sunny  ~;~ Pt. Cloudy  fi~ Cloudy  
V1a Associated Press  
Atlanta  75  51  Las Vegas  83  61  Portland  60  44  
Baltimore  62  44  Memphis  69  50  Sacramento  72  48  
Boston  53  43  Milwaukee  49  34  St. Louis  64  46  
Chicago  56  36  New York  54  46  Tampa  87  70  
Houston  77  66  Philadelphia  60  46  Washington  64  48  

•-;_ 1\)\ . f 1:"I ", r.: .,.... I
\ t: \ t 


Thursday, April 25, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ROTC hosts review, Pax Christi protests 

with the moral awareness of the Warner listened to the group's lowed the ceremony, but they statement against ROTC's pres­
By HELENA PAYNE Notre Dame ROTC program, concern, but Malloy did not read stressed the significance of the ence on campus, that would be News Editor 
Feeney said. He added that the the pre-written speech. which event in all ROTC programs. when it would happen." 
University should work more with highlights the Christian just-war "For ROTC members, it's their Members maintained they did 
Shortly after ROTC's annual ROTC participants to "form their theory and Catholic Social key military event of the year," not want to disturb the ceremony, Presidential Pass in Review consciences," which he said Teaching as said Col. Mark which is why they moved the occurred Monday night in Loftus, included approaching the use of ways to deal Gehri of Air protest to Stonehenge from the about 30 students organized by warfare with a Catholic or with military "/ thought they [Pax Force ROTC. doors of Loftus, where Pax Christi Pax Christi gathered to protest Christian perspective. conflict. "It's the only protested last year. At least 20
Christi] made strides of
ROTC. This year's protest stemmed During the time when the ROTC students attended the
improvement in 
"We are furiously concerned largely from a speech Pax Christi Monday night entire corps Waiting for Malloy protest on that the Catholic school of Notre wrote for University President protest, Feeney communicating their gets together Stonehenge Monday, including Dame is not training future offi­Father Edward Malloy to present read the entire to give thanks junior Andrew DeBerry of Air
respect for those involved 
cers in the rich tradition neces­at the ROTC ceremony, where he speech. It also to the Force ROTC who has been collab­
in ROTC."
sary to make good and informed is always recognized by Notre appears on University for orating with Pax Christi this year decisions about war." said Pax Dame students of the armed page 15 of its support." to better understand how to work Christi leader senior Tom Feeney forces. today's He added together.
Andrew DeBerry
after the rally. Malloy's office redirected the Observer. that the cadets "I thought they made strides of
Air Force ROTC cadet
Pax Christi-Notre Dame, "a group to Father Richard Warner, Feeney said can also improvement in communicating group of students dedicated to director of Campus Ministry and Pax Christi had remind the their respect for those involved prayer and political action for the ROTC chaplain, and they met three specific campus of with ROTC. I think they bring up peace of Christ," was concerned Monday morning. Feeney said goals it hoped to attain from the their committed patriotism. some good issues for the 
protest: spark dialogue "in the Likewise, Pax Christi used the University to address, such as not 
context of friendship" on the event to speak out for what its having a clear class available on 
issue, raise institutional questions members feel is the moral obliga­Catholic approaches to war," said 
and press for the administration tion of the University concerning DeBerry. 
to make reforms in ROTC curricu­ROTC training. 
lum. "It's sort of the ritual of ROTC's 
Many at the Pass in Review presence on campus," said Contact Helena Payne at were aware of the protest that fol-Feeney. "So if you were to make a payne.30@nd.edu.
The Anniversary Party 

Attention Seniorslll 

Final Class
directed by and starring Jennifer Jason Leigh 
Mass 
N@clnerna 
THURSDAY, APRIL25 
This Sunday

Friday and Saturday 7:30 pm, Washington Hall 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
> 
University of Notre Dame 
"O 
2: .., 
April 28th
7:00 PM 
~ i 
~ ­
FREE ADMISSION 
PRESE:NTE:D BY 

~ !Senior Citizens/Students 
T . 1E: D E:PARTMENT OF" FILM, TE:LEVISIDN AND THEATRE 
Tickets available al LaForlune Box Office or by phone: (574) 631-8128. 
Call (574) 631-6201 for Information 


What you've missed: NASCAR Simulation Free Laundry Chik-Fil-A Breakfast "The Goonies" Herps Alive Reptile Show £Too bad, eh?J 
@]) 
TODAY! 
Thursday1 April 25, 3pm-6pm 
Tie-Dying. Snow Cones, and Music Fieldhouse Mall (LaFortune Ballroom) 
[Rain Locations) 
Tomorrow! 

Friday. April 26, 12pm-6:30pm 
Inflatables, Wax-Hands, Live Music from "OK Go" North Quad (Stepan Center) 
7 p.m. 
The 
Grotto 

Father BilI Lies Refreshments 
to follow 

Come celebrate 
with the 

Class of 2002 
....-... 
-~·w---~~­

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 25, 2002 
Panel discusses Mideast 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Writer 
A panel discussion dealing with the Israeli-Palestinian crisis entitled "Making Sense of a Crisis: What is Happening in the Middle East?" was hosted by the College of Arts and Letters Wednesday night in Walsh Hall. 
As the crisis between the Israeli and Palestinian people escalates, the world struggles to understand the vjo}ence. 
"Along with our privileged state at Notre Dame comes certain responsibilities one of which is to address political and social justice issues," said Professor John Duffy, who served as moderator for the evening. 
The panel consisted of Professors Keir Leiber and Patrick Gaffney and two stu­dents, Anthony Lusvardi and Rachel Smith, who participat­ed in the Notre Dame Jerusalem program in 2000. 
As Americans, the majority of information regarding the situation comes from the mass media that deals mainly with the after-effects of the conflict rather then giving explanations of the cultural, political and religious roots leading to such conflict, panel members said. 
Mixing history with current facts and personal opinion, each panel member spoke for about ten minutes. · 
Smith, who lived with a· Palestinian family for a sum­mer, offered a personal per­spective on the crisis. She was struck by the great dis­parities of wealth in the Gaza City between the Israeli set­tlement and the Palestinian Lusvardi said that the American media is biased toward Israel and he chal­lenged the audience to strive to see the full picture by con­sulting British sources and being critical readers. 

Much like the American media, Lusvardi secs the United States foreign policy 
town. She also said that the Palestinians have a mentality of "defeatism or having nothing to lose." 
Leiber, a Government professor, focused on policy impli­cations of 

"Along with our privileged state at Notre Dame comes certain responsibilities one of which is to address polit­ical and socialjustice issues.,. 
John Duffy panel discussion moderator 
as bias. " The United States is not neutral in this con­f I i C t ,because it gives mon­etary aid to Israel," he said. 
B u t Gaffney s a i d , "There are many ways 
the crisis. He believed that the current military opera­tion by Israel was, in the short-term, quite effective in it.s goal of stopping terrorist bombings. But as long-term solution, Leiber said "a pure­ly military solution will not work." 
Though he concedes the United States has a far more sympathetic policy toward Israel, he said he sees the "real tragedy as the Palestinian story." 
As an American student, Lusvardi focused on the American media perspective. 

to tell a story." 
Focusing primarily on his­tory of the region, Gaffney challenged the audienGe to learn background. Gaffney believes history can give clues to present violence because of, "deep wounds that continue to fester." 
"The status quo is not good for anyone: Israeli, Palestinian, or America," Lusvardi said. 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdal5ing@nd.edu. 
Married poet duo to perform at SMC 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 
Joel Peckham Jr. and Susan Atefat Peckham arc writers, poets and teachers. They are also married to each other. 
In celebration of "National Poetry Week" the Department of English is sponsoring the husband and wife poets' joint reading of their work tonight in Stapleton Lounge at 7 p.m. 
The couple currently lives in Michigan with their two young chil­dren. Both are professors at Hope College and share duties in a part­nership so that both have time with the children, each other and their work. 
"We call it literally five hours, five hours. I work from eight to one and Susan works from one to six," Peackham said. "We have five hours to get everything done, which has actually made me a more disciplined writer, splitting [time] between my scholarship and creative writing, I turn out a lot more work than most of my writer friends who aren't mar­ried and have children." 
Peckham's first book, "Nightwalking," was published in 2001 by Pecan Grove Press and was his first poetry collection. Peckham also writes scholarly reviews, articles and is a scholar of American Literature. 
"You don't write poetry to make money. It's something you do because you can't stop," Peckham said. 
Susan Atefat Peckharn's first book "That Kind of Sleep," is this year's winner of the National Poetry Series and is published by Coffee House Press. In addition to writing, Atefat Peckham is also a musician and a painter. As an undergraduate, she earned a pre-med degree from Baylor University, but instead of con­tinuing on to medical school, she stayed at Baylor and received her 
M.A. in English, where she and her husband met at a Byron seminar. 
"I don't think I knew I was going to be a writer," Atefat Peckham said. "It's something you just fall into, you do it because you need to." 
Atcfat Peckham explained that she is a "multi-task person" and so she thinks about and writes her poems in her mind during the school year and then writes books during the sum­mer. 
"I teach to support my habits, but the ideal job is to teach writing," Atefat Peckham said. "I can't believe I get paid to teach people what I love. I feel very lucky to have an academic job, I love my students and they are invigorating." 
Peckham and Atefat Peckham will also be speaking at a poetry work­shop in Haggar Parlor from 12:30 to 
1:30 p.m. Friday afternoon. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 


------------· . 


ATION 
Thursday, April 25, 2002 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
IRA denies Co1ombian terrorist ties: 
The Irish Republican Army has not trained rebels in Colombia, the group insisted Wednesday as a U.S. congressional report accused it of spreading terror in the South American nation. "The IRA has not inter­fered in the internal affairs of Colombia and will not do so," the IRA said in a statement. 
Mystery virus spreads in Greece: 
Seven new cases of a mystery virus sus­pected of causing a potentially fatal heart inflammation were reported Wednesday. So far three people, all adults, have died from the infection. Doctors urged Greeks to remain calm as the total reported cases of the ailment reached 39 since officials began counting on April 18. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Colorado fires displace thousands: 
A 1,400-acre wildfire jumped from treetop to treetop Wednesday as gusting winds pushed it past containment lines and authorities evacuated this mountain town. About 1,000 homes and a dozen businesses were threat­ened, but none had been burned. Crews stood ready to defend downtown buildings as about 200 firefighters battled the fire, assist­ed by aircraft dropping slurry. At least four schools were closed and a stretch of Highway 285 was shut down. Sheriffs deputies were gearing up for more evacuations. 
Committee passes discrimination ban: 
Legislation to ban workplace discrimination against homosexuals is headed back the Senate floor, its prospects seemingly improved this year by support from corporate America. The bill was approved Wednesday by the Democrat-con­trolled Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pension Committees. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
County jail escapee still missing: 
A Scott County jail inmate remained at large Wednesday following a weekend escape while helping with a campaign dinner for the sheriff. Joshua Campbell, 22. of Austin was helping deliver food to a Knights of Columbus hall for Scott County Sheriff Tommy Herald when he asked for permis­sion to go to the restroom and never returned, Detective Lymon Gobin said. Campbell was being held on charges of flee­ing police and public intoxication. 
Market Watch April 24 

Dow 
10,030.43 -58.81 

Jones 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) +2.02 +0.06 3.48 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.00 +0.42 14,43 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.15 -0.19 8.66 NASTAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -1. 54 -0. 51 32. 50 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -5.58 -0.62 10.50 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
YUGOSLAVIA 


Associated Press 

BELGRADE 
Yugoslavia delivered indictments for 18 war crimes suspects to a Belgrade court Wednesday, and the coun­try's former army com­mander said he would sur­render to the U.N. tribunal the next day. 
The 18 suspects include the most-wanted fugitives -former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and his wartime comman­der Gen. Ratko Mladic ­court officials said. 
The rest are either Yugoslav citizens or Bosnian Serbs who have 
been hiding in Serbia, Yugoslavia's larger repub­
lic. All have refused to turn themselves in voluntarily despite government pleas. 
Besides those indicted, six suspects have promised to turn themselves in to the court, including former army commander Gen. Dragoljub Ojdanic. He said he would surrender to the 
U.N. tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands, on Thursday. 
Delivery of the U.N. war crimes tribunal indict­ments to the Belgrade court is the first step in a process Yugoslavia hopes will end in the arrest and transfer of war crimes sus­pects to the U.N. court. 
The court, as a next step, must issue warrants and order police to arrest the suspects. But it could be weeks or months before any extraditions take place, even if police make arrests.. 
Ojdanic, who led govern­ment forces against ethnic Albanians and NATO dur­ing the 1998-99 war over Yugoslavia's Kosovo province, said he will leave for The Hague aboard a commercial Yugoslav Airlines flight. 
"I have nothing to fear, nothing to be ashamed of -my conscience is absolutely clear," Ojdanic told reporters at his Belgrade home. "With this modest act, I want to give my own contribution to ending my country's pari­ah status in the interna­tional community." 
Ojdanic said it was his task to "prove his own innocence and defend the honor of the Yugoslav sol­diers" before the U.N. court. 
Ojdanic said he had decided to surrender after parliament adopted a new law allowing extraditions. He claimed the army had "behaved honorably" in Kosovo and dismissed alle­gations the military com­mitted war crimes. 
NIGERIA 

Oil hostage negotiations resume 
Francisco-based ChevronTexaco said. ers" from Canada, Britain and
Associated Press 

Nearly 20 men from the village of Thailand. IAGOS Ilaje stormed the rig on Sunday, seizing Most of the workers were employed 
U.S. oil companies and Nigerian 88 workers and blocking off the heli­by Noble Drilling, but two authorities pressed negotiations copter landing ~eek, oil company oili-ChevronTexaco workers were also Wednesday for the release of dozens of cials said. . being held, ChevronTexaco said. Nigerian and international workers The rig is five miles from Escravos, A new round of negotiations held hostage on an oil rig off southern the site of a major oil export terminal. Wednesday involving ChevronTexaco, Nigeria. Talks Tuesday led to the release of Noble Drilling, government officials 
Noble Drilling, the Sugar Land, 45 hosm.ges. The identities and nation­and local community leaders was Texas-based contractor that operates alities of the remaining 43 captives under way, the ChevronTexaco the rig, said in a statement it was "opti­were not disclosed. spokesman said. The company would mistic that the situation will be A ChevronTexaco spokesman in not say where. resolved amicably." Lagos said the 88 original captives "We are optimistic that we can put 
Most of the original group of foreign­were "mainly Nigerians and this crisis behind us very soon," the ers taken hostage were Americans, San Americans" and included a "few oth-spokesman said. 


page6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, , April 25, 2002 

Coleman-Morse Center • 63t-i800 

Eucharistfc·AdQratfon· . 
11 :30 a.m. ~· 4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass'·· 
8:00 p.m.. , Hammes Student t,ounge Coleman-Morse Center 
campus Ministry Choirs' Dance 
9:30pm-2:00 a.m; • Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA-Mystagogia 
1.0;00 a:m. '. 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 
ND Women's· liturgical Choir 
Basilica Schola•Concert 
s:oo p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

The W~y Bi~l~ Stu~y 
8:30, p;nt.,. 331 Coleman-Morse Center · 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m: -·11:00 p.m. 
Fisher Hall Cha,per 
Senior Auditiotis for ·· Commencement Mass arid Senior's Last V1Sitto:th~<Grotto · 
0 -, ~, , ---. -. 
4:00 p.m. . . . .·· , . BasiliQa of the Sacred Hear( 
(Also\v-~~da:¼ ~ay{~!!~~,!19QII) 
·---~ ,/-_:: ~::. ', -, " ­
-3-, 
Saturd.,y,', ~ril;~~..Mass ·, '· 
• • ., ...'I. '-0 ,.,.. ~ •·.. .,.. " . ~ . ,_. ' 
Spanish Mass . . . ·' ' 
,, ','J¾··· ., ..~ •.· " ' 
1:30 p.m./ZahmHall Chape.l 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.mi; lawiSchool Chapel 
MBAM~s 
7:00 p.n,.;; MendQza COB Chapel, 

What are you living for? 
¦ by Fr. Bill Wack, c.s.c. Director, Freshman Retreat Program 
Now that seems like a strange title for a column by someone in Campus Ministry! First ofall, I'm not implying that I think you should be dead or anything like that. I am simply asking you to think about your life's goal. What is it that you hope for, now and after your death? While these questions are not usually a pare of our everyday conversations, I believe they should be asked again and again. 
This quest is nothing new. Ever since humans have been around we have been trying to uncover the meaning of life. Even a cursory glance through the Scriptures shows this (for example, see Job, the Psalms, Ecclesiastes, or the prophets, not to mention Jesus' teachings in the Gospels). It is really very human to ask the ultimate question: "What is the meaning of (my) life?" 
Many will tell us that this question is un-answerable. Life is a mystery, after all. There is no way we can understand it, or know why we are here for chat matter. Others think that they know the answer and they are happy to tell you: The goal of (your) life is to do as well as you can for yourself. You are put here to achieve, to obtain, to accomplish, to amass wealth, and to get the most out oflife. Get a good job. Get married and raise a family. Live beyond your means. Be comfortable. You aren't responsible for others around you. 
While some of these may, indeed, happen to you (and certainly are not inherently bad), these 
should be regarded as blessings from God and not goals in themselves. Even though many voices in 
our culture and society seem to be telling 
us to watch out only for ourselves, Jesus came 
to teach us another way. How might he 
answer these questions? 
"We would do well to remember constantly that we Why are we here? 
We are God's beloved children, created
live in order to get to Heaven 
in the image and likeness ofGod. We were 
with God." created in love in order to love and serve God 
and our neighbor in this life, so that we can 
be eternally happy in the next. 
What am I living for? 
Simply put: to get to Heaven and to help others get there, too. This is the goal and endpoint ofall 
human life. In his very oft-quoted saying, St. Augustine states this beautifully: "Our hearts are rest­
less, 0 God, until at last they rest in You." There is no other reason for living. Jesus poses the terrify­
ing question, "What does it profit a person to gain the whole world and lose his[/her] soul in the 
process?" (Mt 16:26). Everything we see and have here on earth will vanish one day, but the souls of 
the just rest forever in God. 
This may seem to be a curious topic about which to write for the last Considerations Column for this year. But it's something I have been thinking about for some time now, and I believe it is a topic which absolutely deserves our attention. It would appear as though we have forgotten why we are here, judging from che many evils we see perpetrated in the world and in ourselves. Without remembering why we were put here or where we hope to go when we die, we become selfish and prideful. 
To counter chis sinful attitude, we would do well to remember constantly that we live in order to get to Heaven with God. Ifwe were really convinced ofthis, we would only want to serve ochers, help those in need, forgive those who wrong us immediately, turn rhe ocher cheek, build a world where all of God's children can live in peace and with justice, and, in short, live like Jesus lived. 
In this Easter season we celebrate God's greatest gift to humankind, salvation in Jesus Christ. Now that Jesus has been raised up to Heaven, we pray chat we will soon follow. Bue we won't get there ifwe focus only on ourselves. We won't get there ifwe disregard our neighbor in need. And we won't gee there simply by asserting that we are a disciple of Christ. Rather, "Only those who do the will of my Father shall enter the Kingdom of Heaven'' (Mt 7:21). 
"Seek ye first the Kingdom of God ... and all these things will be added unto you" (Mt 6:33). Now THAT'S something to live for! 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
¦ SUOdaV'S ScriPbn Beadings 1It Rdg Acts 6; 1-7 2 nd Rdg 1 Pt 2:4-9 Gospel John 14: 1-12 
Thursday, April 25, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
· 
STUDENTS! 
congratulate this year's grads with aspecial ad in 
the graduation edition of 
the Obseruer! 
your space

Reserve by April 30th! 
Call 631-6900 
This Week in the Department of Music 

Tue. April 23:  Peter Kurdzeil, graduate organ recital  
8:00 pm, Basilica. Free admission.  
Thurs. April 25:  Rexphil Rallanka, graduate organ recital  
8: 15 pm, Basilica. Free Admission.  
Fri. April 26:  ND Opera: The Magic Flute  
7:30 pm, Washington Hall. Tickets ($3-6):  
Lafortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128  
Sat. April 27:  Daniel Tonozzi, senior cello recital  
w/ Jacqueline Schmidt, piano  
2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission.  
Sat. April 27:  Sean Downey, graduate tuba recital  
5:30 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium.  
Free admissioll.  
Sat. April 27:  ND Opera: The Magic Flute  
7:30 pm, Washington Hall. Tickets ($3-6):  
Lafortune Box Office, (574) 631-8128  
Sun. April 28:  ND Brass Ensemble  
3 pm, Band Bulding. Free admission.  

Call 631-6201 for more information 

SUMMERJOBS • ENVIRONMENT 
Don't let Indiana become the nuclear cros.,roads of America 

top the Transportation of High-level Nuclear Wastel Mobile Chernobyl 
The proposed storage facilily ha., repeatedlyfailed all scimtific crita-ia for rontainment 
Are you staying in the South Bend area this summer? The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to staff environmental and consumer rights campaigns. 
Citiuns Action Coalition is a twenty~ght year old citiuns lobby organization. 
WJdt 350,000 members ltatefride, we routinely baffle dae larpsf llfilffies and poDuten ln Indiana on bebalf' of citizem ••. and win! We are working to stop the transportation ofhigh-level nuclear waste toYuoca Min. in Nevada Help stop thirty years ofradioactive railroads and highways in Indillilll. 
Work M-F 2-10:30 pm~Earn $350-$425/wk-¢-Work outdoor~ Sleep Late-~sual atmosphere ... Serious work. 
Call 232-7905 for more information. 
For-otner offt.ees, cnec.~ l,{S out Olil.L~lll.t www.eLtact.cr0 

Tort Wayne: 260-<IZS-4 . 92 Indinu:-,olis: 517-ZO!l-3555 
Life 
continued from page 1 
facing similar pressures that she once faced as a student. 
"I think we're helping to enhance the culture at Notre Dame for women in a way that's more conducive to our lifestyle and to our ways of thinking," said Johnson. 
Frequently referring to the Bible, Johnson cited the lessons and stories of some of its women as a source of reflection and strength in improving personal will. 
Johnson pointed to the cre­ation storv in the Bible in relating Eve's self-doubt to the struggles of many other women in identifying healthy self-images. 
"Our power rests in that we're not afraid to share our story," said Johnson of the women gathered around to hear her message. "Whenever I share my story, someone is healed -and that has to do with God," she said. 
In defining what it means to be uncommon, Johnson cited society's paradigms that confine women to fit into unrealistic standards and roles. 
"Living a life uncommon has everything to do with 
self-esteem," said Johnson. "It has everything to do with your belief in God -it's a faith issue," she said. 
In the Garden of Eden, Johnson likened Eve's temp­tation to outside, worldly dis­tractions that can often influ­ence a person in assessing their own self-worth. 
Even though Eve had everything, she still felt she wasn't enough, said Johnson. By going outside of herself to achieve more was the path she and countless other women choose from societal pressures she said. Accepting yourself as you truly are is important in reaching inner spiritual peace said Johnson. 
"When you believe in Christ, you believe without a shadow of a doubt, that we were created in the likeness of God," said Johnson. 
It begins from within by controlling inner perceptions about the self, said Johnson. Through this reflection, women gain strength in knowing that it begins from within she said. 
"To live a life uncommon means that you find for your­self your sacred space," said Johnson. "There's nothing that you need that you don't 
Contact Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 
"Education that works for working adults" 
Accelerated Bachelor's Degree Completion Program 
. 
Organizational Management Program 

• 
Management Information Systems 


(OMP and MIS available as stand alone certificate programs) 
. Bachelor of Science in Nursing for RNs 
Class once a week 
6:00 p.m. until 10:00 p.m. 
4 to 6 weeks per ck.ss 18 to 20 months for the compete program 
Goshen College Division of Adult and External Studies (800) 390-3490 www.goshen.edu 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
that in-hall dances should be reinstated, while the second resolution resolves that "in­hall dances be allowed to con­tinue for a probationary peri­od of one year, after which they will be assessed in light of the ban on hard alcohol and increased student awareness." 
"If we do concede the hard alcohol aspect, then why not give us this probationary peri­od?" said Connolly. 
At the March 25 meeting, Father John Herman, O'Neill Hall rector, suggested that the in-hall dances be put on a pro­bationary period of a year and to observe how students react and dance operate under the new guidelines. He cited that after the O'Neill Mardi Gras was put on probation, resi­dents realized the risk of loos­ing their signature event. 
"No one knew that they were in danger of dances being taken away across the board," said Connolly. 
The resolution includes a clause stating, "many students were unaware of the gravity and frequency of problems arising from in-hall dances and the concern of administra­tors." 
Connolly said that the stu­dent realization of loosing in­hall dances and the new restrictions under the alcohol policy would diminish the problems that contributed to the decision to eliminate in­hall dances. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
The three possible topics for the Fall report to the Board of Trustees include the following: student participation in University policy making, pro­cedures of the Office of Residence Life and Housing, and a plan for the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education. 

.After 
meeting with adminis­trators this week. Libby Bishop, student body presi­dent, said that the new policy regarding tailgating will not be in effect this weekend for the Blue-Gold game. 

. 
Matt Kinsella, sophomore class treasurer, was approved as the class treasurer to serve on the Financial Management Board. 


Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu. 
Speech 
continued from page 1 
ing about du Lac revi­sions in an active way." 
As a result, there will be increased student input in the drafting of the du Lac revisions. Her early April meeting with Father Mark Poorman was not as suc­cessful because the vice president for Residence Life remained firm in his stance that a definitive direction is already set with regard to the alco­hol policy. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, April 25, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, No<re Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining H.11, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHI.EF Jason McFarley MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGElt Kate Nagengast Kevin Ryan 
AssT. 1',fANAGJNG EDITOR OPERATIONS M°.ANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payni, VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck Sl'ORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR, Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Matt Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Palwel Chin W.EB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CoNTROU.ER: Lori Lewalski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63 l-4542 MANAGING EDIT0RIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-53!3 NEWS..........................................................63 l-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'O!NI.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s...... .......................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 S\'SIT.Ms/WEB .ADMINISTRATORS.................631-&839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observ,r.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from The Associated Press. 
SURF TO: weather for up-to-the movies/music for minute forecasts 
weekly studenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe• 
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer articles published after 
to meet the editors and August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lencrs is encoUiaged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Qw:stions regarding Oburver policio should be direct­ed /Q &Mor in ChiefJason McFarby. 

Studying abroad is hard, but 
So far this semester, all my columns have related to me being in Ireland but concentrated on something more rele­vant to the bulk of Notre Dame students. In this final column, however, I want to write entirely about 
Marlayna

the abroad experi­ence itself. Soenneker 
This is still pretty relevant -Notre I/ere We Go Dame sends 900 Again: Letters kids per year From Exile abroad, which means that almost half the school goes at some point. This column is primarily for the 900 people going next year and secondarily for the 2000 freshmen considering applying. 
Going abroad is actually not the best thing I've ever done and it hasn't been the best semester of my life. The first month I was here, I seriously questioned my sanity for applying. I am very prone to homesickness, and I was intensely homesick for both Notre Dame and home for the first month. I was counting the days, I was thinking (only briefly) of giving the whole thing up and going home, and I was homesick and lonely for quite a while. 
Going abroad is a lot like being a freshman again -you don't know what's going on and you want to go home. What's worse, everyone else seems to be having the time of their lives_ But, like freshman year, it only seems like everyone else is perfectly fine. Almost everyone is scared and lonely sometimes ~uring freshman year, and almost everyone is lonely and home­sick sometimes while they are abroad. 
Being abroad is frustrating. If you don't know the language, there will be days when you don't understand any­thing anyone says. You may know the 
worth it 
language and still have days where you can't figure out what is going on. Little things like no paper towels in bathrooms will drive you nuts. The accent will get on your nerves. You'll wonder if it's always cold/hot in this country. You'll get really, really lost. Some nights all you'll want to do is curl up and cry for your mommy. 
But it is honestly worth it. You'll learn so incredibly much abroad, and at least 98 percent of it will be outside the class­room. You'll learn to cook, to make international phone calls and travel plans and to BS your way through an assignment in a foreign country. You will (eventually) learn tho bus system, the train system and the educational system. You'll learn about budgeting and inde­pendence. You'll learn about yourself, who you are, how you deal with new things and where you are comfortable. 
The little and big frustrations of every­day life will pale after awhile and be for­gotten, but what you learn about your­self won't be. It's like freshman year ­an opportunity to stretch and redefine yourself. Except this time, you've done it before, so it's significantly less scary. You won't actually save seals or small starving children in East Asia, but it is an incredible experience. It's not always fun, but that's when you learn the most. If it doesn't hurt a little, you aren't grow­ing. 
The hardest part is being away from Notre Dame. To you, it feels like life is on hold while you go off adventuring, but it's not. When your best friend starts dating someone you've never met, or your friends go out and send pictures that you aren't in, or when a loved one is hurting and you can't give them a hug, it's really hard. Going abroad is a great opportunity, but it costs you a semester at Notre Dame. When you only have three or four left. that's a big price. Nevertheless, it's completely worth it. 
I'm not trying to scare people. Some people may never feel most of this, may never miss Notre Dame or may never be unhappy. But a lot of people wilL No one told me before I went to Notre Dame or Ireland that it wasn't going to be all peaches and cream, and Iwant to let people know that's it's not. 
The hardest thing for me was worry­ing that I wouldn't enjoy it, that I'd be the one person who hated being abroad. In those early days when I was really unhappy, I was pretty well convinced that J was that person. But it got better and I haven't hated it here, and trust me, if anyone was going to, it would have been me. 
I'm saying all this to reassure every­one going abroad that, even though it won't always be easy, it will be worth it. I think the best way to go into anything is with a realistic sense of what it will be like. It's probably going to be hard at first. So cut this out, bring it with you and read it those first few weeks when it's difficult. Then, when it all gets good (and it will), throw it out and have a bril­liant time_ 
Marlayna Soenneker is a junior psy­chology major studying in Dublin this semester. She would like to thank all the people in Dublin who have made her abroad experience grand, especially Annie, Kati, Jenn, Erin and Anne. She can be contacted at msoennek@nd.edu, and her column will be returning to its regularly scheduled country next semes­ter. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Military protection of rights is a myth 
Congratulations to the ROTC cadets who participated in the Presidential Pass ceremonies and graduate to officer class in the U.S. armed forces. Like Connie Quinlan in her April 23 let­ter, I applaud their dedication, hard work and service to our country. 1 do not applaud, however, the institution for which they are going to work. 
In particular, I reject the powerful myth that the armed forces are in the business of protecting our right to free speech and protest. In reality, those rights come under assault during every large-scale military operation. Today many academics are under attack for their public opposition to the war in Afghanistan. Dr. Lynne Cheney, the wife of the man who is second in line to command of the armed forces, is leading the campaign to compile a blacklist of intellectuals who have exer­cised their free speech in protest of the war. So far, no one in the military has articulated a plan to protect us from Cheney. 
But I do appreciate and respect what war memorials, such as the cemetery at West Point where I have visited, really stand for. There I felt the powerful presence of so many souls given for others. Most of all I felt sadness for the immense loss oflife represented there, nearly all of which since 1945 has been unnecessary. This is bound to continue after the Presidential Pass. and I will not applaud its perpetuation. 
Michael Flannery 
senior 
off-campus • 
April 24, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Andy Thagard Laura Rompf Meghan Martin 
Sports 
Kerry Smith 
Viewpoint 
Sheila Flynn 
Scene 
MattNania 
Graphics 
Jake Weiler 
Production 
Katie McVoy 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 

NDTODAY /OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Is the United States being sufficiently proactive in the Middle East? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4.n inexhaustible good nature is one ofthe most precious gifts ofheaven, spreading itself like oil over the troubled sea ofthought, and keeping the mind smooth and equable in the roughest weather. " 
Washington Irving writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 25, 2002 page 9 
There is danger of a new Notre Dame mystique 
The Sunday South Bend Tribune reported that there have been seven alle­gations of rape against Notre Dame foot­ball players since 1998. Kathy Redmond, the director of the National Coalition Against Violent Athletes. comments, Todd David "I receive more calls Whitmore from students regarding Notre 
The Common 

Dame than any other school in the 
Good 

country. I feel like I am always dealing with Notre Dame in one way or another." 
Female students regularly report to me that the football team has a ~reputation" for having a disproportionate number of players who are sexually violent. David Haugh of the South Bend Tribune did the calculation on the allegations. It's one out of every 12.4 football players recruited, "an average of nearly one accused rapist per huddle." If the national average of 87 percent of rapes going unreported also applies to Notre Dame, then the situation is even worse. 
Some of the fallout from the most recent case has been evident in letters to The Observer. One student writes that she believes the woman. Others write to chastise her for being too quick to judge. 
Here, it might be helpful to distinguish between legal guilt and whether the charged actually committed the crime. During the O.J. Simpson trial, for instance. one view during the trial was 
that he did commit murder but would be judged not guilty because of the level of burden of proof necessary to obtain con­viction. 
Those believing the woman in the most recent Notre Dame case need to be aware of the gap between the level of evi­dence required for such a belief and the level of evidence needed for legal convic­tion. 
Those who wish to withhold all judg­ment until legal judgment is reached need to be aware of the social and legal matrix of rape that functions to make the rate of conviction far lower than the rate of incidence. To stop one's critical think­ing at the question of legal conviction is to court a not-so-benign naivete. 
Rape is, in some respects, an even harder case than murder to convict. The state of Illinois, which is reconsidering the death penalty because of the large number of false convictions, still allows a murder conviction based on a single eye­witness. With rape, it is still considered a matter of he-said/she-said when there is no further evidence. The testimony of the primary vvitness to the crime is not suffi­cient for conviction. 
It is sometimes cautioned that the woman. out of anger or spite, might be 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Democracy nee~s support 

I am writing to voice my strong support for Paul Graham's April 24 article regarding the importance of democracy in the workplace and at Notre Dame. 
As I have argued in my lectures over the year, one key element of the core values of the United States is the belief in democracy. However, participants in my courses on the history of modern United States foreign and domestic policy have witnessed the continuing challenge of achieving that important goal. As Graham points out, the struggle of workers in the United States to gain a voice and influ­ence the development of their society is an ongoing effort. 
The challenge to establish an open democracy at Notre Dame extends not only to the workers, but also to the faculty and students. Whether discussing the question of faculty governance or the rights of students to organize dances and their residence lives, the democ­ratic challenge clearly emerges-at the center of these issues. Graham's challenge to the students to open their hearts and minds to the workers can be combined vvith a broader challenge to expand the role of the Notre Dame family in the development ofour University. 
Through supporting the growth of democracy at home, we can help to prevent its subversion abroad. Anti-democratic forces domi­nate the globe and emerge even where democracy has found root. Democracy remains a fragile system and only through constant expansion and revitalization can it be maintained. It is only by expanding our democracies at home and abroad that we can meet the challenge of anti-democratic forces. 
Democracy does not guarantee a better society, hut it presents us with the widest array of probabilities for progress. We can begin that progress through the support of the workers' right to influence their work place. ( second Graham's call for expanded participation of all those who, as .Joe Larson points out on the opposite page, make this place special. I urge the students to consider themselves as part of the process of defining their society both at the University and beyond it. 
Daniel Byrne 
class of'92 visting loccurer in che history department April 24, 2002 

seeking to trap the man, but one reported statistic is worth noting: Only one percent of rape charges are false reports. If this statistic bears up, then in cases where there is no mistaken identity regarding who is the rapist, the total for misreports remains at one percent. In the seven cases of alleged rape involving Notre Dame football players, the women mak­ing the charges knew the players. 
The University has not been inactive in responding to the problem of sexual vio­lence. The Student Development program for student-athletes includes a "Men Against Violence'' workshop, a workshop that the University would do well to require of all students. The University also provides resources for women who have been sexually assaulted. Moreover, Notre Dame is far from alone among uni­versities for having problems with ath­letes and others in their academic com­munity being sexually violent. 
Having one out of every 12.4 football players accused of rape means that 11.4 out of 12.4 have not been so accused, and this should not be forgotten. Still, seven cases, particularly with the low rate of misreports with rape generally, is far too many to set aside as isolated incidents. 
If what Kathy Redmond tells us about Notre Dame being the most frequently reported school in her conversations is correct. then the "reputation" regarding its football players has moved beyond the concerns of a certain number of female students at the University. There is now national attention. There are dangers of this becoming Notre Dame's .new mys­tique, something that is difficult to pin down with exact quantitative precision but has enough verifiable truth to sustain the reputation. 
What specific stops to take in order to reduce the incidence of sexual violence on campus is not a straightforward proposition. The best thing for the University to do is to gather the widest possible range of interested parties for conversations whose aims are at once reflective and policy-oriented: Such con­versations need to be reflective, not least because even good policy decisions will not be sufficient. It will be important also to ask what there might be in the nation­al and in the University's culture that sustains attitudes that contribute to sexu­al violence. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor oftheology and the director of the Program in Catholic Social Tradition. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at Whitmore. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column represent those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Student Government does help diversity 
I must say Jourdan Sorrel's April 22 letter dents attending cultural and ethnic events hurt me. Although I agree with him about than ever before. Even alumni from merely some students' lack of initiative and move-five years ago agreed with that observation. rnent on important issues, you do not I agree with you that the University know the entire picture. For you has a long way to go, but to claim to say that Student that Student Government has Government has done done nothing for minorities nothing to improve race is undoubtedly a false relations on campus statement. Granted, personally offends me diversity issues did not for I was the cause a stir like the Diversity Chair in alcohol policy, but that office this f perhaps this is past year. Not because of the stu­only was I able dent media, not to put on a sue-the lack of effort cessful on Student Multicultural Government's or Fair where over my part. 400 students, It is easy to get both minority caught up and and white, not realize some attended. but I _\# accomplisments also worked :' · or strides that 
extensively to ,_______;, .· .·/ other organizations have a Learning to Z)IVE,tS\"'t_"/ 1 · · , have made in diver-Talk about Race A ;it~i#Ji'I sity, especially since 
retreat for student "'.:PLANS /i it doesn't get onto the leaders in Student ------~• I front page of The Government and a train-/ · Observer like other 
ing workshop for multi-things on campus.
i:· 

cultural commissioners. In However, in terms of diversi­addition, I created forums and ty, I also do not know exactly panels where at least 50 students, --...!Jl~D!I'...-what successes you have personally mostly white to your surprise, attended to brought to the table. but I know you worked finally open up dialogue about diversity, diligently all year toward a great goal. AIDS, religion and sexual orientation. 
These events may not have turned Notre Joyce De Leon Dame into Berkeley in one year; however, it junior is a step. For the first time in my three years. former Diversity co-chair I actually saw larger numbers of white stu-April 22, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Thursday, April 25, 2002 
'Murder by Numbers' just a by the numbers movie 
By JUDE SEYMOUR 
Scene Movie Critic 
From producer Sandra Bullock and director Barbet Schroeder comes "Murder By Numbers," which probably adopted its misleading title after deciding not enough time had passed to reuse the title "A Perfect Murder." 
Not unlike the Michael Douglas film four years ago, storywriters in Hollywood are out to prove again that there arc no perfect schemes to mur­der and that our heroes will always catch up to their suspects in the end {especially if they have to be kicked off the case to do so). Hitchcock perfected this entire storyline in one movie, "Strangers on a Train," but for those who want more of the same, this movie is not a bad way to spend two hours. 
Bullock plays Cassie Mayweather, a meticulous homicide detective whose newest case not only has an unknown victim, but no apparent motive or trail of clues. Cassie's burden is saddled by newcomer Sam Kennedy (played by Ben Chaplin), who is full of theoretical case information but has no actual field experience. 
Mayweather's explanation of routine procedure for Kennedy coincides with her internal questioning of that method. Her hypotheses take form first as unfounded ramblings, especially when evidence begins mounting against Ray (played by Chris Penn), the local school's janitor. After refusing to accept Ray as the murderer, Mayweather is removed from the case and begins conducting her own investi-gation in secret. Everyone at the police in "Murder by Numbers" are cross-cut station, including her new partner, with scenes involving the "perfect" assumes murderers. Mayweather's Richard and

"Murder by Numbers"
troubled past Justin (played as a former 
by Ryan Gosling target of a and Michael homicidal Pitt) planned the gruesome
maniac has Director: Barbe\ Schroeder 
finally caught escape from
Writer: Tony Gayton
up to her. boredom for
Starring: Sandra Bullock, Ryan Gosling and
The audience, months and are 
Michael Pitt II.
which has the convinced that luxury of being they have com­omniscient, knows Mayweather is the mitted an unsolvable crime. While the only one on right trail. The cop scenes movie waits for Mayweather to put all the pieces together, the script provides static lines of dialogue for these sup­posed intellectual maestros of murder. 
Pitt authenticated his talent in last year's gritty film, "Bully," and Gosling has certainly taken well-formed strides since his stint as a Mouseketeer. It is the movie, not their performances, that has boxed them in this time. "Murder by Numbers" is a vehicle for Bullock and every character except for hers suffers from as a mere caricature. 
Perhaps recognizing this inability to produce three-dimensional characters, the movie tries to. supplement action sequences for character soliloquies. Since the audience is aware of the identity of the murderers, the movie has little conflict that will potentially surprise a viewer. 
The ending of "Murder By Numbers" is less suspenseful than the ending to Hitchcock's "Strangers on a Train" or "Dial 'M' for Murder." 
"Murder By Numbers" follows the status quo and order is restored to a society that virtually begs for stability -at least from their movies. In the end, "Murder by Numbers" is like the guy in the college basketball tourna­ment pool who picks all the favorites; the strategy is dreadfully unoriginal. but the conservative approach always leads to a formidable showing and avoids the potential humiliation in being drastically different. 
Contact Jude Seymour at seymour.7@nd.edu 
Personal trials featured in 'Lanes' 
exchange insurance information. Gavin,By BRIAN BIRCHER already late for court where he is deliv­
Scene Movie Critic 
ering sensitive documents, has no time for insurance information and hands 
Have you ever wondered if you had Doyle a signed blank check instead, say­done one thing differently could your ing. "Better luck next time." day, or even your life, have turned out Doyle was also in a hurry to reach better? This is one of the questions that court to argue for visitation rights of his "Changing Lanes" attempts to make the sons with his separated wife. As a result audience consider. Unlike other films of the accident he gets stranded on the 
with similar premises, such as "Sliding F.D.R and is late for his court appoint­Doors" or "The Family Man," "Changing ment, losing any chance at having visita­Lanes" makes this not a question of tion rights with his sons. Meanwhile, chance, but one of morality -there is Gavin arrives at court only to realize doing what is right and doing what is that he left the extremely important case wrong. file with Doyle as The movie "Changing Lanes" he was writing the wastes no time 
check. The judge getting started gives him until the after quickly end of the day to 
establishing its submit the docu~ two main charac­
ments to the
Director: Roger Michell

ters: Gavin Banek court, setting off a 
Writer: Chap Taylor

(played by Ben cat-and-mouse Affleck), a rising Starring: Ben Affleck and Samuel L. Jackson rivalry between 
young lawyer in Gavin and Doyle charming character. The skill in which Despite these performances,his father-in-law's as each attempts he depicts Gavin as his debacle pro­"Changing Lanes" is another addition tofirm, and Doyle Gipson (played by to make the other's life worse in order foundly changes his character through­the thriller/drama genre that is so popu­Samuel L. Jackson), a recovering alco­to get what they want: for Gavin it's the 
out the course of one day is convincing lar these days. attempting to seek higher holic who is attempting to make amends file and for Doyle it's the time in which and realistic. ground by intellectually engaging the with his wife and two young sons. 
he lost his sons. Jackson is equally convincing as a audience with its focus on issues of On important days for both men, they What could have been an intelligent father sincerely trying to make amends morality. In this, it succeeds to an extent get into a fender-bender on the F.D.R. back and forth mental battle between 
with his family, .but still battling a tem­and offers a fairly entertaining two Highway in New York. The accident is the two men turns into a relatively pre­per that has obviously led to trouble in hours. really no one's fault and neither man is dictable struggle. While the plot is noth­the past. This is one of the positive qual­hurt. As they both check to make sure ing revolutionary, Affieck and Jackson's ities of the movie, that it allows its char­
the other is OK, they take differing performances are good. Affieck tends to acters to develop throughout the course approaches to dealing with the accident. inhabit the same character in his of the two hours as the audience learns Contact Brian Bircher at Doyle wants to do "the right thing" and movies: the loudmouth, brash yet more details about the men. 
bircher. l@nd.edu. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, April 25, 2002 page 11 
Two TICKETS FOR "FRAILTY" 
'Frailty' delivers a fragile movie 
Mel (MR) and Paul (PC} bought their last "Two Tickets" of the semester, expecting to simply review the new sus­pense thriller "Frailty" starring Bill Paxton in his directorial debut. They received the unex­
pected bonus of an opportunity to rekindle one of cin­ema's greatest debates: Paxton or Pullman? You be the judge. 
PC: Just before 


the lights went Melissa Rauch down on the open-and ing of "Frailty," 1 Paul Camarata 
said to Mel how I had no idea what 
Scene Movie 

the movie was 
Critics

about. Not the plot, the cast, not the director. I was in the dark before the theater was. She giggled with glee, having read all about the production on one of her obscure Hollywood Web sites. 
MR: You lie. The first time I heard about this movie was at the 'Backer last weekend when fellow Scene critic and Delroy Lindo-lover Tom O'Connell came up.to me and asked if we wanted to "go see a wacko Bill Paxton movie." With this brief but juicy description, how could I say no? I had wanted to see "Kissing Jessica Stein" based on a rec­ommendation of the divine Ms. Anne Abbott ... 
PC: Of "Hello Gorgeous!" fame? 
MR: The same. But we live in South Bend where the choices were Sandra Bullock, The Rock or Mr. Paxton. I think we made the right decision. 
PC: Sure Paxton had that great vomit scene in "Apollo 13," but that doesn't mean he should be starring in and directing his own full-length feature. Apparently, the producers didn't seem to mind. In "Frailty," Paxton plays Papa Meiks, the father in Matthew McConaughey's flashback of his twisted Thurman, Texas childhood. It's "The Apostle" meets "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" as a divine messenger informs Meiks that he and his two sons have been chosen to enact God's will on Earth. After that memo, Paxton goes on a zealous search-and-destroy mission of several "demons" disguised as humans. Meiks justifies his violence with the kind of religious resolve that harkens back to such good old times as the Spanish Inquisition and the Salem Witch trials, only he finds his faith (clap-clap-clap-clap) deep in the heart of Texas. · 
MR: It's always the last place you look, but let's not spend another col­umn deriding the Lone Star state. Getting back to the movie, it was a probably a good thing we didn't know too much about it beforehand. It's a dark thriller that plays on suspense so the less prior information the better. From the opening sequence, which fea­tures a slow montage of grisly newspa­per headlines set to effectively creepy music, the audience is ready for a good murder mystery. The premise definitely sounds outlandish, but it hooked me as soon as the flashback story began. As with all suspense movies, you expect twists and turns along the way. While I predicted a few, there were definitely still some surprises I didn't see coming. 

PC: The plot walks a fine line between nuts or fulfilling his mission from God. gruesome tension and horror film non­Some people probably thought the sense and all because of Paxton's vague Blues Brothers were crazy too. As for persona. There's a chipperness about the rest of the cast, the young boys him that never playing the completely dis­Meiks brothers
"Frailty''

appears, so that in the flashback even at his Melissa's rating both perform angriest of 
well in their moments reactions to the Paxton never horror sur­really flares his rounding them. nostrils or Paul's rating Matt O'Leary, instills the fear 
who gets the that maybe he special should. This "Introducing aloofness Matt O'Leary" strikes me more Director: Bill Paxton honor in the as his normal opening credits, 
Writer: Brent Hanly
acting style especially
Starring: Bill Paxton, Matthew McConaughey,
than as an stands out as 
achievement he Powers Boothe and Matthew O'Leary older brother 
made in this particular film, but it did serve to obscure, if not con­ceal, the development of the plot. There's just something about his per­formance, though, something missing ... 
MR: Go ahead. 
PC: Go ahead, what? 

MR: I know what you're thinking. 
PC: What? 

MR: That Ray Liotta would have done a much better job in the role. 
PC: Well if you're twisting my arm, Liotta does have the old "Ray-Liotta­look-in-his-eye." But movie audiences know they have to take the lukewarm performances with the scintillating ones. 
MR: While it's true Paxton bears that stigma of goofiness or, perhaps, bad acting, I think it works for him in "Frailty" because you have to figure out whether his character is completely 
Fenton, the 
skeptic who sees his father as a deranged killer rather than righteous hero. 
PC: And let's not forget actor Powers Hooth, the poor man's Tommy Lee Jones, as the FBI agent to whom McConaughey relates the story. McConaughey himself departs from his more typical role as the heartthrob, adding a veil of darkness and uncer­tainty from the first scene in which he appears in Booth's Dallas office. It's a solid demonstration of his range, though he does have the luxury of amplifying his natural Texan accent in order to create ambiguity about his character's character. Not that it gives me any more insight into the ultimate aspiration for this film. When the lights came on at the end, I was still in the dark. 
MR: Sure, the movie's not going to change your life, but it manages to raise some interesting questions while it entertains. While Daddy Meiks appears off his rocker from the get-go, one still wonders about the moral implications of becoming a killer in order to be a savior. You know, like Buffy. 
PC: Buffy who? 
MR: The Vampire Slayer. 
PC: Ahh, and here I thought we were going to finish our final column without you ever espousing the virtue of that [expletive] show. No such luck. "Frailty" creates a realistic framework in which to probe such questions because it relies only. on human tension and action to make its effect rather than straying too far into a supernatur­al world of magical realism. How much it actually contributes to such a debate is questionable, not to mention that I'm not sure what the film's title is sup­posed to mean. 
MR: I can't comment on your first observation without giving away the ending and as for the title, I think it has something to do with the weakness of the human mind, how well it can han­dle such disturbing messages before going off the deep end. All I know is: "Frailty," thy name is Paxton. 
PC: Pullman. 
MR: Paxton. 
PC: Liotta. 
Though their final review includes shout-outs that are irrelevant to 99 percent of the Notre Dame community, Mel and Paul would nonetheless like to thank their readers. Though their origi­nal headshot photo developed quite a cult following, they assure you it will never be seen again. Plus, it's really small potatoes compared to that Gocke­Driver yearbook candid. 
They can be contacted at mrauch@nd.edu and pcamarat@nd.edu. Until then, let go and let weather. 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 25, 2002 
high school athletics as well. 14th in the fall of 2001-2002. cess for me." basketball and any other ball According to the Knight "We've chosen a path that White described it as the you want," Hesburgh said.
Academics 
Commission, "high school continued from page 1 sports today can reflect the 
worst of their collegiate percent and with that counterparts. In addition to increase in expenditure commercial influences, comes an increased need for recruitment and transfer of revenue. With that need for high school players is far too revenue, colleges may start common, leading to disjoint­taking shortcuts -including ed academic experiences and cutting academics right out. absurdly dominant teams in 
"I think one of the big some communities. Academic 

problems with intercollegiate compromises arc made for sports is the amount of high school athletes as well, money involved and that leaving them with a diploma really gets back to televi­but ill-prepared for college sion," said Hesburgh, who level work." 
co-chaired the Knight This kind of environment ­Commission. "[Programs] go replacing the stress on acad­out and they really start cut­emics with a stress on run­ting corners and they're ning a good business -seems admitting kids to college that to be in direct contrast with couldn't get into high the NCAA, whose mission school." statement describes athletics In a report published by as "an integral part of the 
the NCAA concerning acade­educational program, and mic standards in 1997-98, the athlete as an integral the average grade point part of the student body." average for an athlete enter­ing in a revenue sport (men's Notre Dame's place basketball or football) was Despite this seemingly 
2.95 and the most recent downward spiral of acade­NCAA graduation report mics in Division 1-A pro­recorded that only• 48 per­grams, several programs cent of Division I-A football have managed to retain both players earn degrees. their academic integrity and The NCAA requires a mini­their athletic excellence. mum of 13 college prepatory Programs such as Duke, courses as athletes head into which is in the top 20 univer­college and a minimum grade sities rated by US News and point average W o r l d 
of 2.5. Report and 
"That is "[Programs] go out and 

competesembarrass­they really start cutting for a 
ing, I think" national
corners and they're

said Notre title in bas­
Dame assis­admitting kids to college ketball 
tant provost that couldn't get into each year, for enroll­have found
high school.,. 

ment Daniel a balance Saracino. between "That is Father Theodore Hesburgh excellence 
something University president emeritus in the which we classroom think is and on the ridiculous. field. 
It's danger-Notre Dame and Stanford ous for a student who is a have both managed to be in great athlete to just look to the top 20 for the Sears Cup the NCAA for wisdom.... The in both the fall and the win­bare minimum of 13 units ter and remain in the top 20 and 2.5 is wholly inade­schools rated by US News quate." and World Report. Stanford The lowered academic is ranked first in both the fall standards and the commer­and the winter Sears Cup cialization of collegiate ath­rating; Notre Dame was letics seem to be seeping into rated sixth in the winter and 
few have chosen and we want it all," said Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White. "We want the whole enchila­da and we're not willing to ratchet down those expecta­tions as relate to any of those realities, be it competitive academics. compliance, whatever." 
Thus far, Notre Dame seems to have managed to maintain higher academic standards than many NCAA institutions and has require­ments higher than those held by the NCAA itself. In a recent letter sent out to all coaches at Notre Dame. Saracino recorded the University's requirements for its student athletes. Student athletes interested in attend­ing.Notre Dame must com­plete a minimum of 16 col­lege prep units -three more than required by the NCAA, citing the fa.ct that a student with low numbers of college prep units cannot be success­ful at the University. 
"A student who has 13 col­lege prep units will not make it through Notre Dame," Saracino said. 
In addition, the grade point average for entering athletes is higher than the 2.5 required by the NCAA. Although the Notre Dame football players may not boast a grade point average as high as the average Notre Dame student, according to Saracino, the average Notre Dame football player enters with a solid B+ average and a firm academic background. 
"We don't have remediation here," Saracino said. "So if a student doesn't have three years of math, we're not going to be able to make that up." 
But in addition to high aca­demic standards, Notre Dame expects to win on Saturday. 
"It's not good enough to be close; you play it to win," said Notre Dame head foot­ball coach Tyrone Willingham. "That is success for me. It is success when I have young men graduate and do well academically at this institution; that is sue-Notre Dame way -keeping "We're talking about an academic standards high, institution called University retaining integrity and still which was founded in 1204 winning on Saturday. Despite in Paris.... I said this is an their determination to retain ancient institution, ... it's Notre Dame's high stan­ancient enough to be vener­dards, ated and not however. just looked on people "You're not looking for a as a sports 
associat­club."
large number ofathletes
ed with But can 
t h e [of football players each University be 
University year]. And to think that kept in Notre recognize Dame's image
you can't find that small 
the frus­or is it doomed
number oftalented,
tration to become a surround­bright students is sports club? ing the Notre Dame
insulting to student
recruit­has at least one ment of athletes." thing going in good ath­its favor -the letes who tradition of the
Daniel Saracino 
are also Golden Dome. 
assistant provost for enrollment
good stu­"Without our dents. history and our 
"I think, tradition. I in a way, our problem is get­think there are other schools ting good players," Hesburgh that have those same noble said. "You can't compete aspirations, but without the without good players. But we history and the tradition we have to get good players who enjoy, it makes it virtually can compete at this universi­impossible to realize," White ty." said. 
Saracino said, "Do I think Notre Dame has managed there's some frustration? to keep up with the other Yes." football powerhouses in the 
But Notre Dame has a last 20 years. In 1988 Lou strong tradition both in ath­Holtz led his team to a letic excellence and academ­national championship and in ic success and there are 1993 he missed another one those who plan on keeping by one loss to Boston College. that tradition alive. And, of course, the number 
"I think as much of a chal­of athletes Notre Dame ne·eds lenge as some people have each year is limited. marked it, I feel it's a won­"You're not looking for a derful opportunity," White large number [of football said. "And I think we stand players each year]," Saracino for something and my sense said. "And to think that you is most people around the can't find that small number country know what it is we of talented. bright students is stand for. I think that insulting to student athletes." becomes a beacon; that Willingham summarized attracts a lot of talented the thoughts of the University young people." when he was asked why he 
thought he could win at Looking to the Future Notre Dame. 
Despite the strong determi­"Unfortunately. sometimes nation to keep Notre Dame's I have to answer questions academic reputation and its with a question," he said. athletic success, a question "Why not?" still remains, a question regarding the future of the relationship between educa­tion and athletics. 
Contact Katie McVoy at 

"We're not here today just 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu.

to talk about football and 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The ,:harge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Small Refrigerator  3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE  3-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN.  ELECTRONIC DIGITAL PRINTING  
291·9451  WITH CENTRAL AIR GARAGE,  $180/PER PERSON/MO. SUM·  Black & White or Full Color at  
NOTICES  Proficient in Word and Word Perfect  FOR RENT  AND A DECK, WASHER & DRYER.  MER/2002.272-6306,292-6718  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Submit  
for manuscripts, theses, disserta- CORNER OF EDDY AND  AWESOME CHICAGO SUBLEASE  your work via email tor details call:  
OBLATES OF BLUES CJs · Friday,  lions and  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm- HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF  THIS SUMMER!  574-631-COPY  
7:30-11 :30 "Blues" and Gold  transcripts from Dictaphone.  rentals@aol.com  LOGAN CENTER  call 773-844·1885  
Weekend  Accuracy and meeting deadlines a  FREE KEG WITH RENTAL.  GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS &  
priority.  MMMRentals.com  Call Gary or Lynne 616·699-5841  CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by  
WANTED  $$??per page or flat rate neotiable. Call Delores at 273-8616 or e-mail Fain.1@nd.edu  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house,  HOUSE FOR RE~i f 7/1/02·5/31/03,  TICKETS  local PGA professional. Call Dick at 276-9670.  
wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking ...  5 blocks from ND,  2 Dave Mathews  
Looking for single Castle Point  Nice3-4  4 bedroom, 2 bath,  Tix tor sale  Check out The Observer onlinel  
roommate coming summer and/or fall. Free high.speed DSL internet.  FOR SALE  bedroom house-air, sec sys/parking 2-bedroom  central ale, washer & dryer, alarm system,  Sat.4/27 call 247-1775  Visit The Observer at http://www.nd.edu/-observer  
currently $323 per month + utils.  cottage. cute.  call 773-486·882,.  
Call 574.277 9322  Furniture-Law Student selling 2  DAVE 291-2209  
it interested.  Serta x-long beds,3 dressers,2 night stands,lamps,futon,microwave  Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt  Two bedroom cott,1ge 5 min from campus  PERSONAL  Want to congratulate a graduate?  
99 ND grad seeks male to share  cart.entertainment center  in historic home.  $325  Place an ad with The Observer.  
spacious Lincoln Park,  call 277-0171  Garage.  Dave 291-2209  Mexico/Caribbean or Central  Stop by the Ads office in the  
Chicago apt. for 3-9 months.  Must See! Call  America $250 round trip.  basement of South Dining Hall  
Great location & furnished.  Photography Equipment: Nikon  Tammy(616)684-1049  5-Bedroom.  Other worldwide  duirng normal business hours.  
Cati George Carr at  N90s camera with MB·10 Grip,  5 min from camp1,  destinations cheap.  
(773) 975-0563 or  SB28 Flash, Nikon  HOUSES FOR RENT:  All the goodies.  Book tickets online  
e-mail at  Video & School Handbook, UV  1) large (6-9 people)  dancing.OKI  www.airtech.com  
George.E.Carr@us.andersen.com  52.0s & 77.0s Lens Filters, Polar  2) medium(3-5 people)  Dave 291-2209  - or (212) 219-7000.  Look tor The Observer's special  
52.0s Lens  Call Bill at  commencement Edition during  
....  SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED  Filter Nikon 50mm 11 .8, 80-200mm  532-1896.  Need a place to stay for graduation  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  Senior Week  
THREE DAYS PER WEEK  f2.8, and 28-7013.5 Lenses,  weekend or just c.nytime?  alone. If you or someone you love  
AT HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml  Sekonic L-508  Upstairs apt.,  Our little  needs confidential support or  
OR YOUR HOME 7 MTH OLD  Zoom Speed Light Meter, and  single person,  cottage situated on 127 acres  assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
HOURS AND WAGE  Lowepro Nova4 camera bag • used  no smoking/pets.  sleeps 2-3 and only 20 minutes  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  Leave your friends a note.  
NEGOTIABLE REFERENCES  10 times; MINT  All util.paid. Avail now or  from campus. Call  For more information,  Submit a classified to  
R.EQD CALL LYNN @  CONDITION. $1575. -Call  Fall 02. For info,  616·687-1080 or email:  see our weekly ad in  The Observer.  
616-849·7022  (574)876-7877  call 574-255-1738. Close to ND.  jlizma@aol.com  THE OBSERVER.  


Thursday, April 25, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Are vou in need of a studvdav? 
Reply to e-mail titled Fill out the survey available
''Study Day'' issued by in the Dining Hall
SAC Wednesday, April 24 or Thursday, April 25 at the SMC Tosta!. 
Sponsored by Saint Mary's College Student Government Association. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Griffey feels Bonds' pain 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

Ken Griffey Jr. winces when he sees Barry Bonds hobble across home plate or slide over in the outfield to compen­sate for his so re h a m ­string. 
B e e n there, done that. 
T h e Cincin­nati Reds center fielder also 


under­stands why the single­seas on home run champion resists coming out of San 


Francisco's Bonds lineup unless he absolutely must. 
Done that, too. 
"It's hard to take certain players out of a lineup," Griffey said Wednesday. "It's hard for certain guys to be out of a lineup. I fit in both categories. I can't watch baseball when I'm not play­ing." 
Griffey showed up at Cinergy Field to take batting practice Wednesday, keeping his swing in sync while he recovers from a torn patella tendon in his right knee. Griffey injured it during a rundown on April 7 and went on the disabled list. 
He's doing several hours of therapy each day to strengthen muscles around the knee. 
Many of the exercises are the same ones he did last season while he recovered from a torn left hamstring that limited him to 92 starts. 
He rides an exercise cycle, but hasn't been given per­mission to try to run. There is no target date for his return, and Griffey won't speculate on when he might be ready. 
Bonds and the Giants are due in town for a three-game series this weekend. While he rehabilitates his knee. Griffey has paid enough attention to baseball to know what Bonds is going through. 
The left fielder hurt his hamstring in spring training and aggravated it on April 14, forcing him out of a game. 
It hasn't kept him out of the lineup, though he did sit out Wednesday night's game in Chicago. 
Griffey can empathize. He did the same thing after he tore his hamstring in spring training last year, making 16 pinch-hit appearances before finally going on the disabled list in late April. 
He sees Bonds making the 

same effort to mask the injury. 
"When you watch him run, you're like, 'Oh,"' Griffey said. "I know what it feels like to go out there and not be able to move some days. having to cheat more in the outfield. Sometimes you feel so far out of position." 
Griffey's hamstring improved enough for him to return last June, but he had to be careful until it got back to full strength as the season wound down. 
He figures Bonds is going to have to do the same. 
"He's going to try to do everything he can to be out there," Griffey said. "You just make sure it's warm when he goes out there. 
"I know the feeling of hav­ing to ride the bike 10 to 15 minutes before the game, then go out and run, then come back in and keep heat ou it. Those are the things I had to do. You run up and down the tunnel to stay loose. If you have a long inning or a pitching change, you go downstairs and stretch." 
Griffey's hamstring injury didn't get better until he went on the disabled list and let it rest. 
Bonds wants to keep play­ing, taking the risk that the injury will get better instead of worse. 
"If it's getting better, there's no risk," Griffey said. "You just have to be smart." 
NHL 
Chicago fan sues after hit with puck .. 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
A fan who had emergency brain surgery in January after being hit by a hockey puck sued the Chicago Blackhawks, the NHL and the United Center on Wednesday. 
The lawsuit filed on behalf of season-ticket holders Elizabeth and Steven Hahn of LaGrange Park alleges team. league and arena offi­cials knew for years that flying pucks were danger­ous but did not increase safety measures. 
"They consciously and recklessly disregarded the fact that this was happen­ing," attorney Tim Whiting said. 
Officials from the Blackhawks did not immedi­ately return phone calls seeking comment. The NHL declined to comment Thursday. 
Last mouth, a 13-year-old fan attending an NHL game in Columbus, Ohio, was killed after a deflected shot struck her. It was the first such fatality in league histo­ry. 
Elizabeth Hahn was hit by the frozen puck while pick­ing up a napkin Jan. 6 at a game between the Black­hawks and the Pittsburgh Penguins. She was taken to Rush Presbyterian Medical Center, where she was diag­nosed with a blood clot on her brain and a severed right ear lobe, according to the lawsuit. 
Whiting said he believes the defendants "wantonly and willfully" disregarded the safety of spectators and should be exempt from a state law granting hockey stadiums immunity from injury liabilities. 
The Chicago Sun-Times reported Wednesday that the lawsuit cites a study by two emergency-room doc­tors showing that during 127 NHL games at the MC[ Center in Washington, 122 fans suffered puck injuries. 
Elizabeth Hahn, who was not present at the news conference, is recovering and "doing better," Whiting said. She has returned to work but suffers from headaches, has problems with her hearing and diffi­culty maintaining her bal­ance, he added. 
Steven Hahn is named as a plaintiff because he suf­fered from his wife's injuries by losing her com­panionship for a time and becoming liable for her medical expenses, accord­ing to the lawsuit. 
The couple is seeking an undisclosed amount of com­peusatory and punitive damages. 

page 14 Thursday, April 25, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Hall of Fame gives Johnson nomination 
NCAA debates athlete status 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The future of the NCAA is up for debate this week in Indianapolis. 
On Thursday, the Board of Directors will discuss a series of proposals that could redefine the term "amateur" athletics. Then on friday, the executive committee will begin its search to find a replacement for retir­ing president Cedric Dempsey. 
It's a 48-hour period that could dramatically change the governing body does business. 
"We're asking the NCAA to move away from one of its founding principals" said Ohio State president Brit Kirwan, chairman of the NCAA's board of directors. "Given that fact, it's made it a really difficult issue." 
At the top of the agenda is allowing "elite" student-athletes lo take one-time loans of up to $20,000, based on potential earnings. Another proposal would allow high school ath­letes to enter a draft and go to college without losing eligibility if they do not sign a contract or with an agent. 
And that's only ihe beginning. 
The committee also will debate a measure that permits student-athletes to compete professionally for one year, then sit out a year and enter college. The athlete would then have three years of eligibility remaining. 
Other proposals would let the NCAA pay for the disability insurance of "elite" student­athlete and permit the accep­tance of educational expenses to high schools or prep schools without losing eligibility if the money is distributed by the school. 

An "elite" student-athlete is determined by where they are projected to go in the draft alt.hough the standards are dif­ferent for the five sports includ­ed -football, men's and women's basketball, ice hockey and baseball. 
The catalyst for the changes, Kirwan said, has been the increase in college athletes leaving school early for the pros and high school athletes who skip college and enter the draft. 
But solutions have been diffi­cult to find unanimity on. 

"The most divisive elements are those ... allowing athletes who have ever been paid for playing on professional teams much more so th1;1.n the loans," Kirwan said. "I think we've already accepted the idea that athletes could borrow money for disability insurance, so I don't think loans are as big an issue." 
If the proposals are approved, they could change the face of college athletics as early as next season. 
Still, Kirwan is uncertain what the board will do. He called the debate "intense" at times, and acknowledged that some items may not even be voted on Thursday. 
The other big issue is finding a new president, who the exec­utive committee must approve. 
Tulsa president Bob Lawless heads a four-member search committee formed to winnow the field of candidates. 
The search committee con­sists of Lawless, Kirwan, Patricia Cormier, president of Longwood College in Virginia and chairwoman of the Division II Presidents Council and Bette Landman of Beaver College in Pennsylvania. Landman is chairwoman of the Division III Presidents Council. 
Lawless said two or three finalists are expected to be determined in September and that those finalists would inter­view with the 12-member exec­utive committee at a special meeting Oct. 10. He anticipates a final vote Oct. 11. 
"l think we are looking for leadership more than we were the last time," said Lawless, who also is chairman of the executive committee. "In chang­ing from an executive director to a CEO, we're looking more for leadership than we were the last time, and I think we got good leadership from Ced." 
Lawless expects the executive committee to approve Friday ihe choice of Baker-Parker, an Atlanta-based firm, to conduct the search. 
Lawless said he has not yet received any applications for Dempsey's replacement. Dempsey announced in January during the NCAA convention that he would be retiring when his term ends Jan. 1. 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 
A few years later than he wanted, Magic Johnson is in position to join friend and rival Larry Bird in the Basket­
about the outcome of the Honors Committee vote that, in a break with tradi­tion, the Hall of Fame is announcing its inductees in June in Los Angeles, where Johnson spent his entire 13-year pro career. 
In his rookie season with 
ball Hall the Lakers, Johnson seized of Fame. control of Game 6 of the 
John­1980 NBA Finals against s o n , the Philadelphia 76ers. unable Starting at center for the to per­injured Kareem Abdul­suade Jabbar and playing all five the hall positions during the game, to waive Johnson had 42 points, 15

its five-y c a r retirement requirement so he could enter alongside Bird in 1998, was nominat­ed for induction Wednesday in his first year of eligibility. 
Johnson, who led the Los Angeles Lakers to five NBA championships, was nomi­nated along with 13 other players and coaches and the Harlem Globetrotters. 
"He's an obvious choice to me or anybody else that follows the game," said Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak. "It's a for­mality, another jewel in his career." 
There are so few doubts 
rebounds and seven assists, leading the Lakers to the first of five titles during the decade. 
At 21, Johnson became the first rookie to be selected Finals MVP. 
The Lakers also won titles in 1982, '85, '87. and '88, and Johnson was the league MVP in 1987, '89 and '90. He was MVP of the All-Star game in 1990 and '92. 
"Magic's contributions to the game make him one of the most deserving ever_ for this exceptional acknowl­edgment," Bird said. 
Nominees need 18 of 24 votes from the Honors Committee for induction. 
ND AnER FIVE 
Thursday, April 25 
5:00 
p.m. Lecture: Surprise Twists in a Career Path by Mary Coleman, 242 O'Shaughnessy 

5:00 
p.m. SEA Teacher Panel, LaFortune Student Center Montgomery Theatre 

5:00 
p.m. Tie-Dye Fun, Snow Cones and Music, Fieldhouse Mall (event begins at 3:00 p.m.) 


5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Friday, April 28 
5:00 
p.m. Bookstore Basketball Elite Eight, Stepan Courts 

5:00 
p.m. -6:30 p.m. Band Concert featuring OKGO and inflatables, Fieldhouse Mall (event begins at 12 00 p.m.) 


5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
6:05 p.m. ND Men's Baseball vs. Arizona State, Frank Eck Stadium 
6:30 p.m. Surgical Volunteerism as a Mechanism 7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton, Rolfs 
for Improving Lives, lecture by Dennis Nigro, DeBartolo 126 
7:00 p.m. Film: The Anniversary Party, Hesburgh library Carey Auditorium 
8:15 p.m. Recital: Rex Rallanka, organ, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse, Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
9:00 
p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, Lafortune Student Center 

9:00 
p.m. Bookstore Basketball Sweet Sixteen, Stepan Courts 

9:00 
p.m. Acousticafe, Lafortune Student Center Huddle 

9:00 
p.m. -2:00 a.m. Indian Dance Party, Bhangra Zone, Alumni Senior Club 


10:00 p.m. Movies: Vanilla Sky and Muppets Take Manhattan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


Sports Recreation Center 
7:30 p.m. ND Opera: Mozart's The Magic Flute, Washington Hall* 
7:30 
p.m. The "Freshmen Four" Plays: Time Flies, Date With A Stranger, Slop-Culture, Naomi in the Living Room, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium* 

7:30 
p.m. Movies: Vanilla Sky and Muppets Take Manhattan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center Student Lounge 
8:30 p.m. -1:30 a.m. Tournament Fridays: Billiards, ND Express, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 
p.m. Crafting Corner: Mother's Day ProjecU End-of-Year Bazaar, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 

9:00 
p.m. -Midnight, Koncert for the Kids, North Quad 


9:15 p.m. Beacon Bowling Trip, Hesburgh Library Circle* 
10:00 p.m. Movies: Vanilla Sky and Muppets Take Manhattan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
11:00 p.m. -until the food runs out. Late Night Grill, Fieldhouse Mall 
Saturday, April 27 
5:00 
p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

5:00 
p.m. ND Men's Baseball vs. Arizona State, Frank Eck Stadium 

5:00 
p.m. Bookstore Basketball Semi-Finals, Stepan Courts 


5:30 p.m. A Graduate Recital: Sean Downey, tuba with William Cerny, piano, Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium 
7:30 p.m. ND Opera: Mozart's The Magic Flute, Washington Hall* 
7:30 p.m. Movies: Vanilla Sky and Muppets Take Manhattan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 
8:00 p.m. The Fantasticks, Lafortune Student Center Ballroom* 
8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room open, free billiards, LaFortune Student Center 
9:00 p.m. Movie on the Quad, Ferris Bueller's Day Off, North Quad 
9:30 p.m. -2:00 a.m. Baila Mi Ritmo, Latino Formal, Alumni Senior Club* 
10:00 
p.m. -1:00 a.m. Open Karaoke, LaFortune Student Center Huddle 

10:00 
p.m. Movies: Vanilla Sky and Muppets Take Manhatan, DeBartolo 101 and 155* 


This ad is published by the Student Activities Office. Programs are subject to change without notice. All programs are free to Notre Dame students unless marked by an asterisk(*). 
FOR ~ORE INFOR~ATION, VISIT: www.nd.edu/-sao/ 
Thursday, April 25, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
... 
The Speech That Father Malloy Did Not Give 
Pax Christi ND approached and asked President Malloy C.S.C. to give the following speech at yesterday's ND ROTC Presidential Review. The Presidential Review is an annual parade to thank the President ofthe University for hosting the ROTC program. President Malloy chose not to give this speech. We respect President Malloy. We embrace the students ofROTC as classmates and friends. The following are words that need to be spoken. 
As another academic year draws to a close, it is once again my distinct pleasure to address you, the Notre Dame students who have chosen to commit four years of your lives to the defense of your country. As I understand it, the Presidential Review is your way of thanking me and the University for hosting ROTC. I am. of course. deeply honored to represent Our Lady's University before a group of students who truly embody the ideals of integrity, discipline, and self-sacrifice. And I would like to say that the University is especially committed to forming you as Catholics prepared to serve God by serving your country. 
I would like to say that you have had the opportunity to diligently and thoroughly study Catholic Social Teaching, specifically moral theology's rich and diverse treatment of those issues of war and peace that are so relevant to your coming service in the United States military. I would like to say that you are quite familiar with Saints Augustine and Thomas Aquinas and the Christian just-war theory and those demands it will make upon your consciences should you ever-God forbid-be called to kill and die for your country. 
I would like to say that you have exhaustive knowledge of those papal and episcopal encyclicals that deal with modem military conflict and that you know which American military campaigns, strategies, and weapons the pope and bishops have denounced for violating either Christian charity or the principles of discrimination and proportionality. 
I would like to say that if after four years of Notre Dame and ROTC education any of you cannot for reasons of conscience go on to serve in the US military then the University would make every effort to defend your choice, both by supporting you should the military choose to bring you to trial and by forgiving the debt you will owe once the military demands repayment. 
I would like to say all these things about the University's ROTC programs, but sadly, I cannot. As the leader of America's greatest and most well-known Catholic university, it is my duty to admit, in all Christian humility, that I have failed you. 
All of you have heard that Notre Dame's ROTC programs are unique because they "Christianize" the US military. I firmly believe that ROTC on this campus is unique. This is, after all, Notre Dame; and Notre Dame is strong as an institution because of its people. You are Notre Dame people, and that is why our ROTC programs are unique. But I must admit that the classes you take are not unique. 
The truth is that, unlike any other depa1tment on campus, ROTC is an institution external to the University. Your instructors, good men and women that they may be, are not hired or paid by the university. Though the Provost approves the faculty in the ROTC program and may oversee the curriculum, your classes are formulated by military officials and your instructors draw their salaries from the US Department of Defense. 
In 1988, realizing that the University might not be doing enough to fulfill its obligation to form your consciences, I appointed a special task force to review ROTC at Notre Dame. In its final report, the task force suggested that Notre Dame ROTC students should be required to take classes in Catholic moral thought, specifically Church teaching on war and peace. Despite the task force's findings, I have done little to improve your formation. 
Let me explain my position. I am not trying to make excuses; in the spirit of honesty, I want you to know why I have failed and continue to fail you. The truth is that I would like to require you to take classes in Catholic Social Teaching and just-war theory. As future leaders in America's armed forces, you could surely benefit from such intellectual and moral training. But US law currently forbids host universities from imposing specialized course requirements solely on ROTC students. In this matter my hands are truly tied. 
Aside from the unique moral and intellectual character of its students, Notre Dame's ROTC is programmatically identical to ROTC at state colleges and universities. Let me make this point clear; Notre Dame ROTC does not require you to receive any sort of special training that you wouldn't receive at any of more than 200 other American colleges and universities that also host ROTC. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, my distinguished predecessor, wrote the following, "The university is not the kind of place that one can or should try to rule by authority external to the university. The best and only traditional authority in the university is intellectual competence: this is the coin of the realm." With these words in mind, it is impossible for me to claim that an ROTC program can belong on this campus; for the US Department of Defense, just the sort of external authority to which Father Hes burgh refers, imposes absolute control over ROTC. The ROTC programs' presence on campus violates the academic freedom that is essential to intellectual competence. 
Many will surely ask themselves why I continue to support the ROTC programs-know that I will always support you as Notre Dame students-if their educational methods so vividly contradict the internal control of curriculum and academic freedom that the University strives to embody. I offer the following reasons, knowing full well that they do not excuse the University's failure to reform ROTC and form your consciences. 
First, I recognize that many of you are only able to attend the University because of the financial aid that ROTC offers you. In the 2000-2001 academic year alone, ROTC provided more than $6 million in scholarships to Notre Dame students. To dissolve these programs without implementing a system whereby former and potential ROTC students could receive comparable financial aid would be negligent on the University's part. Moreover, the flat removal of ROTC would prevent many deserving and able students, especially those from working-class families, from attending Notre Dame. At least one Notre Dame alumnus has suggested that the University offer peace scholarships, whose recipients would commit to working after graduation in fields related to social justice, peace building, or peacekeeping. These post-graduation commitments could involve joining Peace Corps or other similar programs. The University could even devise a program for peace scholarship recipients who choose to join the US military upon graduation; this program, like premed or honors, would require specific courses in Catholic Social Teaching and just-war theory. 
To be perfectly honest, I have not taken any steps to initiate a program like the one I just described, because there is another reason the University tolerates the presence of ROTC programs on campus: If the University were to take steps to remove ROTC from campus, it would lose a great deal of federal funding. Let me explain. In 1995 US Representative Gerald Solomon of New York introduced an amendment to the Defense Appropriations Bill that would cut Department of Defense funding to any college or university that tried to remove ROTC or stop military recruiting on its campus. This amendment passed, and in 1997 it was expanded to include funding from the Departments of Education, Energy, Transportation, and Health and Human Services. The University currently receives more than $39 million from the US government. From 1999-2000 the Radiation Laboratory received almost $4 million in federal funding. Just last month, the Departments of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, and Electrical Engineering received almost $850,000 in federal funding. These are only a few examples. Many other University departments would also risk funding cuts if ROTC were eliminated. 
San Jose State University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology each tried to remove ROTC from their campuses. San Jose State would have lost $18 million; MIT would have lost $336 million. Both schools reconsidered their positions. Perhaps San Jose State President Douglas Leders put it best: "I cannot in good conscience ... jeopardize the life's work of cmTent professors and students whose research is financed by the affected agencies." 
These are the economic realities I face. Many would say that the Catholic institution with the largest endowment in the world, over $3 billion, has the fundraising ability to at least partially compensate for these losses. It is, after all, a matter of conscience. I reply that it is not so clear­cut as my critics would like to think. 
Legally, the University is prohibited from forming you, its ROTC students, in Catholic Social Teaching and just-war theory. Financially, the University is unwilling to risk losing massive amounts of funding by dissolving ROTC. The result of these two tragic circumstances is that I and the University I represent have failed in our mission to adequately inform your consciences. 
The world is an unstable place for myriad economic, social, and political reasons. For the first time since the end of the Cold War, the US faces real threats to its security. The tragedy of September 11 crystallized these threats in our ininds. Now more than ever, Catholic Social Teaching and the just-war tradition must guide the decisions and actions of those Catholics who serve in the US military. I would like to say that the University of Notre Dame has done its job in preparing you brave men and women assembled before me, especially the seniors. 
Unfortunately, it has not. I have failed you, and so I cannot accept your gratitude on this day. In the turbulent days ahead, may God watch over and protect you, may the peace that Christ promised and that only Christ can bring sustain you and motivate your actions, and may the Holy Spirit guide you. 
For a copy of this speech with full citations, please contact Katie Millar at millar.6@nd.edu. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 25, 2002 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
No. 10 Irish take on 5-8 Wildcats 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team takes its short­est road trip of the season when the Irish travel to Evanston, Ill., today for a 3 p.rn. game versus the Northwestern Wildcats at Lakeside Field. 
The lrish, who dropped from ninth to 10th in the national rankings this week, will look to close their sched­ule on a strong note as they search for the program's first-ever NCAA bid. Following the Northwestern game, the Irish close out the Big East schedule at Rutgers on Sunday and then close out the regular season on May 3 at home versus Vanderbilt in a 1 p.m. game. 
Notre Dame faces Northwestern for the first time on the Division I level as the Wildcats program is in its first year. The Irish come into the week with a 9-4 overall record and a 4-1 mark in Big East play. Northwestern, which had women's lacrosse from 1982-91 before disband­ing the program, is 5-8 over­all and 2-3 in the American Lacrosse Conference. 
The Irish lost their first Big East game of the season last weekend. falling 17-8 at sec­ond-ranked Georgetown on April 20. Northwestern dropped a 13-10 decision at 15th-ranked Penn State on April 21. 
Northwestern is a young team with 15 freshmen and four sophomores on the ros­ter. The Wildcats average 
7. 77 goals per game while giving up 9.31 per contest. Offensively, they are led by freshman Sarah Albrecht with 25 goals and 13 assists for 38 points. Sophomore Angela McMahon is second with 21 goals and 10 assists for 31 points. In goal, freshman Ashley Gersuk has played all but 30 minutes and has a 

9.52 goals against average. 
The Irish will look to put the Georgetown loss behind them. After Natalie Loftus scored just 1:31 into that game, the 
Student 
Rules

Golf Clinic & 
Etiquette 

Monday, April 29 !5:30 PM Warren Solf Course 


TELL YOUR PARENTS WHERE TO GO•.• 
for your Graduation dinner. 
•Slow 
roasted prime rib 

•
Fall-offthe-bone BBQ ribs 

•The 
ONLY steakhouse in South Bend 

•
Reservations Accepted 


2 2 2 S. Michigan South Bend 
574-2 34-52 0° 
prime space for your private party I0-250 guests 

One of a kind, just like the city it's named after. 

Hoyas ran off six straight goals in the final 19 minutes. goals on the way to an 11-5 Notre Dame is ranked sev­halftime lead. The lead would enth in the nation in scoring go to 1-5 early in the second defense, giving up 8.08 goals half before the teams traded per game. 
r--------------------------~ ----------------,
!ABOUT TO GRADUATE? 
I I I I I 
I 



.--i4.1iw;( 
CONGRATULA"iffi~s! 
. Y.1//

. -...--=:::~;•.•• J
N
ow the fun begins! &r:':} 
Paying back the student loans·-._ ··: 
We _can help make this part of y~~!fe easier. •tM· *$ave money 'r~,\\J:. *Lower Fixed Interest Rate thatf),ever goes up. No prepayment penalty. *Your current Interest Rate can go up as much as .6% at the end of your grace period, so ACT NOW to lock in the lower rate. 
Call Toll Free 1-866-814-2258 
--------------------------------------------~ 
page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 25, 2002 
Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
15. 
We're Hungover and the Hardcore Strokers traded bas­kets at the start of the game. 
Neither team shot the ball well for the first 20 minutes of play. With a 7 -6 lead, however, the Hardcore Strokers finally started hitting their shots and built a 12­8 lead. 
We're Hungover improved its outside shooting late in the sec­ond half but never got closer than 17-14. 
We're Hungover blamed its collapse against a team contain­ing three Saint Mary's basketbaU players to poor conditioning. 
"Our name isn't just a creative nickname. We're second semes­ter seniors and really haven't been practicing or keeping in good shape," Karen Goodwin said. 
Notes: 
. The open Bookstore tourna­ment continues today at 8:30 
p.m. at Stepan. There are three games scheduled at 8:30 p.m. and 9:15 p.m. The top two seeds, blackJACKS and AdWorks All­Stars play their games at 10 p.m. 
. The Round of 8 in the women's tournament continues today at 4 
p.m. at Stepan. 
. The men's tournament games on Friday and Saturday are scheduled for 4:45 p.m. and 6 
p.m. at Stepan. 
. The championship games begin Sunday at noon with the women's championship followed by the Hall of Fame game at 1 
p.m. and the open championship at2 p.m. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu 

support." to get the start today for the Catcher Jarrah Myers leads Irish.
Softball 
the potent Notre Dame The Irish could see offense. Mastodons' pitcher Mindy
continued from page 1 
She currently has a team­Pomeroy today. In 118 leading .380 batting average, innings of work, Pomeroy season." .500 on-base percentage, 37 has given up 70 runs, but 
Defeating Nebraska 3-2 on runs scored, nine home runs only 39 are earned. Tuesday night gave Notre and 32 RBIs. The sophomore is 2-18 Dame the experience of Six Irish regulars have bat­with a 2.97 ERA. defeating a nationally ting averages above .300 Scoring runs has been a ranked team. Hartmann's game-winning big problem for the 
This afternoon, the Irish three run Mastodons. face the task of maintaining h o m e r In 31
"Our biggest challenge 
that high level of play against games, the against IUPU-Fort Wayne. Nebraska is to play at our level. offense has "Our biggest challenge is to gave Notre We have to not play at only pro-play at our level," Gumpf Dame its 10th duced 37
their level, which is 
said. "We have to not play at different runs. hit their level, which is some­player with a something we have two home thing we have done this home run this runs. and
done this year."
year.'' season, a has a team 
The Crusaders are 5-26 on school batting the season and have lost five record. Deanna Gumpf average of of their last six. While the Irish head coach . 1 9 3 . 
"Our team has already Irish offense Outfielder experienced a letdown and is giving the Christina they know what it feels like," pitching staff run support, Funk leads the Mastodons Gumpf said. the pitchers haven't needed with a .299 batting average. 
Notre Dame's offense has it. Shortstop Angela Grabczak been productive in helping In the last 20 games. has a team-high nine RBI. the Irish win 19 of their past Steffany Stenglein, Carrie This afternoon's single 20 games. Wisen, and Jessica Sharron game is scheduled to start at 
Throughout those games. have allowed less than two 4:00 p.m. at Ivy Field. the offense is averaging runs per game. almost 7.5 runs per contest. During the stretch, 
"The players have been Stenglein and Wisen com­concentrating solely on mak­bined on a no-hitter and ing things happen," Gumpf Stenglein (17-9) pitched a said. "The last months, our perfect game. Contact Matt Lozar at hitters have been giving us Wisen (11-4) is scheduled mlozar@nd.edu. 
PIZZA COMPANY• 
pizzadoneright 
After 8 Party Pak! Lg 1 Topping Pizza, Dozen Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) & 2 Liter of COKE Only $14.99!!! 
(Offer Good After 8 PM Only. Before 8 PM Add $2.00) Visa & Mastercard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
271-1277 

JiffvLttlJe Signatui-e Service. 

qome into 9t-1r service center near campus and give Jiffy.Lube S!gnature Service a try. We look folward to servmg you 1n the near future. 
Receive $4 Off with a valid Notre Dame Universi~ or St. Mary's ID everyday. 
426 N. Di_xie Way 1245 E. Ireland Rd. 104 E. McKinle\f Ave. 
271-7767 299-8666 258-5675 
Hours: M-F 8-6, Sat. 8-5, Closed Sunday 
,..-~-..... 

,~,, Guest Services 
SX,.JI 
www.jiflube.com 
Pl.IS lax & _elll'irorrnerial fee; m<lSI vehides Not valid will BJ?/ other often: or C04>0rs t,r lhe same servile. Cicod only at paAIOlpabr,;i lrd>na Jlfy Llbe Seivice Cffler.a. 
Expires 5131/02 Code: Notre 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 25, 2002 
BASEBALL 
Wind helps Irish blow past Falcons in 6-inning game 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Spares Writer 
Even though the Irish won the battle, Mother Nature won the war. 
In a rain-shortened game that was called in the top of the sev­enth inning, Notre Dame's base­ball team squeaked out a 3-2 vic­tory over Bowling Green Wednesday night. 
"I thought Ryan Kalita did a marvelous job against a really good-hitting ball club," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. 
After the game's start was delayed for about an hour due to rain, wind and lightning, Kalita pitched himself into a jam in the top of the first inning, giving up two doubles and a single to give the Falcons an early 1-0 lead. While the damage easily could have been much worse for the Irish, Kalita was able to retire three straight batters with run­ners on second and third. 
The Irish took away Bowling 


ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock -Out'"°f-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232,M.14 


Contact Ben @ NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmann@hotmail.com 
fence to give the Irish a 3-2 lead. 
"Billmaier's [home run] maybe wasn't a legitimate home run: it probably was helped by the wind, but so was [Hunt's]. so it kind of evened out," Mainieri said. 
After a groundout by Bowling Green off Irish reliever Drew Duff to open the seventh inning, the rain and wind returned to Eck Stadium. After a strong gust of wind wreaked havoc on a throw to the infield by Stanley after a one-out double by the Falcons, the officials decided to stop play. 
After about a half-hour delay, the game was officially called, giving the Irish the 3-2 victory. 
With the victory, Kalita's record is now 2-0 on the season. and the Irish improve to 29-12. 
"He deserved to win," Maneri said. "That team had some really good hitters, and I thought Kalita threw fantastic tonight." 
The Irish have now won 11 straight victories -and 20 of their last 22 games -heading into a huge weekend series with 
Kenna Brewer and the 2005 Sophomore Class Council Thanks for sponsoring aParents' Night Out as your first sophomore class community service event. The free-time was priceless. The rug burns were worth it! 
The Families ofUniversity Village 
Tuesday, A ril 30 8:00pm Riehle Sand Courts (formerly Stepan Courts) Co-Rec -6 on 6* *Minium of Two Females on the Court at all Times Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline: Sunday, April 28 
R-~ 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 

Arizona State. the top of the seventh inning. by 
"We're fired up [about this ruling only the last full inning weekend's series)," Mainieri said. counts. Therefore, the game offi­"I know the kids are excited, I cially lasted only six innings, one know I'm excited. hopefully we'll more than the minimum in order get some good weather and play to have an official game. The two some good baseball." at-bats by Bowling Green -and 
the appearance by Duff -in the
Note: 
top of the seventh inning do not. Due to the game being called in appear on the official box score. 
RECTORS! 
Congratulate the seniors in your dorm with a special ad in the graduation edition of the Obseruer! 
Reserve your space by April 30th! 
Call 631-6900 

Piramides, Palacios y Playas 
It's Not Too Late: Apply to Study Abroad in Sunny Mexico, Spring, 200: 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 2002, 5:00 Pn 209 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADUNE: OCTOBER 1, 2002 FOR SEMESTI BEGINNING JANUARY 2003 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE EARLY AUGUST, 2002: www.nd.edu/~jntlstud/ 
Green's lead in the bottom of the third inning, when Joe Thaman and Steve Stanley opened the inning with singles. After Matt Bok sacrificed both runners, Brian Stavisky's groundout to sec­ond tied the game at one. 
Notre Dame then took the lead in the bottom of the fourth inning with a similar scenario to the third inning. Steve Sollmann opened with a single up the mid­dle and Kris Billmaier sacrificed Sollmann to second. After taking third on a wild pitch, Sollmann then scored on Javier Sanchez's groundout to shortstop. 
Bowling Green was able to tie the game in the top of the sixth inning as cleanup hitter Kelly Hunt crushed a pitch that, with the help of a gusty wind, hit the top of the screen in right-center field. 
But the Irish responded with two outs in the bottom of the sixth, as Billmaier hit a fly ball to right-center which, also with a lot of help from the wind, cleared the 

\_\USH SOFTBALl 
-

VS. IUPUI-Fort Wayne THURSDAY, APRIL 25 
(Jt 4:OOpm .O'. 
,.g. · (Ivy Field) .•~.. 

"'Conaratu(ations to "' Pasqueri((a ']-[a((:East 
and'Knott ']-[a(( for winnin3 'DO'R'M W'A'RS at the 'Notre 'Dame soft6a(( aame on 'Thursday, ~ri(18th! 
Thursday, April 23, 2002 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
LET'S SEE. 100 f'AGE THESIS AT 500 WQi:IDS Pl:R PAGE WITH 
ONE WEB:'S WORTH OF 14 
HOVR DAYS ... THAT'S ONLY ONE WORD EVERY 7 SECONDS! 
FOXTROT 
GLUG 
C,LUG GLUG 
THE :JOY OF PAO:ING AN ENTIRE SEMESTER'S WORTH OF WORK INTO A SINGLE 
wrn 
BILL AMEND 
THIS COULD EILEEN 
C:oMPLETEL"1 :JAcoSSON 
CHANGE IN 'SIGHT. SPtTSALL RANGE: 
WARFARE AS Boo WE ICIIIOW IT. 'fARDS. 
I 
RYAN

B B
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Lenore's creator 1 Sphere 35 Prominent grocery chain 
6 Embargoed land 38 "Spy Game" star
10Oneofa multiple birth 40 He was in the rag trade
14 Da Gama's destination 
42 Article lead-in 44 Get-up-and-go

15 Addict 45 Ripple maker 
16 Take apart 46 Sell for 
17 Junfpero Serra, for one 48 Outside opening?
19 9 to 5, maybe 52 Word on an
20 Not be up-to­invitation
date 54 Place to plug a
21 V-J Day pres. 
new book, 22 Street hustler's maybe game 
57 Monitor's side 24 Classic 
60 57-Acrossexamples 

opposer 27 Before the bell 
61 "Thimble 30 Pack Theater" name 31 Russian capital 62 Hairpieces 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
BLO =+,,,.._,,,.._,,.-. META R I V -,,+,,,,+-,,+,,,+.-,-A N O N ATE YEGG GER RAL 


64 Custardlike dessert 67 Nay sayer 68 Stick on the table 69 Not stick to the script? 
70W.C. 
71 Popular side 72 Zippy flavors 
DOWN 
1 Biathlon weapons 2 Captivated 3 Slow movement 4 Architect Maya 
5 Hardly wimpy 6 Scalper's victim 7 Trojan initials 8 Radiant look 9 Cartoonist Peter 
10 Affirmative action concern 
Puzzle by Alan Arbesleld
11 Support 12 Put on 36 Sunday driver? 
13 Beehives and 37 Play to_ buns 
39 Vocal cords, 18 An end to sex? informally 23 Rib 40 Muscularity 25 Now and again? 41 Blast maker 26 What "The Star­
42 Average name Spangled 43 "That's nice!" 
Banner" writer is 
in this puzzle 47 Revere 28 It may be odd 49 Penner of 29 Still polonaises 
32 Buddy 50 Trifling 33 Finnie language 51 Barn fledglings 62 Rule, in India 
63 Start of a Spanish count 
65 Indeedshort 

59 Extreme 66 Coldwell Banker torment competitor 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285·5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Al Pacino, Ella Fitzger­ald, Albert King, Talia Shire 
Happy Birthday: Peculiar cir­rumstances arise this year concern­ing legal or financial matteis, taxes or joint deals. Work hard to get your portfolio in good shape. You can make extra cash if you invest in art objects. You should be concerned about chronic health problems. Get a secoo.d opinion. Your numbeis are 15, 19,20,34,45,49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A partner may try to take advantage of you to get what he or she wants. If you are selective in your friendships you will do much better today. A commitment can be made but only if youfeel ready to do so. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Someone you thought you could trust may not be in your comer. Empty promises will result in frus. tration so be sure to get everything in writing and don't rely on second­hand information 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20i: You will be chatty and eager to share whatever information you have. The more you have scheduled into your agenda the better. You can make great progress today when it comes to meeting people who can make a difference to your future. 
Cl0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may not want to see things clearly especially at a personal level. Your home life is likely to be challenging. Be careful not to overreact or retali­ate. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22}: You can make a difference to others by being supportive and offering your servic­es. This is a good day to enhance your reputation. You will be able to draw people to your cause. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
EUGENIA LAST 

Don't overspend and you won't have a problem today. You should be intent on achieving the most at work. Ii you want to change your job or make professional changes nowis a good day to start. 000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): You have so much going for you If you second-guess your ideas you will never get them off the ground. Push ahead and don't be afraid to let interested parties in onwhat you are 
doing.000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Being secretive will pay off today. If you are discriminating and thor­ough you won't have a problem. Do not do business with those who are not likelyto tell you the whole truth. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (NCJ\t 22-Dec. 21): Don't believe everything you hear. Ask the opinion ota trusted friend. Get promises in writing. Your involvement in a group will lead to some interesting propositions.
0000 . CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Uncertainties surrounding work will result in delays. Be agreeable, especially when dealing with your pelSOflal life. Partnersmay overreact to whatever itis yousuggest 00 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. lS): You may have some wonderful insight to share with your peers but be careful how you present it Some­one might twist your words, take you the wrong way or oppose what you want to do. Develop your idea to a point where there will be no denial. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will do just fine as long as you are dealing with children, being creative or socializing. Once you step into an area that deals with finances you may find yourself losing ground. An investment is likely to backfire. 000 
Birthday Baby: You will build your ideas on solid ground. You won't take anything for granted. You will question your knowledge and actively seek to acquire more throughout your life. You will have an interest in psy­chology and unconventionalsubjects. 
(Need advice? Oi.eck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) (I:) 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 
Here Co~e the Irish 
Softball 

Todayvs. IUPUI -Fort Wayne 3ptn at Ivy Field 

1 
r1zona

Baseball vs. State 
Friday at 6pm, Saturday at 3pm 
• Student tickets will be available on a first come, first 
serve basis FREE beginning Friday at 9am at the Joyce Center Ticket Office. • Students can get up to four tickets, with four IDs. • Students must present ID with student ticket at the gate. 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Baseball p. 18 
. NBA, p. 14 
. 
Women's Lacrosse p. 16 . NCAA,p. 14 

. 
NHL, p. 13 

. 
MLB, p. 13




PORTS 
Thursday, April 25, 2002 

SPORTS ANALYSIS 
Making the grade 
Notre Dame struggles to balance academic standards with athletic excellence 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh tells a story about what the president of the University of Chicago said when the university disbanded its football team. 
"He said, 'you know, it would be a lot easier if all of those schools would go out and buy four horses and then we could put our colors on the horses and the horses could race against each other. Whoever won could be the champion for that year. The beauty of it is nobody expects you to educate the horses." 
As public distrust of the academic policies of Division I revenue athlet­ics increases and as colleges and uni­versities have seemingly decreasing graduation rates, racing uneducated horses may seem an apt metaphor for the future of collegiate revenue athletics. 
colleges were sanctioned by the to deny there has been a change in the professionalism rampant in colle­
Institutions like Notre Dame that 

NCAA or put on probation. Over half collegiate athletics. In its 2001 giate athletics today.
pride themselves on strong academic of the 106 Division I-A institutions report, The Knight Commission on In the last seven years, the capitalprinciples in adaition to successful playing at that time were included in Collegiate Athletics found "at the expenditures for big college athleticathletic programs seem to be becom­that number -57 to be exact. And heart of these problems is a profound programs has increased nearly 250ing obsolete. 
out of those 106 academic institu-change in the American culture of
Can a university like Notre Dame tions, 19 graduated less than 30 per-sports itself." It cited a move from seeACADEMICS/page 12survive in a world of racing horses? 



WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Who's Getting Lucky stuffs Deez 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Senior Staff Writer 
No. 4-seeded Who's Getting Lucky Tonight ran away from Want Some ofDeez? in the second half as it cruised to a 21-9 victory. 
Deez could not keep up with Lucky's transition game in the sec­ond half of its Round of 16 game of the Women's Bookstore Basketball Tournament. Deez trailed 11-5 at the half but were run off the court in the second half. 
"That's the one thing we talked about after our last game. We wanted to run on people. We thought we had a quickness advan­tage," Lucky's Alex Callan said after the game. 
When Deez slowed Lucky down enough to force it into a half-court game, Lucky's precision passing and movement without the ball led to easy lay-ups. Deez stayed in a 2­3 zone to prevent Lucky's guards from driving into the lane. Lucky countered the zone by overloading to one side and cutting on the weak side. 
"l didn't think so many teams would run zone against us," Callan said. "I guess they are worried about our quickness but the middle still seems really open." 
Despite the lopsided defeat, Deez was satisfied just to keep the game as close as it did. 
"We knew they were good. We saw them earlier in interhall. I think we did pretty well," Deez's Courtney Giel said. 
Lucky is usually made up of four current and one former Welsh Hall interhall football player but for it was missing one player this game. Mary Murphy missed the game to attend the funeral of her grand­mother. Lucky expects Murphy to return for the next game today. In her place, first-year law student Anna Benjamin joined Katie Rak, Callan, Vanessa Lichon and Karli Pederson to defeat Giel, Allison Esposto, Tiffney Colon, Jeanne Trelease and Jenny Burke. 
The second-seeded Hardcore Strokers got a bit of a scare early from We're Hungover but pulled away in the second half to win 21­
see BOOKSTORE/page 17 
ND SOFTBALL Irish prepare to extend win streak 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 

After Liz Hartmann's seventh-inning three-run homer put Notre Dame ahead 3-1 over No. 4 Nebraska, the Irish knew their opportunity for a season-defining win was at hand. 
A record of 1-7 in pre­vious games against top 25 opponents presented the Irish with numerous chances to pull a major upset. Even through Ios­ing, Notre Dame gained the experience necessary to hang on in the bottom of the seventh, at a ranked opponent's home field. 
"The girls knew what to expect since it was noth­ing new to them," head coach Deanna Gumpf said. "They didn't think they shouldn't win that game. We have played teams better than Nebraska already this 
see SOFTBALUpage 17 
. Women's Lacrosse at Northwestern, Today, 3 p.m. OBSERVER
SPORTS 
. 
ND Softball vs. IUPUI-Fort Wayne,Today, 4p.m. onllne 

. 
Baseball vs. Arizona State, Friday, 6:05 p.m.


AT AGLANCE http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 





