
Augmenting the DVD collection
SHOWERS 
Thursday
Scene shares live movies. ranging from comedy to drama, that will beef up your D\'D movie collection for those snowy Saturdays. 
MARCH 7,
HIGH 46° 
Scene . page 11
LOW 40° 
2002 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 104 HTTP;//OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Former peer advocates speak against ResLife 
By JASON McFARLEY  University disciplinary proce­dure.  strays from its own rules govern­ing discipline and denies stu­ September accused Hoadley of fondli.ng her at Hoadley's Turtle  ing the full story, I can't imagine that he would do something so  
News Editor  In December, that open-door  dents fair hearings.  Creek apartment following a  terrible." Wong said of the man  
Six months ago, answers to Nikki DePersis and Susan Wong's questions for Residence  relationship changed, the women • said, and led eventually to their February resignation from their posts.  "The last time we went into that ResLife office, it was the most unwelcome feeling," Wong said of an early-February meet­ night of drink­ing. Days after the alleged assault, she  "I understood their reasons for resigning.  involved in the case. "It seemed atypi­cal of his char­ 
Life • and I lousing officials were just a walk to Main  "/ can't say, 'put your faith in Reslife anymore.,,,  Following a controver­sial sex­assault case  ing there. The hostility stemmed, accord­ing to the students, from a case of alleged sexual assault in  filed a report with South Bend police, who found no  I thought it was handled very well."  acter." De Persis, who also talked to the man and  
Building, a smile  that began  October. Even after leaving their  probable cause  Bill Kirk  learned  the  
and a wave away. As vice presi­ Nikki DePersis former peer advocate  in October and resulted in a  positions, the women said confi­dentiality barred them from releasing names and discussing  to pursue crim­inal charges. She filed a  assistant vice president for Residence Life  facts of the case before his hearing,  
dents  of  peer  November  details of the case.  claim  with  believed there  
advocacy, a student-run service  lawsuit, the seniors allege that  Their description of the case,  ResLife in late-September.  was little evidence for officials to  
that operates under the Judicial  ResLife officials disrespected  however, as well as ResLife and  Wong admitted that she served  rule in the alleged victim's favor.  
Council for Notre Dame under­ them and made them feel like  court records obtained by The  as  peer advocate for  a  man·  "I was confident he'd walk out  

grad uates in trouble with traitors. DePersis and Wong, Observer indicate that the case accused of a sex crime in early­
ResLife, DePersis and Wong speaking publicly for the first involves former student Ryan October. Hoadley's hearing was interacted often and freely with time about the situation, claim Hoadley. Oct. 4. administrators about cases and also that the University routinely A female Notre Dame junior in "After meeting him and hear-
FACULTY SENATE 
Members announce structural changes 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
In a groundbreaking deci­sion for Notre Dame's Faculty 
· Senate, the Academic Council has approved two resolutions to restructure both organiza­tions. Senate Chair Jacqueline Brogan announced the reso­lutions' passage Wednesday, calling the move "an unprece­dented spirit of respect and collective cooperation." Immediately after the Academic Council members unanimously adopted the res­olutions last week, University President Father Edward Malloy formally approved them. The proposals are intended to reorganize the Senate and to give the body more formal authority. One resolution overhauls the description of the Senate contained in the Academic Articles of the faculty hand­book. It includes changes such as decreasing the mim­ber of senators from 53 to 45 and making the Senate more representative by allotting 
TONY FLOYD/The Observer 

one senator to each academic 
Director of Office of Institutional Equity Rhonda Brown shares her plans for increasing
department and distributing 

diversity In the faculty at Tuesday night's Faculty Senate meeting. 
remaining seats to various other groups. The second resolution 
Senate's position a year ago. immediately rescinded the future issues. 
aligns the Senate more closely 
Last May, the 2000-01 sena­vote. The result has been a "Having successfully accom­with the Academic Council by 
tors voted to dissolve the 10-month effort to win plished this goal, it is time to 
increasing faculty representa­
embattled body because respect for the Senate and tum our attention to the real tion on the Council and by 
administrators and faculty maintain it as a viable gov­work we as a Senate need to creating new overlap between perceived the group as pow­erning body. do," she said. "Unlike the the two organizations. · erless and ineffective. Brogan, who led efforts to Academic Council at this The passage of the propos­Minutes later, 2001-02 sena­restructure the group, said als is an about-face from the tors officially took office and she looks forward to tackling see SENATE/page 4 

with very little punishment," DePersis said. 
see RESLIFE/page 6 


New grant promotes 
•


service 
By HELENA PAYNE Assistant News Editor 
After two years of planning and waiting, the Office of the Student Body President has finally been able to offer a grant that will help support student service projects. 
The Greatness Grant was recently made available to stu­dents this semester through Father Richard Warner of Campus Ministry, 25 percent of the proceeds from the Blessing Unto Others Week in February and private funding. 
"The limitations to this grant are the limits of the imagina­tion of the Notre Dame student body," said Brendan Harris, coordinator of the grant. 
Currently, grant recipients will receive $200 for individual projects and $400 for group projects. Harris said the Office of the Student Body President is saving some of the $2,400 available in the Greatness Grant fund, but the amount of the grant could increase if an endowment is established. Harris said the committee's goal is to raise at least $25,000. 
"We anticipated in future years that the committee will look until all the funds for that year have been spent," said Harris. 
The first "test case" for the grant was senior Kelly Rich's project at the Houston Catholic 
see GRANT/page 4 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, March 7, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bring it on! 
After seven and a half weeks of pressure-writ­ten papers, mind-numbing lectures, unpre­dictable weather, and an average of five hours of sleep a night, spring break craziness may com­mence. 
Well, not quite yet for those unlucky souls who still have that supposed scheduled pop quiz or conveniently scheduled paper due on Friday. However. a sizeable portion of students is joyous­ly clamoring for the debauchery·and coincidental­ly the seemingly unforgettable and unmemorable times that can be synonymous with spring break. Oh bring it on! (Well, this is the response for most as they head for sunny destinations, but for me not so much as I will be headed for sweet home Chicago.) 
Somehow spring break goes hand in hand with the college experience despite the fact that it is in no way related to anything Meghanne 
academic -maybe this is a 

good thing. From the begin-Downes ning of the school year, spring break plans arc the topic of discussion and with Copy Editor 
each intricate detail -well, really there are only a hand-. ful of details that are essen• tially important such as being pointed in the right direction or having the exact directions from your hotel room to the closest source of beverages or ensuring that the hotel has easily distinguishable signs to lead you back -there exists the general assumption that this will be the best spring break extravaganza ever known to mankind. 
Spring break is an integral part of a college stu­dent's life, and without it, I doubt that several of us would be able to seriously survive. l know that I can only take so many early nights where there seems to be no light at the end of the homework tunnel or endless hours in MY ninth floor hovel of the Hesburgh Library (it has a lovely view of the Dome). Most of the people whom I know are being dragged dm-.TI by the day-to-day trudge to classrooms and literally by the recent slippery pathways that seem to knock even the most sta­ble walker, along with the absent-minded victims who fall while carefully maneuvering the little snowy incline to the parking lot on their butts. Not to mention the vacillating weather that can't commit to snow or sunshine -I know that I am getting tired of checking each day to determine if it's a sandals or long underwear day-adds to the mounting frustration. 
Without spring break there possibly would be no reason to struggle through the bitter cold or for that fact any incentive to get up for class, open the books and make it through the semester at all. Spring break is definitely a symbolic beacon of promoting a good work ethic. We need this period of recuperation from long nights and mind­exhausting assignments in order to build up the reserves for the second half of the semester; how­ever, some may long for a period of recuperation from their vacation as they seemingly defy their own expectations. 
Without spring break just imagine the general level of aggravation that would result. After observing my friends, 1have realized that spring break will provide a much-needed break from not only school but from possible tensions with friends and, of cours. frustrations with members of the opposite sex (hmm ... sweet , sweet loving) for most of them. There are only so many times that the future roommates will willingly welcome the door-knocking or barging in, and you know that you particularly feel loved when they conve­niently exclude you from the ghost story fun time! 
My board currently has the countdown at two days, and I cannot wait for the fun times to begin! 
J>lease contact A1egharme Downes at 
mdownes l@nd.edu. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all limes. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us JC 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 59'> 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation period,. The Observer is a member of the As.\ociated Press. All reprnducrjon rJghts are reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Thursday Friday 
. 
Lecture: "The . Lecture: "There's International Mission of Something About Mary Holy Cross," Tom Smith and (Wollstonecraft)," Eileen David Schlaver, Room C-103 Hunt, Room 120 Hesburgh Center, 4:15 p.m. O'Shaugncssy Hall, 12:30 

. 
Film: "Behind Closed to 2 p.m. Eyes," Room C-100 Hesburgh Center, 7 p.m. 


=====================================================================~­
Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
U. Mass RAs vote to form first undergraduate union 
AMHERST, Mass. 

Resident assistants and community development assistants at University of Massachusetts-Amherst voted 138-88 to form the first undergraduate labor union in the country. 
The University has seven days to chal­lenge the results of the election. 
"We're disappointed at the result. I think the vote showed that a lot of peo­ple are actually not in favor of a union; 88 votes is a significant number," said Javier Cevallos, vice chancellor for Student Affairs. "We'll take a few days to assess the situation and think about it and then we"ll decide what the next steps are going to be." 
The Massachusetts Labor Commission reported there had been no objections filed as of press time. Elections specialist Shirley DeMarco-Siciliano explained 12 
SWARTHMORE COLLEGE 
Aid for drug offenders will be covered 
The Board of Managers has approved a policy man­dating that Swarthmore College replace financial aid the federal government denies to students with drug convictions beginning next year. "Students who have been convicted of drug offenses are not eligible to receive federal student aid" because of a law passed in 1998 that will go into effect for the next academic year, Director of Financial Aid Laura Talbot said. Replacing money denied to students with drug convic­tions "is consistent with stands we have taken in the past," President Al Bloom said. "I believe that the decision with respect to registration for the draft had to do with protecting students' rights to acts of con­science," said Maurice Eldridge. vice president for col­lege and community relations. However, he added, "it is bad policy to use federal funds intended to expand access to higher education as a means of enforcing drug laws." The decision to replace this aid prompted a change in admissions policy. 
Swarthmore Phoenix 
=========================================================================================-­
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
r,, , 
//



ballots were challenged during the elec­tion. 
"All of the graduate students votes were challenged by the employer," DeMarco-Siciliano said. "Even if all of them went toward the "no-union" side. the result would not have been affect-
Saturday 

. Conference: "Assessing the Theological Legacy of John Howard Yoder," McKenna llall, all day. 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Controversy surrounds publication 
Editors of the Harvard Business Review have demanded the resignation of their boss, alleging an affair she carried on with one of her sources has compromised the integrity of the publication. The letters, written in recent weeks by four editors, called for the resignation of editor Suzy Wetlaufer after she asked the magazine in late December to pull an article she had written on former General Electric Chair Jack Welch. The article, scheduled to appear in the Review's February issue, was an interview with Welch -with whom Wetlaufer admitted to having an affair. Wetlaufer told The Wall Street Journal. which broke the story on Monday, that she asked for the article to be canceled because she felt she "had become too close to [Mr. Welch!" and that their relationship might call into question the objectivity of both the article itself and the Review as a whole. Wetlaufer said in a prepared state­ment to the Journal that she became romantically involved with Welch "seven weeks after [the] interview was written." 
Harvard Crimson 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
1 forecast for noon.Thursday, March 7. 
........

G 2002 AccuWeather, Inc, COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Q) p,.G). . ~ 
~) \4~~ 4]~ 
High Lovw Show•r• Rain T-¦torm¦ Flurrfe• Snow lo• S1,,1nny Pl. CloUdy Ck)i,M 
V/a.,-ssQC/alod Press  
Atlanta  68  46  Las Vegas  63  40  Portland  44  31  
Baltimore  64  39  Memphis  70  52  Sacramento  58  31  
Boston  53  39  MIiwaukee  38  35  St. LOUIS  66  54  
Chicago  46  41  New York  59  41  Tampa  76  59  
Houston  75  61  Philadelphia  63  41  Washington  65  42  

ed." The llA union will be affiliated with United Auto Workers Local 2322. 
"We're very excited, and we feel as though that the RAs have spoken that the~ want a union once again like they did when they signed the original peti­tion," said Tim Scott, a union organizer. "We look forward to sitting down and having RAs bargain a good coritract to improve their working conditions." 
"This is a group of workers who want to make a change in their job and they went about a legal process to do that," UAW local President James Shaw said. "We're going to go to the bargaining table and make those important changes." 
RAs had mixed emotions over the results. 
Massachusetts Daily Collegian 
Sunday 
. Exhibit: "Masks and Figures, Form and Style: The Christensen Family Collects African Art," Snite Museum of Art, all day. 

Thursday, March 7, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Former congressman addresses culture of terrorism 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Wrirer 

Nearly five months after he was scheduled to speak at the Kellogg Institute on American foreign policy challenges, Lee Hamilton, director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center and a former U.S. Congressman, finally made it to Notre Dame. 
Hamilton was on a plane in Reagan Airport on Sept. 11 on his way to Notre Dame when he was told to evacuate as he saw the Pentagon burst into flames in the distance. 
Wednesday night, Hamilton talked about America's prima­ry foreign policy challenge ­terrorism -in front an audi­ence that included Father Theodore Hesburgh and South Bend Mayor Steve Lueke. 
ers, is suc­cessfully completed. But Ha111ilton was dubious of how we define success when only a couple hundred fighters have been captured and tens of 
J;;'. .r,: GREAT WALL 
J,,~ vooed., o,~,."~""""''°'s~'"'""'" , "™ 
r_~.--:~-.'.l?r_.:.:.itJ::?ir·:•n_ Sze:~:i~~r~itt~~~na;~~;=~ ~ ~:;;ican
__ :,·.I~-' "'-' Lunch Special $4 75 • Mon -Fri 11 :30 -3·00 PM
.. ­

Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday-Thursday 11:30 AM -10:00 PM J Friday -Saturday 11 :30 AM -11 :0? PM
*( 

/, r.., Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
•,1 11 a.m. to 3 p.m 
$8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 

Sponsored by the Gigot Center for The Entrepreneurial Studies 



Provence 
Experience Washington Hall Thursday, March 7th 8PM 
Featuring the music of: 
jason brown & LESTER 

And the comedy of: 
Ryan Cunningham 
& 


JJ Ahearn 

Tix@LaFortune &. 
Box Office -$3 a r.\M::.~•~\Wi&WDiiiiif. 17!'£'41
I _· 
However, no such evidence currently publicly exists and America would probably have to justify invasion by Iraq's violation of United Nations regulations of weapons of mass destruction. 
"What do you do when you win? We haven't given that much thought," Hamilton said. 
He agreed with President Bush's comment that the most important aspects of war on terrorism are nonmilitary. Certain "tools of peace" like loans, aid, financing and law enforcement are important in rebuilding Afghanistan. 
"There is a moral and national security call to rebuild Afghanistan," said Hamilton. 
Hamilton believes that the 
U.S. must provide security. help form a new government, and provide aid and recon­
_ struction to Afghanistan. Panelists asked questions about the future cohesion of the coalition the U.S. formed of nearly 160 nations. Hamilton said that if America pursued an invasion of Iraq, the alliance would probably have some fractures but would continue to exist as long as a few key states still supported the U.S Another audience member was concerned with the label the U.S. receives as "masters of injustice." Hamilton was equally con­cerned and responded by say­ing. "America is not good at explaining our values, which is ironic when we are such great advertisers.·• 
Contact Liz Kahling at kahling. l@nd.edu. 

"Terrorism has become the axis of American foreign poli­tics," said Hamilton. 
He noted that before September. the average American did not give much thought to the threat of terror­ism. but today lhe news is dominated by 
thousands of fighters were known to exist. 
"The CIA says al-Qaeda is the No. 1 threat to [American] safety. So where do we go now?" said Harnliton, "The trail leads you ltoJ focus on al­Qaeda." 
The United 

the ongoing war on terror­ "Terrorism has become  States is not solely focus­ 
ism.  the axis ofAmerican  ing  on  
The media and govern­ foreign policy. "  Afghanistan. Manv believe  
ment  have  Ame.rica will  
claimed  that  Lee Hamilton  turn to Iraq  
the first phase of the war, the roundup of al­Qaeda fight·  fonner U.S. Congressman, director of Woodrow Wilson International Center  next. Hamilton addressed the possible  

idea of invading Iraq. He described the plan as one that America would win, but would need justification to tie Saddam Hussein to Sept. 11. 

CELEBRATING WOMANHOOD 

From left, seniors Erin Bush and Shannon Meyer and junior Jen Salisch celebrate International Women's Month at an event sponsored by the Saint Mary's Student Diversity Board. The event included Mary Kay samples, hair braiding, free massages and arts and crafts. 

~etirement plan, a good one, should be designed by clearly definin~ your goals and by carefully checking your calendar. The investments you make 20 years from retirement may be very different from the ones you'd make 10, 5, or even 2years away. No matter what your retirement date, our Retirement Specialists can help. Our goal is to keep your assets working long after you've stopped. 
Come join us on March 12 and April 9, from 8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m. for one-on-one counseling. Call Vanguard at 1-800-662-0106, ext. 69000 to schedule. 

-www.vanguard.com 

@2002 The Vanguard Group, Inc. AU rights reserved. Vanguard Marl\eting Corporation, Distributor. 
page 4 


Grant 
continued from page 1 
Worker House over Christmas break. Because of the success of her project, Rich, the first applicant. has opened the door for future Greatness Grant recipients. 
"She had a great project idea," said Harris. "She con­vinced the committee that she would do the work and be of grnat service to that llouston community." 
At the Catholic Worker House, Rich resided in Casa Juan Diego, which houses refugees and immigrants from L a t i n America. 
"We wanted to be able to
Rich said Students t h e give students a grant that can obtain Greatness applica­
could allow them to use their 
Grant could tions for
imagination and really
give stu­t h e dents the develop something they Greatness 
Grant in
chance to were extremely
have more 2 0 3
passionate about." 
non-Notre Lafortune Dame ser­or the
Brooke Norton
vice oppor­Maximum
student body president 
Student
tunities. 
"Anytime that Notre Dame takes the ini­tiatives to give students the opportunity to be with commu­nities that are really different from the Notre Dame commu­nity, it's really beneficial for the student and for the com­munity that the student is being a part of," Rich said. 
Rich, who wants to continue doing volunteer work after graduation, said the service project was a chance for her to utilize Notre Dame resources in a project tailored to fit her ideas. 
"It's such a generous thing to be given funding for something like this," said Rich. "They made it really easy for me and just trusted me to do something good with it." 
The concept for the grant was conceived during the last academic year under the lead­ership of former student body President Brian O'Donoghue and current student body President Brooke Norton, who then was the Vice President. 
"We're so proud of ev.ery­thing that students already do as far as social concerns go, but we wanted to be able to give students a grant that could allow them to use their imagi­nation and really develop something they were extremely passionate about," said Norton. 
Most of the Notre Dame ser­vice programs are conducted through the Center for Social Concerns, which helps about 80 percent of the student body find ways to do service work. Also, every year, at least 10 percent of graduating seniors choose to volunteer for a year or more immediately after they 
leave Notre 
Dame. 
Resource 
Center (the "Max"). The application requires an introduction letter, a peer recommendation and a brief essay that describes the student's intended project with a tentative budget. Harris said the committee will review every request for funding on a rolling application basis. 
Harris stressed that the com­mittee wants "independent projects outside of the purview of other Notre Dame experi­ences" to promote new service activities and to c.,ncourage stu­dents to continue the service tradition of Notre Dame, but in an innovative way. 
"Notre Dame sponsors a lot of service. Unfortunately, Notre Dame can't be everywhere," 
The Observer . NEWS Thursday, March 7, 2002 
AFGHANISTAN 


U.S., allies deploy Inore troops 
Associated Press 
GAHDEZ 
Fierce fighting raged for a fifth day as the United States deployed hundreds of rein­forcements Wednesday and gathered 5,000 Afghan troops for an offensive aimed at fin­ishing off al-Qaida 
The U.S.-led coalition mount­ed punishing, round-the-clock airstrikes above the rugged terrain in eastern Al'ghanistan and some U.S. officers predict­ed the operation could be wrapped up in days. 
In Kabul, five peacekeepers -two Germans and three Danes -were killed in an explosion while trying to defuse anti-aircraft missiles. 
The Pentagon said opposition fighters were still putting up stiff resistance after five days of battle, some of it above 10,000 feet in snow-covered mountains. As fighter jets and bombers hit targets, more attack helicopters were called in to boost the firepower in the largest U.S.-led offensive of the 5-month-old war. 
U.S. estimates of enemy strength appeared to have 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
moment, we have several pressing issues on our agen­da." 
Senators Paul Conway and John Robinson were appoint­ed to a committee to rewrite Senate bylaws and determine been low going into the offen­sive. Initially, said mission commander Maj. Gen. Frank L. J-lagenbeck. estimates put opposition strength at 150 to 200 fighters. Subsequently, 

U.S. officers revisod those numbers to "the neighborhood of600 to 700 enemy." 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Humsfeld was asked about dis­crepancy Wednesday and said accurate predictions were impossible going into a battle. 
"We've been looking at that area for weeks and have a great deal·of intelligence infor­mation, but it is not possible to have a good count," Rumsfcld sa_id. 
A local Afghan commander, who goes by the single name Isatullah, said U.S. forces received enemy estimates f'rom an Afghan military leader from a, diflerent region. 
"What were they thinking of getting their intelligence from a commander who was not even from this area?" asked Isatullah, another Afghan com­mander. 
U.S. forces were working with Zia Lodin, an Afghan commander from Logar 
new election procedures. 
In other senate news: 
. Rhonda Brown, director of the newly created Office of Institutional Equity, dis­cussed ways to increase fac­ulty diversity. Brown said her job would be concerned with raising the number of female and minority professors. 
"Faculty are vested entities Province to the north of Paktia Province, where the battle is under way. Lodin had 450 Afghan fighters when the mis­sion began. 
The al-Qaida and Taliban forces are armed mainly with motars, cannons, rocket-pro­pelled grenades, shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles and AK­47 automatic rifles. 
Maj. Bryan Hilfery, spokesman for the 10th Mountain Division at Bagram, said Thursday that coalition forces were progressively destroying tho enemy equip­ment, and had killed 100 fight­ers alone on Wednesday. 
The commander of the oper­ation, code-named Operation Anaconda, said Wednesday that U.S.-led troops had the upper hand after killing hun­dreds of fighters -about half the al-Qaida members holed up in the hills around the village of Shah-e-Kot. U.S. troops were searching their cave hide-outs. 
"We own the dominant ter­rain in the area," Hagenbeck told reporters Wednesday at Bagram air base north of the capital, Kabul. "We truly have the momentum at this point." 
in this place," Brown said. "With a weak faculty, you have a weak institution. With a strong faculty, you have a strong institution." 
She said her office would begin playing an active role next fall in faculty searches and hiring interviews. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

said Harris. "What the Greatness Grant attempts to do is fill that gap a little bit." 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
STUDENT 
LEADERSHIP t\WAR.DS 

Request for Nominations 
We are requesting nominations for the Student Leadership Awards. These awards are given to the ten undergraduate students who best exemplify the spirit ofNotre Dame in social, recreational, residential, service, and religious activities that promote the welfare of the University and extended communities. 
Selection ofthe recipients ofthese awards is based on outstanding service on or off campus through participation in voluntary and/or (s)elected co-curricular activities with an emphasis on quality of participation. 
·We ask your assistance in identifying students deserving ofsuch recognition. A student may nominate another student, but no self-nominations will be accepted. Ifyou wish to nominate a student, please provide the following information. 
I)  The name of person doing the nominating and their relationship to the  
nominee.  
2)  The name and year in school ofthe nominee.  
3)  All major activities, number ofyears involved, and leadership positions  
held while at Notre Dame, both on and offcampus, and the year of  
participation. For example, Class Council hall representative 2, Red Cross  
volunteer 3, Biology Club lecture coordinator I, tutor I, etc. Also include  
any awards and honors received.  
4)  Expound not only on the leadership positions held, but more important, on  
the student's quality ofthe involvement. Be explicit in explaining the  
student's contributions and not just describing and /or listing leadership  
position(s) held.  
PLJ)::ASE RETURN ALL NOMINATIONS BY WEDNESDAY,  
MARCH 13, 2002 TO:  
Awards Selection Committee  
315 Lafortune Student Center  
University of Notre Dame  
Notre Dame, fN  46556  
For more information on the nomination process, please contact  
Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631-7308.  


--------------------------------------------. 



W0RL 
ATION 
Thursday, March 7, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WlRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Suspected IRA dissidents arrested: 
Two suspected Irish Republican Army dissi­dents were arrested in a renewed effort to gather evidence against the gang blamed for the 1998 attack in Omagh, the deadliest bombing in Northern Ireland. The two unidentified men were arrested at their homes and were being interrogated near the border with Northern Ireland. 

British leaders halt Iraq debate: 
Parliamentarians halted a debate on British policy toward Iraq Wednesday after a govern­ment minister accused a lawmaker of being a mouthpiece for Saddam Hussein. The unusual suspension came during an emotional debate in which several legislators expressed unease at the prospect of Britain backing U.S. mili­tary action against Saddam. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Bush congratulates Simon for win: 
The White House will continue its involve­ment in Republican primary fights this year, even though President Bush's hand-picked candidate in the California governor's race was soundly beaten in the first election of the campaign season. Bush congratulated Bill Simon on Wednesday for defeating former Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan and pledged to support Simon, promising to visit California "as soon as I can." 

Man pleads guilty in airport case: 
A football fan whose dash past security guards shut down the Atlanta airport for four hours was sentenced to 10 days in jail Wednesday after pleading guilty to misde­meanor trespassing. Michael Lasseter, 33, was sentenced to five weekends in jail and 500 hours of community service. He also was barred from attending University of Georgia football games this fall. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 

Robber asks for reduced sentence: 
A woman who has served less than a year of a 17-year prison sentence for her role in a fast­food restaurant robbery that led to an accom­plice's death wants her sentence reduced. Lori Thomas, 36, of Lake Station is seeking her freedom under a process which, if pur­sued during the first year of a sentence, does not require the approval of the county prose­cu tor, said James Tsoutsouris, Porter . County's chief public defender. Porter Circuit Judge Mary Harper will consider the request 
on March 14. 
Market \Vatch March 6 
Dow 10,574.29 +140.88 Jones 

Composite-~ Same: Volume:
Ej 
185 

1,516,414,976 
AMEX: 881.40 + 3-.53 NASDAQ: 1,890.40 + 24.11 NYSE: 603.l + 8.50 S&P 500: 1,162.77 + 16.63 
$GAIN PRICE 
OAQ-100 INDEX (OCQ) +0.48 +0.18 37. 60 ISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.57 +0.26 16.77 UN MICROSYSTEM (SUtwJ) -0.66 -0.06 9.03 
LE CORP (ORCL) +2. 09 +0. 29 14.14 DS UNIPHASE (JDSU) +5. 45 +0. 34 6. 58 
ISRAEL 

Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
As Ariel Sharon complet­ed his first year in power Wednesday, he banged his fist on a podium and told soldiers a stepped-up mili­tary campaign would be waged until "the other side understands it can't achieve anything through terror." 
Israelis elected Sharon in the hope he could guaran­tee their security. But today, the Mideast is enduring one of its worst spasms of violence in 17 months of fighting, with Israelis being killed in higher numbers than under Sharon's predeces­sor. 
The burly Israeli leader has pursued the policies he pledged at his inaugura­tion last March 7: tough military action and a pro­hibition on any peace negotiations until the Palestinian uprising ceas­es. 
However, Sharon's fore­cast that Israel's powerful military would crush Palestinian militancy hasn't come to pass, and the battle of attrition has now claimed more than 1,000 lives on the Palestinian side and more than 300 on the Israeli side. 
In Wednesday's fighting, Israeli forces shelled Palestinian targets by land, air and sea in retaliation for a Palestinian rocket attack on an Israeli town. Seven Palestinians and two Israeli soldiers were killed in the Israeli assault on the Gaza Strip. 
Sharon's broad-based coalition government has so far survived the turbu­lence endemic to Israeli politics, but with the vio­lence escalating, calls for the government's resigna­tion are growing louder . 
"A government that promised upon its estab­lishment a year ago to stop terror, but only increased it, should resign," colum­nist Sever Plocker wrote in a front-page editorial in Yediot Ahronot, the coun­try's largest-circulation daily. "A government that promised a year ago to bring peace closer, and only distanced it for gener­ations, should resign." 
Sharon has disappointed many Israelis with his inability to define exactly how he plans to end the violence. He urges Israelis to remain resolute and be prepared to make sacri­fices. He has said several times that military action will be intensified to a point the Palestinians can no longer endure. 
House GOP pushes new recovery plan 
insurance premiums or accelerated Democratic leaders reacted cau­
Associated Press 
income tax cuts. tiously, but many Democrats were 
WASHINGTON "We're trying to solve the prob­optimistic that the measure could 
Shifting gears on the economy, lem," Thomas said. "We're trying to break the months-long partisan log­House Republicans decided remove their theological objections." jam over how to address the eco­Wednesday to bring to a vote a pack­The package is composed of items nomic downturn. age of jobless aid and business tax many Democrats have previously "This is something that we could cuts while removing controversial backed. These include a 13-week have done a long time ago." said items in hopes of attracting solid extension of unemployment benefits, Rep. Earl Pomeroy. D-N.D. Democratic support. a three-year, 30 percent tax writeoff Passage of the measure would 
House Ways and Means Committee for new business investment, $5 bil­mark the fourth time the Republican­Chairman Hill Thomas. R-Calif., said lion in tax relief to help New York led House has approved broad eco­the legislation did not contain pro­recovery efforts and renewal of a list nomic legislation since the Sept. 11 posals that "violate Democratic the­of popular tax breaks that expired. terror attacks. The Democratic-Jed ology," such as a tax. credit aimed at Total cost was estimated at $94 Senate has twice passed only the job­helping the unemployed pay health billion over five years. less benefits extension. 

page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 7, 2002 
ResLife 
continued from page l 
Hearing panel members 
apparently thought differently 
and determined that Hoadley 
violated the University's sexual 
misconduct policy. They expelled 
Hoadley and permanently 
banned him from campus on Oct. 
19, the same day Wong said she 
learned that the man in her case 
had been kicked out of school. 
"I was in shock," Wong said. 
"There weren't grounds to make 
a decision so severe." 
With the advocates' help, 
Hoadley appealed. Notre Dame 
officials upheld the decision in 
early-November, according to 
court records, but University 
President Father Edward Malloy 
reduced the punishment to a 
two-year suspension without 
promise of readmission. 
What followed next was a dra­
matic chain of events that drove 
DePersis and Wong to grow disil­
1usioned with ResLife and to 
vacate their positions. 
It began with Hoadley filing a Nov. 28 lawsuit in St. Joseph County Superior Court. The suit sought a preliminary injunction to lift the Wexford, Pa., native's two-year suspension. It asked a judge to grant a temporary restraining order to bar the University from enforcing the punishment. 
Both DcPersis and Wong admit 
to testifying in early-December in 
a court proceeding. Court 
records, in fact, show that both 
women testified on Hoadley's 
behalf. 
The court appearance marked the first time University officials showed disdain for DePersis and Wong, the former advocates said. 
"Notre Dame wanted to mini­mize our credibility," DePersis said. "They called Susan a 'mere notetaker' and asked us if we had any training as la\+yers." 
A judge on Dec. 7 upheld Notre Dame's suspension of Hoadley. In the absence of the court order, Hoadley remains suspended for the duration of the suit. The suit also seeks a permanent injunc­tion that would reverse ResLife and Malloy's punishment of Hoadley. 
Meantime, Hoadley, who planned on studying abroad this semester through the Notre Dame London Program, is enrolled at Indiana University South Bend. 
The lawsuit has changed atti­tudes about University discipline and worried ResLife officials, according to DePersis, Wong and others. 
"Everything was fine until this trial," said Judicial Council President Tim Jarotkiewicz. 
DePersis said, "His case put everything in a new light. Our comfort level with [officials] before was unbelievable. After, they answered nothing." 
Jeff Shoup, director of Residence Life and Housing, and Lori Maurer, the department's associate director, refused to comment on the office's past and current relationship with DePersis and Wong as well as any issues arising from it. 
Jim Mello, an assistant director and the peer advocates' main contact. said advocates can meet freely with ResLife staff. He declined to comment about whether hostility was directed toward DePersis and Wong fol­lowing their testimony. 
That alleged hostility alone didn't cause the women to quit last month. They claim that inconsistencies in the sex assault case prompted them to look more closely at the dozens of cases they had handled since most detailed record of University hearings. Incidentally, a court last fall ruled Wong's 24 pages of notes inadmissible and wouldn't allow them into evi­dence. 
"Someone [else] needs to record what happens in any ResLife hearing," Wong said. 
Knowledge of disciplinary rules also was a problem, DePersis said, because no two ResLife staff members would convey the same information. 
"Everyone in the office was on a different page," she said. "One person would tell you to do X, another Y and someone else Z. I kept thinking that maybe it was just me, but I can't be wrong nine out of 10 times." 
Another problem was training. Neither woman was ever trained to handle sexual assault cases. For DePersis, her first experi­ence 'With that type of case came last fall. For Wong, it was her second. 
Advocates also receive no training to handle drug cases, which have been prevalent this year, the women said. 
Peer advocate adviser Mello said his office provides overall training in the disciplinary process but does no incident-spe­cific training. 
Although the name seems i.o imply differently, advocates do not represent people embroiled in the disciplinary process. ln fact, both current advocates and University officials describe them as middle men between students and ResLife. 
Charged students typically are advised to call when they get a letter from the University stating allegations against them. There are two vehicles for University discipline: the disciplinary con-
becoming advocates as fresh­ference and the administrative tion to fellow advocates and same thing." 
men. hearing. The hearing is the more ResLife staff in early February. While no administrators have 
One sticking point for Hoadley serious of the two. Only the advocates were sup­explicitly threatened the women in his case was that he was Conferences commonly result portive of the decision. Some ofli­for going public, DcPersis and denied witnesses on his behalf from drinking offenses, accord­cials cautioned DePersis and Wong admit that they fear some inside the HesLife hearing, his ing to DePersis and Wong. Wong to not be "wave-makers," of the consequences of blowing attorney dairns in court records. Punishment here is usually mini­the women claim. the whistle. The alleged victim was allowed mal -small fines, community "Everyone made us feel like we "We're hesitant out of' respect to have her close friend and eye­service and mandatory counsel­were irrational," DePersis said. for the office and out of personal witness as well as her rectress ing. The rash of tailgating offens­Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­concern," Wong said. with her during the hearing, but es last fall ended mostly in minor dent for Residence Life, called a Both believe that peer advoca­Hoadley was told to have a pro­punishment from disciplinary meeting with them before the cy is an invaluable program and fessor write a letter. The fonner conferences. women made their departures shouldn't be cancelled. If any­business major's best friends Hearings, the women said, public. Their talk with the thing, it should be expanded. were not allowed inside the involve more significant accusa­administrator was helpful, they said. hearing, and his former rector tions -sexual assault, parietals DePcrsis and Wong said. Jarotkiewicz assures that the was unavailable for the proceed­violations, drug use and posses­"We had a good discussion," program will continue to thrive. ing. sion and manufacture and pos­said Kirk, who is not directly Jarotkiewicz, the new vice presi­
Citing confidentiality, Wong session of false identification. involved with the advocate pro­dents of advocacy and ResLife would not confirm whether the Rulings in hearings may result in gram or with disciplinary pro­staff now meet regularly and man in her case faced the same severe actions such as suspen­ceedings. "I understood their have frank discussions about circumstances in his hearing. sion and expulsion from the reasons for resigning. I thought it cases, he said. 
The student handbook, duLac, University. was handled very well." "We have good discussions guarantees anyone involved in a Advocates generally don't Their public disclosure of their with them about what we're see­hearing the right to present wit­attend conferences with stu-resignation came at a Feb. 6 ing and what students are com­nesses to dents, and it is Student Senate meeting. In a let­ing to us with," Jarotkiewicz alleged inci­the students' dL<;­ter to senators, they said a once­said. He noted that a meeting dents. Other "Someone needs to cretion whether strong relationship with the last week with Mello was posi­witnesses are to have an advo­Office of Residence and Housing tive, and the administrator
record what happens in 

permitted cate accompany had become strained and caused ensured him that advocates only at the any ResLife hearing." them into a them to question their ability to would play the same role they discretion of hearing. Their serve students. have in the past. the hearing Susan Wong work is kept con­To DePersis and Wong's sur­The biggest loss amid the con­panel. fidential. prise, the Senate -with no dis­troversy was for the advocacy
fonner peer advocate for

In accor­Last semester cussion -accepted the resigna­program itself, Jarotkicwicz said 
Residence Life

dance with alone, the corps tions and quickly confirmed about DePersis and Wong's leav­1992's Higher or 15 advocates Kathryn Anderson and Ricky ing oflice. Education worked more Sadowski as their successors. For their part, DePersis and Amendments, duLac states "the than 50 cases. DcPersis and By coming forward with their Wong are happy with their deci­accuser and the accused are Wong were responsible for about frustrations, the women hope to sion. They remain close friends entitled to the same opportuni­half of them. bring change to a disciplinary with most of their former col­ties, if any, to have others pre­Jarotkiewicz of the Judicial process they believe is compro­leagues. And their relationship sent during an administrative Council said last week his office mised by unfairness and incon­with at least one ResLlfe official hearing." received six calls from students sistency. is intact. 
Wong believes the school made seeking advocates' help. They want students -espe­Their confidence in the an example of the man. holding For DePersis and Wong, the cially student government repre­University disciplinary proce­him up as proof of its tough breaking point came when they sentatives -to take an active dures, though, may be shaken stance against sexual assault. believed they no longer could role in straightening out the for good. 
" ... D uLac is vague," Wong help the people who wanted flaws they see in the system. "I can't say, 'put your faith in said. "H's like the University can their support. That was in late They want faculty members, too, ResLife anymore,"' De Persis do anything and justify it." January. to lend support to the issue. And said. "IfI can't put my faith in it, 
With last fail's sex-assault case "We saw our ability to help they want officials to recognize how can l be expected to tell stu­and other cases, the women anybody degenerating," Wong that the way the University han­dents who are petrified to put pointed out other procedural said. "We couldn't justly work for dles discipline raises concerns. their faith in it?" snafus and inconsistencies. something when we didn't "There are too many people 
Documentation is a problem, understand the rules and proce­who have suffered," Wong said. according to Wong, who said dures." "I hope that future students 
Contact Jason McFarley at 
mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 

peer advocates' notes are the They announced their resigna-won't have to go th rough the 
None Dame Campus Mznzsny 
InTeR.nsbzp PR.oc;Kam 
A post-graduate one year internship
. 
with Campus Ministry for one male and one female. August 15, 2002 -May 30, 2003 
Work in and learn from a creative
. 
and dynamic ministry environment. 
Housing and monthly stipend provided.
. 
This internship is ideally designed for students who are discerning a career in ministry and who have a special interest in Religious Studies. 
For further information and an application, please contact John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

....---------------------------------·--­
Thursday, March 7, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Sexual orientation forum draws·small crowd 
that came to mind when given
By JILL MAXBAUER 
certain characteristics, both News Writer 
when addressing one's self and addressing it in others. Tho 
Organizers who hoped a first term was "brown eyes," forum about sexual orientation and as the excrcistc~ progressed, would attract a large audience students were asked to com­were disappointed only seven ment on gays, lesbians. bisexu­people attended Wednesday als, non-Christian and hetero­night's discussion. sexual. 
In August, organizers cxpc~t­ln the gay, lesbian and bisex­ed this forum. the seventh in ual category, students picked the Understanding and words ranging from "sexy" to Embracing Our Sexuality "evil". When they tried to series, to have the highest describe the feelings of a gay, attendance, simply because lesbian, or bisexual person, there is so much students 
tension regard­"There is such a thing as used words 
ing sexual ori­I i k e
heterosexual privilege. " 
entation on "oppressed," Saint Mary's "alienated" Campus. The Mary Crawford and "catego­low numbers rized."
student organizer
were disheart­When het­ening for the erosexual planning team and student was mentioned. students said attendees alike. the term was "the norm," and 
"It's unfortunate that the talk . commented on how heterosex­was offered from an education­uals take their sexuality for al stance. including religious granted. views which are often miscon­"There is such a thing as het­strued, and only seven people erosexual privilege," student chose to come." said organizer Mary Crawford said. Alexandria Wilkie. "If a heterosexual couple holds 
The forum began with the hands in public. it is not looked student-planning group down upon. But if a homosexu­addressing their peers. al couple were to do that, peo­
"It's important to be open ple would comment." when looking at the challenge Those in attendance agreed . of our sexuality," organizer with this idea. Candace Heilly said. "It's important that hetero­
Hegina Hall Director Carly sexuals acknowledge the privi­Guerra added, "It's something lege and use that privilege to that needs to be talked about, address issues that affect the especially at Saint Mary's." minorities," senior Kelly 
The planning group had the Komenda said. students list words or phrases Father Joe Carey took this 
opportunity to discuss homo­phobia. Taken from the docu­ment "Homosexuality: Catholic Teaching and Pastoral Practice," Carey said. "llomophobia is a prejudice comparable to racism and anti­semitism.,, 
Students present did admit that there is strong homopho­bia on the College's campus. 
"As women who have been given the o'pportunity to receive an education, I think we need to take the initiative to influence public perception and realize this is truly a social jus­tice issue," said student orga­nizer Bonnie Arends. "In par­ticular, this is an issue that we 
have  the  ability  to  impact  
deeply."  
Another  issuB  that  was  

debated was the question of whether or not sexual orienta­tion is in fact a genetic predis­position or a personal choice. Judy Fean. director of Campus Ministry, explained that the Church secs sexual orientation as something we arc born with. 
But lhose in attendance also admitted that sexual practice is a choice and that some women choose to be involved in a homosexual relationship because of things that have happened with men in the past. 
Carey also passed out the document "Always Our Children: A Statement of the Bishops' Committee on Marriage and the Family." Using this document, the group was given the Catholic perspec­tive on homosexuality. It explains that while the Church does not identify homosexual orientation as sinful, acting on and participating in homosexu­al activity is. 

"The teachings of the Church make it clear that the funda­mental human rights of homo­sexual persons must be defend­ed and all of us must strive to eliminate any forms of injus­tice, oppression, or violence against them," Carey read from the pamphlet. "Homosexual persons must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensi­tivity." 
Contact Jill Maxbauer at maxb3126@saintmarys.edu. 


THE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, March 7, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre ~rune. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
ASST, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smich  Par Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadter 
Sc.ENE EDITOR: C. Spcnccer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Pecer Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: kimberly Springer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahve.1 Chin 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: A11dy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL (NF0.....•........631-7471 FAX. ...... , ....................................... , ............. 631-6927 ADVF.RTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINFSS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR'i's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the movies/music for 
minute forecasts weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­and rates of print ads 
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for about The Observer 
articles published after 
co meet che editors and August 1999 staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Uns.igned editorials represent che opinion of che majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily chose of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expre~ion of all opinions through lecrers is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question. r,garding Obsen,er policies should be dirm­ed to Editor in ChiefMik, Connolly. 
Ireland's pick-up techniques don't live up to its pubs 
So, as we all know by now, I'm living in Ireland this semester. Ah. Ireland, land of love. All right, so maybe that's not the first thing you think of when you think of Ireland. You probably think more along the lines of "land Marlayna of booze." Which Soenneker it most certainly is. I think there Here We Go are something like Again: Letters three pubs for 
From Exile 
each inhabitant of 
this island and four for each tourist. They have so many pubs here that they actually dis­assemble and export real Irish pubs to rich mopes who reassemble them in America. You'd think they could open a pub modeled after an Irish pub, b\lt no, rich guys want to open real Irish pubs, so they import them. 
Inside our Irish pubs, though, it is a land of love. All right, that's not true either. It's more like a "land of crashed and burned attempts at love." I think the major reason for this is that the guys here use some of the strangest and least effective pick-up techniques that I've ever seen or heard. 
So, as a service to you, my "other Irish" readers, rthought I'd give you a rundown of things not to do to pick up girls in an Irish pub. (I'm fairly sure these all hold true for American bars too.) 
Do not nudge girls with your elbow when you think you are being funny. If you are being funny, she'll know. If you aren't being funny, you're just nudging a girl with your elbow a lot. On that note, if you're the only one laughing at your jokes, you might want to consider the possibility that you might not be funny. If your friends aren't even laughing to help you out, you're probably in pretty sad shape. 
Do not ask about scars, acne, defor­mations, missing limbs, handicaps, harelips, clubfeet, plastic surgery, Siamese twins or any other personal and potentially embarrassing subjects. Furthermore, you should never carry a conversation to the point that she says, "It's none of your business and I don't want to talk about it anymore," It's difficult to segue successfully from that into. "Do you want to come back to my place?" 
Do not attempt to say the girl's name backwards. It's rarely impressive, even when you are both drunk. 
Do not comment on how little she is drinking or how slowly. You may be thinking that she should relax and have a good time, but she's thinking you are trying to get her drunk. Also, repeated emphasis on "You're alone?" makes you sound like a potential rapist or stalker. Very few girls find that attractive. · 
Try not to criticize her personality ­that's really more of a married thing. In fact, if you can't think of something to say that isn't somehow negative, it's better not to say anything. While girls do seem to go for jerks, they like to pretend at first that they're picking up a good guy. You don't want to ruin that delusion. 
If she's trying to see around you, leaning into her view probably won't cause her to suddenly realize that you are obviously the most interesting thing in the room. 
Don't poke her stomach. It's weird. Don't grab her shirt to read the logo on her chest. It's creepy and if she knows karate, you'll probably get dropped before you finish reading. Also, grabbing a girl's butt is almost never a good way to introduce your­self. 
Do not talk about her to your friend when she's actually present. Drunk does not equal deaf. Furthermore, if your friends are giving you the univer­sal sign for "Dude, you're excessively drunk, making a comQlete idiot out of yourself and totally annoying this girl," try not to interpret it as "Boy, arc you cool." 
Don't hit on girls 10 years younger than you. (If you are a student and this is an issue for you right now, please seek professional help. Otherwise, just keep it in mind for when you are 30.) 
Try to remember that most girls don't consider sitting on the bar stool next to yours to be quite the same as propositioning you for sex. Most of the time, her super-secret reason for sit­ting down at the bar stool next to yours is that she's tired of standing. 
Try to learn the difference between 'Tm laughing because you're funny,'" 'Tm laughing because I can't hear you," and 'Tm laughing because I think you might be an axe murderer and I don't want to upset you." The latter two generally involve a lack of eye contact. 
And my last piece of advice: Do not make your second question, "Do you ride tractors?" 
Marlayna Soenneker is a junior psy­chology major currently studying abroad in Ireland. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be con­tacted at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expre!j,§ed in this column are those of the au"thor and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Truth is not relative 
It never ceases to amaze me that here at Our Lady's uni­versity, in her shadow no less, such scandalous and anti­Catholic diatribe as recently seen in this paper can actually be thought up and written by students. I would like to address here the issue of objective truth, which inevitably arises whenever these supposedly controversial topics are discussed. 
First, for all of you "open-minded" types, here's a quote from G.K. Chesterton: "The point of having an open mind, like having an open mouth, is to close it on something solid." 
Catholic doctrine is not opinion. It never was, never will be. It flows from the truths God has revealed to man by the nat­ural light of our reason (which is often clouded), by His reve­lation through the prophets and finally and definitely through the second Person of the Triune God, Jesus Christ. Catholic doctrine stems from these sources and, guided by the Holy Spirit, the Holy Mother Church cannot err in any matter per­tinent to salvation. No matter what modernist propaganda, liberal ideas or other tripe you have been exposed to or influ­enced by, it does not in any way lessen the status of truth as it exists in reality and as the Church clings to and teaches. 
The idea of open-mindedness when construed into moral relativism or religious pluralism is a grave error. (Read the declaration Dominus Iesus concerning religious pluralism.) Respect and acceptance of all humans, regardless of their opinions, is entirely different than acceptance of those opin­ions they hold. And while Christ teaches that if we judge not, we shall not be judged, and if we condemn not, we shall not be condemned, we have to keep in mind we are also called to admonish sinners and to spread the truth and to baptize in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. 
Vincent Mata freshman Zahm Hall March 1, 2002 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Helena Payne Matt Nania Meghannc Downes Graphics Joe Ackerman Jake Weiler 
Sports Production 
Matt Lozar Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Sheila Flynn Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Do you belive there is a tolerant environment for gays and lesbians at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"They who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night. " 
Edgar Allen Poe writer 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 7, 2002 page 9 
Intermediate institutions have role in peace 
When the United States responded through military means to the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, the debate opened up in Catholic circles and wider society concerning the justi­fiabilil.y of an armed reprisal. Given the renewed allied offensive in the mountains of eastern Afghanistan the last three days, such debate is likely to continue. 
The issue of whether and in what way to draw upon military power exercised by states is an important one. Catholics and oth­ers should continue to deliberate on the matter. However, from a Catholic perspective, military and other actions by states do not exhaust the possible avenues of response. 
Catholic teaching has long empha­sized what are called "intermediate" associations or institutions. These include everything from Girl Scouts to universities to churches, particularly on the parish level. Pius XII wrote that such intermediate groups are the "essential cells which secure men's freedom." Paul VI concurred, saying, "There is an urgent need to remake at the level of the street, of the neighbor­hood." There is the need for "different forms of associations, recreational centers and spiritual and community gatherings." John Paul II himself calls for "a wide range of intermediate bod­ies with economic, social and cultural purposes." 

What might be exemplars of this intermediate form of association? How can we respond to Sept. 11 in a way that goes beyond the display of the American flag? (I have one in my win­dow at home.) Two associations are worth mentioning: the Community of Sant'Egidio and Catholic Relief Services. 

The Community of Sant'Egidio is a Catholic lay association that began in Rome in 1968. U now has more than 40,000 members in 60 countries. Joined by a life of prayer and an ecu­menical outlook, the community joins work on behalf of the poor with peace­building. ln their words, "Friendship with poor people led Sant'Egidio to understand better that war is the mother of poverty. fn this way, love for poor people in many situations became work for peace, protecting it whenever it is jeopardized, helping to rebuild it, facilitating dialogue where it has been lost." Members of the Community of Sant'Egidio have not only provided humanitarian relief to war-torn coun­tries but have also served as mediators in, for instance, Mozambique and Guatemala when the opposing parties would otherwise not have come together. 
Catholic Relief Services, a relief and development agency of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops since 1943, presently serves 80 coun­tries and territories. It has also recent­ly undertaken the explicit role of fos­tering peacebuilding in the form of: 1) education, training and workshops; 2) prevention and early warning; 3) peace and justice commissions; 4) inter-religious dialogue; 5) citizen diplomacy; 6) mediation; 7) trauma healing and psychosocial work; and 8) post-conflict reconstruction as well as economic relief and development. 
The CRS "guiding principles" are explicitly informed by Catholic social teaching and include the statement, "We believe that the development of economic, social, political, material. spiritual and cultural conditions are necessary for all people to flourish and reach their full human potential and we accept our responsibility to pro­mote the common good of the larger society." 
Intermediate groups like these two are not a panacea with regard to vio• lence. Catholic teaching does not sug­gest that they, by themselves, are fully adequate as a response to terrorism. It does, however, suggest that there are a variety of contributing factors to vio­lence. The Second Vatican Council states, "If peace is to be established, the primary requisite is to eradicate the causes of dissension among men. Wars thrive on these, especially on injustice." 
Paul VI warns without advocating, "When whole populations destitute of necessities live in a state of depen• dence barring them from all initiative and responsibility and all opportunity to share in social and political life, recourse to violence, as a means to right these wrongs to human dignity, is a grave temptation." 
John Paul 11 makes clear that this point has transnational relevance when he says, "In fact, if the social question has acquired a worldwide dimension, this is because the demand for justice can only be satisfied on that level. To ignore this demand could encourage the temptation among vic­tims of injustice to respond with vio­lence, as happens at the origins of many wars. People excluded from the fair distribution of goods originally destined for all could ask themselves: Why not respond with violence to those who treat us first with vio­lence?" 
It is important to point out that the Sept. 11 terrorists were largely from the middle class and that Osama bin Laden is wealthier than most of us will ever be. Catholic social teaching does not support or excuse their actions and, in my judgment, backs the use of armed force as part of a response. The work of groups like Sant'Egidio and Catholic Relief Services, however, can help defuse the popular support for terrorism, lessening its attraction and therefore diminishing its occurrence. It is also on this intermediate level that all of us can participate in ways that go beyond symbolism. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor of theology and the director ofthe program in Catholic social tradi­tion. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at Whitmore. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column represent those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fox is a fitting speaker 
As a senior looking forward to graduating, I was very excited to see that the University of Notre Dame had exceeded my expectations with this year's commence­ment speaker, Vicente Fox. After President Bush's visit last year, 1 was relatively pessimistic about who we were going to have speak for our class. I was praying that it wasn't going to be that disc jockey, Taylor Richards, but the thought was never ruled out until Tuesday when word got out about President Fox. 
Three senior classmates and I were fortunate enough to be living in Mexico during the summer of 2000. There was an excitement about the election that I have never experienced here in the United States. Excitement about the possible "fair" voting process, excitement about the possible ousting of the Insl.itul.utional Revolutionary Party (PRI) excitement about possible change for the better. So as I read the news that Fox would be speaking here, I became excit­ed too at the possibility of hearing one of the more con­troversial, more influential heads of state in the world. 
No matter what Fox's message will be on Commencement Sunday, much can be taken from his campaign slogan of "Si, se puede!" {Yes, he can!} As we look to the future, anything is possible for us. 
A-:, seniors, we should be thankful that the University is bestowing upon us somebody other than Taylor, and we should be excited not only for Fox's speech, but for the future us all. 
Ben Powers senior 
Alumni Hall March 6, 2D02 
Examining the true nature of feminism 
Intelligently discussing "The Vagina Monologues" and its benefits and drawbacks to society are respectable endeavors in this academic environ­ment, even when it takes weeks to sort out. Attacking women and feminism under the guise of academic discourse, though, is reprehensible. 
In "Feminist promotion of 'V-day' is not true social work," printed Tuesday, Lt. David Sauve asserts that feminism "has its roots in Marxist and commu­nist thought and won't be satisfied until science cre­ates an artificial womb to grow babies." This state­ment is more than simply an offense to feminist thought-it's an assault on women themselves. 
Feminism is not about eliminating men from soci­ety and creating a communal nation of women. And feminism is certainly not about masculinizing women "who have a self-loathing because they hap­pen to have a period once a month and men don't." Feminism Js about recognizing the nature of women and their unique perspectives on the world. Most importantly. feminism is an appreciation of the entire woman, including women's sexual nature, intellectual thoughts and contributions to a society that includes men. 
Like it or not, women are still not equal members of society, which is only recognizable if you are a woman or if you are a man who is willing to objecti­fy his social perspective of society. If women do not initiate a discussion of themselves and their offer­ings to society. no advancement will ever come. 
Women's suffrage did not occur because male con­gressmen decided to be nice one day. Women's suf­frage was won because women vocalized their opin­ions and asserted their equality. 
Such is the mentality of women today who assert their sexual equality. The goal today is not to pass legislation but to stand up and demand equality in all aspects of life. 
Women are sexual beings, repressed through social conventions and customs. "The Vagina Monologues" is art attesting to the entire woman. Women have achieved enormous equality through legislation in the past century. In the 21st century, it is time to recognize women as equal to men in a socialized sense. 
Sauve's marginalization of women only fuels the drive for social acceptance. He defines "true oppres­sion" in specifically militaristic terms. For another perspective on the matter, I suggest that he talk with a SO-year-old woman who wanted to be a doc­tor, an architect or an engineer but was told she could not pursue her dreams "because you are a girl." This oppression is not one to be remedied with guns and bombs. It is changed through persistent education and social change. 
Alicia Williams junior Breen-PhilJip• Hall March 5, 2002 
THE 
OBSERVER 


page 10 Thursday, March 7, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Soldiers' depicts the early years of Vietnam 
ble only with the rapid insertion and exit ability of 

By BILL FUSZ 
the old cavalry. Forces can be deployed "at a time 

Scene Movie Critic 
and place of our choosing." gaining a tremendous upper hand. 

rn "We Were Soldiers." writer-director Randall Filmed mostly at Fort Benning, Ga., home of the Wallace attempts to tell a Vietnam story that he and infantry, much of the opening hour is devoted to authors Hal Moore and Joseph Galloway argue has showing the new unit's training, as well as intro­been largely ignored. It is not the story of merely ducing the cast of characters. There's the hotshot one battle. It is the story of a Vietnam most may not helicopter pilot who will fly them into battle, Major recognize if their touchstones are "Platoon," "Full Bruce "Snakes--t" Crandall (Greg Kinnear); Jack Metal Jacket" and "Apocalypse Now." Geoghegan (Chris Klein), a young lieutenant newly 
This is the story of the early Vietnam War, when married and expecting his first child with wife America thought it could win and before some of Barbara (Keri Russell): and three-war Seargant the malaise of the 1960s rubbed off on the military, Major Basil Plumley (Sam Elliot). as is shown so pointedly in those aforementioned Soon, war beckons and President Johnson orders films. Drugs and racial tension had not begun to the airmobile over as part of the escalation. In one radically undermine readiness and of the film's brief political asides. unit cohesion. There was no sense of Moore questions the order in Conver•
"We Were 

futility. No one knew how the nation sation to a superior. "I didn't hear him would react to a conflict so far away Soldiers" say 'national emergency.'" and so misunderstood. Without declaring a state of national 
Instead, for Lt. Col. Hal Moore and t'1ff#.~1~ emergency, enlistments cannot be the men of 7th Cav, "Garry Owen," involuntarily extended, meaning that
out offive shamrocks 

their story was about courage, sacri­Moore's battalion will lose 1/3 of its fice and honor. Their nation called Director: Randall Wallace most experienced men just before and they responded. Moore and the Starring: Mel Gibson, deployment. 
young war correspondent that accom­Sam Elliot, Barry Pepper It is not long after their arrival in panied him into battle, Joe Galloway and Chris Klein Vietnam that the 7th Cav is tasked to (Barry Pepper}, wrote the memoir on chase escaping North Vietnamese which the movie is based: "We Were Regulars, a job Moore fears will leave him in the Soldiers Once ... and Young." same position as the most famous 7th Cav comman­
With its inexplicably changed title, "We Were der in history, General Custer. Soldiers" opens with a scene of a French patrol Immediately after the first wave is deployed bybeing decimated in an ambush in the early '50s, a helicopter to the Ia Orang valley, the battalion reminder of the long historical nature of the begins to take fire. Vietnam conflict. It is the beginning of the film's Outnumbered 450 to 2,500, 7th Cav fought for effort to show "the other side" as people with the three days in what came to be known as "The same types of goals and hopes as Americans. Valley of Death," losing almost half of their men but the war and the spirit of those men who fought
Ten years later, Moore (played by Mel Gibson) is somehow surviving the ambush and routing the there. Like "Black Hawk Down," it brings to life
assigned to command an experimental unit known North Vietnamese. 
something one would like to forget. yet must 

as "airmobile." The concept behind this unit is that "We Were Soldiers" breaks no new cinematic remember.
by using helicopters and super-accurate artillery, ground, but it accomplishes what it sets out to do. American forces can gain a maneuver advantage With a cast of veteran actors, Wallace (screenwriter unmatched in the history of warfare, and compara-of "Braveheart") crafts a story true to the events, Contact Bill Fusz at wfusz@nd.edu. 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Sex and stupidity: Macho men in 'Days' 
pressing problem facing modern America: put forth enticingly understated perfor­the film's ideal. When men are not purelyBy CHRIS BANNISTER The culture of false machismo and sex mances and the dynamic between the two sex driven, they become futile shells of 

Scene Movie Critic 
obsession is beginning to take on frighten­is endearing. However. instead of utilizing their former selves. This is evidenced by ing proportions. them and making intelligent comments, one woman saying Matt used to be cute At one point in "40 Days and 40 Nights," The premise of the film is simple. After a the film goes for the path of complete and attractive when he was having sex, but Matt Sullivan (Josh Hartnett), who's vow of 

rough breakup, Matt decides to get over mindlessness and outra­now he's somehow less celibacy has been made into a betting his ex by swearing off all sex for Lent. His geousness. All the other attractive (the two women
"40 Days and

game by his friends, says to them, "You friends and co-workers think this is a characters in the film are in the scene promptlyought to be ashamed of yourselves." Sadly, ridiculous act and should be the subject of complete buffoons played 40 Nights" begin to engage in a girl­tltis remark is more appropriately directed an on1ine betting pool. In the midst of this by mediocre actors. on-girl make-out session ­
.

at the audience and the filmmakers rather online pandemonium, Matt happens to run Whenever there is any another example of how than the characters in the film. into the girl of his dreams, Erica (Shannyn sort of dull moment in the out offive shamrocks ridiculous male fantasy
•

As benign as yet another infantile sex Sossamon). Hilarity ensues as Matt tries to film, it is offset by some ideas smother the movie).
Director: Michael Lehmann

comedy may seem, "40 Days" highlights a complete his vow while dealing with the female nudity or an erec­Will "40 Days" make a lot 
Starring: Josh Hartnett and
inherit complica­tion-masturbation joke. The of money? Most likely. Will tions of his gam­film raises it.<;elf to no high­Shannyn Sossamon young males laugh at the• bling coworkers er level than that of a bad dirty jokes and gawk at the and his love for issue of' an ail-too-popular male magazine. women. as they have in all films of this Erica. It is a complete male fantasy with lots of genre? Definitely. One cannot deny that 
"40 Davs" could scantily clad women and talk about sex. "40 Days" has adequately fulfilled all the have made some The question that the film never addresses requirements to be a good version of the insightful com­is what kind of male fantasy it purports. typical young male movie. But even the ment about how "40 Days" would have you believe that best versions of this genre can only make there arc ways of men think about nothing but sex and that stabs at mediocrity. expressing love going 40 days without it is impossible. Men should not be mindless drones and other than the Maybe this is true. However, there is the consume this drivel because it inherently sex-obsessed unnerving feeling that whatever the male reduces male worth. We need to take a cue mandate that obsession with sex may be, masculine from our female counterparts and start "Maxim" and identity is starting to consist of what becoming more concerned with controlling MTV push on movies like "40 Days" sell to men. The film our sexuality and being aware of how it L'i America. Ilartnet itself doesn't allow anybody in the audi­marketed to us. If you want to go see "40 and Sossamon ence to think about such pesky ideas. Days," then have fun, but just be careful of seem adequately Instead, it states that all "real men" have what you're swallowing. equipped to han­lo1s of sex and spend all their time thinking 

Josh Hartnett tries to stay off sex in "40 Days and 40 dle such a chal­about sex. lf the viewer wants to be a "real Contact Chris Bannister at Nights," the latest comedy aimed at teenage males. lenge. They both man," then they are forced to subscribe to cbannist@nd.edu. 



O
THE 
BSERVER 


-
Thursday, March 7, 2002 page 11 
DVD FEATURE 
Five DVD finds for your collection 
By JUDE SEYMOUR and MATT NANIA 
Scene Movie Critics 
With the advent of DVD, the video industry has been simultaneously altered and revitalized. More and more people are relying on either their local video stores or online sites such as Amazon.com to rent or purchase movies. Big hits such as "Gladiator" and "Shrek" get a lot of attention in these outlets, hut too often smaller, lesser-known films arc released on video and largely ignored. Here are five recent, overlooked titles· available on DVD that are worth check­ing out. 
"Open Your Eyes" ("Abre Los Ojos") 
Although considerably more unknown than its American remake, "Vanilla Sky," Alejandro Amenabar's second Spanish feature, "Open Your Eyes," raises a sig­nificant amount of philosophical dilem­mas while providing a thrilling story. It revolves around the stunning car crash that has left Cesar (Eduardo Noriega) horribly disfigured and unfairly discon­nected from his true love, Sofia (Penelope Cruz). The film also explores the distinction between fantasy and real­ity while questioning the moral implica­tions of technology that impinges on the natural order. 
Each action that Cesar takes in the film is immediately questionable because of the uncertainty of his sanity and his hazy recollection of memories after the trau­matic crash. As the uncertainty builds, the audience asks, "ls this reality or flight of the imagination?" Like "Memento," the movie's twists lead to an intense conclusion that will have people asking many questions but finding few answers. In a maneuver that is equal parts fascinating and frustrating: the detailed production notes on the DVD provide even more quandaries to resolve, instead of answering questions posed by the film. 
Although it caused a sensation in Spain, "Open Your Eyes," has been largely overlooked in the United States for four years. Hopefully, its DVD release will allow a new audience to appreciate this wonderfully tailored film. 
"Twin Peaks: The First Season" 
"Twin Peaks" was a short-lived David Lynch television creation that centered on a grizzly murder that exposed the nefarious underbelly of a sleepy Northwestern town. The program was a hodgepodge of soap opera schmaltz, "whodunit" detective fiction, creepy lighting and Tibetan philosophy that had late '80s audiences asking each other, "Who killed Laura Palmer?" Most cur­rent college students are too young to have seen the series' initial run, but with the DVD release of the first season, they now have a unique opportunity to expe­rience a show that redefmed the conven­tions of television. 
For those getting acquainted with the series for the first time, the individual episodes will prove the most entertaining feature on the four-disc collection, and also the most addicting. 
After the show grasps the viewer, the features will seem mildly amusing, since their main thrust is to catch up with most of the series' small screen stars. Almost all of the "Peaks" actors have faded since the series run ended (except Kyle McLachlan. who appears on TV's "Sex and the City"), so the supplemental feature is comparable to spending time reminiscing with old friends. 
"Twin Peaks" is the most underappre­ciated program in television history, but 

Photos courtesy ot Artisan Entertainment and Lions Gate Home Entertainment 

"Open Your Eyes," "Twin Peaks: The First Season" and "Bully" are all available to rent or purchase on DVD. Each film has 
been overlooked in recent years and deserves a wider audience. 
this DVD release could result in a new audience falling in love with this obscure classic. 
"Bully" 
Those familiar with director Larry Clark's "Kids" will have some idea what to expect from his third feature, "Bully." This compelling drama recounts the true-life events surrounding the murder of Bobby Kent (Nick Stahl) at the hands of a group of fellow teenagers (played by Brad Renfro, Rachel Miner and others). some of whom were close friends moti­vated by Bobby's verbal and physical abuse. 
Like "Kids," "Bully" is shocking in its depiction of teenage sex, drugs and vio­lence, arguably to the point of exploita­tion. The power of the film comes from its no-holds-barred realism in depicting the lives of a group of kids who have nothing better to do than have sex, get high and complain about how bored they are. Watching the film becomes an almost voyeuristic look into this depraved world where the difference between right and wrong just doesn't exist. The fact the film is based on a true story makes it even more powerful. 
The DVD, unfortunately, lacks the much-needed director's commentary that would help explain why Clark felt the need to go as far as he did. AH in all, this is a disc not to buy, but certainly rent, minimizing the cost if, like a lot of critics, you decide Clark's conception is too mucli of an immoral calamity and not worth adding to your collection. 
"Dancer in the Dark" 
Though it took home the Cannes Film Festival's most prestigious honor in 2000, "Dancer in the Dark" had a hard time finding a wide audience in the United States. Some viewers resisted seeing the film because of its musical format, which permits the lead actress, Selma (singer Bjork). to spontaneously break out into song. Others resisted because of the reputation of director Lars Von Trier, who established the Dogme95 filmmaking school that has upended traditional filmmaking ideolo­gies and challenged viewers' aesthetic preferences. 
As a result of his pledge to the avant­garde, "Dancer" is shot on digital video instead of customary film stock. which would have given a glossy, inauthentic feel to the film's proceedings. 
No matter which camera he chooses, though, Von Tier is able to fashion a scintillating plot around a blind woman who wishes desperately to live life as a continuous musical. While the overall tone of the movie is somber, it is difficult to turn attention away from the screen even in its most heartbreaking moments. 
The DVD provides an enlightening doc­umentary on Von Tier's obsession with the potential of the digital camera. Entitled "100 Cameras: Capturing Lars Von Tier's Vision," it documents the shocking multi-camera assemblage that gave Von Tier limitless possibilities in the editing stage. His hard work becomes the viewers' delight; the film is remarkably pieced together and is sure to leave an indelible impression in the mind of its audience. 
"Wit" 
When it aired on HBO in March of 2001, "Wit" was praised by television reviewers and newspapers around the country. Even the film critic-duo of Roger Ebert and Richard Roeper covered it, giving the film "two thumbs up" on their television show. Unfortunately, all this press wasn't enough to attract sig­nificant ratings. By the time the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences awarded the film with three Emmys in the fall, "Wit" had become a forgotten treasure. But with its recent video and DVD release, this moving and sharply observant piece about a dying cancer victim has a new chance to gain atten­tion. 
Based on a play and starring Emma Thompson, "Wit" follows Vivian Bearing, an English poetry professor, from the moment of her diagnosis through her treatment, occasionally presenting flash­backs to her youth and her earlier days in college. Along with Thompson's pow­erful performance, the film also boasts an emotional and acutely funny screen­play that places viewers inside Vivian's head as she ruminates on life, her treat­ment, the silly people around her, and death itself. 
These issues and the film's overall premise may seem depressing in their description, but few recent films are as life affirming as "Wit." Despite not hav­ing more than a couple supplemental features. the DVD finally provides the film with the presentation it deserves. 
Contact Jude Seymour and Matt Nania at jseymour@nd.edu and mnania@nd.edu. 

Photos courtesy of New Line Homa Video and HBO Films 
"Dancer In the Dark," a musical drama starring Bjork, and the HBO film "Wit," starring Emma Thompson, are two examples of recent films that have not garnered enough attention. Each is available to rent or buy on video and DVD. 

-
-Thursday, March 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 12 
BIG EAST MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
NCAA bid for Syracuse questionable after loss 
Villanova's game-closing run. which Boston College won 79-for turnovers. So the Hoyas Hall said not having a time­
Associated Press 
"Gary made some great 57. went to a power dunk on a fast out after Providence scored plays, not just great shots," Rutgers {18-12) led 33-22 at break to get an important win. helped the Hoyas. NEW YORK Wright said. "It's his job to halftime after running off 13 Wesley Wilson's slam with "We didn't have a timeout so 
Villanova's second win over make plays and he did." straight points and limiting the 3.8 seconds to play gave it was better to push the ball," Syracuse in less than a week The Wildcats beat Syracuse Eagles to two points in the Georgetown a victory over Hall said. "Besides, with a could be the one that ended 67-61 in Philadelphia last final 7:21 of the half. But the Providence in an opening­timeout it gives them time to 
· the Orangemen's chances of an Thursday. Eagles climbed back in the round game. set their defense. I pushed it 1­NCAA Tournament at-large Syracuse shot 51.9 percent game. Bell and Walls made Wilson's only basket in the on-1, and Wesley made it a 2­bid. from the field in the first half quick baskets. Then Ryan final 10 minutes came on a on-1." 
Gary Buchanan scored 21 (l 4-for-27), but that fell off to · Sidney. who had a game-high nice pass from freshman Drew The win was the fourth points, and Villanova closed 31.6 in the second (12-for-38). 20 points, made two straight Hall. straight for Georgetown, which the game with a 14-3 run to "I don't know if they did any­baskets, and consecutive 3-It allowed the Hoyas (19-10) was third in the conference beat Syracuse 78-64 in the thing different but we certainly pointers by Walls put Boston to move on to the quarterfinals this season in free-throw per­opening round of the Big East did," Boeheim said when asked College in front at 38-37. against No. 20 Miami (23-6) centage at 73.9. tournament. about the difference in shoot­Rutgers battled back to lead and kept alive their chances After the game, the Hoyas 
The loss was the fourth ing percentages. "We got the 49-46 before Sidney's 3-point­for an at-large berth in the returned to the floor at straight for Syracuse (20-11) same or better shots than we er tied the score with 4:16 to NCAA tournament. Madison Square Garden and and ninth in its last 13 games, had in the first half." play. Sidney then made anoth­"Drew made a perfect play practiced free throws. weak numbers for the NCAA Syracuse started the Big East er 3-pointer, and free throws against their defense," "There's no way we shoot selection committee to mull season by winning six of its by Bell and Uka Agbai put Georgetown coach Craig free throws like that again," over as the field of 65 is set­first seven conference games, Boston Esherick said. senior guard Kevin Braswell tled. but finished 9-7 in league play, College in "He pushed said. 
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim including losing its last three front to stay. the ball and Mike Sweetney, limited to 12
"Experience paid offfor

didn't even wait for the ques­home games. Bell had 16 closed the minutes in the second half
them. The first five 

tion about his team's chances "This is the way we played points but game. We because of foul trouble, had 18 to finish before he started the last 11, 12 games," made just minutes ofthe second looked like points for Georgetown, the last answering it. Boeheim said. "We haven't four of 20 we knew six after Providence used a 15­
halfwas key. We missed 

"It's out of my hands. It's out played well enough to win. We shots. Walls what we were 2 run to take a 59-52 lead.
four free throws while 

of my hands," he said. got great effort and good had 11 on 4-doing." Sweetney had 10 rebounds to "Whatever I think doesn't mat­opportunities but I just don't of-17 shoot­they made their first Providence lead the Boyas, who finished ter." think we've played well over ing as Boston (15-16) had a with a 43-28 rebounding
three shots. " 

The Wildcats (17-11) the last 12 games." College shot last chance at advantage.advanced to the quarterfinals 27 .3 percent the upset, but "Sweetney came back and and will play No.· 19 for the game. Gary Walters John Linehan really hurt us in that four­
Boston College 60, Rutgers 55
Connecticut (21-6), which won Jerome Rutgers head coach was unable to minute stretch after we took 
-
Boston College coach Al
the conference's East Division. Coleman led get off a clean
Skinner read the halftime box the seven-point lead," Welsh 
"This was a very rewarding Rutgers with shot as he
of the Big East tournament said. 
win for our team, to beat a opener against Rutgers and 17 points, and Rashod Kent started his drive near the head Providence's 15-2 run to take team with 20 wins in Madison shuddered a bit. had 11 but missed three of his of the key. its first lead of the game hap­Square Garden in the Big East 13 free throws. The Scarlet "I just tried to get as close as
Troy Bell was 1-for-10. So pened while Georgetown was 
tournament," Villanova coach Knights were 17-for-31 from I could to the basket, but I got 
was Kenny Walls. The Eagles, going 2-for-6 from the free­
Jay Wright said. "We've been the foul line. 
on the NCAA tournament bub­tripped up," Linehan said. throw line and committed five 
playing good ball and this was Rutgers coach Gary Waters
ble, had shot a miserable 5-The Friars lost their fifth of its 27 turnovers. 
a good win for us and our pro­gave Boston College credit. straight Big East tournament Wilson's game-winning dunk
for-33 (15.2 percent), the low­
gram." "Experience paid off for
est half ever in Big East tour­game. was the sixth lead change of 
Buchanan hit the first of them," he said. "The first five
nament history. Boston College Hall made two free throws -the final 2:35. 
three 3-pointers the Wildcats minutes of the second half was
trailed by 11 points, the largest quite an accomplishment for Providence, which ended the 
made on consecutive posses­key. We missed four free
halftime deficit any team had Georgetown on a day the season with a four-game losing 
sions for a 46-45 lead with throws while they made their
ever overcome in tournament Hoyas were 20-for-39 from the streak, set a Big East tourna­
10:34 to play. Derrick first three shots. If we had
history. line -to give Georgetown a ment record with 19 steals. 
Snowden's 3-pointer with 9:39 "I was wondering what kind made our free throws, no 66-65 lead with 14 seconds to The Hoyas' 27 turnovers tied left gave Villanova a 49-47 doubt in my mind we would
of coaching job I was doing," play. the tournament mark. 
lead. After DeShaun Williams win."
Skinner said. "I told that to my Abdul Mills took the Linehan had five steals and 
tied the game on jumper with Skinner thought the win
assistants. inbounds pass, drove down the he finished his career as the 
9:17 left, Reggie Bryant hit the clinched an NCAA berth for the
"I was hoping we wouldn't right side of the tloor and went· NCAA's career leader in that
last of Villanova's 3-pointers Eagles.
play that kind of half again." right to the basket to give the category with 385. 
and it had the lead for good, "I definitely feel like we're
They didn't. Friars a 67-66 lead with 9.5 "I wanted to get John a taste 
52-49 with 8:51 to play. in," he said. 
The Eagles (20-10) rallied to seconds left. of this tournament for more
Preston Shumpert's turn­
defeat Rutgers and advance to "That was what we wanted than one day," Welsh said.
around jumper with 4:00 left the Big East quarterfinals. On Georgetown 68, Providence 67 -Abdul going right to the "We did a good job of keeping brought Syracuse within 64­Thursday, the Eagles play Georgetown was at its worst rim," Providence coach Tim them off-balance. The kids did61, but Buchanan hit a jumper Pittsburgh in a rematch of last at the free-throw line and tied Welsh said. "But they came everything 100 percent of what 
48 seconds later to start 
year's championship game, a Big East tournament record right back at us." I asked them to do." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a,m. to 3 f.m, at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m, Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
4-7 BDRM HOMESWALK TO ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03. 272-6306 
$250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 
1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Fratemities*Sororities*Clubs*Stude nt Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour tundraising event. Does not involve credit card applications Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today! Contact Carnpusfundraiser.corn at (888)-923-3238, or visit www.cam­pustundraiser.com. 
Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 
Also leasing for 2003-2004 
Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-91l55 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the lite of a child' Summer therapy camp tor children with disabilities. Located on the shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, Ml. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/ Arts & Crafts/ Recreation/ Canoeing, Nurses, Therapists, Food Services annd Auxilary. Must be enthusias­tic, responsible and love children. June 16 through August 11. Salary, room & board and experience of a lifetime provided. Notre Dame students have the opportunity to participate through the summer service project. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 31 OW. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906) 228-5770, e-mail BayCliffHC@aol.com 
Need some extra $$? Do you enjoy babies and toddlers? First Unitarian Church needs nursery caregiver for about 2 hrs. on Sunday mornings Close to ND. For more info, call 288-9167. 
LOST AND FOUND 
SMC class ring lost in or around Senior Bar Wednesday, Feb. 28. Gold with diamond. "Noreen C. Gillespie" engraved. Please call 284-4417 if you find it. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N. Notre Dame Ave South Bend. IN Remodled in 1998 new insulated windows hot water heater & plumbing 200 amp electric update newer furnace & roof basement laundry room privacy fenced backyard w/ deck 10x12 utlity garage excellent area $59500 Jim-Day 57 4-233-253 Eve 57 4­259-6843 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmmrentals@aolcom 
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 
Dave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291-2209 MMMRentals.com 4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available 
after 6/1 . 3 block from campus Call (773)-486-8862. Spacious 4-bdrm house avail.now 
or for Fall 2002 Fronse 255-8403. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 1 )large (6-9) people 2) medium (3·5 people). Call Bill at 53-2-1896. 
PERSONAL 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Lost something? Need to rent an apartment for the summer? Looking to leave a message tor that special someone? Looking for a job? Looking for an employee? Looking for anything? 
Try The Observer classifieds. Open daily at 9 a.m. in the base­ment of South Dining Hall in The Observer office. 
Is your camera in your hand more often than your notebook? Do all of your friends come to you to lake pictures before the dance? Do you insist on developing your own film? 
Take photos tor The Observer. Call Nellie at 1-8767. 
The Observer sports department is looking tor writers who love sports, love to write and would love a rain-free seat for football games It this is you, give Chris a call at The Observer sports department. 
Call 1-4543. 
Do you like to listen to music, watch movies and go to theatrical pertor­mances? 
Call Spencer at 1-4540 to write Scene for The Observer. 
Do you know what's happening around campus? Do you have that reporter's instinct? Then write Observer News Call 1-5323. 

Thursday, March 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
face attitude, especially among Senior Javier Taborga just .the country. After the Irish play at 
certain play-moved up Scott is ranked 53rd in sin­Illinois. they will travel to
Tennis 
ers. from 23rd gles. Atlanta· for the weekend where continued from page 20 "[Calkins and "Last year we didn't to 20th in Morales in part blamed a they will begin their spring Mike Kostal believe as much ... the singles lack of confidence on Notre break that they will devote to 
..
Four other players are rated are both really rankings. Dame's loss to Illinois last sea­training for the upcoming out­in the top 100. Delic and loud. They try Taborga son, but said that this year is a door season and preparation
Louis Haddock-Morales

Michael Calkins are a formida­to get in your is part of a different matter. for the Blue-Grey National ble force in doubles play with head," Scott sophomore doubles "Last year, we didn't believe Tennis Classic starting March their No. 7 ranking. said. tandem as much," he said. "[This sea­13. 
Scott said Illinois can be a But the Irish with Casey son) we've won a lot of match­tough opponent because of are ready for Smith, a es pretty decisively [against Contact Joe Lindsley at their confidence and in-your-the Illini's top competition. tandem that is rated fifth in top-ranked teams]." jlindsle@nd.edu. 
.illiia: .,. 
~~' 
-·;:_,,'\ 
',;.. 
' 
\,, 
~ 
i·;:;,:1;~,,·: ~ 
TnEr 'LL Tnlm\ rou TOO" 

-
OUT f\~OTht~ ~TUl)t~T LOI\~. 
~;.,,r'· 
~7:~•'.'" 

-

l~·. 
r" ~·:,_ .! 
'i:_. ,... 

~'-'t­
' ' 
r'--. 

. Check out the latest looks from the hottest names, all for 
....--~._~.If(:., ~ 
. ·.·."'-.·.·•·-1 ...-.-.-.J.
l".~~
f-1.-~/~;. 
much less than you'd find at the mall. We've got swimsuits, 
tanks, shorts, capris, and much more. 

,1>Jil, 
Ti• 
',, 1''•c••..,,;,,.;,,,..,_,,,,..,::,,_. "'' you shoul .g 
', 7 styles will vary by store. Visit us at www.tjmaxx.com ~JUSE YOUR TJX VISA~ CARD when you shop with u's and earn 5% rewards, Visit any store orcai(1-an:s88-8TJX to apply for your card today.
:1~.. .,;,._ ,, 
STORE NEAREST CAMPUS: In Mishawaka 9t Indian Ridge Plaza, south of University Moll. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 7, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Students hope Web site can save Expos 
the three students have said it began as an office joke. an enthusiastic response from Stockman said none of the 
Associated Presa 
received more than $2 million "I've been pretty amazed by other members of the paper's three have spoken with Major 
in pledges from about 11,000 this," Stockman said. ·•we've staff, the three created a Web League Baseball. Though a
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
people, said Jesse Spector, one done a couple of TV interviews. site and spread the word reporter from MLB.com askedYears of low attendance. rev­of the site's co-founders. Right now. I'm just digging the among acquaintances. Baseball Commissioner Bud
enue and lackluster records have raised the very real possi­The Web site lists $100 mil­ride." None of them hail from Selig about the campaign, Selig 
b ii ity that for Major League lion as the amount needed to The founders, all sportswrit­Montreal. Stockman is a Kansas declined to comment. Stockman Baseball's Montreal Expos, the purchase the Expos -the same ers for the Daily Pennsylvanian, City Royals fan, Spector said, said. 2002 season will be its last. price at which Major League were joking around last month while New Yorkers Spector and Stockman said many fans 
But three University of Baseball obtained the right to in the newspaper's office when John Shazar follow the perceive the drive as more seri­Pennsylvania students are at eliminate the team from owner Spector posed the question of Yankees. ous than it began. Some have the forefront of a national Jeffrey Loria. buying the Expos, he said. Pledges skyrocketed after sought front office jobs, citing movement to save the belea­Sebastian Stockman. another The others said they would ESPN.com ran a column Feb. fantasy baseball experience; guered Quebec team. of the site's co-founders, said pay $15 for the team, Spector 21 about the drive, written by one Californian offered to sell 
On their Web site, the three never expected the said. Daily Pennsylvanian alumnus his $6,000 Suzuki, Stockman www.buytheexpos.poptopix.com, idea to become so popular. Ile When the question received Alan Schwarz. said. 
BOXING 
D.C. mayor promises ~afety at Tyson-Lewis fight 
city. . it outdoors at RFK Stadium. no details about the boxer's disseminate it at all."
Associated Press 
The commission will hold a "The mayor stressed the appearance before the panel and Washington is one of several public hearing Tuesday on importance of lhis fight to declined to say what kind of tests cities vying for the Tyson-LewisWASHINGTON 
Tyson's application for a boxing· Washington, D.C., from an eco­the doctors gave Tyson. bout.
Mayor Anthony Williams guar­license. If the commission grants nomic standpoint, and he guar­"From our standpoint, it was He was granted a license this
anteed the owner of the MCI 
the license, a Tyson-Lewis bout anteed a safe environment," said an interview," Brown said. "As week to fight in Tennessee, and
Center "a safe environment" for a Mike Tyson-Lennox Lewis could be held June 8 at the MCI Matt Williams, a spokesman for far as the doctors, I don't want to Michigan has emerged as a fight, clearing a hurdle that had Center. Pollio. "Mr. Pollin responded by characterize it for them." front-runner. Nevada turned threatened to derail the bout. Pollin had said he would con­saying he is open to having the The mayor has also said that down Tyson in January. 
-
The meeting between Williams sider allowing his arena to be fight. If all the logistics are any material from Tyson's In Washington, the fight has and Abe Pollio came one day used only if the mayor could worked out, the MCI Center will appearance before the commis­been opposed by the local board after Tyson met with several guarantee its security. The be available." sion should be made available to of trade and several politicians. doctors -both medical and psy­uncertainty over Pollin's willing­Another hurdle, stipulated by the public. Brown said the com­The mayor, however, has main­chiatric -and was interviewed ness to be involved with a Tyson the mayor, was cleared with mission is still discussing that. tained his support because of the by the D.C. Boxing and Wrestling fight had led to speculation that Tyson's visit. Commission vice "We're considering how to dis­economic benefit the fight would Commission during a visit to the the promoters might try to hold chairman Michael Brown gave seminate it," Brown said, "if we bring. 
-

NDAnERFIVE 

Friday, March 8 
LaFortune StudentThursday, March 7 

5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of

5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of 
Center Hours 
the Sacred Heart the Sacred Heart 

7:15 p.m. Stations of the Cross, 

7:00 p.m. Movie: Behind Closed 
March 8 7:00 a.m. -11 :00 p.m.

Basilica of the Sacred Heart Auditorium 
Eyes, Hesburgh Center 
8:07 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman­
March 9 8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. 
Morse Center March 10 8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. 

7:00 p.m. Lecture by Don Mosley, 
Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
Saturday, March 9 
March 11 7:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m.

9:00 p.m. Game Watch: ND Men's 
5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basketball, LaFortune Student 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

March 12 7:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. Center Main Lounge March 13 7:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. Game Watch at 9:00 p.m. 
This ad is published by the Student 
• 
Activities Office. Programs are subject 
M h 14 7 00 8 00

Men's Basketball Big East 
arc : a.m. -: p.m.
• 
to change without notice. All programs
• 

Quarter Finals 
are free to Notre Dame students unless marked by an asterick (*). 
• 
March 15 7:00 a.m. • 8:00 p.m. 

ND vs Seton Hall/St. John's 
March 16 8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. 

winner 
March 17 8:00 a.m. -2:00 a.m. 

Lafortune Student Center Normal hours resume on March Main Lounge • 18.
•
•

• .Free Refreshments! 
• 

FOR WORE IMFORWATIOM, VISIT: www.nd.edu/~sao/ 
,.. . 
Thursday, March 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Agent: Glenn will go to Packers 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 

Terry Glenn's agent said that he could have a trade worked out that would send the New England receiver to the Green Bay Packers as early as Thursday. 
"We're very hopeful that we'll be able to find a resolve as to all of the parties and the issues very shortly -hopefully tomor­row," James Gould said Wednesday night. "I've been going around the clock for days without much sleep." 
Gould declined to comment on whether contract terms had been worked out. 
"Everybody is hopeful, but there is nothing signed and we're continuing to talk," he said. 
Packers spokesman Jeff Blumb declined comment on whether the team was even negotiating with Glenn. 
Published reports in Green Bay and Boston said that, in exchange for Glenn, the Packers would give New England a fourth-round draft pick this season plus a condi­tional draft pick next year ­from a high pick to a late­rounder, based on Glenn's per­formance. 
As part of the deal, Glenn would drop his many griev­ances against the team and a lawsuit against the league and tear up his old contract. Green Bay would sign him to a new deal with a relatively low base salary and performance incen­tives, the Boston newspapers said. 
Glenn has reportedly come down from his request for a $7 million signing bonus and is now seeking around $3 million. 
The NFL suspended Glenn for the first four games of last sea• son for missing a drug test in violation of the league's sub­stance-abuse policy. He later was inactive for six games because of a hamstring injury and a contract dispute, and he was suspended by the team for the Dec. 2 game against the New York Jets after he refused to practice. 

Glenn came back and played three more games before the Patriots put him on the inactive list for the regular-season finale against Carolina. 
When he missed more team meetings and practices, coach Bill Belichick suspended Glenn for the playoffs, and New England won the Super Bowl without him. 
Last summer, Patriots owner Bob Kraft refused to pay him the remaining $8.5 million of an $11.5 signing bonus that was part of a contract exten­sion late in 2000. An arbitrator is scheduled to hear his griev­ance Friday to recoup the remaining signing bonus. 

after this, the corporate ladder will be 
a piece or [cake]. 
In Army ROTC, you'll get to do stuff that'll challenge you, both physically and mentally. In the process, you'll develop skills you can use in your career, like thinking on your feet, making smart decisions, taking charge. Talk to your Army ROTC representative. You'll find there's nothing like a little climbing_ to help 
prepare you for getting to the top. 
ARMY ROTC 
Unlike any other college course you can take.. 


APPLY NOW FOR PAID SUMMER LEADERSHIP TRAINING AND ARMY OFFICER OPPORTUNITIES' Contact Captain Bart Hennessey at (219) 631._4656 or 1-800-UND-ARMY 
Fonner Pro Bowler signs with Browns 
Asso~iated Press 
BEREA, Ohio 
Former Pro Bowler Hobert Griffith, a starting strong safety with the Minnesota Vikings for the last six years, signed a four-year contract with the Cleveland Browns. 
The deal is reportedly worth $15 million with a $3.6 million signing bonus. 
The signing comes one day after the Browns signed free agent defensive end Kenard Lang, formerly of the Washington Redskins, to a five-year contract. 
"Robert Griffith is a com­plete player who will bring great chemistry to the locker room," Browns coach Butch Davis said. 
"He .has been to the Pro Bowl and has ::t,1 outstanding field presence. He also has great instincts and is an aggressive player who pro­vides excellent run support." 
Griffith, 31, a Pro Bowl performer in 2000, became r. free agent a week ago when he exercised an option to void his contract after eight seasons with the Vikings. 
Elsewhere, the Miami Dolphins signed former 1,000-yard rusher Robert Edwards to a one-year con­tract. 
Edwards, 27, rushed for 1,115 yards and nine touch­downs as a rookie with the New England Patriots in 1998 but suffered a severe knee injury during a flag football game during the week of the Pro Bowl and missed the next two seasons before being waived last August. 
The Houston Texans signed free agent guard Steve McKinney, who spent his first four NFL seasons with the Indianapolis Colts. · 
McKinney signed a five­year contract with the expansion Texans. Financial terms were not disclosed, but McKinney reportedly received more than $15 mil­lion. 
The Atlanta Falcons signed right tackle Todd Weiner and free safety Keion Carpenter. 
Weiner spent the first four years of his NFL career with the Seattle Seahawks and started 13 games last sea­son. Carpenter has started 22 games at free safety over the last two seasons with the Buffalo Bills. 
The Cincinnati Bengals re­signed veteran tackle John Jackson to a one-year con­tract. 
Jackson, 37, has played 14 seasons in the NFL and served as a back-up last year to left tackle Richmond Webb. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Uscu Books hought and solu -25 Categories of Books -25.000 Haruhack and Papcrhack 
hooks in stock -Out-of-Pnnt search service -Appraisals large anu small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
SHAMROCK CONTACT LENSES ST. PATRICK DAY COSMETIC USE ONLY 

,r,1,1,, . 
. ,10,~ 
$39.95 PER PAIR 
TOLL FREE 1-866-33-COLOR MCMSA/DISC/AMEX 

r --­
I I 
' 
page 16 Thursday, March 7, 2002 
The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT 

I I 
' 
I 
I I 
I 
' 
I • I 
' 
I 
!
' 
~ 
I 
I 
I I . I 
I 
! 
I 
I 
I I I 
I I 
' I 
I I 
' 
'I 
' 
' 
Come back and do it all night l~ng one more time. 
ti ' ._· 
. \, :v /, 
ii,~~ 'i!~ :::>:.: '',___ .' ' .f /'S.~}l •;·..,:,i• . 
•.·· .. ·,,. ..;;~\.,~~~ . . ..··· 
:~f·:o'··Flyi11g-·-·H·•Shf:· 
·! • \y,,,-;Jf!V'i'•' .,i,. ' •. '•'! ';10;: '.·:} ~ .. 
The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 

Thursday, March 7, 2002 The Dburver . SPORTS page 17 
HOCKEY 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Irish skate to CCHA honors 
Alomar claims 

. Dunlop, Inman earn honorable mention AII-CCHA, Cey makes honorable mention All-Rookie team 
Special 10 The Observer 
Notre Dame forwards junior Connor Dunlop and senior David Inman were named honorable mention selections to the 2001­02 All-COIA team. Dunlop came up one vote short of' making the second team while Inman· was four votes shy of a spot on the second team. 
Teammate freshman Morgan Cey was also named honorable mention to the CCIIA All-Bookie team for the 2001-02 season. 
Dunlop turned in one of the top seasons by a Notre Dame player during the 2001-02 season as he collected nine goals with 33 assists for 42 points. In the CCHA, Dunlop finished second in scoring with nine goals and 27 assists for 36 points. 
The talented center iceman's 33 assists are the most by a Notre Dame player since the Irish returned to the CCHA in 1992-93 and the 42 points are one less than Jamie Llng's 43 in 1994-95. 
Inman finished the year ranked fifth in the CCHA in league scor­ing with 14 goals and 17 assists ing for the All-Rookie goal­for 31 points. Overall, he turned tender's spot to Ferris State's in career-highs in goals (17). Mike Brown. The freshman goal­assists (18), points (35) and tender was eighth in CCHA power play goals (7). Earlier this games with a 2.87 goals against week he was named to the average and was 11-9-3 in CCHA's all-Academic Team. league games with a .907 save 
Cey finished second in the vot-percentage. Overall, Cey is 13­12-3 overall with a 2.90 goals against and a .905 save percent­age. He has started 20 consecu­tive games for the Irish since Dec. 7, 2001. 

Notre Dame defenseman Evan Nielsen also received votes for the All-CCHA team. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
•
Study in the nation's capitol 

•
Work in an internship 

•
Fulfill philosophy, theology,and fine arts requirements 

•
Studypublic affairs 

•
live in an exciting city 


•
Applications for Fall 2002 are still being accepted online 

•Open 
to Sophomores,Juniors, and Seniors from all colleges 



John Eriksen, I )irector 
3'16 O'Shaughnessy 
Erikscn.l@rn.J.edu 

Indians lied 
Associated Press 
WINTER HAVEN, Fla. 
Finally over the shock of being traded, Roberto Alomar decided it was his turn to sur­prise the Cleveland Indians. 
Alomar, sent to the New York Mets in an eight-player trade last December, said Wednesday that the Indians weren't up front with him before making the deal. 
"They lied to me, it is as sim­ple as that," Alomar said. "If you are a man, you should tell a man the truth to his face." 
Alomar's comments came before he faced the Indians for the first time since being trad­ed, in Wednesday's exhibition game at Chain of Lakes Park. 
Alomar said he met with Indians general manager Mark Shapiro in October shortly after Cleveland was eliminated in five games by Seattle in the AL playoffs. 
Shapiro told Alomar that the Indians' roster would be undergoing some major changes, and asked the 12­time All-Star about his desire to be part of the rebuilding. 
"He asked if I would be happy with younger players," Alomar said. "I said yes. I knew it was going to be a young and talented team and wanted to be part of it. In the end it didn't matter." 
Shapfro, who replaced John Hart as Cleveland's general manager at the end of last season, said he never deceived Alomar. 
"I'm sorry Robbie is hurt and feels betrayed, but you can't go back and change his­tory," Shapiro said. "I clearly stated to him that I could not guarantee anything. People who guarantee anything in this game set themselves up to be a liar." 
Shapiro said owner Larry Dolan's desire to cut payroll and the Mets' offer were key factors in completing the deal that sent Alomar and two minor leaguers to New York for outfielder Matt Lawton, reliever Jarrod Riggan and minor leaguers Alex Escobar, Billy Traber and Earl Snyder. 
On Monday. Escobar tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee when he crashed into a fence making a catch at Bradenton. Escobar will have reconstructive surgery and· miss the entire season. 
"We would not have made the trade without getting Escobar," Shapiro said. "And if we were not cutting payroll or at least not raising it, we would not have made the trade, either." 
Shapiro said he would wel­come the chance to talk with Alomar. 
"I called him once, but he gets a lot of calls from a lot of people and I have not talked to him," Shapiro said. "I called him when the trade was made. I wanted to tell him, instead of him hearing it from the media." 
Alonune 500 •Besign •lnnnalions •Marketing, Consa/tanrs Seminar Learn The Methods OfAProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. AOne Dav Seminar, ABoat OI IIW111 Ten Y,ars Oflnvaluallle Experlance. This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must ~ave in business to move forward in high level business. The class ,s_taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company V.P. says will, "change the course of an entire industry.• ~.AB£f;rclass dates, private classes & ~ TOSO.AR more information, go to our web Mwllllo•lw_,_'S,,_Cllffea site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 WWW.IISBSlafftl.COlll E-mafl • inventor@usastand.com  
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Daine: . Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 . Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 . Sy!via Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 . John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 . Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 . Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 South Bend Community Resources: . Women's Care Center: 234-0363 . Catholic Charities: 234-3111  


r 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, March 7, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Golfers disappointed with tourney 
. Irish battle weather, disqualification to finish 14th 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sporrs Writer 
After a disqualification, a cancelled round and a 14th place finish, the Notre Dame women's golf team came away from the Tulane Green Wave Golf Classic disappointed. 
Tho Irish, led by Kristin McMurtrie's 36-hole total of 163, finished 85 strokes behind tournament champion Tulane in thefr second tour­nament of the spring season. The Irish shot rounds of 352 and 334 to finish with a com­bined team score of 686. 
The second round of the tournament was cancelled because of cold weather and high winds in New Orleans on Monday. 
Freshman Karen Lotta shot Notre Dame's best round on Tuesday with a five-over par 78, but her first round on Monday did not count. ~otta was disqualified for teeing off from the wrong tee during the first round. 
"It was just so stupid that it happened," Lotta said. 
Even head coach Debbie King did not realize Lotta was on the wrong tee, even though she was standing on the tee box with Lotta when Notre "It was probably the tough­Dame's freshman star was est field we've had all sea· disqualified. son," Byrne said. 
Lotta's disqualification was Besides tournament winner just a small part of Notre Tulane, the competition Dame's disappointing tourna• included Mississippi State, ment. As a team. the Irish did Campbell, Memphis, and not feel they performed up to Mississippi -all teams from their poten-warmer tial. parts of the 
"I think as country.
"I think as a whole we 

a whole we The South
could have played a lot

could have Bend w_inter played a lot better as a team. Overall, weather has 
better as a we were pretty c a u s e d t e a m . Notre Dame
disappointed with the 

Overall, we golfers prob-
way things ended up. " 

were pretty 1ems in the disappointed past, but with the way Shannon Byrne this season things ended sophomore Byrne reels 
up," said 
sophomore 
Shannon Byrne, who finished 
tied for 45th with a 36-hole 
total of 168, the third-lowest 
score on the Irish. 
McMurtrie shot rounds of 82 
and 81 to finish with a 163 
total that put her 14 strokes 
behind tourname.nt medalist 
Carolin Landmann of 
Tulane.Sophomore Rebecca 
Rogers tied for 59th, junior 
Terri Taibl tied for 68th, 
senior Lauren Fuchs tied for 
71st and freshman Casey 
Rotella finished the two 
rounds in 77th place. 
The Irish golfers knew from the start that the tournament would not be easy. After a rough start on Monday with · 352, the Irish cut 18 strokes 
on Tuesday to shoot 334. 
senior Thank You Picture Frame 

Don't miss this unique opportunity to give something back to those who have made your ND education possible! Look for us Thursday in Lafun from 11-2 
Frame: Cost $25. Double-sided, Gold
• 

4x6 frame with Navy lettering. Album: Cost $7. Holds up to 24 4x6
• 

pictures. Navy with gold lettering and ND seal on front. 
Buy both for only $30! 
• 

If you miss us in Lafortune, visit
• 

www.nd.edu/ Nmgtclub for more information and an order form! 
Like SMC? Like Sports? Write for The Observer. Call Katie at 1-4543 
FENCING 
Fencers named to U.S. team 
the team is 
making progrnss -despite the per­formance in New Orleans -to overcome that hurdle. 
"I definitely feel a lot more prepared for tournaments. We do a lot more practicing indoors and drills than we used to do," she said. "I think we're doing a lot better. It's a lot more serious. People really are concentrating on their games." 
Spring break will give the Irish a week-long opportunity to practice outdoors as they travel to Florida to prepare for the Northern lllinois Snowbird Invitational at Tampa. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 

Special to the Observer 
Three members of the Notre Dame fencing pro­gram sophomore women's epeeist Kerry Walton and freshman foilists Andrea Ament and Derek Snyder -have been selected to the United States team that will com­pete in the upcoming World Championships, to be held April 1-8 in Antalya, Turkey. Each of the Notre Dame fencers will compete in the junior-level individ­ual and three-member team events for fencers under the age of 20. 
The three Notre Dame fencers represent nearly half of the college fencers among the 18 members of the U.S. junior squad, with · the rest in high school. 
The other college fencers on the U.S. junior squad include Ohio State sabre­men Colin Parker and Jason Rogers, Yale women's sabre Sada Jacobsqn and Stanford foilist Steve Gebberman, a longtime friend and West Coast rival of Snyder's. 
Walton recently complet­ed an impressive 50-5 regu­lar-seas on record in her first year of competition with the Irish, also winning the Midwest Fencing Conference title last week­end. She placed 11th at the recent Junior Olympics competition in Columbus, Ohio but ranks second in the latest U.S. junior women's epee rankings. 
She also is sixth in the senior/open women's epee rankings. 
Ament currently sits atop the U.S. junior women's foil rankings while also ranking No. 15 in the world among junior-level women's epeeists and fifth in the U.S. overall women's foil rank­ings. She posted a 27-2 reg­ular-season record with the Irish and finished second at the Junior Olympics, behind Jacqueline Leahy, one of 
her two teammates  on  the  
upcoming U.S. squad.  
Snyder  is  looking  to  

return from illness that sidelined him for the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships. He compiled a 32-7 regu­lar-season record with the Irish. 
Snyder is second on the 
U.S. junior men's foil rank­ings while also ranking 14th among all U.S. men's foilists. 
• 
A transfer-intent curriculum 

• 
The shared resources of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 

• 
A residence life program 


Call (S74) 239-8400 or visit www.hcc-nd.edu for more information. 


Thursday, March 7, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
RYAN
TOM KEELEY BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 



BILL AMEND 

.... 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Board mem., 50 One that shoots With 5-Down, maybe the breeze? Microsoft 27 1916-18 post for 51 Sixth-century 
co-founder Calvin Coolidge: date 5 unto itself Abbr. 52 Electric's partner 9 Naval Academy 29 Concert array 54 Margin 
newcomer 31 It may wind up 55 Director _ Lee 14 "The Weakest on the side of a 56 City near South Link" host house Bend Robinson 
32 Motor City 58 Actress/singer 15 land monogram Tatyana_ 16 Play against 34 1940's Giants 59 Minor obsession 17 Laissez-faire manager 62 Some Mideast 
doctrine dignitaries
35 Belle's 20 Kay Kyser's counterpart 63 Guesstimate " Reveille" words
36 Wet blanket 

21 Earthshaking? 64 German border 
39 Housecat's

22 W.W. II vessel: river
perchAbbr. 65 Matisse's "La 
41 Snicker syllable 23 "Music for 

42 Piece activists?: 

Airports" 66 Small dam
Abbr.

composer 67 Nobelist43 Piece
24 It may be bitter Morrison 25 Article in Le 
44 What it is in Italy Monde 46 Surround snugly 
DOWN 
1 Many a Degas ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Consecrate 3 Open, in a way 
H A W 4 Souvenir with a 
A X I S E scent T E 5 See 1-Across 
6 Oh-so-genteel 7 Cry after failing B Become friendly 
with 
9 Tag line? 10 China's Piao 11 Asaint he ain't 12 One of the 
strings 
.,.,.+.,,,+,,,+-:+::+O,.,.K+,NS,.... 13 Bay State emblem Z E -e-+....+~,,,-i-,,,. E E 18 Invariably E D G Y A S T R N S 19 Nascar sponsor 

Puzzle by Brendan Emmall Quigley 28 Challenging 40 Beach in a 1964 tests hit song 30 Depression, 45 1999 U.S. Open with "the" champ 31 Letter-shaped 47 1972 Oscar 
girder refuser 33 Murderous Moor 48 Soprano Farrell 36 Begin 
impetuously Answers to any clues in this puule are 
with your peers and be prepared to
37 "That's nothing available by touch-tone phone: 
make changes that will put you in a 
new to me" 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
better position Be a leader and you will be admired for you strength
38 Magic word Annual subscriptions are available for the 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIlS DAY: Willard Scott, Daniel J. lravanti, Paul Cattmnole 
Happy Birthday: You will have a greater interest in cultural trends this year. You will be drawn to courses offering clilierent philoso­phies and humanitarian interests. You will have unusual experiences while traveling or attending semi­nars. Listen to what others have to say but make your own decisions. Yournumbers are 3, 11, 19, 24, 33, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Your emotions will be close to the surface today and you could find yourself in a compromising posi­tion. Work behind the scenes on your image. You can make dianges that will help you feel better about yourself. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If there is something that has been on your mind, do a little research at your local library or on the Internet. The knowledge you gain will lead to interesting ronnections and pas­times. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Opportunities to make dianges to rour home or to invest in some­thing that will make your place more comfortable should be looked into today. Check out any medical 
49 Composer 
problems that crop up immediately
Shostakovich 
to easeyour mind. 000 51 Doltish 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be a little emotional today
53 Shady plot 
especially regarding matters that ·57 Now's partner 
pertain to partnerships. Take a few 60 C.P.A. hirer 
steps back and think about your sit­uation lighten up and look at the
61 Word in a denial 
positive side. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put your attributes to work for you. :Mingle 
EUGENIA LAST 
and courage. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't waste time trying to get everything done at home. Take up a new hobby or enjoy the company of friends but don't sit at home trying to fix something that is fruitless. 
00000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Take time to do something nice for the people you live with or if you live alone spend time fixing up your res­idence in order to make it more comfortable for yourself. Invite friends over. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may not feel sociable today but you will have a unique way of explaining the way you feel to dose friends and family. There will always be a solution to anything that you face. 0000 
SAGIITARIUS {Nmt 22-Dec. 21): Check out investments and listen to someone who has a great idea and wants you to join forces withhimor her. Your business sense is good today.000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Take a little time and think about the things that you would like to do in order to improve yourself or your surroundings. Be a little self-indul­gent and do the things that make you happy. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone you work with inay be a little jealous of your insight and vision Don't let that stop you from pushing forward. Don't get involved in secret activity and avoid people who insist on spreading rumors or gossip. 000 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 1ne more you do to help others the bet­1 
1
ter your chance will be to meet 
someone special. Enjoy the involve­ment in groups that are trying to make a difference. 0000 
39 Overnight best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
Birlhday Baby: You have a vivid imagination and well-developed intu­
guest's spot years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ition. You will know what others are thinking instinctively. You are extreme­ly creative in all that you do. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
--~-----------~----------------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­
Address--------------------­

City ________ State ____ Zip______ ­
.... 

Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. ND Women's Golf, p. 18 
. MLB, p. 17, 14 
. 
Fencing, p. 18 . NFL, p. 15 

. 
Hockey, p. 17 . Boxing, p. 14 


. Big East tournament, p. 12
PORTS 
Thursday, March 7, 2002 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Red Storm steps up to meet Irish 
• Red Storm defeat Pirates, will face Irish in Big East tournament 
... 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will have their work cut out for them at the Big East tournament tonight when they take on the St. John's Red Storm at Madison Square Garden. 
Notre Dame has won only one game in seven confer­ence tournament appear­ances. 
In order to gain another win, the Irish will have to beat a team that thev lost to last week and do it"on that team's home turf. 
St. John's advanced to tonight's quarterfinal round by beating Seton Hall 64-58 in front of a predominantly Red Storm crowd. 
But the team didn't do it easily. 
After leading by one point at the half, the Red Storm went dry on offense, going O­for-18 from the field in the first 9:38 of play and racked up a seven-point deficit. 
Despite going a dismal 8­for-32 in the entire second half and shooting just 33 per­cent during the game, the Red Storm still managed to hang on wiVi tenacious defense. 
The team forced the Pirates into 24 turnovers.. 
Marcus Hatten and Anthony Glover combined for 30 points to lead the Red Storm, while Seton Hall's John Allen and Andre Barret scored 17 each. 
The Red Storm led by only one with 1 :37 remaining. but a banked 3-pointer by Hatten ended the Pirates run and their tournament appear­ance. 
Now. the Red Storm must turn around and take on the Irish tonight. 
When the two teams last met Feb. 27. the Red Storm shot close to 50 percent from the floor to beat the Irish 84­
81. Hatten scored 28 points and Glover added 20 in the win. 
Irish forward Ryan Humphrey scored 29 while guard Matt Carroll chipped in 19. 
The Irish came out strong in the first half of play and pulled out to an 11-point lead just seconds into the second half. But St. John's stingy defense allowed the Red Storm to go on a 22-4 run and later a 10-3 run to secure the home win .. 
The lrisfi will try to avenge 
the  loss  and  advance  to  
Friday's  semifinal  round  
tonight.  

Tip-off is at 9 p.m. and the 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 



MEN'S TENNIS 
No. 6 Irish fight No. 5 Illini in tough match 
since they were rated No. great match. Year after By JOE LINDSLEY 6in 1993. year, it gets rougher." Sports Writer Even though they are said sophomore Louis right behind the Illini, Haddock-Morales. "Right Notre Dame is expecting now it's just another team 
Thursday's men's ten­
a tough match but feel that's out there and is 
nis match between sixth­
confident about their skill really good. And we're 
ranked Notre Dame and 
level. also very good right
fifth-ranked Illinois will 
"Illinois is a pretty now." 
be the 30th meeting 
tough place to play," said Illinois has beaten some 
between the two teams. 
sophomore Matt Scott. of the best teams in the 
Although the Irish lead 
"Anytime you play Lone of nation and handed 
the overall series 18-11, 
the top teams] you obvi­Georgia, the current No. 
the Illini have won the 
ously get really fired up. 1 team, its only loss. 
past five meetings. 
We had the chance to Individually, the Illini 
In the most recent 
play Georgia earlier in boast some of the best 
national rankings. Notre 
the season when they players in the nation,
Dame just moved up from 
were number one, and we including Amer Delic,
No. 7, and Illinois, after a 
lost 4-2. We're going into ranked ninth nationally in 
5-2 loss to Duke, fell out 
this one a little more pre­singles.
of the No. 1 spot. 
pared."
The Irish have reached 
"We're expecting a 
their highest ranking see TENNIS/page 18 

-
. Men's Basketball at Big East tournament, Tonight, 9p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Men's Tennis al Illinois, Tonigh1, 4:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
on!ine 

. Men's and Women's Track at NCAA Indoor Championships,AT AGLANCE Friday~Saturday http://www.nd.edu/~observer 


