CLOUDY 
HIGH 39° 
LOW 21° 


St. Joe's on the Move 
St. Joseph Regional Medical Center announced the possibility of opening a Mishawaka-based hospital at the expense of its South Bend location. 
News . page 9 

The I11depe11dent Newspaper Serving Notre Da,ne and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 116 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
FACULTY SENATE 
Senators define new election rules 
I. 
By JASON Mcl-'ARLEY 
New, \X'ritcr 
,\ !'rPsh start for thr 2002­o:-i Farullv s,,nate will includn a l'n;sh rorps of nrnrn­lrnrs. sPnators deddcd Wrd1wsday. 
MPmlwrs voted at thnir reg­ular monthly mnrting to hold ,dertions for each of the 45 st:als on nPxt year's revampPd SPnate. Traditionallv. !/:{ of the .Se 1m t<i is n:-n !,irte d n a ch yPar. 
Conducting Plections l'or all the positions creates tlrn pos­sibility -while improbable -that none of tlrn members who have worked this year to restrurture the group will return in lhe fall. The group had earliC'r considered allow­ing curr<'nt scnators to retain their posts but determined that allowing farulty to elect all lhr. 2002-03 members would bettN fit the senate's goals. 
"I think [having the 45 elec­tions! snrve as a more abrupt and bntter introduction lo the se1whi," MichaPI Zuckert, the body's vice chair, said, answ<>ri ng concerns that f'ar.­ulty w1ire11·1 aware that the Senate was bniug restruc­turnd or that it <wen existed. 
The embattled Senate for years has struggled with per­ceptions among faculty and administrators that the group was powerless and ineffec­tive. Last April and May, the Senate considered dissolving itself. 
Since last summer, the 2001-02 Senate has worked to restructure the group and align it more closr.ly with its powerful superior, the Academic Council. 
The Council lust muntl1 adopted two resolutions from the Senate. 
One resolution overhauls the description of the Senate contained in the Academic Articles of the facultv hand­book. It includes key struc­tural changes such as decreasing the number of senators from 53 to 45 and making the senate more rep-

PHOTOGRAPHER/The Observer 

Jacque Brogan, Faculty Senate chair, addresses the body during their Wednesday evening meet­ing. Senators discussed upcoming elections and new rules surrounding election procedures. 
resentative by allotting one The other resolution Edward Malloy has formally senator to each academic increases faculty representa-approved the restructuring department and distributing tion on the Academic Council resolutions. remaining seats to other con-by creating new overlap stituencies. Senators are cur-between the council and sen­
rently elected through col-ate. Contact Jason McFarley at leges instead of departments. University President Father mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
Cartoonist's work receives honors 
By JOHN FANNING 
News Writer 
Senior Observer cartoonist Tom Keeley was recently named as onP of 10 finalists for the 2001 Charles Schulz College Cartoonist Award for his daily comic strip "Fourth and Inches." The award, named after the creator of the world-famrn1s "Peanuts" cartoon strip, is the most prestigious award that a col­legiate cartoonist can receive. 
Though Keeley upplied for the award himself, submitting 10 samples of bis work in addition to a short essay on his f'uturn as a cartoonist, he nnver thought that he had a chanre at receiving the hon­ors. Tlrnse doubts for Kr.cley . swmmed mainly from the fact th·at his daily r.artoon strip has 110 running storyli1rn, no regular <·.haraclers. and no political insights or perspec­tives. Hathllr. according to KeP!ey, "Notrt1 Dame is tho nntin' audi1mcc," as all of his work d1•als directly with Pvcnls and pPoplc l'rorn l\'olre Danw ·s campus. 
Despite this limited focus, Keeley earned the highly sought after award and pro­vided daily entertainment for the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s for the last three years. 
According to Notre Dame junior Monica Stone, "It's always the first thing I turn to when I pick up The Observer, because as much as I love Notre Dame, 'fourth and Inches' shows how entertain­ing it is to make fun of our­selves." 
Keeley has been interested in cartooning since he was in the third grude, wh1:n he first began coming up with his own comic strips. However, it was not until he responded lo an advl"rtisoment in the Observer al the end of his freshman year that he was given the opportunity to have his work published. 
Since then, Keeley has dedi­r.ated two or three hours a night, five nights a week, to making Notre Dame students laugh by casting the various campus events that affort them in a mon.i comic light, amt thus providing them with 

Tom Keeley's comics have entertained Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students for three years. 
the opportunity to take things a little less seriously. 
Though Keeley admits that it has definitely gotten easier over the years, there is really no set method to his time­consuming work. In fact, he admitted that for those nights when he is really stumped for an idea, ,with business majors and dining hall food you really can't go wrong." 
Despite the large time com­mitment, which can be rather burdensome in addition to Keeley's computer engineer­ing studies, he maintains that he has had a great experience producing the comic strip. 
"It's a good feeling to know that people appreciate what you're doing," said Keeley, in reference to the large number of "Fourth and Inches" car­toons that can be found post­ed all over the dormitories on 
campus. 
Though Keeley is not plan­ning on immediately attempt­ing a career as a cartoonist, he has not ruled out the pos­sibi li iy. In the immediate future, he plans to take some time off from cartooning in order to work in the comput­er engineering field, but he also plans io polish up his artistic skills in preparation 
see COMIC/page 6 


2002 marks largest visitation 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 
This weekend's Spring Visitation, the Office of Admissions' annual weekend to recruit minority students to Notre Dame, will host 155 minority students, the most in the event's history, according to Arienne Thompson, student recruitment coordinator. 
Participants. all of whom have been accepted to the University but arc undecided on where to attend college, will have the opportunity to talk with administrators and alumni about Notre Dame. 
Thompson has worker! with fellow recruitment coordina­tors Richie Dang and Santiago Gurule and the Office of Admissions to organize the event. She is pleased with this year's increase in participa­
see SPRING/page 6 


Thursday 
APRIL 4, 
2002 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, April 4, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 

Philosophx proves worih 
On Monday night, I was watching Jeopardy and I discovered that after three years of studying Descartes, Aristotle and Kant. philosophy had finally paid off. If I had been a contestant during that Double Jeopardy round, l could have won $7000 in one category -metaphysics. 
I've spent the last three years of my college career answering those awful ques­tions everyone you meet asks. Most college students are familiar with "what's your major?" However, very few face the look and the question that follows when you tell someone you're majoring in philosophy. 
"What are you going to do with that?" 
My usual answer is that I'm going to live in a cardboard box and be a stand-up philosopher, ala Mel Brooks in "The History of the World Part I." 
However, on Monday night I realized that there is hope for me after all. After spending over $100,000 dollars of my parents' money to attend Saint Mary's, I could earn upwards of $7,000 playing Jeopardy and hoping the category of metaphysics comes up again. 
With money like that, think of the cardboard box I could purchase -perhaps one complete with several other rooms for those studen1.s with other practical majors, such as two of my room­mates who are majoring in history and theatre. They seem to suffer from the same strange looks and inquiries into the usefulness of such courses of study. 
Despite the unhealthy future I may be facing, the library of philosophical thought has provided me with some very useful notions that could help any college student. 
For instance, Berkley holds that there is no external world. Therefore, that engineering assignment you have to do is really all about a bridge that doesn't exist, so why not have an imaginary party instead? 
Or existentialism, which offers that there are no absolutes except for those which we create. so why not use Absolut as an absolute? 
And for all of you who arc science majors, my recent reading of a book entitled The Structure of Scientific Revolutions by Thomas Kuhn has opened my eyes to the fact that science doesn't really describe the world as it is, it just solves puzzles science creates for itself. So, instead of doing your chemistry homework, create a puzzle that needs to be solved by getting at least 12 hours of sleep. 
This is just a brief overview of things I have d.is­covered in the last three years. So, for those of you who are dreading taking that philosophy class, just think of the useful, everyday things you can learn from the greats who spent their time thinking. Perhaps they were just thinking of ways to convince their parents they couldn't do their chores. 
And don't forger; even if these useful tidbits aren't enough to tempt you to philosophy, there's $7,000 waiting on Jeopardy for you to take home. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism ar all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. ffwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Ob,erver is a member of the Associ.ced Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
CS SACRAMENTO 

Student faces murder charges 
SACRAMENTO, Ca. 
A California State University-Sacramento senior will appear in San Joaquin County Superior Court Wednesday on charges of murder and conspiracy in the death of a Sacramento lawyer. the latest in a series of events that have stunned her professors, classmates and acquaintances. 
Sarah Elizabeth Dutra, 21, is charged as an accomplice in the poisoning death of Larry McNabney, whose body was found Feb. 5 in a vine­yard east of Stockton, Calif. Authorities arrested Dutra March 19 after McNabney's wife, the primary suspect in the case, implicated the art major in the crime. 
Dutra is not eligible for bail, due to circumstances that includes "murder for financial gain" and "mur­der by means of poison," said Lester Fleming, supervising deputy district attorney for the homicide division. 
The State Homet 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday Friday Saturday 
. Lecture: "Intimacy and Violence  . Lecture: ''Creating a Diverse  . Dorm Event: Knott on the Knoll,  
in Civil War," 4:15 p.m.• Hesburgh  Corporate Culture", 10:30 a.m.,  2-6 p.m.. Knott Hall  
Center room C-103  Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza  . Art Exhibition: Opening recep­ 
. Dorm event: The Welsh Family  College of Business  tion for student exhibition, 2-4  
Feud. 8 p.m., Reckers  . Eucharistic Adoration: 11:30  p.m., O'Shaughnessy Galleries  
a.m. to 5 p.m., Basilica of the  
Sacred Heart  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 

Syracuse students prepare for new GRE test format 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
are in celebration that this measure 
When Xuemei Wang decided she will get us out of the multiple-choice wanted to pursue graduate studies in mode and into one in which students the United States, she knew she'd are able to perform more intelligent have to work hard if she wanted to get thinking," Rochon said. accepted to a good school. In addition to the analytic portion of 
Por Wang, a native of China, this the test, which tests the ability to meant studying for about sLx months understand relationships between for the GRE and taking a three-month concepts, there are also verbal and class to help her prepare for the test. quantitative sections on the GRE. 
"I studied a long time and I did OK." Tom Rochon, executive director of These sections, which evaluate the said Wang, an instructional design, the GRE program for Educational test-taker's ability to analyze and development and evaluation doctoral Testing Services, said the changes are evaluate written material and mea­student at Syracuse University, "but I a result of feedback from university sures math skills will remain. think the GRE is a really difficult test administrators across the country that Rochon said the changes would for international students." the analytical section of the test allow admissions counselors to see 
In October, the GRE may become wasn't helpful in determining whether how well studm1ts can argue a subject even more difficult for both interna­an applicant should be admitted to and support what they want to say. tional and domestic students when the graduate school. ETS administers the "For the first time it gives the test­analytic portion of the test will be GRE and other tests, including the takers an opportunity to show their replaced with a writing assessment Scholastic Assessment Test. reasoning skills," he said. measure. ''Many deans and administrators Daily Orange 


UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO 
Slavery group may sue Harvard 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. 

Harvard University could soon find itself targeted in a lawsuit demanding reparations for slavery, according to one of its own professors who is spear­heading the suit. 
Professor of Law Charles J. Ogletree, co-chair of a national committee seeking compensation for slav­ery, wrote that the group is reviewing possible defen­dants for a lawsuit it plans to file next fall. 
And institutions of higher learning, including Brown, Yale and Harvard, are under review, he said. 
In an interview Tuesday, Ogletree said he feels that taking the issue of reparations to court would stimu­late public debate on the effects of slavery. 
"We are hopeful that this mov.e will create opportu­nity for discussion of slavery and its impact on cul­ture and society," he said. "as well as how we can move forward as a nation to remove barriers and work for equality to stop racial disparity." 
Harvard Crimson 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon,Thursday, April 4. 
408 ...-T' _._._ .......... 
C 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STAJ"IONARY Pru,we: >''1
® © . fZ?2l . E8:3 EIBl rill () •j~:filfo <Zt 
High Low Shower¦ R¦ ln T-¦torma FJurriH Snow loe Sunny Pl Cloudy Cloudy 
\lfa Associared Press 

Atlanta 62 41 Las Vegas 83 55 Portland 67 43 Baltimore 51 31 Memphis 55 36 Sacramento 74 46 Boston 52 33 Milwaukee 35 25 St. Louis 47 31 Chicago 40 25 New York 53 34 Tampa 80 63 Houston 71 52 Philadelphia 52 33 Washington. DC 52 35 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senate announces formal officer nominations 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
.~iscanr News Editor 
The new senators for 2002­2003 were confirmed at Thursday's meeting and transi­tion reports were presented. 
Libby Bishop, student body president, briefed the Senate and said the transition process is underway. Bishop and Trip Foley, student body vice presi­dent, will be working with Assistant Vice President of Residence Life Bill Kirk to dis­cuss du Lac revisions. Bishop was hopeful that her and Foley's friday meeting with Father Poorman would be pro­ductive anrl that it would be pivotal with regard to the pro­posed changes to the alcohol policy. 
Bishop formerly announced her nominations for the Office of the President. She and Foley chose Pat Hallahan, Jim Hyan and Jennifer Majcina for the positions of chief of staff, acad­emic delegate and controller, respectively. Hallahan and Ryan served on Senate this past year. Hallahan chaired the Committee on Academic Affairs, while Ryan chaired the Oversight Committee. Majcina was the Class of 2003 Fundraising Chair during the sophomore and junior years. 
Formal nominations were also made for the Student Senate Officers. Bishop nomi­nated freshman Erik Smith as the Student Senate President, citing his background in stu­dent government and his posi­tion as District Secretary for the Illinois Easter Iowa District of Key Club International. Danielle Ledesma, Judicial Council president and former parliamentarian, nominated fiicky Sadowski for the position of parliamentarian. Sadowski is a transfer from Rhodes College, where he was the student gov­c rn ment parliamentarian. Although now a senator, he served on the Senate Residential Life and Oversight Committees this past year. Old College nominated Paul Dockery as chaplain. 
Senators will decide whether or not to approve these nomi­nations in their next meeting. 
Bishop welcomed the new and returning senators in a let­ter stating, "As senators you will play a vital and integral role in the Student Union, and I hope that you will find your role challenging and yet always rewarding and enlightening." 
Bishop also implored the sen­ators to be responsible in their new tasks stressed that they adhere to their mission to "improve the quality of student life here at Notre Dame." 
"I am really excited to be in a position where l can make change and where I can repre­sent the whole student body," said Neil Vargas, Fisher Hall senator. "We can make changes because we are in a direct position, and I hope to continue what the Senate did last year." 
Several senators expressed hope that the Senate would be able to address the proposed alcohol policy and possibly modify it. 
"I would like to work towards the possiblilty of reinstating 


Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


SYRs in the dorm because I think they are an important part of dorm life here in Notre Dame," said Katie Boyle, Cavanaugh Hall senator. 
In an effort to increase stu­dent voice on campus, Rick Harris, Siegfried Hall senator, said, "On issues that are really of importance, such as the alcohol policy, I think it would be better to get more student voice. Possibly by starting a petition and distributing it in the dining halls and other places." 
"I believe that the adminis­tration respects the opinion of student government. However, I would like to see more provi­sions for student government have more input," said Boyle. "I would like to see student government have more power in influencing the administra­tion with legislation." 
In order to stay connected with the students, Harris intends to hold weekly in-hall meetings in order to bring the concerns of students from his hall to the committee and sen­ate meetings that he will be attending. 
Courtney Kohout, Badin Hall senator, hopes that the com­mittees will be effective in making positive changes. 
"I think that especially gen­der relations issues are very bad and I hope that we can make some changes." said Kohout. "Possibly by designing some events to hring students together and to review other programs such as Frosh-O which I think have a negative impact on gender relations. I hope that through our efforts different things can be incorpo­rated into campus life that can change the ways that males and females interact on the campus." 
Contact Meghanne Downes at downes.4@nd.edu. 

Tft.e Centerfor Socia[Concerns is seeR.fng nominations for: 
The Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL Faculty Community-Based Research Award 
CONCERNS 
This is a mon<'tary awm'll of SiiOOO of whkh $2500 \\ill he-givPn directly to the rrC'ipirnt ancl tlw rc>maiuino fnutls mmle arailahir for prof~,innal tl1.•nlo1mwnt a<·ti,iti(-s arn1 materials f'XJX'nsrs in tlw a1'f'a of eommnnity-OOst•<_treseardi. 
llomine•• should Le Regular Faculty• who have complettd on• or more r<Iearch pmject, that addren a need or concern of • local non-profit or communilM L..,ed organiiation. Priority will Le given to a Faculty memLer who,e project ha, Leen: 
• oriented around a chaUeng• articulated Ly a local community group; 
• 
conducted in collaLoralion wilh a memLer or memLers of the South Bend or nearLy community whose inue, are Leing investigated; 

• 
indu,iue of graduate and/or undergraduate ,tud<nts; and 

• 
p•Lh,hed in a ref.reed journal or presented in other Form, ~uried exhiLition,. di,triLuted film,. etc.l recognized at highly valued in th, ru:ipient', area of ..perti,e. 


A nominating letter should describe how the candidate's research project fits the above criteria and the impact this work has had in the community and on Notre Dame students. Please name a particular article or outcome that has resulted, if possible. Nominations are sought from anyone familiar with the efforts of the nominee. Individuals may nominate themselves. 
Nominations, which may be submitted by email, should be sent to the FCBR Award Committee, c/o Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research, Center for Social Concerns (beckman.9 nd.edu), by no later than 5pm, Monday, April 15. 
Rodney Gane}\ Ph.D., who is funding this award, served as Associate Director of Notre Dame's Laboratory for Social Research and in the Department ofSociology from 1980 to 1996. He is now President ofPress, Ganey Associates, the nations leading research firm specializing in patient-satisfacion measurement. 
• K'11ul•r f•culty indud-, T..ching-and-Re<•arJ. Faculty. R..•arJ. Faculty. L,L,sry Faa,hy. ,nd Sp«ial P,akuional Faculty."' d,mi~,d in the faculty HanJl,.,al,_ 
.. --­

page 4 The Observei· . NEWS Thursday, April 4, 2002 
AACSB appoints Woo chair 
Special to the Observer 
Carolyn Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of the University of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business, has been named vice chair and chair-elect of the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business 
(AACSB), 
t h e interna­tional accrediting body for business education. 
A member of the AACSB International Board of Directors since 1999, Woo will begin her term July 1 as vice chair and serve as chair in the 2002-2003 academic year. She currently chairs the orga­nization's Accreditation Branding Task Force and has served on the Business Accreditation Committee and as board liaision for the Mid­


Contin ent  East  Regional  
Deans.  
"I  am  convinced  that  

Carolyn will be a highly suc­cessful and effective leader of AACSB International," said Jerry Trapnell, the current vice chair and chair-elect. "As our organization continues to focus on growth in our global­ization agenda, continuous improvement in our accredi­tation processes and stan­dards, enhancing member services and critical issues facing management edu1,;ation worldwide, her energy and vision will be huge assets." 
Woo earned her bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in strategic management from Prudue University and later directed the university's· pro­fessional master's programs in the Krannert School of' Management. 
After serving as the associ­ate vice president of academic affairs at Purdue, she assumed the deanship of the College of Business at Notre Dame in 1997. She also holds the Ray and Milann Siegfried Chair in Management. 
Woo was selected in 1998 as one of 40 Outstanding Young Leaders of American Higher Education by Change Magazine and serves on the boards of Beta Gamma Sigma and four publicly traded cor­porations. 
U.S. Mint limits dollar coins 
Associated Press 
WASlIINGTON 
Weak demand for the Sacagawea dollar coin is forcing the Mint to limit production. For now. it won't make any more new dollar coins for banks, retailers and others to use to make change. But it will pro­duce some coins for collectors. 
Since their much ballyhooed debut just more than two years ago, the golden-colored dollar coins have struggled to catch on and become a staple in cash registers, change purses and pockets. The sour U.S. economy, which ended up slipping into Sacagawca dollar coins in stor­age, according to a report by the Treasury Department's Inspedor General. 

The Mint planned to produce 40 million Sacagawea dollar coins in the second quartllr of this fiscal year, something the Inspector General's office didn't think was warranted, the report said. As a result, the Mint recently stopped making n!lw Sacagawcas for circulation and plans to suspend production through this year. 
But at least 10 million Sacagaweas will be made this year for numismatic sales, such as coin sets, often purchased by collectors, said Mint spokesman


recession in March, knocked Michael White. Mint facilities in demand for the coins. In fact. both Philadelphia and Denver demand for all other U.S. coins will make those dollar coins. is down, experts say. 
"It's not unusual to adjust pro­
OffCampw, 

The Mint ended fiscal year duction through the year," 2001 wiih about 324 million White said. 
GrAbM~ti°" Wee~ Sped~t MA'f 16-21~ 2001 
Need a prece for your family to stay, t,y Salftd Heert'a P•Mh center (St. Joseph HaU on CllfflPUSJ. 

We tl8l a MO.GO per penon donation for the weekend 
·coME EARl..'f (nursday] • ST AV LAlE [Tllesdayr -same low price. 
Cleveland Cornejoinus for our 
For resc«va:tlons ptease call 
M 

402 us 31 North lunch specials!
. ~. P_l,ll_f;:~dy ,15-74.-§;lj:7§1_~ 
Mary Fonferko at 574-631-9436 
~ 

?\'South Bend, IN 46637 $1.00 offfor lunch 
(219) 272-2535 $2.00 offfor dinner 

THE KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES FALL 2002 COURSES 
IRISH FOLKLORE AND ANTHROPOLOGY 
IRST 321:01 MWF 9:35• 10:25 
Diarmuid 6 Giollain Minors only thru 2nd Dart period 
Folklore, National Culture and Irish Identity 
The notion of folklore emerged in the late Cl8th and early Cl9th. Closely associated with ideas of cultural relativism, from the romantic period on it became an important resource to national movements in search of cultural authenticity. This course explores the idea of folklore within the history of ideas, examines the relationships between folklore and popular culture and modernity and outlines the development of folklore as an academic discipline. It looks at the Irish case in ,detail, from the beginnings of scholarly interest in popular culture in Ireland to the central intellectual engagement of the literary revivals with it at the end of the Cl9th, leading ultimately to the institutionalization of folklore study in the southern Irish state. 
IRST 324:01 MWF 11:45-12:35 
Diarmuid 6 Giollain Minors only thru 2nd Dart period Irish Traditional Culture 
To examine Irish peasant culture, this course focuses on materials accumulated by folklorists since the late Cl9th. Folklorists recorded a huge volume of information as part of a project to rescue and rehabilitate the Gaelic tradition within a modernizing Ireland. This information was from peasant society, but was often seen as transcending it (Gramsci's 'national-popular'). The course interrogates the notion of 'traditional culture,' implicit or explicit in the work of folklorists, and relates that work to anthropological and other writing on Ireland. There will be particular emphasis on narrative traditions (stories and storytelling), popular religion (folk belief) and material culture (folklife), traditionally the core areas for researchers in folklore and folklife. 
Professor Diarmuid OGiollain of University College Cork, is the leading authority on Irish Folklore. He has published extensively on Irish folk belief, including seminal studies of the Leprechaun, Fairies and Dwarfs and the 'pattern' or local saint's festival. His Locating Irish Folklore (2000) won the prestigious Katherine Briggs Folklore Prize. 6 Giollain is a highly regarded teacher. 
W0RL 
ATION 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Longest-serving prisoner freed: 
After 19 years in prison, China has freed an elderly Tibetan teacher -a release one lead­ing activist said was an attempt to please the United States. Tanak Jigme Sangpo, 76, was set free Sunday from Drapchi Prison in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital, said John Kamm, presi­dent of the San Francisco-based Duihua Foundation. Chinese officials said he was released on medical parole, Kamm said. 
Iraq compensates suicide bombers: 
Saddam Hussein has increased money for the relatives of suicide bombers from $10,000 to $25,000. drawing sharp criticism from Washington. But Palestinians say the bombers are driven by a priceless thirst for revenge, reli­gious zeal and dreams of glory -not greed. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Virginia launches anti-smoking ads: 
The nation's sixth-largest tobacco producing state and home to a major Philip Morris plant is using some of its national tobacco settlement money for anti-smoking radio and TV ads aimed at 10-to 14-year-olds. The seven TV commercials and eight radio spots. which began airing Tuesday, feature cartoon characters Lumpy, Addicted Robot and Ciggie Boy promoting the slogan, "Smoking sounds stupid and I choose not to be." 
Cincinnatti settles racial dispute: 
A year after Cincinnati erupted in riots over the police shooting of a black man, the city agreed to restrictions on the use of force and announced plans Wednesday to establish an independent agency that would investigate police brutality complaints. The moves are intended to satisfy U.S. Justice Department con­cerns and settle a lawsuit accusing the police force of harassing blacks for the past 30 years. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Children's Center close contested: 
Supporters of the Evansville Psychiatric Children's Center, including some doctors and parents of the children treated there, are arguing against Gov. Frank O'Bannon's plan to close the 28-bed hospital because of the state budget crunch. Janet Corson, director of the state Division of Mental Health, said last week that closing the cen­ter would save the state about $3.3 million a year, the amount of its operating costs. 
Market Watch April 3 

Dow 
10,198.29 -115.42 
Jones 

CompositeSame: 

Volume:
173 

I. I 98,130,944 
·)••·A]~~J:@\'r,1mli::~®)t:lw::~1Qff[;;~;l~~f1itl4fflM1fw,l.~ 
NASDAQ: 1,784.35 -20.05 
•; N'.mk:ttKt:rJm1rJJ;;;iS:ffli1~11miiJ5;~$4iilm;, 
S&P 500: 1,125.24 -11.52 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
t-tASDAQ-100 INDEX (©:))  -0. 17  -0.06  35.03  
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUI'«/)  -0.45  -0.04  8.90  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  +1.10  +0.18  16.60  
ADELPHIA CCffl-A (ADLAC) .-.GRLOCQ'-1 IOC-WJ (1-,(Q'JI)  -6.68 -3. 98  -0. 79 -0.27  11.04 6.51  


Associated Press 
BETHLEHEM 
Senior Christian clerics on Wednesday urged Israel to let religious lead­ers mediate between the Israeli army and Palestinian gunmen holed up for a second day inside Bethlehem's Church of the Nativity. 
Father Raed Abusahlia, a senior official with the Roman Catholic Church in Jerusalem, said the pro­posal was passed to Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, after troops pre­vented Latin Patriarch Michel Sabbah from lead­ing a march from the out­skirts of Jerusalem into nearby Bethlehem on Wednesday. 

Israel's Foreign Ministry was in touch with the Vatican in an attempt to find a peaceful solution to the standoff at one of Christianity's holiest shrines, said Raanan Gissin, a Sharon adviser. 
On Tuesday, priests at the church, built over the traditional birthplace of Jesus, were forced to give refuge to Palestinian police and militiamen, who shot their wav in after running batt"les with Israeli troops firing from helicopter gunships and from tank-mounted machine guns. 
An Israeli army spokes­woman said negotiations between the military and the gunmen Tuesday evening failed to resolve the deadlock and that Palestinians continued to fire at troops from the church on Wednesday afternoon. 
Those inside the church, including the Palestinian governor of Bethlehem, Mohammed Madani, denied shots were fired from the shrine. 
The Israeli incursion into Bethlehem was part of a broader West Bank offen­sive -dubbed "Operation Protective Wall" -which seeks to halt a wave ofter­ror attacks against Israelis. 
A tank was stationed Wednesday at the edge of Manger Square, adjacent to the church, the army said. Bethlehem Mayor Hana Nasser said soldiers had occupied the munici­pality building overlooking the square and the church. 
As Israeli soldiers encir­cled the church, the Palestinians rested in pews and on the stone floor, said Samir, a Palestinian policeman inside the church. Ten of the gunmen were wounded, including one who was in critical condition, Madani said. 
YUGOSLAVIA 

Milosevic allies refuse surrender 
Associated Press 

BELGRADE, Yugoslavia 
Former top associates of Slobodan Milosevic vowed Wednesday to resist arrest and extradition to the U. N. war crimes tribunal -defying the Serbian lead­ership and its attempts to avoid 
U.S. sanctions. 

The most direct challenge was issued by retired Gen. Dragoljub Ojdanic, who commanded the army under the former Yugoslav presi­dent during 1999 NATO airstrikcs launched to end Milosevic's military crackdown on the Kosovo province. 
Ojdanic was one of four Milosevic associates for whom arrest war­rants were issued earlier this week. But he said in a statement relayed to The Associated Press by his fam­ily that he is "not afraid of an arrest" and would resist any deten­tion attempt. 
Congress gave Yugoslav authori­ties until March 31 to cooperate with the tribunal or else lose $120 million. Because the deadline has expired, no U.S. assistance checks can be written for economically struggling Yugoslavia until Secretary of State Colin Powell cer­tifies the country has complied. 
Ojdanic said he would surrender only if the Yugoslav parliament passes a law on cooperation with war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Netherlands. Serbian leaders said that because of the U.S. step there is no time to pass an extradition law before the arrests are made. 
. Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica and other opponents of extradition have used the lack of such a law as a platform to resist delivering citizens to a court they consider anti-Serb. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, April 4, 2002 
CoIDic 
continued from page 1 
for a possible later attempt at entering the highly competitive field of syndicate cartooning. 
However. regardless of' what the future holds for Keeley, it is hard to argue that he has had both a positive and a humorous impact on his fellow Notre Dame students during the last three years. In fact, as a·-culmination of his past three years of work, a book entitled "The Best of Fourth and Inches" will be available to students in the near future. 
In addition to three years of positive student reactions to the strip, Keeley said being named as a finalist for the highly competitive Schulz award is a very satisfying end to his career as a Notre Dame cartoonist. 
"It's an honor to even be mentioned in the same sen­tence as Charles Schulz," he said. 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu. 
Spring 
continued from page 1 
tion -especially since one of the student recruitment coordinator goals for the year is to increase the African American student population from 3 to 5 percent. 
The weekend also features activities sponsored by University minority clubs including Latin Expressions on Friday and the Black Cultural Art Council's fash­ion show themed "I see you, I want you, I'm yours" on Saturday evening. 
Russia warned U.S. about FBI spy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Nearly a decade before Robert Hanssen was convicted of spying, Russia complained to the United States that a "disaffect­ed" FBI agent tried to give U.S. secrets to one of its military intelligence officers, according 

Hanssen
to a new study on security al the bureau. 
The disclosure that Hussia itself provided details that might have led to Hanssen's arrest is the latest in a string of embarrassments suggesting the FBI flubbed the investiga­tion into its most damaging spy case over. 
The bureau previously 

"Even though they're sponsored by ethnic groups a diverse group of people participate," Iris Outlaw, director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services, said of the event.s, which are open to all Notre Dame students. "It's about broadening your experiences. Learning doesn't have to take place in the classroom." 
The activities have traditionally been held throughout the spring, according to Outlaw, but the Office of Admissions approached her office in the past requesting that the events be scheduled over Spring Visitation in an effort to offer more opportunities to pro­
~~ GREAr WALL
I)~~-~ 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row .. ··. __ ·'.,i"'" Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -Amencan
t •~~-··i Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days
·-:.: ·.
~ 

. · :. Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11 :30 -3:00 PM ·;-· _,. i Dinner Starting at $6.45 .
._,· / 

Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM -10:00 PM : · · Friday -Saturday 11:30 AM -11 :00 PM '-" · Happy Chinese New Vear Special Buffet 
f 
.!)• I Feb. 11, Monday: 5 pm -9 pm -­Feb. 12, Tuesday: 11 :30 am -9 pm 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
WORK AND TRAVEL 
Caring, fun and responsible people needed to co­lead small groups of adults with developmental disabilities on 3 -7day vacations. Travel to exciting destinations: including Orlando and Cape Cod. 
No experience necessary and training provided. Commitment flexible from 1trip to all summer. All Sprout trip expenses -lodging, dining and activities -are covered; leaders also receive stipend. 
Please visit us at www.GoSprout.org or contact us at 888-222-9575 or leadership@GoSprout.org. 
~ 
sorouc 
sprout (sprout} v., to begin to grow 
Sprout is a New York City based not-for-profit. 
acknowledged that Ilanssen's brother-in-law, an FBI agent, had voiced suspicions to the FBI as early as 1990 that Hanssen might have been spy­ing for the Russians. And another FBI agent caught spy­ing for Russia -Earl Pitts ­told the bureau in June 1997 that Hanssen deserved a "look-see" because of suspi­cious activities. 
The FBI study, which runs more than 100 pages, reveals that in 1993 I-Janssen identi­fied himself to the Hussian officer as "Ramon Garcia," the cover name Hanssen used while spying for Moscow since at least 1985, according to people familiar with the report. Fearing discovery, Hanssen had curtailed his spy­ing during the previous two years and apparently was seeking to re-establish con­tact. 
But the Hussian officer ­unaware of !Janssen's previ­ous espionage activities ­
gram participants. 

"It's a good sign," Outlaw said of the increased number of prospec­tive .students attending Spring Visitationj "lt would be an even greater coup if we could have more commit [to attending Notre Dame in the fall]." 
Cindy Santana, Assistant Director of Admissions, refused to comment on Spring Visitation. Other members of the Admission's staff did not return Observer phone calls. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
rebuffed Hanssen's offer of documents and convinced his government to formally com­plain to U.S. officials about the . incident, the new FBI study said. The Russians told the 
U.S. government at the time that Hanssen described him­self as a "disaffected FBI agent" during the encounter, which took place inside the parking garage of the Hussian officer's apartment outside Washington. 
Assistant FBI Director John Collingwood said Wednesday the FBI investigated the mat­ter when it was first brought to the bureau's attention "and there was simply not enough inforr!1ation to identify the agent. 
The FBI report does not sug­gest why the Russians might have lodged a formal com­plaint with the U.S. govern­ment about tho 1993 encounter, but diplomats have complained when they believe they were being entrapped in a counterespionage sting. 
FBI spy-hunters investigated the Russian complaint, the FBI study said. 

16" EXTRA LARGE 
Limited Time Only! (introductory price) 

New! Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) 5.99/doz (Expires 4/10/02) 

SR 23 AT IRONWOOD 
~711~i21i 
Th11: ND Hispanic Law Students Association 
is proud to welcome 
Professor Margaret Montoya 
University of New Mexico School of Law 2002 Graciela Olivarez Award Recipient 
The Graciela Olivarez Award is presented in 
memory of Notre Dame Law School's first Latina 
and female graduate. Each year, we honor an 
outstanding Latino(a) lawyer or judge who has 
made a significant contribution to the Latino 
legal conununity. 
Professor Montoya was the first Hispanic 
woman accepted at Harvard Law School. She focuses her research on race, ethnicity, gender, language, and cross-cultural discourse. She is forever giving back to her community and 
exploring  new  areas  of  interest,  last year  
introducing  a  new  class entitled,  "Lawyering  
for  Social Change.  "  

Award Ceremony and Presentation Friday, April 5th 12:00 -1 :00 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroon1 


.----------------.....-~------------------,--,--~-----------r------.-r-----------~~
~ 

Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 7 
WorldCom to lay off 3, 700 
sources said. WorldCom reported fourth­
. Layoffs limited 
Late Wednesday morning, quarter earnings, it signifi­to Internet and several employees left the cantly reduced its 2002 rev­high-growth data company's Clinton headquar­enue-growth and profit expec• 
ters \vith their belongings tations for WorldCom Croup. 
divisions 
packed in boxes. "When you look at all those In trading Wednesday on the concerns and the fact the sec­Nasdaq Stock Market, tor is under pricing pressure, T
Associated Press 
WorldCom Group shares fell suppose it would make sense 
27 cents to see compa­
JACKSON, Miss. to $6.51. nies try to
"When you look at all

WorldCom Inc. is eliminat­T h e reduce costs," ing 3,700 jobs in the United shares, those concerns and the Kasargod said. States to better align costs battered "It's the pru­
fact the sector is under 

with projected revenue this in recent dent thing to
pricing pressure, I sup-

year. months, do." The cuts announced traded as pose it would make sense WorldCom's Wednesday were limited to low as last major job
to see companies try to 

the company's WorldCom $5.93 in reduction came
reduce costs. " 

Group, which includes the February a little more high-growth data, Internet a r t e r than a year ago and international businesses. peaking at Ramkrishna Kasargod when the com­They amount to 6 percent of $64.50 on pany laid off
Morgan Keegan Analyst

WorldCom Group's employ­June 21, about 6,000 ment and 4 percent of the 1999. MCI U.S. employees. company's 75,000-member Group Lehman Bros. global work force. shares rose 17 cents to close analyst Blake Bath on 
WorldCom also is the at $5.76, also on Nasdaq. Wednesday lowered his rev­nation's second-largest long­Analyst Ramkrishna enue growth forecasts based distance provider, which it Kasargod with Morgan on tougher-than-anticipated operates through its MCI Keegan & Co. in Memphis said demand and pricing. He also Group. WorldCom. like others in the predicted the company would 
T h e telecom announce significant capital Clinton­industry, is expenditure cuts in corning
"[The SEC's 24-point 
based com­responding to weeks. pany said inquiry] is not going lingering slug­The company said last the job cuts away anytime soon and gishness in month the SEC had requested w e r e the sector. documents regarding loans
will likely create ongoing 
s p r e a d He said and financial practices dating throughout overhang on the stock." investors con­to 2000. The inquiry focuses offices tinue to have on disputed customer bills and across the concerns sales commissions, loans by
Blake Bath

country. about overca­WorldCom to officers or direc•
Lehman Bros. Analyst
Company pacity and tors, customer service con­sources profitability. tracts and organizational earlier had said as many as WorldCom's worries also charts and personnel records 7,500 people could be laid off. include some $24 billion in for former employees. The cuts had been planned for debt and an ongoing In a report, Bath said the last week, but WorldCom Securities and Exchange SEC's 24-point inquiry "is not president and chief executive Commission investigation into going away anytime soon and Bernie Ebbers postponed the its accounting as well as loans will likely create ongoing move at the last minute for made to executives. overhang on the stock." unspecified reasons, the In early February, when 
Bloomberg's old Co. switches cards 
. Company abandons Diners Club card for American Express 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

On several occasions since he took office in January, Mayor Michael Bloomberg has offered effusive praise to the American Express Co. for planning to stay in lower Manhattan after the World Trade Center terrorist attack. 
During his State of the City speech, the mayor even pledged to leave home with only his American Express card in gratitude for the com­pany's civic loyalty. 
So on Wednesday, eyebrows were raised when Bloomberg LP, the financial information company Bloomberg founded -and resigned from last year -announced it would switch its corporate credit card account from Diners Club to American Express for its 8,000 employees world­wide. 
Bloomberg resigned as the company's chief executive last year before he entered the mayoral race and has said he has no role in the company's management. 
However, the mayor still owns more than 70 percent of the privately held firm. 
On Wednesday, representa­tives for Bloomberg and Bloomberg LP denied the mayor's endorsement of American Express had any­
thing to do with the decision to change accounts. 
"The mayor has no role in the day-to-day operations of the company," mayoral spokesman Ed Skyler said. 
Asked whether Bloomberg's praise for the company might have swayed Bloomberg LP to switch cards, Skyler said: "That's unlikely because the decision was made in September," before Bloomberg was elected. 
Bloomberg LP spokes­woman Chris Taylor said the decision was made simply because American Express is more widely approved than other cards. 
"Our employees were find­ing it difficult to get them accepted," Taylor said. 
American Express spokes­woman Melissa Abernathy said she knew nothing of what may or may not have gone on behind the scenes. 
But she said the mayor's company made a smart busi­ness move. 
"It makes sense." she said. "We are the largest issuer of corporate cards in the United States" 
Diners Club did not immedi­ately return a call seeking comment. 
Since Sept. 11, American Express has had to temporar­ily disperse offices to other parts of Manhattan, New Jersey and Connecticut because its headquarters, in the World Financial Center, adjacent to the twin towers complex, was damaged in the terrorist attack. 
SENIORSIII 
Ticket sales for Senior Week events will be on 
sale THIS FRIDAY APRIL 5th 
from NOON-5:00pm 
At ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
Last year, the Cubs game sold out quickly, so get there soon! 
•Chicago 
Trip(includes bus and ticket to Cubs game) $30 

•Cedar 
Point(includes bus and ticket to amusement park) $50($45 with purchase of Chicago Trip) •Riverdance $25 

•Formal 
$15($25 at the door) 


The most beautiful ·music written for the Broadway stage · pe~formed by the 
,-_{,if 
' ,,.

people who make . ,. it come alive .· . ;.··1:J:J
.. :.~.· 
r· 
every night on the Great White Way. 




Sponsored by: 
'JB&T~ 
• ABroadway Theatre League Presentation 
***You may only purchase tickets tor ONE friend, 
April 5, 6, 7 • Fri. & Sat. 8pm • Sat. & Sun. 2pm
PROVIDED YOU HAVE BOTH IDs. 
Group, Senior, Student Discounts Available. Call now for tickets. 
234-4044 or toll free 1-877-315-1234 
Any questions; Contact LROMPF@nd.edu Morris Performing Arts Center 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
This Week in Campus Ministrv 

A response to the current, inexcusable and 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 


sinful scandal of clergy abuse of minors... 
¦ by Fr. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Counselor to the President & Director, Campus Ministry 
ups 

As hundreds ofsrnries about sexual abuse of minors by a relatively small number of priests, 200 to date out of46,000,
Freshman Retreat #41 
continue to dominate the front pages of newspapers in the United States, as wdl as hundreds ofother television and print Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 media, many faithful Catholic people are understandably scandalized and confused, while others are defensive. Boston's 
Pick up applications: 
incarcerated defrocked man, who sec off the current situation upon his conviction chis past January, is becoming as 
Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 
familiar to the public as is or has been any other private subject ofcriminal accusation or conviction in many, many years. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
The majority of these articles and reporcs included his name and the crimes for which he has been convicted and 

incarceraced. I believe that at least two direct and unambiguous statements must frame any discussion of this matter. First, the development or modification of policies regarding this situation in a growing number of dioceses is a 
welcome and overdue reality. These policies usually state that every accusation ofabuse ofa minor by any member ofthe clergy must be thoroughly investigated and action muse be taken to provide full assistance to the alleged victim. The
Eucharistic Adoration 
accused member ofthe clergy must be removed from ministry until rhe matter is resolved, or permanently ifhe is guilty.
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. 
The rights of the minor arc more important than the rights ofanyone else, in the situation of a credible accusation. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Secondly, while it is true that knowledge about the causes, possibilities for behavioral modification and a more complere understanding ofwhat is entailed in pedophilia has only become dear in the past fifteen years, this is not an
Bible Study On Chinese) 
excuse. Clergy abuse of minors is wrong and inexcusable. It is the deepest betrayal ofa responsibility conferred on an
7:30-9:30 p.m. 
individual in the name of rhe Church. While most Church leaders have articulated chis position previously or recendy,
Call 631-5653 for information. 
and sometimes under pressure, it is the only defensible position to take in chis matter. But it is essential to note that the following affirmations are also ar the heart ofCatholic belonging, life and ministry.
807 Mass 
· For Catholics, the Catholic Church, human and divine, is God's instrument
8:00 p.m. 
ofsalvation for all people. We believe that Jesus Christ established the Church
Hammes Student Lounge 
as the institution and the means which will carry out His salvific mission
Coleman-Morse Center St. Paul wrote that "Jesus is 
until the end of time for God's people. The Church -one, holy, Catholic and apostolic -gathers together into one people, all the baptized who par­
Senior Retreat #6 like us in everything except 
ticipate in the priesthood ofJesus, each according to a specific call. 
April 5-6 
sin." That is as wondrous an Through the Church's sacramental ministry, entrusted for its
Sacred Heart Parish 
• 
andministration to priests who serve in persona Christi, in the person of affirmation as it is a daunting Christ, the Church carries out its apostolic ministry. It powerfully enables people to be baptized into the life and death ofJesus, confirms the baptized 
challenge and a deeply 

with the manifold gifts of the Spirit who completes the mission of Jesus, enables full participation in the celebration of the E~charist which makes present to all
personal call for each of us, 

generations ofbelievers the sacrifice ofJesus on the Cross through sharing in His Sacred 
RCIA-Mystagogia: Morning Retreat 
Body and Blood, and offers sacramental reconciliation -confession -through which the
10:00 a.m. 
sins of men and women are forgiven. Through the anointing ofthe sick, Jesus, who cared
330 Coleman-Morse Center 
so much for the sick, is present to those who look to God for their strength and their salvation. And, through the sacraments ofordination and matrimony, Jesus is present to believers who make their lifetime vows and commitments as baptized, confirmed and faithful people. 

St. Paul wrote that "Jesus is like us in everything except sin." That is as wondrous an affirmation as it is a daunting challenge and a deeply personal call for each of us. It is especially a challenge for men who are ordained as priests. In another place, St. Paul traces his growth, through years ofsuffering and ofapostolic service, as one who begins by lamenting the weakness which causes him to do
The Way Bible Study 
" what he docs not want to do, and not to do what he really wants to do. Several years later, when St. Paul gradually understands chat 
8:30 p.m. 
Jesus acts forcefully through him through grace, which is all he really needs, he comes ro a culminating time in his life when he realizes 
331 Coleman-Morse Center 
that he no longer exists but that Christ Jesus, who has taken full control of his life, lives fully in him. This is the thrilling moment when St. Paul realizes that there is no distinction between Jesus and himself. It is the culmination ofa lifelong search for holiness.
Eucharistic Adoration 
Each ofus is called to a similar journey to holiness because ofour baptism into the death ofJesus so that we might rise ro him for 
Monday through Tuesday 
everlasting life. This is especially the path a priest must take with joy because ofhis commitment to Jesus, to the Church and to the 
11:00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. 
service of all God's people. 

Fisher Hall Chapel 
God chooses men, sinful men, men with "feet of clay" to be priests. Jesus does this so that through human weakness his strength might be all the more manifest. These men, these priests, also experience a burning desire to serve God and to serve God's people all the days oftheir lives. They believe in the depth eftheir souls that they are called to be the men who will carry out the mission ofJesus and the sacramental ministry of the Church, as priests, until the end of time, when Jesus will be "all in all" as Paul tells us . 
... a wonderful sign of hope as four Notre Dame

~~-Chedule 
¦ Basilica of Iha Sacred Hean graduates are ordained Holy Cross priests... 
Saturday, April 6 
5:00p.m. So many ofmy Holy Cross friends and brothers are priests who offer me an inspiring and challenging witness to the life to which Rev. Terrence P. Ehrman, c.s.c. each of us has been called. I hope that I offer them the same enthusiastic witness which others for many years now have offered me Sunday, April 7 -a stirring example ofwhat it means to be a priest. My fellow Holy Cross religious, priests, brothers and seminarians, are committed to the Church, to the congregation and to the
10:00 a.m. 
ministries entrusted to our care. My brothers in Holy cross who are priests and seminarians, are men who had other options and
Rev. Terrence P. Ehrman, c.s.c. possibilities for their lives. Yet they were and arc willing to commit themselves, as I have, to serve the Church as priests forever. 
11:45 a.m. 
My fellow Holy Cross priests are zealous and generous men who are grateful for the vocation they received and for the many ways
Rev. Eric J. Schimmel, c.s.c. they will serve Jesus Christ and the Church as priests.
¦ Around campus 
IfI had my life to live over again, my only prayer is that I would be given, once again, the grace and privilege to serve God as a Sunday, March 24 priest in the congregation of Holy Cross. I know that this sentiment is common to so many of us, and this fact spurs me on! Spanish Mass This Samrday, at 1 :30 p.m. in the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart, four finally professed Holy Cross seminarians, who were ordained 
l :30 p.m., Zahm Hail Chapel as deacons last fall, will be ordained to the priesthood by Bishop Daniel R. Jenky, C.S .C.. My prayer is that Brad, Eric, John and Mike 
fully enjoy their lives as Holy Cross priests and accept their privileged and graced role of being servants ofGod through the ministry Law School Mass of the Church. 
5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel When I was ordained, I did not know what the Church, society and our culture would be like during my years as a priest. Neither do my four Holy Cross brothers who will be ordained Saturday. But we will try as sincerely as we can to live and serve as celibate men, 
MBA Mass 

through our promise to the Church offered to the bishop which reiterates our religious vow of celibate chastity. There will be many 
7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Chapel 

challenges which we all will face, but my prayer and I am sure theirs as well, is that we will discover the grace we know God will offer us so that we might face with integrity our privilege and responsibility to serve God and the Catholic Church as Holy Cross priests. 
Rejoice! African American Catholic Mass 
10:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 

¦ Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st Rdg Acts 2:42-47 2nd Rdg 1 Pt 1:3-9 Gospel John 20:19-31 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Hospital ponders relocation 
ly with both City administrations 
. Notre Dame may 
in South Bend and Mishawaka in use land after it'l exploration. "Both Mayor Steven Luecke
hospital relocates 
and Mayor Bob Beutter have 
been very cooperative, and for .Special to the Observer 
that matter aggressive, in bring­ing very realistic options to the table," Beyer said. "Every option St. Joseph Regional Medical 
was examined carefully, but
Center. Inc. recently signed an 
building a new facility would
option to acquire approximately 
allow us to complete the project
90 acres of land in the Edison 
within the next four-five years
Lakes Corporate Park area and 
with little or no patient disrup­
expressed interest in selling its 
tion."

South Bend property to Notre 
"Each hospital in St. Joseph
Dame 
County has cobbled together 
..Our intention is to develop an 
their buildings throughout the
exciting new health care campus 
last century. The prospect of 
at the site," said Hobert Beyer, 
building a new facility from the
president and CEO of St. Joseph 
ground up for greater patient
Regional Medical Center, Inc. 
comfort. convenience and care is
"This is a long range plan, more­
exciting," he added.
over it's not just the building of a new health care campus, but a Remodeling cost prohibitive plan to further evolve our Remodeling at the current 
regional system and raise the South Bend and Mishawaka sites level of health care in our com­would approximate the cost of munity." building a new facility and "This is about developing a would take nearly 10 years to total environment of care in a complete with a great amount of inconvenience
healing envi­
ronment that and disruption
"Our intention is to 

enhances the among patients. ability of our develop an exciting new physicians and staff.
staff to bet­health care campus at 
"Both of the needs of the site." current facilities those we 
ter meet the 
have land­serve. This is Robert Beyer 
locked and mini­the first-step mally accessible
SJRMC CEO

in a long sites. We are a process that regional we anticipate will lead to the provider; conve­construction of the first new hos­nience and accessibility for our pital in this area in nearly half a patients is critical," said Beyer. century," he added. "As census data reflects, the population center of our region
Pondering Possibilities 
has shifted to the northeast por­
St. Joseph Regional Medical 
tion of St. Joseph County.
Center explored a range of 
Growth has increased between
options before this decision was 
7.3 percent and 14.3 percent in
made and has worked extensive-
that area over the past 10 years. 
The Edison Lakes site will posi­tained at both the South Bend tion us closer to where the and Mishawaka locations includ­majority of our patients live and ing Urgent Care and support ser­work and at the same time pro­vices. To that end, SJRMC is vide much improved regional absolutely committed to finding access to our campus." a viable way to reuse any remaining property, the compa­
Moving to Mishawaka? 

ny said. 
The proposed site covers approximately 117 acres. includ­Notre Dame expanding? ing current and optioned land, The company said it has and extends from the company's worked with both South Bend current Edison and Notre Lakes Medical Dame on
"This whole process has
Center on Day potential Road, north­been and continues to be future uses ward across for the South
about finding solutions." 
Edison Lakes Bend site. Parkway to Given the Douglas Road. Robert Beyer common her­
St. Joseph SJRMCCEO itage that St. Regional Joseph Medical Center Regional already has a strong presence in Medical Center and Notre Dame the Edison Lakes area with the have shared historically. and the Edison Lakes Medical Center, an company's longstanding institu­outpatient surgical center and tional partnership, they invited physician office complex that Notre Dame into conversations was opened in 1992. on future potential uses of the 
"While making this decision, South Bend campus. we looked at many of the com­As a consequence, the hosptial munity suggestions made. two intends to focus our delibera­years ago when we first began tions about future uses of the evaluating our facility options," South Bend campus with the Beyer said. "We also examined University of Notre Dame in the the success of St. Joseph coming months and plans to Regional Medical Center in demolish those facilities which Plymouth where we faced simi­have no practical future use. lar facility issues and decided to "This whole process has been rebuild on a new site rather than and continues to be about find­renovate nearly 15 years ago. ing solutions, for us and our Our successes since relocating neighbors," Beyer said. "From have encouraged us that we are the moment that we realized making the right decision." moving might be an option we 
wanted to make sure the proper­
The fate of the downtown site 
ty would be redeveloped respon­The new campus location is sibly ... we've been an activeapproximately three miles north 
partner in the South Bend
and east of downtown South North-East NeighborhoodBend and a similar distance Development Group, and arefrom downtown Mishawaka. 
committed to that initiative."
Under current assumptions, some operations would be main-
Moving to Chicago?" 
Contact Ben @ . NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmann@hobnail.com 
• • • ¦ • • • 

The Office ofUndergraduate Admissions will be hiring new tour guides for the 2002-03 academic year. 
Applications are available in: 
Room 220, Main Building 
8:00 am -5:00 pm M-F 
Application deadline is Friday April 12, 2002 
Minnelli sued by stepmom 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Liza Minnelli's 94-year-old stepmother has sued her for elder abuse and breach of contract, claiming the per­former has neglected her. 
The lawsuit fl.led Tuesday in Superior Court claims that Lee Anderson Minnelli was guaranteed housing in the will of her late husband, Vincente Minnclli. Liza Minnclli, his daughter with Judy Garland. sold the 
· Beverly Hills home and "has instructed her representatives to remove Lee by whatever means necessary," according to the lawsuit. · 
Minnelli spokesman Warren Cowan said in a statement that the actress treated her stepmother gen­erously, paying all of her expenses during the years she lived in the home, including housekeeping and gardening costs. 
"In addition, Liza has offered to buy Lee a condo­minium, but apparently her generous offer has been refused," the statement said. 
Read The Observer. Because news two weeks late isn't news ... it's history. 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 
GEORGE WASHINGTON 

With Filmmaker 
David Gordon Green 
Question & Answer Period To Follow 
N0cinerna 
THU RS DAY, APRIL 4th 
11 ES BURGH LIBRARY AUD IT . RIUM 
7: OD PM 
Our 75-minute tours are offered M -F at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
FREE ADMISSION 
and at 10 a.m. and 11: 15 a.m. on Saturdays 
*Additional tours are added on football Fridays, but we do not offer tours on game days. 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 4, 2002 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 


oo.[ij£~
CONCERNS 

*

~ IEmuf~ ~~mKiJH Do you know .. . someone on the Faculty who has completed one or more research projects that address a need or concern of a local non­profit or community based organization? If so, please nominate that person for the 
Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. Faculty Community-Based Research Award 
For more information on this monetary award and what to include in your nominating letter, sec the Center's website at http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu. Nominations should be sent (emails are accepted) to Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research, Center for Social Concerns (beckman.9@nd.edu), by no later than April 15th at 5pm. 
Current Volunteer Needs 
Geometry Tutor -Brenda Madison -233-3997 
VOICE 

She is looking for a tutor for her 16 yr old son for 
The Official Student Advisory Board to the Center for Social Concerns 
geometry. Time commitment would be 2 hours a week max, preferably after 5pm. Transportation to 
Applications for 2002-2003 are available at Lhe CSC ND can be provided. 
Please turn in applications to the CSC Front Desk by 3:00p.m. THIS Friday, April 5th!!! 
Encompassing the energies and illlerests ofthe student hocly, VOICE seeks to imegrate
Tutor for 12 yr old -Reading Help 
Student Ownership al ail levels ofthe Center for Social Conems. 
Ken Stacy -287-2316 x 334 -ken@tirerack.com 
VOICE's pillars include working with the CSC staff, acting as a forum for dialogue, He is looking for a tutor to help his son Joshua with and contributing to networks with student services/social action clubs, student his reading skills. Time commitment would be about government, and the student body as a whole.
3 hours a week. He can bring Joshua to campus if the Weekly meetings are required, as the main purpose of VOICE is to advise.
tutor would like. 

Tutor for 6 yr old & 10 yr old -Need Help in Reading -Wendy -254-7652 She would like a tutor for her children who are struggling with reading. She can bring the 
Coming Soon! 

children to ND on Tues an<l/ur Thurs after 5 pm. 
The Fall 2002 edition of the booklet "Social Concerns Courses with Experiential and Community-Based 
Tutor for 7th Grader -Loise Treft -256-5070 
Learning" will soon be available for all interested 
She is looking for a tutor to help her 7th grade son Raymond with his science and english students, staff and faculty at the Center for Social skills, including sentence structure. He can come to campus if the tutor prefers. 
Concerns and several other locations on campus. 
McKinley Elementary After School Program -Tom Werge -631-7679 Starting an after school program that will take place on Weds. from 2:30-3:30 and looking for some students to assist the kids with their homework, especially M:ith & Reading. Transportation from ND to 
the school can be provided. 


Reminder to all Summer 
Female Mentor for 12 yr old Softball Pitcher -Carol Gropp -237-4007 (w) 
Service Project Interns, ACCION 
Do you like to throw a softball around? If so, a 12 yr old girl Nikki would love to spend 
Interns, who have already signed 
some time with you. She is a good student in school, but needs a role model in her life 
a contract or will be:
to give her some. encouragement and improve her self-esteem. 
The category meetings will be taking place on April 8th, 9th and 
LOGAN Camp Amigo Trip -Marissa Runkle -(574) 289-4831 x 1043 
10th. Watch for a notification on
marissar@Io2ancenter.or2 

which group to attend and at what
Several students are needed to accompany adults with disabilities on the annual 
time. All will be meeting at the 
camping trip to Michigan. We will leave in the morning on Sat., April 6th and return in the 
Center for Social Concerns.
afternoon on Sun., April 7th. Transportation, meals, and lodging are provided free. Volunteers will assist the Logan campers in basketball and volleyball games as well as games using the pool table, ping-pong, and foosball tables. 


Library Program at St. Joseph County Jail -Jane Ragle -245-6578 They are trying to improve their library program for inmates and need help with computerized entry of reading material, physical help arranging books, and distribution and pick-up of reading materials. Volunteers wouldn't have to have inmate contact; they will work with the comfort level of the students. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu. *** 
"'1 shaff pass throu8h this wor(a 6ut once. ~n_y !JOOd, tfterefore, that '1 can do or any kfrufness that '1 can show to an1;1 human 6ein3, fct me cfo it now. Let me not defer or neafect it, for '1 Shaff not pass this way aaafn." 
~§arnffii 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

ND AFTER FIVE 
Thursday, April 4  Friday, April 5  Saturday, April 6  
5:00 p.m. Michael Co!acurcio, 'Excessive  5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred  5:00 p.m. Knott on the Knoll, outdoor band  
and Organic /If': Melville, Evil, and the  Heart  concert, Knott Knoll (event begins at 1 :00  
Urgency of Politics, McKenna Hall 112-114  7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton,  p.m.)  
5: 15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred  Rolfs Sports Recreation Center  5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of  
Heart  7:00 p.m Latin Expressions: Noche de  the Sacred Heart  
5:30 p.m. ND Women's Softball vs. UIC, Ivy  Ritmo Latino, O'Laughlin Auditorium, St.  7:00 p.m. Black Cultural Arts Council  
Field  Mary's College*  Fashion Show, Century Center*  
6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. Class of 2004 Dinner,  7:30 p.m. Movies: Mulholland Drive and  7:00 p.m. -12:00 a.m. Band Performance:  
Alumni Senior Club*  South Park, DeBartolo 101 and 155*  Battle of the Bands, North Quad. Indoor  
6:30 p.m. Why International Politics is a  8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center  weather plans: Locations: Alumni Senior  
Nasty and Brutish Business, lecture by  Student Lounge  Club (bands) and LaFortune Student  
John Mearsheimer, DeBartolo 102  8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool  Center Ballroom (acoustic acts)  
7:00 p.m. Film: George Washington,  Room open, free billiards, LaFortune  7:30 p.m. Movies: Mulholland Drive and  
featuring a talk with director David Gordon  Student Center  South Park, DeBartolo 101 and 155*  
Green, Hesburgh Library Carey  9:00 p.m. Loft Show: Alison Pipitone,  8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool  
Auditorium  LaFortune Student Center Ballroom  Room open, free billiards, LaFortune  
7:00 p.m. Reading: Melanie Rae Thon,  9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Flower Planting/  Student Center  
Hosprtahty Room of Reckers  Flower Pot Decorating, LaFortune Student  9:00 p.m. Lecture, Grant Wacker's Heaven  
8:00 p.m. Welsh Family Feud, Reckers  Center Dooley Room  Below: Early Pentecostals and American  
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse,  10:00 p.m. -Midnight -Dance Party, St.  Culture, McKenna Hall  
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center  Mary's College  10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Open Karaoke,  
9:00 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool  10:00 p.m. -3:00 a.m. Stanford After Hours  LaFortune Student Center Huddle  
Room open, LaFortune Student Center  Dance Bash, Alumni Senior Club  10:00 p.m. Movies: Mulholland Drive and  
9:00 p.m. Acousticafe, LaFortune Student  10:00 p.m. Movies: Mulhofland Drive and  South Park, De Bartolo 101 and 155*  
Center Huddle  South Park, DeBartolo 101 and 155*  12:00 a.m. -2:00 a.m. Class of 2004 Spirit  
9:00 p.m. Easter Egg Hunt, DeBartolo 102  10:00 p.m. -1 :30 a.m. Tournament Fridays:  Event, Alumni Senior Club  
9:30 p.m. Remember the Titans, DeBartolo  Dominoes, LaFortune Student Center  
102  Notre Dame Room  This ad is published by the Student  
10:00 p.m. Movies: Mulholland Drive and  Activities Office. Programs are subject  
South Park, DeBartolo 101 and 155*  to change without notice. All programs  
10:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. Class of 2005 Dance,  are free to Notre Dame students unless  
Alumni Senior Club  marked by an asterisk (*).  

F"OR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOM, VISIT: www.nd.edu/,..,sao/ 
... ., .. '' 
O
THE 

BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, April 4, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Nocre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Noue Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CKI.F.F 
Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCE.NF. EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR, Sheila Egts PHOTO EDifOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR, Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lurz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLI..ER: Lori Lewalski DEVEWPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 fl\J(..........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OmcE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT........................................ ,........631-5303 
observer.viewpoinc.l@nd.edu SPORTS.... ············· .......................................631-4543 observer.spom.l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................63I-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web site at http:llobseroer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news. sporu, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
weekly srudenc reviews 

min ure forecasrs 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rares of prinr ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisemenrs, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letri,rs is encouraged. Letters to th~ Editor must be scgned and. must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Ob1m1er policie, ,hould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
Memoirs of a lapsed leftist 
Time has a wondrous way of changing people. Take me, for instance. Ten years ago I was standing in front of the bathroom mirror with a cube of ice against one nostril, allowing my flesh to numb before I pierced it with a sewing needle. ft took half an hour before I could fit the ring completely through. As expected, infection ensued and I wore my nose 
Christine Niles
ring all of three days. A friend had bleached my coal-black hair platinum blond. 
The progression of hair color was 

As I See It ... 
marvelous to see: first fire engine red, then mustard color, then white-blond. After the repeated scalding my scalp underwent, it's a wonder it didn't slide right off. 
I was 17. Life on the homefront had never been pleasant, as my immigrant parents struggled to adapt to the stresses of a different culture, a volatile marriage and financial burdens. I snuck out weeknights, driving the hour to Miami to see punk shows with friends or attend parties where we would do Jello Biafra shots or worse. We shunned mainstream Nirvana and Pearl Jam, preferring Minor Threat, Seven Seconds, Operation Ivy and other bands unfitting to mention here. I even corresponded with ]an MacKay (of Minor Threat and Fugazi fame). 
I had scribbled in large red marker, "You are God," to which he sent a letter of thanks. When I later learned more respect for the Almighty, I retracted my statement. He wrote once again, graciously accepting the lesser office of ,"very talented musician." 
No doubt about it, I was angst-ridden. The hatred I felt was born out of frustration and rage at perceived injus­tices in society and at home. And those injustices, I believed, could only be cured by compassion -and hate. Compassion for the downtrodden and hate for those who trod them down. In my mind, I had already rigidly sorted out which was which and whom was whom: compassion for all poor, hatred for all rich; compassion for all minori­ties, hatred for all majorities; compassion for freethinkers and individualists, hatred for conventionalists and dogma­tists. I strove after rebellion against, as J.S. Mill put it, "the orthodoxy of the hour." Going with the grain had proven unfulfilling, so I would go against it. Little did I know l had merely joined another clique. I was one of those against whom Hayek had warned above and blind to this fact. 
In 10 years l would learn that people, society and the world are infinitely more complex than my limited and arrogant view then allowed. 
The superiority I felt to those who did not ascribe to my world view revealed a great deal more about me than it did about others. Ironic to note that the self-righteous often turn out to be more hypocritical than the ones they look down on. 
Those were my left-leaning days. And as a liberal. I can say my inclinations were nowhere near the true sense of the word "liberal": that is, open-minded, fair and intellec­tually honest. I speak solely for myself and make no gener­alizations about "liberals." There are as many stripes of liberalism as there are of conservatism or libertarianism. But I do recognize an assumption others have about "lib­erals" that should be dismantled: that is, that they arc more open-minded, fair and intellectually honest than anyone else. 
Unfortunately, dogma flourishes just as much within lib• era! circles as it does in other places. In fact, the arro­gance and closed-mindedness I experienced as a leftist pushed me to the right, where, to my amazement, 1experi­enced far more honesty, freethinking and compassion than I had known elsewhere. This is, of course, only my experi­ence, and others will have experienced otherwise (and will, as usual, caricature this column in their next letter to the editor). But I am not alone in this opinion. It took sev­eral years of humbling myself, of looking hard at my own flaws and recognizing the obstacles I had put up in my own mind, of de-categorizing people and appreciating their complexity, before I realized how little I knew about a lot. As long as it gets you somewhere, navel-gazing can be a good thing. 
One Pauline epistle exhorts us "to view others as better than yourself." That can be difficult, especially as our egos get in the way. But if you can admit that those you disfa­vor may have something worthwhile to say, may even be able to teach you something, then you have taken a step towards genuine open-mindedness and intellectual hon­esty. Not to mention that prince of virt~es, humility. 
Christine Niles is a law student and her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at niles. 7@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Andy Thagard C. Spencer Bew, Meghanne Graphics 
Downes Jake Weiler Joe Ackerman Production Sports Joe Hettler Bryan Kronk Lab Tech Viewpoint Christina Sheila Flynn Reitano 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame publicly address the recent cases of sexual abuse involving the Catholic Church? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"All life is an experiment." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson American writer 
O
THE BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 page 13 
The nerds are coming 
This school, as we know it, will be gone in 10 years. Don't get me wrong. It'11 still say "Notre Dame" on the signs. There'll still be the Dome, foot­ball, the Fight Song and the whole Jesus thing. 
But the students Joe Muto will be different. 
Those of us com­ing back for Livin' on a reunions. football 
Prayer

weekends and the occasional nostal­gia-laden visit will notice something new on campus: dead silence. Where there used to be sounds of music, laughing and genera} party­ing wafting from the dorm windows on any given night, there will be nothing. This will be a campus full of nerds. 
Some might object to my use of this word. But it is the one word on the tip of everyone's tongues, hovering just below the surface of this new debate over the alcohol policy. It seems Fr. Poorman wants the new rules to pro­tect the "silent minority" of students who object to alcohol use and are per­sonally offended, peer-pressured and irrevocably traumatized every time a hallmate innocently offers them a sin­gle beer. But we all know wh.at the "silent minoritv" means. It means the nerds. • 
Those who call me insensitive should know that I am finely attuned to the nerd plight. I myself am a recovering nerd. I'm still getting over a nasty bout with nerdism in my grade school years. 
Nerdism snuck up on me. I was fol­lowing my own interests, which I assumed were perfectly legitimate child interests. I was the first person in my grade to have a deck of "Magic the Gathering" cards. My comic book col­lection took up three full shelves in my closet. My bookshelf was covered with Star Wars riovels. X-Men action figures adorned my dresser. I had no concerns at the time that I was perhaps uncool -I was happy and my parents seemed relieved that I wasn't into drugs and had finally stopped wetting my bed after my urine-soaked childhood. 
Self-realiza­tion came at my school's Halloween dance, my seventh grad1 year. The cool kids in my grade came dressed as pimps. I came as Luke Skywalker. A~ I proudly brandished the light saber I had made out of a collapsible toy sword and some green day­glo paint, I couldn't help feel­ing that I had some­how taken the wrong path in life. 
It took several years, countless gallons of beer, hours of guitar lessons and the discovery of my penis to pul me out of my self-imposed pit of ner­dosity. I don't regret my nerdy past ­instead I value it for the insight it has 

given me. While even today I could sit in my room and argue the merit of playing a Mageta the Lion card against .a Greel's Caress, I choose not to. I'd rather go out, meet people and yes, drink a few frosty alcoholic bever­ages. Fr. Poorman's protection of erds is well­tentioned ut misguid­
d. They 
on't need University­imposed rules to pro­tect them from any unpleasant social situa­tions. They need some­one to storm 
into their oom on a riday night, 
·p the X-Box ntroller out their hands 
d force them gunpoint to 
urtle Creek. This place will no ger be fun in 10 

ars. I say that not a warning, but as a tement of the truth. My 
ception is that Notre · e has been heading steadi­since the mid-80s anyway, 
and the new rules will just change the character of the student body even 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Destruction of dorm 
residentiality is a crime 
My letter today is in response to Peter Schmidt's letter, "Noting flawed reason­ing," printed Mar. 28. His rude dismissal of the motivations of student protesters requires response. 
In his letter, Schmidt dismisses the desire of students to uphold Notre Dame tradition, wondering if they "somehow experienced those traditions in a previous life" because they "have [only] been a part [of them] for a few years at most." The purpose of tradition on a college campus is to create a connection between members of the University family who were not campus residents at the same point in time. Students have been waving their arms to the band's performance of the "1812 Overture" for two decades. Should the current students' efforts to uphold that tradition -and even the value of the tradition itself -be devalued simply because they've only been doing it for up to four years? 
In instituting the recent policy changes, the University administration jepoardizes Notre Dame's most unique tradition of all: stay-hall residentiality. During my tenure at Notre Dame, my friends at other schools (usually state-affiliated with strong Greek systems) thought the fact that I stayed in a dorm for four years was complete lunacy on my part. At their schools, dorms were only for geeks who couldn't get into frats or find apartment roommates. 
They failed to see the beauty of stay­hall. I got to know people in the six class­es that surrounded mine and keep in con­tact with them until this day. Even though my dorm was converted into women's quarters, I still feel a strong affinity with fellow Cavanaugh alums -even those who were not on campus during my time. 
These policies remove some of the tra­ditions that help bind dorm-mates togeth­er. With those traditions gone, students will migrate off campus and dorms at Notre Dame will become just like those at any other school. 
Gone will be the opportunities to meet and learn from those who may be differ­ent from you. I remember my dorm-mates as vividly now as I did 10 years ago at graduation. I couldn't tell you the name of the guy who lived next door to my first apartment if you gave me a million dol­lars to do it. 
And that's the true crime here. 

Mike Coffey 
class of '91 April 2, 2002 
more. While there will never be a shortage of people who want to attend this University, I foresee a shortage of fun people who want to attend this University. While some in the adminis­tration will no doubt applaud a student body that attends Mass regularly. stud• ies nine hours a day, gets to bed by 
11:30 and doesn't even think of party­ing on the weekend. let alone a week­night, this is not what Notre Dame is all about. Last time I checked, we were not a small Southern Bible school. We used to be one of the top party schools. No more. Notre Dame social life is in danger of becoming a national joke. 
I see signs of an in,i;:reased nerd pop­ulation already. The dorm has been very quiet this year. A conspicuous amount of freshmen do nothing but sit in their dorm rooms on weekends. Some members of the "silent minority" actually agree with the new rules, and write into The Observer to say so. 
The school is eventually going to have to face the reality that the rules are attracting a certain type of appli­cant. I'd love to send my children here, but I fear that by the time I do, the dorms will be full of pasty-faced, com­puter-loving, Jesus-quoting virgins. I never thought I'd say it, but Georgetown is looking better by the minute. 
Joe Muto is a sophomore FIT and 
English double major who slightly 
resembles Booger from the "Revenge of 
the Nerds" movies. His parents are 
proud ofhim, thank you very much. 
His column appears every other 
Thursday. He can be reached at 
jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed int his column · are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Protest closing of children's hospital 
Last Thursday, Governor O'Bannon announced that the Evansville Psychiatric Children's Center would be closing on June 30, 2002. This is the only state facility that admits only children. This facility serves severely mentally-ill children. It is a necessary part of the mental health program of Indiana. 
In his statement regarding the budget, Governor O'Bannon sited bud­get cuts as the reason for the closure of the facility. When in fact, the facility makes a revenue above and beyond the $3.3 million dollars for operating costs. 
When this was brought to the attention of the Governor, it was then stated that there was a need to return these children to their communi­ties. The community-based services are not equipped to handle the types of children that are admitted to the Center. The children who are admitted to the Center have severe mental illnesses and have already exhausted their community resources. So, in essence, by closing this facility the Governor is saying that he does not care what happens to these children. 
These children do not have a voice in this matter, so we, as residents of the state of Indiana, need to let the Governor know that turning these children out into the community is not an acceptable alternative to the stable, therapeutic environment that the Evansville Psychiatric Children's Center provides. Please email Governor O'Bannon and your local legislator. 
Thank you for your time and consideration. 
Michelle M. Hallock April 3, 2002 


'Panic Room' finds captive audience 
By JUDE SEYMOUR Scene Movie Critic 
As the Darwin Awards will provide testa­111c11 t Lo, the dumbest people arc not always tho criminal'i. 0llnn timos, ordinary p<)ople will have lapses in judgment, over­looking an insignificant detail that would haw sav1\d tlwm f'rom 1wril. "Panic Hoom" is a look al thos<: insignificant details under Llw microscope of dirnct.or IJavi<l hndwr, who has tak<m his a11di1mcPs to tlw brink or J>aranoia bcl'ore with films such as "Snven," "Hght Club" and "Tlw (;arnn." 
l·i11clwr, as a <:ru.f'tsm,tn in this genre, respect<; his audi1\nce too much to set up vagu<1 caricatures of bumbling criminals 
By JUDE SEYMOUR Scl·ni: Movie Criti, 
"Donnfo Darko" ls an insignificant blip in a throng of mainstream llollywood rnll\ases. At its height. it played on 58 screens across the country. Its budget was $4.5 million dollars and it only made around $500.000 in box olliGc receipL'i. 
Multiplexes may have not shown "Donni<) Darko" to their u.udicnc1\s, but this omission was certainly not for its lack of quality. On the contrary, "Donnie Darko" is an engaging story from b11gin­steel reinforced doors and walls as ample protection as well as being stoGknd with amenities such as food, blankds il.ncl a phone line that is scparat1\ l'rom the main line ol' the house. Perhaps this room should have frightened potential buyers instPad of attracting them, but Mc~~ and Sarah move in without any hesitation. /\Iler all. are not Fincher's protagonists allowed errors in judgment'! 
The action in "Panic !loom" commnnccs immediately; thri1e ro_bbers plan on extracting the remains ol' a hidden safo located within the panic room. Whnn they discovnr smrn~on<: has moved in while they w1ire µJanning the heist, they hu.vc Lo reevaluate thc~ir willingrwss to carry out 
tho plan. The one with She has not bothered installing the sepa­rate phone line, she has not properly rigged the alarm system on the house and she has jumped into the panic room with­out her daughter's vital insulin medication. 


Fincher, with help from screenwriter David Koepp. keeps his oppositional foes balanced, depicting criminals with intelli­gent ideas but little planning. At one point, a clover tactical move by foster gives her the visual advantage in the ordeal, to which one or the robbers remarks. "Why didn't we do that?" 
While it is certain that good will eventu­ally triumph over evil, Fincher makes the 112 minutes as interesting as possible. He keeps the audience's curiosity by starting the conflict early, by maintaining the ten­sion of the movie and by continuing to show off his stunning visual array or com­puter-generated shots that became the trademark of"Fight Club." 
In addition, Foster and Leto both turn in performances that rank among their most expressive work. Leto continues to mature through Fincher's tilms. finally leaving behind his uninspired work as Jordan Catalano on the television show "My So Called Life." 
With two good performances and a fran­tically paced movie, Fincher has once again fashioned an engaging film that promises to bring a little luxury. a little crime and a little paranoia to curious audi­ences orthe "Panic Room." 
Contact Jude Seymour at jseymour@nd.edu. 
the gun. llaoul (played while cowardly prota~o­"The Panic Room" by Dwight Yoakarn). nisl<; summon untappt'.d 
does not seem lo mind 
drnmwls of i11t.elllgnnce tho presence of and courage tu dcfoat 
Director: David Fincher unwanted houscgtrnsL'>.the criminals at their 
Starring: Jodie Foster, Jared Leto The soil-spoken master 
own game. Instead. locksmith, Burnham "Panic Boom" presup­and Forest Whitaker (played by Forrest 
poses both intelligence and fear in its criminals and victims. No longer does the audience wait patiently until the criminu.l makes a dastardly mistake that allows the victim to triumph. Fincher wants his audience to squirm while his protagonists snatch tragedy from the jaws ol'victory. 
M,~g Altman (played by Jodie Foster). the protagonist. is a recnntly separated gradu­at<i student who is apartment hunting in New York with her only daughter. Sarah (played by Kristen Stewart). The two com­mit Lo an extravagant apartment so that Meg can alleviate her resentment toward her ex. Steven (played by Patrick Bauchau), by draining his bank account for an oversized residence. The main bedroom foatures a curious addition installed by the apartment's previous owner: a panic room. 
The panic room is to protect anyone inside of it from exterior harm. using its 
Whitaker) is worried; dealing with prniplc cre­ates the potential for more serious crimes and harsher penalties should they get nabbed. That leaves Junior (played by Jared Leto) as the deciding vote. 
Sandwiched between dozens or kids and left without a significant piece of his grand­father's inheritance. Junior knows his only chu.nce to cash in on the old man's death is in that sale. Tho plan proceeds and, since the robbers arc mere amateurs, they man­age to wake both Meg and Sarah. who escape to the panic room. The robbers want in; the Altmans want to be left alone. Each group cautiously waits for the other to act. 
Initially. a break-in at the Altman resi­dence on the first night seems poorly imag­ined, but that plot point is not without pur­pose. The brief time between the closing on the apartment and the robber's break­in highlights Meg's compounding stupidity. 

'Donnie Darko' travels to DVD for second chance 
ning to end. thanks to the feature film debut or writer/director Hichard Kelly. 
Kelly, who is 26 years old and a recent grad of the University of Southern California's film school. is not the most lit­erate of follows, but the !ilm dons not give away that secret. Instead. the movie is a well-written piece that follows a mysteri­ous and slightly unbalanced teenager named Donnie Darko (pla.yod by Jake Gyllcnhaal). whose brilliance !ms mixed with his emotional problems to give the high school student a unique look into his own future. 
Darko struggles with tlw typical teen problems when his parents (played by M a r y McDonnell a n d llolrnes Osborne) do .not under­stand bis vulnera­bility and his need for attcn­l i o I1 Do1111i<'. a perma­rwnt out­s i d (l I' bl\Causc of his ccccn­

tric nature, finds an outlet for bis emo­tions when he meets Gretchen Hoss (played by Jena Malone). a newcomer to Darko's quasi-picturesque suburb. Noah Wyle and Drew Barrymore play teachers at Donnie's school; one becomes an ally in tearing duwn the establishment, the other a curious conlidant in the ways of time travel. 
Kelly's movie is a concoction of a couple different movies. most notably "I larvey" (like Stewart, Gyllenhall's imaginary friend is also a rabbit) and "Back. to the Future." Th1\sc citations are forgivable, however. because K11lly is willing to add to the discussion, spicing the major plot point,; up with a couple fascinating turns. 
For a first time director, "Donnie Darko" is very tight in 
its construction. Scones "Donnie Darko" legendary step in the are neither extraneous 
futuristic psychological nor too detai111d, provid­thriller genre, but it is i11g an even now that unfortunatn that so 
Director: Richard Kelly II

most dinictors do not many potential viewers accomplish in their first Starring: Jake Gyllenhaal, Holmes missed its theatrical 
significant attPmpt. The Osborne and Maggie Gyllenhaal run. Now, with a nice 

Most or the special features on the disc are essentially garbage items. ranging from stills in a fictional book to fake infomercials that served as background pieces in the movie. The commentary is particularly boring, with Kelly and Gyllenhaal spewing out anecdotes. but adding little commentary that lends to the understanding of the film. Kelly comes off the worst for having agreed to comment on his own film. oftl'n stumbling through passages or repeating himself which is incongruous with the polished dialogue in the movio. 
While Kelly may not have scripted his commentary, this is not a reason to pass over "Donnie Darko" now that it has found a home on DVD. "Donnie Du.rko" 
may not have made a 


DVD includ<'s 20 dell'l­cd/cxtcndcd scenes that highlight Kldly's kPen sense or what 111011J<'llb to kel'p and what sc11ncs to cut. KP!ly remarks that sev1\ntl of his l'avorit11 scenes got cut. including one that explained a theme that Fr,wc1s l;on..l Coppola insist<•d the whole movie was based around. After viewing the deleted scenes. Kelly looks likll a dirncLOr who has a knack for sacrificing llis lJgo in order to manuf'actun-a betler lilm. 
looking transfer and an 

exciting soundtrack with class.ic '80s tunns, audiences have the chann' to experience the l'nthralling twisl'i and turns of' ovcrlookPd movil' l'rom an up-and-coming director. 
Contact Jude Seymour at jseymour@nd.edu. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


-
Thursday, April 4, 2002 
page 15 

Real life and cinema meet in 'George Washington' 
By LIAM DACEY 
Scene \X/ri tcr 
"George Washington" is certainly not a typical film that contains a plot, cli­max and resolution. Instead. it intensely depicts the philosophies an,d feelings of pre-adolescence. Using a unique stream of consciousness style, diret:tor and writer David Gordon Crucn is able to crart his story based on memory, on how someone would actually p,irceivc the events of child­hood. 
The film develops through a sublle progression of situations as a child would experience them. For instance, instead of just focusing on the events loading up to a death. its aftermath is vividly depicted and the film shows how the children deal with the tragedy. Hedemption is a central theme of the film, both redemption from poverty and redemption from God. 
Green says that the movie is filled with little collages of things that he experienced himself or that happened to people he knew. 
"Some of it came from personal situ­ations that made me just step back and think," Green said. 
The film was constructed to be organic in nature, meaning that Green had to feel his way through the char­acters. Most of the actors were people who he had met or who lived in Green's neighborhood. These children gave him notes on things they wanted to say or do and then Green wrote the script based on their comments. In this way. Green created a "controlled freestyle" of dialogue -not quite improvisation. but as close to it as possible in a structured environment. In fact. Green says the reason he cre­ated some structure was so that he could edit out any unnecessary profan­ity or vulgarity. With the lack of more crude behavior, Green was able to highlight the often overlooked maturi­ty that many 12-year-olds possess. 

"Kids think about real things and have dramatic philosophies." Green said. 
Shot over 19 consecutive days, Green invested a tremendous amount of energy into his feature film debut. He developed an intimate atmosphere with the children to allow them to become comfortable and relaxed in their roles. Inspired by films like Malick's "Days of Heaven" and Carroll Ballard's "Never Cry Wolf," Green never cared for the standard Hollywood fare. Instead. he appreciat­ed movies that were rich in emotion and more personal in nature. Much like "Days of Heaven," "George Washington" is a film that remains in the viewer's mind long after watching it. 

The movie takes place in an industri­al setting in North Carolina during the summer. It follows the lives of mostly black pre-teens between the ages of 10 and 13. Race does not factor into the relationships of the children because they share the common bond of trying to grow up and. most of all, companionship. A few adult workers seem to blend into the dull landscape and they also have a bond with the children. Everyone is trying to get by. 
Everyone is trying to be redeemed. 
One of the main characters is 
George (played by Donald Holden), 
who wants to be president some day. 
All of the characters see George as 
someone who has the potential to get 
out of the town and be somebody. 
Despite the fact that the plates on his 
skull do not align correctly and he has 
to wear a protective helmet, he is a 
hero of sorts. Eventually. he even 
starts to walk around with a cape. 
George strikes a chord with some of 
the older workers in town, as they see 
his character as uncorrupted and 
nobler than they see themselves; 
George will find redemption. 
There is not much to do for the chil­
dren in the town and this boredom 
seems to plague them as much as the 
thick summer heat. Over the summer 
one of the kids, Buddy (played by 
Curtis Cotton Ill), disappears and 
some of his ·friends who really know 
where he went try to justify what hap­
pened and George risks damaging his 
head to jump into a pool and save a 
drowning boy. At the same time, a 
giddy girl talks about the first time 
she French kissed. 
All of these moments, these brief 
fragments of memory, paint a picture 
that is as tragic as it is profound. It 
may be the fact that all the children, 
like George, are at a point in their 
lives before the awkwardness of ado­
lescence sets in. Their lives are shaped by innocence. In this light, "George Washington" is more than a simple portrayal of poverty and child­hood; it is about a summer of inno­cence before the pains and regrets of real life set in. It is about finding redemption. 
"George Washington" will be show­ing tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Green will have a short question and answer session after the film. 
Contact Liam Dacey at wdacey@nd.edu. 


Photo courtesy of David Gordon Green 
"George Washington" follows the lives of pre-teens during a dull and depressed North Carolina summer. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 4, 2002 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL MLB 
Romar leaves Saint Louis for 
Washington 
Associated Pre•s 
SEATTLE 

Lorenzo Romar is returning to Washington as the school's basketball coach, the university announced Wednesday. 
He replaces Bob Bender, who was asked to resign last month after nine seasons. Romar. the coach at Saint Louis University since 1999, announced his decision in St. Louis. 
"If it were not for my alma mater calling, if it were not for that, I would still be coaching at Saint Louis University," Romar said. "It just so happens that the school where I played my collegiate basketball need­ed a coach." 
Romar, a starting guard for Washington from 1978­80, interviewed Sunday with Washington athletics director Barbara Hedges. 
"We are excited to have Lorenzo come back to the 
University of Washington and direct our basketball 
program," Hedges said. "Lorenzo is very highly 
regarded in the coaching profession and I think we 
are extremely lucky to have him hack as a Husky." 
Hedges has already struck out with three other can­didates: Missouri's Quin Snyder pulled out of consid­eration Sunday; Gonzaga's Mark Few did the same thing Monday; and Minnesota's Dan Monson, a for­mer Gonzaga coach, said Tuesday that he was staying put. 
Hedges hasn't commented on the search since it 
began. At a news conference last month to say she 
had asked for Bender's resignation, Hedges said the 
school was willing to pay for a high-profile coach. 
Bender's teams had consecutive 20-loss seasons for 
the first time in school history, then finished 11-18 
and eighth in the Pac-10 this season. 
The 43-year-old Romar played at Washington and coached against the Huskies while working as an assistant at UCLA from 1992-96. Romar also is known for his strong recruiting on the West Coast. 
Romar, who played five seasons in the NBA, has a 
93-88 record in six years as a coach. 
He took Pepperdine to the NIT in 1999, and the fol­lowing year his Saint Louis team swept through Conference USA to reach the NCAA Tournament. 
Romar's Billikens have gone 51-44 in three seasons, and his past two teams have beaten the Huskies. 
In announcing his departure, Romar said he regret­ted leaving the Billikens program he has worked to build. 
"Our team has a chance to be really good next year," he said pausing to regroup as tears welled. "I love those guys. I love them like they were my sons." 
Salaries top $2 billion 
A..soci.i1ed Press 

NEW YORK 
Baseball salaries topped $2 bil­lion for the first time this year, with Texas shortstop Alex Rodriguez atop the list at $22 million. 
The New York Yankees led all clubs with a record payroll of nearly $126 million -$92 mil­lion more than last-place Tampa Bay. 
The figures are the result of a study by The Associated Press of contracts for 849 players on Opening-Day rosters and dis­abled lists. 
Players will earn $2.023 billion, up from $1.934 billion last sea­son. Owners, however, did slow the increase during a troubled offseason in which baseball unsuccessfully tried to eliminate two teams. 
The average salary of $2,383,235 was up 5.2 percent from last year. That was less than half of the 13.9 percent increase of 2001 and the smallest percentage jump since 1998. 
"It goes up every year," New York Mets manager Bobby Valentine said. "The only time they didn't go up was in the col­lusion years." 
While the average salary has increased 126-fold from 1967, when it was $19,000, the Consumer Price Index has gone up only five-fold since then. And while baseball players average $13,000 a day during the season, the average annual household income in the United States is $57,045, according to latest fig­ures from Census Bureau. That's about four days' average pay for someone who wields a bat and wears a glove. 
Still. baseball's average is almost half the $4.2 million in the NBA last season, according to fig­ures compiled by the league. The NHL's average was $1.43 miHion last season and the NFL's aver­age was $1.1 million, according to their unions. 
Just behind Rodriguez are Toronto first baseman Carlos Delgado ($19.4 million), Los Angeles pitcher Kevin Brown 
($15.7 million) and Boston out­fielder Manny Ramirez ($15.4 million). Barry Bonds, who hit a record 73 homers for San Francisco, is tied for fifth with the Chica.go Cubs' Sammy Sosa at $15 million. 
Figures include salaries and prorated shares of signing bonus­es and other guaranteed income, and for some players parts of salaries deferred without interest are discounted to present-day value. 
With high-revenue teams adding stars. the gap between rich and poor increased for the seventh straight season since the 1994-95 strike. 
The Yankees were No. 1 for the fourth straight season and sixth time in seven years at $125.9 million. Boston was second at $108.4 million, followed by Texas at $105.3 million and Arizona, which ended the Yankees' run of three straight World Series titles, at $102.8 million. 
"You ju'st go out there and play," said the Yankees' Jason Giambi, whose $120 million, seven-year contract was the rich­est of the offseason. "We had one of the lower payrolls when I played in Oakland and we did well." 
The Devil Rays were last at $34.4 million, and just above were Montreal ($38.7 million), Oakland ($39.7 million) and Minnesota ($40.2 million). 
"It's always going to be a chal­lenge until we get the payroll up to compete with those other teams," Tampa Bay general man­ager Chuck LaMar said. "If you continually sign young players and develop players through your system, it's truly the only way you can compete with teams with a higher payroll." 
While the Yankees have 14 players at $4 million or higher, the team says it spends within its means and points to its almost complete lack of deferred salaries. New York estimates it will have an actual cash outlay of about $119 million this year and revenue of more than $240 mil­lion. 
In contrast, the Diamondbacks have deferred $51.75 million of this year's salaries, more than half their payroll. 
Baseball commissioner Bud Selig says the difference between top and bottom is part of the rea­son the sport needs a new eco­nomic system, saying the low­revenue teams can't complete. 
"Obviously, there are some clubs that have been very cau­tious in their spending," he said. 
Selig said fans of many teams have lost "hope" and "faith" because of the spending imbal­ance. 
"I don't concern myself with money. I concern myself with what goes on between the lines," said Pittsburgh manager Lloyd McClendon, whose club is 24th at $42.3 million .. "I prepare my team to play on a daily basis. Let the experts tell .you if we can compete or not." 
Reflecting the concentration of wealth among the top stars, the number of millionaires dropped from 425 to 413. But players at $2 million or more increased from 312 to 321, and those at $14 million and higher went from two to eight. 
The median salary -the point at which an equal amount of players are above and below ­dropped to $900,000 from $975,000. 
Selig has proposed slowing salary growth with a luxury tax on high-payroll teams and a vast increase in the sharing of locally generated revenues, proposals the union had been cool to accepting. 
Union head Donald Fehr said the failed attempt to eliminate the Twins and Expos slowed the growth in salaries but the players had not yet estimated by how much. 
"You didn't know what players were going to be available and under what conditions," he said. "It obviously has to affect peo­ple." 
Rob Manfred, management's top labor lawyer, said a relatively weak free-agent class and events outside baseball contributed to a slowing. 
"It was a unique offseason, given Sept. 11 and the economy," he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 f.m. a1 the Noire Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nex1-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contem without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Reliable businessman looking to  Boy Scout Summer Camp Program  MMMRentals.com  Lakeview 3052 Ashland-two good- 
NOTICES  rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home for 9 to 12 months or longer. ASAP.  Director-7 weeks in June & July. Must train, lead & motivate a pro- HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)Iarge (6-9)  sized bedrooms, nice closets, hard­wood floors, bright apartment, fire- PERSONALS  
Call Tim 250-8552. Lv. message it  gram staff ot 45. Experience strong- people 2) medium (3-5 people). Gall  place, near el, heat incl!, ldry in­ 
 
$250 a day potential/bartending  necessary.  ly preferred. Send resume to  Bill at 532-1896.  bldg. May11 or 15, 1200/mo.  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
Training provided  info@lasallecounsilbsa.org or fax to  773/472-7775  alone. If you or someone you love  
1 ·800-293-3985  YOUTH MINISTER. 2 suburban  574-289-0336. Summer Empl- OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5  needs confidential support or assis­ 
ext. 556  parishes, Chicago-OHare area,  oyment tor College Student. Care  bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec  Nice 3-4 bdrm. 1.5 bath, CIA, gas  tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
seek an innovative, dynamic. faith- for 11 and 9 year old. Fun,  sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom  heat, W&D, fenced backyard across  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
Well maintained houses near cam- filled person to coordinate a com- relaxing summer. Good pay. Hours  house•air,sec sys/parking 2-bed­ from park, VERY SAFE NEIGH- information, see our weekly ad in  
pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4  prehens1ve youth ministry program.  9am-5pm. Please call Lisa 631­ room cottage.. cute.. DAVE 291­ BORHOOD, fireplace, 2 car garage  THE OBSERVER  
lefl for 2002-2003 Also leasing for  Full time position, requires flexible  9947.  2209  $1050/mo+dep.  
2003-2004  hours, some evenings, weekends.  Call 232-4527 or 616-683·5038  FAX IT FASTI Sending & Receiving  
Call Kramer 234-2436 or 27 4-9955  Compassion, enthusiasm, motiva­lion, organization skills, dedication  FOR SALE  3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES  2 Great Homes: 4 & 5 Bdrm, W&D,  at THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  
to teens. Tasks. coordinating  272-6306,  close to campus. Well Kept! Great  FAX# 574-631-FAX1  
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­ faith/formation program; supervising  Men's new black NOTRE DAME  292-6717  Location! ND Alum.  
TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 3  adult volunteers; preparing liturgies,  leather jacket (med) $150. 631 •  WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE  Do you have an ear for exciting  
NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND  yearly retreat, fostering social Jus­ 6234 or 616-684-6692.  1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath house  LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255­ stuff? Do you like knowing what's  
NORTH 3-6 STUDENTS 2773097  lice outreach, guide fund raising  with lots of updates. OW/wash/dryer  8403.  going on, both on campus and off?  
program. Preferred candidate  PASSAT VW 1996. $7500 obo.  inc. Walking distance to campus.  Work tor Observer News.  
FEMALE SUB-LET IN CHICAGO 2  Catholic with bachelor deg. in min­ KellyBB.,$8900. Black, all avail  Spacious yard for tailgating, recre- Furn. 1 bedroom house w/ garage.  Call Helena Payne at t -5323  
recent ND grads seek a roommate  istry/theology, some experience  options, heated leather seats, manu  ation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec  1 mi N of campus. Avail mid-May to  
to share spacious 3 bdrm, 2 bth  Start date: July 1, 2002. Submit  trans, no fluid leaks, 150k, tight fast  or $325 ea for 5+ Call 277 -8450 or  mid-August. $550/month all util incl.  Are you focused? Do you like to  
apartment-close to Wrigley, EL,  resume. reflection on youth min- sporty sophisticated. Call Jason  email house@newwebtechcom  Call Laura 514-8568.  zoom in on and shoot people?  
very safe 5/1-8/31 Call for details  istry, 3 references to: Youlh Min.  634-4645  Come work for Observer Photo.  
(312)-696-1579  Search Comm., 920 W. Granville,  3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002.  Have a job in Chicago this sum- Call Neflie Williams at 1-8767  
Par!( Ridge, IL 60068. Fax 847-825­ Couch, !oveseat, and recliner. $450  C/A. Security system.  mer? Rent my furnished bdr in awe- 
 
WANTED  3484 by April 6  or best offer Less than a year old Perfect condition. 233-0360  Close to campus 616-699-5841  some 3 bdr apt w/ ND grad. Close to El & Wrigley. M/F.  Do you have a unique perspective on sports? Have you ever won- 
SMC alumna looking for someone  Call Kristin @ 773•388-2704  dered what it would be like to sit in  
-~  2000 grad seeking room or apart­ment to sublease/rent in New  to do childcare in my Granger home for school year 2002-2003, 2-3  FOR SALE  SUMMER SUBLET 48dm12Ba house close to ND partially fur- Summer Rent 2 bdrm, Castle Pt  a nice, warm press box when everybody else freezes? Corne  
Orleans Mern. Day wknd to Sept. 1,  hours per day, M-F. Must have own  nished, air, w.d. great backyard  pan furn  work for Observer Sports.  
2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725  car.  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­ $1100+uts.  Amy  
or email krup78@hotmail.com  Call 247•0690.  rentals@aol.com  289-5651  243-0195  Call Chris Federico at 1-4543  

Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Jordan ends season after knee swells 
Associa.ted Press 
WASHINGTON 

A day after his worst scoring game ever, Michael Jordan woke up with a swollen right knee and decided enough was enough. 
Jordan was placed on the injured list Wednesday by the Washington Wizards, and he said he is done for the season. 
"I think it is best at this point to rest the knee and let it heal properly," Jordan said in a statement. "I tried to get back and play as soon as possible and, early on, the knee responded well. But after the swelling this morning. I think it's best to give it rest." 
Jordan ends his season with a 22.9-point scoring average, the second lowest of his career. He averaged 22.7 in his second season with the Chicago Bulls in 1985-86, when played just 18 games because of a broken foot. 
"He's a great competitor and he demonstrated that he can come back and be a top-10 player," NBA commissioner David Stern said in Toronto. "I hope he's better for next year." 
Unless the Wizards overtake Indiana for the last Eastern Conference berth in the final two weeks of the season, Jordan will have played for a non-playoff team for the first time. 
The 39-year-old star reiterat­ed he plans to play next season if he is able. 
"I signed a two-year contract to play," Jordan said. "Obviously, my health will always determine my playing status. But at this time. my plan is to play next season." 
Jordan rushed his rehabilita­tion from the arthroscopic surgery Feb. 27 that repaired torn cartilage in the knee. He missed just 12 games and returned March 20 in Denver. He was a reserve in all seven games after he came back, and his knee bothered him so much that he wasn't able to play unless he pedaled an exercise bicycle in the tunnel during games. 
"I think Michael realizes he pushed the envelope trying to come back too quickly," coach Doug Collins said. "Last night before the game I went in to see him and I could see it was phys­ically swollen. I didn't even want him to play last night, and you know Michael, being the competitor that he is, said, 'I want to give it a whirl or what­ever,' and I said OK. 
"Now I got the call this after­noon that he recognizes the fact that the only way that knee is going to get better is to rest. And what he said to me was he's going to shut it down, let the thing heal, get the inflam­mation out of there. And whether that's six weeks or eight weeks or whatever it might be. 
"And he's doing it with the Jordan battled tendinitis in idea that he wants to play next both knees and his wrist, and year." he had to overcome back 
Jordan played a career-low spasms and two broken ribs as 12 minutes and scored a he prepared for his second career-low two points -all in comeback last summer. the first half -in Tuesday Nevertheless, he vowed to play night's 113-93 loss to the Los all 82 games. Angeles Lakers. For the first The major blow came when time in his · he knocked 
knees with 

career, he "/ thinkitisbestatthis 
was a mar-teammate Etan ginal, no-fac­point to rest the knee Thomas in the tor player off final game
and let it heal properly.,. 
the bench. before the All­
Collins said Star break. he didn't play Michael Jordan Neither Jordan Jordan in the Wizards guard nor the Wizards second half have been the because the same since. game was one-sided. Jordan struggled for five Afterward, Jordan said his knee games after the break before felt fine, but Lakers coach Phil opting for surgery. The Jackson, Jordan's former coach Wizards, who were five games with the Bulls, knew better. above .500 at the break, are 8­
"He was a shadow of himself. 19 since. ... You could sec it coming by After he posted his all-time the way he played that it was a low numbers Tuesday night, struggle,'' Jackson said Jordan said he wasn't con­Wednesday night before the cerned about statistics. He has Lakers game at New Jersey. maintained throughout his 
"At this point it's trying to comeback he is playing "for the beat a dead horse, the situation love of the game," a feeling he of trying to get into the playoffs addressed a few days earlier. takes the best effort Michael "As a young kid, you take a can give at this time, and it lot of things for granted," he doesn't look like he's got that." said. "You got out and you play 
Jordan traveled to Milwaukee because you're young enough late Tuesday for the game that you can deal with it and do against the Bucks, but he it every single day. As you get returned to Washington on older, when you know and you Wednesday. Bobby Simmons can sense that it's coming to an was activated off the injured list end, you appreciate every for the Milwaukee game. moment. 
"So every little thing in the locker room becomes monu­mental to you .... I appreciate that a lot more now than I did when I was a young kid and everybody else was putting ice on their knees, and I was ques• tioning them why they need ice. 
"And now young kids are ask­ing me why I'm putting so much ice on." 
But that desire, which caused him to hurry back from his injury, has brought an anticli­mactic finish to a wildly inter­esting season. 
Jordan and the Wizards were in "we-stink" mode in November as he worked himself into shape. In December, they hit full throttle and tied the franchise record by winning nine straight 
Jordan scored a then-career­low six in a game in late December at Indiana, and that was at least one case in which the stats did matter to him ­he came back with 51 two nights later against Charlotte, saying, "I can still play this game." 
Richard Hamilton's injury contributed to a January slump, but the Wizards won five straight when he returned and were 26-21, cruising toward homecourt advantage in the playoffs. 
The momentum stopped when Jordan banged his right knee with Thomas. 
"It's been an interesting year to say the least," Collins said. 
With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of: 






Rev. Michael N. Floreth, C.S.C. 
Rev. Bradley J. Metz, C.S.C. 
Rev.John M. DeRiso, C.S.C. Rev. Eric J. Schimmel, C.S.C. 
invite you to celebrate their ordination to the priesthood for lifelong service to the people of God. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend Daniel R.Jenky, C.S.C. 
Saturday, April 6, 2002 I :30 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a more explicit way." Constitutions ofthe Congregation of Holy Crass, 1.3 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
.... 
page 18 

Resign 
continued from page 28 
on at one 36-hole tournament at the end of the season. The MIAA adopted her plan, which fell more in line with other golf programs around the country, and this season's MfM cham­pion was determined at a 36­hole championship tournament that the Belles hosted at Brookwood Golf Course. 
"She is just absolutely, just a class act," Kachmarik said. "She has so much integrity with this program. Theresa Pekarek was instrumental in having the MIAA do golf in a different way. She has not only brought Saint Mary's golf to a higher level, she has helped to get the MIAA to compete the way other Division III schools compete." 
The women Pekarek has been coaching were both shocked and dismayed at the news of her resignation. For some of the golfers, Pekarek had been their only coach and for all of the women she had been their only collegiate coach. 
"I had no idea, actually," said junior Liz Hanlon. "It was kind of shocking to find out that she was leaving." 
Younger players who Pekarek recruited were also shocked to hear that she was leaving the program. They had taken it as a given that she would be at Saint Mary's all four years that they played. 
"I wasn't expecting it," said freshman Stefanie Simmerman. "I thought it would be a given that she would be here for all four years, but I realize family pri­orities came up. I was shocked. I didn't know what to say about it. It came as a shock to everyone because she's been so into our team." 
ln addition to current play­ers, the loss of Pekarek may affect incoming recruits. Kachmarik will be hoping to move quickly but carefully to find a new coach in order to answer the questions of recruits. 
"It's very difficult because we have a lot of excellent recruits ... that Theresa had recruited and Bobby [Johnston] that are kind of on the line," Kachmarik said. "Even though I can talk to 
,,.. 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 4, 2002 
them, they still want to talk to 
SMC TENNIS the coach. You need to move quickly but at the same time we have to do that in the right way." 
Belles continue dominance 
Pekarek and some of her golfers will join the search committee. As the athletes look towards a new coach, they are facing something several teams at Saint Mary's have been fac­ing -getting used to a new coaching style. Pekarek has been the only collegiate coach these women knew and now they know there will be a peri­od of adjustment. 
"It was hard enough for me coming from high school into college with a different coach and how having to switch coaches already, a year into college, and its not even that we're going to have to adapt to their coaching style but they'll have to adapt to us as a team," Simmerman said. 
For the remainder of the spring sea?on, the team will be taking advantage of their time with Pekarek and she will con­tinue to move the team for­ward. 
"I think every time we 're with her we'll make the best possible," Hanlon said. "It's going to be hard knowing it's her last year." 
Although the golfers may be partially focused on saying their goodbyes, Pekarek is still focused on the business of run­ning a team. 
"No. 1, I want to get the underclassmen some very strong tournament experi­ence." she said of what she would do in her final months. "No. 2, we're traveling to Tri­State and we're going to play their golf course because that's where next year's national championship will be held." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
books in stock -Out-of-Print search service -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

• Team improvesrecord to 9-0 after beating Adrian 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
For the second time t.hls week, the Belles may have been wonder­ing what sport they were playing. 
As they faced off against the Adrian Bulldogs on courts that could have housed basketball, vol­levball or tennis, Saint Mary's had to stay focused on playing their game -tennis. 
"They had basketball and vol­leyball lines on the tennis courts," said senior captain Annie Knish. "So it took us a little while to get warmed up and get used to them." 
But the Belles managed to adjust very well. In nine matches, 18 sets, the Belles won eight sets 6-0 and allowed Adrian to get within two points in a set just twice. Saint Mary's bettered its MIAA record to 3-0 with a 9-0 vic­tory against Adrian. 
Adrian, that finished seventh in the conference last season, stood little chance against a Saint Mary's squad that graduated only one member of its 2001 MIAA Championship team and has handily defeated both of its MIM opponents this season -Albion 7 ­2 and Olivet 9-0. 
With the last three matches being blowout wins and weather forcing the Belles indoors, their biggest concern right now is get­ting back into the feeling of a real season. 
"We're undefeated, we're hav­ing a great time," Knish said. "We wish that the weather would be a little nicer because we haven't had a chance to practice on our courts. The season is well under way but it doesn't really feel like it." 
The closest match of the after­noon wa.5 a No. 1 singles win in two sets, but Kni'ih did allow 
starts, I had a rough start," Knish said. "But after that we just had to be consistent with them and wait for them to be the first to make mis­takes." 

The Belles dominated in singles play. with two set wins in every match. Jeannie Knish took home a 6-0, 6-2 win and· Kaitlin Cutler wrapped up top three play with a 6-0, 6-1 win. Kris Spriggle, Elisa Ryan and Angie Sandner took home wins at No. 4, 5 and 6 sin­gles with scores of 6-2, 6-3; 6-0, 6­0 and 6-0, 6-3 respectively. 
"You cannot allow yourself to play down to their level," Knish said. "You have to take control of the match and stay focused and stay down on your unforced errors. You have to stay in the match and remind yourself to play your game." 
The doubles teams faired just as well. The doubles team of Knish and Knish took home the win 6-3, 6-0. Cutler and Ryan·won 6-0, 6-0, sending Ryan home without hav• ing allowed her opponents a single victory in a game. Sandner and Spriggle wrapped up play with a 
her opponent "You can never sell your to score a total competition short. Every
of seven points. 

match counts, especially
She took home the win 6-4, 6-in conference. " 3. "We had a 
Annie Knish
couple of rough 

Belles captain 
6-4, 6-2 victory. 
Despite the fact that the Belles have taken solid vic­tories against all of their con­fer~nce compe­tition, they know that the competition is for real. 
"What we've 

learned, even though they're lower in the conference. they are conference matches and they do deserve our respect and we obvi­ously have to go in and do well," Knish said. "You can never sell your competition short. Every match counts, especially in the conference." 
The Belles will have two days off before facing off against Alma in their home MIAA opener on Saturday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
WIN PR!ZfS! ... 
~QO in 8ookc;to-re Gift Certificatec; ! 
Thi~ +="iday 
11:00 I :00 
1 n d +=loo" Dame Room 
Sponsored by Student Activities. Call 1-7308 for info. 


Thursday, April 4, 2002 page 19
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


As CFO OF A PRO BASEBALL TEAM 
YOU COULD: 
PAY YOUR #1 STARTER $23,162.33 (PER OUT) 
GIVE AWAY 15,000 BOBBLE HEAD DOLLS 
(3 TIMES/SEASON} 
RAKE IN $13.9 MILLION 
IN NATIONAL TV REVENUE (PER YEAR) 
J!l 
C 
g 
C: 
::, 
0 0 
:}_ 
.Q 
15 
c.. 
" 
~ 
s.: 
t 
(l) 
[.) How D. YOU GET A .JOB LIKE THIS? 
0 
~ 
,==! www.STARTHEREG . PLACES.C . M/BIZ7
-g 
"'0 
C 
a, 
E 
<C 
START HERE. 
G. PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in pro sports. 
I 
' ' 
.... 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 4, 2002 
the weekend arc twofold. First. 
the team hopes to raise the level
Cancer 
of awareness about the disease continued from page 28 and second, they hope the week­end serves as a fundraiser for wasbom. colon cancer research. 
To be held in conjuction with Tickets for the event can be the women's tennis team's purchased at both North and Sunday match against Miami, Ace South Dining Halls, and through for the Cure is a promotional ticket offices at both the Joyce and event that will Eck Centers. seek to educate The cost for 
"/ wanted to do
and inform fans the event is $3 and spectators something to let people for students 
alike about the know just how dangerous and seniors 
colon cancer and $5 for
this disease really is.,, 
disease. adults. Thanks In addition to to the gener­watching the Katie Cunha ous efforts of ' 23rd-ranked tennis player the St. Joseph 
l I women's tennis Medical 
f 
team compete Center, all tick­
I 
I in an important Big East contest, et sales and donations will go health care specialists from the St. directly towards cancer research. Joseph Regional Medical Center As for Cunha, who has worked 
will be on-hand to provide infor­hard to assemble this promotion
I
I r mation about detection and from the ground up, her family's screening. prospects are hopeful. According to Cunha, the goals of "My mom is undergoing chemo 
leave da gun, take the 
BORHCHO! 
DISTRIBUTION CENTER ASSOCIATE 
Part Time Only 
M-F 2pm-6pm 
Hilli, Inc., a world-class organization with excellent pay and benefits, has 
part time opportunities available Mon.-Fri. day shift. Duties include the daily 
processing of customer orders by utilizing material handling equipment to lift 
products (up to 60 lbs.). placing and sealing products in shipping cartons. 
Requirements include high school diploma (or GED), warehouse experience, 
excellent oral and written communication and math skills. Must be a team 
player with excellent attendance record. 
Part time positions paying $10 per hour+ Bonus opportunity available. 
Fax: (219) 288-5875 or Email to: priebri@us.hilti.com Applications accepted Mon. -Fri. 9am -11am 3507 Olive Rd, Ste. B South Bend, IN 
Hitti, Inc. is proud to be an Equal Opportunity Employer wruch supports a Mu!licullural Workplace WAREHOUSE 
C::11 1 ,.::r
.__________J

I 

LASTWEEKTO SIGN UP!!!!!!!!! 
When: Tuesday, April 2 .. • Friday, April 3"' 12-2 p.m. and :S-1 p.m. Where: I" Floor La.Fortune What You Need: creative team name, name and phone # ofcaptain and $20 
This year's tournament proceeds to be donated to ND aub of.Jamica .Jumpball Programme 
Questions:> . Email us at bkstr.J@nd.edu 
Visit OUI' ~nsor
a·• 
treatments right now and we're colon cancer is almost entirely ing those you love the must. optimistic for her future. But our preventable. main concern this weekend is So if you want to really make a Contact Colin Boylan at educating people about the bene­difference in either your life, or Boylan.l@nd.edu. fits of early detection." the lives of those around you, The views expressed in this col­
And that. says Cunha, is the pri­head out to the Eck Tennis Center umn are those ofthe author and mary goal this weekend. Indeed, this Sunday at noon and help pre­not necessarily those ofThe when caught in its early stages, vent the "silent killer" from strik-Observer. 
r-~ 

: senior Thank You Picture Frame 
Sold all week from 2:30-4:30 in Lafortune. Sales end April 5! 

The 2-sided, 4x6 frame 
Also available is a 4x6 
includes a picture of the album holding 24 picture 
Dome, a quote by Monk, in navy with a gold ND 
a brief thank-you emblem on the cover. A 
message, and one line of great gift for friends and 
name personalization. even yourself! 
Cost: $25. Cost: $7. 
• Buy the frame and the album together for only $30! • 
Name (first and last only, please): 
School Address: 
Phone: Email: I want to order frame(s) for $25 each -·__ album(s) for $7 each 
__ both the frame and album for $30 
. 
Please make checks payable to: ND Management Club, 

. 
You can print an order form at www.nd.edu/~mqtclub or send in this article with your order information to 200 Lafortune, Notre Dame, IN 46556 


SUMMER 2002 TOUR GUIDES NEEDED 
The Office ofUndergraduate Admissions is seeking full-time tour guide/office workers for this summer (May20 -August 16) 
Our 75-minute tours are offered M-F at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
Notre Dame students from the South Bend area and students planning to attend Summer Session are encouraged to apply. 
Applications are available in Room 220, Main Building 
8:00 am -5:00 pm M-F 
Application deadline is Friday April 12, 2002 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

photography

NO www.nd.edu/~sub
reco~ding devices opening act 
IM name: ndSUBinfo 
.. 
eage 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 4, 2002 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish grab two key conference wins 
ByJOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
What a difference a week makes. 
Just one week after suffering a crushing 15.5 home defeat at the hands of Hofstra and seeing its record drop to 1-5, the Notre Dame lacrosse team has turned its season around. Thanks to two impressive road wins within the past three days against the University of Denver and Air Force, the Irish currently sit atop the Great Western Lacrosse League with an unblemished 2-0 record in league play. 
"We had a tough week of prac­tice after the Hofstra loss," said freshman attackman Brian Giordano. "We really came together as a team this past week. Offensively, we worked really hard to get open and that created better scoring opportu­nities. We showed a lot of patience and that was the differ­ence ~gainst Denver and Air Force. 
On Sunday, the Irish routed the Denver Pioneers 15-8. The game marked an offensive explosion for the Irish who have struggled all season to score goals. John Flandina. senior captain. led tho Irish with three goals and three assists. Flandina was rewarded for his efforts and named the GWLL player of the week for the first time in his career. 
Devin Ryan. also a senior cap­tain, and Travis Wells, junior attackman, each contributed hat tricks as well. After holding a tentative 2-1 lead after the first quarter, the Irish took decisive control of the game in the sec­ond quarter outscoring the Pioneers 7-1 to take an insur­mountable 9 -2 lead into half­time. 
"We came out much more aggressive in the second quar-

Student Office Assistant Position Open in the Office of Student Activities for 2002-2003 
Applications are now available and can be . 
picked up at 315 LaFortune in the Student Activities Office 
Application Deadline: Friday, April 26 
Call Carol at 631-9314 with any questions 
TAKE 
PORTUGUESE AT ND 
AND STUDY ABROAD IN BRAZIL 
Course Offerings for 2002-2003 
• ROPO 111-112F: Intensive Beginning Portuguese I & II ( Fall/Spring: sequence ful tills the language requirement) 
• 
ROPO 121-122: Portuguese for Spanish Speakers l & II (fall/Spring) 

• 
ROPO 201: Intermediate Portuguese (Fall) 

• 
ROPO 202: Advanced Portuguese (Spring) 



• 
LLRO I80J: Brazilian Film & Literature in Translation (Fall) 

• 
ROPO 441: Immigrant Voices in Brazilian Literature 


\Spring) 
University of Notre Dame 
Dept. of Romance Languages & Literatures Portuguese Language Program Director: Isabel A. Ferreira fel. 631-0460 E-mail: fem:ira.5@nd.edu 
ter," Wells said. " We really put hat trick helping the Irish to a some pressure on them, and we dominant 9-3 victory against the were much more efficient as a host Falcons. Fellow freshmen result." Matt Malakoff and Giordano also 
Giordano continued his sharp scored goals in the contest. play with his fifth goal of the flandina followed his solid sea.son in the third quarter. Iri.sh performance against Denver leading scorer sophomore Dan with a goal and an assist in the Herger extended his scoring contest. Berger also registered a 
streak to seven  goal in the  
games with a late goal in the fourth quarter with 4;30  "We really put some pressure on them, and  contest, extending his scoring  
remaining in the  we were much more  streak  to  
game. Nick  Junior Antol  efficient as a result."  eight. While the  
recorded the win  Irish offense  
in the net, mak­ Travis Wells  corrected its  
ing 15 saves dur­ing the game.  attackman  early-sMson problems  

Kevin Corrigan, Irish head coach, has relied heavily on freshmen contribu­tions this season and freshman Chris Richez answered his coach's caH against Air Force on Tuesday. 
Richez netted his first career 
with its sec­ond straight strong offensive performance, the defense had its finest outing or the season, limit­ing the Falcons to a season-low three goals. The Irish defense kept the Falcons scoreless in both the first and third quarters in the game. 
Goalie Nick Antol had another strong performance in net en route to saving 15 shots during the game. 
With their overall record sit­ting at 3-5. the 18th ranked Irish must finish at the top of the GWLL to qualify for the playoffs. 
"At this point. we must win the rest of our games to make the post season," Giordano said. ''We have to treat every practice like it's a game situation in order to prepare for our opponents." 
The Irish will travel to Indianapolis to take on GWLL foe Butler University Sunday at 1 p.rn. This marks the third of four straight league road games for Notre Dame. The Irish do not return home again until April 21st when they host Fairfield. 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicand.r@nd.edu. 


.., :--'= -r ·-=-.,. . 
_. . • ...... ..•
.. ....
~ 

•«--.. 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
BASEBALL 
28-run explosion dismantles Crusaders 
By CHRJS FEDERICO 
Spores Editor 
It must have been a long, quiet trip down 1-80 back to Valparaiso Wednesday night as the visiting Crusaders returned home from Notre Dame having been completely dominated by a much stronger Irish squad. 
The Irish defeated their in­state foes by a combined score of 28-1 in the doubleheader at Frank Eck Stadium to improve to 15-10 on the year. 
The series provided a much­needed breath of fresh air for an Irish team on the rebound after a disappointing start that saw them drop a three-game Big East series for only the sec­ond time since joining the con­ference. 
Since then, however, the Irish have come on strong, going 6-1 with a six-game win­ning streak culminating in Wednesday night's 28-run, 28­hit outburst. 
"I think we've done a good job in the last week or so in getting runners on base and then moving them up," said Irish coach Paul Mainieri. "Guys are feeling more confi­dent when they're coming up with runners in scoring posi­tion. All the guys are doing their job, and I think we're really starting to gel as a team offensively and defensively," 
In thl~ first of a pair of seven­inning ballgames, Irish fresh­man pitcher Martin Vergara encountered some trouble early in the first start of his career. loading the bases with one out in the first inning. The right-hander fought through the trouble, however, and went on to retire the next 11 batters with seven strikeouts in four innings of scoreless work. 
"I wasn't really nervous up there on the mound in that first inning, but maybe a little anx­ious because I wanted to do well." Vergara said. "I had thrown three or four times before, so it's not like I had never been out there before." 
The Irish offense provided plenty or help for the young­ster, scoring 15 runs in the first four innings to grab a practi­cally insurmountable lead. 
"It definitely helped to get those first two runs in that first inning and get some support early," Vergara said. 
Notre Dame got to work right away in the first when senior centerfielder Steve Stanley walked with one out and then moved to second on a balk by Valparaiso pitcher Tom Starck. Sophomore second baseman Steve Sollmann then brought Stanley home for the first run of the game on an RBI single to left. 
After catcher Paul O'Toole dropped a pop single to left, both runners advanced a base on another Starck balk. Senior third baseman Andrew Bushey then pushed Sollmann home on an RBI groundout to the second baseman. 
The Irish hitters stayed on the Crusaders in the next inning, adding three more runs on and RBI single by sopho­more Joe Thaman and another two-run single by Sollmann. 
In the fourth, the Irish enjoyed their most potent inning all season, plating ten runs to put the game out of the grasp of the struggling Crusaders. 
Freshman Tyler Jones came on for Vergara and worked three solid innings of relief to preserve the shutout and earn a save. 
Sollmann, settling back into the everyday lineup at second base after an early season injury, had one of his best days of the season going 3-3, scoring two runs and driving in four. 
"I think I'm starting to settle back into things," Sollmann said. "I've been working on my swing a lot lately and have just been trying to get back into the groove. I trying to get back to where I'm relaxed, and I think I'm getting to that point." 
In the nightcap, the Irish offense refused to relent, scor­ing 12 runs on 13 hits and sending the Crusaders home with their second double-digit loss of the evening. 
Like Vergara before him, junior pitcher Peter Ogilvie fell into some trouble early for Notre Dame. 
The right-hander allowed a leadoff double to shortstop Marc Boggio and later surren­dered an RBI single to center­fielder Mark Pedersen to give Valparaiso the early 1-0 lead. The one run would be all the Crusaders could muster, as Ogilvie got the next batter, right fielder Jeff Mandsager, to ground into an inning-ending double play. 
The Irish quickly tied the score in their half of the inning as left fielder Ken Meyer led off with a single and then moved to second on Pedcrsen's mis­play for his first of two hits in the game. After Stanley's sacri­flee bunt moved Meyer to third, Sollmann knocked him in with a groundout to second for his fifth RBI of the day. 
Ogilvie would cruise through his next three innings. retiring nine batters in a row and get­ting five strikeouts before yielding to reliever Ryan Kalita in the fifth inning with the vic­tory all-but secured. 
Over the course of the next four innings, the Irish brought 11 runs across home plate, get­ting four in the second, three in the third, one in the fourth, and three more in the fifth for the final tally of 12-1. 
Right fielder Kris Billmaier led the way for the Irish at bat, going 3-for-3, driving in three runs while scoring two. Thaman contributed his second strong game hitting 2-for-2 with a pair of RBI's and a run score.ct. Bushey pushed his bat­ting average back up near .400 for the year at .392 going 2­for-3 in the nightcap with two RBI's and two runs scored. 
On top of the offensive pro­duction, the Irish defense really stepped up for the series, allowing only one run and falling to have an error. After a series of early-season injuries threw the normal starting line­up into disarray, the Irish are finally starting to get healthy and settle in their day-to-day roles. 
"I think we've really solidified our defense in the infield in that things don't feel as shaky as they did in the beginning of the year," Mainieri said. "Now when the ball is hit, l think our guys feel very confident that someone's going to catch it and throw it accurately. When you do that, your pitchers don't feel like they have to strike every­body out, and they can be more aggressive and challenge some hitters.'' 
The Irish return to Big East play this weekend at Eck Stadium. Notre Dame will host St. John's to a noon double­header Saturday. followed by the final game of the series Sunday again at noon. 
Notes: 
. The team received some dis­heartening news Wednesday as it learned that freshman short­stop Matt Macri will undergo "Tommy John" surgery on his elbow next Wednesday, ren­dering him unable to play for the remainder of the season. Macri was one-of the highest­rated players coming out of high school last year and had seen some significant playing time this season for the Irish in the designated hitter role. 
"We feel if he has the surgery now, he should be able to come back in time to play next year," Mainieri said. "He's a really great kid, and I feel broken­hearted about it really." 
. 
Irish centerfielder and senior co-captain Steve Stanley broke another Notre Dame career record when he stole his third base of the day to surpass Scott Sollmann for the career record in stolen bases at 102. 

. 
Irish head coach Paul Mainieri recorded his 319th career victory as head coach at Notre Dame in the second game Wednesday night to sur­pass his predecessor Pat Murphy and move into second place on the list. 


Cuniversity of notre dame 
0 ~\Vt, ~~ro:,:, 1~h~20:~m~~:c~w,~'.g,~~02 
¦ -~ ..,,.,,.,._, architecture Monday, June 17 (enrollment), and end on ./I ~ art Friday, August 2 (final exams) Some courses­
(1) l""r/ \,~ \.. 

biology primarily in science and languages-will begin f ( \ business and end before or after these dates. The 
(1) Classical lachn9emuai9Sterys Summer Session Bulletin contains complete 
Q) 
schedule information. The Bulletin is available computer applications at the Summer Session Office (51 0 Main Bldg.) 
economics beginning on Thursday, February 21. lnfor­engineering mation on summer courses, as it appears in english the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer
(1) 
film Session Web site (www.nd.edu/-sumsess). trench german 

Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate 
government 
and graduate students in residence during the 

L 
history 
spring semester of '2002 who are eligible to 

irish studies 
return in the fall-must use Web Registration 

Q) 
italian 
( 1) lo register for summer courses and (2) to 

mathematics 
add or drop courses through Friday, June 21. 
music 

The Web Registration PIN (personal identifica­
E 
philosophy 
tion number) for summer is available on lrishlink 
physics 
for all continuing students. Instructions for 

psychology 
course registration (selection) are available at 

sociology www.nd.edu/ ~ndreg/dartbook.html. Course 
spanish 
call numbers are published in the Bulletin and 

E 
theatre 
at the Summer Session Web site. 

theology 
Web Registration will be available for summer regstration from March 20 to June 21. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose dunng this 
:J 
period; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day 
of the course. Students who decide to register after Web Registration closes on Friday, June 21, must complete the standard summer session application/course
(1) 
selection form. 


.. 
Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 2002 will be $364 per credit hour for undergraduate students and $255 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a $45 general fee. 

Thursday, April 4, 2002 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles still confident despite tough start 
. Team loses four conference games during weekend 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spores Writer 

Despite the scores of their first four conference games, the Belles think they have what it takes io be conference competi­tors. 
After losing to Adrian twice on Monday and dropping two more matches to Albion on Wednesday, the Belles are at the bottom of the conference, but they believe they have the skills and the determination to pull themselves back out of the base­ment. 
"We played just as well, if not better than both the teams we played this week." said senior captain Rachel Deer. "We have just as much talent. We unfortu­nately haven't had a good break. We had the same number of hits but we haven't been able to string hits together." 
In both games that opened the doubleheaders, the Belles gave up nine runs, closing the gap in each of their second games to 5­3 and 3-0, respectively. Deer attributed the large disparity between the scores to the prob­lems the team encounters during practice. 
"We've practiced outside maybe twice this whole season," Deer said. "It is a lot harder for an infielder to take a hard ball off the dirt than it is a rubber ball off the gym floor. It actually snowed [Wednesday] at our game." 
According to Deer, the weath• er normally improves after spring break, enough to allow the team to practice outside. But that hasn't been the case so far this season, and the Belles have struggled because of it. 
"This has been a rather unusual season," Deer said. 
The first Adrian game was a battle between pitchers. Saint Mary's pitcher Kristen Martin took the first loss for her team against Adrian, allowing nine runs and 14 hits. but achieving six strikeouts. Michelle Marshall, Adrian's starting pitcher, struck out two and scored a home run. 
The scoring was even until Adrian drove home five unan­swered runs in the third and fourth innings. 
Walsh scored the lone run for the Belles 
"I think we are at a disadvan­tage starting conference play with only ten games [played so far this season,]" said sopho­more shortstop Marnie Walsh. 
After playing several games over spring break in Florida, the Belles were forced to cancel sev­eral games, for various reasons. 
••••••••••••••••~•••••••••••e•••••••~••o••••••·••; 
: )ll!l!lll!ll!lll!!J!!!!!a University Resources : 
for Gay, Lesbian, & .. 
•
• • Bisexual Students • 
: '!"TH_...E..,..ST..._.·No-"-,..,..JG
, ... 

• 
CO"-MITTEE ON 

• 
GA"Y AND LESSlAN 

• 
STUDENT NEE OS 


•
• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
•
• 
Lesbian Student Needs 
" 
• (Confidential information. education, and resourc1es) 
" 
• Contact. Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student 
•
• members (see web site for student contact info.) 
•
•
•
• Office of Campus Ministry 
•
• 
("GLB Together"--confidential group meetings which 
• include prayer anct discussion ofspiritual is:;ues; annual • retreat; library with relevant reading materials~ 
•
• Contact: Fr. J Steele, CSC, at Steele.3 l@nd.edu, or :
•
• Tami Schmitz at Schmitz.8@nd.edu : 
..• 
.. ••• University Counseling Center : 
(Individual counseling or a confidential support group) : .. Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen ! 
.. • 
Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu :
• 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn' 
... :'I lit •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• , ................. . 
"In the games before [confer­ence playl we did have a lot more errors and we weren't hit­ting as well," Deer said. "Conference team games tend to be more of a challenge." 
In the second game of the dou­bleheader against Adrian, Libby Wilhelmy pitched the Belles into a much more even contest, hold­ing the Bulldogs scoreless until the fourth inning. 
Saint Mary's beat Adrian pitcher Laurie Applin to draw first blood in the first inning. Adrian rallied in the fourth inning to score all five of its runs between the fourth and fifth inning. Walsh, outfielder Katrina Tebbe and first baseman Lynn Lapshan all scored for the Belles. Wilhelmy finished with four strikeouts for Applin's two. 
On Wednesday, Saint Mary's allowed nine runs but answered with four in the opening game of the doubleheader. Martin opened again for the Belles, fin­ishing with two strikouts, along with a hit and run of her own. 
"Kristen has a really bad knee, but she batted well (Wednesday,)" Deer said. 
Sophomore fielder Katie Frigge, third baseman Melissa Hayes and catcher Susan Kutz also brought in runs for the Belles. The game was scoreless for the first two innings, before Albion scored a run in the third. Saint Mary's answered Albion's challenge in the fourth, but allowed six runs in ihe firth to seal the loss. Albion's freshman pitcher, Michaela Adams, fin­ished with eight strikeouts. Albion's Mandy Wilhelmi and infielder Justinn Steffe each scored two runs to lead their team to victory. 
"In both games [Wednesday] we played solidly the entire game," Deer said. "It was just that one inning they strung a bunch of hits together. It is real­ly frustrating but we really played well." 
In this week's last game and Wednesday's second, Saint Mary's held Albion to just three runs, and scoreless through the fourth inning, although they failed to answer them. Walsh led the Belles with two hits. Wilhelmy allowed seven hits and three runs. Albion's infielder Sarah Caskey hit two home runs. and Nicole Anderson allowed only four hits, striking out two more to cement their win. 
"We've realized the areas we need to improve on," Walsh said. "We have 12 more conference games left, and we'11 be able to finish strong." 
Albion's record sits at 16-4, 4­0 in the MIAA, while Saint Mary's slips to 5-9 overall, and 0-4 in conference play. 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 

~t Irish Women's Tennis takes on Colon Cancer ACE~:: 
CURE 
ThisSundav 
Notre Dame vs. Miami 
12pm -Courtnev Tennis Center 
First 200 students will receive an adidas t-shirt. Giveaways during the match from: Notre Dame, adidas, and Panasonic 
Tickets are now on sale at the Joyce Center Ticket Office and at North Dining Hall -April 3, 4, 5 South Dining Hall -April 3, 4 
All proceeds to benefit Colon Cancer Research 
..,\. 

ra 

'Fi8 tina '1ris 
MEIJER, 
::'-AI\T )• •·•IJ':I
ad1das 
F.o.'J1•111l .\l.",.Lc,I I,:•,, I h, 


Softba({ 

vs. 'University of 'l((inois-Chicaao 
'Tfiursda_:y, 'Apri{ 4th @ 5:3o_pm 
*Played at 'lvy 'Fie{a r:Base6a({ 
vs. St. john's 


Sat., 'Ayri( 6 8t Sun. 'Ayri( 7 

12:00pm (6otfi da;1s) 
*Sunaaes on Sunaay (1st 100) 

Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

(l)  an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second  
major, and  
(2)  an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests,  

then PPE wants you! 

:FOR MORE INFORl\iIATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, 631-6226, or Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, Roos. l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos or Professor O'Connor. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 11. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING MONDAY, APRIL 8, 5:00 PM, 105 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 
Tennis 
continued from page 28 
The Deacons quickly extended that lead to 3-0, jwnping all over Varnum and Vaughan at the top two singles spots. But the Irish were not ready to give the match away. 
Green and Salas gave the Irish another chance, earrtlng 7-5, 7-5 and 7-5, 7-6 victories respectively, and pulling the Irish to within 3-2. 
Connelly then made things even tighter by topping Schwartz in sin­gles 6-2, 6-4. However, in the deciding match, Cunha was unable to overcome a large deficit early in the match and dropped her match 6-0, 6-3 to the Deacons' Karin Coetzee. 
The 4-3 loss was disappointing, especially since a win would have earned the team its first victory over a top three school. However, Louderback was not overly con­cerned ¼ith such details. 
"Even though Wake Forest was ranked the highest, I think Duke was the best team we played last weekend." he said. 
The Irish had a much tougher time putting everything together against the Blue Devils. 
On the doubles side, Cunha and Green earned their first win as a team, topping Duke's Hillary Adams and Kelly McCain 8-6, but this time Varnum and Vaughan couldn't pull through, losing a close 9-7 contest. When Salas and Connelly lost by the score of 8-4, the Irish were faced with another tough 1-0 deficit. 
Only this time, the Irish could not bail themselves out so easily in singles matches. 
Duke's top two singles players, 39th-ranked Amanda Johnson 
page 25 

and 18th-ranked Julie DeRoo ensured that there would be no comeback. Johnson knocked off Varnum 6-3, 6-4 at the No. 1 sin­gles spot, while DeRoo downed Vaughan 6-1. 6-1. 
With the Irish down 3-0, the Blue Devils shut the door when Connelly lost a close 7-5, 6-4 match to Adams at No. 6. Only Salas prevented a complete shutout, earning the only win for the Irish with a three-set win against 64th-ranked Saras Arasu, 4-6, 6-1, 6-2. 
Despite the 6-1 score, Louderback was not displeased with his team's play. 
"Three of the singles matches went to three sets and we played well in doubles today. I thought we did alright," he said. 
The Irish had one last chance to avoid a sweep when they played North Carolina on Tuesday, but it wasn't to be. 
Once again, doubles proved to be an initial stumbling block for the team. Only Vaughan and Varnum were able to post a dou­bles victory. But, the Irish gave the Tar Heels a scare. 
After Connelly and Salas dropped their match, Varnum and Vaughan responded with an 8-5 upset win over Carolina's Aniela Mojzis and Kendall Cline, the 26th-ranked team in the nation. At the top doubles spot, Cunha and Green fought to a tiebreaker, but were unable to pull out the deciding match. losing 9-8. 
From there, North Carolina began to dominate singles action. The Tar Heels top three singles players were able to down the Irish in straight sets. 
Contact Colin Boylan at Boylan. l@nd.edu. 

page 26 
ND SOFTBALL 

Home opener may finally be played 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Spore, Writer 

With today's weather forecast to be a cold, but dry, 40 degrees, the No1.re Dame soft­ball team should finally play their home opener. After three home doubleheaders have been rescheduled, the Irish will open their home schedule against Illinois-Chicago this afternoon. 
"It's a great feeling to finally play the home opener," said senior captain Kas Hoag. "We 
" have had family come out and with all the cancellations, it has been disappointing." Notre Dame played eight of its first 20 games against ranked opponents. Only a sin­gle win in those eight games was part of the reason for their 8-12 start to the season. However, due to rain and snow, the Irish had two weeks off after spring break and were able to recharge their batteries. "Anytime you have a break like we did, you are able to get yourself back," Hoag said. "People got run down with all the games we played over spring break. We were able to get some extra sleep." That extra rest helped the Irish bats. During their current three-game winning streak, the Irish are hitting .404, with 36 
hits, six home runs and 28 RBIs. 
Junior first baseman Lisa Mattison and senior catcher Jarrah Myers have been lead­ing the offense. Mattison is six for eight in the last three games and batting .328 on the season. 
Myers was named Big East Player of the Week on Monday for her offensive output against Pittsburgh over the weekend. In those two games, Myers went five for six, hit two home runs and drove in five. 
The pitching is also heating up for the Irish. Freshman Steffany Stenglein has struck out 18, walked six and only given up three runs in her last four appearances. She has 91 strikeouts in 95 1/3 innings pitched. 
Illinois-Chicago is 19-13 this season and defeated No. 9 Nebraska in February. The Flames are led by senior short­stop Jennifer Tiffany, who is hitting .432 this year with 48 hits and 30 runs scored. Sophomore Alison Aguiar has been the top pitcher for the Flames with a 1.91 ERA, 78 strikeouts and a 9-6 record in 102 and two-thirds innings pitched. 
Contact Matt Lozar at rnlozar@nd.edu. 
The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, April 4, 2002 
ND WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Lacrosse gets revenge 
By CHRIS COLEMAN SporlS Writer 
Don't call it an upset. 
While the rankings may imply that No. 7 Syracuse had 1,!.n edge over No. 1 l Notre Dame yester­day, once the teams took the field it was clear who processed the advantage. 
But the Irish know rankings don't matter. 
"What matters is what's in here as apposed to the publicity and rankings," captain Kathryn Lam said as she pointed to her heart. 
The Irish defeated the Orangewomen for the first time in school history by a score of 12­7 yesterday and improved Notre Dame's overall record to 7-1. 
The top-ranked Irish defense, which allows an average of just six goals per game, shut down Big East Offensive Player of the Week Kim Wayne and the rest of the Orangewomen. Notre Dame only allowed two goals in the first half. 
Big East Defensive Player of the Week Jen White made 12 saves, including seven out of nine shots on goal in the first half and also had three shots deflected by hustling defenders. 
The Irish broke out of the gates fast with point leader Danielle Shearer scoring in the first minute off a free position shot. Shearer looked like she was going to pass the ball to a team­mate but then used a spin move and sent the ball over Carla Gigon's right shoulder. Things would get worse for the Orangewoman keeper. 
Notre Dame's Meredith Simon, who has had five goals in two games, then took on her mark one on one and scored easily. Teammate Alissa Moser. a senior captain, then added another, purely beating her defender. 
Syracuse scored, making it 3-1, but when Shearer scored again 
after  an  offsides  penalty.  
Syracuse  called  timeout  to  
regroup.  

But Lauren Fischer quickly scored oIT a free position shot. 
The dominating player at the end of half was Anne Riley, who broke up a scoring opportunity then assisted Kate Morrata's third goal of the year. When Syracuse answered that goal, Riley came back with a goal of her own, making it 7-2. 
And typical of the half the Irish defense was having, defender Maureen Henwood ended the half with a long run and score, making it 8-2. 
"The girls were ready to play," said Irish offensive assistant coach Danielle Gallagher. "They scored the first three, and from then out they lead the way." 
The second half opened with Syracuse stealing the draw and scoring 12 seconds into play. Shearer then found Moser with an open look to make the game 9-3. 
Syracuse could have given up, but pushed offensively, scoring three in a row to make the game a very close 9-6 with 15 minutes to play. 
The game was tense for the next few minutes and was getting constantly rougher. Moser then challenged the keeper one-on­one and forcing her to commit and flipped the ball to a ready Simon who could have walked into the goal. She shot the ball however, and the Irish went up 10-6. 
The Irish then added insurance with goals from Natalie Loftus and Eleanor Weille to make tho score 12-6. 
"This says a lot about our team," said junior manager John Conte. "They had us [momen­tum-wise], and we come back and score three." 
The Irish then focused on con­trolling the ball and even got a standing ovation from the crowd with 30 seconds left as they passed the ball around. 
"Its not unbelievable, because we knew we were going to do it, but wow. it feels really good" said Moser, whose senior class finally beat Syracuse. 
'Tm so happy for this team," said head coach Tracy Coyne. "It's a big statement for the Big East. We are one step closer to winning a Big East title." 
Contact Chris Coleman at Coleman.44@nd.edu. 


I I I I I 
1., 
! 
Thursday, April 4, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
TOM KEELEY 

FOXTROT 
HERE lou Go, F1Sli1ES ­
T1ME FoR DIN·OIN. 
CROSSWORD 
n¾AT'S RIGHT, LtTTLE n-lAT'S R1GHT, M1STER GuPPaES, EAT THE AN~EL FISH, EAT 'Tl-IE 
F1SH FOoD... FISH... 
" 

BILL AMEND 
... FooD.' GuPP1Es 
11-IE FISH Fool)! REPRoDUCE 
I DIDN'T  GUICKL~  
FINISH THE  I HoPE.  
I  

RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 

-

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE AR S 

OBEA ..;....;+.~ LOU DOW AGE 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

54 End of the quip 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON advancement come your way. Be 
56 Old Spanish 
THIS DAY: Robert Downey Jr., patient.000coins Cra;g T. Nelson, Anthony Perkins, VIRGO (Aug. 2.}-Sept 22): You 57 Statistics Nancy McKean will be highly competitive today. calculation 
Happy Birthday: You will easily Your endurance and stamina level win the hearts of those you will far surpass any opponent you
58 Elton's john 
encoW1ter this year. You willactively face. Get involved in sports activi­59 Eastwood's pursue all that offers both mental ties; you will gain satisfaction from "Rawhide" role and physical stimulation. Jealousy your accomplishments. 00000 
60 Human and intrigue could be your downfall LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): ifyou aren't careful. This is a year of Oianges in your home may be dis­change and the more open and ruptive but probably necessary. Your 
topic 

accepting you are the further you insecurity will show if someone crit­
61 Laboriously 
will go. Your mmiber., are 3, 17, 20, icizes your attempts to find solu­make 29,35,48 tions. Don'twaffle now. 00 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be will have to be careful that you pay observant and learn all you can
DOWN 
enough attention to your family. about the people you like the most
1 Old Testament 
Although you will be able to make A good listener will always gain the 
book 

new friends and meet some pretty confidence of those he or she listens 2 Like leftovers exciting individuals today, it is best to. You11be right where you want to to include the ones who have stocxi beand that's in control. 0000
3 Decolletage 
by your side the longest 00 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
4 Fool 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Behind-the-scenes financial activity 5 Dolley Travel will enhance romance and will be in your best interest Talk to Madison's adventure today if you take advan­superiors about your intentions. If 
maiden name 
tage of the opportunities. You will you bavel for work-related purpos­expand your circle of friends if you es you will achieve exactly what you
6 Pump, e.g. 
get involved in group endeavors. are trying to do. 000 7 Roulette bet 00000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 8 Not pro GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stay calm and don't let someone 
Money can be made today. Take you love push your buttons. Your 
9 Beaujolais _ 
time to find out aboutan investment emotions may get the better of you if
10 Current units 
that sounds intriguing. Romantic you aren't careful. Yoti may want to 11 Fez attachment relationships can grow closer if you spend some time by yourself. 000
27 Attendee 45 Tony's cousins 50 Yam that is 
spend time with the person youcare AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):29 City on the 46 Dam that mostabout. 000 This is not the best time to go against 
14 Cesar Chavez's spun 
org. 

Rhone formed Lake CANCER (June 21-July 22): You the rules. You may end up paying15 Hanks's "Bosom 51 Deep Blue will be emotionally up and down the price if you push your luck.
30 Daughter of Nasser 

maker
Buddies" co-star today. Heated arguments will erupt Involvement with clubs or fun
Hyperion

17 Historic Scottish 47 Safari head if you are negative about everything. organizations will bring you good
32 Year that 52 Poverty 
Real estate or investmepts pertain­fortune. 000
county 48 luxury car
Chaucer died ing to home improvement will be PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You
20 Queen Victoria's standard feature 55 Adversary
34 Some sharks profitable. 000 will be able to make a difference if 
ACROSS 
Natl. Hot Dog 
Mo. 
4 House of Commons members: Abbr. 
7 Charged 12 "Season of Glass" artist 
13 Where football's Pro Bowl is played 
15 California wine town 
16 Start of a quip by Alfred E. Neuman 
18 Clowns 19 Quip, part 2 
21 "Tristram 
Shandy" author 22 Half of a half-and-half 23 Poetic preposition 
24 room 
25 Fruit in a mixed drink 
27 Highlander 
28 Common place for a sprain 
31 Titanic 
33 Quip, part 3 
35 Railroad support 37 Wrung out 41 Rust sprinkled 
with white 42 "Deutschland Alles" 43 Greenwich Village sch. 44 Three months from 1-Across: Abbr. 45 Mexico City Olympics prize 
46 Degraded 
49 Quip, part 4 
53 Star in Aquila 

royal house 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Oianges you push for the underdog today.
35 Part of the inner

21 Sp. woman's at work may not appear to be to You will be drawn to group endeav­title your benefit at first glance. ff you are ors and, ifyou take control, you will
ear Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 36 Knocking sound available by touch-tone phone: accepting and professional about the find yourself in a position of leader­
25 Natural fuel 38 Trendy 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). alterations you can expect to see si:,;p. 0000
source 26 Film not made 39 Simple fastener Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Birthday Baby: You will not be one to waste time. You ,vill form an idea by a Hollywood 40 Turkey best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 and act upon it immediately. You will be competitive and always want to be studio 41 Traffic circle years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. first. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-----------~-------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ___Zip_____ 
.. 
Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 
. ND Women's Lacrosse, p. 26 
. NBA, p. 17 
. 
NO Softball, p. 26 . MLB, p. 16 

. 
SMC Softball, p. 24 . NFL,p.16 

. 
Baseball, p. 23 



PORTS
. Men's Lacrosse, p. 22 

Thursday, April 4, 2002 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Double trouble 
. Irish struggle in doubles, lose three straight matches 

..,. ByCOLINBOYI.AN 
Sporrs Wrirer 

A brutal four-day stretch of matches against a trio of top 10 opponents left the Notre Dame women's tennis team with a three match losing streak, but more impor­tantly, a number of unanswered questions on the doubles side. 
Despite a significant lineup shift by Irish coach Jay Louderback, the Irish could not take the doubles point in any of their match­es -a 4-3 loss to third ranked Wake Forest and a dropped pair of 6-1 decisions to fourth-ranked Duke and No. 7 North Carolina. Louderback made the decision to split his number one and two doubles teams, matching Katie Cunha up with Lindsey Green and pairing seniors Becky Varnum and Nina Vaughan. 
"We had struggled a lot at No. 2 doubles in the past, and I think the change really helped -things," said Louderback. 
Nonetheless, the Irish were never able to string two doubles wins together in any one match and hurting their chances of victory from the start. 
The doubles point was especially signifi­cant in the team's Saturday match against Wake Forest. 
Vaughan and Varnum did their best to make Louderback's decision look good, earning an 8-6 victory against the Deacons' Katie Martzolf and Danielle Schwartz. However, when Cunha and Green, couldn't pull out a win, the burden fell on the team of Alicia Salas and Sarah Jane Connelly to come through. 
Despite a strong performance, the tandem lost an 8-6 decision and Notre Dame dropped to a 1-0 deficit in the match. 
see TENNIS/page 25 

. Cunha's mother diagnosed with colon cancer earlier this year 
If the administration's iron-fisted stance on the new alcohol policies has made you feel that you can't make a difference on this campus, think again. 
\.Vhile the issue of hard alcohol on this campus is not one to be taken lightly, it . pales in comparison to the more signifi­cant things in life. Just ac;k junior tennis player Katie Cunha. 
Earlier in the year, Cunha's mother was diagnosed with stage-four colon can­cer. A devastating ill­ness that that has been dubbed "the silent killer," colon cancer is the second­leading cause of can­cerous deaths (only lung cancer is more fatal). For stage-four cancer, the rate ofsurvival is approximat­ed at only 8 percent. 
"I was completely shocked," said Cunha. "My mom had just lost a lot of weight and I couldn't believe that someone who looked so healthy on the outside could be so sick on the inside." 
Nonetheless, Cunha resolved not to let the cancer catch others off-guard as it had caught her family. 
"There are a lot of misconceptions about colon cancer," Cunha said. "A lot of people think that it is something that only affects older men, and that's really not the case. I wanted to do something to let people know just how dangerous this disease really is." 
And thus the Ace for the Cure promotion 

see CANCER/page 20 
SMC GOLF 

Second Belles coach resigns in two months 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Just two months after soccer coach Bobby Johnston announced his resignation, Theresa Pekarek, head golf coach, turned in her resignation, effective at the end of spring golf season. 
In a meeting on Wednesday, Lynn Kachmarik, athletic direc­tor, announced that Pekarek had told her team last Thursday that she would finish the spring sea­son but would not return in the fall. The four-year head coach cited family reasons and a need to take the program to a new level -a need she could not meet. 
"It mainly stems from my fam­ily," Pekarek said. "I have two daughters and the program is ready to go the next level. What l mean by that is the team needs to start traveling more, take at least a spring break [tripJ, if not a fall break [trip]." 
In the last four years, the Saint Mary's golf program has moved to the top of the MIM, missing a first-place finish by only three strokes this year. The Belles took borne a first-place finish in one of four conference tournaments and finished in the top three in all four tournaments. 
With her women playing at 

this level and with several talent­ed players coming to Saint Mary's next fall, Pekarek did not believe she could offer the time the program required to move forward. 
"The reason why I am step­ping down now is because we have a lot of talent on the team, a lot of really good talent coming in next year," Pekarek said. "This team is ready to go to the next level and that means travel­ing a lot.... It's not that I can't take the team to the next level, I know I have the ability to do that, but it requires someone who is willing to give the time to do that." 
Unlike Johnston, Pekarek did not cite her part-time status or her salary as reasons for her resignation. However, she does believe that if this program is to be a national contender, it will eventually need a full-time coach. 
"If the program were to get to the lfwel I think it can go, win­ning the conference champi­onship and qualifying for the NCAA, you would need someone in there to be full time," she said. 
The loss is a great one to both the Athletic Department and the MIAA of which Saint Mary's is a part. During her four-year tenure at Saint Mary's, Pekarek began the Saint Mary's golf pro­gram and moved it to a top-spot in the league. 
"{Pekarek's] the one who start­ed golf at Saint Mary's and she's developed it over the last few years to one of the top programs in the MIAA," Kachmarik said. "And because of that talent. she's brought in women who need to compete more, to prac­tice more." 
In addition to the changes she has instituted at Saint Mary's, Pekarek was also instrumental in changing the format of tour­nament play in the entire MIM. Last season she proposed to change the format of MIAA play, determining the league champi­
see RESIGN/page 20 

. 
Softball vs. llinois-Chicago, today, 1 p.m. 

. 
Men and Women's Track at Spring Opener,


SPORTS 

Saturday, 10 a. m. AT AGLANCE . Baseball vs. St. John's, Saturday, noon 
t 
l_ -­




