All hail Shakespeare
SHOWERS 


Monday
Actors of the London stage visit Notre Dame return to perform Macbeth at Washington Hall. 
FEBRUARY 18, 
HIGH 48° 
LOW27° 
Scene . page 10 and 11 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 76 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

SMC kicks off career campaign 
career campaign also hopes to show stu­
By MYRA McGRIFF 
dents the hidden job market. Wilkeson said 
Saine Mary's Edicor 
that even in the midst of a hard economy there are still jobs available. but some of As seniors scour classifieds to secure the those jobs don't hit the classified section. perfect job and juniors and sophomores look However, there are industries that have 
for the best paid intern­ship, Saint Mary's coun­seling and career develop­ment center is kicking off its first annual spring career campaign. 
With the events of Sept. 11 sending the job market into a downward spiral and unemployment mnn­bers at a high, the career center saw an opportunity to educate students. Students entering what 
managed to gain dur­ing the recent crunch. 'The most important thing Wilkeson says that banking and mortgag­
is ... building relationships 
ing firms, health care, 
... that will ultimately lend 
and social services and 
its hands to a job. " government openings have all experienced a surge. So another
David Wilkeson 
important point the assistant director campaign stresses, is 
David Wilkeson. assistant director of coun­seling and career development center calls a "tight labor market" must know and possess the necessary skills needed to obtain a job. The career campaign hopes to teach stu­dents the meaning of a recession, features to getting a job, and options for post-graduate service. 
'The most important thing is networking. Building relationships with contacts that will ultimately lend its hand to a job," Wilkeson said. 
Today's Alumnae Resource Network open house starts students on the path to learning how to network toward the job they want. The service also hopes the network channels will give students information to the skills they will need to complete a thorough job search. 
In light of downsizing and layoffs, the options. Students of 
any major, as they open up their options, can look for jobs and internships in areas never known before. 
"There is a myth that there are not a lot of jobs for liberal arts majors -but there are -it is just a matter of how to conduct a job search," Wilkenson said. 
The SURV office hopes to open students' minds to post-graduate service. Whether it be AmeriCorps or Peace Corps, the service fair tomorrow aims to enlighten students on other options they have after graduation. 
"For those students not seeking grad school, they will have to find something to do and if they know sooner than later it will help them." WIikeson said. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO18l@saintmarys.edu. 

. ND and SMC professors create course material to address the terrorist tragedy 
By BRIAN MURPHY 
NewsWricer 
The events of Sept. 11 left many asking questions ranging from the nature of terrorism, to the history of Islam, and even the Catholic belief concerning war and vio­lence. Universities across the nation have responded by offering new courses, restructuring old courses and raising class sizes in the courses that directly confront the questions and problems aris­ing from the terrorist attacks. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are no different. 
Beginning this spring several courses have been created or restructured in direct response to the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. They cover several department<; and discuss varying issues. At 


1a -.. AJ~mnae Resource Network Center:C,lpen House, LeMans Hall, room 168, 4 p.m. to 7 

p.m. 

Tuesd~y, Feb. 19 -Second annual Post Graduation Fair, Staplet~n.Lounge, 6:3(lp.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Wed11i~ii~;, Feb. 27----. Graduatinglntoa Rescession: A panefdiscussion, Haggar, room 303j7 p.m. 
Thursday, Feb. 28 -Live video conference: The Hidden Job M~~~~t., Regina Hall, room 152,S p.m. 
. ·.'\,:i.!:.1...\;.:i.:::.•.:==··:·:.-=.\:.•.=:::.·/·\-_'='c·::: .. . 
Wednesday, March 6 -Spring Break: Beginning your J.ob search, LeMans Lobby, 5p.m. 
T~~rj~!ytApril 4 ----~race Under Pressure: Basic R~l:s?:' ( ,~sines!; ~1;9u~tte, Stapleton Lounge, 5:30 to 7:3 .· .qt, by RSVP only 

prU 22 t~;mnursday, Aern 25 -Last ·••. nior Jot>t ec1rch~ .Contact Counseling and 

·· nterat~8.'1;4565 
SISTER BONDING AT SMC 


Classes respond to Sept. 11 
Notre Dame, classes discussing Sept. 11 are present in the gov­ernment, management, history, theology and American studies departments with emphasis on very different topics. The courses add to a complete understanding of terrorism and its effects both nationally and globally. 
"It's good to learn and talk about the issues," said assistant professor of history Paul Cobb, who teaches the "Modern Middle East" course this semester. "But courses about the Middle East a.re not the only important ones now. Courses on ethics, freedom and government are also needed." 
And the University has respond­ed with courses that range from a historical perspective in Cobb's Modern Middle East, History 395, to a theological and moral per­spective in "Christian Attitudes Toward War, Peace and Revolution," Theology 567. Others, such as "Managing Difference and Conflict," Management 607. discuss ethnic. religious and racial diflerences as potential sources ofboth creativity and conflict. 
Saint Mary's has done the same by incorporating Sept.11 into existing courses. 
Mark Stein, a history professor at the College, is addressing issues such as wiretapping potential offenders' phones and determin­ing the fine line between free speech and criminal conspiracy should be crossed. 
"We dealt with if there are going to be restrictions on freedom of speech with regard to religious groups," Stein said. 
With the timeliness and promi­nence of such issues, participation and interest within the classes also has increased. 
Notre Dame professor Heidi Ardizonne, who teaches "Homefronts During War," a 300­level American studies course, noticed considerable interest in her course that was developed in response to and inspired by Sept. 
11. Thirty-five students are presently in the class and interest was especially high among American studies majors, Ardizzone said. 
Ardizonne said students were interested in the Sept. 11 but even 
see RESPONSE/page 4 

page2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, February 18, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sport or not a sport? 
Now that the Canadian pair has been awarded a second gold medal along with the Russian pair, everything ~ right in the world offigure skating. Right? 
Wrong. 
The only way t.o truly solve 
the mess that figure skating has become is to throw it out of the Olympics. The International Olympic Committee should throw figure skating, ice danc­ing. ballroom dancing and every other sport that relies on an "artistic interpretation" score to detennine a winner. 


The Olympic.s are about a1h-Mike Connolly 
letic competition, not art. Art 
has its place -in a museum. 

They don't give out gold medals Editor in Chieif 
for painting, so why do they try 
tojudge art on ice? 
The major controversy with 

the Canadians receiving a silver and not a gold 
revolves around a French judge who was allegedly 
pre»ured to vote for the Russians. 
Even ifthese allegations are true, they still don't address the other fourjudges that voted for the Canadians rather than the Russians. Ifthe Canadians' program was so flawless and perlect. why did four WlCOlTUpted judges still think the Russians won? And what about the four judges that chose the Canadians? Were their selections com­pletely unbiased? What ifthe French judge had been pressured the other way and selected the C'.anadians no matter what. Would there still be a great contro­versy? 
It is impossible to answer these questions because there is no objective way t.o say which "artistic inter­pretation" was better. Art by its very nature is subjec­tive. Some people like some kinds ofart. others like different art. But there is no competitive "winner" in art. 
The Pa1riots are the indisputable best football team in the country tlns year because they scored more poinls then the Rams and won the Superbowl No one can contest their championship. When Oscar time rolls armmd and one ofthe movies wins Best Picture, people can still argue that another movie was better. It is the nature ofartjudging-beauty is in the eye ofthe beholder. 
But the Olympics aren't about art or subjective champions. Lugers don't get a five second head start iftheir unifonns are a prettier color and ski jumpers don't get extra meters added t.o theirjump iftheir eye shadow is nice. Butsomehow those things matter in figure skating. Choreography is great on Broadway but has no place in an athletic competition. 
So ifthe IOC really wants to solve this figure skating fiasco, it needs to throw the "sport" out of the Olympics. Tell figure skating officials to come up with a new system for judging and then figure skating and other "artistic" sports can be allowed back in. Rather than basing points on artistic interpretation, base it on degree ofdifficulty. Just like arial skiing or diving, certain maneuvers and tricks are worth certain points. 
Judges are still involved but their role is clearly defined. Ifa triple toe loop is worth eight points, there will be a list ofautomatic deductions that must be taken ifthe move is not perfonned correctly. It works in diving, why can't it work in figure skating. 
Iffigure skating and "sports" like it don't want to make these changes, that's fine. They just won't be allowed back in the Olympics. They can continue to perform their routines at places like Carnegie Hall where art belongs -not in an arena. 
This system is not a knock against figure skaters ­the are better athletes than I am. But their sport is completely flawed. Ballet dancers are more athletic than Iam but that doesn't mean the Olympira should be handing out gold medals t.o dancers any more than a point guard should expect to win a Tony Award. 
Art and sports have their places. Combining the two of them together, only produces a mess. 
Cont.act Mixe Conno/Jy at connolly.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the In.side Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mi,takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please com:aa us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publuhcd Monday through Friday acept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer i• • member of the Associated Press. NI reproduction rii;hts au resc,vcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
Olympics cause housing issues 
The University of Utah has been transformed from a typical university into a highly secured home for Olympic athletes. Sarah Morton said the changes began when new townhouse style residence halls were built to house athletes. Students moved from the old residence halls, built in the 1950s, to the spacious village residence halls. Next, students began to see extra security measures as big concrete barriers and fences were put up. In December, students living in the new residence halls were forced to move back to the old building. "They hired ·a moving company to move all of our stuff," Morton said. "They had to start getting the Olympic vil­lage ready." While living in the old residence halls for the three weeks during the Olympic games, students are not required to pay rent, however, they have no cafete­ria. Students will not move back into the residence halls until early April since the Paralympic Games run during March. "The weird part is moving back in," Morton said. "Some people are staying in the old dorm because they don't want to move again." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

orecast 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
\ 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday 
UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Officials say gender gap closing 
University of Wisconsin-Madison is making progress in achieving gender equity in faculty salaries, partly due to a 2000-01 pay review exer­cise that resulted in salary adjustments for 42 female faculty members, university officials announced Thursday. But one UW-Madison profes­sor who sued the institution in 1997 with claims of gender-based salary differences said UW-Madison still has much progress to make. The university compiled a history of corrections made regarding gender-based salary discrepancies, conducting stud­ies in the past 10 years to address the issue. A 1992 study revealed a "systematic difference" in UW­Madison female faculty pay that "couldn't be accounted for on the basis of subdiscipline, years since highest degree and so on," according to UW­Madison Provost Peter Spear. Now, Duello said she awards UW-Madison little merit for its efforts. "I don't give credit for their itsy-bitsy motions," she said. 
. Lecture: "Mexican and American  . Event: "Memories through  . International Film: "Peppermint  
Women Composers," Windows on  Storytelling: The Story of Harriet  Candy," 7 and 9 p.m., Montgomery  
Music Series, Daniel Vega-Albela,  Tubman," Vernell Ball Daniel,  Theater, La.Fortune  
noon, Little Theater, Saint Mary's  8 p.m., The Snite  . Theater: "MacBeth," Actor's  
. Lecture: "Diasbility Humor, An  . Event: "Disabilities at Notre  From the London stage, 7:30 p.m.,  
Important Bridge," Richard Harris,  Dame," student led discussion,  Washington Hall  
6 p.m., Haggar Parlor, Saint Mary's  8 p.m.. Coleman-Morse Building  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 
University of Texas dean resigns from Enron board 
AUSTIN "/ guess the ultimate question a judicial watchdog group, said University of Texas School of Law Powers' decision is good for the
is ifhe should have joined the 
Dean William Powers Jr. resigned school and its image. from the Enron Corp.'s board of board in the first place, but "For appearance's sake, he proba­directors Thursday, citing a need to that's open to debate.,, bly did the right thing," Feldman said. refocus on the University. "I guess the ultimate question is if he 
In a letter of resignation to Enron should have joined the board in the 
Chris Feldman

executive John Duncan, Powers said first place, but that's open to debate." he had completed investigating the Austin attorney Feldman was one of several critics company's questionable transactions who said Powers' presence on and wishes to focus on his duties as Enron's board of directors posed a dean ofthe law school. As dean, Powers is responsible for conflict of interest. 
UT President Larry Faulkner said developing academic and research The controversy stemmed from the he has spoken to Powers about his programs; working as a contact for large amount of contributions Enron growing obligations at Enron, but the faculty, students and other campus had made to the University in the past administration never asked him to units; maintaining relationships with and Powers' ties to a company offi­reconsider the position. alumni and the government; and cial. 
"He came to this decision on his overseeing the school's $20.1 million Critics said Enron's large contribu­own," Faulkner said. "I think he feels operating budget and $156 million tions to the University, including he's made his contribution, and we endowment. $250,000 to the law school, would applaud him for turning his attention Chris Feldman, an Austin, Texas, inhibit Powers' ability to serve as an back to the law school." attorney who works for Public Citizen, independent board member. 


The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 18. 
COLD WARM STATIONAAY
0 2002 AccuWealher, Inc. 
,,,.,.,,,., 
:?"•\, -t;~--­
~-"l;~.;-··-,:.

® © . CZ1 CJJ . . El 
High Low Shower ¦ Rain T"'11lDnna Flun"le• snow I<>• Sunny Pl. Cloudy CloUdy 
WIA/ilSOCJal9dPl8U 




q_Q_QqGQ (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 70 58 Philadelphia 56 41 Washington. DC 62 45
V•-P-•G _, 
Monday, February 18, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 3 

Jordanian student clai01s abuse 
. Awadallah insist mistreatment by the police due to Sept. 11 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A lawyer testified Sunday that a Jordanian student with alleged ties to two Sept. 11 hijackers appeared to have been bruised when he was gripped by guards. 
The testimony from Marvin Les Owen, senior staff attorney at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in 
that he had been mistreat­ed. 
Owen testified that he noticed some bruising on Awadallah's arms on Oct. 4, a few days after Awadallah arrived in New York City after being transported from California, where he was taken into custody on Sept. 21 as a material witness. 
"Mr. Awadallah indicated that he wasn't punched or slapped or kicked," Owen said. 
He said the bruises may have resulted as Awadallah was "gripped firmly while undergoing transfer" or 
from leg 
Manhattan. and wrist
"Emotion and tension
came as restraints the gov-were running high used as he ernment throughout the prison as was moved. defended Awadallah
to other inmates." 
its treat­has been ment of charged 0 s am a with twice
Marvin Les Owen Awadallah. attorney lying to a 
u . s . New York District grand jury Judge Shira Scheindlin con­about his association with ducted the hearing after two people suspected of par­concluding in a written ticipating in the hijacking of opinion issued last month the plane used to attack the that Awadallah "may have Pentagon. If convicted, he been the victim of coercion could face up to 10 years in and intimidation." prison. 
Owen said he investigated Randall Hamud, one of Awadallah's treatment after Awadallah's lawyers, testi­the 21-year-old student at fied Sunday that bruises Grossmont College, in El depicted in government pho­Cajon, Calif., complained tographs taken during med­
ical examinations of Awadallah didn't show the seriousness of the injuries. 
Hamud said he saw bruis­es and welts on his client's arms, wrists and ankles and a bruise across the back of his neck. 
"They were quite pro­nounced on his arms and quite red," he said. 
He said Awadallah com­plained repeatedly that he had been beaten by guards. 
Owen said the prison, which is adjacent to two federal courthouses in lower Manhattan, had instituted several measures for the safety of prisoner.s and employees after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
Owen said each inmate held as part of the broad terrorism investigation was videotaped while being moved and was kept isolat­ed from other inmates angry tnat the United States had been attacked. 
"Emotion and tension were running high through­out the prison as to other inmates," Owen said. 
He said the inmates were not permitted visitors or telephone calls until late October because security was dramatically tightened· 
after  the  attacks  and  
because  telephone  lines  
were down.  


The Snite Museum of Art & The Black Cultural Arts Council 

Students and faculty are invited to Memories Through Storytelling: The Story of Harriet Tubman 
Tuesday, February 19, .8 pm Presented llve by Mrs. Vernell Ball Danie! Annenberg Auditorium, The Snlte Museum of Art 
Students are Invited to Special Student Event 
Thursday, February 21, 7 pm Special showing for students of the visiting exhibition Masks and Figures, Form and Style: The Christensen Family Collects Mestrovlc Studio Gallery, The Snlte Museum of Art Voices of Faith gospel choir will perfonn 
ca11 631-5466 for further Information 

Pig organs an option for human transplants 
vessels. Because it is nearly

. Researcher's 
identical to a bacterial sugar,perdict procedure the human immune system to be feasible in attacks it. As a result, pig 
organs transplanted into peo­

five to seven years 
p Ie are destroyed almost 
instantly. 

lmmerge's pigs were born in A.sso~iated Pr= September and October and PPL's in December. The next 
BOSTON step will be to breed these pigs 

Transplanting genetically 
with each other. Cooper said

modified hearts and other 
efforts to do this should begin 
organs from pigs to people 
within two months as the old­

could be possible in five to 
est animals reach sexual 
seven years, hut maturity. 
many scientific 
There is and ethical "We live in a world of a 1-in-4 
questions 
chance

risk, and this is an
remain, scien­
that each 

tists said 6.additional risk. " 
offspring

Sunday. 
will be 

Researchers 
born with

Fritz H. Bach 
are changing pigs' genes to "humanize" their organs, making them more like people's so they will serve as alternatives to human cadavers for transplanted organs. 
The scientists described the progress toward animal sources -an approach called xenotransplantation -at a conference in Boston spon­sored by the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
Sunday's meeting followed an important milestone last month. Two companies said they have produced litters of cloned miniature pigs that lack one copy of a gene that makes pig parts incompatible with human immune defenses. 
"I strongly believe it will be a major step forward, but it won't be the only problem to be solved," said Dr. David Cooper of Massachusetts General Hospital. 
Both Cooper and Dr. Fritz H. Bach, another transplant sci­entist at Boston's Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, predicted that the transplants could take place in the next five to seven years, if these problems can be figured out. 
In January, Immerge BioTherapeutics and PPL Therapeutics both said they had created pigs that lack one of the two usual copies of a gene that makes a sugar called alpha-1-galactose. 
This sugar lines pig blood 
no copies

doctor 
of the gene. No one knows for sure 

whether pigs can survive with­out alpha-1-galactose. But if they can, the animals could be raised to supply hearts and kidneys for human trans­plants. 
Scientists will have to test the process first by transplant­ing the pig organs into other animals, such as baboons. Another worry is whether the organs will carry pig viruses that could be harmful to peo­ple, especially if they spread from the organ recipient to others. 
Bach said people should debate whether the risk, how­ever remote, is worth taking. 
"We live in a world of risk, and this is an additional risk," said Bach. "If the medical establishment imposes this on the public and there is a potential risk, I feel ethically we have to go to the public." 
However, Cooper said the decision should be left to regu­latory agencies, which have the expertise to wade through the highly technical arguments on both sides. 
All pig cells carry a so-called retrovirus that is harmless to them. but no one knows what it might do to humans. Scientists are working with a strain of pigs that cannot spread this virus to human cells. However, Bach said he is concerned about possible pig viruses that have not been dis­covered yet. 


SUPER SAVINGS! 
pt·zZA COMPA~ 
Call: 271-1277 
$2 off any Medium or $3 off any Large 

{not good with other discounts or offers) Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1.49! We'll match any Papa John's,Domino's or Marco's Coupon We take Visa & Mastercard! 
I 
_JI 


Monday, February 18, 2002
page 4 The Observer . NEWS 
Fu1



Response 
continued from page 1 



Courts sentence nationalist to death 
more interested in past historical 
events that relate to it. 
his trial. Speight wept with his charges -including treason Government," and unlawfully"I don't necessarily see them 
• George Speight head bowed as Justice along with Speight. trying to overturn the coun­
more engaged in Sept. 11 but led a coup in Michael Scott sentenced him However, after Speight's sen­try's constitution. 
more engaged when reading 
to hang. "May the lord have tencing defense attorneys said They were also accused of
2000 that was
about historical wars," she said. 
mercy on your soul." the that the others would also killing a policeman before
Cobb's course discusses and overturned judge said. Speight's wife, sit­likely have their charges their armed rebellion ended,attempts to make connections ting behind him, wiped tears reduced. It was not immedi­in late July 2000. 
between past Islamic movements from her eyes. ately clear to what. Chaudhry, who leads tho
Associated Pres. 
and the present forms of Islamic Speight was found guilty of Comjng into the court earli­Fiji Labor Party, said Mondayfundamentalism to further discus­SUVA treason, which carries a er Monday. Speight had he was "relieved" the mattersion and relevance. He changed A Fijian nationalist was sen­mandatory death sentence. looked calm. He was wearing had ended. 
the course from past semesters to 
tenced to death Monday for However, prosecutors and a traditional Fijian skirt, Elections last year brought
this spring make more room for leading a coup two years ago defense attorneys both known as a sulu. He was "in a new government led bythe discussion of terrorism. 
that plunged this Pacific requested the sentence be very high spirits and looking Prime Minister Laisenia"I tweaked the way I teach the island nation into political and immediately commuted to life forward to the start of the Qarase, an ethnic Fijian who course by front-loading the cur­economic turmoil. His lawyers in prison. Speight's Australian case," said his wife, Torika. supports parts of Speight'srent issue of terrorism up front," said they expected the sen­attorney, Ron Cannon, said he With the armed takeover in declared nationalist agenda. 
Cobb said. 
tence to be reduced to life in expected President Ratu 2000 came riots, arson, loot­The country is slowly recov­Cobb changed the class limit prison. Josefa IloiJo to sign a.n order ing and the overthrew of ering from the effects of the
this spring from the normal 
George Speight, an indige­reducing the sentence by the Prime Minister Mahendra coup. In particular, the coun­amount of 35 to 50, his class­nous Fijian, led an armed end of the day. Chaudhry. Chaudhry was the try's vital tourism industry isroom's maximwn capacity. 
overthrow in May 2000 of the Cannon said Speight wanted first prime minister from Fiji's beginning to recover.
He, like other professors, said country's first ethnic Indian to plead guilty in order to help ethnic Indian community. Speight openly admits lead­he does not want to force his opin­premier. seizing Parliament close the country's ethnic which makes up about 44 per­ing the uprising, but claims he ions and ideas about the terrorist and taking the prime minis­wounds. cent of the country and wields was granted immunity during attacks on students. but rather ter. the Cabinet and other "This would then put the considerable economic and the coup by the Great Councilwants them to form their own. 
lawmakers hostage. He said matter to rest and we hope political power. of Chiefs. the country's tradi­"I present situations and dilem­he led the coup in order to will be accepted by the com­Speight and his supporters tional rulers. The council's 
mas and engage thinking as 
win back political power for munity as our contribution to were later caught and political role is largely sym­responsible adults to come up the indigenous, who make up the stability of the country charged with 13 "overt acts." bolic, but its members stillwith their own conclusions and 51 percent of the country. and to reconciliation," Cannon The indictment accused them command great respect andideas," Cobb said. 
Sitting in the court dock on said. of forming an illegal "Taukei influence among ethnic
Many of the students in the 
what was to be the first day of Twelve other people face [indigenous Fijian] Civilian Fijians.
classes are beginning to under­stand al-Qaeda terrorism and other ideas related to Sept. 11. 
Mike Richard. a senior govern­
BELGIUM
ment major, is taking Govt. 327, "Problems of Contemporary Violence: Terrorism, War, and Peace after September 11." 


Pastor stands trial for murder charge 
Richard is not taking the course 
solely to fulfill requirements of his Pandy's daughter Agnes, 44, is Pandy and claims the publicity Pandy is also charged with theacademic major. He is in the Air 
Associated P rcss 
the chief witness against her surrounding the case has made attempted murder of Timea.
Force ROTC and faces the possi • father. She has confessed to tak­a fair trial impossible. who later fled to Canada withbility of being engaged in combat 
BRUSSELS 
ing part in five of the killings, Prosecutors allege Pandy her son, now aged 16. 
with terrorists after he graduates. 
A Protestant pastor accused of including that of her mother. forced his daughters and step­The bodies of the victims are'The course gives us insight into killing six members of his family She claims to have acted out of daughters into sex, then turned alleged to have been cut intomotivations behind al-Qaeda," goes on trial Monday in a case fear ofher father. to murder between 1986 and pieces, dissolved in drain clean­Richard said. "It's an attempt at that has shocked Belgium with Pandy denies the charges. His 1989 to cover up the incest after ing fluid and dumped in therationalizing the reasoning behind its allegations of incest and mur­lawyer, Hein Diependaele, has one stepdaughter, Timea, then basement of the house or amidthe terrorism as a response to der. 
disputed the testimony of Agnes 20, became pregnant. Agnes animal waste. 
modernization and the domina­
Andras Pandy, 74, was arrest­tion of the West in global society." 
ed in 1997 after police foundr -r.::=================================71 
1

Father Michael Baxter, who 
body parts hidden in his
teaches "Christian Attitudes 
Brussels home. Toward War, Peace and 
The Hungarian-born minis­Revolution," a course discussing 
ter was charged with killing the Church's attitudes about the 
two wives, two of his sons 




YOU WANT TO
nature of peace and morality of 
and two stepdaughters, andl war. 
with raping his daughter andl "It gives students a language to 
stepdaughters. talk about morality of war and 
Police believe he may also peacemaking.," Baxter said. 
have killed at least seven other people whose unidenti­fied remains were wiearthed 


CHANGE THINGS.
in the home. 
Contact Brian Murphy at bmurphy3@nd.edu. 
fi U t / lJ tJ (.J fll t., I I I !Tl, '1.J t t., VI U (_;'II 1 111ru 1r1uu~1L jJ1lJ0UUfS 

Application Deadline: February 21st 
,..,.'<"°"jl 
~-h<~~<-< ;/-Lf;fi:/ 
TEACH FOR AMERICA IS THE NATIONAL CORPS THAT

J\<·lors l .1n )1 ll 'l1JH\ London ~(a[..{<' CALLS UPON OUTSTANDING AND DIVERSE RECENT COLLEGE GRADUATES TO COMMIT TWO YEARS TO TEACHl\Jlaclletl1 
IN URBAN AND RURAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS ANO BECOME LIFELONG LEADERS IN ENSURING THAT ALL OF OUR NATION'S CHILDREN HAVE AN EQUAL CHANCE IN LIFE. 

Wednesday, February 20 ............. 7:30 p.m. No previous education coursowork required. Full teacher salary and benefits.
Thursday, February 21 ................. 7:30 p.m. 
Friday, February 22 ...................... 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 

TEACHFORAMERICA
Playing at Washington H<.111 • University of Notre Dorne 
Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $1 2 
www.teachfora merica.o rg 
Tickets available at Lafortune Student Center Ticket Oflice. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631 ·81 28. 




ATION 
Monday, February 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Saudi to receive 4,750 lashes: A Saudi court has sentenced a man to six years in prison and 4,750 lashes for having sex with his wife's sister, a newspaper reported Sunday. The woman involved in the case was sentenced to six months in jail and 65 lashes, the paper Al-Eqtisadiah reported, though the court found she had not consented to the rela­tionship. 
Libyan court rules on AIDS cases: 
A court ended its trial of six Bulgarian medics accused of infecting Libyan children with AIDS, throwing out charges of sabotage and cooperation with foreign parties and sending the case back to prosecutors. The Bulgarians have been on trial for two years and are accused of injecting 393 children with AIDS at a Libyan hospital. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Protests call for Cardinal to resign: 
Demonstrators carried protest signs and sang hymns Sunday outside the residence of Cardinal Bernard Law, demanding that he resign because of his handling of allegations that priests sexually abused children. Calls for Law's resignation have intensified since he admitted he transferred defrocked priest John Geoghan to other churches after learning of sexual abuse accusations against him. 

Lady Liberty replica donated: A 37­
foot statue of Lady Liberty that has stood on a rooftop for a century was on Sunday hauled to its new home at the Brooklyn Museum of Art. The Athena Group, who own both the statue itself and Liberty Warehouse where it stood, donated the artwork to the museum in honor of the police officers, firefighters and other emergency workers killed Sept. 11. It will be featured in the museum's sculpture garden. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Students arrested after threat: 
Police arrested three more Purdue University students in connection with a bomb threat that forced the evacuation of a campus resi­dence hall. Freshmen Sara Chrzan, 18, Whitne Pittman, 19, and Nsharra Turner, 19, were arrested Friday. All three could face a sentence of up to one year in prison and a fine of up to $5,000 if they are convicted. Authorities said the three women knew about a phone call 19-year-old Micah Williams was accused of making claiming that there was a bomb in the building's basement. 
Market Watch February 15 
Dow 9,903.04 -98.95 
Jones 


Composite
Same: 


Volume:
215 

1,346,119,936 
AMEX: 849.16 +2.34 NASDAQ: 1,805.20 -38.17 NYSE: 57L25 ~ 4.41 S&P 500: 1,104.18 -12.30 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 


OMPANV/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
ORLDCOM INC-WO -5.48 -0.39 6.73 SDAQ-100 INDEX -2.98 -1.10 35. 78 UN MICROSYSTEM -4.30 -0.40 8. 90 ISCO SYSTEMS -2.12 -0.37 17.09 WEST COMMUNICA +0.93 +0.07 7.56 
AFGHANISTAN 


Associated Press 
KABUL 
Afghan leader Hamid Karzai on Sunday vowed stern justice for high-rank­ing officials in his own gov­ernment who he said assassinated the country's aviation minister. 
Karzai has blamed the minister's death on a per­sonal vendetta among gov­ernment officials despite initial reports that said he was killed by a mob of would-be Islamic pilgrims furious over flight delays to Saudi Arabia. 

This year's hajj, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca, has become a source of contention as the government tries to restore order in post­Taliban Afghanistan. Thousands are unable to make the journey because of a lack of flights. 
Speaking at the presi­dential palace in Kabul, Karzai said more suspects had been arrested in the killing of Abdul Rahman, the aviation and tourism minister, and promised that the perpetrators would be dealt with "very, very sternly." 
"There will not be any lenient hand there. They will be given to justice, they have committed a murder," he said. 
Karzai said he expected that three senior govern­ment officials wanted in connection with the minis­ter's death Thursday would be returned to Afghanistan from Saudi Arabia. Karzai met Sunday with the Saudi ambassador and said later that two of the suspects were in Saudi custody. 

Senators mull campaign finance 
campaigned for president in 2000 on Daschle, D-S.D., has said the Senate
Associated Press 
the need to overhaul campaign would consider the House measure 
WASHINGTON financing, said he -believes his side rather than forming a conference 
Senators made competing claims will win. committee to work out a compro­Sunday about their ability to derail "I am confident that we will prevail mise. or push through legislation aimed at over time. This system has lurched The House bill would ban corpora­reducing the role of money in poliJ completely out of control," he said on tions, unions and individuals from tics. NBC's "Meet the Press." "I think making large, unregulated "soft 
Kentucky Republican Mitch we've have 60 votes." money" donations to political par­McConnell, the Senate's leading The Senate, led by McCain and ties. It also would restrict unions, opponent of a bill to overhaul cam­Sen. Russ Feingold, D-Wis., passed a corporations and some independent paign financing, asserted he has bill very similar to the House mea­groups from broadcasting specific enough votes to block or soften the sure in April by a 59-41 vote. issue ads within 60 days of general measure that passed the House last Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., one of election or within 30 days of a pri­week. three Democrats who voted against mary election. 
"This bill is amendable and debat­McCain-Feingold. said last week he McConnell, who has successfully able, and unless at some point 60 would now support it, giving backers led opposition to previous reform senators decide to let it pass, it will the 60 votes they need if all 11 attempts, would need at least 40 not pass," he said on "Fox News Republicans and independent Jim senators to back him in delaying the Sunday." Jeffords of Vermont, who voted for it bill through a filibuster. 
One of the bill's chief House spon­last time, hold their positions. But "I think I will have 41 at the very sors, Rep. Christopher Shays, R­one of those Republicans, Sen. Ted least ... to allow us to make changes Conn., said "amendments basically Stevens of Alaska, said he was now that may be necessary," he said. kill the bill." against the bill. He also threatened to go to court 
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who Senate Majority Leader Tom about the bill. 
page6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, February 18, 2002 
FRANCE 
Franc officially retired 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
France officially buried the 

centuries-old French franc ­
out of business at midnight 
Sunday -and hailed the 
euro at a 
ceremony hours before the clock pro­nounced the old money dead. 
Giant 


sparklers Jospin 
mounted on the ground in the Finance Ministry courtyard consumed flags representing francs in a 
frenzy of fire. Flags repre­senting the euro climbed the flagpole. 
France was the third coun­try -after the Netherlands and Ireland -to officially part with its national curren­cy since the euro went into circulation in 12 of the 15 European Union countries on Jan. 1. 
The other euro countries will give up their local cur­rency by Feb. 28. 
The low-key ceremony underscored the almost instant success of the euro. But it was an anticlimactic finish for the franc, which 
PHILIPPINES 
U.S. soldiers battle Muslim extremists 
Associated Press 
TABIAWAN ARMY BASE 

U.S. Army attack helicopters whipped up dust clouds and blew the tops off coconut trees as 30 U.S. Special Forces troops arrived on an island in the southern Philippines to train soldiers battling Muslim extrem­ists. 
The start of the training mis­sion opens a new front in the 
U.S. war against terrorism and marks the largest American deployment in the campaign after Afghanistan. U.S. officials say the Abu Sayyaf rebels have been linked to al-Qaida. 
The Special Forces troops who arrived at Tabiawan army base, the first of 160 due on Basilan in the coming days, were to head for other Philippine military camps on the rugged island where the government has been tracking the guerrillas for months, sometimes engag:ing in combat. 
The U.S. forces will train the Philippine army in night fight­ing, night flying and psychologi­cal operations. They may travel into combat zones but are per­mitted to fire only in self­defense. 
"We will take all measures to defend ourselves," said U.S. Special Forces Lt. Col. David Maxwell. who arrived with his men Sunday at the base, a jum­ble of bamboo huts, crowing roosters and grazing goats amid mahogany and coconut trees. 
The troops flew in from the was born in December 1360 owned by the Bank of France. as the "Francorum Rex," a At least two-thirds of the gold piece used to buy free­francs in existence have dom for already been K i n g collected and
"We can in France realize destroyed, offi­Jean Le Bon, held 
great reforms on the cials have said. "I'd say there
by the condition that they be 
was emotion,"

English 
carried out with and for said Bank of
during 
the French." F r a n c e
the 100 
Governor Jean­

Ye a rs 
Claude Trichet 

War. Lionel Jospin 
on France-2 T h e socialist prime ministry television. 
fr a n c was later eclipsed by the ecu and other curren­cies, to he permanently revived in 1795. 
Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, in a brief speech, attributed the euro's successful introduction to a pulling together among the often divisive French. 
"We can in France realize great reforms on the condi­tion that they be carried out with and for the French," Jospin said. "We succeeded with the euro together, and we did it because we were together." 
There were no words of thanks for the franc's loyal service over the centuries. The fiery image of the franc's demise at the ceremony reflected reality. Francs are being punched with holes, then ground to shreds or carted off to incinerators 
Philippine military's Southern Command headquarters across a strait from Basilan in Zamboanga, where more than 250 American military support personnel are staying for the six-month maneuvers called Balikatan, or "shoulder to shoulder." 
The U.S. contingent is to grow to its full size of 660 personnel. including the 160 Special Forces troops, in the coming weeks. 
Shortly after landing, some 
U.S. soldiers strung up ham­mocks and napped as others began installing equipment and more attended a briefing in a grass-roofed hut. 
While only about 80 Abu Sayyaf members are believed to remain on Basilan -several hundred others operate on nearby islands -they know the mountainous jungles well enough to have eluded thou­sands of Philippine troops for more than eight months with hostages in tow. 
Missionaries Martin and Gracia Burnham of Wichita. Kan., and Filipina nurse Deborah Yap have been in Basilan's jungle-covered moun­
tains since the Abu Sayyaf seized them during a kidnap­ping spree that began last May. 
Another American, Guillermo Sobero of Corona, Calif., was among several captives killed by the rebels. Others were freed, reportedly in exchange for huge ransoms. 
About 5,000 Filipino soldiers have been deployed to Basilan since June. 
Former con­
servative Prime 
Minister Edouard Balladur, not pre­sent at the ceremony, looked only to the future. 
"It's useless to give in to nostalgia," said Balladur, also a former finance minister, on France-Inter radio. 
The franc "is a piece of and a symbol of our history," he added. But, "what counts is the future." 
While no longer legal ten­der, francs can still be exchanged for euros at banks until the end of June. Procrastinators can change coins at the Bank of France for another three years, and notes for another 10 years. 
Other countries using the euro are Austria, Belgium, Finland, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal and Spain. Britain, Sweden and Denmark have opted out. 

Convicted killer 
flees Texas prison 
Associated Press 
ABILENE, Texas 
A convicted killer overpowered a correctional officer and escaped from a state penitentiary SW1day. 
John William Roland. 33. took Sgt. Wesley Hurt's uniform, handcuffed and beat him before escaping in Hurt's pickup truck about 4:45 a.m.. said Larry Todd. spokesman for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. He said there was no weapon in the truck. 
Hurt was treated in a hospital for cuts and bruises and released 
Sunday. He told investi­gators Roland had threat­ened to kill him. 
Todd said Roland has been serving a life sen­tence for murder since 1993 in 
Abilene, about 170 miles west of Dallas. 
Boland was serving a life sen­tence for fatally shooting a for­mer roommate, Thomas Columbus Barrett of Hurst. He had been in prison since May of 1993. 
Todd said Roland asked to speak with Hurt in a secluded area of the prison after breakfast and then beat him about the head and legs. 
"An officer out at the front of tho unit noticed the pickup leaving the promises, but thought it was not unusual since it appeared to be driven by a correctional officer," Todd said. 
The prison is conducting an internal investigation. 
The escape from the state facili­ty follows a string of county jail breaks. 
Two convicted murderers and two others awaiting trial on mur­der charges escaped Jan. 28 from 

"An officer out at the front ofthe unit noticed the pickup leaving the premises, but thought it was not unusual. ,, 
Larry Todd 
spokesperson 
the Montague County Jail by overpowering a female guard and fleeing in her sport utility vehicle. 
They were taken back into custody Feb. 6 at a convenience store near 
Ardmore, Okla., after a nine-day manhllllt. 
On Feb. 5, two men broke out of the Hood County Jail in Granbury. They were captured five days later in Fort Worth. 
According to the state jail com­mission records. 56 inmates broke out of county jails in Texas last year. 

"Jung (War) in the Land of the Mujaheddin" 
A documentary about life in Afghanistan and challenges of establishing a hospital in the mist of the civil war 
"This gripping film, on~e seen, is unforgettable." -The New York Times 
Tuesday, February 19 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
7:00 pm FREE PIZZA AND SODA 
After the Taliban came to power in Afghanistan, many schools and homes have been bumtdown, lives lost, and the country's landscape marked with the signs of war. This includes land mines covering the ground, many of which are stepped on each day by innocent victims. This film examines the experiences of an Italian surgeon and war correspondent as they set up and run a hospital in today's war tom Afghanistan. This hospital is meant to help these war victims, and presents many challenges and frustrations to its founders. 
Sponsored by Global Health Initiative (GHI) 


Monday, February 18, 2002 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Feds take over air·port security 
II 
College of Engineering 
Spotlight Nights 2002 
trained, higher-paid federal and waited for his ride, Mark
for First-Year Students 
As.ociated P re.s 

work force to screen passen-Bontrager of Springfield, Va., 


e n d , " would not
**************************************ww~ ~AA x ---------~ 
Jones said before her flight to complain even if federal over­Jacksonville, Fla. sight meant more thorough But Mike Adams, a ticket checks. "We're thrilled with agent for AirTran Airways at any kind of excess screening,"
I* tit . I * 
* Interested in being a * Atlanta's Hartsfield she said. International Airport, said he Security workers said they
* * did not see any changes. were aware of the federal "It's all internal," Adams supervision.
i * • i * 
said. "Security's security, so I 'Tm nervous," said Girish! SMC C1ass Officer in! don't think you'll see the gov-Vakil, a security worker for ernment do anything differ-Argenbright Security Inc. at$ 2002-2003? $ ent." Dallas-Forth Worth. He As he sat on a suitcase in added: "I'm a good worker, 
* * 
* * the Dulles baggage claim area never failed a test."
t* Then come to one of the mandatory t* 
The American Cancer Society
t informational meetings held: t 
* * 
presents our Annual
* *
* 18th * 
t Monday, February @ 6: 30 pm in t t Room 303 Haggar t
* * f··········' Daffodil Days 
* Or * 
t* Tuesday, February 19th @ 5: 30 pm in t* ; far111VsiXdallars. i,10 can purchase one bunch 11 ten daffedils. i.and farJust fo11r dallars m1re. r1u can 11arcbase aslender glass vase
*t Haggar Par1or *t lhatIsJust perfect flrvaur b1uqu1t1
I
* *
* * 
TheHewersWill be dellvand111118 dlnDSID Tbursdav. March 2f.
t Tickets for class elections are : 
*t composed President, Vice President, :* I All proceeds trom ourOaffodU oavs gaeste 1111 Amertcan cancer
! Treasurer and Secretary. t 1.·SICIIIJleruseIn cancer research,educadon, pngrams,and patientI services here in StJoseph county.
* *
* * 
!* Only l person from each ticket is !* I ND students: Bring the sign of Spmag and the flower of hope 10 i,1ur! required to attend the meetings. J Ill! donnreom. You can use Illeerdertenn below tiplace an 1rderwn ~ Jessica BrtallslllnIn 225 Gnc1 Hall Ir call 1-5829 fer mere
* Questions? Call Mary Crawford-ext. 4453 * ! Sponsored by SMC Board of Governance : lnflnnatiaa.
I
StMarncontact Adm1Ss11ns omce122 ~ l8Mans Hall 284-4587
I• ,. ~ 
Ir-----------------------,
* *
* * .. I I wantto arder_bunches o1 DaffadllsWilll _ vases. ,, .:·.!. I
~ ~F---~
** ** I Name:____ . . , I
* * I '· ·• I
* * ! I AddreSS: ___HalLNelrlDlllll,IN,46556 DiFf<..ibn I
* * I 
* *
* * , • Mv ClntrlbDllan .,$_18flUllCMterlSenclned. D • A·Y s I
***********************************••~******************* ~---------------~J 
ELECTRICJlL EnGlnEERlnG 
. PEn HDUSE F.R 
FIRST-YEJlR 
STUDEnTS 

mana~Y, FEBRUJlRY 18 
6:Da TD 7:30 P.m. 

25B FITZPATRICK HJlLL 
Hl\VE somE FOOD TDD, 
WE ST.llRT SERVlnG AT G:00 P.m. 

gers and baggage. said it did not matter who was
CHANTILLY, Va. 
What passengers should supervising security ''as longOn the first day the govern­notice are the chairs they can as you hold them to the stan­ment took responsibility for use when they are asked to dards." Looking up from hisairport security, some passen­remove their shoes to be book, he said, "I don't think it gers noticed extra vigilance checked for explosives. In can ever be foolproof, but I
and felt reassured by the 
addition. travelers inspected think it's better. Taking thechange. Federal officials 
with handheld wands will time to do the job right is
pledged on Sunday to protect have their valuables in front what's most important." 
travelers and treat them with 
ofthem. Likewise, Gordon Sommers,courtesy. 
"I hope that they'll notice a waiting at New York'sThe second major deadline slight difference in the cour-Kennedy Airport for a returnin the new airline security law tesy," Magaw said. "Hopefully, flight to Kingston, Jamaica,passed as smoothly as the they won't notice anything said he just wanted the secu­first, when airlines last month much different than that." rity screening done well. 
began inspecting checked 
Some arriving passengers at "I don't much care whetherbaggage for explosives. A new Dulles, where a plane was it's Civil Service or contractedfederal agency now oversees hijacked Sept. 11 and crashed service as long as it's effec­aviation security rather than into the Pentagon, said securi-tive," Sommers said. 
the airline industry and 
ty was tighter than they had The change provided reas-Federal Aviation seen since the attacks. surance to Scott Landis ofAdministration. 
"We commented on it," said South Berwick, Maine. 
..As of now, we will make R o b i n "I'd rather have the federalsure we're Cloninger of government handle it than the 
observing 

"I'd rather have the Morristown, airlines," said Landis, flying tot h e federal government N.J., arriving Florida with his family from
screening 

from Fort Boston's Logan Airport, where 
and make handle it than the 
Lauderdale, the two planes that smashed 
sure it's 

airlines." Fla.. with two into the World Trade Centerbeing done classmates took off from on Sept. 11. 
properly," from Loyola "It's the appropriate role for

said John Scott Landis 
College in the government to play. The
Magaw. traveller 
Baltimore. "A airlines have been shown toundersec­lot more peo-be lax in the past." 
retary for ple were get-Renier Kraakman of

transportation security, after ting their bags searched, Cambridge, Mass., escortingarriving at Washington Dulles taken off the line." his 11-year-old daughter to
International Airport from 
A passenger at Chicago's her flight at Logan, didn't seeMiami. 
O'Hare Airport, Cheryl Jones any difference. 
With the same screeners 
said screeners stopped to "It's just for show," he said.
staffing security checkpoints, examine each X-ray image of "But if it makes people feeland even airline officials help­carryon luggage rather than good it's worthwhile." 
ing to oversee the operations, 
just speed-K e n d r aofficials said passengers at 
first will not see much of a dif­ing the "As oifnow we will make Lynn of Tulsa. 
b a g s Okla., said itference. 
through sure we're observing the did not take
"It's really a change in the t h e screening and make sure longer for herreporting structure, "Frontier 
machine. to pass
Airlines spokeswoman Tracy "Usually it's being done properly." through secu-
Kelly said. "It's still the same 
you're run• rity Sunday atscreeners checking bags." 
ning to get Jonh Magaw Dallas-Fort
Sunday's deadline was the first step in a nine-month your bag undersecretary for transportation W O r t h 
coming out security Airport. Buttransition from private securi­
the other she said shety companies to a better­
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, February 18, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, TN 46556 024 South Dining Hail. No,re Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHJEF 
Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smich  Par Peters  

NEWS EDrroru Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstad[er ScrNE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR! Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR, Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Adam Turner CONTROLLER: Kevin Ry:in GAAJ>HICS EDITOR, Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
Oma:: MANAGERiGENERAL lliF0....••.•••..•.631-7471 fAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MAN.I.GING EDJToR/Assr. ME....................631-4541 BUS!NF.SS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-S323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MAllYS.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0..................................................'......631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE Visir our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spons, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online feanues for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
m meet the editors and 
,raff
Augusr 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudencs ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenc,.induding advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirucion. The Observer reserves rhe right m refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpoii&s should Ju dincl­ed to Editor in Chuf"Mik, Connolly. 
Surviving Junior Parents' Weekend 
The years go by so fast. When I first came here as a freshman, I never imagined that one day I would get to experience the joys and the horrors that come with Junior Parents' Weekend. I have never experienced one weekend packed with so much food, music and mass embarrass­ment. The dinner and brunch were actually both Amy Schill quite lovely, so I can't real­ly make fun of them ­well, except for the steak. 
Dazed and

However, 1can mercilessly 
Amused

make fun of my parents and the gala. My parents arrived Friday at noon, and proceeded immediately to increase my stress level exponentially. 
Looking at the program of events, my mom was shocked that there wasn't going to be a band at the gala. 
Mom: Music by In-Tune DJ Service? You mean there isn't going to be a band? Me: No, Mom, this isn't the '50s. Dances use 
DJs now. Mom: Is he just going to play rock music? Me: I'm going to stick this ice scraper in my ~, 
eye. 
While my parents went to Meijer to buy milk, \ alcohol and pants (Mom: They were on sale!}, I ~ became more and more apprehensive about this gala. The whole idea seemed so ridiculous to me: a formal dance -with your parents? I don't feel comfortable dancing anywhere, near my parents, and I certainly didn't want to see them dance. I began to eye the ice scraper again. 
As weird as I thought the gala would be, it turned out to be infinitely weirder. When you walked in, it wasn't a dance at all, but a journey through Notre Dame history, from the log cabin days to the war years to the '60s to today, with each time period represented by its own festive finger food and costumed catering employees (imagine circus lunch, then make it 20 times more insane). What was even crazier than Uncle Sam hugging a hippie (which was very touching), was the presence of meat at the Friday night gala. Apparently, the bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend granted juniors and their parents a special dis­pensation from their Friday obligations. Yup, Notre Dame gives a whole new meaning to the term "Cafeteria Catholicism." 
With all the costumes, cabins and craziness going on in this throng of people, only one question came to mind: Where's the bar? Now, some people can get through events like this without the aid of alcohol. You've seen these peo­ple, always happy, dancing around. They like to call their condition a "natural high." Physicians call it "chemical imbalance." Judging by the mass exodus up the stairs to 
i
the bar, I'm proud to say that most Notre -Dame juniors and their parents are quite healthy indeed. -N---A~~ Unfortunately. however, the bar­_: n.C. ~ tender knew how to make only , ;1 two drinks: gin and tonic and -1 (1 ,J beer. So I settled for one drink 
and took the rents down to the dance floor, bracing myself for the horrors that were to 
come. Well. my mom didn't need to be worried about the "rock music." In order to bridge the generation gap between juniors and parents, the DJ decided to play music 

relevant to neither genera­tion. After two YMCAs and the Macarena, my parents and I decided to say our goodbyes. , All in all the gala was definitelyl>C)NT. and entertaining experience, and at least I didn't have to watch my parents grind. 
Amy Schill is a junior English major 
and Catholic Social Tradition minor. She would like to tell her parents that she loves them and thanks them for always providing helpful material for her columns. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Comparing Bush to Reagan pays him a compliment 
Gina Cora makes a good point when she writes about President Bush that "the nation has not heard rhetoric like his since Reagan." 
What she does not seem to realize is that Reagan was an immensely popular president, one who truly attracted vot­ers from both sides. He firmly believed in his country, though he was deeply aware of its flaws (abortion sad­dened him terribly, for instance); he knew who our ene­mies were, was not afraid to confront them and was will­ing to call a spade a spade. 
He was good friends with the Pope, though he himself was not even Catholic; and coming from very humble beginnings then rising to the top. he was comfortable with every stripe of American. 
Apparently Gina thought she was insulting Bush by liken­
ing him to Reagan. That may be an insult in Greenwich Village, but in most of our nation, it is still a compliment. 
By the way, Gina points out that President Bush is proud to say "America will now work to annihilate the enemies of the 21st century -before they can do it to us." Should he not say so, or should he not be proud to say so? 
Are we supposed to wait around for more attacks, as Father Baxter (among others) seems to think? Again, strange insult. We might as well fault him for thinking we should defend ourselves. 
Eric Wilkinson class of 'O I Feb. t5. 2002 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Myra McGriff Amanda Greco Kelly Hager Graphics Joe Ackerman Katie Malmquist 
Sports Production 
Matt Lozar Rachael Viewpoint Protzman Kristin Yemm Lab Tech Peter Richardson 

NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should "The Vagina Monologues" be performed at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it." 
Voltaire philosopher 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 18, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Editor's note: Because"The Vagina Monologues" contains some graphic contentand offensive language. the letters discussing these issues will contain such language as well. In order to foster an intelligent dialogue on this matter, this language must be included. Readers who might be offended by such language are cautioned. 
Reacting to the 'The Vagina Monologues' 
at Notre Dame 
Boston College offers its example 
Iwould like to respond to the nwnerous letters and controver­sies that have recently engulfed the production of "The Vagina Monologues" on your campus. Just a week ago I co-directed and produced the "Monologues" at Boston College, a Jesuit Institution, and I am proud to say that the support from both stu­dents and faculty was overwhelming. With the help of the Boston College community, we raised almost $6,000 for a battered women's shelter and RA.WA. Since the show, I have had strangers approach me, male and female, to thank me for giving students and staff a chance to learn something about themselves. 
For those at Notre Dame who claim that "The Vagina Monologues" are vulgar and immodest, I would have to agree. But that is exactly the point. Those in opposition to the produc­tion are ignoring the fact that the play gives voice to actual women, to real stories oflove, rape, discovery, pride and shame. This play does not preach in any way, shape or form; it is not anti-Catholic, or anti-religious for that matter. Quite to the con­trary, it is simply a reflection of female reality, presented to empower, educate and foster an understanding ofreal gender issues and the larger social issues they imply. 
If "The Vagina Monologues" make any ofyou in South Bend uncomfortable, don't use that reaction to compound ingnorance. Act with a mature, open mind, and go see the show and the impact it makes on each and every audience member before you condemn it. 
Jennie Willson 
semor Boston College Feb. 17,2002 
'Monologues' deny Catholic values 
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus object to the performance of "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame and submit this open letter to the com­munity to invite others to reflect with us about the issue. 
We take pride in our nation's heritage offree speech and press, which has made our nation great and, indeed, unique in history. As Catholics, we commit ourselves to the belief that faith necessarily remains a free act. Religious freedom remains the cornerstone of any dignified human society. 
We also deplore the performance of trash that demeans women and only serves to degrade the dignity of the human person. The Knights of Columbus have a long tradition offighting for women's dignity. Father McGivney founded the Knights as a way to secure the livelihood of Irish Catholic women left widowed due to the anti­Catholic social evils of his day. And our order long has battled those that exploit or abuse women. In fact, each year our Council makes significant chari­table contributions from our football steak sales to the Women's Care Center and Hannah's House, organizations serving the needs ofexploited, trou­bled or battered women in our community. 
The Monologues lacks artistic or social merit that would justify its performance at Notre Dame. Its performance will not further the mission of our University. A woman is a person, not an object. God blessed humanity with the gift of sex as a way of celebrating the love between spouses and of bring­ing new life into His world. We must not twist God's gifts into acts of selfish recreation, as the "Monologues" would advocate that we should. 
While we respect the right to have one's own opinion, the principles of free speech or religion do not allow a Catholic University's resources to pro­mote a portrayal ofthe human person wildly incon­sistent with Gospel values. Notre Dame has the right to the free exercise of religion. and the "Monologues" were not what Father Sorin was thinking of when he put a golden statue of the Blessed Mother on the Dome. And we Catholic stu­dents have the right to attend a university that respect.5 those boundaries arising from basic human dignity. 
Just as we object to hate speech or other harass­ment at Notre Dame directed toward any member ofour Notre Dame family, for any reason, we object to the "Monologues." 
We invite all interested persons to the Knight.5 of Columbus Building today at 8 p.m. for discussion and prayer about an appropriate reaction from the Notre Dame community. 
We open Lent with the invocation "Turn away from sin and be faithful to the Gospel." The "Monologues" reflect no Gospel values. Rather, it reflects the values of a selfish culture that seeks to pulverize the human person. Ultimately, its values spring from the lies of Hell. Let us keep our faith and our tradition as a Notre Dame family. We can do better. And we desenre better. 
Nathaniel Hannan President, Notre Thune Knights ofColumbus, Council no. 1477 Feb. 14, 2001 
Preserve respect an4 integrity at Notre Dame 
In his Feb. 15 letter, Mr. Tyszka emphasized the need for one to understand various views in order learn; indeed, this is necessary in any type of learning. However, this does not mean that Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, should endorse or sponsor a play such as "The Vagina Monologues." "Academic freedom" and "open­mindedness" should be encouraged at any University. but I do not believe a play such as "The Vagina Monologues" best addresses the real issues of lesbianism or femi­ninity. I would much rather encourage those representing the lesbian community to offer a stance with respect and integrity rather than vulgarity. 
Ms. McShane, in her Feb. 15, let­ter offered the idea that the "Monologues" is not about vulgari­ty, hut rather about empowering women and their self-confidence. I strongly agree that all women should be confident in themselves. Yet a play such as the "Monologues" does not seem empowering to women at all; McShane spoke of the "common terms" males use freely in refer­ence to their genitalia, and offered the idea that women should have this "confidence." 
My question is, why would women want to stoop to that level? 
If one is attempting to promote confidence, shouldn't one do so by means of dignity. integrity and respect? The "Monologues" may strive to promote empowerment, but does so through offensive and vulgar means. Aren't there better ways for women to express them­selves, such as chastity and inde­pendence? 
In response to Mr. Tyszka, our University should strive for diversi­ty, and as a Catholic University, should show love to all; indeed we should welcome all with love. However, Notre Dame should embrace a correct representation of them. 
In addition, as a Catholic University, Notre Dame sets itself apart, with a level of moral respon­sibility that is unique. There are thousands of other schools that allow anything: Notre Dame is spe­cial in its claim to spirituality and integrity, and should therefore not endorse such a performance. 
My challenge and question to Notre Dame: are you serious about the integrity and respect of Our Lady's University? Prove it. 
Jim Lee 
sophomore Mouissey Manor Feb. 17,2002 

V-Day director defends 'Monologues' 
First, Mr. Dudley's association of Planned Parenthood and V-Day in his Feb. 14 letter is incorrect. V-Day ND 2002 has absolutely no relationship to Planned Parenthood whatsoever. 
All funding raised by the performances and through donations will be given to Saint Joe County Sex Offense Services, the YWCA Women's Shelter and a portion will be sent back to V-Day specifically to be donated to the RAWA fund to aid Afghani women. 
Secondly, Mr. Dudley refers to a portion of one of the monologues portraying a molestation that is justified "in the name of lesbian expression." Thls statement is also false. The notes provided to actresses by the author clearly state that this monologue is neither an endorsement of underage sex of any kind nor is the act meant to be judged in any manner itself. The "Monologues" do not endorse or promote any specific lifestyle. They are simply real women's sto­ries. If the particular monologue to which Mr. Dudley refers seems to promote any kind oflifestyle, it is only due to the way that woman chose to tell her story. That monologue is meant to reveal one woman's journey from a time when she though of her vagina as a dark, horrible, "bad luck zone" to refcring to it as "a kind ofheaven." 
Third, Mr. Dudley insists that modesty and respect will be lost by producing this play. I believe that something surely will be lost by producing "The Vagina Monologues" -fear, shame and guilt. As the actress per­forming the piece that includes chanting of the word "cunt," I feel that in bringing these issues (and words) to light we are encour­aging women to have more respect and love for themselves and to be less prone to toler­ate disrespect and objectification by men. By "reclaiming cunt," as my monologue suggests, we no longer allow others to use that word in a negative light. By reclaiming these words and the right to tell our stories, we also make room for dialogue which will be, I hope, the most important result of this production. 
In order to further open this issue to dis­cussion, I, along with cast members, faculty members, and even clergy members will hold a panel discussion of the play and issues it raises on Wednesday, Feb. 27 from 9 to 10 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater on the first floor of LaFortune. 
During this discussion, we will also re-air a film being produced in conjunction with V-Day ND that includes student interviews and reactions to the play. The film will also be shown at each performance on Feb. 25 and 26. We sincerely hope that all schools of thought are represented at this discus­sion. 
More information about V-Day and its mission can be found on its website, www.vday.org. 
Kerry Walsh 

director and coordinator, V-Day ND 2002 
senior 
off-campus Feb.17.2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 Monday, February 18, 2002 

Murder, witches and whi 
Actors from the London Stage return to Washington Hall to present SI 
By CHRISTIE BOL5EN 
Scene Writer 

Before long, five mysterious, ambi­tious and guilt-ridden characters will be invading campus with a blend of witchcraft and murder. deception and revenge. 
No. they are not fugitive convicts attempting to corrupt legions of wholesome Catholic students; rather, they are exceptionally talented and inimitable performers who will be breathing innovative life into William Shakespeare's riveting masterpiece, "Macbeth." Actors From The London Stage will return to Notre Dame, its home and always the first appearance in its tours of colleges and universities across the countrf 
AFTLS was born in Europe when 
Professor Homer Swander of the University of California, Santa Barbara began knock­.ing on the dressing room doors of actors after performances and inviting them to speak to his class the next day. He had been taking his students on theatre trips to England since 1967, 

and learned that few teachers had expressed interest to the actors about class visits before. 
The thespians were not only glad to comply, but also knowledgeable and eloquent about their art. 
In the l 970s, Swander arranged for the Royal 
S h a k e s P e a r e 
Company to. visit Santa Barbara for two weeks during its U.S. tour. 
The next year, he 
included other uni­versities, the visits becoming popular and successful. In 
"Macbeth" 
Actors from the London Stage 

. 
Washington Hall 


. 
Wed., Feb. 20 through Sat., Feb. 23 at 


7:30 p.m. 

. Tickets are available at the Lafortune 
box oHice 

. Reserved seats are $16, $14 for seniors and $12 for students 
. Call 219.631.8128 for tickets and 
inlormalion 

the spring of 1976, a meeting was held in order to create a permanent organization, and eventually AFTLS evolved from these beginnings. 
Originally named Actors in 
"We have no preconception regarding the production: 
i.e. set, costume, location, time." 
Jane Arden AFTLS perfonner 
Residence, the name changed to Actors From the London Stage when actors began joining from other com­panies. 
Now, AFTLS presents actors from companies including the R o y a 1 Shakespeare 

Company, The Royal National Theatre of Great Britain, Shakespeare's Globe and other prominent theatres in England. In 2000, AFTLS changed its North American home and touring base from the University of North Carolina to Notre Dame. 
AFTLS strives to change the methods of teach­ing Shakespeare in the classroom, and to make exciting profes­sional actor.s accessible to col­leges and uni­versities. Bruce 

Alexander, who depicts the title character in the upcoming produc­tion, says that AFTLS is open to what the professors want them to teach. 
The actors teach mostly non-the­atre classes, usually English cours­es, but rarely acting classes. Their purpose is to give students the experience of saying the lines, instead of sitting at a desk and read­ing them. 
"We want to show people what it's like to make the script come alive," Alexander said. Aside from in the classroom, AFTLS brings Shakespeare to life through fou"r performances. Alexander hopes to achieve a differ­ent level of viewing for audiences. 
"[Audiences] actually find that rather than watching a play, they hear it," Alexander said. The Elizabethan spectators used to 

Alexander said. 
Playgoers expecting a traditional play will experience entirely original theatre, due to the unique cast and unusual rehearsal process. 
Regardless of how many characters comprise the written play, AFTLS has only five actors to star as all the roles. 
This may mean that an actor has seven or eight parts, but they never cut text out of the play to accommo­date role changes more easily. Since there are so few actors for so many roles, nobody goes offstage to change costumes or character; the role changes occur onstage. 
Another significant divergence from commonplace theatre is that there is no director who guides the rehearsals. The actors direct them­selves. with one important exception. 
"We like to say. rather pompously perhaps. that Shakespeare is the director," Alexander said. 
The performers refer to the text whenever a question arises about how to execute a scene. and over a five­week period they prepare in this inde­pendent manner. 
Their goal is to stimulate the imagi­nations of the audience, and they undertake this mission by allowing the play to speak for itself and not incorporating any extraneous ideas. Alexander describes the production as "minimalist," since sets and props are 
The members of the Spring 2002 troupe of Actors from the London Stage are pictured here In London (left to right: not carried along on the seven-week Tony Bell, Jane Arden, Bruce Alexander, Charmian Gradwell and Sam Dastor), though they now call Notre Dame their tour. home. They will be returning home this week to bring a unique performance of "Macbethn to campus. The mere five Anyone who has seen AFTLS in 
action during previous performances,
actors wlll portray all roles within the play -without changing costumes or exiting the stage. 

THE 
OBSERVER 


._.. 
Monday, February 18, 2002 page 11 

ered curses 
familiar with its simple, 

focused style of storytelling. Jane Arden, the actress who depicts the highly complex Lady Macbeth, describes the rehearsal process as having five directors -each of the five actors. 
"We have no preconception regard­ing the production: i.e. set, costume, location, time," Arden said. "It is decided in the rehearsal room by an organic and democratic process, dic­tated by Shakespeare's script. We work from the inside out. The benefit of this is that the story is told simply and clearly and the product is not muddied by 'design concepts'... each actor has explored every scene. He [or shel has had a responsibility that does not happen in a conventional rehearsal process ... With such a small group of actors we cannot afford to have a weak link -so the casting process is thorough," Arden said. 
The actors, who "relish the lan­guage," according to Arden, keep the attention on the emotions extracted from the actual play itself and not outside factors. The result is that the audience can see "Macbeth" as never before. and perhaps leave Washington Hall with new apprecia­tion for Shakespeare's tragedy. 
The actors carry the production with the interpretation and execution of their characters' flaws, charisma and transformations. 
rn the instance of the manipulative Lady Macbeth, who is so murderous that she prays to the gods to fill her with "direst cruelty" and ridicules her husband at one point for being "too full of the milk of human kindness," Arden faces the task of portraying not only a ruthless and power-driven woman, but also the intricate dynam­ics of a shifting persona. 
"The importance is to show the whole picture and to portray the inconsistencies of Lady Macbeth, which make her human," Arden said. 
Alexander sees a similar impor­
tance in portraying Macbeth, who he 
feels demonstrates real qualities 
and dilemmas. 
"What an ordinary person!" 
Alexander said. "We can all actu­
ally make decisions that affect the 
rest of our lives, we've all been in 
that situation ... [Macbeth] finds 
himself stuck on a roller coaster," 
Alexander added. 
The storyline of "Macbeth," 
which begins with thunder, light­
ning and three hideous witch sis­
ters whose prophecies serve as the 
catalyst for a sequence of vicious 
murders, features severed heads 
displayed on sticks and characters 
being ripped from the womb. 
As the action opens, the king of Scotland, Duncan, has decided to give Macbeth the title of Thane of Cawdor for his bravery in battle. Macbeth learns of this new title after he and Banquo, a general in the King's army, encounter the witches, who address him as the Thane of Cawdor and king of Scotland. 
Here begins the crisis, as Macbeth begins to contemplate killing Duncan in order to fulfill the second predic­tion. His wife, Lady Macbeth, is deter­mined that he should proceed with the backstabbing slaughter and even devises the plan that frames the bodyguards. Haunted by visions, guilt and uncertainty, Macbeth executes the plan while being tormented by his wife for weakness. 
The homicidal spree begun, Macbeth is crowned king of Scotland but finds he must continue murdering in order to deflect suspicion about the deaths. After more frightening apparitions and perplexing admoni­tion from the witches, the play ends with mystery and carnage, just as it began. 
The presence of the witches may have been what gave rise to the popu­lar belief that "Macbeth" is burdened with a curse, supposedly due to black magic spells in the incantations of the weird sisters. 
The superstitious and many inside the profession insist on referring to the play indirectly, lest saying the name inside a theatre should invoke dire evil and misfortune. Popularly known as "The Scottish Play," there are endless accounts of tragic acci­dents transpiring during production of the play. 
According to Alexander, however, the curse has not been discussed amongst the actors. He hopes for, and expects, only a "good, lively evening." 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu. 
'life's but a walking shadow,' and Shakespeare's left few traces 
By MARIAH J,lAIN QUINN 
Scene Wricer 

Of late. thanks to the film "Shakespeare In Love," the popular image of William Shakespeare is that of Will, a neurotic, lovesick poet with soul, who is burdened with all the problems of a modern man. He visits a psychiatrist, is relegated to second banana to the better loved play­wright Christopher Marlowe and is saddled with writer's block. 
To top it off, despite being married, Will is passionately in love with a beautiful woman who is far above his station in life. 
The screenwriters Marc Norman and Tom Stoppard were inspired to create this fanciful portrait of the Bard precisely because so little is known about the most famous playwright of all time. The lineage of such works as "West Side Story" and "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead" can be traced back to Shakespeare, yet the man himself left behind no letters, no manuscripts -only much speculation. 
Indeed, nearly 400 years after Shakespeare's death, a debate persists about the authorship of the plays, with a small but devoted group claiming that it was Edward de Vere, the 17th Earl of Oxford, who authored the world's most celebrated plays. Both sides have evidence to support their case, though popular and critical sentiment remains firm­ly in the man from Stratford's camp. . 
It is established that in 1582, at the age of 18, Shakespeare marned 26 year old Anne Hathaway. The couple had three children, Susanna, the eldest, and the twins Judith and Hamnet. 
Little else is known about their married life, but the couple was often separated because Shakespeare spent a good deal of his most active writing years in London. Perhaps tellingly, the one and only thing Shakespeare bequeathed to his wife was his "second best bed." 
It is not known how Shakespeare died, but a diary entry by Stratford vicar and physician John Ward, written 50 years after Shakespeare's 1616 death, offers one possible explanation. Ward wrote that Shakespeare and fellow poets Michael Drayton and Ben Johnson "had a merry meeting, and it seems drank too hard, for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted." 
His grave is marked with the rather crotchety epitaph, "Good friend for Jesus' sake forbear, / To dig the dust enclosed here: / Blest be the man that spares there stones,/ And curst be he that moves my bones." Perhaps thanks to the inscription. Shakespeare's bones were not dug up and replaced by a fresher set, a practice immortalized in the graveyard scene of "Hamlet." 
It is tempting, though perhaps not critically kosher, to attempt to draw a more complete portrait of Shakespeare based on information from his plays. An author is inextricably linked to his text, and Shakespeare's plays seemingly offer a wealth of information about him. 
In "A Midsummer Night's Dream" he described the poet's craft. "The poet's eye, in fine frenzy rolling, / Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven, / And as imagination bodies forth / The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen / Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing/ A local habitation and a name." 
In "The Tempest," which is thought to be the last play that he wrote unaccompanied, Shakespeare drew attention to the ephemeral nature of theatre. He wrote, "Our revels now are ended. These our actors,/ As I foretold you, were all spirits, and/ Are melted into air, into thin air." 
In the epilogue of "The Tempest," the magician Prospero, having for­sworn his "potent art" offers a beautifully poignant farewell to the world of magic and charms. It is not difficult to imagine that Shakespeare might have used Prospero as a vessel for his own senti­ments. 
The retired conjurer says, "Now my charms are all o'erthrown, I And what strength I have's mine own, / Which is most faint ... But release me from your bands/ With the help of your good hands/ Gentle breath of yours my sails / Must fill, or else my project fails, / Which was to please. Now I want/ Spirits to enforce, art to enchant;/ And my ending is despair/ Unless I be relieved by prayer, / Which pierces so, that it assaults / Mercy itself and frees all faults. / As you from crimes would pardoned be,/ Let your indulgence set me free." 
That touch of wistful beauty closed out Shakespeare's magnificent ­career, but there would be countless curtain calls yet to come. 
Contact Mariah Raio Quinn at mqu.inn2@nd.edu. 
Monday, February 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 12 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Maryland wins last game in stadium 
AMociated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. No last-minute collapse. Not even a home loss. 
Maryland finally beat Duke at Cole Field House and the venerable building claimed one more No. 1 victim. 
The third-ranked Terrapins, who had lost four years in a row on their own floor to the Blue Devils, beat them 87-73, the seventh time a top-ranked team lost in the building that is closing after this season. 
"Every game you play here is special because it's the last year here," Maryland coach Gary Williams said. "You want to win each game. The situa­tion makes it special. You don't put special emphasis on it with your players because what if you lose? You just get ready to play." 
Williams didn't do a good job of selling that attitude to his players. 
"This whole week the coach has been uptight on us about Duke. Duke this, Duke that,'' said sophomore Chris Wilcox, who had a career-high 23 points. "I just feel better for my coach because Coach wanted this win more than we did." 
Cole and Notre Dame's Joyce Athletic Center had been tied with six No. 1 losses, but the Terrapins (21-3, 11-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) made sure there was no heartache like last season with the convinc­ing win. 
Last year, the Terrapins lost 98-96 to Duke at home in overtime when they squan­dered a to-point lead with a minute left in regulation. The Blue Devils won three of four against Maryland last season, including in the NCAA semifi­nals. rallying from a 22-point deficit on the way to the national championship. 
"We're only moving about a half-mile and we're still on campus," Williams said of the $20 million Comcast Center which will replace the 46­year-old Cole Field House. "Any time you can beat a No. 1 team like Duke it's a great win. Duke is Duke. They've earned it. They've been the best team in college basket­ball. That makes it special." teams played last season, the 
Maryland made it almost eventual loser led by at least impossible to blow a lead this 10 points in each game. time, going up by 25 points Maryland was up 10-2 with­three times, the last at 68-43 in the opening four minutes, with 9:55 to play, on the way and the Terrapins' biggest 
to improv­ lead of the first  
ing to 12-0  half was 31-17  
at this son.  home sea­ "Every game you play here is special because  with 4:49 left on a jumper by Dixon.  
D u k e (23-2, 11­2) did get within 11 twice, the  it's the last year here. You want to win each game. The situation makes it special. You  Duke was within 38-29 at halftime and Maryland's lead was still nine  
last time at 81-70 with 2:09 left. But Juan  don't put special emphasis on it with your players because what if  with 16:39 to play. The Terrapins then went on a 20..,_4  
Dixon hit a s h o r t jumper  you lose? You just get ready to play. "  run for its first 25-point lead and the crowd  
with  1:47  of 14,500  had  
left L o  n  and n y  Gary WIiiiams Maryland coach  Cole with  shaking every  

Baxter added two free throws 14 seconds later to make it 85-70 and the party started in Cole. 
Dixon had 17 points for Maryland, which continued its best conference start with its eighth straight win, and Byron Mouton had 15. 
"This is the first time we've beaten Duke here since I've been here and it's a tremen­dous feeling," said Dixon, one of Maryland's three senior starters. 
Wilcox had 11 rebounds and Baxter had 11 points and 10 rebounds. Steve Blake had eight points and 13 assists, one off his career-high and the school record. 
Carlos Boozer had 19 points and 12 rebounds for the Blue Devils, who had won 11 straight since their only loss to Florida State. Mike Dunleavy added 15 points and 11 rebounds and Jason Williams had 17 points. 
"The team that should have won did win, and they won in convincing fashion," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "We made a good run in the end but the game was never in doubt. It was a winnable game in the last eight minutes but it was too big of a hump to get over." 
In the four games these 
Maryland basket 
and every Duke 
miss or 
turnover. Dixon had seven points in the run and Wilcox had six. 
There was a touch of uneasi­ness in the building when Duke cut into the lead with the late run as Maryland had just two field goals over the final seven minutes, but there was no last-minute magic for Duke this time. 
"We made sure we d\dn't do the same things we did last year in the same situation and we got the win," Baxter said. 
Blake tied Keith Gatlin atop the Maryland career assist list at 649. 
Duke, which won the earlier meeting this season 99-78, hurt itself at the free throw line, finishing 12-for-24, including missing four in a row during Maryland's 20-4 run. 
A win would have given Duke the best start in school history, but now this team stays tied with the 1998-99 team at 23-1. The Blue Devils finish with a 26-21 record at Cole. 
"If we played with the same intensity and emotion that we did in the last 12 minutes it might have been a different story," Jason Williams said. "Hopefully, this loss will enable us to refocus." 
NFL 

Tampa Bay talks with Steve Mariucci 
A:.sociated Press 

TAMPA. Fla. 
Tampa Bay's meandering, monthlong search for a head coach headed in yet another direction when the Buccaneers received permis­sion to talk to San Francisco's Steve Mariucci. 
The sons of Bucs owner Malcolm Glazer are interest­ed in hiring Mariucci as head coach and general manager, dual responsibilities that haven't been offered to pre­vious candidates. 
Mariucci has two years remaining on his contract as San Francisco's head coach, meaning Tampa Bay would have to work out a trade that could involve draft picks, players, cash or a combina­tion of the three. 
"We gave Steve permission to go and talk to Tampa Bay because this is an opportuni­ty that is unique," 49ers gen­eral manager Terry Donahue said. "If it had just been for a head coaching position, my own personal belief, is that we would not have granted that position." 
The Bucs have been with­out a head coach since firing Tony Dungy on Jan. 14. The need for a general manager is the result of the way the Glazers have conducted for his successor. 
Tampa Bay officials had no comment on the latest devel­opment, other than to con­firm that Joel and Bryan Glazer will meet with Mariucci at an undisclosed location in the next "couple of days." 
Mariucci is at least the eighth candidate the Glazers have approached in the past month. 
Bill Parcells turned down an offer to come out of retirement, general manager Rich McKay made an unsuc­cessful bid to lure Jon Gruden from the Oakland Raiders, and the Glazers vetoed McKay's plan to hire former Baltimore assistant Marvin Lewis last week. 
McKay, who also inter• viewed LSU's Nick Saban, Pittsburgh Steelers offensive coordinator Mike Mularkey and former Washington Redskins head coach Norv Turner, was infuriated by the decision to not give the job to Lewis. 
The embattled general manager interviewed Thursday for the Atlanta Falcons' GM job, and the Bucs' interest in Mariucci all but assures McKay will not remain with the team. 
The Glazers resumed the coaching search this week without input from McKay, meeting with Maryland's Ralph Friedgen, who with­drew his name from consid­eration the following day. 
Joel Glazer contacted the 49ers on Thursday night and Mariucci received permission to talk to the Bucs after meeting Friday with Donahue and 49er owners John and Denise York. 
"Steve has done an out­standing job here for us. We would like him to stay as our coach," Donahue said. "I think that Steve's success is going to cause this kind of reaction and interest from other people, both now and in the future." 
Donahue said he expects Mariucci to make a decision about his future early next week. 
Mariucci, 46, has a 47-36 record, including 2-3 in the postseason, as head coach of the 49ers. They went 12-4 this season, making the play­offs but losing in the first round to the Green Bay Packers. 
Notre Dame approached Mariucci last month about becoming head coach of the Fighting Irish. 
'Tm going to stay here," he said at the time. ''I'm a 49er, and that's that." 
The Bucs made the playoffs four of the past five seasons under Dungy. however the Glazers were unhappy with the team's inability to advance beyond the first round the last two years. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business clay from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 

LOST: Womens reading glasses 2000 grad seeking room or apart-MMMRentals.com 3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, sale Spring Break with STS, Americas with tortoise shell rims. Lost ment to sublease/rent in New 272-1525 neighborhood, new appliances. 2· #1 StudentTour Operator. Promote 
NOTICES between Nieuwland & Orleans Mem. Oay wknd to Sept. 1, mmmrentals@aol.com car garage, fenced yard, AJC, gas trips on-campus earn cash and tree Campus Ministry on Jan. 30. Email: 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 heat, W/0. trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648­emcnassa@nd.edu or email krup78@hotmail com 5 mins from ND14-6 student house Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 4849 www.ststravel.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed-w/large common areas-prkg lot, 232-4527 or room houses. Call Bill al 532-1896 appl. 616-683-5038. Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it 
Fall2002 alone. If you or someone you love 2-story, 3 bedrms, formal dining & WANTED Dave 291-2209 New 3-4 bdrms, 3-bath homes !ea-needs confidential support or assis­living rooms. 92 Eagle Summit (Mils Mirage) luring fireplace, skylights, cathedral lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise All appliances good. TestMaster is looking for responsi-5sp. loaded, bright red, clean Excellent house 3-4 students. ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck, Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more carpeting ble people to distribute Information, comfy, $2650. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291 • 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232· information, see our weekly ad in & drapes throughout. Many closets. post Parked 82 n. end. 2209 4527 or 616-683-5038. THE OBSERVER. Gas heat & upper and lower air flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1-1-4639
-conditioners. eoo-929-n24 THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU-3-4 person house, Close to cam-#1 Spring Break Vacations! Finished basement w/pool table. Collectors plates -Avon, Norman DENTS CLOSE TO ND pus, c/a Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & TestMasters is looking for responsi-Rockwell. GREAT AREA Available June 1 Florida! Best Parties, Call 574-234•9782. ble people to distribute information, All in perfect condition with boxes Call 219-298-3800 Best Hotels, Best Pricesl Space is 
post flyers and proctor !rests. and papers. 2773097 Limitedl!l 1-B00-234-7007 Lost Gold Cross w/ Rhinestones $10/hr. 1-eoo-929-m4 Christmas Past, Easter and River Condo For Rent $1050 MO www.endlesssummertours.com Sentimental Value Please call 634-Mothers Day plates also available. SUPER HOME GREAT AREA Mishawaka 219-532-1537. 4464 IM LAX officials needed. Good Call 574-234-9782. CLOSE TO ND FOR ADOPTION Young, loving happily 
Payll Some exp. necessary. 3-4 STUDENTS married couple interested in adopt-Contact Tara Fisher @ 2773097 ing a baby. Please call Matt & 1-3536. Robin 1-800-484-6411 PIN#6463
LOST & FOUND FOR RENT PERSONAL 
-
-----------· Monday, February 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

SALT LAKE 2002 


HOCKEY 
Hull scores late in game for U.S. tie with Russia 
in shots after the first two peri­puck strategy frustrated the rest 
A.ssocidted Pre.ss 
ods -Hull finally got tlrn tying of the world, even NHL all-star goal. teams.
WEST VALLEY CITY. Utah Hull, one of the highest-scor­"We thought we should have

Unlike 1 <)80, this wasn't a 
ing Americans ever in the NHL, won it, but Brett Hull is a greatmust-win Olympic ho!'key game 
look Phil Houslcy·s cross-ice scorer," Russia forward Pavel
for either lhc United States or pass in the left circle and, after Bure said. ''There weren't tooHussia -su maybe it was fitting fumbling his first attempt, swept many chances for either team."
that neither team could. 
the puck back onto his stick and The tie all but assures that theBrntt Hull scored off his own line-drivecl it past Khabibulin at United States and Russia vvill tierebound with 4 and a half' min­15:30 of the third. for their four-team pool champi­utes left and th(, UnilPd StatPs ­"It kind of sat there on the ice onship, with total goals scored
outshot and outskated most of 
aftn the first shot," !lull said. as tho tiebreaker -whicht.lrn night by super-fast Russia ­"Wfl had been waiting for anoth­favors tlrn Americans, who playmanagNI a 2-2 lie in their first er chano1, and I managed to get Belarus on Monday while Russia Olyrnpi(' matchup in America it." plays Finland. Winning the poolsince the Miracle on Ice. 
Mike Richter. the most expfiri­assures a more favorable quar­S(~rgl'i Fedoro\ and Valeri enced and successful U.S. goalie terfinal matchup, almost cer­flllr<' scored pownr-play goals as in international play, wm; equal­tainly against Germany, butHussia put a seemingly safe 2-1 ly strong. He didn't allow an nothing else. 
lead into the hands of goalie equal-strength goal while mak­Also. the United States has
Nikolai Khabibulin in thn third 
ing 33 saves against nearly non­already surpassed its dismal
pPriod. but the man known as stop pressure after the United efforts in the 1998 games in tlw Bulin Wall gave up the tying States dominated the first five Nagano, where it won only once
scurf' amid intense U.S. pres­
minutes. in four games and smashed surn. 
"We got back on our heels a · chairs in their dorm rooms after "I thought It was great hockey bit and gave them a lot of room, failing to reach the medal round. 
bv both teams," said coach Herb but we just started skating again The United States, its offenseB·rooks, back behind the U.S. 
{in the third period)," defense­slowed by Russia's fast forwards bench for the first time since man Brian Leetch said. "It was and puck-moving defensernen,America's historic 1980 Olympic their puck control that gave us had only one shot in nearly 19 upset of the seemingly unbeat­
problems. not their defensive minutes until Keith Tkachuk
able Soviet Union. 
system." finally scored the first goal at With the United States throw­Now, that was a thrnwback to 6:19 of the second period -and 
ing 15 shots at Russia in the 
'80, when the Russians' stylish it took a 5-on-3 power play to final period -Russia led 20-10 
weave-and-pass. control-the-get it. 


SHORT TRACK SPEED SKATING 
Ohno crosses finish line injured for silver medal 
line as the lucky winner. 
Associated Press 
Canada's Mathieu Turcotte, also taken out in the crash,
SALT LAKE CITY 
got up in time to claim the
Apolo Anton Ohno was one bronze. 
turn away from his first 
"I could feel the wind at my

Olympic gold medal when, fingers and the next thing I
suddenly, he found himself 
know, I'm in the boards,"sliding back-first into the 
Ohno said. 
boards, his left leg sliced open. 
lie needed six stitches in hisRace over? No way. 

inner thigh and was brought
He bounced back with a des­to the medals ceremony in a 
perate lunge, crawling on his wheelchair. He hobbled to the 
hands and knees the last few podium, struggling to lift him­
yards and finally swinging his 
self to the second-place posi­
injured leg over the finish line. 
tion. 
A golden moment on a night Amazingly, he had no com­
he claimed silver in the 1,000 plaints about his misfortune. 
meters short track. 
No wonder the mantra for this 
"I never, ever, ever take a 
crazy sport is, "That's short race for granted until I cross track." the finish line," Ohno said. "l 
"I thought it was one of the was in a daze. It happened so 
best efforts of my life," Ohno quick. f just want1,d to finish." 
said. "I was definitely very
Ohno was leading when a happy with my performance,crash -which didn't appear regardless of what medal I to be his fault -took out the 
have." 19-year-old American and 
Despite the injury, Ohno said 

three other skaters. · 
he should be able to competeOhno landed on his back and in his other three Olympic 
spun to the side of the track, races, beginning Wednesday. his helmeted head ricocheting He will be among the favorites off the padding. The gash in in all three. 
his leg was probably caused ''I'm just lucky the injury is by his own razor-sharp skates not more severe," he said. as his body spun out of con­Bradbury earned Australia's trol. first Win.ter Olympics gold Even so, Ohno staggered to medal ever, taking advantage 
his feet and stumbled the final of the quirkiest sport in the 10 yards to the line, claiming -Games. He reached the final silver after Australia's Steven only because another skater 
Bradbury, who had been in was disqualified in the semifi­last place, coasted across the nals. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 18, 2002 
DAYTONA 500 

Burton thanks luck for biggest victory of his life 
away. He crossed the finish crashing and the banging on them on the main straight­another Daytona win. He
Associated Press 

line 0.193 seconds -about new aerodynamic rules, away, Marlin tried to pass Jeff wound up ninth. three car-lengths -ahead of intended to slow the cars down Gordon on the low side. "I probably should have 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
Sterling Marlin should have stayed in the car and left the repairs to his crew. 
The two-time Daytona 500 winner blew a chance to make it three, handing Ward Burton the biggest victory of his life. 
Following a late red flag, Burton won a three-lap dash to the finish line for his fourth career win in 251 starts. 
""A lot of what happens here is atmosphere and luck," a jubilant Burton said. "We had some luck today." 
Marlin, who received hate mail and death threats from people who blamed him for the crash that killed Dale Earnhardt at last year's Daytona 500. appeared to have the win wrapped up. 
With six laps to go, Marlin had spun out leader Jeff Gordon as a pack of cars crashed behind them, then beat Burton back to the yellow flag by less than half a car­length, to grab the top spot. 
NASCAR stopped the bizarre, crash-marred event to give the remaining leaders a chance to race for the win. With the cars halted on the backstretch, Marlin unbuckled his seat belts and climbed out of the silver No. 40 Dodge to check out the damage to his right front fender. 
He started to pull the bent sheet metal away from the tire, but an official warned him to get back in his car. That little attempt to fix the damage was enough for NASCAR to penalize him for what it called an illegal pit stop, sending his car to the rear of the lead pack after the restart. 
"I tried to get it pulled off, but NASCAR didn't like it, and they sent me to the rear," said Marlin, who wound up eighth. 
Burton called the last three laps "nerve-racking." 
"I didn't even look at the flag," he said. "I wasn't going to stop. When the other guys backed off, I backed off." 
As Marlin drove slowly into the pits while the new leader took the·green flag on lap 196 of 200, all the contenders behind Burton began to race two-by-two and even three­wide, letting the leader pull Elliott Sadler's Ford. and make it harder to pass. 

"You got to be there at the They said they were forced to end," Burton said, his voice block continuously or lose shaking with emotion. "We positions in bunches. were trying to be real careful. "There's no give, just take, I didn't know if we were going take, take," said Todd Bodine, to win it, but I knew we were who was caught up in the 18­going to have a hell of chance car crash. "When you have 
at  it.  We're  something  
ready to rock all  like that all  
year." Former Daytona winner Geoff Bodine,  ..A lot ofwhat happens here is atmosphere and luck. We had some luck  day, some­thing like this is bound to  
making a come­back at 52, was  today."  happen." Rudd said  
a surprising third, followed  Ward Burton  the was  pace too  
by Kurt Busch,  Daytona 500 winner  slow.  

2000 race win­ner Michael Waltrip, Mark Martin and rookie Ryan Newman. 
The 44th Daytona 500 began with some question marks, with NASCAR giving both Ford and Dodge a quarter-inch reduction of their rear spoilers on Friday with little practice time to see how they would work in the draft. 
Chevrolet and Pontiac were considered the big favorites, but the race turned into a 200­lap brawl, with lots of side-by­side action and two big crash­es, one of them involving 18 cars and the other a six-car accident. 
Gordon, the defending Winston Cup champion who has won the Daytona 500 twice, helped ignite the big one when Kevin Harvick, last year's top rookie, tried to block him on lap 149 as the two battled for second place. 
Gordon tagged Harvick's rear bumper and sent him spinning up the banking into the wall. Harvick's car then slid back down the track right in front of a pack of cars rac­ing at close to 190 mph. 
Kenny Wallace's car erupted in flames in the middle of the melee, but nobody was injured in the first big test of a NASCAR safety initiative that was accelerated after Earnhardt's death in a last-lap crash here last February. 
"I took a pretty hard hit right in the door and all the new safety stuff did its job," said Ricky Rudd, who was in the middle of the first crash. 
Several drivers blamed the "It feels 
like you're running 60 miles an hour out there, so everybody feels like a hero and takes a lot of chances," he said. 
Seventeen cars were still left on the lead lap after that crash and the hard racing continued. 
It appeared Gordon had everybody right where he wanted them when, with Marlin pushing his Chevy from behind, he passed Busch for the lead on lap 177. Marlin fol­lowed into second. 
It stayed that way until after another flag for a crash by Robby Gordon on lap 191. On the restart on lap 195, with cars crashing well behind 
5PRING BREAIC
•==,~+
www.studentexpress.com ca11 Now: 1-80~787-3787 
.................... ...............
• ~ • 
ND\SMC Disability Awareness Week~ 
February 18-23, 2002 !• Monday, Feb. 18th 6p.m. "Disability Humor" ••• : Haggar Parlor, SMC Free Pizza. • : Tuesday, Feb. 19th 8p.m. Discussion:"Disabilities at ND" : 
Asst. Dean 

• Coleman-Morse Center Rm. I 03 Free Pizza. • 
Fr. 

: Wednesday, Feb. 20th View Disability displays at SMC •
• 

Gordon slid over to block and the two came together, with Gordon sliding sideways and skidding into the infield grass, ending his shot at given it up once he got beside me," Gordon said. "That was my own fault.... He had a run on me and I blocked him and got myself turned. 
College of Engineering 
Spotlight Nights 2002 
-for First-Year Students
-

AERDSP/lCEEnGlnEERlnG 
.PEn HOUSE FDR FIRST-YE/lR STUDEnTS 
mana/lY, FEBRU/lRY 1B 
G:DD TD 7:30 P.m. 
HESSERTCEnTERFDR AERDSP/lCE RESE/lRCH H/lVE somE FOO . TOO, WE ST/lRT SERVlnG /lT 6: .. P.m. 
E:I,
. 
. .-•L.lt 
A _,,
ll'.3ETTER Wll'.3RLCI 
Preparation for a Career In the Heal'th Professions 

Tuesday, February 19 155 DeBartolo 
7:00 p.m. 

Presented by Jennifer Nemecek, ALPP Advisor and James Foster, SCPP Advisor 
Learn about the similarities and differences of the 
: Thursday, Feb. 21st 7:30p.m."Corky" Life Goes On actor ! 
Preprofessional majors at Notre Dame and find out
• Stepan Center. Chris Burke will inspire to •
• 

what professional schools look for in an applicant. For
set goals and realize your dreams. • 
students interested in premedical, predental, prevet, or 
Sponsors; 

other related health professions. A student panel will 
Best Buddies, Howard Hall, the Center for Social • Concerns, the Office for Students with • 
also conduct a question and answer session . 
•

Disabilities, and the SMC Student Diversity Board •
•••.••••.•.••.•.••••.•.••.•.••••.•••i==================================~ 

Monday, February 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish frustration leads to two-game losing streak 

Complacency has found its way into the Notre Dame locker room. 
It has seeped onto the Joyce Center floor and infiltrated the bench.It has crept into players' and coach­es' minds. It has trans­formed con­fidence into frustration and turned locks into bubbles. 
A week ago.the Irish soared as high as they could soar after a quadruple-overtime win and all but demanded to be ranked in the Top 25. Now they're riding a two-game losing streak. 
When David Graves' despera­tion 3-pointer at the end of the game sailed wide of the rim. reality caught up with the Irish. 
Earth to Notre Dame: Welcome back. 
"We were beaten before that," Mike Brey said. "We had that six, seven point lead and we couldn't make it nine." 
Look at how the shoulders slumped in the second half when the Orangemen came down the court and cut the lead to five, then three, then one point. As the score got more and more closer, the Irish got more and more frustrated. 
Finally, when Syracuse's Kueth Duany hit a free throw to tie the game, they looked like they knew the game was over. 
Even though there were eight minutes left to play. And the score was tied. 
"All of a sudden, we were down," Brey said. "That, psy­chologically, hurt us." 
The team that Brey said was toast with plenty of time to go was the same team that battled 


B-ball 
continued from page 20 
Illustrated's player of the week title last week, went 3-11 and 1-5 from behind the arc Sunday for only eight points. 
"He's a little frustrated now. Could it have been any better a week ago? Could he have rid­den any higher? Gotten more honors? Been bigger than life?" Brey said. "As he goes, wego." 
The Orangemen turned in a balanced-scoring performance, with four players in double-dig­its. Behind Williams. Kueth Duany scored 12 and Preston Shumpert and James Thues each added 10. 
Despite scoring only two 
through four overtimes for a win a week ago. 
We weren't going to leave without a win, some players said as they walked out of the visiting locker room at the MCI Center last week. We can con­trol our own destiny, others said. 
Now, the only things the Irish can control are the cliches com­ing out of their mouths. 
A week ago, this was a cocky, confident team a week ago that sounded like they wanted to play every Top 25 team just to prove they deserved to be ranked. And they acted like they would win every one of those games, too. 
Apparently, the Irish forgot the one certain rule in Big East basketball play this year. 
There are no certainties. 
Notre Dame beat Pittsburgh twice. Pittsburgh beat Syracuse twice. Syracuse beat Notre Dame twice. Boston College plays poorly against every team but No. 10 Miami -the Eagles have beaten the Hurricanes twice. 
And just when the Irish thought they were on the verge of pulling away from the chaos, complacency sucked them right back into the mix. 
"It's just a frustrating situa­tion," Graves said. "Now we're back down in the tier of our· division." 
It's fine to be higher than Nate Newton, like the Irish were last week. They deserved to be, too. Five straight wins in the Big East would make any team stand up and brag. 
They just forgot how quickly things can change. 
And when the shots don't fall, the ball hits the wrong part of the rim and the calls start to go the other way, the Irish should have been ready to adjust. 
Too bad they weren't. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at soukup.2@nd.edu. 
points, Jeremy McNeil had a strong showing for Syracuse off the bench. The forward was a key on defense, bringing down eight rebounds and making three blocks.k 
"He really came on," Boeheim said. "He had a couple of really good practices this week." 
The loss was the second blow in four days, since Rutgers snapped the team's five-game winning streak Thursday. 
"It's very disappointing to know we've been in two games like this in a week," Humphrey said. "We're there, we just need to make two or three more plays." 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 
The Unlv•rslty of Notr• Dam• D•panment qf Mu ¦ lc Pra..ntl 
THE WESTERN WIND nu1NTET 
WESTERN MICH!CAN--Ut•UVER5ITY
Preliminaries February 22 Finals 
Quarterfinals February 24 
March 1 
Semifinals February 27 
7:00pm 
Wednesday., F•bru•ry 20, 2002 Performing Woodwind 
8:00 pm., Anllenberg Audhorlum Chamber Music of Latlh­A1mtrlan Compos•rs 

Monday, February 18, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 16 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Taborga delivers another upset with Irish sweep 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Asscx:iar~ Sports Editor 
There were no letdowns at the Eck this weekend. 
The No. 7 Irish faced No. 53 Purdue Sunday, and No. 64 Wisconsin Saturday, earning two more wins to improve their record to 9-3. The win marks the 12th consecu­tive time the Irish have beaten the Boilermakers. 
"There are never really any easy matches," said sophomore Matt Scott. 
On Sunday's match against Purdue, The Irish swept the singles matches against for the third time this season. Talarico fin­ished first with a 6-3, 6-3 win at No. 3 over Troy Havens. Scott improved to 12-0 this spring and 20-2 overall with a 6-4. 6-3 win at No. 5. Senior Andrew Laflin clinched the Irish victory with a 6-0, 6-4 tri­umph at No. 6, improving to 9-0 in singles this sea­son. He has won 23 of his last 25 matches. 
After the outcome was determined, 88th-ranked Smith defeated No. 101 

Andrew Wakefield 7-6, 6-2 at No. 2 and sophomore Luis Haddock-Morales won 7-6, 4-6, 6-4 at No. 4 before Taborga, ranked 95th in singles, won 3-6, 7-5. 6-4 at No. 1. 
In the doubles matches, senior Aaron Talarico and freshman Brent D'Amico earned their fifth win in a row with an 8-3 victory at No. 3 doubles. Seniors Casey Smith and Javier Taborga, the sixth-ranked doubles team in the nation, clinched the dou­bles point for Notre Dame with an 8-4 win at No. 1 over the 23rd-ranked pair of Scott Mayer and Dan Swan. Another team of seniors, James Malhame and Ashok Raju completed the Irish sweep with an 8­6 victory at No. 2. 
On Saturday, the Irish beat Wisconsin 6-1, and Taborga, ranked No. 95, earned his second upset in two weeks. knocking off the Badgers' No. 37 ranked Danny Westerman 6-1, 6-4 at No. 1 singles. Taborga is now 9-2 in dual matches. 
"{Javier's] win over Westerman was pretty 
big," said Scott. 
After earning the dou­bles point, junior Brian Farrell had a 6-1, 6-1 win at No. 6 singles. Haddock­Mora1es clinched the match for Notre Dame when he won 6-1, 6-4 at No. 4. 
"As a team, we're going to just keep aiming for perfection and keep trying to win every match," said Scott. "We can't get ahead of ourselves. We can't say we've done it. We just need to keep working towards our goal of win­ning a National Championship." 
After the match had already been decided, Talarico won 6-3, 6-3 at No. 3 and Scott won 6-3. 6-7 (1-7). 1-0 (10-1} at No. 
5. Scott is now 19-2 in sin­gles this season. 
"I'm feeling really confi­dent lately. Everything seems to be clicking," said Scott. 
"Anything I can do to help the team win is always the most important thing." 
Contact Katie Hughes at hughes.39@nd.edu. 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

New coach leads hope for improved record 
In 2000-01, during a four them. begin their spring season. opponent will be defending tour­ByJOE LINDSLEY month break between the fall Monday, Wednesday and In October, Notre Dame fin­nament champion and host team Sports Writer and spring seasons, the golfers Friday afternoons, the team prac­ished in fourth place, led by Texas A&M-Corpus Christi. 
did not practice much. But this tices at heated driving ranges in freshman Karen Lotta's 54-hole "Even though the field might be 
In the Notre Dame women's year King has tried to ensure that the South Bend area, and last total of 232. Lotta, who tied for a little stronger, we're hoping for golf team's first tournament of her team is at the top of their week, the Warren Golf Course third, shot a 74 during the final at least fourth [place] or better," the spring season last year, the game for their first tournament was even opened for them so round, making it her best single King said. Irish finished last. since last October. they could play nine holes. round performance in her Along with Lotta, the Irish will 
This year, under new head "I think the team is probably "[The training during last win­career. be represented by sophomores coach Debby King, the Irish are the most ready they've ever been ter] was very sparse. [The Much of the same competition Shannon Byrne and Rebecca not expecting such a dismal per­for a winter tournament," she golfers] have told me some hor­from last fall's tournament will Rogers, junior Terri Taibl, formance as they head to Texas said. ror stories about their first tour­be present Monday and Tuesday. seniors Kristen McMurtrie and to participate in the Cingular Every Tuesday and Thursday nament," King said. "They just With the addition of a few other Lauren Fuchs and freshman Islander Invitational. The tourna­morning, the Irish golfers arise were not ready. I think they will teams, such as Kansas State, Casey Rotella. ment, hosted by Texas A&M­early to make the trek out to speak differently this time." King expects the challenge will Corpus Christi, will be held at the Loftus where they practice their The Irish closed their fall sea­increase for the Irish. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at

par-72, 5,900 yard Kings pitching and refine their swings son at Kings Crossing course -Besides Kansas State, King 
jlindsle@nd.edu.

Crossing golf course. for two hours as King video tapes the same place where they will believes Notre Dame's toughest 

1-800-SURFS-UP 
www..studenTexpress.com 
FILE TAX RETURN 
ONLINE 
Refund in about 14 days 
with direct deposit l040EZ-$9.95 1040A -$14.95 Log ontowww.1040.com/clstax: 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Dest,nat,uns/Parties! Lowest Prices Guarantet1dl Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food! 2 Fr;,;, Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-onlme. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 


·urchases a Platinum Card from .'ame Federal Credit Union:r 
'§.a 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • wmv.ndfcu.org Monday, February I 8, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles pull off upset in final game against Kalamazoo 


By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's basketball team waited until their last regular sea­son game to capture their biggest v.dn of the season. 
Led by freshman Emily Creachbaum's 13 points and solid contributions from nearly every­one else, the Belles avenged their earlier season loss to Kalamazoo by beating the Hornets 66-53. 
After a slow start the Belles ral­lied to tie the game heading into halftime. 
"We started kind of slow and it was pretty close throughout the first half," said Belles head coach Suzanne Smith. "We were down by six or seven right before half­time and we went on a little run to tie it at half. The team felt pretty confident at halftime." 
The Belles exploded in the sec­ond half en route to outscoring the llorne1s 37-24. 
"We came out and just took over and acted confident and just did the little things right," said Smith. 
Saint Mary's distributed the scoring around-with only Creachbaum reaching double fig­ures, but several had between six and nine points. 
Amanda Weishuhn's 17 points led Kalamazoo while Alissa Johnston added 11 points. 
But this day belonged to the Belles, who wanted to send their seniors out with a win in their last home game. 
The Belles shut down three-time 
Player of the Week Nikki Grub, 
holding her to only eight points on 
3-10 shooting from the field. Saint 
Mary's also held the Hornets to 33 
percent shooting as a team and 20 
percent from 3-point land. 
By the end of the game though. both seniors. Jamie Dineen and Anne Blair fouled out. Fortunately for the playf'rs, the rest of their team did not let them down. 
"Jamie and myself both had a lot of fouls at the end of the game and so the girls wanted to step it up and they kept saying, 'Do it for Anne, do it for Anne,"' said Blair. "So it was cool to see them play so hard for us in our last game." 
With the win the Belles secured sixth-place in the MIAA and will face third seeded Adrian at 7:30 
p.m. on Feb. 19. 
"It was a huge win for us being able to come back from Wednesday when we did not play well at all," said Smith. "They kind of used each other's energy, especially the seniors knowing it was their last opportunity playing on their home court. I think they realiy used that and took it to the game." 
Smith said that seniors Anne Blair and Jamie Dineen deserved a win in their final home game as Saint Mary's basketball players. 
"It's a very great memory for them to take with them," said Smith. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 

Monday, February 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 18 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Wicks' last-second free throws lead Irish to 57-52 win 
By KA TIE McVOY Assodare Sports Editor 
With 10 seconds left in the game, Kelsey Wicks may have felt like she was reliving a night­mare. She found herself on the free-throw line with a few pre­cious seconds left on the clock and her team's fate on the line. 
But this time, instead of miss­ing the one and one, she hit both shots. A few seconds later she went to the line again and added two more points to top off a 57­52 Irish victory against the Scarlet Knights. 
"I was glad she had the oppor­tunity because earlier in the year at the Villanova game she had the opportunity," said head coach Muffet McGraw. "I was hoping she got that chance again." 
In a loss to Villanova in early January, Wicks missed the one and one that set up a game win­ning shot for the Wildcats. On Saturday, Wicks found her shot. 
"l don't know, I was just really focused," Wicks told WUND. "Actually I think if I hadn't got­ten to the free throw line earlier in the game I wouldn't have known how to shoot those free throws. So I kind of stepped up and said 'this is my home'." 
Wicks had to find piece of mind in the loud, hostile envi­ronment of Lewis Brown Athletic Center. The Irish had been only 2-5 when playing on Rutgers' home turf and they could feel the heat coming from the fans. 

"This is a really tough place to play," McGraw said. "They start­ed heckling when we got off the bus. It's a really hostile environ­ment and for freshmen to come in and play with that kind of poise was tremendous." 
Wicks' four free throws that found the basket were a much­needed change from the fate of the rest of the Irish charity 25 points, made four straight shots and had a steal that she passed to Jeneka Joyce who made a three-point shot, putting the Irish lead back to 11. 
"[RatayJ made every big shoL that we needed to have," McGraw said. "She was aggres­sive looking for her shot. We put it on her back and she carried us through, We went to her almost every time and she made it." 
Ratay grabbed eight rebounds and was 3-5 from the three point arc. 
"But how about that Alicia Ratay," Wicks told WUND. "I was like, shoot I'm not even going into rebound. It's amazing. I was just very impressed with her game." 
Rutgers brought the game within four before Wicks hit four free throws and the Irish took home the win. 
Freshman starter Jackie Batteast was sidelined with a torn ligament. In her place, McGraw started freshman Katy Flecky who finished the game with four rebounds and four points, after coming off of her first double-double against St. John's. 
"I was very excited, very moti­vated to get in and do what I could and show everyone finally that I can," Flecky told WlJND. 
The Irish will take on West Virginia on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintma.rys.edu. 

shots. The Irish were 6-16 at that point in the game from the foul line. 
Notre Dame struggled to take control of the game early in the first half, trading the lead with 
PETITIONS Now
Rutgers in the opening minutes of the game. However, by half­time the Irish had a dominating 11-point lead. 
I

AVAILABLE! 
I

When the second half rolled around, however, the pace of the game changed. Rutgers, after shooting only 22 percent in the first half, found the basket and started shaving away at the Irish lead. The Scarlet Knights brought the game to within three on a 10-3 run in the open­ing minutes of the half. But then, 
Petitions for all those interesfed in running for
Alicia Ratay stepped up. Ratay, who had a season high 
Sophomore, Junior, or Senior Class Office are 
now available in the Student Government Office
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

in 203 Lafortune Student Center.
No. 8 Vols crush No. 18 Irish, 6-1 
Special to The Observer 
The 18th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team dropped a 6-1 decision to No. 8 Tennessee Saturday morn­ing in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Lady Vols won the dou­bles point and five of six sin­gles matches to improve to 6­
3. Sophomore Alicia Salas pro­vided the lone Irish point with a 6-4, 7-5 upset victory over ?7th-ranked Crystal Cleveland -the highest-ranked player she has defeated in her career. 
Tennessee won the doubles point with a win in the final match. 
The Lady Vols captured the first match, an 8-5 win for the 12th-ranked team of Crystal Cleveland and Alison Ojeda at No. 2. Seconds later, Salas and freshman Sarah Jane Connelly gained an 8-3 win at No. 3 for the Irish. 
In the deciding match, Vilmarie Castellvi and Agnes Wiski, ranked 45th, won 8-4 at No. 1. 
In singles action, the Lady Volunteers won the first four matches completed to secure the victory. Castel!vi, ranked 20th in singles, finished first, registering a 6-3, 6-1 triumph at No. 2. 
Sixteenth-ranked Ojeda gave Tennessee a 3-0 lead with a 6­1, 6-3 victory at No.1 before 66th-ranked Kim Gates clinched the Lady Vol victory 

**There will be a MANDATORY meeting** 
with a 6-2, 6-4 win at No. 3. Cleveland then registered a 
on Tuesday, f ebruory 19 at 7:30pm in the Student
6-3, 7-5 win at No. 6 before Salas got the Irish on the board and improved to 9-0 in 
Government Office for all of those interested.
singles this spring. 
Majen Immink ended the match with a 4-6. 6-3, 1-0 (10­
3) win at No. 5. 

Monday, February 18, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
RYAN

TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED
FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNIGNHAM 

MATT 9ALOCI(, MASTER OF THE "ONE FOOT ON THE FLOOR AT ALL TIM.es· RULE 

FOXTROT 
THE MoDELIN(; PAID 
WELL ENoUG,H, 8UT IT WAS lOST So MUCH WORI<! 
S•M' 
'i>IIP 1 
iNIP~ 

PUTTING ON SWIMSUITS! TAICIN6 OFF SWtMSutTS! PUTTING ON l.1NGER1E! 
TAktN'1, Off' LINGEIM/ 
BILLAMEND  - 
THANk ~00DNESS FoR THt OCCASIONAL NUDE 1oBS. /  I'M SORRY ­I JUST CUT YOUR EAR. / I DIDN'T IIIOT1CE. ~ I  
JPW: The weirdest weekend ever  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Neon or freon 63 "Tomorrow" musical
1 Speaker's 39 Was completely 
platform indifferent 64 "Star Wars" princess
5 Thailand, once 42 Last word in the 65 Steel ingredient
9 Used a broom Pledge of 14 "Tickle me" doll Allegiance 66 Adhesive 67 Tells it like it isn't
15 Part of S.R.O. 43 Fine sheet material 68 Microscope part 
16 Spine-tingling 17 1966 Beach 44 "The Divine Boys hit Comedy" poet DOWN 
20 Possible reply 45 Sixth word in 1 Moist in the to 'Will you take the Pledge of morning out the trash?" Allegiance 2 Hand lotion 
21 Chinese ingredient
47 Gangster's gun

restaurant drink 3 Radio host Don
48 "The Joy Luck 

22 Class head 4 Auctioneer's
Club" writer 

24 Seek the final word 
49 Fraternity letter 

affection of 5 Submarine 25 Morse code bits detection
51 Long ago 29 U.S./U.K. divider 53 Have in mind systems 31 Back of the neck 56 February 29 
6 Foreword 7 Rope-a-dope35 Actor Hawke 61 Comment from boxer
36 It'll knock you a recipient of an out extravagant gift 
8 Legendary story 9 Take care of 10 Continued
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Buffalo's lake 
Puufe by Pater Gordon
S W I N G S B Y C O N J O B 12 Type size W I S E A C R E A N Y 0 N E 13 Golf bag item 33 It might be 53 New Rochelle 58 Truth or_ 
cooked al dente college (slumber party 

A C ~~~ I S H 18 Relies (upon) ... 19 Derby hat 34 Ruhr Valley city 54 Women in game) habits 59 Stratford's river 
23 Where Easy 36 _ Kett of old Street is? comics 60 Desires
55 Uninteresting 25 Coffee order 37 Beef, e.g. 61 Pound sound 
57 Pop singer s 26 Lagoon 40 1998 Winter Collins 62 Luau souvenir surrounder Olympics site 27 Longtime 
41 Put down 

~.;,;;+,;....f.,,...t Dolphins coach Answers to any c..ues in this puzzle are
46 Understands
Don available by touch-tone phone: 48 Sites for fights 1-900·285-5656 ($1.20 per minute).
--28"2001" EMPIRE TIMEZ NE computer 50 Giggle Annual subscriptions are available for the S I T 0 U T A C A D E M 1 A 30 Lighter _ air 52 Blast from the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 S C O N E S T A P E D E C K 32 Insurance seller past years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

--------~----------------------------------------------------------------­
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2002 
Happy Birthday: You will be advantage of an opportunity 
looking into the more obscure involving a creative project. 
philosophies this year. Don't get Your creative talents will cap­
fooled into believing that you ture the interest of those watch­
must follow someone else in ing from the sidelines. 00000 
order to be enlightened. You LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
must believe in yoursell in order You've got the upper hand so 
to move ahead in a positive don't procrastinate. Take care of 
manner. Your numbers are 4, 16 , all the small but important 
21, 27, 33, 38 details. Don't get involved in 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): non-productive group endeav­
You've got added energy, so ors. 000 
pick up the slack and put in SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
some overtime. Don't depend You may have trouble figuring 
on getting help today. Everyone out what others are trying to do. 
around you is moving at half the If you are getting double signals, 
speed.000 don't back away. Ask point• 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): blank questions to satisfy your Expect someone around you to own mind. 000 take things the wrong way. Be SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): careful how you word things. Put all your efforts into getting Don't leave yourself open for ahead at work. Roll up your someone to twist your words or shirtsleeves and don't stop until make you look bad. 000 the job is done. Your colleagues 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): will be more than happy to lend Don't just sit there, get busy you a hand. 000 wheeling and dealing. Property CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): investments or small business Don't be rigid. You have some ventures will be to your advan­wonderful creative ideas, so tage. You may have to persuade don't be afraid to put them on 
someone to pitch in and help the table and see what others today. 000 think. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take part in something that is You are probably sending the important to you. If you don't wrong message to someone you take part in the things you enjoy, like. You may want to step back you will miss out on the possi­and observe others for a while bility of a new partnership. instead of making all the moves. 
0000 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): careful to whom you tell your Don't forget about the friends ideas. Someone will be quick to who have always been in your pick your brain and steal your corner. Loyalty counts for a lot game plan. 00 and the people you can depend 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): on are the ones you should be You can have it all if you take spending time with. 0000 
Birthday Baby: You are completely open and receptive to new ideas and concepts. You are not easily surprised by anything you see or hear. You will. often play in your own little world, content to enter­tain yourself. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Unive~ Press Syndicate 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
, ..... #'· ...·,·/~· ...... ,.t't't•'•:--,, -,f .. ·,.. ..... -·!',. ~-,,.·"·~·, ~ 
~~• ~~--'.,. · • 3&1"· •._, ... Le·: >'16¦ » 
i.••.-~·--•.•· .. ·••t.•·······
.... \ ~ ,,.-.,. • .t-"""i~-:--. • t..r.:.... .,. t-: "#r,·... "": i, 
O
THE

Campus Sports Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. SMC Basketball, p. 17 
. Men's Basketball, p. 15 
. 
ND Women's Basketball, p. 18 . ND Women's Tennis, p. 16 

. 
ND Women's Golf, p. 18 . Men's Tennis, p. 16


PORTS 
Monday, February 18, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish fall behind for 68-65 loss 
By KERRY SMITH  
Sports Writer  
An effective zone defense  
and key plays by DeShaun  
Williams late in the second  
half Sunday gave No. 21  
Syracuse the 68-65 edge  
against Notre Dame at the  
Joyce Center.  
In a game See Also with 15 lead changes, the "Irish frustration  
Irish and the leads to two•  
Orangemen game losingbattled back  
streak"and forth  
before the page 15 Orangemen  
turned up the  
heat with six minutes left in  
regulation.  
With the score tied at 56,  
Williams hit a long 3-pointer to  
end a two and a half minute  
scoring drought.  
The Irish came back and  
took a 60-59 lead on two Ryan  
Humphrey free throws and a  
Matt Carroll jumper, but  
Williams struck again from  
behind the arc to give  
Syracuse the lead for good.  
"DeShaun hit those two  
threes and that basically broke  
our backs," Irish forward  
David Graves said. "We were  
never able to recover."  
Williams led the Orangemen  
with 18 points.  
Trailing 68-65 in the final  
seconds, Graves had a chance  
to tie the game, but his 3-point  
attempt bounced off the rim  
and into Orangemen hands to  
end the game.  
"I thought he got an average  
look at the basket," Irish head  
coach Mike Brey said.  
But the Irish had trouble  
even finding a shot to take.  
Syracuse's defense swarmed  
the perimeter, preventing  
Notre Dame's deep shooters  
from getting an open look.  
"We needed a three and so  
they went five-out -they  
were way out," Graves said.  
"They played well and execut­ 
ed better than we did."  
The Syracuse zone also  
helped slow the Irish offense DUFFY-MARIE ARNOULT/The Observer  
down when it counted. In the Senior Ryan Humphrey goes up for the ball against a Syracuse player in the lrish's 68-65  
final minute the trailing Irish loss to the Orangemen Sunday.  
brought the ball down the  
court for its second to last pos­session looking for a 3-pointer, but after 24 seconds had to settle for a Humphrey dunk. "Our defense in the second half was as good as it's been all year," Orangemen head coach Jim Boeheim said. The Irish led by as many as seven in the second half, before the Orangemen went on  a 19-8 run to gain a perma­nent lead. "We were beaten before [the final possession]," Brey said. "We had a six or seven point lead and then all of a sudden you look up at the scoreboard and we're down. Psychologically that brings you down and that kind of hurt us."  A key to the Syracuse win was an outright dominance on the offensive boards. Bringing down 17 offensive rebounds, the Orangemen scored 16 sec• and-chance points to Notre Dame's six.· "[The rebounding effort] was one of the best in a long time," Boeheim said. "Compared to our worst efforts it was  Herculean." Carroll led the Irish with 18 points, while Humphrey added 15 and Graves chipped in 11. But the Irish suffered for the second game in a row without the added spark of freshman point guard Chris Thomas. Thomas, who earned Sports see B-BALL/page 15  

TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish win Big East Champs 
Observer Staff Report 
It didn't matter that the Irish didn't win a single event at the Indoor Big East Track and Field Championships. 
They won the whole thing. 
Notre Dame's women's track and field team finished with 112 points, just edging runner up Georgetown, who finished the meet with 110 points. It was the first conference meet title for the Irish. 
Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane and assistants Tim Connelly, John Millar and Scott Windsor were named the 2002 Big East Women's Coaching Staff of the Year. 
The Irish women used a bal­anced attack in claiming the title, earning three second-place finishes and two third-place fin­ishes. Liz Grow set a school record in the 500-meter dash and placed second in 1 minute, 
11.65 seconds. 
Junior Kymia Lova was second in the 400-meter dash with a time of 55.58 and Ayesha Boyd ran an NCAA provisional quali­fying time in the 200 meters, fin­ishing second in 24.00, Love tied the Notre Dame school record held by Grow with her run. 
Other outstanding performers for the Irish included freshman Emily Loomis in the high jump, who finished third with a leap of 5-foot-8. 
Boyd placed third in the 60­meter dash with an NCAA provi­sional time of 7.44. The 1600­meter relay team of Love, Kristen Dodd, Boyd and Grow_ was third with an NCAA provi­sional time of 3:41.19. 
The men's squad, behind two victories from senior Ryan Shay, finished third with 101.75 points. Connecticut won the team title with 136.5, followed by Villanova with 125. 
On Saturday, Shay won the 5,000 meters with a NCAA pro­visional time of 14:15.57. Shay edged out fellow senior Luke Watson in the 3,000 meters Sunday, winning in a time of 
8:09.42. Watson was second in 8:12.44. 
Other top performers for the Irish men included freshman Selim Nurudeen, who was third in the 60-meter hurdles in 8:08. 
Freshman Dwight Ellick fin­ished third in the 60-meter dash in 6.88 and third in the 200 meters in 21.61. Watson fin­ished third in the mile in 4:07.15 and Christopher Staron finished third in the high jump, clearing 6-7. 

. Men's Basketball vs. West Virginia, Wednesday, 
OBSERVER 

7:30 p.m. online
SPORTS 
. Women's Basketball vs. West Virginia, Tuesday, 
http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
AT AGLANCE 7:30 p.m. 
_J 



