--------------------------------------------------------------------~--­

Caffeine fix
MOSTLY 

Friday

SUNNY 

Scene ventures to the local coffee shops in search of a decent cup of joe. 
FEBRUARY 8,
HIGH 46° 
Scene . page 10-11 
LOW32° 
2002 



T.he Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 83 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


College programs address campus violence 
• Group examines student feelings on campus safety 
By MYRA McGRIFF 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The Anti-Violence Task Force, appointed by College President Marilou Eldred, is currently working to process data on students' attitudes and knowledge about vio­lence, sexual assault and safety on campus. 
The task force, which began meeting this fall, is in its first year of operation. Composed of faculty, staff, administra­tion and a diverse group of students, the task force defined goals early in the year to expand programming, events and methods of han­dling campus safety. 
"We wanted to be a little more intentional about addressing the issues of vio­lence on campus," said Eldred. 
To do this, the task force wanted to get a representa­tive sample of students' atti­tudes and knowledge about violence, sexual assault and 
safety. a sense of the student need dents said they were some­Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
With the help of Astrid on campus in relation to their what to very concerned about community setup, accordingHenry, women's studies and awareness of safety and vio­safety on campus. In contrast, to Henry. She said she English professor, the com­lence. 73 percent of the respondents believes that because of the mittee formed a survey to The survey was sent by e­were somewhat to very con­Saint Mary's/Notre Dame draw out of students main mail to students in December. cerned about their safety out­dynamic students share a concerns and how best to The task force got responses side of campus. concern about safety at levels address the problem. The 10-from 254 students. The 23 percent difference question survey aimed to get Fifty percent of the respon-may be due to the situation 
see DEFENSE/page 7 

NDToday doesn't endorse ticket 
By HELENA PAYNE Assistant News Editor 
NDToday.com. the online media source for Notre Dame students, will have to cover this year's student govern­ment elections differently, according to the site's presi­dent Scott Palko. 
The reason for the change is Palko himself. He's running for student body president along with fellow junior P.J. Mercanti. 
"We are going to alter our coverage," said Palko. "NDToday will not be serving an endorsement this year." 
Palko said he and the site's owner Frank Helgesen have discussed the consequences of endorsing a candidate and decided to "equal the playing field" by not endorsing any­body. Palko added that Helgesen, a 2001 Notre Dame NDToday." graduate, could offer his own Originally, Palko said the endorsement or student gov­Web site was going to have an ernment election coverage if endorsement as it did for last he chose to do so. year's election, but he decided 
"The ulti-it could be mate decision unfair.
"We are going to alter
is [up to] "It's obvi­
our coverage ...

Frank." said ously an Palko. "He still enormous has considered resource to
Scott Palko 

offering some­have at your
NDToday.com president
thing." disposal," 
The two Palko said. NDToday.com Palko's executives have been in con­position on NDToday.com does versation since Palko decided not violate any Judicial to run, but they have focused Council rules although it origi­on different aspects of the nally raised some concerns possible conflict of interest. among candidates, said John 
"[Helgesen's] concern is McCarthy, vice president of 
more content. He wants to elections. offer students content that is "I've looked over NDToday pertinent to them," said Palko. and there's really nothing spe­
"My concern is that I don't cific for or against [Palko]." want to abuse the situation and just take advantage of see WEB SITE/page 6 
. Saint Mary's offers first class on self defense 
By KATIE VIN CER 
News Writer 
The doors are shut. The 
drapes are pulled closed. The 
word "NO!" echoes off the 
walls by the shouts of female 
voices. 
These women are preparing 
themselves not to be victims, 
but survivors by participating 
in a self-defense class. 
For the first time in its his­tory, Saint Mary's is offering its women a self-defense class. Faculty. staff and stu­dents of Saint Mary's suggest­ed these classes during a forum held last year by Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs. 
"The forums was my way of trying to solicit student feed­back on programming topics they would like to see around the topic of violence against women," said Timm. 

These self-defense classes are provided by the organiza­tion Rape Aggression Defense (RAD). RAD was founded in 1989 and presently has more than 2,000 instructors throughout the United States and Canada. Sue Tollos and Tracy Hahn. both employees of the Notre Dame security, are RAD certified instructors and teach the self-defense 
see ClASS/page 4 



Students share free tax advice 
By IAUREN BECK 

News Writer 
Accounting students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are providing free tax assis­tance for low-income taxpay­ers in the Michiana area again this spring. 
Beginning this Saturday. more than 70 juniors and seniors will prepare thousands of federal and state income tax returns as part of the 31st annual Vivian Harrington Gray Tax Assistance Program. 
Michiana residents who earn less than $35,000 annually or are unemployed are eligible for free assistance, said senior Melissa Rauch, the program's publicity director. 
"We try to get them back some money they wouldn't normally get if they weren't familiar with the process," she said. 
The students spent about 10 hours in the classroom intense­ly preparing for their volunteer work. They learned to fill out items on the federal income tax returns and studied certain credits and deductions for which their clients could be eli­gible, said Ken Milani, profes­sor of accountancy and pro­gram coordinator. 
For example, the earned income credit allows taxpayers to draw more out of the system than they actually contribute. The child credit also provides a 
see TAx7page 6 

Friday, February 8, 2002
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME / SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 

-In the spirit ·of 'black history 
In days of past my people lived in lands ­divided chains around their necks. shackles around their wrists, and still in my eyes you can see their pain. their cries, despair. But given to them was something greater and 
through the beatings and exploitation it remained. I can remember the first time I heard "Wade in the Water." It was like honey mixed in lemon waiting to heal. It was the power of words that held sanity 
Myra McGrlff 
Saint Mary's 
Editor 
inside black folks heads when hands of 
oppression stomp in hate. 
Some ask how did black folks get the legs to run past it all. all the looks, all the ways it hurt to breathe and say life was worth the wait? We survived in the way we learned to scream, "Praise God," on Mondays and dance on Sundays. We survived by lyrics of freedom songs and rumors of open opportunity past the Mason Dixon line. We hung on in the dust of dreams that mama's whispered in newborn babies' ears. We hung on through losing mothers to fathers to daughters trying to claim stability with no space to call our own. Man, we hung on. And Langston Hughes vali­dated our struggle, while Lorraine Hansbury made us wave our hands in what we've all been through. 
We even reached a point that we could shake our heads at the blues Billy sang in "Strange Fruit.'' talking of how black folks hung from Southern trees. We did better than hold on, we dared to surpass what people thought that we could not do. 
And now, now I ask what keeps me moving through the battle of today facing my black skin in the backdrop of society. I say it is this, these same people coming back to mind and lines of Coltrane's sax jumping off my hands as I type, type my life into reality. But I only have these people because someone said to me, read, listen, and care. Care that my fami­ly came from trial and died in the fight to walk with heads high. Care that my family watched with tears in their eyes King speak and the riots of the 60's. Care that my people lost jobs and home on-picket lines so I can sit here in classes next to you. 
They told me to care because without the struggle and the pain there is no me. I am the fields of cotton picked until fingers bled, and backs that cleaned floors (the only job my grandmother could get). I am the black power fist calling for equality and the voices saying "by any means necessary.•• I am the child walking miles to "separate but equal" schools and the sharecroppers homes that seeped in the color of want. I am because they gave. gave until they could see and then they gave some more. 
And because they gave, and because they cared we all should care. We should care enough to come and listen to one Black History Month event. Otherwise they cried in vain and worked in vain. Otherwise they died in vain and all is lost in the dust of crops picked in sun that blacked backs of men deserving more. more than what life offered them. 
Contact Myra McGriff at mcgrO181@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publuhcd Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction righu arc reserved. 
ND alumnus killed in plane crash 
Friday, February 3, 1989 Captain Joseph Nellis, a 1983 alumnus, was killed in an Air Force transport plane crash South of DYESS Air Force base. He was the son of George Nellis, a former Computing Center administrator. 

Regents increase Saint Mary's tuition 
Monday, February 5, 1973 The Saint Mary's Board of Regents raised tuition by $50 per semester at its February meeting. The increase was the first since 1971 when the tuition was increased by a $100 per semester. Saint Mary's president Edward Henry said the increase reflected a higher cost of living .. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPus· 

Duke committee addresses sexual harrassment 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Although Duke University estab­lished a standing committee designed to address sexual harass­ment in the physics department, many professors and students say a climate of discomfort still exists for women. 
The Bryant Committee was creat­ed by Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences William Chafe in the summer of 2000 in response to sev­eral complaints of sexual harass­ment, both verbal and physical. 
Since then, the Office of Institutional Equity has conducted a workshop with members of the department, distributed a brochure on gender discrimination and tried to foster a better atmosphere. But some professors and students say not enough has changed. 


"We certainly did find there were problems,·· said Professor of Mathematics Robert Bryant, former chair of the Bryant Committee. "Some of those problems [might have been] simply because people weren't aware of what had been done or how things had been dealt with... 
Bryant declined to specify the problems the committee found ini­tially but said the group filed a con­fidential report with Chafe. In a Nov. 28, 2000, letter to the depart­ment, Chafe specified that the com­mittee heard accounts from several people who suggested past instances of sexual harassment. 
"These included inappropriate contact between staff or instructors and graduate students, use of lan­guage or display of pictures in pub­lic environments that were offen­sive to women and inappropriate requests that women perform tasks that seemed based upon their gen­der alone, such as cleaning up cof­fee spills," Chafe's letter read. "The committee found some basis for the assertion that the culture or cli­mate of the department is some­times perceived as unfriendly to women." 


GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 

School resolves antisemitic remark 
WASHINGTON 
George Washington University professors with rad­ical ideas who have been following the pending fir­ing of a University of South Florida professor can breathe a sigh of relief. University President Stephen Joel Trachtenberg said he disagrees with the way the USF is treating a tenured professor who has brought international attention to campus for saying "death to Israel" publicly. Computer engineering professor Sarni Al-Arian made the remark in a speech more than a decade ago. But when Bill O'Reilly repeated the statement in a recent interview with him on his Fox news show, it threw the South Florida campus into a frenzy of security concerns and backlash. Al-Arian received at least one death threat. causing a floor in the engineering school to shut down one day. The board of trustees voted 11-1 to revoke his tenure because the university is unable to function normally. according to comments in The Chronicle of Higher Education. 


LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ 
\ 
•••.~~a31,,,:.,,r>~) . 
·,D ,.tu U
/;,._~_,:J,i:,.:;:::~:\:;<i~,:~~-__, 
~~; 

rM '·••·•
!...\QD" 
ID@~ 


we~· 
:ib::\:.:::"·\:,-::::-:::=:-:: 

9,~-~q~Q (I-~ c:::1 
Showers T-stomis Rain Furies Snow Ice 51.nny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
v..~_,,._a,~ 




UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
System's endowment plummets 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
College endowments nationwide dropped for the 
first time since 1984, with the University of 
California suffering more decline than the national 
• average, according to recent reports. The universi­ty's endowments dropped 5.5 percent, despite draw­ing more than $1 billion in private support for the second consecutive year. The shrinking endowments, combined with the state's $12.8 billion budget deficit has administrators tightening their belts. Currently valued at $6.2 billion, UC's total endowment fund consists of money derived from an investment portfo­lio organized by the UC Office of the Treasurer, as well as contributions from corporations and individu­als. Endowments across the country lost on average 
3.6 percent of their value in the last fiscal year, said the National Association of College and University Business Officers. The commission conducted a sur­vey of 610 institutions of higher education. Its full report will be released in March. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 8. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

High Low Shower• Rein T-etorma FlurriN Snow loe &unny PL Cloudy Cloudy 

0 2002 AccuWealher, Inc. 
~ A#ot:ui.d -

Allanta  59  39  Cincinnati  56  32  New Yolk  46  32  
Baltimore  53  32  Dallas  64  48  Orlando  64  50  
Boston  41  27  Denver  50  21  Pittsoorgi  49  33  
Buffalo  38  29  Detroit  45  53  Salt Lake City  32  20  
Chicago  46  33  Los Angeles  66  48  Tampa  80  61  



Friday, February 8, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
RUSSIA 




Officials claim CIA report unfair 
VOTE MONDAY!!! 
The 2002 Priniary Election will be held this Monday, Februaryll 
See postings in your dorm for voting times andplaces 
Off-Campus Students can vote by the 1st Floor DeBartolo Hall computer cluster From 10 am until 1:30pm 
Seniors can vote toolI I 
Don't forget to vote!!! 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Judicial Council 
:i. 
L ..J 
1 

.STUDENT UNION BOARD 
is now accepting applications for 
EXECUTIVE . POSITIONS 
BOARD MANAGER 
DIRECTOR OF PROGRAMMING 
CHIEF CONTROLLER 
DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS 
DIRECTOR OF ADVERTISING 
all students are welcome to apply 
applications can be picked up in the SUB 
office, 201 La Fortune and are due Thursday 
February 14th. Questions? Feel free to stop 
in, call 1--7757, e--mail sub@nd.edu, visit our 

new website www.nd.edu/--sub, or 

check out our IM name, ndSUBin o 






·51EJ

OBC ENGLISH 
CONVERSATION SCH L 
is seeking university graduates for aone year teaching position in Japan. Attra(tive salary, benefits and travel opportunilies. 
RECNUITIN6 OATES: February 13 lr 11/., 2002 at Career and Placement Services. )ll!P,IJiiIf$/f /la.lJ!fl(G(JJ,IJ(G/f $ Kl/!J.11.$ llf(f)ll IiiIf(flJ1f!J!H/flJ),. Open to all m(Uors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
The ND Department of Musi<_? Presents 
ND Collegium Musicum 
directed by Daniel Stowe 
Sunday, February 10, 2002 
8: 15 pm. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public (21 9) 631-6201 for information 


GREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & lounge Open 7 Days lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11 :30 • 3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM -10:00 PM Friday -Saturday 11:30 AM • 11 :00 PM 

Happy Chinese New Vear Special Buffet 
Feb. 11, Monday: 5 pm -9 pm Feb. 12, Tuesday: 11:30 am -9 pm 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Russia angrily denounced a 
CIA report that questions the 
Kremlin's willingness and abil­
ity to prevent the spread of 
dangerous technology, a sign 
of renewed tension following a 
sharp improvement in rela­
tions in the wake of the Sept. 
11 terror attacks. 
The Foreign Ministry, in a harshly worded statement, on Thursday demanded an official explanation from Washington. The unclassified CIA report on weapons of mass destruction has caused "not only extreme surprise but also serious con­cern" in Russia, it said. 
"This is the first time in recent years that an official American document makes an attempt to question the devo­tion, willingness and ability of the Russian government to prevent the leakage of sensi­tive products and technology abroad," the Foreign Ministry said. "Russia strictly meets its international obligations to control the export of sensitive trade and technology." 
CIA Director George Tenet told Congress on Wednesday that Russia is one of the lead­ing suppliers of nuclear tech­nology and missiles to coun­tries hostile to the United States and remains "the first choice of nations seeking nuclear technology and train­ing." 
The CIA report to Congress. which covers the first half of 
2001 but was released last 
week, said the Russian govern­
ment's "commitment, willing­
ness, and ability to curb prolif­
eration-related transfers 
remain uncertain." 
"Despite improvements in 
Russia's economy, the state­
run defense, biotechnology, 
and nuclear industries remain 
strapped for funds, even as 
Moscow looks to them for 
badly needed foreign exchange 
through exports," it said. "We 
remain very concerned about 
the proliferation implications 
of such sales in several areas." 
President Vladimir Putin has lent strong support for the U.S.-led campaign in Afghanistan, saying Russia long ago recognized the world­wide threat of terrorism. But President Bush's denunciation of Iraq, Iran and North Korea as part of an "axis of evil" that must stop pursuing weapons of mass destruction or face con­sequences presented a chal­lenge to Russia, which has friendly ties with all three. 
In Moscow, Iran's ambas­sador warned of unpredictable consequences if the United States uses force against Iran, saying "we will react as any country would," but Gholam Reza Shafei expressed hope that U.S. leaders "will come to their senses and will not allow this to happen." He did not elaborate on Iran's possible response. 
Shafei dismissed as "base­less" allegations by top U.S. officials linking Iran to terror­ist organizations and that it 
Friday, February 8, 2002

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Tax 
continued from page 1 
refund for families with children under age 17, said Milani. 
Senior Matt Dixon said he felt his involvement in the program benefitted the community. 
"We're helping people save money on their taxes without paying for a tax preparer," he said. "They can get tax savings they wouldn't have known about otherwise. The earned income credit can save families up to $4,000." 
The Vivian Harrington Gray Tax Assistance Program began in 1972 with the vision of a law student and an MBA candidate who were looking to help tax­payers get special refunds offered by the state of Indiana. They contacted Milani, who helped direct their efforts and instituted the preparatory cours­es in federal taxation and tax assistance. 
The program has grown since then, filing over 2,500 tax returns last year and helping 1,430 local taxpayers. 
"We try to get students at Notre Dame to be compassion­ate, concerned and committed. Here we add a fourth 'C' ­competent. We have the best trained volunteers in the coun­try," Milani said. 
The program is not unique to Notre Dame, according to Milani, but three factors do dis­tinguis h this program from those of other universities. 
"First of all, we go into the neighborhoods where the tax­payers live," he said. This year, the program boasts two on-cam­pus sites, one at Notre Dame and one at Saint Mary's, and nine off-campus locations. Most other schools limited their ser­vices to on-campus centers. 
Secondly, local CPAs volunteer at five of the sites to help with more complicated refunds, another difference from most schools with similar programs. 

The third unique factor is the Students Working at Taxes (SWAT) team, which will make appointments to go to homes and hospitals, according to Rauch. 
"We make~house calls, for people who cannot get to our locations due to age, disability or hospitalization," said Milani. 
The tax assistance program benefits not only the recipients, but also the students, said Milani. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu. 

Web site 
continued from page I 
McCarthy said. 
He added that Judicial Council views NDToday .com as a "completely separate entity" similar to other cam­pus publications. Palko and Mercanti have an official campaign Web site different from NDToday.com just as the other candidates do. 
McCarthy said the message boards on NDToday.com crit­icize all the tickets -even Palko and Mercanti. 
"They get made fun of just as much as anybody else does," said McCarthy. 
Senior Scott Sutton, who regularly visits NDToday.com, said he doesn't think Palko's position 
with  the  site  gives  
Palko/Mercanti  an  unfair  
advantage.  

"I don't think there's really any conflict," said Sutton. 
He said he noticed that most of the messages that talk about the candidates are more fault-finding than laudatory. 
"I don't think that he's been trumpeting the fact that he's the president to get votes from users," said Sutton. ''I'd say he's doing it the fair and ethical way." 

Now, with annual percentage rates as low as they are, you can live your dream. Notre Dame Federal Credit Union can help. We'll design a fixe~ or adjustable-rate mortgage around your specific needs. Plus, you can finance up to 100% of your home. And, we'll do it for you quickly, with no hassles. We even offer first mortgages nationwide! .Still dreaming of your perfect home? Notre Dame Federal Credit Union will help make it a reality. 
The site will still continue covering the elections as usual in a way that avoids bias "out of personal fairness to everyone else," according to Palko. Currently, the site collaborates with The Observer's Viewpoint section, which polls students on cam­pus issues, including the stu­dent government election. In addition, NDToday has links to the Web sites of both stu­dent publications, The Observer and The Scholastic, which have their own 
· endorsements. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
'/j 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
Indiana and Michigan 
57 4/239-661 I • 800/522-6611 
Outside Indiana and Michigan 
800/400-4540 You can also stop by your nearest branch or visit our web site at www.ndfcu.org. 

.G:t
IQUU KOUSIKC 
LENDER 
Independent ofthe University 


SAY-. 




NEW INTER.NATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
BRAZIL -Spring 2003 

RIO DE JANEIRO 
-

SAO PAULO 

INFORMATION· SESSIONS 
l~lJI~Sl)A\l, f~EBRlJ1\R\' 12Ttl 5:30-6:30 125 Haves-Healv 
~ . .: 

THURSDAY,FEBRUARY21~ 5:30-6:30 125 llaves-HeaJ,,,.,.
,.,, 

COFFEE, BAKERY&: CONFECTIONS 
Proudly Serve 
Cheesecake from The Cheesecake Factory Seattle Best's Coffee &The Republic ofTea Joseph Schmidt's Chocolate from San Francisco 
Mon,Fri 7am,I0pm/Sat I0am,I0pm 213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend 233,0.Ji­
alter,i ili &~i! 
J(e,w, 'Y.~J~j,4e'4 ,A,j,~ 
\) 


Friday, February 8, 2002 page 7
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
bisexual students. Also, 20 Faced with the job of edu­percent of respondents said cation, Henry stresses that

Defense 
continued from page 1 
that she had not experienced 
at other colleges. 
"The relationship between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame creates a host of issues that are unique to this situation." Henry said. 
Compiling results from a question about what a stu­dent would do in a case of sexual assault, the committee can decide how to design new campus programming and re­think old policies. 
Although 82 percent of respondents said they knew what to do in cases of sexual assault, only 28 percent knew what the College's post-sexu­al assault procedures were. Henry said that part of the committee's position will be to make students aware of existing programs. 
"I think there is a concern that when there are pro­grams that student take advantage of them," Henry said. 
Additionally, 28 percent of respondents said they were somewhat to very knowledge­able of homophobia and vio­lence against lesbian and 
~~ 
(. 
they were aware of racism or violence against students of color. This data may be used in the future to develop strategies for education, according to the task force. 
"In the long-term, I think the committee should have a broad vision of what we see as violence, including vio­lence against lesbians, racism and emotional abuse," Henry said. 
In terms of education. the committee has already been putting survey results into action. Even before the com­mittee knew only 32 percent of their respondents were knowledgeable about self• defense. the committee pro­posed a solution: offer self­defense classes on campus.· 
"The self-defense classes are a direct result of the task force meetings," said Susan Dampeer, assistant to the president. 
But the committee knows the classes are just a step in education. Once all the data is tallied by Mary Lelik, direc­tor of institutional research, and digested, the task force will meet again to brainstorm more ideas for programming and education. 
the task force can educate Saint Mary's women on how to protect themselves, but hopes that the Notre Dame community can do the same. 
"What I have seen [in the past) is menas anti-violence task force, men leading the movement teaching men right and wrong," said Henry. 
Susan Almeda, student task force member, hopes the task force establishes more inclu­sive orientation programming as well as programming throughout the year that involves all parts of the stu­dent body. However, to make the task force fully effective, Almeda also sees a need to 
increase  student  safety  
awareness beyond  Saint  
Mary's.  

"My hope is that commit­tee's mission will expand the to Notre Dame, Holy Cross and greater South Bend col­1ege community," Almeda said. 
Contact Myra McGriff at rncgrO 181@saintmarys.edu. 
It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you . 
. 
. 
Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you . The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful 
t!;
J. < ~-• 

,":.:; ,• services, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and services designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
~.. HAMILTON COMMUNITIES 
(574) 654-2250 

31869 Chicago Trail New Carlisle, IN 46552~0836 
~ 

Website: http://www.hamiltoncomm.org 
. .

k'--' 
. • 
.. 

Saint Mary's Self-Defense Survey  
Are somewhat to very knowledgeable86% about issues related to sexual assault  
Are somewhat to very knowledgeable64% about date-rape drugs  
Are somewhat to very knowledgeable83% about how to prevent sexual assault and rape  
Are somewhat to very knowledgeable67% about dating violence  
Are somewhat to very knowledgeable72% about emotional and sexual abuse  
Are somewhat to very knowledgeable86% about issues of sexual harrasment  
Somewhat to very much believe college curriculum addresses the20% issues of sexual violence  
Believe a little college curriculum40% addresses the issues of sexual violence  
Somewhat to very much believe 50% college programming addresses issues of sexual violence *Survey based on 254 respondents  
·;,;i..,}:: N,4.-.,;. • ,. ·;:,.:-~..,.;;.:---~­.••  



O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 8 Friday, February 8, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BusJNF.SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amstadcer ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAfly's EDITOR: Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner C0NTR0IJ.ER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0...........•..631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................:................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............ .....631-8839 

THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://ob!erver.n.d.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-rhe 

movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 




POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrhe au rho rs and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact Wormacion. 
Questions regarding Obrerver poiic~s should be direct­ed to Editor in Ch~JMike Connolly. 







Lack of debate cheats election 
The Judicial Council cheated Wednesday. It's a tradition that cheats Scott Palko and P.J. Mercanti 
The body cheated the students who turned out for the out of questioning opponents Libby Bishop/frip Foley, election debate among the four tickets for Notre Dame stu­Nikki McCord/Nick Williams and Brian Moscona/Keri dent body president and vice president. But mostly it Oxley, about these student government insiders' failures cheated the spirit of the political process on and successes. And it's a tradition that cheats campus. Th those tickets out of inquiring about the feasi-
The debate wasn't a debate at all. Ooserver bility of outsiders Palko and Mercanti's plat-Election officials organized a watered-down 
Edi1-:on•a1 form.
"meet the candidates" event where tickets ~~ restricting candidates from ~~ much as merely plugged their platforms and .lJ ra1smg an eyebrow at opponents ideas or answered Judicial Council-approved ques­strategies, the Judicial Council tramples on the tions from campus media. values of competition and open discussion that should be 
There was no discourse between rival tickets. There part of any election. were no questions solicited from audience members. The council showed its willingness to inhibit these values There were only scripted, non-confrontational sound bytes last week when it sanctioned the Moscona-Oxley campaign from eight people who were essentially issued a gag order for questioning the feasibility of another ticket's goals. by the Judicial Council, barring them from speaking open­With the so-called debate this week, the council again ly about important issues. kicked the air out of the Notre Dame election process. 
John McCarthy, the council's vice president of elections, The Judicial Council should be willing to open the floor claims that's the way the debate has functioned in the to serious debate among candidates before students head past. to the polls each year. It only cheats student politicians ­
But that excuse only sacrifices the chance for meaningful and the people who need to be informed to vote for them campaigning in the name of a bad tradition. -if the council doesn't. 
The Relationship Expo 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Helena Payne Erin LaRuffa Katie Rand 
Sports 
Andrew Soukup 
Viewpoint 
Kurt Bogaard 


Scene 

Laura Kelly 
Graphics 
Jimmy Atkinson 

Production 
Dave Cook 
Lab Tech 
Kylie Carter 


NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL RESULTS 
For which ticket to you plan to W. vote in the upcoming student government elections? 
*Poll courtesy of NDToday.com and based on 517 votes 

Andy Oevotofrhe OBSERVER 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Relations between the sexes are so complicated that the only way you can tell if two members ofthe set are 'going together' is ifthey are married. Then. almost certainly. they are not . ., 
Cleveland Amory writer 
On Wednesday, I took my friend to the mall to find a Valentine's day present for her new boyfriend. As she browsed the aisles of heart-bedecked cards, sprinkled with the words "love" and "special some­
one," I sulked behind her, somewhat disap­pointed. I have no particular guy for whom to buy a box of message hearts. 
Yet, after two and a half years at this school, I am not bit­ter. I do not take my "unattached" status as an insult to my womanhood 
or proof of my 

Tuesday Voice
social-ineptness. I 

on Friday
simply realize that here, sincere male-female relation­ships are a rare treasure and actual dat­ing is practically non-existent. 
Hardly a dining hall conversation pass­es without a lament from one of my friends, all female of course, about the terrible state of gender relations on cam­pus. Most often, students blame the sin­gle sex dorms and parietals for the pitiful state of affairs. They say the administra­tion continues these traditions in a back­wards attempt to preserve the virtue of the students, to keep us -shall we say -from going over to the dark side. 
I disagree. The problems of gender relations stem from a basic structural flaw in the campus community. On a fundamental level, the dating scene does not cater to the mentality ofthe typical Notre Dame student. 
The typical student of this University operates according to definitive goals. He or she writes the to-do list each morning, details the precise steps to achieve an 'A' and factors in each club activity accord­ing to its impact on his or her resume. 
Joanna Mikulski 
He or she appreciates order and stabili­ty. For him or her, relationships tend to be far too ambiguous. 
If only, I thought as I stared at a moun­tain of Victoria's Secret Hot Mint Llps, there was some way to remove that ambiguity, to take the guesswork out of dating. If only there was some way to guarantee that an innocent encounter by a male and a female student would end in a relationship favorable to both, like a great resume and a killer cover letter guarantee the attainment of the job of your dreams. I thought of the internship fair, a model of efficiency and order. For example, each booth at the career fair displayed colored balloons, denoting the type of position that they had available. 
Furthermore, it brings the employers directly to the eager students. Students find out on the spot whether the compa­ny has something to offer them. If only dating could be this straightforward. 
I have a proposal. (I hope that all stu­dent government candidates take notice.) I call it "The Relationship Expo." 
First, I would like to list the things that "The Relationship Expo" is not: 
1. 
A meat market. ffhis is after all one ofthe most prestigious universities in the United States.) 

2. 
A wet T-shirt contest or beauty pageant. (Business casual attire will be required.) 

3. 
A party. (No drinking prior to the event or excessive flirting will be tolerat­ed. "The Relationship Expo" is a profes­sional event. Violators will be asked to leave the premises.) 


Now, I would like to unveil the mechanics of this event to be held at the JACC. First, women will run the booths. In keeping with tradition, men will approach prospective significant others. For their convenience, women will prominently display various colored bal­loons, which will specify the length and nature of the relationship desired. For example, red will denote seekers of high commitment relationships, who require contracts of one year or more. Pink will signify seekers of moderate commitment relationships with necessary contracts of three to twelve months. And finally, yel­low will denote seekers of brief flings and sporadic hook-ups. 
Secondly. men will be required to sub­mit a resume with the following informa­tion: an objectives statement that details relationship intentions and goals, a prior experience statement that outlines dat­ing history (if applicable). three refer­ences and any additional interests or skills. 
Finally I propose the establishment of a "relationship center" on the 18th floor of Flanner Hall to oversee the production of this event. To ensure the readiness of candidates, it will provide various work­shops prior to the event including "How to Approach a Member of the Opposite Sex," "What to Wear: Style and Presentation" and "Writing the Resume: Skills to Advertise and Skills to Omit." 
Although I do not expect my plan to come to fruition during my tenure at this University, I have hope that one day. "The Relationship Expo," will favorably affect the status of gender relations on campus for future generations. But until then, I would like all potential candidates to know that I am currently accepting resumes, and I wish you all the best of luck. 
Joanna Mikulsi is a junior English and German major. She would like to thank the girls without who this column would not have been possible. Her column appears every other Friday. Contact Joanna Mikulski at mikulski.1@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author andnot necessarily tjwse ofThe Observer. 

O
THE 

BSERVER 


Friday, February 8, 2002 page 9 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Defending the parents of Walker-Lindh 
Ed Fitzpatrick's response to Scott Flipse's letter, which appeared in the Feb. 5 issue of The Observer, was both imma­ture and illogical. Although Mr. Fitzpatrick begins his letter by criticizing Mr. Flipse's opinion, by calling it "liberal 
garbage," Mr. Fitzpatrick does nothing but discredit himself. Such tactless attacks are not convincing. nor are they productive in engaging in a debate over such a decisive issue as that of Mr. Walker-Lindh. Mr. Flipse makes many excellent points, none of which Mr. Fitzpatrick even attempts to 
refute or answer. 
But because Mr. Fitzpatrick's let­ter was so ridiculously off 
base. I feel that 
it deserves a 
response to pre­
vent even one 
person from think­
ing what was writ­
ten in that letter 
makes sense. Mr. 
Fitzpatrick begins by 
writing that Mr. Lindh, 
John Walker Lindh's 
father, should also be tried 
for treason and cites the case 
of "Haupt v. United States," 
1947, as supporting evidence of his assertion. The problems with this argu­ment are many. , 
Firstly, no parent can be tried for their child's actions, especially parents of child who are not minors-· i.e. John Walker­Lindh. who is 20 -unless they knowingly and willingly were accomplices, thus violat­ing the laws that punish accomplices. 
The Haupt case in no way resembles the Walker-Lindh case. Mr. Lindh did not even know where his son was, let alone assist 
him in any actions against the 
United States. Court records have shown, as well as state­ments by Walker-Lindh's parents, that they had not spoken to their son for many months prior to his capture in Afghanistan. Additionally, a father fighting within the legal means for his son by hiring a lawyer and talk­
ing to the press is not only 
legal, but what 
almost any par­
ent would do 
for his or her 
child. 
Finally, Mr. Flipse's argu­ments continue 
to hold weight and are strong in their assertion that Mr. Walker­Lindh's right to dis­agree with the United States must be respect­ed while his illegal actions punished ­despite the hysteria of the few in society such as Mr. 
Fitzpatrick and their call for ridiculous measures. 
Maureen Gottlieb 
junior Cavanaugh Hall February 6, 2002 


Accepting Notre Dame gender relations 
Though I'm only halfway through my career as a Notre Dame student, I'd like to go out on a limb and say that I'm as aware of the gender relations issues on campus as any other Domer. 
But what is the problem exactly? Why must we endure the erroneous yet constant comments about the ..lack of quality" in the females at Notre Dame? Why can't guys and gals mix at a social gathering, without having to bring up last week's chemistry test or adding another bullet to our list of embarrassing moments? 
Some may quickly blame the causes as deriving from antiquated Catholic values, a one-dimensional focus in life due to our zeal for academics or even just plain hard chemistry professors. 
But take a second to ponder this: perhaps the problem lies in ourselves, and not total­ly our duLac-regulated environment. I wouldn't be surprised if the duLac hasn't changed in decades and still remains on a stone tablet somewhere. 
I agree that the environment makes it harder to casually date but I refuse to 
believe that it's impossible. So get used to it. Many of our Notre Dame legacies can testify that relationships can in fact be formed courting around the lakes or before goodbyes under the arch. Their sons and daughters wouldn't be here if it wasn't pos­sible. 
I'm not saying that I haven't spent count­less hours droning on about my own "gen­der relations issues" to my friends and roommates, not at all. 
I'm just presenting a new perspective on the matter. After all, with a defeatist atti­tude and negative approach towards your gender of interest, would you really be get­ting any more lovin' at your local state school? 
So let's make a deal. Instead of sitting around our rooms and complaining, let's both introduce ourselves to someone new today and see what happens. 
Mimi Matkowski 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 

February 6, 2002 





Suggesting changes for Bouts 
"Strong Bodies fight that weak ones may be nourished," is the 
famous saying Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano used to describe the 
spirit of the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts. The Bengal Bouts is a tour­
nament unlike any other in the nation. In fact, Bengal Bouts is more 
than just a boxing tournament because it helps to improve the lives 
of people stricken by poverty. Every year the program sends thou­
sands of dollars to Bangladesh to help those in need. 
Students all across campus unite in many different forms to help 
make this tournament possible. Bengal Bouters have already begun 
training and are just a few weeks away from the tournament. These 
participants sacrifice their time and bodies to help people halfway 
across the world. It is the duty of Bengal Bouts officials to provide 
these participants with the safest and fairest tournament possible. I 
cannot ignore the safety and fairness issues that I and many others, 
feel need to be addressed. 
So, I offer these suggestions to the coaches, captains and RecSports officials as a way of improving both the safety and fair­ness of the tournament. I hope that my suggestions will be taken seriously because they are not only the suggestions of an ex-Bengal Bouter but also the suggestions of many current participants. 
Weigh-ins: The most pressing safety problem facing the boxing world today is the dramatic weight difference between opponents come fight time. Weigh-ins for Bengal Bouts occur almost a week and a half before the night of finals. It has been apparent that sev­eral fighters who sweat down to make a weight lower then their natural body weight are bigger than their opponents when they step into the ring. A weight difference of 10 to 15 pounds is not an exag­geration. This dilemma can be easily resolved by requiring Bouters to make weight before every fight. Yes, it is more time consuming process, but what is an extra hour to the increased safety it pro­vides for Bengal Bouters? 
Seeding: Seeding does not ensure better fights on finals night nor does it ensure fairer and safer match ups. Seeding only benefits the "favorites" in each weight class. Since Bengal Bouts is not a tourna­ment about winning or losing, why not treat all the Bengal Bouters as champions and give them all an equal chance to reach the finals by matching them through a random draw? By not labeling the Bengal Bouters with seeds their confidence can be helped. Whoever makes it to the finals will be there because they fought their way there and have earned it, not because they were the "favorites." 
Judging: A reevaluation is needed in the area ofjudging. Personally, I will not participate as a judge this year in hope that better judges can be found. Having 16 years of boxing experience with only 10 losses out of more than 100 fights, having judged in various amateur tournaments and being a Level II USA Boxing certi­fied coach, I feel very qualified to judge. However, fighters should never be judged by their peers, companions or family friends. An official within RecSports told me that he believed politics came into play when certain fighters fought. His insight cannot be overlooked because he has been intricately involved with the program for many years. Also, a Bengal Bouter that expressed his discontent with the tournament last year received vehement letters from Bengal Bouts judges. One judge even went on to state, " ... next year when I judge your fight. Be prepared. You pissed a lot of people off with this one." This obviously proves that bias does exist within the judging com­munity. Now, I know that there will always be unfavorable deci­sions, but more steps can be taken to promote fairness. 
Good luck, Bengal Bouters! I encourage everyone to purchase a ticket to this years Bengal Bouts tournament even if you cannot attend. The money that you contribute will go to help people far less fortunate than you and I. 
Edward "El Papoose" Hernandez III 
senior Morrissey Manor February 6, 2002 
O
THE 


BSERVER 


mpus

page 10 Friday, February 8, 2002 



The Observer looks at South Ben4 
Scene Staff Report 

Escaping from the bubble of college life can be as thoroughly challenging as an Orgo exam or getting a date to an SYR. Luckily. South Bend offers a number of bastions of sanity for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's overworked and overtired student bodies. An escape from the snow and 900-page Bible readings is as near as South Bend's off-campus coffee shops. 
Lulu's Cafe 

Students that want to take a quick break from the daily grind will find that Lulu's Cafe is as economical as it is enjoyable. 
Lulu's features a wide array of international coffees offered on a rotating daily basis. The New Orleans Community house blend is offered daily and is a supe­rior cup of joe for coffee drinkers who like their cof­fee with a strong earthy flavor. 
Even better, Lulu's coffee is priced well for the pen­niless college student; a small coffee is $.75 (with one free refill), comparable to Dalloway's but much less expensive than a $1.29 cup of Starbucks-standard swill at Reeker's. 
Lulu's most enticing aspect is its charming atmos­phere. The cafe is adorned with comfortable couches and love seats for extended study sessions and the walls are covered in local artwork and quasi-hippie paintings. The leisurely ambiance is a refreshing break from the daily mental grind of class work. 
Students in need of corporeal nourishment are in luck at Lulu's as well. Although the prices are higher than the "deli" or "recycled dining hall" food offered on campus, Lulu's has a surprisingly gourmet selec­tion of munchables. The grill-toasted Brie and veggie sandwiches are worth the five spot for hungry studiers. The humus with toasted pita bread is per­fect for a light or late snack. 
For those students who can only scrounge up mea­ger change from their futons, a peanut butter and jelly bagel is available for just $1. Patrons should also be on the look out for daily specials such as chicken­avocado wraps and New England clam chowder, which tend to be especially tasty. 
Lulu's Cafe is owned an operated by '93 Notre Dame alumnus Steve Egan. Egan opened the coffee shop to better caffienate the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's commu­nity in 1995. Named after a ¥¥Our staffwill bring new mythical world adventurer who
things to the table. We try 
crossed patbs 
to keep things fresh with Amelia and new.., Earhart, Frank Lloyd Wright and Ernest 
Steve Egan 
Hemingway, 
Lulu's Cafe owner Lulu's lives up 
to its rhetoric 
and attracts a 
diverse range of patrons. from students and professional business peo­ple to bohemian artists. 
Egan manages Lulu's along with his faithful "coffee experts," the self-proclaimed "Lulu's Pals," who not only serve customers, but are actively involved in preparing new menu items. Egan think that his employees are one of the reasons behind Lulu's suc­cess. 
"Our staff will bring new things to the table. We try 

to keep things fresh and new," Egan said. 
Lulu's also offers opportuni­ties to local musicians and artists whose work can be seen and heard at the coffee shop each week. Egan is always look­ing for artists to fea­ture. 
Lulu's is located at 1631 Edison Rd. (on the cor­ner of Angela Boulevard and Edison Road, across from. t h e Linebacker Inn) in the Edison Plaza. Lulu's is close enough to the Notre Dame campus to take a five­minute bike ride or a 15­minute walk to. The cafe is open from. 7 a.m. to midnight from Monday to Friday, 9 

a.m. to midnight on Saturdays and 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Sunday. 
C. Spencer Beggs 
Molly McGuire's Coffee House 
This is the stuff of legends: all those cherished stories from older brother's and fresh­man-year resident assistants, telling of Molly's prede­cessor and older sister, the bar known as Bridget McGuire's Filling Station. 
Alumni still remember well the tale of Bridget's infamous downfall: on a cold January night in 1998, a police raid busted and ultimately shut down the popu­lar underage watering hole 
Today, the familiar building still stands on the cor­ner of South Bend Avenue and Eddy Street, but now its once-traditional cups of beer have been replaced with mugs of steaming coffee. 
Molly McGuire's Coffee House entered the South Bend scene in 1998 and has since established a solid reputation for its eats, drinks and comfortable atmos­phere. Yet this slice of Notre Dame history may have passed its heyday of appeal for the undergraduate population. 
For starters, entering the bar-turned-coffee house feels a little like walking into grandma's place or that sweet old neighbor's living room. Hocking chairs, lace doilies on the armchairs, old family portraits mingled with antique toys on the walls makes Molly's a far cry from the Filling Station of yore. The atmosphere is quiet, no music and few customers on a weekday afternoon. 
But before writing Molly's off as simply a safe place to sedate the relatives on Junior Parent's Weekend, a mosey up to the bar•turned-lunch counter reveals a variety of interesting fare. 
Molly's drink and food menus offer an solid selec­tion. Italian sodas and iced coffees are a cool choice, while every Starbucks-schemed concoction of caffe­mocha-latte-americano to warm up these chilly February days. Chai, hot chocolate and freshly brewed pots of tea round out the list for those who 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



campus
Friday, February 8, 2002 
page 11 








d's off-campus coffee shop scene 
have yet to develop the coffee addic­tion. This is what Grandma's kitchen nook was always best for, anyway: cradling a warm mug while all wrapped up 
in an afghan? When hunger strikes (and it always does) 
the kitchen at Molly's boasts an impressive menu: lots of salads, soup, home­made sand­wiches and tortilla wraps. Vegetarians will be (par­don the expression) happy as clams here as well, with options like veggie sand­wiches and hummus plates. The prices are just right for a stu­dent's budget, ranging from $4.95 to $5.95, and most dishes also come with sides like 
bread, soup or a muffin to make it a full meal. Clearly Molly's knows how 
to cater to the starving, caf­feine-addicted college student. But as far as providing a trendy hangout or a haven for late-night 
studiers, the coffee house falls short. For starters, it closes at 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday and isn't open on Sundays -a tough sell for those who camp out at java huts to keep their bleary eyes open as they struggle through book after book. 
The atmosphere isn't specifically tailored to a col­lege crowd either. This is more of a place to relax and have an intimate chat with good friends, or a peaceful escape for those Saturdays when the second floor of the library gets a little too crazy. Molly's has its charms, but it's more subdued and laid-back than other area coffeehouses. 
Above all, there is the site's inescapable history. Despite the new homey decor of perfectly worn couches, eclectically mixed chairs and tables, Molly's former identity as Bridget's is still all-too-obvious. Its setup still looks just like a bar longing for a tap and a close listen might still reveal the strains of "Sweet Caroline" or "Oh! What a Night!" echoing in the cor­ners. 
But lingering too long in nostalgia leaves an unat­tended cappuccino to get cold. 
laura Kelly 
Higher Grounds 
"The Tazo was our most popular tea until Starbucks started selling it," said a Higher Grounds clerk. "Then we switched to [selling] Numi because we wanted to do our own thing," 
Located beyond BW3's on Washington Road, Higher Grounds is a coffee shop that prides itself on being off the beaten path. 
The clerk also noted that the Chai Tea has probably 
so drinks ranging from the sweet to the all-nighter strong, including an enticing drip coffee, their House Blend. 
A quick survey of the shop shows that most of the tables and chairs have reached that comfortable state of wear. Yet on the way to its current condition, the furniture may have also absorbed enough second­hand smoke to have a regulatable nicotine content. The lighting is conducive to study, if staring out the large windows or at the art that is occasionally 
exhibited on the ''The Tazo was our most walls doesn't popular tea until Starbucks 
prove too dis­

started selling it. Then we
tracting. 

By day Higher switched to [selling] Numi 
Grounds is a because we wanted to do docile, medita­
our own thing. " 
tive establish­ment. Most cus­tomers appear to Higher Grounds clerk be locals on lunch breaks looking for a place to read the paper while indulging in a sandwich. 
For those who enjoy more exotic cuisine, the mush­room pita is an excellent choice. It features a grilled portabella mushroom on a wheat pita with lettuce and tomato. Other enticing lunch options include the slightly spicy southwestern sandwich and the Caesar salad. A cinnamon twist will fulfill that after-lunch or study break sweet tooth. 
To wash down lunch with a non-coffee drink, Higher Grounds also offers a large selection of Italian sodas, juices and Jones sodas. 

Nights at Higher Grounds are far livelier than the afternoons. On Thursdays, an open mic is extended to all poets and prose artists alike. The response covers a range of subjects and inspirations that generally offer something to everyone. 
Friday and Saturday nights showcase live bands with music beginning around 7 p.m. Admission is $5 and the band generally determines the crowd. Faster paced music· like punk will attract younger South Bend natives. · 
Campus bands usually ensure that the crowd will be mostly University students. The rock band The Groove Side will play today and Jah Restoration, a reggae-influenced group, will play tomorrow. 
Be sure to check the table on the left as of the entrance to Higher Grounds, as it is usually stocked with flyers on upcoming live performances by local bands. 
The biggest drawback to Higher Grounds is that they close at 10 p.m. For a relaxed, late-night spot to sip on a mocha and hear live music, students will have to look elsewhere. 
However, to escape the bubble for a little while and hear something other than Dave Matthews, Higher Grounds will be sure to have a heavenly cup of coffee waiting. 
Amanda Hughes 

Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu, Laura Kelly at lkelly@nd.edu and Amanda Hughes at hugh­es.4 l@nd.edu 
C. SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 

eclipsed the Numi in popularity since Higher Grounds Molly McGuire's Coffee House is, perhaps, not a popular as Its Infamous former self: Bridget McGuire's began selling it. The shop offers a plethora of espres-FIiiing Station. The establishment legally serves underage patrons now. 
--~------------------------------------------------­




SALT LAKE 2002 


Friday, February 8, 2002

Torch arrives in Salt Lake City amid scare 


. Police blow up suspicious package; authorities say bag was a "hoax device" 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY 
Police blew up a plastic grocery bag filled with flares and electrical wire Thursday, calling the package near the Olympic media center a "hoax device." 
Police said the bag might have been designed to see how authorities would 
react. It contained no explosives.  
"There's some  concern  it  was  like  a  
trial run," said Craig Gleason,  a  police  
department spokesman.  

The bag was left near a parking garage several blocks from the media center, in a downtown area increasing­ly crowded with Olympic pedestrians the day before the opening ceremony. Security officials were studying video­tapes for clues. 
"The package was, in fact, a hoax device," the Olympic Joint Terrorism Task Force said in a statement. "This was not an exercise." 
Earlier reports indicated that the bag contained fuses due to some confusion after the officer on the scene used a slang term for flares. 
The bag was found around noon by construction workers, who notified security guards. A police bomb squad detonated a device next to it to make sure it wasn't an explosive, then set off . a second small explosion to make sure the bag was destroyed. 
"It was absolutely not an explosive device," Gleason said. 
Officials vowed to prosecute anyone involved in the hoax. 
Police evacuated two nearby build­ings and military helicopters began hovering over the area. The FBI and agents from the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms were also on the scene. 
The quick response by various police agencies is proof the Olympic security plan is working, said Robert Flowers, head of the Utah Olympic Public Safety Command. 
"Everything is going the way it's sup--. posed to," he said. 
The site is about 40 yards from the Federal Reserve Building and across the street from the Gallivan Center, a park were organizers will hold some Olympic-related festivities. 
Salt Lake City Mayor Rocky Anderson said he was satisfied with the police response. 

. Torch wraps up two month, 13,500 journey across U.S. 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY 
The Olympie torch entered Salt Lake City on Thursday the same way the Mormon pioneers did 155 years ago -aboard a covered wagon. 
It took more than three decades, 13,500 miles and a bribery scandal, but the torch finally made it into town a day before the start of the Winter Olympics, rolling down Emigration Canyon with the Salt Lake valley below. 
Thousands of spectators cheered as a runner jumped out of the wagon and ran toward a small stage, where a brief speech was made by an actor portraying Brigham Young. 
Young led the Mormons to Salt Lake City from Illinois in 1847. Utah civic leaders first began trying 
to land the Winter Games in the mid­1960s, and finally convinced the International Olympic Committee to award them the games in 1995. 
That victory later was found to have been partially secured with more than $1 million in gifts, schol­arships and cash to a handful of IOC members. 
Earlier Thursday, runners carried the Olympic torch past skiing venues in the Wasatch Mountains as it head­ed to its final destination. 
The torch left the northern Utah city of Ogden at dawn, on its way to the mountains and Park City area. Families lined the street in Midway, home of the cross-country skiing venue, and waved flags and cheered as the torch ran toward downtown. 
Alan Truitt, 37, was the first run­ner to carry ihe torch in Midway. Truitt, who's on the board of direc­tors of Big Brothers and Big Sisters, ran his two-tenths of a mile before passing the flame and getting swarmed by a dozen family and friends. 
"It was incredibly exhilarating, a tremendous rush," Truitt said. "I had a great feeling of pride." 
The flame took a slow four-mile run from Soldier Hollow tu Heber in a cauldron aboard the Heber Creeper, an old coal-fired train. About 800 people gathered at the train station to greet the flame. 
The torch was driven to Park City, home to slalom skiing and snow­boarding events. Thousands of peo­ple -many in ski gear -crowded Main Street as the torch came to the historic silver mining town. 
Kelly Milligan, a member of the 1984 U.S. cross-country ski team, ran the torch Thursday afternoon before passing it to her older sister. 
"Honestly, I was really self-con­scious. I didn't fall, break the torch or singe my hair," she said, laughing. 
The torch was to pass through the Olympic Village, by the State Capitol and to Temple Square, home to the Mormon Temple. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid_ 
The charge is 3 cents per characcer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves che righc co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$400 CCTour& Travel Florida SpringBreak pkg. Call 258-0718 

WANTED 
TestMaster is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1-800-929-7724 
TestMasters is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 1 • 800-929-7724 
Need Tutor for Quicken 2000 Call Mae at 234-9543 or 234-6698 Leave message 
-----------------------------·-------------·--· 


FOR SALE 
Why rent when you can own a qual­ity 3 bdrm, 2 ba villa. less than 2 mi from campus. Fireplace. Bsmt. Low $85/mo fee. 1948 Creeksedge. $138,000. Call Rachel 235-3906. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. 
1998 Saturn Great Winter Car, Sweet Stereo, 40mpg $8,600/offer, 283-0901 
3 bdrm, 1-1/2 bath, 2-story home w/2-car garage. Finished basement w/pool table, washer/dryer and freezer. All drapes, appliances & carpeting included. Close to Holy Cross church, shop­ping, & restaurants. Call Patricia at 57 4-234-9782. 
................................................................................................................... 

FOR RENT 

MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3.4, and 9­bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532· 1896 
HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03 YR.FURN. 272-6306 
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291 ·2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. Dave 291· 2209 
THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU­DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT AREA 2773097 
---------·------------------------------·-·---­
a SUPER HOME GREAT AREA CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STUDENTS 2773097 
MMMRentals.com 

3-bdrm, 1-1/2 bath tri-level, safe neighborhood, new appliances, 2­car garage, fenced yard, A/C, gas heat, W/D. Aug. 2002. $1,050/mo. 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 
New 3·4 bdrms, 3-bath homes Featuring fireplace, skylights, cathedral ceilings, family room, 10x20 deck, 2-car garage. $1500/mo. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. 

PERSONAL 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Info 1-800-648-4849 
...................................................................................................................... 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis• tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819: For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica. Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 

Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to select shows when you book your Spring Break through StudentCity.com! Go to MTV.com or call StudentCity.com at 1-800-293-1443 for details! Tours and tickets are limited! 
-----------·----------------·---------·---·---­
ADOPTION Young, loving happily married couple interested in adopt­ing a baby. Please call Matt & Robin 1-800-484-6411 PIN#6463 
DAMN YANKEES! Get to the LaFun info desk now and buy the last few tickets available for Damn Yankees! Alter the opening they had last night, you cannot miss it! (Doors open 7pm, show starts 7:30, Wash Hall) 
SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! Book your trip with StudentCity.com and save up to $100 per person to Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre or Florida. Most popular student hotels including the Oasis and the Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! Prices start at $399! Sale ends soon! CALL NOW! 1-800·293-1443 or go to StudentC ity. com! 
-----·-······--------------·----·----..-------­

Friday, February 8, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
TENNIS 

Irish soar at Indoor Tennis Championships 
. . No. 10 men rally against No. 7 Pepperdine, 4-3 
Special to the Observer 
No. 10 Notre Dame rallied from a 3-1 deficit to knock off No. 7 Pepperdine 4-3 in first­round action Thursday morn­ing at the USTNITA National Team Indoor Championships at the Louisville Tennis Club. 
The Irish won the doubles point, but lost the first three singles matches off the court before rallying to win the final three matches. Senior captain Casey Smith broke serve at 4-4 in the third set of the final match on court to gain a 6-4, 2­6, 6-4 win over No. 54-ranked Calle Hansen at No. 3 singles to clinch the victory. 
"Pepperdine is a team I expect to be in the top 10 all year so we're really excited to get the win." said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. "Casey real­ly fought hard. At the end of the match, we basically had our best fighter out there against their best fighter. It was like two heavyweights trading punches." 
Notre Dame improves to 7-1 -the best Irish start since 1994. Pepperdine falls to 4-2, losing its second straight match to a top-10 team after dropping a 5-2 decision to sixth-ranked Illinois last Saturday. 
The Irish advance to the quarterfinals of the Team Indoors for the first time since 1994 and will face No. 1 Georgia today at 12:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame rallied to win the final two matches on court to win the doubles point. Johan Berg and AI Garland of Pepperdine drew first blood with an 8-2 win at No. 2 dou­bles. Smith and classmate Javier Taborga, ranked No. 6 nationally, then notched an 8-5 victory at No. 1 doubles over the No. 11-ranked team of Sebastien Graeff and Stefan Suter. Senior Aaron Talarico and freshman Brent D'Amico clinched the doubles point for the Irish with a 9-8 (7-4) win at No. 3 doubles, marking their first victory as a doubles team. 
Pepperdine won the first three singles matches complet­ed before the Irish took the final three points to gain the win. 
Graeff knotted the match with a 6-4, 6-2 win at No. 6 sin­gles before Garland, ranked seventh nationally in singles, delivered a 6-4, 6-2 win at No. 1 singles. Suter, ranked No. 45 nationally, then gave the \\laves a 3-1 lead with a 6-2, 7-5 win at No. 2 singles. 
Then sophomore Luis Haddock-Morales started the Irish rally, notching a 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (8-6) win at No. 4 singles. Classmate Matthew Scott then won 6-3, 6-3 at No. 5 singles to tie the match 3-3 and set up Smith's clinching victory. 
Haddock-Morales and Smith both improve to 16-2 this sea­son in singles. Scott is 8-0 in dual-match action and has won 14 of his last 15 matches. 
The Waves were the highest­ranked opponent to fall victim to Notre Dame since 1994 and are the second top-10 team the Irish have defeated this season. Notre Dame downed then-No. 10 Duke 4-3 on Jan. 29 of this year and knocked off the then­No. 4 Blue Devils by the same score in 1994. 
The Irish improve to 9-7 aJI­time in matches where both Notre Dame and its opponent are ranked in the top 10 in the country. 
The win was the first for Notre Dame in three matches against Pepperdine. The Waves are the 82nd team the Irish have defeated under Bob Bayliss out of 90 opponents. 
Today's opponent, Georgia, is the defending national champi­on and notched a 4-1 win over Brown in opening-round play. The Bulldogs will enter the match having not lost in more than a year, winning their last 26 in a row, including nine over top-10 teams. This season, Georgia is 4-0. 
"It's always exciting to play the No. 1 team," said Bayliss. "But our guys are looking for­ward to the challenge." 
. No. 13 women earn revenge, defeat No. 7 USC 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's No. 13 women's tennis team avenged an exhibition loss by upsetting No. 7 USC 5-2 in first-round action Thursday at the USTA/ITA National Team Indoor Championships in the 
A.C. Nielsen Tennis Center. 
The Irish won the doubles point and four of six singles matches to gain a victory and advance to the quarterfinals for the second year in a row. 
Notre Dame will face No. 4 Vanderbilt Friday at 3:30 p.m. The Commodores defeated No. 17 Northwestern in first-round action. 
The Irish improve to 3-3 this season and snapped a two­match losing skid. Southern California is 2-2 after losing two straight matches. UCLA defeated the Trojans 5-2 last weekend. 
Notre Dame won the doubles point with wins at the bottom two positions. Senior Nina Vaughan and sophomore Alicia Salas gained an 8-4 win at No. 3 doubles before the No. 53 ranked team of junior Katie Cunha and freshman Sarah· Jane Connelly delivered an 8-6 upset of Anita Loyola 
and Luana Magnani, the No. 24-ranked team in the coun­try, who had defeated Connelly and Cunha in fall action. 
In singles action, Nos. 1, 3 and 5 were played first with the other three matches fol­lowing. The Irish won two of three in each wave of match­es. Jewel Peterson, ranked No. 13 nationally in singles, avenged a fall loss to Irish senior Becky Varnum with a 6-2, 6-1 win at No. 1. 
Notre Dame senior Lindsey Green registered an upset of No. 91-ranked Loyola 6-2, 6-3 at No. 3 singles, while Salas defeated Brymer 6-3. 6-3 at No. 5 singles. Salas has a 9-0 career singles record in dual matches and has won nine in a row overall this season, as well as 12 of her last 13 matches. 
Connelly clinched the Irish win with a 6-4, 6-3 triumph at No. 6 singlesover Bernadette Bayani. After the outcome was determined, Vaughan gained a 7-6, 6-3 upset win over No. 34-ranked Magnani at No. 2, while Maureen Diaz won 6-7 (6-8), 6-3, 1-0 (10-2) at No. 4. 
The Irish and Trojans faced off last October in an exhibi­tion match in the Eck Tennis Pavilion with USC gaining a 5­2 win. The Trojans won the doubles point and then gained victories at Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5 singles. 
•
······~·····························································• 
• 
•

•
: WHAT: Oreo-stacking contests, Lil' Debbie Pie eating contests, Mini-••• : scavenger hunts~ Pizza demos, Supermarket Sweep, Shopping and : Morel!! • : WHEN: Friday, Februaiy 8 th fro.m 9 to 12 pm : ADMISSION: ABSOLUTELY FREE!!! • ••• • • ! TRANSPORTATION: You MUST ride on the bus in order to participate : in actMtiesl First-com.e, first-serve basis, so get there early! Bus pick­•• ups at Library Circle at 8:30 pm and 9:30 pm. and at LeMans Circle at : 8:15 pm. • 
• PRIZES: $10, $50, and $100 Meljer gift certificates!
•
• 
~ -,~-SPONSORED BY FLIPSIDE ( 
-There IS Something To Do­
•• (
• ~~ • • ~-.¼"i!i ,1\1 ' ' 
••~~••••~•~•~~~~.,••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~~-~~~•~••r-~-• 
•• •••• • ••• • 

-~ 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 8, 2002 



Men 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame players seem to know they have survived a conference slump and are ready to continue their win­ning-streak well into February. 
"The season's rolling now." guard Matt Carroll said. "February makes or breaks teams. We've overcome lots of obstacles and hope we've passed that." 
With a 16-6 record, the Irish are ready to prove they have what it takes to recapture their Big East West Division title. A huge hurdle in that quest will be Saturday's rematch. 
"I think we were [embar­rassed] after that game with Georgetown. And it has stuck with our players," Brey said. "We'll accept that challenge Saturday." 
That challenge will be a for­midable one as the Irish enter a particularly hostile arena. 
Georgetown is enjoying a two-game winning streak, including a 15-point win over then No. 14 Syracuse, a team Notre Dame fell to earlier in the season. But the Boyas have also dropped two games to No. 21 Pittsburgh, a team the Irish have downed twice. 
If they Irish hope to walk away with a win Saturday. they will have to pay particular 


attention to Sweetney. The forward, who received Big East Player of the Week honors last week, has led his team on both the offense and defensive ends. He averages 19 points and 10 rebounds a game. 
Tip-off against Georgetown is at 12 p.m. The game is tele­vised on WNDU-TV. 


Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu. 

! 
' ' 
\ 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles wrap up dual meets this weekend 
-By NAT ALIE BAILEY Spom Writer 
The 3-5 Saint Mary's swim team wraps up its dual meet sea­son this Saturday with its final match against Kalamazoo. 
After knocking oIT Albion last weekend, the Belles hope to carry that momentum into Saturday's meet and the MIAA conference meet. 
Although Kalamazoo finished third in the MIM last year, they have struggled this year. They enter Saturday's meet with a l -4 record -with one of. the losses being to Albion. 
Belles' head coach Gregg PetcoIT knows this meet does not 
Dance Spectrum 
Friday & Saturday, Feb.15 &16 at 7 PM Sunday, Feb. 17 at 2:30 PM $ O'Laughlin Auditorium 
For ticket information contact ....,M...,,"•"•1•~ the Saint Mary's Box Office at 
~Mg~'k.,/

•94 46·6 
#'OR THE ARTS 

-'-• -'-HOTR/E a-., IN 
The Salad Shakes at Midnight! Happy 21s-t"Rf?nee! Love -The Girls 
Saint 
Mary's 
College Program in Dance presents come at the best time in his tapering schedule, but he remains confident that his team will do as best they can. 

"I fully expect a mixed bag," he said, "We are going to have to take it event by event and person by person." 
At this point in the season, lethargy and physical strain are simply the nature of a taper used to prepare swimmers for a large meet like the MIM Conference Championships. 
But the Belles have to fight more than fatigue and weari­ness -they'll need to take on Kalamazoo one of their top swimmers. Lane Herrington, junior co-captain of the team, has obligations towards an aca­
,...._,\ 
I',, ". . • ~ ,,),..-.... l •.
. 

demic competition on Saturday. 
"She is one of the top swim­mers, so we will have to try harder without her," teammate Julie McGranahan said. 
Despite the negative factors, the Belles believe this is the sea­son for Saint Mary's to defeat Kalamazoo. Last year, Kalamazoo beat Saint Mary's by a narrow margin of 10 points. Had the Belles placed higher in just two events, they could have claimed victory over the third 
Robert Hollander will discuss "Dante's Pride" Friday, February 8, 10:30 am -12pm Special Collections Room, Hesburgh Library 
Poetry Workshop with Jean Hollander Friday, February 8, 10 am -12pm 119 'Shaughnessy. 

ro 
Jean Hollander Poetry reading & Book signing Monday, February 11, 12 pm Hammes Bookstore 
"Virgil's Hard Afterlife" presented by Robert Hollander Monday, February 11, 10:30 am Notre Dame Room, Lafortune 
Co-sponsored by the Core Cour~e. Studl'nl Union lloard, Sophomore Literary l''estival, The Devers Program in llante Studies, and The Medieval Club of ND, SMC & IJCC 
best team in the MIAA. 
But Kalamzoo isn't a'i good as last year and Saint Mary's is bet­ter, leading many Belles to believe they have the edge on Saturday. 
"I would love to beat Kalamazoo but I would rather place better at conference," he said. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill 407@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, February 8, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 

MEN'S SWIMMING 


Irish swim against CSU in final home dual meet 
By SHEILA EGTS 
Sports Wricer 
The men's swinuning and diving team faces off against Cleveland State on Saturday, commemorating the first dual meet ever held in Rolfs Aquatic Center when it was built in 1985. 
While Cleveland State defeated the Irish in that first meet 17 years ago, Notre Dame is prepared for an opposite outcome this time around. 
Irish head coach Tim Welsh is emphasizing the 20 swimmers and three divers who are already quali­fied for the Big East and hopes a few more can make the cut this weekend. Saturday's meet is the las chance for Irish s¼immers to earn qualifying times for the Big East Championships in two weeks. 
"This meet is more or less a tune up for us before the Big East Championships which haw~ been 
"Where The Aroma Of Gentle Spices Awaits You" 

featuring North IND!AN TANDOORS & 
JI 
Dine In • Carry Out• 
. .

Reservations Desned 

Dinner: Tues-Thurs 5:00-9:30 Fri-Sat 5:00-10:00 
1640 SOUTH BEND AVE. (EDISON AND ST. RD. 23) 

our focus all season," said senior freestyler Elliot Drury. "We have a few more guys who will use this meet to make a big effort and get the whole team qualified for Big East." 
Travis Kline will race the 200 butterfly in a final attempt for a qualifying, but feeL'i fairly confident about the event. 
"I've been struggling to make the cut, and I'm about a St}Cond off in the 200 butterfly," Kline said. "I know how to swim it, I'v~ put in the yards, now Ijust mied to get up and race." 
Since this is the last dual meet of the regular season for the Irish, time will be taken on Saturday to honor seniors Austin Anderson, Elliot Drury, David Horak, Mike Koss and Jonathan Pierce. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 
South IND/AN CURRlfS 
Delicious Meats, Fish & Vegetarian Platters 
Imported Indian &Other Wines &Beer 
Valentine's Day Special 15% off 
Special for Students 
TRACK AND FIELD 




Irish set for Big East tune-up 
. Windsor Invite last meet before conference meet 
By DAVE COOK 
Spores Writer 
With the Big East champi­onships just a week away, the Notre Dame track and field teams hope to carry their early­season success a._5 they travel to Canada this weekend for the Windsor Invitational. 
Entering into their fourth week of the indoor track season, the men and women's teams have posted a total of six NCAA provi­sional times and four automatic times that would qualify them for both the Big East champi­onships on Feb. 16 and 17 and the NCAA championships on March 9 and 10. 
In their first month of competi­tion, two runners and two relay teams have posted nationally ranked times. Luke Watson and Byan Shay are both ranked sec­ond in the country in the 3,000­meter and 5,000-meter respec­tively. The men's distance med­ley team and the women's mile relay are both ranked third in the country. 
"With the men, we can be a lit­tle bit farther along," Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane said. "I think that some of our distance guys are doing excep­tionally well, and the same with our sprinters. But I think there are some distance guys that can improve significantly, and I think we can get a little bit better in the sprinl'i and field evenl'i area. 
"If we want to do something in the Big East, we are gonna have to be a notch better or two." 
This weekend the team hopes to qualify a few more runners and prepare themselves for the Big East championships. 
"Everyone is going there to prepare for the Big East meet. Some people haven't qualified and we still need to get them qualified," said Piane. 
"We're using this meet to give some people an opportunity 
to run on a "/ts a chance for them the sprint 200-meter flat to gain experience on a events on a 
track similar 200-meter
smaller track. We 're
to the one track. Notre we'll be run­really using this as Dame's Meyo ning on at the preparation for next Field track is [Big East] con­320 meters
week.,,

ference meet," long, so the sprints coach sprinters are John Millar John Millar more accus­said. " [The tomed to longer
assistant coach 
Windsor Invitational'sJ events are different than what we normally run, which is good preparation for the events we will be running next week." 
Notre Dame is sending mainly sprinters to run in the Windsor Invitational. but a few distance runners will be racing also to condition themselves for the Big East. 
Sean Zanderson, who ran a career-best time in the mile last weekend at the Meyo Invitational, will be racing in the 1,000-meter, the longest dis­tance any Irish runner will be running in this weekend. 
Most of the distance runners are taking the weekend off to prepare for the Big East cham­pionships. Of the six automatic and four provisional qualifying times; six of the times were in distance events, so many run­ners do not need to qualify this weekend. 
"We'll just run a couple kids who just missed qualifying," women's distance coach Tim Connelly said. "They'd race three weekends in a row, and I tend to be pretty conservative about how often we race. Getting ready for a really big meet I tend not to race them the weekend before." 
Many of the sprinters will be 
conditioning 
themselves for 
straightaways 

and softer turns. But at the Big East Championships, they will face tighter turns and shorter straightaways. 
"It's a chance for them to gain experience running on a smaller track," Millar said. "We're really using this as preparation for next week." 
The Windsor Invitational is an all day event taking place this Saturday at the University of Windsor. 
Tameisha King was named Most Outstanding Female Athlete 
in last year's Windsor Invitational. King and company hope it can carry its positive momentum into this week's meet and then into next week's Big Ea5t Championships. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 

ND Deparhnent of Music Presents AGraduate Recital 
91-Eun Byun, piano 
Monday, February 11, 2002 
3:30 pin, Annenberg Auditorium 
Free and open to the public Call 631-6201 for program information 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS .Friday, February 8, 2002 

SMC BASKETBALL 




Belles hope for first series sweep 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
After a loss against the top­rank e d team in the confer­ence, the Saint Mary's basket­ball team will take on the last­place team in the MIAA stand­ings this weekend. 
Saint Mary's (7-15, 3-8 MIAA), coming off a 74-64 loss at Hope College, plays Olivet (7-13, 2-9 MIAA) on Saturday 
at 3 p.m. 
The Belles defeated the Olivet Comets 73-58 on Jan. 
16. but they have yet to beat the same team twice. 
Instead of depressing the team, though, this fact is another reason why the Belles are 

"When you get beat by somebody, you 're always more likely to come out with intensity and more likely to want to get revenge the next time you play them.,, 
Katie Boyce Belles freshman 

committed to winning on confidence and ready for Saturday. another victory though. 
"We're expecting [Olivet] to "We'd really like to get two come out ready to play on wins against Olivet," Boyce Saturday j-ust because we beat said. them earlier in the season," said freshman Katie Boyce. "When you get beat by some­Contact Joe Lindsley at body, you're always more like­jlindsle@nd.edu. ly to come out with intensity . 
and more likely to want to get reven-ge the next time you play them." 
This time-, the game will be played at Olivet's home court, and Saint Mary's has strug­gled on the road this season. The Belles have yet to achieve a conference victory at an opponent's arena. 
Olivet, with four conference losses at home and five on the road, does not seem to limit its losses to those games played on the road. The Comets' only conference victo­ries so far were won by nar-, row margins over Alma and Albion, both teams which Saint Mary's has defeated. 
The Belles are still riding on a surge that first began to swell last Saturday as they narrowly lost to Calvin College, 52-51. ihen, on Sunday, the Belles defeated conference rival Alma 50~43. a huge emotional win for the team. 
The Belles were hoping to defeat Hope on Wednesday night, but despite the loss, they were pleased with their strong performance and abili­ty to keep up with the MIAA's 
Please recycle The Observer 


BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Ovserver 

Notre Dame's David Inman skates toward the puck during a game last week. The Irish have a tough weekend matchup as they play a pair of games against No. 3 Michigan State. 
do that, they will have to East Lansing. beat one of the elite teams in the country. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at
That daunting task begins 
morenchu@nd.edu.
tonight at 7:05 tonight in 

,1.1,,,·e;.. ;· Love 


Yon! 
M, D, T, P, M,J and K (Mand AtooD 

top-ranked team. 
"The second half of this sea­son we're coming out with a lot of intensity every game," Boyce said. 
Statistically speaking, Saturday's competitors seem to match up closely. The Comets have been shooting 
39.1 percent from the floor this season, while the Belles have shot 37.7 percent. Saint Mary's grabs an average of 
3 0 9 rebounds per game, while Olivet is nearby with an average of 31.0. 
With three games left in the regular season and cognizant of the impor­tance of each victory, the Belles seem to be full of 

Hockey 
continued from page 20 

Dame has the No. 2 and No. 3 scorers in the CCHA with Connor Dunlop and David Inman respectively. 
"In the past it has been the exact opposite," said Poulin. "We have had good defenses and no offense in the past, but this is the first time we have had a really proficient offense." 
While the goals are nice, the Irish will need to play a complete game to knofk off the Spartans. 
Michigan State is loaded with talent. Their top three scorers are forwards Brian Maloney and Adam Hall and defensemen John-Michael Liles. 
The Spartans also thrive on special teams. They are first in the CCHA on the power play, and first in the CCHA in penalty killing. 
Michigan State boasts the top goaltender in the nation in Ryan Miller. Miller won the Hobey Baker award last season, an award is given out every year to the best player in colJege hockey. 
This year in the CCHA, every team makes the post­season tournament. While the Irish are guaranteed a spot, that does not mean the team can afford to limp into the postseason with a losing streak, Notre Dame is still within four points of a having. home ice advantage for the first round of the CCHA post­season. For Notre Dame to 






11,.,11111111111111
1 1
Nothing Says "I Love You" Like a Valentine's Day Specialfrom 
1 Irish Gardens 1 
Flower Shop 
1 •CUPID SPECIAL: Bud Vase with Teddy Bear and 2 Red Roses $15 


1 
1 •VALENTINE'S DAY BOUQUET: Assortment of Roses and other 1 Beautiful Flowers in a Vase $20 
1 

(f • BALLOON BOUQUET: 2 Valentine's Day Mylar Balloons (f \ and 3 Latex Balloons $7 \
1 1
Place your orders early -(574) 631-4004 -in the basementofLafortune



111111·,11111111,.11 
Friday, February 8, 2002 page 17
The Observer . SPORTS 

BRIAN PUCEVICHfrhe Observer 

Senior Ericka Haney looks to pass between a pair of Connecticut defenders during Notre Dame's loss to the Huskies last month. 
I I 11 . 

PROPERTIES 

Well maintained houses near campus 
•
W:1shers and dl)'ers provided -• Sc:curity systems 

• 
24-hour maintenance staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, 4-, 5-, 6-&S-bedroom ho1;1ses 


Only 7 left for tbe 2002-2003 scbooly~ar 
Call today, houses are 

goingfast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 
Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571 
AT NOTRE DAME 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8 8 PM jTIL MIDNIGHT ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
SOUTH OF FOOTBALL STADIUM 
Popular Brazilian Music Brazilian Dancers with the Renowned in Carnaval Costume 
(hicag 
­
Brazilian Dance Instructor
5aM 


Edilson Lima 
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! FREE ADMISSION! FREE PARKING! Soft drinks and light refreshments will be served. 
Co-sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Office of International Programs and La Alianza 


Women 
continued from page 20 
Stepherson is just an out­standing point guard." 
The one thing Boston College has that Notre Dame doesn't is experience. Amber Jacobs and Stepherson, both shooting in the double digits, are both veterans joined in the paint by center Kim 
terms of playing a good game." 
Jeneka Joyce, who has missed the last four games due to problems with her Achilles heel, may be key for the Irish. With the limited number of veterans, her lead­ership would be sorely missed. After Wednesday's practice, McGraw said Joyce was probable for Sunday's 
game. 

"They probably have the 
Mackie. 
The freshmen second-best backcourt in have been car­the conference behind 
rying the Irish, 
Connecticut."
especially in recent games when Batteast Muffet McGraw has become the 
Irish head coach 
·go-to player 
and center 
Teresa Borton has stepped up 
in some dire situations. As 
Notre Dame takes the court 
on Sunday, McGraw will be 
looking to her few veterans to 
step up. 
"[Borton] has done so many great things at critical times and Jackie bas been the go to player," McGraw said. "But certainly Ericka [Haney] and [junior] Alicia [Ratay]. we expect them to lead us in 


"We real­ly need Jeneka in this game in terms of stability," McGraw said. "I think she's the one who has a lot of poise 

and would help us in a 
game like this." 
Boston College brings a lot of weapons to Notre Dame, but with home court advan­tage, the Irish toppled ranked Virginia Tech by seven. 
Tip off is at 1 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5685@saintmarys.edu. 
Happy 21st Special Kl Heartlana ain't seen nothin' yet! 

,THE UNIVf:RISTY OF NOTRE DAME Dt:PARTMENT OF MUSIC GUEST.ARTIST SERIES PRESENTS 



~atnts 

DAYTON  BACH  SOCIETY  
'fON'Y 60UTTt:, Tt.t-.-OH cc.orf'RE.V BUHGf:S~. OAROQIJC.  oaoc.  rftitJet! 
LUCAS HARRIS, LUTC  
ANr,. ALISA f'At,'PANO. PARDC.'SSU5'Vl0l..,  Pt.RrORMll',,C f-'ASTOM'AL  P.~Ufil(:. rROM  
VIOLA DA GAMHI\  TJiC.  BAROQUE. & MOOCAN t:RAS At,,,D  
JULA.NC.  ROOGCfHI, hAJIPSICUORO  CANTATA.S BY CAMPRA Ht CJfOFT  

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 10,2002 2 PM, ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM, SNITE MUSEUM 
TICKETS ($3·10): (5741631·8128 
CI\Ll... t574l 631 ·6201. £,-MAIL CONGOERS''t:No COO, OR VIS.fl'" WWW NO r:.ou:-coNGOtR,!,; FOR IN:FORMA.TI0"-1: 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 8, 2002 

By MIKE CONNOLLY Spores Writer 
Against its toughest competi­tor in the Midwest Fencing Conference, Notre Dame will be battling short-handed. ­
Freshman epeeist Michal Sobieraj fractured a bone in his foot and will not fence against Ohio State this week­end in Columbus, Ohio. Sobieraj's injury which he suf­fered against Northwestern last weekend will keep him out for at least the next three weeks. The Irish expect their top male freshman to be ready to fence against at the NCAA qualifiers in March but not before then. 
"We are kind of stunned right now," foil captain Ozren Debic said. 
On the year, Sobieraj is 26-1 with his only loss coming against Air Force All-American Seth Kelsey. 
The injury comes at a bad time for the Irish as Ohio State is expected to be Notre.Dame's top Midwestern competition. Sobieraj's injury will move senior Brian Casas into the No. 2 spot while the No. 3 spot will be filled with a walk-on. 
"When someone like Michal is out, you just can't replace someone of that caliber," sabre captain Andre Crompton said. 
The strength of the Buckeyes 
\ !{ 
FENCING 


Top freshman fencer breaks foot 
lies in their epee and sabre squads. National team mem­bers Colin Parker and Jason Rogers make Ohio State's sabre team one of the best in the country while epeeist Alan Jones led the Buckeyes to a 5­4 win against perennial power Penn State last weekend. 
The weakness of the Buckeyes lies in their foil squad. With Sobieraj out, Debic said his squad wil1 try to build as big a lead as possible to make up for a weaker epee squad. 
"We are going to have to try to make the biggest advanage possible because this is their weakest weapon," Debic said. 
The sabre squad will have a little more pressure on itself as well this weekend with the epee squad down a man. Crompton said that Ohio State's squad is definitely the toughest the Irish will fence in the Midwest but not quite com­parable to St. John's top sabre­man Ivan Lee. 
"I have fenced [Parker and Rogers] a lot when I was younger." he said. "We grew up fencing nationally together. Colin and Jason are both great fencers but I don't think they are out of our league. It's going to come down to a good fight." 
Crompton said that although Ohio State's top two sabremen are strong, he believes that the 

.rI, 
·~ 
i 
I { I 
·11


Irish depth will carry them to victory. He doesn't think the Buckeye's No. 3 fencer is on par with himself, Andrzej Bednarski and Matt Fabricant. 
The Notre Dame women will also be in action this weekend in Columbus, Ohio. 
The Irish will face the Buckeyes but their toughest competition will come from the Northwestern Wildcats. The Wildcats beat the Irish last weekend 15-12 but the Irish were fencing without freshman foilist Andrea Ament. Ament missed last weekend because she was fencing at a World Cup event in Germany. Even though Ament is back in action for the Irish this weekend, she will be slowed by an ankle injury she suffered in Germany. She is expected to fence just not at 100 percent. 
Contact Mike Connolly at 
Connolly.28@nd.edu. 
FOOTBALL 


Receiver commits to Irish 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame rounded out its 18-member recruiting class early this morning when wide receiver prospect Hhema McKnight faxed his letter of intent to the Irish football offices. 
McKnight planned on announcing his decision late Wednesday night. While rumors slowly trickled around the Internet that the California prospect had verbally committed to the Irish, he had yet to sign a binding letter of intent. 
Apparently, the delay occured because McKnight had to play in a basketball game Wednesday and was unable to fax his letter to the Irish before his game. Notre Dame received McKnight's letter early this morning. 
McKnight. the No. 10 wide receiver prospect according to analyst Tom Lemming picked the Irish over UCLA. Washington, Oregon and Florida. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 





The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 
South Bend Marriott email obsreunion@hotmail.com for more information 

Friday, February 8, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 19 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED CUNNIGN~~

j 
> 1
O'\t t"o\o~ wt.t.l o 
c\o.sses ove.<' "'41.( 
l i 
A"J I \~Jl do1.·J \c.ve ~ <;.i"S\e t~ ~ 11ex. l~"­
l 
W¼ c..re. t...e ~nw~ wJl 'ff"? 

-
--------------------------------------------~----------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer .-. and mail to: P.O. Box Q

THE OBSERVER 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~,...1-,.-f 14 Warm-up 15 Provoked 20 Place for a pistol 23 "Eureka!" 
summaries 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Published Monday through Friday. The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the 1nore than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two ca1npuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
50 Unseen troublemaker 
52 Pogo of the funnies 
54 Not good, as ideas go 
55 Unseen part of the moon 
56 Instant, in a phrase 
57 It's a bore 
DOWN 
1 Venomous, as a snake 2 Old two-wheeler 3 Nurse 
4 900-plus-mile Volga feeder 5 Cold war group 6 Where seconds count 
7 Illinois birthplace of William Jennings Bryan 
8 Made a case (for) 9 U.N. arm 10 Team leader 11 Ready to spit bullets 12 Like fine coifs 

Pimle by M~y Noaowaky 
27 Big dos 
29 Buddy-buddy 
31 Giant syllable 
32 _-Puf Marshmallow Man 34 Hot spot 35 least worldly 36 Snags, so to speak 37 Rule out 38 It operates by compression 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ ­
41 Talk too much 48 _ Maar (Picasso
43 Singer profiled subject)in "Sweet 
Dreams" 
51 "U'I ol' me?" 44 Settle 47 Down at the 53 Compass 
readingmouth 

Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285·5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jack Lemmon, Mary Steenburgen, Nick Nolte, Robert Klein 
Happy Birthday: You will be the one who moves into the role of leadership regarding personal financial affairs this year. You should take a serious look at your insurance policies, investments, wills or any other personal papers.
You will have greater need to spend time with tne one you love and you will have a greater sense of what it is that will make you happy. Your numbers are 9, 13, 18, 22, 34, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Don't count on something that hasn't already happened. You will be disappointed by the events going on around you. Nonproductive activities will only tire you out. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You will be quick to respond to an opportunity. You can make positive changes to yourself as well as to your outlook. Your actions will bring about changes that you can be proud of. 
00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You have to get your papers in order. You may experience a loss if you don't sort out financial matters. Long-term investments are your best bet. 000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Take this opportunity to talk to 
someone you care about. Let 
your feelings and intentions be 
known. If you don't share your 
thoughts you can't expect to 
change anything. 000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You 
can get ahead by talking to peo­
ple who can make a difference to 
EUGENIA LAST 

your position. Don't be afraid to help those that work under you. You'll gain their respect and get favors in return. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
You can't just sit at home all alone today. Make plans to do some• thing that will bring you into con­tact with new and exciting peo­ple. You may have a problem with an older family member. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): 
Don't expect to get help from anyone you live with. Probl~ms with contractors or other seI'Vl.ces for your home can be expected. Put your efforts into your career where you do stand to get ahead. 
00 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Family trips will be hectic but rewarding. Greater communica­tion witn relatives and friends can be expected. 0000 
SAGrITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Unexpected financial gain is 
apparent. Put your heart and soul 
into getting ahead in your chosen 
field. Don't let a partner limit 
you.00

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You may be a little emotional today. Keep busy and you will avoid some unsavory situations. Keep a positive attitude and refuse to let anyone bring you down.000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The answers are right in front of you. If you take time to review your past you will find it easy to make decisions concerning your 
future.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You have so much to offer. Your humanitarian outlook will attract people who need help. Your com· passion and generosity will be admired.0000 

ACROSS 

1 Settlement 
7 Seasons 13 Big change 15 Chivalrous 16 Baton twirler, 
maybe 17 Grand finale? 18 " ... provoked 
with raging _": Shak. 19 Like a blind spot? 21 Chess champion of 1960-61 22 Go (through) 
24 "Get a move on!" 
25 Carry on 26 Foofaraw 28 Besmirch 
29 Hollered 30 Middle of the road? 33 Semi-service 
station 34 To a degree 38 Henry and 
June's friend in "Henry & June" 39 Hupmobile contemporary 40 Sticky stuff 42 "_ain't broke 
.. 
43 Heart of France 45 Watchdog org.? 46 Make go 
"vroom" 47 Gave too much 49 Street shader 

CROSSWORD 

Campus Sports 
. 
Football, p. 18 

. 
Fencing, p. 18 

. 
SMC Swimming, p. 16 

. 
Track, p. 15 


By KATIE McVOY Sports Writer 
Although Irish head coach Muffet McGraw may see the second and third spots in the Big East as basically the same, she'd rather finish in second. 
As the Irish take on 20th­ranked' Boston College, the Irish will be vying for second place and testing out th_eir skills against a team that's hard to beat. 
"Two and three are the same in the Big East, .. McGraw said. "We would rather be second. But every game is important to us and 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, February 8, 2002 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 







Ready to ru01ble again 
. Georgetown, Notre Dame set for rematch two weeks after Hoya blowout 

By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
Mike Brey was blunt when he described the last meeting between Notre Dame and Georgetown. 
"It was like the varsity playing the JV," the Irish head coach said. "It was men among boys." 
The Hoyas crashed the Joyce Center in late January and went home with a critical 83-73 Big East West Division win that sent the Irish below .500 in conference play. 
Capitalizing on Irish forward Harold Swanagan's injured ankle which kept him out of the game. the Hoyas dominated in the paint as forward Mike Sweetney put up a game-high 21 points and led his team to dominate on the boards. 
But a lot has happened since the Jan. 21 
meeting. Swanagan is back in the line-up. Freshman point guard Chris Thomas has 
weathered through a midseason slump. 
Notre Dame has picked up four straight· conference victories since the loss and the Irish are comin_g off an impressive offensive display in their Wednesday win over Rutgers. 
And the Irish have proven they can win on the road. 
"We like the road," Brey said. "It takes older guys to be good on the road. They like to go in and quiet crowds. They've brought the younger guys along saying this is what we do and this is who we are."
'i, The Irish have dropped only three of 12
,, 
road games this season, with two of those losses coming to ranked teams. 
see MEN/page 14 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

I 
I ,, 
Eagles, Irish vie for second in Big East 


I think this is a game that has NCAA implications as well as Big East implica­tions." 
The Irish are coming off of a pair of close road wins against unranked teams. But when they take the floor at the Joyce on Sunday. they'll be facing real ammunition against the Eagles. 
Boston College shoots over 41 percent from the 3-point line and promises to give the Irish defense a taste of perimeter play it faced since Connecticut. 
"I think it will be a huge challenge for our perimeter players," McGraw said. "This is a team that has more tal­ent, so I think it will be a great opportunity to see how we are." 
The perimeter players will have to focus on containing the ball. During Tuesday's victory against Pittsburgh, Notre Dame had trouble stopping driving players. In order to defend against the Eagles' ability to drive to the basket and then pass out for a 3-point shot, the Irish will have to stay focused on the ball. 
"We've just got to keep the ball in front of us." McGraw said. "We're working on a 
help  defense,  but  we're  
working on  an  individual  
defense as well."  

Eagles freshman Clare Droesch may be the only Big East player to challenge Jackie Batteast for Big East Rookie of the Year. Droesch starts games on the bench. but still averages 12 points a game and shoots over 60 percent from the perimeter against Big East opponents. 
In addition, Boston College brings a solid backcourt to the game. Led by Brianne Stepherson, it promises to be a challenge for the Irish. 
"They've got probably the second best backcourt in the league behind Connecticut," McGraw said. "Brianne 
see WOMEN/page 17 
Campus Sports 

. 
Men's Swimming, p. 15 

. 
SMC Swimming, p. 14 

. 
Men's Tennis, p. 13 

. 
Men's Tennis, p. 13 


HOCKEY 
Slumping Irish take on No. 3 Spartans 
ByMATTORENCHUK Sports Writer 
This weekend the Notre Dame men's hockey team travels to East Lansing, Mich. to take on the Michigan State Spartans. The Spartans, ranked No. 3 in the country by USA Today/American Hockey Magazine, have an impressive resume. 
They are first in the CCHA with a 14-4-4 conference record, good for 32 points. The Spartans also has a 32 game home-unbeaten streak (29-0-3). 
Despite all of the achieve­ments that Michigan State has racked up, Irish head coach Dave Poulin is not afraid to go on the road and play the Spartans. 
"We think we can go in there and play well." said Poulin. "We have played well against them the last four or five years." 
The Irish could certainly use the win. They have dropped six of their last seven, and are currently in 9th in the CCHA with 18 points. 
For Notre Dame to win, they will have to tighten up defen~ sively. Last weekend against Alaska-Fairbanks, the Irish gave up 13 goals in two games. A lot of those goals came on odd man rushes, something that the team worked on controlling this week. 
"This week we worked a lot on handling the rush." said Poulin. "We also worked on handling the puck in the gap between offensive and defen­sive zones." 
A big question mark will be who will be in goal for the Irish. Freshman Morgan Cey has gotten most of the starts this year. But after letting up four goals in the first period Saturday against Alaska­Fairbanks. Poulin pulled Cey in favor of Jeremiah Kimento. As of Wednesday. Poulin was still unsure who would be in net this weekend for the Irish. 
One bright spot for Notre Dame during the current los­ing streak has been the offen­sive output. Currently Notre 
see HOCKEY/page 16 


. Hockey at Michigan State, Friday, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 
. Men's Basketball at Georgetown, Saturday, noon








SPORTS 
online 
. Men's Swimming vs. Cleveland State, Saturday 2 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Women's Basketball vs. Boston College, Sunday, noon http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 
' 

