

VOL.XXXVII NO. 7 HTTP:1/0BSERVER.ND.EDU 
Student Senate promotes The Shirt 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Sport your football shirts, Notre Dame fans, but leave your ties at home. 
The coordinator of The Shirt Project told Student Senate Wednesday that students should support the annual project this year over rival football gimmicks, including wearing ties to Notre Dame Stadium in honor of new head coach Tyrone Willingham. 
Courtney Schuster asked Senate to help promote sales of "The Shirt," the T-shirt that students and other fans typically wear to Notre Dame home football games. 
"'Ties for Ty' is a cute idea, but we need to be unified as a stu­dent body," said Schuster, who wrote a Letter to the Editor that appears in today's Observer. "If we get distracted wearing the ties, that hurts the project, and I don't think any student wants to hurt the project." 
Each year, half the proceeds from sales of The Shirt goes to Student Activities for money for campus clubs. The other half is set aside for students who experience unexpected financial trou­ble. 
Shirt officials this year have stepped up promotional efforts, fol­
lowing last fall's lagging sales. In 2001, a losing football season 
and creation of competing shirts shrank sales of The Shirt -and 
see SHIRT/page 4 
Tailgaters face policy changes 
. NDSP plans to patrol Saturday 
By LIZ KAHLING and 
JESSICA DALSING 
News Writers 
As the first Notre Dame home football game approaches, stu­dents and sports fans will race to local grocers stocked with hotdogs, burgers and beer in preparation for the many Saturday tailgaters to grace Notre Dame's parking lots. 
But the parking lots may not be as full as they have been in the past. 
With the new tailgating poli­cies aimed at cracking down on underage and abusive drinking, many students are trying to avoid run-ins with the law by heading off campus for pre­kickoff entertainment. 
'TU be at a senior friend's house," freshman Martin Lam said. "I think it's safe there." 
The University has estab­lished a designated student tail­gating area, Blue Field South, between Indiana 23 and Edison Road, separating students from families, alumni and other foot­ball fans. But many seniors, such as Chris Moulton, are tak­ing all the precautions they can for their tailgatcrs. 
"The majority of my friends are of-age so the policy will have little effect, but we do have some friends who are under 21. Those friends will not be allowed to drink at my tailgate," said Moulton. 
In Moulton's e-mail invitation to the tailgater, he adds the link to the University's policy on tailgating (www.nd.edu/-tail­gate) and makes his friends aware of his liability for their actions. 
Notre Dame Security/Police also will hold hosts responsible for any disorderly actions of their guests, said assistant director Phillip Johnson. 
NDSP officers and other local law enforcement will patrol the tailgate area, he said. 
The aim of these officers is to "ensure that our fans and visi­tors have a thoroughly enjoy­able experience free from dis­orderly and abusive behavior and its consequences," Johnson said, adding that any party found in violation of the tailgat­ing policy or state law will be shut down. 
Though the University offi­cials have advertised the new rules online and in The Observer, including an ad in Wednesday's paper from the Student Activities Office, stu­dents remain confused by the new process, which involves registering through Student Activities for a hangtag. 
Moulton said he and his friends wonder what factors will go into approving students' applications. 
''I'm requesting that several of my friends apply, as applica­tions can be denied on certain unknown criteria," Moulton said. 
One concern for Moulton is if this criteria includes considera­tion of applicants' history with 
see TAILGATING/page 4 
College sees security shift 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Security has been 
revitalized this year with new 
programming and greater stu­
dent interaction. 
The new programs have been 
implemented through the efforts 
of Dan Woods, interim security 
director; Belinda Rathert, securi­
ty investigator; and Linda Timm, 
vice president for student affairs. 
The security changes come 
after a year in which the College 
was investigated by the 
Department of Education 
because of alleged violations of 
the Jeanne Clery Act. The act 
mandates that institutions report 
crimes, including sexual 
assaults, in seven major cate­
gories and four sub-categories. 
The Department of Education 
found that Saint Mary's had not 
properly reported their statistics 
-but had not hidden any 
crimes -because of technical 
errors. 
Longtime security director 
Richard Chelbek also retired in the spring, and replacing him for a short time was Michael · Carrington. Timm said that Carrington left after such a short time because it was "not a good 
fit." 
Over the summer the depart­
ment became a division of 
Student Affairs to encourage stu­
dent interaction with campus 
security and gear programming 
toward the students. 
"We love being a division of 
Student Affairs," Rathert said. 
"There has already been more 
student interaction and interest 
this year." 
Plans for the new program­
ming began in May when Woods 
took over the department. This 
summer security officials met 
with local law enforcement offi­cers to learn how Saint Mary's could better work with the com­munity. From these discussions, Saint Mary's Security worked on ways to better serve the College and the local community. 

"We have new uniforms that are more relaxed and have been using the golf carts more so that students will see us as being more approachable," Rathert said. "Also, I will now be on call 24 hours a day so that if a crime occurs, all a student needs to do is tell their resident adviser or front desk and I will be paged." 
Five hundred students came to a Campus Security-sponsored forum to learn about the depart­ment's new Web site, the Belle alert system, and programs. The link will be available through the Saint Mary's home page and will also feature a red bell icon that will appear to be ringing when a campus crime occurs. If the red bell is ringing, students can click on it so that a bulletin will appear detailing the crime. 

"Positive steps have been taken in the interaction between security and students," Timm said. "We want to heighten awareness because I think you're always conscious of the fact that young folks have a feel­ing that it's never going to hap­pen to me." 
see SECURITY/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Thursday, September 5, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

More than enterta1n1ng 
If you are like the 100 million viewers who called in to select the winner of American Idol, you are probably mourning a loss like I am. The show pays homage to our gener­ation. We like MTV and we love pop music and we don't want to see it go away. 
Of course, there are exceptions to this rule. but just look at most Notre Dame stu­dents' MP3 files. Sure, there are the recent Billboard hits downloaded from Kazaa with DJ Clue giving shout-outs in the background. But many of us have an "old school" folder and we know for every Jimmy Eat World song, there's a Janet Jackson classic and for every Britney Spears tune, there's a Beatles hit. 
The accessibility of MP3s over the years has rounded out my music playlist with an eclectic mix of songs, and as I watched American Idol, I couldn't help but get nostalgic as the young adults belted out melodies that represented the fusion of generations, music and a dream. 1 enjoyed watching the contestants sing and dance around the stage transforming Burt Bachrach tunes with youthful flavor or making an Aretha Franklin or James Taylor song seem like it was made for them. 
American Idol gave us a breath of fresh air from the typical pop star reality show. We could sway to the beats of music of all generations hoping for the discovery of the next superstar to happen before us. 
But now, American Idol is gone ... Sure, there are larger problems in the world, but there was something nostalgic, whoiesome even, about the talent show. I doubt a sequel could match the first. Now, any future people who audition would know the heightened exposure of being an American Idol. After all, as entertaining as it is, how "real" is 


Helena Payne 
News Editor 
the Real World now that we've seen the same typecast characters season after season. 
There will probably never be another Kelly Clarkson or Justin Guarini. This is good because it opens the door for newcomers, but at the same time, it comes with the risk of producing imitators. I can just see the next contestants, includ­ing a brunette with a Southern twang, a guy with a curly blond afro, 

t a girl with multi-colored Cyndi Lauper hair. They won't be the same, but the next generation of wannabe idols. will remind us what it's like to live a dream. For now, we can be content with our MP3s and our MTV. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne,30@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer reg:uds icself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recogniie that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Professors 
Clarkson take helm of 
named the comittees 
American Idol by millions 

The summer Senate starts the 
The Faculty 
competition for year with the 
pop music stardom appointment of its 
is over and Kelly Clarkson is the

committee heads. winner. 
page 6 page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. 
Pachanga '02, 6 p.m. in the LaFortunc Ballroom 

. 
Erasmus Lecture, "History and llermcncutics," with speaker Nicholas Bovie, 4 p.m. at the Ilesburgh Ce11ter for International Studies Auditorium 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Student Affairs Divisional 

Meeting 8 a.m. in the Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Ring Week, 4 p.m. in the HCC/Berezny Hoom 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Texas chili, Budapest veggie soup, apple turnover, walnut plum chicken breast, beef and peppers stir fry, cheddar crumb scrod, vegetable rice casserole, oatmeal swiss, scrambled eggs, French toast, hash browns, BBQ beef sandwich, Lone Star rice, California Eldorado casserole 
Today's Dinner: Texas chili, Budapest veggie soup, apple turnover, glazed honey ham, baked beans, broccoli cheese rice casserole, seafood medley stir fry, mushroom quiche, marinara vegetables, corn dogs, Spanish rice, chicken fajita, hamburgers, hot dogs, Nature burger, chicken patty, mushrooms and onions 
BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT

NEWS 
United hopes 
Rumble, don't to dodge 
mumble, when Chapter 11 
supporting Fighting Irish athletic teams this weekend 

With a new CEO, 
Students encour­the United Airline 
age their peers to looks to cure its 
get fired up for the financial ills to save 
Purdue game. the company from having to file for bankruptcy. 
page 14

page 7 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Student injured on job 
NDSP transported a student work­er from the Galvin Life Science Center to the University Health Center for treatment of a laceration. 
Vehicle hits post 
NDSP received a report that a vehicle struck a post on Holy Cross Drive. There were no injuries reported. 
Driver cited for speeding 
A state citation was issued by NDSP to a driver for exceeding the posted speed limit on Edison Road. 
O'Neill reports missing mail 
NDSP received a report that mail was taken from the mailroom in O'Neill Hall between Friday and Tuesday. There are no suspects. 
Vehicle broken into 
A vehicle parked in the student South Stadium lot was reportedly broken into Tuesday between 4:45p.m. to 10:40p.m. There are no suspects. 
Wallet returned to NDSP 
A wallet found in DeBartolo Hall 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, mostaccioli, tri-color rotini, linguine, pastaria meat sauce, spaghetti sauce, meatball with sauce, alfredo sauce, lin­guine with vegetables, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, brown-n-serve breadsticks, Hawaiian pizza, corn scal­loped casserole, honey garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, wild rice with pine nuts, hamburger, grilled hotdog, chicken patty, grilled cheese on white, Nature's burger, tangy grilled chicken, steakhouse fries, pretzel, Chinese noo­dles, Szechaun vegetable noodles, Oriental vegetables, chicken taco, Olgas beans 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
c:: 
I.LI
:c 
~ 
I.LI 
3: 
...J c( 
(.) 

0 

...I HIGH 80 HIGH 80 HIGH 82 HIGH 85 LOW 54 LOW 54 LOW 60 LOW 62 
SCENE SPORTS 

Room for 'Minority 
Spielberg's 
improvement Report': A 
for Irish movie with 
running backs brain and brawn 
Scene reviews the 

Ryan Grant Steven Spielberg's 
hopes to improve upon the ND 

summer hit star­
running game'sring Tom Cruise. 
poor performance against Maryland last weekend. 
page 16 page 32 
was turned in to NDSP for safekeep­ing. 
Victim loses parking decal 
A victim reported to NDSP losing a University parking decal off cam­pus. 
Kontrol Kard reported lost 
NDSP received a report of lost Kontrol Kard on off-campus loca­tion. 
NDSP issues seat belt citations 
NDSP issued several state citations for seat belt violations on Douglas Road, Edison Road and Juniper Road. 
Information compiled from the Notre Dame Security/Police blotter 

Today's Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, mostaccioli, tri-color rotini, linguine, pastaria meat sauce, spaghetti sauce, meatball with sauce, alfredo sauce, Puerto Rican pasta sauce, amatricia, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza. brown-n-serve breadsticks, Hawaiian pizza, roasted vegetables, au gratin cauliflower, zum zum potato salad, grilled ham steak, beef potato pie, sauerbraten, valencienne rice, lemon baked perch, hamburger, grilled hotdog, chicken patty, grilled cheese on white, Nature's burger, BBQ chicken, Chinese noodles, Chinese steamed rice, Oriental vegetables, beef and pepper casserole, chicken taco, BBQ Caribbean chicken, roasted corns and peppers 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 84 HIGH 83 LOW 65 LOW 65 

Atlanta 90 / 70 Boston 82 / 64 Chicago 82 / 64 Denver88 / 59 Houston 86 / 73 Los Angeles 73 / 65 Minneapolis 84 / 66 New York 78 / 61 Philadelphia 89 / 64 Phoenix 107/ 83 Seattle 66 / 48 St. Louis 89 / 65 Tampa 88 / 74 Washington 89 / 67 
Thursday, September 5, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Grow-ing -women's center finds little space in library 
Meredith Reid Sarkees, direc­study rooms is at three, down By JAMIE BELCHER tor of the center, says not only one from last year. News Wrirer are there many new program­For some students, the 
ming goals for this year, but the changes have been disruptive. faculty size is also increasing. Senior Kim Davis sees room for 
Students might find them­"We have grown from two improvement. selves traveling to Regina Hall, fellows last year to nine fellows "You're more conscious of Havican Hall and the Cushwa­this year," Sarkees said. how loud you are when you are 
Leighton Library to find a pro­Fellows are brought to the working in the library because fessor or administrator associ­school to teach and research you don't want a teacher ated with the Center for about women's intercultural sneaking up on you," Davis Women's Intercultural 
leadership and interaction. said. Leadership at Saint Mary's. Because of its growth, the Fellow Kimiko Akita, a Saint 
The Center, also called CWIL, center needs more room for its Mary's professor, enjoys her is committed to promoting faculty. The typing room in office in the library but also intercultural dialogue and sup­Cushwa-Leighton, which has sees the need for a different 
porting women in leadership been relocated to the basement space. roles as they lead and nourish of the library, and one group "It would be nice if I could 
the next generation of female study room have been convert­use my office regardless of the leaders, but the new program ed into offices for CWIL faculty. open hours of the library," has quickly outgrown its shell. Also, the number of group Akita said, adding she has not 
had problems meeting with her students and fellow CWIL facul­ty so far. 
Karen Ristau, dean of faculty, said the changes are a tempo­rary but neces­
sary solution because of the  "We have a beautiful  people look­ing for a  
limited space  library, and the idea that  place  to  
on campus. "We have a beautiful  many people can use it and be welcome there in  come meet and talk," Hohl said.  
library, and the  in the Saint Mary's  M  o n  e  y  
idea that many people can use  tradition. "  from Lilly Endowment  
it and be wel­ Inc. was sup­ 
come there is  Karen Ristau  posed to help  
in the Mary's  Saint tradi­ dean of faculty  renovate floor in  a a  
tion,"  Ristau  new academ­ 

said. ic building, but planning for 
Despite some recent discom­that is on hold because a new fort, 20 years ago when student center is being con­Cushwa-Leighton was built, it structed first. was created to hold a maxi­Officials aren't certain where mum of 1,800 students. Only and when all CWIL offices will about 1,580 students registered be combined into one. this year, said Bob Hohl, the interim library director. Contact Jamie Belcher at 
"One of the benefits of having belcl 05@saintmarys.edu 

Budding Journalism Major. Spent summer writing for hometown pop:r. Future holds editorial position at major pub. 
Her byline always includes AT&T. 

( 

~;,•,~:-,~ o' 
LU 
0 --' 
u 
z 
the CWIL fellows in residence in the library and that sort of fertilization, sort of possibility for dialogue, the excitement for intellectual exchange is a real plus for the 

Freedom of Expression. 
Sign up for AT&T Long Distance and get up to 4 hours of calIing on us: 
Choose AT&T for Long Distance when you sign up for local phone service. Then call 1 877-COLLEGE to add the AT&T One Rate 7( Plus Plan and get up to 4 hours of FREE calling. 
1 B77-COLLEGE x27354 att.com/college/newterrn 
AT&T College Communications 
~ ~-~ ~ ~ VOCR,. 
~AT&T 

Long Distance • Internet Service • Virtual PrePaid Cards • International Calling 
'Free minutes consist of monthly long _distance bill credits and an AT&T Phone Card worth up 10 2 hours of domestic calling. Terms and Cond111ons apply. Bill credit offer expires 12/31/02. Go to www.att.com/college/newterm for complete details. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 5, 2002 
Senate 
continued from page l 
funding for student groups. 
The 2002 Shirt is kelly green with the theme "Return to Glory." On back is a chipped gold helmet, portraits of former coach Knute Rockne and the famed Four Horsemen. 
Project officials this year ordered 44,000 shirts. Fans already have bought 29,000 shirts, said Schuster, who antic­ipated that the apparel would sell out. 
Shirt purchases generally increase as the first home game nears. Notre Dame's home opener against Purdue is Saturday. 
"If we can have a really strong sale this weekend. it will really help the project,'' said Trip Foley. student body vice president. 
Shirts are $15 at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Irish Express and the Varsity Shop. They are $11 with a student ID at the information desk in LaFortune Student Center. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
The Senate confirmed Erika Bramley as sophomore class advisor to the freshman class council. 

. 
Keough Hall Senator Jake Teske was elected Senate rep­resentative to the Advisory Committee for Academic and Student Life. The two-year-old group meets four times a year and is chaired by Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, and Provost Nathan Hatch. 

. 
Pat Hallahan, chief of staff for Student Body President Libby Bishop, announced a Sept. 28 multicultural fair on 


Security 
continued from page I 
Other additions include pro­viding students with designated driver bracelets, guardian angel swizzle sticks for testing drinks, crime maps detailing areas of South Bend that experience the highest crime rate, resource magazines such as "Help Stop Drug Abuse," and the "Be Responsible About Drinking" (B.R.A.D.) safety cards. All of these resources are free to stu­dents and can be found in the security office. 

Contact Sarah Nestor at 
ne.st9877@saintmarys.edu 

South Quad. The event is spon­sored by Bishop's office and other student groups. 
. 
Hallahan said the Office of the President will know by next week the topic of its fall Board of Trustees report. Bishop's staff meets with trustees on campus in October. 

. 
In light of the anniversary of 


the September 11 terrorist attacks, senators rescheduled next week's meeting from Sept. 11 to Sept. 12 at 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Jason McFacley at jmc­farle@nd.edu 
Tailgating 
continued from page I 

the Office of Residence Life and Housing. Only two of his friends have not visited the disciplinary board. 
~egarding the application criteria, ResLife director Jeff Shoup said students currently on disciplinary probation will be ineligible to register a tailgate gathering with alcohol present. 
Contact Liz Kahling at ekahling@nd.edu and Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu 

In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and a mission. The mission was to provide a personal, caring, educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the four-year institution of their choice. 
Holy Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fundamental mission. Every year, our students develop the skills necessary to transfer to outstanding colleges and universities like Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana University and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
Our mission is what has made us successful. So while many things change, our mission is one thing that will not. 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 • 574-2.39-8400 • FAX 574-233-7427 • www.hcc-nd.edu 



WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Clarkson named 'American Idol' by millions 
Asso~iated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Kelly Clarkson. a cocktail waitress from Texas whose signature song was Aretha Franklin's "Respect," was judged America's next pop star Wednesday by the viewers of ''American Idol," 
After more than 15 million telephone votes were cast by viewers, the 20-year-old Clarkson beat Justin Guarini, the big-haired crooner from outside Philadelphia. 
Clarkson was the survivor among 10,000 entrants who thought they had what it takes to be pop stars. Along the way, the Fox series became the television hit of the summer, particularly among young viewers. 
Even Simon Cowell, the British judge with a penchant for the withering insult, was seen to wipe away a tear at the result. 
Clarkson earns a recording contract, and will release a CD single later this month and a full album in November. 
"How am I going to sing this next song while I'm crying?" Clarkson said before launching into her upcoming single, "A Moment Like This." She sang "Respect" for her initial audi­tion and again Tuesday, before the final voting opened. 
More than 18.2 million peo­ple watched "American Idol" Tuesday night as Clarkson and Guarini, 23, sang three songs each. More were expected for Wednesday's two-hour finale, as it has been the most popu­lar show for weeks among teenagers and young adults. 
Fox stretched out the sus­pense in a two-hour show, announcing the winner seven minutes before it ended. 
Celebrities sprinkled the crowd at Hollywood's Kodak Theatre, including sitcom stars Ray Romano and Jane Kaczmarek, of "Malcolm in the Middle." 
More than 100 million votes were cast over the course of the show this summer. 
One viewer, singer Natalie Maines of the Dixie Chicks, said she vot-ed five times for Clarkson, her fellow Texan. 
"I knew from the first episode that Kelly was the best one on there," Maines said. 
In Clarkson's hometown of Burleson, Texas, more than 500 students and their parents gathered in the gym of her old high school to cheer her victo­ry. 
"I'm just proud of her. It's like a dream to see our fri'tlnd fulfill her dream," said Ashley Donovan, who worked with Clarkson in a movie theater in this town about 10 miles south of Fort Worth. music industry in Los Angeles and Paula Abdul thought 

Clarkson sang in her school's after graduation, but returned Clarkson was the most deserv­choir and performed the lead to Burleson discouraged over ing of the two. The British in the school production of rejection. Cowell said he had to "Brigadoon" her senior year. All three of the show's "begrudgingly admit the talent She tried to make it in the judges Cowell, Randy Jackson is better here." 
Bush will seek Congress' approval on Iraq policy 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush promised Wednesday to seek Congress' approval for "whatever is necessary" to oust Saddam Hussein including using military force, as the White House considered giving Iraq a last-ditch ultimatum over weapons inspectors. 
House Speaker Dennis Hastert said Congress would vote before the Nov. 5 elections on how to deal with the Iraqi president, ensuring that Iraq is a high­profile issue in the campaign for control of the House and Senate. 
Democrats who control the Senate said the non-binding resolution is possible but not certain because of the lack of time and Bush's failure thus far to make his case for war. "It would not be my assumption that the military course is the only action available to him today," said Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, D­S.D. 
"This is a debate the American people must hear, must understand," Bush said after a Cabinet Room meeting with 18 Democratic and Republican congressional leaders. "And the world must understand, as well, that its credibility is at stake." 
After weeks of conflict and criticism, Bush began a public relations campaign to convince Americans and wary allies of the need to overthrow Saddam and secure his weapons of mass destruction program -perhaps by opening a second, perilous front on the war against terror­ism. 
Essentially seeking a blank check, Bush told lawmakers, "At an appropriate time, and after consultations with the leader­ship, l will seek congressional support for 
U.S. action to do whatever is necessary to deal with the threat posed by Saddam Hussein's regime." 
Baghdad denounced Bush's "evil plans." Iraqi foreign minister Naji Sabri, speaking at the Arab foreign ministers meeting in Egypt, said: "These are whims and lies and pretexts ... all prepared with no evi­dence at all to support them." 
General Amr Moussa said the threat of war against Iraq "constitutes a danger for the stability of the entire region." But Swedish Prime Minister Goeran Persson said Bush was making the situation "polit­ically manageable." 
In South Africa, Secretary of State Colin Powell said he received "a solid expres-
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Germany skeptical about Iraq attack: 
Body Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder rebuffed calls by Britain for Europe to help the United States against Iraq, saying Wednesday that Germany won't tone down its opposition to military action and won't "submit" to Washington. In blunt comments, Schroeder said Tony Blair does not speak for all Europe, a day after the British prime minister declared Iraq "a real and unique threat" to world security. 
Australia rethin~ signing Kyoto accord: 
Pressure mounts on Australia to ratify the Kyoto accord on climate change, Prime Minister John Howard softened his previous hardline opposition to the pact saying he might still sign. Australia has opposed the treaty, arguing that because developing countries are not covered, it would only transfer high polluting industries to poor countries without c~~t!~~ eillis~io!'s _that lead to global warming. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
West Nile offers no immediate risk: 
Health officials were trying to determine Wednesday if West Nile virus can be spread through blood transfusions. But any test to screen donated blood for the sometimes deadly disease is at least months, maybe years, away, they said. Still, they emphasized that the blood supply is very safe and the risk of contracting West Nile from blood is significantly lower than the risk of forgoing any pro­cedure that would require a transfusion. 
Man threatens White House security: 
A man who police said may have made threats against President Bush was arrested Wednesday about two miles from the White House after author­ities discovered 16 guns in a car he was driving. The man was stopped around 12:30 p.m. EDT in the Adams Morgan section of Washington. Washington Police Chief Charles Ramsey said the suspect may have threatened Bush. 
sion of support" from allies at a U.N. development summit. The president is strongly considering a 
U.N. Security Council resolution that would set a deadline for Iraq to open its weapons sites to unfettered inspection and to apply punitive action if he refuses, three administration officials told The Associated Press on condition they not be identified. To get the resolution past a threatened veto by China or Russia, the resolution likely would not spell out the threat, but it would be obvious to Saddam, the officials said. 
Iraq agreed to allow international weapons inspectors after the 1991 Persian Gulf War, but they have been barred from the country since 1998. The United States believes Saddam is develop­ing chemical, biological and chemical 
High winds, powerful rains hit Taiwan: 
A powerful typhoon churned toward Taiwan early Thursday after its winds and rain lashed Japan's Okinawan islands, forcing residents into shelters, causing blackouts and halting transportation. Typhoon Sinlaku was packing winds of 89 mph and was 350 miles from Taiwan's capital, Taipei, moving west at about 9.5 mph, Taiwan's weather bureau said. The fringe of the storm was expected to start hit­ting Taiwan early Friday. 
Canada considers legalizing marijuana: 
A parliamentary committee called for legalizing mari­juana use among adults, increasing pressure on the government to shift drug laws away from the zero-tol­erance policy of the United States. The report by the Senate Committee on Illegal Drugs recommended that Canada adopt a system that regulates marijuana the same way as alcohol, and expunge criminal records for marijuana possession. 

page 6 Thursday, September 5, 2002
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Fabled bridge destroyed 
Associated Pre55 
WINTERSET, Iowa 
The covered wooden bridge made famous by the movie "The Bridges of Madison County" was severely damaged in a fire that authorilies said was intentionally set. 
Only a charred shell of the Cedar Bridge remained after the Tuesday night fire. The decking collapsed into the creek below. 
"There is no electricity to the bridge, there is no furnace," Madison County Sheriff Paul Welch said. "There is nothing there that would have initiated any fire on its own." 
A passer-by had called the sheriffs office after seeing the bridge in flames. The state fire marshal's office is investigat­ing. 
.Madison County has just five covered bridges remaining, all on the National Register of Historic Places, Welch said. Cedar Bridge, a 76-foot-long span built in 1883, was the last of the historic bridges open to traffic. 
Thousands of people have visited its span since Robert Waller's book "The Bridges of Madison County" was pub­lished in 1992. The 1995 film based on that novel featured Cedar Bridge. The bridge was renovated in 1998 at a cost of $1?R 000. 

FACULTY SENATE 
Professors take helm of committees 
ByANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
In what chairman John Robinson called a "remarkably productive" session Wednesday, Faculty Senate appointed representatives to vacant positions during its first meeting of the academic year. 
"Success in this endeavor is of most importance," Robinson said in an opening statement to fellow faculty. "Failure means we are voiceless and from that follows all sorts of ills. But, voice takes work, and we must begin that work tonight." 
Professor Remie Constable of the history department was appointed to the Senate's administrative affairs commit­tee. Classics professor David Ladouceur and aerospace and mechanical engineering profes­sor Edmundo Corona were appointed to the benefits com­mittee. 
Faculty Senate is divided into four committees, including the student committee and the aca­demic affairs committee. During the Wednesday night meeting, each committee rec­ommended a chairperson, all of which were approved by the Senate with minimal debate. 
Jacqueline Brogan, an English professor. was elected to chair the academic affairs committee and chemical engi­neering professor Al Miller was selected to lead the benefits committee. 
hennaFestival 
sunday, 8 september dooley room LA FORTUNE 3-6pm 
FREE 

The Senate voted to appoint Tom Merluzzi as chairman of the Administrative Affairs Committee. 
The Senate also voted to con­linue to allow Rick Rolley to occupy his seat as representa­tive for the Film, Television, and Theatre Department. Rolley's position as a profes­sional specialist had raised concerns that only teaching or researching faculty members could hold Senate seats not specifically designated for pro­fessional specialists. 
The decision to retain Rolley on the Senate, however, came also with an agreement to form an ad hoc Committee to read and revise the organization's bylaws. 
The senate elected Robinson to chair the committee and Barry Keating of the finance department and Steve Boker of the psychology department to serve on it. 
The Senate also unanimously elected Marsha Stevenson of University Libraries and Rich Williams of the Sociology Department to serve as the fac­ulty members on the Campus Life Council. 
Representatives agreed to postpone the appointment of members to the Traffic Appeals Board in order to gather more information on what the body does and when it meets. 
In other Senate news: 

University President Father Edward Malloy is scheduled to the meeting. Several senators attend the Senate's October voiced concerns that previous meeting. Senators, however, meetings between the Faculty preferred to move Malloy's visit Senate and Malloy were "ugly" to later in the academic year so with both sides displaying hos­that new representatives would tility. have time to acclimate them­selves to their responsibilities Contact Andrew Thagard at and determine an agenda for athagard@nd.edu 
11:>BEER FACTOR'1U]:>
Ii,. 

IS "f Cl COM!NG TO t_ I}~ BENCHWARMERJ e. ~ EVERY $2 THURSDAY ~u_,,,,:. .._.a~ 
~ \ 
fROZf'< T-5Hlltf CONT~5T $1 YOl;-0\Ll•ll 8UND1'51t TE~i S~ WELL DRiN!<.5 KIDDY l'OOL FROM HHL S2 NOZ BHR ,M IHI$ 
~, IMPORT~ 

$2 BURGERS 5HOT 4 :'HOT \ZSPEIG.L~ 8tfN[)E~ OF FEAR BHR ANO MUCH MORE 
BWICHUG 

Mich.1a"a·Si on!y Re.olity Contest -It's a CollP.g< St~de:.nrs Nigh:mare 
SEPS™ 

R..1'1i., r:js M.iici"g L1ve t·Hr Hap. R..:rp, R§'B-, ol::I Sc~ool. Pyo1_3r~i;we § 1....1.lti."-t-tooA£l 
WIN PRIZES -DOOR PRIZES -PRIZES THAT CAN SAVE YOUR UVE 

',\'\\'W.(Ll-8S f\TIQN:;;fll)l}.(~ ~~OIIJ\., o~~ 't.Ylti wtb sit-e fa,,.. •¾.Ort. ~""fo o:~4 t;,,~ 1.•~ fL11~ ~e-,pi.t ·111r.-, 'i~ ~--~~ ov..!.i.~..e v'l'LLL rtt-~L·/~ t:i pyb:t1 
Wed. Nights Rump Shaker Contest $1.00 Draft Beer 
• Must be 21 with valid ID to purchase or consume alcohol. 

Thursday, September S, 2002 COMPltED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch Se tember 4 
Dow Jones 

8,425.12  +117.07  
1,292.31  NASDAQt­ +28.47  
893.40  S&P5(}()t­ +15.38  
.A.tl1Er"  
862.31  +5.15  
NYSE  
484.03  +7.70  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 

INTEL CORP(INTC) +1.58 +0.25 16.11 
lilllll1i~. .._... ~11:ii:1m1i.?l:ii. .._._Jl;t~~!~J?? 
SUN MICROSYSTEM(SUNW) +5.22 +0.18 3.63 
IN BRIEF Design changes cost GM millions 
A judge upheld an $82 million verdict against General Motors for a collision that left a child with permanent brain damage and that raised questions about the automaker's design changes. 
Bullock County Circuit Judge Burt Smithart said the $82 million was reasonable because "GM made a conscious and deliberate decision to reduce safety in the Delta 88's and put occu­pants at risk." GM spokesman Jay Cooney said Wednesday the company would appeal. 
"This was just the first step in the process," he said. 
The case stemmed from a head-on collision on Dec. 10, 1999, near Smut Eye, 40 miles south­east of Montgomery. Jeffrey Jernigan, then 12, was in the front seat of a 1993 Oldsmobile Delta 88 with his seat belt on when the passenger compartment of the car collapsed on him, caus­ing him to lose part of his brain, said plaintiff's lawyer Jere Beasley. 
The boy's father, Wilbert Jernigan, sued GM, contending the car was defective and dangerous due to design changes made by GM. 
Decline in construction industry 
Construction spending was flat in July as an increase in government work helped to blunt cutbacks in private builders' construction pro­jects, which dropped to the lowest level in near­ly six years. 
After declining for two months, the level of construction spending in July was unchanged at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $834.1 bil­lion, the Commerce Department reported Wednesday. That report along with more for­ward-looking data showing that manufacturing barely grew in August point to a sputtering eco­nomic recovery, economists said. 
In the construction market, the commercial side continues to be a source of weakness, reflecting reluctance by businesses to make big commitments in capital spending including new factories and other buildings given economic uncertainties, analysts said. 
United hopes to dodge Chapter 11 
+Continued service depends on unions 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Bankruptcy might be a distinct possibility for United Airlines, but it is not inevitable, according to its new chief execu­
tive. 
Glenn Tilton's success or failure in avoiding a Chapter 11 filing could hinge on the support of unions at the world's No. 2 carrier -a reality Tilton acknowledged Wednesday by speaking to a meeting of union leaders just an hour after arriving in Chicago. 
Union leaders remain uneasy about the propos­al by Tilton's predeces­sor to slash labor costs by $1.5 billion annually in a bid to make United more cost-efficient and competitive. 
But union spokesmen said they appeared to be pleased by the new CEO's diplomacy and comments in a brief courtesy visit. 
Pilots spokesman Herb Hunter said union presi­dent Paul Whiteford came away from the meeting convinced Tilton about 21 percent as the order to pay looming ing was the first time wants to avoid bankrupt­key element of $15 bil­debt obligations and leaders representing all cy. lion in company cutbacks avoid a bankruptcy filing United 's unions 
Reinforcing that view, over six years. this fall. including pilots, mechan­Tilton told reporters a "Those weren't my pro­Tilton, who flew in ics, ramp workers, public bankruptcy filing is "not posals," Tilton said after from San Francisco, contact workers, flight a foregone conclusion." leaving the meeting at where he had been vice attendants and meteorol­But, he added, "the pos­the pilots' union office chairman of ogists -had assembled sibility exists in the cir­near United headquar­ChevronTexaco Corp., since just before the cumstances the company ters. "But from the per­said it was his idea to employee stock owner­finds itself in." spective of management, attend the meeting. He ship plan went into effect 
While calling it prema­they were reasonable." was named the airline's in 1994. ture to talk about The meeting was the CEO on Monday. Asked "There's a renewed specifics of a financial first involving all union to describe the urgency sense of anticipation that recovery plan, he made leaders in eight years, of United's situation, maybe we can all get clear he doesn't think reflecting the dire condi­Tilton said, "The urgency together and move for­the severe labor cuts tion of an airline that is extreme." ward," Hunter said. sought by his predeces­has lost $3 billion since He said he hasn't "There was a lack of sor last week were out of 2000. removed the Sept. 16 trust in the previous line. Several union leaders deadline for unions to management. Now we've 
Newly retired CEO Jack contend that the $1.5 bil­agree on a financial got somebody new. Creighton, who appeared lion a year in labor cuts plan, although he did not "He sounds good on with Tilton at are more than what's rule out an extension paper and he's saying Wednesday's union needed to help United after he talks with the the right thing, and I meeting, proposed last obtain a $1.8 billion fed­Air Transportation think everyone wants to Wednesday that labor eral loan guarantee, Stabilization Board. give him a chance," costs be trimmed by which it says is critical in Hunter said the meet-Hunter said. 

WTC attack cost economy billions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The economic impact of the World Trade Center attack could reach $95 billion and cost 83,000 jobs in New York, according to a report by the city's financial manager. 
Replacing the buildings, infra­structure and tenants' financial losses account for $21.8 billion of that sum, Comptroller William Thompson said in his fiscal analysis released Wednesday. 
"While this devastating event can never be reduced to numbers, it is clear that New York City and the nation will continue to suffer its economic ramifications for years to come," Thompson wrote in the 58­page report that provides the fullest picture to date on the economic shock felt in the city. 
For instance, the analysis found that half of the city's projected $6 billion budget deficit is directly attributable to the terrorist attack, including almost $3 billion in lost tax revenue. The city has also paid some $500 million in expenses that have not been reimbursed, includ­ing police and fire overtime and security costs. 
New York also eventually must pay some $36 million in debt ser­vice costs on the $1.5 billion bonds issued to balance its budget in the immediate weeks after the Sept. 11 attack. 
The report also found a particu­larly harsh loss in lower Manhattan in terms of its stock of commercial buildings, which represents the nation's third largest block of com­mercial office space after midtown Manhattan and Chicago's business district. 
Some 13 million square feet of prime office space downtown was destroyed -a total equal to the entire office space inventory of Atlanta or Miami. An additional 30 million square feet of office space was damaged. 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 5, 2002 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 


Mon-Th 10:30am-10Pm Fri-Sat 10:30am-11 Pm 
All Year SPecial: 
$1.00 Drafts Mon Throuah Thurs 

Join Us To Cheer On THE FIGHTING IRISH 
5 Televisions available to watch the game 
Pizza Sandwiches 
Buraers Doas 
I 0% student discount with i.d. 
Delivery available through Dine-in 
1'l33 South Bend Ave rLocated next to Turtle Creek -1 / 4 mile f. of CamPus State Road 23 277-2521 
Must be 21 with valid ID to Purchase or consume alcohol 
NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Sylvia Dillon and John Dillon, both of Campus Ministry, serve cotton candy to students as they stopped by the organization's first open house of the academic year. 
Thursday, September 5, 2002 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Teachers contest city's decision 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPHIA 

When art teacher Judith Wood looks around the Luis Munoz-Marin Elementary School, she doesn't see the bad teachers and unmotivated administrators that lawmakers have long claimed are respon­sible for poor student test scores. 
She secs children who are sickly thin or suffering from chronic asthma, kids boing raised by grandparents because mothers and fathers are on drugs or in jail, students from poor families who speak English as a second language. 
"These kids are struggling," 
Wood  said.  "But  it's  not  
because  they go  to  a  bad  
school."  

As a new school year begins Thursday, Wood and scores of other teachers are questioning Philadelphia's plan to trans­form its schools by turning them over to private compa­nies. They believe what goes on inside the classroom isn't the only problem facing the dis­trict. 
Munoz-Marin was one of 20 Philadelphia schools handed over this summer to Edison Schools, the for-profit educa­tion company that has become the center of debate over whether private companies can do a better job running public schools than the government. 
Twenty-five other Philadelphia schools are open­ing the school year under the control of other firms. universi­ties and nonprofit groups, including Chancellor Beacon Academies, Victory Schools and the University of Pennsylvania. 
State lawmakers, who seized control of the district in December, have heralded pri­vatiza tion, saying the new school managers will shed bureaucracy, hold teachers and students to a higher standard, and implement innovative cur­ricula. 
But teachers warn not to expect a drastic turnaround. For years they have seen other reform efforts fail in slums where children are exposed to drugs and suffer from a lack of parental involvement. 
"These private companies act like they can reinvent the wheel," Wood said. "They'll bring in a new staff, new prin­cipals, but after three years of experiments it's not going to be better, it's not going to be worse, and at the end of it all you are still going to be dealing with students who are impover­ished." 

Katrina Bulkley, an assistant professor of education policy at Rutgers University's Graduate School of Education, said com­panies like Edison have been handed the schools with the worst socioeconomic problems -a factor that will handicap their efforts to turn them around quickly. 
"They are going to have to struggle with the fact that the kids come to school with a whole host of problems that you really can't do anything about, no matter who is run­ning the school," Bulkley said. 
Edison has acknowledged the difficulty of its mission, but said the key is to refuse to hold stu­dents from poor neighborhoods to a lower standard. 
The· company's Chicago Math instruction program, for exam­ple, is considered among the most demanding for both stu­dents and teachers, and begins introducing algebraic concepts as early as elementary school. 
Edison also tracks individual students more carefully than most public schools and pro­vides extra teacher training ­something the company said is essential in an underprivileged district where many teachers cannot afford to take classes on their own. 
There are other areas, though, where the company will have less control. 

West Nile blood test 
difficult to develop 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Officials don't yet know if a blood test for West Nile virus is even needed -but if it is, it won't be easy to develop. · 
Health officials were scram­bling to determine if West Nile virus can be spread through blood transfusions, even as they omphasized that the blood sup­ply is very safe. The risk of con­tracting West Nile from blood is significantly lower than the risk of forgoing any procedure that would call for a blood transfu­sion, they said. 
Ultimately, a screening test is probably needed, said Dr. Lester Crawford, acting com­missioner of the Food and Drug Administration. He said govern­ment would work with industry to stimulate faster development of a test. 
Even so, testing for the virus is complicated. Some of the tests that are used to diagnose West Nile in sick patients won't pick up the virus in donated blood. Other tests are more promising, but they would require significant improve­ments to be practical on a mass scale, enabling blood banks to screen millions of pints each year. 
'Tm reasonably optimistic that if needed, it could be done," said Dr. Jesse Goodman, deputy director of the Center for Biologics, Evaluation and Research at the FDA. 
Others are less confident. 
"It's going to take several years to have a test suitable for blood donors," said Dr. Harvey 
G. Klein, chief of the Department of Transfusion Medicine at the National Institutes of Health and past president of the American Association of Blood Banks. 
West Nile, which emerged in the United States just three years ago, has exploded across much of the country this sum­mer. with 673 cases and 32 deaths. But concern hit new heights Tuesday when officials confirmed that at least three of four people who had received organs from a Georgia woman had contracted the disease. One died. 
Officials said they are con­vinced that these patients con­tracted the disease through their transplants, though they don't yet know whether the virus can be spread through blood as well. 
Dozens of epidemiologists at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta and the CDC lab in Fort Collins, Colo., were trying to figure out how the organ donor, a Georgia woman who died in a car crash, got West Nile. She had received blood from more than 60 donors before she died, and they were tracing those blood donors to see if any of them have the virus. They are also tracking down about a dozen other people who had received transfusions from the same donors. 
i,.
·:~ 
.....~ 
~~::..~~ 
.. ·:::;...~ 
. -~ 
It~{,
t;!1•.' ....i'#• ­
(}if:{{{~~~::.\~ _:~ 
j,..,.IJ«> "'"' ~ ,1-,.• .. -.,..,,. ~...,,,;:-••
~;.;.:•-l';::_"................::,.._-.... ··,~::~.-· 
~;~~....~~:-;:.:_':. ,*. ~i\: 
:.:-:~..-•...~"'..",,,i-~• ,...-r~ 
, ....-#-... ,.~t'I'<'-#-·:.,,..-....•~ 
,,_,,..,. ........... ,,_,-.,. .,,.-.......,,., ...~~ 
/;,:;'... ~..~....~':"'~..: ~ ~~"..... ~:-::-~-'-,.•~"",.'I"'
,,,.1>,,.,..-:... s--;~,._ ~..,,..•:,..,......-:...,._...,._..,.<, 
. , . 
. ___.... 
". 
,. ' 

~:.=:,~...~--=· ·:::,;iriir•'.-· :\•
?:·~i ··r, .·,· 
(~. ~.:\~~_,~-:::,:j/~' -.' ~--._':" ·.?~.' ·, 

More than 30 years after his over-the-top 1971 cult shriekfest Let's Scare Jessica to Death, director John Hancock returns to the genre fold with a new flick that leaves the top but the merest speck in the (decidedly 
cracked) rear-view mirror. With enough goofy, gruesome twists to fill a half-dozen thrillers, Suspended Animation starts out as a cannibalistic Misery (complete with Kathy Bates clone Allen) as major Hollywood animator Tom Kempton (McArthur) finds himself a captive of a supremely scary middle-age sister act-backwoods Baby Jane variation Vanessa Boulette (Esterman) and her portly sib Ann (Allen)-following a Midwestern snowmobile mishap. After a couple of sadistic, squirm-inducing vignettes, the film suddenly veers into icy deliverance terrain before time-and-place-shifting to L.A. and a profusion of additional shocks and surprises so extreme as to border on literal overkill, including a close-up pimple-popping moment to rival Clean Shaven's infamous fingernail-removal scene. To delve into specifics would seriously risk ruining Suspended Animations unapologetic Grand Guignol pleasures; suffice it to say that Hancock and scripter Dorothy Tristan have the chops to pull off one of the most outlandish fearfests of recent years, one that would form a terrif twinbill with the Don Dohler gore-a-thon Ha, vesters (VS#42). Among the thesps, former screen psycho McArthur (Rampage) turns in strenuous work as an ultra-victim, rivaling Zahra Lampert's ordeal in Jessica. The Bou\ette Family-including serial-killer teen grandson Sandor (Meyers) and creepy jailbird brother Philip (Freeman)-can take its rightful place beside The Texas Chainsaw Massacre's Sawyer clan as one of the nuttiest nuclear units in fright-film history. ,Vben we caught Suspended Animation at a Palm Beach International Film Festival matinee, the audience gasps were loud and frequent; this would have been a great flick to watch with a vintage 42nd Street crowd. Look for it wherever it turns up next, hopefully in time for Halloween 2002. 
1he PhantoM of the Movies­
~~~t'":...,:;:.../!~M~~t ~ 
> ~~-::,) • 

Starts Friday the 13th South Bend, IN• Michigan City, IN• Elkhart, IN
r1;t}iJ" 

St.Joe/Benton Harbor, Ml • Niles, Ml 
---· --­

page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 5, 2002 
Sharon sees possibility for reconciliation with Palestine 
Associated Pre~ 
JERUSALEM 
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says that for the first time in nearly two years of fighting, he sees the possibility of a negotiated deal with the Palestinians because many of them are souring on violence. 
Sharon's statement came just hours after Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat accused Israel of crimes against humanity for expelling two people from the West Bank to Gaza on Wednesday. The two are relatives of a Palestinian explosives expert accused by Israel of sending suicide bombers into Tel Aviv. 
On Thursday, police said they discovered a car bomb containing 1,350 pounds of explosives -one of the biggest ever -that had been brought into northern Israel from the West Bank. The car bomb was detonated in an open space and no injuries were reported. 
David Baker. an official at the prime minister's office, said the car bombing was probably planned to coincide with the Jewish New Year, which begins at sunset on Friday. 
In a series of interviews with Israeli TV stations on Wednesday, Sharon said he sees hope for a peace agree­ment with the Palestinians. 
Sharon has ruled out talks with Arafat, charging that he has encouraged militants to attack Israel. However, Sharon said he could talk to Palestinians who have reached the conclusion that by terror­ism nothing can be achieved. 

Sharon told Channel Two television. "Now for the first time I see a possibility of open­ing the road to a political set­tlement... However, he did not elaborate about what kind of settlement he envisioned. He said "discrete" contacts with Palestinians are continuing, but would not say with whom. 
Arafat complained that Israel is sabotaging efforts to stop the violence. "Unfortunately everything we face here is more and more Israeli escalation," he said after a meeting Wednesday with Danish Foreign Minister Per Stig Moeller in the West Bank town of Ramallah. 
Denmark holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, and Moeller is trying to win acceptance of a plan that envisions Palestinian state­hood by 2005. 
He said the EU concept is to combine all the plans now on the table and present a unified program to the "quartet" deal­ing with the Mideast: the United States, Russia, EU and United Nations. 
In the past. Sharon has said he would consider creation of a Palestinian state at the end of a long process. 
In the TV interviews, Sharon also said Israel is not pressing the United States to attack Iraq, but "we fully support any American decision that will be adopted with regard to contin­uation of the war on terror­ism." 
On Wednesday, the Israeli military expelled a brother and sister of a Palestinian mil­itant from the West Bank to Gaza, the first time Israel has forced relatives of militants to leave their home areas. 
World leaders blame Rio Earth Summit 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
World leaders and global activists here agree on this much: Blame it on Rio. 
The Earth Summit 10 years ago in Rio de Janeiro grandly resolved to save all of nature, from the humblest algae to the majestic elephant. And it agreed the planet's delicate cli­mate urgently needed protec­tion before global warming rises to unbearable levels. 
How to fulfill that sweeping vision -while lifting billions of people from crushing poverty ­became the ditlicult job of dele­gates to the World Summit on Sustainable Developi:nent, which closed Wednesday. 
And in the end, the world summit turned out much like sustainable development itself: Slow. Unspectacular. A handful of small victories and some promising new initiatives. 
The goal of sustainable devel­opment is to promote economic growth and alleviate poverty while protecting the environ­ment. 
But the most daunting issues -species extinctions. infectious disease, trade subsidies, cleaner energy -remain stubbornly unresolved. 
Whereas Rio produced a pair of global treaties on global warming and preserving species, this summit's final action plan offers just a few broad -and nonbinding ­promises for change. 

Summit leaders said Johannesburg established sus­tainable development as a glob­al issue on a par with peace and human rights. It was destined to be a nitty-gritty meeting marked by horse-trading deals, they said. 
The summit opened nearly two weeks ago with a flourish of lofty Rio-esque rhetoric. South African President Thabo Mbeki predicted the world summit would be "a fitting culmination to a decade of hopes" after Rio. 
By Wednesday, leaders were careful not to overreach. 
"They were naturally diflicult talks," said French President Jacques Chirac, but it brought "a new momentum to the process of sustainable develop­ment. On the whole, they advanced things." 
Chirac was the most visible Western leader after President Bush declined to attend and British Prime Minister Tony Blair left early. 
Activists left Johannesburg feeling betrayed by world lead­ers who. they said, offered "crumbs for the poor." 
"When the time came for tar­gets, timetables and money. they let the world down," said Andrew Hewitt of Oxfam International. 
The military considers the Arafat denounced the expul­threat of expulsion, along with sions as a "crime against destruction of family homes, humanity that violates all as an effectiv.e way to deter human and international Palestinians from carrying out laws." attacks. Expulsion is seen by the Palestinians as severe punish­ment. Palestinians live in extended families, are deeply rooted in their communities and arc much less mobile than people in Western societies. 
Collect Calls 
Save The Max 


1S00MAXSAVE.COM 
1-800-MAX-SAVE 
(1-800-629-7283) 
*Plus set-up. lnterstate/8p.m.-7a.m. 

50%MORE TALK TIME 
WWW.10-10-226.COM 

kickoff the year with 
~•s WELCOME WEEK 
sept rudy on the quad 
9:30 pm, north quad 
.

movie 11rudy11 , popcorn, snowcones 
welcome picnic 
4-7 pm, fieldhouse mall 
thurs 

free pizza and snowcones 


acousticafe 
9 pm, the huddle student bands 



jill sobule 
9 pm, lafortune ballroom loft show with "supermodel" singer 


dale k 
10 pm, washington 
hall@)
hypnotist 
henna festival
8 

3-6 pm, dooley room, lafortune 6$
sun 

free henna tattoos 
page 11

Thursday, September 5, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Lawsuit alleges Iraqi involvement in terror attacks 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A lawsuit filed Wednesday claims Iraq knew Osama bin Laden was targeting the Pentagon and New York City prior to Sept. 11 and that it sponsored terrorists for a decade to avenge its defeat in the Gulf War. 
USince Iraq could not defeat the U.S. military, it resorted to terror attacks on U.S. citi­zens," according to the law­suit filed in U.S. District Court seeking more than $1 trillion in damages on behalf of 1,400 victims of the Sept. 11 attacks and their families. 
The suit names bin Laden, al-Qaida and Iraq as defen­dants. It was brought by Kreindler & Kreindler, a New York law firm specializing in aviation disaster litigation. 
The lawsuit tries to draw a link between Iraq and terror­ism that the government has so far not alleged in public court actions. 
It relies in part on a news­paper article published July 21, 2001, in Al Nasiriyah, 185 miles southwest of Baghdad. 

The law firm provided The Associated Press with a copy of the article written in Arabic and an English translation. 
According to the lawsuit, a columnist writing under the byline Naeem Abd Muhalhal described bin Laden thinking "seriously, with the serious­ness of the Bedouin of the desert, about the way he will try to bomb the Pentagon 
after he destroys the White House." 
The columnist also allegedly wrote that bin Laden was "insisting very convincingly that he will strike America on the arm that is already hurt­ing," a possible reference to the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. 
The lawsuit says a former associate of Muhalhal con­tends the writer has been connected with Iraqi intelli­gence since the early 1980s. It also says Muhalhal was praised by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein in the Sept. 1, 2001, issue for his "docu­mentation of important events and heroic deeds that proud Iraqis have accomplished." 
Jim Kreindler. a lawyer for the firm, said Muhalhal had advance knowledge of al­Qaida's specific targets on Sept. 11 and that "Iraqi offi­cials were aware of plans to attack American landmarks." 
"Further, we have evidence that Iraq provided support for bin Laden and his al-Qaida terror organization for nearly a decade," he said. 
The lawsuit said there have been numerous meetings between Iraqi intelligence agents and high-ranking al­Qaida members to plan terror attacks. 
It said one of those meetings occurred in 1992 when bin Laden's chief deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, whose where­abouts are now unknown, met with Iraqi intelligence agents in Baghdad over several days. 


hypnotist  hypnotist  hypnotist  
hypnotist  hypnotist  hypnotist  
hypnotist  hypnotist  hypnotist  

saturday september 7 10 pm Washington hall 
~ 


page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISMENT Thursday, September 5, 2002 

Here are some keys to stay trouble-free: 
Don't: 
• 
Play drinking games 

• 
"Funnel" beers 


• 
"Shotgun" beers 

• 
Drink directly from a wine bottle or 40 oz bottle ofbeer 

• 
Charge money for alcohol at tailgates 

• 
Have kegs 

• 
Take shots 


• 
Serve alcohol to minors 


Do: 

• 
Register your tailgate at www.nd.edu/--tailgate 

• 
Bring you student ID and Drivers License with you 

• 
Make sure to have a ND student parking decal on your car or bring $30 

• 
Have food and soda 

• 
Be responsible ifyou choose to drink 


htportant things to noU 
• 
All Notre Dame students are now allowed to host a tailgate if they register, but only students who are 21 years old may host a tailgate where alcohol is present. 

• 
All tailgating lots will be patrolled by University, state and local police. There will be both uniformed and plain-clothed officers. 

• 
Remember that ifyou tailgate off-campus and then arrive on campus intoxicated, you can still be cited for public intoxication, regardless of age. 

• 
"Hard" alcohol is permitted in the tailgating lot but nowhere else on campus. 

• 
Notre Dame undergraduate students are only allowed to host tailgates in the Blue Field South (radio tower lot). 


The key is not to draw undue attention to yourself or your tailgate. 
Ifyou are cited by the police call the Judicial Council at 1-4556. 
For additional information: read the FAQ at www.nd.edu/~tailgate, e-mail tailgate(iv,nd.edu, or call Student Government at 1-7668. 
Thursday, September 5, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Museum exhibits artistic inspiration of Adolf Hitler 
Associated Pre.. art: Wagner's operas; the dark and sim­staying in homeless shelters, attending obsession with opera -most notably the ple work of German painters; Viennese operas and watching sessions of work of Richard Wagner. It was in WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass. architecture. Parliament. Wagner's operas, anti-Semitic politics 
The images of Adolf Hitler's Third "Prelude to a Nightmare: Art, Politics, A friend encouraged him to sell his and pro-German writings that Hitler Reich forever will be linked with evil. and Hitler's Early Years in Vienna 1906-paintings -mostly postcards and began forming the groundwork -both The menace of the swastika, the perfect 1913" traces the dictator's artistic aspi­watercolors of Vienna landscapes -aesthetic and philosophical -for his but intimidating columns of marching rations. disappointments and influences some of which are displayed in the Third Reich, according to the exhibit. 
during his seven years in the Austrian Williams exhibit. According to a memoir "He loved Wagner," Rothschild said.
Nazi soldiers. 
An exhibit at Williams College city. kept by the friend and on display at the "He loved the timing, the presentation Museum of Art argues that it wasn't a The exhibit uses about 275 paintings, exhibit, some of Hitler's highest paying and the design." study of warfare. politics and military posters and clips of film from Nazi ral­and most loyal customers were Jews. Wagner's set designer, Alfred Roller, strategy that influenced the background lies to illustrate art's intluence on Hitler. His work never rose to critical had an obvious influence on Hitler. and symbols for Hitler's visions. It was Displays of anti-Semitic pamphlets that acclaim. "Prelude to a Nightmare" juxtaposes 
Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 

Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7 I 63 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
circulated "He was known for copying from other scenes from Wagner's operas against around images," said Deborah Rothschild, the photos of rallies orchestrated by the dic­Vienna in curator who organized the Williams tator. A painting of Roller's set design the early exhibit. "Ile had no originality." for "Rienzi" shows smoke and fire rising 1900s show While living the life of a struggling from Rome's capitol. The image is dis­that Hitler -artist, Hitler was drawn to the politics of played next to a photograph of a Nazi mimicked the pan-German party, a right-wing, night rally held in 1934 with smoke and the pam­anti-Semitic group that promoted the so­fire set against large buildings. A set phlets for called superiority of an Aryan race. design from "Parsifal." with imposing, his own The artwork embraced by the pan­high arches and thick columns, mirrors propagan­Germans -folksy paintings that asserted an image of a swearing-in ceremony for da decades German dominance -was among Hitler's body guards. later. Hitler's favorite. He railed against mod­"You look at this. and you see where 
T w o ern art. As Fuhrer. Hitler staged an art Hitler got some of his ideas," said years after show of "degenerate art," comparing Sherwin Fink, a business owner from visiting works by artists such as van Gogh and Hillsdale, N.Y.. who visited the exhibit Vienna for Picasso to images of human deformity. Tuesday. "It gives a different perspective the first The Williams exhibit, mostly strung on someone we know a lot about." time. Hitler together with pieces on loan from muse­Rothschild designed the exhibit. which move d ums in Vienna, shows original works runs through Oct. 27, as part of a pro­there in and reproductions of the art to which ject highlighting art from Vienna being 1908 as a Hitler responded. There are the images sponsored by 11 Berkshire galleries and 19-year-old he loved -like the painting of drunken museums. aspiring monks by Eduard von Grutzner -and "As a college museum, I wanted some­artist. those he loathed, including a self-por­thing that would be a catalyst for think­T w i c e trait of Vincent van Gogh. ing and discussion," she said. "I wanted rejected "His taste was very conservative," to give people something to talk about." from the Rothschild said. "He had an ideal of About 21,000 people have visited the city's art what art should be, and he hated what exhibit since it opened in July, but academy, didn't fit that ideal." Rothschild said despite the turnout, he drifted, Above all, Hitler seemed to have an there are no plans to put it on tour. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Thursday, September 5, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nouc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason Mc Farley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
K..tc Nageng..sr  Kevin Ryw  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EolTORI Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScE.Nt: EDITORI C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR, Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS E.DITORI Kacie McKenna 
AoYE:RT!SING MANAG£RI Mace Lurz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGERIGENF:RAL lNF0..............631-7471 
FAX. ................................,...........................631-6927 
AoVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0RIA.ssr. ME....................631-4541 BUSfNESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .spom. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAffy's ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.srnc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB .ADMINISTRAT0RS ..•.••.•••..•.••• 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe UniversityofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include ccntact information. 
Question., regarding Observer po/icier should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief}a,on McFarky. 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObscM:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publu:hed Monday through Friday na:pr during exam and va:adon pcriods.A,ubKripD<ln a, The Obkrvq ii $100 for one academic year; IH furone leffl«mr. 
The ObKtvcr is publisbc:d .r: l'O.ITMA.ITER 
02. So&.uh Dining Hall Send ~Wtrb;:tioal to: Nam Dma.c, IN 46SS6--0779 "Tiu OhKn,"' P~:U )K>'tag,:: pUd at No""' 0:1tnc ~.O.lloxQ ;md .cidirion:U mailing offi.cn 024 :South Dining Hall 
NUU< 0...., IN 46}56-0n, 
llt,.-Ohscrvc, ~ a rncrn.ber oflbe Asisooa«id Pttu. Ah n-produccion righa: •
....,...d. 


On Sept. 11, America won't mourn alone 
What would a Middle Eastern Muslim in another country have to say about America? 
Our flats in London are in an Arab district, so this is the perfect chance to find out. In the 40-minute walk back from our school buildings, I stop by a few of the Arab stores near our flats to connect with Andrew the neighbors. I probably look like a clueless American wandering through DeBerry shops up and down the street with my backpack, but that's okay. As Fr. ND Going McNeil, the founder of the Center for 
Global 
Social Concerns, said in the book "Compassion," we must be "called out of our familiar places to unknown ter­ritories, out of our ordinary and proper places to the places where people hurt and where we can experience with them our common human brokenness and our com­mon need for healing." 
The first man who welcomes me is Haider, a Muslim from Babylon in Iraq. He verifies that I can understand his English and smiles brightly. In between customers buying fruit displayed outside and wrapped loaves of bread, we talk about Sept. 11. He tells me about his shock when he first heard the news and chides anyone claiming to have attacked in the name of Allah: "Muslim people do not approve killing innocent people!" 
A few blocks away in another store, I meet Ifran, a Muslim from Pakistan. Unlike Haider, he is wholly support­ive of America's response, saying, "I think they should do more!" He thinks that the majority in Pakistan agree with him, and only the uneducated, illiterate in his country are swayed to think this to be more of a religious conflict than one about terrorism. He views America's reaction as an effort grounded not in oil-mongering but in the protection of all: "What they are doing is good for the whole world." 
I assumed that his views are so supportive simply because he is Pakistani, but I was wrong. In another shop a few yards away I meet another man from Pakistan. However, his views are the converse of1fran's in thinking that American government should "stop killing innocent people." He thinks that the majority of Pakistani agree with him and that only the weak politicians are supporting America. He is concerned that the number of innocent peo­ple killed in the Middle East may be greater than that killed in the Towers. 
He taught me several basic beliefs of Islam. Like many faiths, Islam promotes values of peace and love. Christians at Notre Dame or in America might think that Islam dis­credits Christ all together, but they actually uphold his teachings and view him as a prophet that will return. He also emphasizes that the actions on Sept. 11 are not repre• sentative of his faith: "What the terrorists did was not Islam." There arc more similarities between my faith and his than [ expected. 
My final stop in Baskin Robbins may have been the most dynamic. In this American store, I meet a Hindu, Indian man in his fifties with gray-black hair and a white apron. Although his family is from India, he grew up in Uganda before the presidency of !di Ameen, a harsh dictator who ousted the Indians from the country in the 1970s before he himself was expelled. 
Having finished a CSC International Summer Service Project in Uganda just a few weeks ago, I am thrilled to meet this person, a living history to a story I only heard about. We laugh remembering common Lusoga expres­sions. He then tells me about the goodness of the Ugandan people: "No matter what faith you have, many people have the same good values." 
The ice cream guru asks about what l've found so far, and he shares that business this time of year in his shop is slower than usual. "The people in the Middle East are scared to travel," he postulates. 
A man in a blazer stops in for a scoop. He adds an objec­tive perspective that the response in the Middle East shouldn't be about what America wants but what the United Nations decides. Though he's non-practicing, Mehdad was raised in an Islam family in Iran. 
I'm a half-Chinese, Catholic student standing in an American shop in an Arab district in London, talking with a Hindu, Indian ice cream shopkeeper whose family got expelled from Uganda and with a Muslim, Iranian accoun­tant wanting some peach ice cream. Notre Dame has a larger reach than I knew about my freshman year. 
There's something momentously important about having that direct, personal interaction with people. Like McNeil writes, "When information about human suffering comes to us through a person who can be embraced, it can be humanized." News stories may only frustrate us, but we can form a relationship with a smiling shopkeeper. 
Each person I spoke with, no matter what their political opinions, expressed concern for those hurt on Sept. 11, which my Iraqi friend Haider sums up best: 
"Tell them I sympathize for them. I know that they were innocent people who were working to provide for their families. We remember the innocent people killed in the Middle East. And we remember your families, fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters." 
With this weekend's match with Purdue, many may recall this game last year being postponed in solemn remem­brance. On the year anniversary, this American community in London will be one at heart with you in America. But we won't be the only ones. 
Andrew DeBerry is a senior studying aerospace engi­neering and with the Hesburgh Program of Public Service who is spending this semester in London. He welcomes e­mails at adeberry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Helena Payne Rachel Meghan Martin Protzman Sarah Nestor Joe Hettler Viewpoint Charee Holloway Kristin Yemm Scene 
Patrick McElwee C. Spencer Beggs Graphics Lab Tech Chris Naidus Nellie Williams 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
"/ love the Americans because they love  
Do you feel safe in South Bend?  liberty. and I love them for the noble efforts  
they made in the last war. "  
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m.  William Pitt  
British prime minister during American Revolution  

VIEW0PbINT 
Thursday, September 5, 2002 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Think twice before 
hanging the flag 
I got an e-mail message this week. You probably got one like it. It began, "On Sept. 11 wear red, white and blue." The words on the screen then faded, and for a full five minutes my com­puter flashed those images of human suffering that we all saw everywhere last fall in the glossy pages of magazines and on the flash of TV screens. I saw people running from build­ings covered in debris, firemen searching in vain for human remains among smoldering rub­ble and buildings exploding in flame. 
The images were so potent and powerful that the author of the e-mail thought they would persuade me to put out my flag and to wear our nation's colors on Sept. 11. But patriotism, I think, is no antidote to hatred. l find no comfort in the American flag. Is there no better way to honor our dead? 
Here at Notre Dame and across the nation on Sept. 11, there will plenty of flag waving. We are a patriotic people in the midst of a war against terror­ism overseas, and we are on the verge of a ground war in Iraq. 
But before you put out a flag ask yourself what it signifies. Where do your ultimate alle­giances lie? Are you first an American? Or a Christian? Or are you first a human? 
Maybe you're not an American at all. Notre Dame is not just a college for American students. We are an interna­tional university. In 2001 there were undergraduates attending Notre Dame from 64 countries outside the United States and graduate students from 87. Likewise, hundreds of non­Americans died beside us in the terrorist attacks on the United States last fall. The Catholic Church is a universal church, not an American one. Here at Notre Dame, we should under­stand that nationalism is not the appropriate response to murder on the part of our government or on the part of any other gov­ernment or group. Mourning is. 
If you must hang a flag, hang an Earth flag, in the hope that we might someday live as brothers and sisters with all people regardless of nationality. Or don't hang any flag at all. Just sit quietly and reflect, or chill with a group of people and sing, or write "Pray for peace" on your door or "We remem­ber" in your window or attend a vigil or a lecture on the conflict in the Middle East. 
Our nation's war against ter­rorism is not a football game, and the American flag is not just another trendy fashion accessory. There are no win­ners here. 
Those who died on Sept. 11 will never be brought back. War is not something to be celebrat­ed, even if you think it is neces­sary or inevitable. Then it should be understood as a nec­essary tragedy, and the nation­state a necessary but imperfect division among peoples. 
The Notre Dame family is not synonymous with the American family. Be hospitable to our international students, many of whom hail from countries with which we have at one time been at war. Examine your alle­giances and search your heart before you hang the flag. 
Anna Nussbaum 
Notre Dame freshman Sept. 4 
The Shirt 
•

promotes unity, raises funds 
In 1989, a car accident brought the Notre Dame fami­ly together when students came to the aid of the criti­cally injured student by selling a game-day T-shirt. This display of unity has grown into the largest stu­dent-run fundraiser on campus, and is now known as "The Shirt Project." 
Through a single shirt, it seems, the Notre Dame stu­dent body combined an enthusiasm for athletics with a commitment to their fellow students, and in doing so achieved an outcome far beyond their initial goal. 
Today, after 13 years, sales of "The Shirt" raises over $200,000 annually. Half of the proceeds go to Student Activities to help fund clubs, dances, concerts and speakers. The rest of the money is set aside for a chari­ty that directly benefits Notre Dame students. 
Last spring, funding from "The Shirt" sponsored the hugely successful Domer Donors Bone Marrow drive. 
This year "The Shirt" is bright green, bright enough to show up on national television. Notre Dame is about school spirit and unity. With a proud display of green, prove that the Notre Dame family is committed to sup­porting our fellow students. 
On game day, support Coach Willingham and the Fighting Irish "Return to Glory" by wearing "The Shirt." . 
Be a part of the sea of green. Go Irish! 
Courtney Schuster 
president, The Shirt 2002 Notre Dame junior Sept. 4 

Rumble, don't mumble, when supporting Fighting Irish athletic teams this weekend 
Womens soccer team counts on fan support 
Help! I want to take a moment and ask all of our students for a favor . .The womens soccer program has a huge tournament this weekend, hosting No. 1 Santa Clara on Friday night at 7:30 
p.m. and No. 4 Portland at 1 p.m. on Sunday. We really need your support (all students) to help us get these victories this weekend. 
When we travel to Portland and Santa Clara, they have tremendous student support, and they antagonize and intimidate our team like crazy. We really need you to come dressed in green (or Notre Dame) gear and be loud as we face these national powers.. You guys may not realize how important you are to us and all the athletic teams here, but your support is huge. 
Please come by after the football pep rally. Your student IDs get you into the game. Even if you aren't a soccer fan, your support could really be helpful to us. Thanks so much as I truly believe we have the best sports fans in the country. 
Randy Waldrum head women's soccer coach 

Silence is not golden in Notre Dame Stadium 
Our campus has some serene places: the lakes, the Grotto and the Basilica -places where peace can be found amidst the rush of daily life. Unfortunately, the same could be said for Notre Dame Stadium in recent years. I have been truly surprised at how quiet the crowd can be during a game at times. I challenge all fans to do two things for this season 
and beyond. First, we should loudly support our Irish. When our guys are on offense and need to communicate verbally, a little less ruckus is 
appropriate. However, when Notre Dame is on defense and oppo­nents are trying to communicate, we should be shaking down serious thunder: not just after the interceptions, not just after sacks and not just on third downs when the team is on defense. What if the players decided to play only on third down? 
When Purdue and others go on offense this year, they should have a hard time hearing themselves think, let alone each other. Furthermore, I have noticed that "when the team is up 
against it and the breaks are beating the boys" that the place gets amazingly silent, to the pleasure of the opposition. If any­
thing, it is at precisely this time that the home-field advantage should kick in to lift a struggling team's spirit and energy. Second, I encourage people to find ways to get louder. Shaking keys 
is pretty lame. Bells from local craft stores work well or shaking a film container with a few quarters insides can make five times the noise of a set of car keys. 
With Coach Willingham's home debut and the new alumni cheering section, this sea­son is a perfect time to commit ourselves to making the Stadium a polite, yet very loud environment for visi­tors. If we risk getting too loud and drawing a penalty, the players and coaches will let us know and we can tone it down. 
Silence in Notre Dame Stadium is only golden on football Saturdays when it is in the section where visiting fans are seated. 
Paul Vasquez 
Notre Dame doctoral candidate political science Sept. 3 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 16 Thursday, September 5, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Speilberg's 'Minarity Report:' 
Cruise). the hotshot detective and target when the pre-cogs predict that actually pulls a contemplative action
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 

founder of pre-crime investigation. In he will commit the murder. But when movie out of the mix. 
Scene Editor 

the style of film noir, Anderton is he discovers a mysterious conflicting As Anderton runs through the omi­deeply disturbed, drug-addicted hero account of the future from the pre­nous metropolis, Speilberg introduces a Stephen Speilberg's latest action who broods over cogs, a so-called whole futuristic society that is fairly tit­thriller, "Minority Report," is set in the the abduction and "minority report," illating. In a world overrun with retinal
"Minority Report" 
ultra-futuristic Washington D.C. of assumed murder Anderton decides scanning and super-powerful comput­2054. Technology advances to the point of his child; a 
to prove his inno­ers, the idea of privacy seems almost that future inhabitants live, for the crime ironically cence by kidnap­unknown. most part, in an actualized utopia. committed ping one of the "Minority Report" doesn't get bogged Even violent crime is almost non-exis­months before pre-cogs and run­down in over-explaining too many triv­
Director: Stephen Speilberg

tent as genetically engineered clairvoy­pre-crime was ning from the ial aspects of 2054. Though at one
Writer: Scott frank

ant called "pre-cogs" detect and report instituted. authority he point, Speilberg almost spoils a won­
Starring: Tom Cruise, Colin Farrell and
homicides before they happen. "Pre­As Anderton helped to build. derful movie by obstinately pushing
Samantha Morton

crime," as it is called, has eliminated comes to work the While many written-in product spots. premeditated murders. Those that pre-cogs predict a directors would Spielberg's latest work has obviously would commit murders are arrested by premeditated turn this film into been influenced by his mentor Stanleyrocket pack-wearing commando police homicide, a rarity an overly compli-Kubrick. Occasionally, Spielberg even officers. due to the deterrent effect of pre-crime. cated excuse to race the dashing Cruise uses shots in homage of Kubrick films, 
The plot follows John Anderton (Tom But it is Anderton who becomes the across CGied cityscapes, Spielberg but this feels almost less than original, 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Blood Work' a film that bloody doesn't work 
By SHAWN NEWBURG Scene Movie Critic 
"Blood Work," directed and pro­duced by Clint Eastwood, was launched into the running for worst movie of the year a couple weeks ago. A shallow, predictable plot with numerous holes, extremely poor act­ing worsened only by a lame script and average cinematography left crowds either laughing or groaning at just how bad this movie was. 
Clint Eastwood plays Terry McCaleb, an ex-FBI agent living on a houseboat. The movie starts with a chase scene while McCaleb is still in the FBI. He is one of the best, but cannot seem to track down a serial killer. A chase scene ensues in which he shoots the killer, not killing him, but then he has a heart attack. 
Two years later, older and retired, he needs a heart transplant and lucki­ly enough receives one. The heart he receives belongs to a woman who was murdered, and her sister, played by Wanda De Jesus, comes to beg McCaleb to track down the killer. McCaleb has a soft spot and takes on the case despite his poor health. He is apparently well enough to shoot at bad guys, dive away from speeding cars and have a love scene. Eventually, with the help of his neigh­bor, Buddy Noone (Jeff Daniels), McCaleb tracks down the killer. 
Daniels is the one bright spot of the movie. His character is well developed and has a few good lines. He alone seems to further the entire movie until the big anticlimactic shoot-out finale. His friendship with McCaleb helps save a little of Eastwood's per­formance. 
De Jesus turns in a refreshing per­formance as Graciela Rivers. She is McCaleb's love interest and the sister of the murder victim. She carries the supporting role well and adds a little depth to a character despite having to work through poor scripting. 
Nearly everyone else's acting is extremely forced, especially 

Eastwood's. His days as Dirty Harry only serves to allow Rodriguez to are long over and his performance throw out awful one-liners. He feels very tired. He attempts to pull attempts to provide comic relief to a 
off the has-been detective who can still hold his own, 
"Blood Work"

but his squinting eyes and raspy voice are practi­cally cliche now and his character 

Director: Clint Eastwood

is not at all intimi­
Writer: Brian Helgeland

dating. 
Starring: Clint Eastwood, Jeff Daniels and
Perhaps the 
Wanda De Jesus

most annoying character is played by comedi­movie in des­perate need of some, but pro­vides none. 
Anjelica Houston plays Dr. Bonnie Fox, who performs McCaleb's heart transplant is another poorly developed char­acter. Houston delivers a per-

an Paul Rodriguez. He has some inex­formance that is way too emotional plicable grudge against McCaleb that and over-the-top considering her 
character's position. The audience sees her only as a doctor who per­formed the heart transplant surgery, but she seems to have way too much emotion invested in McCaleb's case to not have any other motives. 
Overall, "Blood Work" is in an over­worked genre-film starring an aged Eastwood that fails to deliver the way he or the genre used to. The plot is very predictable, the dialogue is awful and the cinematography is average. If you want to see a good Clint Eastwood detective movie, save some money and rent a Dirty Harry movie. 
Contact Shawn Newburg at newburg. l@nd.edu 

Angelica Houston plays Clint Eastwood's heart transplant doctor, an underdeveloped character that is too concerned about the main plot. 
I 
L 
O
THE ­
BSERVER 

Thursday, September S, 2002 
page 17 


a movie with brain and brawn 
more like stealing than praise. Still. Spielberg's skill at composing scenes speaks for itself. 
The CCI effects in the movie are breathtaking. From spider-like scan robots to a computerized highway. Spielberg incorporates each sci-fl ele­ment into his film in such a way that, despite the stunning effects, they are secondary to the movie's plot. 
The movie presents a number of interesting philosophical and ethical debates. Unlike similar mind tickling movies like "The Matrix" and "Vanilla Sky," "Minority Report" actually exam­ines more difficult issues than the average first­day Phil 101 student who learns what epistemics means. The entire audience wiH leave the theater discussing the problems the movie presents. 
While movies in this genre often examine the existence of free will within an external system like a computer program or determined future, "Minority Report" takes more educated look at what it means to know the future. 
Spielberg's real charm in this film is his ability to incorporate the load of college bull philosophy 
with state of the art special effects and classic cinematography. The result is a movie that isn't all intellectual, visually over indulgent or campy. "Minority Report" is a sci-fi movie the genre can be proud of. 
Cruises' star-power doesn't hurt the film either. Cruise. whose career seemed doomed to being just another pretty face close to twenty years ago, puts in one of his best performances to date. Despite a convenient sob story, Cruise puts in enough energy into his role to convince the audi­ence to suspend their disbelief. Of course, he's not exactly looking at Oscar nominations here either. 
Almost everybody should find something enjoy­able in "Minority Report;" even if you're not interested whether denontological or consequen­tialist ethics are superior, there are always rock­et pack chase scenes to make up the difference. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs,3@nd.edu 
,Star Wars Episode 11: •Attack of the Clones  
Signs  
Insomnia ·The Road to Perdition  
The Bourne Identity  
.Unfaithful  
·Changing Lanes  
•Frailty  
Murder by Numbers High Crimes  

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 

Tom Cruise stars in Stephen Speilberg's sci-fi action thriller "Minority Report" as a detective on the run. Here, retinal scanning spider robots threaten to identify 
him in a surprise raid on the house complex he is hiding in. 
r-----------------------------------~ 
I I 
I Love Movies? I 
I I I I 
SCENE is now accepting applications for the the "Two Tickets for'' movie review column. 
I I
"Two Tickets for" is a bi-weekly movie discussion review for two reviewers. Interested reviewersI should apply in pairs {preferably male/female) and submit a sample movie review of 200-300 words. I I An example of the column style can be found at www.nd.edu/~observer/04112002/Scene/3.html. I 
I I
SCENE is also accepting applications for regular movie reviewers. Applicants should submit a sample
I I
movie review of 200-300 words. Regular reviews should not be written in the first person. 
I I 
Applicants should e-mail their applications to C. Spencer Beggs, the Scene Editor, 
I I
by 5 p.m. on Wednesday, September 11 at scene@nd.edu. 
I I I I 
-
-

~-----------------------------------· 
-page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 5, 2002 
MLB 
Johnson pitches three-hitter in Diamondbacks' win 
proving that he just might be 
Associated Press 
the most dominant left-hander ever."
PHOENIX Johnson (20-5) joined team­When things are going badly, mate Curt Schilling (21-5) as theit's nice to be able to give the only 20-game winners in theball to one of the best pitchers 

majors so far this season.
in the game. 
Arizona boosted its division lead Randy Johnson threw a three­over Los Angeles to five games.
hitter to earn his 20th victory Johnson even added a two­and stem Arizona's slide in the run double in the eighth inning. 
NL West on Wednesday as the 
Diamondbacks beat the Los 
Yankees 3, Red Sox 1
Angeles Dodgers 7 -1. 
It's beginning to become
Johnson struck out eight to 
another one of those 
pass Bert Blyleven and move Septembers for the New Yorkinto fourth place on the career Yankees. And for the Bostonstrikeout list with 3,705. 
Red Sox, too. 
"I was talking to my mom this Jason Giambi put New Yorkmorning, and she asked me 'Did ahead with an opposite-field,you ever imag­

two-run
ine you would 
homer and
be where you "I don't think you can be Andy Pettitte are at this time 
playing Little League or rebounded
in your career 
from a sore
Babe Ruth or high school 
on th at list?"' 
back to lead
Johnson said. or college and imagine 
the Yankees "It was truly the 
that's where you would over the fad­
farthest thing 
ing Red Sox
ever be."

from my mind. I 3 1don't think you 
Wednesday can be playing Randy Johnson 
night.
Little League or 
Diamondbacks pHcher After the 
Babe Ruth or Yankees lost 
high school or 
the series 
college and 
opener,
imagine that's where you would Roger Clemens and Pettitte (9-5) ever be." 
beat Boston on consecutive 
Johnson walked none, hit a nights, increasing New York's batter and came within one out AL East lead to eight and one­of his second shutout in three half games over the second­starts. Shawn Green hit a solo place Red Sox. 
homer with two outs in the To make matters worse for 
ninth, his 40th home run of the Boston, it dropped six and one­
season. 
half games behind Anaheim in 
"It was the big guy's day the wild-card race with 25 

today," Dodgers manager Jim games remaining. 
Tracy said. 
Pettitte, scratched from his Still, Los Angeles won four of 
previous start because of a stiff six on a road trip to Houston lower back, allowed consecutive 
and Arizona. 
singles with one out in the first "They have a fine ballclub, 
to Johnny Damon, Nomar 
but we're leaving here today 
Garciaparra and Manny
feeling awfully good about our­Ramirez, but allowed just three 
selves, too," Tracy said, 
hits in the next six innings and "because we've made tremen­
improved to 10-4 against
dous strides, and we'd like to Boston in his career. 
think that maybe this isn't the He had two key moments,last time we're going to play pitching to Carlos Baerga with them this year." two on and two outs in the first The only other Dodgers hits and third innings. and escaped 
were doubles by Jeff Reboulet in both times by inducing infield the third and Green in the sev­grounders. Pettitte was over­enth. Johnson threw 107 pitch­powering at times, tying up hit­es in his sixth complete game of ters with high fastballs. the season. Steve Karsay finished, allow­
"He's incredible. He just con­ing two hits in the eighth but tinues," Arizona's Matt Williams getting Ramirez to hit into a said. "He's almost 39 and his double play. Karsay got his 
work ethic is impeccable. He's ninth save in 11 chances, giving 
-
the Yankees the season series against Boston 10-9. 
Derek Lowe (18-7), who had pitched six scoreless innings this year in his first career start at Yankee Stadium, got out of a two-on, no-outs jam in the first when he retired Giambi, Bernie Williams and Jorge Posada in order. 
But Lowe, who had been 6-1 in his previous nine starts, couldn't hold the lead in the third. He gave up a leadoff opposite-field double to right to rookie Juan Rivera, then hit Alfonso Soriano just below the left shoulder with a pitch. 
Cubs 3, Brewers O 

Moises Alou is doing his best to salvage something from a for­gettable first season with Chicago Cubs. 
Alou was 4-for-4 with an RBI and Carlos Zambrano pitched eight shutout innings to snap his five-game losing streak as the Cubs beat the Milwaukee Brewers 3-0 on Wednesday. 
Alou raised his batting aver­age to .281. 
"The beginning of the year I struggled a lot," Alou said. "I was very disappointed in myself and kind of embarrassed, too." 
Zambrano (3-6). who retired 13 of the first 15 batters, struck out six and walked four in his longest career outing. Robert Machado got the first of Milwaukee's three hits off Zambrano in the fifth inning. 
"The potential has been there, it is just the matter of consisten­cy," Cubs interim manager Bruce Kimm said. "I saw him last year at times like today and at times he would be so-so being a young pitcher" 
The 21-year-old right-hander won for the first time since July 
15. Antonio Alfonseca got three outs for his 17th save in 23 chances. 
The Brewers only had three runners get past first base. Richie Sexson, who went 2-for­4, did it twice -reaching third in the seventh and second in the ninth. 
"If he is pitching hard like that, not may people are going to hit him," Brewers manager Jerry Royster said. "The stuff he threw today was electric. They have some starters who are for real." 
Fred McGriff led off the Cubs fourth with a double, moved to third on Alou's single, and scored to make it 2-0 on Nelson Figueroa's wild pitch. 
The Cubs loaded the bases against Figueroa in the sixth on Alou's single and two walks. Valerio De Los Santos relieved and issued another walk to Bobby Hill to force in Chicago's final run. 
Albu singled in Sammy Sosa in the first inning to give the Cubs a 1-0 lead. 
Figueroa (1-6). who has lost five straight decisions, allowed all three runs on six hits and five walks in 5 2/3 innings. He struck out a career-high eight. 
Twins 3, Mariners 2 

When the Minnesota Twins needed to get out of their funk, Rick Reed's big-game experi­ence showed. 
Reed outpitchcd Jamie Moyer and the AL Central-leading Twins snapped a season-high five-game losing streak with a 3-2 victory over the Seattle Mariners on Wednesday. 
"He's proving why he's been an All-Star," Minnesota manag­er Ron Gardenhire said. "He is proving now why he has been around for so long. He's a veter­an who 'knows how to compete and get people out." 
Jacque Jones had three hits for the Twins, who won the sea­son series (5-4) against Seattle for the first time since 1992. 
Reed (13-7) stymied the Mariners until the eighth inning, sending them to their fifth loss in eight games. 
An All-Star in 1998 and 2001, Reed started the only game the New York Mets won against the New York Yankees in the 2000 World Series. 
Reed wanted to halt Minnesota's losing skid in the worst way. 
"Yeah, I wanted to stop it," he said. "I was tired of losing. I'm kind of hoping everybody in this clubhouse is tired of losing." 
Third-place Seattle fell three and one-half games back of Anaheim in the wild-card race. The Mariners began the day six games behind Oakland in the AL West. 
"What are you going to do?" Mariners manager Lou Piniella said after watching his defend­ing division champions fall far­ther back in the race with 23 games left. "These games here are precious and they're getting away from us." 
Eddie Guardado pitched the ninth inning and got his AL· leading 39th save in 45 oppor­tunities despite giving up a lead­off home run to Edgar Martinez. 
Guardado pitched for the first time since Sunday, when he gave up a three-run homer to Miguel Tejada in the ninth in a 7-5 loss in Oakland. 
The Twins came to Seattle after losing three straight in Oakland. 
"There is a lot of pressure out there," Guardado said. "Hopefully, we can learn from the Oakland series and this series. This is our job and we have to battle through it." 
Reed won a rematch to Moyer (13-7) after losing to him last Thursday in Minnesota. 
Reed won for the fourth time in his last five starts. He blanked the Mariners until Jose Offerman homered to lead off the eighth. 
In 7 1/3 innings, Reed gave up six hits and one walk, with five strikeouts. When Martinez walked in the fifth, it was just the fifth walk given up by Reed since the All-Star break. 
Indians 9, Tigers 3 
Jaret Wright is finally starting to gain some confidence. 
Wright won for the first time in nearly 15 months as the Cleveland Indians took advan­tage of sloppy Detroit fielding to beat the Tigers 9-3 Wednesday night. 
"To bring your confidence back after what went on and what not, it takes a couple of good innings," Wright said. "You see what you have for that game and keep it going." 
Wright, one of the most promising pitchers in the game before being plagued by injuries, had been 0-5 with a 
17.83 ERA since beating Minnesota on June 5, 2001. He spend much of the past three seasons on the disabled list or on rehab stints in the minors after undergoing surgery on his right shoulder in August 2000. 
"It felt like a long time, so this felt pretty good," he said. 
Wright (1-3) allowed three runs -two earned -and six hits in five innings to get the win against Detroit. 
"That's a building block for him right there," Indians man­ager Joel Skinner said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED: Notre Dame vs Michigan  Large one-bedroom condo for sale.  -Furnished rooms for rent in a  NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ 
NOTICES  tickets Date: Sept 14, 2002 Need tickets for a special anniversary sur- One mile to ND, Non-rental. Newly remodeled. Fully equipped.  spacious comfortable home. Includes kitchen privileges, wash- GAME CALL JACK 674-6593  ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  
prise.  $99,500.  er/dryer, A/C, internet, quiet reading  All ND vs Michigan State football  Philadelphia-area alum needs one  
CJs Pub See whats happening  Please can John Jacob  Williamson.1@nd.edu  rooms, swimming pool and patio 2  tickets for sale at 517-351-1992 or  ticket for U. of Michigan game, Call  
www.cjspub.com  Phone # (814) 893-5701  miles from campus. $330 month.  goto www.JamestheTicketman.com  John 610-688-171 O  
1998 Jeep Grand Cherokee.  Call Tom at 574-243-4749.  
ND family looking for babysitter in  Excellent Condition  Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­ PURDUE TICKET for sale. Student  
LOST & FOUND  home-Tues, 3-6pm AND/OR Thurs. 5-8pm Some flex, Great  $12,000. 631-7829.  All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aolcom  8048 or astrog999@aol.com  section, standard price.  3  
kids, good pay.  www.mmmrentals.com  Needed: Large quantity of Stanford  MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED.  
Call Michelle 233-2921.  tickets for reunion. 289-8048.  Seats can be separated.  
- FOUND: Set of small keys between BP & Farley. Call 4-4225.  AFTER SCHOOL CARE FOR TWO  FOR RENT  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS.  Need 2 or 4 GA tix to home games.  Need many tickets(6)for BC game.  
CHILDREN, 3PM-5:30PM, MON­ CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  276-8507. Call 288-2877 after 5.  Call Brian at 4-0881  
DAY THRU THURSDAY. GOOD  Room in Horne for rent  
WANTED  PAYI CALLLISAAT631-9947OR 277-8564.  $400. Utilities incl. 8 min. to campus.  TICKETS  Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich. game. 255-8256.  PERSONAL  
BENCHWARMERS SPORTS  Furn or unfurn.  We need Michigan tickets! Call 4­ WANTED: ND tickets. HIGHEST  
LOUNGE 236 So. Michigan Needs bartenders, DJ and promotional  FOR SALE  Jacuzzi. Call Donna 255-4737.  2899 or 256-5633.  PRICES PAID 251-1570  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone  
people. 232-0022.  For Sale singlefootball tic for Purdue  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  you love needs confidential support  
91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal,  Available immediately • Fall semes­ and Ml. Gall 233-3618 alter 6.  PRICES 289-9280  or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  
$250 a day potential/bartending.  clean, 1-owner, very good condi­ ter only -2 BR cottage five min from  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819, For  
Training provided 1-800-293-3985  tion. $42.00.  campus.  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  more information, see our bi-weekly  
ext. 556  277-0189.  Dave 243-5353.  check our prices. 273-3911.  SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  ad in THE OBSERVER  

-
-------, 
j 
Thursday, September 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
-
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Ohio State WR leaves team to face theft charge 
Police said Chattams is under 
Associated Press 
investigation for theft of a set of 
golf clubs stolen July 29 from a 
COLUMBUS. Ohio parked sports utility vehicle. 
Ohio State wide receiver Angelo Coach Jim Tressel didn't elabo­Chattams was excused from the rate on why Chattams was team to deal with an accusation 
allowed to return to Dayton, Ohio, of theft in hls hometown. 
and said he didn't know furtt er 
················································:
•
• University Resources 
•
•• for Gay, Lesbian, & 
,.
• Bisexual Students 
• 
•i.,,.;.--~iiil 
• 
THE STAMOING 

• 
COMMITTEE OH 


fl GAV ANO Lf!SBIAN 
• STUD&NT Hl!:&DS
•
•
•
• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
•
• Lesbian Student Needs 
•
• 
(Confidential infonnation, education, and resources)
•
• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student 
•
• members (see web site for student contact info.) 
•
. 
•
•
• Office of Campus Ministry 
•
• (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning s:11dents
•
• and their friends; pertinent library resources m
• 
304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
•
• Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Stee1e.3 l@nd.edu
•
•
•
•
• University Counseling Center 
•
• (Individual counseling) 
•
• Contact: Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen
•
• Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu
•
•
• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn'
•
•
• 
:•.......•..•••.•..•.•..••.....•..•.•.•.•........•• 
: 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 



I I 
l ' 
I 

1 
1 
1 
-II I I 
I I 
I 
details. 
A complaiut, on file in the Montgomery County Clerk of Courts, was filed against Chattams on Aug. 12 alleging he was involved in a theft of property valued at $500 or more. No charges had been filed against him as of late Tuesday, and the case has not been given to a grand jury. 
Tressel said he was waiting on a phone call from Chattams that might clarify the situation. 
"The only thing l know is, we had him go home to find out a lit­tle bit of what the situation is, so that we can respond to it," he said. 
Tressel said Chattams told him "that there may be something he had to take care of." He said no further decisions would be made regarding Chattams' status on the team until more information was known. 

Chattams, a 5-foot-11, 185­pound sophomore, had two catches for 26 yards in nine games last year. He played in Ohio State's season opener against Texas Tech on Aug. 24. 
His departure is the latest blow to a team that has lost several key players recently . 
Late last month. fullback Jesse Kline quit the team because of continuing injuries . 
Flanker Chris Vance and fresh­man defensive lineman Quinn Pitcock were forced to sit out the Buckeyes' season opener ­Vance for an unspecified violation ofteam policy, Pitcock because he was arrested for underage drink­
ing . 

HNAT ZII=' Z'M NOT CIITMOLZC7 
NI Wllllllt~ l 
/Alfi Jt.l~Jt.lff 
fill Plll~I~~/tAI~ 7~u-PIAI~~ 
flf/1? 

.Jtt;./tfl D-1'.H-11! 
4-rr,rPf:ll"ft;' 
i-;<Pt~/f:llc,i~ 



page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 5, 2002 
-
Teams will pause in memory of Sept. 11 
Associated Press 
All major league baseball night games on Sept. 11 will pause at 
9:11 p.m. local time for a moment of silence in remem­brance of last year's terrorist attacks. 
NFL fans. meanwhile, will hear an address this week on last year's events from President Bush and team personnel will wear logos commemorating the events. 
Following the moment of silence at the baseball games, a videotape will be shown in mem­ory of those who died. During afternoon games on Sept. 11, the moment of silence will be held during the seventh-inning stretch, and the video will follow. 
"All of us in baseball were dev­astated by the horrific attack on our country last September 11, and it is with a great deal of sad­ness and grief that we will mark the first anniversary," commis­sioner Bud Selig said Wednesday. 
"We take this opportunity to honor the memories of those lost and to pay tribute to the firefighters, police officers, res­cue workers and all those who sacrificed their lives trying to save others," Selig said. 
Bush's talk to NFL fans will be shown on CBS and FOX tele­casts and played on stadium screens for the 10 season-open­ing games Sunday that start at 1 
p.m. EDT. It will be followed by the Marine Corps Band playing "America The Beautiful." 
In addition, sideline personnel from all the teams will wear a 9/11 patch on their clothing along with an American flag. 
Members of the New York Giants and Jets will wear caps with the initials or logos of the New York fire and police departments or the New York/New Jersey Port Authority personnel. The Giants open the season Thursday night against San Francisco, part of the cele­bration of Sept. 11. 
The Washington Redskins will wear caps with a Pentagon logo. 
During the baseball games, a special logo will be displayed on the field, outfield walls, bases and lineup cards, incorporating the Stars and Stripes, the major league baseball logo, a red­white-and-blue ribbon and the phrase "We Shall Not Forget." Players' caps and outerwear that day will include the American flag, and each fan attending a game that day will receive a commemorative T • shirt that features the logo. 
Fans will be encouraged to wear the T-shirt during the game, specifically for the moment of silence. 
In addition, New York Knicks players A1lan Houston and Charlie Ward will sponsor an event at Madison Square Garden on Sept. 11 called "A Tribute to Grace and Hope." 
On Saturday night, NASCAH and Richmond International Raceway are planning a pre-race tribute to include a spectacular card display by more than 100,000 spectators, a flag salute by Winston Cup drivers and crew members as well as a special "Gentlemen, Start Your Engines" command by American Military personnel via satellite. 
In the Busch series race on Friday night, Bobby Hamilton Jr. will drive a car with a special paint scheme from his sponsor, the U.S. Marine Corps. The No. 25 Ford will be called "The Patriotism Car" in support of the Marines. 
It will be draped in an American Flag on all sides, with the Marines logo on the hood. 
"I am proud to be a part of such a tribute," Hamilton said. "I don't think anyone will forget where they were or how they felt when they first received word of the terrorist attacks. 
On Sept. 22 at Dover International Speedway, Bobby 
!Iii ' I WtJ<omeTo 
NEXJB. 
Labonte will drive a Pontiac with the phrase "Let's Holl" splashed across the hood in conjunction with the Todd Beamer Foundation. The No. 18 Pontiac, usually bright green, will be red, white and blue during the race. 
"Our team couldn't be more thrilled to be honoring a tremen­dous American hero through the Todd Beamer Foundation," said team owner Joe Gibbs. "When we learned that this foundation is all about helping kids, we knew we needed to be partners. I hope all of our fans will rally around and support our 'Let's Roll' car." 
Any money made off the car through merchandise will be donated to the Todd M. Beamer Foundation. Action Performance is will create a full line of No. 18 Pontiac "Let's Roll" die-cast cars and donate all proceeds to the Beamer Foundation. 
Aretha Franklin and Art Garfunkel will sing "America The Beautiful" prior to men's and women's finals this weekend at the U.S. Open. 
' 
~· 


API Photo Two St. Louis Cardinals players, as well as an umpire, partici­pate in a moment of silence earlier this season In honor of the 
Sept. 1.1. attacks. 

Welcome to Notre Dame. Your life just went from O to 90. 
) Dl6ll,\L WALKIE-ULKIE 
) SPEAKERPHONE 

) WIRELESS WEB ACCESS ) AOL• INST,\NT '4~SSENGER'" service ) TWO-WA\' MESSAGING 
) JAVA'" GAMES 6 APPLICATIONS ) DIGITAL CELLULAR 
S74-24,-,8' 18

NEXTEL 
I 

~i (\~••• .. ;• 
wl-\~\-evev twi.s\-s ~\\~ \-v.v"'s cone,e Hwows ~\-yol.\ -yol.\ Ce>1.\\ ~e~I. A"'-~ 
t-le,ctel c~\\ heir. We've ~o\-\-l,\e "'ewest 
rl-\o\\es, coolest .Pe~\-1.\ves e>1.\\~ swee\-es\­
v~+-e rl~\\S yov. "'ee~ ~v \-he vi~e o.P 
yol.\v li..Pe. Yol.\'ve ve~~y-Bvi\\' 1\-•. 
i-tow's ~ ~ve""t-HIMe \-o ~et t-le;,c\-el: All i-tohe De>1.""e stv...Ael\ts AI\..A pe>1.ve"'ts -'e\-°' IO;'°(" ..At'.} (.:·o L11.1tr\-OI\ ~\\Y Y"'-te r'""" """'~ ~ \00" o-P-P """'Y pli'lol\e. 
"To O'-'Y: , .,o to ',\e,c\-e\.co!M/ivish-stl.\J.e\\t_ , cc:,,.\\ toll--t?vee I-g77-c;oc.-2cr2,. , visH· JD~ (olA\lA\l.\',\lCC\tio"'s ei1.t: 1,1'f lvo\\wMJ. Dvive, <;ol.\tYI Be\\J. 

"t-~~---·:; 
*Offer Is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002 While supplies last. Require~ new acttvallon, oner~rl~rvIf: A~reem;nt:unn~ 
=-:

tffi;" , credit approval $200 early termination fee applies. Must bfe 18 years of agbe to prkurc,ha$s1e001~-ssttoarnet Psauvrc1nhgasse1·ss orettq~~~e~!g'~~!) ~:~~~noc/!nd ~iti"be'';3pp1i~d a~cpomt 
~ 

.· s t u fee of $35 per phone· maximum $70 per account. ees may vary Yma e • m . d th ,..0 ' ' ·,-' •. o18;al~ 1Oo/o ott monthly rat~ plan Is valid on any rate plan activated wtth this offer. Other restrictions may apply Rate plans are subIect ldo tNaxxtes,I teeg t~ N~xt~ ~ ~r; · -t , · c rices s bject to cha e Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 Neldel CommumcaU~ns, Inc. All rights reserve e e an e !!!!!!"'
·.. ·n• · =~ga~!· re~~~:e~ tradeai:rk~ of Nextel C~mmunications. Inc. Motorola and the Stylized Mlogo are registered _m the US. Patent anlsdt Tra~rr OH~ce0/::e~:
• ' '\ · • all other Java-based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc AOL. AIM, Buddy LISI and the Triangle design are reg ere ra emar s 
-­-r;'i:: :~ 1, .•· onnne, Inc. Instant Messenger Is atrademark of America OnTine, Inc. .t~I ·;•;,? 
T 
'··• ! ! . 
i,. 
~ I -•-. 
I 
. · I 
.. ! ..j 
I 
-~­
-iI . : 
' 
• I 
-

Thursday, September 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Defensive line has i111.portant role against Boilern1akers 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
Even after Anthony Weaver graduated, his legacy still lives on with the Irish defensive front. 
Notre Dame's defensive front -ends Kyle Budinscak and A large part of the defensive Ryan Roberts and tackles line's success had to do with the Darrell Campbell and Cedric example set by Weaver, a sec­Hilliard -played a tremendous ond-round draft pick of the role in shutting down Baltimore Ravens and team Maryland's offense. The Irish MVP last season. rarely blitzed, instead relying on "He got a lot of attention, but the quartet of defensive linemen the man deserved it," Campbell to win the battle of the trenches. said. "We were watching film 
r----------------------------, today, and I said, 'Good job, T­Weav,' and I turned and looked at his seat and he wasn't there." Weaver, who earned second­team All-American honors from ABC Sports last year, helped instill leadership in the group of defensive linemen who would carry on for him when he left. More than anything, he relied less on words and more on his strong work ethic to set an example. "He left an impression on us," Campbell said. "A lot of us tried to mold our game, our tech­nique after him because he was simply flawless. It was beautiful watching him play." Campbell was disappointed with his performance against Maryland, in part because he failed to make a tackle. Hilliard 
HUNGRY? 

Ifree pizza from papa john's and snowcones 
recorded one tackle and a sack, while Roberts and Budinscak recorded two and one tackles apiece, respectively. 
Saturday, Campbell said the Irish defensive line will be 

thursday 9/5 

called on once again to help shut down Purdue's multi­
4-7pm 
dimensional offense, and that 

fieldhouse mall 

"We're going to come after linebacker Courtney Watson him, but I really believe the missed practice. Irish coach coaches want the front four to Tyrone Willingham said Watson get the job done," Campbell was still suffering from linger­said. "That will leave some ing effects of the viral infection things open for the secondary." that kept him out of the 
Maryland game Saturday. Offensive lineman Sean

Get fired up earlier 
Milligan saw limited participa­Notre Dame pep rallies will 
tion. Notre Dame's starting

begin a half-hour earlier this 
right guard is listed as day-to­year and will still be held at the 

day with what Willingham

Joyce Center. 
called muscle spasms. 

The student portion of the pep rally will begin at 6 p.m., and players will walk in around Contact Andrew Soukup at 
6:30. asoukup@nd.edu. 

Tyrone•s been 
llidnapped! 
DILLON PEP RALLY 
SouTHQUAD 
SEPTEMBER 5,.2002 
7:00 PM 
Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 

Pachanga '02 
6:00 p.m. -8:00 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA-lnfo Session 
for Candidates 
1:00 p.m. -2:00 p.m. 
for Sponsors 
2:00 p.m. -3:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
What if I'm Not Catholic?! 
4:00 p.m. -7:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center Find out whats available for students of Protestant faith traditions. 
Ministries at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lectors' Workshops 
Sunday, September 8, 2002, 8: 15 p.m. or Tuesday, September 10, 2002, 8:30 p.m. 
Eucharistic-Ministers' Workshops 
Sunday, September 8, 2002, 2:30 p.m. or Tuesday, September 10, 2002, 10:00 p.m. 
Ushers' Workshops 
Sunday, September 8, 2002, 3:30 p.m. or Tuesday, September 10, 2002, 7:30 p.m. 
"all workshops will take place at the Basilica 

¦ Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, September 7 Mass 30 minutes after the game Rev. William M. Lies, c.s.c. 
Saturday, September 7 Mass 45 minutes after the game (Stepan Center) 
Rev. Thomas Bedanar, c.s.c. 
Sunday, September 8, Mass 
8:oo a.m. 
Rev. William M. Lies, c.s.c. 
10:00 a.m. Most Rev. Robert C. Morlino Bishop of Helena, Montana 
11:45 a..m. Most Rev. J. Peter Sartain Bishop of Little Rock, Arkansas 

Ans,Ner the Call 
¦ by Fr. Richard Warner, c.s.c. Director, Campus Ministry & Counselor to the President 
This past weekend, in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, two men accepted ordination as members of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Tom Eckert, C.S.C., who pronounced his perpetual profession on Saturday, August 31, was ordained a deacon on September l. He will serve as a deacon at St. John Vianney Parish in Phoenix during the coming year. Our own Sam Peters, C.S.C., who works in Campus Ministry and is rector of Sorin Hall, W4S ordained a priest in the presence of many Sorin Hall residents. 
Ir was my privilege to offer the following reflection.,; at a prayer service the day before rhe ordinarions cook place. 
There are probably as many places in the Gospel where Jesus invites people to become his disciples, as there are passages with clear assurances that as many ministries and services are available to every Christian Commu­nity as there are needs. In each situation, however, accepting discipleship and its costs and blessings, and providing for the needs of God's people, depend on decisions we make; decisions which Tom and Sam have made. These decisions can only be made in that place where God speaks to us most directly, and where we recognize and know and understand that "it is the Lord who beckons." 
The events which we will celebrate this weekend were born at the moment of the Annunciation and
For service is at the heart of the 
perfected on Calvary. In a real wav, the profession of religious vows and
Gospel, because Christian life is the 
ordination to the diaconate and the priesthood, were bonding of each person with Jesus born at the moment of the Annunciation, because Mary, Notre Dame, the Mother ofJesus, Our Mother
Christ. It is what transforms 
and the Mother of the Church --was willing to ac­cept what she came to understand was God's Will for 
servants into friends, friends into 
her, even though it would take her an entire lifetime disciples, disciples into brothers and to understand the implications chat flowed from her "I will do what you ask of me."
sisters in Christ, and brothers and 
And because of Mary, che coming ofJesus marked chat most important moment in the story of God's
sisters in Christ into fruitful 
love for all his people, for us, and tonight in a special instruments of God's grace for the way for Tom and Sam, and their families and friends. The Gos­pels and the life ofJesus are filled with stories and examples about 
sake of salvation. 
the importance of human relationships, love and service. Jesus showed us what it means co love and to act with compassion towards everyone. 
The events which will take place this weekend in our presence and with so many believers as witnesses was perfected on Calvary, when Jesus Christ himself showed through his passion and death, realities also freely accepted, how deeply human love can change the course of history, but especially the course of individual human lives. 
Every sacramental moment brings with it a commitment. It is a moment when God touches our lives through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ will touch both of you this weekend when you pronounce your vows, Tom, and are ordained a deacon; and when you, Sam, become a Holy Cross priest after the manner ofJesus Christ. I do not know what chis will mean for you. But I know that something wonderful and unexpected will be the result, because God can never be outdone in loving generosity. Someday, and maybe even most days, you will recognize how Jesus Christ has touched you and changed your lives tomorrow and Sunday. 
In view of the problems our Church has experienced recently because fallible human beings carry out the mission of Jesus in time, one could be tempted to think that to be ordained a priest today is a difficult challenge and concern. 
I don't chink there ever has been or ever will be a better time to accept the grace ofordination and to live one's life as a Holy Cross priest, as you will do Sam within a matter of hours. That is because of the overwhelming sense ofwhat it means to be a Catholic priest, and to dedicate every day to the Church's sacramental ministry. To celebrate Mass, to be an instrument ofreconciliation, to claim as Christ's own, people who are young and old and in between through the baptism, to be a soothing and even healing presence in the face ofsickness and death, to witness the love of two people in marriage and to lay hands on countless others who will be ordained Holy Cross priests after you. How can there ever be a bad time or a difficult moment to accept che call of the Church to do all of chis and so much more? 
Sam and Tom, I know that you will both continue to make a difference in the Church, in our Holy Cross Community and in all the places and among all the peoples we carry our our ministries. For service is at the heart of the Gospel, because Christian life is the bonding of each person with Jesus Christ. It is what transforms servants into friends, friends into disciples, disciples into brothers and sisters in Christ, and brothers and sisters in Christ into fruitful instruments of God's grace for the sake of salvation. As Jesus reminds us, we first learned from him that God is love. We have learned from him that we have been created by God because ofGod's intensely personal and passionate love for each one of us. As a finally professed Holy Cross religious and deacon, Tom, and as a Holy Cross priest, Sam, you will continue to be visible signs of that love by the way you continue to live out your commitments, old and new. 
So, in these moments of joyful anticipation of what \s to come soon, we can only thank you from the bottom of our hearts for your generous and patient response to God's call. As your commitments reinvigorate us and give us even more reasons for crying to be more generous ourselves, our brotherhood is strengthened, our own vocations are renewed, the Congregation of Holy Cross and che Church are enriched, and God's people will be better served starting Sunday after­noon than they are tonight. 
We thank God for your parents and your families, who have shared their faith with you, and brought you to chis 
moment. We thank God for your friends who have challenged and supported you through the years of formation. We thank God for you, Tom. We thank God for you, Sam. We thank God for calling all of us to share, each in our own way, in rhe saving mission of]esus, in which we participate, 
strengthened by the bonds and the vows that unite us as Holy Cross priests, brothers, sisters and temporarily professed seminarians; deepened by the faithful witness that surrounds us; grateful for the Catholic Church which sustains us as our mother, teacher and guide; and above all, eternally grateful to our God whose loving c~ kindness never fails us. J 
It never has and it never will. Campus Ministry 
¦ Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st Rdg Ez 33:7-9 2 nd Rdg Rom 13:8-10 Gospel Matthew 18:15-20 
page 23 

Thursday, September 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
ERIN MORAN JOINS GLYNIS BELL & RHONDA ROSS . 
[JONIE FROM HAPPY DAYS) . 

Exactly what it sounds like. 
T H E 


MONOLOGUES 
"SIMPLY SPECTACULAR! 
·AH' '." 
UUEf!ThifiMfNT l.aEKLY 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Do you need a place: 
NOW? NEXT SEMESTER ? 
NEXTYIAR? 
4& SPrivate Bedroom Apts -SPLIT the rent ! 3 Floors Tall / Patio Area Cena-al Air/ Cable Hook-Up Stove, Fridge, Dishwasher Washer/ Dryer in EACH unit 6 Blocks from Campus ADT Security Systems 24-hour Emergency Maintenance 
Call today for a personal walk-through! (OPEN HOUII ... Dl!TAILS COMING SOON) 
574-234-9923 Tclark@cbresb.com 
"Best Value Per Student" Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Mountaineer inascot permitted to shoot 
ment of the population that

. Wisconsin was unhappy about it,"
officials originally Wisconsin athletic department spokesman Justin Doherty
banned mascot 
said of the initial decision.

from firing musket "Hopefully we'll put this behind us and have a good football game." 
Associated Press West Virginia officials say the Mountaineer's musket MADISON, Wis. fires powder, much like a 
West Virginia's Mountaineer starter's pistol. mascot can shoot his musket The mascot has been asked at Saturday's before not game against to fire the
"Obviously there was a
Wisconsin after gun inside 
all. segment ofthe basketball 
Wisconsin ath­population that was arenas letic department and one
unhappy about it. 
officials original­football
Hopefully we'll put this
ly denied the stadium, mascot permis­behind us and have a but the sion to fire the musket
good football game." 
weapon at Camp had never Randall Stadium, b e e n saying university Justin Doherty banned policy prohibits Wisconsin athletic department before weapons on Wiscon­campus. sin's deci­
Wisconsin athletic director sion, offi-Pat Richter asked chancellor cials said. John Wiley on Wednesday to The Mountaineer mascot make an exception to the poli­first appeared at athletic cy. Wiley agreed. events in the 1936-1937 
"Obviously there was a seg-school year. 

AIR FORCE ROTC Make your decisionl Contact: 1Lt. Alan Acroo@ 631-467 or acree.1@nd.edu 
l 
l l 
j 
.
I I 
-I i I I i I 
' 
' 
' 
I I 
' 
' 
• 0 • Thursctay., September 5., 2002 • • • • I 
• 

• • • • Pizza Party • • • • 
4:00 pm to 7:00pm on Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
•

Acoustic Cafe 
9:00 pm to midnight in the Huddle. Sponsored by the Student • 
• I • Union Board. •
• • • Spiderman • • • • 
I

• • • 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 101, admission fee. Sponsored by the Stu­• • 
I 

dent Union Board.
I 
•

• • • • I 
• I 
• Friday., September 6., 2002 I • • 
•• • • I Football Pep Rally • • I • • 
• 
I •
• 5:15 pm doors open to students at the Joyce Center. 
•

• • Spiderman • 
7:30 pm and 10:00 pm in DeBartofo 101, admission fee. Sponsored • •• ,.• by the Student Union Board • • • 
•..-(•:'Ji.· 
•

Loft Show with Jill Sobule • • • 

• 9:00 pm in the Ballroom in Lafortune Student Center. Sponsored
• • • 00 
• 

by the Student Union Board. •
• • • • ND Crafting Corner-Doormats • 
9:00 pm to 11:00pm in the Dooley Room in Lafortune Student Cen­• ter. Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. • 
• • • Saturday., September 7., 2002 • •• • • • Spiderman • • • • 
• 7:30 pm and 10:00 pm in DeBartolo 101, admission fee. Sponsored • • • by the Student Union Board 
• • • Dale K-Comedy Hypnosis • • • • •
• 
•

• • I 10:00 pm in Washington Hall. Sponsored by Student Union Board • • •
and Student Activities. 
I

• Karaoke •• • 10:00 pm to 1:00 am in the Huddle in Lafortune Student Center. • • • 
• 
I • •
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. • 
•
• • Late Night Grill and Drum Line • • 
• I 11:00 pm on Fieldhouse Mall. Sponsored by Welsh Family Hall and • • • DICE. • 
I • • • 

Questions?? Contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 or visit • 
• www.nd.edu/~sao for more information. • • • 
• • • • • • • • ·~11 • • • • -!l:r 
Thursday, September 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NFL 

Early game likely to continue 
in what he called "dynamic" prime-time game that can
Associated P re.s 

cities around stand on its NEWYORK the country. "It makes a lot oifsense own." 
"We did it TagliabueA Thursday night game to 
this year in to start each season with said that
begin the NFL season might 
New York a prime-time game that like this
become an annual event. 
because it can stand on its own." w e e k · s
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue 
correlates g a m e ,
said on Wednesday that an with the which fea­early game is likely to be 
anniversary Paul Tagliabue tures a 
repeated in future seasons, 
of Sept. 11. NFL commissioner T i m e s 
not necessarily in the New "But it SquareYork area where the Giants makes a lot concert by will play the San Francisco of sense to Jon Bon 49ers on Thursday night, but start each season with a Jovi and others, the opening 
Football 
continued from page 32 
Dame fans must stick by their team. 
Fans need to stay excited, sup­port the players and coaches and not criticize every move they make. Because next year, or the year after, the Fighting Irish will be back in the hunt for national championship No. 12. Give Willingham a little more time and the Irish will be, once again, a force in college football. 
Until then, win national cham­pionships in your NCM Football 2002 video game, scream your heart out at the home football games and be pumped up for the whole Notre Dame football expe­rience. 
Just don't get your expecta­tions too high quite yet. Give the Irish a little more time. Give them another year or two. Give them a chance to reach their potential. 
Once they do that, they may never lose again. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 


game would likely be coupled with a community celebration. lie said they would likely be in major markets, suggesting 
WE HAVE 
that Chicago might be suitable when the Bears reopen
SUSHI, TEP­
Mlk~A 
Soldier Field, currently being 
renovated, or in cities like

A, )APPNE:H:. RC' I t-1!));:/11' f 
PAN STEAK 
Washington, San Francisco 

Cmry Out a11u Dine !n 
and Dallas among others. 
AND 
Baskets of Elegance 
402 US 31 North 
SEAFOOD! 
Custom Made Theme Baskets

South Bend, IN 46637 for any Occasion 
(574) 272-2535 
(574) 674-0022 Fax (574) 674-0033 basketsofelegance@aol.com 
773f1

La,P~ 2002 
CCU Vlal F~Ct/CU?/13iet'w~ 
Volunteers Neeaea 
The Early Childhood Development Center located at Saint Mary's
pcurcv ~A~Lar~' 
College and the University ofNotre Dame is looking for vohmteers 


who enjoy young children. If yoo would be interested in s~ng 2 how, per week .reading and playing with children, please aill: K2ri at ECOC-SMC 284-4693 or Sue at ECOC-ND o.31-3344. (Employment opportunjties at ECDC-ND -Ml'HF 11:15-12:30.) 
6:30 p.Wl/.-10:00 p.Wll. 
,; 

vY\.I ~ 
LCtt FortUN\R/ BcdlrOOWII 
VlA'vf'WY&MU4-io 
16 Inch 2 Topping "Big E" Pizza $8.99! ~.,
thuruiay, Sept: 5 
Or~byCci,mpu.s,M~ 
Hurry ......... Limited time only! 
Visa & Mastercard Accepted. 
C-M 
'~°'' 271-1277
~i 

Campus Ministry 
, PIZZA COMP.4N'-ri 

The N©tre Dame S@ccer Classic 
@ Presented By St. Andrews Products ~ 
-,,.. Featuring The Best women's soccer Competition In. The Nation ~ 

lp,ge26 ····· 
MLB 
New labor contract to be ratified by owners Thursday 
The Obse:'7/er . SPORTS Thursday, September 5, 2002 
Associated Press 
Baseball owners are expect­ed to ratify a new labor con­tract when they meet in Chicago on Thursday, a stark contrast to their four-month deliberation before approving their agreement in 1996. 
decades," Selig said. 
Nothing has been signed yet, and negotiators for players and owners are drafting a memo­randum of understanding, which they hope to complete by next week. The executive board of the players' associa­tion also must ratify the agree­mimt. 
"It is our intention to ratify before the season is over," union lawyer Michael Weiner said. 
The deal, which expires in December 2006, increases the amount of shared local rev­enue from 20 percent to 34 percent, institutes a luxury tax with fixed thresholds from 2003 to 2006, increases the mrn1mum salary from $200,000 to $300,000 and pro­vides for mandatory random testing for illegal steroids, which will start next season on a survey basis. 
"This agreement will make significant contributions to restoring competitive balance," Selig said. 
The agreement was reached three and one-half hours before the first game that would have been affected by a strike, which would have been baseball's ninth work stoppage since 1972. The last labor deal achieved without a stoppage had been in 1970. 

On Friday, commissioner Bud Selig embraced the new deal, calling it "historical." Six years ago, he refused to pub­licly discuss the agreement for more than two months, then submitted it to owners without any recommendation. 
When teams voted that Nov. 6, they rejected the contract 18-12. Twenty-one days later -after Selig recommended approval -owners ratified the deal in a 26-4 vote, with Cleveland, the Chicago White Sox, Kansas City and Oakland opposed. 
"A long and winding road has come to an end," Selig said that day, speaking at the same Chicago airport hotel where owners are to meet Thursday. 
This time, he immediately acknowledged the tentative agreement, appearing one hour after it was completed at a news conference in New York with union head Donald Fehr. 
"This has been a long, very difficult and winding road spanning over three-plus 
Alumni Association 
Hospitality at the Eck Center 
Home Game Fridays -8:00 am -5:00 pm 
Open to all Alumni and Friends! 
Start your Friday mornings off at the Eck Center with Coffee and Donuts, provided by ND Alumni Association and Anthony Travel, and enjoy Notre Dame camaraderie throughout the day. Sptiial music talents will shine start­ing at noon. We hope you will stop by and enjoy the spirit of of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame Alumni Association. 

DO YOU HAVE IT? 
Get your Game nay Towel. Sold in front of both dining halls­5-7 pm on Thursday, September 5. $5 
. 

Thursday, September 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
NFL 
Kelly not ready to play football yet 
• Viking still mourning death of pregnant wife 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. 

His thoughts still far from football, Lewis Kelly is not ready to return to the Minnesota Vikings. Kelly is mourning the Aug. 25 death of his pregnant wife, Rakiva, who contracted a rate blood disorder. The offen­sive lineman called coach Mike Tice at 3 a.m. Wednesday to tell him he needed more time before corning back to play. 
"We're very concerned right now with the state of Lewis Kelly's mind," Tice said shortly after visiting Kelly at his home. "We're going to support Lewis in every way we can as an orga­nization. I could not imagine the type of pain he is suffering through right now." 
Kelly, after a week off, prac­ticed with the team Monday and spoke candidly afterward how his Christian faith kept him from killing himself. He was to start at le ft tackle in place of unsigned first-round draft pick Bryant McKinnie. 
"We totally understand," cen­ter Matt Birk said. "We're here for him." 
With their season opener Sunday against Chicago, the Vikings are left thin on the offensive line. Everett Lindsay will start at left tackle, and Corbin Lacina, who's been bat­tling an ankle injury, will be the starting left guard. 
"I was actually surprised he came back as soon as he did," Lacina said. "He's got some things he needs to work through. I don't know what I would do. I couldn't begin to fathom what I would do in that situation." 
With Birk at center, David Dixon at right guard and Chris Liwienski at right tackle, Cory Withrow becomes the top back­up. But the group, which endured the heatstroke death of Korey Stringer at training camp last year, isn't so worried with 
'.'.>..
the depth chart right now. 
"Lewis, he needs to do what he needs to do," Withrow said. "The boys back here are going to do anything for him. Football, it's reallv not a concern of the guys. w·e•re more concerned about him." 
The Vikings were granted by the league a two-week roster exemption for Kelly, whose spot will be filled for now by Mike Malano, one of their final cuts on Sunday. 
Kelly. in his third season since being drafted in the seventh round out of South Carolina State in 2000, improved his stock with a solid season in NFL Europe this year. Tice originally wanted Kelly to play right tackle with McKinnie on the other sside but the rookie's holdout is going on six weeks. 

CAN YOU GET 
10,000 ND FANS 
FIRED UP? 
STUDENT EMCEE & SPEAKER AUDITIONS FOR THE MICHIGAN PEP RALLY 
COME READY ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5TH AT 6:30PM IN THE MONTGOMERY THEATRE, 1ST FLOOR 
LAFORTUNE 

QUESTIONS? CAN'T MAKE IT? CONTACT: DONOHUE.8@ND.EDU 
1' 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 28 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIHE SERVICES Thursday, September 5, 2002 

.•. !.·•·•·.:.:.~.=,:.-.·i••······•.•.i,:.·.•_•.··fr-.·.'.·....

•.·.• :.:.·.:.·•.;.•.·•··•.•·i·~•··:.•.-..' '.'.'.·.·... . 
:;,._ ., :I.~ -:.t.1...i.·.:.j~.~-.l..'..·'... :.·\·;,i!....!.•,;:.'.:.:·.~.•.•·•.:~.I.i_,i

,:: ::tifbte . .;: ·" .~ :: 
.;:;::~::::::K;:;=t:;.;::t::;J-:;:::;:.::;:;:=:::~;:;:;=::;:::::~t;:~:;:;::;.;;:;~:::;:;:::f. 
around the dial 
MLB 
Indians at White Sox 7 p.m., FoxSports 
NFL 
49ers at Giants 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 6 p.m., USA 

INTERNATIONAL BASKETBALL 

The Argentinian basketball team celebrates its astonishing victory against the United States. The loss ls the first for the U.S. team since professional players replaced amateurs in 1992. 
Argentina stuns the U.S. basketball team 
INDIANAPOLIS Americans out of the tourna­winning." tight huddle for several sec­The basketball universe ment, but gave them a lower Argentina's victory was onds before emerging with changed forever Wednesday seed for the medal round. shocking enough, but what their hands raised to salute a night. The most powerful They will play Yugoslavia in made it even more incredible small but vocal contingent of nation in the history of the the quarterfinals Thursday was the manner in which it their fans in the lower seats at sport lost a game. and could get another shot at was accomplished. Conseco Fieldhouse. 
Argentina pulled off a victo­Argentina over the weekend. The United States never led, "We still don't realize what ry that until recently was con­The players tried to put their was tied only once, trailed by we have done," center sidered nearly impossible, best spin on the less and said as many as 20 and couldn't Fabricio Oberto said. "They defeating the United States 87-their goal remains the same mount an adequate comeback said we would not win a game 80 in the World winning the gold medal. But down the stretch. like this." Championships. their downcast faces and com­The Argentine players This U.S. team had said it 
It was the first loss for a U.S. ments before leaving the leaped and hugged each other wanted to keep the unbeaten team in 59 games since the arena betrayed their true feel­as the final buzzer sounded, streak intact, but it also knew Americans began sending ings. and a radio announcer looked that the competition from NBA players to international 'Tm embarras.sed," Baron to be on the verge of hysteria around the world is getting tournaments in 1992. Davis said. as he described the scene to better. Argentina was far from 
'Tm embarrassed to be on Added Antonio Davis: "I his South American country­weak, controlling the game the team that took the first think it was very clear that men. demonstrably for most of the loss. We can still go out and that team understood what it The American players stuck 40minutes. win the gold medal, but we're would take to beat us. Their around and congratu1ated the "They were a lot better still 'that' team, Paul Pierce body language, the way they victors, then gathered by than we thought, "Baron Davis said. attacked, the way they played themselves at center court. said. "They were just beating 
The defeat did not knock the together. All that relates to The Argentines formed a us every which way." 
IN BRIEF 
the net.
Capriati and Seles Out A's Still Goin!l 
"I don't think Monica played her
NEW YORK The Oakland Athletics set an AL 
best today. I know she was expect­
Venus Williams reduced her U.S. record by winning their 20th 
ing to play better," Venus said,
Open quarterfinal against Monica straight game -in the most improb­
"being so windy out here made it
Selcs to something akin to an able way-blowing an 11-run lead 
more difficult."
instructional video. The two-time before Scott Hatteberg homered in 
"She just served too well," Seles
defending champion simply had too the bottom of the ninth to beat 
said. "I couldn't read it at all."
much in every department and beat Kansas City 12-11 Wednesday
The other women's semifinal will
Seles 6-2, 6-3 Wednesday night to night.
have top-seeded Serena -who lost
join younger sister Serena in the A streak filled with dramatic fin­
to Venus in the 2001 Open final
semifinals. putting each one victory ishes grew even longer thanks to 
and beat her for the titles at the
away from a third consecutive all­Hatteberg's theatrics. 
French Open and Wimbledon this
Williams Grand Slam title match. With the largest regular-season 
year -against Lindsay Davenport.
Venus, trying to become the first crowd in Coliseum history cheering
Defending men's champion
woman to win three straight U.S. the final game of a historic homes­
Lleyton Hewitt reached the final
Opens since Chris Evert took four tand, the A's took an 11-0 lead after 
four by beating No. 20 Younes El
in a row from 1975-78, plays 10th­three innings.
Aynaoui of Morocco 6-1, 7-6 (6), 4­
seeded Amelie Mauresmo next. Then, after the Royals tied it on a 
6, 6-2 Wednesday.
Mauresrno came back to beat two-out, RBI single by Luis Alicea in 
Hewitt's biggest blip was a dou­
Jennifer Capriati 4-6, 7-6 (5), 6-3. the top of the ninth, the Athletics 
ble fault to cede the third set to El
Against Seles, Venus set the tone won in the bottom of the ninth for 
Aynaoui, who had a decent excuse
by breaking serve in the opening the third straight game.
if he was a step slow; His fourth­
game with a backhand drop shot as Oakland broke a three-way tie for 
round match finished at 2:14 a.m.
her father, Richard, took photos the longest winning streak in AL 
Hewitt's semifinal opponent will be
from the stands. Venus finished history with the 1906 Chicago White 
two-time Open champion Andre
with 23 winners to six for Seles and Sox and the 1947 New York 
Agassi.
won the point on 17 of 20 trips to Yankees. 

SMC Sports Roundup 

page 29

Thursday, September 5, ?002 
SOCCER 



By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's soccer team is already off to a bet­ter start than its 2001 counterpart. 
On Wednesday after­noon, it took the field against another young team. The Anderson Ravens came to South Bend with just a year more experience with their coach. Following the 2000 season the Ravens lost nine players and their coach. That seemed like a prime target for the Belles and first year head coach Chris Pfau. 
The Belles capitalized on the Ravens youth and took home their first win of the season. The 4-0 win came much earlier in the season this year than the Belles first win last year. Saint Mary's was over halfway into its season when it finally defeated Rose Hulman. 
The first half of Wednesday's game looked like it might lead to a dead end. The Saint Mary's defense had held Anderson to only one shot on goal­the only shot the Ravens had all game. 
Belles goalie Maureen MacDonald didn't record a single save because that 

IN BRIEF 
Volleyball 
After a long weekend playing in a tournament, the Belles needed to regain their energy and their strength before beginning confer• ence play. But two days just wasn't long enough. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team had it's first disappointing confer­ence loss of the season on Wednesday night.The Kalamazoo Hornets came into Angela Athletic Facility with a clean MIM record. The Belles had a clean record too. 
But the Hornets finished last sea­son with a fourth place finish in the MIAA. The Belles had finished sev­enth. 
Kalamazoo proved the stronger team once again and took the match in three games (30-14, 30-26, 30­10). 
Saint Mary's made a run in game two, staying with Kalamazoo nearly point to point. But the Hornets final­ly came out on top. 
Without Angie Meyers and 
single shot on goal went wide. 
But the Belles weren't doing much better. At the end of the first half of play the score was 0-0. 
But after that, the Belles offense kicked into action. Four of Saint Mary's 44 shots on goal found their way past Anderson's goalie and into the net. 
Emily Wagoner got scor­ing underway. She scored the first goal for the Belles off of an assist from Jen Concannon. 
Concannon, Saint Mary's leading scorer last season, was not content to have her name go into the stats with only an assist next to it. Just 21 seconds after Wagoner scored her goal. Concannon put one into the goal herself, unassisted. 
Midfielder Stephanie Artnak also added an unassisted goal and, to wrap up the scoring, Wendy Irvin hit a penalty shot in the final minutes of the game to give the final 4-0 score. 
The win brings the Belles record to 1-2 and drops the Ravens record to 1-2. 
Saint Mary's will have a week of rest before it plays again against Taylor University on Tuesday. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

Elizabeth Rupright, who led the Belles last season, the Belles strug­gled. Allison Shevik led with six kills, but attack errors hurt her final percentages. Bridget Wakaruk had 16 assists and Michelle Gary led the defensive effort with 10 digs. 
The Belles head to Chicago on Saturday for the University of Chicago Triangular 
Golf 

The Saint Mary's golf team will look to take home it's second all­time conference victory on Saturday. 
The Belles will head to Pine River Country Club where Alma will host the first of four MIAA golf tourna­ments. 
Since the rule change, the stand­ings in this tournament have no effect on final MIAA standings, but it will be a good opporunity for the Belles to see how they match up to the rest of the MIAA conference. Last season the Belles took home a first place finish in the first MIM tournament of the season. 
Under the leadership of Stefanie Simmerman and Julia Adams, Saint Mary's is coming off of a record breaking one-round. 
Hope and Albion will again prove to be tough competition for Saint Mary's and will vie for the first place spot at all four tournaments this season. 
Cross Country 
The Belles will be looking to start the season off on the right foot at the Run for One Invitational this weekend. 
Saint Mary's returns its top run­ner in junior Jackie Bauters, who transfered last season and finished on the second team All-MIAA. Senior Nicole Prezioso and Erin Thayer will also return to give some depth to a Saint Mary's squad that was the first to finish higher than last with its seventh place finish last season. 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 5, 2002 
Hurricanes, Gators set to meet 
. First meeting in 15 years for interstate rivals 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

After a 15-year wait, the Hurricanes and Gators resume their regular-season rivalry at The Swamp on Saturday with more than a national champi­onship run riding on the out­come. 
There's 
"It's definitely a tough place to play," said Miami quarter­back Ken Dorsey, who, along with Florida's Rex Grossman are among the top Heisman Trophy contenders. "They get into it. It's a place you don't want family members to go." 
Florida hasn't had many problems winning at home, but playing top-ranked teams ­and defending national champi­ons -is a different matter. 
The Gators are 1-2 at home 
against No. 1 
teams, with the 
bad blood 'Tm confident. Ifyou win coming 
between against Florida
aren't confident, you'll 

these rivals State in 1997 -from the get eaten alive up there. when the Florida Flop 
We're going up there to Seminoles were 
in 1971 to ranked No. 2 in
shut some people up. " 

the flying the AP poll but peaches in first in the 1980 to the Brett Romberg coaches· poll. Bourbon Against defend­
Miami center

Street Brawl. 
Whenever the Gators and 'Canes show up in the same town. there's bound to be a memorable moment. 
This game will be no excep­tion when No. 6 Florida (1-0) challenges No. 1 Miami (1-0} and its 23-game winning streak, which is longest in the nation. 
While numbers seem to be in the Hurricanes' favor, Miami center Brett Romberg already has given the Gators an emo­tional lift. 
"I hear I'm already up on Florida's bulletin board," Romberg said. "I said at the Big East meetings that, "We're going to go up to The Swamp and shut some fans up.' I stand by my words. I'm confident. If you aren't confident, you'll get eaten alive up there. We're going up there to shut some people up." 
Miami has backed up its words with a rare winning record at The Swamp, perhaps the toughest place in the coun­try to play. The Gators are 69-5 at home since 1990. Miami is 11-8 in Gainesville. 
ing national 
champs, the home record is 1-3-1, and 3-9-2 overall. 
Both teams opened last week with easy victories -Florida beat UAB 51-3 in Ron Zook's coaching debut, and 
M i a m i "It's definitely a tough pelting players 
defeated I­with peaches ­
place to play. They get 
AA Florida Miami was head­
A&M 63-17. into it. It's a place you ed to the Peach 
Both teams don't want family Bowl -and put up huge Miami coach
members to go.,,
numbers, Howard too. Schnellenberger Grossman Ken Dorsey was so angry he threw for ordered up a
Miami quarterback
337 yards, Taylor Jacobs caught eight passes for 246 yards {and both of Grossman's TD passes), and Earnest Graham ran for 182 yards and two TDs. 
Dorsey threw three TD passes in less than a half, and the run­ning game topped 300 yards, led by backup tailback Jason Geathers (199 yards, two TDs}. 
While there's no shortage of stars for this 51st meeting (the series is tied at 25-all}, the key likely will be whether Florida's 

Ei~N · I ~ID *
eAnema 
THURS DAY, SEPT 5 
HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
7:00 PM 

[ FACULTY PANEL DISCUSSION F'OLLOWS F'ILM] FREE ADMISSION 
F'RESENTED BY THI!!: 01!:PARTMENT OF" F'ILM, TELEVISION AND TH!:.ATRI!: 
offensive line handles Miami's front seven, led by ends Jerome McDougle and William Joseph and linebacker Jonathan Vilma. 
If Grossman takes a pound­ing, the Gators won't have a chance. If Grossman has time, he can pick apart the all-new Miami secondary. 
The Hurricanes have been helpless before against the Gators. 
Remember the Flop in '71? Florida's John Reaves needed 345 yards to break Jim Plunkett's NCAA passing record. It was the last game of the season. and the Gators led 45-8 late in the game. Reaves was still 14 yards short of the mark. 
Miami was at the Florida 8­yard line with 1 :20 to go, and the Gators decided to let Miami score. John Hornibrook took the snap, the Gators flopped face down, and the quarterback ran in for a TD. Florida got the ball back, and Reaves threw a 15-yard pass to break the record. 
In 1980, Miami led Florida 28-7 late in the game played at 
Gainesville. 
Gator fans began 
field goal to add 
to the margin. 

In the last meeting. the 2001 Sugar Bowl, about 20 Gators and 'Canes mixedit up one night on Bourbon Street a few days before Miami's 37-20 win. 

Friday Sept. 6 
2002 
7:30 p.m. Moreau Center 
for the Arts Little Theatre 




-

Indiana Folk SingeJ 
Ka 
S1infM1ry',Colll"8"~

MO.f;ff,f'R.,/ 
THE ARTS 
NOTRE DAMI!', JN 

For ticket information call (574)284-4626 
STUDY IN BRAZIL 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
THURS. SEPT. 5, 2002 6:00-7:15 PM & THUR. SEPT. 19, 2002 5:00-6:15 PM 
ROOM 129 HAYES-HEALY Application Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring 2003 Dec. 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
Thursday; September 5, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 31 
CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
GALOW 
I 
I [ J 

crl002 Tribune Medin Service&. Inc. 
All Righto R08ervod 
UNGED 

[I) () 
CORCUN 

(I) ()
WWW.jumble com
tMIRABU 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J rJ [J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: A "( I I I I J ( I I I I I ) 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: JUDGE PATIO ENGINE JOVIAL Answer: How the apprentice did on the carpentry test -HE "NAILED" IT 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 28 • To oR!or, send your name, addrwq and $5.95 ¦ nd make check poyablo to T~buno Medill S.nllcoa, P.O. Box 4330, Chloago, IL 80680"4330, 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 29 Rebuffs 53 1977 U.S. Open overseas winner
1 Vets' concerns 30 It may be 54 Honeymooners'
5 Left so as to served on state? 
admit some 8-Down 57 Bad deeds
light 31 One of 18 rois 
58 Hash

9 It makes ii mondo go round 33 Test taker's 59 Numerical prefix state?
14 Imperial, tor 60 Toy named after example 37 Animal with a a politician snout
15 Sultry 61 Severe setback 38 At first: Abbr. 
16 Expensive 62 Trivial Pursuit watch 40 Suffix with song category: Abbr. 
17 Athlete's state? 44 "With malice toward "· 
DOWN

19 Undemocratic Lincoln
law 1 Word alter one 45 Things peddled 
or two

20 Times in classifieds 47 Philosopher's 2 It's found in a state? 
table

21 Turner or Cole 49 Carol starter 3Taut
22 It may follow well 50 Singer Cara 4 IV, to Ill and others
23 Wee 5 Analysis 51 A couple of 
6 Not be serious cups? Puule by MlchHI Shtayman7 Pink-slip 
25 Tiler's state? 
27 Bit of gossip 
52_ mater 24 Ted Williams 36 Pilot's zone 46 Experienced 8 Sandwich
28 In no time (brain cover) wore it sailor 
choice 39 Enter 
25 "No -!" 48 Having ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 "You_ 40 Nervous entanglements

26 Paris attraction Casanova" excitement 49 Traffic marking 
(Mariah Carey 28 Chemise, e.g. I T lyric) 41 Flourish 51 Vigor
32 Reason for kids 
P R 10 In step with to miss school 54 Kind of scene
42 Iris cover 
fashion 

34_Major 55 Everyone
43 1980's White 11 Lover of 35 "Dies House name 56 Record keeper

Cesario, in "Twelfth Nighr 

Answers to clues 1n this puzzle are available by touch-tone ~.,;.;,,j~~~ phone: 1-900-285-5656 $1.20 per minute. 
12 Move away 
13 They form a Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crowd in crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

Hollywood 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 E N 18 Certain coffee past puzzles. nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). ---+.,.,..+-A,-,+-T,....._,Oe-i 22 Ancient regi.:m Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, Y N A S on the Aegean nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Raquel Welch, Bob Newhart, Carol Lawrence 
Happy Birthday: You have a mission this year --to make headway regardless of the sacrifices you have to make. Prepare to make a move that will help yo'J move on to better things. Set your sf~~t~ .,if"h .,"~ 1ro11 wrn acquire cverytl1:ng you set your mind to. Your numbers are i ,, ~""' _ .. , .iu, , . , 48 ARIES (March 21-April 19):lt's a good day to get out of the house. Since you're outgoing and quick-witted, you're likely to attract others readily. Play by the rules and you will slay ahead of the game.*****TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It's not a good time to ask for favors. Even your lover will be reluctant to accommodate you. Take time to relax today; you could use the rest ** 
GEMl!lil (May 21-June 20): It's a day for a lot of movement. You'll bump 
into new potential friends or lovers. Prepare yourself -some stamina will be required if you wish to keep up the fast pace. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): People will be unpleasant on the home front today. Be responsible al home even if it seems meaningless for a moment. Financial gain is in the air. *** LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): Try not to overreact to transitions in your private life. 
Listen intently to the advice of good friends. Put your energy into doing nice 
things for oihers. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Avoid focusing too much on the affairs of others. Concentrate on finding ways to better appreciate yourself. You may realize that a child's insight might divulge some incredible information. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Involving yourself in• organizations you find worthwhile may lead you to a person who you find emotionally compelling. Be patient and don't be 100 quick to be a follower. You will make a much bigger impact if you do your own thing. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Expect others to slow you down or hold you back today. Keep your intentions to yourselt; csp,:cially in the workplace. If someone gets wind of what you are doing, it may be hannful to your position. ** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do your research and you can rest assured that you are making ihe right choices today. Be social with stimulating people. It's a good day to listen and learn. *~* CAPRICORN (De<:. 22-Jan. 19): Some scrutiny is necessary regarding your 
financial affairs. You may want to reallocate some money, change some investments or just tighten your purse suings. Someone may be quietly brooding because of something you did or said. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Since love is on your mind, it's a good time to be romantic. Plan a special evening. The time to join forces with someone special is now. Don't think about it; make your move. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You're likely to meet a potential partner at work, but take it slowly. Also, try to be prudent with your money; overspending has been a problem in the past and will be in the future. *** Birthday Baby: You wil! have a very infectious and pleasing manner. You will be able lo spark enthusiasm in others and you will always be the first to get your feet wet. You will take chances but you will always do your research first. 
Oreck out Eugenia's Web Sites at as1roadvice.com, eugenialast.com, as1romate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
:::, 

PORTS 
Thursday, September 5, 2002 

.... 
FOOTBALL 

Room for improvement 
By JOE HETTLER Associate Sports Editor 
Ryan Grant was happy Notre Dame won 22-0 against Maryland on Saturday. He couldn't say the same about his own performance, however. 
"First and foremost we won the game," Grant said. "That was the task that we came there to take care of. We went down there, and we did that job. It was a good win for us as a team to start things off the right way for the season, kind of get us on a little roll. That was really a great point for our squad." 
The sophomore running back carried the ball 23 times for 66 yards against the Terrapins, which is an average of just under 2.9 yards per carry. For Grant, that's just not good enough. 
"On a personal note, I'm not very happy with my perfor­mance, but I understand that it's behind me now and I'm going to just make the best of this week and understand that I can't let that happen again," Grant said. 
For Notre Dame's offense to be effective against the likes of Purdue, Michigan and Michigan State in the next few weeks, its running game must improve. 
on that number this weekend by Henderson, the Boilermakers in this offense is something success like that, Grant believes While offensive coordinator Bill hitting open holes quicker as have an outstanding linebacker we've been talking about," Grant the Irish offense will become Diedrick says he will use three well as gaining yards after the in Landon Johnson, who Purdue said. "Just knowing in my head very tough for opponents to stop. backs -Grant, Marcus Wilson initial hit from a defender. coach Joe Tiller considers the that that happened and never "I think the offense can be out­and Rashon Powers-Neal -it "I think from a running stand­best linebacker in the Big Ten letting that happened again. standing." Grant said. "The seems Grant will get the most point, we need to improve our Conference. Understand that it's behind me potential right now that we have touches. Against Maryland, vision a little bit and become a Therefore Grant has taken last but in the back of mind knowing is phenomenal talent-wise. What Wilson had four yards on two little bit more aggressive and week's performance and used it I never want that to happen the coaches are installing right carries, while Powers-Neal start running through some as motivation in his preparations again. Ijust want to move on." now is really, really great, and gained 33 yards on eight carries. tackles," Diedrick said. for Notre Dame's home opener Move on to being the type of I'm really looking to getting 
The trio, along with quarter­It doesn't get any easier for this weekend. running back that carried the things going." back Carlyle Holiday, combined Notre Dame's running backs "(I need to work on] every­ball 13 times, gaining 77 yards for 45 carries and a meager 130 when they face Purdue because, thing, hitting the holes better. and scoring a touchdown against Contact Joe Hettler at yards. The Irish look to improve much like Maryland's E.J. vision, patience, being patience Purdue last season. If he has jhettler@nd.edu 

,r 
Be excited, be enthusiastic, be cautious 
Several events occurred son and declared the Irish They have to know we'll face Notre Dame must still go to you can go on and on in every after Notre national champions. teams such as Michigan, reach greatness. area; we need the constant Dame beat . Tyrone Willingham became Michigan State, Florida State The Irish didn't score an improvement." Maryland the most popular person on and USC, teams that won't let offensive touchdown. They Seeing that, the good news is 22-0 last campus. the Irish get away with 11 couldn't finish a drive inside Notre Dame still won the weekend at . Members of Zahm Hall ran penalties and only 130 yards the 20 yard-line. They fumbled game. The bad news is they 
didn't play all that well.

the Kickoff around the dorm yelling, rushing on 45 carries. the ball several times. Classic. "We'll never lose again! We'll They must still be patient. Quarterback Carlyle Holiday Now I'm not saying don't be 
. Notre never lose again!" I'm as happy as the next was sacked four times. They excited about Notre Dame Dame fans Unfortunately, the Irish will Irish fan that Notre Dame won were far from perfect, to say football. Or not to think the across the lose again. And Notre Dame its first game in impressive the least. Irish can win a national cham­
country fans must keep this in mind. fashion. It was refreshing to "We need to improve in pionship in the next few years. saved (the They must realize this team see the Irish dominate a game, every area," coach Tyrone I'm just saying that Notre college is still learning a difficult annihilate another team's Willingham said. "We need to Dame will lose sometime this 
football) Associate offense. They must understand offense and celebrate a win in not make so many unforced year, maybe even two or three the effort of Sports Editor that Maryland wasn't very front of the nation. errors. We need to make bet­or four times, but that Notre playing an good, that they were a far cry But fans must look inside the ter decisions in every area. We entire sea-from last year's 10-2 team. numbers to see just how far need to be more physical. So see FOOTBALL/page 25 



FOOTBAU.  SAINT MARY'S SOCCER  SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL  
w  
c., z !:5c.:s  Grant wants better performance Ryan Grant and the Notre Dame running game hope to improve upon their poor performance  Belles win first game The Saint Mary's soccer team gained its first victo­ry of the season 4-0 over Anderson. Check out the  Volleyball loses conference game The Belles fell to Kalamazoo in its conference­opening game. Saint Mary's takes on the  
cc t:c  against Maryland last weekend.  back page  story on the Saint Mary's sports page.  page 29  University of Chicago Triangular 9 a.m. Saturday. page 29  







