
VOL XXXVII NO. 2 
Students robbed on Corby Street 
By KA TE NAGENGAST News Writer 
Three male Notre Dame students were robbed at gun­point around midnight Sunday after parking their car less than two blocks from an off-campus party in the 500 block of Corby Street in South Bend, confirmed Lieutenant Marc Mersich of 
. the South Bend Police Department. The students, two juniors from Morrissey Manor and a sophomore from Keenan Hall, said two men, one of whom was waving a gun, approached them from behind a car parked across the street as they climbed out of their vehicle. The men told them to drop their wallets and the students complied. The men then picked up all three students' wallets ­which contained a total of roughly $60 in cash, plus credit cards, phone cards and drivers' licenses -and took off on foot, the students said. After being robbed, the students walked to the Corby Street party and immediately called police from a friend's 
cell phone. 
An emergency dispatcher informed the students that two suspects had been picked up a few blocks away, but the students said they were unable to positively identify the men because the assailants were wearing nylons over their faces at the time of the robbery. 
Without positive identifica­tion from the victims or an eyewitness, no one was charged with the robbery. police said. 
Mersich said the case had been forwarded to the detec­tive's bureau and that it would continue to follow up on any leads. 
As of Tuesday night the students' wallets had not been recovered. 
Mersich added that more than 300 people were pre­sent at the Corby Street party when he arrived. 
"There are always a lot of parties the first week back [to school] and these guys were just in the wrong place at the wrong time," said Mersich. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
RETURNEES ENROLL 

Trial dates set for fall 
• Shoup:University policy will not change 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
Trial dates were set over the summer for the former foot­ball players charged with rap­ing a Notre Dame female, according to the state prosecu­tor's office. 
Lorenzo Crawford, Donald Dykes, Abram Elam and Justin Smith have all been expelled from the University for sexual misconduct. 
The female student was allegedly raped March 28 in an off-campus house. 
Crawford and Elam will be the first two to go before the court on Oct. 21. Crawford is charged with rape, conspiracy to commit rape, criminal deviant conduct and sexual battery. Elam is charged with criminal deviant conduct, con-spiracy to commit rape and sexual battery. 

Smith's trial is scheduled for Oct. 28. He is charged with rape, conspiracy to commit rape and sexual battery. 
Donald Dykes, charged with rape and conspiracy to commit rape, goes on trial on Nov. 12. 
Rape, conspiracy to commit rape and 
changes to the duLac student handbook regarding student sexual misconduct. 
"I don't perceive that there are going to be any changes to that poHcy," Shoup said. 
Harvard University recently attracted attention by announcing its policy requir­ing "corroborating evidence" 
before it inves­
criminal tigates rape
The University is not 
deviant and assault
currently planning any 
conduct allegations. are all immediate changes to the Shoup said Class B Notre Dame
duLac student handbook 
felonies that carry a possible sentence of six to 20 years and up to a $10,000 fine. 
would not be
regarding sexual 
following their 
misconduct. lead any time soon, although the University
Jeff Shoup 
regularly
Reslife director 
reviews its 
Sexual battery is a Class D felony with a maximum sen­tence of three years and a $10,000 fine. 
The four men were expelled from the University in April after a closed disciplinary hearing with the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
ResLife director Jeff Shoup said he could not comment on individual cases, but he said the University is not currently planning any immediate policies. 
"I think that Harvard is just a really different university for how they decide to make changes and I don't know that most universities would agree with how they've come to decide these cases," Shoup said. 
Currently, the University investigates rape and assault allegations separately from the local police departments. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
ND officials unveil 
l 
alcohol changes i· ' 
. Details include alternate dance venues, registration for tailgating 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
School and student leaders are cooperating this fall on a plan to roll out changes to the Notre Dame alcohol policy, five months after announcement of the changes sparked contro­versy. 
University officials this sum­mer approved the historic changes that last spring put administrators at odds with student government represen­tatives. Following a summer of drafting the revisions, both groups say what's key now is helping students understand specifics of the new policy. 
Residence hall staff members will be the primary means of conveying the changes to stu­dents, said Jeff Shoup, director of Residence Life and Housing. 
"Section and hall staff should have already been meeting with their residents in the dorms to talk about the differ­ent rules," he said. The changes -the most significant rewrite of the alcohol policy since 1988 -affect mainly on­campus students. Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, feared student activity was becoming alcohol­centered when in March he announced three sweeping changes: 
. 
the ban of "hard" alcohol in residence halls 

. 
the outlaw of in-hall dances 

. 
and the apparent loosening of tailgating rules to allow of­age students to host and attend parties where alcohol is served on Saturdays before home foot­ball games 


Poorman, who deferred com­ment for this story to Shoup of Residence Life and Housing, detailed the changes in a July letter to parents of undergrad­uate students. 
The three-page letter answered what constitutes "hard" alcohol. a distinction that the University relied on state law to make, Shoup said. Drinks that are more than 14 percent alcohol by volume are banned in dorms. Indiana law 
see ALCOHOL/page 8 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Bishop, Foley ~old 
•
promise 
At first, I imagined Libby Bishop and Trip Foley curled up in sleeping bags and telling ghnst stories to ~ the night hours outside the Office of Student 
Affairs this summer. If they weren't mak­ing any headway with administrators on the alcohol policy, then at least they would have those pesky parietals beat 
Either way, a promise is a promise. 

And Bishop -in Jason McFarley front of hundreds of her classmates last 
spring-had made a Editor in Chief doozi.e ofone. 
Flanked by dozens of other student gov­ernment officials at a so-called town hall meeting that followed announcement of changes to Notre Dame's alcohol policy, then-student body president-elect Bishop swore a twofold pledge: Her a.dmini51ration would fight the changes, and if University officials moved forward with the decision despite student outcry, she and Foley would "be at Bill Kirk's door every day." 
As it turned out. Bishop and Foley, hervice pl'ffiident. made good on both counts. And they even did it with nary a tent or marsh­mallow roasl 
Too bad. The Office of the Student Body Preiident could probably use a r..ampfire and singalong at this point It's been a busy past five months. 
Bishop and Foley entered office April 1, but their admini5tration 1ruly began March 
18. That's when Father Mark Poorman. vice presidentfor StudentAffairs. announced that the University would ban hard alcohol and dances in residence halls. The unexpected unveiling also brought a loosening oftailgat­ing rules. but Bishop and Foley were the leaders-elect of a campus full of students who foWld little solace in the third change. 
The pair immediately became central to a student movement against the broad policy revi5ions. Anyone on the Fieldhouse Mall on March 20, will probably remember the pas­sion -good or-bad -of the protest that day. Most people will recall miffed Notre Dame undergraduates hoisting burning copies of the student handbook in the air or 600 students marching to the Dome and chanting for Poorman to "come downstairs." 
Years from now, in my mind will be the same memories. But I'll remember, too. the conviction in the promise that Bishop made, a promise that likely fell on deaf ears among the protffitors. 
The student body president and vice presi­dent proved tough and smart-a good com­bination. They took the s1rong public stands that they needed to, they met in closed ses­sion with the administrators who they should have and when the fight turned futile, they went to Plan B -having a say in the rolling out of the changes. 
Bi.~hop slept in her own room at night, but indeed was a presence this summer as offi­cials drafted the revised alcohol policy. By administrators' admissions and Bishop's own account, student government input into the rewriting was more than a formality. 
"We met with [Kirk] twice a week this summer," Bishop said. 'We had a lot ofinput in [Resident A<;sistant] training. We asked 'What does this mean?' or 'What does that mean?' Ourjobwas to ask the questions." 
Job well done. Now about that r..ampout ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jason McFarley at jmcfarley@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Notre Dame hires six new hall rectors 
Meet the new hall rectors and get an insight to who they are and what they aspire to achieve at Notre Dame. 
page 6 
WORLD& NATION 
Experts monitor death rate in Africa 
If a resolution to the hunger and malnutrition issues are not addressed in Zimbabwe as many as 300,000 people could die in the next six months. 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
ISLA Fall Hcccption, 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. McKenna llall, Center for Continuing Education Auditoriums 112-11 & Atrium 

. 
Latino Freshman Open Ilouse, 7p.m. to 10 p.m. 102 Coleman­Morse Center. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
"Circle of Blessings" 11:15 a.m. to 1: 15 p.tn. beginning at Holy Cross I Iall and ending at Le Mans Hall. 

. 
Office of Multicultural Affairs First Year Orientation 5 p.m. to 


6:30 p.m. Haggar College Center, \Vclsh Parlor. 
WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Court settles Enron suit 
Andersen Worldwide SC has agreed to pay $40 million to settle lawsuits from Enron corp investors and employees. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Get the scoop on the ins and outs of freshman year 
Joe Muto offers a survival guide for freshman to refer to for information on dorm life, par­ties and gender. 
page 14 
Today's Dinner: Broccoli Cheese Soup, Texas Chili, Al Prosciutto Pizza, Fettuccini with Fennel, Roasted turkey Breast, Bread Stuffing, Asparagus cuts & Tips, Apple Cobbler, Oriental Shrimp with Noodles, Amandine turbot, Rabat Vegetables, Coucous, Baked Sweet potato, Veggie Omelet, pan­cakes and Grilled Crispy Potatoes 
Tomorrow's Lunch: Cream of Broccoli Soup, French Onion Soup, Cheese French Bread, Fried Cheese Ravioli, Swiss Steak, Russet herb potatoes, peas & Carrots, japanese Ginger Chicken Tenders, Perch w/ Herbs. Curried Veggie Rice Pilaf, Sugar snap peas w/ Sesame, Cream of Wheat, Scrambled Eggs, Sausage Links, Almond French Toast, Cheesey Hashbrowns, Chicken Strips and Broccoli Quesadillas 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY 
a: 
I.LI
:c 
ti 
I.LI 
3: 
.... 
<C 
(,) 

..J0 HIGH 79 HIGH 79 HIGH 80 LOW 60 LOW 60 LOW 62 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
NDPD finds missing bikes 
On August 26, 2002 NDPD recov­ered and returned two missing bikes to their owners. The bikes were first reported stolen on May 32, 2002 at 
7:50 a.m. from a campus location. This case still remains in the active file. 
Owner receives lost wallet 
A wallet was found in the Galvin Life Science Building on August 26, 2002. This wallet was reported lost on July 30, 2002 and has since been returned to the owner. This case has now been closed by Administration. 
Investigators report larceny 
On August 16, 2002 NDPD started to investigate a possible larceny on the Alumni Soccer Field at 8:45 a.m. This case has been further investi­gated and NDPD remains without any suspect information at this time. 
Vandalism case pending 
On August 22, 2002 at 11:59 a.m. a report of vandalism to signs on Holy Cross Dr. and St. Joseph Dr. NDPD has investigated this case and remains without suspects, however, the case is open and pending. 

SCENE 
ND&SMC hold theatre auditions 
Learn about the different opportu­nities Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have in the communica­tions and dance departments. 
pages 16-17 
SPORTS 
Holiday reacts to LoVecchio's leaving, starting quarterback 
Carlyle Holiday reacts to Matt LoVecchio's leav­ing Notre Dame and the announce­ment of his posi­tion on the team. 
page 32 
Male allegedly exposes himself 
NDPD issued an alert on August 24, 2002 after female students reported that they were walking down Courtney Lane at 1:20 a.m. and saw a 40-year-old caucasian male stand­ing near the tennis courts naked. Students returned to campus and contacted NDPD who searched the area but was unable to locate the suspect. Although the male did not try to make contact with the females, students are encouraged to be on alert and call NDPD as soon as a sus­picious activity is witnessed by using the emergency telephones on cam­pus. 

Information compiled from the Notre Dame Security/Police blotter 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Dinner: Boiled Thin Spaghetti, Boiled Shells, Boiled Mostaccioli, Boiled Tri-Color Rotini, boiled Linguine, Pastaria Meat Sauce, Alfredo Sauce, Chicken Vesuvio, Cacciatore Sauce, Pepperoni Pizza, Cheese Pizza, Vegetable Pizza, Brown-N-Serve Breadsticks, Chicken Fajita Pizza, Veal Parmigiana, Spinach, Rice with Olives, Beef Stew, Roasted Pork Loin, Roasted Poupon Potatoes, Chinese Noodles, SDH Oriental Court, Vegetable Eggrolls, Chinese Steamed Rice. Fried rice, Oriental Vegetables, Mongolian Beef, Chicken Taco, Taco Meat, Spanish Rice SDH Mexican Bar and Chili Frito. 
Tomorrow's Lunch: Manicotti, Cacciatore Sauce, Pizza, Meatloaf Mixture, Mississippi Fried Catfish, Baked Ham, Baked Redskin, Grilled Cheese, Gyros, Sweet & Sour Pork, Chicken Taco, Taco Meat and SDH Mexican Bar. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
.• 
HIGH 78 HIGH 80 HIGH 80 LOW 62 LOW 64 LOW 63 


Atlanta 87 I 70 Boston 71 / 60 Chicago 79 / 62 Denver 79 / 58 Houston 91 / 71 Los Angeles 79 / 62 Minneapolis 79 / 65 New York 76 / 64 Philadelphia 76166 Phoenix 106 / 80 Seattle 84 I 59 St. Louis 86 / 67 Tampa 86 / 74 Washington 73 / 70 

---,
---~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, August 28, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC construction progresses over the summer 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News Writer 
Returning Saint Mary's stu­dents found an addition to campus Saturday upon arrival for the new school year. 
When they left in May, the new student center and dining hall consisted of a large dirt 
Experience in quantitative analysL'i, hedging, financial modeling, computers, forecasting, financial technology, pattern recognition, neural networks, information automation, video gaming, and electronics are al'io advantageous. 
Candidates can leverage these characteristics and experiences, which describe many 
of the top traders now at Worklco, into a successful and rewarding trading career. 
Qualified candidates will learn the fundamentals of consistent, profitable trading from trading gums who will share their expertise and trading genius in this fertile arena. Through this optimal mentoring system, you will use contextual arguments and pointed inquiry to understand the volatility, and numeric, historical 
puzzle of the equity markets. 
Traders will use the most sophbticated, technologically advanced execution, quote, 
and filter systems, and high-speed internet access available. This translates into 
real-time, live, direct and surgical access to the equity markets. 
Worldco provides financial capital for trading activity. Semi-monthly payouts are 
based soley on each trader's profitability. Sponsorship for series 7, 55, and 
24 securities licenses. Team growth opportunities are available, globally, for 
qualified, proven traders. 
Worldco "clearly discloses the risk that 'Proprietary Traders' share in both the profits 
and losses of their trading activity." Worldco is a self-clearing fmn and member of 
the NASO, SIPC, OTC, and OCC. 

Contact In[onnation: 
Fax full resume with cover letter to: (212) 601-6352 or e-mail to pattaud@wldc.com 
ORLDCO 
www.worldcollc.com www.wldc.com 
SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Sign Up on the Internet NOW @ www. LaurenStudios.cam to ensure your place in yoor21H13 Dome Yearbook! 
Where: "When: 
Where: Why: 
~~ 
llemf'!mber ta Sign Vp Toda~! www... Laure.Studios.com 

pit dug next to the present dining hall. Upon returning, 
students  reveled  at  the  
progress completed  on  the  
project over the summer.  

The foundation and base for the new structure of the Noble Family Dining Hall now stands firmly in the center of campus and outlines promise for future construction of the stu-
Worldco, a leading proprietary equity trading firm, headquartered at 110 Wall Street in Manhattan, is currently seeking highly intelligent. elite, opportunistic, strategic, and analytical thinkers. 
Special individuals who are predictive, consistent, . coolly disciplined, persistent, focused, intense, brilliant, talented, self-confident, intellectual, energetic, and fast. 
Aggressive, rigorous, and logical students, MBAs, PhDs, dual degree hoklers, academics, celebrated scholars, chess players and bridge players with strong GPAs from Ivy League or other top universities. 
Backgrouncl'i in statistics, mathematics, science, and physics are 
dent center. 
..I was actually really happy to see that they are making progress and it isn't still just a hole in the ground," said junior Fran Dunker. 
H.G. Christman Construction Company of South Bend began working on the building in March. So far, they have faced only minor setbacks. 
Class of 2003 Pictures taken Sept. 2 -Sept. 20 La Fortune 108 To Be In the 2003 Dome 
In the early stages of con­struction, the company found a natural gas line running through the site that needed to be removed. 
Atthough it took longer than expected, workers were able 
to successfully remove the pipe. 
John Delee, director of facilities at Saint Mary's, assures that the building will be completed on schedule, and he foresees no immediate 
threat of a postponement. 
"Weather like rain at this point of the project can always cause delay. Once the roof is completed and the building is in the dry, delays are less likely," Delee said. 
ND football ticket sale prices increase 
By JOE HETTLER 
News Writer 
Watching Notre Dame foot­ball games just got a little more expensive. 
The University has increased ticket prices to Irish home foot­bait games for students and the general public alike. 
Last season, students were 
charged $114 dollars for all six home games. This year, however, the prices have increased by $2.50 per game, making student season tickets $129 
for season tickets. 
General admission ticket prices have increased from $38 to $43. 
According to Jim Fraleigh, assistant director for ticketing, the increased revenue will be 
"The University wants to increase aids to its Olympic sports ... 
Jim Fraleigh 
assistant director for ticketing 
"/ was really happy to see that they are making progress and it isn't still just a hole in the ground ... 
Fran Dunker Saint Mary's junior 
used to help pay for Olympic grants and aids. 
"The University wants to increase aids to_ its Olympic sports," Fraleigh said. "The ultimate goal is to provide full grants and aids to these ath­letes in the next few years." 
According to Fraleigh. the NCAA allows a certain number of scholarships each year for Olympic sports. Notre Dame's nience store. The three-level, 80,000-square-foot structure is due to appear in December 2004. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8339@saintmarys.edu 
The construction itself is divided into two phases. The first phase, the re-designed dining hall, is anticipated to open by June 2003. 
The second phase includes demolishing of the current 
money left over will be used by 
some of Notre Dame's 26 varsi­
ty sports. 
Compared to away game 
prices, ticket prices for Notre 
Dame football games still seem 
reasonable, despite the new 
increase. 
Tickets for the Kickoff Classic 
against Maryland at the 
Meadowlands are $48. 
Michigan State football tickets 
are $42, Florida State are $35, 
Air Force are $30, and the 
University of Southern 
California has the most expen­
sive tickets at $55 per game. 
As for future price increases, Fraleigh said that the University reevaluates its prices before every school year begins. 
He said, as of now there is no plan to change the prices in the next few years. 
Note: 
. Another change regarding ticketing concerns the new "Alumni Alley" section designed for Notre Dame graduates who wish to continue to participate in student traditions such as standing throughout games. 
To secure seats in this sec­tion, ticket buyers must check the appropriate section in their ticket forms. The University will then have a lottery to determine who gets these new seats. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
goal is to provide its athletes with the full amount of scholarships the NCAA allows per year. 
Fraleigh also said any dining hall and replac­ing it with a new student center. 
The stu­dent center will include a cyber cafe, small theater, snack bar and conve­


Wednesday, August 28, 2002
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Notre Dame is a buzz with construction 

Tri-Campus Music Festival 
Friday, August 30 
&0~9© 9©~i@[P
~fl©~~[D0(!}0© 
ND/SMC/Hee ID s:: REQUIRED AT THB oO 
<.\) 
a ~ I9= 30 pm! George Clinton C P-funk OR 
\S) 
11:30 pml Better Titan Ezras.,_ 
a 
a 
16:30 pml the green room
D 
CONCESSIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE 
/,-(~CHECK THE WEBSITE
V ~ FOR MORE INFO! 
<WWW.NO.EDU/~THESH . W> 
By TERESA FRALISH 
News Wrirer 
Over the summer construc­tion progressed on a number of projects, renovations and addi­tions at Notre Dame. According to Jim Lyphout, vice president for business operations at the University, all projects are moving ahead as scheduled. 
Hesburgh Library 
The library is a scene of much transformation. According to Marsha Stevenson, renovation coordi­nator and director of refer­ence at the Hesburgh Library, study space will be improved and the library's basement renovation will also add com­pact shelving for book storage and shelving. In addition, the new basement will contain a service desk and the library's holdings stored on microfilm and microfiche. 
"It will be transformed," said Stevenson. 
Further renovations to the library are planned and Lyphout believes that current renovations will be finished by early next summer. 
"We will update the build­ings as funds become avail­able," said Lyphout. 
Stepan Chemstry Hall 
The addition to Stepan Chemistry Hall should be com­pleted by the end of October said Lyphout. At a cost of $5.5 million, the new addition will provide more research and labo­ratory space. 
Post Office and Security Offices 
A new building for the post office and security offices will replace part of the Stepan basketball courts. Construction began over the summer and is expected to be finished by the summer of 2003, said Lyphout. 
DeBartolo Center 
On the south side of campus, the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts is scheduled to be completed by April 2004, said Lyphout. In addition to a 900­seat concert hall and other larg­er performance arenas. the DeBartolo Center will contain a 100-seat cinema. a 100-seat stu­dio theater, rehearsal rooms and offices for the department of Film, Television and Theater. 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
On the South Quad, work con­tinues on the renovations to O'Shaughnessy Hall and should be completed by November of this year, said Lyphout. The ren­ovation will add an office suite for the College of Arts and Letters dean's office as well as space for the enrollment office. 
Indiana School of Medicine 
As a result of a cooperation between the Indiana University School of Medicine and Notre Dame, the South Bend Center for Medical Education should begin construction in March. While Notre Dame is contribut­ing some funds to the project, July. 
. Changes to the Loftus Center, such as a new weight-training center and new football department offices,. are scheduled to begin late this year. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Indiana University operates most of the new facility. 
"That project is really being handled by [Indiana University}." said Lyphout. 
The new center will contain an Indiana University program that offers its students the first two years of medical school at Notre Dame. In addition to the medical school program, the University will lease space for transgene research, Lyphout said. The new center will be located at the southwest corner of Angela Boulevard and Notre Dame Avenue. 
Other construction projects at Notre Dame includes: 
. 
A campus utility improve­ment project located near Leahy Drive south of the Loftus Center finished over the sum­mer 

. 
An addition to the Hesburgh Center for International Studies located on Notre Dame Avenue was completed in 




Wednesday, August 28, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
President Bush confronts Saudi Arabian prince 

AFRICA 
Experts fear high death toll in African hunger crisis 
Associated Press 
ZIMBABWE 
As many as 300,000 people in south­ern Africa could die from preventable diseases in the next six months if hunger and malnutrition are not addressed, health officials warned Tuesday. 
Disease and declining health services have made the lack of food faced by 14 million people across southern Africa the region's worst humanitarian crisis, said Gro-Harlem Brundtland, head of the World Health Organization. 
"A famine is about health. Food short­ages are followed by illness . . . food aid must combined with health services," she told a meeting of regional and inter­national health officials in Harare. 
HIV and AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and other diseases have increased the risk of death in vulnerable, impover­ished groups suffering from malnutri­tion, she said. 
The meeting of officials from U.N. agencies and 10 regional governments ends Wednesday. Most officials are scheduled to travel on to the World Summit on Sustainable Development in neighboring South Africa. 
Carol Bellamy, head of the U.N. Children's Fund, said AIDS and the 
recruitment of health professionals by countries outside the region drained already weakened health services. 
In areas where up to a third of all adults were infected with the virus that causes AIDS, "young girls are selling themselves for shelter and food," she said. 
"Whenever the word food comes up, it is difficult to get anyone to focus on any­thing but food. Our new crisis is far deeper. The implications of what we are confronting are enormous," she said. 
In Zimbabwe alone, nearly half of the country's 12.5 million need immediate help in getting enough food. 
Health Minister David Parirenyatwa said the hungry included 1.6 million children under the age of 5. 
Zimbabwe is suffering its worst eco­nomic crisis since attaining indepen­dence in 1980. 
As a result, health services are having shortages in personnel, drugs and money needed for new equipment and medication. 
Relief agencies have blamed acute food shortages on political violence and the often violent seizures of white­owned farms in the agriculture-based economy in the past two years, along with drought. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Palestinian parliament to convene: 
Israel would allow the Palestinian parliament to convene a special session to set a date for elections and discuss political reforms, the government said Tuesday. Another official statement, however, harshly criticized the Palestinian leadership. The conflicting statements reflected the divisions in Israel's center-right government, and came as the Palestinians discussed new U.S. demands for reforms that would sideline Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. 
Ex-Nicaraguan president faces trial: 
Nicaraguan congressional leaders were working toward an agreement Tuesday that may bring former President Arnoldo Aleman to trial on corruption. fraud and money laundering charges. Legislative dis­cussions came after leaders of Aleman's party and others met for more than two hours with U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Otto Reich. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Powder found in mail at Gore office: 
A suspicious powder spilled from an envelope opened Tuesday at Al Gore's Nashville office in what one FBI agent referred to as an "anthrax hoax case." Gore spokesman Jano Cabrera said the envelope was received in the mail Monday. It was opened Tuesday by an office manager and the white powder spilled from it, Cabrera said. He described the piece of mail as "smaller than a usual envelope." The contents of the envelope were being tested. "No one has been transported because of medical reasons, and no suspects have been identified," said Jon Stephens, spokesman for the FBI in Nashville. 
'N Sync singer gets NASA approval: 
23-year-old N'Sync singer Lance Bass won the endorsement of NASA and other space agencies Tuesday in his bid to fly to the international space station this fall. 
Men missing since 9/11 found alive: Two men listed for months as missing in the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center have been discov­ered alive in area hospitals, city officials said Tuesday. In addition, the city medical examiner's 
office said a revised list of the missing and dead is expected to reflect at least five similar cases when it is released next week. "Tell everyone I'm alive and in good health," said Albert Vaughan, 45, when reached by telephone Tuesday at the Rockland Psychiatric Center in Orangeburg, N.Y. where he has been a patient. Vaughan has been removed from the city's official list of people missing after the attack, said Ellen Borakove, spokeswoman for the city med­ical examiner. She said another man. George Sims of Newark. N.J.. whose family recently learned he was alive and in a New York hospital. has also been removed from the list released last week. Borakove said investigators have found at least five other peo­ple on the city's missing list who are alive. 
Associated Press 
TEXAS President Bush confronted Saudi Arabia's top diplomat Tuesday over Iraq and other issues chilling relations between the uneasy allies, call­ing Saddam Hussein "a menace to the world." 
In an hourlong session with Saudi ambassador Prince Bandar bin Sultan, Bush expressed exasperation with the kingdom for failing to meet its commitment to provide financial assistance to the new government in Afghanistan. 
Bush also cited "crying humanitarian concerns" as he accused the kingdom of drag­ging its feet in response to chil­dren abducted from the United States to Saudi Arabia. 
The president did not sway Bandar on Iraq; U.S. officials said the Saudis still oppose potential military action against the Iraqi president. 
Just hours before the meet­ing, Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah's foreign policy advis­er said U.N. inspectors can con­tain any threat posed by Saddam ''without firing a single bullet." 
'There is no country I know of supporting the use of force in Iraq at this time.' Adel el-Jubeir said in an Associated Press interview in Washington. 'Your allies in Europe don't. Your allies in the Middle East don't.' 
Still. Bush aides cast the meeting as a positive develop­ment after weeks of tension between the U.S. administration and the Saudis. 
White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said the meeting was ·a social visit, as well as a busi­ness visit' that included a grilled-chicken-and-biscuits lunch and a coveted tour of Bush's 1,600-acre ranch. 
Father of eight, Bandar brought his family, including one child who attends nearby Baylor University. 
"They discussed a variety of issues, including prospects of enhancing peace in the Middle East. They discussed the war on terrorism and Saudi Arabia's 
cooperation  in  the  war,"  
Fleischer said.  
The  United  States  needs  

Saudi oil and a moderate Arab ally in the Middle East, but there are major sticking points in the relationship -including the kingdom's opposition to war against Iraq, its weak human rights record and links to extremism and perhaps even terrorism. 
The Saudis, in turn, bristle at suggestions that the govern­ment is responsible for the fact that 15 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers were Saudis. A law­suit filed by family members of the Sept. 11 victims fueled per­ceptions in Saudi Arabia that the relationship is not valued by 
Americans. 
promised to consult with the Saudis. 
"The president made very clear again that he believes that Saddam Hussein is a menace to world peace, a menace to regional peace," Fleischer said. 
Saudis were particularly upset by a private defense ana­lyst's recommendations to a Pentagon advisory board that the ally be given an ultimatum to stop supporting terrorism or face retaliation. 
Bush telephoned Crown Prince Abdullah on Monday to assure him the recommenda­tion did not reflect his views. 
As for Iraq, Bush told Bandar he had not decided whether to 
U.S. military force, and 
page 6 Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
New rectors bring variety to dorm Ii£e 
By TERESA FRALISH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame welcomes six new rectors this fall to its tradi­tion of residence life. 
After living as a priest-in-residence at Keenan Hall, Father Mark Thesing will serve this year as the hall's rector. Though 

new to the position of rector, Thesing has 
been a part of Notre Dame for many years. 
He earned a bachelor's degree in science 
in 1981 from Notre Dame, as well as a 
master's in divinity and master's in busi­
ness administration from Notre Dame. 
Thesing is eager to begin the school year 
and earn Keenan's title as Dorm of the 
Year again. "I'm anxious for the students 
to arrive," Thesing said. "My goal is to be 
the best dorm on campus." 
Anne Napoli comes to Badin Hall from Yale University where she has recently completed her master's in arts degree in religion. Napoli is returning to South Bend, where she graduated from Saint Mary's in 1994. Badin 's new rector brings a wide variety of service experience to Notre Dame, including experience with Arnericorps and as a teacher and coun­selor at the Youth Center for Change in New Haven, Conn. 
Betsy Bright joins the women of McGlinn Hall on West Quad as their new rector. Prior to corning to Notre Dame, she worked as a supervisor at the Northbrook, Ill. Department of Public Works. Bright holds a bachelor's in arts degree from Marquette University and a master's in arts degree from DePaul University and has previous experience in youth ministry through ser­vice at her parish. 
Welsh Hall's new rector, Candace Carson, arrives at Notre Dame from Cleveland, Ohio where she worked as an associate for Ernst & Young, LLP. Carson graduated from Notre Dame with a bachelor's of arts degree in 1977 and has worked as a parale­gal, college instructor. and served in the U. 
S. Air Force. 


Thesing 
Napoli 
Bright 
ND 
~ 

ID Holder/ Keychain 


Wednesday~ 
9:00pm 
LaFortune Notre 
supplies  
August 11:00pm  28~ ·2002 -ID the  
Student  Center  

Dame Room 
Carson credits her experiences at Notre 
Dame as being instrumental in her decision 
to become a rector. 
"I wanted to see what I can give back to the community," said Carson. "I'm looking 

Carson
to build a community and a real sense of 
welcome. 
The third new West Quad rector, Edward Mack, prepares to take charge of O'Neill Hall. Mack previously served as the assis­tant principal and dean of men at St. Edward High School in Lakewood, Ohio. 
After spending 33 years in Catholic sec­ondary education, Mack looks forward to beginning the year at Notre Dame and fos­tering a sense of unity in O'Neill Hall. 

"I am very excited to watch as the Mack University opens its academic year," said Mack. "My goal is to continue to build up the community spirit and brotherhood of O'Neill." 
New to St. Edward's Hall, Dr. John Mojzisek returns to Notre Dame after grad­uating from the University in 1987. Mojzisek received his doctorate in pastoral c9unseling from Loyola College this year and has served as a teacher. counselor and campus minister before coming to St. Edward's Hall. 

Mojzlsek
Having attended Notre Dame himself, Mojzisek knows that he will have a signifi­cant influence on the men of St. Edward's. 
"I know well the pivotal role which rectors have the poten­tial to play in the lives of students. I am hoping to be able to play that role and make a difference," Mojzisek said. 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information call 631-7308 or visit www.nd.edu/~sao/crafting 
KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies welcomes all First-year students to Notre Dame. Sections of Irish 101 are still available but filling fast; Irish 101 is a pre-requisite for the Irish Studies Minor and gives students a distinct adva11tage when applying for the 
Dublin Program.  
IRST 101:01  IRST 101:03  
TH 9:30-10:45  TH 12:30-1:45  
IRST 101:02  IRST 101:04  
MWF 10:40-11:30  TH 2:00-3:15  

Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 

O
fHE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002 page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch August 27 
DowJones 
8,824.41 -94.60
•
NASDAQ 
1,347.78 -43.96
•
S&P500 
934.82 -13.13
•
AMEX 
868.99 +1.33
•
NYSE 
504.16 -5.45
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

IN BRIEF 
Dow down 95; Nasdaq down 44: 
A sharp drop in consumer confidence stifled investors' enthusiasm for stocks Tuesday, sending the market sharply lower and more than wiping out Monday's gains. Technology suffered the worst of the selling, following bearish comments from Intel's chief execu­tive.But because the market was primed for profit-taking anyhow following five winning weeks on Wall Street, analysts were pleased that a bigger selloff didn't develop. "The market is getting some heartburn today from the consumer confidence number," said David Sowerby, chief market analyst. Loomis, Sayles & Co. in Detroit. "But at the same time, what gives me some encourage­ment is that the rally that started on July 23 is not being derailed." 
Judge proceeds with KPMG suit: 
A federal judge has dismissed a lawsuit by 
Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products share­
holders against accounting firm KPMG's 
United Kingdom, International and Singapore operations. but will allow the case to go for­ward against KPMG Belgium and KPMG U.S. The order by U.S. District Judge Patti B. Saris, dated Aug. 19 and made available Tuesday, attempts to untangle a complicated web of defendants who have been sued by shareholders for alleged complicity in accounting fraud at L&H, which filed for bankruptcy in 2000 after acknowledging accounting "errors and irregularities." The 52-page ruling says notes that KPMG's U.S. division. though independent from the Belgian division that officially handled L&H's books, was listed as a 'principal auditor' and that KPMG officials were allegedly involved in reviewing the company's accounts. A "panoply of red flags" strongly suggests the inference that ..KPMG U.S. acted with reck­lessness or actual knowledge" in instances including the preparation of L&H's annual 10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1999, Saris wrote. 
Andersen settles Enron suits 
. Andersen agrees to $40m for Enron claims 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Andersen Worldwide 
SC, the international 
umbrella organization 
that includes auditing 
firm Arthur Andersen 
LLP, has agreed to pay 
$40 million to settle law­
suits from Enron Corp. 
investors and employees . 
The settlement, 
announced Tuesday. is 
the first to emerge from a 
$25 billion lawsuit filed 
on behalf of Enron 
investors, led by the 
University of California, 
and another lawsuit filed 
by former employees in 
the aftermath of the 
failed energy company's 
swift collapse last year in 
a swirl of accounting 
scandals. 
Andersen Worldwide 
serves as the coordinating 
entity for the internation­
al network of Andersen 
firms. Arthur Andersen 
LLP, its Chicago-based 
U.S. arm, remains a defendant in the suit. 
"We regard this settle­ment only as a first step in obtaining recovery for the class, and will contin­ue to pursue damages from the remaining defendants, most of whom had far deeper involvement in the Enron debacle than the overseas Andersen firms," said James E. Holst, general counsel for the university. 
Bill Lloyd, an attorney with Sidley Austin Brown & Wood in Chicago who helped negotiate the set­tlement, declined com­ment Tuesday. Arthur Andersen LLP spokesman Patrick Dorton also declined comment. 
The settlement is sub­ject to approval of U.S. District Judge Melinda Harmon in Houston. The university said the $40 million settlement includes $15 million that will be available to pay for costs associated with the suit, but not attorney fees in the ongoing litiga­tion. 
Robin Harrison, one of the attorneys who repre­sents employees, said lawyers haven't yet deter­mined how to distribute the money. 
Andersen Worldwide denied any liability or wrongdoing with regard to Enron, the university said. 
In April, Andersen Worldwide said Arthur Andersen LLP, which was Enron·s outside auditor for 16 years until fired in January, was the only proper defendant in claims relating to audits of faulty financial state­ments. The U.S. arm, like other offices around the world, operates 

In response to a $25 billion lawsuit filed by Enron investors and former Enron employees, Andersen Worldwide SC has agreed to pay $40 million in compensation. 
autonomously from the umbrella organization, Andersen Worldwide said. 
"This first settlement recovers millions of dol­lars for the class and demonstrates that even relatively minor actors may face substantial lia­bility to Enron 's investors," said Bill Lerach, the lead plain­tiffs attorney in the law­suit. 
Arthur Andersen LLP was convicted in June of obstruction of justice for shredding and doctoring documents related to Enron audits. The crip­pled firm has lost hun­dreds of clients and offices throughout the 
U.S. and in other coun­tries have bolted to join other firms. 
The firm, which has said it expects to formally end any remaining audit business next week, will be sentenced by Harmon on Oct. 17. 
Negotiations to settle civil claims against Arthur Andersen LLP broke down before the obstruction of justice trial began May 6. Negotiations to settle claims against Andersen Worldwide and Andersen firms outside of the U.S. then began, the university said. 
The university also said Enron and its creditors weren't part of the settle­ment with Andersen Worldwide and will not receive a portion of the $40 million. 
Consumer confidence tumbles 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Consumer confidence in the American economy sank to a nine­month low in August, the third straight monthly decline. Yet in July, demand surged for big-ticket goods such as cars and computers. 
The latest batch of economic news on Tuesday offered mixed signals to the economy's direction and suggested that while consumers may be growing more nervous, business might be feel­ing a little better. analysts said. 
Still, it is the actions of consumers and businesses -their willingness or reluctance to spend and invest in the months ahead -that will shape the recovery. Optimists are betting that consumers will keep their pocket­books and wallets open and that busi­nesses will slowly step up investment. Pessimists worry that they won't. 
"It seems the economy is at an inflection point, a turning point, where it either picks up momentum from the second quarter or loses momentum," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist for Banc of America Capital Management. 
Reaser and most other economists don't foresee the economy sliding back into a feared "double dip" recession. but some aren't ruling one out. 
The Conference Board, a private research group, reported that its Consumer Confidence Index fell to 
93.5 in August, the lowest level since November, from a revised 97.4 in July. The showing, much weaker than the 97 reading analysts forecast, raised new questions about con­sumers' appetite for spending in com­ing weeks. 
"For the economy to start accelerat­ing sharply, consumer confidence will have to start improving," said econo­mist Joel Naroff of NarofT Economic Advisors. 
The index is looked at by economists to try to gauge the behavior of con­sumers, whose spending accounts for two-thirds of economic activity in the United States. 
page 8 Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . NEWS 
Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
distinguishes these beverages from less-concentrated beer and wine, Shoup said. 
Poorman's July 26 letter didn't address specifics of the other changes, such as where hall dances will be held in lieu of the dorms and the registra­tion process for students 21 and older to host tailgaters. 
University officials over the summer identified more than two dozen on-campus venues to hold dances, among them the Hesburgh Library, Reckers Hospitality Room, Rockne Memorial gymnasium and Warren Golf Club House. Most of the locations would be free or charge only operating costs, Student Affairs officials said. In addition, Poorman has promised $1,000 to each resi­dence hall to help with dance expenses. 
Tailgate registration will be an online process, said Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities. Drinking-age stu­dents may register through a link on the Student Activities Web site from 8 a.m. Monday to 6 a.m. Thursday the week of a home football game. Between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Friday, reg­istered students can pick up a hangtag in the Student Activities Office that allows them to host a tailgater in Blue Field South on Saturday. 
To register. students must answer questions about their cars, whether they will serve alcohol at the parties and whether they are co-hosting the tailgaters with other stu­dents, Coughlin said. Student Activities each week will give a list of registered parties to Notre Dame Security/Police. 
Campus security and Student Affairs officials will patrol the parties on Saturdays and con­tinue last fall's crack down on underage drinking, said Shoup, of Residence Life and Housing. 
Enforcement of the ban on hard alcohol in dorms, howev­er, isn't likely to be as forceful. Hall staff will implement the new rules "with enforcement similar to previous years'" enforcement of other hall rules. 
"This truly shouldn't bring a change in enforcement," said Student Body President Libby Bishop, who met with adminis­trators twice a week this sum­mer to revise the policy. "The idea of privacy in dorm rooms is not changed." 
Bishop, who with Vice 

President Trip Foley last spring launched a campaign to nix the changes, said once University officials approved the changes, her office's main goal became to help implement them. Bishop and Foley plan to visit hall Masses and buy advertise­ments in The Observer to dis­perse information about the new policy. 
"If people are really confused or having problems, we'll be more proactive, hold meetings, visit dorms more," she said. 
Residence Life and Housing director Shoup said the student handbook, duLac, also will be important for making students familiar with the changes. 
Publication of the 2002-2003 edition was delayed last week because of an omission in the academic records section of the book. 
Officials plan to distribute copies by Friday. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley. l@nd.edu 
Oregon to seek indictments in death of teens 
Associated Press 
OREGON CITY, Ore. 
Police don't believe there are any more bodies at the proper­ty where the remains of two missing teenagers were found, but they will check to see if the man who rented the house is linked to other disappearances, the police chief said Tuesday. 
Authorities said Monday a body recovered from a barrel buried under a concrete slab in Ward Weaver's yard was that of 12-year-old Ashley Pond. The body of her friend, 13­year-old Miranda Gaddis, was found during the weekend in a backyard shed. 
Weaver, 39, who has been in jail since Aug. 13 on an unre­lated rape charge, has not been charged in either death and has denied any involvement in the teens' disappearances. But Greg Horner, the chief deputy district attorney in Clackamas County, said he would ask a grand jury to indict Weaver. 
"We expected this," said Tim Lyons, Weaver's attorney. "We are going to await the return of the indictment and see what the charges are and proceed from there." 
Investigators returned to the property on Monday with high­tech equipment and a backhoe to see if any additional evidence might have been hidden there. 
However, Police Chief Gordon Huiras said Tuesday on NBC's "Today" that investigators had concluded their search and "we are satisfied there are no fur­ther remains on the property." 
Huiras also said police are looking into whether Weaver might be connected to other disappearances. 
"That'll certainly be some­thing the investigators on the task force will continue to investigate," he said. 
Huiras did not elaborate. There was no immediate response to calls to his office seeking additional comment. 
Ashley's family last saw her on Jan. 9. Miranda disappeared March 8 from the same apart­ment complex, just a few hun­dred yards down the road from Weaver's home in this Portland suburb. 
Some relatives said they were bothered that the bodies were found so close to the girls' apartment complex. 
"I get angry because she was right there the whole time," said Terri Duffey, Miranda's aunt. 


i
; 
I 
( I 
I 
( ( i 
I 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 


nds VS
~ 

Teen Divas Dance 
Wednesday~ August 28 9:00pm to 1:00am in the Ballroom .of LaFortune 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office. For more information contact Student Activities at 631-7308. 
\, 
SMC adds Intercultural Living 
By MElANIE BECKER 
News Writer 
In an attempt to bring more cultural awareness to Saint Mary's, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL), Campus Ministry and Residence Llfe brought Intercultural Living to campus this year. 
The purpose of Intercultural Living was for participants to learn about cultural diversify and share their findings with the student body. Faculty and staff saw Intercultural Living as a way to bring a community of stu­dents together that would not only benefit from the experience, but also bring cultural under­
• 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• beck093 l@saintmarys.edu 
standing and sensitivity to both the campus and South Bend community. 
"The world looks a lot different than this campus. We need to be able to communicate with every­one, be it an African-American or an American-Indian," said junior Romona Parks. 
Student input is the key to the program. While Tracy Robison, director, will oversee the pro­gram, the hope is that the partic­ipants will run it. Four women will be elected to make up an advisory board and will be responsible for creating a mis­sion and a theme for the pro­gram. 
Each Intercultural Llving resi­dent is responsible for planning

1/2 MILJ SWIM 
•••• •• ••• • & 
2 MILE RUN RfGIST[R IN ADVANCE AT R[CSPORTS VARSITY TEAM & INDIVIDUAL NON-VARSITY TEAM & INDIVIDUAL 
:• .R~==y# a,= 
• recsports.nd.edu 
one social awareness activity per semester, either individually or as a team. Additionally, they must attend four activities as well. The residency is sponsored by CWIL, and was given $10,000 to plan and run activities for the year. 
The 22 participants span most of the fourth floor of Regina North. The committee hopes to see lntercultural Living expand to a larger range and number of students in years to come. Current participants are encour­aged to form a community that is more closely knit then most resi­dence sections and are expected to share reflections and learning with each other. 
Preliminary ideas include bringing speakers to campus,
• attending conferences and 
: putting on theatrical perfor­mances. Intercultural stu­dents were presented \.\<ith a 
• •• journal to track their personal 
• 
progress and growth. The

• 
group also agreed to create a 


quilt that would be left on dis­• •• play at the culmination of the 
• 
year . 

• 
The residents are planning


• 
an Intercultural Ball with a
•
• 
target date in early October, 

• 
which will be the first of its 

kind at Saint Mary's . Judy Fean, director of cam­

• 
pus ministry, is the liaison

• 
between the program and another source of financial support to the program . 


•• ••• • "Intercultural Living is a vision of a broader aspect on campus," Fean said. 
• 
: 
• Contact Melanie Becker at 
WE GATHER TOGETHER 

LISA VELTE/The Observer 
University President Father Edward Malloy presided over Notre Dame's Opening Mass Tuesday evening at the Joyce Center. In his homily, Malloy referred to this year as a year to serve children. Fireworks and a picnic followed the Mass. 
Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
page 10 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
Panel decides spy plane too costly for ops 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A highly promoted, high-fly­ing unmanned reconnaissance aircraft may be getting too expensive to use in risky opera­tions, a congressional commit­tee says. The military says cost­ly new enhancements are nec­essary to make the craft an effective target-hunter. 
With new capabilities sought by the military, the co~t of the Global Hawk spy plane, which made its combat debut in the Afghanistan conflict, is expect­ed to reach $45 million to $50 million a copy, or as much as an F-16 fighter, Air Force offi­cials say. 
At issue are the competing v1s1ons for one of the Pentagon's latest technological wonders, the unmanned aerial vehicle, known as UAV. 
With a proposed price tag of $10 million each, the Global Hawk was proposed years ago as a cheap substitute for manned reconnaissance planes like the U-2, whose pilots are at risk whenever they cross enemy territory to snap photographs or eavesdrop on communica­tions. 
The House Intelligence Committee, in a recent report on its classified intelligence budget, says the military has gotten away from that vision, however, opting to load up UAVs with expensive cameras and other sensors. 
"You are no longer dealing with a cheap aircraft," said Rep. Michael Castle, R-Del., a member of the committee. "While not disposable {at $10 million). you could at least afford to lose them. Now you're dealing with something you don't want to risk losing." 
But some in the military say the idea of expendable UAVs is out of date, and money spent to equip a Global Hawk with the best cameras and electronic eavesdropping technology will pay off in better intelligence on America's adversaries. Military officials say they fully expect the planes to go in harm's way and survive. 
Senior Pentagon chiefs are standing by the plane. They say efforts are under way to reduce the cost. 
"It's a tremendous platform," Pete Aldridge, an undersecre­tary of defense who is the Pentagon's chief weapons buyer, said in an interview with reporters. "To start all over again and design yourself a high-flyer like that --it's going to cost just as much. It's just a matter of fixing it." 
The plane's military value has increased to the point that the Pentagon wants to add defen­sive countermeasures to protect it from attack, which would ad still more to its cost, officials said. 
The Global Hawk is designed to fly well above any battlefield, at about 65,000 feet, safely out of range of many anti-aircraft weapons. It can loiter over a target area for more than a day to transmit reconnaissance pic­tures back to base. It carries no weapons. 
Its endurance also allows it to photograph an area as large as Illinois in a single mission, said Air Force Lt. Col. Douglas Boone, who oversees the pro­gram. 
Six have been built, and a seventh is to be completed this year. Three have crashed, including two that were used in the conflict in Afghanistan, leading some to question its reliability. 
Although military officials say such crashes are to be expected in a new aircraft program, the Air Force has grounded the remaining three to seek the causes. 
Beginning next year, the mili­tary wants to build at least 50 more, and the entire Global Hawk program is expected to cost $3.8 billion. 
Another House criticism of the Global Hawk is it performs essentially the same mission as the U-2 -taking many pho­tographs from far away ­while the mission of the retired SR-71 Blackbird remains unful­filled. The SR-71 performed what the military calls "pene­trating reconnaissance," flying closer to a target for high-quali­ty pictures. 
The SR-71 could safely fly over enemy territory because it was so fast no missile or plane could catch it. A new plane, either with a pilot or without, probably would use stealth, rather than speed, to escape. Plans for a proposed UAV, the DarkStar, which would have performed this mission, were scrapped in 1999 after a proto­type crashed. 
Boone expects the Global Hawk to replace the U-2 in a decade or so. Any replacement for the SR-71 requires more money from Congress, he said. 
The Air Force envisions Global Hawk as the largest of a family of three UAVs. Another is the Predator, a smaller, lower-flying plane that can transmit video. At least 70 have been built and 24 lost, includ­ing some in combat. The CIA has armed several Predators, which it has used to strike at suspected al-Qaida targets in Afghanistan. 
These are more affordable than their big brother at about $4.5 million each. 
A third plane, called the Predator B, also is in develop­ment. Boone describes the Predator B as a hunter-killer that would fly higher than the Predator and lower than the Global Hawk. It would be designed to carry short-range missiles or guided bombs. 
ATTENTION SENIORS interested in RHODES, MARSHALL, & MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIPS 
Prof. Brad Gibson will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on Sept. 2nd in Haggar 117 at 4:30 p.m. If you are unable to attend this meeting, information may be obtained at the Fellowship office in 99 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 


MAT 1, NOT CIITMOLIC7 

A/() "'()!{!{/~~ 
lPIGH~!!,/,/ 
/ 7/J .;ff 1/JPMl 
P~Oft~fA-Nf 7fu~,Nf~
~IN-rt~fltl-rJf ~H~l~-rlltAI 
M AIOf~I v'A-MI
All«JI.-, P~ltY,~ 
.A-Al Hou~ 01 1?-ru1J-eA1.,.-...1,,-e1J 
f,t,,t,,f/W7HIP P~A-Y,~
/p,r-e~11-eA10MIN/rrIIAl/ri-P~lrt-e~, 
MU!?/~ /Alff/ fflf/1)
P~-1t1~-e & Wo~~-llrP 
1-f:MtiKlNti 'f'Hf:. (;f;t,.f: ~K -k1"/IN C,./1#1K C,Qt,f;J!i.AN,JAQK~f: C,f;N'1'f:K 1J'1'tl1)f:N'1' t,QUNtil: 
J.f:tJtJ 'PA.1 --1:0IJ PM 
MPKK/ft;f:Y H./ti,/, C,./1./t'Pf;I, 
/J~IAI« Ir f~IIA/11
'l:vf:KY WWNf:~11/rY NJ«M ~ IIIPA4 
---------------------------------------~----;,:----... 
Wednesday, August 28, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Los Angeles school board votes on soda ban 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
The board of the nation's second-largest school district voted unanimously Tuesday night to extend the ban on car­bonated soft drinks to all its schools in an effort to combat childhood obesity. 
An audience of about 100 people burst into applause as the ban was adopted after 2 1/2 hours of debate. It will take effect in January 2004. 
Board member Julie Korenstein, who co-sponsored the measure, said it was need­ed to fight obesity among stu­dents. But a soda industry offi­cial complained that banning drinks isn't the solution. 
"Physical education and physical activity are by far, 
more important in combating obesity than banning soft drinks from students' diets," said Sean McBride, a spokesman for the National Soft Drink Association. 
He added: "In the end. this is really about the couch and not the can." 
Los Angeles Unified District, which has 748,000 students on its 677 campuses, already pro­hibited carbonated drink sales at elementary schools. 
Still permitted during school hours are water, milk, bever­ages with at least 50 percent fruit juice and sports drinks with less than 42 grams of sugar per 20-ounce serving. 
Many Los Angeles Unified schools rely on soda sales to fund student activities such as sports and field trips. 
Sodas sold in vending machines and student stores generate an annual average profit of $39,000 per high school and $14,000 per middle school. 
In California, an estimated 30 percent of children are over­weight or at risk of being over­weight, according to the California Center for Public Health Advocacy. 

doesn't mean .you have to look like you blew your summer 
I
savings. 
Visit us at www.tjmaxx.com USE YOUR TJX VISA9CARD when you shop with us and earn 5% rewards. Visit any store or call 1-877-588-BT JX to apply for your card today. ­
Wednesday, August 28, 2002




\ 
Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS 
page 13 
·------------------------------------­
¦ I Utah polygamist
: I Have you thought about : I : I teaching Religion and : I sentenced to 5 years 
I I 
I I 
marrying and conceiving a 
Associated Press 
child with Kunz in 1986
I becoming a Catechist? : 
when she was 13 and he was
I I NEPHI, Utah 37. A polygamist was sen­
"I do not consider myself atenced Tuesday to spend five 
victim," Kunz said, sobbing
years to life in prison for a as she begged Judge Donald
i I •• i I 
child rape that occurred
I ~~ I Eyre for leniency. 'Tm a 30­
when he took a 13-year-old
I MINISTRY I ye ar-old woman who has
girl as his "spiritual".wife
I I seven children." 
more than a dozen years ago.
I * Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? ¦ "It was me who pursued
It was the lightest possible him. It was me who fell in
: * Can you give one-two hours ofyour time each week? : sentence for raping a child. 
love," Kunz said. 
I * Do you welcome the challenge to articulate and share yourfaith? ¦ He could have received 
a Eyre said his sentence was 
I * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? ¦ minim um of 15 years in influenced by the Green's
prison, the judge said.
: * Would you like to work towards catechist certification? : strong family relationship
Before the sentence was 
and Linda's defense of her
I I handed down, Tom Green 
husband.
I I cried as he told the judge he Green and Kunz's 15-year­
I I was wrong to have married 
old son, Melvin, also took the 
: If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, : Linda Kunz when she was so stand. 
young. 
"I don't consider myself a
I come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. ¦ 
"I recognize, under the law,
I I victim of my father or the
she was not capable of con­
I I product of a crime," the boy
senting to marriage," Green
I I told the judge.
said.
I I Green, now 53. has held
Green, who drew the atten­
: Important Informational Meeting: : tion of prosecutors when he out his practice of plural 
marriage as a God-given
appeared on a half-dozen
: Thursday, September 5 : nationally talk path to salvation. Until he
televised 
was imprisoned, Green livedshows, already has served a with five wives and 29 chil­= 5:00-6:00 P.M. : year of his five-year sentence 
dren in a cluster of trailer
for bigamy and failing to pay homes in Utah's west desert,
: Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center : child support. 
126 miles southwest of Salt
I I This latest sentence will 
Lake City.
I I run concurrently with the Kunz was Green's step­
I I 
bigamy sentence, and Green daughter before their "spiri-­
I I 
could be out of prison in four 
tual" marriage. A Utah court
: Call .John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 : years, his attorney said. declared the two legally mar­
Green· was convicted in
I I ried as part of Green's earli-
June of child rape for 
er bigamy trial.
·------------------------------------· 

CS • .n:: mQ:mu I AIAABIQ.S 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roacls/1801 I Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*2.1 Miles From Notre Dame* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes tnembership in the new Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 Bedroom Apartments still available 

• 
Security patrolled nightly 


..•.···.·: \ .. Ill "·now or,···111s1. ·: IIS··. 111'.i.:.:. .1:11:1):;IJMil'.?ID.11:S< :·-1·1:1=11... .:l:I -·011:,....,·:1·~··:····--.:::: 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
page 14 


THE OBSERVER 
n, 1-Mf,-'-, D,,11:, ~5-1,,IN,,_ IJMM#-'s-.,N#y~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  · Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINI' EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CoNTR0ll.ER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT US 
OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING....................... ..............631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITORI.AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.........................................631-5313 NEWS ............... ...........................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V!EWPOINT.......................................... , ...... 631-5303 observer.viewpoinc.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR\"s.. ...........................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carto_ons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free .expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obstr11erpolicies shou/.J be direct­edto Editor in Chieffa.son McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob1eM:r (USPS ~99 2-4000) ;. publi,hed Monday rhmugh Friday cx«p< during exam and vacation: ptriods. A 1ubactiption to The: ObtcNcr i1 SlOO for one acadctnic year. S55 for one :M:ff!intrr. 
Thc Obscrv<r i, publish«! at: POSTMASTER 024 Sou1h Dining Hall Send addrcu rorr«1:fom to: 
Noo, Dune, IN 46556--0779 ThcOl,,.c""' 
Pcriodi<:al po,1,g,: paid ai Nom: Dunc P.O. BoxQ 
and additional ma.iling: offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nouc Dame:, IN 46556-0779 
11K Obscna i, a member of the Aaociatcd Prca. Ail reproduction righu arc """""1 

SNEl:lt Revealing the real Freshman Orientation 
Ahhh, Freshman Orientation -that magical time of year when these hal­lowed grounds ring with the laughter of a co-ed group of 18-year-olds play­ing "Red Rover." When giant football players sit in the dining hall with Joe Muto their tiny, bespectacled roommates, together for the Muto Time first and last time. When rov­ing bands of Saint Mary's girls invade the campus looking for anything even vaguely male and inviting it back to St. Mary's. 
Welcome to Notre Dame. Going to school here is a surreal experience, to say the least. Here's a guide I hope will make things a little easier. 

Dorm life 
Living in the dorms is fun. Having your significant other booted out at 
11 :55 every night is a little less than fun. Probably the best advice I can give y9u is don't get caught breaking parietals. By all means, break them if you can get away with it, but don't get caught doing it, because if you get caught, you get sent to ... 
Reslife 
The disciplinary wing of the admin­istration. If you screw up, you will hear from them. The Reslife board is about as rational and even-handed as your senile grandmother. Once you step into that office in the Main Building, you've entered a black hole where the normal rules of logic and fairness don't apply. For example, last year they cited a 38-year-old graduate student for drinking alcohol at a tail­gate. (I wish that last line had been a joke or an exaggeration.) 
The administration 
Not much better than Reslife when it comes to logic and rational thought. The administration gives the barest of explanations for any new policy it enacts and expects the students to accept it as if Moses just handed it to them on a tablet. Sadly, student gov­ernment is powerless to stop it because their charter gives them just slightly more power than the cleaning staff. The administration is newly notable for producing "The Show," a concert intended to promote sobriety, and scheduling one of the biggest drug bands in the entire world to per­form at it. 
Gender relations 
This school was made co-ed 30 years ago, but to go along with the retro craze, everyone here has decid­ed to pretend that it just happened a few weeks ago. Girls here definitely have a raw deal. They have the more sadistic hall staffs, they have to con­stantly endure declarations from their male friends that "Notre Dame girls are ugly" and they have the added stress of 2,000 aggressive competitors across the street. 
Classes 
The academics here can be as easy or as hard as you want them to be. If you want an easy schedule, following the lead of our varsity athletes is never a bad idea. Or you can do what so many other Darners do and enroll at the business college. Try to avoid any class before 11 a.m., on a Friday or taught by someone whose name you can't pronounce. 
Parties 
There's no hard and fast rule as to how much partying is too much, but if you walk into a store and find yourself surprised that empty plastic cups don't cost five dollars a piece, you might want to dial it down a notch or two. 
Weather 
It may be nice now, but come January and February, you'll wonder why God decided that this particular latitude and longitude was the armpit of the world. The weather isn't all bad, of course, as it provides people with all the awkward small talk they can handle. Nothing fills those empty minutes before class like phrases such as, "I can't believe how cold it is," "Cold, isn't it?" or my personal favorite, "Cold enough for you today?" 
Football . 
This might be the reason that many of you came here in the first place. While our team has fallen upon hard times lately under the barely compe­tent leadership of former coach Bob Davie, team morale seems to have gone way up under new coach Ty Willingham. We have a solid team. and barring any unforeseen injuries or sexual assaults I think we have a chance this year. 
I must say that, even to a jaded old cynic like myself, the Notre Dame home football weekend is an impres­sive event, filled to the brim with the mystique that is Notre Dame football. Of course, nothing kills that mystique faster than puking in the bushes out­side the Stadium. 
Being a Freshman 
Guess what: You're a freshman and everyone knows it. Don't try to pre­tend you're not. Who else would be walking around the campus wide­eyed, causing lines in the dining halls and thinking that dorm parties are cool? There's nothing wrong with being a freshman, so enjoy it. This marks the beginning of your two­month long grace period. This is the only time in your career here that you're allowed to ask what JACC stands for, mess up the Fight Song or get forced by upperclassmen to take seven shots and go to dinner in your boxers. Enjoy your grace period. Meet some people, drink some brewskis, don't forget to breathe and remem­ber: spicy sea nuggets equal death. 
Joe Muto is a junior FIT and English double major who would like to welcome his brother. a member of the class of2006. BC's loss is ND's gain. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Meghanne Sheila Flynn Downes Scene Courtney Boyle C. Spencer Beggs John Fanning Graphics Sports Katie McKenna 
Joe Hettler Lab Tech 
Katie McVoy Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
To what extent do you understand the new alcohol policy? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Blessed is the man who. having nothing to say, abstains from giving wordy evidence ofthe fact.,, 
George Eliot philosopher 

p 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, August 28, 2002 page 15 
GUEST COLUMN 
Don't bomb Iraq to punish Hussein 
DENVER, CO Bush's well-oiled propaganda machine is belching out bellicose noises in full force. 
We've been inundated ove.r the summer by reports anticipating an invasion of Iraq. "It's not a question of if, but when," the top brass chants. 
Cryptic references to biological weapons facilities in Iraq have John R. Crane been made by U.S. military offi­cials, yet no one can pinpoint their location. 
The
According to an essay by 
Metropolitan
Helena Cobban in the Aug. 15 edition of the Christian Science Monitor, Shai Feldman, head of the Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies, recently 
_ wrote: "Despite the deterioration of the monitoring and verification regime applied against Iraq in the aftermath of the Gulf War, Saddam Hussein failed to rebuild the facilities for the production of chemical and nuclear weapons." Even if the United States found weapons facilities in Iraq, so what? Hussein has done nothing that can be construed as a threat to our so-called democracy to justify an attack by the United States. Countries such as Israel and other allies are producing "weapons of mass destruction" as well. Are we going to invade them, too? Anyone who says that Hussein might assist Osama bin Laden (a mere bit player in Bush's Middle East Theatre of the Absurd) misses a major point. Bin Laden has little affection for the secular Hussein, whom he would describe as a bad Muslim for sup­pressing Islamic fundamentalism. Iraq's use of gas to kill its opponents in the 1981 to 
1988 war with Iran has also been cited as justifica­tion for "regime change" by Bush's national security advisor, Condoleezza Rice. However, according to an Aug. 18 article in The New York Times, the Reagan administration "provided Iraq with critical battle-planning assistance at a time when U.S. intelligence agencies knew Iraqi commanders would employ chemical weapons in waging the decisive battles of the Iran-Iraq war." 
Why did the United States provide such assistance? So Iran would be unable to take over oil­producing coun­tries vital to U.S. interests. 
The idea of such a "regime change" in Iraq has been a hard one to swallow in the Middle East. An article in the Aug. 14 edition of the Christian Science Monitor tells how Middle Eastern opposition is so pervasive, the Bush administration is considering advertising the invasion as an assault led by Iraqi opposition. 
Even if such an exercise in international huckster­ism works, it won't change that there is nothing link­
ing Hussein to Islamic terrorists involved in Sept. 11. 
But hey, it's all in the name of making the world safe 
for democracy. Indonesians are experiencing such democracy first­hand. Eleven recently tried to sue Exxon Mobil for alleged murders and beat­ings by Indonesian gas field guards. Bush blocked the 
suit, saying it would hurt America's relationship with Indonesia in the 
war on terrorism. Many innocent lives will be taken 
on both sides of this unjustified proxy war if and when it comes about. And it will be too late when America realizes, 
as the rest of the 
world has long known, that the Emperor Bush has 
no clothes. 
This column first appeared in the Aug. 23 edition ofThe Metropolitan, the campus newspaper of Metropolitan State College ofDenver. It is reprinted here courtesy ofU-W/RE. The views expressed in this column a,-e those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
'I pledge allegiance to save my neck' 
NORMAL, Ill. 
It's quite ironic, really, how some American citizens claim that stating the phrase, "under God," in the coun­try's pledge is a violation of First Amendment laws, but that flag burning 
is an exercise of  
those same laws. Year after year,  Taryn Fears  
many people seem  
to take this  
nation's pledge, its  The Daily  
song and its flag  Vidette  
for granted, ignor­ 
ing these icons at  
their whim. But  

when disaster strikes and the govern­ment begins to track enemies from within as well as without, patriotism is all the rage. 
We've seen this phenomenon of ..sud­den patriot fever" many times before. Americans are known for falling back on the "we the people" act whenever any statements made to the contrary could prove detrimental to one's health. 
Prime example number one: the Red Scare of the 1950s, where anything or anyone suspected of having communist sympathies was put on trial. America saw icons of the stage and screen, not to mention ordinary people, dragged before the court where their love of America was questioned. Innocent until proven guilty had gone out the window and all one could do was swear by every living creature and a few dead ones, to an undying love and devotion to the United States. 
Now, I'm quite sure that many of the accused may have been communists, but the truth of their guilt or innocence is neither here nor there. Neither is whether or not being anything other than a capitalist in America is right. 
The point is, no matter what they may have believed, when the cameras were rolling as well as the heads, it was "America the Beautiful" all the way. People forgot about their right to free speech and proclaimed not to be any­thing less than a loyal American. They smiled and thought, "If crossing my heart and hoping that all America's enemies will die will save me from ruin, hey ... What have I got to lose?" 
And now we see the emer­gence of conve­nient patriotism as President Bush and Homeland Security race to find in-house terrorists and anthrax specialists. 
Dr. Steven J. Hatfill, a former federal scientist who is suspected of having connections with an anthrax­tainted mailbox in New Jersey. went the way of all others when faced with allegations of unpatriotic, even treaso­nous behavior. He proclaimed his alle­giance to America. Were you sur­prised? 
Once again, the guilt or innocence of the good doctor is none of my concern. 
It just seems funny to me how quickly the words, "I pledge 
allegiance to the flag," become a fail-safe, anoth­er way out. If you find yourself in 
trouble with the govern­ment, just 
smile and wave a flag. 
After a while, the symbols of our nation, the things our ances­tors, friends 
and neigh­bors fought and died for. 
cease to be something Americans should believe in and uphold. Soon all that is left is a dyed piece of cloth and a jumble of well­
meaning words. And if we no longer take our country seriously, why should anyone else? 
We seem to forget that America could easily be a country struggling to survive under tyrannical rule. Our freedoms could be crushed. All-power­ful leaders could dictate our lives to us. We could be a country living in desola­tion and constant fear, uncertain about our future. 
Wait a minute ... we are. 
The events of Sept. 11 rocked this country to the core, changing our lives and turning us back to our principles. For a while, people didn't pledge alle­giance and wave a flag unless they meant it. It was stained with the blood of American citizens -not soldiers, but ordinary people, and it was too precious for hypocrisy. 
But the debris has been cleared away. Homeland Security is on the job, the economy is looking up (as long as we can find an honest bookkeeper) and America seems to be getting back to the business of living. 
I wonder if we'll treat the flag or our pledge differently now. I wonder if the Constitution will cease to be ammuni­tion for radicals who want the national anthem to be "If I Ruled the World." 
I wonder if we'll get back to that more perfect union at a more perfect time when we loved what this country stood for even if it wasn't perfect. 
I wonder if we'll stop pledging alle­giance to save our necks and start pledging allegiance to save our way of life. 
This column first appeared in the Aug. 23 edition of The Daily Vidette, the campus newspaper ofIllinois State University. It is reprinted here cour­tesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


page 16 

"Henry IV, part I" was performed by The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company last fall. 
Ur
ii,
,,1, 
.-, I 
. I 
i 
i 
I,
i 
( 


Get your Macbeth on with stui 

By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
Each year over 14 major and a host of smaller theatre productions are performed on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campus­es. With a combined student population under 10,000 and even fewer considering the number of abroad students, the theatre scene on campus is thriving and improving each year. 
Of course, the major component of college theatre is the college part; almost every show is open to students of school. In fact, outside of the respective departmental shows of Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television and Theatre and Saint Mary's Communication, Dance and Theatre Department, the majority of:,participants in campus theatre activities are non-theatre majors. 
"Theatre is a great opportunity for students to get involved on campus," senior JJ Marler, director of the Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company's fall show, said. 
The 2002-2003 theatre season line-up ranges from light farces like the CDT's "The Odd Couple" to dramatic heavyweights like the NSRSC's production of "Hamlet." But whether making the audience laugh or cry is your cup of tea, you can only do it if you try­out. Auditions tend to be early in the semes­ter and easy to miss. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre 
FTT will perform three shows this year beginning with Niccolo Machiavelli's slightly sinister sexual comedy "The Mandrake," directed by Siiri Scott. The play is a twisted look at courting behavior complete with aphrodisiacs and corrupt priests. 
Auditions for "The Mandrake" are tonight and Thursday night at 7 p.m. Callbacks will be held on Friday at 7 

p.m. All take place i n Washington Hall. For more infor­mation call (574} 631­3017. There are two male roles and two female roles available. 
The sec­ond FTT 
"Theatre is a great play itself. FTT will perform
opportunity for students to 
Shakespeare's
get involved on the 
,, "Twelfth Night" in 
campus. the second semester. Auditions will be held Jan. 20 and 21
JJ Marler 
at 7 p.m. Callbacks
director 
will be held on Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company January 22 at 7 p.m . 
production of the year will be the Pulitzer Prize-wining serio-com­edy "How I Learned to Drive." Directed by Wendy Arons, the show is an out of sequence memory play about sex­ual molestation. Auditions for "How I Learned to Drive" are tonight and Thursday 
The Pasquerilla East Music Company performed "Dam largest and best quality theatre shows on campus eac 
night at 7 p.m. Callbacks will be held on Friday at 7 p.m. All take place in Washington Hall. Those who audition are encouraged to prepare a monologue. Special audition infor­mation and materials are available online at http://www.nd.edu/%7Ewarons/HILTD/audin­fo.html. though it is possible to do a cold reading from the 
More audition infor­
mation will be avail­
able later this year. Watch the FTT Web site, www.nd.edu/-ftt, for more information. 
The Communication, Dance and Theatre Department 
CDT will be performing Neil Simon's "The Odd Couple: The Female Edition," directed by Katie Sullivan. Auditions will be held on Sept. 18 and 19. The department will present "Medea" in the second semester. Further information is available from the department itself; call (574) 284-4640. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002 page 17 
udent theatre opportunities 

FILE PHOTO/The Observer 
11mn Yankees" last year. The group produces one of the !ach year. 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company 
Founded in 1997, the PEMC produces one of the biggest and highest quality shows around. The completely student run company will be performing Stephen Sondheim's "Into the Woods" an iconoclastic and mixed up look at 

Auditions will be held on Sept. 9 from 7 
callback/audition will be held on Sept. 
10 from 8 to 10 p.m. in 204 
O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Those who are auditioning are asked 
to prepare a short dramatic 
Shakespearian monologue, though cold 
readings from the play will be accept­
ed. There are 15 male parts and five 
female parts available. To join the 
NSRSC e-mail list, send a message to 
Katy Kertez at kkertez@nd.edu. 
Check the Not-So-Royal Web site, 
www.nd.edu/-nsrsco, for information 
on the company's second semester 
show "The Taming of the Shrew." 
The Sal'nt Edward's Hall Players 
The SEHP will be presenting Christopher Durang's "Betty's Summer Vacation," a comedy about repressing the truth, in the second semester. Auditions will be during the first week after fall break. Contact the director, senior Bill Kalman, at wkalman@nd.edu for more informa­tion. There are five male parts and four female parts available. The SEHP participants do not need to live in Saint Edward's Hall (obviously, as there are four female parts; well, then again). 
A number of other show crop up throughout the year; watch for signs calling for auditions around campus. Joining a group's e-mail list is also a good way to keep up with audition schedules. 
Getting up the courage to audition is the biggest hurdle in getting into the theatre scene on campus. Aspiring actors shouldn't be afraid to audition for more than one show. Each produc­
tion has a 
limited 

number of
popular fairy tales. ..I want to explore some 
parts and
Auditions are in late things in the show that not getting
September or early 
weren ·t done in the casted
October, but the show 
doesn't
itself is presented in the Broadway musical.·· 
mean that
second semester. Check 
you aren't
the PEMC Web site, 
Kat Walsh g o o d
www.nd.edu/-pemusic, 
choreographer enough or
for updates. Sign up for 
they didn't
the PEMC e-mail list will The Pasquerilla East Music Company 
be at Activities Night. Auditions consist of both singing and dancing. Materials will be made available a week or two before the audition. 
Senior Kat Walsh, whose acting and chore­ography has been seen on campus for the past three years, will be the choreographer of the show. She wants to add a new element to the production with movement. 
"I want to explore some things in the show that weren't done in the Broadway version," Walsh said. 
The Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 
The NSRSC will be presenting the Bard·s magnum opus "Hamlet" in the first semester. 
like you. 
Remember that everyone in the room is there for the same reason, especially in student run theatre groups. 
And if all else fails, grab a few friends and head over to the administration offices and start your own group. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
beggs.3@nd.edu 

page 18 \ ' Wednesday, August 28, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
\ \ \ \ 
\ AMERICAN LEAGUE
' 
Oakland gets 14th straight win to build lead 
earned -on seven hits, two the AL wild-card race, refused 1993. Manny Ramirez doubled done," Crede said. Associated Press walks and five strikeouts. to concede the division race to to reach base safely in his Antonio Osuna (7 -2) retired focus on the wild card. 24th consecutive game. the Blue Jays in order in the
Juan Acevedo pitched the
KANSAS CITY. Mo 
ninth inning for his 27th save. "Hopefully, we can build a The Red Sox recorded a 10th. 
The Athletics won their 14th Jason Phillips (1-3) allowed nice winning streak and they strange double play in the sev­Kelvim Escobar came in for straight game Tuesday night, six runs and six hits in five can start a nice losing streak," enth, when Williams' fly ball relief for Toronto starter Roymatching their longest streak innings in his worst of six said outfielder Johnny Damon, fell in front of a diving Halladay in the ninth with a 4­
since moving to Oakland. as 
starts this season. He hasn't who won Monday's night's Ramirez. Jeter thought the 2 lead. Halladay was in line 
David Justice homered and won in five starts since July game with a homer in the ball was caught and retreated for his ninth straight road vic­
drove in three runs in a 6-4 
15. 10th. "But to second base. Ramirez threw tory, but Escobar blew the 
victory over the Kansas City 
every time we the ball to shortstop Nomar save after hitting Rowand with
After two
Royals. s o l i d "Hopefully. we can build lose now, it's a Garciaparra, who tagged Jeter a pitch and giving up a two­
The streak is the longest in 
innings. tough loss." and then second base just run homer to Crede. Escobar
a nice winning streak 
the majors since Seattle won 
Phillips gave One night before Giambi got there from has blown seven save chances
15 straight last season and and they can start a nice 
up three after the Red first. this season.
tied the 1988 A's for the 
hits and a losing streak. But every Sox pounded The Yankees added two in Blue Jays manager Carlos
longest since the team moved 
walk in the time we lose now, it·s a out 18 hits in the ninth when Robin Ventura. Tosca didn't want to take a 
to Oakland. The franchise 
third, an emotional Soriano and Jeter all singled, chance of pushing Halladay.
record is a 17-game streak in tough loss ... 
including a victory over then Giambi added a sacrifice Halladay's pitch count was at
1931 when the team played in 
two-run sin­wild-card fly to make it 6-0. Jeter had 109.
Philadelphia. 
gle to Johnny Damon I e a d e r three hits in the game and "He's our franchise," said

Mark Mulder (16-7) allowed 
Easley. Anaheim, they drove in two runs. Tosca. "And I'm going to pro­
Boston outfielder 
. J four runs and seven hits in 
Pena hit managed just tect the interests of this orga­
seven-plus innings to win his 
his 14th two singles and White Sox 8, Blue Jays 4 nization."
third straight start. 
homer, 434 feet to right field, three doubles against Wells Joe Crede gave White Sox Halladay retired 11 of 12
Billy Koch pitched the ninth 
in the fourth to make it 3-0. (15-6). In all, Wells struck out fans something to get excited batters between the fourth
for his 35th save in 40 oppor­
The Indians responded in six and walked none before about. and seventh. He pitched eight
tunities. 
the bottom half with three leaving after Damon's leadoff Crede hit his first career innings. giving up just two
Ray Durham homered off 
straight RBI singles from Jim double in the ninth. grand slam in the bottom of runs on five hits. He struck out 
Runelvys Hernandez (3-3) in 
Thome, Travis Fryman and Steve Karsay got three outs the 10th inning after tying the four and walked three.
the fifth for the A's, who 
Matt Lawton to tie it at 3. to finish the five-hitter and has game with a two-run shot in Shannon Stewart led off the 
scored single runs in the third 
The Tigers made it 5-3 in not allowed a run in his last the ninth to lead the Chicago game with a double and Dave
through eighth inning. 
the fifth on an RBI single from 13 games. White Sox over the Toronto Berg followed with a single.
Terrence Long drove in two 
Higginson and Randall Wells, who is 9-10 in his Blue Jays 8-4 Tuesday night. Mark Buehrle then walked
A's runs with a sacrifice fly in 
Simon's RBI groundout. career at Fenway Park, was Crede, who is supposed to be Chris Woodward to load the
the third and a double in the 
John McDonald hit a sacri­just glad to get out of town the third baseman of the bases. Stewart then scored on
1 seventh. 
fice fly in the fifth to drive in unscathed. future, was Carlos
Justice hit a solo home run 
Karim Garcia, who reached on "I've had some bad games in recalled from Delgado's
in the sixth, an RBI single in "The only thing you can 
an error by shortstop Shane this park and it's nice to be Triple-A groundout
the fourth and a run-scoring 
Halter. to make it 5-4 in the victorious," he said. "It's been Charlotte on do is try to get good wood and Vernon
double in the eighth inning. 
fifth. a long time coming." July 30 after on the ball and hit the Wells doubled
Joe Randa had three hits, 
Brandon Inge had a RBI sin­Casey Fossum (2-3) retired the White Sox in Berg and
including a two-run triple in ball hard somewhere. 
gle in the sixth and pinch-hit­the first 11 batters -striking decided to go Woodward to
the eighth off Jim Mecir. 
ter Hiram Bocachica had an out the first five -before young. He has and ifyou do that I think make the
Carlos Beltran had an RBI sin­
RBI double. Higginson made it falling apart in the fifth, when started 3 3 the job is considered game 3-0. 
gle earlier in the inning to end 
8-4 on a sacrifice fly. the Yankees took a 4-0 lead. games at Stewart hit
Mulder's night. done . .,
Garcia drove in a run in the He allowed six hits and a walk third base a two-out
Kit Pellow had an RBI single 
seventh and was thrown out while striking out eight. since and has homer in the

in the seventh for Kansas 
trying to stretch a double into "The game started out with struggled Joe Crede second inning
City's first run. 
a triple. Robert Fick got his both pitchers throwing very with a .225 Chicago third baseman to add anoth­
Hernandez allowed four 
league-leading 15th outfield well," Boston manager Grady batting aver­er Toronto 
runs and eight hits, including 
assist on the play. Little said. "Their guy just age. But he run.
two home runs, in six innings. 
kept going a little longer than didn't show it Tuesday night. Carlos Lee and Jeff Liefer Yankees 6, Red Sox 0 ours did." "There's many ways to look both scored on groundouts in Tigers 6, Indians 1 David Wells took a shutout Seeking his first win as a at it, but I think that this is the second to narrow the lead 
l 
Mark Redman pitched eight into the ninth inning to win for starter in seven tries this sea­something that I can definitely to 4-2. strong innings to win for the the eighth time in nine deci­son, Fossum gave up a double build on," Crede said. Buehrle pitched nine first time in five starts and sions, and the New York to Raul Mondesi, a single to Chicago ended Toronto·s innings. After giving up the help Detroit end a six-game Yankees beat the Boston Red Shane Spencer and a sacrifice four-game winning streak. home run in the second, losing streak with an 8-5 vic­Sox to open an eight-game fly to Rondell White to start Scott Cassidy (0-4) gave up a Buehrle gave up just two hits. tory over the Cleveland lead in the division. the fifth. One out later, Alfonso leadoff single to Magglio With Buehrle's pitch count Indians. The Yankees moved a sea­Soriano doubled to make it 2-0 Ordonez in the 10th and at 100, he thought he had i Redman (8-12) survived a son-high 34 games over .500 and Derek Jeter singled him walked Carlos Lee. Felix something left for the 10th. I , three-run rally in the fourth and matched their biggest lead home. Heredia came in and gave up But he couldn't convince man­t I and got some much deserved of the season in the Eastern Jason Giambi doubled to a sacrifice bunt to Royce ager Jerry Manuel. I run support from Damian Division. The teams play four make it 4-0 and chase Fossum Clayton, then intentionally "I only had 100 pitches and I Easley and Bobby Higginson. more times in the next eight before Frank Castillo got walked Aaron Rowand to get ran over and showed them the who had two RBI each. Carlos days. Bernie Williams to end the to Crede, who homered to left clicker and it had 100 on there Pena homered for the Tigers. "Every game you win, it's inning. . center. and he said 'Don't worry. Entering the game, Redman one off the schedule," Yankees Williams singled in the "The only thing you can do is we're not going to go out there was last in the American manager Joe Torre said. "It fourth to extend his hitting try to get good wood on the for the 10th, we are going to League in run support with just makes it a little easier." streak to 18 games, the ball and hit the ball hard win it right here.' I had noth­
3.65 runs per nine innings. The Red Sox, who entered longest for a Yankee since he somewhere and if you do that ing to say back to him," He gave up five runs -four the night trailing two teams in hit in 21 games straight in I think the job is considered Buehrle said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Wanted: ND Tickets • highest prices paid. 251-1 570 
WANTED FOR SALE TICKETS 
ND Tickets for sale. Lowest prices. 289-9280 
Benchwarmer's Sports Lounge 2 Desks, one printer stand, 236 So. Michigan Needs bar-1 Bookshett -each $15. tenders, DJ and promotional people 287-0060 232-0022 
Large one-bedroom condo for sale. Starving/Thirsty student? Don't sell One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly your ticket! Class of '98 Grads remodeled. Fully equipped. wanting to rent out Turtle Creek $99,500. Apartment Sat. night, Sept. 14 {Michigan weekend). Will compen-Williamson.1@nd.edu sate w/ cash or preferred beverage. Call Andrew (949) 433-5087. Go Land Rover Discovery Series II. '99. Irish! Original owner, 45K, excellent con• 
dition, loaded. After school care for two children, $26,500. 3-5:30 pm. Good pay! Please call Lisa at 631-9947 or 277-8564. {574-233-2104). 
Buy/Sell N.D Football tickets. 289-8048 or astrog999@aol.com. ND Football Tickets for sale. 
AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Needed: large quantity of Stanford tickets for reunion, please help. ND Football Tickets wanted. 289-8048 AM 232·2378 PM 288-2726 
All Notre Dame vs Michigan State I need 3 tickets to the BC football Football Tickets For Sale at game. 563-241-1082 (Travis) 517-351-1992 or go to: www.jamestheticketman.com 
FOR RENT
Need 2 GA's for any home game. Call Jack 674-6593 
Available immediately -Fall semes-
N.D. Tickets. Buy and Sell. Please ter only • 2 BR Cottage five min. check our prices -273-3911 from campus -Dave 243-5353 FOR RENT -3 Bedroom Home 1 
Near N.D. Quiet-Huge one bed·  All size homes available for 2003·  
room. Fireplace, washer, dryer,  2004. mmmrentals@aol.com.  
garage. 1244 E. Madison  www.mmmrentals.com  
299-0229  B&B lodging w/ alumni family for  
ND/SM evets, football weekends,  
Room in home for rent. $400.  JPW & graduation. 574-243-2628  
Utilities incl. 8 min. to campus. Furn  or garyb@mvillage.com.  
or unfum, Jacuzzi. Call 255-4737  
Donna  

PERSONAL
mile from NO. Garage, alarm sys-tern, A?C. Avail. immed., $650/rno. call 574-220-0499 Mike Lane is the wind beneath my 
wings. Room tor rent $350/mo, incl. pri­vate bath, garage space, ale, wash-I hope God enjoyed his night writing er & dryer, private bath, kitchen during this night of Hell in the base­privleges. no smoking, 2-3 miles ment. Tomorrow should be fun with from campus. Phone: 574-272• the second Insider in a row. I got 4880, ask for Marcia nothin' 

-
Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
INTERESTED IN PHOTOGRAPHY? 
Coine to a Ineeting at The Observer office­South Dining Hall 
Thursday, August 29th 
7:30 p.Ill. 
to learn tnore about photojournalistn. 
Questions? Contact Tina Reitano 277-0375 or Nellie Williams 251-0173 631-8767 

Student Government sponsors 
11Who Knew?11 
ads. 
Every Wednesday, the Office of the student Body President will run a "Who Knew?" column in The Observer. 
The ads will feature resources available at Notre Dame that few students know exist. 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Stevie Franchise soon will be cashing paychecks befitting his 
nickname. 
Steve Francis, heading into 
the final year of a four•year, 
$14.1 million contract with the 
Houston Rockets, has agreed to 
a six•year extension at the NBA 
maximum, which should be 
between $80 million and $90 
million once the new salary cap 
is established. 
"They're willing to put that 
significant amount of money on 
the line that we can get some 
results," Francis said Monday. 
"When a lot of guys get healthy, 
I think we can have one of 
those seasons (this year) that we'll always remember." 
Francis is among the Rockets trying to get healthy. He is recovering from surgery on his right shoulder and is treating an inner-ear disorder that caused debilitating headaches last season. 
The injury and the headaches, diagnosed as Meniere's Disease by the Mayo Clinic, kept Francis out of 25 games. He said Monday his ear treatment is going well and doesn't anticipate headaches to recur this season. 
Also returning from injuries are Maurice Taylor, who missed all of 2001-02 with an injured right Achilles tendon and guard Glen Rice, who was lost in January with a hurt right knee. 
-
NBA 
Francis agrees to extension 
Owner Les Alexander gushed 
at the prospect of his returning 
veterans joining first-round 
picks Yao Ming, the 7-foot-5 
center from China who was the 
NBA's No. 1 overall choice, and 
Slovenian forward Bostjan 
Nachbar. 
"The talent that's coming 
back now is just unbelievable," 
Alexander said. 
Despite Yao's much•anticipat­
ed arrival, the contract solidi­
fies the 25-year-old Francis as 
the Rockets' go-to guy, as the 
headrests of his white 
Mercedes-Benz that sport the 
embroidered word "Franchise" 
attest. 
The 6•foot-3, 195·pound Francis was an NBA All•Star for the first time last season. Often playing in pain, he aver­aged 22 points, seven assists and seven rebounds last sea­son. 
Francis said he's eager to 
fully assume the team's leader· 
ship role as the Rockets try to 
transform from a rebuilding 
club into a contender. 
"I think it'll be a good oppor­tunity, not only in being a leader in talking or yelling, but proving things on the court," Francis said. "I will be judged, definitely, on how much we win and how much we lose, and I'm ready for that next step." 
Francis, drafted No. 2 overall in 1999 by Vancouver. was ) traded three years ago Tuesday after refusing to sign with the Grizzlies. He was the league's co-rookie of the year that sea-
ND Freshman Ladies  
Cheerleading Tryout  
• Two positions available-Fall Semester @ Cheer & Tumbling Experience Needed e Joyce Center, Gym 2, August 29 at 6:30 p.m. @ Pick up forms to complete before tryout at Joyce Center -Above Gate 3 -See Beverly  

jf=>BEER FACTOR:rlTif=> 
_.,,. IS "f ot COMrNGTO ~ 
.. ~ BENCHWARMER/ ~ 
_ _,
~ft,; EVERY $ 2 THURSDAY 4" 1.,.:,•fj ~$ 
~ ~ 
FROZEN T-SHIRT CONTEST $2 \'OlrCAU•IT BLINDT "5TE TE~T 
S2 \'-/EU ORll'll\S 
sz 2.1oz BEER
KIDDY POOL FRO~\ HELL 
$2 IMPORTS
l'-r nus SHRCHIJG 
S2 BlJRGERS SHOT 4 SHU; H5Pf1CAL5 BLENDER OF FEAR BEER 
AND MUCH MORE . 
Mich,ara's on!)' Reality Contest -If'S a College St•.1dents Ni91\r,nare 

R.::l~l:i ~s Mi.xi..-..g l~v, H-Lp I-tap. ~'?-R § "g,, OL;i sfr.ooi.. -PY-cgr~Lve § !.At~"" 1-ta....se 

'NIN PRIZES -DOOR PRIZES -l>RIZES THAT CAN s,we YOUR UIIE 

Wed. Nights Rump Shaker Contest $1.00 Draft Beer Must be 21 with valid ID to purchase or consume alcohol. 


Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Selllinoles chopped down 1 in poll 

Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. 
A close game with Iowa State on Saturday night dropped Florida State one spot in the latest USA Today/ESPN coaches poll, released Monday. 
The Seminoles fell from fourth to fifth, switching places with Tennessee, after a season­opening 38-31 victory over Iowa State in the Eddie Robinson Classic. Linebackers Kendyll Pope and Jerel Hudson stopped quarterback Seneca Wallace at the 1-yard line on the final play of the game. 
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden passed Bear Bryant and moved into sole possession of second place on the all-time Division I-A wins list with his 324th -but not before the Seminoles nearly squandered a pair of 24-point leads. 
Defending national champion Miami, which opens its season Saturday against Florida A&M, remained at the top of the poll. The Hurricanes will take a 22­game winning streak into the 2002 season. 
Miami received 42 first-place votes -eight more than in the preseason poll -and 1,466 points in the nationwide poll of 61 coaches. 
Four of the top eight teams in the poll are from the Big 12 Conference, including No. 2 Texas, which received 10 first• place votes and 1,424 votes, and No. 3 Oklahoma, which got seven first-place votes and is 24 points behind the Longhorns. 
No. 6 Colorado and No. 8 Nebraska are the other Big 12 teams in the top eight. 

wBudding Journalism Major. ...J 0Spent summer writing for hometown paper. u Future holds editorial position at major pub. z Her byline always includes AT&T. Freedom of Expression. Sign up for AT&T Long Distance and get up to 4 hours of calling on us: Choose AT&T for Long Distance when you sign up for local phone service. Then call 1 877-COLLEGE to add the AT&T One Rate 7( Plus Plan and get up to 4 hours of FREE calling. 1 B77•COLLEGEx27354 att.com/college/newterrn ........ AT&T College Communications ~ c.hoia. ~ w.tYdd. ~ v.oia,. ~AT&T Long Distance • Internet Service • Virtual PrePaid Cards • International Calling *Free minutes consist of monthly long distance bill credits and an AT&T Phone Card worth up to 2 hours of domestic calling. Terms and Conditions apply. Bill credit offer expires 12/31/02. Go to www.attcom1college1newterm for complete details.  


MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cora returns
;, 1 
after concussion 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Los Angeles Dodgers short­stop Alex Cora was released from the hospital Tuesday. a day after being knocked unconscious during a collision at second base. 
Cora returned to the team and took early batting prac­tice, but as a precaution he sat out Tuesday night's game against Arizona and will miss Wednesday's game, too. 
"The good thing is I'm healthy and all right," he said. The 26-year-old Cora sus­tained a mild concussion when 
J he collided at second base with Arizona shortstop Tony Womack on Monday night. 
Cora was unconscious for more than 30 seconds, general manager Dan Evans said. 
"Even when they rolled him over his eyes stayed shut," Womack said. 
Cora was taken off the field on a stretcher. hospitalized for observation and released Tuesday morning. 
"He won't be available for a couple of days due to the sig­nificance of the concussion," Dodgers manager Jim Tracy said. "We're going to monitor him and make sure he doesn't revisit any symptoms that go along with having had a con­cussion. That's an order, that's not a request." 
Cora's teammates were especially glad to see him back at Dodger Stadium. 


LOOKING TO BE PART OF A GROUP? 
-·,, ,Y\ 
~·~ 
..
I
+ 
f . . 
"~ ,,'I:
--..,.li..... 
',} 
J¦Q... J;_ --,:'.l 
i· 
J 
" 
AIR FORCE ROTC Make your decisionl 
J 
Contact: 1Lt. Alan Acree@ 631-467 or acree.1@nd.edu 
Nebraska was one of six ranked teams in action last weekend, routing Arizona State, 48-10. 
Florida State received the remaining two first-place votes. 
Florida, which begins a new era under coach Ron Zook, is seventh in the poll. 
Washington and Michigan, a pair of teams that meet Saturday in Ann Arbor, com­plete the top 10. 
Ohio State is 11th and switched places with Georgia after opening its season Saturday with a 45-21 win over Texas Tech. 
Washington State is 13th and is followed by Louisiana State, Oregon, Virginia Tech, Michigan State, Louisville, Southern California and Maryland. Virginia Tech stayed at 16th after a 63-7 win over Arkansas State on Sunday. 
South Carolina, Marshall, Penn State, North Carolina State and Wisconsin complete the poll. Wisconsin dropped two spots despite a 23-21 win over Fresno State. North Carolina State advanced one spot after a 34-14 win over New Mexico. 
The coaches' poll is part of the Bowl Championship Series formula that determines the participants in the national championship game. 
The top two teams in the rat­ings meet in the game, which this season is the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 3. 
Wednesday, August 28, 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 
U.S. OPEN 
Champion struggles to advance 
Associated Press 
NE½' YORK 
Former champion Marat Safin battled his temper and some booming serves from Nicolas Kiefer to advance in the first round of the U.S. Open on Tuesday with a draining 6-3, 4-6, 4-6. 6-4, 7­6 (4} victory. 
Safin smashed two rackets during the match, which last­ed 4 hours, 31 minutes. In the end, the German gave in to fatigue and cramps. 
It wasn't easy for Safin, the Open's 2000 champion and seeded second this year. He traded huge serves with Kiefer that exceeded 130 mph. 
Twice, Kiefer broke Safin's serve late to stay in the match, and another time Kiefer raced from one corner 
Limping badly, Kiefer twice saved match points  "He tried as much as he could. It was unbelievable.,,  riding 14 aces to the victory. Carlos  
and forced  a  M  o y  a  ,  
tiebreak. But he collapsed on the court  Marat Safin tennis player  awarded his highest seed at the U.S.  
reaching for a  Open  in  
shot  at  3-5.  three years  
He  was  at  No.  9,  

helped to his feet and won the advanced to the second round next point before the Russian of the season's final Grand ended the marathon. Slam by defeating Adrian "He tried as much as he Voinea 3-6, 6-4, 6-3, 7-6 (4). could," Safin said. "It was The victory was a grind for unbelievable." Moya, a clay-court specialist 

who came into the Open after winning at Cincinnati -just the second hardcourt title of his career. Ten of his previous 11 victories were on clay, and he won at Cincinnati by defeating No. 1 Lleyton Hewitt in the final. 
Former finalist Mark Philippoussis, hounded by knee trouble, was forced to retire from his match against No. 24 Sjeng Schalken after winning the first two sets. 
Moya came into the Open with four titles this year, tying Andre Agassi and Hewitt for the most on the tour. 
It's the first time since 1995 that Voinea has lost in the opening round of this tourna­ment. 
Philippoussis, runner-up in the Open in 1998 but unseed­ed now and battling a cranky left knee, looked strong for two sets against Schalken. But 
l.earn how to be a nurse, 
by being a [UUfSe]., 
Here's your chance to do what other students only read about. To get hands-on clinical experience, one-on-one training, and a shot at a scholarship worth thousands. It's all part of the Army ROTC Nursing program. Talk to an Army ROTC advisor today to find out more. Because it's time you put your passion into practice. 
AR MY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 

For more information, contact Captain Bart Hernessey at (219) 631-4656 or 1-800-UND-ARMY 
after losing the third. the Australian fell in a heap on an overhand and came up gri­macing as he gripped his left knee. 
There have been three oper­ations in 14 months on the knee, and Philippoussis was in obvious pain as ATP trainer Doug Spreen examined him. When Spreen asked how he felt, Philippoussis said, "I'm scared." 
The Australian struggled to his feet and, after Spreen worked on him, he was able to continue for a while, even winning another game. But on a changeover Spreen exam­ined him again. 
"It hurts," he told the train­er. A few moments later. Philippoussis retired from the match, allowing Schalken to advance 6-7 (1). 4-6, 6-3,5-3. 
He left the grounds to get an MRI on his knee. 
Agassi, Sampras team up 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Andre Agassi is joining Pete 
Sampras as an investor in The 
Tennis Channel, a 24-hour 
cable network launching this 
year. 
Agassi, a seven-time Grand 
Slam tournament champion, 
will be a spokesman for the 
channel, which will help pro­
mote the Andre Agassi 
Charitable Foundation. 
His association was among a series of announcements made Tuesday by the 24-hour net­work, which will be a basic cable service: 
. 
Deals to broadcast seven pro tournaments: wrA Tour stops in Charleston, S.C.; Manhattan Beach, Calif.; Sarasota, Fla.; and Paris; ATP Tour events in Chennai, India; San Jose, Calif.; and Houston. 

. 
An original series called "No Strings," billed as "an intimate look at the glamorous lifestyles of professional tennis players off the court." Sampras, Lindsay Davenport and Andy Roddick will be featured in the first three episodes. 

. 
TV rights for World Team Tennis. 

. 
A multiyear advertising deal with Wilson Racquet Sports, a division of Wilson Sporting Goods. 


The Tennis Channel hasn't said when in 2002 it will launch, but it currently has deals that would put it in 38 percent of the country's cable households. 
The network now has rights to more than 1,400 hours of tournament tennis, including five WTA Tour events and seven ATP Tour events. 
Its programming lineup will be about 40 percent tourna­ment play. 40 percent instruc­tional shows and 20 percent news or features. 
of the court to the other to save a point. 
Both players were iced for cramps in their upper legs as the match neared the end. Safin was flat on the court being stretched while Kiefer sat in his chair as the trainer worked on him. 
Safin had 15 aces and 64 unforced errors to 12 aces and 59 unforced errors for Kiefer. Twelve double faults hurt Kiefer's chances for the upset. 
Defending champion Lleyton 
Hewitt advanced 6-2, 6-3, 6-3 over Nicolas Coutelot, 


' \' 
\ 
' \ ·, \ \ \ \ page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
.\
\ \' 
\ 
\" 
\ 
' 
' 
' 
) 
:1 
.\ 
\'I, 'i 
\
:\ 
"·' 
\ 
-~i, 
\\ 
\. 
\~ ·,: 
,,~-\ 
\\ 
\ 1\ \ 
l! !i 
\~ 
~~ 
:1\ 
~~ 
'\
\ 
' 

transportation services! 
I I
If you are going to operate rentalvehicles from the new motor pool or drive a depart­
I I
mental vehicle, you must attend one of the training/orientation sessions!
I I 
Students who have not attended a session as
I of October 1, ~002 will not be eligible to drive I university vehicles!!!
I I 
Students only need to attend the training/ orientation session once during their four
I I 
years at Notre Dame. 
I I
Training/orientation sessions are required for any type of vehicle being operated (sedans,
I I
mini-vans etc.) 
I Sessions will be held in DeBartolo Hall, room I
~ 
102, each Sunday evening in Sptember (1st,I 8th, 15th, 22nd, 29th).
i@ 

,.
I Sessions will start at 6:45 pm and last no 
~1···•. 
longer than one hour! 
I I
Please bring a pen and your driver's license! 
L 
w.n WAa -» ~ ami ._ ~ ma W£U 
J 
I 
_. 
Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bonds aim.s for the fences and the title 
Associated Press hitting in San Francisco's "He's trying for the batting batting title]. He'll get that. It's Candlestick Park's soggy, famously fickle weather. title this year. Whatever Barry not even a problem." windy weather stopped Mays, 
So when Mays says Bonds is does, he knows I'm behind
SAN FHANCISCO 
capable of becoming a first-him.... He's still a young man.
Willie Mays knows Barry 
time batting champion at 38, He'll have a lot of records
Bonds better than almost any• 
it's not wise to take the Hall of when he quits. He's got a lot of 
one. Mays counsels his godson 
Famer's opinions lightly. records now, but he'll have
on everything from the perils 
"I think Barry can do exactly more.
of fame to the difficulties of 
what he wants," Mays said. "Don't even worry about [the 
the 
Yi , .. • •
·our a ternat,ve music source. 


j{.•.. : . ~,,~~~~]:~;2~/\ 
J:S;'{ ,,/,t:"~~t:~:=:~Iii• 
i~./::i.I.':!" · · ,tittt:rit:r:tt:,_,,_, 
.A~ .-·: :::::..•·• ·-·:•·.'.•:-·-:••.•-: 
=:•••· .::Jt·): .;f, ..> 
T ::::•:·:::::-:-··· 12
99 
PUNK GOES POP 
Various Artists 
T
999 

BLINDSIDE 
Silence 
T
1399 

FASTBALL Painting The Corners: The Best Of Fcutball 

::,;.· ·.•. V 
L;IJ·.·.
' ·.. \.:''~ 

• ?. ,,.~
• 
. 
·.•····•·.·--··.·,.·.­
.·l . .. ~.}. 
·:..: >
I . 
T
1599 

PULP 
We love life 
Toke the coolest indie punk bond, you con think of nnd lock them in the studio to record some of pop rodio's hugest hits. Whot do you get? This lotest killer compilotion from femless 
Records. Nicotine covers Britney's 
"... Bohy One More Time." Knockout covers Destiny Child's "Survivor." Further Seems Forever covers N'Snyc's "Bye, Bye, Bye." You get the picture. Now get the CD. 

T-REX 20th Century Boy: The Ultimate Collection 

THE BLACK CROWES 
Live 

PULP FICTION SPECIAL EDITION 
Soundtrack 
Pnrental Advisory 

After hitting his 600th homer earlier this month, the San Francisco Giants' slugger isn't within reach of any more dramatic home run milestones this season. Instead, Bonds has set his sights on an unlike­ly goal: the NL batting champi­onship. 
Mays, Hank Aaron, Babe Huth and Frank Hobinson all won batting titles. Bonds hasn't done it in his first 16 major league seasons. 
During his run to 600, Bonds again expressed surprise at his recent home run feats. It was never his goal to hit this many home runs, Bonds who won his only batting crown in 1954 while playing at New York's Polo Grounds. 
Mays, Aaron and Ruth -the only three home run hitters still in front of Bonds -all won batting titles early in their careers. 
But Bonds, unlike almost every great player before him, seems to be getting better with age. 
Bonds, who began his career as a speedy le a doff hitter before his well•chronicled transformation into a muscle­bound slugger, has never hit higher than .336 -and that was in 1993, his 
said and first sea­
"He's trying for the 
then, almost son with
batting title this year.
without the Giants. prompting, he Whatever Barry does, he Last sea­gave a rare son, Bonds
knows rm behind him . ...
insight into one put up
He's still a young man. 
of his goals some of beyond that He'll have a lot ofrecords the most still-elusive mind-bog•
when he quits. He's got a 
World Series g 1 i n g
lot ofrecords now. but
ring. offensive 
"I want to he'll have more.·· numbers in win that bat­baseball ting title," history ­
Willie Mays 
Bonds said sim­and he still 
Bonds' godfather
ply. hit only 
With five 
weeks left in 
the season, Bonds entered 
Monday night's game against 
Colorado hitting .357. 
After leading the league for 
much of the summer, he's 
neck-and-neck atop the NL 
leaderboard with the Rockies' 
Larry Walker, the champion in 
1998, 1999 and last season. 
Montreal's Vladimir Guerrero 
is more than 20 points behind 
in third place. 
"He's got a good chance, but it's a long process," San Francisco manager Dusty Baker said. "You can be right in the running until the last week of the season, and if you go in a slump, it's all over. I'd love to see it, though. It'd be nice to see somebody win it who doesn't play in Colorado." 
Since joining the NL in 1993, Walker and fellow Rockies Andres Galarraga (1993) and Todd Helton (2000) have won five of the nine titles; San Diego's Tony Gwynn won three others. 
Geography is working against Bonds in two ways. While Walker hits in the thin air of Denver. Bonds plays half of his games in Pacific Bell Park -perhaps the most pitcher-friendly environment in the NL, according to Helton, the Mets' Mike Piazza and other talented hitters. 
In fact, no member of the San Francisco Giants has won a batting title since the fran­chise moved west in 1958 ­the longest drought in the NL. 
.328, fin­
ishing sev­
enth in the NL. Managers and 
pitchers always tread lightly 
around players with high aver• 
ages, but Bonds' power abili­
ties make him almost impossi­
ble to challenge 
"I think he'll make the most 
of his chances," said Robinson, 
a former Triple Crown winner 
who was passed by Bonds on 
the career homers list earlier 
this season. "The only ques­
tion is whether Barry will get 
enough chances. There's no 
team that wants to let him 
beat you." 
Robin-son, the Montreal Expos' manager. illustrated that point at Pacific Bell Park on Sunday by intentionally walking Bonds with runners on first and second base -his 148th walk of the season. 
...,.
Nobody in baseball history has walked as frequently as Bonds, who set the major league record with 177 free passes last season. Walker has nearly 100 more official at­bats than Bonds, and that's not likely to change if the Giants stay in the NL West race. 
"Barry gets fewer pitches to hit than almost anybody ever has in the history of the game, and he's still in the running for that batting title," team­mate Shawon Dunston said. "To me. that's the most impressive thing about his season. I think he'll get it. Nothing he does will surprise anybody these days." 


For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. 
Selection, pricing and special offers may vary by store and online. H l 70R7 l '.L"i21 Sale ends September 7, 2002. www.mediaplay.(om 
page 24 Wednesday, August 28, 2002
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Over 300,000 New and USED textbooks 
. 

FREE shipping on 2or more items 

Convenient Online Book Buvback Program 

www.bn.com 
Restrictions apply. Offer subject to change. Visit www.bn.com for details. 
_.II 


Wednesday, August 28, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 25 

around the dial 
MLB 
Yankees at Red Sox 6 p.m., ESPN Cardinals at Reds 6 p.m., ESPN2 Cubs at Brewers 7 p.m., FoxSports 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open 6 p.m., USA 
INTERNATIONAL BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Reggie Miller is ques­tionable for Thursday's opening game of the World Championships with a sprained right ankle. 
The Indiana Pacers guard had his ankle ele­vated and wrapped in ice while the U.S. national team practiced Tuesday. 
National team coach George Karl said a deci­sion on Miller likely would be made before the opener against Algeria. 
"Asking him to come back in two or three days is hard," Karl said. 
The 37-year-old Miller was injured in an exhibi­tion game Sunday against Germany. He said he would be ready to play by Friday. 
"I want to play," Miller said. "To be a part of something as special as this, that I put so much work into, I want to be ready." 
Miller has received con­stant treatment and said he felt much better Tuesday. Still, he only shot free throws and will be held out of the final practice. 
Miller and Jermaine O'Neal, his Pacers' team­mate, were the only two players to start in both exhibition games against China and Germany. 
No decision has been made on Miller's replace­ment. Karl said the line­ups would be rotated for the first four or five games. 
"I told the team that I hope we don't have to have a starting lineup," he said. "The guys that are important to me are the guys who are going to finish the game." 
Miller, who won gold medals in the 1994 World Championships and 1996 Olympics, could become the first American male to earn two World Championship gold medals. 
"To be asked to play for your country is an honor," he said. "To be asked to play with the up­and-coming superstars that are assembled on this team kind of gave me another sense of motiva­tion to come out play." 
He's already accus­tomed to the role of elder statesman. He was the oldest player last season 
on the Pacers, the youngest team in the league. Miller is one of two players over 30 (with Toronto's Antonio Davis) on the national team, where the average age is 
26.2 years. 
"It's fun to be around the young guys and teach and to learn," Miller said. "It's fun to see if you still have it, which I feel that I do." 
Before he was hurt, Miller showed he was one of the top players on the team. 
"He's probably been one of the best players on the court almost every prac­tice," Karl said. "I think he's come here with a lot of pride to show the young kids that he's still one of the best players in the world." 
IN BRIEF 
offensive lineman Lewis Kelly died of Erickson was arrested July 22
New Yor~ San Francisco 
possible ~012 hosts pregnancy complications, the second after an argument with Lisa Ortiz CHICAGO consecutive year of preseason that spilled out of their Inner Harbor tragedy for the team. condominium and into a hallway
New York and San Francisco were 
Rakiva Kelly, 24, was four months and elevator. He was scheduled to
selected Tuesday as the U.S. finalists 
appear before a domestic violence
to host the 2012 Summer Olympics, pregnant, tight end Byron 
while Houston and Washington, Chamberlain said. Chamberlain and judge Sept. 6, but court records coach Mike Tice were with Kelly show that prosecutors decided earli­
D.C., were eliminated as contenders. 
The U.S. Olympic Committee's when his wife died just before mid­er this month not to press the board of directors will pick the U.S. night Sunday at Methodist Hospital charges. 
in nearby St. Louis Park. "The victim was interviewed by
candidate for the 2012 Games at a 
"We had a tremendous tragedy," the prosecutor, and her testimony
Nov. 3 meeting. Then comes the international competition, where Tice said Monday. "Right now we're bordered on a recantation," state's things really get serious. reeling a little bit as a family. We'll attorney spokeswoman Marty Burns As many as a dozen cities -battle our way through it ... and we said. "With no other independent including possibly Toronto, Rome, will all pick up the slack for Lewis evidence, the case just could not Kelly." proceed."
Paris, Moscow, and Rio de Janeiro, 
Scott Shellenberger, Erickson's
Brazil -are expected to be in the mix. The International Olympic Charges against Erickson attorney, said he was "extremely ­Committee will pick the host in dropped pleased," with the decision. 
"After reviewing the facts. they
2005. A second-degree assault charge 
determined that Mr. Erickson did
against Baltimore Orioles pitcher 
not commit a crime, which is what
Vikings suffer another loss Scott Erickson was dropped after 
Scott's position has always been."
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. prosecutors interviewed the player's 
Shellenberger said.
The wife of Minnesota Vikings live-in girlfriend, prosecutors said. 

,.'( · ..I-.· 



lll{' (Jh.1t'rl 11T . PAID ADVERTISEMEN'f 
-·····---···········-··················-················ 
~ 

n  n-n tu  ow pen: ampus ranc e a ortune ent enterl  
Hours  

Monday-Wednesday 8:30am -5:00pm 
Thursday & Friday 8:30am -7:00pm 
Plus, we oner 10 ATMs on campusl 




NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the University 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 27 

Tl-IE 

RECOMMENDS 
"A fascinating and disturbing account of man's strange relationship with plants and plant science. Beautifully written, it is as compelling as a detective thriller." 

POLLAN
-Penelope Hobhouse, author ofOn Gardening 
The Parror ,._.., Who Owns fvk 
"Burger manages to make the story of her relationship with her pet, Tiko, into one of the warmest, funniest and weirdest memoirs of the year." 
-Publishers Weekly 
"Immortal Class is an engaging memoir which reflects on urban bike messengers and their activities ... An intriguing study." 
--Library journal 
change from the run-heavy offense former coach Bob
Grant 
Davie ran last season. Neither 
continued from page 32 Grant nor Wilson can count on carrying the ball as often as they would have in the old
during which he rushed for 77 offense. But there are expec­yards. Four minutes into the tations that, when it counts,
second quarter. with the 
to
Notre Dame trailing Purdue the ball will still come 
them.
by three, Grant rushed for 14 
"I still think that we'reyards and crossed the goal 
going to run the ball," Grant
line for the first time in a 
said. "I have the utmost confi­Notre Dame jersey. 
dence that they're going to
But will he add more touch­run the ball and get in a gooddowns to that total? 
position to run the ball."
"Absolutely. As many as I 
And the benefit of a pass­
can," he·said. 
heavy offense for a running-Despite Jones's unexpected 
back?
·exit, Grant is confident that "It keeps the defense hon­
he's ready to be a top player. 
est," Grant said. "They can't
After all. he didn't come to 
blitz all the time, they don'tNotre Dame to watch from the 
know where ... the ball is
sidelines. 
going to go. That helps you"I came to Notre Dame to be out a little bit." 
that type of guy," he said. "I 
Grant claimed that hedidn't come here to sit and 
doesn't have too many pre­watch. If you want to be a game jitters. Whether Notre
competitor. you want to be in Dame plays a
the spot-
tough oppo­
light." Wilson, "/ came to Notre Dame to nent like 
Maryland
too, is ready be that type ofguy. I his
to step up to near 
didn't come here to sit hometown,
the role that's been and watch. Ifyou want to or an oppo­
nent that
assigned to be a competitor, you want 
presents
h i m . 
to be in the spotlight. ,, fewer chal­
Although he 
lenges farwas not 
way, football
expecting Ryan Grant 
is football. 
his ch anee 
mnning back 
"You haveto come this to take every
early, he game as
w a s that's it," he said.
nonetheless prepared for it. 
Wilson, however, has no
"I've been preparing myself game experience. He saw no
whether I'd been second 
playing time last season afterstring, first string, no matter 
injuring his foot during fall
what," he said. "It came a lot camp. His nerves aren't quite
sooner -my chance -I 
as steely as Grant's.
guess. I'm ready." 
'Tm a little bit nervous, butAs fall camp ends, the two 
that's about it," he said. 'Tm
rushers are feeling comfort­
ready to play football." 
able in both their new roles and in the new offense. The pro-style offense of Notre 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
Dame's new coach Tyrone 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu
Willingham will be a distinct 

1969-YOU! · IT'S "LAST CALL" FOR THE ALUMN l SEN [OR I CLUB. SO jOlN IN THE FUN TONIGHT AS 
WE KICKOFF OUR FINAL SEMESTER. *NORMAL WEDNESDAY SPECIALS 
*$6 M EM B E RS H I PS 
GOING OUT-BUT GOING OUT IN STYLE LIKE ONLY ND CAN. 
IS YOUR ROOMMATE 
-
ALREADY TIRED OF YOU 
WATCHING ESPN? 
... 
COME WRITE OBSERVER 
SPORTS. 
CALL 1-4543 
page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 28, 2002 

until Ashley Dryer's last this weekend. Waldrum was fielder Mary Boland are not Friday night for their season 
minute goal did the Irish show doubtful that expected to opener to battle the signs of offensive life. Pruzinsky recover in Providence Friars. Game time 
Soccer 
"Maggie Manning has
continued from page 32 This critical score was would return time from is scheduled for 7:30 p.m.indicative of the quick-strike this weekend, really put herself in the injuries EST. capability the Irish offense will w h i I e that side­. Notre Dame will return in
even though we won the game. picture for us. She
have this season. The goal was Gunnarsdottir's lined them action on Sunday for its home
We actually created more scor­continues to get better 
set up by Ford. The freshman availability still during last opener against the visiting
ing opportunities than North 
crossed the ball to midfielder remains a
Carolina. We did not come out and better.·· weekend's Virginia Tech Hokies. Game 
Randi Scheller, who sent the question mark. exhibition
with the same intensity against time is scheduled for 1 p.m.
ball up the right side of the The Irish will games.
Kentucky." Randy Waldrum
field. Fleet-footed forward continue to be
Notre Dame did not start 
Warner tracked the ball down without a few head coach
well in their game against last Notes:
and crossed it to Dryer, who projected
year's NCAA runner-up, North . Notre
promptly sealed the game with offensive
Carolina. After falling behind Dame will travel to Prov­Contact Joe Licandro at 
an 18-yard rocket shot. starters this weekend as well.
3-0, the Irish battled back idence, Rhode Island on Licandro. l@nd.edu 
While the Irish offense Forward Tancredi and mid-
with a goal by Amy Warner in 
showed flashes of brilliance
the 64th minute of the game. 
over the weekend, the NotreWarner slipped past the Tar 
Dame defense struggled atHeel defense to rebound a times. Injuries and missingdeflected shot from fellow 
players may have caused thejunior Amanda Guertin. The defensive breakdowns. None
goal to cut the North Carolina 
of last season's four startingto 3-1. Coach Waldrum has 
defenders were in action overbeen extremely satisfied with 
the weekend, while Monica
the play of Warner throughout Gonzales and Lindsey Jonesthe preseason. 
have gradu­
" A m y 
ated. All­Warner is 
American
back to her "Amy Warner is back to 
Vanessa
form from her 
her form from freshman Pruzinsky
freshman 
year." said year. Last year was a was held 
out of
Waldrum. difficult year for her 
action with"Last year 
coming back from the a knee
was a difficult 
injury,
year for her ACL injury." 
w h i l e
coming back 
returning
from the ACL 
Randy Waldrum 
sophomoreinjury. She's 
head coach Candace
extremely fit 
Chapman
and her speed was playing
is back. I with the Canadian National
expect her to have a huge year Team during the weekend.
for us." 
To make matters worse,
Six minutes after Warner's 
sophomore Gudrun
goal, Sarah Bush responded 
Gunnarsdottir injured her foot
with North Carolina's fourth 
in Friday's loss against North
goal of the game. The Irish 
Carolina. She did not play two 
answered once more with a 
days later against Kentucky.
goal by freshman Maggie 
Waldrurn was forced to con­
Manning via an assist from 
vert many midfielders such asWarner. Manning, who filled Molly Tate, Ford, and Kim
in for injured junior Melissa 
Carpenter into defensive rolesTancredi at the forward posi­
over the weekend.
tion, is one of several fresh­Unfortunately, these players
men who are expected to see 
may have to play defense
significant action this season. 
again this weekend when the
Waldrurn has been very Irish open the regular season
impressed with the progress of 
and Big East play against
the freshman thus far in the 
Providence and Virginia Tech. 
preseason. 
Chapman and highly touted"Maggie Manning has really 
freshman defender Katie
put herself in the picture for Thorlakson will remain with
us," said Waldrum. "She con­
the Canadian National Team 

tinues to get better and better. Jen Walz is another freshman who has really stood out in the preseason. Miranda Ford has done a great job at midfield and defense. Kat Sigler had a great weekend for us as well. These players will see a lot of minutes for us this season." 
Sunday's game against Kentucky was another chal­lenging tune-up for the Irish. Notre Dame started the game on fire, but a mental lapse on defense cost the Irish early control of the game. Last sea­son's leading scorer, Amanda Guertin blasted a long shot from the outside the goalie box to give the Irish a quick 1­0 lead in the game's eighth minute. The lead would not last long, though. as the Wildcats answered back only 18 seconds later to tie the game at 1-1. For almost the entire rest of the game, the Notre Dame offense failed to recapture any of the rhythm and cohesiveness that served them well against UNC. Not 
RECYCLE 
• 0 
THE OBSERVER 
FITNESS FALL SCHEDULE 2002 
..B..SRC ACTIVITY FlOO/IA "I 
1 12:15-1 2:45 Ca.rdio Sculpt (ends 12/1 B) M/V\//F $36 2 4:"'15-5:"'15 Step II M/W.F $38 3 5:30-6:45 Power Step n"Pump M/V\/ $33 4 8:30-9:30pm Carclio Box M/W $26 S 12:15-12:45 Flex n'Tone (ends 1.2/19) TrTh $23 6 4:"'15-5:"'15 Step II T/Th $26 7 S:30-6:30 Ca.rdio Box Trrh $26 a 4:"'15-5:30 Cardi<> Sculpt Su $"14 9 S:40-6:00 All Abs Su $10 RSAC ACTIVITY ROOM 2 
1 0 4:1 5--S: 1 S Ca.rdio Box M/V\/ $26 "'I "'I 5:25-&:"'I O Lo Impact M/W $26 
1 2 7:1 5-8:30a.m Step II n" Sculpt TrTh $33 
"13 4:"'I 5-5:"1 S Carclio Sculpt T/Th $26 
14 S:25-6:10 Flex n'Tone T/Th $26 1 S S:00-5:30 Arms n"Abs Su $10 
ROCKNE FlOOIIA 30"1 1 6 5:30-6:30 Ca.rdio Box M/V\/ $26 1 7 S:30-6:30 Step I TrTh $26 ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 18 12:15-12:45 Aqua.cise M/V\//F $36 19 7:00-7:45 Aqua.cise TrTh $26 INSTRUCTOR TRAINING 
20 6:45-8:1 5pm Sept. 4--Nov_ 1 3 vv $25 
REGISTRATION WHEN: Thursday, August 29, 7:30am WHERE: Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Classes a.re open to all ND students, staff, faculty.. retirees and their spouses_ Registration takes place throughout the semester_ Schedule is subject to change_ Minimum of 14 class registrants. Classes begin the week of September 2 and unless noted, end the week of December 9. Please ca.II 1 -61 00 with questions. 


Wednesday, August 28, 2002 page 29
The Observer . SPORTS 
why he left Notre Dame, saying said months later that, among "Apparently they made their Your legs are going to be a 
only that "personal reasons" other things, the pair wanted a decision for whatever reason, good utility. but at the same 
were behind his decision. But guarantee LoVecchio would and if it was guarantees that time, your head is a much bet­continued from page 32 Irish offensive coordinator Bill start. The offensive coordina­they wanted they weren't going ter option." 
Die d rick said he could see tor wouldn't give it to him and to get guarantees," Diedrick "The thing that I don't want Indiana, the spotlight, the LoVecchio's transfer coming. LoVecchio was headed to said. "[He had] the guarantee to do is shackle him and put pressure and the expectations When Diedrick visited Bloomington, Ind. without a to compete for the job, then if handcuffs on him," Diedrick ;., were all Holiday's. Lovecchio and his father, word of explanation to coaches he felt like he didn't want to said. "I want him to be very 
Holiday 
LoVecchio never discussed Larry. in mid-May, Diedrick or teammates. 
Bacha.ta • San.ha
' ..................... ....
....... ..... ..... ...... -. . . . -~ 
,,, ..... ..... ,..... --·-. 
: ,· Tnrn» OF THE SAME OLD STEPS? ~•:
-~ ­
.. '. .,_ fD
! • • •Free Dance Lessons • • = 

,· ~~-~--=~ ,. 0 
• •-,.,.,,,.iil:_,1!5 • Chicago's Best • -• 
IU '• Salsa DJ's • • 
·~ .-::::::::::: .-~ 
,.a,• ,. :, 
DJ 
:, ~ 
• 

DJ • 
!;, ,~ E'1ery Thursday 8pm ,,, i~ ~ ;;1 SS Co\'er I $3 with Student ID i~ : 
~.--Must be 21 with'1alid ID ~ • -=
a1,. ~·-IQ
·1. 
l • • Club Landing •1717 LincolnwayEast •SouthRend, IN i • !
......... ---.
•. •· ·-· ......... -· •· ·-· ...-. ­
Samba • Salsa • C!umbia 
Last Chance... 
Concession Stand Training ... for Purdue and Michigan Football Games Wednesday, August 28, 2002 at 4:00pm in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune The next training will be on Wednesday, September 4, 2002 at 4:00pm in the Ballroom ofLafortune Student Center For more information contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 
compete for the job, he could leave and go someplace where it was guaranteed. That's what he did." 
That left Holiday standing alone at the mountaintop, in charge of running a complex pro-style offense that few out­side the Notre Dame program had confidence he could han­dle effectively. Last year, the Irish threw an NCAA-worst four touchdown passes and Holiday himself only completed a modest 50.7 percent of his passes in the 10 games he started. 
But a determined Holiday buckled down as soon as he got the offensive playbook. Offensive lineman 
free-flowing as the system will allow him." 
Everyone who has seen Holiday in practice claims the junior is a much different play­er from the battered and bruised option quarterback who limped through the end of the season. 
The change in Holiday's per­sonality is drastically different, as well. No longer is he quiet and reserved, clutching his -" helmet behind his back in interviews. Now, Holiday speaks with a voice that exudes confidence and can't wait to step onto the field against Maryland in the Irish's first game this Saturday. 
" F o u r 
touchdowns, ,. 
Jordan Black "He's kind oftaken the that's not a joked quar­lot by any
ball club and become the 
terbacks tend standards."
leader. We definitely
to loaf in the said Holiday, off-season. weren't there last spring. referring to 
But over the A lot ofgain and N o t r e 
summer, Dame's total
headway was made
Black noted passing Holiday dili­during the summer.·· touchdowns gently lifted last season. weights with "I think this
Bill Diedrick
the rest of the year is going
offensive coordinator
team, studied to be 
dozens of offensive schemes and established him­self as a take-charge guy in the huddle. 
"He's kind of taken the ball club and become the leader," Diedrick said. "We definitely weren't there last spring. A lot of gain and headway was made during the summer." 
The new offense forces Holiday to rely less on his legs and more on his mind -a change he relishes. The days of Holiday tucking the ball and scampering along the line of scrimmage with the ball. as he did so often last year, appear to be long gone. The run is still an option, of course, but Holiday says it's the last option. 
"Last year there were a lot of run plays where you really didn't have to think as much," he said. "Now, you have to make a lot of decisions now and I'm just going to have to test my knowledge right now. 
very 
different. 
We're going 
to stretch the field a little bit, we've got great offensive at all positions, and we're going to allow them to make their own plays." 
Still, Holiday knows he has doubters who love to bring up the game against Stanford last year. Engulfed by a maelstrom of questions about the future of Bob Davie and swirling around in the midst of a losing season, Holiday completed just 1-of-16 passes in cold and rainy condi­tions -a game he calls the low point of last season. 
But he's not focusing on the quarterback he was last year. He's focusing on the quarter­back he can be this year. 
"I don't really care what they believe," he said. "I know what I can do, my teammates know what I can do. [Everyone else will] just have to wait and see." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
"Education that works for working adults" Accelerated Bachelor's Degree Co1npletion Program 
*Organizational Management Program 
*Management Information Systems (OMP and MIS available as stand alone certificate programs) 
*Bachelor of Science in Nursing for RNs *General Education Electives 
Classes once a week 
6:00 p.m. until I 0:00p.m. 
4 to 6 weeks per class 18 to 20 months for the complete program 
Classes begin September 23, 2002 
-
Goshen College Division of Adult and External Studies (800) 390-3490 www.goshen.edu 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 
Safely filling vacated positions 
· :, . 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 
Sophomore Lionel Bolen stands ready at fall practice. Bolen, along with teammates Quinten Burrell, Jake Carney and Mike Richardson, are all competing for the back-up safety position. 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
When Maryland throws its first pass against Notre Dame on Saturday, the effects of the tumultuous Irish off season may become blaringly clear. Depth at the safety position took the biggest blow with rape allegations involving four foot­ball players. 
Donald Dykes, Justin Smith and Abe Elam, all safeties, were expelled from the University, leaving only Gerome Sapp who had real, consistent game experience at that position. But, according to secondary coach Trent Walters, if spring was the time for the players to deal with the shock of losing teammates and friends, fall camp was the time to get focused on what lies ahead -a season opener. 
"A couple of the guys [who were expelled], the guys were personal friends of theirs," Walters said. "We felt the effect of it in the spring but this fall it seems like they've concentrat­ed and focused on the upcom­ing season and it really hasn't been a big issue .... I think right now our focus is on the upcom­ing game and getting better." 
And the safeties have reason to focus. In addition to losing Dykes, Smith and Elam, the Irish also lost Ron Israel to graduation. Aside from Sapp, the only other player returning with game experience is senior free safety Glenn Earl. who has a long history of nagging injuries. 
Earl, a reserve defensive back for the Irish during the 2001 season, suffered a quad injury against Nebraska and missed the next two games, left play early against West Virginia due to injury, suffered a separated shoulder in the Tennessee game and had a concussion against Stanford. His game experience, at best, was inconsistent. But the 6­foot-1 Illinois native is feeling healthy now. 
"l feel good," Earl said. "Everybody's trying to get their legs back. Everybody's trying to get over these little nagging ail­ments ... but l feel good about myself. I feel good about the team." 
Although Earl is aware that an injury could hit at any time, especially considering his unfortunate history, he's not letting that take any focus away from his preparation for playing a full season as a starter. 
"You can control what you can control," he said. "You can play hard, just play the game, you know, just take it one game at a time." 
Sapp, who returns to the Irish as the most experienced safety on the squad and was rated the defensive MVP fol­lowing the Blue-Gold game last 
' spring, will be counted on as the leader. Last season he was an Irish reserve safety until he made his first start against Pittsburgh. Sapp, who grabbed his first two fumble recoveries against Navy, is feeling very comfortable in his new role as the senior-most player in terms terms of being in the game," Sapp said. "I don't really think that makes me better than any other safety.... I just use all that experience to be a leader, as kind of an inspiration to be a leader and go out there." 
The real problem for the Irish lies in depth at the safety position. They return only two other players at the position ­sophomores Quinten Burrell and Lionel Bolen and freshmen Jake Carney and Mike Richardson, forcing the coach­ing staff to put some serious concentration into training the inexperienced. 
"The first thing you can say is we've given them a lot of atten­tion, special attention, working with them and trying to get them to be better so they can be a starter or a back-up," Walters said. 
No one player has stepped to the forefront of the coach's mind as the go-to guy for the back-up position, but Walters is counting on that as a good sign that they're all being competi­tive. According to Walters, the staff will come to a decision about who will back up the position later this week. 
Despite the depth problems and the inexperience at the safety position, the Irish think they can hold their own against Maryland on Saturday. If noth­ing else, they're excited to play. 
"I guess right now, I'm just kind of anxious to see these guys play," Walters said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

l(now ;·or11 
Theo. 340J. 
1 credit. S/U 
Instructor: 
J. Matthew Ashley 
Wednesdays September 4, 11, 18, 
FAITH 
One-Credit Courses 
offered by the Department of Theology 
in cooperation with the Office of Campus Ministry 
God 
··­
Theo. 340M. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. Brian Daley, S.J. 
Weekend: September 27-28, Friday, 4:00-10:00 p.m. & Saturday, 9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center, Room 103 
·.~­
1t': . ·r. . . . . . 
,, .. . . 
. . . 
.:. ~'.., 
\; 
·Original Sin 

25, & Oct. 2, 9 Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:05 p.m. Coleman-Morse Center, Room 331 
Faith 
Theo. 340K. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
Mondays September 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, and Oct. 7 Time: 7:00 p.m. -9:05 p.m., Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 
Prayer 
Theo. 340A. 1 credit. S/U Instructor: Lawrence Cunningham 

.b 
Sundays, September 15, 22, 29, Oct. 6, 13 Time: 6:00 p.m.-8:30 p.m., Coleman-Morse Center, Room 330 
of game experience. 
"It's really. really great, com­For further information, contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-7811. Syllabi for the courses can be ing back for my senior year, obtained at the Theology Dept., 130 Malloy Hall. Register through DART or go to the Registrar's office. being the guy with the most in 
'' 
f. 





Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 31 
HENRI ARNOLD
SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 27 Locker room 55 California 
1 Construction co. item baseball teammates?
projects 29 Cause of a 
6 Chicago-to­stomachache 57 Mother of Memphis dir. 33 Some Pebbles 9 Fighting noblemen 58 PG letters 
14 Lecherous 34 Gang of 59 Start of Julius looks California Ill's papacy baseball
15 X 60 First name in 
players? 
2000 news
16 River past 
37 Garlic piece 
Liechtenstein 61 Lets 39 Company that 
17 Father of the 62 What a contact made Pong 
Pleiades contacts 40 Brings on
18 Sunburned 63 Bangladesh's
board, in a way
California baseball 41 Like some players? inspectiorni 
DOWN
20 Ostracize 46 Pack animal 1 Good times 
21 Propelled a 47 What brainy 2"_Weapon"
lifeboat California 22 Classic pop baseball players 3 Like the get? presidential
23 California suite
baseball players 51 Takes in trouble with advantage of 4 Starbucks size 
the I.R.S.? 53 Front wheel 5 Draft org. 25 Hollywood, with alignment 6 Lean person Puzzle by Petet Gordon 
"the" 54 0.K. Corral 7 _ Khan (tiger 27 Involved with 37 Writer buried at 49 Like marshes 26 Ace place? figure Westminster
in "The Jungle 28 "Silent" prez 
50 Plane seating 
Book") Abbey
30 Civil War letters request
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Dentist's 38 Supple
31 "Mangia!"request 42 Down Under girl 
32 Messenger _ 52 Fast-moving 9 The 43 It leans card game
34 Equestrian
Diamondbacks, 44 Runway
35 Adam's apple
on scoreboards 56 Hirt and 
45 Madrilerio's land 
picker 
Hirschfeld1oComparison 
word 36 Common injury 47 Regular: Abbr. location 48 The Velvet Fog 57 Get a wife
11 Sipping sites ---4 12 Where soldiers 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone may be busy phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. 
13 Adjusts, as a Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday cap 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 19 Mdse. 
.,,,.+'!!!!'+,,,...,,,... Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ..,..........,,......,,...,,.,...,,,,.. 21 Newbery Medal past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($i9.95 a year). winner Scott 
Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, _______ 24 Small eggs nytimes.com/leamin<;ixwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $5 5 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
-
Address ____________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Daniel Stern, Richard Sanders, Ben 
Gazzara, Jason Priestley, Scott Hamilton 
Happy Birthday: Your main concern this year will be with helping those who 
can't help themselves. Your loyalty and concern for anyone suffering or going 
through tough times will lead to all sorts of new connections. 
Worthwhile groups will be glad to help you and may even offer you a 
leadership position in their organization. Your numbers are 7, 12, 20, 31, 38, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April)}I): ~!r,e_ss, ~u.btq,Ji.nancial worries will lead to 
health problems. You are @>~Ot:iatiydc n.a:ice ti, take a few days off to rest. 
Get your finances in order. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will take things a little too ­
seriously today. Don't let your emotions cause problems with people in your 
partnership. You are probably not seeing things too clearly. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get emotional about things you can'I 
change. Make whatever adjustments are necessary to have a good time and 
enjoy life. Don't live in the past or dwell on someone who has disappointed 
you.***CANCER (June 21-July 22): Helping a worthy cause will make you feel good about yourself, and will result in a friendship with someone who shares your values and beliefs. Any activity that has to do with children will be 
rewarding. **** · LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Things may not be as they appear. Don't rely on the promises made by others. It will be difficult for you to get along with others today, especially if you are determined to have your own way. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Information will be the key to opening up doors that will lead to all sorts of enterprising opportunities. Communications. travel and learning will all be in a high cycle. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You may be drawn toward financial deals that are not in your best interest. Back off if someone tries to push you in a direction you don't care to go. Focus on being the best you can. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone you are with today will be highly emotional and hard to deal with. Keep personal issues at bay and focus more on what you can do to get ahead in your professional or educational pursuits. 
** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put your efforts into getting along with those you work with and finishing whatever you start Your emotional well-being will affect your health if you let yourself become stressed. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be totally creative today no matter what you pursue. Even in social settings, your imagination will draw attention. Be careful, however, not to overspend. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone you live with may need your help. If an emotional matter crops up, deal with it quickly before it gets blown out of proportion. Be aware that not everyone will be able to keep a secret. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Follow your own desires and not whal everyone else wants you to do today_ Volunteering might be nice, but if you are too generous you will be taken advantage of. Focus en spending time with friends you trust. **** Birthday Baby: You will be bright, bold and beautiful. You will always be the center of attention. You will have a way with words that will captivate any audience. You will be a leader. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com. eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
rnPYRJr.1-f'T' ,nn., I INIVPR<. A I PRP<.<. <.YNrur ATP 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
r~~~;·~r·
rJ I J 
02002 Trtiune Media Servic;es, Inc. 
All Righta Reee,ved. 
ROPYX 

j 
ITRUFOHI j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: IN".......,__.[I.............
J___,-J"[ I I I I I J J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: RIVET SHEAF EXCISE NETHER ,,, Answer: What Mom wanted Junior to do on the week­end -RISE AND SHINE 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 18 • To order, send your name, eddrasa •nd $5.45 and make check pay•ble to Tribune Medle Services, P.O. BoK 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

FOOTBALL 

• Holiday outlasts other quarterbacks, claims role for himself 
ByANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
The message on his answering machine left Carlyle Holiday bewil­dered. 
All Holiday heard from Matt LoVecchio, his friend, colleague and competition for the starting quarter­back job was that LoVecchio was trans­ferring from Notre Dame. At the time, LoVecchio didn't know where he was going to go, just that he didn't want to be at Notre Dame anymore. 
Before Holiday pushed the button on the answering machine, he was in a neck-and-neck race for the starting quarterback position at Notre Dame. After LoVecchio's words settled into his brain, Holiday realized he was the man. 
"I was a little bit surprised, we were competing hard and nobody was No. 1 or anything like that," Holiday said. "We were all shocked, he's a great friend of ours, and we didn't see any reason why he would leave." 
Now, the Irish are counting on Holiday to execute the complex pro­style offense after he earned the start­
(\ t_", l 
I. ing job by outlasting his competition. 
f :'. When Holiday arrived on campus as a 
l 
\ < freshman with Lovecchio and Jared Clark, Arnaz Battle appeared to be the quarterback of the future. After Battle 
>_ i_-. '. 
went down with a broken wrist, Gary' ' Godsey stepped in for two games before 
;, H coaches replaced him with Lovecchio. 
' ' 

Lovecchio led the Irish to seven straight wins and a berth in the 2000 Fiesta Bowl but lost the starting job to Holiday three games into the 2001 sea­son. Clark's shift to tight end in the spring left only Holiday and Lovecchio competing for the starting job -Battle had long since moved to wide receiver and Godsey was now a tight end. And when Lovecchio decided to transfer to 
see HOLIDAY/page 29 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Junior Carlyle Holiday holds the quarterback position alone after competitors Jared Clark and Matt Lovecchio dropped out of the three-way race. 

. Grant, Wilson step into spotlight near hometown fans 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It will be both a homecoming and a walk into new territory for Notre Dame's top two running backs as they head into Giants Stadium this Saturday. Sophomores Ryan Grant and Marcus Wilson, who, even combined, have very limited game experience, will step into the spotlight not more than 45 minutes from hometown fans. 
As Grant, the Nyack, N.Y. native, started the spring, many expected him to back up returning starting running back Julius Jon.es. Wilson, who hails from Brooklyn, was only expected to see sparse playing time. 
But with Jones's departure this sum­mer, there was a need for a new No. 1 man, and both New Yorkers stepped up. 
"The next guy's got to step up and be able to play and, in this place, he gives two guys a great opportunity to stand up," said offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick. 
The depth charts for Saturday's game have Grant and Wilson in the same spot and Diedrick said it's fair to expect that they'll be counted on to play the same role on this team. And what's more, he's confident they can both execute that role. 
"If I'm not comfortable with them, something's wrong," he said. 
Grant will start Saturday's game as the only running back on Notre Dame's roster that has game experi­ence. He had his first carry during the Boston College game in October 2001 and had nine subsequent carries in the Tennessee game and the Navy game before a hyperextended elbow sat him down for Stanford. 
His real break, however, came in the last game of the Irish season, a game 
see GRANT/page 27 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish regroup to end weekend with split 
without six projected starters, Carolina, but the Irish Irish coach Randy Waldrum defensively and we still have
By JOE LICANDRO 
the Irish finished last week­regrouped on Sunday to defeat was extremely pleased with his not decided on a goalie," said 
Sports Writer 
end's IPFW Soccer Showcase Kentucky 2-1, thanks to Ashley team's effort in both contests, the fourth-year coach. "I was with one win and one loss Drier's last minute heroics. The but he acknowledged the Irish extremely happy with our playIf the preseason is any indica­against two of last year's NCAA senior midfielder's goal with need to improve in several offensively on Friday nighttion, the Notre Dame women's Tournament teams. only 39 seconds remaining phases of the game, particular­against North Carolina, but I soccer team will once again be On Friday night, Notre Dame proved to be the difference ly on defense and maintaining was just as disappointed two a national force. suffered a 4-2 defeat at the maker in the hard-fought con­intensity for the full 90 minutes. days later against Kentucky
Despite playing, at times, 
hands of perennial power North test. "We had a lot of problems 
see SOCCER/page 28 

BASEBALL  FOOTBALL  
Reaching new heights  Safely filling vacated positions  
The Irish reached the College World Series for the first time since 1957 last June. On their way, they knocked off the nation's top-ranked team three times and attained the program's highest ranking. Inside is a recap of their season and the path they took to Omaha after classes let out in May. Insider  After the departure of four key safeties, seniors Gerome Sapp and Glenn Earl will try to lead a young, inexperienced batch of safeties as the Irish open their season against Maryland on Saturday. page 30  

I I 

O
THE Wednesday, August 28, 2002 BSERVER College World Series 
Reachin 
new hei 
hts 
. Historic season ends with first World Series appearence in 45 years 
By CHRIS FEDERICO and JOE HETTLER Spons Editor and Associate Spores Editor 
It began with a shaky 7 -6 victory in 
New Orleans and ended as one of the 
most memorable seasons in Notre Dame 
sports history. 
After a bleak 12-10 start, including an 
0-4 Big East record during its season­
opening 22-game road trip, the Notre 
Dame baseball team turned its early dis­
appointments to go where no Irish team 
had in 45 years -Omaha, Neb., and the 
College World Series. 
Early-season injuries depleted the 
Irish line-up, as shortstops Matt Macri 
and Matt Edwards were lost for the sea­
son. leaving a gaping hole at that posi­
tion. Further injuries to Steve Sollmann, 
Andrew Bushey and Brian Stavisky 
forced Irish head coach Paul Mainieri to 
find replacements and continually 
change line-ups. 
"There were such high expectations on our team going into the year," Notre Dame associate head coach Brian O'Connor said. "The injuries that we've suffered really show when you go on the road and play in the conference." 
Once the Irish finally got healthy, they exploded for 35 victories in their next 40 games. During this run, Notre Dame won the Big East Tournament for the first time since joining the conference in 1995. 
The Irish hosted the four-team NCAA Regional tournament against no.1 seed South Alabama, Ohio State and Kent State. After winning the opening game against the Buckeyes 8-6, the Irish trounced South Alabama 25-1 before clinching the Regional crown by defeat­ing Ohio State for the second time 9-6. 
From there, Notre Dame faced the task of trying to beat the top ranked team in the country, Florida State, at the Seminoles home park in a best-of-three series with the winner heading to Omaha, Neb., for the College ·world Series. 
In Game 1, the Irish silenced the hos­tile crowd, who gave the northern team little chance to upset the ACC champi­CHRIS FEDERICO/The Observer ons, winners of 25 straight games. 

Irish centerflelder Steve Stanley slides safely into third base during Notre Dame's first World Serles game against
Freshman right-handed pitcher Grant 
Stanford. Notre Dame lost the game 4-3. It was their first World Series game since 1957.
Johnson kept the Seminoles in check, while right-fielder Kris Billmaier collect­feel at this particular time." Trailing 3-2 in the bottom of the ninth conference of the season. "I don't think ed four hits and drove in a career-high With the hallmark wins, Notre Dame with one out, centerfielder Steve Stanley you've seen the end of Notre Dame five runs to the lead the Irish to a 10-4 advanced to the College World Series for tripled and was driven in with a single baseball." victory. the first time in 45 years. from Sollmann for the tying run. With Stanley agreed, saying he'd never for­
After losing the second game of the In their first game, the Irish had the Sollmann on first, Stavisky drove a two­get his experiences in Omaha after three series 12-5, Notre Dame finished off luck of drawing Stanford -National run, game-winning home run to the left frustrating years of near misses. Florida State in Game 3 behind fresh­Championship runners-up the past two field bleachers, keeping Notre Dame's "This is the greatest baseball experi­man pitcher Chris Niesel, who allowed years -and pitcher Jeremy Guthrie, a season alive. ence I've ever had," Stanley said. "This only one run and six hits in eight innings first round draft pick of the Cleveland The Irish fell short, however, in their CoUege World Series is something that of work to lead the Irish to a 3-1 win. Indians. next game against Stanford 5-3, finish­I'll never forget. Besides maybe the 
'Tm sure we shocked the college base­Cardinal ace Guthrie shut down the ing their season with a 50-18 record. 1957 team. this is the best Notre Dame ball world this weekend," Mainieri said Irish offense for most of the game, only The loss also signified the end of the [baseball] team in the last hundred­at the final press conference of the allowing a three-run homer to Javier careers at Notre Dame for eight seniors, some years. And I'm very proud to say series. "It's a feeling you just can't Sanchez in the seventh inning for including four-year starters Stanley, that." explain. We really believed that we Stanford's 4-3 win. Bushey and catcher Paul O'Toole. could come down here and do it. But to In its first elimination game, Notre "We had a remarkable year and it's an Contact Chris Federico at come down and actually do it, you just Dame faced the Rice Owls, who were unbelievable honor for me to coach this cfederic@nd.edu and Joe Hettler at can't have words to describe the way we coming off of a 2-1 loss to Texas. group," said Mainieri in his final press jhettler@nd.edu 


player of the series  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Huston Street  "This is the greatest baseball  23 runners left on base  
Texas Longhorns  experience rve ever had. This ... is  
something I'll never forget . ..  Notre Dame stranded 23 runners on  
The Texas closer shut down each ofthe four games for the Longhorns. earning three saves and allowing only one run.  Steve Stanley Irish centerflelder  base in their three games. Scoring two or three ofthese runners may have gotten the Irish more wins.  

·. £_. 2 , __ 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
report card 
B 
starting pitching: An ERA of 5.00 isn't too bad, considering the Irish were facing some of the top hitting teams in the 
nation with the luxury of having strong winds at their backs for each game. More importantly, the starters never gave up the big inning, keeping Notre Dame within striking distance in each game of the Series. 
A-
relief pitching: The relievers logged 
7.2 innings, allowing only 2 runs. The home run allowed by Gagne in 
Game 2 was almost a back breaker, but the Irish recovered. 
8-
hitting: While the Irish did collect 26 hits in the three games, they got many of those with two outs and few with men in scoring position. 
A-
defense: The Irish committed two errors but allowed zero unearned runs. Steve Stanley's catches all over 
centerfield routinely kept Notre 
Dame in the game. 
B 
coaching: Mainieri's decision to bring in Gagne nearly cost the Irish Game 2. However, starting two freshmen 
pitchers took guts, but both gave 
Notre Dame a chance to win. 
C 
situational hitting: The Irish left the bases loaded twice in Game 2. However, Stanley, Sollmann and Stavisky's clutch hits in the ninth 
inning kept Notre Dame's season alive. Only 12 runs scored and 23 run­ners left on base isn't enough to win in Omaha. 
C-
experience: Stanford had played in four straight World Series and had four 
senior infielders. Notre Dame hadn't played in the CWS since 1957, and it showed in front ofthe biggest crowds the Irish had ever seen. Stanford had the composure to win the close games. Four-year starters Stanley, Bushey and O'Toole did have the experience of playing in NCAA tournament games. 
overall: Despite being ousted 
after three games, the Irish 
had the ability to beat any 
team in Omaha. With a few
2.80 
more timely hits, the Irish could have made a run at the title. 
adding up the numbers 
years since Notre Dame had been to their first College World Series 
45
-1957 
4.0 
Notre Dame's ERA during their three games in the College World Series 
Sollmann's batting average (23­
564 
37) in NCAA tournament games during his college career • 
2 2 number Stanford game 1 starting pitcher Jeremy Guthrie was picked in the Major League Baseball draft 
number of wins Notre Dame had this season, which signifies the most in school history 
50 
Billmaier's NCAA tournament
5 0 0 
• batting average (33-66) 
ERA of Irish pitchers in the first 
5 64 
inning of games this season ­
the highest inning ERA • 
number of times The Observer's Sports1Editor was mistaken for Harry Potter by ESPN baseball analyst Harold Reynolds 

CHRIS FEDERICO/The Obseiver Local Notre Dame fans came out in full force for the Irish games in Omaha. Besides the hometown Nebraska Cornhuskers, Irish fans made up the majority of people In Rosenblatt Stadium. 
The perfect place for baseball 
• Fans soak upatmosphere circling College World Series at Rosenblatt stadium 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associare Sporrs Editor 
OMAHA, Neb. 
Omaha is the perfect place to host the College World Series. Just ask anyone who's spent the week there. 
"It was electric, it was a won­derful atmosphere," said a Clemson fan outside Rosenblatt Stadium. "The atmosphere couldn't be duplicated. The fans were great. All the fans around us were just very complimentary and pleasant. They hollered and we hollered. It was the greatest atmosphere I've ever experienced at a sporting event." 
these are the reason why college baseball's National Championship has stayed in this city of just over 750,000 people. 
The College World Series moved to Omaha 53 years ago after spending two years in Kalamazoo, Mich., and one in 
small, and over the last 20 years it's really gotten commercialized, which is good for the players and the teams for notoriety." Dervin said. "The best part about it is that the players are out there playing their hearts out, and it's just good baseball. It makes for a good environment, and that's why it's gotten so popular over the last 
10 to 20 years." Former Michigan 
head  coach  Don  
Lund  is  one  of  
many  fans  who  

noticed several other changes in the college game as the years have passed. 
"[Metal bats] are a heck of a differ­ence," Lund said. "Believe me, it makes an ordinary hitter a little bit better. The ball 
· 
goes a lot farther. [Metal bats] make it a difficult judgement where you're judging some guy as far as power is concerned, and he hits a ball that looks like an ordi­nary fly ball and it goes out of the 
ballpark." 
Wichita, Kan. Lund also
"The atmosphere couldn't 
During the first believes Omaha is 
few years of the be duplicated. The fans the right type of 
tournament, each were great. All the Jans city for the tour­geographical nament.
around us were just very
region of the ''I'll tell you one country sent it's complimentary and thing, the NCAA best team to play pleasant." made a good in the College move by having World Series. this tournament
Clemson fan
Now, the NCAA in Nebraska at 
has grouped teams into a four-team regional, followed by a two­team, best-of-three super regional and finally an eight-team World Series field. 
According to ticket vendor Joe Dervin, the atmosphere surround­ing the Series has greatly increased over the past 20 years. 
"When I first started out it was 
Omaha, because 
everybody sup­ports it thoroughly and the town gets behind them," Lund said. "They were talking about moving it to major league ballparks, but they kept it here, and it was the best move they ever made." 
While Lund originally made the trip to Omaha to participate in the CWS, most fans simply come to follow their team or to simply watch some good baseball. 
"You get a variety of fans because you're getting some fans from out of town and they have their own reserve seats," one longtime fan, George Howard, said. "That's part of the strength and variety of the mixture [of the crowd]. You've got people who originally came because they 
"When I first started out were following a 
team. Then they
it was small, and over 
end up buyingthe last 20 years it ·s seats every year really gotten and have reserve tickets. They just
commercialized which is 
keep coming
good for the players and back." the teams notoriety." The popularity 
of the CWS was evident during
Joe Dervin 
Notre Dame's vendor experience 
there. During the 
Texas-Rice game, the tournament director announced that the CWS had amassed over five million fans since it began in 1949. 
With so much excitement sur­rounding this event, the CWS shows no signs of slowing down. 
"It's just a wonderful thing," . South Carolina fan Bill Golding said. "This is baseball's best. It's the finest place in the world the kids could ever experience. It's tops in the nation. The people in Omaha are outstanding people. 
· They do a good job here, and its just fantastic." As new teams reach the CWS each year, more fans are exposed to the Omaha experience. These fans continue to follow their teams all the way to Omaha and keep the fun of the College World Series at an all-time high. After all, five million fans can't be wrong. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

-
Stanley proves clutch The Road to Omaha 
coach Paul Mainieri. "You defense for us all year. That's February 22 Notre Dame opens Its season w1th a 7..&
. Centerfielder 
could just see it in his eyes that just what he does out there in 
win over the University of Missouri.
helps keep Irish there was no way he was going centerfield," Niesel said. "He alive in Omaha to be denied, and then he hits gives it 100 percent every time ­
March 9 
Freshman infielder Matt Edwards' sea­
the triple." he goes out there. He's the 
The hit was huge, consider­hardest worker, hardest run­son ends when he breaks both bones of By CHRIS FEDERICO 
ing Crowder had allowed only ner on the team. You just know his lower leg when chasing a pop fly.
Sports Editor 
two hits in when you go out 5 2 there that with 
March 23-24 Notre Dame Is swept In Its first Big East
OMAHA. NEB. innings of "Stanley's been playing Steve Stanley in 
series by Connecticut, dropping Its
Irish centerfielder Steve relief, and centerfield, any
great defense for us all
Stanley had 999 at bats in his had set ball hit to center record to 9-9. Centerflelder Steve 
year. Thats just what he
collegiate baseball career. But down 13 is going to get Stanley breaks the Irish record for con­none of them was as big as his of the last does out there for us in caught." 
secutive games played (205) and ties
1,000th in Notre Dame's sec­14 Irish Stanley had
centerfield. ,, the record for career hits {295). 
ond game of the College World hitters. another acrobatic Series against the Rice Owls. "Steve catch up his With the Irish down one run just did to Chris Niesel sleeve in the very March 28 -May 4 Notre Dame wins 25 of Its 27 games and just two outs away from Crowder Irish pitcher next inning as he during this time, including a 16-game elimination, Stanley drove a 3-what he stole a base hit 
winning streak, to improve Its record to 
2 pitch from Rice pitcher Justin does· to from Rice short­
34-12 and 13-6 in Big East play. 
Crowder to the gap in right every pitcher, every game of stop Paul Janish with a diving centerfield and hustled into the season," Stavisky said. "He catch in shallow centerfield. third for the triple. Steve battles, and he's never going to But what else could be Aprll4 Notre Dame wins Its home opener for Sollmann would later hit a line go down without a fight. That expected from Stanley, the the seventh straight year, beating BYU drive up the middle to bring was just a great at bat." senior co-captain who has been 
1-0 behind a three-hit shut out from
Stanley home. On top of the rally-sparking the backbone of the Irish for Junior J.P. Gagne. 
Heading into what could have triple, Stanley had not one, but the better part of four years? been the last two game-sav­In fact, Notre Dame's second inning of its ing catches in game marked Stanley's 255th Apr113 Freshman shortstop Matt Macri has
"/ didn ·t feel the game 
season, the centerfield, consecutive start -that's season-ending •'Tommy John" surgery to 
was over at all when I 
Irish squad continuing the every game since he's been at 
repair his shoulder, which had kept him
had confi­came up in the bottom of stellar defen­Notre Dame-tying the NCM 
from playing Infield since early March. 
dence that sive play that record.
the ninth. I thought we
Stanley has highlighted In that time, Stanley has 
could still had it all the way... his career. played 98.9 percent of Notre Notre Dame beats Detroit 23-1, the make some­With the Dame's innings. May15 largest Irish victory in 89 years.thing good Brian Stavlsky score tied and Stanley's other accolades are happen. Rice runners too many to list. His .383 bat­
Irlsh leftflelder Notre Dame sweeps Boston College in a
"I didn't on first and ting average ranks third in 
-
feel the second in the Irish history. He's had 383 hits May 17•18 three-game series to end Its regular sea­game was over at all when I sixth inning, pinch hitter and scored 255 runs -both son with a 41.-14 record, :188 Big East came in at the bottom of the Enrique Cruz crushed a ball to Notre Dame career records. record. ninth. I thought we had it all the left field gap off of fresh­But no hit was as big as that the way," said junior Brian man pitcher Chris Niesel. The triple against Rice. 
Notre Dame goes 3-1 In the Big East
Stavisky, who would later hit crowd reacted as if Cruz had a It kept the season alive. It 
May 23-25 
Tournament, defeating Rutgers 3-2 Jn
the game-winning homerun to bases-clearing double. But kept the team in Omaha. And it give the Irish a 5-3 victory. Stanley proved them wrong kept Steve around to see at bat 10 Innings In the championship game "I just thought that with when he made a leaping catch 1001. for Its first Big East Toumament title.. Stanley up there with two and slammed into the outfield 
Left-fielder Brian Stavisky hit a game-
strikes ... I knew [he] was not wall to end the inning. 
Contact Chris Federico at winning double to score Steve Sollmann 
going to back down," said Irish "Steve's been playing great 
cfederic@nd.edu 
and send the Irish to the NCAA Regional tournament. 
Notre Dame hosts the Regional May 31 -June 2 Tournament at Frank Eck Stadium as a 
No. 2 seed. The Irish outscore their opponents 42-12 and finish the tourna­ment undefeated to advance to the NCAA Super Regionals where they face No. 1 Florida State. 
Notre Dame surprises the FSU crowd of June 7 5,388 fans by beating the nation's top ranked team 1.04. 
Florida State scores eight runs in the June 9 top of the first Inning en route to beat­Ing Notre Dame 12-5 and tying Its best­. of-three series at one game apiece. 
The Irish defeat Florida State 3-1 in the 
June 10 decisive Game 3 ofthe NCAA Super Regionals to advance to the College World Series In Omaha, Neb., for the 
first time since 1.957. 
In their first game of the College Wortd June 15 Series In 45 years, the Irish fall 4-3 loss to Stanford. 
Tralllng the Rice Owls 3-2 with one out June 17 in the ninth inning, Steve Stanley drives 
a triple to right center and Is hit home by Steve Sollmann. The next batter, Brian Stavlsky, keeps Notre Dame's 
' '·-;,-,,-,_ 
season alive by blasting a game-win­
' --'·,Vt:':',' -·:: 
:_ ~-·,~ 
~ '--~' -.-':,. -~ ;;_ ~ ­
nlng, two-run home run to right field. 
• 
For the second time In three days, Notre 
. . ... -. ' 
Dame falls to Stanford, this time by a June 18 score of 5-3 and Is eliminated from the College World Series. The Texas 
~-i'.,i-J ~--11' .•<•·• l;~, • • .• • •t:!:P ,\~~'•.'•~fr.~"••·. 
/ ~/ u,,;._-$.,,;~~~~-:-:r:~.:~~~-i/rt·./-1~-.."':, "':,~~-"?~; 't1-~ ,...~..i\f, ··". '....~ #..~....,r.:: .-," 
Longhorns would eventually win the 
CHAIS FEDERICO/The Observer Series by defeating South Carolina. 
Irish centerfielder Steve Stanley takes a pitch during Notre Dame's game against Rice. Stanley 
would later hit a triple and scored the game-tying run in the ninth Inning. The Irish won 5-3. 
-

O
THE College World Series BSERVER Wednesday, August 28, 2002 
Above left, Irish shortstop Javier Sanchez and 
I \ 
I \ 
I 
third baseman Andrew Bushey ready the1rzselves for action during a game. Above right, Irish first baseman Joe Thaman signs an autograph for afan. Right, Kids hope for 
autographs from their favorite Notre Dame players before a game. 
. 
photos by 
CHRIS FEDERICO 
Heroes for a week 
' 
' ,­
r "It never gets old. It's a television. It's the first time our exciting. I never get sick of it." able to play in front ofgood
1 ' 
• Players become 
I , tremendous experience for me team, in 45 years, has been to Performing well in Omaha also crowds back home over the past
' ' superstars for 
' ' personally and for all of our the College World Series, so causes a stir among the media couple years and we've done 
' 
I 
players," coach Paul Mainieri we're soaking and fans. Just well. Lots of people have come
week in Nebraska
' ' 
' ( said before the team's final game every minute of ask Irish left out to support us, but it's been
"ft never gets old. It·s a
' <' 
against Stanford. "Our players this up. It's fielder Brian nothing like this. This is the pin­' i By JOE HETTLER
' , walk around the streets and been a great tremendous experience Stavisky, who nacle of college baseball. You 
'I . Associate Sports Editor 
they're celebrities. Everybody experience." blasted a two­have great crowds and not only 
for me personally and for
' • wants their autograph -every­Stanley run, walk-off our own fans, but neutral fans

all ofour players.··
OMAHA, Neb. body wants to talk to them and seemed to be home run cheering for you and cheering 
There stood Notre Dame cen~ take their picture. It's really their the most against Rice for good plays." terfielder Steve Stanley, signing day in the sun. I wanted them to sought after Paul Mainieri in Notre Although the Irish didn't win autographs and posing for pic­enjoy every moment of it." member of the Dame's first the College World Series, they 
head coach
tures just The media and fans followed Irish during elimination became part of another experi­minutes the Irish players from the day their stay in game to lift ence that none of the players will after see­they arrived in town. Before, Omaha. Young children to older the Irish to a 5-3 victory. soon forget. During their stay in ing his during and after practice and adults and everyone in between After the game, Stavisky was Omaha, Notre Dame's team Irish get games reporters and fans con­wanted to ask Stanley for an stopped several times to sign transformed from everyday col­knocked stantly attempted to get a few autograph or picture. Before autographs before being inter­legiate baseball players into out of the seconds of the players' time. warming up for his final game in viewed by a local radio station. heroes. For a few short days, College After losing to Stanford and a Notre Dame uniform, Stanley When that interview was fin­these players got a taste of play­World being ousted from the Series, signed more autographs by the ished, Stavisky went back to ing in the big leagues, with all Series 5-3 Irish third baseman Andrew dugout and answered questions signing more autographs. the hoopla and excitement that at the Bushey still couldn't walk out of posed by a pair of 12 year-olds. "Kids, they want autographs comes with the territory. hands of the stadium without a group of Stanley had heard "Can you all the time, but it's great," Yet, isn't that what the College Stanford. young girls yelling, "Hey, please pose with my son really Stavisky said. "It's our chance to World Series is all about? The 
Despite Number 12, could you please quick?" more than a few times, give something back to the little event gives young adults a the disap­come back here and sign this yet he, along with the rest of his kids. And who knows, they're chance to live out their dreams pointment ball for me?" team, always found that extra where we were 10 or 15 years in front of the entire country and at his col­The demand placed on the second to say "yes." ago, looking to get here, so for just a few days feel like the legiate players by the media and fans "[Signing autographs and pos­maybe they'll end up here when players they looked up to as little baseball career being finished, could be overwhelming for a ing for pictures] never gets old," they're a little older, too." children. Stanley didn't even think about group of guys that usually saw Stanley said. "I would do it, if I When the Irish were on the Only difference is, now, they're telling a kid "No" to an auto­roughly 600 to 800 fans come to could, for the rest of my life. field, crowds as high as 24,000 the heroes. graph. Instead, he just kept on each home game at Frank Eck People sometimes, in the big people greeted them. After the The views expressed in this signing. Stadium. leagues, complain about having initial shock, Stavisky, along with column are those of the author 
For players and coaches at the "This is an experience that I've to sign autographs -it's ridicu­the rest of the Irish, enjoyed the and not necessarily those of College World Series in Omaha, never, ever had before, but it's lous. Little kids come and want large crowds of Rosenblatt The Observe_r. Neb. the week is a time to so exciting that you don't really your autograph, during a press Stadium. undertake the role of a superstar sit back and think about it too conference people ask you ques­"This has been an awesome 
Contact Joe Hettler at 
and hero to kids and adult.c;; much," Stanley said. "It's the tions -it's a dream come true atmosphere, and it never gets 
jhettler@nd.edu
alike. first time we've been on national for me and something that's very old," Stavisky said. "We've been 





