I .,,.{...fi ,-, ,-----~-----~l\ 1-\ !, '\\I I I" 
•,II I, 
'1'.' .. 
• I • ' t l" , I l f' ft J \ t If 1 •I• l
• ' l 1 ~ • i t I t I i' 

Learning to speak Italian
CLOUDY 
Friday 

Scene reviews the world opened up by "La Marcolfa," the Italian play in 
which the characters learn to speak one of the great romance languages. 
MARCH 1,
HIGH 3S0 

Scene pages 12-13
LOW24° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
XXV NO. lOO HTTP: · · 

NELLIE WILLIAMS!The Observer Senior captain Kari Jerge eyes two of her Notre Dame Women's Boxing proteges as they practice fighting to get ready for upcom­ing matches in the Joyce Center ring. 



in the 

a 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE News Writer 
It's Monday in the gym, and after four weeks of practice, Notre Dame junior Brigid McHugh is getting the chance to do what she's been training for two seasons to do: enter the ring. 
In the thunderstorm of pounding gloves; the air that hangs heavy with smells of musty leather and sweat, she warms up normally, counting out loud doing jumping jacks with the other 69 members of the boxing army. You can't tell she's nervous. 
She probably should be. It's week five in the women's boxing team veteran season. After completing the fall instructional novice season and four weeks of intense training with the returning members of the team, it will be Mcl-Iugh's first time in a real match-up inside the ring. 
Athletics come easily to this confident, self­described tomboy from Georgia. She was a member of the rowing team and track team her freshman year. Being in the center of the athlet­ic stage isn't unfamiliar -she was often in the spotlight as a member of her high school's bas­ketball team. 
McHugh was matched with a teammate dur­ing week three, when captains evaluate boxers in the ring. After boxing with a captain, coaches and captains rank the boxers on a scale of 1 to 4 


ows 
in skills, and match them according to skill and height. The system is to ensure both safety and an evenly-matched fight so that the '--thletes have the chance to use their skills witl10ut fear of grt­ting pounded. Today's match -a dress rehearsal for the sparring in week six of the sea­son -is the first real chance McHugh has to fight. 
But despite the precautions, getting in the ring makes nerves electric. Two rounds of two­minute bouts can seem like two days -even for a composed athlete like McHugh. 
"I've got butterflies," she says, pacing nervous­ly with eyes sizing up the ring. 
Fighting in the Shadows 
It is here, in this den of sweat and strength, the women's boxing team calls home. It is here they train, day after day, week after week, in a tucked-away basement in the lower level of the Joyce Center. 
The program, in its sixth year of operation, fol­lows the same training pattern as the storied men's program. They learn the same combina­tions, same fight strategies, work with the same coaches and train in the same gym. They raise money for the Bengal Missions, and send a joint check with the men's team every year after the Bengal Bouts. Including training and service, the programs are practically identical. 
see BOXING/page 4 



Asian media hits campus 
By KIFLIN TURNER 
Assistant News Editor 
This weekend Notre Dame will host its first International Conference on Globalization and Media in Asia. 
The conference is not only a first to Notre Dame; but it could also be a first in the United States as well. 
"This is also, we believe, the first time this kind of confer­ence is held in North America," said l\1ike Wan, con­ference organizer and an­instructor in the department of film, television and theater. 
"It's different than any other conference -we have a com­bination of leading figures of the entertainment world and also scholarship," said Wan. 
What distinguishes this con­ference from most others is · the presence of speakers other than those belonging to the scholarly community. Michelle Yeoh, acclaimed A'iian actress and star of "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" adds another dimension to the conference by bringing insider perspec­tives to thr discussion. 
"It is a conference which is unlike any other in that it pro­vides for a gathering of figures from entertainment and media and scholars working in film and television," said Lionel Jensen, department chair of the East Asian languages and literatures deparlJnent. 
"It is really rare to have con­ferences in which there are anything more than just sim­ply scholars -normally it's · just scholars debating any number of issues relating to a field of focus for them," said Jensen. 
Other panelists include senior Hollywood executives and major filmmakers from Asian and media scholars, including Notre Dame alum­nus William Pfeiffer, CEO of Ilong Kong-based Celestial Pictures. Pfeiffer will give the keynote address today in McKenna Hall at 4 pm. Pfeiffer has become the most influen­tial Hollywood executive in 
see MEDWpagc 8 


School seeks new architecture chair 
By HELENA PAYNE Assistant News Editor 
Since School of Architecture chair Carroll Westfall announced his plans to step down, the Office of the Provost has established a group to conduct a national search for a replacement. 
The search committee, chaired by provost Nathan Hatch, includes associate provost Maura Ryan and architecture professors Norman Crowe, Michael Lykoudis and John Stamper. According to exec­utive assistant to the provost Mary 
· Pugel. the committee formed at the beginning of the current acad­emic year as the first step toward the selection process of a new chair. 

"The committee has really just begun to identify candidates," said Pugel. 
Westfall said he would continue working in the architecture school in some capacity, but he wants to spend more time on his research and writing. 
"I told [those in the provost's office], 'Start looking now and I'll step aside whenever you find somebody,"' said Westfall. 
The search committee has already contacted the architecture 
see CHAIR/page 8 


I' •' t • T f #' 
, It f Ir., 

. 
•I 
page 2 
t 
I 
INSIDE COLUMN
! 
A Friendship
I 
I t Lost 
I remember several songs from when I was ymmger and in the Gtrl Scouts. One that I slicks out in my memory the most is entitled "Make New rrionds." It goes 
Make new friends, but keep the old
t 
One is silver and the other's gold.' A circle's round. it has
t 
no end That's how long I want! to he your friend. 
I remember learning this song in the second grade, just after I had joined Brownie Troop 3278 in San Oiego, California. This song made me feel like I 

belonged, like I was want-Angela Campos
ed and that I had been 
accepted by the other girls 
as one of them. Lab Tech 
That song taught me the valtrn of friendship, that as long as we have our friends we can accom­plish anything and we will always have our friends, and that other friends can never and will never replace the ones that we already have. I have kept that as one of my ways or thinking over tho years. I have always been open to meeting new people and making new friends. And every new person that I meet can never replace any of the long-standing friends that I have. There are so many stories I could tell from all of the experiences that I have had from all of my friends. A friend of mine from high school, Dixie, was one of the thuggish, Tm not going to take nothing from nobody,' type of people. As far as I can tell. I was the only one she let mess with her. Maybe that was because I carried a long metal stick with me for half of the school year... but I digress. When we email each other now or talk to each other on the phone, she always asks "Who ever thought a thug would turn out so good" and it has become a kind of joke between us as we discuss how life has treated us. 
I have sev.eral other friends like this from high school and many like that here at '.'J" otre Dame. It has been joked. "Who don't you know on campus?" Of all of the people I know, I have a core set of people who I con­sider to be mv close friends. You all know who you are _:_ helping me out when my life and world fell apart, shattered. helping me to piece the broken fragments of my life. 
But then, afte·r all I have ever believed, I have found people -whom I thought were my friends -turn and step away from me when I needed the extra support. How can this be? This isn't in my model for how friendship works. Is there a limit to the friendship that can exist between two people? If something comes between them, can it not be worked out, discussed with some attempt to remain cordial? Why .should a disagreement keep friends apart? 
True friends, are people who are there to support you when things go wrong. or when you are challenged. It doesn't mean that they have to agree with you, but it means that dif­ferences of opinion are there to foster under­standing and better friendship. Friendship means as much to me as my life does. I put my heart and soul into it. 1would hate to see that thrown away because of a difference of opinion or a misunderstanding. 
Contact Angela Campos at campos.2@nd.edu 
ThP f!iews exprPSSPd in thP Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser1Jer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The foll rext of Farhcr Don McNeill's Feh.20 column appears ar: ccn lerforconcern.nd.eJ u/ sub_ncws.htm! 
The Observer reg,1rds itself as :l professional publication and srrives for rhe highes1 swn<lards ofiounlJ!ism ac all rimes. We <lo, however, recogniz~ char we wilt make misrakes. If we have made a mistake, plei!.Se comacc us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Ob.,crv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) i, puuli.,hod Monday through friday excepr during ex:im .md v;\C:'.lt1on periods. The Observer i.~ a member of rhc Assodare1..l Press. All reproduction rig:hcs are re:-.erved. 
•,ii, I I 

' ~ < I i, T -. --------,1..,1..,,-,-.....------,.-------,-,-,.-,~-,--------­
.',',.'.' I t II 1 •ft of/,
< I-t I 

The Observer . INSIDE Friday, March _1, 2002 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Undergrads replaced as card-swipers Wednesday, October. 9, 1985 In an effort to tighten control over students entering and exiting the dining halls, undergraduate student checkers had been replaced by graduate students and help from outside the University. Director of University Food Services, Bill Hickey, said the policy was necessary because of "rnany, many incidents" which occured over the past year. 

BEYOND CAMPUS Compiled from U-Wire reports 
U. Wisconsin ponders use of race in admissions 
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY 
Feds to prosecute for mail fraud 
PI IIIADELPIHA 
Magistrate Judge Jacob Hart and lawyers on both sides of the mail fraud case agreed in a preliminary hearing Tuesday that there would be sufficient prob­able cause to continue with the prosecution of Presha! Iyar. The 19-year-old Temple University freshman was arrested earlier this month on three counts of mail fraud. U.S. Postal Inspectors had com­piled enough evidence in early February to prove she may have violated certain federal codes. After the hearing, Iyar's lawyer, Mark Douple, declined to comment on the case, stating only there was an "ongoing investigation." He said he was uncertain as to what penalties Iyar could be facing if found responsible or partially responsible. The freshman has been referred to the University Disciplinary Committee but is not curr~ntly facing expulsion since she has not been charged or convicted, Temple officials said. 
Temple News 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeacher® forecast for dayrime conditions rnlll l1igh temperatures 
Saturd$y Sunday Monday Tuesday Wedr,;r~sday / 
-~ • _i:.•. -......,., •. ·,,-··'\,.()
_\..Y-, 
¢;;}~,Qq~Q ~ ~ 6 
Showers T--sforms RrJin Fiume~ Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cfoudy Cfoudy Via Assodaled Press GraphicsNel 

UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA 
Apartment complex bans kegs 
OVIEDO 

As part of its efforts to discourage underage drink­ing, University of Central Florida-affiliated apart­ment complex Knight's Krossing now is enforcing a ban on kegs, a policy that is making residents unhap­py. A group of freshmen residents at Knight's Krossing discussed the issue. University students and apartment residents Jon Jelinek, Jodi Eller and Karen Russell spoke openly about their displeasure with the previously unenforced rule. They said the rule, which stipulates kegs are not allowed in resi­dents' apartments, was not pointed out to them among tho dozens of pages that compose their lease agreements. As college students, they feel manage­ment clearly should have spelled out and explained such a hampering restriction. The students believe the ban is unfounded since Knight's Krossing did not crack down on kegs or keg parties in the first semes­ter. 
Central Florida Future 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Friday, March 1. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day_ 
s . 

10s I Os -­
1 . 

1· . ', . 
s 


70s\ ----.::~c:-----' -:::-,.;:,-..,L...--~-:r-­
>8) 
60 
FRONTS; 
.................. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
P.n;nuf'f; 

®© ...... 
High Low Showen; Raln T~storms Flurries Snow lee Sur1ny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Graduate Student Council blasts gay policy Thursday, February 2, 1995 The University of Notre Dame's Graduate Student • Council, an arm oft.he Graduate Student Union, voted to condemn the Office of Student Affairs' move to bar a gay and lesbian group from meeting on campus. The council passed a resolution to "strongly condAmn thfl University's action to expel Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College from campus." 
rnrrn basis is another. I really believe this country needs to have the starting line and the finish line the same for everyone when i.t comes to academia." 
He said universities would achieve 
•diversity better without using race­based admissions. 
"Most of our targeted minoritiAs are admitted without consideration of race." ho said. 
While Muhs said he was against using affirmative action in college admission. he said he did not oppose it in other areas, such as financial aid and hiring policies. 
Until there's a ruling on a case involving the admissions policy of University of Michigan's law school, UW-Madison officials will not change their policies, Seltzer said. 
The Daily Cardinal 
Cl 2002 AccuWeather, fnc. 

V11t AUOCi8tl"id Prass  
Atlanta  53  41  Las Vegas  59  36  Portland  52  27  
Baltimore  49  28  Memphis  55  47  Sacramento  66  36  
Boston  42  30  Milwaukee  25  22  St. Louis  42  32  
Chicago  31  26  New York  45  31  Tampa  71  61  
Houston  69  55  Philadelphia  46  31  Washington, DC 50  33  

MADISON, Wis 
The question of using r.aco as a factor in admissions is one that is far from being resolved, as evi­denced by pending court cases related tu the issue. In terms of University of Wisconsin-Madison's admissions policy, race is one of many considerations, according to Hob Seltzer, director of admissions. 
This policy is "perfectly legal." he said. The Faculty Senate is set to hear the annual report Monday from the Committee on Undergraduate Recruitment and Financial Aid. The report includes, among other things, statistics regarding target minorities and non-targeted students admitted and. not admitted to the university. 
Opponents of the university's sys­tem say there is a need for a change. 

Prnd Mohs, a member ol' the UW System Board of Regents, continual­ly has voiced his concern ov.er the current policy. He said using race as a factor in admissions was intended to be temporary, and now that it has been around for 30 years, it is becoming permanent. 
"A temporary boost is one thing," he said. "A permanent policy that divides qualifications on a long­

. '' ' .. 

. \ 1 \ ! j'' '1 I l \ , { ~ ) \ \ \ l , ', \ \ l ) I 1 I I If f I I" I\ l • l, I •, , \ t 1' t,, \ j • ~ • , t l ' 
-----------------------------:------:---­
, 1 •I' I 1° I, I I,,, 

Friday, March 1, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
71~ ~o-u-1.-9'1.,~ff\.,11'\.,,~'t, 9'1.-e-~t? /3-e-~ c-o-r,~ e-clita-1,. Trustees review e~tt 1-S323 fo--t-il4fo-1.-ff\.-~tio-14. 


recycling standards 
They ,von $50.00 
by fJli.ing the CWl.!nntVur Narm Snn'e) 

·11wt+o:usu 1)ti.u:J

-.,u,,,, ')1l••oa, 

'Y};n1t1~ \Yl:tlhu,
~-.,.,-~ 
lt,s not too lat~ for YOU to win ca...c;hm 
fill it uut Hd wnd it in •IK\l4Jr 
go on-line to \VWW.CoreSUrvey.com adtmt-1:.-die: 13809<:ode. T•ke tlleo lliUfft!}', bring yuur .unignaed paH,,..ord tor Offif.-e of Akohol & llrug fatut'.Jtiun 
311 Ldor::tune 

And YOU could be next. 
By ALLISON ROCHE News Writer 
The fate of 20 ounce bottles of pop across Saint Mary's campus will be determined by the Board of Trustees the next time they meet on April 19 and 20. 
The board will then decide whether to give final approval to the Student Environmental Action Coalition's proposal for administrative financing of campus-wide glass and plastic recycling. 
SEAC president, Teresa Lorenz, said the proposal is a response to requests from the student body. 
"Students and faculty would approach us and ask why the College didn't provide plastic and glass recycling, and what was the SEAC doing about it. When the College began switching vending machines from aluminum to plastic, peo­ple really began to question the aluminum recycling," Lorenz said. 
The SEAC's proposal, origi­nally written in April 2000, garnered support from the BOG in October 2000 and was most recently approved by the Faculty Assembly. 
According to Susan Dampeer, assistant to College president Marilou Eldred, administrators and faculty on the College Budget Committee are current­ly reviewing the proposal in order to make a recommenda­tion to the Administrative Council. The Administrative Council, composed of Eldred and the College's vice presi­dents, will then make their rec­ommendation to the Board of Trustees. 
Due to support the proposal has already received from administration, Lorenz said she is optimistic about the final approval. 
"We really don't anticipate the request to be turned down," she said. 
HIRING STARTS
-
March 4th 
FOR ALL POSITIONS: 
Servers Bartenders Hosts/Hostesses Kikhen Help Cooks 
PLEASi Al'f'LY IN PfRSON; 
Applebee's 
3703 Portoge Rd.,South Bend, IN 46526 Tel: !219! 277--2640 
www.apple5c:tuc:einc:,crom 

Although the administration supports the idea of glass and plastic recycling, budget con­straints might prevent the SEAC proposal from being implemented. Saint Mary's cur­rently spends $20,000 annually for aluminum, paper and card­board recycling. The additional cost of recycling glass and plas­tic would be about $30,000. 
"There are requests for funds from every department in the College. This year alone there were requests totaling $1,684,000 and funds available of approximately $450,000," Dampeer said_ 
The slow approval process has not deterred the SEAC. which has begun some recy­cling efforts on its own. One of the members of the group, Emily Miller, organized about 12 other members to place boxes for plastic and glass recyclables in their residence halls. The volunteers use a College truck to bring the boxes' contents to a recycling center in South Bend. 
No figures are available for how much the SEAC has recy­cled so far, but Lorenz said it is "a lot." However, due to the limited number of volunteers, not every building on campus can be covered. 
"Last year Dr. Watt in the biology department took the recyclables over to the Notre Dame recycling dumpster at married student housing. She got into trouble from Notre Dame because their dumpsters were filling up every week from the recyclables we would bring over. And then, too, after a point she would have to make three or four trips o:ver there," Lorenz said. 
If the Board of Trustees gives the SEAC their approval in April, the new recycling pro­gram could start immediately. 
Contact Allison Roche at roch0584@saintmarys.edu. 
Scholarship targets int'l students 
Special to The Observer 
A new University of Notre Dame scholarship program named in honor of a Panamanian archbishop is mak­ing it possible for students from Latin America to attend his alma mater. 
Named in memory of Father Mark McGrath, archbishop of Panama from 1969-94, the McGrath Scholars Program at Notre Dame provides need­based scholarship aid to quali­fied students from throughout Latin America. 
In addition to the scholarship support, the program also includes a fund that provides students with support programs for a variety of counseling, tutor­ing, communication, cultural and social services. 
Notre Dame currently enrolls about 760 international students from 100 countries worldwide, including 150 from Latin America. 

' I I' I I.. I I I I, I: •,II tr,
! 
''''II,' 

I ;. t , I I t f f t / ~ f I ! ! i I. I •• ,/ •II, t J 4 If 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March I, 2002 
non-scored sparring into the six­
week spring season.
Boxing 
Because competition isn't pub­lic and isn't scored, the program
continued from page 1 
takes on a distinctly different Except for one thing. focus than the men's program. When the men's boxers took There is a higher emphasis on 
their skills into the public ring last form and style here, and more week with the start of the annual intensity placed on the individual. Rengal Bouts tournament, the "With the ladies, it's a different thing," Suddes said. "They're in it
women held their own series of 
spars in the Joyce gymnasium -for the self-improvement, self­in private. confidence. self-discipline." 
Since the program began six It shows in their individual years ago, the women haven't training styles. In practice, part­been allowed to fight in public. ners \\ill stop each other to cor­
While they are allowed to have a rect form, patiently demonstrat­private set of fights during the ing and carefully critiquing each final week of the spring season, other's execution. The women's the move to any public series of team, Suddes said, tends to be fights seems to be a long way off. more focused in the absence of a 
Most of the women's boxers trv competitive tournament to work not to think about it. At least not toward. "They're here for a dit~ often. ferent reason," Suddes said. "And 
"You are really forced to focus I don't think it's self defonse. To on your own strengths and weak­train two hours a day. they have nesses, not just if you win or to get something else out ofit." lose," said sophomore boxer Coached by seven team cap­Jessica Brogan. "But I would like tains and three coaches who to see the girls do something like rotate between both the this in public. I don't think anyone men's and women's programs, who's down here wants to be hid­the push of the women's program den." 
is on the individual boxer. With a coaching system that relies heavily on peer instruction
Fighting to Fight 
and teamwork, teammates self­Eight years ago. Aimee Catrow police and help each other betterdidn't have a team to fight with. 
technique. The captains are theThe sophomore who had a desire legacy of the program, Suddes to box joined the men's boxing said, and a powerful example for 
program and began training the younger boxers moving
informally with the team. 
through the program. 
Catrow was lured into boxing "I didn't know what to expectby watching Bengal Bouts her when l became a captain," saidfreshman year. and like Kari Jerge, a captain who runs 

most who join the women's 

the day-to-day administration ofboxing team, she had no prior the program. "But I don't thinkexperience with the sport. 
anything this year lit me up asIt took her two years before she much as when I see girls loving convinced administrators and this program the way I love it."
coaches to The peer-driven instruction,give their blessing for a combined with coach's oversight,women's program. Catrow had to has produced skillful athletes. 
overcome who hurdles: starting a There are some on the team that new program, and choosing one can even throw punches as wellwith a significant stigma around or better than the guys, Suddes
it. 
said. But when captains came toAfter· all, women didn't box. 
coaches last fall with an idea for aAnd it wasn't just at Notre Dame. 
campus event tentatively dubbedWomen were banned from the "Friday Night Fights," they weresport by USA Boxing until 1993, 
encouraged not propose it to
when 15-year old amateur boxer Student Activities. The event wasDallas Malloy filed a federal court 
supposed to showcase bouts 
case in Seattle against the boxing between the veteran captains at agoverning body. Malloy won the small campus venue. But coaches· case after a judge ruled the ban concerns about the skill level of was an act of gender discrimina­some of the boxers and whethertion. Still, even with the ban lifted, the program was ready to go pub­the sport isn't widely publicized. 
lic doomed the proposal. 
and the first national champi­"The problem is the public per­onship competition for women ception of women's boxing is stillwasn't held until 1997. 
very negative." said Jerge. "WeCollege boxing programs were want the respect we deserve. My-and still are -rare. Even fear of turning this into a publictoday, with the Notre Dame box­thing is the misconceptions." 
ing team fully recognized as a The perception of boxers as vio­club sport, the University is the lent also plays into the stereotypeonly institution in the country that 
of women'soffers a boxers, and

women's col­
"I don't feel we need points in a Catholic
legiate box­environment.
or judges, wins or losses.
ing program that doesn't 
except for For a lot ofthe girls. 
always playthe service 

it's a huge battle just to well. 
academies. 
For a pro­

get themselves in the ring." 
where learn­
gram that 

ing the sport trains in the 
is mandato­Kari Jerge shadows, ry. 
women's boxing captain overcomingT o m those stereo-
Suddes, one types in 
of three 
order to cul­

coa.:hes for 
tivate an the men's and women's team, accepting environment for a pub­helped Catrow lic event is difficult. 
get the team off the ground. "If you look at the men's bouts,
"Once we got around the far.t that there can be a lot of blood," said women do box. the only real issue captain Beth Rinkus. "It can be was what we were going to work pretty violent. Since they never toward," Suddes said. come to watch us, they don't see 
The program matured into a it's more about form and control. very different program from the This isn't \liolent. But they assume one Catrow started . In 1996-97, it's going to be that way with the only 50 women came out for the women, and they have a big prob­fall novice season. The follm-ving lem with that." year the total rose to 100, and has Still. while the captains occa­stayed at about the same. sionally field questions from 
The women stayed out of the novice boxers who wonder why 
ring during the first season, focus­they can't fight in public, right ing on skill development. Today now, fighting in public might not they include a week of instruc­fit with the mission of the pro­tional sparring and supervised, gram. 

Top: A Notre Dame boxer guards her face during a practice session. Right: Sophomore Jessica Brogan takes a round of punches as part of her workout routine. 
Photos by Nellie Williams 
"The interesting thing about this program is that our win is getting in the ring, period," Jerge said. '1 don't feel we need points or judges. wins or losses. For a lot of the girls, it's a huge battle just to get themselves in the ring." 
The Battle Within 
Inside the ring. McHugh has a square area of about 14 by 10 paces to throw punches at her opponent. Tapping her gloves against her partner's, the two walk carefully around the ring. sizing up the competition in small, square steps. 
Driven by adrenaline -and maybe nerves -she starts on the offensive. 
She throws once. 
She throws twice. 
She connects, then backs away, pulling her arms in front of her chest in a defensive stance. 
But her opponent rebounds, throwing punches until McHugh gets caught. She ducks. moves away, and connects with her opponent so hard. she rolls her eyes as she recovers. 
Walking out of the ring, she jokes with the supervising coach. "I've never done this before!" she says. defending her performance. But down here, in this basement gym. this isn't something anyone has done before. As she rehashes her test match with her team­mate, the two talk about what went well, what didn't, and what they need to improve on. 
They're also glowing with pride. 
"It takes a kind of unique per­son to want to get punched in the face," she says, laughing as she unties her boxing gloves and spits out her mouth guard. 
The athletes here know they arc unique. know they are com­peting in a sport most women don't ever think about. They know they compete in something that isn't ever considered femi­nine, and something a lot of peo­ple consider violent. 
But athletes like Mcllugh and Brogan arc driven down here by passion. a desire for perfection and an insatible thirst for compe­tition. Brogan, also a self­described tomboy from Granger, worked all summer with her mom running and lifting weights to get in shape for the season. Now that she's survived almost two sea­sons, there are still days when the normal workouts aren't enough, and she runs and lifts before or after the two-hour marathon at the Joyce gymnasium. 


There are still moments, though, when she has a gut check. Wonders what she's doing. Once during training, she threw a punch, connected. and hit so hard she made her opponent cry. 
She immediately felt guilty. 

"I felt so bad. seeing someone cry right in front of me," she said. "But then I thought, whoever I'm fighting came out here to fight too. She has every opportunity I have to work on her defense and offense. She knows what's com­ing, and so do I." 
Inside the Ring 

It's Monday in the gym. This time it's time for the final round. the last chance. Today is the day when the athletes who have trained for six weeks, pacing and punching, jumping and jabbing, bouncing and bouting, will face off in the ring and put their skills to the test. 
There's a small crowd of friends gathering around the ring. Roommates, boyfriends, parents. Nervous chatter fills the room. In the corner behind the ring. Brogan, with gloves laced tightly, practices throwing punches. 
Her match-up isn't easy. She's boxing a captain, Katie Schwerdtmann, evidence of the advanced level of skill her hours of practice have helped her devel­op during the season. It won't be easy. Schwerdtmann's a senior, a three-year veteran, and she's known to be a tough fighter. 
Inside the ring, captain Jerge greets the team milling around the ring. 
"This is our competition, the best part of our season," she says to the athletes, nervously awaiting their chance to box, and watch their teammates box. "We want to sec even fighis. We don't want to see people beat up," she finish­es, cautioning to keep the fights under control. 
Behind her. Brogan and Schwerdtmann chat quietly. It's an even fight, they promise each· other. They want to show the team good fighting technique, good punches. They tell each other to have a good fight. Showcase what they've learned. 
They tap their gloves. The fight begins. 
It isn't an easy fight. Both throw their punches hard, much harder than most of the competitors here. Brogan shows she's the amateur of the two fighters, get­ting caught for most of the first round under Schwerdtmann's flurry of punches. She keeps her concentration. keeps her gaze fixed. tries to avoid the thud of a connected punch. 
It doesn't work. 
Round one is over. 
But round two is a different story. With two minutes behind her in the ring, she's learned her territory. knows her opponent's fighting style. She whispers, softly mouthing directions to herself as her punches begin connecting. One. Two. Three. She's back in the match. 
Round two is over. 
"I didn't think I could box like that last week!" she laughs, hug­ging Schwerdtmann post-match. The crowd that gathered around the ring is clapping, and team­mates slap them on the back in good-luck wishes. It's over, this six-week buildup of nerves, anxi­ety and confidence checks. It's over, this four minutes in the ring. It's over. 
It's an accomplishment. Even though she'd trained, she wasn't prepared for the crowd of people watching her, judging her. But after fighting with a captain, sur­viving, and connecting punches, she knows she did well. 
"It was definitely shocking, see­ing all of those people," she said. "Lt was the biggest thing l had to get over when I got in the ring." 
But as she unlaces her gloves, unwraps her hands, and removes her gear, she knows she'II get back in. She knows she'll be back in the gym, next season, for the rush the ring gives her. 
''I can't wait for next year," she says, smiling. 


. '\'' \' .. 
\ ' t t. I 9 '· • 


RL 
ATION 
Friday, March 1, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Guantanamo detainees refuse food: 
Incensed that two guards stripped a detainee of his turban during prayer. nearly Lwo-thirds of the prisoners captured in the Afghan war refused lunch Thursday and chanted "God is great" in Arabic in their first mass prqtest since arriving at the base. Tension has been building among the 300 inmates who have been held at Camp X-ray, the remote U.S. naval base in east­ern Cuba. since January. 
Pro-Taliban militant free on bail: 
The pro-Taliban leader of a top radical Islamic party was freed from jail Thursday after four months. After his release on the order of a Lahore court. Qazi Hussain Ahmad spoke with supporters and charged that President Gen. Pervez Musharraf had given away Pakistan's military bases to the United States. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Charity help NYC schools: As stu­dents returned Thursday to two schools near ground zero for the first time since Sept. 11, a charitable foundation said it was giving $1.8 million to those schools and six others. Vartan Gregorian, president of the Carnegie Corp_oration of New York, said the money is the first installment of $10 million the foun­dation has pledged to aid recovery efforts following the World Trade Center attack. 
Texas executes convicted killer: A convicted killer was put to death Thursday night, just hours after a federal appeals court lifted a stay blocking his execution. Monty Delk, strapped to the death chamber gurney, shouted gibberish and obscenities before he was given a lethal injection. "I am the warden." Delk shouted as the warden asked him if he had any final statement. Delk was convicted or shooting to death Gene Olan Allen II in 1986. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Prison warden loses master keys: 
Locks in some of the most critical areas at the state's largest prison have been changed after the warden lost two master keys, lead­ing officials to lift a partial lockdown. Prison officials decided to end the partial lockdown Tuesday even though most locks at Westville Correctional Facility still need changing, assistant superintendent John Schrader said. All sensitive areas of the prison, including medical storage cabinets and fire escapes, have been equipped with new locks. 
Market Watch February 28 
Dow 
10,106.13 -21.45 
Jones 
Composite
Same: 

Volume:
223 

1,367,154.947 
-~,__

NASDAQ: 1,713.49 -20.39
••~~•m1111111111111 
S&P 500: 1,106.73 -3.15 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.21 +0.03 14 .27 NASl)Pl)-100 INDEX(~) -1.80 -0. 62 33. 78 INTEL CORP (INTC) -4.48 -1.34 28.55 RIVERSTONE NE1W (RSTIJ) -49.67 -3.77 3.82 ORKLE CORP (ORCL) +1.53 +0.25 16.62 
INDIA 


Associated Press 
AHMADABAD 
Angry Hindus set fire to homes in a Muslim neigh­borhood Thursday and then kept firefighters away for hours, dragging out one for­mer lawmaker and burning him alive. At least 58 people died in revenge attacks trig­gered by a Muslim as_sault on a train. 
Police in western Gujarat state appeared outnum­bered or unwilling to act to quell what appeared to be the worst rioting to hit the country in nearly a decade. 
The officers stood in bunches, watching as groups of Hindus, wielding iron rods and cans of gaso­line or kerosene, roamed Ahmadabad attacking Muslims in their homes, shops and vehicles. 
The government promised to send the army to Ahmadabad, the region's main city, to end the ram­page. But there were fears the violence would spread Friday, when Hindu nation­alists called for a nation­wide strike. 
In Thursday's worst attack, 38 people -includ­ing 12 children -died when some 2,000 Hindus set fire to six homes in an affluent Muslim neighbor­hood. 
Some trapped residents made frantic telephone calls to police and firefight­ers. But police said they arrived two hours later and firefighters were delayed by more than six hours because of blockades by rioters. 

A former lawmaker, Ehsan Jefri, fired at the rioters when they tried to enter his house, but he was dragged out and burned alive. 
Elsewhere in Ahmadabad, rioters pulled a Muslim truck driver out of his vehicle and killed him at a roadblock, police said. Other Hindus made bon­fires with goods looted from shops, and 20 men tore down a small mosque. 
J.S. Bandukwala, a Muslim and human rights activist, said his house was attacked by Hindus who "lobbed burning rags and pelted stones," before his Hindu neighbors took him to safety. 
In a few instances, police opened fire on rioters. killing two and wounding six in Ahmadabad and two other towns, police said. 
The violence was in retal­iation for an attack Wednesday in Godhra. a town south of Ahmadabad, where Muslims set fire to a train carrying Hindu nationalists, killing 58 peo­ple, including 14 children. 

Senate delays campaign finance bill 
talks Thursday with Sen. John technical adjustments to his legisla­Associated Press McCain, R-Ariz., co-sponsor of the bill tion, but most alterations McConnell 
with Sen. Huss Feingold, D-Wis. They wants would be opposed as "very sub­
WASHINGTON are looking for a forniula to complete stantive" changes. 
Action on campaign finance legisla­

the most significant change in cam­Among those was a McConnell pro­tion was pushed back to at least next paign finance law since 197 4. posal to index for inflation limits set week. McConnell said he objects to the bill on amounts political action commit­
Sen. Majority Leader Tom Daschle. in its present form and. under Senate tees can give to candidates in regulat­
O-S.D., put off plans to try to bring the rules, a single senator can prevent ed "hard money." 
bill, which bans unregulated "soft legislation from moving forward. The Senate passed the McCain­money" donations io the national The Kentucky Republican contends Feingold bill last April by 59-41. On political parties. to the Senate floor. limits on campaign contributions vio­Feb. 14, the House passed a similar 
His office said he would await the out­late First Amendment free speech version 240-189, and Senate support­come of talks between the main pro­
rights and is asking for what he says ers want to pass the House bill with­ponents and opponents of the bill. 
are minor ''technical" changes. out change so it can be sent directly to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the After their meeting, McCain said a President Bush for his expected signa­chief opponent, held a second round of separate bill may be proposed to make ture. 

Friday, March 1, 2002

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

;.·-. 
. •. 
-. . ' .
-· . .
.:" ' ... ' ·__ :-,•:. 
. . . . 

. . 
' . : ', ' .

:.-.:-:::::.. ·.-.•,• .:.: ,• --· .. -... 
' :·· : . ,•

.·• '. . . . 
·o.·.··.·.··.··· ··.•.·... ·.... · ..·······.. '.:C
.. .. 
. ,·. ... : 
. . . 
. . . 
·, ' . .
/-_::__ :.:.;. ... ·-.· :: 
'•• .• : 
"'.. . 

·.... -• -:-'. -····•····' •····· ............•..• 

..-----:-w-------~
...------------.~...,..,~.,-:,--:-,---~ 

·•\'"\I; l I \ t, }.. l t . • 

Friday, March l, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Surplus goes to student center 

SS! 
directed by Douglas C. Wager 
SPONSORED BY: 
;J,,,,MU· r ! ~ t Is r-· ® TARGET 
NATIONAi ENl>OW'~ENT 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
News Writer 
With a sizeable surplus from last year's budget, the Saint Mary's Board of Governance donated money toward the con­struction of the new student cen­ter and funded new clubs and activities. 
"Hopefully we can give more back to the students," executive treasurer Kirn 
Jensen said. "I still have clubs coming to ask for funding and recognition, some of the money will go for that. If nothing comes it will carry over until next year." 
The money BOG spends each year comes from the student activity fee, $150 each student pays at the start of the fall semes­ter. 
According to Georgeanna Rosenbush, Director of Student Activities, the fee was not always that high. 
"In 1991 and 1992, we hardly had any money," Rosenbush said., "The student fee used to be $40 dollars. Then they did a survey of like colleges, and found that the average student activity fee was $150 a year." 
After this survey, Saint Mary's raised the fee to $75 a year. "That's what gave people money to do things," Rosenbush 

said. "Without that, people would laugh at us." 
The eventual doubling of the activity fee, Rosenbush said, was caused by inflation and rising costs for events and transporta­tion, among other things. 
"Those costs have gone up, especially the parent weekends," Rosenbush said. "Students didn't want to combine events, and we couldn't keep those events going otherwise." 
With the higher student activity fee, Rosenbush believes, more students are able to participate in activities such as formals and parent weekends. If students had to pay all of those costs individu­ally, many would be cut out. 
"The money in the budget is used for your classes, your halls, the five boards, the parent week­ends, the senior formal. and senior week," Rosenbush said. "We also use the money to pay for buses and other transporta­tion to events, and to pay for the events." 
The expenses vary from year to year, and it is Jensen's responsi­bility to see this year's expenses do not exceed the budget. 
"It changes from year to year," Rosenbush said. 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 

Media experts talk 
about music, sex 
By JOCELYN CUBBON 
News Writer 
Several Notre Dame sponsors presented a panel discussion called "Sex. Music and You" to focus on music's effects on soci­ety, relationships and individuals. The three panelists shared their views on topics ranging from music videos to beauty to rap music. 
Early in the discussion, the pan­elists reacted to clips of popular music videos featuring glam­orous. yet scantily clad, women, and discussed whether it was beauty or exploitation. 
Maynell Thomas, an entertain­ment attorney and producer, said music videos were products of commercialization, taking the place of music tours, and that the women are "a promotional tool to use ... to sell music." She also said many women chose to perform in music videos "to take the next step" in their entertainment careers. 
Le Alan Jones, a college student and author of "Our America: Life and Death on the South Side of Chicago," emphasized that many of the youth watching music videos do not realize that the flashy videos don't represent real life. 
"(The video} creates a vision, but falsifies how to get to it," said Jones. 
Abe Thompson, famous radio personality, entrepreneur. educa­tor, author and motivational speaker, said that people are attracted to the flashiness of music videos, but that they have the choice whether or not to buy what they sell. Thompson said many people are affected by music in ways of which they are unaware. 

"What you put in your mind affects you more than [what] you put in your stomach," said Thompson. "It stays there." 
Reactions from the student audience focused on topics such as beauty versus exploitation, the double standard for women in entertainment and society, and competition. 
Part way through the discus­sion, a video by fourteen-year-old rapper Little Bow Wow was shown with girls and women, dressed in trendy clothes, dancing around the star. Many of the stu­dents in the audience were appalled by the video and by the ideas of sex and money such videos put in the minds of today's youth. They wanted to know ways to change the moral stan­dards of today. 
Jones suggested that in order to niake a difference, people have to become more than reactive, but proactive. 
"You find something that is real ... tangible ... and do it," said Jones. 
The panelists discussed the effect of image and stressed the importance of the power of an individual. They encouraged stu• dents to work for their goals and to make a difference. 
"Be an individual. You have the option to do what everyone else does, but it is your choice. One step at a time," said Thompson. 
The discussion's sponsors were the Notre Dame NAACP: Multicultural Student Programs and Services; the Film, Television. and Theater Department: and the Junior Class. 
Contact Jocelyn Cubbon at jcubbon@nd.edu. 

' t I f I I ' </ I ,' f ' I ' ~ ' ' 


page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March I, 2002 

among other architectural pro­jects in the area. 
"I've tried to expand our pres­ence in the architecture world," said Westfall, adding that he has tried to influence the South Bend community positively as well through projects downtown and on the Northeast side. 
"There's been tremendous cooperation from the city and the county and other agencies and organizations," said Westfall, who came to Notre Dame as the architecture chair in 1998. 
After he steps down. Westfall said he would devote more time to tracing the history and for­tunes of classical architecture in America and urbanism for a future book project. 
"This is a tremendously invig­orating place to be and there's not much chance to direct that vigor in researching and writing when you're in the administra­tion position that I'm in," said Westfall, indicating that he would still continue to teach while conducting research. 
Currently, Westfall holds the Frank Montana chair in the School of Architecture, which he will retain after he steps down as the school chair. 
Hatch, who chairs the search committee. was unavailable for comment. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
Media 
continued from page 1 
Asia in the last 20 years, said Wan. 
"[Pfeiffer} pioneered the glob­alization of media in Asia and the slogan now adopted by Hollywood studios is 'think glob­ally, script locally,"' said Wan. "We want to put Notre Dame on the map, in the national atten­tion when it comes to media globalization." 
The conference takes place at a momentous time in an expanding globalization trend of pan-Asian media. 
"This conference focuses on media globalization, not just globalization in terms of eco­nomics, business or things like that," said Wan. "Media global­ization has a huge impact on people around the world -not to mention culturally, economi­cally and in cinematography." 
Jensen pelnted to the intensi­fied interest in Asian studies and a substantial increase in student enrollment in the department of East Asian languages and litera­tures as factors contributing to the importance and success of the conference. 
"There's been an enormous amount of growth in Asian stud­ies at Notre Dame in the last year and a half," said Jensen. 
The conference, sponsored by 20 University programs and organizations, received most support from the department of East Asian languages and litera­tures with Jensen's assistance and the department of film, tele­vision and theatre with the sup­port of department chair Donald Crafton. 
The panels will take place today and Saturday in McKenna Hall, and a special screening of "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" followed by a discus­sion with star, Michelle Yeoh at 101 DeBartolo beginning at 4 pm. Panel information and times can be found at www.nd.edu/-ealVconference. 
Contact Killin Turner at ktumcr@nd.edu. 
Quality

Diamonds 
® 


John M~ Marshall's 
Incor]Porated 1965 

Jewefors / Gemologists
Goldsmiths / Platinum.smiths 
K~ Bank Building, Suite #101 So1lll.tlh. Bend, Indiana 461601 
287-1427 


Chair 
continued from page 1 

advisory council, as well as other individuals in the architec­ture field for guidance in the process, said Pugel, adding that the committee hopes to find the new chair by the end of l.he aca­demic year. 
Because of the School of Architecture's standing in the architecture world, Pugel said the committee has undertaken a "quite expansive" search. 
"Our School of Architecture is a very distinguished place and it has a long tradition of leader­ship of classical and traditional architecture," said Pugel. "It would be an appealing place to be for an architect and an acad­emic leader who is trained in those traditions and interested in continuing to move our school forward as a leader." 
Under Westfall, the School of Architecture has maintained its status as a school of classical and traditional architecture, with an added focus on city building, also known as urban­ism. Westfall was involved in the formation of the South Bend Urbanist Center on Main Street, 

after this, the corporate l,adder 
wil.l, be a piece or [cake]. 
In Army ROTC, you'll get to do stuff that'll challenge you, both physically and 
mentally. !n the process, you'll develop skills you can use in your career, like 
thinking on your feet, making smart decisions, taking charge. Talk to your Army ROTC representative. You'll find there's nothing like a little climbing to help 
prepare you for getting to the top. 
AR MY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 



APPLY NOW FOR PAID SUMMER LEADERSHIP TRAINING AND ARMY OFFICER OPPORTUNITIES! Contact Captain Bart Hennessey at (219) 631-4656 or 1-800-UND-ARMY 

Friday, March 1, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENTS page 9 

ts • Gift,Ce.rtfflGtas. • Guaranteed Satisfaction!· 
.,... ________ _ 
For Your Best Tan Everl--1 
Get a F~n Tan I QI ~ I 

I 
I 1111 1111 t:
I w 0 
z 

Your choice! Eti:herto tanning bed sessions forJust ~S I GR an-entire Month of bed ~r')gfor only $40; I I AND when you bring in this coupon get25~ off our widti selectlon of tanning lotions! I 
I 272-7653 NEW University Location State R,oad 28 & Ironwood I 
• 256-9656 cor:n--of GJ:ape and McK_inley_ 291-200G Southland Pl:ua Ireland & Jronwoad J. 
...... ~ ---.. ----------flll!ll9t ----... ------..... --­
llorlllnB 500-Design•tnamoans •MarteUng, Consulranrs Seminar 
Leam The Methods Of AProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements · An ABC-123 Plan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. 
AOne DavSeminar, ABaal OfOIIBr Ten Years OfInvaluableExoerlance. 
This class is designed to short cut you to the simple focused thoughts you must have in business to move forward in high level business. The class is taught by a man whose work, one Fortune 500 Company 
V.P. says will, "change the course of an entire industry.• 
"---'.: 'AR,~Ill:
~ For class dates, private classes &~SO.ARn;ore information, go to our web 111Ga11ntw...,_'l~e11_. site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 
. WWW.US8Sl8fftl.COffl E-mail~ lnventor@usastand.com 
Don't be ashamed 
of your dirty car 
The dirtiest car in the parking 
lot will receive an ultra platinum 
car wash from 

vs.
Oh" LJ
IQ 
Sunday, Mardi 3 at 1 :00 pm 
~ 
. !'.1 -'-r.-, 
.......... 
·~~ 
Sponsored by: 
~ 
.. ~·}• l~t. 

. . ,J I . . . -• ,. 
.t·t, l .'J·tuddiclJ; .., 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CH!EF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OP£RATI0NS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Par Perers  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason Mc!;arley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Parrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradter ScENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR; Peter Richardson 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer· Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner CONTROLLER, Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR, Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/G.EN£RAL lNF0..............631-747 l FAX........................................................... .63 J-6927 AoV£RTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR.¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AD~INISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:l!observer. ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
to meet rhe editors and 
articles published after 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of i:he administration of eirher institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ecliror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression of all opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QULttiom regarding Observerpoli.ies rhou!d ~ direct­ed to Editor in Chiif Milu Com,ofly. 

THE 
OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT 

page 10 Friday, March 1, 2002 




Era candidates win elections 
If anyone is an expert on the value of student government or the impact of so-called "era candidates" who run in student government elections, I am. During my junior year, almost exactly 30 years ago, I ran for student body president at Notre Dame. I lost to a candidate who wore a Burger King crown and chose as his run­ning mate. a cat! 
The King and his cat's popular­ity began when the King pro­claimed that he was the prime mover. thus he only campaigned from toilet stalls in each dorm. His success was sealed after he spoke from behind a burning bush on one of the balconies at Walsh Hall (a burning trash can substituted for the bush). His appeal swept across campus 30 years ago because all elec­tion cycles have an ebb and flow as constituencies change. 
Former Speaker of the House Thomas "Tip" O'Neill (D-Mass.) claimed that all politics was local. Indeed that is true in the real world. When applied to campus student gov­ernment politics, it is even more true. Student government exists to make life more pleasant while matriculating at Notre Dame. And heaven knows that task is virtually impossible. 
President-elect Libby Bishop and running mate Trip Foley had the right message and image at the right time to satisfy the current student mood. That political atmosphere was created by the prior year of student representa­tion. 
When students feel comfortable, they stick with what seems to be working. If they perceive a slick, outgoing political stuffed shirt in office, they want change. Campus cycles arc as inevitable as Democrats following Republicans in office only to be fol-

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
lowed again by Republicans followed 
once more by Democrats. The cycle never breaks; the timeli.ne of the cycle 
varies. 
Early in my junior year, the student body president had a demonstration of more than 3,000 students support him at a Campus Life Council meeting. The huge crowd forced the meeting to move to the engineering auditorium in an effort to accommodate the angry stu­dents. Students were jammed into hall­ways, stairwells and the auditorium protesting a proposed ban of kegs on campus. 
The incumbent student body presi­dent thanked us for our show of sup­port. Then he told us that he would negotiate with the administration using the turnout as his position of power. The bootlicker then sold out the stu­dents so that he could obtain a letter of recommendation to Yale Law School from a very senior University official. The letter began, "Ifyou take anyone from Notre Dame this year. you take (him) first." 
As a result, student government became a joke in the minds of the stu­dents the following spring during the student body election cycle. We could not impeach the lame duck. although as alumni we defeated him twice for a national alumni board position a few years later. That spring, the mood of the campus begged for a King and his cat to be the successors. 
I am proud that I carried my hall while the King carried all the other halls. I had a good campaign about cut­ting through red tape, improving meal plan options, bringing more concerts to campus and addressing programs that would help students -parking, pari­etals and bookstore policies to name a few. My campaign made sense when the electorate wanted chaos. 
After one of the other candidates challenged th(,l King for not having a student as a running mate, the King made a fake Notre Dame ID for the cat. Students loved it. The King foiled a would-be bureaucrat's attempt at polit­ical nonsense. The election was all but certified at that point. 

The Observer ridiculed the King for his proposal to abolish student govern­ment. However, after the election the King appointed his trusty roommate, "The H Man," as the caretaker of the government. We did not cut through red tape, nor did we add any new ser­vices that were long overdue. But stu­dent government survived not one year with the King, but two. He was a sophomore when he won and was re-elected the following year. 
Libby Bishop is riding a wave of gen­der acceptance, especially as the University approaches the 30th anniversary of coeducation. Her elec­tion, making her the second woman student body president at Notre Dame, parallels the King's reelection. The timing and the mood have coincided like the alignment of the Zodiac. 
For Brian Moscona who served as a loyal vice president and paid his dues in the campus political system, I sug­gest that you do not try to analyze why you lost. For five years following my loss I attempted to understand how intelligent students at a premier uni­versity like Notre Dame voted for a King and his cat. 
It is as explainable as the New England Patriots beating both the Pittsburgh Steelers and St. Louis Rams. Like the sports gods in the sky ordained the Super Bowl, the elec­torate gods were calling the shots. Moscona probably will make a great politician outside of Catholic Disneyland. Fate teaches you how to run against a cat or a significant cam­pus anniversary. It is a learning experi­ence, not the end of your life. The twists of fate are such that we can expect to see Moscona someday in the nation's capital. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served in President Clinton's adminis­tration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director. His column appears every other Friday, and his email address is llottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 

Helena Payne Amanda Greco 
Erin LaRuffa Graphics Kiflin Turner Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Noah Amstadter Dave Cook 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kurt Bogaard Dorothy Carder 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should the dining halls serve meat on Fridays during Lent? 

49% 
Poll courtesy of NDToday.com Total Votes: 467 

Yes 
51% 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Any preoccupation with ideas of what is right or wrong in conduct shows an arrested intellectual development." 
Oscar Wilde writer 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March l, 2002 "page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Homosexual immorality questioned 
Biblical evidence is an oxymoron 
llow dare Becket Gremmels call another student closed-minded when he is the very antithe­sis of understanding and tolerance. After reading Mr. Gremmels' letter from Feb. 28, I found myself disgusted with this condescending attitude. Who are you to say that homosexuality is evil? The definition of evil is an act intentionally done to harm or injure another person. Does this really describe sexual preference? If you want to talk about acting maliciously against others, let's look at your letter when you likened homosexuals to people who murder their parents. kidnappers, pedophiles and thieves. Please! Ifyou want a quote from the Bible, how about this: "Let the ones without sin cast the first stone." You also may need to touch up on the Bible's teachings. 
Which brings me to my next point. Biblical evidence is an oxymoron. When was the last time you heard Genesis being used as evidence in a courtroom? When has the Gospel of Mark been cited at a con­gressional hearing? Never. That's because these are not facts. You cannot mistake Church doctrine for indis­putable truth. In the Torah, itis written that we should not eat certain species of hoofed animals. Does that make me evil? Orthodox sects of some faiths stone women for unveiling their faces in public. Do not fall into the trap of relying absolutely on the teachings of others ,vithout critically thinking for yourself. If I am not mistaken, about 20 devout Muslims took the lives of nearly 6,000 Americans all because their religion told them that they were justified. Whose book is right? Yours? Do not be so quick to Dear Mr. Editor, t t th b . th 'th
answer yes. pu oge er y vanous au ors, WI The Pope and the Church are allowed to have their J wouldn't nom,afly write in, each author biased towards personal 
ov.11 opinion. However, it is your responsibility as a but the historical Jesus most beliefs. As a result, the Bible reflects the human being to question what you are told and decide thoughts and opinions of the society in for yourself what is worth believing. Right now you sound certainly never played which these authors lived. This reflection like nothing more than a mindless drone, ranting about what football! Bia b!J blJ may or may not describe God's -.yill. For exam-could have been a discussion full of relevant points and counter bl 3 bl 1 bl: hi~ . ple, the Bible has several pas~ages about the infe­arguments. You. however. have completely failed to touch on any of ' · ' '* ·~ nonty of women and the oppress10n of people through them. ~-----~,=,=--slavery. These passages echo cultural norms at the time, 
Mr. Gremmels' main point for hating homosexuals is the fact that "scripture makes it quite clear that homosexual acts are a moral evil." He talks about how the Catholic Church should take pride in its preservation of tradition. If you ask me, the Church taking pride in the tradition of social intolerance is about as great as South Africa celebrating apartheid. The Catholic Church has plenty of things to be proud of, but I would not think that the Pope will be writing you a letter of thanks for your contribution to canon law. It is ravings like yours that have caused so many people to leave the Church in utter disgust. 
Jonathan Diffley 
sophomore Sorin College February 28, 2002 

'Monologues' break a culture of silence 
1 am an anonymous rape victim. You pass me on the quads, see me in the dining hall and observe me at Mass, always blending in, one of a sea of smiling-Notre Dame faces. 
I am not a rape victim in the conventional sense. There was no brutality, no late night walk in the woods. It happened here. not far from the shelter of campus. Blurred by alcohol, the night comes back to me in frantic images and phrases. I don't remember the bar we stumbled into after the dance and the walk off-campus to his house escapes me. But it happened -and I have never again been the trusting person l once was. 
Lacking the courage to confront him in person, afraid of backlash from his many friends and frightened by the emotional repercussions of pressing charges, this letter and a few select confidantes have been my only outlets. My parents don't know. After weeks of going through the motions, tears finally broke loose the other night. 
The University must address the culture of silence that conceals my story and the hundreds of others just like it. Producing "The Vagina Monologues," a play that simultaneously explores the stifled, every­day violence perpetrated against women, while uplifting female sex­uality, is a step in the right direction. However frank and potentially shocking the language used may be, I can assure you that repression is a far worse offense. Freedom of speech is a glorious thing. This is one subject that we need to talk about. 
Anonymous 
February 25, 2002 

Scripture's words can be misconstrued 
Although I've never been compelled to write to The Observer before, I would like to question Becket Gremmels' claim that "Scripture makes it quite clear that homosexual acts are not only a moral evil, but are a mortal sin." 
Gremmels uses the story of Sodom and Gomorrah to argue his point. If you read the story literally, God burned the cities to punish the men for homo­sexuality. But ifyou consider the story within its context, it is clear that God was unhappy with the mob's abusive treatment of strangers and its desire to commit gang rape. Condemning homosexual rape is quite different from 
condemning homosexual orientation or even consensual homosex­
ual sex. This passage should not be generalized to con­.,.·... elude that God hates homosexuality. .<. \ ·•.·. On a literal level, biblical words can be miscon­
" . ··"I\ strued to serve almost any purpose. White J,Jf supremacists take the story of Phineas (a · 'c.v+ man rewarded by God for killing his tribal 
-chief and the chiefs foreign-born mis­tress) as validation for murdering 
interracial couples and minorities. And according to Leviticus, stoning disobedient children is okay. The 
examples are endless. 
While some see the Bible as the word of God, I see it as a collection of writings (sometimes contradictory) 
and we would not consider them representative of God's intentions. 
Pulling isolated passages from the Bible to justify intolerance is a danger­ous practice. I find it hard to believe that Gremmels can accuse others of "not being very open-minded." To me, open-mindedness entails acceptance. I'm surprised that with his expertise in theological doctrine, he is not famil­iar with the passage that begins, "He who is without sin, let him cast the first stone." 
Meghan DiPerna 
senior off-campus February 28, 2002 

Poverty sucks -even with a VCR 
As is often the case with the right wing within the Catholic Church, they have missed Christ's message about poverty and, indeed, 2,000 years of thinking on the issue of social justice. This is truly obvious in the case of Christine Niles and her recent unfocused diatribe against the poor and Europeans. As with last semester's assault on the "brooding sullen class," Ms. Niles misses the mark. The fact that the working poor in the United States have more material goods than the poor in other nations should not condemn them to ridicule. 
Rather, Ms. Niles should feel ashamed to have let a pregnant woman work on the construction of a church rather than rest in the comfort of her own home. Whatever happened to family values and raising the standards of living in Ecuador and else­where? Isn't there a better measure of the standard of living than the number of VCRs? As she railed against socialism in Europe, she failed to see the strong sup~ port of laborers for programs of national health care, education and wage and price supports. 

She derides the English for their anti­materialism, which she interprets as anti­Americanism. Is she accusing the Brits of VCR envy or angry over their seeming lack of concern? European socialists under­stand that basic social needs are far more important than providing entertainment. Bread is far more important than circuses. 
Perhaps Ms. Niles should consider a sab­batical from law school and attend courses on Catholic social justice and statistics. Since she believes that the poor in the United States are so well off, perhaps she would like to change places with them. When God graces her with children, I pray that she not be burdened with church con­struction in her fifth month. 
Ms. Niles seeks an answer to the question of what should be the appropriate gap between rich and poor. A simple answer is all that is needed. None. If there is to be no difference in the kingdom of heaven, then there should not be one on earth. 
Daniel Byrne visiting lecturer, history department February 28, 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

CENE 

page 12 Friday, March 1, 2002 

t' n a... . 
.·_ ' . "• 
By LAURA KELLY Associate Scene Editor 
In an interesting twist on checking out the competition, Laura Colangelo remembered sitting in the audience of the January production of Moliere's "Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme." The senior FIT and Italian major came to the play with­out knowing a word of French, but wanted to see how much she could understand anyway. Happily sur­prised, Colangelo found that she could not only follow the story, but enjoyed the performance as well. 
This experience bolstered Colangelo's confidence as the director of "La Marcolfa," an Italian play run­ning Sunday and \1onday in the Washington Hall Lab Theatre. The show is entirely "in italiano," yet G:olangelo and her cast are certain the production will entertain and amuse even those whose knowledge of the Italian language is limited to the menu at the Olive Garden. 
Drawing its laughs from physical humor, "La Marcolfa" was chosen by Colangelo specifically for its universal appeal and easy-to-understand story. 
"The play is full of people falling down, breaking things, hitting each other -the kind of things that translate into any langffage," Will McGrath, a cast member, said. "And we make things clearer through our actions and ges­tures." 
Although the play is set in 1848, the farce is a rela ­tively recent work by the Nobel Prize­w inning Italian playwright Dario Fo. The plot's twists and turns revolve around a marquis (junior Luke McLaurin) who has fallen into debt and will go to drastic lengths to impress his lover, tho princess (sophomore Randi Belisomo). When the marquis dis­covers that his aged and ugly ser­vant Marcolfa (sophomore Amanda Holland) is hoarding a win­ning lottery ticket, he sets out to con­vince the old 


.
J 
woman to marry him. 
The love stories complicate further once one of the marquis's creditor, Giuseppe (senior Brian Barone), also learns of Marcolfa's prize and decides to pursue her hand in marriage as well. Giuseppe's duly enraged fiancee (senior Lauren Beyer) and the wily ser­vaqt Francesco (senior Will McGrath) fill out the lively cast as they embark on story with a surprising conclu­sion. 


The project is Colangelo's dream child, part of a research project she is undertak­ing with Professor Colleen Ryan­Scheutz of the Italian depart­ment. Funded with a grant from the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program under the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, the pro­ject is an inves­tigation into the use of theatre as a tool for for­eign language acquisition. 
The idea of doing a show in Italian developed during conversa­tions with Ryan­Scheutz, a professor who taught Colangelo both at "Jotre Dame and dur­ing an intensive seven­week summer program at Middlebury College during the summer of 
2000. 
"The premise of the project is to see how theatrical pro­duction can serve as a bridge for the often difficult transition between lower-level language class­es and literawre courses; a level where many students get frustrated and drop the language," Colangelo said. 
The director and faculty advisor starting working together last fall, first researching other studies on thP use of theatre in learn­ing a foreign language. Next came the chal­lenging step of choosing a play. 
"We needed a production with a good number of evenly distributed parts, one that used physical humor so the audience could easily understand it [even without knowing ItalianJ and one that used common lan­guage, with modern phrases and vocabulary 
I I I 




page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 1, 2002 
Irish look for best basketball at Big East 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editur 
Early this season, Irish head coach Muffet McGraw sa.i.d she wanted her team to bo playing its best basketball during the Rig East season. At the end of this season she said no one will remember the first ten games that saw the Irish struggle. 
What they will remember is thA end of thA season. 
"I think during the Big East we definitely achieved our poten­tial," McGraw said. "During the pre-season, we certainly strug­gled more than i think we want­ed to, but overall, I wanted us to be playing our best basketball right now and we are." 
Despite a loss to Villanova to end the regular season, tho Irish are in a good place heading into Big bast tournament play, a place McGraw hoped for at the beginning ofthe season. 
"I guess I had hoped to come in second in the league, honest­ly," McGraw said. 
As the No. 2 team in the con­ference, the Irish have a first­round bye on Saturday and won't play untiJ 6 p.m. on Sunday night, where they will face the winner of the Syracuse­West Virginia game. No matter what team they play, the Irish have history on their side. 
During the Syracuse game Notre Dame's underclassmen took the reigns. When the Irish faced the seventh-ranked Orangewomen on Jan. 29, it was not much of a battle at the Joyce. The Irish took home a 71­46 win under the leadership of freshman Allison Bustamante who had a career-high 21 points. The Syracuse zone pro­vided a good opportunity for Irish 3-point shooting. 
"\,Vhenever an opposing team is playing some sort of zone, I'm thrilled because I like to find the areas and take the open 3's," Bustamante said following the win. "But you know, they left me open." 
The Irish bench totaled 44 points that night. The bench will be key for the Irish in the three­day tournament, especially con­sidering Notre Dame has not even played back-to-back this season. 
"I think mentally we need to bo able to go three days in a row," McGraw said. "We haven't even played back-to-back so that's a disadvantage for us ... That's when the advantage of having a bench will help us." 
Starting forward Jackie Batteast also grabbed her eighth double-double of the season in that game. 
If the Irish face Syracuse, they will have to look out for the Syracuse four-guard lineup that will put freshmen Katy Flecky and Ratteast, both of whom will play tho three spot, on a perime­ter player. 
Although the point margin waim't quite as big against the Mountaineers, the Irish won with the help of the veterans. Playing without leading scorer Jackie Batteast, Notre Dame defeated West Virginia 72-63. Junior guard Alicia Ratay had a season-high 31 points while Ericka Haney grabbed 15. Those 15 points were a season-high for Haney, who has been on a hot streak. 
"I'm just glad things have changed," Haney said looking ahead to the Big East tourna­ment. "It's obviously showed in the way people are playing." 
With Haney and Ratay both on hot streaks, they V\-ill be an asset to the young team as it heads into the tournament. McGraw will be counting on them to lead the team on and off the court this weekend. 
"They've been there before, they know what it's like," McGraw said. "Hopefully we'll have Jeneka Joyce and she can fill in for Le [Severe]." 
Luckily for the Irish, they will have no chance of playing either Big East team that has defeated them this season unless they meet up in the finals. Both Connecticut and Villanova are bracketed so they will not face Notre Dame until the final round. 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Junior guard Alicia Ratay watches as sophomore Le'Tania Severe dribbles past alsyracuse defender during a 71-46 win on Jan. 29. The Irish could face Syracuse in the quarterfinals. 
In order to get to that final game, the Irish have to remain focused on their game and deal with some of the challenges that face them. The first of those is a possibility of three straight days of play. 
"I think they just have to men­tally really be focused," McGraw said. "We have to go expecting it to be hard and just be able to maintain that intensity." 
The Irish will also have to deal with playing away from the Joyce Center. While the entire Big East Tournament is on neu­tral territory, Notre Dame only played one game in neutral ter­ritory this season, losing to Michigan in early December. 
"It's obviously easier than playing someone on their home court," McGraw said. " ... We're all equal. We all have the same advantages and disadvantages." 
Finally, Notre Dame will have to play at Lewis Brown Athletic Center at Rutgers. When the Irish faced the Scarlet Knights, they had trouble finding the bas­ket early on and only shot 50 percent from the free-throw line. 
The Irish tip-off on Sunday at 6 p.m. 
Notes: 
. Freshman Jackie Batteast, who sat out the last four games due to a partially torn posterior cruciate ligament is expected to be play in Sunday's game. She dressed for Tuesday night's game against Villanova. 

Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

Sizing up the competition 
Connecticut Huskies 
Virginia Tech Hokies 
The Huskies are undefeated Sophomore center Ieva this season and are outscoring Kublina grabbed her ninth their opponents by an average double-double on Tuesday and 
West Virginia Mountaineers
of 30 points. Five Connecticut leads the Hokies in scoring The Mountaineers, who are
players average double digits (15.2 points-per-game). The enjoying their first winning
scoring. The veteran team runs Hokies have only won two of season since 1996-97, are on aa smooth offense and a defense their last six games. 
three-game losing streak, cul­that shuts opponents down. 
minating with a loss to Boston College Eagles · Syracuse Orangewomen 
Connecticut on Tuesday. Kate 
The Eagles, who are 20-0 The Orangewomen are Bulger leads the Mountaineers when leading at the half. are en.joying their first winning with her outside shots. led in scoring by sophomore season since they went 16-13 guard Amber Jacobs. Jacobs in the 1989-90 season. 
Rutgers Scarlet Knights
has averaged over 16 points a Syracuse often plays four 
The Scarlet Knights are 

game in the last seven con­guards and is led by guards hosting this year's tourna­tests. The team's 21 wins is Julie McBride and Jamie 
ment, but they have only won the third-most in team history. James. 
one of their last eight games. Rutgers is led by junior guard
Providence FriarsVillanova Wildcats 

Mauri Horton. 
The Wildcats have won eight The Friars are led by gradu­of their last 10 games and are ate student Dani Trippany, coming off of a 48-45 victory who is in her last year of eligi­
Georgetown Hoyas 
against th Irish. They have hit bility. Trippany is the only 
Sophomore forward 

123 3-pointers in their last 12 player to average more than RehAkkah Brunson rnissAd the games and are one of only two nine points a game. She has 
first nine games of the season teams to defeat the Irish this led the team in rebounding in 
before returning on Jan. 23.
14 of the team's contests.
season. 

The Hoyas are on a three­Miami Hurricanes Seton Hall Pirates game losing skid heading into 
The Hurricanes defense The Pirates are without the tournament. leads the Big East with 14.4 junior Leslie Ardon, who tore steals a game. Led by her ACL on Jan. 1. Prior to her Chanivia Broussard (14.0 injury, Ardon led the Pirates, points per game), Miami averaging 13 points. Cecilia pulled an upset victory Lindqvist is now the leading against Boston College on scorer with 12.5 points per 

ame. 


page 2 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 1, 2002 
125-pounds vs. 


135-pounds vs. 
.... 



T.J. D'AGOSTINO MATT FUMAGALLI
SHAWN NEWBURG JASON MCMAHON 
PICKS 

BRJAN BURKE Newburg 
PAUL CAMARATA McMahon MIKE CONNOLLY Newburg LISA VELTE Newburg 
Shawn Newburg is the top seed in the lightest Bengal Bouts division and will try to polish off his bracket Friday night against hard-hitting senior Jason McMahon. Newburg wasimpressive in the quarterfinals, using steady lateral movement for all three rounds to avoid punches and shrugging off hits his opponent was able to land. McMahon's aggressiveness forced the referee to stop his quarterfinal match, and in the semis he again came out on the attack. With a strong right hand and speedy combinations, McMahon will be ready to slug it out Friday night. But Newburg's strength is bis movement and should make the difference. 
-Paul Camarata 
PICKS 
BRIAN BURKE 
Fumagalli 
PAUL CAMARATA Fumagalli MIKE CONNOLLY Fumagalli LISA VELTE Fumagalli 

Matt Fumagalli has been up and down in the last two Bengal Bouts, from the 130-pound title his sophomore season to being upset in the first round a year ago. In what will be his final appearance in the Bouts, the top-seeded Fumagalli is looking to capture his second career title. He will be challenged in the finals by sophomore T.J. O'Agostino, who will try to use a distinct height advantage to slow Fumagalli's movement and quick punching. In the semifinals, D'Agostino showed impressive ring presence to take over the tempo of the match from a more fiery oppo­nent. Using his long reach he earned a split decision to advance. To outlast Fumagalli, he will have to again ilictate the pace and try to fight downhill. 
-Paul Camarata 

. 160-pounds vs. 



CHRIS KITALONG MARK DE SPLINTER 
PICKS BRIAN BURKE Kitalong 
PAUL CAMARATA Kitalong MIKE CONNOLLY Kitalong LISA VELTE Kitalong 
The young and the old will tangle for the title of the 160-pound division when senior Chris Kitalong faces freshman sensation Mark De Splinter. A quick and rangy athlete, Kitalong demonstrated both his speed and an array of skilled punches to move easily past his first two opponents. De Splinter also showed his toughness in a semifinal split decision victory, going toe-to­toe against a fighter similar in style and size. He will face his toughest competition yet, where Kitalong only needs to rediscover his smooth, attacking style to bring a Bengal Bout title back to his native Palau. 
-Paul Camarata 
165-pounds 

CLAYCOSSE 
PICKS BRIAN BURKE Matassa 
PAUL CAMARATA 
Matassa MIKE 
CONNOLLY 
Matassa LISA VELTE Matassa 
vs. 


CHRIS MATASSA 
This final pits the two favorites who both had preliminary-round byes. Cosse, a junior captain, was physically superior to his two previous oppo­nents, but will face a very technically sound boxer in Chris Matassa. Matassa has very quick hands and is skillful at countering when fighters charge at him. 
Cosse will look to fight inside, trade punches with Matassa, and employ a hook that did plenty of damage in prior fights. 
Matassa on the other hand will keep his distance and move around the ring in attempt to frustrate Cosse. He will look for openings and score with a fast jab cross-combo. 
-Brian Burke 

190-pounds vs. 


KEVIN BRANDL 
HEAVYWEIGHT 

vs. 


STEFAN BOROVINA CARLOS ABEYETA 


PICKS BRIAN BURKE Brandl 
PAUL CAMARATA 
Lynk MIKE 

CONNOLLY 
Brancll LISA VELTE Lynk 

Lynk will bring an aggressive and cocky atti­tude to the ring when he meets Brandl in the championship. As he did against Zizic, Lynk is expected to charge at his opponent from the start, using powerful jabs to the midsection to wear his opponent down. 
Brandl will also look to be more conservative than Lynk and pull out his big punches when the opportunity presents itself. 
-Joe Hettler 
PICKS BRIAN BURKE 
Abeyeta PAUL CAMARATA Abeyeta MIKE 
CONNOLLY 
Abeyeta 
LISA VELTE 
Abeyeta 

In what appears to be an outstanding final, Abeyeta will need to start quicker than his last fight if he hopes to win. Abeyeta also has a rather large weight advantage on the smaller and quicker Borovina. 
Borovina will, once again, rely on consistently landing jabs and combinations to become the. champion. Abeyeta will look to defend the title he won last year by connecting with a powerful hook. 
-Joe Hettler 

.....

.. .. . ., 

Friday, March 1, 2002 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
..­

145-pounds 

vs. 
ANDREW HARMS 
PICKS BRlAN BURKE Tisby PAUL CAMARATA Tisby MIKE 
CONNOLLY 
Tisby LISA VELTE Tisby 

JEMARTISBY 

Jemar Tisby has surrendered superior height to each of his first three opponents but advanced to the finals with fast hands that more than compensate for a shorter reach. A straight puncher who somehow finds every seam in the other fighter's defense, Tisby works his combinations inside to both the body and head. ln the finals. he'll face off with junior Andrew Harms, who also knows how to deliver flurries of punches. Harms, the top seed at 145-pounds, finds success by controlling tbe ring space and keeping his opponent on tbe defensive. Whllc he_ will try to use a balanced attack that includes power in both hands, Hanns will be challenged by Tisby's ability to go in, out, and up into space. 
-Paul Camarata 
155-pounds 

vs. 


JOHN NOWAK BROCK HECKMANN 
PICKS 
BRIAN BURKE Heckmann 
PAUL CAMARATA Heckmann MIKE CONNOLLY Nowak USA VELTE Heckmann 

Top-seeded senior Brock Heckmann is only a victo­ry away from winning both his weight class and his second consecutive Rengal Bouts championship. Heckmann takes command of his matches by fighting from the center of the ring and seemingly descending on his opponents with strong, measured punches. Sophomore John Nowak will try to disrupt Heckmann's technique with his own strong left hand. The aggressive southpaw demonstrated his resilience by winning a narrow split decision in the semifinals. In previous rounds, Nowak has slowed his opponents with a powerful hook, but he'll need more than that for the antidote to Heckmann, who no other boxer has yet been able to solve. 
-Paul Camarata 

170-pounds 

vs. ft 


DOMINGO MAYNES RYAN HERNANDEZ 
180-pounds 
MATT SARB 
PICKS BRIAN BURKE Sarb 
PAUL CAMARATA 
Criniti 
MIKE 
CONNOLLY 
Criniti LISA VELTE Criniti 


PICKS BRIAN BURKE Hernandez 
PAUL CAMARATA Maynes 
MIKE 

CONNOLLY Maynes 
LISA VELTE 
Maynes 

72nd ANNUAL BENGAL BOUT FINALS 
. Date: Friday, March 1, 2002 

. Time: 8 p.m. ./' . Location: Joyce Center 
Defending 2001 Champions 
Brock Heckman -155-pound c20011so-pound) Mark Criniti -180-pound c200111s-pound) Carlos Abeyeta -Heavyweight 

The comermen should not even bother yelling "stick and move" for this one. Both Maynes and Hernandez make no bones about coming out and brawling from the start. Botb fighters will fight in close, and it could come down to who is able to take the most shots to the face. 
Maynes is an athletic fighter who came out swinging for the fences in the semifinals, throwing an endless barrage of wild punches. 
Hernandez will also brawl, but worked at throwing straighter punches in the semifinals, which paid off in the third round. 
A close call, since it will be more a battle ofwill than strategy, but an entertaining match nonetheless. 
-Brian Burke 
vs. 


MARK CRINITI 
When Criniti meets Sarb in the finals, it will be finesse versus power. Sarb will look to pound his opponent as he has done in his previous fights by aggressively charging at him, while Criniti hopes to avoid punches and then move inside for jabs and quick combinations. 
Criniti has experience in fighting a defensive match and that should play to his advantage. Sarb is also taller than Criniti, but this is a dis­advantage Criniti has seen before. Criniti will be looking for his third straight title while Sarb hopes to grab his first championship. 
-Joe Hettler 
-
-


page 4 The Observer . BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March_ 1, 2002 
The conquering power of humility 

. Criniti fights for friendship and charity, not glory in the ring 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports 'v.7riter 

Beneath the bright lights of the Notre Dame Fieldhouse boxing ring, then-freshman Mark Criniti's head snapped back in a crimson explosion of blood. Instinctively, the fighter responded to the blow by thrusting his left fist forward into his opponent's face. His opponent's head gushed blood as the crowd roared its approval. 
When the final bell rang a few min­utes later. Criniti was left with a 
bloody nose. a split-decision defeat and 

-
his favorite moment in the ring. 
"That was the hardest I've been hit," the now-senior captain said. "But it was also probably my best experience in the ring." 
When two-time champion Mark Criniti recounts his boxing career at Notre Dame,, he focuses on the only time he lost. He glosses over his two titles. 
thought he had lost. 
"When the final bell rang, I honestly thought he got me," Crinili said about his split-decision win against Joey Lenisky. "When they announced the result, [ was honestly surprised. I really didn't think I deserved to win the fight." 
Only after watching a tape of the fight later will Criniti begrudgingly admit he won the fight. 
Ask him about his junior year, when he defeated another defending cham­pion, Rob Joyce, in the finals to win his set.:ond-straight title, and Criniti will temper his joy with disappoint­ment. 
Sure, he was happy to win the fight, but he was equally sad that his victo­ry came at the expense of one of his 
friends. 

"When the final bell rang, I honestly thought he got me. tt-'hen they announced the result, I was honestly surprised. I really didn't think I deserved to win the fight." 
Mike Criniti boxing captain 

He admits that he's proud to be a senior captain but he only really gets excited talking about the only loss in his Bengal Bouts career. 
Ask him about his first title win sophomore year when he upset both the No. 2 and No. 1 seeds to win, and he'll tell you he shouldn't have won. He talks about how he was shocked and slightly ashamed to win a bout he 
-
-
"I was happy that I won, but I was also kind of disappointed that someone had to lose that fight," he said. 
Criniti will talk at length about the only fight he ever lost at Notre Dame. He· will gush about the hours of train­ing, the hundreds of push-ups and the camaraderie he shares with his fel­low boxers. But when it comes to talking about his 
championships, he closes up. He's proud of his accomplishments, but he would rather talk about other things. 
"There is something about this whole experience -something about training with your team, then getting into the ring with your teammate and beating the hell out of each other and being opponents in the ring and then stepping out of the ring and being friends again," Criniti said. "There is nothing else that comes close to what that feels like." 


Nearly every fighter in Bengal Bouts will tell you he doesn't fight for the glory. 
They will all tell you they do it for the friendships that they make and the charity money they raise. 
But for some reason, when Criniti tells you that winning isn't the most important thing to him, you believe him a little more. 
Maybe it's because he never intend­ed on fighting in the Bouts when he first started training with the club. The former St. Joeseph High School soccer captain felt like he was getting out of shape after Christmas break his freshman year. 
Two of his roommates convinced him to join the Boxing Club -because hundreds of push-ups, sit-ups and jumping jacks would get him into bet­ter shape. 
"I got an incredible 

that had to do with the officers and the captains my freshman year. They spotted some potential in me," Criniti said. "After going through that and being part of something as powerful as Bengal Bouts, you can't let it go. You want to stay in it as long as you can. Once I got myself into that situation and heard congr.atulations from the guys, I knew I was going to be doing it for the next three years." 
Three years and two titles after he got walloped by Chen, Criniti is down to his last fight. 
Now, he wiII finally admit how important it is for him to win a third title. 
He has invested too much time, effort and energy to walk out of the ring for the last time without another championship. 
"I think I am feeling more pressure this year than I have in my previous three years. A lot of it doesn't have to 
do with being a 

workout. I just kept coming back and com­ '7 was completely hooked  captain or every­thing that goes  
ing back. I really wasn't that great at it when I started," Criniti said. "I really felt that I wasn't  ... After going through that and being part of something as poweful as  along with it," Criniti said. "I just know it's going to be the last fight I  
going to fight because I wasn't good at it." But a funny thing hap­ Bengal Bouts, you can't let it go."  am going to fight in the Bengal Bouts. I want to go  
pened when he stepped  out on top. I want  
into the ring for his first  Mike Criniti  to  go  out  as  a  
spar with junior captain Mike Romanchek. He  boxing captain  three-time cham­pion."  
didn't  gAt  crushed.  That's the clos- 
Homanchek  easily  est Criniti gets to  

scored more punches than Criniti, but bragging. The closest Criniti gets to the freshman held his own in the ring. boasting. He wants to go out as a 
"I surprisingly did well against him three-time champion. -which basically means I didn't get a Hut he also quickly adds an amend­bloody nose and he didn't knock me ment to that statement. out. ( felt pretty good moving around "Regardless of what happens -and with him," Criniti said. ''Every time I it would be disappointing to lose -I stepped into the ring to spar, I felt bet­am not going to hang my head about ter an<l better. J thought to myself, it," Criniti said. "I've experienced "llcy, I am not too bad at this." 1just something that not many people have decided to go out and give it a shot at experienced." the tournament." After sitting down with Criniti for 
The first time Criniti stepped into the even a few moments, something tells ring, he upset third-seeded Zach Allen you that even if he walks out of the before falling to Chen in the semifi­fight without a third title, hP will still nals. After that loss, Criniti was be a champion. hooked. He r,ame back for the fall novice program as a sophomore, and won his first Bengal Bouts title in the spring. Contact Mike Connolly at 
"I was completely hooked. A lot of connolly.28@nd.edu.
Senior captain Mark Criniti prepares himself before a match. Criniti does not fight for the glory but for the spirit of charity. 
t • ,, I 
',II I l I' 
•"II j Ji I

. .' 
Friday, March 1, 2002 The Observer . COVER STORY page 3 
l 

Sole senior soars above early-season struggle -l •I 
just needed to tell me how she felt and I

• Haney finds success, 
was really happy that she did," McGraw 

takes leadership role in said. 
While Baney believed McGraw had lost

second half of season 
confidence in her senior captain, McGraw was simply giving the playingBy NOAH AMSTADTER time Haney didn't have to younger play­

Sporu Edimr 
ers who were more in sync offensively. "There were a lot of things that she For any college athlete, senior year is didn't know, there were a lot of things 
never easy. For most, there's the impend­that I didn't know," Haney said. ''We kind ing reality of life after sports on the dis­of got everything down on the table." tant horizon -and the pressure to find a After that meeting, McGraw increased job that goes along with that scary truth. Haney's playing time -and the move 
Seniors also have the responsibility of worked. The lrish nine games in a row leadership. It's the seniors who arc gener­before falling to Villanova Tuesday night. ally named team captains. It's the seniors Haney finally found her stroke as well, who feel the burden of setting an example averaging 11.2 points per game over one for younger teammates -both on and off stretch of six games and stepping into a the court. · bigger offensive load when freshman 
Most teams have a few seniors. Last Jacqueline Batteast, the team's leading year's NCAA champion Notre Dame scorer, was sidelined with a kuee injury women's basketball team had five -for four games late in the year. inducting the nation's best player, Ruth "Obviously everybody wanted her to Riley, and a fifth-year All-American point have a great year and score a lot of guard who had already been to a Final points and lead the team and all," 
Four in Nicle Ivev. McGraw said. "When it didn't happen 
But when thos·e five graduated last fall. early, things kind of snowballed, and it's they were replaced by six freshmen. Left hard to lead when you're not playing with the pressure of leading tbis motley well. Everything suffered about her crew was just one senior -forward game, and then she decided, 'This is it, Ericka Haney. [nitially it was a challenge this is senior year, I have to go back to that Haney relished. what I'm good at,' and that's what she 
"I think I have a big load on my shoul­did." ders to carry this year," Haney said in August. "But I'm actually ready for the 
The daddy's girl

challenge," Throughout Haney's career, from AAU 
But by December the load was heavier games gro,ving up to the national cham­
than Haney originally expected, and the pionship in St. Louis last spring, there's 
burden began to affect her play. A Dec. 6 been one constant -the presence of her loss at Purdue dropped the defending father. Sidney Haney Jr.. usually seated 
champions' record to 2-4. Haney, who just behind the bench. 
averaged 11 points and 5. 7 rebounds in The elder Haney has attended all but 
29.1 minutes per game as a junior, didn't four of his daughter's games during her 
reach double-figures until the eighth 
Notre Dame career, sacrificing both 25 


game ofthe season. 
years worth of off days at the Jeep plant

"I was pretty unhappy because I really in Toledo, Ohio, and his own automobiles. 
couldn't adjust to everything," Haney "I've probably got 150,000 miles on one 
said. "I really didn't talk much to anybody 
of them and probably pretty close to 

about the problems that I was having. It 100,000 on the other," Sidney Haney said. 
was really hard to try to be that leader 'Tve probably worn out about three cars 
and try to play and not be performing driving up and down the road." 
well." 
It was her family's influence that paved

By mid-January, Haney had returned to the steps for Haney to end up at Notre 
the starting lineup after coming off the Dame. She started out at inner-city public 
bench for four games in December but schools in Toledo, schools she attended 
was playing sparingly. In a two-game until eighth grade. When the time came to 
road trip to Providence and Connecticut, choose a high school, Haney wanted to 
Haney played a combined 17 minutes, continue on to the public high school with 
inclucling a scoreless performance in just her friends. 
12 minutes against the No. I-ranked 
Her older brother, Sidney Haney III,

Huskies. 
went to that public high school and had 

Soon after, Haney decided to sit down other ideas. 
for a chat with head coach Muffet "He begged and pleaded with my par­
McGraw to discuss the struggles of both 
ents to make me go somewhere else,"

Haney and the 10-7 Irish, who at that Haney said. "He didn't want me to go
point were on the bubble for qualifying 
there." 

for the NCAA tournament. 
So Haney ended up attending Toledo 

"When you're really frustrated, you 
Central Catholic High School, where she 

really need to get it out, and I think she starred in both basketball and track and 
up close & personal 
WITH 

Haney

ERICKA HANEY 
position: guard/forward The Notre Dame student-year: senior athlete she admires most is: Harold notables: Haney is the sole senior on Swanagan the Irish squad. She scored r3 The best thing about being a student points and grabbed five rebounds at Noire Dame is: working at 

field. That experience paved the way for Haney to move on to Notre Dame, a school Haney would likely never have considered had she stayed in public school. 
"I was used to inner-city, all-black schools," Haney said. "I had never been around any other different type of people. I wanted to see how it would be to go to a more cliverse school. I think it matured me, made me able to come to Notre Dame." 
When she wasn't starring on the bas­ketball court or running to a national ranking in the 100-meter hurdles, Haney was spending her summers traveling the country for AAU basketball tournaments with her father at her side. 
"We kind of grew this bond because I think before sports we weren't as close as we are now," Haney said. "We grew this really, really close bond. It was just real tight." 
Haney is quick to point out that her father isn't the type to second-guess· coaches, nor does he always feel his daughter should have the ball. 
"He understands my position, he knows what I'm capable of," Haney said. "He really doesn't allow me to make excuses for myself or blame others. He always tells me to look inside myself and see what I can change to make the situation better instead of pointing the finger, because that's probably the easiest way out." 
Haney's parents also saw their daugh­ter's stress earlier in her senior season and her resilience at the end. 
"The pressures that she felt being the only senior, I know it was tremendous," Sidney Haney said. "We saw it in her game. We saw her scores go down, We saw her game totally disappear from the floor. In seventh grade, she took up vol­leyball and basketball. 

"I was very tall," Haney said. "I had a problem with my height actually. As soon as I started playing ball in seventh grade, I found a niche for myself." 
Haney had just as easy a time finding her niche on the basketball court for the Irish. Whether she was coming off the bench her first two seasons, or starting as a junior and senior, the focus of Haney's game has always been defense and rebouncling. 
"We needed a defensive stopper, that was No. 1," McGraw said. "We needed someone who would rebound and run the floor and drive the ball well. I think she's pretty much filled our expectations of what we thought and she's added tremen­dously to our success over four years." 
Haney also found her niche as a leader, overcoming her play and setting an exam­ple for the younger players who did not go unnoticed. 
"She always came to practice and she played hard and I think that was some­thing that was really something that the underclassmen admire," McGraw said. "She could have really gotten down and really just kind of given up on the season. I think that was something the freshmen really look at her with a lot of respect for that." 
With her days in blue and gold now numbered, Haney has no set plans for life after college. She will earn her degree in Film, Television and Theatre and has worked an internship at WNDU, so a broadcasting career could be in her future. 
But Haney isn't quite sure that her bas­ketball career will end at the collegiate 
-

level. "I've considered going out," Haney said 
in the national championship match-up against Purdue last sea­son. birlhdate:July 13, 1980 hometown: Toledo. Ohio dimensions: 6-foot If she could have dinner with any three people in tlistory, they would be: 
MarlJin Gaye, Redd Foxx and Martin Luther King DeBartolo master control 
If she wrote a book about her life it would be called: Living the Dream Since being at Notre Dame she's learned: to be responsible. mature and hard working Her favorite sports team is: the Houston Comets {specifically Coquese Washington) She wears No. 3 because: it's cool 
Ericka that we knew. She hung in there and she came back." 
The cheerleader becomes the anchor? 
That Haney was able to flick a switch and turn a frown of a season upside down shouldn't come as a surprise. After all, she started out as a child dreaming not to play basketball, but to be a cheerleader. 
But after Haney was cut from the cheer­1ead ing squad in both fifth and sixth grades, she decided to s½itch her goals further to the middle of the gymnasium of a professional basketball career. "I guess I've learned over the last four years that I don't think basketball defines me as a person. I've done it all my life but I think now I'm kind of ready to move on and see what else is out there. If it's there it's them, if it's not I'll be like a normal per­son again I guess." 

Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter. l@nd.edu. 


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIGHT Friday, March 1, 2002 
Learning lessons along the road to victory 


The Irish are not a national without some very important was that this team was not the Pittsburgh on Feb. 5. "We're weren't there yet." championship team. but they lessons. defending national champi­gaining some momentum as we But then the Irish were. have as much, if not more, to be Lesson one: Practice is differ­onship team. It was a team that head into the rest of the sea­In three of their last four proud ofthis season as Ruth ent from game experience, but was composed mostly of fresh­son." games, playing without Riley, Niele Ivey and the rest of some time off is still a good men and had lost some of its In the 15 games following the Batteast, the Irish have come the 2000-idea. best players. Miami victory. Notre Dame only together as a team for real. 2001 squad The Irish started out the sea­"We keep talking about when lost three contests and the Flecky stepped into the starting did last son 2-4, winning just two games Ruth IRileyl was a freshman; lessons continued. position and took home a Big year. at home and dropping four on that's the season this should be Lesson three: You can't take East honor of her own. Ericka 
Early this the road. Just prior to a 78-63 compared to, not last year," any team for granted. Haney, who had been showing season, loss to the University of McGraw said. "We're 2-3 in The Irish traveled to Seton marked improvement since head coach Michigan, McGraw stated what 1998 ... that's going to happen Hall in February, remembering Connecticut, began consistently Muffet the freshmen on her team were with a young team. Don't worry a solid victory they had against scoring in double figures, and McGraw struggling with. about the record." the Pirates earlier in the season. Ratay found her home making said lasL "We're working on that every Dy the time early January However, they learned a lesson her own shots and scoring year's team day, just trying to get them in a rolled around, things were look­worth remembering when Seton points up in the 20's. was one she game situation," she said. "I ing bad for the Irish. On Dec. Hall almost pulled out a victory. Following the Rutgers game, didn't need think they're all very smart, and 28. during a game that was a "This is a really important les­Notre Dame's first attempt with­to coach as you ask them to diagram a play blow-out the season before and son for us to learn, that you out leading scorer Batteast, much; this or tell you what's supposed to should have been a refresher can't take anyone lightly" Flecky summed up the team's year's team happen and they'll tell you for the team following the McGraw said. "You need to lesson. would be a exactly what's supposed to hap­Christmas holiday, the team fell come out and be prepared ... "We all were supposed to go different pen. The problem is in the heat to Rice 72-61. McGraw broke that's what we have to guard out and do a little bit more, and story. But after looking at where of the game." down into tears at the press against, just being over-confi­if we all do a little bit more, this team was, where it has Despite the fact that the Irish conference following the game. dent." then it comes together as a come and where it is now, it needed some game time, they It looked as if the Irish had hit Lesson four: The most recent team as a big improvement," seems quite obvious that the also needed some rest. rock bottom. lesson for the Irish is that indi­she said. "So I think that's what road they have travelled is one Following a long road trip over But then, things started to vidual improvement helps. but we did ... Jackie being out is a with a successful destination. the Thanksgiving holiday, they change. · it's teamwork that counts in the big loss to us but it gave a lot of 
When the Irish tipped off for needed some time to rest. Not The team picked up its first end. people opportunities." the first time this season against only that, they needed some road victory with a 69-65 win It wasn't that the Irish did not Now the Irish have won nine the Ohio Girls' Basketball time to practice, because young against Miami to start off the have potential in the early part of their last 10 games, and Magazine All-Stars, it was a dif­players cannot do it on their Hig East season on the right of the season or even that they although Tuesday night's loss to ferent team that took the court. own. track, and from there things fell didn't have any early successes. Villanova was a reality check, They weren't focused on shoot­"We need experience in the into place. Freshman Jackie Batteast they're ready to face the real ing percentage or turnover game, but there's a lot of things "I really think that since the grabbed Big East Rookie of the competition of a Big East tour­ratio. They were looking for a we've got to fix," McGraw said Miami game, that win on the Week honors six times, Teresa nament. place to begin. in early December. "So I think road, the team just seemed to Borton and Allison Bustamante This team may not take home 
"We're not really worried that this time it's an advantage come together in January in the and Katy Flecky and Kelsey a national championship, but about shooting percentage. to have some time off." Big East," McGraw said on Wicks all had their share of they have proved that with We're not really worried about Lesson two: You can't expect Monday. "I think they saw it as good games. But they rarely had work, they have what it takes to shots,» said assistant coach national championship caliber a second chance, a second sea­them at the same time. And that be competitors. Coquese Washington after the play from a team that has son." was frustrating. 76-62 victory. "We're looking at recently been to the prom. And for the Irish, that's what "I think it's hard when you Contact Katie McVoy at our tendencies. We're looking at The media did it, the fans did, il looked to be. see the potential and you realize mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. The getting game-by-game grovvth opposing teams did it -they "We feel like we're moving in you're not hitting it yet," opinions expressed in this col­and getting better each game." built up the hype surrounding the right direction," assistant McGraw said. " ... I think it was umn are those ofthe author and 
There was growth each game, the defending national champi­coach Kevin McGuff said follow­harder for me because I saw not necessarily those ofThe but that growih did not come ons. What they failed to realize ing a 68-56 win against what we could be and we Observer . 


• 


-

The Observer's 35th Anniversary Reunion 
April 20, 2002 

South BendMariott e-mail obsreunion.comfor more information or to RSVP 



.) I ,t,,' 
• ' I' ' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Friday, March 1, 2002 page 13 
circo 


ihai the actors at this level could 
use," Colangelo said. The student director eventual­ly decided on "La Marcolfa," a 
play she had set>n whilt> studying abroad in Florence and had also studied in class at Notre Dame. Tryouts were 
held around p. 

"We advertised in Italian classes and lots of people came 
out," Colangelo said. 
B e y o n d rehearsals, the cast and crew also underwent oral interviews conducted by Ryan-Scheutz as part of the research for the study. Thev were give.ii reading selections from another comparable play in order to determine their lan­guage level and abilitv and will go through simi­lar final interviews after the pro­duction to assess their progress. Colangelo ulti­mately hopes to publish these findings in a scholarly journal. In addition to previous acting experience and work on costume design, Colangelo_ directed the spring 
2000 production of "A Merry Death." "Directing is my 
favorite part of theatre," Colangelo said. "I love coor­dinating the entire artistic vision, being able to look at the finished project and to know I had 
a part in all of it." 
With her double majors, she was able to get the project sponsored by both FTT and the department of Romance Languages and is now earning credit for her work as a FTT Special Studies Project. The 11 mem­bers of the cast and crew ½ill also receive one credit for their involvement, but the real ben-efit of their work comes from the improvement in their language skills, as every aspect of the production is conducted in Italian. 
"All the rehearsals, all the warm-ups, every trip off-campus with the [costume and set] desibrners to get supplies -cvery­th in g is in Italian," said Colangelo. "The goal here is an immersion experi­ence." · 

"Overall, it's be1m tough, but it's real­ly helped my Italian," McGrath said. "It was daunting to memorize my lines, since it's a lot harder to improvise in Italian than in English, but it was a great experience and helped me keep up my language skills." 
The six cast members, three scene managers, costume designer and set designer have all reached at least an intermediate level of Italian and Colangelo thinks that ·the difference in iheir abilities has helped everyone advance. 
"I have seen so much improvement from when we first started," she said. "It's amazing how everyone has caught up," Colangelo said. 
"La Marcolfa" marks the first play for the Italian Department and what Colangelo hopes will become a tradi­tion and perhaps even a class for credit like its French counterpart. 
"It's exciting to be a part of some­thing so ground-breaking," Colangelo said. "Everyone in the department has been so encouraging, behind us every step of the way." 
Support from FTT has also given the designers access to costumes ­and sets. Colangelo said her double major to thank for this. 
"Having a foot in both doors has been really help­ful," Colangelo said. 
Three performances this weekend will showcase the efforts of the small but ·dedi­cated cast and crew. As director, Colangelo is eagerly awaiting to see the audi­ence's reaction. 
"The show is so hilarious," Colangelo said. "The stage managers and I are always amazed at how we laugh more and more each time we see it. And after seeing the French play, I realized how much you really can understand, even if you don't know the language." 
"La Marcolfa" will be pre­sented Sunday at 1:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. as well as Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Washington Hall Lab Theatre. Admission is $1. Tickets are available at the door or from the Romance Languages office in 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. A sum­mary of the show in English will be distributed with the program. 

Senior Brian Barone as Giuseppe {left) and II Marchese di Trerate (junior Luke Mclaurin) Contact Laura Kelly at trying to explain to La Marcolfa (sophomore Amanda Holland) why they are seeking her lkelly@nd.edu. hand in marriage. 

-
f 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 1, 2002 
Bengal Bouts embody Notre Dame's values 
Our Lady is standing on top of the dome, but the signature of Notre Dame can be found each year at the Bengal Bouts. 
Every winter for the past 72 years. the Notre Dame Boxing Club has held a com­petitive tournament to end its season. The Bouts have grown in numbers and renown since Knute Rockne first began intramural boxing, and have become arguably the most highly anticipated and well attended contest of the spring semester. 
Along the way, in the rigor­ous demands of the sport that they showcase, the faithful commitment of their organiz­ers, participants and support-ers, and the unadulterated sanctity of amateur competi­tion that they maintain, the Bengal Bouts have become the single greatest example of a Notre Dame event. Consider the most prevalent attributes of our student body and the qualities of the activities in which its members most fre­quently participate. 


Wearing varsity uniforms or in residence hall weight rooms, in intramural facilities and in every bit of grass, pave­ment and open air between Juniper Road and Indiana Route 933, Notre Dame stu­dents hone themselves mental­ly' while strengthening them­selves physically. They are competitors, if not all natural athletes, and the exercise of their bodies proves this just slightly more than the sharp­ening of their minds. 
At a university founded by Catholics so long ago, generos­ity has become far more than contributing to a collection basket on Sunday. Students put off their rest and recre­ation to tutor children and feed the hungry each day; they sacrifice week-and month­long portions of holidays and summer breaks to perform exotic work in mundane locales; many nurture an altruistic spirit that lingers, if not grows. for the rest of their lives. 
His singular vision carried Father Edward Sorin thou­sands of miles from home to an inhospitable frontier a cen­tury and a half ago, and since then his tiny acorn of aspira­tion and faith has outgrown even the tallest oaks on the continent. Notre Dame has evolved. 
Once unknown. its name has progressed to little known, then well known, and is now universal, and in the develop­ment, has been criticized for seeking prestige at the expense of its foundational principles. Perhaps our critics' vision has been obscured sim­ply for our notoriety, as they fail to see the spirit of humility that remains prevalent in our actions and words. 
A prospective faculty mem­ber recently asked a senior with whom he was having lunch to characterize the pre­dominant characteristic of her student body. Without hesitat­ing, she told him it was their solidarity. "The spirit here is amazing," she said. "It's like nowhere else I've seen." 

Visible in so many articles of clothing and on so many rear windshields, the overarching unity of Notre Dame students cuts across age, gender, race, geography and philosophies, and is distracted only by an even more devout allegiance to respective resident halls. 
Boxing's detractors simplis­tically reduce it to a release of violence as naively as Hollywood tries to pawn off sex as a release of love. At its core, as far away from the name Tyson as mathematics allows, boxing remains a sport and Bengal Bouts, at its seeds, saplings and fruit, is Notre Dame. 
Not many student bodies in this nation possess the ath­letes who could sustain a box­ing club and tournament; few have the initiative to turn it into an event that raises thou­sands of dollars for missions in Bangladesh; fewer could do it while maintaining the purity of amateurism and avoiding the spirit of corporate spon­sorship. And perhaps no other school in the nation could do all of that and compel the non­participants to cheer so loudly and so long for their friends who sweat in the ring. 
The Bengal Bouts have become all the best aspects of Notre Dame, wrapped up in four nights each February. Seventy-one student bodies before this one have supported the Bouts, and in doing so have darkened the lines and curves in the signature of our University's spirit. On Friday night comes the latest chance for all of us to contribute to the same. 
Contact Paul Camarata at pcamarat@nd.edu. The opin­ions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
17th-ranked Irish open season Sunday 
By CHRIS COLEMAN Sports Writer  ing only one starter to gradua­tion in the last two years. "The current juniors and  that are in the preseason top 20, including No. 2 Duke and No. 4 George­ Knight. The Irish are not expecting an easy  is one of the few women's pro­grams in the region as the sport has stayed focused on  
The Irish women's lacrosse team, ranked 17th in the pre­season polls. takes on Ohio University Sunday. This season marks first time in team history that the Irish have been ranked preseason. Barely missing the NCM tour­nament last year, they ended the season ranked 18th in the country. "It's good to know our school is getting recognition," said captain Tina Fedarcyk, who along with midfielder Daniel Shearer made the preseason All-Big East team. "It's a sign of how hard we worked last season, We really built a name  seniors have had a lot of expe­rience," said head coach Tracy Coyne. "When the seniors came in as freshmen there were only 17 people on the team." The young tl;lam grew up fast and played well together, struggling to 5-10 in 2000, but bouncing back to a 10-5 record last year. Defensive captain Kathryn Lam said she's excited about the talent and unity of this year's team. "Everybody is a year older, a year more mature, probably the strongest team this pro­gram has put together," Lam said.  town. The game and"The current juniors and good news for know howseniors have a lot ofCoyne's squad important is that they experience. When the it is. will face Duke, "Theyseniors came in asSyracuse, are wherefreshmen there were only 17Cornell, Yale we were a and Delaware people on the team. " couple of at home. y e a r s The team a g o , " Tracy Coyne lost its· leading C o y n e scorer from head coach said of the last season in opponent, L e a 1 "which O'Shaughnessy, but the attack­means they have probably ing trio of captain Alissa improved a lot over the last Moser, senior Natalie Loftus year." and junior Daniel Shearer "We only have 16 games, should be able to take up the and our goal is the tourna­slack, comple·mented by ment. It all starts on Sunday,"  the east coast. The Irish look to assert the dominance of the region again this year as well as compete with the cream of the crop. Notre Dame finds itself in a new position as a ranked team, whereas a team like Ohio is searching for an upset to build up their own tournament hopes. But the !axers are ready for the challenge. "Rankings only mean so much, all that really matters is what you do on field," said Lam. The Irish open up against a young Ohio University squad Sunday at 1 p.m. in Loftus.  
for ourselves." The team has high expecta­tions for this season after los- They play the strongest schedule in team history as well. The Irish play six teams  Meredith Simon, a sophomore. "The first game is always a tough game," said Elizabeth  added Lam. Along with Ohio State and Northwesterm, Ohio University  Contact Chris Coleman at ccolmal@nd.edu.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house  Shared Living Opportunity Enjoy  Spacious 4-bdrm house avail.now  
NOTICES HOUSES FOR RENT. 4 and 9-bed- LOST AND FOUND FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies  w/large common areas-prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 Dave 291-2209  the benefits of a luxurious private home without the expense and upkeep. Private bath and room which you may furnish to your own  or for Fall 2002. Fronse 255-8403. TICKETS  PERSONAL Spring Break with STS, Americas  
room houses.  room of Nieuwland Hall. Will gladly  taste (sizes ranging from 340 to 400  #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote  
Call Bill at 532-1896  return with correct description. Call  Excellent house 3-4 students.  square feet) Common areas (over  WANTED · 3 GAs for ND- trips on-campus earn cash and  
4-7 BDRM HOMESWALK TO  Meg at 4-3477  Air.appl 5 min from ND  2000 square teet) are maintained by a professional staff and include  Providence BBALL game Saturday. Call Pat at 243-2873  free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800· 648-4849 www.ststravelcom  
ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03.  SMC class ring lost in or around  Dave 291-2209  spacious living room, dining room,  or email ppeters@nd.edu  
Senior Bar Wednesday, Feb. 28.  library, fully equipped shared mod- ii ;:toucan hele  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
.....  272-6306 $250 a day potential/bartending  Gold with diamond. "Noreen C. Gillespie" engraved. Please call 284-4417 it you find it  MMMRentals.com Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting  ern kitchen, laundry and parking facilities. Within walking distance to Tippecanoe, the library, St. Joseph  FOR SALE  alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Mary Louise  
Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556  WANTED  furnished, air-conditioned room in NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to Sept. 1 2002, three roommates  River, Memorial Health and Lifestyle Center and medical facili­lies. 800 per month includes utilities  For Sale Duplex Apartment 207 N. Notre Dame Ave South Bend, IN  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  

 _(2M, 1F) Safe neighborhood. free  and hosting by a congenial couple  
Fraternities'Sororities*Clubs*Stude- TestMaster is looking for responsi­ street parking, washer/dryer in  with professional backgrounds  Remodeled in 1998 new insulated  #1 Spring Break Vacations!  
nt Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 with  ble people to distribute information,  house.  windows hot water heater & plumb- Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas &  
-­ the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundraising event.  post flyers and proctor tests. $101hr.  Two blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1/2 miles from Tacoma Metro,  Call 234-1002 for information and appointment.  ing 200 amp electric update newer furnace & roof basement laundry  Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is limited!!! 1­ 
Does not involve credit card appli­ 1-~o-929-n24  $390/month + 1/4 utilties, call  room privacy fenced backyard w/  600-234-7007  
cations. Fundraising dates are filling  Michelle 202/829-3725, or  THE BEST OFF-CAMPUS HOUSE  deck 1Ox12 utlity garage excellent  www.endlesssummertours.com  
quickly, so call today!  FOR RENT  krup78@hotmail.com  IDEAL FOR 4-5 STUDENTS ALL THE AMENITIES WASHER  area $59500 Jim- MARY, NOTRE DAME KNEEDS  
Contact Campusfundraiser.com at  4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available  DRYER FRIDGE STOVE ETC  Day 574-233-253  (tee-hee)YOU. GET WELL FOR  
(888)-923-3238,  MMMRentals.com  after 6/1. 3 block from campus,  GREAT AREA  NEXT YEAR. JACK IS JUST NOT  
or visit  272-1525  Eve 574-259-6843  AS PRETTY AS YOU ARE. WE  
www.campusfundraiser.com.  mmmrentals@aol.com  Call (773)·486-8862.  277-3097  MISS YOU. LOVE, YOUR  
FRIENDS AT THE OBSERVER  




page 15

Friday, March 1, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish hope to extend home winning streak 


Here Come the Irish 


Big time plavers in action this weekend 
r----------------, r-----------------, 
I WOMEN'S TENNIS I : MEN'S BASKETBALL I 
: Friday vs. Wisconsin -4pm : , 1 Saturday vs. Providence -4pm : 
1 Saturday vs. Ohio State -1pm 1 { · ' 1 • Senior Nighr 1 
t-~ _E£klf!!M!!S!!!'!!!!!'-----J ;.... -t----:.N_!l!!!!'!.!=!.S.!!_ffl.! ----JI·' '·: ~"' 
r-------------------------., 
I HOCKEY I 


•:1. ~ . : Frida!I& satardav vs. Bawling Green -Jpm l 
~1:1 1 • Fri -Green Bean Bag Bea.rs, Sat-Senior Trading cards I ,~ I • First 250 students receive Papa John's Pizza 1 ~ L-------------------------J
r-----------------, r-----------------.,
:MEN'S &WOMEN'S TRACK : :MEN'S &WOMEN'S FENCING : 
1 Alex Wilson Invitational 1 1 Midwest Championships 1 
I Fri -6pm, Sat-10:30a 1 Sat-8am, sun -Ba 1 
t___ J~~~~~!~~~---J t---~~!~~~~~~~t ___J r-----------------, r------------------,
: WOMEN'S LACROSSE : :MEN'S &WOMEN'S SWIMMING : 
1 Home Opener 1 1 Shamrock Invitational 1 ­1 sun. -1Pm vs. Ohio Universitv 1 1 Sat -Ba, sun -Ba 1 
t---~~!~!!~!~____J t____ ~!~~!~~!~ ____J 
I 


By COLIN BOYIAN Spotts Writer 
The 20th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team will try to extend its three-match winning streak when it concludes a six-
l.NitBBACt 

match homestand this weekend. The Irish face Wisconsin on Friday at 4 p.m. and Ohio State Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish hope that a pair of home matches against weaker competition will be a good conti­dence builder for the team, but they aren't taking anything for granted. 
"I think we can definitely build some confidence this weekend, but we know that both Wisconsin and Ohio State are tough teams. Wisconsin is having a great year 


\Y/ednesday, :March 6th 
5:30 pm Center for Social Concerns 

Tuer~ will be,. p.md disci~s.ion, as wd\ as clinn<>r served. AU ,..re wi:kome, Pi.case RSVP@MSPS (l...,;641) hy M.uo:h ,f~­
and Ohio is playing really well ning high on the Irish side, as the 
too," said senior captain Becky team is coming off a 7-0 victory 
Varnum. against Virginia Tech, their first Indeed, both the Badgers and shutout victory of the season. 
the Buckeyes boast better records "We struggled a little bit in dou­
than the Irish, weigmng in at 8-2 bles Oast week against the Hokies], 
and 9-1, respectively. but came back strong and really Nonetheless, confidence is rWl-dominated in singles. And we've followed that up by having some really strong prartices this week," said Varnum. 
The Irish have a good history against the Badgers, as tho teams have played every year for the past 12 years -and the Irish have won each of the past four matchups. Moreover, the team has shut out Wisconsin in the past two seasons. 

Meanwhile, the Ohio State squad is no slouch either. The Buckeyes are just coming off a solid 6-1 vic­tory over Virginia Tech and have earned a respectable 2-1 record in the tough Big Ten conference. 
The Irish hope to use these weekend matches as a spring­board towards their overall season goals. The team's schedule figures to get much tougher over the next several weeks and the team is attempting to gel at just the right time. 
"One of our goals is to win all our regional matches this year and eventually make it to the Sweet 16," said Varnum. "Plus we've got some really big matches coming up, so it's a nice time for our team to come together." 
Contact Colin Boylan at 
l 

cboylan@nd.edu. ,I 
~ 
I 
l 
-<.

Your ticket 10 all the action 

I 
' 
I page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 1, 2002 I I 
t 
1_ 
I FENCING 
I 
' 
I 
I 
1 Irish, Wildcats ready for Midwest rematch 
ByMATILOZAR 
Sports W ricer 
This year, the No.3 Irish want their title back from the rival No. 6 Wildcats. 
Last season, the women's fencing team conference cham­pionship came down to the final bout in the sabre portion of the match. Notre Dame was up 4-3, but Northwestern claimed the next two victories to win the first-to-five series 5-4, and the team title 425-420. 
The Irish wHI get their chance this weekend at the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships. 
So far this season, lhe women's team has split their two dual matches with Northwestern. At Air Force in Februarv, Notre Dame lost 15­
12. The·next weekend at Ohio State. the Irish got some revenge by crushing the Wildcats 23-4. The rubber match is this weekend and the Irish still have a bitter taste in their mouths concerning Northwestern. 
"Some people on the team are still a little mad about the remarks made by Northwestern's coach," said sophomore epeeist Kerry Walton. 
Northwestern head coach Laurie Schiller made some insulting comments about Notre Dame's conditioning and prac­tices before the Wildcats' victo­ry over the Irish in February. 
Another motivational factor for the Irish is that in the Midwest conference, rankings 

By MRON RONSHEIM 
Sports Writer 
After nine years as the Irish head softball coach and a season in which she led Notre Dame to its highest ranking ever last year, Llz Miller retired after the end of the 2001 season. 
This year the Irish are lead by promoted pitching coach Deanna Gumph. 
Under her first four years of coaching, the Irish have lowered their team earned run average and raised their cumulative bat­ting average. In 2001 the Irish had a record team E.R.A of 0.89 (seventh in the nation) and 477 strikeouts. 
Freshmen pitcher Steffany Stenglein has already felt the positive effects of working with coach Gumph. 
"She is one of my favorite coaches that I ever played for. She has already helped me so much with my pitching," said Stenglein. 
Gumph's staff will lead the No. 24 Irish (4-6) at the Texas A & M Aggie Invitational this weekend 
-
where they will play No. 19 Louisiana-Lafayette and unranked Illinois State twice and play host No. 23 Texas A&M once. 
The Irish will be looking for reve1,,," after last weekend's 2-1 are done by victory over other conference members through­out the season. Since the Irish focused their schedule on top competition, their conference rating is lower than they think it should be. 
"We're not ranked as high as some of the [nationally] lower­ranked teams in our confer• ence," said Walton. "That has gotten some people angry this week. But I think everyone is laid back and [there are] no worries." 
Despite the women's team los­ing their title last year, the men swept the conference title and led Notre Dame to the overall conference championship. All three squads -epee, foll and sabre -finished first in their division, giving the Irish the maximum 450 points. 
"I think we are feeling pretty confident as a team," said senior Andre Crompton. "We may be a little more challenged in some areas, but we should be the best in the Midwest." 
Top competition for No. 1 Notre Dame should come from No. 4 Ohio State and Northwestern. 
"Ohio State has a pretty strong sabre team," Crompton said. "I think, though, we are better overall as a team." 
Junior foilist 0zren Debic looks to win his third confer­ence championship in as many years this season. Last year, he defeated teammate Forest Walton 15-8 in the final. 
In epee, Brian Casas upset captain Jan Viviani in the final, 15-14. Crompton defeated the top seed from Wayne State in 
SOFTBALL 
Gumph, Irish head to Aggie Invite 
loss to the Aggies. The Aggies' Jessica Slataper pitched a com­plete game with 12 strikeouts as she outdueled Stenglien who pitched six strong innings. 
Notre Dame will most likely face Slateper again this weekend and hopefully be able to gener­ate a little more offense. 
"I hope to see her again. We will know what is a coming and expect the girls to jump on her." said Gumph. 
Against Louisana-Lafayette, the Notre Dame pitchers will have to shut down the Lady Cajuns tandem of Becky McCarty and Alana Addison, both of whom are hitting over .400 with five homeruns. 
When the Irish play Illinois State it will be a rematch of last year's NCAA Region Vil Tournament game, in which the Irish won 2-1. lllinois State (4-6). after a slow start, has won its last four games with victories against No. 9 Arizona State and No. 16 Iowa. 
The Irish will hope to rebound from last weekend and post a few victories against the nation elite. 
"If we come out and play like we're capable of playing we should be fine," said All­American captain Jarrah Myers. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu. 
the semifinals before beating is very important. the second seed and teammate "There is always pressure as Andrezej Bednarski in the finals the defending champion," said to claim the sabre title. the captain. "If we don't per­
Being the defending champi­form well this weekend, it can ons brings some added expecta­foreshadow what will happen tions to the team. Also, with the next weekend." NCAA regionals next weekend, The Midwest Fencing Crompton knows this weekend Conference Championships will 
SOMDHIH& CORPOtt.Aff PIH YORN 
be held at the Joyce Center this weekend. The team event is on Saturday. with the individual competition on Sunday. Both days' events will begin at 8 a.m. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu, 


A$,cf'~oxet Mtis,kf(>rfh,m,,;,rn,ngt§fhisrt"'"'~tbe Mng!.t n!f Y9\I C J,1mlon.* 









1599• 

MEDIA~PLAYe 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
for the store nearest you, caU tolf"free 1~888~60..MEDIA. .!iel«tioi'l, prkins <>nd """'"""! .,U.,,-a m,ay v .... ,. by µor,e Qmj ontin-,, 
_I 
'',",, i J;. ••I' ff, 1 •, t ,. , ,. , .., • ~ 
.. ' 
, '' f_)' f, 

hiday, March 1, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
-three minutes more than Studying and basketball are thought about it, I said, 'I've got "Ile knows that. And he plays Charles Thomas has playod in Thomas' two passions. But hn nothing to lose, so I might as well that way." 
Thoillas 
his entire career. Mosl walk-ons makes it crystal-clear which one try to see what happens."' Thomas loves the perks that 
continued from page 24 
ing games and does whatever hf1 can in practice to help Notre Dame win. 
Notrl' namP's only walk-on bashtball player is oue of the harcfost working players on the tr,am. Tie's one of the quickest players 011 lhe Irish. And despite his small stature -Thomas is 6­foot, 1(14 pou.nds -he's not afraid to mix it up with big play­ers. 
lie just doesn't get the chance to do it during a game. 
Earlier this season, freshman point guard Chris Thomas played 60 minutes in a quadruple-over­timo gam(~ against Georgetown would moan and gripe if they only played 57 minutes in their four-)tear college career. Or more appropriately. tlrny'd moan and gripe if they stayed on the 
tflam. 
But Thomas isn't your typical walk-on. He's one of the most resilient players on Notre Dame's team because he refuses to quit -at anything. 
"He's one of the hardest work­ers on the team, nol just on the floor, but off," teammate and good friend Torrian Jones said. "Sometimes I go over to his room to hang out and he's there study­ing. If I'm nut studying there, I'm sitting there silent the whole time." 
he reallv loves. 
"With.out basketball," Thomas said, "I'd be bored out of my mind." 
He came to Nolrc Dame with the intr.ntion of walking on to John MacLeod's team. As soon as he arrived on campus, he began scrimmaging with the team during the early fall and was invited to stay on as a walk­on. The only problem was that Thomas was one of eight walk­ons -and he was bv far the smallest player. · 
"I was thinking there's no way I'd bl~ able to make it. Halfway through, I stopped coming for four days. and I said, 'Forget it,"' Thomas said. "But the more I 
Even Thomas is surprised he's made it all four years. But he admits there were times when he wanted to cave in and give it all up. Each time a new basketball coach Was hired, Thomas wor­ried that he wouldn't want to come back, or worse, that he wouldn't even be invited back. 
He only played one game under MacLcod. His second col­lege coach, Matt Doherty, initial­ly made Thomas wonder if he'd even be on the team and then didn't give Thomas the playing time the walk-on thought he deserved. 
So when Doherty left to coach at North Carolina and Mike Brey was hired two years ago, Thomas walked into the new 

r--------------------------------------. coach's office to set the record 
APARTMENTS 
('h· 1•t'!and ,1m/ lr<Jmrnml l?oad,· /l'iOl l ('/nl'lanJ RoaJ Smilh Beud, JnJiuna -16637 (2 JY)2 72-RJ JO 
New Castle Point Select Units Available for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 

• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments,. some with lofts and dens 

• 
Includes membership in the new Castle Point Racqblet Club and Fitness Center 

• 
2 BR Appaiiments w/ lofts and dens still available! 


Summer 2002 
Internships with NGOs in Washington, DC. 
If you have studied Spanish, are interested in public policy, are motivated to work hard and want a great experience contact Jean Olson, 207 Hesburgh Center, 631-6023 or see our web­site at www.nd.edu/-kellogg. 
Applications accepted until March 9 or until posi­tions are filled-whichever comes first! 
straight. 
"If you ever need me to play, just know that you've got some­one that's always going to work hard. give 100 percent all the time, and never be a head case," Thomas told Broy that summer. "Jf you want mo to play, I'll play. Jf not, then I know that's not my role, and I'll do whatever I have to do to help our guys to win." 
"I don't consider you a walk­on," Brey responded. "You're a team member." 
There's no division between the lone walk-on and the other 12 players on the team. He's earned the nickname "Chuck," and he and Graves make fun of each other so much that Graves jokes the two will get into a box­ing match when the season is over. He's not afraid to give advice to the younger players, and Jones said the walk-on is one of the fiercest competitors he's every played against. 
He also earned a scholarship for his final semester at Notre Dame, Brey's way of rewarding Thomas' hard work ethic. 
"Chuck's a guy who his prac­tices are his games," Brey said. 

come with being a member of the Notre Dame basketball team. Students across campus know who he is, even though Im has no clue who they may be. And for some reason, people want to play against him in pickup games at the Rock. llut he just shakes his· head and proceeds to "embar-· rass" his opponents, as he puts it. 
"I take it all as a compliment," he said. "I know I'm doing some­thing a lot of people want to do." 
Ile knows he's a fan favorite, too. When he gets into games, he hears fans telling him to shoot the ball, and he's more than happy to oblige, he laughs. 
He's made countless friends with little kids who idolize him, and still chats over Instant Messenger with a fifth-grader he mAt in basketball camp last sum­mer. 
"I didn't think -even when I made the team -I didn't think I'd still be playing as senior," Thomas said. "Especially with me not playing a lot, I didn't know if I could stick it out." 
But the player who had trouble believing he would· make it to Senior Day four years ago is sud­denly finding it very difficult to realize that his college basketball days are nearly over. 
He hopes to find some kind of league after he graduates so he can keep playing. He's not sure if he wants to go to graduate school to prepare for a career in the FBI or try to break into the coaching ranks. 
But no matter what happens to him, Thomas will probably take it all in stride -just like he's done with his life. 
'Tm not a quitter," Thomas said. "Whatever happens, hap­pens." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
•• I 

St. Petersburg(Clearwater & Orlando/Sanford FLORIDA 
Gary/Chicago Airport
1·800-FLY-PANAM 
www.garychlcagoalrport.com
www.flypanam.com 
or call your local travel agent. 



, t'} 1 l 1' • , • I \ \ \-• \ \ l ' 1 . • ~ • • \' t I\ 1 ~ • t-< I \ I l i I I , 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 1, 2002 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Ready to qualify, Irish host Invite 
By DAVE COOK 
Spom Writer 

For the Notre Dame men and women's track and field teams, the team indoor season is over. The women and men both had great suc­cesses at the Big East Champio­nships, tak­ing first place and fourth place, respectively. 
But now it is time for individuals to shine. This week­end's Alex Wilson Invitational hosted by Notre Dame provides a last chance for several Irish athletes to post qualifying times to advance to the NCAA champi­onships. 
"We've got 77 schools repre­sented. And there's kids from literally all over the country coming in to get qualified. So it should be a fantastic meet," said head coach Joe Piane. 
Notre Dame's Meyo Track is 


known for "There's kids from fy.being one of 
literally all over the On the 
the fastest women's side, 
country coming in to get 
tracks in the· the nation's nation, mainly qualified. " third-ranked because it is mile relay one of the team consist­
Joe Piane
largest indoor ing of Liz
head coach
tracks at 320 

meters. This provides an excellent opportunity for ath­letes to qualify for the NCAA championships against one of the best competitive fields in the nation. 
The Irish have several athletes who have had strong indoor seasons so far. and hope a strong performance this week­end will propel them into the NCAA championships. 
Such is the case for the women's distance medley relay team. The distance medley team -comprised of Jen Handley, Megan Johnson, Lauren King and Kristen Dodd -has only raced once this year, at the Meyo Invitational, but hope they can qualify this weekend. 
"We did pretty well [at the Meyo Invitational], but we didn't go all out because there was really no other teams in it to push us along," said Johnson, who runs the 800-meter portion of the medley. "We knew this would be our chance. If we all run what we're capable of run­ning, then we'll qualify for NCMs. If we don't qualify, it will be a disappointment to all of 
us." 

"The women's distance med­ley really has a good chance at qualifying for the NCAAs. 
Also looking for qualifying times are Ryan Shay and Luke Watson, the ·senior distance duo that has had a spectacular indoor season. To add to their success in the 3000-and 5000­mctcr runs, Shay and Watson are looking for qualifying times in the mile this weekend. 
Watson has the fastest mile time of any Irish runner this year, posting a 4:07.15 at the Big East championships. Shay ran a season-best 4:09.97 ai a triangular meet early in the sea­son. The NCAA provisional qual­ifying time is 4:05.20. 
'Tm sure that [Shay and Watson] would like to try to qualify in the mile. Shay wouldn't run the 3000, the 5000 and the mile at NCAAs, but I'm sure he would still like to quali­fy," said Piane. 
Also looking for a strong showing for the men are Tom Gilbert in the long jump and Selim Nurudeen in the 60-meter hurdles. The long jump and the 60-meter hurdles will be two of the strongest events this·week­end and should provide the momentum Gilbert and Nurudeen need to quali­

They're in a great heat," said 


---..'::=========~~
== 

Vote<i #1 Oriental Restaurant tor Seven Years in a iiow Szechuan -f :unan • Cantonese • American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11 :30 • 3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM -10:00 PM Friday· Saturday 11 :30 AM · 11 :00 PM 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults S4 50 for Children under 1 O 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272-7376 
Grow, Ayesha 
Boyd, Dodd 
and Kymia Love will look to improve on their time this season. 
"Our women's mile relay has already qualified, but it's a great race [this weekend]. At this point there are six really good teams in there," said Piane. 
Field events ofthe Alex Wilson Invitational begin Friday night at 6 p.m. Also Friday night are the distance medley and the men's and women's 3000-and 5000-meter runs, which should be some of the best races of the weekend. The meet concludes Saturday, with events beginning at 10:30 a.m. with the triple jump. 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
ND Department ofMusic presents AJunior Recital 
Brittany Payeur, violin 
w/Katie Badridze, piano Saturday, March 1, 1001 
1:30 pm, Annenberg Auditorium Free and open to the public 

Want to write sports? Call Chris or Noah at 631-4543 


% 

APR* AslowAs 
¦ 

Financing on New & Used Vehicles 
It'll Get Your Motor Runnin'I 

'§.a 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
800/567-6328 • www.ndfcu.org 

'Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 6.25%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without notice. Certain restlict,ons may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent ofthe University. 


...;;.e..:.:..r_a___it;;,;_;;l_n.......g~e_o_r_n_e_r presents...... 

h precha

.-, 



'' 
·, t t ·/II,,
''' ',t f' 
• ti" fl f j, .-• 
• i' t f 'r I"• 

Friday, March l, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


~ How DO YOU GET A J.B LIKE THIS? www.STARTHEREG . PLACES.CDM/B1Z7 
Go here and take the first step toward the career you want. 
START HERE. GO PLACES. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical thinking, communication, and leadership ­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in fashion. 

<\\it 1 • 1 . ; 1 • \ , ~ , 


4" \ 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March I, 2002 
HOCKEY 
Irish prepare for final weekerid 

BRIAN PUCEVICHfThe Observer 

Sophomore center Aaron Gill faces off in a game against Alaska-Fairbanks earlier this season. 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Assistant Sports Editor 
Heading into the final week­end of regulnr spason play. the Notre Danw men's hockPV team hoprs to keep its thrne'­ga mP winning streak alive and build up some momentum for the upcoming CCIIA play­offs. 
Tim Irish will play host to tlw conf'PrPncr rival Bowling Green. Tlw Falrons cu1TP11tlv are in I I th p!aC1' in the CCII/\ and arr most likelv out of postseason tou rn am;nt play. as o n I y t 111~ t o p 1 0 t e a m s advancr. 
ThP Irish currently hold eighth place in the confcrenc{, but must be leery of Ferris State. who stands onlv one point lwhind the Irish in ninth. 
"One thing that appears important right now is that we have lo stav ahead of everyone who is ·behind us." Irish head roach Dave Poulin said. 
After last week's play. it is impossible for thr: Irish to sur­pass seventh-place Ohio State, but it is important for the Irish to maintain their posi­tion in tlrn bracket for seeding in the tournament. 
l\lorP imporLant tlrnn serd­ings. however. is the team's desire to go into the CCIIA 
. playoffs nnxt wenkend playing as well as tlrny have been recPntly. · 
"It's more important to be playing well than anything,·· Poulin said. "The move [in standingsl doesn't really mean anything because five, six and seven fplac(~s] are still uncertain. We're on a nice lit­tle roll now, and we just want 
,· 
to keep it rolling." 
lndePd the Irish have been playing well of late. Their cur­rent 1.hree-gume winnin)!; streak matches the longest of the season and the Irish df'fcnse has hf'!d its oppo­nents lo oi1ly five goals in tlw last three games, including ono on an ompty net. 
"Thn last four games we've r<'ally tightened up clef'l'nsivr­ly." Poulin said. "Giving up only four goals in the last four gamPs is tremendous, and wp\·n rontinued that focus on trw def'Pnsive side of things lin prarticnl." 
Part of this dcfonsivo surgi' 

c: an b n seen in the pI ay o I' frpslrn1an goalie Morgan CPy, who allowed only lhr<'P goals against national pownr Miehigan State thrpe WP1-ik­enc!s ago. and th1m returned strong last weekP1HI against LakP Superior Statn -allow­ing only 01111 goal and securing his sncond shutout of tlw sea­son. 
Bowling Green comes to l\lotni Dame after a strong weekend against Northern Michigan last week that included a 6-0 shutout for tho Fa'lcons. The team is lead in scoring by forward Greg Day with 3 3 points coming on 17 goals and 16 assists. 
The Rowling Grnen goal­tender. Tyler Masters, has surrende,:ed 3. 3 6 goals per gamo this year, but rccorclnd 45 savr.s against l\iotre Dame in a 4-2 Bowling Gre1m victory earliPr this year. Notre Dame won tlic 0th.er matdiup earli­er this sr.ason 6-3 to f'nrn a snrics split on the road last De1:omb1\r . 
With a strong SPries this l'inal wnckeml, t.hc Irish !'eel tlH'Y could make a move in tlrn postsoason, entering the CCIIA tournament playing as w1~11 as they have all yr.ar. 
"\t\'e think we're a better hockc•y team now than wn were a month ago, and we're going to continue that," Poulin said. "We're going to bn a very difficult team to play." 
Tim two teams will !'ace off in the Joyce at 7:05 p.m. both 
Contact Chris Federico at cfedcric@nd.edu. 

Please recycle The Observer. 
. 

Congregation of Holy Cross ·. 
Tanzania 
Peru 


lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
is now accepting applications for 
ALL POSITIONS 
PROGRAMMERS -Campus Entertainment, Ideas and Issues, Multicultural Arts, Collegiate Jazz Festival, Sophomore Literary Festival, Movies, Services, anTostal, Special events 
CONTROLLERS -responsible for all accounting and budgeting procedures for SUB. OPERATORS -SUB's representatives to various 
organizations around campus, as well as assisting their programmer with any tasks involved in planning events. GRAPHIC DESIGNERS -design all of SUB's 
advertising including posters, Observer and Scholastic ads, and promotional material 
all students are welcome to apply; applications can be picked 
up in the SUB office, 201 LaFortune and are due Thursday 
March 7th. Questions? Feel free to stop in, call 1-7757, 
e-mail sub@nd.edu, visit our new website www.nd.ed~ 
or check out our IM name, ndSUBinfo so 
'! f I I/ f ,'' ''/;ff i I 1. 


Friday, March 1, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

•
Studyi11 the nation's capitol 

•
Workinaninternship 

•
Fulfillphilosophy, theology,andfine arts requirements 

•
Studypublic affairs 

•
Live in an exciting city 


•
Applications for Fall 2002 are still being accepted online 

•Open 
to Sophomores,Juniors, and Seniors from all colleges 


1:00 



THIS FRIDAY NIGHT 11:00 NOTRE DAME ROOM ­SECOND FLOO aFUN 
PRIZESH 

MEN'S TENNIS 

No. 7 Irish travel to LaJolla 
RICO CASARES/The Observer 

Senior Javier Taborga competes in a match earlier this season. Taborga is currently ranked 23rd nationally in singles at 10-1. 
ByJOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team is leaving behind South Bend this weekend as they travel to sunny LaJolla, Ca. for the Pacific Coast Doubles tournament. 
This annual event does not actually count towards Notre Dame's record as it is not a colle­giate tournament. Those invited to participate in the tournament include many of the top-ranked tennis programs in the nation. as well as ranked professional play­
ers. 
The outcome of this weekend's play will not affect Notre Dame's current standing as the seventh ranked team in the nation. According to senior Javier Taborga, this tournament is an 
opportunity to play some of the best players in the country -col­legiate and professional. 
Many teams do not send their top players, though. Taborga, along with senior Casey Smith, will not be participating this year because head tennis coach Bob Bayliss wants to ensure that they are ready for next week's critical dual match at Illinois. Taborga and Smith are seventh in the national doubles rankings. 
"A lot of tennis professionals go [to the Pacific Coast Doubles] and just enjoy playing with their old partners. It's always really high level," said Taborga, who has participated in previous years. "I think it's a great experience because it's one of the nicest clubs that I've been to in my life. It's just off the beach, and the courts are on the beach. There are a lot of people that come to watch you play." 
"It's one of the best experiences I've had at Notre Dame," he added. 
The tournament organizers even pay all the travel expenses of those invited, and there is prize money available for the profes­sionals who participate. 
"That's why very good players go and play, because they have all the expenses covered," Taborga said. "They just enjoy a weekend in LaJolla, and I don't think any­one would ,vant to turn that down." 
Some of the teams sending 

players to LaJolla include top­ranked programs such as Stanford, UCIA and USC. 
The Irish are more concerned though about their indoor dual match verse Illinois next Thursday, as wells as their first outdoor tournament of the spring, the Blue-Gray National Tennis Oassic, which starts March 14. 
"Beating Illinois would be a huge step towards our goal of winning the national champi­onship," said Taborga, who is currently rated the 23rd best sin­
gles player in the country.  
A win over Illinois could help to  
secure home court advantage for  
Notre Dame in the NCAA tourna­ 
ment; and that in turn could help  
propel the Irish towards the  
national championship.  
"Freshman and sophomore  
years, we all talked about [win­ 
ning the championship], but it  
wasn't really feasible. Last year  
we had our chances, but we still  
were a really young team. We  
didn't realize how close we were,"  
Taborga said.  
This year is different though, he  
feels.  _1  
"[Now] we've played against the best teams, we've been able to compete against them ... so we  j I  
know that we are at that level.  
Right now I think that we all real­ 
ly believe in the possibility of win­ 
ning a national championship," he said.  I I  
Additionally, Taborga believes Notre Dame, 11-3 after an indoor  I _1  
win over Miami on Feb. 24, will  
be an even more formidable force  
once it starts playing outside.  
"This year we all have been  
working hard over the summer  
and got better outdoors. I think  
it's going to be a big surprise  
when many coaches see us play  
outdoors. because they are  
expecting us to be a little weaker  
than when we are indoors. From  
top to bottom, I think we will be a  
lot better outdoors," he said.  
Notre Dame will be able to see  
how it fares outdoors this week­ 
end before the real test begins at  
the Blue-Gray Classic ­a tourna­ 
ment which will count towards  
Notre Dame's standing.  

Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. •' 
, \ \ l, •I• 
, \\\I It''' I If' 

, I , l ~ I I ~ I •ft I 1 't \ 1 1 I• It I I
t. t'
, I ~ • 0 I l \ 1 ' 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, March 1, 2002 
• 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish ready for Ivy League Penn 
By JOE LICANDRO 
Spom \',riter 

As if last SaLurday's over-: time loss against Penn State was not enough. the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team rf'cP-ivt'd somP more bad nt'ws yesterday when starting mid­
fip,lder Matt Howell sufforcd a 
knee injury in practice. 
The sophomore, who scored his first. f'.areer hat trkk in the Irish's 10-9 loss to the Nittany I.ions last Sunday, is expected to miss at least six weeks and could be out for the remainder of the season. depending on hm-v long it takes him to recov­
er from knee surgery. 
"We will miss Matt Howell tremendously on offense," said sPnior ·attackman Owen Asplundh. "Matt is a great player with a lot of talent. Everyone on offense is simply going to have to pick up their 
play." 
The Irish will find out if they can recover from the loss of Howell when they travel to Philadelphia to take on the Penn Quakers Saturday at 1 
p.m. Notre Dame is hoping to rebound from last Sunday's loss against Penn State and even their record at 1-1 against tlw Quakers by return­ing to the basic fundamentals of lacrosse. 
The Irish romrnitted many carelPss turnovers last week­end on the defensive end that led directly to easy Penn State goals. 
"We gavP PPnn State-four goals by turning tbe ball over." said Irish lwad coach Kevin Corrigan. "WP looked lost on the df'fensiw end. We looked likP wP had nr'ver had practicP before." 
With llm\·pll out of the line­up, Corrigan will be forcPd to jugglP his starting liiwup and play morP young players on orf!'nsP. Fnishmen Brian Giordano and l\latt Malakoff had imprPssive debuts last Sunday and will be counted on to spark thr Irish offensP on Saturdav. 
Giord.i.no's speed and quick­n ciss wPrP instrumental in generating Irish scoring opportunities, \Vhile Malakoff addPd his first career goal in an Irish uniform. Giordano will start in place or Hownll on the first-team midfield line alongside senior captains John Flandina and Devin Ryan and sophomorn Steve Claggett. Freshman Chris H.ichoz will also see considerable action as he repta€es Giordano's spot on the sflcond-team midfield. 
"Heplacing Matt Ilowell will be tough, but I fpe[ wrnfort­able out there at the offensive midfield position," said Giordano. "Playing alongside John Flandina and Devin H.yan is a great opportunity for me. We have a lot of young guys on offense this year and coach needs us to give our best and contribute to the team right now. " 
The Penn Quakers are a mystery team. They have yet to play a game this season so the Irish have had no game film to studv this week in prac­tice, Furth.ermorc, Penn will have a new look lhis season under new coach Matt Hogan. The Irish will have their work cut out for them as the Quakers return 22 players including six starters from last vear's squad " Notre Dame needs a win over Penn on Saturday to get their season on the right track. With Howell out with an injury, the Irish will rely even more on their defense to defeat the Quakers. Irish play­ers know they must play a complflte game to claim thnir first victory of the season. 
Contact Joe Licandro at licandro.1@nd.edu. 
You're Ready Now... 
Religious Life ... Worth exploring! 
For more information, contact: 
Sr. Elyse Marie Ramirez, OP 
Vocation Director DOMINICAN SISTERS OF SPRINGFIELD 
PhO!i~ 217,7:'137,0481 FAX~17-7f9--8169 . 1237»\lesf,Monroe 
Springfield, I[ 6V04 
e-mail: SEMRamirez@spdom.org website: www.springffeldop.org 


Men 
continued from page 24 
Dame's loss t.o Pittsburgh in tlw first round ol" tlrn Big East Tournament hurt tlw toam's sP.od­ing in the NCAA Tournammit. 
"WP do not want a repeat of the r.nd of last year where we lost thrn1' games in a row," said BrP.y. "We don't want to lose on Senior Day again. We need to learn from our mistakes in the loss to St. John"s and come back strong on Saturday against Providence." 
Although the Priars curnmtly sit in fourth placf) in the Big East East. I )ivision and hold a rnr.diocre record of 15-14 (6-9 in the Big East), the Friars will still prnsenl a formidable challenge to the Irish. The key to victory for lhe Irish on Saturday will bn the point guard matchup betwe!'n Notre Dame's Chris Thomas and senior Providence point guard John Linehan. 

Although lw stands only 5-f'oot­9, Unehan has been tho most. con­sistrmt point guard in th1\ Big East Confi~rencn over the last lwo s1ia­sons. J\ftnr struggling against the dnfonsivn prcssurn of St. .John's excellent point guard Marn1s l lattm1, Thomas must !ind a way to protect the hall against the aggressive Lintihan. In Providence's loss to Miami last Tw~sday, Linehan broko former Friar Eric Murdock's NCAA rcf'.ord for career steals. 
Anothnr important matchup in the game will be Notrn Damn f'or­ward Ryan llumphroy against Providence freshman Ryan Gomes. Gomes. Lhe likely runner­up to Thomas for rookie of th<' year honors in the Big East, is soc­ond on the Friars in scoring with just und0r l 4 points a game. 
As Notre Dame's lflading scorer, averaging almost 19 a gmno, and the leading rnbound0r in tlm Big East with 10.5 a game, Ilumphrcy has been crucial to his team's suc­cess this season. Humphrey led the Irish with 29 points am! 11 rebounds against St. .John's last W1•dnosday. 
"Byan llumphn'y has been fab­ulous." said Bn'y. "lip's a rPal man out then~. I don't Pven have to tell him what to do anymore, l lc just goos out thnro and gets tho job donn." 
Notes: 
. 
Saturday's 4 p.m. tip-off will be tPltwisPd nationally on CHS. Notre Dame has fai!Pcl to win a gamn on national tchwision this s1:ason. 

. 
Notrn Oanrn currently sits third in tho Big East Wost Division. The Irish have a slim chanc11 or finishing second in the conf'rlrnnc.e if Syracuse were lo lose its final two games to Villanova on Thursday and Boston College on Sunday. 


Contact Joe Licandro at licandro.l@nd.edu. 



, t I!. . ff/ 
• • t 1 f 1 I · t 

\,II If t 
/ff _Ifft f 1 


Friday, March l, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 


EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 29 Lanai serving 52 Without a friend in the world
1 Pride's place? 30 Make heads 5 50% off? roll? 54 eBay.com, e.g. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON people. 0000 15 Gentleman of 32 Massey of 56 "Tempus edax 
THIS DAY: Ron Howard, Harry VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Belafonte, Alan Thicke, Tunothy Focus on your work and let the peo­Daly ple around you know how serious 
the court "Balalaika" rerum" writer 
16 Words of 33 German seaport 57 Neither up nor 
Happy Birthday: You will have you are about getting ahead. Your 
protected by

farewell from down 
a greater interest in cultural trends ambitious nature will give you a Childe Harold dikes this year. You will be drawn to competitive edge. Don'fhold back.
58 Be inclined 
courses offering different philoso­000
17 Ship sunk at 36 Public hanging? 
59 Like Y phies and humanitarian interests. LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Make
Pearl Harbor 
37 Milosevic and You will have unusual experiences plans to get out and do something
60 Spree
18 For the near others while traveling or attending semi­special with someone you enjoy future nars. There is much to be learned spending time with. You won't
38 Brief summons 

this year so prepare to take in all the have to spend a lot of money in
19 Big name in DOWN
39 Confer upon information being offered. Your order to make this a clay to remem­
sleepwear 1 Speak well of numbers are 4, 17, 27, 34,36,·42 ber. 00041 England/Wales
21 Most halting ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
boundary river 2 Satellite tracker 
Your emotions are close to the sur­There is a deal to be made so don't
22 "Hold on!" 
42 Walks all over 3 "Who knew?!" face. Relationships are on your waste time pondering over whether 23 Row in a shell? mind and the opportunity to do or not you should be getting
44 Bandage applier 4 Fix, as shoes
24 Philip_, something special with someone involved. A partnership can be 47 Attendee 5 Moves along you care about is present. Make formed if you attend a financial
Edward Everett 
your plans early and prepare to seminar. Changes at home will be to
Hale character 48 Meet, as 6 Like some 
have a most enjoyable time. 000 your benefit. 000
expectations

25 Security's worth working groups TAURUS (April 20-May 20): SAGITTARIUS (Nov; 22-Dec. 21): at the time of 49 Euchrelike card Sometimes it's to your benefit to You are in a powerful position
7 Nickname for 
issue game walk away. You may have to be today. New partnerships can be
Louis VIII, with 
pushed in order to do so but you formed if you are forthright with
"the" 
have so much ahead of you, let go your plans. Don't be afraid lo accept ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Not opposin' andbe optimistic about your future. a little praise. 0000 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jan. 19):
9 Knife maker 
Puzzle by M¦ nny Noaowuy GEMINI (May 21-June 20): What you see and what you get will Don't be afraid to believe in your­be two different things today. Don't 
10 One in a million 26 Domineer 46 Mississippi 51 Stock page 
............_._-I self and your talent. Ifyou are will­let your emotions get the better of ~-:-+,:+i,;...iF-+.;,..1-i-,,1 11 Teetotaler's 27 Neither right nor River discoverer heading ing to go the extra mile you will dis­you. Not everyone will be on yourorder proper 48 Some apples 52 Slow roller cover that the reception you receive side.00 will be phenomenal. 00000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
---.--1--1--1 12 Fan mag 28 Go gingerly 49 Place name 53 It may be found Put your ideas into motion Be gra­
CANCER (June 21-July 22):
that's Hebrew near a drain 

13 Lines of thought, Someone you live ½'ith or that you cious and accept whatever is being
29 Fly, e.g. for "pleasure" 

for short? 55"_Blu, are close to may disappoint you offered. Your hard work and dedi­31 Potent potable 50 Bay Dipinto di Blu" today. Try to be patient and give cation to something you truly
14 Collaborative 
him orher a chance to make it up to believe in will be rewarded.
work 34 Expatriate you.00 · 00000 ___... 20 Hush-hush govt. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is a PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The
35 Family man? Answers to any c,ues in this puzzle are 

group great day for romance and partner­weekend may be here but that
available by touch-tone phone:

40 Award-winning ships. Don't hesitate to take your doesn't mean that you should slack ~;.;..a.:~..::;~ 23 Cable for 1·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). present relationship fo the next off. Ifyou putin an added push you
43 Dealt with

money Annual subscriptions are available for the level. Ifyou are still looking for love, will surpass any competition that f.;;;.+.,;,.+,:+-:::-t 25 Where Ilsa met 45 Birmingham-to• best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 be sure to attend events that will you might meet along the way. 
bring you in contact with interesting 000
Rick Montgomery dir. years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
FRIDAY, MARCH 1 @ 7:05PM SATURDAY, MARCH 2@ 7:05PM 
FREE SENIOR NIGHT!! 
Trading cards to
GREEN BEAN BAG BEARS 
1st 500 fans sponsored by~
to 1st 500 fans!! 
Post-game autographs! 
(Gates only., Doors open at 5:45) 
~ 

"'"':~!~/;:./·,·-.-:, New York Firefighter Win a chance to pizza to to be celebrity guest pizza to ride the Zamboni 1st 150 ND students rider on the Zamboni! 1st zso ND stuaents during period breaks! 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
FOXTROT 
DAO, THIS COFFEE YOQ MADE lOOICS AWFUlLY 
STRONG. 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED CUNNIGNl}Ym 
I j.~...\<-t~c.t ,,..s~~J o{ l\o~ ~llnrin"I, >'I,~} l>'I ~-J,,_y '5, 
+~~ ~1 ~ :..u.€, 1'141 
C>• 'f"ric\c..r,. 'h,_CI re.~J 0f i~ il.l~l \41 ~~lJ ~ s~.e P:'.) ,o..,;t. --n;:t.,,._, ~o+ ~t1'S +t-..\ t\!,,ik ~~f4.k. o,. +='n~~1~ 
l,Jovld be_ ~ ~f>..lr'ti<.t. 

' \''.' '. 
\' 't.' ''' 
1 • \ i I It I I t • f • f . , , t '° , 
O
THE

Campus Sports Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's Lacrosse, p. 22 
. Fencing, p. 16 
. 
Men's Tennis, p. 21 . ND Softball, p. 16 

. 
Hockey, p. 20 . ND Softball, p. 16 


. Track and Field, p. 18 . ND Women's Tennis, p. 15
PORTS 
Friday, March 1, 2002 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Ti01e to say goodbye 
. Walk-on Thomas . Irish close out brings energy, home season with humor to Irish Senior Day 
By ANDREW SOUKUP By JOE LICANO RO 
Associate Sports E,litor Sports \Xlrircr 
Saturday afternoon, Charles Saturday will be ari emotional Thomas will run onto the bas­day for seniors Ryan Hwnphrey, ketball court for pre-game David Graves, Harold Swanagan warm-ups right behind David and Charles Thomas as they play Graves and ahead of Ryan the final home game of their Humphrey and Harold careers for Notre Drune. Swanagan. Before the game, This year's Senior Day will take Thomas will be introduced -on an added dimension for the along with Graves, Humphrey Irish. With a victory over the visit­and Swanagan -as one of four ing Providence Friars, Notre seniors playing his final game in Dame will win its 20th game of tbe Joyce Center. the season for the second year in 
There's just one difference a row. More importantly, the Irish between Thomas and the other should solidify a bid to the NCAA three seniors. Tournament with a victory. 
Graves, Humphrey and "We want to send our seniors Swanagan will play significant out with a victory. These guys minutes in Notre Dame's game have meant so much to this pro­against Providence. gram," said Irish head coach 
Thomas will be lucky if he Mike Brey. "They are responsible plays at all. for rebuilding Irish basketball. 
Does he think he deserves to They have a chance for two play? 'Yes. Does it bother him straight 20-win seasons and an tbat he doesn't play? No. opportunity for back to back trips 
"I think I should play, but it's to the NCM tournament. I am not something I dwell on," very proud of these guys." Thomas said. "I just go with the After already earning the Big flow. I could play, but it's not East West Division title, last going to happen, so I'm not year's Notre Dame team strug­going to worry about it." gled at the end of the regular sea­
In a sport dominated by selfish son -dropping their final two egotists who often demand play­games to Connecticut and ing time or threaten to leave a Georgetown. program, Thomas' quiet confi­Last year's Senior Day loss to dence is both refreshing and the Hoyas in front of a national inspiring. He knows he can television audience damaged the compete on the court, but he Irish's psyche as they entered the also accepts his limited role dur-Big East Tournament. And Notre 
see THOMAS/page 17 see MEN/page 22 
BASEBALL 

Irish look beyond injuries, head south 
ration of injuries at one time Bushey and closer Matt Laird. The 10 strikeouts are the sec­While Notre Dame awaits the
By JOE HETTLER 

like this and that's no exagger­All-American catcher Paul ond-most ever by a freshman return of their injured players,
Sports W ricer 

ation," said Mainieri. "Anytime O'Toole was forced to only play pitcher at Notre Dame and the they will try and find a way to you take the four quality play­third base due to a left hand most in an Irish pitcher's first pick up some early season 
With numerous players ers out of your line-up like we injury, forcing senior Matt Bok career start. Johnson recorded wins. Maineri believes they can injured during last weekend's lost this weekend, it's certainly to take over the catching his first collegiate victory by do this by staying upbeat and University of New Orleans going to have an effect with duties. pitching six strong relief positive. Classic, the Notre Dame base­your team. But I was really, "I thought Matt Bok stepped innings in the team's opening "It might take a little bit of ball team lost two out of three really proud ofthe way that the in and just did a magnificent game against Missouri. time before we have the whole games. But instead of making replacement~ went in there job catching on Sunday, despite "Clearly, our freshman are squad together, but, in the excuses about their losses, and played. We competed real having not been back there in going to continue to pitch mean time, we're just going to head coach Paul Maineri and hard and I choose to look at the quite sometime,'? said Maineri. because they are some of our have to do it the hard way and the Irish are looking forward to very positive aspect of this past The pitching performances of best pitchers," said Maineri. keep battling as hard as we can this weekend's Homestead weekend and tho~e guy~ gained freshman Chris Niese! and "The performances by Grant and keep a positive attitude Challenge held in Florida some great experience. . Grant Johnson also encouraged Johnson and Chris Niese] this and hopefully we'll have some where the Irish will face By the end of last weekend, the Irish during this past week­past weekend were really fan­success until we get everybody Duquesne, l:iairfield, Florida the Irish were without fresh­end. As a starter on Sunday tastic and I think they showed back," said Maineri. International and Savannah man shortstop Matt Macri, against Southern Illinois, Niesel everybody what they're capa­

l ' 
State. sophomore second baseman went five innings, striking out ble of doing. They're actually 
I "To be honest, in 20 years .in Steve Sollman, third 10 and allowing just one run both going to start a game this Contact Joe Hettler at 
' I coaching I've never seen a baseman/catcher Andrew on five hits. weekend." jhettler@nd.edu. 
r 
I • 

. 
Hockey vs. Bowling Green, Friday, 7 p.m. 

. 
Men's Basketball vs. Providence, Saturday, 2 p.m.



s s 
. ND Women's Basketball at Big East Tournament,

AT AGLANCE Sunday, 6 p.m. 










