\:Vednesdav,,/ October 2, 2002 
~~1 
"The Shirt" makes a return to glory 

The Shirt has been one of the hot-ticket items in the bookstore this year. The first 44,000 sold out, prompting an additional order of 20,000 to meet demand for the kelly green T-shirt emblazoned with 'Return to Glory.' 

-------~------­
Bart's part of the Scene 
JJage 12 
By JUSTIN KRIVICKAS 
Assistant News Editor 
"The Shirt" has sold out. All 44,000 haw~ bePn purchased by stu­den ts, alumni and Irish fans. An extra 20,000 extra shirts will be pro­duced in order to equal the demand for them the rest of the season. 
"It's amazing seeing The Shirt and the design get such a huge following in such a short amount of time,'' said Shirt designer Carl Elkins. "I never thought it would sell out, much less this fast. \\le have to give most of the credit, though. to Courtney [Schuster, Shirt president! for the remarkable work she's dorw promoting the pro­ject and the design, and to the foot­ball team and Coach [Tyrone! 'v\Tillingham for the tremendous suc­cess they've had this season." 

About 41,000 shirts were sold last year. This year, at the middle of the Irish season that figure has already been broken. 
Schuster, who is in charge of The Shirt Project on campus expressed strong support for the new campaign. 
The design of The Shirt is decided each year by a contest in which stu­dents submit their vision to unite the student body and fans behind the football team. Last year Elkins' design was chosen, and his slogan "Hcturn to Glory" has become syn­onvmous with the Irish season this foc;tball season as the Irish have jumped tn a 4-0 start. 
''I've seen 'Heturn to Glory' pop up all over the country in reference to Notre Dame football. It's been in the New York Times, Chicago Tribune, a number of other newspapers and the most recent, of course, was the cover of Sports Illustrated," said Elkins. 
The T-shirt's kelly green color has become very popular among students who want the school to adopt a unify­ing color much how Nebraska fans wear red to produce "a sea of red" in the stands to help support their team. 
On the back of "The Shirt" are images of a gold helmet, the Four Horsemen, Knute Rockne and the former coach's quote: "We're gonna go, go, go. And we aren't going to 
see SHIRT/page 4 

Wave of car thefts reported 
By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
News Writer 
Four student vehicles were broken into and 
robbed in the past month while parked in the 
Angela parking lot at Saint Mary's. security 
officials said. Although the break-ins happened 
on separate dates and at different times of day. 
similarities linked the incidents. said Dan 
Woods. interim security director at the College. 
In three of the four cases, the thief dislodged a door lock to gain entry to the vehicle, Woods said. In the fourth incident. the vehicle was left unlocked. 
Various items reported stolen in all four cases were an empty purse, a purse with con­tents and car stereos. Woods said security patrols have been monitoring all campus lots more frequently as a result of the recent occurrences. 
"The security department is currently in the final stages of development of a new escort service for the Saint Mary's campus." said Woods. "This will provide additional visibility in the parking lots as well as another source for reporting suspicious behavior." 
Simple precautions include removing money or other valuables, face plates and car stereos whenever possible. said Woods. Security reminds students and faculty to report all sus­picious persons or activities sighted. The department can be reached by dialing x-5000 from any campus phone. An officer will then be dispatched to the area to investigate. 
There have been instances of vehicle break­ins in the past at Saint Mary's, but most turned out to be isolated events, Woods said. Each case is examined by a security investigator who then reports it to local law enforcement agencies. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintmarys.edu 

This year's Oktoberfest to benefit scholarship 
By JAMIE BELCHER 
:--iews Writa 
About l 00 people partici­pated in T1wsday's 0ktobPrfnst al Saint Mary's. 
Th<' Pvent included a walk and a run. 
Traditionally. money raised from 0ktobnrf'est has been used to support breast cancer awareness. but since the Sept. l l. 2001, terrorist attacks. the Saint Mary's community found new chari­ties to support. 
This year. thn money will go to the Suzanne Kondratenko Scholarship fund. Kondaratenko \Vas a 1996 alumna who died in the ter­rorist attacks. 
"Thcv nf!eded more money to get h off the ground so it just seemed to be very appro­priate," said Lynn Kachmarik, Saint Mary's ath­letic director. 
So far this year Oktoberfest has raised an estimated $1,600, some of \vhich will be matched by the Lily Endowment. 
The grand total should be announced mid-1rnxt week. '.\101wy was collected from th11 
race, tlw walk. area business­es and facultv and staff. 
Some staff and students that wen~ not able to run or walk Tuesday still donated monev due to the cause. 
Notre Dame Federal Credit Union made a $1,000 dona­tion and money is still being counted as it flows in from area businessf~s. 
Kachmarik said the high­light of the race was senior Caroline Kondratenko's par­ticipation in the race. 
"What a great thing it was to have this senior participate in the event that was honor­ing the memory of her sister," said Kachmarik. 
Each of the top 25 finishers from the walk and from the race received a T-shirt for completing the race. Kachmarik said it was a great day and the event was for a good cause. 
"[Suzanne] seems to have been an incredible young woman who left her mark," she said. 
Last year, money was donated to the Firefighters Fund in New York. 
Contact Jamie Belcher at Belc5101@saintmarys.edu 



Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
\ 
INSIDE COLUMN 

SYR brings life to weekend 
This past weekend, for the first time this year, Notre Dame and Saint. Mary's studenl<, had to answer the question ­what are we going to do without foot­ball? 
MaybP a chariot race or an SYR 

Mike Harkins 
would do the trick? 

On Saturday, Keough held their Assistant annual Chariot Graphics Editor Races, attracting a large crowd while offering competition in games such as mud wrestling and, of course, the actu­al races. All this was done during a time that many students would be sleeping in after a late Friday night, yet its repu­tation brought students from all over campus to 'hitness or participate in the events. It only was a beginning. 
Later that night, several dorms held their SYR's. I attended the Dillon­Alumni Big Red Dawg Dance with my beautiful date Alison, and it was defi­nitely the most fun night I have had this semester. 
It was interesting to attend the SYR in its new and "improved" form. For one, dates were not allowed to enter Dillon Hall until 9 p.m., but it wasn't a big deal. My date arrived just after 9, and we proceeded to watch "Van Wilder" ½ith a few friends. Another one of the new rules was that everybody attending the dance must arrive by 10:45 p.m. until 1 :45 a.m., obviously to curb stu­dents from going back to their rooms during the dance to drink. Too bad when we headed down to the dance around 10:30 p.m., we were passed in the hallway by at least two girls who had tried to throw down a little too much in too little time. 
The actual dance was a great time, and even though the DJ began to repeat songs near the end of the night and suc­cecdl~d in playing "Move B--" while going over three hours without playing one slow song, I still got a chance to spend hours with a gorgeous date on the dance floor as did the rest of the men of Dillon and Alumni. 
Just after 1:00 a.m., my date request­ed that I take her home a little before 
1:45 a.m. since she had practice early in the morning. After walking all over Dillon explaining this to about three dif­ferent H.A.'s plus Fr. Doyle, we were allowed to leave. I walked my date back home and came back to Dillon, only to run into two freshmen girls begging me to get them back into the dance after they were held back at the door trying to re-enter. I gladly escorted them in and then departed to watch "10 Things I Hate About You" with my roommate. 
Although there were a few small drawbacks to the new SYH's, it could not take away from what was an awe­some evening. The fact that we could go out and dance for hours without need­ing a fake I.D. was all I could really ask for. 
So can Notre Dame survive a week­end without football? Oh yeah. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Mike Harkins at mharkins @nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Oct. I issue Nellie Williams's column, Follow Peg should have ended, Chances are you'll get rhe experience ofa lifetime and maybe even a cup of hot tea. The Observer regrers the error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Notre Dame celebrates German pride 
The Department of German and Russian Languages and Literatures hosted a German American Day. 
page 3 
WORlD& NATION 
Hurricane Lili launches its assault 
Lili was upgrad­ed to a category two hurricane as it cut its path across Cuba. 
page 5 


WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Global Crossing chairman on trial 
Gary Winnick, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Global Crossing, informed lawmak­ers that he was not guilty of insider trading. 
page 7 
WHAT'S COOKING 

North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Broccoli cheese soup, tomato soup, sausage pineapple pizza, meatloaf, scalloped corn casse­role, carrots with honey-orange sauce, cherry crisp, szechuan vegetable stir-fry, grilled tilapia, potatoes with spinach, broccoli spears, oatmeal, scrambled eggs, sausage patties, potato triangles, breaded cheese sticks, chicken fajita 
Today Dinner: Four-grain soup, tomato soup, sausage pineapple pizza, sauerbraten, zum-zum potato salad, peas and pearl onions, cherry crisp, chicken teriyaki, baked lemon perch, rice valencienne, curried vegetables, cous­cous, meatball grinder, Mexicana couscous, beef and pep­per stir-fry 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY 
a: 
LI.I 
:c 
~ 
LI.I 
~ 
...J 
ct 
(.) 


0 
HIGH 80 HIGH 75 HIGH
-I 
LOW 67 LOW 58 LOW 


SCENE SPORTS 
"Are you a Holiday status Simpson" unclear quiz? 
Carlyle Holiday's 
Do you know status to play this
everything there is 
Saturday remains
to know about the 
Simpson's? 
day to day. 
page 7 page 24 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Deserted bike found 
NDSP found an abandoned bike at St. Joseph Drive and Douglas l:{oad Tuesday. · 
Knights unable to defend 

their bikes 
The Knights of Keenan hall report­ed that 19 bikes were vandalized at the bike rack Monday. 

Students continue to lose 
decals 
Student reports losing decal from somewhere within the ·interior of the University on Friday. 
Another case of a missing

decal 
A faculty member reported a stolen decal to NDSP on Friday. 

Some of the Finest are fined 
NDSP issued multiple students at Farley Hall citations for minor con­sumption of alcohol on Friday. 
Information compiledfrom N/JSP crime blotter 
. 
Student senate: Current Status of Student Services and Learning to Talk About Hace Hetrcat podiums, LaFortunc, Notre Dame Hoom, G p.m. 

. 
Distinguished Lecture: Jo Labanyi, McKenna Hall, Auditorium, 4:30 to 6:30 p.1n. 

. 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship, Wilson Cmnmons, 10 to 11 p.m. 


I 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
"Transnational Perspectives in American' Catholic History," Deidre Maoloney, Cushwa Center, Conforence Hoom, 4:15 p.m. 

. 
South Bend/ Mishawaka Youth Leadership, Clubhouse, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. 

. 
History Saint Mary's, HCC/Welsh Parlor, 12 p.1n. to 3:30 p.m. 


VIEWPOINT 
Are you ready for the Real World? 
Viewpoint columnist Jacqueline Browder tries to calm the fears of seniors who are panicking about entering the real world. 
page 10 
South Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Spaghetti puttanesca, southwestern pasta sauce, boiled basil/garlic linguine, winter blend vegetable, beef chop suey, cajun baked pollock, roast top round, baked sweet potato, long grain and wild rice, pretzel, orien­tal vegetables, chicken tempura, California eldorado casse­role 
Today Dinner: Spaghetti puttanesca, southwestern pasta sauce, boiled basiVgar1ic linguine, Hawaiian pizza, potato pancakes, hot chunky applesauce, stuffed green peppers, tuna casserole, roast turkey breast, bread stuffing, baked sweet potato, sauteed chicken breast, broccoli garlic tofu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 78 HIGH 68 67 LOW 57 LOW 49 49 
HIGH LOW 
Atlanta 85 I 68 Boston 81 / 67 Chicago 75 / 59 Denver SO/ 38 Houston 87 I 71 Los Angeles 71 / 57 Minneapolis 53 / 44 New York 85 / 66 Philadelphia 87 / 67 Phoenix 84 / 63 Seattle 61 / 49 St. Louis 88 / 67 Tampa 87 / 74 Washington 87 / 68 
Wednesday, October 2, 2002 

The Observer . NEWS page 3 

;;! 

LISA VEL TE/fhe Observer Jon Bond talks with Kelly Malloy (left) and Lacy Haussamen (right). Many students have been taking advantage of the warm weather outdoors while it lasts. 

The College ofArts and Letter~ invites you to the presentation ofthe 
REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, C.S.C. AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN TEACHING 
Honoring 

PROFESSOR ANDREW WEIGERT 

Program of Liberal Studies 
REV. WILSON (BILL) D. MISCAMBLE, C.S.C. 
Department of Sociology 

Friday, October 11, 2002 


4:00 p.m. McKenna Hall Auditorium 


Notre Dame honors German history 
By JESSICA DALSJNG 
News Writer 
The Department of German and Russian Languages and Literatures hosted a bi-lin­gual program Tuesday to honor German-American Day. 
The program's goal was to honor "all Americans and Americans of German descent for their invaluable contributions to the American way of life and cul­tu re," said John Liontas, assistant professor 
aware, one out of every five Americans declared that they were of German ances­try in the 1980 U.S. Census. Many Notre Dame students are interested in Germany because of its genealogical significance. 
German student Angela Zawada started her studies of German because she wanted to get in touch with her heritage. 
Yet the American connec­tion to Germany may be far less personal. Throughout the generations, prominent Germans h a v e 
0 f "It is an exciting change entered poli­German from a regular day of tics. busi­
and chair ness and
class. It was a very
of the academia. program. different and unique way . Students 
Topics attempted to
to learn." 
as diverse incorporate a s their diverse 
Erik Smith 
German interests engineer­student into their 
ing and German architec­ture were highlighted in the program. Musical presenta­tions by Bach and other German composers were given. The visual arts were represented with a poster contest commerating German-American Day. 
"The German culture has made so many contributions to America, but people do not realize that those con­tributing are of German descent," said Liontas. 
Though many are not 
tribute to 
famous 
German Americans Tuesday. 
Erik Smith, a student involved in the program said, "It is an exciting change from a regular day of class. It was a very different and unique way to learn." 
German-American Day was begun in tribute of the first 13 immigrant families to found Germantown, Pa., in 1683. 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu 

U-WIRE 
Dartmouth uses tracking program 
By Alison Schmauch The Danmourh HANOVER, N.H. 
While many colleges have had logistical difliculties com­plying with a new, computer­ized federal system for track­ing international students and professors, Dartmouth College has experienced few problems with the new program. 
Nonetheless, some Dartmouth students and fac­ulty have faced problems obtaining security clearances necessary to enter the country in the wake of last year's Sept. 11 attacks. 
While Dartmouth has not encountered major obstacles with the implementation of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's new "Student and Exchange Visitor Information System" ­known as SEVIS -Director of the International Student Office Steve Silver did say that some international students have experienced difficulties entering the country this year for other reasons. 
Two international students are "on hold" for security clearances to enter the United States, one a graduate stu­dent, another a member of the Class of 2006. One Dartmouth professor and one researcher have also faced 
similar troubles. 
Two other graduate stu­
dents only received security 
clearances to enter the coun­
try within the last few days, 
one on Sept. 26 and another 
yesterday. Silver did not pro­
vide their names, citing con­
cerns about privacy. 
Silver said that the exact 
requirements necessary to 
obtain security clearance to 
enter the country are unclear. 
Nonetheless, the International Office is doing all it can to help admitted stu­dents through means such as consulate offices and alumni connections, he said. 
The INS created the new SEVIS database -designed to aid in tracking foreign stu­dents and professors -in the wake of the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. One of the bombers was a Palestinian immigrant who entered the country on a stu­dent visa as a student of Wichita State University, according to Chris Bentley, a spokesperson for the INS. 
The events of Sept. 11 speeded up the creation of the database, Bentley said, and Congress's 2001 U.S.A. Patriot Act provided $36.8 million for the program. The Patriot Act also set a Jan. 30, 2003 date for colleges to get INS autho­rization to use SEVIS. 


page 4 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
U-WIRE
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

Shirt 
continued from page 1 

stop until we go over that goal line." 
"Much like Coach Willingham's 'Why not?' motto, 'Return to Glory' perfectly sums up what I, we believed could and should happen." Elkins said. "With a new coach and a new plan, it is our time to be the Notre Dame everyone expects and remem­bers. Ijust strongly believed that this would be, quite simply, our return to glory." 
This is the 13th year that The Shirt project has been bringing students, alumni and football fans together with a common item of apparel to wear to foot­ball games. It is sponsored by the Student Activities Office and the Notre Dame Alumni Association and helps to raise funds for Student Activities, scholarships and student organi­zations. Half' of the proceeds are used to assist students faced with financial troubles that were 
a  result  of  accidents  or  
tragedies.  
"The  Shirt  program  is  so  

worthwhile because it not only funds all student activities, but it adds to and becomes a part of the incredible school spirit we have here." Elkins said. "Now adding this year's shirt to the tradition and creating the sea of green that has garnered atten­tion nationwide, I think that there is an even stronger bond, if that's possible, between students during football games and high­er spirits among alumni as well. Seeing that kind of unity here definitely feels great." 
Contact Justin Krivickas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
-----·-----------, Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Be~h Breaks. Sales Rep. positions av~lable now. Largest commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-SUNCHASE ext123 WWW.SUNCHASE.COM 
U-WIRE 



HIV vaccine may advance to human testing 
By CARLA CORREA 
The Diamondback 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Scientists at the Institute of Human Virology and the Center for Vaccine Development, both associated with the University of Maryland School of Medicine, have developed the vaccine and tested it on animals, including monkeys and mice. The first phase of clinical tri­als in humans is anticipated within the next two years. 
"We think scientifically it's a very substantive step for­ward," said Robert Gallo, co­discoverer of HIV, the virus which causes AIDS, and direc­tor of the institute. 
Gallo said the vaccine gen­erates antibodies that could stop HIV before it enters a 

• 
~4 

Wednesday Night at Alumni Senior Club 

(Last Call) 
Come see your friends and support Senior Bar's last semester on campus. 
cell. It would not kill infected cells or the virus itself, but could enhance immune response. 
The major challenge in developing an HIV vaccine is that multiple strains of the virus exist, researchers said. 
HIV consists of a protein "envelope" that surrounds the virus' genome. The outer sur­face of the envelope is stud­ded with proteins, called gp 120, which the virus uses to attach itself to the cells it infects. Gpl 20 has features that differ from strain to strain, making it difficult for scientists to combat all strains of HIV, Gallo said. 
"The simple thing is that for many microbes, viruses in particular, live viruses are modified" to create vaccines, he said. "We can't do that with HIV; it would be too dan­gerous." 
Gp120 binds to the CD4 pro­teins on T cells, present in the immune system. The virus then destroys the T cells, AIDS occurs when a person's T cell count falls below 200. 
The institute bound gp120 to CD4, Gallo said, creating a complex, which, when intro­duced to the body, triggers the production of antibodies that recognize gpl 20. If the indi­vidual is later exposed to HIV. the antibodies will recognize the HIV gpl 20 before it can infect healthy T cells. 
A September report in U.S. Proceedings in the National Academy of Sciences, authored by Drs. Timothy Fouts, Anthony Devico and others, describes the findings in detail. 
"It's a very interesting approach," said David Gilden, 
director of treatment informa­
tion services at the American 
Foundation for AIDS 
Research. 
"Ultimately, it could prove to 
be an important protective 
factor for the immune sys­
tem." 
The Institute of Human Virology is the first in the United States to combine the discipline~; of basic research, epidemiology and clinical research in an effort to speed the discovery of diagnostics and therapeutics for a wide variety of chronic and deadly viral and immune disorders ­·most notably, IIIV. The insti­tute formed in 1996 as a part­nership between the state of Maryland, the city of Baltimore, the University 
System of Maryland and the 
University of Maryland 
Medical System. 




Members amend constitution 
By ANDREW THAGARD Assistant News Editor 

The Graduate Student Union passed three constitutional amendments and began the approval process for a fourth Tuesday. 
Five minutes into the meeting, the organization unanimously approved a proposal to allow all members to vote in the absence of sufficient departmental rep­resentatives. Resolutions amending stipend changes to the budget and allowing the organization's president to appoint himself as the chairman of the meeting were also unani­mously approved in the meet­ing. 
Members also approved a proposal to amend the constitu­tion to give all GSU members voting privileges except on con­stitutional changes, where only departmental representatives could vote. If the proposal is approved at the group's November meeting, the consti­tution will be amended. 
Tim Dale, GSU president, also proposed a resolution allowing the organization's office manag­er, Donna Frahn, to assume some of the duties of travel grant secretary. Dale proposed allowing Frahn to process con­ference reimbursement requests and to allocate the $500 stipend to her. 
"Part of the reason why he fthe previous travel grant secre­tary] resigned is that this is very labor-intensive," Dale said. "This [appointing Frahn] is actually going to be a more effi­cient system than having a graduate student do it." 
Another resolution introduced by Dale called for Stephanie Arnett, Academic Affairs com­mittee chairperson, to assume the remaining responsibility of the Travel Grant secretary, namely allocating $1,000 to a department to host an academic conference. Arnett would also receive the $100 stipend associ­ated with that responsibility. 
Both proposals unanimously passed. In other GSU news: 
. GSU representatives contin­ued to voice concerns regarding graduate student healthcare. According to representative Firat Demir, healthcare is still overpriced and inadequate. 
Health Care Committee chair­man Heather Edwards, howev­er, urged a cautious approach. 
"The Graduate School has been completely helpful in our attempts to change the health­care system," she said. "Now is not the time to antagonize peo­ple. There are still a lot of things to get changed but we really can't do anything until we get subsidization." 
. The GSU agreed to draft a letter to The Office of Residence Life and Housing after dis­cussing the quality of life at graduate student housing. According to Stephanie Liu, University Village lacks side­walks, forcing children to play in parking lots and streets. Demir also added that a regular shuttle service does not exist between the residences, Notre Dame and nearby off-campus venues. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 


Stan£ord students conflicted on Iraq 
By JENNIFER GRAHAM 
The Stanford Daily 
STANFORD, Calif. 
As the nation engages in debate over whether the United States should take military action against Iraq, many Stanford University students are struggling to decide if they will support a U.S.-led war against Iraq. 
While members of some political and religious cam­pus organizations have clear-cut views on how the United States should act, student sentiment is charac­terized largely by skepticism and confusion, at times even putting members of groups which normally share simi­lar opinions on opposite sides of the fence, in a departure from their normal views or alliances. 
Even among the tradition­ally liberal undergraduate population at Stanford, it is 
not impossible to find people decidedly in support of war. 
Stanford sophomore Joseph Fairbanks, president of the Stanford College Republicans, is a strong supporter of the Bush administration's case for action. 
"I think we should do it very soon," Fairbanks said. "We should invade as soon as possible since the condi­tions are right in Iraq, and [we should] take him out since he's obviously a dan­ger to us, to the region, to our allies and our own peo­
..
1
p e. 
In contrast, Stanford junior Ian Slattery, a mem­ber of the Stanford Coalition for Peace and Justice, said he felt taking action against Iraq would be a mistake. 
"I think most people in the group are opposed to using military force -especially right now," he said. 

Wednesday, October 2, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CUBA 
Hurricane Lili gains strength and heads for Gulf 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 

Hurricane Lili strengthened as it roared across western Cuba on Tuesday, forcing thou­sands from their homes as emergency workers across the Caribbean grappled with the damage it left in its wake. The storm killed seven people in Jamaica and St. Vincent. 
Lili was upgraded to a Category 2 hurricane when its winds increased to nearly 100 mph as it whipped across Cuba and began taking aim for Gulf of Mexico and the U.S. Gulf coast. Forecasters put it near the Texas or Louisiana coast by Thursday and said sustained winds were likely to strengthen. 
Category 2 storms have winds above 96 mph and can rip boats from their moorings and prompt serious flooding and wind damage. Government tele­vision showed images of high winds whipping the leaves of towering palms on the Isle of Youth, but authorities said there were no casualties and no immediate reports of major damage. 
"Western Cuba will continue to feel heavy rains and strong storm surges until Wednesday," said Martin Nelson, lead fore­caster at the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. 
"But by the time the storm gets to the United States, it will be stronger and it will pack a big­ger storm surge." 
Cuban President Fidel Castro traveled to the western province of Pinar del Rio early Tuesday afternoon to check on civil defense plans as the hurri­cane roared across the island's southern end. 
At 2 p.m. EDT, the eye of the storm was crossing the south­ernmost part of Cuba, about 135 miles southwest of Havana. 
Hurricane force winds extended 25 miles and tropical storm force winds another 140 miles. Lili, the fourth hurricane this year, was moving north­west at about 14 mph. 
In New Orleans, authorities were discussing possible evacu­ation plans while coastal resi­dents boarded up and sand­bagged homes, stocked up on food and storm supplies and cleaned up debris from the damage caused last week by Tropical Storm Isidore. 
In western Cuba, fishermen hurried to port to secure their vessels. Officials said nearly 30,000 people fled to govern­ment shelters and more than 100,000 took refuge with friends and family members in safer areas. The entire seaside town of La Coloma, with 6,500 residents, was evacuated. 
Cubana Airlines halted all 
flights, and school classes in caused major damage here western Cuba were canceled as when it landed as a hurricane, Lili's stinging rains began lash­especially to agricultural crops. ing the shore of western Pinar The lucrative tobacco crop, del Rio province. however. had already been har­
Two weeks ago, Isidore vested. 

Mexicans were abandoning homes in the northeastern Yucatan peninsula. where Lili's heavy rains were expected later Tuesday. Isidore damaged 95,000 homes there. 
AUSTRIA 
U.N. and Iraq agree on return of weapons inspectors 
Associated Press 
VIENNA 
Iraq agreed Tuesday to a plan for the return of U .N. weapons inspectors for the first time in nearly four years, but the deal ignores U.S. demands for access to Saddam Hussein's palaces and other con­tested sites. 
Chief U.N. inspector Hans Blix said an advance team of inspectors could be in Iraq in two weeks if it gets the go-ahead from the U.N. Security Council. 
But U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell, clashing with Blix, said hours later that the search for hidden arsenals in Iraq should be held up until the Security Council adopts tough new rules. 
Powell said in Washington that sending inspectors back to Iraq now after a lapse of nearly four years would risk further deception by Saddam. 
Blix said the agreement on logistics, hammered out in two days of talks in Vienna, called for "immediate. uncondi­tional and unrestricted access" to most suspect sites. 
But, he said, eight presidential sites ­12 square miles of territory -would remain off-limits to surprise inspections unless the U.N. Security Council bends to 
U.S. demands that all sites be subject to unannounced visits. Besides the palaces, also declared off-limits were several gov­ernment ministries, including defense and interior. as well as the headquarters of Saddam's elite Republican Guard. 

Under a 1998 deal worked out between 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Baghdad, the inspectors are not allowed to visit the presidential sites unan­nounced and must be accompanied by a team of international diplomats when they do. 
The chief Iraqi negotiator, Gen. Amir al-Sadi, sought to deflect attention from the presidential sites. 
..Quite honestly, I don't understand why it is so critical," al-Sadi said, adding that on the whole, Baghdad was "happy with this agreement." He and Blix agreed that the issue of presidential sites had not been on the Vienna agenda. 
"We have come to a very practical arrangement and we anticipate every inspection to go to a sensitive site," -al­Sadi said. 
The United States, meanwhile, moved negotiations on its tough new proposal for Iraq to the United Nations on Tuesday, meeting with permanent mem­bers of the Security Council oppos~d to authorizing force against Saddam before testing his willingness to cooperate . 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
15 die in Kashmir election attacks: 
Militants struck polling stations, set off explosions and fired on security forces in Indian Kashmir on Tuesday, killing at least 15 people in the third and most violent round of balloting for the state legisla­ture. More than 135 political activists, candidates, soldiers and civilians have died since the elections were announced in August. Nevertheless, 41 per­cent of registered voters in the disputed Himalayan province braved the violence and ignored a sepa­ratist call for a boycott. 
Subway workers strike in London: 
Subway workers began a 24-hour strike on the London Tube on Tuesday night. promising rush hour night­mares for hundreds of thousands of commuters the fol­lowing day. The strike, which follows a similar move last Wednesday, began at 8 p.m .• when most of the mil­lions of commuters who use the London Underground each day had already returned home. 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

U.S. links al-Qaida to embassy plot: 
U.S. counterterrorism officials believe the opera­tions chief of an al-Qaida affiliate in Southeast Asia played a key role in a failed plot to bomb at least one American embassy in the region to mark the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. Hambali, an Indonesian cleric whose real name is Riduan Isamuddin, is one of the top two leaders of Jemaah Islamiyah, a regional Islamic extremist network with cells in Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Myanmar and Thailand, according to U.S. officials, speaking on the condi­tion of anonymity. 
Fla. Gov. Bush lifts one execution stay: 
Gov. Jeb Bush lifted a stay of execution Tuesday for a convicted murderer after a panel of psy­chiatrists concluded the man is mentally compe­tent. The execution of triple killer Rigoberto Sanchez-Velasco was again set for Wednesday. 

Trials opens in 1969 race riot death: 
A former mayor and two other white men went on trial for murder Tuesday, with a prosecutor saying all three played a role in the ambush slaying of a young black woman during a 1969 race riot. Standing trial are Charlie Robertson, a policeman at the time of the riots who went on to become mayor. and two men who prosecutors say were members of white gangs that attacked the car carrying Lillie Belle Allen, a preacher's daughter visiting from Aiken. S.C. 

Transient charged in Calif. bus attack: 
A transient was booked on suspicion of murder Tuesday for allegedly slashing the throat of a Greyhound bus driver with a pair of scissors, causing a crash that killed two passengers. The bus, heading from Los Angeles to San Francisco, flipped on its side Monday evening and slid into a field off Interstate 5 near Fresno. It was carrying 50 passengers. 
page 6 

The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
Applebee's: 'Gay Weddings' ad error 

. '§.. 
Ill 
% 
APR* AslowAs 
It'll Get Your Motor Bonnin'! 
\ 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us 
to be better 574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 
'Annual Percentage Rate. As low as 5.75%APR is available for various financing terms. Rates subject to change without notice. Certain restrictions may apply. No refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans apply. Independent of the University. 


University ofNotre Dame 
7 
International Study Program at 
I 
Trinity College 
Dublin, Ireland 
Information Meeting
..... 
Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2002 126 DeBartolo 7:00 PM 
with Claudia Kselman, Associate Director International Study Programs and Katie Keogh, Associate Director, Dublin Program 
Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 All "t'ear 2003-2004 Applications submitted on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 

Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
The Applebee's restaurant group, which drew fire from a conservative Christian organi­zation for advertising on the Bravo reality miniseries first episode of "Gay Weddings" on Sept. 2. The show ran for four nights, each time profiling a gay or lesbian couple preparing to exchange vows. 
On Sept. 4, Focus on the Familv's Web site criticized the ·show and named 
Applebee's as 

G a y one of the
"As an advertiser, we ­
Weddings," advertisers.
like most companies ­
said Tuesday B r a v o that the ad prefer to stay with non­acknowledged 
ran by mis­controversial shows.,. its mistake, 
take. and no A spokes­Apple bee's 
Laurie Ellison
woman for ads ran dur­Applebee's spokeswoman for Applebee's ing subse­
International said the com­pany specifically asked the cable television channel not to run the spot during "Gay Weddings." 
"As an advertiser, we -like most companies -prefer to stay with non-controversial shows," Laurie Ellison said. 
The ad ran once during the 
q u e n t 
episodes, Ellison said. Bravo spokes­woman Caroline Bock con­firmed that the cable channel erred. 
Cathy Renna, a spokes­woman for the national Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, said she was dis­appointed with Applebee's.. 

THE  2002-03 Mainsta~e Season ~otre Dame, Film. Television, and Theatre presents ANDRAKE by Niccolo Machiavelli Translated by Wallace Shawn Playing at Washington Hall \\'ednesday, October 9 7:30 p.n1. Titursday. Octoh~r 10 7:30 p.m. Friday, October 11 7:30 p.111. Saturday, October 12 7::lO p.1n. Sunday~ October 13 2:30 p.n1. Reserved Seats $10 Seniors $9 • All Students $7 Tickets are available at the door or in mhance at the Lafortune Student Center. Mastt"rCard and Visa os·ders, cull 6:J1-8128. Pleast' ,·isit our Wt"h i.iCt" at www.nd.t"du/-ftt  

,-------·-----------~------·---·------·-·•7 
I JIJflJ!HENIGAN i 
j Music from the British Isles I 
I 

Friday October 4, 2002 Little Theatre 
7:30 p.m. 
IM8fifi0<;~ THE ARTS 
~HOTltl'DAM£, IH 

. / For ticket information call the t Saint Mary's Box Office ' 5 7 4/284-4626' 
I t 
t 
I 
l 
; ..
"-·---~·-··--:_ .. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, October 2, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch for October 1 
DowJones 

7,938.79  ~  +346.86  
NASDAQ  
1,213.72  •  +41.66  
S&P500  
847.91  ~  +32.63  
~4MFX  
825.71  •  -1.57  
NYSE  
460.93  ~  +15.49  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.39 +0.46 10.94 
ij~~-:~:~1::11:r~;~e-lllil;!~-~il~l:~i~il!il!!i~li:!l]~i:::i111mi~llll
INTEL CORP (INTC) +5.62 +0.78 14.67 
~i~~~iiilf~~~~~ii;ii~g~iiiii~~ii1~r=i~iillii~~iii~~:ii1iiiiI:iiiif~iii! 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)+G.56 +0.17 2.76 
IN BRIEF 
AOL Time Warner chairman secure 
AOL Time Warner chairman Steve Case 
expressed confidence about the troubled 
media conglomerate's future on Tuesday, and 
indicated that he sees his role at the company 
continuing. 
At an investment conference sponsored by Goldman Sachs, Case acknowledged that the past year has been difficult but said the com­pany he helped create has the right mix of businesses to succeed -despite accounting questions at its America Online division and a struggling stock price. 
"I have tremendous confidence in AOL Time Warner and in our ability to be the leader," he said. "Unstoppable consumer trends are moving our way providing real opportunity for growth." 
Expedia, Northwest talks crumble 
Online travel agent Expedia Inc. removed Northwest Airlines' flights from its search engine Tuesday after contract-extension talks between the companies broke down. 
"We are disappointed that despite several months of negotiations, that we have been unable to reach a mutually satisfactory agreement," Al Lenza, Northwest's vice presi­dent of distribution, said in a letter sent to Expedia. dated Tuesday. A copy of the letter was provided to The Associated Press. 
The sticking point, according to the letter, was Expedia's refusal to offer the exact terms offered by Orbitz -a controversial Internet travel company launched more than a year ago by five major carriers, including Northwest. 
Lawmakers criticize record industry 
Lawmakers criticized the record industry Tuesday for failing to use more descriptive parental advisory labels that specify whether the music contains sex, violence or strong language. The industry says the current labels give parents enough information with­out violating the right to free expression. 
Global Crossing exec on trial 
. Winnick accused of insider trading 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Global Crossing 
Chairman Gary Winnick 
told lawmakers Tuesday 
he had no inkling of the 
fiber-optic company's dete­
riorating finances until 
shortly after he sold a 
large chunk of stock last 
year. 
He pledged to donate $25 
million to company 
employees who lost money 
when the stock plunged. 
Winnick said he talked 
almost every day to the 
company's chief executive, 
Thomas Casey, who partic­
ipated in management dis­
cussions about revenue 
shortfalls and issued warn­
ings to other executives. 
But Winnick said he did 
not learn of looming prob­
lems in the company he 
founded until June 2001, 
from Global Crossing's top 
lawyer, James Gorton, who 
was advising the chairman 
that executives no longer 
would be able to sell com­
pany stock because of a 
changing financial picture. 
Winnick had sold $123 mil­
lion in stock in late May. 

"I was upset," Winnick told a subcommittee of the House Energy and Congressional investiga­revenues. Winnick promised to Commerce Committee, tors are looking into Their testimony contra­write his check to help because he said he knew whether Global Crossing dicted internal e-mail reimburse employees for there would be inferences Ltd. and Qwest exchanges and lower-level some of the money they that he had early warning Communications executives who appeared lost "very soon." He chal­of trouble. Global Crossing International Inc. used before the same committee lenged other corporate filed for bankruptcy pro­misleading accounting to last week and related executives to follow his tection seven months later, boost revenues artificially intense pressure from example. in January. and thus give investors and Casey, Winni ck and others Joseph Nacchio, the for­
When Global Crossing's financial analysts a false to strike deals that would mer Qwest chief executive stock collapsed, investors picture of the companies' allow Global Crossing to who testified later -including company financial health. meet analysts' expecta­Tuesday, firmly refused. employees whose retire­Qwest already has tions. Nacchio sold $235 million ment savings were invest­announced it is reversing Casey did not appear at in Qwest stock but said the ed in company stock -lost $950 million in revenue Tuesday's hearing because company is not bankrupt billions of dollars. Winnick from suspect transactions he was seriously ill, com­and maintains retirement said his pledge of $25 mil­and probably will revise its mittee spokesman Ken plans. lion was to offset the revenues even more, Johnson said. Rep. Diana DeGette, 0­retirement losses. Qwest chief financial offi­Winnick sold 10 million Colo., whose district 
Rep. Billy Tauzin, R-La., cer Oren Shaff er said. shares worth $123 million includes Qwest headquar­the committee chairman, Other Global Crossing in late May. having ters, had challenged told Winnick his stated executives who testified received approvals from Nacchio to match ignorance of Global Tuesday joined Winnick in Gorton, the attorney. and Winnick's pledge. When he Crossing's financial condi­denying that they pushed CEO Casey. It was the last refused, DeGette said: "I tion was "a little hard for for deals that had no pur­of several stock sales that guess your answer is ... us to understand." pose other than increasing brought him $734 million. tough luck." 

WorldCom to pay $36M severance 
the 19 will receive the same package current or former workers. 
Associated Press 

as the rank-and-file workers: up to 26 WorldCom attorney Marcia 
NEW YORK weeks of salary and benefits. Goldstein urged U.S. Bankruptcy 
In a move aimed at shoring up the The decision allows each of some Judge Arthur Gonzalez to approve the morale of its remaining workers, 4,000 laid-off workers to receive an payments, which, she said, would bankrupt telecom \VorldCom Inc. won average of $9,000 apiece to supple­allow WorldCom to "restore the confi­court permission Tuesday to hand $36 ment the $4,650 WorldCom already dence of its employees, whose cooper­million in severance payments to laid­paid. ation and continued loyalty are essen­off employees. In the four months before filing for tial." 
The ruling, in U.S. Bankruptcy Court bankruptcy on July 21, WorldCom laid With WorldCom in Chapter 11 bank­in Manhattan, also allows WorldCom off or said it would fire 12,800 people. ruptcy proceedings -in the biggest to retract $1.4 million in severance The company, which owns the such case in U.S. history -the court payments promised to 19 laid-off com­nation's No. 2 long distance carrier must approve virtually every dollar pany executives before the company MCI, has since said it would raise the the company spends and hear objec­filed for bankruptcy in July as a multi­total to 17,000. tions from creditors. billion dollar accounting scandal It is unclear whether WorldCom will Attorneys for all creditors but one ­unwound. offer -or the court will approve -carrier Broadwing Inc. -agreed to 
In lieu of the lucrative settlements, identical severance payments to other WorldCom 's severance proposal. 
~-----­
--------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
No bail for terror suspect 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE 
A federal magistrate Tuesday ordered an American Muslim held without bail on charges of trying to establish a terrorist training camp in Oregon. 
The magistrate was quoted as saying it was the only way to ensure his appearance at trial. 
U.S. Magistrate John Weinberg added that the gov­ernment had presented per­suasive evidence that James Ujaama, who grew up in Seattle, had been helping ter­rorism. 
Ujaama was arrested July 22 in Denver. 
He was held as a material witness until Aug. 29. when a grand jury indicted him on one count of conspiracy to provide material support and resources for the al-Qaida ter­rorist network. Another count was also included of using, carrying, possessing and dis­charging firearms during a crime. 
Weinberg noted Ujaama's previous work as a community activist in Seattle. "He was a fine citizen over those years," the magistrate said, ..but peo­ple change." 
Although Ujaama's mother and aunt had offered to put up their houses as collateral, that would not ensure Ujaama would stay in this country to face trial, Weinberg said. 
The trial is set to begin this November. 
Prosecutors say Ujaama, 36, tried to set up a terrorist train­ing camp in Bly, Ore., in 1999. He denies the charges. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Hamilton argued that since Ujaama converted to Islam and traveled to London in 1997, he has become a close associate of Abu Hamza al­Masri. 
The government froze al­Masri 's funds for his alleged membership in the Islamic Army of Aden. the organization that claimed responsibility for the bombing of the USS Cole in Yemen in October 2000. 
Al-Masri provided Ujaama with a letter of introduction that enabled him to attend a terrorist camp in Afghanistan, Hamilton said. 
Prosecutors say they aren 't sure when he attended. 
Ujaama's lawyers argued that the government had pro­vided no evidence he is a flight risk. 
Attorney Robert Mahler also questioned the source of the government's allegations. 
"Where does all this informa­
tion come from?" he asked. 
"They haven't provided a stitch 
of evidence." 

Prosecutors have declined to identify their source, except as a "cooperating witness" referred to in the indictment. 



•I 
,,,,,, ,,, 023110233 
~ ~ 
I
-
Ill

a Work. L . Work. L . Work. . Why have b h 
-e1sure. e1sure. Leisure. not ot ? 
FORTUNE. What does a job at Ernst & Young give you? The best of both worlds. After all. 
100 BEST the focus of our business has always been its people, and we are devoted to helping 
CTOOWMOPRAKNFIEOSR ~ h I h h I 
.. ... t em rea ize t eir career goals w ie encouraging their personal aspirations. The result is you'll be challenged, but you'll also be rewarded. Maybe that's why we've been named one of the "100 Best Companies to Work For," four years in arow. So why not bounce on over and see for yourself? 
ey.com/us/ca~eers iJl f RNST&YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.TM 

-,_ ----------~ 
Wednesday, October 2, 2002 

The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ENGLAND 

Blair: World must set Iraq ultimatum 
Associated Press 
BI.ACKPOOL 
The world must send Saddam 
Hussein an ultimatum about 
weapons of mass destruction 
and be ready to back up tough 
talk with force, Prime Minister 
Tony Blair said Tuesday. 
Bolstered by a vote of support from his war-wary Labor Party, Blair delivered an impassioned, hour-long speech that left him sweating from exertion, saying Britain must be ready to face the danger Iraq poses. 
"There are times when cau­
tion is retreat and retreat is 
dangerous," he told the party's 
annual gathering in the north­
ern English resort of Blackpool. 
"I know the worry over Iraq. People accept Saddam is bad. But they fear it's being done for the wrong motives. They fear us acting alone," he said. "Let us lay down the ultimatum. Let Saddam comply with the will of the U.N." 
If he doesn't comply, Blair said, "Here is the hard part. If ... we lose our collective will to deal with it, we will lose the authority not of the United States, or of Britain, but of the United Nations." 
In a wide-ranging speech that dealt largely with domestic issues, Blair linked the show­down with Saddam to efforts to better the world, renew Britain and modernize his party. 
The address echoed what some observers called the almost missionary-like zeal shown by Blair in his address to 
last year's Labor Party confer­
ence, shortly after the Sept. 11 
terror attacks, during which he 
said the uncertainty in the 
world provided a chance to 
remake it for the better. 
"I believe we're at our best 
when at our boldest," he said 
Tuesday. "We need coalitions 
not just to deal with evil by 
force if necessary, but coalitions 
for peace, coalitions to tackle 
poverty and ignorance and dis­
ease." 
The prime minister said that when dealing with dictators, sometimes "the only hope for peace is the readiness for war." 
Blair has been President Bush's strongest ally in the campaign to build international support for action against Saddam, but talk of war with Iraq has stirred up opposition in Parliament, his party and the general public. 
The United States and Britain have put forward a draft reso­1ution to the U .N. Security Council that includes an autho­rization for use of military force if Iraq does not comply on weapons inspections. The coun­cil's five permanent members discussed the draft Tuesday. France is seeking two resolu­tion, with the second allowing force if the first on inspections is not obeyed. 

While acknowledging that many resent the power of the United States, Blair defended his close relationship with Bush and dismissed criticism that he too closely follows Washington's lead. 
"The basic values of America 
are our values, too -Britain 
and Europe -and they are 
good values," Blair said. 
"My vision of Britain is not the 
51st state of anywhere, but I 
believe in this alliance, and I 
will fight long and hard to pre­
serve it," despite what he called 
widespread anti-Americanism 
in Britain and elsewhere. 
Labor has been divided for 
months over Blair's stance on 
Iraq, but conference delegates 
gave him a crucial vote of sup­
port Monday. when they passed 
a motion supporting the use of 
force against Saddam if all else 
fails and the United Nations 
supports it. 
Blair's hour-long speech 
focused particularly his plans to 
reform Britain's public services. 
Years after he dragged the party from the fringes of the left toward centrism and back into office, he said the Labor faithful must not be afraid to modernize further. 
The conference dealt him a rebuke on Monday when ­with the heavy support of unions -it backed a motion calling for an independent review of Blair's plans to partly privatize schools, hospitals and other public services. 
Blair said ahead of time that he would ignore that nonbind­ing vote, and he vowed Tuesday to press ahead even faster. 
"We on the left have our own pessimism," he said. "It's that if we change a cherished institu­tion, we betray it. If we deliver a service in a different way, we somehow trash its founding principles." 

CANADA 
Canadian government plans long-term agenda 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Outlining an ambitious long­
term agenda, Prime Minister 
Jean Chretien's government 
pledged Monday to bolster 
health care spending, help the 
poor escape welfare, and 
increase efforts to protect 
Canada's environment. 
"The goal of the government is nothing less than making Canada a land of ever-widen­ing opportunity, ensuring that the benefits of the new econo­my touch every community and lift every family and every Canadian," Gov. Gen. Adrienne Clarkson said in the Speech from the Throne at the start of the new Parliament session. 
Clarkson, who is the repre­sentative of the British Queen in Canada, delivered the speech to both legislative chambers in a tradition that emphasizes the nation·s his­torical links to Britain. 
While full of proposals addressing various social and environment issues, the speech lacked any specific dol­lar figures. The Liberal Party government says it will submit a new budget in February that will outline its spending plans. 
Leaders of opposition par­ties called the government program a rehash of previous proposals that Chretien's gov­ernment never carried out. 
"I wasn't expecting much 
and there was less here than 
we thought," said Canadian 
Alliance leader Stephen 
Harper. "I just thought it was 
a bunch of recycled stuff." 
The government also said it 
would boost its diplomatic 
presence in the United States 
to try to resolve trade disputes 
such as the U.S. punitive 
duties on Canadian softwood 
lumber. 
Chretien, who has been in 
power since 1993 and recently 
announced he will step down 
in February 2004, oversaw 
deep spending cuts in his 
early years to erase a budget 
deficit. 
Now critics from conserva­tive opposition parties call for continued fiscal discipline to lower taxes instead of increased spending on a wide range of proposals intended to serve as a legacy of Chretien's leadership. 
The speech written by Chretien's office and read by Clarkson promised long-term federal funding for health care at a time when a government­a pp ointed commission is studying how to reform Canada's troubled medicare system. 
Monday's speech promised to help poor families escape welfare, provide new money for early childhood care and increase child tax benefits for the poor and one-parent fami­lies. 

Information Meeting 
Fremantie, Australia 
Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2002 Room 102 DeBartolo 5:00 PM 
For Students in the Colleges of AL & BA 
Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 for Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
}_ 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BusINF.SS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINJSTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTR0ll.ER: Lori Lewalslci 
CONTACT Us 

OmcE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 ADVIRTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EonoR/AssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PH0T0........................................................63 l •8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ............... ..631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the scudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lecters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chkfjason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obsc:rvcr (USPS 599 240) upubluhcd Mond.y through Friday cxa:pr during a.am and vac.ar)On period,. A subKripcion to Tl-= Obxrvcr i, SIOO forc:>ne academic year; SS-5 for one iCfflCSk'r. 
The Obtcrva i, publi,hc:d ar. POSTMASTER 

OH Sourh Dining H.U Smd addrcw corrections w: Nmrc Dame,, IN 46556-0779 ThcO""""=r Periodical pon,g, pa.id at Naur D>m< P.O. !lox Q and addirional 1na.iling o/Ti«,. Notre D.rnc, IN 46556-07:9 
The Ob.crvcr i, a member of th. Associ.r«l Prcu. All reproduction righu arc
...,......,d, 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Meghanne Chris Federico Downes Bryan Kronk Bill Puckett Mark Zavodynik 
John Fanning Matt Lozar 
Viewpoint Scene 
Teresa Fralish Sarah Vabulas 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Mike Harkins Matt Lovell 
Wednesday, October 2, 2002 

Don't panic: Combating the senior anxiety attack 
Senior year: It's been called a year to remember. The last hurrah. A time to let the good times roll with great friends and cheap drinks. A year to finish a four-year stint in academia. But lately, senior year has most Jacqueline often been Browder referred to as a time to panic. 
Happily
Maybe it's the 
Ever After
dismal economy or the unwritten senior thesis. Maybe it's the disturbing thought of entering something other than ..stu­dent" on tax forms. Maybe it's the idea of graduation. Suddenly, shrug­ging and saying that we have no idea what we're going to do after college provokes less a carefree "carpe diem" moment than one of wide-eyed alarm. 
Whether it's the dismal market or the thought of the looming LSAT, from Cavanaugh Hall to Castle Point, senior anxiety has begun. 
It starts small. We think about jobs, graduate school applications, where love might lead us and what on earth we're going to do with that ancient, stain riddled futon we bought during freshman orientation. We have class­es to take, applications to finish, bills to pay and section meetings to run. 
And we begin to focus our attention on "the last time." The last time we'll get up at 6 a.m. to tailgate. The last time we'll pull an all-nighter to get that paper written. The last fall break. The last time we'll all be together. More and more, senior year is beginning to look like a terminal ill­ness. This is where the panic begins. 
We realize that soon, on a seeming­ly ordinary Sunday in May, our lives will change forever. Amid congratula­tions from family and tears from fel­low graduates, we'll cross the bridge from student to alumni. Alumni? Suddenly, visions of elderly men in high-water plaid pants and green cardigans fill our minds, and we won­der what happened to our youth and how anyone could actually wear plaid pants with a straight face. 

We've begun to look at Notre Dame with nostalgia before we've even left it. Suddenly, we've painted a picture of the future as bleak as a South Bend day in February. It's as if we've found a perfect world and we're afraid to leave it. We're comfortable in our surroundings. Nothing is new, and yet, we're encouraged by it. We've found our place and we understand our place in it. Life at 22 has become our finest hour. 
But didn't we feel like this our senior year in high school? We were familiar with our schools, our teams and our friends. We wanted to hold on to 18 as long as we could, and we did. We came to college with year­books and hometown relationships and produced long distance bills that broke our bank accounts. We felt like we had made the biggest decision of our lives. For most of us, it was. 
And now, we're there again. Senior year is certainly a time for decision making. The options we choose will certainly affect our lives. But how dif­ferent are we than we were four years ago? 
We made a huge decision in choos­ing Notre Dame. Many of us left the comfort of our homes, our states, even our countries to root for the Irish. We then chose what to study, which seemed like a huge decision at the time and one that, for many of us, we made several times over. We've been there. We've gone from science 
to business and back again. We've 
taken internships and waded through 
medical school applications. We've 
made a lot of friends. lost a few along 
the way and even fallen in and out of 
love. We've also learned a lot about 
ourselves, who we are and what we 
are going to be. 
There is no doubt that the decisions we make this year as college seniors will affect the rest of our lives. We will choose a place to live, a place to work and a new life for ourselves, just as we did four years ago. Some of us will begin a great adventure in a new city, some will take on the chal­lenges of graduate school and some will start a life together. 
It's not as alarming as it seems. There's no need to panic. The future is going to loom ahead of us no mat­ter how we spend our time waiting for it. Yes, this may be our last year for the parties, the dances and the tailgate. College, as we've been told for years, goes by quickly. But it's not over yet. 
We still have great friends and there are always cheap drinks to be had on any given night of the week. Now is not the time to think about the "last time." It's the time to think about the good times -present and future. 
Our futures are out there. We'll be ready. 
Jacqueline Browder is a senior American studies and journalism major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. Contact her at jbrowder@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

Does the new honor code, which provides for the use of the Web site turnitin.com, diminish trust between students and professors? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Jt·s something unpredictable, but in the end it's right. I hope you had the time ofyour life.•• 
Billie Joe Armstrong singer 
\ 
\ 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, October 2, 2002 page 11 
Another working world is possible 
Last weekend, thousands of people came together to speak out against global injustice. They raised fists, banners and signs to show resistance to cor­porate greed. The Paul Graham convergence 
was in oppo­
sition to the 
Another 
International 
Perspective
Monetary 
Fund and 
the World Bank, but the protest 
was more than a confrontation 
with these institutions. 
This mobilization was about 
fighting back -fighting the cor­
porate control of our economy, 
fighting the corporate control of 
our politics and fighting the cor­
porate control of our lives. This 
hegemony can be seen in any 
workplace from Wal-Mart to the 
fields of southwest Florida. An 
old struggle is building, and that 
is a resistance against the greed 
that has dominated the lives of 
millions of people across the 
globe. 
Here in the United States, the top (richest) five percent own more than 20 percent of the wealth, while more than 10 per­cent of our country lives in poverty. As stock prices fall, the top five percent will do every­thing they can to keep profits up. As corporations tussle to show a profit, CEOs and their cohorts earn millions of dollars, giving themselves bonuses at the end of the year. Their bonuses come at the expense of our poor and workers whose wages are cut, benefits are lost or, worse, their jobs are lost. 
Our system of economy is prosperous, but the workers that built the riches and capital do not earn much of the wealth. As a result, standards of living suffer, schools suffer and the struggle to live day by day for many people becomes more and more difficult. The poor, the homeless and the workforce have lost their power through disenfranchisement. 
Many people who suffer eco­nomically have lost hope that our economy will become less focused on profits and more on people. Workers, both white and blue collar, are afraid to speak up in fear that their factories or jobs will he exported or that they themselves will be fired and replaced by more compla­cent workers, who are possibly willing to work for less, espe­cially when quality employment is becoming more and more dif­ficult to find. This is not eco­nomic efficiency, but rather wage-slavery. 
The powerful will not willingly relinquish the power they have over the general population. Rights that are considered basic today were not handed over without a struggle. We need to organize to reclaim our power and to transform our communi­ties and economy so that we live in a more just system. 
Corporations are always look­ing for cheap labor. When one worker speaks up to the boss about his or her working condi­
tions, pay or benefits, the work­
er faces the risk of being fired 
and replaced by cheaper labor. 
When the workers speak up 
with a unified, organized voice, 
the corporation or employer is 
confronted with a problem and 
forced to listen. This does not 
stop the global "race to the bot­
tom" for cheap labor. 
Communities everywhere must 
organize and have solidarity 
with the poor and the workers 
to help in the struggle against 
corporate greed. We have to 
fight back with organized power 
against the system that prevents 
many from being able to have a 
good home, a good job or good 
health care. These are the 
basics of life, and they should be 
guaranteed for all. 
Our government, for the most 
part, is not on the side of work­
ing people. Right now, President 
Bush is threatening to use the 
military to force the longshore­
men's union to work on the 
Pacific coast, just so that the 
companies that use their labor 
can have higher profits off of 
their work. 
He wants to spend billions for 
war, but hardly any on solving 
poverty and homelessness or 
improving education. Bush 
wants to make trade easier 
between the United States and 
Latin and South America to 
allow the corporations in the 
United States to use the cheaper 
labor of the South and raise 
profits for corporations here ­
putting at risk domestic jobs and 
the environment. 
It is possible to change our current system, but change starts on the most local level, whether it is in the classroom, the work place or the communi­ty. We need to organize and mobilize to improve our commu­nities. We must pressure our employers and corporations to recognize the dignity and value of each of their workers. 
This is a long struggle, a struggle that takes time, effort and people. Those who oppose the IMF and World Bank are already taking to the streets in opposition to corporate global­ization. Workers across the country are organizing for bet­ter working conditions and democracy in the workplace, and community organizations are taking off in every city fight­ing for better schools, public housing and holding politicians accountable. 
This is a national and global movement on the local level that is challenging the current power structures. Together, when organized, we can put a stop to the greedy machines that domi­nate our lives. 
Paul Graham is a senior soci­ology major. His column appears every other Wednesday. Contact him at pgraham@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Atta'ck on Iraq would overextend America 
I am writing in response to Mike Marchand's Sept. 30 column. 
Marchand's claims that America's intelli­gence systems "failed" to "put together all the pieces" that bin Laden's forces were planning a strike against the United States are a little misleading. 
agencies had information try to learn from them, which is regarding bin Laden and had why a preemptive strike been informing government against Iraq is not only ludi­officials of the chance of crous, but it would also attacks for months prior to make us no better than Sept. 11. In fact, they had the terrorists who even talked about the attacked our country. possibility of planes Sure, there is no doubt being crashed into build­we could defeat Sadaam ings. The truth is that Hussein, but the costs to many top government our country both politi­officials chose not to cally and economically take this warning seri­could be a crippling ously because they did blow. As Marchand pro­not think such an occur­poses, we should attack rence was possible. Sadaam Hussein now 
In this case it was not because he is a "vicious the failure of the intelli­and evil tyrant" and "he gence community, but a fail­possesses weapons that can ure at the top, by the people cause unimaginable horrors." who are supposed to utilize the But if I'm not mistaken, the ter­information collected by America's hard-working men and women who toil away every day to keep this country safe. I just wanted to point out that for every "fail­
ure" there are thousands of successes that the American people never get to hear about. 
There was no way to prevent the 
intelligence agencies. If the successes of American intelligence were published as often as the "failures," people would see that organizations such as the CIA do not deserve the bad rap they often get. 
In the intelligence business, no news is good news. The only time you hear about the CIA is when something goes wrong and everyone is looking for someone to blame, and who better to blame than the CIA? These agencies are made up of thousands of 
SMC provides oppportunities to grow in faith 
I am writing in response to Mary Beth Ellis' Oct. 1 letter to the editor. Ellis, a Saint Mary's alumna, wrote that she "never found an opportunity to foster ... [her] ... Catholic faith on campus." 
Ellis, I wonder if you were on the same campus that I am on. Just to clarify, are you talking about the campus that has chapels in every residence hall, daily masses and a con­vent full of passionately faithful sisters attached to Holy Cross Hall? Were you on the campus that organizes four to six Circle K events per week and dozens of Bible studies, prayer groups, retreats and religious educa­tion groups daily, weekly, monthly and annu­ally? Saint Mary's takes it a step further by providing a half-dozen deacons who off er daily mass, Bible study and spiritual guidance to Belles in the Rome Program. 
Ellis, you mentioned Jesus Christ as a hall­mark of Catholicism, which is why the College offers many opportunities to follow in his foot­steps. Many students have served and contin­ue to serve those in need at Hannah's House, La Casa de Arnistad, the Logan Center, com­munity hospitals and many more. These activ­ities are done every day through Saint Mary's organizations such as the SURV Center, Circle K, Right to Life and Campus Ministry. 
Contrary to Ellis' opinion, Saint Mary's does provide many opportunities to "foster Catholic faith," and a considerable amount of students 
felt that we Americans were also "vicious and evil tyrants." 
If we attack Iraq now, while trying to fight a war on terrorism, we could dig ourselves a hole we might not soon get out of. 
Nate Johnson 
sophomore St. Edward's Hall Sept. 30 
eagerly partake of them. In itself, an organi­zation or a place of worship is not what fos­ters a person's faith, it is the person's initia­tive and response. Even if Saint Mary's had 20 chapels in each dorm, required 10 semesters of religious studies classes and had Campus Ministry liaisons knocking on your bedroom door begging you to volunteer at the Center for the Homeless, it would still be your pre­rogative to take advantage of these opportuni­ties or not. 
As a Catholic, Ellis, I assume that you'd agree with me that God gave us all the free­dom to choose. One has to choose whether or not to see and take advantage of the opportu­nities around him or her. It was your choice, Ellis, to worry so much about your distaste for the Saint Mary's main chapel's "plaster, shoved-out-of-the-way tabernacle," that you missed the numerous faith-fostering opportu­nities offered here at the College. It's not to late for you to participate in the faith-foster­ing opportunities here at Saint Mary's, though, because along with various masses, prayer groups, and other occasions open to the public, the SURV Center even offers pro­grams in post-graduate service. 
Anne Marie Guerrettaz 
junior 
Regina Hall 
Oct. l 

O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Wednesday, Octobter 2, 2002 

l . 
' 
s 
) 

Suspect you might be a Simpson? If you exhibit two or more of these traits you may be a Simpson 
Do you: 
Drink excessively Not work more than will keep you alive Love donuts more than your soul Pay little attention to personal 
hygiene/family members 

Never hold a job for more than a week Instinctively pretend to know the moral thing to do Have gigantic blue hair (beehive style) Think gigantic blue hair is cool 

M A R G E 
Do you: 
Own only one piece of clothing Find constant conflict between family and morals Know it all Have shrill violence-inducing voice Love trees more than life itself Choo-choo choose Ralphie 
Speak only one language: vulgarity Have hair that is not differentiated from head Have no discernable morals Never learn from mistakes Emulate anything seen on TV 





Do you: 
Have inability to age for 13 straight years Communicate only through pacifier noises Incite madcap adventures by getting lost Have uncanny ability to be ironic 

Photos Courtesy of ©2000 Century FOX/Global Television Network 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The familiar music sets in, the clouds part revealing an average town com­plete with a grocery store, a school, suburban neighborhoods and a bar. Strange-looking people with large, buggy eyes, yellow skin of the jaundiced variety, overbites and untamable coifs bustle about. No, this isn't a typical episode of Days of Our Lives or even Passions. This television program can't be characterized as a sitcom, a docu­mentary or even a cartoon. It defies genre, yet it has become a staple of American culture. As the choir suggests in its angelic voice at the beginning of the show, there is only possible expla­nation ... "The Simpsons.'' 
For nearly 15 years, the Simpson family, their friends, enemies and neighbors have been transfixing audi­ences with their laugh-inducing, often thought-provoking shenanigans. They have become some of the most recog­nizable faces on television, perhaps even in the country. When little chil­dren are asked who the most recogniz­able cartoon characters are, their responses are no longer just Mickey Mouse and Joe Camel ... Bart Simpson has become just as much of a cultural icon as the rest of them. 
"The Simpsons" didn't start out show­ing the promise of the phenomenon they'd soon become. In fact they have roots as a bunch of scratchy cartoons in the elementary school notebooks of cre­

O
THE 
BSERVER 


Wednesday, October 2, 2002 page 13 
npsons: 
first worked as a sewage treatment plant employee and as a chauffer. Soon realizing these careers weren't for him, Gro<~ning sought out a newspaper will­ing to publish his pen and ink comedic antics. Stemming from his elementary days. Groening reacquainted himself with drawing and creating cartoons, eventually landing himself a job in 1977 with a weekly comic strip fr>r a newspaper. The strip was caHed "Life in Hell," and was a sarcastic look into the lives of three rabbits and a pair of loVf~-sick identical twins. Even with such odd subject matter, the strip became an underground success and was even published in its own book, which later became a series of five. 
With his name becoming well-known for "Life in Hell," Groening was approached by media giant James L. Brooks and asked if his cartoon could be animated and put on as a segment in the Tracv Ullman Show. Groening was thrilled· with the idea of moving into television, but at the same time he was wary of giving up the rights to his dearly loved comic strip. In an attempt to preserve his ownership of "Life in Hell," Groening made the ingenious mov~ of cq~ating a new cartoon. Thus. the Simpsons came into being. 
Using pop culture as a stepping stone into the world of satire. Groening diweloped a saga around his new char­acters, who were modeled after a some­what typical t960's American family. There was a day-jobbing father: a sensi­bh~ and advice-giving mother: a school­hating fourth grade son: an over-achiev­ing. saxophone-playing daughter and a pacifier-sucking baby. 
The cartoon first aired in minute long segments that ran before and aftm· com-

D'oh! 
mercial breaks on the Show. Gaining recognition from that stint, the Simpson family got a taste of independence when in 1989 20th Centurv Fox decided to give them their own ~eekly show. The Simpsons took off from there with more character additions and ironically witty plot lines. Very soon the show developed 

into the national phenomenon that has remained a staple of American televi­sion to this day. ­
After their 1989 debut, the faces of the Simpson characters became ubiquitous throughout the nation. T-shirts, poster, lunch boxes, advertisements, CDs -the Simpsons were and still are inescapable. Even phrases from the show became part of the colloquial language 

dents to read selections with titles like, "The Simpson's and Philosophy: The D'oh of Homer," and "The Gospel According to the Simpsons: The Spiritual Lifo of the Most Animated Family." No, this course is not offered at Bovine University as the Simpson character Ralph Wiggum might think. It's actually offered at a real school called Siena University in Michigan. 
So, what is it about these characters that is so appealing to Americans? Surely Homer, Marge, Bart. Lisa, Maggie, Ned Flanders, Krusty the Klown and the endless other charac­ters must have some secret to their 
allure. But, what 
exactly is it that keeps 
viewers eagerly antici­pating every new episode, while still watching and re­watching the old ones? Annie Oell'Aria, a sophomore from Pasquerella East thinks it's because the Simpsons reflect American life in a way that evokes humor in its honesty. She says,"I think they're so endearing because they have the same dysfunctions as regular families but exaggerat­ed to the point where we can, in a sense, laugh at ourselves." John Baker, a sopho­more from Fisher Hall 
agrees saying, "['The Simpsons') are a satire of our society and we think it's funny because we live it." Baker also adds, "This doesn't say much for Americans though!" 
Both these opinions hold truth in their assessment of the show. "The Simpsons" takes every aspect of life and society and sets them up for harmless ridicule. No one is safe from the Simpsons' radar scrutiny, be it politicians, drunks, musi­cians, store-owners, housewives, day­laborers or even religious figures. Every issue that makes its way into newspa­pers is bound to sooner or later appear as a punch line in a Simpson's episode. And everyone laughs. No matter how crude the humor, no matter how close to home it hits, it's still funny. 
Another reason the show is so popular is its ability to appeal to the generations of viewers. Younger audiences enjoy the show for its cartoonish nature. The slapstick humor is appealing to any nine-vear old ... and even to some older people as well. Adults however, claim they like the show because ~fits sophis­ticated dialogue and unabashed mock­ery and sarcastic references to culture and society. Junior Steve Morrow of Sorin Hall explains the cross-genera­tional appeal of "The Simpsons" in the show's "clever sense of humor with some added slapstick comedy thrown in as well." Morrow also credits the show with respecting its audience while at the same time poking fun at Americans as a whole, "The show doesn't speak down to its audience as some other shows do. It acknowledges its viewers as intelli­gent beings." 
Most celebrities think the show is great as well. There is a long line of famous folk anxious to make their grand entrance into the world of animation as a guest-star on the show. In the past the show has been host to stars such as Hingo Starr, Aerosmith, James Brown. Larry King, James Earl Jones, Paul McCartney and Danny DeVito. 

Courtesy of ©2000 Century FOX/Global Television Network 
"The Simpsons" has made its mark in the political arena as well. In a 1990 interview with People Magazine, former first lady Barbara Bush called the show "the dumbest thing [she'd] ever seen." Soon after, Bush received a letter from Marge Simpson demanding an apology. Within two weeks, Bush made a public statement asking Marge for forgiveness for "a loose tongue." 
Gracing the cultural aspects of star­dom and politics, it would only seem fair that "The Simpsons" has had an impact on a personal level as well. This just so happens to be the case with the self­confessed "Simpsons" junkie Suzanne Macey, a current sophomore at Fordham University in New York a City. Macey credits the show with beginning her relationship with her boyfriend, another huge "Simpsons" fan. ''I've never been good at dealing with boys," admits Macey, "but 'The Simpsons' was always a common interest I had with them. My boyfriend and I struck a com~ mon note when we began to talk about 'The Simpsons.' Our love for the show has since morphed into relationship." Now, almost two years later, Macey and her boyfriend continue to watch the show together whenever possible and make countless references to it during conversations. Not only has Homer Simpson been added to the dictionary, but he has started a love connection as well! 
Ahhh, the many facets of a beloved television program. There doesn't seem to be anything "The Simpsons" doesn't have influence on. With so much power and sway it would be easy for any show to spark a flame on its popularity and then quickly fizzle out and disappear with the constantly changing zeitgeist. "The Simpsons," however, has managed to steer clear of this trap. Perhaps it's because of one of the greatest features of the show: it's unfailing reliability. In all of its years on television the charac­ters for the most part have stayed the same. Despite some minor changes in bodily shape and facial features, the characters have retained their same hair-styles, clothing and most notably, their ages. Bart is still in the fourth grade after all these years, and this time it's not due to his tendency to flunk tests. New characters have been added to the show and personalities have gained depth beyond their initial stereotype, but the show remains the same. It's age­less and timeless. And, it has already become a classic in the eyes of its faith­ful, Homer-quoting fans. 
With such praise and glory, "The Simpsons" has become something mas­sively influential. The show has become a cultural monster. Isn't it ironic that the very thing that would normally tame such a cultural beast is being the subject of mockery on "The Simpsons" show itself. 
Contact Julie Bender at Bender. IO@nd.edu
Courtesy of ©2000 Century FOX/Global Television Network 
heard on the street: "Aye Carumba!" "Eat my shorts," "D'oh!" These catch phrases became remarkably familiar to the ear thanks to the Simpsons writers. In fact, "D'oh" was recently added into the Oxford English Dictionary because of its common usage in the English language. Just think of what Homer's reaction would be to finding out he invented a word in the dictionary! 
The Simpsons have become such a huge part of American life that there's even a col­lege in the Midwest that offers a course entitled: "Animated Philosophy and Heligion." Being a phi­losophy class one might think that the great poet l lomer would be studied with his epic works the llliad and the Odyssey. In a sense this is correct. The class does study Homer. but the Homer of the Simpson variety. The course requires stu­


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Twins beat Xs 7-5 after rallying from deficit 
But the Twins, who defied be played." Rivera worked through an calm, efficient World Series
. Yankees come 

baseball's conventional wisdom easy ninth, showing no effects champions, especially the bigfrom behind to beat about small-market teams to Yankees 8, Angels 5 from his blown save in Game 7 guy on the mound. Angels; Cardinals win the AL Central. steadily ral-Bernie Williams and the New of the World Series to Arizona From the start, .Johnson was 
1ied back with offense from York Yankees had a little left­last year. not his scowling, intimidating
crush Big Unit and 
nearly every player -eight over late-inning magic. Steve Karsay pitched a hitless self. His fastball never topped
Diamondbacks Twins got a hit -and more of Jason Giambi hit a tying sin­eighth for the win. 95 mph. His slider had none of the steady bullpen work that's gle with two outs in the eighth Game 2 in the best-of-five the nasty snap that has befud­been one of their strongest inning and Williams followed series is Wednesday night. dled hitters all season. The man 
Associated Press 

assets. with a three-run homer, provid­Kevin Appier, Anaheim's only who is No. 4 on the career OAKLAND, Calif. Eddie Guardado capped four ing another stunning Yankee playoff veteran, pitches against strikeout list managed to fan 
In the first two postseason innings of scoreless relief with Stadium comeback as New York Andy Pettitte. only four, two of them on foul innings of their lives, the young the save, getting pinch-hitter beat the Anaheim Angels 8-5 The Angels came in to the third-strike bunt attempts by Minnesota Twins made three Adam Piatt on a fly to right with Tuesday night in Game 1 of the series with one player with Morris. errors, allowed four unearned two runners on to end it. AL division series. playoff experience. But the With Kile's widow, Flynn, runs and reached their boiling The Twins were the best Showing the same flair for the shakiest move came from their among the capacity crowd of point. defensive team in the majors dramatic that fueled last year's manager, who was a postseason 49,154, Edmonds launched a 
It wasn't the way October was this season, making just 7 4 postseason run to Game 7 of the star with the Los Angeles 424-footer to right in the first supposed to be for the Twins, errors. They tied the division World Series, the Yankees ral­Dodgers in 1988. inning and Rolen hit a 427-foot particularly the ones who've series record for errors in a lied to win in the eighth inning The series was billed as a shot to left-center in the third. been dreaming of the playoffs game, yet still came back to to spoil the Angels' first postsea­matchup of Yankees longball When Johnson left, bad since their days together in the win. son game in 16 years. against Angels smallball. And turned to worse for the low minors. There was an emo­"We don't make three errors. After Troy Glaus' second the Bronx Bombers came out on Diamondbacks. The Cardinals tional dugout scene -and the \Ve just don't do that," manager homer put Anaheim ahead 5-4 top as usual in October. scored six runs off relievers jitters evaporated, replaced by Ron Gardenhire said. "At one in the top of the eighth, the Giambi homered and drove in Matt Mantei, Greg Swindell and hard-nosed play and growing point in the game, it was comi­Yankees took advantage of a three runs in his first playoff Mike Fetters in the most one­confidence. cal. ... The game was getting a questionable decision by game with New York. sided postseason defeat ever for 
A.J. Pierzynski had four hits, little crazy on us. I'd have a Anaheim manager Mike Newcomer Rondell White and the Diamondbacks. and Corey Koskie homered and hard time this year finding Scioscia. Jeter also homered. vVith two days off during the drove in three runs as the three innings we played like Ben \-Veber started the inning best-of'-5 series, the Cardinals Twins overcame an early deficit that. I think it was just nerves. and retired the first two batters Cardinals 12, Diamondbacks 2 have to beat Johnson and/or and a series of fielding blunders We got some stuff out of our before walking Alfonso Soriano. After a sensational Curt Schilling twice. to beat the Oakland Athletics 7-system today." With closer Troy Percival September, Randy Johnson is Schilling will go against Chuck 5 in the first game of the AL Game 2 in the best-of-five warming up, Scioscia stuck with off to an awful October, and St. Finley in Game 2 on Thursday. Division Series. series is Wednesday, with Mark Weber, who walked Derek Louis has won a big one· for No. Johnson had gone 5-0 with an 
It wasn't a happy time when Mulder pitching for Oakland Jeter. Scioscia then brought in 57. 0.66 ERA in September and was the Twins came back to the against Joe Mays. lefty Scott Schoeneweis, even Jim Edmonds and Scott Rolen 13-1 in his last 15 starts. In the 
' dugout down 5-1 in the second Eric Chavez drove in two runs though Percival had struck out each hit monster two-run process, he became the first NL inning of the franchise's first for the A's, who tied the Giambi five times in five career homers and the Cardinals bat· pitcher in 17 years to win the postseason game since winning Yankees for the major league at-bats. tered Johnson for a season­pitching Triple Crown of victo­the 1991 World Series -largely lead with 103 victories in the Giambi hit a hard one-hopper worst 10 hits in six innings in a ries (24), strikeouts (334) and thanks to their own mistakes, regular season. But Oakland that deflected off first baseman 12-2 rout of the Arizona ERA {2.32). including an infield popup that didn't get the standout pitching Scott Spiezio's glove into right Diamondbacks on Tuesday Morris allowed single runs in four Twins allowed to drop that's been its trademark in field, scoring Soriano with the night in the opener of their NL the first and third innings, then untouched. three straight playoff cam­tying run. Williams worked the division series. shut down the Diamondbacks. 
Starting pitcher Brad Radke paigns. count to 1-2 against Brendan Matt Morris, the number "57'' Ile gave up seven hits, struck slammed his glove into the Hudson, the longest-tenured Donnelly and then hit a drive to and initials of late teammate out three and walke-d two in dugout bench. Pierzynski, their member of Oakland's Big Three right field for his 17th career Darryl Kile written on his hat, seven innings. It was a strong volatile All-Star catcher, fumed starters, never got comfortable postseason home run and settled down after a shaky start outing for the Cardinal hit hard­' and shouted. Several players in 5 l/3 shaky innings. He Yankee Stadium began rocking to get the victory, something he est by Kile's death of a heart yelled angrily at each other -allowed eight hits and four runs again as it did last fall. failed to do in two outstanding attack June 22 in his hotel room 
until one of them said some­in his first career loss to The thunderous ovation con­outings against Arizona in last in ChicagD. 
l 
thing that made sense. Minnesota. tinued as closer Mariano Rivera year's division series. A year ago, St. Louis handed "Torii {Hunter) came in "The bottom line is we just came in from the bullpen to his When Morris finished his Johnson his lone loss of the screaming," Doug Mientkiewicz didn't pitch today," Hudson heavy metal anthem "Enter seven strong innings, teammate playoffs in Game 2 of the divi­
l I 
said. "He was saying, 'We've said. "They gave us some Sandman." It was a comforting Andy Benes hugged him in the sion series, extending his post­waited our whole lives for this! breaks early in the game, (but) sight for the Yankees after their dugout and sa•id, "You stood season losing streak to seven. Let's get our heads out and get they settled down. Obviously we most indispensable player spent tall." He won the next five, a playoff it done! We've still got seven would've liked to have won, but three stints on the disabled list The Diamondbacks, mean­record, three of them in the innings!"' there's a lot of baseball left to this season. while, looked nothing like the World Series. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
TICKETS 
CJs Pub See whats happening www.cjspub.com 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable www.sun:mlashtours.com 
1-800-426-7710 
...ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco. Florida & Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE. Reps needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578 dept 2626) www. sQrinQbreakdisco1.mls.corn 
EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY -The deadline to reserve space for dis­play advertising is 3 pm two pub­lishing days prior. The ad copy needs to be in by 12 pm the day before the ad is to run. THERE WILL BE NO EXCEPTIONS!!I If ad is received after the noon deadline, the ad WILL NOT RUN and the advertiser will be billed for the space reserved. 
PIT SALES WOMENS BOUTIQUE RETAIL EXP PFRD. $8/HR 10-20 HRS/WK. SEND RESUME TO NOELLES 2500 TOPSFIELD RD #207 SOUTH BEND. IN 46614 $250 a day potential/bartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 

LOST & FOUND 
LOST-Signet Ring 14K white gold initials JME, size 1O3/4; engraved within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14 Michigan game, stadium student section or on field. Jon Mack 309 Zahm, 634-1090. 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico. Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234· 7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. positions available now. Largest commissions. Travel Free! 1-800­SUNCHASE ext. 123. WWW.SUN­CHASE.COM 
Earn extra money evenings sched­uling appointments and making customer calls for local State Farm agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, you choose from Tuesday-Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must be enthusiastic with great telephone presence. Fax resume to 574-232­9984. 
Chick-Iii-A at University Park Mall is currently seeking high caliber indi­viduals to fill Leadership roles days & nights. Flexible schedule, no Sundays, free meals, $9 per hour. Contact Kathy Wonderly @ 272­2247. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
If you enjoy natural woodwork and a beautiful spacious older home with a well-manicured yard, then see this 4-bedroom . 1-1 /2 bath with formal dining room with crystal chandelier. Close to ND. Call Ellen Baker 255-5858. 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www. mmmr~ntals.ecom 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. 

DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM -MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS ­CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 • (574)674-2471 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available tor football/par­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit 107 800-418-9487. 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call Bill or Mary Anne Benedict 607 -723-7363 
LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from ND. Basement, garage, safe and private $640/mo. Great location -1122 Woodward Ave. Call 360-2500 
Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 269-469-0245 
BED & BREAKFAST Football weekends tor ND parents. Two nights minimum. 10 min. from cam­pus. 272-5640 
TICKETS 
N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593. 
Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289­8048 or astrog999@aol.com 
WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
2 tickets "YES" at Morris Oct. 27, 7th row, great seats. Face value. Wanted: single GA Stanford or Pitt. Jim 234-7228. 
Need Home GA !ix. Call 276-8507, after 5 call 288-2877. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Give adoption a chance...we are happily married and need your help in starting a family. Will provide a lifetime of love, laughter and end­less opportunities. Call our attorney toll free at 866-215-2229 . 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
No, Jan, purple is NOT a flavor. 
Obligatory shoutout #1: Hi everyone. 
Obligatory shoutout #2: Hi Katie's mom. 
And the 2002 winner for most patri­otic Domer house: 911 Corby. 
Intensely attractive Scene Editor seeks incredibly attractive date, or nearest available facsimile. 
Help Joe get a day off: Work for Observer Sports. 
Hey Jules, congrats and I'll miss you next year. 
Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Jets, Steelers spending big bucks; Packers play cheaply 
Associated Press 
The New York Jets, who spent lavishly in the last six weeks to re-sign three key players, have the NFL's highest payroll at $87,343,231. 
Pittsburgh, once criticized as unwilling to pay thf) big money necessary to retain star players, began the season with the NFL's second-highest payroll, accord­ing to figures compiled by the NFL Players Association. 
The Jets, who made the play­offs last season but are 1-3 this year, spent considerable money on signing bonuses because they signed a number of free agents and re-signed three of their best players. The Jets paid $49,349,330 to just 26 players. including running back Curtis Martin, wide receiver Wayne Chrebet and center Kevin Mawae. all of whom got huge contracts this year. 
After finishing 1:3-3 last sea­son, the Steelers moved to keep their team intact by signing most of their top players to long-term contracts. Their payroll is $85,069,621. 
By contrast, the Philadelphia Eagles, 3-1 compared to the Steelers' 1-2, paid only $7,569,550 in signing bonuses to 12 players before signing quar­terback Donovan McNabb to a new contract last week. The deal included a $20.5 million signing bonus. 
NFL payrolls can change dur­ing the season because of deals such as McNabb's, and often dif­fer greatly from the salary cap, which this season is $71.1 mil­lion per team. The payroll includes all player expenditures, while the salary cap covers play­er costs charged against a team that season. 
Under the cap, signing bonuses are prorated over the life of the player's contract. For example, the Steelers paid linebacker Jason Gildon a $6.5 million sign­ing bonus; only $1.3 million counts against this season's cap because the deal is for five years. 

The Steelers' expenditures include $44,775,634 in signing bonuses to 25 players, including key starters such as Gildon, Alan Faneca, Joey Porter and Aaron Smith. 
The Jets' and Steelers' payrolls are well above those of the No. 3 team, the expansion Houston Texans ($76,507;361). Behind Houston were the Dallas Cowboys (74,349,380) and the San Francisco 49ers ($74,206,418}. 
The Green Bay Packers' pay­roll of $39,720,069 is the lowest, nearly $5 million lower than the next team, the Minnesota Vikings ($44,219,850). The Packers paid $10,918,200 in signing bonuses to 19 players. 
The average NFL salary. including signing bonuses, is $1.123 million, with the Steelers coming in at a league-high $1,605,087, a figure inflated because they signed so many players this year. The Packers had the lowest average salary, $722,183. 
NBA 
Dele considered cutting brother off financially 
South Pacific when the three vanished. accurately recording statements, she was somewhat estranged from their 
Associated Press 
Authorities in French Polynesia have said. family for about three years but would implicated Dabord, "I don't think it was return after one of his "get-rich-quickPHOENIX who died last week at made up," Williams schemes" failed, according to the report.
Former NBA center Bison Dele consid­a California hospital, said. The FBI's San Francisco office, which
ered financially cutting off his brother "He would give him 
in the disappearances. In any event, Porter is investigating the disappearance,
before the ex-player and two compan­money to live on or do
Kevin Porter, the said Dele didn't give declined to comment. 
ions disappeared while boating in the 
manager of Dele's what he wanted to do. his brother a salary or When questioned by Phoenix police
South Pacific, according to a police 
business affairs, said Bison never questioned it. allowance, but did about allegations that Dabord used 
report. 
Tuesday he never told help out financially Dele's identity and money to try to buy
Dele was tired of bailing his brother, That was Bison ·s nature.
investigators about and gave him a car. gold coins, Dabord told investigators heMiles Dabord, out of his problems and the former athlete He always took care of "He would give him acted on his brother's behalf.
wanted him to take a more "self-reliant" wanting to cut off his his family. ,, money to live on or do Dabord was released from custody.
approach to life, according to the 
brother, even though what he wanted to Without an admission to the contrary,Phoenix Police Department report. 
police attributed such do," Porter said. authorities decided they shouldn't book
In the report, Phoenix police allege 
statements to him. Kevin Porter "Bison never ques­Dahord into jail at the time, the reportDabord used his brother's identity to try 
Sgt. Lauri Williams, Bison Dele's business manager tioned it. That was said.
to buy $152,000 in gold in Arizona in 
a Phoenix police Bison's nature. He Dabord went to Mexico, where on
early Septf)mber. 
spokeswoman, said always took care of mid-September he slipped into a coma,In July, Dabord had sailed with Dele; perhaps Porter doesn't remember say­his family." which his mother said resulted from an
Dele's girlfriend. Serena Karlan; and 
ing that. Dele's mother, Patricia Phillips, told overdose on insulin and failure to treat
French skipper Bertrand Saldo in the Investigators take enormous care -in investigators in Phoenix that Dabord his asthma. 
·florida State Ticket lottery/Contest 
~:~~,~~; . ., ::.:.~f: 
... , __
:·:_.;i~~;~ ;(:-_~
~< :-~'.i ~·~:;_ 
' ..,,_... ~­
. ~.~
.. 

shake down the thunder at fsu 

thursday, october 3 7-10 pm lafortune ballroom 


win a chance to buy 2 tickets to the nd/fsu game on 10/26 (bring up to 2 nd/smc/hc ids, 1 lottery ticket per student id) 
enter a contest to win transportation* plus 2 tickets to the game (max 5 contest entries per student) 
winners of both will be announced at 11 pm outside the sub office and in friday's observer 
tickets are $35 each and will go on sale at lafortune info aesk mon 10/7 for winners and thurs 10/10 for all students if tix remain 
'prize wll be awarded as a S500 gott certihca!e 111 !he value equivalent to 2 plane tickets 


MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Owners and players sign off on contract 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Baseball players and owners signed off on their new labor contract Tuesday, approving a memorandum that outlines the agreement that avoided a strike. 
Union head Donald Fehr and Rob Manfred, the owners' top labor lawyer, signed the "memorandum of understand­ing" separately at their offices. Just before the start of the playoffs, they sent the signed copies to each other by messenger. 
Because of late changes made this week, copies of the documents were not sched­uled to be available until Wednesday. The agreement, which binds the parties, ensures baseball will have labor peace through the 2006 season. 
The guarantee of 11 straight uninterrupted seasons follow­ing the end of the 1994-95 strike would be the longest period without a stoppage since the players' association was formed in 1966. 
On Aug. 16, the union's executive board set an Aug. 30 date for a strike, which would have been baseball's ninth work stoppage since 
1972. 
But the sides reached the tentative agreement about 2 1/2 hours before the sched­uled start of the strike. 
Union lawyer Michael Weiner and management lawyer Frank Coonelly said they hope that the "memoran­dum of understanding" can be drafted into a formal collec­tive bargaining agreement within 10 days. 
Owners voted 29-1 on Sept. 5 to approve the deal, with the New York Yankees dissenting. 
The union ratified the deal Tuesday, saying a majority of ballots from the 22 teams counted thus far had approved of the agreement. 
The deal increases the amount of shared locally gen­erated revenue among the clubs from 20 percent to 34 percent and imposes a luxury tax on the portions of 40-man payrolls above $117 million next year, $120.5 million in 2004, $128 million in 2005 and $136. 5 million in 2006. Those figures include benefits. .­
The major league minimum salary will increase from $200,000 to $300,000 next year. and clubs will start mandatory random testing for illegal steroids. 

Wednesday, October 2, 2002
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mets dump Valentine after quirky 2002 season 
. Ex-manager became 5th post­season casualty in baseball Tuesday 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Manager Bobby Valentine \Vas fired by the New York Mets, two days after they fin­ished last in the National League East and two seasons after the team reached the World Series. 
The team put together a $95 million payroll last winter, bringing in Roberto Alomar, Mo Vaughn, Hoger Cedeno and others. but it struggled all year and was embarrassed by accu­sations last month that at least seven players were smoking marijuana this season. 
Mets owner Fred Wilpon decided in the past few days to fire Valentine. Wilpon repeat­edly had said he planned to keep Valentine and general manager Steve Phillips. 
"We put very good players in place ,vho didn't play very well," Wilpon said. "I believe the guys are as good as we all thought, a very competitive team. I still believe it's a very competitive team. I think they'll play far, far better next year." 
Wilpon said he met with 
Valentine --who sensed he was in trouble during a 12­game losing streak and a National League-record 15­game home losing skid ­Tuesday morning to inform him of the decision. 
"For me, this is a painful decision following a very painful season," he said in a statement. 
"I understand there will be questions about why I changed my mind after I previously stat,. ed that Bobby would be the first time since 1993 and below .500 for the first time in six years. 

In his six-plus seasons with the Mets, Valentine was 536­467, reaching the playoffs in 1999 and 2000. 
Valentine is the fifth manager to be fired since Sunday, the last day of the regular season. 
The Chicago Cubs dismissed Bruce Kimm on Sunday, while Hal McRae of Tampa Bay and Luis Pujols of Detroit lost their 
j o b s 
Monday. 

manager for Tuesday,
"We put very good

2003. The J e r r y performance players in place who Narron was 
of the team, didn't play very well . ... I fired by the 
especially in Rangers.
still believe it·s a very

the last two T h e r e 
months of the competitive team. I think were eight season, was they'll play far, far better other man­
extremely dis­agerial
next year."

appointing changes and I conclud­du ring the ed that a Fred Wilpon season. change was The Mets
Mets owner 

necessary." went into 
Wilpon said the season a search for with talk of Valentine's successor will begin making the playoffs after immediately. Phillips revamped the roster. 
Valentine just finished the But the team played unin­second year of a three-year spired baseball almost from the contract, and the Mets will be start and there were a number responsible for his 2003 salary of embarrassments. of about $2. 7 million. "We didn't play the game as 
The Mets finished 75-86, in well as we should have," last place in the NL East for the Valentine said near the end of the season. "Because of that, I second-guess everything l did. That's totally my responsibili­ty." 
Phillips, the architect of a $95 million reconstructed ros­ter of high-profile players who underachieved, survived because Wilpon thought his moves were good ones, even if they didn't work. 
"In my view, Steve has done a creative job putting this team on the field," the owner said. "They're good players who did not play well. I think they will play well together. I felt the change that was necessary was change on the field." 
Phillips agreed with Valentine's dismissal but said he did not suggest it. "I didn't have to," he said. ''I'm glad it didn't get to that point." 
The Mets played poor funda­mental baseball and were shaken by off-the-field turmoil. Slugger Mike Piazza was ques­tioned about his sexual orienta­tion, and Alomar and Cedeno engaged in a shoving match in the dugout. 
There was a public feud and lawsuit between Wilpon and his former partner and co­owner, Nelson Doubledav. 
Former Mets player~ Keith Hernandez said the team quit and then apologized for the remark, and finally came the drug report. 
Newsday reported last month that seven Mets smoked mari­juana during the season, although the newspaper said Tuesday that Wilpon's decision was based on the team's per­formance in the past two sea­sons. 
The trouble ran all through the roster. 
Vaughn took half' a season to find. his rhythm after missing all of 2001 with an injury. 
Alomar, a Gold Glove second baseman, made 11 errors, never looked comfortable in the field, and hit a career-low .266. 
Cedeno only managed 25 steals, Shawn Estes went 4-9 before being traded, and Jeromy Burnitz had one good month and hit .215. 
The Mets were 13th in the league in runs, had the most errors in the majors with 144, and looked nothing like the team that won the NL pennant just two years ago. 
Despite all the troubles, the Mets were in contention after winning 11 of 16 games to end July just 4V2 games out of the wild-card lead. 
Then came one of the worst months in team history. New York had a 12-game losing streak and didn't win a game at Shea Stadium in August ­part of an NL-record 15-game home losing streak. 
Narron axed for Rangers' 3rd straight last-place finish 
Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Texas 
Jerry Narron was fired as man­ager of the Texas Rangers after the team's third straight last­place finish in the AL West. 
Narron went 134-162 after taking over in May 2001, includ­ing a 72-90 mark this season. He replaced Johnny Oates after the team started 11-1 7 last year. 
"This has been a very difficult decision because I like and respect Jerry Narron," Texas general manager John Hart said. "But we have to make some tough decisions now. Our fans deserve better than the record and performance of the 2002 ·rexas Rangers." 
Narron is the fifth manager fired since Sunday, the last day of the regular season. The New York Mets fired Bobby Valentine, while the Cubs' Bruce Kimm, Tampa Bay's Hal McRae and Detroit's Luis Pujols also were dismissed. 
Hart spent several hours Monday and Tuesday meeting with owner Tom Hicks and assis­tant general manager Grady Fuson about the future of the team. Hart said he made the decision Monday night. 
"I would like there to be a dif­ferent voice as we establish a dif­ferent culture and a different era," he said. 
Narron drove home to North Carolina after Sunday's season­ending game. He had one year left on a two-year deal signed two months after he replaced Oates. 
Narron did m,t immediately return a telephone call. 
"I am convinced that John and Grady have made a thorough and complete evaluation in reaching the decision to change managers," Hicks said. 

The Hangers also fired trainer 
Danny Wheat after 11 seasons. 
Wheat joined the organization in 
1976 and had been with the big-league team since 1985. 
Texas struggled all season, even with All-Star shortstop Alex Rodriguez hitting .300 and lead­ing the majors with 57 homers and 142 RBI, and an Opening­Day payroll of $105 million. 
Part of the problem was injuries. The Rangers had 17 players spend a team-record 1,429 days on the disabled list, including closer Jeff Zimmerman, two-time AL MVP Juan Gonzalez, 10-time All-Star catcher Ivan Rodriguez, and expected No. 1 starter Chan Ho Park. 
Narron used 51 players, including a club-record 27 pitch­ers. 
"This season has certainly been very frustrating and painful for all of us," Hart said. "Injuries have obviously played a major factor, but there are a number of areas in which we need to change and improve." 

Possible replacements include bench coach Terry Francona, pitching coach Orel Hershiser, and Buddy Bell. Another candi­date could be former Cleveland manager Charlie Manuel, who worked for Hart with the Indians. 
Hart said there would be "some sense of urgency" to find a replacement. He said he'd start with a short list of candidates from inside and outside the orga­nization, and that not all would have managerial experience. 
Narron came to Texas as a third-base coach in 1995, then became manager when Johnny Oates resigned after an 11-17 start in 2001. 
Ile was promoted by then-gen­eral manager Doug Melvin, who was fired following the 2001 sea• son. Melvin recently became the GM in Milwaukee. 
His departure cuts one of the final front-office ties to the Texas teams that won division titles in 1996, 1998 and 1999. Those are the only postseason appearances in franchise history. 
"There's a certain level of com­fort that's here, a certain part of that is the tail end ofa terrific era that we tried to extend. At the same time, we knew what we 
' 
had to do," Hart said. 
Texas lost 13 of its last 16 games, including a closing 1-9 road trip &gainst playoff teams Oakland and Anaheim, and Seattle. 
The Rangers finished 31 games behind the AL \,Vest champion Athletics. 
"He was in a tough situation this year, without a doubt," Rangers pitcher Kenny Rogers said before the season ended. "He's done very well at it, but they go by what you do on the field, and we weren't a very good team on the field. Without a doubt, no one person is to blame for what went wrong here." 
Saint Ma?sCollege
NOTRE DAME • INDIANA 

SE~ESTER A~Ol[JJ~]II > T]l-IJE, -WGRL,lll ))·; 
INFORMATION MEETINGS 
Monday, October 7, 7:00 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall, SMC 
or 
Wednesday, October 9, 6:45 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium, ND Open to all ND/SMC students 
Excellent academic proaram at 
Sacred Heart Collei:e in Cochin. India. 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards • core or major requirements 
Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Hong Kong, Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Lhasa (Tibet), Singapore, Bangkok, Saigon, Bali, Delhi, Agra, Jaipur, Ajanta, Ellora, Bombay, Mahabalipuram, Pondicherry, Tanjore, Trichy, Madurai, Periyar, Munnar, Cochin. More travel opportunities in Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 

EVERYONE WELCOJVIE! 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) 284-4866 
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http://www.saintmarys.edu/saw 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 

Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENTS page 17 
llniwrsify ofNotre Dame 

Su__,toadoA llog,a,n 

SUMMER LONDON 2003 and 2004 
ORIENTATION -INFORMATION MEETING 
For all newly admitted Summer 2002 participants and those interested in Summer 2003 and 2004 
Wed: OCT. 2, 2002 at 7:00pm 136 DeBartolo Hall 
Or call Summer London Office at 1-0622 for application and information 

Col1.1mbia University's Biosphere 2: Earth Semester in Oracle Arizona Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 
INFO~lVIATIONAL lVIEETING 
Wednesday, October 2 
7:00 pm _l 16 DeBartolo 

representatives Crom Biosphere and past participants t·rom ND vvill be at this meeting 
S/>011.•,;orcc/ h.1· the Centerj<Jr E11virv11,11e11ta/ .S'ciencc c_~ 7c.?clu10/og1· at tlte Univcrsit_,, C?r Notre /_)a111e 




I \ 

NBA 
I \ 
I ' 
' ' 
I 
Payton finally arrives at camp 
Wednesday, October 2, 2002
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Huggins to be released soon 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
lt took a while. but Gary Pavton finallv made an appear­ance as the Seattle Supersonics opened training camp. 
Pavton didn't attend a morn­ing ~'orkout. and he was not on hand at the start of another night practice. But about 30 minutes after the start of the evening practice. Payton drove through a gate into the Sonics' training facility. He did not 


) \ immediately speak with
) 
I ' \ 
reporters.

) (
I 
I Payton had skipped the I 
~ medfa day Monday, and coach 
I 
I 
)· i Nate McMillan said Payton would be fined for missing that 
I 
and the morning practice.

'> 
'I ' 
"It's an unexcused absence," 

•,
:~ 
~! ', McMillan said. "To miss prac­tice, reallv. there's no excuse:' ~ for that. ( was expecting Gary to be hern today." ' r, ' Payton's agent, Aaron Goodwin, said his client met·~ with McMillan on Monday night to discuss a summer-long dis­
:,., ! l
.1 
. agreement between Payton and Sonics owner Hov1:ard
' 
' ' 
. Schultz. 
. 
I 
"Thev talked about his 

) 
) importirnce to the team and 
), ', how Garv shouldn't allow whatever discontent he's feel­ing with IInward to be reflected on the tfrnm." Goodwin said. "Howard owns the team and
ll ) 
he's free to say and do what he 

( 
wants. Unfortunately, Gary has to deal with that." 
Goodwin said Payton wasn't concerned about missing work­outs.

Il 
) ) <. ; "Ile's a 12-vear veteran," Goodwin said. -;,How much did
\ 
) I 
I I he miss in a day'?" ) : ( Schultz, chairman of ) Starbucks Coffee Co., wasn't 
happy about Payton's media ) dav absence and did numerous t int~rviews Monday to say so. 
~-.• 
,. , 
Schultz pointed out that with I ·,
I I one year at close to $13 million
I 
I remaining on a seven-year
. i 
I . I : contract, Payton is the NBA's highest paid guard. The 34­
I 1 
q 
year-old Payton asked for an t 
extension after last season, his:~ 12th in the NBA. I,/, I Payton, who has spent his ,' /( entire career in Seattle, aver­
aged 22.1 points and a career­(: high 9.0 assists last season. ~I ~ Schultz. who wants Payton to
~. 
., play out his final year before 
,I 
) renegotiating, watched prac­) tice from a platform above the court and didn't speak with
i' 
reporters.I Goodwin said the extension is
) ) ) I 
'1
f ' 
{ 
~­
> 
) 
I . ) ) ; 
') ' ·:
( ; 
,) , ( 
) ',
I.· 
) ! 
) ) ) 
' 
I 
I . 
I
, 
·./I. 
J. ! 
' 
' 
I, 
I 
r' ' 
,. 
I. 


I·: 
(,'.
,I·:' , '. I
I 1.' 
' 
! ' 
no longer an issue for Payton. 
"Not at all. Howard keeps perpetuating that talk." Goodwin said. "Gary is not upset. He's trying to get his head rf~ady to come in and play ball, simple as that. Things didn't go the way he expected." 
Without Payton on the court, Brent Barry and former Arizona All-America Miles Simon directed the first-team offense. 
McMillan said he thinks Payton will be ready to play when he reports, and he pre­dicted the flap would go away shortly after that. Before the first workout, he called his young team together. 
"Nate said, 'Obviously, Gary's not here, but practice will go on."' third-year swingman Desmond Mason said. "That's Nate's approach, that's my approach and I think it should be everyone's approach." 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
Cincinnati basketball coach Bob Huggins is making progress in his recovery from a heart attack and is expected to be released from the hospi­tal by the end of the week. 
The 49-vear-old coach was in stable· condition at the Medical Center in Beaver, Pa., hospital spokesman Scott Monit said Monday. 
Huggins was in serious but stable condition on Sunday. 
Cincinnati sports informa­tion director Tom Hathaway said Huggins probably will spend another 4-6 days in the hospital before coming home. 
Huggins had the heart attack at the Pittsburgh air­port on Saturday. He was 
there  to  catch  a  flight  to  
Milwaukee  for  a  coaching  
clinic.  

"It came on quick. He was sweating profusely. It was very painful," Cincinnati ath­letic director Bob Goin said. 

"Timing was of the essence. Everybody snapped to it. I don't think there was time to spare." 
After being rushed to the hospital. Huggins had surgery to implant a metal mesh stcnt to keep a clogged artery open. 
Doctors don't know when he might be able to resume coaching. He will need at least a month to recover, but it might take much longer if his heart sustained permanent damage, said Dr. Lynne Wagoner, director of cardiac services at University Hospital in Cincinnati. 
"In many cases. it can be completely treated," Wagoner said. "I don't think this is all bad news." 
Huggins turned the Bearcats into a perennial winner dur­ing his 13 seasons, but he's also known for his temper. 
His father Charlie, a high school coach in northern Ohio, had a heart attack before he was 40, and Huggins was worried about being stricken himself. 
Before Cincinnati's annual postseason banquet in 1998. Huggins had tests dorn~ on his heart as a precaution. 
"We all know his work ethic and his intensity," Goin said. "But when he's awav from it, he's also a guy ~ho can relax." 
Huggins was the third­youngest coach to get 500 wins in Division I. His career record is 500-172, including a 332-100 record at Cincinnati. 
The Bearcats have been ranked No. 1 several times during Huggins' tenure, with one Final Four appearance. 
The team went 31-4 last season and lost to UCLA 105­101 in double ovflrtime in thn second round of the NCAA tournament. 
Cincinnati opens practice for the new season on Oct. 12. but Goin wasn't thinking that far ahead. 
"Maybe that is a little insen­sitive right now," he said. "Basketball is down the road a little ways." 

SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL' INSTANT MESSENGER"' service TWO·WA\' MESSAGING JA\IA"' GAMES 6 APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 
i10c 
To.A"'y tL-\e .Ai,it"'\ w°'\'k.i.e+"'l'k.ie wov'k.s cvev sevev"'l L-\u.1'1..Ave.A ~iles. A...._.A to1MOVYOw, \o\O\MO\o\wi.Ae. 
NEXIEl 

Yo1.>. \\evev ~iss A\\yH,,i"8i why st"'v+ \\Ow? ~e,ctel's J.i~it"'l wAlkie-t"'lkie .PeAt1.>.ve lets yo1.>. ~et Y'i~ht thvo1.>.8h with the pl.Ash 
o.P "' b1.>.H-o\\. -rh"'t ~eA\\S \\O ~isseJ. c"'lls, lA\\checkeJ. voice 1MAil OY' pho\\e t"'8· 1Ct:l\lASe who Y\AS ti~e .Pov "'n thAt whe\\ yo1.>. Ct:l\\\1t eve\.\ J.eciJ.e whAt to weAY'? ~ow yo1.>.1ve YeAJ.y-Bvi\\8 It. 
Ncw's "' :,vet:l\t H~e +-c -'et Ne,ctel: 
.,,.n Nch-e D"'~e ST"t.\.?.e\\ts ~et "' \or.'·t-\'iscOlA.\\t C\\ "'"Y V'<".te pl<".\\"'"°' $\oo· o.P.P "'"Y pYIO\\e. 
To ""Y; 
, ~o to \\e,ctel.coiA•V'iY"ish-stl.\Ae\\t. , CC\ll toll-Pvee l-'n7-S-0,-212,. 
, CO\\te\ct JDM COIMIMl,\\\lCt:l\tiO\\S 
C\t 574-24,-,8" 18" 
W'ednesday, October 2, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
-------------=-=-=-=-~---_ -_ -_ -_-_ -_ -_-~.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::_~~.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.::::::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.::::::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.::::::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.:::.::::.::::.:::.:::~­
-
NFL 

League defends its minority hiring policy 
Associated Press 
NE'WYOHK 
Tim NFL, thrcahmcd with a 
lawsuit over its lack ol' black 
head coaches, defended the 
sWps it has taken in minoritv 
hiring. but acknowledged 
then~ is room for irn prove­
ment. 
"Progn~ss has been made 
and we expect that progress to 
continue." league spokesman 
Greg Aiello said. 
"We take tlm issue verv seri­
ously and have initiated ~ever• 
al programs in recent years 
under commissioner IPaul] 
Tagliabue to (-~nsure that our 
hiring practices are fair, and 
that all coaches have opportu­
nities to advance." 
Aiello was responding to a rnport n~leascd Monday by a group headPd by attorney Johnnie Cochran Jr. Using sta­tistics compilPd over the past 15 years. tho rnport noted that black head coaches had been more successful than th1~ir white counterparts. but that they weren't hired commensu­rate with that success. 
"Black coaches are being held to a higher standard." said Cochran, who suggested the league might be sued if progress isn't made. "Now is tlw time for the NFL to step up and make a change." 
To stimulato the hiring of' blac·ks as !wad coaches. Cochran proposed that TagliabuP "re\\'ard at least one team each year for dnvd­opi ng a divprse front office·· with a drart pick. 
II<• also ask1~d the NFL to require team owners to include "diverse racial groups" when interviewing candidatns for n:mching posi­tions. i\ccording to tlw propos­al, "O\Vn(ffS can choose tn opt out of this requirement. but to do so they must forfeit a draft pick." 
Tlwrn currnntly are two black he ad co ach1\s in th c NFL: Tony Dungy of Indianapolis and Herman Edwards of the New York Jets. 
But Aiello pointed out that in the last five years, 23 blacks have been interviewed for coaching positions and thn~e were hired: Dungy, Edwards and Hay Rhodes, by Green Bay in 1999. 
Tyrone \!Villingham, current­ly the coach of Notre Dame, also was among those 23_ 
Since Art Shell became the first black head coach of the modern era with the Haiders in 1989, there have been five: Dungy, Edwards, Shell. Dennis Green and Rhodes. Terry Hobiskie served as interim coach of the \Vashington Redskins for three games at the end of the 2000 season. 
There have never been more than three black head coaches in a season. 

Last year, Green was fired by Minrn~sota and Dungy by Tampa Bay. then hired by the Colts. Rhodes also had two jobs, with Philadelphia from -1994-98 and Green Bay in 1999. Overall, eight teams have had black coaches: the Haiders, Eagles. Packers, Bucs, Colts, Jets, Vikings and Hcdskins. 
Most of the progress is at the assistant level, the starting ground for head coaching job. 
In 1980, there were 14 black assistants in the NFL, none of them coordinators. 
By 1997, there were 103 black assistants. Now, 154 of the 547 assistants (28 percfmt) are black. Twelve of those am coordinators. compared with five coordinators in 1997. 
"There are more black coaches in the pipeline." Aiello 
said.  
The  NFL  also  has  given  
black  coaches  leadership  
roles.  

Gn~en was co-chairman of thn competition committee in 2000-2001, and Dungy is head of the coaches' subcommittee of that group, which presents a coach's view of potential rule changes. 
Aiello also noted the NFL has a number of programs aimed at developing minority coaches. 
Cowher delays announcement 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Pittsburgh coach Bill Cowher did something surprising by not doing anything -namely. by not choosing Kordell Stewart or Tommy Maddox as his starting quarterback for Sunday's game in New Orleans. 
Maddox came off the bench in the fourth quarter last Sunday to lead two scoring drives in the Steelers' 16-13 comeback victorv over the Cleveland Browns. Cowher all but said after the game that Stewart would remain the starter. 
By pushing back the announce­ment until at least Wednesday, Cowher either wants to create some extra work for the Saints by forcing them tu work up game plans for both quarterbacks, or he is genuinely undecided as to what to do. 
If he is, that could be a sign that Maddox. who hadn't played a meaningful role in an NFL game since 1997, might be on his mind. 

Maddox hasn't started an NFL 
game in 10 years, or since he 
was 0-4 for the Denver Broncos 
in 1992, his rookie season. 
Stewart has made 30 consecu­
tive starts and was a Pro Bowl 
selection last season as the 
Steelers went 13-3, but they have 
scored only 37 points in three 
games with him on the field. 
'Tm going to talk to the team tomorrow," Cowher said. 
Despite Sunday's victory, Cowher said he's very unhappy with the way his team has played in losing two of their first three, another sign he might be ready to make a move to Maddox. 
Cowher said several times dur­ing his weekly news conference he won't hesitate tn yank any starter at any time. as he did Sunday by pulling Stewart and running back Jerome Bettis ­the last two team MVPs -in the fourth quarter. 
"We're not playing up to expec­tations," Cowher said. "The expectation levels here are high, the standards are high. Are we playing to that level'? No way. Sunday was a step in the right 
direction, but we're far from a 
finished product and we have a ,.. 
ways to go." 
Cowher wouldn't single out Stewart's ineffective throwing or Bettis' slow start, only 100 yards in three games. His strong cri­tique also might have been aimed at some others who have yet to match their play of last season, including the entire offensive line. 
Bettis isn't likely to be benched Sunday, if only because backup Chris Fuamatu-Ma'afala is out with separated rib cartilage. Running back Amos Zereoue also backs up Bettis, but he is used mostly as a change-up back and a receiving threat rather than as a runner who will get 20-25 car­ries. 
"As I told the team, I'm going to play who I think is playing best," Cowher said. "That will be determined by how you practice, how you perform in games and what my options are. Everyone needs to understand that I don't care who they are or what posi­tion they play, we've got to regain our edge. 
Jets bench Testaverde due to slump 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 
In the midst of their worst slump in 40 seasons -yes, even worse than the Kotite years ­the New York Jets benched quar­terback Vinny Testaverde. 
The move was meant as a harsh message from coach Herman Edwards, who said he will turn to Chad Pennington to spark the team's mistake-riddled offense. 
Pennington, who played most of Sunday's 28-3 loss at Jacksonville·that dropped the Jets to 1-3, wiH make his first NFL start next weekend against Kansas City. Pennington, a first­round draft pick in 2000, replaced Testaverde early in the loss to the Jaguars after the 38­year-old Testaverde bruised his shoulder. 
While Edwards insisted nearly every other starter on the spiral­ing team should feel uncertain about his job, Testaverde was the first to lose his. 

"It is not all on Vinny, we are all held accountable," Edwards said. "Quarterback is always the guy who takes the hit first. The way we've performed, judging the performances by the first four games, it is not where we are supposed to be. 
"I thought about it all last night and this morning and that is the direction we need to head in: Chad is the starting quarterback." 
The Jets have been outscored 102-13 in the last three games. Testaverde, in his 16th ·pro sea­son, has completed 53 of 82 pass­es for a mere 485 yards, with three touchdowns and three interceptions. 
'Tm not going to sit here and tell you I am getting a raw deal," said Testaverde, who met for a half-hour with Edwards. "But I think anybody in my position isn't happy about it. 
"But I understand, and I don't 
want to be a distraction to this 
team.... I understand how the 
process works." 
The process of shaking up a 
team often starts with the quar­
terback. Testaverde is familiar 
with that from his time in 
Cleveland. In September 1995, he 
was the Af. C player of the month. 
By late November, he was watch­
ing Eric Zeier quarterback the 
Browns. 
"I remember asking Bill 
Belichick in Cleveland, 'Why are 
you making me a scapegoat in all 
this'?' And in his words, he said, 'I 
can't change the left guard and 
get a spark. I've got to change the 
quarterback.'" 
Edwards is of the same mind. 
He said other lineup changes and 
"rotations" were upcoming and 
he would be more specific on 
Wednesday when he has finalized 
the moves. 
The one move he made was the 
biggest one. 
"I just think at this point, where 
we arc at offensively, we needed 
to do something to change some 
things," Edwards said. 
Testaverde, who signed a restructured five-vear contract in April, and Pennington have had a good relationship and both played well in the undefeated preseason. But that relationship partly was built on the clear pecking order -an order reversed with Pennington's promotion. 
Pennington was 2l-for-34 for 281 vards at Jacksonville in the longest regular-season stint of his career. Ile moved the team. but didn't get the Jets into the end zone. 
"I've got to step in and be a consistent quarterback and leader." Pennington said. "You always look forward to being able to compete on the field. 
"The Jets have the opportunity to turn this around when no one expects it at 1-3. I am part of the opportunity." 
The lack of blocking up front has been a major problem, as has the tackling 011 defe11se. l~he play-"' calling hasn't been V(~ry produc­tive. either. 
In general, the slide ha-; been a total team effort. and Edwards has delivered his first strong mes­sage to the Jet..:.;. 






page 20 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, October 2, 2002 


\:.· i•••••·<:·••Womens••Soccer.••• 
·•·•··•e1g East Conferenee 
Northeast.•·.Divijioo•·.·• 
con[··• pts 
· tank Miami 3-(M · 7 1-34... .. NR ConnetUcut 3--0-:0 . 6 844 · 11· St John's. 24~{) 4 ·5-1•:r NR Boston coneg1 . 1~2..tr ·•· 2 S•4·1 ·Ntt Syracusi! 0+2f1 • > 1 2•5,2 NR VirgiijfaJeth 0-f-0> . 0 . 2,6:.{ .·. $R PhWidene.e 0+-3•tJ · . 0 4•4•2 ·NR 
M ld--Atlaritlc Division .><.. 
··• cpnf; ••.Y·••.•·P···•.·•.••.fs.'.•••.> (fV~fij~ <tank · < 
Georgettiwn · 3,0•0 ., &·3-d :HR WestVirginla .3-0·(1 6.· . ·8-1-0 > 9 .vmarH,va · 2~Er nr 1-1-:t\ to 
NOTRE DAME .· 2-2•0 . . . 4 6•4Hf/ 23 Rutgers 1~2"t 3 5-3~t ttR . Seton Hall . JF2·0\ . i ll •4•6•0< NR 
Pittsbiirgh . ihMF . 0 . 3~8~0 Nil 
NFL 



around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Giants at Braves 12 p.m., ABCFAM Twins at Atheltics 3 p.m., ABCFAM Angels at Yankees 7 p.m., 6 WSJV 
NFL 


Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Minnesota Vikings star receiver Randy Moss was charged Tuesday with pos­session of a small amount of marijuana, adding to charges last week that he pushed a traflic oflicer with his car. 
The new petty misde­meanor count carries a fine of up to $200, but it could also lead to a suspension or fine from the NrL. 
Police said they found a marijuana cigarette in Moss' car after he was arrested on Sept. 24. Moss was driving in downtown Minneapolis when the traf­fie officer stepped in front of his car to stop him from making. an illegal turn. She was slightly injured when she foll off the car. 

Moss spent the night in jail and was charged the next day with careless dri­ving and with failure to obey a traffic officer, both misdemeanors. 
The complaint said the marijuana amounted to just under a gram. Moss has said the marijuana did not belong to him and that he had allowed other people to use his car recently. 
ESPN's Chris Mortensen reported Sunday that Moss was already in the league's substance abuse program for testing positive for mari­juana last year, and under­went another test by the NFL after his arrest last week. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said it would review the case. 
Under the policy, a drug­related violation of the law is grounds for disciplinary action, Aiello said. 
[f Moss tests positive for a banned or illegal substance or is convicted on the pos­session charge, he could be subjected to fines and sus­pensions by the league. He was allowed to play in last Sunday's 48-23 loss at Seattle. 
Moss could lose his dri­ving privileges in Minnesota for a year because he ref used to take a police test for drug or alcohol use when he was arrested, said Kevin Smith, a spokesman for the Minnesota Department of Public Safety. 
Moss, who has only a Florida driver's license, could lose driving privileges in that state, too, Smith said. 
City prosecutors on Tuesday also added two new traffic counts to the charges: making an improp­er turn at an intersection in a hazardous manner, a mis­demeanor, and obstructing traffic with a vehicle. 
IN BRIEF 

Warner has surgery replacement Jamie Martin and sign with the Canadiens based in 
St. Louis Rams quarterback Kurt reserve Marc Bulger. part on the knowledge that he'd have Warner had surgery on the broken Covington, a former Miami a job with the Molson brewery as pinkie of his throwing hand Tuesday Hurricanes quarterback drafted by well. and will be sidelined for at least two the Cincinnati Bengals in 1999, will Ten days after signing with the months. remain with the team until Warner Canadiens, Beliveau shook hands 
During the 55-minute operation, returns. with Molson on a deal to work for surgeons inserted four pins to stabi­the brewery -a relationship that lize the finger, injured in the first Canadiens owner dies continues to this day. 
quarter of Sunday's 13-10 loss to the Hartland de Montarville Molson, "There is no doubt this was instru­Dallas Cowboys. former head of the family brewing mental," Beliveau said Tuesday. The pins will be removed in about dynasty and longtime owner of the "I reached my professional hockey six weeks and Warner will wear a Montreal Canadiens, has died at 95. dreams with his team and earned splint on his right hand for most of A statement issued Monday by what I like to call a Molson MBA dur­that time. Molson Inc. announced the death but ing my 49 years with the company," 
"We anticipate that with rehabilita­did not give a date. Beliveau said. "I will always be tion he will recover function over Molson also was a Canadian sena­grateful for this and will miss him eight to 10 weeks," said Dr. Matthew tor, but he is best known for his dearly." Matava, the Rams' head team physi­association with the hockey team. Molson served as a director of the cian who assisted in the surgery. He was president of the Canadiens brewery for more than 50 years and 
The injury to the two-time league from 1957 to 1968. Before his held the positions of president, chair­MVP was the latest blow for the tenure, however, he helped the team man and honorary chairman. defending NFC champions, who are acquire future Hall of Farner Jean Be was appointed to the Senate in 0-4, their worst start since 1963. Beliveau. 1955 and he served 38 years, until 
Also Tuesday. the Rams signed Beliveau, who in 1953 was a popu­he was 86. Scott Covington as the team's No. 3 lar 22-year-old player with the Molson was inducted in the Hock(~Y quarterback, backing up Warner Quebec City junior team, agreed to Hall of Fame in 1973. 

Wednesday, October 2, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Pyros, Shamrocks dominate, 24-0 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN and ERIK 
POWERS 
Spons Wrirers 

Pasquerilla East lineman Lindsay Terifay looked like a wide receiver Tuesday night, catching three passes that all set up the Pyros (4-1) for scores in their 24-0 win over Howard {1-3). 
However Terifay wasn't too impressed with her excep­tional performance as a line­man. 
"We just thought that the defense was overloading the left side. so I played on the right today," Terifay said. "In the plays where I caught the passes, [quarterback] Abbey [Coons) swings out and looks for me. She really reads the field well, so it makes it easy." 
Terifay was right about quarterback Coons reading the field well, as she threw for 148 yards and two touch­downs \Vhile also running for two scores. The Howard defense was overmatched by Coons and the Pyros. 
"Our offense just made the catches when they counted." Coons said. "I also had a lot of time to throw, which made it easier for me to find the open receiver." 
Coons credited center Allison Ferber with outstand­ing blocking throughout the game. Taking part in the scoring by catching Coons' touchdown passes were Laura Tushaus. and Christin O'Brinn. who made a shoe­string grab. 
llowcver. the offense of PE weren't the only stars Tuesday night. They were led on defonse hy <>. second half interception, and a big first 
half stop. The Ducks ended a 
first half Pyros' drive with a 
fourth-and-one stand with 
three minutes, getting the 
ball on PE's 35-yard line, but 
their offense was stopped 
cold to end the half. 
"Our defense really shut 

th em down completely," 
Coons said. "They played 
extremely well." 
The Pyros now go into their next game sky high with con­fidence. Their passing offense is clicking and the defense proved themselves Tuesday night with a shutout against the Ducks. Terifay is confident as well, as the fire of the Pyros shines going into the playoffs. 
"\'\le are really working well as a team. and that is the most important thing," Terifay said. "\Ve don't have any stars, and that is good, because I think we are a true team." 
McGlinn 24, Pangborn O 
The Shamrocks dominated both sides of the ball in wom­ens interhall Tuesday, steam­rolling the Phoxes 24-0. 
McGlinn ran the ball spar­ingly while adhering to a pass-happy, run-and-shoot offense. Ironically, its first touchdown came on a 21­yard scamper off an unex­pected quarterback option. The Shamrocks carried the ball four timHs for 52 yards, yet the majority of their plays relied on the arm of quarter­back Julie Kremer. 
Pangborn deployed only two down linemen and blitzed from a rotation of every con­ceivable position, but Kremer finished 8-for-17 for 61 yards and two touchdowns, with one interception. 
"I thought it was a little 
unpredictable," said Kremer. 
referring 'to the Phoxes' 
unorthodox defense. 
"Sometimes there was a girl 
there -sometimes not. I 
read it play by play, but 
[Pangborn] did pretty 
decent." 
The Phoxes opened the game with the ball, but their offense stalled after only four plays, turning the ball over on downs. Pangborn never looked comfortable on offense and struggled to find a rhythm. 
Quarterback Charlotte Troupis completed just five of 16 passes for 40 yards and was unable to overcome a tenacious Shamrock defense. McGlinn sacked Troupis four times and broke up eight of her passes. 
Linebacker Jessica Laux intercepted Troupis on the last play of the game, return­ing the ball 31 yards for her second defensive touchdown of the season. 
Pangborn rushed eight times for only eight yards, but found itself running back­ward more often than for­ward, as six of those carries were for a loss. 
The Phoxes (0-4) remain winless heading into its game Sunday against Cavanaugh and has been virtually elimi­nated from playoff con­tention. A trip to Notre Dame Stadium remains a possibility for McGlinn (2-1). however, as they can clinch a playoff berth with a win over Howard Sunday. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu and Erik Powers at epowers@nd.edu 



seue~dJ;~::::s::~:Paris·JnJnireJ & _cyireJ 
,HaMYS se.atbett bags Lufu Gui.ness • ABS 
. ' 
-' 
,.· 'Nicole MiUer;1 • MaxStudio ·. 

\ 
\ 
,­
INSPIRE MEI IINSPIRED AND ARED 
Downtown South Bend  Granger Area  
528 E. Colfax. Suite 12  312 W. ClevelaQd.Rd.  
South Bend, IN 46617  ! Granger, IN 46~  


Alumni unleashes against O'Neill, 22-6 
By TREY WILLIAMS 
Sporrs Writer 
It was the Angry Mob who wore a leash Sunday as they took a beating from the Dawgs, losing 22-6 in both teams' second round of Gold League interhall play. 
The game opened with the speed of molasses, going scoreless over the first five 
minutes. 
Alumni (2-0) began their day with an ineffec­tive pass-and-go offensive tactic on its first pos­session. Quarterback Chris Cottingham was limited to one completion for 23 yards that moved the Dawgs near scoring position. Cottingham was 
then sacked, however. moving Alumni back six yards and snuffing their chance to score. 
The Mob (0-2) fared just as poorly on their first posses­sion, becoming the prey of a skillful Dawg defense. Alumni's strong blitz only allowed O'Neill quarterback Troy Montgomery to connect on one pass for a mere 15 yards. 
"We have a strong offensive line," said Montgomery. "It's just a matter of opening up and finding time to execute." 
Alumni picked up the pace midway through the first half using a strong rushing game. This strength quickly became Alumni's weapon of choice as they mounted 95 rushing yards 
Blockers 
continued from page 24 
with a 0.98 per game average. 
Brewster's average of 1.58 leads the Irish, the Big East and puts the freshman in the top 15 nationally. Loomis is averaging 
1.21 blocks and is currently sixth in the Big East. 
Head coach Debbie Brown usually starts Brewster, Loomis and Kelbley, and each of them is at least 6-foot-1. Brown can then go to her bench and sub­stitute 6-4 Neff and 6-0 junior middle blocker Kim Fletcher. In addition, Brown can move up starting outside hitter Jessica Kinder who is 5-10 and 5-11 freshman Meg Henican, who is being worked into the regular rotation. 
These six players put the Irish at the national forefront when it comes to front row depth. 
"I think if you are talking top­25 schools, we might be a little taller than some of them. I think maybe half of them are the same height as us," Davis said. "I think in the Big East we are 
"Our plan is always to start with rushing. It's a fundamental ofthe game. We just rush until we can't rush anymore; then we switch to passing. ,, 
Alex Roodhouse Alumni tailback 
by the end of the first half, 30 of those belonging to junior tailback Alex Roodhouse. 
"Our plan is always to start with rushing," said Roodhouse. "It's a fundamental of the game. We just rush until we can't rush anymore; then we switch to passing." 
That plan rewarded the Dawgs with their first two scores of the game. 
Midway through the first 
touchdown pass to wide receiver Corey Harkins. 
"I think our diversity is one of our strong points," said co­captain Steve Keppel. "We feel comfortable with both passing and rushing. Today, the offen­sive line just did an especially good job." 
O'Neill, though defeated, would not be embarrassed. They dodged a shutout by scoring a touchdown late in the second half on a Montgomery pass after moving up the field with two key fourth down conversions. 
Contact Trey Williams at Williams.317@nd.edu 
the tallest team." 
Stuffing a kill back in the opponent's face not only sends the rival a message, but it speaks volumes to the rest of the Irish team as well. 
"The right block at the right time can be a huge shift in the momentum," Loomis said. "When we are down, it can really get the team going. Especially when you get a stuff block against a great hitter, it's a great feeling." 
"Blocks fire us up the most," setter Kristen Kinder said. "When our blocking is there, our defense is there. Having tall girls is great." 
Note 
Loomis was named the co-Big East Player of the Week on Monday. Against Connecticut and St. John's, Loomis collected 20 kills in each match. Loomis had 10 digs, six blocks and recorded a .442 hitting percent­age in Sunday's match against the Red Storm. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
h a I f , Alumni u s e d s h e e r muscle to rush 55 yards to the O'Neill 35-yard l i n e , leaving t h e m open for a 15­y a r d 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
-
FOOTBALL 

Coaches avoid personal ties in crafting strategy 
By ANDREW SOUKUP ... Sports Writer 
Although seven of the nine coaches on Notre Dame's cur­rent coaching staff worked at Stanford last year. the Irish are trying to design a game plan based on analyzing the Cardinal sdwnrn rather than attempting to attack person­nel weakrn~sses they were all too familiar \Vith last year. 
"Sometimes, I think you maybe know too much of peo­ple," Irish defense coordina­tor Kent Baer said. ''I'd rather settle in on the game plan and X's and O's instead of focus on personnel." 
In fact. the Irish aren't quite sure \vho has an edge ­Notre Dame's coaching staff or Stanford·s players. First­year Stanford head coach Buddy Teevens installed a completely new system, while Cardinal players are familiar with the basic philosophies of Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham's offensive and defensive schemes. 
But knowing the enemy works both ways, and the Irish aren't backing complete­ly away from going after spe­cific players as they build a game plan this week. 
"There are things that hope­fully will help us understand maybe the person and that new responsibility as we start to look at and evaluate them that we wouldn't have an advantage to if we didn't have the close relationship with that football team from before," Willingham said. 
"There is certainly some inside knowledge and aware­ness based on the fact that they've worked with these guys over time, but our guys have also changed over time," Teevens said. "They're a year older, they're involved in a different system and they've matured physically and men­tally. It's a great opportunity to play a great team regard­less of who's coaching them. 
Emotional reunion 

With the emotional ties between the two teams, Willingham has no doubt the Cardinal will play one of their best games of the year against 

TIM KACMAR/The Observer Notre Dame head coach Tyrone Willingham surveys the scene at a recent home game. Willingham realizes his coaching staff's ties to Stanford, but doesn't think it poses a problem. 
The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Lt. Colonel Archie Davis 
United States Army 
'' Essentials for Effective Teams" 
Friday, October 4 12:00 -1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 

Holiday 
continued from page 24 

make the right decision, we'll take it to that time." 
Not one to mince words, Diedrick was much more reserved Tuesday as he han­dled question after question about Holiday's status. Yes, Holiday is doing fine. Yes, it was good to see him out of the sling and practicing. No, nobody knows if Holiday will be ready to play Saturday. 
"If he doesn't get any reps, he's not going to play," Diedrick said. "But he did some of the drills today, more than we anticipated he would do." 
In the meantime, Dillingham hangs in limbo, not knowing whether he \\'ill start Saturday or not. He used the bye week to brush up on the Irish offense and spent the week­end staring at tape of Stanford's defense. And as Holiday recovers. Dillingham tlrn Irish. Although Tecvens said he met with his team and discussed playing against Willingham and his coaching staff. Notre Dame isn't con­vinced emotions will be a non­factor. 
"This will be. I think, a very emotional game for that group of young men, Willingham said. "I think whetlwr their coach highlight­,~d it or not, I think the young men have highlighted it as one that they have on their schedule, their calendar to be successful." 
Yet Teevens pointed out that it doesn't matter who is on what sideline -all that mat­ters is the players on the field. 
"I spoke to the guys last night, and it's a non-issue," he said. "We're not playing the coaching staff. we're play­ing the players." 
Passing losses 
There's a big reason the Cardinal have started the sea­son 1-2 -their shaky pass defense. 
In its three games, Stanford has allowed an average of 286 passing yards per game, rank­ing them 112th in the nation. After allowing 65 points to Arizona State last week, the Cardinal dropped to 104th in the nation in scoring defense. 
"Heflecting on the Arizona State game, it was clearly dis­appointing," Teevens said. "We basically didn't put any­thing together offensively, defensively or on special teams. It was a letdown game for us." 
But the Irish are wary of playing an opponent fresh off a humiliating loss. Moreover, Stanford has a knack for tak­ing out highly-ranked Irish teams on thl~ road. In three times the Cardinal played in Notre Dame Stadium while the Irish were ranked in the top 10, Stanford walked away with the upset victory. The most recent upset came in 1992, when the Hill Walsh­coached Cardinal squad scored 33 unanswered points to beat Notre Dame 33-16. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
enters game week prepara­tions as the starting quarter­back, something he hasn't done in nearly two years. 
"Honestly. it doesn't matter whether [Holiday] starts or not," Dillingham said. "I have to prepare myself like I'm the starter. Up until kickoff, in my mind, I'll be the starter, that's how I'm looking at it." 
His older teammates have already rallied around the sophomore backup quarter­back, praising his self-confi­dence and calm in the huddle. Dillingham's monotone voice rarely changes even as the number of reporters around him does. Besides. he knows that even if Iloliday starts, one hard hit to his shoulder could put Dillingham back in the spotlight. 
"Whether Carlyle's ready or not," Dillingham said, "I've got to be mentally ready to go." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 


Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-
SCHOOL DAZE 
15 JODI£: lNTERfSTl:D 1~ Mi? 
r, 1HE: Awswr:: 1V NUM~~rz. 11-!Rf 
mmoc 

HAPPY TOWN 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
e.L-L ME-If ,...,__ .JOE"? I T5 
ENf YOU?/ URC.E. 151H£ RE )(.(AP, 
c.e: 
w 
:-t MUST AAvE le:.S ~"'twit~~-. i\~r•...''MAOE; I~ lHI 
~ au~e:sis ~E.Au..: a.Yntl 

JACK MONAHAN 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirton
JJiJJ/li;vjj&JJE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
r•o~~~;~·~r· 
I rJ -J 
02002 Tribune Media Services. Inc All Ri hts Reserved. 
IVGLI 


INTOUG 
www.jumble.com
tROFTIP 
j Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, asJ I [ CJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: IT'S 
,, l I I 11 I I I 1 ] ,, 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: LOFTY TOXIN QUORUM MAMMAL Answer: This will make summer workers disappear ­AUTUMN 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 25 • To order, send your name, address and S5.95 and make check payable to Tribune Media Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 1 Kingdom east of  35 Capsular, biologically  67 Brother of Larry and Curly  
Fiji  39 CARE  68 Everything, to  
6 Sea plea  packages.say  Einstein  
9 "If I_rich  40 Emotionally  69 In sorry shape  
man ..."  burned out  70 Landscaper's  
14 Like some  42 Prefix with  supply  
suspects  meter  71 Ebbets Field  
15 Doll's name  43 Show shame  hero  
16 Summing up  45 Grid official  
17 Hose part  47 Play for a sap  DOWN  
18 Roll call call  48_nous  1 Yellowfin and  
19See 11-Down 20 Faster than  49 One teaspoon, maybe  bluefin 2 "_Mio"  
moderate 22 Not so vigorous  52 Natural skyline former  3 Loving motion 4 Lead ores  
24 Spotted  54 Unwanted  5 "Break_!"  
25 "This " (carton label)  cyber-ads 58 Most villainous  6 1957 Marlon Brando film  
27 Carnival 60 Rubout -follower 62 Not just sip28 "_ Is Born"\._ 63 Blow it30 Tick off 65 Fail miserably32 Writers' references 66_wrench ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  7 "The loneliest number" 8 Screw-up 9 Off the mark 10 Gives power to 11 With 19-Across, flashy display 12 Former ABC sitcom  PUZZie by Joel K1plow 34 Announcer Hall 36 Aunt Polly's nephew 37 Cretan peak  46 Permanently attached, to a zoologist 49 Painter of ballerinas  55 This is one 56 Van Gogh's ·sedroom at " 57 Reagan  
13 On the ball  38 Bamboozle  so Fertilization site  attorney general  
21 Many 12/26  41 Didn't go away  51 Steakhouse  59 Chooser's start  
store visitors 23 Focal point  44 Fought it out, in Britain  sound 53 Agenda entries  61 Off yonder 64 Kanga's kid  
26 By no means  

poured 

Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 29 Things to crack phone: 1-90()..285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
31 Actress Winona 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
punishment 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).
need 

Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network 33 Get a move on nytimes.com/learning/xwords. ' 


EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BOR.i"I ON TIIIS DAY: Donna Karan, Sting. Mike Rutherford -­Lorraine Bracco 
Happy Birthday: Don't be too shy to ask for help this year. Your tendency to take on way too much will lead to unfinished business if you don't get the help you require. Setting your priorities will be a must. You'll do just fine if you focus on what and who is important to you. Conduct yourself accordingly and you will move foiward in a positive manner. Your numbers are 14, 23, 25, 27, 33, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is a great day to get into activities that will include children. Consider doing something that will improve your appearance. 
*****
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Avoid making important decisions in your persona life. You are not thinking clearly and this will interfere with your logic. You may want to get some feedback from someone who knows you well. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your communication skills make you an excellent srx:,kesperson for those less fortunate. Take action if you have strong beliefs regarding certain situations.**** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Added responsibilities will be burdensome. Try to recruit family members to assist you. Try to achieve some balance. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You must be sure that you don't offend others with your blatant remarks. Think before you speak. Don't neglect your partner.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Don't push your luck if you are traveling. Authorities will not be forgiving when it comes to speeding. Be supponive and encouraging 
with children. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Donations made today will be appreciated and will enhance your feelings ofself-worth. Use your intuition to create idea~ that will 
help others be more self-sufficient. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Those closest to you will probably create difficulties. Don't try to push others into doing things your way. If your loved ones 
need room to breathe, give them the space.** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22--Dec. 21): You will derive the excitement you require from journeys of any length. You shouldn't be reckJess while driving. Go easy and 
have a wonderful time. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take care of paperwork. Look into any minor health problems that have been plaguing you. 'There are no serious problems. Rest 
is probably what you need most. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will feel anxious because of argument-; with your loved one. Remain impartial and confront situations one by one. Search out situations that will give you both what you need. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Cater to your lover's desires. It's time for a major house cleaning so that you can discover what you actually have stuffed in your 
closet~. *** 
Birthday Baby: You will be very disciplined. cautious and in need of praise. You will have oprx:,rtunities to accomplish whatever you want throughout your life. but you will have to be willing to take a chance. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at ai;troadvice.com, eugeniala-;t.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGJIT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two carnpuses. Please complete the accompa­nying for111 and mail it today to receive The Observer in your ho1ne. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ____________________ City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


Wednesday, October 2, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

QB's status still (Holi)day-to-day 


ND VOLLEYBALL 


By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
In Game 3 of Sunday's match between St. John's and Notre Dame. the Red Storm attempted to kill a ball from the back row. Middle blockers Lauren Brewster and Katie Neff and outside hitter Emily Loomis formed a wall and sent St. John's the same message the Irish have given all of their pre­vious opponents: 
Return to sender. 

This triple-team rejection is one example of the many mes­sages the Notre Dame front row has sent back to its opponents. 
"I think it plays a part in how well we have done this year," Loomis said. "We also have two awesome coaches that have worked a lot with us. We pride ourselves in how well we block." 
Through the team's first 14 matches. the Irish are averag­ing 3.82 blocks per game. With national rankings not updated yet, that average would place 
'(, 
them second in the nation for
.:, 
I'. 
the week of Sept. 22. In BigIf ' i East rankings, Notre Dame is 
' . 
I I 
' ~' 
I,), 
' i . 
I 
I 
' (
,( 
I / 
' 
Irish blockers emerging as strong defensive force 
( 
The first-year coaches at both Notre Dame and Stanford are trying to use
' t ' ,j( their ties to each other to their respective team's advantage in Saturday's ' j 
game.

' ) 
~ 
. I 
. \ 
page 22 
blowing away the competition, as Miami is second more than a block a game behind with a 
2.57 average. 
The current team average would shatter the previous school record of 3.57 blocks per game set in 1988. This frontline success is not surprising to the coaching staff. 
"The kids came in with pretty good fundamental skills and a couple of freshmen middle blocking right now had excel­lent verticals when they came in both blocking and approach," assistant coach Robin Davis said. "They listen to everything. They are really coachable, and they step up. They listen to the players that have been here and listen to the coaches. I think their progress has been pretty good. Either one of them might make mistakes, but they just go out and play." 
Middle blocker Lauren Kelbley joined the block party against St. John's Sunday. The freshman recorded a career­high 11 blocks and is now tied with Neff for third on the team 
see BLOCKERS/page 21 
FOOTBALL 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 
Bill Diedrick entered the interview room Monday and half-grinned, half-stared at the horde of media personnel that quickly surrounded him. 
"There's no quarterback controversy," the Irish offen­sive coordinator said. 
It's no secret quarterback Carlyle Holiday is the undis­puted starter against Stanford if he's healthy. The question everyone wants an answer to, and the question Irish coaches plan to take their time answering, is whether Holiday will be ready to go Saturday. 
"No change in status," Irish head coach Tvrone \.Yillingham said after p;actice before anyone could fire a question in his dirnction -the first time he gave an opening statement this season. 
According to Willingham and Diedrick, little has changed from how the Irish entered last week's practice. Until the Irish say otherwise, Pat Dillingham is the Irish starter. If Holiday, who Willingham said the Irish were evaluating on a day-to­day basis, is ready to play 
against the Cardinal, he will start. 
Holiday, who wasn't avail­able for interviews Tuesday. has improved since injuring his shoulder against Michigan State. Although he showed up to Tuesday's practice without a sling and in pads for the first time since injuring his shoulder a week and a half ago, Dillingham still received most of the snaps. 
How long the Irish plan to go before making a definitive decision on who will start Saturday is still up in the air ­much like the quarterback sit­uation in general. At his Tuesday press conference, Willingham refused to estab­lish a definite timetable the Irish will follow, but Diedrick hinted th.at the Irish might make a preliminary decision Thursday after practice but could wait until kickoff before naming a starter. 
"As you guys have probably figured out, I try not to make a decision until I absolutely have to," Willingham said. "So two minutes before the ball­game, if necessary, if that's as much time as we need to 
see HOLIDAY/page 22 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pasquerilla East 24, Howard 0 McGlinn 24, Pangborn 0 Alumni 22, O'Nem 6 
The Pyros and Shamrocks both poured it on the Ducks and Phoxes Tuesday, respectively, while the Dawgs dominated the Angry Mob in action this week­end. 
page 21 









