
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXVII NO. 49 
.-1.,. ~ h i (.._ I .-, '1 .... ~ d ·_
• 
of the uniforms either -stick Senior cornerback Jason with what works," she said. Beckstrom still feels confident 
Brian Michalek, a junior, had on the abilities of the team. friends in from home for the "How we played is not indica­game, which also happened to tive of how we've played this be Boston College students. The season," he said. long-standing rivalry between Beckstrom also noted that the the two universities continued Irish have a lot more potential to fill the game-time atmos­that they've yet to show this phere. season, and he is excited to see 
"My friends were impressed the team continue to work 
by  the  pre­ towards  that  
game festivi­ties. I was just excited  ''Boston College did to us what we've done tooth- potential. As the Irish prepare toface Navy next  
to be able to  ers all season. ••  Saturday, hopes  
show them a  remain  opti­ 
little what  bit  of ND  Sara Helming  mistic for the remainder of  
means  to  Junior  the season.  
me," he said.  "I  think  we  
Boston  have  a  good  
College took  shot to win the  

advantage of the Irish's mis­rest of our games, we just got takes to tarnish Notre Dame's outplayed and made mistakes," previously unbeaten record and said sophomore Carolyn push aside hopes for a champi­Meehan. onship season. 
"Boston College did to us what we've done to others all sea­
Contact Erin Brady at 
son," said Junior Sara Helming. 


ebrady. l@nd.edu. 





Irish loses to Boston College 
I11sider 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Students mO'iirilvSclturday' s loss to BC 
By ER1N BRADY 
News Writer 
Enthusiastic cheers of pride erupted from the student sec­tion of Notre Dame stadium as the football team took the field 
on Saturday afternoon. 
The players emerged wearing kelley green jerseys, showing their unity with the students who have been sporting the color all season. However, the excitement that filled the stadi­um turned to disappointment as the Irish fell to Boston College 14-7. 
While some students blamed the uniforms for the upset, oth­ers showed signs of frustration with the team's performance throughout the game. 
"Despite playing a good game, our mistakes -especially our turnovers, crushed us," said Junior Scott Sherwin. 
Sophomore Jacque Wilson echoed those feelings. "We didn't play like we've been playing, and I wasn't a fan 
t 


4th grader organizes protest 
PW laments AR dismissal 
dorm's hall presidents Laly Molina. 
"And apparently, we're never going to find out because of privacy and legal issues," she added. 
Arrangements were made for Cynthia Phillips to leave Pasquerilla West in a series of meetings in October with the Office of Student Affairs. 
Students received a formal statement by voicemail on 

see PWI page 4 

By MELISSA LOU 
News Writer 
With the support of his parents, parish priest, teach­ers and Notre Dame students and faculty, 9-year-old Matthew Caponigro braved the chilly South Bend weath­er Sunday in order to make a statement regarding the possible war against Iraq. 
"I know some of the other people were cold, but I came prepared for it, I had on sev­eral layers," said Caponigro. 
After witnessing a recent South Bend protest against the conflicts the U.S. is cur­rently involved in, the young activist was inspired to take protesting one step further. 
"If you walk, more people see you and you reach more people than if you just stand there holding signs," he said. 
Caponigro first heard about the war from his father, Jay Caponigro, direc­tor of the Robinson Community Learning Center. Prompted by Matthew's questions, Jay explained the conflict during a car ride. The next morning Matthew woke up with a new goal ­to express his disagreement with the war and to help change other people's vision about the war. 
"I got worried because I 

knew that the use of weapons against other peo­ple is bad, I learned this from my teachers. parents, priests, from all my guides. I had always been taught that guns are bad," said Caponigro. 
"I didn't know how serious he was at first. I told him we would help him think about it and that if he decid­ed to do it, we would support him, but we really just made 
a  few  phone  calls  and  
walked with him to a few  
meetings,"  said  Jay  
Caponigro.  

Matthew took on the task 
see MARCH/page 6 


By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
After the Pasquerilla West assistant rector was asked by the rector to leave the dorm for reasons unknown to residents, they showed their dismay Friday by hanging large banners on the residence hall pleading for her return. 
"We don't really know any of the real reasons that our AR is being relieved of her duties," said one of the 

Monday, November 4, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Alternatives 
to football 
Yes, it's true. The Irish lost on Saturday. 
The Cleveland Browns lost on Sunday. 

Not a very good weekend for a football fan such as myself. 
But, I haven't given up on my teams ye~ -not on either one of them. Yes, Notre Dame's chances for a national champi­onship have decreased about as much as the stock in my fridge this weekend. Yes, the Browns lost to the Steelers and I'll have to spend the next week hiding from my Pittsburgh friends -again. 
But I'm OK with that. That's what happens when you're a football fan. 
However, for those of you who have given up. who just can't take on more week of stress, I am offering some alter­natives. 
So here they are, a list of ways to spend your Saturday and Sunday afternoons instead of watching football. 
Rearrange your sock drawer. 

As exciting as finding that black sock that you've been missing for three months can be, it just won't be as hard on your heart as a football game. In addition. putting your socks in rainbow order will have less color effect than whether the Irish will wear green or blue on Saturday. 
Visit the senior citizen's center for a shuffle-board tournament. 
Now, I'm not suggesting that shuffie­board is quite as popular as football, but given enough time it could become quite a crowd-pleaser. You could begin a cheer­ing section, ala Cleveland Browns dog pound style, complete with middle-aged men in no shirts painted brown and orange. Or you could created "Return to Glory" shirts as Gretta Smith takes the upset victory against Bill Masters. 
Reread Kant's "Critique of Pure Reason." 
For those ofyou who haven't read Kant, you may not understand the beauty of this suggestion. But this 400-plus page book is a real page turner. If watching quarter­backs get sacked was your old love, you'll be unable to resist Kant sacking the histo­ry of philosophy. 
Buy a Chia pet and watch it grow. 

This newfound entertainment may sur­pass football as the American pastime. Exciting trick plays by the Chia pet's leaves making it look like a lamb instead of a dog are going just as exciting as trick plays to convert fourth downs. In addition, I've heard that pre-chia tailgating is a thing of the future. What could beat beer and brats in your dorm room as you and your roommate sing the chia pet com­mercial fight song and cook in your illegal microwave. 
Now, for those of you who don't find these alternatives too appealing, do what I'm going to do. Hang in there, have a lit­tle faith in your team's ability to come back and, even if they lose, keep on cheering. Football is mostly about win­ning, but sometimes it's just about appre­ciating the game. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmary.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us ac 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Saudi Arabia 
Saturday 

retracts
Scholar Series 
support of 
focuses on 

U.S. attacks
Middle East 

on Iraq
conflict 

Saudi Arabia will
Political Science 
not allow the U.S.
professor Alan 
to use its country 
Dowty discussed 
as a base for any 
the Israeli and 
U.S. attacks on
Palestinian conflict 
Iraq, regardless of
on Saturday, assert­
U.N. support.
ing that a peaceful 
solution is possible. 
page3 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Video presentation of "Struggling Unions." llesburgh Center Auditorium, 4 p.m. 

. 
Lecture with Jesus de la Tcja, Southwest Texas State University. "Saints, Bulls and More.·· DcBartolo Hall, 4:15 p.m. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
El Dia de los Mucrtos Celebration. Campus-wide, Nov. 5, 12:15 p.m. 

. 
Fall Day on Campus, an opportunity for perspective students. Campus-wide, Nov. 10, all day. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Linguine with vegeta­bles. Hawaiian pizza, honey-garlic pork chops, rotisserie chicken, herb-baked pollack, wild rice with pine nuts, tangy grilled chicken, szechwan vegetable noodles. 
Today Dinner: Hawaiian pizza, cauli­flower au gratin, grilled ham steak. beef potato pie, lemon-baked perch, BBQ chicken, beef and pepper casse­role, BBQ Caribbean chicken. 
BUSINESS 
VIEWPOINT
NEWS 

Fed announces additional cuts in interest rates 
A series of reports indicates that the economy may again face a slow down. Analysts predict an interest rate cut on Wednesday. 
page 7 Student laments decision to dawn kelley green jerseys 
According to a Notre Dame stu­dent, the green jer­seys have lost their luster. 
pages 8-9 
. 
British Drawings from the Hiley collection. Snite Museum of Art. all day. 

. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Placement presentation. Sponsored by the Career Center. McKenna Hall Auditorium. 5:30 p.m. 

. 
Senior Father/ Daughter week­end.Campus-wide, Nov. 8-10. 


North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Pepperoni, cheese, vegetable and tomato pizzas, apple turnover, chicken-in-the-pot soup, cream of broccoli soup, Texas chili, Budapest vegetable soup, walnut plum chicken breast, long grain and wild rice, cheddar pollack scrod, vegetable rice casserole, and chicken taco. 
Today's Dinner: Buffalo chicken lasagna, shrimp spaghetti, pepperoni, cheese and tomato pizzas, chicken-in­the-pot soup, cream of broccoli soup, Texas chili, Budapest vegetable soup, roasted turkey breast, bread stuffing. mushroom quiche, marinara vegetables, baked sweet potatoes, hot and spicy sea nuggets and Cantonese BBQ chicken. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:: 
Li.I 
:c 
~ 


Li.I 
~ 
..J 
<
(,) 






0 

HIGH 47 37 HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 32 32 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
46 
35 

45 
36 
SCENE SPORTS 
ND women's abound in 
Hidden gems 

cross country Notre Dame's 
runs away Snite Museum 

with Big East of Art 
championship 
The Notre Dame by its nondescript 
Don't be fooled 

women's cross exterior, Notre 
country team cap­Dame's Snite 
tured its first ever Museum of Art fea­
Big East title. tures famous trav­eling exhibits. 

page 20pages 10-11 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 

Visitor arrested 
A Notre Dame visitor was arrested by NDSP on charges -of criminal trespassing. 


Employee reports theft 
A Notre Dame employee reported the theft of a ring and a VCR tape. The theft occurred at an off-campus location. 
Student reports stolen 


bike 

A Zahm resident reported the theft of an unlocked bike parked outside the dorm. There are no suspects. 

NDSP recovers lost 
wallet 

NDSP found a wallet reported stolen at Main Circle. The wal­let was returned to the owner. 
Visitor r~ported 


missing <faughter 
A visitor reported a missing daughter to NDSP. The girl returned later that evening. 

Compiled from NDSP blotter 
Noble Family Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Orzo and meatball soup, cream of tomato soup, sausage and cheese pizzas, hot open faced beef sandwich, California burger, grilled cheddar raisin bread, eggplant parme­san sandwich, french fries, cheese enchiladas. rice con queso, grilled hummus baguetter, biriyani rice with cashews, vegetable kabbobs, black bean and corn salad, bananas foster bar. 
Today Dinner: Tomato and pesto and cheese pizzas, fried pork cutlet, grilled chicken gyro, grilled three cheese on wheat, Italian lasagna, Spinach lasagna, roasted button mushrooms and chipotle pepper corn muffins. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 


Atlanta 59 / 53 Boston 43 / 37 Chicago 48 / 35 Denver 45 / 29 Houston 63 / 59 Los Angeles 77 / 54 Minneapolis 41 / 31 New York 49 / 39 Philadelphia 51 / 37 Phoenix 77 / 55 Seattle 53 / 42 St. Louis 50 I 42 Tampa 83 / 69 Washington 53 / 42 


page 3
Monday, November 4, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Dowty addresses Middle East conflict 

CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer Political Science professor Alan Dowty explained the need for a change in government and reapportionment of land at the Saturday Scholars Series in order to solve the Israeli­Palestinian conflict. 

The October 25, 2002 message from our Mother, the Queen of Peace of Medjguorje! 
"Dear children! Also today I call you to prayer. Little chil­dren, believe that by simple prayer miracles can be worked. Through your prayer you open your heart to God and He works miracles in your life. By looking at the fruits, your heart _fills witl~f joy and gratitude to God for everything He 
,· ,,) ·.,
d 

o~s in ~our 1 ~ and, through you, also to others. Pray and · .,. believe little children, God gives you graces and you do not . -l ·t ,f see th~m. Pray and you will see them. May your day be :;--_·• _. _-,s. ;,'/ Kl,_ fil_led with prayer and thanksgi~ing for everything that God~. . .. __~-.-,..jt-_


::"-_·_J ->-.•.•_-> 
gives you. Thank you for having responded to my call." 

(~{~II; 
,. --· 
iei Monica Giussani 
By MARIA SMITH 

News Writer 

In the latest lecture of the Saturday Scholar Series, Political Science professor Alan Dowty dis­cussed the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict. He compared the public conception of the conflict to the famous fable of the frog and the scorpion. 
According to the fable, the frog agreed to give the scorpion a ride across the river. When the scorpi­on stung him halfway across, both began to drown. 
'"Why did you do that, now we're both doomed?' asked the frog," said Dowty. "The scorpion replied, 'Because this is the Middle East."' 
Dowty denied the view that the conflict is illogical or insoluble despite the violence and conflict that envelop the region. 
"It certainly may seem like there's no solution," said Dowty. "My thesis is that the gap between the sides has already narrowed considerably, and a likely solution is beginning to emerge." 
Although people might construe the conflict as a basic conflict between Islam and Judaism, Dowty denied that this was true. He pointed out that the original movement that created the Israeli movement was secular. 
"It's not a religious conflict in origin, but it's acquired religious dimensions," said Dowty. 
He acknowledged that a resolu­tion to the conflict did not seem to be immediately forthcoming. 
"In order to be optimistic, you have to have a long-term perspec­tive," he said. 
Dowty outlined what he saw as the three possible resolutions to the conflict. One side or the other could claim the entire territory, the two sides could agree to bi­national control of the area, or the sides could divide the land. 
Dowty saw the first two solu­tions as improbable. Neither side currently tries to claim the full extent of the territory, nor does 
either show any sign of relin­
quishing its claims. 

"A state that doesn't allow a 
Palestinian homeland is not fair to 
the Palestinians, nor is a state that 
does not allow an Israeli home­
land fair to the Israelis,·• said 
Dowty ofthese solutions. 

However, Dowty thought the 
idea of dividing the land was a 
plausible solution. A few remain­
ing points of conflict such as 
Israeli settlements in the West 
Bank, control of certain areas of 
Jerusalem, and the future of 
Palestinian refugees still impair 
the agreement. 

"The West Bank settlers are 
only two to three percent of the 
Israeli population but they've 
made it a hot issue," Dowty said. 
"There are almost four million 
Palestinian refugees who want to 
return to their original homes in 
Israel." 

Though Dowty believes a solu­tion to the conflict is possible, he doubted whether this could hap­pen under the current govern­ments of Ariel Sharon and Yasser Arafat. 
Dowty emphasized Israel might have to give up its occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip for the good of both itself and Palestine. He did not believe Israel could successfully maintain its occupation, remain democratic, and remain Jewish, considering the growing Muslim majority in these areas. 
"Israel can do two of these 
things, but not all three," said 
Dowty. 

Dowty closed by reasserting that despite problems, this conflict is not without possible solutions. 
"This is not terribly hopeless," he said. "It is merely terrible." · Dowty teaches in the political science department at Notre Dame. He is a Fellow of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, and has written exten­sively on the conflict. 
Contact Maria Smith at smith.525@nd.edu. 



Our voice in Indianapolis. 
As our State Representative, 8. Patrick Bauer has been busy REDUCING OUR TAXES, like: 
• 
Cutting Homeowner Property Taxes, on average, by nearly 13%. 

• 
Cutting Renters' Income Taxes by $500. 


• Cu~ing Re~I Property and Individual Property Taxes by 20%. 
• Cutting Business Property Taxes, on average, by 23.4%. 

And he's fought for MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN FUNDING for important community projects, like: 
• 
Restoration of the Palais Royale and Morris Performing Arts Center 

• 
The AM General expansion • The new Transpo facility 

• 
The new Ivy Tech campus • IUSB Student Activities Building 



PAID FOR BY THE BAUER FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE COMMITTEE 




GREAr WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan •Hunan• Cantonese• American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
(574) 272-7376 • 222 Dlxleway South 
(U.S. 31 In Roseland) South Bend, IN 

ND Exr1i£ss 
[!{t,!EJ~ Ul.lU OF f.;fm~wui) 

96N UP AT NO ExPr<Ess SPoNSOl~EO rl THE STVOEHT ACTMTlES Offfa. 

Monday, November 4, 2002
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



Club celebrates SMC diversity 
The club so far has had
By MElANIE BECKER 
dance workshops, bowling and 
News Writer 
movie nights and several pre­sentations on different coun­tries.
New programs and projects "International students need

have been implemented at support from other interna­
Saint Mary's this year in order 
tional students. We are theto increase cultural under­ones who understand each
standing among the student 
other best," said Nikolova. "Itbody. The International Club, 
is much easier to come and
All Around the World was 
talk to someone who has livedformed to give international through the whole process of
students a voice and raise adopting to
campus 
American cul­awareness. 
"International students ture."
The idea In conjunc­

began last need support from other 
tion with theyear when 
international students ... 

Student
several stu­Diversity Boarddents want­
{ S D B ) ,
ed to start a Jeni Nikolova 
International
club for International Club president 
Club students
internation­are sponsoring
al students 
a Taste Fest on
at the 
Nov. 19 whereCollege. With the support of they will provide internationalAkmaral Omarova, last year's dishes and cultural information student trustee to the College for the entire student body toboard of trustees, several stu­taste.
dents met to discuss the pur­
In December, SDB and
pose of the club and ideas for International Club will team up
the 2002-2003 academic 
again to send Christmas gifts toschool year. 
children's charities. 
The Board of Governance 

"It's been a goal of SDB forofficially approved the club in the Saint Mary's community toSeptember. 
have more interaction with
The club's mission is to bring 

international students," SDBout the similarities between 
vice president Nila Ahmad,
regular and international stu­said.
dents on campus. 
The next International Club"We are trying to integrate 
meeting will be held this
international students into the 
Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the
community better and make them feel at home." 

Contact Mekenie Becker at 

International Club President 

Beck093 l@saintmarys.edu. 

Jeni Nikolova said. 

Economic Forecasting Summit 
Feoruring marker strat~ists: 
Terry Savage, Chicago Sun Tunes Robert Stovall, Clemente Capital, Inc. Scott Malpass, University ofNotre Dame Carol Stone, Nomura Securities International Richard Driehaus, Driehaus Capital Management Inc. 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 South Be.nd Ce.ntury Cente.r 120 S. Jose.ph Stree,t South Be.nd, Indiana 
$20 indudes contlne,ntal breakfast 
For registration Information call 574-239-2380 x 234 or e-mail niwib@niwib.com 
Spomorrd/,y 
l'NIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAMf.

0 Investment Services JobWorks 
-________... 
PW 
continued from page 1 
Thursday. Phillips, a second­year law student, was serving her first year as an assistant rector. 
Molina said those who signed the banner, which was proposed by hall co-president Sarah Finch, were not trying to attack any individual but they wanted to show support for Phillips in hopes that this situation did not happen to others. 
While many residents were vocal about the situation, the hall staff was hesitant to com­ment on it for various rea­sons. 
The Pasquerilla West rec­tor, Sister Sue Bruno, said she could not comment because of privacy issues. 
"It's a residence hall and a personnel matter," she said. 
Phillips, who retains her status as an employee of the University, said she was more concerned about the RAs. 
"I cannot comment on it because I'm worried about the RAs and I'm worried about the dorm community," Phillips said. 
Resident assistants in Pasquerilla West were reluc­tant to jeopardize their posi­tions as members of hall staff and also declined to com­ment. 
Other students in the dorm said they were frustrated because they do not believe that there was a convincing reason for Phillips' leave. 
"I'm sure there are two sides to the issue, but we only know one side and that's what we're acting on," Molina said. 
Pam Ronson, president of Hall Presidents Council, said she and her fellow residents 







Interrace 
November's Topic: Mixed-Race Health Issues 
Date: November 6th 
Time: 5:30 p.m. 
Place: CSC Classroom 





in Pasquerilla West have been said. "This is just another uninformed about hall-related thing toward the straw that issues for too long. will break the camel's back." 
"The problem with the fir­ing of our AR is that it's just one more personal attack Contact Helena Payne at against the dorm," Ronson payne.30@nd.edu. 


Monday, November 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
EGYPT 
Saudi Arabia refuses to assist U.S. ·attacks on Iraq 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 
Saudi Arabia will not allow bases on its soil to be used for an attack on Iraq even if the United Nations authorizes mil­itary action, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said in an interview broadcast Sunday. 
Saud i Arabia 
earlier "We have many friends and ruled out allies in the region, and we have 
the use of 
many friends and allies around 
its territo­
ry for uni­the world. There is no doubt 
lateral U.S. that George Bush will not enter action 
into any kind ofconflict unless 
against Iraq, but had indi­cated it w o u I d cooperate in some way if the 
U.N. Security approved. 
he·s sure of victory . ., 
Mary Matalin White House aide 
Council 
In the CNN interview, how­ever, Saud said more clearly that Saudi cooperation would not include permitting use of its territory for strikes against Iraq. 
"We will cooperate with the Security Council, but as to entering the conflict or using the facilities as part of the 

Voters focus on domestic issues in upcoming elections 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Voters' attention is more on focused on domestic issues than foreign policy, say pre-election polls, but that atten­tion doesn't appear to be giving Democrats the widespread advantage they hoped for in Tuesday's closely matched congressional elections. 
When voters were asked which issues were most important in deciding their vote for Congress. economic issues such as the recession, jobs. taxes and the budget deficit were twice as likely to be named as foreign policy issues 
conflict, that is something else," Saud said. 
Pressed about whether Saudi bases could be used, he gave a definite "no." 
In Washington, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer refused to comment on the CNN interview. 
White House aide Mary Matalin responded obliquely 
when asked about Saud's C O m • men ts in a s e pa ­r a t e 
C N N 
inter­
view.  
"  W  e  
h  a  v  e  

many friends a n d allies in 

the region, and we have many friends and allies around the world. There is no doubt that George Bush will not enter into any kind of conflict unless he's sure of victory," she said. 
Saud also said his govern­ment believed it was still pos­sible to avoid war. 
"Iraq has made a very clear and unambiguous promise to the Arab countries that it will abide by the United Nations resolutions," he said. 
The Security Council is debating a U.S. proposal to toughen U.N. weapons inspec­tions after Iraq agreed to allow inspectors to return after nearly four years. The United States wants the coun­cil to authorize harsh mea­sures against Iraq if it fails to cooperate. 
However, Russia. China and France oppose the American proposal, fearing it would give a green light to Washington to attack Iraq without further consultations. Security Council members expect the United States to offer an amended draft resolution this week. 
Arab nations have spoken out against unilateral U.S. military intervention to oust Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. They have indicated more willingness to accept such action if the United Nations approves. 
Most Arab nations joined the U.S.-led Gulf War coalition that liberated Kuwait in 1991. Saudi Arabia allowed U.S. troops into the oil-rich king­dom to defend it against Iraq. 
U.S. command-and-control facilities have been based in the kingdom, but Washington is now beefing up a base in the Gulf nation of Qatar. 

like Iraq, terrorism and national secu­rity, according to a poll released Sunday by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press. 
"There's no national trend apparent in this poll or any other this cycle," said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center. "The outcome of this election will be determined on a race­by-race basis with candidate qualities and local issues dominant." 
Recent polls have shown Democrats and Republicans generally even on the question of who could best handle the economy, though Democrats have a slight edge in some. 
"Given the fact that consumer confi­dence is at a 9-year low. you would have expected that to help Democrats," Kohut said. "But there's not a clear margin of advantage for Democrats over Republicans on the economy... 
Democratic national Chairman Terry McAuliffe said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press" that "the issues are on our side, the economy, Social Security. pre­scription drugs." 
Some political analysts have suggest­ed that Democrats don't have an advantage on the economy because they haven't offered a clear alterna­tive. 
Republican national Chairman Marc Racicot said he isn't surprised Democrats haven't gained a clear advantage on the economy. 
Racicot, also on NBC, mentioned the international problems like terrorism that have been affecting the economy and said: "This recession started before [Bush] took office. The American people know precisely what's going on." 
The Pew poll showed the congres­sional race remains very close, while a CBS-New York Times poll out this weekend gave the Republicans a slight edge. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Early elections to be held in Jerusalem: 
Benjamin Netanyahu, a former prime minister, will join Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's faltering coalition government as foreign minister on the condition that early elections are held, a Netanyahu official said Sunday. Sharon and Netanyahu met Sunday for the second time in three days as Sharon attempted to shore up his coalition, which is in danger of col­lapse. He also met with representatives of a far­right party who could give him a parliamentary majority if they joined. Elections must be held by November of next year, but could take place sooner. 
Afghanistan fires corrupt officials: 
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has fired between 15 and 20 top civil and military chiefs across the coun­try, accusing them of corruption and abuse of power, officials said Sunday. The move came after an emer­gency Cabinet meeting late Saturday, presidential spokesman Sayed Fazel Akbar told reporters. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Major earthquake rocks Alaska: A 
major earthquake rocked a sparsely populated area of interior Alaska early Sunday afternoon, cracking highways and roads, knocking over fuel tanks and shaking rural homes. The magnitude 
7.9 quake, centered 90 miles south of Fairbanks, was strongly felt in Anchorage about 270 miles to the south. It hit at 1:13 p.m. Alaska Standard Time, said Bruce Turner of Alaska and Tsunami Warning Center. The state patrol said no injuries were immediately reported. 
L.A. pileup injures 41: Nearly 200 cars and big-rig trucks collided on a foggy stretch of Long Beach Freeway early Sunday, injuring dozens of people, nine critically, and closing the highway for hours. California Highway Patrol Officer Joseph Pace said 194 vehicles. including seven or eight tractor-trailers, were involved in two separate pileups about a half-mile apart. 
Army considers eliminating jobs: The Army is considering contracting out nearly 214,000 military and civilian support jobs to the private sector in an ambitious plan to free money to fight terrorism and comply with President Bush's desire to trim the federal government through outsourcing. Army Secretary Thomas E. White has directed his comman­ders to submit plans by Dec. 20 to privatize or out­source all functions not essential to fighting wars. If approved, the unprecedented government overhaul could begin this spring and affect two-thirds of the Army civilian work force. Military personnel would be reassigned. 
Florida vouchers rejected: More than one in four students who took a voucher to attend private school in Florida this semester have transferred back to public education, a newspaper reported. This summer, 607 students requested taxpayer-funded vouchers to leave public schools that received failing grades. 
Monday, November 4, 2002

page 6 The Observer . NEWS 

obtain permission to end his march against the war at the University. 
Graham first heard about Matthew's ambitious plans to express his 
March 
continued from page 1 
of organizing the march, making flyers, and obtaining support from his school­mates, school principal, teachers, and pastor. 
"I came up with a list of things we could do and then I just let everything fall into place. Things could have fallen in the wrong places, but I am grateful that every­thing went well," he said. 
Paul Graham, a member of the Peace Coalition, a stu­dent-run organization that opposed U.S. intervention in Afghanistan and the possible upcoming conflict with Iraq, helped young Caponigro 
Listeria 
Associated Press 
New York 
Inspectors had warned a food plant of numerous sanitation violations months before a deadly listeria outbreak was linked to the facility, but little was done to fix the problems, a newspaper said Sunday. 
Moldy pipes, food particles left on conveyor belts. water leaking onto meat and a cock­roach found in a locker were among dozens of problems the 
U.S. Department of Agriculture found at the suburban Wampler Foods plant, accord­ing to inspection documents obtained by the Philadelphia Inquirer. 
Despite being cited for viola­tions more than 40 times since January. "corrective actions were either not implemented or ineffective," the USDA records said. 
The plant closed Oct. 12 after officials identified it as a source of a listeria outbreak blamed for at least seven deaths and dozens of illnesses. Wampler's 
pastor, 
opposition to the war through his interactions w i t h Matthew's  "/ came up with a list of things we could ofand then I just let everything fall into place."  F a t h e r Anthony Szakaly. On campus, the march began at Main  
Father, Jay  Circle  and  
Caponigro. Upon learn­ing of the  Matthew Caponigro protest organizer  included a short prayer by Bishop  
march,  John Darcy,  
Graham  ending at the  

decided to get involved. University's Grotto with a 
.. He [Matthew] actually prayer for peace offered by organized everything, all the Father Thomas McDermott. Peace Coalition did was sponsor his event and help Contact Melissa Lou at get permission for it; he's lou. l@nd.edu 
Dunlap said there was no "system• "Enforcement is 
atic prob­
substandard, and the 
lem" with 
the plant plants are not living up and said to the responsibility of 
that before 
policing themselves.·· 
the recall the USDA hadn't con• Larry Berman sidered any 
USDA food Inspector

of the viola­tions cited inspector in Albany. N.Y., said problems similar to those found at Wampler occur throughout the industry. 
"If you look at all the recalls, you'II see the same story: Enforcement is substandard, 
ND names new vice president 

given 
Special to The Observer 

Roberto Gutierrez, a televi­sion executive from San Antonio, today was elected vice president for public affairs and communication Notre Dame by its Board of Trustees. The appointment is effective Dec. 2. 
Gutierrez, who received an honorary doctorate from the University in 1999, co-founded the Hispanic Telecommunications Network in 1982. The organization pro­duces the weekly television series, Nuestra Familia, the only national Catholic evange­lization series televised for the nation's Latino community. The program is funded in part by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops' Communications Campaign. 
"Roberto's great accomplish­ments as a communicator and his abundant entrepreneurial skills will be of great value to the University in this important position that oversees our rela­tionship with the media, gov­ernment and the general public through many venues," Father Edward Malloy, Notre Dame's president, said in announcing the board action. 
"I am honored to share in the tradition of service and educa­tion that Notre Dame repre­sents for the world," Gutierrez said. "I will work to further the goals of the University, help implement its strategic plan and vision, and seek new ways to articulate that vision to emerging audiences in this country and abroad." 
He added, "Since childhood, growing up in the Latino neigh­borhoods of San Antonio, those of us fortunate to have attended Catholic schools, could only dream that we. would one day become part of the storied leg­end that is Notre Dame." He said he felt "uniquely called by God to this special vocation as vice president for public affairs and communication." 
The public affairs and com­munication division of the 
University encompasses the 
offices of news and information, 
marketing communications, 
University communications 
design. photographic and televi­
sion production, Notre Dame 
Magazine, community relations 
and governmental relations. 
The post became vacant earlier 
this year when Lou Nanni was 
appointed vice president for 
University relations. 
Gutierrez has been active in Catholic organizations including the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops' Communications Committee; the Hispanic Catholic Communications Conference; CTG, the Catholic advocacy group to the Faith & Values Channel; the Association of Catholic Television and Radio Syndicators; and the Catholic Academy of Communication Arts Professionals (formerly UNDA-USA). 
A graduate of St. Mary's University in San Antonio, Gutierrez pursued graduate studies at the Oblate School of Theology. ·He began his career as promotions director for the El Visitante Dominica! Newspaper of the Oblate Missions in San Antonio. After co-founding HTN. he served in a number of positions until becoming president and CEO in 1985. He was instrumental in negotiating agreements between HTN and UNIVISION, Galavision, PBS and the Hallmark Channel. He has made frequent television appearances and is an experi­enced public speaker. 
In talking about his new career, Gutierrez said, "For 20 years, I have worked exclusive­ly in the not-for-profit sector in support of and for the commu­nication of gospel values through television, radio and the Internet. The invitation to join Notre Dame is a continua­tion of that journey, bringing with me all that I have learned about telling our human story, to a campus that already has that special story-telling char­acter as its hallmark." 

DON'T DISRUPT PROGRESS IN SOUTH BEND SCHOOLS! 
VOTE 

SHEILA 
BERGERON 
FOR SCHOOL BOARD 
PAID FOR BY BERGERON FOR SCHOOL BOARD COMMITTEE JOHANNA MONEY, TREASURER 
parent company. Pilgrim's Pride, recalled more than 27 million pounds of turkey and chicken, the biggest meat recall in U.S. history. 
Wampler spokesman Gary 
ing plants in the United States, but some consumer advocates have warned that regulatory changes in 1998 took away their enforcement powers. 
Larry Berman, a USDA food 
in the records serious enough to close the factory. 
Among violations cited by the USDA were meat residue from the previous day's production found in processing areas "grease and brown-black buildup" on conveyor surfaces, and clear liquid and "black for­eign particles" draining into frozen meat. 
USDA inspectors are on site daily at all 6,400 meat-process­and the plants are not living up to the responsibility of policing themselves," Berman told the Inquirer. 
On Saturday. the USDA said another meat processing com­pany, Jack Lambersky Poultry Co. Inc., in Camden, N.J., was recalling 200,000 pounds of ready-to-eat chicken and turkey sold nationwide and possibly linked to the listeria outbreak. 
O
THE 


BSERVER 
USI 


Monday, November 4, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch November 1 
DowJones 
8,517.64 ~ +120.61 
NASDAQ 
1,360.70 ~ +30.95 
S&P500 
900.96 ~ +15.20 
AMEX 
828.99 
+9.99 
NYSE 
480.41 +7.51
~ 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +3.85 +0.43 11.61 
~Bii111ii;:iiw~Rii::i!:J.fJi~=~~;:11.~li.:@w.1i~:ij(~~i 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +5.78 +1.0018.30 
~$~iijji:;:jiiDl:;::i1lrt1!1gi§j~~fwl!;li1¥!~!~@ 
LUCENT TECH (LU) -7.32 -0.09 1.14 
IN BRIEF 
GM promotes financial leader 
General Motors Corp. on Sunday announced the appointment of Eric A. Feldstein to lead the financial arm of the world's No. 1 automaker. 
Feldstein, 43, succeeds John D. Finnegan, General Motors Acceptance Corp. 's chairman and president, effective immediately. Finnegan, 53, resigned to become president and chief executive of Warren, N.J.-based The Chubb Corp. 
Feldstein, currently GM vice president finance and treasurer, has been promoted to GM group vice president and president of GMAC. He will become a member of the GM Automotive Strategy Board and assume the position of chairman and president of the GMAC Mortgage Group. 
United Airlines pilots take pay cut 
Leaders of the pilots union at United Airlines endorsed a $2.2 billion reduction in labor costs over 5 1/2 years, including sub­stantial pay cuts, to help the financially strapped carrier. 
The airline is seeking $5.8 billion in labor savings from all its unions in order to get a $1.8 billion government-guaranteed loan to stave off bankruptcy. 
The master executive council of United's branch of the Airline Pilots Association approved the plan Friday. The union mem­bership has 30 days to vote on it. 
Three firms ally on Prilosec 
Three generic drug companies have joined forces to launch a generic version of the blockbuster ulcer medication Prilosec by the end of the year. The new version eventually could save consumers and busjnesses billions of dollars. 
Andrx Corp. and GenPharm Inc. will relin­quish their six-month, co-marketing exclusivi­ty for a generic form of Prilosec to Kremers Urban Development Co., known as KUDCo, for a share of the profits. 
Elections to boost Wall Street 
. Analysts predict rise for business stocks 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

While political candi­dates bang the drum for last-minute votes, the stock market's had a rally of its own. The way many investors see it, Wall Street can only win on Election Day. 
In one scenario, the Republican Party gains total control of Congress in Tuesday's midterm elec­tion and moves on with a pro-business agenda. The expectation of that out­come has helped power some of the recent advances in the stock mar­ket. 
"It is a good piece of it," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst for Jefferies & Co. "Everyone is saying, 'That is great. They will take care of all of our business problems. We will worry about social issues later."' 
The other likely sce­nario: Voting reaffirms the status quo, with Republicans in control of 
REUTERS

the House and a 
President Bush and Rrst Lady Laura Bush hit the campaign trail before the midtenn eleo­
Democrat-run Senate in a standoff that keeps any tions. Analysts expect a market Increase after Tuesday's elections. radical reforms from being October a winner for Wall that its profits missed fore-pass stricter punishments 
passed. Street. The Dow Jones casts by 5 cents a share. for corporate accounting "The markets, frankly, industrial average rose While many factors can malfeasance -despite all would probably be happi­10.6 percent last month, contribute to changes in the calls for reform in the est if we continued in the its best October since any single stock, a wake of scandals involving state of deadlock with one 1982, when it gained 10.7 Republican congress in such companies as Enron party controlling one percent and its best month considered less likely to and WorldCom. The chamber and another since January 1987, when pass price control legisla-Democrat -controlled party controlling the it climbed 13.8 percent. tion or other reforms that Senate and Republican­other," said Charles G. Meanwhile last month, the could affect drugmakers' controlled House were not 
Crane, strategist for Nasdaq composite index profits. able to agree on details of Victory SBSF Capital rose 13.5 percent and the With razor-thin margins the legislation. Management. Standard & Poor's 500 in pre-election polls in sev-According to Jeff Hirsch, 
The market believes that index advanced 8. 7 per-eral states, Republicans publisher of the Stock a GOP-controlled Congress cent. are hardly assured of the Trader's Almanac. stocks would be a boon to most While the entire market key gains they hope to have rallied after previous business sectors, especial­has been enjoying a nice make Tuesday. If midterm elections in which ly tobacco, pharmaceuti-ride, the fact that some Democrats hold their own, the president's party cals and defense. companies' stocks have Wall Street will still be either wins control of the Companies and the done well, despite negative happy. House or loses no more wealthy also could expect earnings reports, indicates "The market, and the than 8 percent of its seats. more tax breaks. that expectations of a people, like balance," said The Almanac doesn't track 
While surprisingly strong Republican victory could Dan Ascani, editor of the the Senate, because the earnings also played a be at play. newsletter, "Profits House election is bigger role, a perceived improve­Drug maker Wyeth, for Without Borders:• and thus a better gauge of ment in Republican example rose 6 percent in For example, this year Americans' political senti­chances helped make October, despite reporting Congress was unable to ment, according to Hirsch. 

Fed will further cut interest rates 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Federal Reserve is likely to move four-decades-low interest rates even lower this week in the face of rising worry that the strug­gling economy is headed for rougher times. 
A series of recent economic reports has offered indications that the country's sputtering recovery is once again threatening to stall, and that leads many private economists to predict a rate cut when Fed poli­cy-makers meet Wednesday. 
"The jury is now in, and the ver­dict is rate cut," said Sherry Cooper, 
an economist at BMO Financial Group. 
Most economists believe the only question mark is whether the-Fed will cut its target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, by one-quarter or one-half of a percentage point. 
The funds rate has rested at 1. 7 5 percent since Dec. 11. That's when the central bank made its 11th rate cut in an aggressive yearlong cam­paign to bolster economic activity and restore growth. The Fed acted while the country was in the grips of its first recession in a decade and still suffering economic shocks from the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. 
The Fed was content to leave the funds rate at its lowest level in four decades for an extended period in the belief the low rates would work their normal magic and restore stronger growth. 
Such low rates have allowed automakers to offer zero-interest financing deals that drew buyers into auto dealerships in record num­bers through the summer. They also have produced the lowest mortgage rates since the mid-1960s, spurring sales of new and existing homes to record levels. The strength in these two critical areas, however. has been insufficient to launch a sus­tained economic recovery. 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

page 8 Monday, November 4, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDITOR Kate Nagengast  BUSINESS MANAGER Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR Andrew Soukup  OPERATIONS MANAGER Bob Woods  
NEWS EDITOR:  Helena Payne  

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna SAINT MARY"s EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD OF.SIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SnTEMs ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROll.ER: Lori Lc:walski 
CONTACT Us OmCE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX. ............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY"s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsmJtr.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~tions rtgarding Obseroerpolicm should be dimt• ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION The Ob.<=r (USPS 599 240) u published Monday <hruugh Friday a~p• during o:am and vacation pmoda, A u1b.cription to The Obsn-vu ia S100 for OM acadrmk y<><: S5S for one xmc,rtt. 
Th< Oboavn i, publidxd ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send iddrn, rormctioru to: 
Not~ Dame, IN -165¾ Th, Obo= 
P.O. Bo,Q Periodical pon,ge p<id ar N<Mn: D&mc Notre Dm><. IN 46556--0779 ..,.i ..Llirional mailing offu:n. 
The Ob.,...., i, a memba ofthe, Aaocia«d Pr<U. All ttproducrion righ1> att 
....,...4. 
Americans vote on real issues 
. Perhaps if election issues were as interesting in America as they are in Oklahoma. more people would vote this Tuesday. 
As it stands, voter turnout in America has not reached 60 percent since the 1960s. And to cite an even worse statistic, in 1996, only 55 percent of 18-to 20­year olds were registered, and only 31 percent of those registered actually Laura Rompf voted. Young and old alike, Americans are not as fired up about politics today as they were in the past. Beyond the 
However, leave it to the Sooner State Bubble to put an issue on the ballot that has people talking about politics again. This Tuesday, Oklahomans will go to the polls to vote in normal elections for senator, governor, representatives and even attorney general. 
But perhaps the most talked about ballots will be cast on State Question 698: whether cock fighting should remain legal in the state of Oklahoma. A bill was passed earlier in the year by both the state House and Senate to outlaw the prac­tice. and on Tuesday, registered voters will decide the out­come. 
Now I am not advocating for or against cock fighting. I have never witnessed a fight. But finally in my government classes, there is an issue students have a strong feeling about and are willing to discuss. 
If I ask them who they feel would make the best governor for the state of Oklahoma, they stare blankly. But if I ask them whether or not cock fighting should be outlawed, imme­diately they have opinions. Perhaps it is because they are 17 years old and can spout off several immature jokes about the title of the sporting event, but I believe it has more to do with the actual issue involved. 
Whether one is for or against cock fighting, there are defi­nitely two distinct sides to argue. Either someone believes that it is cruel toward the animals, disgusting. animalistic and down right barbaric. 
Or maybe another person takes the side that Americans have civil liberties and civil rights. Whether we agree with cock fighting or not, the government does not have the right to infringe on the freedoms given to us in the Constitution ­basic rights our country was founded on and stands for today. 
Either way, there are two very distinct, arguable sides. 
Perhaps that is the root of the problem with many of the other races that will be decided this Tuesday: there are not two distinct sides. Many Americans feel they are choosing between virtually the same candidate. 
Both the Democrats and the Republicans claim to be fight­ing to erase the national debt. lower taxes, help working fam­ilies. improve education and give health care to the elderly and the poor. Today, most candidates for high political offices come from wealthy families and have prestigious educational backgrounds. 
Many times today, it's hard to determine if there is any real difference between the two candidates at all, and voters end up deciding between "the lesser of two evils." 
So while politicians and reporters can claim that Americans are apathetic and uneducated. and this is the reason they're not voting, I think there's more to the problem. 
Leave it to Oklahoma and an issue like cock fighting to show that Americans aren't too lazy to vote and they do have valid opinions. They just want elections with real options where they can make a genuine choice. 
Laura Rompfis a 2002 graduate ofNotre Dame. She is cur­rently teaching in Oklahoma City through the Alliance for Catholic Education. Her column appears every other Monday. Contact her at lrompj@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Bush hubris leads to inefficiency 
Remember the saying that tells us, "Government is not the solution, it's the problem?" This slogan was a rallying cry of the Reagan era in its campaign against the Great Society and, before that, the New Deal. It comes as no sur­prise that this theory of government also enjoys the support of the present Bush administration. 
What is remarkable about today's White House is that it simultaneously holds the opposite article of faith: not only that government always gets things wrong, but also that this particu­lar government always gets things right. A confidence in its own infallibili­ty runs throughout the administration. You can see its purest strain in the per­son of John Ashcroft. In the aftermath of Sept. 11, and speaking "ex cathe­dra," he informed the Senate and the public that opposition to the adminis­tration's Patriot Act amounted to trea­son. This proclamation does not spring from a modest understanding of gov­ernment. 
It is instructive to observe how the earlier proposition metastasized into its opposite. With the clarity of hindsight, we could detect an embryonic version of this supreme self-confidence in the 2000 presidential campaign and the early days of the administration. 
Candidate Bush wanted, above all else, to restore dignity and honor to the presidency. The implication was obvi­ous, if unspoken: he was no Bill Clinton, and that was all one needed to know. Bush was similarly brief when describ­ing the qualifications of his appointees and nominees. He called them "good people" of "good character," and I think he genuinely believed that other credentials. such as experience, were irrelevant in the presence of such good­ness. 
The important question that went unasked was whether he or his appointees thought of themselves as servants of government or more like government itself. We now know it was the latter; lacking confidence in govern­ment itself, the administration invested complete faith in the people who run it. 
A government of men, not of laws, is deeply anti-democratic. The founders of our democracy knew that power cor­rupts, and so they sought to fashion a kind of system that would restrain this impulse -hence our system of checks and balances. The Bush administration has openly chafed at these restrictions on its power rather than welcome them as opportunities to craft policies based on reason and consensus. The objection here is notjust an academic one. 
Rather, the administration's hubris is the source of ineffective policies. On the home front. the White House's econom­ic measures have failed in large part because it insists that, no matter what the problem is, the solution is always a tax cut. As to the international scene, the administration, having failed in its pursuit of Al-Qaeda, is on the verge of spending lives on a war in Iraq that even many career military officials oppose. 
It's often said that democracy becomes a necessary casualty in times of crisis. But these times, at least, tell a different tale -that America's strength resides in its laws and its commitment to justice and equality, both here and abroad. Too much is at stake these days to cave in to extreme thinking about government or to offer empty expressions of patriotism. As we go to make our choices next week, we might want to think not only about the candi­dates' specific positions but also about which ones ground their ideas in demo­cratic principles and a commitment to public service. 
Edmund Goehring 
assistant professor Program of Liberal Studies Oct. 31 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Andrew Thagard Shannon Nelligan Oaire Heininger Sarah Nestor 
Viewpoint 
Sheila Flynn 
Graphics 
Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Katie McVoy Bryan Kronk Chris Federico Joe Lindsley 
Scene 
Emily Howald 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Did you obtain an absentee ballot to vote in 
"Never underestimate a man who over­
the midterm elections? 
estimates himself.'' 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Franklin D. Roosevelt American president 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, November 4, 2002 page9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Green doesn't guarantee glory 
Did you go to the game on Saturday? I did. 
What did you see out on the field? I saw green -a green that 
matched the color of my "Return to Glory" T-shirt. 
Before the game, I was surprised to see my beloved blue and 
gold team dressed in green. I was psyched just like everyone else; 
however. when everything started to go against us out on the 
field, I began to have flashbacks. 
It was 1993. The leaves were changing colors, the Irish had the 
No. 1 spot outright and I was 10 years old. I sat in the south end 
zone of the old Notre Dame Stadium and watched Lou Holtz call 
timeouts for Boston College, during what would become the 
game-winning drive for the Golden Eagles that would cast the 
Irish down-and-out into the doldrums for almost a decade of col­
lege football. 
There were seven seconds or so left on the clock, and Boston 
College's field goal kicker took the field. A deafening sound came 
from the student section. And all the Boston faithful crossed their 
fingers. Snap, set, kick, silence -I saw the ball sailing for the 
right post. It curled in and over the right post. It was good. 
We all know the story. Although, I'm sure someone from Boston 
can tell it better than I can. We lost, and sure, I went home upset. 
But I didn't go home and cry like that kid from Nebraska did last 
year on national television after the Huskers were dismantled by 
an over-whelming and "well-prepared" Colorado Buffalo team. 
The Irish went on to win the rest of their regular season games, 
took a trip to the Cotton Bowl and beat Texas A&M. 
Saturday afternoon, after some extensive tailgating, I entered 
the Stadium. To my utter amazement, the team was wearing 
some green practice jerseys a couple minutes before kickoff. 
When they took the field with those uniforms on I told myself, "No 
way." Born and raised on Notre Dame football, and I still can't 
figure my own team out. 
With an undefeated Notre Dame squad and Florida State's sec­ond loss to the Irish in place, the setting for this weekend was all too familiar. 
I've seen Notre Dame under the spotlight my whole life, and I know how the media can jinx a good thing when it's green with envy. I was hoping that story from so Jong ago wouldn't be the center of attention all week, and I'm so glad it wasn't. The stage was set for a Notre Dame win over Boston College. I just wanted everything to go normally. Keep the solid defense up, wait around for the other team to break down and capitalize and keep the tra­dition up out there. Then, the color green makes its way out on to the field. 
A long time ago we broke out some green uniforms for our rival USC at home. It was a big game. A lot was at stake for both teams. And those green jerseys took the Trojans' breath away. \Ve rolled over them like a Keith Jackson pun on football Saturday: "The wheels came off on the Men of Troy that day." 
In the Bob Davie years, I remember wearing the green uniforms to the 1999 Gator Bowl versus Georgia Tech and losing. The green had lost its luster. Don't break them out unless you need them. We didn't need green to put up a fight against the Huskers or be fashionable against the Yellow Jackets. 
And finally, the point of this letter to the editor: Our team didn't need green to win that game on Saturday. Blue and gold would have worked just fine. 
Don't think about what happened in 1993 or it will happen again. By wearing those green jerseys we brought up the past. Don't mention it, don't think about it and don't worry about it. Act normally. That's what should have happened Saturday: absolute blue and gold. The green should have stayed in the stands. Save the green for a rainy day when we need it. For example, playing an undefeated team, not playing as one. 
Boston College was 4-3 going in to the game -not a lackluster team. The last game they played was a heartbreaker against Pittsburgh, an overtime loss. Boston College didn't deserve to play us wearing green. I talked to an Eagles fan after the game. He said it was the biggest win for their program in nine years. I responded to that with the 1993 story. He said "Yeah, that one was probably the last big win." Wearing green on Saturday only made Boston College's win that much sweeter. 
The lesson to be learned here: go in to the game psyched and take care of business. Don't leave yourself vulnerable by flaunting your luck; it's a big jinx. And save the green for the party. During the game it's only blue and gold. 
Tradition. That is what class is all about. Regardless of what happens during the rest of this season or what bowl we go to, we all know what hole we crawled out of from this year and what pedestal we'll regain next year. Thank you, Ty. 
Joseph Sobieralski 
sophomore 
off-campus 
Nov.2 

We are still ND 
Notre Dame fell to Boston College this Saturday. There are probably many mixed feelings going through fans of the Irish right now. As for me, never have I been prouder to be a Domer. 
Last week, Florida State's student 
body abandoned their team well 
before the game was over. 
The vast majority of the sea of green at Notre Dame remained standing until 
the clock ran out. We 
never stopped 
believing. When 
Carlyle Holiday's 
final pass got bat­
ted down to end 
the game and 
seal the victory 
for Boston 
College, 

everybody in 
my section 
cheered as 
hard as they 
could for their foot­ball team. When Boston College stormed the field, we didn't hang our heads in shame; we stayed put to sing the Fight Song and the Alma Mater. When the Irish, clad in green jer­seys, came to raise their helmets in front of the stu­dent's section, every­body clapped. Notre Dame has the greatest fans in college football. 
Boston College is 5-3 and most likely will not make a BCS bowl game. The greatest football moment for Boston College is upsetting Notre Dame in 1993. Their football team's finest hour was upsetting another team because they were never good enough to be on top themselves. The Boston College fans were great fans during the game and I tip my hat to the football team for their victory. Boston College still isn't Notre Dame and they never will be. 
Notre Dame is 8-1 and is most likely headed to a BCS bowl. At the beginning of the season, most said that the football 
team would be lucky to go 7-5. Well, guess what. We're all going to be watching the Irish play in January. There is nothing for us not to be proud of. I don't care what ESPN analysts might say, this team still has a shot at a nation­al title. There is the possibility of four unde­feated teams this season, all of them still have 
tough games remaining on the schedule and Notre Dame has a chance to finish off 
strong against an excellent USC 
team. We are the 
greatest uni­versity in the world. We have the best student 
body. We have the most spirit. 
We have the best football team. And no matter what hard­

ships may come in the way, no matter how many times the football team may lose to Boston College, there's only one thing that really matters at the end of the day: We're still Notre Dame. 
Christopher Brophy 
freshman Keenan Hall Nov. 2 

BC students laud welcoming attitude 
I'm one of those annoying Boston College students who drove out to South Bend for the Boston College-Notre Dame football game, and I'd just like to say that everyone at your university was incredibly friendly and accommodating throughout the weekend. 
Entering the Stadium, I was greeted with a "Welcome to Notre Dame and have a safe trip back." Afterwards, I was congratulated on a good game by people wearing gold domes on their heads. Obviously, I saw a few good-natured taunts exchanged between people in green shirts and people in yellow shirts, but, in general, my friends and I were treated so well that I felt obligated to write a thank.you note. 
I've always seen the Notre Dame football tradition as being more about the classiness of the organization than anything else, and this weekend, once again, everyone in South Bend showed what the Fighting Irish are all about. 
To sum up: Notre Dame Stadium is a great place to watch a football game, regardless of who you're rooting for. I felt more welcome at Notre Dame than I have at any other uni­versity. 
Mike Davin 
senior Boston College Nov. 3 

O
THE 
BSERVER 
page 10 Monday, November 4, 2002 


nite 


Hidden Between O'Shaughnessy and DeBartolo, The Snite Museuri 

By EMILY HOWALD 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Ever wonder what that building on the south side of O'Shaughnessy is? Or maybe you had questions about the giant sculpture that stands on the north side of DeBartolo? 
These mysteries are among the many secrets that lie deep within Notre Dame's very own Snite Museum of Art. 
"This place is much livelier on the inside than it is perceived to be from the outside. We are alive with tours, activities and students all the time," said Gina Costa, the museum's market­ing and public relations specialist. 
The museum offers numerous pro­grams that are intended for the educa­tion and inspiration of students not only at Notre Dame, but also in the South Bend area as well. There are community outreach programs and Museum Morning Tours for fifth grade students in South Bend schools. Over 10,000 students frequent the museum through this program alone. 
The museum also offers curriculum­related tours for secondary and college students. art history classes for adults, traveling exhibitions, musical recitals and performances, lectures, literary events, poetry reading, symposia and films in the Annenburg Auditorium. 
The museum prides itself on the emphasis is places on being an educa­tional resource. 
We try to do innovative and collabo­rative activities with other University departments that are beneficial to all. Our main focus is as an educational 
resource and tool for the University community," Costa said. 
An information pamphlet on the museum states that the museum "exists to nourish and challenge the human spirit by exhibiting and interpreting works of art. This is predicated on the belief that works of art enhance aes­thetic sensitivity and broaden under­standing of world cultures." 
The museum is ranked among the top university museums in this country. Museums on 
"This place is much livelier on 
campus are a that is open to the growing trend. the inside than it is perceived general public. Many of the 
to be from the outside. We are Among other spe­
leading univer­cial exhibitions, the
alive with tours, activities and
sities in the museum is currently country have students all the time.·· featuring a celebra­prestigious tion El Dia de Los museums; how­Muertos (The Day of
Gina Costa
ever, The Snite the Dead). Two 
museum marketing and
is among the "offrendas" (altars) best. public relations specialist have been built by a 
"We have the most important Pre-Columbian collection in the world, outside of Mexico City, and we recently acquired an important 18th century Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe (Our Lady of Guadalupe), which we are very proud of' Costa said. 
The painting tells the story of the Virgin Mary's apparitions to Juan Diego; an Aztec converts to Christianity, in 1531. The painting is seen by Mexicans as the emblem of their national identity and is respected and treasured as a true work of art. 
The painting was donated by Mr. Ignaci Aranguren, his wife Pirri and their sons Luis ('84), Ignacio ('85) and Santiago ('92). 
Most of the artwork that the muse­um acquires is through donations from benefactors and alumni. They obtain the artwork via auctions or art galleries and some even give from their own collections. Often times, the museum will be given the opportunity to hold showings of alumni collections, or they will put on a show of their own 
noted female Los Angeles artist. The exhibit will run for a month to honor that 

special day. The director of the museum is 
Chuck Loving and the associate direc­
tor is Ann Knoll. There are approxi­
museum who serve as interns, fellows 
or assistants. Costa emphasized that 
there is a wide range of roles the stu­
dents serve. "The students who help out here at 
the museum are of critical impor­
tance. Some have art backgrounds, some do not and some want to work in a muse­um in the future. Their involvement is just a good opportunity for students to learn about how a museum works, and it is good training ground for their future," Costa notes. There is a two-year training program that museum trainees partici­pate in. Tours are a major part of the muse­ums activities. "We are alive with tours for Notre Dame stu­dents and adults and chil­dren from the community. They can request special­ized tours, which we are happy to provide," Costa explained. Many Notre Dame stu­dents recount their expe­riences with The Snite Museum of Art as· class­room experiences. "I had to attend a tour at The Snite as a part of my Spanish class. The whole tour was given to me in Spanish and although I would have rather enjoyed the tour in English, all the art­

This oll canvas, entitled Nuestra Senora de < known pieces of art. The piece is from Mexlcc 
work was amazing. It was definitely a great learning experience for me, and it was interesting to get to see all that The Snite had to offer," sophomore Maureen Tate said. 
The museum is closely affiliated with students in Latino Studies and they recruit students to give tours in Spanish. There are also many Theology classes that visit the museum to view the religious aspects of the art and ben­efit from all that the museum has to offer. 
Sophomore Tom Reid found the Snite to present a lot more interesting facets than he expected. 
"I had to visit The Snite for a Theology class and we saw a private collection of an alumnus. The showing was of Leonardo da Vinci's work. I thought it was very interesting and The Snite was definitely a lot better than I thought it would be," Reid said. 
One of the major battles that the 


O
THE 

BSERVER 
Monday, November 4, 2002 page 11 

1seum o 


n ofArt is a mystery to most students on the Notre Dame campus 

Photo provided by The Snite Museum 
Guadalupe, Is one of the museums most well­:> and dated back to Feb. 15, 1729. 
museum staff always fights is finding ways to publicize and advocate the benefits of the museum. 
"It is constantly an uphill battle. We want people 
museum. I don't think people know that they don't have to pay to get in. and they don't realize that there is much more going on in here than one would think. We are hidden away in our building, but this is actually a museum 
for the University community and is very much alive," Costa said. In a recent study given by the mar­keting department at Notre Dame, a 
survey found that only 18 percent of the people that fre­quent the museum are Notre Dame students. 
Costa believes that the reality of the situation is that the students just do not have the time to visit the museum, hut she hopes that with a lot of hard work by the museum staff and some gaining interest by the stu­dents, the museum will prosper. The 
"It's constantly an uphill battle. 
to know we are here and wel­We want people to know we are come everyone. It 
here and welcome everyone." 
is frustrating because we don't have the means Gina Costa 
to get the word museum marketing and out about the 
public relations specialist 
"We truthfully cannot put up some ofour best pieces ofartwork because there just isn't enough space. We need more room to acco­modate all that we have to offer.,, 
Gina Costa museum marketing and public relations specialist 
was on a round-the­world trip. He spent the next 18 years in a respirator, known as an iron lung, yet still man­aged to live a normal life. 
Snite, Jr. attended as many Notre Dame home football games as 

museum staff is hoping to increase the 18 percent statistic, but they need to increase their space as well. 
The museum staff is hoping to build a new museum in the near future. There are tentative plans to design a new building near the new perform­ing arts center, and then the museum would acquire the space that is much needed and deserved. 
"We truthfully cannot put up some of our best pieces of art work because there just isn't enough space. We need more room to accom­modate all that we have to offer," Costa said. 
The museum has been in existence since 1980. It began as an addition to the O'Shaughnessy Galleries, which are now used to present a broad range of temporary and traveling exhibitions. 
The museum is named for Fred B. Snite, a prominent benefactor of the University. Snite donated $2 million 
to the Snite Foundation and partici­pated in the groundbreaking con­struction of The Snite Museum of Art at age 93. 
Snite's family has been continually active in the well being of the muse­
um. His daughter, Mary Loretto, is on 
the Museum's Advisory Council. and 

her husband, Terrence J. Dillon, a 1932 alumnus, is on the Advisory Council of the College of Business Administration. 
The 16th-cen­tury, stucco, poly­chromed sculp­ture of the Madonna and Child by Jacopo Sansovino, locat­ed in the Baroque Gallery 

of the Museum. memorializes Snite's son. The story of Snite's son. Frederick B. Snite, Jr., and his relationship to the school is one that is not easily forgot­ten on Notre Dame's campus. 
Snite, Jr. graduated from Notre Dame in 1933 and three years later he con­tracted polio in China while the family 
possible, with his trailer bus and his equipment set up at the north end zone he could watch the game with mirrors attached to his respirator. 
Snite, Jr. became known as "The 
Boiler Kid" and his image was fre­quently seen in newspapers, magazines and newsreels nationwide. He pub­lished a newsletter entitled, Back Talk, and he encouraged many polio victims with his optimism and his amazing life story. 
Snite, ,Jr. impacted not only polio vic­tims but also the Notre Dame family with his encouragement and his con­stant spirituality. He died in 1954 but his legacy remains, and the museum stands in his memory. 
The Snite Museum of Art stands as a symbol of beauty. art and education on the Notre Dame campus. It provides many great benefits that not only aid in cultivating students of Notre Dame, but it adds culture to the Notre Dame envi­ronment. 
The Snite is a treasure that lies hid­den on the Notre Dame campus, but is ready to be found, recognized and appreciated so that all Notre Dame stu­dents may thrive from the many resources that lie within. 
Contact Emily Howald at Howald.2@nd.edu 
r 
Monday, November 4, 2002 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 
Brady and the Patriots prevail over Bledsoe and the Bills 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
Tom Brady exchanged cordial greetings with former team­mate Drew Bledsoe before and after Sunday's game. 
Brady saved his biggest state­ment for the game, sparking the New England Patriots to a 38-7 victory over the Buffalo Bills. 
Completing 23 of 27 passes for 310 yards and four touch­downs, it was the most efficient performance of Brady's career. His 154.1 passing rating was 
4.2 points short of perfection, and it came in his biggest test of the season. 
Brady and the defending Super Bowl champions (4-4) snapped a four-game losing streak to climb back into the AFC East race. And it came against Bledsoe, the Patriots' former franchise player, who was facing New England for the first time since being traded to the Bills in April. 
In a game billed as "The Bledsoe Bowl," Brady showed up his former mentor yet again, a year after taking his job. Brady, however, said that was the "last thought on my mind." 
A better explanation for Brady was the Patriots reclaim­ing a sense of urgency, some­thing they hadn't felt for quite some time. 
"For one reason or another, the last four weeks we just haven't played Patriot football," Brady said. "You talk about a sense of urgency, and today we had it." 
Patriots running back Antowain Smith made a major contribution against his former team with 111 yards rushing and three touchdowns. 
By comparison, the 5-4 Bills unraveled, ending a three-game winning streak and squander­ing an opportunity to push the Patriots further out of the race. 
Bledsoe, who entered the game as the NFL's leading passer, didn't exactly have an off day, finishing 28 of 45 for 302 yards. But he was stymied by an aggressive Patriots defense, which at times lined up in curious formations, including a four-man line­backer front. 
"Back to the drawing board after that," said Bledsoe. "After the game, you shake hands and live to fight another day." 
Ahead 17 • 7 at the half, the Patriots put the game away with a 14-point third quarter. 
The backbreaker came with the Patriots ahead 24-7 and facing fourth-and-3 at the Bills' 
34. Brady hit Smith for a 5-yard pass, and five plays later, Smith capped the 76-yard drive with a 2-yard touchdown run. 
Kevin Faulk, with a 45-yard recep­tion, and Christian Fauria, with a 5­yard touchdown reception, also scored touchdowns for the Patriots, while Adam Vinatieri kicked a 46-yard field goal. 
It was quite a turnaround for a Patriots team that managed a com­bined 53 points in its previous four games. 
"This is like tak­ing 500-600 extra pounds on your back and just throwing it off, 
Buffalo BIiis comerback Chris Watson (bottom) and safety Pierson Priolean
feeling like your­
try to stop Antowain Smith during New England's 38-7 victory over the Bills.
self again," 

Patriots offensive tackle Matt Light said. "This is huge for us. There's a feeling in here that we haven't felt in here for a long time. And really, it's about time. We've been beating up ourselves and playing some pretty undisciplined ball." 
The Bills had entered the game as the NFL's only team to score 23 or more points in its first eight outings. 
While Bledsoe had difficulty finishing drives, he got little help from usually reliable kick­er Mike Hollis, who missed all three field-goal attempts. 
Bledsoe also had no control over how his defensive team­mates played. After holding opponents to 34 points in its previous 10 quarters, Buffalo suddenly reverted to old form. 
On New England's first three scoring drives, Brady converted four third downs, including a third-and-8 on a screen pass to Smith, who ran it 13 yards for a touchdown to put the Patriots up 14-0. 
Faulk's 45-yard touchdown reception also came on a screen pass in which he ran untouched up the left sideline. 
"Any loss is a slap in the face," Bills safety Pierson Prioleau said. "We're a good team. We know it, but we didn't show it on the field today." 

WOMENS SWIMMING 
Hoosiers snap Irish streak on final relay of meet 
Dame's Katie Eckholt with 25 on the day, highlighted by the "She did really well and she Michigan State Friday and
ByJOE HETTLER 
yards remaining to give the performances of Danielle pulled off a really hard dou­Musgrave said she believes 
Associate Sports Editor 
Hoosiers 11 points and the Hulick. Hulick won three ble. She swam really well. All the team will be refocused victory. events, including 100 back­around we had some great and ready to pick up a victory.A 16-game winning streak "We we're pretty upset," stroke and the 50 freestyle swims across the team, but it "I think [the loss] actually came to an end Friday when junior Laurie Musgrave said. and was also a participant in just wasn't quite enough." gives us a lot of determination Indiana defeated Notre "We knew going into the meet the 400 medley relay. She was Meghan Perry•Eaton who and focus," Musgrave said. Dame's womens swimming we had to have a really good joined by teammates placed second in both the one We have had quite a long win­team 154-146 in dual-meet meet to pull it off. Indiana's a Musgrave, Lisa D'Olier and led the Irish divers and three ning streak and this might be action at Rolfs Aquatic Center. gre'at team and they swam Heidi Hendrick. meter divers. She fell just that fire we needed a little bit 
The Irish women had not really well. We had some good Lisa Garcia also won the short of defeating Indiana's to get us a little bit more lost a dual-meet since Nov. 4. swim throughout the meet. 100 butterfly and 200 Sara Hildebrand in both focused and geared up for the 2000 and actually led this But it came down to that last freestyle to give the team events. rest of the season." meet for most of the day. But race and we had a really some momentum during the The Irish are now 1-1-1 in the final race, the 400 med­great swim, but they were just races. after beating Colorado State ley relay. Indiana's Megan a little bit faster. "Lisa Garcia had a really to start the season and tying Contact Joe Hettler at Meddendorf overtook Notre The Irish won eight events great meet," Musgrave said. Purdue last week. They face jhettler@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
••• ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida &Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE. Reps needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+. 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888-844-6578 dept 2626)/www.springbreakdis­counts.com 
•• At Last Spring Break .. Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash­tours.com 1800426n1o 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties &Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 
INVESTORS NEEDED. WILL PAY 10% INTEREST $100,000 INCRE­MENTS. 100% SECURED WITH REAL ESTATE. CALL 574-675­0960 OR email al investors@surf­best.net 
COACH: Need Jr.High boys basket­ball coach:responsible and depend­able student or grad student to coach 7-8th grade reserve basket­ball team, Nov 5-Feb. 20, for south side private elementary school located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Musi be available for practices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­
3: 15. Game schedule varies with 9­1Ogames beginning after school at 4 or 5 pm. Paid position. Call 291­4200 to applyNeed layout person for projects in PageMaker, Photoshop, etc. Good pay. Call 273-8857 (M-F 8-5) WANED -OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE M1LE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available for 2003· 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896 
LODGING FOR RUTGERS GAME! Bed &Breakfast lodging w/ alumni family. Nice/close to campus. 574­243-2628. 

HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896. 
SUBLEASE AVAILABLE-fully fur­nished 2 bdrm apt avail. spring semester or from Jan-Aug 03, w/d incl, DSL, heated parking garage, 4 miles from ND &located on bus route, $950/mo (util. incl.) call 234­4536 
OOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­T ANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-4-5-8-9 &10 BEDROOM HOUSES -STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM ­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL ­WASHER/DRYERS -CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST· CON­TACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 • (574)274-9955 • (574)674-2471 
TICKETS 
N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911 . 
WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
BUYING/SELLING N. D. FOOT­BALL TICKETS &PARKING PASS­ES 289-8048 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
htws broke his heel on the field 
Mr. Excess threw chair in lake. 
she is so beyond "Dirrty" 
more like "Dirrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrty" 
remember when we thought Britney was the nasty one? 
Memo to men everywhere: Leave your frozen chickens where they belong. 

Monday, November 4, 2002 page 13 
The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS GOLF 
Irish look for consistency at Pine Needles Invitational 
. recent trend for the Irish. At "The progress has been a little past year. fired three rounds in the 70's at
By ANDY TROEGER 
their last two slower than I "Our average was 324 last that tournament. while Bassett 
Sports Writer 
tournaments, wanted," said year," said King, "and we're at fired her two best rounds of the 
"The progress has been a
they have King. "I thought 316 so far this year. so that's year with 71 and 74 in the final 
The Notre Dame womens golf fired two little slower than I that we would still a big improvement." two rounds. team will look to finish the fall rounds under wanted.I thought that break the 312 The Irish contingent for this With her 71, Bassett tied for portion of their schedule on a 308 but have barrier much week's event will consist of the second best round ever by
we would break the 3 1 2 
positive note today, as they head struggled in more easily juniors Shannon Byrne and an Irish golfer. Bassett also to the Pine Needles Invitational the other barrier much more easily than we have so Rebecca Rogers, senior Terri leads the Irish with a 78.08 in Pinehurst, N.C. round. than we have so far. ., far. It has been Taibl, and freshmen Sarah scoring average. Two other 
"We would really like to put While the a big adjust­Bassett, Katie Brophy and golfers competing this week three good rounds together," team has ment for the Lauren Barbir. Barbir will be have averages under 80 as
Debby King
said coach Debby King. "We improved freshmen." competing as an individual Brophy is second at 79.13 with 
seem to be doing two of three at their scores coach Despite her entrant. Byrne third at 79.8. 312 or better. There are 11 from last hopes for quick­Byrne and Bassett will look to teams in the field, so we're year, they er improve­build on their best performances shooting for fifth or better." will still be looking for continued ment, King did note that the of the fall1 which happened at Contact Andy T roeger at 
King's comments reflect a progress this week. squad has progressed in the the Adidas Invitational. Byrne atroeger@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles make progress in loss to Flying Dutch 
they can do even better. how I swam)," Smith said. "But and some people were disap­added a final second place in the
By KATIE McVOY 
"We're not disappointed with there's a lot of work than needs pointed. Overall, everyone swam 500-meter freestyle. 
Associate Sports Editor 
how we swam. but there's a lot to be done. I swam pretty well." really well and, if not. learned a Saint Mary's will be looking to 
Physically. it was the same of work to be done," senior cap­Junior Julie McGranahan lot." improve on some of its technical two teams. But the score tain Lauren Smith said. "This is added another first place finish, Learning a lot included pick­skills before the next meet. showed that something had a really hard point in the sea­taking home the medal in the ing up some hints on what to do "[We're working on) cleaning changed. son. we've been training a lot, 100-meter butterfly. She fin­to improve second-place finishes up races," Smith said. "Little 
Last year. when Saint Mary's we're fatigued, our muscles are ished the race .8 of a second and make them first-place fin­things -breathing patterns, faced off against Hope College, sort of broken down right now." ahead of Hope's Lisa Ekdom, ishes. The Belles grabbed sec­technical things. There's a lot of the Flying Dutch dominated. Smith was one of six Saint finishing in 1:04.12. ond place finishes in several ways to improve and, just as a They won the meet by 86 points. Mary's swimmers who helped The Belles 200-meter freestyle events. Katy Lebeidz took sec­team. we need to work on team leaving the Belles with virtually the team take first place in three relay team of Kelly Nelis, Molly ond in the 1,000-meter freestyle, unity." no first place finishes. events on Saturday. She took Maloy, Lane Herrington and Megan Ramsey took home sec­The Belles will be looking to 
This year, the Belles showed home a first place finish in the Maureen Palchak, beat out Hope ond in the 200-meter freestyle, improve on these before their that they could swim with the 100-meter breaststroke, finish­with a time of 1:44.63. Palchak grabbed second in the next meet on Saturday against MIAA's elite. They upped their ing in 1:14.21, more than a full "I think [our performance] 50-meter freestyle and the 100 Transylvania University. score and finished within 16 second ahead of Hope's Michelle was about what we expected," freestyle, Smith added a second points of the Flying Dutch, Stanforth. Smith said. "I think some people place in the 200-meter individ­Contact Katie McVoy at falling 108-92. And they know 'Tm not disappointed [with did better than they thought, ual medley and Candice Polisky mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
top two Irish runners have made themselves a formidable
Runners 
force. Connelly called them two of the nation's best run­
continued from page 20 
ners. finished in 23rd place. "(Running together]. that's Stephanie Madia finished fifth the way they train every day," for the team and her 31st Connelly said. "I've been try­place overall contributed to ing to tell them to do that in the score. the races. And 
It was then all of the King and "We didn't take the lead sudden, there's Huddle. until the beginning ofthe a little comfort 
who, work­there, because
last kilometer. We pulled
ing in tan­you're doing it 
dem as ahead, powered up the every day." usual. who hill, and then held on to "[Molly] pulls 
inspired and me along a
it ... 
led the Irish lot," King said. on the "We run course. Molly Huddle together essen­According to tially every
freshman 
King, it was day. We help their team-each other, and work and confidence in them­if I'm having a bad day, she selves and in the entire team pulls me along. and if she's that enabled them to stick having a hard day, I pull her with the front pack of runners, along. so the same thing hap­
until they finally broke away pens in a race." just before they reached the "We motion to each other," course's only major hill. she said. "We're aware of 
"We didn't take the lead each other's presence and that until the beginning of the last really helps." kilometer," Huddle said. ''We Being the junior member of pulled ahead, powered up the the duo, Huddle says she tries hill, and then held on to it." to follow King's lead. 
King and Huddle were not "She'll tell me where to particularly surprised by their move if I'm getting cut off," perfor-the freshman 
mances. "Going into it [King] and I thought  "[Running together]. that's the way they train every day. rve been  said. "Most of the time I lis­ten to her because she  
that was rea­sonable [finishing]  trying to tell them to do that in the races . .,  knows what she's talking about."  
one, two - I  Connelly has  
mean, we were plan­ning on it,"  Tim Connelly coach  confidence in the team's chances at  
Huddle said.  critical Great  
"It was  good  to know that  Lakes  Regional  

everything went as planned." Championships, which will be By huddling together during held in two weeks in West both races and practices, the Lafayette, Ind. 

SARAH SCHNEIDER/The Observer 

Irish freshman Molly Huddle navigates the Franklin Park course during the 2002 Big East Championships Friday. Huddle's second-place finish helped the Irish clinch the conference title. 
"We have a tremendous shot Connelly expects she will be ing in running the races. at being first or second," he ready to race in two weeks. "Our kids are excited," he said. "We've also put ourselves "If everyone stays healthy I said. "They think they're pret­in good position to get at-large think we can get our berth to ty good, they're competing points, if for some reason we the national championships," really well and they're having don't get one of the automatic King said. "Hopefully we will fun at it. That's really impor­s pots. I think we're sitting pull off some great stuff tant." pretty good." there." 
The only problem to report Connelly noted that his team is sophomore Megan is not only doing well, but also Contact Joe Lindsley at Johnson's Achilles injury, but enjoying the season and revel-jlindslc@nd.edu 
Monday, November 4, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Measuring stick awaits Irish tonight 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Tonight will be a measur­ing stick for Notre Dame. 
Last season, as Notre Dame looked to start its first game, coach Muffet McGraw had no idea what to expect. She had six freshmen, two of her slat­ed starters were injured, and she wasn't sure what her team could do. 
This year she knows what they can do; she just wants to see how well they can do it. 
"We're trying to be tested in what we're going to face," McGraw said. " ... That's what we're trying to get out of this game -where we are now and where we need to be." 
The first thing tonight's game against the semi-pro Houston Jaguars will mea­sure is the new Irish 
McGraw is confident in both of her new players. She said she likes what she has seen so far on the court and is expecting both women to make a major contribution to the team starting with the very first game. 
"These two freshmen have really kind of stepped up a little bit," McGraw said. "I think they·ve done a really good job of fitting in. They don't look like freshmen on the court and that's a really good thing." 
Tonight's game may also measure the starting line-up, which is still undetermined. It will be a game-time deci­sion as to which five players will start the game. It is rea­son able to assume that LaVere and Duffy wouldn't start. and it is unlikely that walk-on Karen Swanson would get the start. but oth­
erwise, it is 
unclear

'7 think we've got [the 
offense. 
who will 

Beginning triangle offense] down start. with their trip McGraw
pretty good ... It's a good
to Italy this said the
offense because it opens 
summer, the coaching\ Irish have a lot ofoptions and we ·re staff will b e e n 
finding more as we go . ., look at 
installing a their play­
l 
new triangle 
ers' stats 

offense, simi­Le'Tania Severe 
and try to 

lar to the guard determine
l offense the Los Angeles 
I Lakers have played for years. 
Although it is a difficult offense to learn. the players are confident in their ability 
I 
I to play the offense. "I think we've got [the offense] down pretty good," 
junior guard Le'Tania Severe said. " ... It's a good offense because it opens a lot of options and we're finding
t more as we go." But how well this team has really learned the offense will be decided tonight. 
I The second thing tonight's 
I 
' 
(' game will measure is the two new faces on Notre Dame's team. 

Freshmen Megan Duffy and Courtney Lavere will get their first taste of real college basketball. After two weeks of practicing with the team and the coaching staff and scrimmaging against a group of six men, they feel ready to take on a real opponent. And they're both ready for some new blood. 
"We've been practicing for so long so it will be nice to play against some new com­p e titio n," La Vere said. "We're really looking for­ward to the game" 
the starting 
line-up 
objectively. 

"We have really six or seven people that could start," McGraw said. 'We've played a different combina­tion every day this week and they've all looked very good." 
So the Irish will be looking to see how they measure up. They'll be looking at how they measure up to expecta­tions, how they measure up to their own standards and, most importantly, how they measure up to the competi­tion. 
Notes: 

. 
Jacqueline Batteast and Alicia Ratay were named to the All Big East preseason team, making Notre Dame the only team to have two players on the preseason list. 

. 
The Irish were ranked in a tie for first-place in the pre­season Big East poll with last year's Big East winner Connecticut. The Irish fell in their first Big East playoff game to Syracuse last sea­son. 


Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
er shot and Bobby O'Brien's bouncing shot with less than seven minutes remaining both needed acrobatic saves by Sawyer to preserve the Irish vic­tory. 
With the win, the Irish moved to 6-3-1 in Big East conference play. 
Coming off Friday's chilly vic­tory, the Irish endured harsh playing conditions and a tight Ramblers defense Sunday, but the Irish eventually walked away with the 1-0 victory over Loyola­Chicago. 
Strong winds and a cold, hard playing field worked against the Irish and right into the Ramblers' favor. as the two teams with very different records (the Irish with a 10-4-3 record entering the game, while the Ramblers came in at 3-14) battled to a 0-0 deadlock through the first half. 
"The field was hard, and it was windy," Clark said. "And it was not an easy day to get the ball down m play. It favors a team that's maybe just a battling team, and that's what they are. At the end of the day, you've always got to be happy when you get a good win." 
Statistically. the Irish dominat­ed the match, outshooting the Ramblers 19-3 and holding the visitors without a corner kick for the entire game while attempt­ing nine. Sawyer did not need to make a single save for the Irish on Sunday. 
The Irish had many opportuni­ties in the first half, most notably a shot by Rafael Garcia that was kicked out from along the goal line by a Loyola defender, and a goal by Braun that was called back due to an offsides call. The Ramblers also had a goal called back due to the attacker being offsides. 
The second half began to take after the first half, as the Irish had many opportunities, but failed to convert. 

However, the Irish finally began to click with 11:28 to go in the game. Goldthwaite brought the ball along the left side of the field and found Greg Martin streaking down the right side towards the goal. Goldthwaite's perfect pass allowed Martin to boot a high shot that hit the back of the net and gave the Irish a late lead, a lead that would transfer into Notre Dame's 11th victory of the season (11-4-3). 
"I never take a win lightly; whenever I get a win I'm happy," Clark said. 
Notes: 

. 
Sunday was Senior Day at Alumni Field, marking the final regular season home game for Notre Dame's graduating seniors. This year's senior class includes Alan Lyskawa, Greg Tait, Paul Rodriguez, Braun, Justin Ratcliffe, and Garcia. 

. 
Riley suffered a calf injury 


during the first half of Sunday's game, after being kicked in the leg. He is expected to play in the Big East quarterfinals next weekend. . 
. As of Sunday, the Irish stood in fourth place in the Big East: however, rescheduled confer­ence matches do not conclude until tonight, so the Irish are still unsure of their postseason fate. Their opponent {and loca­tion of the game) will depend on the outcomes of two of today's games: Boston College at Rutgers, and Georgetown at West Virginia. If Rutgers beats BC, the Irish will travel to New Jersey. However, if Rutgers loses and Georgetown wins, the Hoyas will travel to Alumni Field next weekend. The Irish would have a home game with the Scarlet Knights if both Rutgers and Georgetown lose. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 


Be an ACE teacher. 
November 7th 7:00 LaFortune Ballroom 
ACE Information Night 

Monday, November 4, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Francis' 14 points, 16 rebounds pace Irish in win 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

Torin Francis fired his first shot hard off the backboard. He traveled the next time he touched the ball. 
Then he settled down and dominated. 
Francis, who nearly recorded a double-double in the first half, finished with 14 points and 16 rebounds as the Irish rolled over the Illinois All-Stars 107-77 in a Friday night exhibition game. 
"I needed this game, and I'll be ready when the season comes," Francis said. "I was excited when I found I'd be starting, and I thought it would give me a chance to prove myself." 
Francis, whom Irish coach Mike Brey said accumulated 
In all, six players finished with double figures. Chris Thomas recorded 17 points, Matt Carroll had 14 and Tom Timmermans and Chris Quinn each had 10 points. 

One of the biggest questions entering Friday's exhibition was who would make up the Irish starting lineup. Brey knew early in the week that the Irish would start Thomas, Carroll and Miller, but hadn't decided who else would fill the Irish lineup. He eventually settled on Francis for his rebounding ability and Timmermans for his physical presence. 
But Brey went to his bench early and often. By the time Chris Quinn checked in with 7:38 left in the first half, he became the ninth Irish player to enter the game. In fact, the only Notre 

the most "{Francis] has been our 
Dame player
rebounds in 

force on the backboard. who didn't 
practice, earned play in
Because we've 
the starting nod Friday's exhi­
for his rebound­emphasiz.ed rebounding 
bition was ing ability. And so much and not worry Jere Macura,
he didn't disap­who sat out
about our offense or
point his coach­with a knee 
es, grabbing 12 anything else, I'm very 
IIlJUry SUf­rebounds in the pleased with his fered in prac­first half alone. 
tice last week. 

performance.··
"He's been 

Notre Dame our force on the used a variety
backboard," Mike Brey of different 
Brey said. 

head coach lineups
"Because we've emphasized rebounding so much and not worry about our offense or any­thing else, I'm very pleased with his performance." 
Friday also marked the Irish debut of Danny Miller, who sat out last season after transferring from Maryland. Miller recorded a game-high 21 points and hit 4­of-8 3-point shots while grabbing 12 rebounds. 
"It's been a long time," Miller said. "I had a little too much energy early on, and I was bouncing around a little too much. It was all part of the adjustment period." 
The Irish were only seriously challenged once in Friday's game, when they trailed the Illinois All-Stars 10-7. Notre Dame then reeled off 10 unan­swered points to pull comfortably ahead, and then put the All-Stars away for good with a 22-7 run to end the first half. 
throughout 

the game, and Brey gave no indication that the starting lineup he used Friday would remain the same throughout the season. In fact, Jordan Cornette, who finished with 10 rebounds, started the second half in place of Timmermans. 
One of the most encouraging signs for the Irish was the solid play of Quinn at point guard. He played 15 minutes, suggesting that he could be an adequate backup for Thomas when the season begins. 
"My adrenaline was going a lit­tle bit," he said. "All my life I've been watching college basket­ball, and now I'm a part of this." 
Notre Dame has the entire week of practice off before they take on the EA Sports All-Stars in 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
TEST YOUR WJTSll! 
University of notre D&me's 
COLLEGE BOWL 
Compelitlon lnformalion 
Colleqe Bowl I$ a. question a.nd a.uwer qa.me between 2 teams of 4. The quesllons cover all subjeds (sim ilu to Tr!rlall'ursu//}, 
first R.ound: Mondays, nov. 11 a18 6pm-12mid nohe: Dame R.oom, 2nd floor Laforiune: 
R.eqlslratlon De1dllne1 Thursday, november 7. 5:00pm 
Cosl, fREf!I fRffll fR..Ef!I fREE!I 

Prlzes1 Wlnnlr.g Tu111 WIii col\pele 1.qllnsl other schools from llllnols a lndlul ll lhe keqlon1I flRll held Inf ebruuy here on cu1pu. Winning Tua alhnncr Up Teuh nu,es pl&eed on l peraunenl pl1que dbpl17ed In L1.forlune Student (enter. 
~eqlslcu 1l lhe L1forlune l1form1lion Desk, M1in Loun<3e, L1f orlune. 
for 11ore details. call 631-8128 or n,111 fulcLer.4@nd.edu. Sponsored by tke Sludenk AdlYllles Office. Spice ls llmlled. so sl<3n up 1s soon 1s possible! 




page 16 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, November 4, 2002 




AFP Photo American Marla Runyan competes in the New York Marathon Sunday. Runyan, who Is legally blind, was the top U.S. runner In fifth place. 

( 
J 
around the dial 
NFL 
Miami at Green Bay 9 p.m., ABC 
NEW YORK CITY MARATHON 
Legally blind Runyan finishes 5th 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
About 10 miles into the New York City Marathon, Marla Runyan and European champion Maria Guida crossed paths, bumping and stum­bling a bit. 
A short while later, Guida dropped out. Not the legally blind Runyan, who never had run a marathon until Sunday. She kept going, her fluid strides leading to the top U.S. finish ­fifth overall behind women's winner Joyce Chepchumba of Kenya. 
'Tm very pleased with how I did," said Runyan, the first Paralympian to compete at an Olympics. "You never know if you prepared properly, how the weather will affect you, how the distance will affect you." 
With temperatures in the 40s, Boston Marathon champion Rodgers Rop overcame pain in his side to finish in 2 hours, 8 minutes, 7 seconds, help• ing Kenya gain its first sweep of the men's and women's titles. 
Christopher Cheboiboch (2:08:17) ­also second in Boston -and Laban Kipkemboi (2:08:39) gave Kenya the first 1-2-3 men's finish for a country since the United States did it in 1975. 
Runyan was fifth in 2:27:10, 36 sec­onds ahead of defending champion Margaret Okayo, who set the course record last year but had lower back problems. 
"She never ceases to amaze me," said Runyan's father, Gary. He trav­eled from Camarillo, Calif., to watch the race on television at a restaurant near the finish line with her husband and coach, Matt Lonergan. 
Runyan's time was the 10th fastest ever in a marathon by an American woman, all the more impressive con­sidering she's accustomed to running much shorter distances. She was eighth in the 1,500 meters at the 2000 Olympics, broke the U.S. record for the indoor 5,000 in 2001, and won the 
U.S. outdoor title at 5,000 in 2001-02. 
"I really enjoyed it -until 24 miles," the 33-year-old Runyan said, laughing. "It surprisingly didn't feel as long as I thought it would. I felt very good even through 11 miles, 14 miles. The pace was conservative and that was probably ideal for me." 
A degenerative eye condition known as Stargardt' s disease limits her sight to about 15 feet, although she can't read a watch, for example, while she 
IN BRIEF 
Favre's condition upgraded to 'probable' 

Quarterback Brett Favre was upgraded to probable for the Green Bay Packers' game against the Miami Dolphins on Monday night. which would increase his NFL record to 165 consecutive starts. 
Favre, who had been listed as ques• tionable, is recovering from a sprained lateral collateral ligament in his left knee since being sacked during the Packers' game against the Washington Redskins on Oct. 20. The Packers had a bye last week, which gave Favre time to heal. 
"Nothing is remarkable regarding Brett. You kind of expect it," coach Mike Sherman said. "It would have been remarkable if he came back that following week and played." 
Favre was gradually eased back onto the field when the Packers began practice Wednesday. Favre took a few snaps in team drills Thursday before sharing the reps with Doug Pederson is running. 
Organizers arranged for a cyclist to ride near Runyan, telling her split times and when turns were coming. During the race, the yells could be heard: "We're approaching the bridge in 150 meters!" or "The pack is intact!" or "Your bottle is there at the end!" Runyan did have a problem with drinks, missing hers at Mile 12. 
It helped that the course was less 
on Friday. Teammates said Favre looked good on a few long passes dur­ing Saturday's practice, including a 50-yarder to Donald Driver. 
New York wins American bid for 2012 Olympics 
New York City turned on its star power, flexed its financial muscle and touted its status as the "world's sec­ond home" to beat out San Francisco on Saturday and become the U.S. can­didate for the 2012 Summer Olympics. 
The New York organizers broke into cheers, tears and shouts as the close vote was announced and Frank Sinatra's "New York. New York" filled the room. 
On a weighted scale of voting by the 123 members of the U.S. Olympic Committee board of directors, New York received 132 out of 223 points. 
Assuring the USOC that they have the resources and security to run the world's biggest show, New York orga­nizers laid out an ambitious $5 billion plan that would place virtually all crowded because of the earlier start for women. A few times, Runyan faded, only to find a burst that carried her within range. 
"Had the men been there, I wouldn't have been able to do that," she said. "It did make it easier. I've run road races where everybody's out there. It becomes annoying with men around you, because their stride and their cadence is so different." 
events within city limits. 
"We won't bring the Olympics back to the United States on the cheap," Mayor Michael Bloomberg said, con­trasting the city's plan with a much lower cost bid by San Francisco." 
Carter reinjures knee 
Toronto Raptors star Vince Carter reinjured his surgically repaired knee and left Saturday night's game against the Houston Rockets. 
Carter, who had season-ending surgery on his left knee last March, collapsed in pain at 6:17 of the first quarter. He was helped to the locker room with ice wrapped around his knee. 
Without their best weapon, the Raptors struggled on offense and lost to the Rockets 88-76. 
"No dumb questions because I'm not answering them." Carter said afterward. "I just don't know. It real­ly hurts. This is three years in a row and it gets very frustrating and it gets very tough." 

Monday, November 4, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
ND MENS CROSS COUNTRY 
Course's curse continues for Irish 
ByJOE LINDSLEY_ 
Sports Writer 
BOSTON 
Victory in the Big East 
Championships has eluded the 
Notre Dame mens cross-country 
team every year the race occurs 
at Boston's forested Franklin 
Park. 
Friday's Big East Championship was no different from the past trend as Villanova took the title and the Irish were left in fourth place at Franklin Park. 
The Irish have finished in fourth place in each of the last three championships held at this course. The Big East's title race alternates every other year between Boston and Van Cortland Park in the Bronx, where the Irish have emerged victorious three of the past six years. 
Perhaps it has something to do with the date -the day after Halloween -or the location ­historic Boston, replete with graveyards locals claim to be haunted. 
Whatever the cause is, though, in the minds of the Irish, there seems to be some sort of spell plaguing them at Franklin Park. "We're cursed here," said sopho­more and top Irish runner Todd Mobley, who had to view the race as a spectator because of an injury. 
"I only coach every other year," Irish coach Joe Piane said with a slight smirk. "I don't know. I wish I could put my finger on it. I don't know. It's perplexed me for years. We've never run well around here." 
Freshman Tim Moore led the 
team with a strong 10th place fin­
ish. His time of 24:08 made 
Moore the top freshman in com­
petitive field. 
Despite his team-and class­
leading performance, Moore 
thought he could have run a bet­
ter race, citing his tendency to 
lose his mental control during the 
middle of races. 
"The first four miles I was 
happy with, but basically I just 
lost my focus [from that point 
on]," Moore said. "[At the Pre­
National two weeks ago], I lost 
my focus after three miles. I just 
have to concentrate on the last 
mile. It's just a matter of experi­
ence," he said. 
Moore said he still has much to 
learn about racing on the colle­
giate level. 
"It hurts much more than high school obviously." the freshman harrier said. 'Tm adjusting to that and dealing with that men­tally and being able to stay relaxed." 
Piane was pleased with his top freshman's performance, but would like to see more improve­ment from the team's other run­ners. Eric Morrison was the clos­est Irish runner to Moore with his time of 25:06 that put him in 28th place. Senior John Keane was one-second behind in 29th, and junior David Alber and sopho­more Ryan Johnson rounded out the Irish scoring top-five with their 32nd and 33rd place finish­es.respectively. 
"[Moore] ran great, but the other guys ran okay, not great," Piane said. Part of the problem, besides the supposed curse of Franklin Park that has befallen the Irish, was not having Mobley -the team's leader and motiva-
You can be 
tor -competing on the course. "I can guarantee those guys will be a hell of a lot more inspired [with Mobley running]." Piane said. 
"[We did] about as well as we were going to do today," Piane said. "Going into the race, they thought they were going to be fourth." 
Besides a lack of inspiration. another problem for the Irish is getting everyone to run well on the same day. 
"One day someone has a good race, the next day someone else has a good race," Morrison said. "We weren't focused on today," Mobley said. "I didn't run. This isn't our type of race, because [it requires] you to go out of fast no matter what. We're better if we can go out relaxed and move up the whole time." 
The Irish are not too worried despite Friday's performance, according to Mobley, because the district and national races are run at the lO•kilometer distance -a length with which the Irish are more comfortable. 
The next two races are the rea­sons for which the whole season has existed. 
"What's really going to count is our next race," Alber said. "That's what the whole season is focused on -districts and making it to nationals.'' 
With a belief that they can ove­rocme inconsistencies and uni­formly race well on the same day, the Irish are looking forward to the Great Lakes Regional. which will be held in West Lafayette, Ind.• on Nov. 16. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu 
President al ''The Shin" 2003 
Applications are available NOW and DUE November 8 
Get vour application outside the Student Activities Office 314 La Fonune 
questions? Contact Schuster.13@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish stay perfect at Joyce Center 
ByMATILOZAR 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Coming into this week­
end's final homestand 
against Providence and 
Boston College, Notre Dame 
volleyball coach Debbie 
Brown said her team would 
"have to have an off night" 
in order for the Irish's oppo­
nents to pull the upset. 
Unfortunately for the Friars and Eagles, the Irish (20-5, 10-0 in the Big East) played like the team that has won 35 straight matches at the Joyce Center in sweeping the weekend. With the two wins, the Irish finish 13-0 at home for their sec­ond consecutive and fourth undefeated season overall since 1980. 
In Friday's 30-18, 30-17, 30-22 victory over Providence {2-24, 0-8). Brown kept her bench play­ers on the floor the entire match, allowing many of them to achieve career bests. 
Sophomore outside hitter Leah Nedderman led the Irish with 14 kills and had a .242 hitting percentage­both career highs. Sophomore Kelly Corbett set career marks in kills with five, aces with three and hit­ting percentage at .500. Freshman Meg Henican recorded the first double­double of her career with 13 kills and 18 digs. Seeing her bench succeed shows Brown she can rely on them in future matches. 
"I think it helps us a lot," she said. "I think it helps the bench know they can be in a match situation and each of the individual players did well and everybody did play well so I think the more experience we can get them, the better it's going to be ... 
The Irish dominated the Friars forcing them to hit 
.109 as a team for the 
match. 
On Sunday, the Irish con­
tinued to roll in the Big East, 
beating Boston College 30­
21, 30-19, 30-19. Seniors 
Janie Alderete and Keara 
Coughlin played in their last 
home match, much to the 
surprise of their coach. 
"It's hard to believe this is 
their last home match. First 
since it is early November. 
so it's odd that we would be 
done playing at home,'' 
Brown said. "I don't even 
allow myself to thinking 
about them not being on the 
team, since we still have a 
lot of the season left." 
Alderete led the Irish with 
10 digs and Coughlin was 
right behind her with eight. 
Boston College (12-15. 2­
7) tried to avoid Notre Dame's blocking but was unsuccessful in committing 28 attack errors. For the match, the Eagles had a .000 hitting percentage. 
"They were pretty intimi­dated by our block and there is a good reason for that," Brown said. "If you don't want to get blocked, then you try to hit around it and then you end up hitting out." 
Notre Dame recorded 14.5 blocks as a team after only getting 15 in its previous two matches. Freshmen middle blockers Lauren Brewster and Lauren Kelbley led the Irish with seven and six blocks respec­tively. For the season, the Irish are averaging 3.69 blocks per game. 
Outside hitter Emily Loomis broke out of her recent slump with an impressive performance. Loomis had 14 kills and recorded a .636 hitting per­centage. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 4, 2002 
ND HOCKEY 
Irish fight to 3-3 tie against Boston College 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
After finishing their 2000­2001 campaign with seven wins in their last nine games and returning to the Super Six of the CCHA conference tourna­ment last year, the Irish have been looking for another oppor­tunity to prove their worth as contenders in the collegiate hockey ranks. 
That game came Friday night as Notre Dame played to a 3-3 tie to No. 3 Boston College before 2,763 fans at the Joyce Center. · 
The game-tying goal came in dramatic fashion for Notre Dame. The Irish surrendered an early 2-0 lead when Boston College's Brian Murphy scored a go-ahead goal with just 3:31 left to play to put the Eagles ahead 3-2. 
With just over a minute to play. Irish head coach Dave Poulin pulled goalie Morgan Cey to gain a one-man advan­tage and the moved paid off. 
Junior center Aaron Gill set­tled in front the net, took a pass from right wing Rob Globke and fired the puck into the upper right corner of the net past Boston College goalie Matti Kaltiainen. 
"My teammates worked really hard to get me an opportunity, and I just put it away," Gil said. "It was a little disappointing having a 2-0 lead and coming out with a tie. Obviously, it was good to come back and get a tie, but it would have been bet­ter to get a win." 
The five-minute overtime 
penalty yielded only six shots 
between the two teams with no 
scoring. 
Irish left wing Alex Lalonde set the tone for the match putting the Irish on the score­board first with 2:43 left in the first period. The sophomore got his first goal of the season with a wrist-shot from the right cir­cle to put the Irish up 1-0. 
Notre Dame added to its lead with 11 :36 left in the second period on a goal from center Yan Stastny. Senior wing Michael Chin initiated the scored sequence with a hard shot that was knocked down by Kaltiainen. Stastny then gath­ered the rebound and snuck the puck by the Eagle goalitender. 
Boston College retaliated just three minutes later with its first goal of the contest. After a long shot from the right wing circle, Eagle wing Chris Collins slid a rebound past Cey to narrow the Irish lead to 2-1. 
''A two-goal lead -in all the years I've played all the times the other team has a two-goal lead -you say it's the worst lead in hockey, because you don't know if you're going for­ward or hanging back," Poulin said. "We gave up that one goal, but we were still fine." 
But the Eagles would not set­tle for just one goal, as three minutes into the third period when Eagle defenseman Brett Peterson fired a shot that Cey was able to knock down but not stop, as the puck slipped between his legs and into the net. 
After the game, Poulin was pleased with his team's ability left in regulation when it to retaliate after yielding a two­appeared the Irish scored a go­goal lead to one of the nation's ahead third goal. Lalonde took best teams. the puck in the right corner and 
"What we haven't done in the slipped a shot that appeared to past is come back when we get get through Kaltiainen's legs, down 3-2 to tie that game." hit the base of the goal in back 
Poulin said. "That's the step we of the net and quickly bounce took. We haven't done that in 
out. The official did not set off 
the past." 

the goal light, however, and A bit of controversy arose play continued. At the next with just under nine minutes stoppage, the officials met to 

discuss the play, but no goal was awarded. 
"[It wasn't frustrating] because I didn't know at the time [that the puck went in]." Poulin said of the play. "And it's not after that matters -it's what they called in the game." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 


thinking, communication, and leadership·­are always in demand. In some of the coolest industries in the world. Even in the movies. 
Start going places with a Summer Dream Internship. Register online today and complete your application by 2/01/03 to compete for one of two $5.000 paid internships. Eight other students will receive cash value awards of up to $1,000~ 


ill Rent 273 palm trees (andlbigfantomakethen1sway} 
How do you get a job like this? Start today. 
Apply for a Summer Dream Internship at: www.StartHereGoPlaces.con1/biz2 
·contest Rules: complete rules can be found on the CoilegeClub.com Web site. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. Contest entry period runs 10/01/02 -2/01/03 and 1s open only to legal residents of_ tt.e 50 United States. eighteen {18) or older a: time o1 entry. enrolled ;n a fu!l/parHime accred:ted co,legc or university. and is subject to the complete Contest Offic;a! Rules. Entr:es mat be submi;tec on. the StartHereGoPl?ces ~om Web site located at wv":'"·StartHereG9~1aces.com or o_n the CollegeClub.com Web site located al wv,w.Coi:egeCiubr.of'.1. All entnes become the property of Spons~r. as defined .in the complete Contest Off1c1a! R1;les Employees arlO family m~mbers o! Sponsor not e;1g1ble to D!rt.q)ate~ Spons~r 1s not 1espons1b1e tor techmcal or othet malfunctions. ro_st or unavailable network ~onnect1ons._or failed electronic comrnunicat1ons th_a_t may ~ccur ;n the proce.ssmg o!_the entries !he_au~hors ot the _two (2) Grand P!!ze winning essuys wll! each receive their choice o; one ol the ·summer Dream Internships pro11idea bv Sponso,. which includes ;we thousanl'.! dollars ($5.000) to be pa.c over tne course o, the ntemsh1p. The Gr~nc Prize 1s not transterab1e. except by Sponsor. who may subsrnute,Pr:,e with a prize of eqt.al vaiue or opponunity. No_cash or pr:ze suts1,1ution is_~1·owed and .other restricti~~s apply: The 2ut~ors o' the th~ce (31 w·nning Runners-Up essays w,l! receive one thousanc ,doilar,(:Si .oomg,tt checks. Tt., ~•;thors of :ne !rve (;i) w1n,ning tionorablc Mention essays w11! receive r,ve h1.m.:ired collar (SSOO) gm checks. Vo•d where proh1b1ted. W:nners will be responsible for any and al: taxes. Sponsor: The Amer:can lnsnure o, Ce1t1i1ed Public Accountants. 1211 Avenue or the AmeLcas. :::.. Vl New York. NY i0036-8775: Col:egeClub.com. a division of Stuaem Acvantage, Inc.. 2035 Cone Del Nagai. Surte 200. Car!sbaC::. CA 92009 
Start here. Go places. 
If you know business and accounting, you can get a job anywhere. Because the skills you learn in business -strategic and analytical 
"' 
= 
IV i: 
::, 
c;, 
u 
u 
< 
u .a 
::, 
Q,. -c;, 
i.....:;.___ ------' J 
Monday, November 4, 2002 page 19
The Observer . TODAY 
SCHOOL DAZE 


HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
Just be sure  "~~!<!'-"~9¥,::eieli!!Ui::!~ktf.!  
to enjoy the  I ... I do not  
seasonwhife  know this word  
it lasts.  · · .. ·.. ·. in en9Hsh, but.;.  
,,"'  
:~li:!lt  
11::;•:j,;,;:rc·,  

... .... 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Translucent 50 Like a whiny 57 Carpet buyer's mineral voice calculation 35 Hardly a beauty 
52 Hunter of Greek 58 Animal on 37 Duffer's cry myth England's shield 40 Make a cake, 
53 New_, India 

59 Short-tailed 
e.g. wildcat
54 Improvise

43 Ice sheet 47 Capital of the 55 Duncan toys 62 Turned on Philippines 
56 Some car-63 Civil War 48 Pierce pooling vehicles general 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
ACROSS 1 Actor Guinness 5 Frolics 
1 O Beatles song or movie 14 Opera star 15 Foreword, for short 16 Tarzan's raisers 17 Tied 19 New Jersey hoopsters 20 Big name in chickens 21 Most forlorn 23 Check for fit, as clothes 24 Off the correct path 26 Winemaker Ernest or Julio 28 Corn 
32 Inclined path for 
wheelchairs 36 Dictator Amin 37 _ bender 
(minor accident) 
38 Disney's "_ and the 
Oetectivesn 
39 "First Blood" character 41 Give a hand? 42 Starbucks orders 44 Peanut butter holder 45 Ivy League school 46 Escargot 47 Recording studio devices 
49 Generic 51 NBC morning show 56 "Les Miserables" hero 59 City on the Rio Grande 
60 Opera song 
61 Clownish one 64 Inert element used in lights 
65 Extraterrestrial 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
66 Columbus's home 67 Not out of one's mind 68 Lab glove material 69 Penpoints 
DOWN 

1 Very skilled 2 Pate ingredient 3" man for 
himselr 4 Enthusiastic, as an attitude 5 Religious 
ceremony 6 Early afternoon 7 Network with 
annual awards 8 Magician's word 9 Submarine 
detector 10 Repairman 11 Fencing sword 12 Response to 
"Shall we?" 
13 Cousin of "ahem" 
18 Belted out, as a tune 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GUJED 
j
I I [
Cl2002 Trllune Media Secvicea, Inc. 
All A q AeMrved, 
TOAPl 

NEEGIN 
j 
Il 

~. Now arrange the circled letters to

1--roAJ 
t 
form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Anawer: 

HE "( x x x x x )" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday' I Jumbles: BISON MINUS SUPERB DAHLIA s Answer: When the zoo built a monkey house, the crowds grew by -LEAPS AND BOUNDS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 27 • To order, send your name, addreH and $5.115 and m¦ kl check payebll to Trtbune Medi• Servlcn, P.O. eo~ 4330, Chicago, II. eotaCM330. 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Loretta Swit, Markie Post, Walter Cronkite, Matthew McConaughey 
Happy Birthday: Fast action and lots of opportunity will go hand in hand this 
year. Your reluctance to accept what's happening in your life will be the very 
thing that holds you back. Stay on top of things and prepare to put your ideas 
into motion. This will be a great time to prosper if you are willing to go the 
whole nine yards. Your numbers are 3, 8, 14, 25, 33, 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't discount any of your ideas. Past romantic 
partners may surface, however, you must remember why these connections 
dissolved before. Tread carefully and stay open to newleople. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't get emotionally involve with someone 
at work. Travel or lectures may have brought you in contact with individuals 
you can't trust. This is a time to remain alert and be discriminating. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Personal legal matters ma~ be upsetting to you. 
Get as much information as necessary to have a fuller picture. Someone may 
be trying to mislead you. Be careful. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Problems with your personal life may cause 
you to retreat into isolation. This would be a good time to get out with some 
friends and have a change of scenery. Someone you care about may be playing 
emotional games with you. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't get stuck paying for other people's 
entertainment. Tempers may mount but you must hold your ground. At this 
time you need to look after your own best interests. You may find out who 
your real friends are. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Busy yourself with domestic duties or gel out of 
the house altogether. Someone you live with may be on a rampage. Give them 
some space and time alone so that they can work through thmgs. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don't get involved in other people's affairs. Go 
about your business and look out for your own interests. There is plenty you 
could be doing to enhance your hfe, but don't spend on unnecessary 
entertainment. *** 

SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21): You may feel a little under the weather. Restore some order to your home environment and you will begin to feel better. An early evening should be in order. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Uncertainties about your direction may lead to sudden changes in employment. Don't overreact to the suggestions made by superiors. Listen carefully to what is being proposed and consider the possibilities. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your efforts into making the necessary changes at home. Don't exrect any help. Life isn't always fair, so just do the very be~t you can. It will al work out. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will get along famously with people who can give you greater understanding of your direction. You can inquire about reference material that will help you determine your choices. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Older family members may need your undivided attention immediately. Take care of the situation the best you can, but don't allow it to take over your life. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You will be a dedicated and loyal individual who will always look out for the underdog. You will take the imtiative to follow your dreams. You will be eager to please, but sometimes you will lack practicality. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

jerky 
.....+--+-+,,,,.._ee-4 22 Honored woman 24 Emmy-winner Alan ~~:--t 25 Brand of beef 
27 Broadcasts 
29 Brainstorm 
__.,_......,_ 30 Eagerness --+......,-4 31 Writer Stanley Gardner 
-=-+~~=+:--+=+=~t-:-:-t 32 Many wines 
F E E 
--'-....&..-"'--'----...._...__....._. 33 End of a prayer 
j 
1 
l 
.
1 1 
4 4 
. . 
j 
l 
.
1 
l 
.
l 
C 
. 
C 
l. 
I 
l 
1 
j 
l. t 
~ 
• 
C 
.t 
... j 
I 
j 
l 
1 
j 
t 
C 
I 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ____________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
---------~-------------­

Monday, November 4, 2002 
WOMENS CROSS COUNTRY 
Running away cha1t1pions 
. King, Huddle lead Irish to first Big East title 
By JOE LINDSLEY Sports Writer 
BOSTON 
Ever since their 1995 joining of the Big East conference ­one of the nation's most com­petitive cross country confer­ences -the Notre Dame womens cross country team has never won a title at the Big East Championships. 
On Friday at Boston's Franklin Park, not See Also 
only did the 
Irish finish "Course's curse 
first in the continuesfor 
team compe­
Irish"
tition, they also claimed page 17 the top indi­vidual performance. 
lndividu-ally, no one else had much of a chance beating the inseparable Irish duo of sophomore Lauren King and freshman Molly Huddle. 
King, an All-American last year, became queen of the rolling Franklin Park 6-kilo­meter course with her 20:23 performance. Huddle was close behind at 20:28. 
On the team level, the com­petition was a little closer. with the Irish edging out defending champion Georgetown by one point to claim their first ever confer­ence championship. 
"We were good enough up front [King and Huddle] just to hang on," Irish coach Tim Connelly said. "It was fun. The two up front were incredible. They've been running like that all year." 
Connelly was named Big East Coach of the Year for his efforts in developing the team from the pursuer to the pur­sued. 
Just because the Irish had not won a championship until Friday did not mean that Notre Dame's womens cross­country teams have not been talented in recent years. Much of the challenge, though, stems from competing in the nation's deepest and toughest cross-country conference. 
"Year in and year out, this is the best cross country confer­ence in the country, so for Notre Dame to win this meet, it's real big for us," Connelly said. "It's fun. It's exciting. They work hard, they compete hard. It's a great win. We knew we had to run ,our best races of the season, every sin­gle person." 
Senior Jennifer Handley, running 21 :02 and finishing 12th, came in third place for Notre Dame. She was foJlowed by freshman Lori King, who 
see RUNNERS/page 13 


MENS SOCCER 
With postseason fate still unknown, Irish top Hokies 2-1 
,, 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame vs. Houston Jaguars 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
The Irish open their season against the Jaguars in an exhi­bition at the Joyce Center. 
page 14 

MENS BASKETBALL 
HOCKEY 
WOMENS GOLF 
Notre Dame 107 
Notre Dame 3 
Pine Needles 
Illinois All-Stars 77 
Boston College 3 
Invitational 

Freshman Torin Francis 
A goal by Aaron Gill with 
scored 14 points and grabbed 
40 seconds left lifted the Irish 
Today-Tuesday 
16 boards, and transfer Dan 
to a 3-3 tie with the No. 3 
The Irish head to North 
Miller led the Irish with 21 
Eagles Friday. 
Carolina, looking for thret.· sub-
points in Friday's exhibition. 
312 rounds. 
page 15 
page 18 

page 13 
By BRYAN KRONK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame bench crowd­ed the sideline. Time was wind­ing down, and both the Irish and the Hokies were fighting for their Big East postseason lives. 
The Irish held a slim lead, but the Hokies threatened on the offensive side ofthe field. 
As time winded down, a crisp pass found Hokie Eric Prigot with an unguarded path to the goal. 
With just one second remain­ing in the game, Prigot's boom­ing shot soared well over the outstretched arms of Irish goalie Chris Sawyer -and the net-. to preserve the slim but sufficient 2-1 Irish advantage in a chilly Big East match Friday night. 
"This was a huge win; they're a tough team," head coach Bobby Clark said. "From our point of view, it was a great result; another 10-win season. We were very happy with the outcome." 
For much of the match, it seemed as though a goal by Virginia Tech's Rob Smith mid­way through the first half was going to stand as the only goal of the game. 
Smith took a pass by Bailey Allman from. a Peer Rogge throw-in, and placed a low, well­kicked shot that tailed past Sawyer and into the net. 
"I thought we opened very well, I thought we played very well, and then we lost the goal, and then we panicked," Clark said. "We panicked from their goal to halftime." 
The Irish were able to recover in the second half, however, as the defense regained stability and fought to gain momentum. The Irish used two late goals in just over two minutes to give themselves the edge that they would need to emerge victorious. 
With just under 10 minutes remaining in the game, a corner kick by Chad Riley found the head of a diving Kevin Goldthwaite, whose deflection found the left side of the net and tied up the game. 
"Again, another set piece got us back in the game," Clark said. "I thought they showed a lot more patience in the second half." 
Riley made possible another goal not long after his first assist, as his crossing pass found a wide open Erich Braun. Braun briefly paused to line up the kick, and his shot boomed past Ilokies goalie Chase Harrison to give the Irish a 2-1 lead with less than eight minutes to go. 
The lead did not go unchal­lenged, however; in addition to Prigot's late shot, Rogge's head-
see SOCCER/page 14 
FOOTBALL 
Boston College 14 Notre Dame 7 
Five turnovers cost the Irish dearly, as the Eagles ended former No. 4 Notre Dame's quest for a perfect season. 
Irish Insider 


O
THE Monday, November 4, 2002 BSERVER Boston College 14, Notre Dame 7 
From green to blue 
Eagles capitalize on Irish turnovers and end perfect season 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports Wrirtr 
Notre Dame was beaten at its own 
game. 
Boston College scored 14 points off 
two of Notre Dame's five turnovers 
and a late fourth quarter rally for 
the Irish fell short, as the Eagles 
emerged victorious Saturday at 
Notre Dame Stadium, 14•7. 
"I'm hurt, I'm disappointed 
because I felt like [the loss] didn't 
have to happen, but that is competi• 
tion," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham 
said. "That is athletics. Some days 
we get them, today they got us." 
The Irish offense, who wore green jerseys for the first time in 17 years in Notre Dame Stadium, moved the ball well against the Eagles' defense all day, outgaining the Eagles 357 yards to 184. 
But a key second quarter intercep• tion return by Eagles linebacker Josh Ott, giving Boston College a 14­0 lead. dug the Irish into what became an insurmountable hole. 
Quarterback Pat Dillingham ­replacing a "woozy" Carlyle Holiday -was flushed out of the pocket by the Eagles' pass rush. He attempted to get rid of the ball, but his shovel pass landed right in the hands of Ott, who ran untouched for 71 yards and an Eagles touchdown. 
"It was a screen," Dillingham said. "Ryan [Grant] lost his footing; I didn't want to take the sack. I tried to burn it and get it out of my hand ... a guy was there apparently." 
The Eagles got on the scoreboard first, taking over possession after a Grant fumble with 4:32 remaining in the first quarter. After converting a third-and-14 play -on a pass that hit cornerback Shane Walton in the hands -Eagles running back Derrick Knight took the ball from the 25 to the end zone in two plays. 
The Irish, down 6-0 after Eagles' kicker Sandro Sciortino's extra point time, the Irish offense opened the ties in the final period. After con­two minutes remaining, the Irish felt 
attempt sailed wide left, drove the second half with a drive that brought verting a key fourth-and-six play, they could stop Boston College's
ball from its own 29 down to the the ball from its own 20 deep into the Irish had the ball on the Eagles' offense and get the ball back for a Eagles' 11. After a fumbled exchange Boston College territory, only to have 7-yard line. A Tom Lopienski rush up last-minute drive. 
between Holiday and running back 
Wilson fumble the ball on the 19. the middle brought the Irish two They were wrong.
Marcus Wilson brought the ball back 
One play after Wilson's fumble, yards closer to their first score, but After draining Notre Dame's final to the 18, the Irish appeared to tie 
Gerome Sapp intercepted Eagles a Holiday fumbled on a BC blitz, fol­two timeouts, the Eagles and Knightthe score at 6-6 on an 18-yard quarterback Brian St. Pierre at the lowed by two false start penalties ran down the clock on two consecu­
touchdown pass from Holiday to 
Eagles' 23. However, the Irish gave forced the Irish to try to convert on tive rushes up the middle. 
Omar Jenkins on third-and-11. 
the ball right back two plays later, fourth and goal from the 22. The Irish got the ball back with 12 
However, the pass was ruled incom­when Tim Bulman recovered a furn• However, Holiday's pass to Rhema seconds left, but Holiday's Hail Maryplete. 
bled handoff from Holiday to Grant. McKnight was broken up, turning the attempt fell incomplete as time ran 
To make matters worse for the 
"That's the most frustrating thing," ball over to the Eagles on downs out. 
Irish, the 35-yard field goal attempt 
offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick with 6:50 left in the game. "Hats off to them, they're a great 
on the following play was botched, 
said. "That's been one of our The Irish got the ball back with team, that's a great team right 
as holder David Miller could not con­
strengths during the course of the 3:46 left and its perfect season in there. but ... these are the same guys
trol the snap. Miller handed the ball 
season. Anytime you put the ball on serious jeopardy. On the eighth play we've be a ten two out of the last off to Setta, who was tackled at the 
the ground seven times and lose it of the drive, however, Holiday three years," Knight said. "We've 
Boston College 30-yard line. 
three times, you're asking for trou­scrambled, avoiding four would-be -beaten them three out of the last After Ott's interception return ­ble." tacklers, and found Maurice Stovall four times now. We're not going to and the successful 2-point conver­
The Irish, still not on the score­in the end zone for the 20-yard ever fear this team." 
sion attempt -sent the Irish into 
board heading into the fourth quar­touchdown with 2:25 remaining.
the locker room trailing 14-0 at half-Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
ter. had several scoring opportuni-With two timeouts e.nd more than 

player of the game 
stat of the game 
play of the game 
quote of the game 

Josh Ott 
7 

Josh Ott's 71-yd touchdown return 
"If you keep shooting yourself in the 
number ofIrish Jumbles 
foot. it's tough to win." 

The Eagles' linebacker had eight 
The touchdown return gave the 
tackles, two deflected passes. 
Three recovered Jumbles and two 
Eagles a 14-0 lead at halftime. a 
Jeff Fai'le 

recovered a fumble and returned an 
interceptions led to I 4 Boston 
lead they never relinquished 
Irish center 

interception for a touchdown. 
College points 

Monday, November 4, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
C+ 
quarterbacks: The quarterbacks turned in a good passing performance -239 yards -that was negated by two 
interceptions and several bad hand­offs. 
running backs: The running backsC-would have turned in a good perfor­mance with 133 rushing yards, but they put the ball on the grour:id. 
A-
receivers: Seven Irish players caught passes on Saturday for 239 yards, the best Irish performance yardage-wise 
this season. 
offensive line: The line opened up
B+ some holes for the running backs to run through, but let Holiday get sacked twice. 
B-
defensive line: The defensive line did a decent job, but let Knight pick up 
133 rushing yards -higher than his season average. 
linebackers: The linebackers helped stop B the Eagles passing attack and had some good hits, but allowed Knight to pick up some running yards. 
A-
defensive backs: the Irish secondary held Boston College to 77 passing yards -less than one-third of St. Pierre's season aver­
C-
age -and had one pick. They did miss a few tips that could have been intercepted. special teams: Special teams was hardly on the field, but they managed to botch a field goal and get a long runback called back on a hold. Good punting by 
Hildbold was the only saving grace. 
D 
coaching: The coaches did not pre­pare their team for the game, the offensive play calling was weak, the 
fumbles never stopped and the green jerseys were a bad idea. 
overall: Thanks for your help, 
Mr. Lennon, but you were 
wrong. Easily the worst Irish
2.55 
performance of the season. 
adding up the numbers 
total Notre Dame first downs  22  
9  total Boston College first downs  
number of times the Irish were In the red zone  6  

-they scored once 
235 number of Notre Dame passing yards ­their best performance this season 
number of Boston College passing yards ­149 less than the Eagles' season average 
77 
17 
number of years since the Irish wore green jerseys in Notre Dame Stadium 
number of Notre Dame turnovers leading to 
5 
all 14 Boston College points 
number of Boston College offensive drives that resulted in a score 

Take off the green jerseys. Box them up, ship them back to what­ever warehouse they come from and stick them in a dark closet where the sun don't shine. 
And put Notre 
Dame's perfect season next to them. 
The dream is over for the Irish. Undefeated, gone. National championship, wait till next 


year. Return to Andrew Soukup glory, put on hold. 
No, the green Irish jerseys weren't 
Insight

the reason why Boston College upset Notre Dame 14-7, despite what several Eagle players said. 
Josh Ott, who intercepted Pat Dillingham's shovel pass -a pass that threw the first load of dirt on Notre Dame's unbeaten season ­called the jerseys insulting. Others said they felt respected or chal­lenged. The green jerseys might have had more of an effect on the Eagles than it did on Notre Dame and its crowd. 
But the green jerseys didn't curse the Irish. Green-clad Notre Dame simply didn't play like the unit that won eight in blue. 
In fact, Carlyle Holiday, Ryan Grant and Marcus Wilson might want to consider trying out for Mike Brey's basketball team. Only Chris Thomas bounces the ball on the floor more than an Irish back­field that fumbled seven times and did more to stop the Irish offense than anything the Eagles tried. 
All it took to send the dreams down the toilet was a Notre Dame offense intent on self-destructing. If they were trying to stink,.they did a spectacular job. 

"This defies explanation," Tyrone Willingham said across the field from a few Boston College players grabbing chunks of grass. 
Notre Dame should have defeat­ed Boston College easily. The Irish nearly doubled the Eagles' total offensive yards. They got inside the red zone six times. And the game wasn't over until a desperation heave caromed a few feet away from Arnaz Battle. 
But the Irish still lost. They lost the game. They lost the perfect season. 
They lost the ability to control their own destiny. 
Notre Dame fought all season to earn the respect of pollsters, fought all season to earn the right to play their way into the Fiesta Bowl, fought all season to climb the BCS ladder. 
And they fumbled it away Saturday. Funerals were more lively than Irish players during interviews after the game. 
Want to see hopelessness? Look at Ryan Grant, who knelt on the 40-yard line Saturday, oblivious to a television cameraman crouching a foot away. Only an angry Ryan Roberts standing between the cam­era and Grant caused the Irish running back to stand up and trudge to the tunnel. 
Want to see disbelier? Look at the Irish sideline, where helmet­less players crouched, sat or knelt as they watched Boston College players swarm the field, taking Notre Dame's perfect record with them. 
Want to see frustration? Look at Mike Goolsby. Seconds after an Eagle player ripped up grass from Notre Dame Stadium and threw it in Goolsby's face, the Irish line­backer went after the player, grab­bing him by his shoulder and drag­ging him to the side. Only the time• ly intervention of a half-dozen Irish officials prevented Goolsby from doing something he would have regretted. 
Ironically, with all the other unbeaten teams that lost Saturday, Notre Dame probably would have climbed into second place in the BCS standings. Instead, they'll be lucky to be among the top six and in position to receive an automatic BCS bid when the new rankings are released Monday. 
The only green the Irish will be wearing will be the envious kind. 
"We had the ability to keep our destiny in our hands, to let it just be us. Now we don't have that," linebacker Courtney Watson said. "You have to look at scores, you have to see how he's doing. how they're doing, how they're playing and all of this crap. 
"If we would have won this game, it would have put us in a great situation." 
Notre Dame isn't totally out of the national title picture. They need to win the rest of their games, have a bunch of other teams lose their games, a hacker change the BCS computers to give independents an edge and Mars, Jupiter and Pluto to form the cor­rect cosmic alignment. 
The Irish still have a chance to squeak into the Fiesta Bowl. But now it's just a chance. Before, it was their dream. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 


Monday, November 4, 2002 page 3
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Green jerseys bring no luck to Irish 
ByJOE HETTLER Associate Sports Editor 
The green jerseys Notre Dame wore Saturday against Boston College were sup­posed to help the Irish. After the game, it was obvious they didn't. 
Following the 14-7 loss to Boston 
College, questions swirled around whether 
the jerseys were a good idea or if they had, 
in fact, hurt the team's performance. 
"I thought it was a good move to encour­age our fans and our sea of green we have talked about," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said after the game. "The sea of green is important because it talks about an attitude. It talks about how the Notre Dame family and football team to come together as one. So I thought it was a great time, as we speak of the jerseys, to have our team be a part of that oneness, that single-mindedness, that pursuit of vic­tory." 
However, Boston College coach Tom O'Brien thought the jerseys might have backfired mi Notre Dame and given the Eagles more motivation to play better. 
"Actually I think [the jerseys] excited us," O'Brien said. ··our kids were excited when they saw the green jerseys. When our kids saw the green jerseys they took it as great sign of respect. ... We're somebody to be reckoned with. I think our kids [also] took it as maybe a little insulting that they're going to need the green jerseys to beat us." 
None of the Irish players knew about the green jerseys when the team warmed up before the game. Not until returning to the locker room from warm-ups did the play­game. Georgia Tech 35-28. That was the only ers realize what was happening. "[The loss] had nothing to do with the time the Irish wore green jerseys during 
"When we came back in the locker room jerseys," center Jeff Faine said. "There's Bob Davie's tenure at Notre Dame. after warm-ups and we saw the green jer­no luck. We just dropped the ball and put It was also the first time in 17 years that seys. everyone was ready to play and it the ball on the ground. It wasn't the color a Notre Dame team wore green jerseys at helped us get focused," wide receiver of our jerseys or the way we tied our Notre Dame stadium. Gerry Faust's 1985 Omar Jenkins said. shoelaces. We went out there and put the team took a 27-0 halftime lead against 
Notre Dame then dressed in the jerseys, ball on the ground." USC and then donned the green jerseys for but didn't come out of their locker room Boston College players had mixed emo­the second half, en route to a 37-3 win. until after the Irish band had played. tions about the jerseys. Some were insult­The most famous green jersey game When the first few players emerged from ed by them, while others were impressed came under Dan Devine in 1977 against the tunnel, the crowd exploded in cheers. Notre Dame wore them for this game. USC when the team captains emerged 
"We got real psyched up [when we wore "It hurt. It hurt, honestly," defensive end from a Trojan horse and led the team on them], we knew it was a special game for Mathias Kiwanuka said. "It felt like they the field wearing the green. Notre Dame us based on what we had planned for this didn't respect us at all. To go out of their went on to win the national championship season, and obviously Coach Willingham way ... it was almost as if they were down-· that season and wore green jerseys until felt the same way," linebacker Courtney playing us, like they felt they didn't have to Faust took over the program in 1981. Watson said. "You love to use it as a tool to come out and prepare the way they did for Another chapter was added to the green get the crowd into it, it's an emotional high other teams." jersey history, but this time it wasn't so you get for a player, it got everybody reen­Josh Ott, who had a 71-yard interception good. ergized and got people out." return for a touchdown, thought the jer­"It was nice to wear them," Faine said "I 
The cheers wouldn't last long, as the seys were a sign of respect from Notre always wanted to wear them, but it wasn't Irish turned the ball over five times, fum­Dame. anything that was going to change the bling a total of seven times. Notre Dame "It just made us more pumped," Ott said. game. We were still the same team. We're has now lost its last three games when "Now they're finally respecting us, bring­still Notre Dame. We're not going to wearing the green jerseys. Their last win ing out the green jerseys like it's a special change because of the different colored with the jerseys was a 39-28 victory in the occasion." jerseys." 1992 Sugar Bowl against Florida. Saturday marked the first time Notre 
After the game, Irish players said the Dame had worn green jerseys since the jerseys didn't affect the outcome of the 1999 Gator Bowl, when they lost to Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

No comment on the tollchdown that wasn't 
Observer Staff Report 
It was the touchdown that could have been. but none of the Irish players wanted to talk about it. 
On the second play of the second quarter, Carlyle Holiday scrambled out of the pocket and fired a pass to Omar Jenkins in the end zone. The officials called Jenkins out of bounds, although television replays appeared to show that both of Jenkins feet landed in bounds. 
Yet Irish coach Tyrone Willingham, who said he did not see the play but talked to others who saw a replay, made sure there would be no blaming the Irish loss on a bad call. And he did not plan to file a protest, either. 
"That is the way the ball bounces," Willingham said. "Everything has human error. 
Obviously we had some human error today. The offi. cials have some error if that is the case. We are not going to be a coaching staff or a program with young men that whine and complain about calls." 
For the record, television replays showed that at least two calls went in Notre Dame's favor. On Gerome Sapp's third quarter intercep­tion, the ball appeared to squeeze out of his hands and hit the ground before Sapp recovered the ball. 
And on a fourth quarter punt return, a Boston College defender was called for a two-yard halo violation on a Vontez Duff fumble even though the player appeared to be four yards away from Duff. 
Woozy Holiday 
On the play before the dis• puted Jenkins catch, Holiday took a nasty hit that he said left him feeling "woozy." 
After a missed handoff exchange between Holiday and Marcus Wilson, Holiday grabbed the ball and tried to scramble with it. But he was hit hard by a couple of Eagle defenders. 
··1 played the next play, but I don't really think I knew any­thing on the next play," Holiday said. "I was still a lit­tle dizzy." 
Pat Dillingham replaced Holiday on the next three Notre Dame offensive series, throwing interceptions on two drives. 
Meanwhile Holiday stood on the sideline throughout the second quarter wearing a parka. He returned at the beginning of the second half. 
Handling the first loss 

Apparently, \Villingham is the same stoic person after a win as he is after a loss. 
In the locker room after the game, the Irish coach, who lost his first game as Irish head coach, remained calm and told the players to focus on the rest of the season. 
"He took it pretty well, as well as you could," center Jeff Faine said. "It's pretty rough, it's his first loss here, but he stood strong and held his head high and he encouraged us to do the same." 
"He realizes we didn't play our best football game and he just wa~ts us to bounce back and keep our heads up," Holiday added. 
Game day captains 
Cornerback Vontez Duff, offensive lineman Jordan Black, defensive lineman Darrell Campbell and center Jeff Faine served as game day captains for the Irish Saturday. 
•
scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  D  0  0  7  7  
Boston College  6  8  D  D  14  
First quarter  

Boston College 6, Notre Dame 0 
Derrick Knight 3-yd run with 2:39 remaining (kick failed) · Drive: 6 plays, 38 yards, 1:54 elapsed 
Second quarter Boston College 14. Notre Dame 0 Josh Ott 71-yd interception return with 4:03 remaining (Sean Ryan pass from Brian St. Pierre) 
Third quarter No scoring 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Boston College 14 
Maurice Stovall 20•yd reception from Carlyle Holiday with 2:25 remaining (Nicholas Setta kick) Drive: 8 plays, 69 yards, 1:21 elapsed 
statistics 

total yards 

357 

rushing yards 
l'i"'"*••mllllJII! 122
iaos:rONilCO-107 passing yards 235 

BOSTON COLLEGE 184 

...............................;.;.:J 
return yards 

time of possession 
33:58 


,•...

7li 
44-122 rushes-yards 33-107 20-40-2 comp-att-int 9·20-1 4-160 punts-yards 10-353 7-3 fumbles-lost 0-0 7-58 penalties-yards 6-61 22 first downs 9 
Holiday Dillln9ham  eassing 16·32-0 St. Pierre 4·8-2  9-20-1  
rushing  

Grant Holiday Wilson Lopienskl MIiier  27-108 9·26 5-23 2-8 1-0  Knight  26-133  
receiving  

Battle  6-86  Knight  3-19  
Jenkins  4-34  Hemmings  2-34  
Stovall  3-33  Ryan  2-12  
Godsey  3-32  Burke  1-8  
McKnight  2-37  Toal  1·4  
Campbell  1-12  
Wilson  1·1  

tackling 

Watson  6  Ciurcul  9  
Earl  5  Ott  8  
Sapp  5  Bessette  6.5  
Walton  4  White  5  
Roberts  3.5  Parent  5.5  
Campbell  3  Lester  5.5  
Duff  2  Blackmon  2.5  
Hoyte  2  Cook  2  
Budinscak  1  Ryan  2.5  
Tuck  1.5  Rossy  2  
Pauly  1  Bulman  2.5  
Jackson  1  Kiwanuka  2  
Curry  1.5  Flores  2.5  

,. 
f 
.
. 
~ ~ 


TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

Irish running back Marcus Wilson fumbles the ball, one of three recovered by Boston College during Saturday's upset victory. 
The Irish watched their undefeated season fly away on the wings of the Eagles on Saturday as Boston College defeated Notre Dame 14-7. The Irish turned the ball over five
FUMBLING A 
times -three fumbles and two interceptions -allowing Boston College to score all 14 of 
its points on turnovers.

PERFECT SEASON 

't
', 











