
VOL. XXXVII I NO. 54 . 
SMC officers' suspensions sparks controversy 
By SARAH NESTOR 
S.1i11t M.,ry\ FJitor 
Saint Mary's has suspended Sgt. Btdinda Hallwrt f'rom Campus Security, a mow tlwt Hatlw1t supporl!ffS arn decry­ing as unfair. 
Hallwrt, who was suspended Thursday, has been with tlw Co!lnge for three years. 
Hallwrt claims that lluman Hnsourccs l>irnrtor Dcbbiti Kelly suspendt1d her lwrnusn Hallwrt's ,;ollcgo Lrauscriµts Wi!rc missing from her 1wrson1wl l'ilt>. l!atlwrt said she bas unlit Wednesday lo lllrn in a copy of lrnr transcripts, with two !,itt('rs or aecrPditation. 
"She wasn't !ired; she was simply sus­1w11cled JH\IH1ing inl'ormation that only Belinda can provide," Saint Mary's spoktiswoman Melanie Engler said. "O!licnr Hathert's suspension is legal and completely appropriate." 
/\l't1~r Kelly Lold Hathert that she was sus1wndcd, Hathert said she was forced to leave campus. 
"They 1\scortPd me out o!' the building, into a squad car and then were going to take me home. They treated me like I committed some kind of crime," Rathert said. 
During her time at the College, Hathcrt has been a visible presence on campus, sLudcnts said. 
"I know Belinda from her coming and speaking in classes. I think she was a pos­itive influence nn campus," senior Brandyn Long ciaid. 'Tm nol sure what is happening, but I hope the school fills us in, I think the students have a right to know." 
Students upset about the suspension made nicrs, many of which were distrib­uted around campus Thursday. The flier made allegations that Rathert's suspen­sion was unlawful and claimed that Hathcrt was suspended "for reporting unfair treatment and unequal pay." The flier also charged that Rathert's col­league, security officer Keith Forsythe was arrested in an Elkhart, Ind., park for an alleged indecent act and that he was "conducting illegal investigations of Belinda Rathert using the College's name." 
In response to circulation of the flier, Vice Presidenl of Student Affairs Linda Timm sent an e-mail to students Friday. In the e-mail Timm said Rathert was sus­pended "pending completion of an inves­tigation of violation of College policy" but that specific reasons could not be given because it is a personnel matter. 
Timm also responded to the allegations against Forsythe. 
"The allegations made against Of'licer Keith Forsythe in the flier have been investigated. The allegations arc wholly unsubstanliated. There is no record ol' Officer Forsythe being arrested for the criminal conduct or which he was accused in the flier," Timm said in the e-mail. 
The incident that the flier alludes to occurred in March 1996, when then St. Joseph County Sheriff's Sgt. Keith Forsythe was investigated, following an alleged incident in an Elkhart park. Forsythe was never charged. According to the South Bend Tribune, an internal investigation found Forsythe innocent of any wrongdoing and he returned to work as an officer with the agency. 
Forsythe joined the Saint Mary's Security staff two years ago. 
"The allegations against urficer Forsythe are completely untrue. !Interim Security Director! Hose Marie llarris asked him to stay home pending the investigation. The outcome of the investi­gation is that there is nothing there," Engler said. "No disciplinary action at all has been brought against Forsythe." 
Hathert claims that Forsythe did con­duct an investigation into her past.. allegedly contacting the Indiana Law Enforcement Academy and Hoseland. Ind., police, for whom Rathert is a roservc ollicer. Hathcrt said she infornrnd K<'lly. of lluman Hcsourccs, about the alleged incidents and that Forsythe was warnnd to stop his investigations. 
Hathert said the suspension stemmed from her recent request for back pay, which she filed for on Oct. 24 with the Human l{esource department. She claimed that the College paid female security ollicers 50 cents less than male olTiccrs who performed the same duties and that is why she applied for back pay. 
On Wednesday Hathert received a letter 
see SECURITY/page 4 


Cadets commemorate 
Study ranks ND poorly in diversity 
By JESSICA DALSING 
Nl·ws Writl'r 
Notre Dame was recently ranhcl 22 out of 26 of the top­ti1i r univcrsilics in areas of racial diversity. The study. part of the Autumn 2002 issue or the .Journal ol' Blacks in llighcr Education, evaluated the nations 26 highest academically ranked universities on 13 categories of racial diversity including total black student enrollments and university-wide percentage of black faculty. 
Notre Dame ranked very poor­ly among the student rankings, but made up for the lack of stu­dent diversity with high scores in the arca of black faculty. 
"Notre Dame has unfortunate­ly been seen as a Catholic, all white and all male school," said Stnvcn Smith. a 2000 graduate who works in undergraduate admissions. 
Managing editor of the Journal of Blacks in Higher l•:ducation Hobert Bruce Slater said, "Tho numbers ol' black stu­dents at Notre Dame arc inllatctl because such a high percentage or the students arc on athletic scholarship; if there wore not athletic scholarships the per­cenlage of black students would most likely be far lower." 
The study showed that 26 per­c1·11t ol' all black students arc on athl(\tic scholarship. Yet, Smith saicl, "Last ynar, of tho around f,:i black studenls that enrolled only 10 were varsity athlntes." 
Chandra Johnson, assistant to the president. said, "This rating is Lruc. One reality is that we am not pt\rccived as an institu­li on of higher learning where black students can come and excel except for in athlrtics." 
Some black students feel this stigma as well. 

"I do find it offensive when people assume that I am an ath­lete just because I am black," said s,•nior Tona Boyd. 
Junior Dcka Motanya offered a di[Tc rcnt perspective. 
"People have assumed that I am an athlete, but they have good reason to because so many black students arc athletes," she said. 
The campus climate is seen as lacking in diversity, yet many 
believe that this is simply due to the type of students who applies. 
"The typical Notre Danrn stu­dent or someone that is looking to go to Notre Dame often times is coming from a very homoge­nous background which plays a role in how diversity is seen on campus," Boyd said. 
Iris Outlaw, director or Multicultural Student Programs and Services agreed. 
see DIVERSITY/page 4 
Veteran's Day with vigil 
By MELISSA LOU 
News Writer 
Notre Dame cadets from 
all branches of the U.S. mil­
itary will commemorate 
Veteran's Day with a 24­
hour long vigil that con­
cludes with a memorial 
ceremony at the Clarke 
Memorial Fountain today at 
5 p.m. 
"The Army is taking the lead in showing veterans our appreciation this year," said Capt. William Zimmerman, an instructor with Air Force ROTC. 
Each year, leadership of the Notre Dame Command is rotated among the branches, with Army being in charge this year, said Susan Kutz, Notre Dame's cadet Tri Military Commander. 
The vigil, now a Notre Dame Command tradition, will run continuously for 24 hours and includes cadets and midshipmen from all branches standing guard at attention, rotating to a dil'­fer en t side of the War memorial every 15 minutes and changing shifts every half hour. 
"The vigil is a. solemn event designed to make tho public aware of' the sacri­fice ol' those who served before us," said Air Force Cadet Alexa Garoi. 
Members of Silver Wings, a civilian component of the Air Force cadet service organization Arnold Air Society, will be present at Clarke Fountain, commonly known as Stonehenge, to answer questions regarding 

the vigil, as the cadets arc not allowed to talk during their shil'ts. 
/\t the end of the vigil. the entire Notre Dame Command will gather in dress uniform for a memor­ial ceremony. Local veter­ans, members of the Notre Dame and Sou th Bend Community, as well as gov­ernment representatives will be in attendance. 
The key speaker for the evening will be University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, with Father Richard Warner, director or Campus Ministry, delivering the invocation. Michelle Boxell is expected to speak on behalf of Congressman Tim Hoerner and Hear Admiral Robert Moeller, Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans. Policy and Training l'or the U.S. Pacific Fleet will be in attendance. 
Additionally, Lt. Col. David Mosinski. head of the Army ROTC program, said that an ofl'iccr from the Fighting Irish Battalion spoke to the veterans at St. 
Paul's Hetircmen l  llome  
and  cadets  from  /\rmy  
HOTC  celebrated  their  

annual Army Ball this weekend. 
The key speakers at this event were Brigadier General llunzekor, who currently serves in the Pentagon, and Bctircd Chief Warrant Officer Handolph Jones. a veteran of 30 years in the U.S. Army. 
see VETERANS/page 4 

..--------------------------------------------------------­
p:ige 2 The Observer . WHAT>S UP Monday, October 11 , 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 

Keeping your head above water 
Perhaps the hardest thing to do in life is to juggle your time. It can be extremely difficult to do even for the most experienced of us out there. Someone has to do it, and since Mom isn't here to help out, you get stuck doing the dirty work of planning Justin your schedule. 
Krivickas 

I have heard there are students 
Assistant

who actually work 
News Editor 

themselves stupid. 
They rush around 
campus, trying to 
do as much as they can each and every­
day and can be seen speed walking 
around campus and eating lunch dur­
ing class. lnevitahly they will be I.he 
ones sleeping through an important 
exam. 
Over committing yourself can be one of the most stressful things you can do. Juggling a class schedule, three clubs and a job can wreak havoc on your grade point average. Some may try to keep their head above water with a planner and an intense work ethic, but in the long run these people run out of steam and they drown in a sea of meet­ings and classwork. 
But, giving up entirely on life and sit­ting in your room won't do either. I know staring out your window with binoculars and cowering in the corner whenever the phone rings may sound tempting to some. Yet this type ofatti­tude will inevitably leave you as a hobo. 
My advice is to take it easy and not to get swamped with too much to do, and always set aside some time to just bum around and watch an episode or two of your favorite television show. 
Remember that you'II have to DART for the next semester before you know it. Maybe you'll be the one who tries to schedule all ofyour classes three days a week and take Tuesday and Thursday off to do your class assignments and work on a job. Just know what you're getting into and that this type ofsched­ule and be the ultimate test in planning and scheduling. 
Some people can work, eat. study and sleep with no difficulty and they are content to be on the move all day every­day. In the long run, doing this will do more harm than good, either ending with insanity or more typically burnout. Only you can find a healthy intermedi­ary between work and play. You might need to test either side of the spectrum, but eventually you'll find the healthy arrangement that works for you. By merely balancing your time and not working yourself silly, you just might make it through college without a wrin­kled brow. 
The Liiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe 0bsenier. 
Contact Justin Kriuickas at jkrivick@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer r~gards irself a, a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rime<. We do, however, recognize rhat we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454 I so we can correcr our error. 
CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC recruits next freshman class 
Saint Mary's annu­al Fall Fest was held on Sunday to help recruit prospective High School students for next year's fresh­
man class. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
Bush warns Saddam with 'zero tolerance' policy 
The Security Council at the U.N. voted unanimously in favor of a resolu­tion that gives Iraq one more chance to disarm or face war. 
page 5 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Microsoft begins sanctions 
Gates and Microsoft appoint­ed three trustees Friday to a new antitrust committee that will oversee 
the sanctions. 
page 7 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. 
Lecture: "Zeolite Incorporation and Application in Chemical Microsystems" with Dr. King Lun Yeung, 3:30 room 136 DcBartolo Hall. 

. 
Lecture: "G.K. Chesterton at Notre Dame" with Professor Halph Mcinerny, 7:30 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Student Affairs Division Meeting 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. 

. 
Information Technology Meeting 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 

p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. 


. 
Sophomore Board Meeting Haggar College Center 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. 


VIEWPOINT 
GOP comes out on top 
Alumnus Mike Marchard weighs in on President George W. Bush, and his ability to secure both houses for the Republican 
Party. 
page 10 

SCENE 
Mellencamp: A blast from the past 
Mellencamp plays the Joyce Center with a set that was reminescent of his 
earlier years. 
page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
WHAT'S COOKING 

North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, tri-color rotini, pastaria meat sauce, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, minestrone soup, chicken in the pot soup, tomato soup, broccoli cheese soup, hamburger, winter bread vegetables, fresh hash brown vegeta­bles and tacos. 
Today Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, tri-color rotini, pastaria meat sauce, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza. vegetable pizza, hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks, garlic bread, minestrone soup, chicken in the pot soup, tomato soup and broccoli cheese soup. 

South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach cheese tortellini, calzones, pretzel sticks, gar­den quiche, baby lima beans, baked potato neptune, beef tips and mush­rooms, kluski noodles, roast top sirloin of beef, long grain and wild rice, Italian chicken sandwich, crinkle fries and soft pretzel. 
Today Dinner: Turkey tetrazzini, mushroom marinara, spinach-cheese, tortellini. calzones, pretzel sticks, egg­p I ant parmesan, herbed vegetable medley, Swiss steak, grilled salmon fil­let, rotisserie chicken, and roasted herb-garlic russet potates. 
SPORTS 
Down in the dog fight 
The Irish mens soc­cer team was beat­en by Georgetown in a fiercely com­
petitive game. 
page 24 

Burglar caught on campus 
On Sunday, a burglar was apprehended at Columba Hall. This case is now being taken to the prosecu­tor's office for review of criminal charges. 
Student recovers missing instrument 
The musical instrument found in the I-lesburgh Library was released to the owner on Wednesday. 
Cash found in engineering building 
Cash was found in Fitzpatrick Hall and turned in to NDSP for safekeeping on Wednesday. 
Student assaulted off-campus 
A student reported being assaulted at an off cam­pus location on Wednesday. 
Computer accessory stolen 
A University employee reported the theft of a computer mouse from an office in LaFortune Student Center on Wednesday. There arc no sus­pects. 
Compiled from NDSP blotter 


Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Beef and country veg­etable soup, tyrolean vegetable chow­der, grilled vegetable pizza, cheese pizza, combo four loafer, hamburger, corn dog, grilled turkey melt, french fries, grilled lime cilantro chicken, coconut rice, Aztec corn, vegetarian stuffed pepper, baked beans with apples and egg noodles. 
Today Dinner: Beef and country veg­etable soup, tyrolean vegetable chow­der, grilled vegetable pizza, cheese pizza, chicken bayou casserctte, baked ham, Au gratin potatoes, broccoli spears, eggplant roll-a-tini, hcrbed pasta, breadstick and Greek greens. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:: 
LIJ 
:c 
!ct 
LIJ 
3: 
..a 
<
u .9 HIGH 43 HIGH 38 HIGH 44 HIGH 49 HIGH 49 HIGH 47 LOW 36 LOW 32 LOW 29 LOW 39 LOW 34 LOW 33 

Atlanta 66 / 52 Boston 74 I 51 Chicago 44 / 33 Denver 45 I 29 Houston 73 / 46 Los Angeles 76 / 54 Minneapolis 36 / 27 New York 72 / 52 Philadelphia 73 / 51 Phoenix 76 / 56 Seattle 53 / 48 St. Louis 46 / 33 Tampa 85 / 71 Washington 74 / 52 
Monday, November l l, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC recruits next freshman class 
By MEIANIE BECKER 
News Writer 
Sain t Mary's annual rail Da.y wa.s held on Sunday for prospeclive students, An esti­mated 250 high school stu­dents and their parents came for the event. 
F all Day officially began with a student led prayer, and then College President 
Linda Timm gave a general overview of Saint Mary's. Also, Anita l!ouck, professor
I. · d' k

of re 1g1ous stu 10s, spo e about choosing the right schc,ol and the liberal arts program that the college offers, and Student Body President Kim Jensen spoke about her college search that led her to Saint Mary's. 
"Saint Mary's is one of the most amazing environments that I've even been in, it encourages you to become the pers.'.rn lhat yo~ want to 
Admissions presented its student body profile, require­mcnts, admission process and the early decision appli­cation. 
The parents stayed for a presentation from a financial aid question and answer ses­were led to Carroll Auditorium for a session with a student panel. The student panel consisted of represen­tatives from the College's Board of Governance to answer questions from prospectives. The questions 
sion with the admin­istrators. 
"Finding the right 
f'it and the academic quality arc important, bolh of which are here. [The adminis­tr at i O n J 5 h O w e d c O n r i • 
"J was hesitant about 
coming here, but after today's presentations I've solidified my decision to 
come here." 
Katie McConnell prospective student 

ranged from campus hous­ing and diver­sity, to acade­mies, study-abroad pro­grams and spirituality at 
Saint Mary's. 
Included on the panel w a s . Elizabeth Jab Ions k i. Diehl, student body vice 
admissions commissioner and Katie ,Boyce who repre­sented the athletic depart· ment. 
"I think that we were very well represented," Pace said. Parents and students were then taken to lunch and given 
a tour of campus by student volunteers from the College. 
"They were great in answering questions that we had. Campus safety, the qual­ity of education and my daughter's well being are my biggest concerns," prospec­tive parent Linda Ellison said. 
The presentations even changed some minds, 
"l was hesitant about com­ing here, but after today's presentations I've solidified my decision to come here," 

dencc, a rigorous program president, Sara Mahoney, prospective student Katie and a student body that is student diversity president, McConnell said. exposed to a variety of pro-Desiree Paulin, women's grams," prospective parent issue commissioner, Sarah Tom Godrey said. Brown, sophomore class Contact Melanie Becker at 
become, Jensen said. The prospective students president, Stephanie Pace, Beck093l@saintmarys.edu. 
1

I , , , , ' ,, 
I I , , ,, I 

I Mention this advertisement on your : next visit and receive afree beverage 1ofyour choice. * 
I *Offer valid with any entree valued at $3. 99 ar greater.I !ncludP.s brealifast and lunch menu. Offer good now through 11-27-02. 
I

I In your Internet browser type "food.nd.edu" 
Click on "Daily Specials & Coupons"I View current coupons and the daily lunch specials! I
I open Monday-Jtiday 7:00 am -2:30pm, call 631-8578, -t ;) Greenfield's International <:aft is located in die I Hesburgh Centerfar International Studies 11
•::.~~..r.:.~~w:·~-----E~~~~~~J 
-·-·-·-·-·-·-~-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·: 
. SEXUAL ASSAULT AWARENESS WEEK 
I 

schedule of Events 
Monday: Movie "The Accused" with Jodie Foster at 7pm in the 
CSC Classroom 
Tuesday: Panel Discussion focusing on why rape occurs and 
the policies surrounding sexual assault on Notre Dame's 
campus at 7:30pm in DBRT 131 
Wednesday: GTC Dramatic Dialogues presentation of 
11What's Goin' On?" by Joel Gori at 7:30pm in Haggar 117 
Thursday: Presentation by Patrick Drury focused on how men can 
help victimg of sexual assault at 7:30pm in the Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Lounge. A survivor will also tell her story. 
Friday: Mass to eoHCHtOHt0rato tAose peop811 al/11et11d 6y soxl4a8 assalfll 
"' 6p111 l1e tAo 'DUJlo,e Hall OAapo8.
• If vou would like more information about anv of these events, please contact care@nd.edu 
~--·---·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-~---·-·-·-·-·-·-·---·---·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­
I
I I 
: I 
I
I I
I 
I I
I I 

Students to oppose U.S.action 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
While most of the United 

States prepares for war in 
the Middle East, a group or 
Saint Mary's students will 
step up their efforts to pre­
serve and promote interna­
tional peace in their spon­
sorship of this week's 
"Educating for Peace." 
The Peacemakers, a stu• 

dent run organization on 
Saint Mary's campus, has 
organized a week of events 
in which students can learn 
about the implications of 
modern warfare. 
"We want people to know 

that warfare has changed," 
said junior Peacemaker 
Amy Jensby. "It's not like 
the Civil War where people 
just line up and shoot. War 
today includes the bombing 
of civilians." 
The organization also 

wants students to research 
current events on their own. 
"Don't be afraid to go 

against popular opinion," 
Jensby said. "Check your 
sources, use a wide variety; 
don't just go off of Fox 
News." 
Planned events will cover 

a broad range of issues, and 
will include speakers such 
as Diana Buttu of the 
Palestine Liberation 
Organization. The emphasis 
however, will be on the pos­
sible US war against Iraq. 
Tuesday evening, Carmon 
Pauls Wiens, a Peace 
Institute student, will 
answer students' questions 
about the year she spent liv­
ing in Iraq. The film "Wag 
the Dog" will be shown 
Wednesday evening. 
The Educating for Peace week will not be restricted to the Saint Mary's campus however. Local community involvement is encouraged at a Peace Rally Saturday night in downtown South Bend. Participants will express their opposition to American military action against Saddam Hussein. 
The Peacemakers are not fazed by the recent passage of the UN resolution regard­ing Iraq, although they do describe it as a "shaky deci­sion." 
"What they worry about is the question is the US going to make up a reason to go to war with Iraq? They could use any little thing that they find," Jensby added. 
The Peacemakers hope that students realize, with the help of Educating for Peace week, that armed conflict is not a productive option in solving worldwide conl1icts, and that there arc 
Contact Megan O'Neil at 
Onei0907@saintmarys.edu. 
got news? 631-5323. 

page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 11, 2002 
Security 
continued from page l 
l'rom Debbie Kelly, denying Hathert's request for back pay. 
"Women do not have to put up wilh this stuff. I'm standing up for my rights. Women everywhere have rights because of' other women that haV<~ stood up before them," Hathert said. "There are other people who want to speak up but arc so afraid to say any­
thing." 
Hathert has hirrd an attorney, who will conduct any further communications b,1twcen Hathcrt and the College. Hather said she is concerned by the way the College has handled her situation. 
"'What happens when I turn in my transcripts'' Will it take back the way I was treated if they say sorry? I have little to no respect for them doing this," Hathert said. "!low could I ever work with those people again?" 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
Veterans 
continued from page I 
According to Major M.E. Lyon, Notre Dame mid­shipmen also celebrated the Marine Corps and Navy birthdays this weck­en d with a Ball on Saturday evening. Furthermore, Marine Option midshipmen partic­ipated in a run to a local Marine veteran's home !'or a flag raising ceremony. Finally, the marine options wrapped up their weekend activities at a celebration with retired Marines ina Sunday night dinner. 
The memorial ceremony begins at today 5 p.m. with cadets and midshipmen standing in formation on the North side of the Clarke War Memorial to commemorate our nation's veterans. "We commemo­rate them because we wouldn't be the great country we are today with­out them," said 
,merman. 

Co,,,act Melissa Lou at Lou. l@nd.edu 
Diversity 
continued trom page 1 
"Many Notre Dame students are from areas that arc very homoge­nous both socio-economically and racially," she said. 
Johnson, however, disagnwd, "The 21st century studcn Ls are very understanding when it comes to diversity, yet the problem comes in the dassroom with tlw older faculty." 
The classroom is a place to express idPas and learning. Yet, Boyd said. " [ feel that somctinfcs my comments on the current state of' racism are discounted simply because I am black." 
Though things may not have changed in the classroom, the diversity of the curriculum has benefitl'd from recent additions. The practicum of' diversity in edu­cation is now a part of the well­ness rotation taken by all fresh­men. 
Mcghan Hahn, a senior, said, "Here we have tu take two philosophies and two theologies, why not substitute one of these for a multicultural or gender based issues class it would heighten the awareness of the normal student." 
Other programs such as the Learning to Talk about Race Retreat, The Building Bridges Program, and the Plunge are making Notre Dame a more wel­coming place for minorities. The Plunge is an all freshman African American retreat focused at help­ing the first-years find their niche 
&fg!J!~
only at ---=--~ 
Sminutes~ {ram OUTrOST 
Campus -1•2•Zif 
Cold Weather Experts 
Call 259-woo far more details 
on campus. 
rounder of the Plunge, Johnson, said, "People do well when thcv feel comfortable." The Learning t~ Talk about Hace Hetrcat gets stu­dents or all races together to talk about issues of race in the context of Notre Dame. 
A mentoring program for llispanic students called, "Building Bridges" helps llispanic first-years to adjust to tbe Notrn Dame campus. 
Some students believe that the ·idea behind these communitv building programs is good, but ft tlwy arc artually increasing the problrm. Junior, Motanva said that these programs, "group you off wlrnn you are a minority and I would like to be better integrated into tho general community." 
Notre Dame's President, Monk Malloy has madii diversity on of' his main issues to deal with. lie has already hired Johnson, an African American woman, as his assistant and a new Hispanic vice president ol' student affairs. 
"The appointment of Coach 'Willingham was something that never would have happerrnd 10 years ago," said Outlaw. 
Former University President Father lfosburgh stated in a lPc­ture on civil rights that, "l am happy at least that no one is say­ing we arc doing fine. The reports I read say we are nut doing line and we need to do better." 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at Dalsing. l@nd.edu 
Memorial to be dedicated in '04 
Associated Press 
\VASI IINC/l'ON 

·world War II veterans lcarrwd Sunday Llwy ar<' about a year and a hall' avvay l'rom sePing com­pletion or their war memorial on the National Mall. 
The American Battle Monunwnts Commission announced Sunday the memorial will bP dPdicat­e<l on Saturday, May 29, 2004. 
"We rrally want to crriatc> what we call World War II week in Washington, D.C.," said Miki· Conley, spokesman for tlw commission. "This could be one ol' thn last great gatlwrings ol' World War II vl'terans in this country." 
Tlw commission says that of llrn I() million citi­zens who served in uniform in World War [1, fewer than 4 million are expeett'd to bl' alive when the memorial is dcdicat!'d, noting that vet­erans from that era are <lying at a rate of I, I 00 a day. 
A lengthy court battle was waged ovl'r the mcmorial's location and design, with oppon1'nts maintaining its large-scale design and !oration would spoil the character of the Mall and intnr­l'ere with grand vistas long enjoyed by visitors. 
The 7.4-acre site is between Lhe Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monunwnt. Tlw white stone memorial will f'cature 56 17-foot-high pillars, two four-story arches and a sunkl'n plaza with a pool. On the lloor ol' Lhe arches will be thl' World War II Victory Medal surround1~d by tlw words "'Victory on Land, Victory at Sea, Victory in the Air." A registry will contain the names of' veterans and others who helped in the war l'ffort. 
TO 

The Saint Mary's College Theatre presents 
::-A 

Thursday, November 14 8:00 pm MOREA0 Friday, November 15 ·. 8:00 pm ~EKT:J'R., /
FOR THE ARTS
S d
atur ay, November 16 8:00 pm NOTFIEDAIIE, IH Sunday, November 17 2;30 pm LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 574/2844626 
FOR THE 

OBSERVER SH'.(5ULI).CALL JASON AT 631-4542 :'.OR t<A~E)AT: SjJ_....,4541• QR .. STOP BY. THE OFFICE ·······•·...·.......•.•.•. :.....•..•...•.:.•.•.t.:rl\t··•······•~H~············~C)~~~····•··•···•~·]·~·:ri•kd.•.•····•···l{A1;.L. BASEMENT. 

Monday, Nov.:mbcr l l, 2002 COMPILliD HtOM 'fllE OBSERVER WIHE SERVICES page 5 
Bush warns Saddam with 'zero-tolerance' policy 
Associated l'rc,s 
W !\SI IINC;TON 

\Var plans in hand. Bush a<lminislration o!Ticials on Sunday promislid "znro-tolcr­anrn'' if Saddam llussein refuses lo comply with internalional ca Ifs to disarm. 
,\ new U.N. Sncurity Council rnsolution demands that Iraq Pliminalo its weapons of mass dustruclion and open up to insp1:clors or face "sorious con­scq 1J1\11 cc:;," und lop White ilou:;c aides said thev arc watching clos,dy to nnsurc Saddam cooporattis. 
"W1• do not rn•Pd to waste tho ·world's lime \,\'ith another game of cat und rnous1•," national sc~curily adviser Condoloczza Hice said. 
Under the rusolution, tho Sncurily Council would assuss anv violalions and decide how to rnspond. But several adminis­tralion officials made plain that the United States reserved the right to invade Iraq with or without U.N. approval. 
"We have the authority by the president's desire to protect and defend the United States of America," Whito !louse chief' of staff Andrews Card said on NBC's "Meet the Press." "The 
U.N. can meet and discuss. but 
we don't need their permission." /\ddncf Secretary or State Colin Powell: "If' we find that debate is going nowhere, if the U.N. chooses not tu act. we have not given up our authority lo act with like-minded nations who might wish to join us in such an action." 
The adminislration r(icoivcd support Su11day wlwn Arab J'or­<'ign ministers meeting in Cairo urged Saddam to accept the ttirms of the resolution. 
Hice, meantime, dismissed as "ludicrous" the call by tl1e Iraqi prnsidcnt !'or his parliament to hold an emergency session on the resolution. 
"Saddam llussein is an absolute dictator and tyrant, and the idra that somehow he expects the Iraqi p<Lrliamcnt to debate this -they've never debated anything else," Hice said on ABC's ''This Week." "I'm surprised he's even bothering to gu through this ploy." 
Administration officials faced questions on reports published Sunday on President Bush's approval of a battle plan should Iraq fail to comply with the U.N. resolution. The leaks appeared to he an elTort to send Saddam a message about how serious the United States is. 
A Pentagon plan for invading Iraq calls for a land. sea and air force of 200,000 to 250,000 troops. Pentagon planners had considered an approach that would have used 100,000 or fewer troops, but they settled on anonymity. by the United States," Powell a much larger force favored by "If I were Saddam Hussein I said on CBS's "Face the Nation." Gen. Tommy Franks. head of the would take it with a great deal "This is not some resolution to Central Command that would of concern and seriousness and be ignored, as he's ignored all run any war in Iraq, said offi­understand that this is not some previous resolutions." cials who spoke on condition of idle threat that has been issued 

ISRAEL 
Israel fires on Gaza after shooting rampage kills five 
A»odatecl Press 
KIBBUTZ METZER 
A Palestinian man broke into an Israeli farming community late Sunday and went on a shooting rampage, killing five people, including two children, Israeli officials said. 
Two hours later, Israeli helicopters fired rockets into a large auto body shop in downtown Gaza City, touching off a ht1gc fire, wilncsses said. The workshop was believed tu be empty at the time of the attack, shortly before 2 a.m. 
Tile Israeli military declined immedi­ate comment, though it has frequently targeted metal workshops in the past, saying Palestinian militants use them to manufacture weapons. 
In the shooting attack, the gunman entered Kibbutz Metzer, a collective farming community in northern Israel, just across the border from the West Bank shortly before midnight Sunday. 
"There was shooting for close to 10 minutes then the security forces arrived and we're shut inside the houses," a member of the farm, identified only as lrit, told Israel radio. 
The Israeli security forces could not immediately locate the gunman, and it appeared he may have escaped from the 
farm, about 30 miles northeast of Tel Aviv. 
The Israeli rescue service, Magen David Adorn, said at least five people were killed, including two children. 
"Israelis in their own homes were bru­tally targeted by Palestinian terrorists," said David Baker. an official in Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's office. 
Earlier Sunday, a car exploded outside the kibbutz after Israeli police ordered the driver to stop. The two occupants were killed. 
It was one or three instances Sunday in which fsraeli authorities said they managed to avert a suicide attack. 
In another case, the army said it arrested a 15-year-old youth from the West Bank city of Nablus who was on his way to carry out a suicide bombing when he was caught. 
Also, the army arrested a man it described as a senior llamas member who was planning an attack from the West Bank town of IIehrun. 
Throughout the West Bank. Israeli troops have been in or near Palestinian cities for nearly five months, imposing curfews and tough restrictions on Palestinian movemunts as part of an effort to keep militants from launching attacks. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
England prepares for war: Prime MinisLer Tony Blair's government said Sunday it is preparing l'or possible military action against Iraq in case diplomatic efforts to disarm Saddam Hussein fail. 
Defense Secretary Geuff Hoon said military action would be a last resort, but "we have to show Saddam Hussein that we mean business." "Clearly the United States and indeed the United Kingdom have had a range of military plans available as we <lo in the event of conlingcncics developing any­where in tlrn world," Hoon told Sky News. "We've certainly got lo be ready, l don't want to put any specific dates on that but I assure you ... that we arc 
prepared." 
Philippine airplane crash kills two: An . airplane carrying 34 passengers und crew crashed into Manila Bay shortly after lnkcoff early Monday. oflkials said. At leasl two people were killed and 17 survivors were plucknd from the murky water. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
HomeJand compromise near: The 
Senate's incoming majority leader said Sunday he believes a compromise is close on creating a homeland security department and is confident he has the votes to pass it during the postelection session beginning this week. President Bush has demanded immediate congressional action after months of delay. "We hope by Tuesday or Wednesday we could have a hill that would be passed by the Senate by a wide margin," said Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss. "It would be different than probably either side proposed earlier." Negotiators worked over the weekend on a deal, he said. 
Savage storms hit Tennessee, Ohio: 
Devastating, tornado-laden storms ripped through Tennessee and Ohio on Sunday. killing at least seven people. trapping olhers in buildings and leav­ing thousands without power, authorities said. 
Attorneys suppress sniper comment: 
Defense attorneys said Sunday they will seek to sup­press a police interrogation of' 17-ycar-old snipt~r suspect John Lee Ma.lvo in which he reportedly con• fessed to some of the shootings. The Washington Post. citing anonymous sources, reported Sunday that Malvo admitted pulling the trigger on severnl or the shootings that left 10 people dead and three oth­ers seriously wounded during a three-week spree through metropolitan Washington and Virginia. Malva's defense lawyer, Michael Arif. criticized police Sunday for leaking the story and questioned the accuracy of what those sources told the Post. "The police are flooding the media and poisoning the jury pool with their own paraphrasing and sub­jective interpretations of statements made during an unconstitutional interrogation" Arif said. Ile said the leak "suggests an insecurity on thu part of Urn commonwealth with the admissibility of these state­
ments." 

page6 The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 11, 2002 
Scholars gather for poverty conference 
By COLLEEN GANEY 
News Writer 
The "Option for the Poor" 
conference began Sunday at 
McKenna Ilall and will con­
tinue through Wednesday, 
bringing together interdisci­
plinary scholars and church 
leaders from across the 
globe, 
"There has never been a 
conference like this any­
where," declares conference 
director, Father Daniel 
Groody, assistant professor 
of theology and associate 
director of the Institute for 
Latino Studies at Notre 
Dame. 
Uniquely poised with ample 
resources and veteran the­
ologians, Notre Dame is tak­
ing an international lead by 
addressing the option for the 
poor, the age-old Church 
mission that strives to emu­
late how God treats the poor 
preferentially because of 
their hardship and suffering. 
"It's an important theologi­
cal issue that we're trying to 
articulate anew," remarks 
John Cavadini, professor and 
department chair of theology 
at Notre Dame. who will 
speak today on the insights 
that early Christian writings 
lend to this issue. 
Groody expects the event to 
inspire like conferences 
around the world and more 
fully expand the concern for 
poverty into fields apart from 
theology. 
Led by the Department of Theology along with the Institute for Latino Studies, the conference is sponsored by almost twenty other University institutes and departments. Presenters rep­resent a wide range of disci­plines. 
Keynote speaker Gustavo Gutierrez is "one of the five most influential theological thinkers of the last century," according to Groody. The John Cardinal O'Hara Professor of Theology at Notre Dame, Gutierrez helped return the option for the poor to the forefront of the Church during the past century. 
Georges Enderle, professor of marketing and chair of international business ethics at Notre Dame. will speak this morning on how busi­ness and theology should try to better understand each other on both a university and international level. 
Ile feels that corporations can .:•serve the poor prof­itably," and theologians should "recognize that to create wealth is something important." 
Pro fessor of theology Michael Signer will speak Tuesday on how Judaism can provide an enriching lens into Christian responsibilities to the poor. 
"The Rabbinic emphasis on communal practices can be a resource for Christian theolo­gians" because "both Jews and Christians share the task to become a blessing to the world," says Signer. 
Other speakers will exam­ine the option for the poor in relation to art, race and fem­inism. 
Cardinal Oscar Andres Rodriguez Maradiaga from Honduras, believed to be a probable papal candidate, will be unable to attend as planned after suffering a broken leg last week in Germany. 
The conference primarily addresses the academic com­munity, but has implications for social action. 
Groody deems the confer­ence a "torch passing" of older theological scholarship onto a younger generation in order to solidify a "network of young theologians." After the conference concludes next Wednesday, the younger theologians will remain a few days longer to explore future projects. 
"A younger generation needs to take the lead," Groody says. 
More information can be found at www.nd.edu/-lati­no/optionforpoor. 
Contact Colleen Ganey at mganey@nd.edu. 
Conference depicts Chesterton's work 
sor David Fagerberg of
By MATT BRAMANTI 
Mundelein Seminary will offer 
News Writer 

anecdotes and insights into Chesterton's personality.The late G.K. Chesterton is Thursday's feature event will 
returning to campus this week, be Father Charlie Gordon's dis­
at least in spirit, in a confer­
cussion of Chesterton's philo­ence presented by the Center sophical and theological writ-for Ethics and 
ings.
Culture. 

The week wiJI Chesterton, a "He's the kind of be topped off on 
prolific writer Friday by a one­

writer that appeals to
of poetry. 

m an play
biographies, peoplein all areas of 
depicting
philosophy and study." Chesterton's life economic theo­and work. John 

ry. delivered a 

Chalberg, who 
series of lec­Jennie Bradley 
has also por­
tures at Notre chairperson of the 
trayed
Dame in 1930. 

conference Theodore 
His experience at Notre Dame led him to dedicate a poem, entitled "The Arena," to the university. "And thrice they cried like thunder/On Our Lady of the Victories," Chesterton wrote. 
The conference is student­run, under the leadership of junior philosophy major Jennie Bradley, who works in the ethics center. "This will be a great opportunity to get Chesterton back in the con­sciousness of Notre Dame," Bradley said. 
The conference begins at 
7:30 tonight in the Hesburgh Center, when professor Ralph Mcinerny will give a talk on Chesterton's stay at Notre Dame. · 
On Tuesday, Mark and Louise Zwick of the Houston Catholic Worker will discuss Chesterton's theory of econom­ic distributivism and its effect on the roots of the radical Catholic movement. Wednesday night in DeBartolo Hall, profes-Hoosevelt, will perform at 7:30 
p.m. Friday in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
Bradley added that Chesterton's considerable work is made even more appealing by its accessibility. "He's the kind of writer that appeals to people in all areas of study," she said. 
More information about the conference is available at the Center for Ethics and Culture in Flanner Hall. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at mbra­mant@nd.edu. 
Launch delayed 
Associated Press 
An abrupt and puzzling leak in the astronauts' oxy­gen supply forced NASA to delay Monday's planned launch of space shuttle Endeavour by at least one week. 
With just two hours remaining in the countdown Sunday night, NASA called off the flight to the interna­tional space station and apol­ogized to the seven-member crew. 
Commander James Wetherbee had just strapped into his cockpit seat. 
''I'd like to welcome you aboard ... but tonight's not our night," NASA test direc­tor Steve Altemus said. "I know you guys are going to be disappointed, but I think we want to give you a healthy vehicle before we cut you loose from the cape here." 
Wetherbee replied: "Absolutely." 
The oxygen leak is believed to be somewhere deep in the midbody of Endeavour beneath the payload bay. It is in one of two systems that feed oxygen into the crew cabin for breathing and into the astronauts' pressure suits during launch and land­ing. 
Launch controllers had just begun fueling Endeavour for an early Monday morning launch when they detected the leak. It was a stunning discovery since both oxygen lines had passed all inspec­tions back in the hangar. 


WOMAN­
Peaches & Creme 4-ever 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 
econd or third meetin 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
7:15 PM 209 DeBartolo 

Application Deadline: Dec. 1, 2002 Academic Year 2003-2004 Fall 2003-Spring 2004 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France 
Dotting your "I"s and Crossing your "T"s: Last minute thoughts for Angers candidates 
INFORMATION 
MEETING 


---------------------------------~ -----­


Monday, November l l, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVJCES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 8 
DowJones  
8,537.13  •  -49.11  
NASDAQ  
1,359.28  -17.43  
894.74  S&P500 •AMEX  -7.91  
824.18 476.66  •NYSE•  -3.00 -3.73  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
IDU 1-EN...TJ-CAAE (n-() -46. 69 -13. 05 14. 90 
aw·S'tSTEffi. _-(csaJ)? !~~i~l~l~li~l:11:111~:i)~:!:!!li~!~1~I~ 
N<\S[)X)-100 INE< (@ -1.84 -0.47 25.07 
OAA~b~ S:8~iI:!ig:~2i!il~~l~il~lil!illil:lt;ill[!:illl;il!!II 
INTEL CffiP (INK) -1. 57 -0. 29 18.15 
IN BRIEF 
California men take on AOL 
Two California men rebelling against a sea of America Online promotional compact discs have got mail like never before. 
People around the world have sent Jim McKenna and John Lieberman more than 80,000 CDs offering trial subscriptions to AOL's Internet services. They say when they collect a million. they'll go to the company's front door in Virginia to say, "You've got mail." 
"Basically, we'll enlist the help of volunteers who are willing Lo take a pickup load and drive back to AOL headquarters with us," McKenna said. "We will be as obvious as pos­sible and very polite." 
Promotional CDs offering Internet service are common in the industry, but AOL. the largest Internet service provider, uses them most pervasively. Their discs appear in maga­zines, at the post office, at movie theaters and, of course, in mailboxes. 
1-800-Collect files for bankruptcy 
1-800-Collect Inc .. the calling service that has used Michael Jordan and Mr. T as pitch­men, joined parent WorldCom Inc. by filing for bankruptcy protection Friday. 
Friday's filing -which would put virtually all of WorldCom's domestic subsidiaries under bankruptcy protection-may be a move to protect those units from creditors eyeing unprotected assets, telecommunica­tions and bankruptcy experts said. 
WorldCorn's initial bankruptcy filing in July -the largest in U.S. history -included its long-distance subsidiary, MCI Group, and a majority of its domestic subsidiaries. 
Qwest proposes settlement 
Qwest Communications International Inc.'s Minnesota unit on Friday gave state regula­tors a proposal of job, product and discount guarantees to settle a ruling that it violated federal laws by making secret agreements wilh competitors. 
Microsoft begins sanctions 
. Three board 
members made 'watchdog panel' 
Associated Pre.. 
WASHINGTON 
Microsoft Corp. took early steps to begin obeying court-approved sanctions in its antitrust case, appoint­ing three or its e~isting board members to a new committee respon­s i b Ie for making sure the software maker doesn't break the rules. 
rriday's appointments satisfy one requirement that U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly imposed against Microsoft on behalf of nine states that had rejected a settlement the company negotiated with the Justice Department. 
The judge ordered Microsoft to allow com­puter makers and cus­tomers to remove icons for some Microsoft fea­tures. share some tech­nical information with rivals, agree to uniform contracts with comput­er makers and agree not to participate in exclusive deals that could hurt competitors. 

The new committee is the three-person com­options to buy 10,000 tive Steve Ballmer and one of two oversight mittee are among shares of Microsoft, former Microsoft groups established "many things that will according to Microsoft's President Jon A. under the judge's rul­have to be spelled out," securities filings. In Shirley. Microsoft's ings. The Justice said Brad Smith, creating the committee, other board members Department and state Microsoft's general Microsoft's board are venture-capitalist attorneys general also counsel. explicitly acknowledged David F. Marquardt and can file complaints with The other new com­the additional oversight William G. Reed Jr .. a the judge if Microsoft mittee members are by the government. retired businessman. fails to abide by the Ann McLaughlin Directors said the Korologos is currently sanctions. Korologos, 60, of board •recognizes and a senior adviser with 
The new committee. Washington, former appreciates the impor­Benedetto Gartland & led by Harvard Labor secretary under tant roles the Co. Inc., a private University business President Reagan; an.d Department of Justice investment banking professor James I. Cash Raymond V. Gilmartin, and each of the State company, according to Jr.. 54, of Boston, will 61, of New Jersey, Attorneys General will Microsoft's records. hire at an unspecified president and chief play in their oversight Also Friday, the sides future date a compli­executive at Merck & of Microsoft's compli­agreed to minor ance officer who will Co. Inc., one of the ance." changes imposed by the enforce the judge's nation's largest drug Under the judge's judge to the antitrust sanctions. companies. Al1 joined orders, only board settlement. The 
Microsoft will almost Microsoft's board after members who were not changes explicitly give certainly pay that offi­January 2000. employees could be Kollar-Kote lly addition­cer's salary, but those As board members. appointed to the com­al authority to ensure financial arrangements each is paid $35,000 by mittee -which ruled that Microsoft abides by 
and the exact day-to­Microsoft. Last year, out Microsoft Chairman the agreement over the day responsibilities of they also received Bill Gates, chief execu-next five years. 

Mobilcom founder reduces stake 
But both his spokeswoman, the disputed contract stated his Associated Preu 
Nicolette Strauss, and the German stake at 31 percent and that of BERLIN Economics Ministry said there his wife at around 8 percent. The founder of Germany's trou­had been no change in the situa­The disagreement about Schmid tion since Friday. Mobilcom surrendering his stake has raised
bIed Mobilcom AG has reduced his stake in the company but has refused to comment on a report in the prospect that a bailout of Mobilcom by minority shareholder
yet to sign a contract relinquish­Germany's Sueddeutsche Zei.tung 
ing his family's remaining shares that it would file for bankruptcy France Tel.ecorn could be 
company to a trustee, a key con­Monday unless Schmid signs. derailed. 
Strauss told Dow Jones Mobilcom's future has been indition to ensure a bailout after 
the balance since France
weeks of uncertainty, his spokes­Newswires that Schmid has woman said Sunday. reduced his stake in Mobilcom,­Telecom, which owns 28.5 per­
Gerhard Schmid, ousted in June but refused to say how much he cent of the company, ended its 
now holds. funding in September. The two
as Mobilcom's chairman, and the 
German government started talks Schmid previously said he and companies had been working on a 
early last week on a government his wife owned nearly 50 percent mobile service network but ended the project over a dispule about
demand that he sign a contract between them. The Welt am outlining the handover. Sonntag newspaper reported that its cost and pace. 
~-----­
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 11, 2002 
I 
~ 
I I 
! 
t 
I 
l 

.. s MONDAY, NOVEMBE.Rll: CHESTERTON AltNOTR.E DAME:· Ralph tvlch1erny 
[Jllhrrsi{'Y qf ·f'tatre Dc1111e 
7:39 p.m., Jlcsburgh Peace Centcc ..Auditoti1.101 · . 

I\·Iark and Louise Zwick Ca1aJua11 Diego, The. Houston Cat~Ql~c ~bi 
7:30 p.m~, DcBattQlo 138 ,~~·? · ·· 
WEDNESDAY•.. NOVEMBER 13: CHESTE:RTON:: THE i~~JJ\N 
··_·THE ROMANTIC Da\;dl¾gecbei:g;, 
Unh,enf!i ef St. l{tir.J ofi. 
I 7:30 p.m., DcBattolo>l. 
'I 
' 
I 
I 
r 
t 
lzt· Chad (iordo:·
' 
' f' 
' 
{ l]11iversity of Na . 
[ 7:30 p.m., DeB Ji; ··5.·.. ·./}t.:,-,.
I.(
ir · FRIDAYt NO · f[ AN EVENl~ Joh 7:3 SPONS 
CENT·· 
.. '.,\tJ, 

Monday, November 11, 2002 
The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
INDONESIA 
Bali suspects flee country to escape prosecution from attack 
Associated Press 
BALI 

Indonesian investigators sus­pet:t several accomplices of' the prime suspect in the Bali bombings may have t'led to neighLuring Malaysia, an intel­ligence official said Sunday. 
Last wmik, polico made their first breakthrough in the inves­ligation when they arrested a suspect on Indonesia's main island of Java. 
The suspect, identil'icd as Amrozi. admitted owning an 
1.300 Mitsubishi minivan that was filled with at least 110 pounds of explosives and blew up outside a packed nightclub on Bali on Oct. 12. killing near­ly 200 people\. 
Over lhe last two days, police have raided homes in Amrozi's home village of Tenggulun, looking !"or several of his friends and relatives. Police, however, said most of them had lled. 
"We arc looking for them in Malaysia. Most of them have gone there." said an intelli­gence official on Bali who asked not to Le named. 
On Friday, officers detained Muhammad Zakaria, the head of a local Islamic school in Tenggulun that Amrozi is said to have f'requented. 
Kompas daily newspaper reported that police found video compact discs showing military-style training at the school. The report could not be immcdiatnly confirmed. 
Police spokesman Brig. Gen. Edward Aritonang declined to spnculate where Amrozi's alleged accomplices, believed to number around 10, may be hiding. 
"What's clear is we are chas­
Tl-!E 

Babac and the Little Chinese Seamstress is an 
enchanting tale of two hapless city boys exiled to a remote mountain village for l'Hducation during China's infamous Cultural Revolution. "An unexpect,ed. miracle­
a delicate, and often hilarious, tale!' 
-LosAngeles Times BookBel/iew 

. . A multi-generational story of a Mexican-American family whose voices create a dazzling weave of humor, passion, and poignancy-the very stuff of life."Raucous, spirited, and brimming with energy." 
-Library Journal 
AfRICI\N lo.Y£1\ICA"1 WR111NU 
...... 

..c:~ 
.......... -~
Im
--:.:...... .,. 

llm.~1.!!111 
---£DlffD ¦V --­MAR IT A COL.OCH 
C. LVNN HARRIS 

• 

A literary rent party to benefit the Hurston/Wright Foundation of African­American fiction, with selections to savor from best-selling authors as well as talented rising 
stars. Edited by bestselling luminaries Marita Golden and E. Lynn Harris. 
ing them everywhere that we think thry are hiding," said Aritonang. 
The search for suspects in the blast is focused on Jemaah lslamiyah -the al-Qaida­linked terror group whose alleged aim is to form a pan­Islamic state in Southeast Asia. 
Police have said Indonesians trained in Afghanistan or Libya were behind the bombing, cit­ing the planning and expertise that were required. 
Amrozi has admitted know­ing two Muslim clerics: Hiduan lsamudin -also known as Ilambali -and Abu Bakar Bashir, said to be the leaders of Jemaah Islamiyah. 
Police recently arrested the 64-ycar-old Bashir, the alleged spiritual leader of the group, on suspicion of involve­ment in a string of church bombings three years ago. 
AFGHANISTAN 

Afghan president to target tribal leaders 
Associated Press Human nights Watch last 
week, for example, called 
KABUL western Herat's Ismail Khan 
The Afghan president. in the an "enemy" of human rights, midst of a risky campaign to who rules through repression, whittle away at the power of intimidation and torture. regional warlords, protested In a Lold move that some Sunday against portrayals of fear could be dangerous for his country as one that is riven him, Karzai fired several gen­along ethnic lines -with erals, intelligence ofncials and Tajiks pitted against Pasht.uns. local commanders in an 
"It's just not true. We are a nation, a unit­ed nation. There are indi­viduals per­haps, but believe me as a nation we are one," Ilamid Karzai said in an exclusive interview with The Associated Press. 
With a note-
attempt to take back control from

"The problems in my 
regional war­country are lords. 
unemployment, II is sweep 
targeted

reconstruction. They 
every region 

are economic, o r 
Afghanistan

not ethnic. " 
and came as a result of a 

Hamid Karzai 
survey by his the president of Afghanistan personal 
book in hand, Karzai carefully and thoughtfully ran through a roster of his government min­isters. One by one he ticked them off the list, noting they represented every ethnic group, and most in fact belonged to Afghanistan's majority Pashtun ethnic group. Pashtuns often are por­trayed as under attack by the mostly Tajik forces who ousted the predominantly Pashtun and hardline Taliban late last year. 
"It is completely unfair that the international media is always writing about Tajiks and Pashtuns, one against the other. I know my people, my 

country. and survival not
"I am meeting people 
this is just ethnicity pre­unfair and is a always, and I know occupies ordi­wrong por-that ... they are not nary Af'ghans. trayal of "The prob­
against each other. 
Afghanistan," lems in my Karzai said. There may be country are 
"I am meet­individuals who are a unemploy­ing people ment, recon­
problem, but we are
always, and I struction . know that one nation." They are eco-Pashtun, Tajik, nomic, not Uzbek, Hazara ethnic," he
Hamid Karzai 
they are not said, sipping
the president of Afghanistan
against each other. There may be indi­viduals who are a problem, but we are one nation." 
While Karzai's Cabinet blends the country's varied ethnic groups. the powerful defense ministry and the army is led by Mohammed Fahim, an ethnic Tajik and is domi­nated by his loyalists, most of whom arc· also Tajik. 
Fahim has been accused of trying to sabotage efforts to build a national army that would include men from every ethnic group, fearing such an army would erode his power. In a country that has been at war for the last 23 years, power is often defined by men and munitions. So far Fahim has reportedly refused to give up the weapons he has stock­piled in the Panjshir Valley, northeast of Kabul. lie also has been reluctant to pay or arm newly trained soldiers of the national army. 
In an attempt to assert. his government's control outside the capital of Kabul, Karzai has begun a campaign to weaken the control of power­ful warlords who rule much of Afghanistan. The U.S-based 
envoys. who 

had criss­crossed the country to hear firsthand from ordinary Afghans which men and armies were causing prob­lems. 
"People told us: 'we don't care who is Tajik, who is Pashtun, who is llazara. We just want people who are hon­est, who won't steal from us," Karzai said. 
In a move designed to fur­ther embrace all ethnic groups, Karzai has begun to appoint governors rcprescnt­ing one ethnic group to a province dominated by anoth­er ethnic group. 
"And people liked that," he 
said. 
Karzai said 
green tea as 
he sat in his 
office in the 

ornate presidential palace. 
Karzai complained that promised aide and develop­ment money was not reaching his poor country's 21 million people, struggling to emerge from 23 years of war. 
Money has come to Afghanistan but so far it has not reached the people, he said. According to United Nations figures more than half of the $1.8 billion pledged for this year has been delivered. 
But analysts and economists in tlrn Afghan capital said much of' the money has been used to finance offices of international aid organiza­tions and the multitude of United Nations offices. In the year since the ouster of' the Taliban, nearly 2,000 l'oreign aid workers have converged on the Afghan capital. The accompanying expense has been in the hundreds of mil­lions of' dollars. 
"It isn't humanitarian aid alone that we need. We need development aid," said Karzai. "This is what I am saying tu everyone, help us rebuild our country. 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

IEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, November 11, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q. Nam Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengasr  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne Vu,"WPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 

SAJNT MARYS EDITOR: Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lut7, 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Coran SYSTEMS ADMIN1.STRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEil ArlMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROU.ER: Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us O1-1'\CE MAN,._Gf.R./GfNEIV,L INFO.............63\-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.......................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnTOR!AssT. ME...................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICF. ........................................63I-53I3 N1:ws.........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
Vt.1:.WPOINT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................63I-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR.¥'s.............................................631-4324 observer:smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATOIIS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:l!obm-ver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as weU as canoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by 1he smdenrs of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advenisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include conract information, 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­edw Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The-Oiuc-rva (USPS 599 240) ii puhlilih...J MonJ.i;-rhruug:h F.-iJ~yau.:pt Quring 
n:1.m anJ va.:a,ion period), A suha:riprian m The' Ol,,,:rvc, i, SUK> for Olk' ...::adatai,· y~; JSS for one KnlcSR't. 
Th~· Obw:rva ii,. rul.blish,·J a1: !'C)S"l'MASTER 
014 Sourh Dining H ..!I ~'fld ;uiJrn\ 1-0rr~·ction, w 
Notn: L);.nu-, lN 4(,)56 Th" on~ent-r 
P.O. KoxQ PcriuJii.:al pu.ou.gc 5-'ii.1.J: ~, N..uuc l)4111t" Nam LRmc. IN -46556-0779 i;i,nJ addi1ional m~ling offica. 
The Obw:M,'t i1 a ntembcr ofrhr: AHo.:iao:d P,a,. All rcpn,Juccion right1 il[tc 
lffC'f"n•J, . 
GOP comes out on top 
History was made last week. 
For all the talk of President George W. Bush's general ineffectiveness and inep­titude on, well, you name it -the eco­nomic struggles, corporate responsibili­ty. diplomatic rela­tions, the English Mike Marchand language, pretzel­eating -he has defied all political Undistinguishedconventional wis­
Alumnus 

dom (again) and done -what only one othr,r president has done in more than a century: gained seats for h.is party in both houses of Congress in a midterm election. 
Politics may be about ideological debating, but winning elections is strictly a numbers game. If more people vote for you than your opponent, you win. If not, you lose. In politics, this maxim is known by one word repeated three times for emphasis: Turnout, turnout, turnout. 
But the numbers did not look good for President Bush and the Republicans. Against the backdrop of a sluggish econ­omy. the instability of a possible war with Iraq and political history, the GOP 
-had to defend 20 of the 34 Senate seats in play. Yet the GOP won 22 seats and reclaimed the Senate, leaving non-con­servative politicians and pundits scratching their heads to come up with explanations for this stunning political victory. 
The answer is simple: turnout, turnout. turnout. But why? 
For one, George W. Bush finally did something with his strong popularity ratings by taking the bully pulpit on the road and stumping for a host of Republican candidates, including two local stops for the eventual winner of the Indiana 2nd District Congressional race, Chris Chocola. The best the Democrats could counterattack with was Bill Clinton and Al Gore. It didn't help. 
Second, many Democrats were trying to fight the 2000 election all over again. This was most evident in Florida, where the Democrat leadership tried to send a messn.gc to the President by punishing his brother in the Sunshine State. Despite the onslaught, Jeb Bush cruised to victory. Had the Dems spent more time attempting to rescue their troubled senatorial candidates in Georgia, Minnesota and Missouri, they might just have retained Senate control. But instead, it was the Republicans who were angered by the electoral switcheroo to rPplace RobPrt Toricel!i in New Jersey and the shameful Paul Wellstone "memorial service" in Minnesota. 
But the biggest reason is an ideological one. George W. Bush was getting out the vote almost every day, notjusL in sup­port of candidates. hut for a unifird Republican message: This is who we arc. this is what we stand for. To many people, Bush's stump speeches were boring and repetitive. WNDU-TV even cut away from Bush's most recent visit in South Bend and returned to regular programming, on the grounds that Bush was delivering the same speech he had given in New Mexico and South Dakota and dozens of other places. But guess what? The message may have been incredibly redundant, and Bush is hard­ly the greatest orator in our nation's his­tory, but it was darned effective at ener­gizing Republicans and moving them to the polfs. And in the end, it's the num­bers game that matters. 
The Democrats had no such larger message. no grand philosophy. In part, this is because many of them were split on the issues. The Democrats couldn't afford to attack Bush's foreign policy, specifically the idea of a war with Iraq, because too many of them supported Bush's resolutions for regime change. They couldn't slam Bush for the lethar­gic economy, mostly because very few voters were willing to blame Bush for it, given the dot-com collapse, the corpo­rate scandals and the Sept. 11 attacks. But also because nobody was willing to call for a mpcal of Bush's tax cut in the 
middle of an economic slowdown. 
The Democratic party is also suffering from a general malaise. Even with everything working in their favor, they could provide no compelling reasons to vote for them, just reasons not to vote for Hepublicans. They generally didn't support a war with Iraq, but articulated no substantive foreign policy for a volatile world (in fact. they became incensed when Bush tried to steer the national debate towards Iraq instead of what they considered the "real issues," like prescription drugs); don't_support Social Security privatization but have no plan to reform it from the Ponzi scheme it is now; and blocked nearly every Bush proposal or judicial nominee with hardly any alternative solutions. 
The American people aren't going to vote against a president unless given a really good reason; the Democrats issued a handful of feeble excuses. Many of them are left with Chicken Little wail­ings now that the Hepublicans control all three branches of government, and hopes that the economy disintegratns, because otherwise, Bush is a lock for reelection in 2004. 
Oh yeah, the other president to win so handily in a midterm election? Some guy named Franklin Hoosevelt, who was overwhelmingly reelected three times and is emblazoned on the dime. 
Something to think about. 
Mike Marchand, class of2001. look time out of sculpting a killer resume for WSBT to write this column. He has a new email address: Marchand.J@<ilum­ni.nd.edu. "Undistinguished Alumnus" appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Rice's views need concrete support 
This letter is addressed to Viewpoint columnist Professor Emeritus Charles Rice. For the past year and a half, I've been seeing your column in The Observer, and, unfortunately for me, I've read it several of those times. Every time I do read it, I am left shocked by its stupidity. Don't get me wrong; I can tell just from reading it that you are clearly better educated than I am, and probably smarter, as well. However, this doesn't change the fact that your column is completely worth­less. 
Let's start with the title: "Right or Wrong." Are you actually arrogant enough to think that your opinion is the only possible correct one? The students on this campus are intelligent enough to form their own opinions; they don't need you to tell them what dogmatic law requires them to think. 
Which brings up my next complaint: If you are going to teH us what we have to think, could you at least come up with more reasons than that the Pope/Catechism/Vatican Tl says we have to? I would (perhaps) respect your opinion more ifyou at least presented an original argument for why you're right about everything. I think the Catholic Church is a great source of wisdom, but if I wanted to hear what it had to say on a sub­ject, I would look to the Catechism or the Bible directly. And I would never blindly accept what the Church says, as you insist 
I must do, without careful thought and prayer. 
I could go on for longer about why I think your column is a waste of paper and ink, but I think I'll stop for now. I'll just leave my fellow readers with a piece of advice: The next time you see Professor Rice's column, just read the headline, add "because.I, the perfect and oh-so intelligent interpreter of all Catholic teaching, say so" to the end of it, and save yourself the time it would have taken to read it. 
Chris Scally sophomore Carroll Hall Nov. 8 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Justin Krivickas Shannon Nelligan Claire Heininger Viewpoint Sheila Flynn Graphics Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Chris Federico Joe Lindsley 
Scene 
Emily Howald 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does the recent lawsuit against Lafayette Apartments make you reconsider the decision to move off-campus'? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I don't want to achieve immortality through my work . ... I want to achieve it through not dying.,, 
Woody Allen actor/screenwriter 
O
TI-IE 

BSERVER 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 11, 2002 page 11 
Classism attacks the successful 
The Progressive Student Alliance and their supporters need to examine the racism, classism and prejudice that has taken over their current Worker's Bights campaign. They are so blinded by their Worker's Hights 
John Litle

goals all{l complete lack of free market economics back­
Frankly

ground, that 
Obnoxious

they've resorted to defecating on half the other rights and social advancements our country has gained in the last half century. And yes, I'm sure that just this one paragraph has marked me for another 4 a.m. wake-up visit by the group. (Thanks, guys, by the way.) ltngardlcss, it's the truth. 
All l.lusirwss men arc f'at, sweaty, greedy jerks who mistreat their work­ers and smoke cigars. Because of this fact, thny all nned government regula­tors monitoring thdr every deed. Every currently rich person benefited f'rrnn an expensive private education, and sat at home playing Playstation whiln his or lwr soon-to-be-oppressed­in-the-futurc employees were working thn~e jobs at agn 13 to support their 
already oppressed families. 
Every argument I hear involves the same sweeping assumptions (even the one I got at 4 a.m.) and paints all of corporate America with the same brush. First, I'd like to say, look around you -this is the future corpo­rate America, your peers, the people with whom you are now going to school. Why all the hate mongering against your own classmates? Why the hate for their parents? (J\nd, for that matter, I'm sure some of your own.) 
But more importantly, the instant someone makes an even lesser gener­alization about the group that the PSA supports -namely. when I stated a few weeks ago that most "Persons who have kept the same job over time (Head: capable of holding down a job) do get compensated for their loyalty." The response to this as posted to the PSA listserve was, "Particularly appalling is his claim that nearly all low-wago workers remain underpaid because they are incapable of holding down a steady job ... I think we should confront this stereotype head-on ... thereby exposing Mr. Litle's igno­
,. 

ranee. Now, without getting into twisting words and misinterpretation, I ask you 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Democratic priorities clash with the public's 
Unlike Danny Richter, in his Nov. 8 letter, "Hepublicans, what arc you going to do?" 1 am quite pleased to sec the results of last week's election. In my opin­ion, the concerns Bichtcr expressed in his letter were one of the fundamental n~asons why the Democratic Party lost representatives in Congress this elec­tion. 
In an October 2002 CBS News/New York Times poll, the two highest priorities indicated by the Anwrican public were terrorism/war (30 percent) and econo­my/jobs (2(> percent). Hichter's concerns over education received only 3 percent of the vote and the environment did not even make the list of priorities. Not surprisingly, the concerns expressed by the American public in these polls arc more in touch with the Hcpublican Party. President Bush has stated time and time again that the biggest issues facing our country are the War on Terror and the economy. /\t this time, the public is simply not interested in the issues or the environment and education, two concerns typically addressed by the Democratic Party. 
Hichtcr's figures regarding U.S. defense spending are unfortunately incorrect. According to the United States Department of Def'ensc, current defense spend­ing is $330.6 billion or 35 percent of total world spending on defense. 
While I agree that this amount of def'ensc spending is a staggering amount, it is not nearly as outrageous as Hichter's claim that the whole world spends $750 million on defense spending. Hussia alone spends $56 billion in defense spc1ndi11g according to the State Department. I'm sorry, Mr. Richter, but that's "fuzzy math." 
The question Hichtcr poses that our country may be headed toward an educa­tional system in which only the rich can afford a quality educaLion is unwar­ranted. Last lime I checked. all citizens arc guaranteed a free high school edu­cation. All too often, howcwer, the poor choices made by some individuals hin­der their educational opportunities. Teenage pregnancy and other poor deci­sions ar<1 the results of an individual's decision and he or she must realize the consequences of his or her actions. 
Hichter's belief that issues such as education and the environment arc the most pressing issues of society and have the largest impact on our lives is sim­ply out or touch with the American public. At this time, the American public is more concerned with the War on Terror and the economy than saving endan­~crnd mottled duskywings or prevcnling the "killing of plants." The job of Congressional representatives is lo represent our concerns and not their own individual agendas. If the Democratic Party were more in tune with the con­cerns of the American public, it may nut havci lost as many scats as it did in this past election. 
Brian Wrona 
fre,lmian Carroll H.,11 Nov. 10 

to use your Notre Dame minds to decide for yourselves where the differ­ence in "stereotyping" is found between the PSA's interpretation of my article as "/\II workers arn ... " and their contention that "All corporations are ... " and "All CEOs are ...." Apparently, it's OK to stereotype as long as it's not a group that the PSA supports. That's the message I get, at least. When these groups' single dis­tinction is social class, the prejudice is called "classism." For a dose of it, see your local PSA chapter (or write to The Observer something they don't like, and they'll come to you -at 4 
a.m. some morning.) 
Of course, the discounting of modern social advances doesn't end there. If anyone here made an argument that included a minority ethnicity of a worker posed in a negative light, he or she would necessarily be labeled a racist. However, to make the same sort of racial distinction in attacking a corporate CEO or assuming someone is a "privileged white boy," there is no such immediate racist label. It's my contention that when race becomes a factor in someone's argument, espe­cially when it's used in a derogatory fashion, it is necessarily racist. 
The real issue is, in making the assertion that everyone is equal and that everyone should be treated the same, one finds themselves hounded, pursued and woken at four in the morning by raging, militant, neo­socialist peace activists. You figure that one out. 
Let's see, racism, classism ... ahh, I almost forgot about the hypocrisy. That's simple. llow can one claim that everyone deserves free speech while he or she is defacing the only pro-war chalking the campus has seen all year? I don't remember anyone defacing the asinine peace slogans anywhere, yet the pro-Bush chalkings last half a day. Free speech -so long as you agree with us. No wonder they want peace with Iraq; they share com­mon values. 
John Litle is a senior MIS major with no real political ambitions beyond ensuring judges are conservative and tlte Department of1/omeland Security never comes to pass. I/is column nor­mally rims every other Friday. Utle can be contacted al jlit/e@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Family tradition hangs in the balance 
I came to Notre Dame to experi­ence the family atmosphere, and I fear it is turning into a damaged tradition. With all of the discussion (or lack thereo0 over Pasqucrilla West and its beloved assistant rec­tor, seniors Jenny Theis and Tiffany Fcsti in their Nov. 7 letter begin to raise some relevant ques­tions that need serious thought from Student Affairs. 
It is understandable that students feel agitated in situations that require exclusion and absolute secrecy. After all, the ladies of PW are mature adults and deserve an answer about the events with their assistant rector, yet they cannot have one. These ladies live a majority of their lives on this cam­pus and in their home. 
Unfortunately, they do not have any say in their family, and thus legitimately question if a family atmosphere even exists in their dorm. To me, a sense of family has always been one where issues may be set on the table and discussed in a mature manner, yet I sec nothing of the sort. 
To Student Affairs, I ask the question, "How do you expect to roster a family atmosphere that you so proudly preach?" At the moment, it appears you have creat­ed the "perfect" family atmosphere -parents leading children. Treating the students or Notre Dame as children certainly docs not help us grow together as students and certainly not with the adminis­tration. !low are we supposed to learn about values and life if we constantly face censorship? 
We, as students, want answers to questions not because we enjoy 
gossip. but because we hope to 
learn from situations. The students 
of Notre Dame arc inherently good 
people. The way Student Affairs is standing silent on the letters of 
concerned AHs and embarrassing 
Ms. Phillips by labeling her situa­
tion as a "privacy issue" is unethi­
cal. Provide an explanation to the 
ARs, and call Ms. Phillips' situation 
what it is, not something that could 
have a thousand connotations and 
incorrect inf'crnnces. 
It breaks my heart to sec RAs threatened by Student Affairs to remain silent or else lose their positions. RAs arc our mentors; they help us understand. When you silence them with l'car, you dis­tance the student-HJ\ relationship. People think that if they cannot talk with their HA about these recent events, then what can they talk about with their HA? 
People begin to understand loss and less about Student Affairs with these situations. because every­thing just seems to encl in a black hole without closure. Students are left in fear because they simply do not know what will happen if tlrny speak out, so they conform to what the University expects, unable to fully be themselves. 
I do not know how people can remain happy with the University ii' such happenings continue, and I seriously question how the admin­istration expects to koep a relation­ship with its students, since their side of' the street is closed. 
Patrick Magee sophomore O'Neill Hall Nov. 7 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

page 12 Monday, November 11, 2002 
Mellencamp: A blast from the past 
and Diane," that the energy really By EMILY TUMBRINK escalated as Mellencamp led the Scene Music Crtitic crowd in singing, "Oh yeah life 
goes on / long after the thrill of 
As soon as 51-year-old John livin' is gone." This crowd favorite "Cougar" Mellencamp stepped onto was followed by several other the stage of the Joyce Center Friday rousing hits such as "I Saw You night. the few Notre Dame students in First" and "Lonely '01 Night," attendance could already tell that it emphasizing Mellencamp's exten­was going to be an interesting experi­sive repertoire. ence. With barely even a pause in 
If it wasn't the denim jacket with the between songs, the band kept the flipped up collar which Mellencamp mostly middle-aged audience on was sporting that tipped the students their feet and dancing like they off, then it had to be the audience were teenagers again. About a consisting mainly of South Bend resi­third of the way through his rela­dents their parents' age cheering in tively short set, Mellencamp lulled anticipation of Mellencamp's opening the crowd with a disappointing song. slow version of "Small Town," a 
Mellencamp's considerable populari­song representative of the stops on ty among local residents became clear Mellencamp's tour which consists on Sept. 27th when the show sold out mostly of cities approximately the in less than 24 hours, necessitating size of South Bend. During this the release of more tickets with a par­slower segment of the show, the tially obstructed view. image of a partially torn American 
Despite the concert's convenient flag with the famous Albert location at the Joyce Center here on Einstein adage "You cannot simul­campus, many students chose not to taneously prevent and prepare for attend due to war" printed exorbitant ticket next to it prices that did served as the
"I don't really want a record
not fit into the backdrop, 
budget of a typi­deal, to be honest with you. But reminding the 
cal college stu­I am going to do it. One thing audience of the dent. Also, the impending
hasn't changed in the music
fact that threat of war 
Mellencamp's business: It's easy to get a with Iraq while popularity record deal. " at the same reached its peak time making a before today's subtle anti-war
John Mellencamp
college students statement. were in pre­musician The last part school could of the show have something revived the to do with the relative lack of enthusi­crowd with Mellencamp playing asm at Notre Dame. such crowd favorites such as 
Luckily, Mellencamp, known for his "Rock in the U.S.A" and "Hurts so feel-good rock songs about middle Good." However, Mellencamp's America, gave fans the show they gyrations and James Dean-like wanted to see, focusing on his decade image were a bit creepy at times, spanning hits rather than playing especially during the song "Dance tracks from his newer and less popu­Naked," from the album of the same lar releases. name. "I want you to dance naked I so 
It was during the third song of the I can see you/ I'd like to get to know show, the ever popular anthem "Jack you I you don't have to act naughty." 


During the encore, Mellencamp rounded out the set with the hit "Cherry Bomb." 
Having recently parted ways with Columbia Records, the label that released his latest album Cuttin' 
Heads in 2001, Mellencamp has expressed the same kind of disil­1usionme n t with the music industry that Tom Petty recently articulat­ed in his latest release The Last DJ. 
"I don't really want a record deal, to be honest with you." Mellencamp said to the Indiana­polis Star. "But I'm going to do it. One thing hasn't changed in the music business: It·s easy to get a record deal. But it's impossible to get [a label] to do anything for you once you have the thing." 
No longer hav­ing to answer to a record label, Mellencamp has been able to focus all of his attention on live performances and touring. 

'Tm going to do 15 to 20 shows, take three months off, then 15 to 20 shows, take three months off," said Mellencamp, "Everybody I admire is out playing tonight. This idea of releasing a record and supporting it, [forget] all that. That was the 1980s, not now. It doesn't make any differ­ence if I have a record out or not." 
Friday night's show, one of the first stops on what Mellencamp describes as a "never-ending tour," left his older fan base thrilled at having seen some of the most popular hits of their youth performed live. 
Many of the younger attendees of the show, however, were left wonder­ing when a musician from their own generation would be invited to play at Notre Dame's arena. Like the man in the 11th row who was wearing the acid washed jeans and mullet hair style of yesteryear. the John Mellencamp concert seemed like an anachronism, something that would have been cool 20 years ago but now seems a bit out of place. Hopefully the University will soon play host to a more current band that its students can really get excited about. 
Contact Emily Tumbrink at Tumbrink. l@nd.edu 

NSIDER 
O
THE 

MonJay, November 11, 2002 BSERVER Notre Dame 30, Navy 23 
Dodging torpedoes 
Notre Dame needs late fourth quarter rally to beat lowly Navy 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
$port, Wrill·r 
BALTIMOHE lksperation did whal a profanily-lacPd halflinw atmosplwre could not. 
SLill rnl'ling from losing its lirsl game of ttw season 1111d l'accid with losing the first gauw in 39 years to Navy, Notre Dame rallied to score 15 points in the final 4 minutes. 8 seconds and narrowly pulled oul a 30-2:l victory over the Midshipmen. 
"I don't think it set in to us that we nc1id<iu lo win until Llw last possible mom l:n l." o ffcns ive Iin em an Jordan lilack said. "We're in Llw fourth quarter, we'rn down, and ils desperation time. That's wh(•n we started pulling some points on tlw board." 
Until tlw fourth quarter. tlw 9-1 Irish ap1warcd to b(i h(\ading l'or an nmbar­rnssing del'cal lo llw l\lidshipmcn, wl10 havP only won two games in the past three yN1rs. Not until Omar Jenkins haulud in a (>7 -yard go-alwad touchdown catch with 2:08 rl'maining did Notn• Danw's pulse return to normal. 
Even limn. Navy had a chance to lfo the game. But backup quarterback Aaron Polanco thrciw two interceptions on Navy's final lwo possessions and the 
Irish barely escaped Havens Stadium with a win. 
"It would have been very easy for these young men to kind uf' give up," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "But they didn't do that. They continued to battle and continued to make extremely smart plays. So I'm extremely proud." 
Following last Saturday's loss to Boston College. the Irish admitted they couldn't completely focus on the Navy game. !\!though they said they put the loss behind them during the week. Irish players said they couldn't help but look al lhc scoreboard Saturday and start thinking back lo Boston College. 
t\t one point. when quarterback Carlyle Iloliday lay motionless on the Irish side­line after getting hit hard in the first half and no one stepped up to warm up back­up !'at Dillingham, Willingham did it himself. 
"It's sometimes di11irult f'or a roarl1 to tell your players just how tough it's going to be," Willingham said. "It's not a light switch. You can't turn emotion or turn focus and concnnLration on." 
Navy took full advantage of Notre Dame's sluggish start. Trailing only 9-7 al the start of' the second half. the Midshipmen exploded in tlw third quar­tlff for 12(, rushing yards and t7 points. The Midshipmen rushed for 216 yards 
overall, an impressive feat against an Irish defense that entered the game allowing 84.6 yards on the ground. 
The culminating moment for Navy came midway through the third quarter. After Polanco scored on a 1-yard run, Notre Dame's Vontez Duff returned the ensuing kickoff 92 yards for a touch­down, giving lhe Irish a 15-14 lead. 
But Navy responded by driving 80 yards in 12 plays, capped by an Eric Hobcrts 10-yard touchdown run, to take a 23-15 lead. 
By contrast, Notre Dame's offense in the third quarter managed minus-1 yards of total offense. 
"They really came back at us in the second half," defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. 'Tm not quite sure what all they did." 
The Irish finally awakened in the rourth quarter. Taking advantage of a defense ranked 105th in the country, I loliday threw a 29-yard pass to Jenkins that took the Irish to the Navy 1-yard line. Two plays later, Hashon Powers­Neal barged in for a touchdown and the Irish tied the score on a 2-point conver­sion pass from I Ioli day to Arnaz Batlle. 
The ncxl time lloliday. who finished 13-l'or-21 !'or 272 yards, got his hands 011 the ball. he threw a strike to Jenkins for the game-winning touchdown. The catch was redemption of sorts f'or Jenkins, who fumbled on the first play of the game on a 62-yard completion and conjured images or Notre Dame's seven rumbles the week before. 
"It was a great feeling being able to catch it," said Jenkins. who linishcd with four catches for a career-high 166 yards. "And it was another great feeling to know the coaches slill trusted you because fumbling is a big deal." 
While Notre Dame's offense lit up the scoreboard. its defense linally figured out the Midshipmen. The Irish surren­dered jusl 34 total yards and kept Polanco from completing a pass in the second half. 
Finally, when Glenn Earl and Courtrwy Watson intercepted passes on successful drives, ending Navy's chances for an upset, the Irish collcclivcly sccnwd to breathe a sigh or relier. 
"Guys are happy to win a game. but they're not happy with their individual play," Watson said. "If the team wins. but the individuals don't play well. then you don't feel so good." 
"We won, but we could havn played a lot better." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Omar Jenkins 

the junior receiver hauled in the game-winning touchdown. the longest catch of his career. and finished wilh more receiving yards lhan any Irish receiver in 12 years 
stat of the game 

272 Notre Dame yards passing 
Quarterback Carlyle JIoli day's career-high passing performance was the most yards by an Irish quarterback since Jarious Jackson in 1999 
play of the game 
Omar Jenkins' 67-yard touchdown reception with 2:08 remaining 
11ze score capped afuriousfourlh­quarter rufensive explosionfor the Irish that propelled them past Navy 
quote of the game 
"Winning llze game is Lite ultimate goal. If you did llzat, then you were success/ul. " 
Darrell Campbell Irish defensive tackle 
-------.--­

Monday, November 11, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
A-
quarterbacks: Holiday's best passing game of his career came against one of the 
worst defenses in the nation, but he still 
did a good job selling the play-action 
and made big passes when needed. 
C 
running backs: While Powers-Neal's return bolstered the backfield, it wasn't the best performance. Grant 
struggled to hold onto the football for the second straight week. 
A-
receivers: Jenkins made a pair of big catches, but his first-quarter fumble killed one Irish drive. Still. Notre 
Dame needed to throw to win, and the receivers came up big. 
offensive line: Navy mixed up defen­
B 
sive schemes all day, keeping the Irish front confused. Still, the Irish 
managed to give Holiday protection when he needed it. 
C-
defensive line: Hilliard's absence killed the 
Irish defensive front, and Notre Dame 
allowed a ton of rushing yards. Roberts did a good job applying pressure. 
B 
linebackers: A big day statistically for the Irish linebat:kers. Wat.son, Hoyte and Goolsby were three of Notre Dame's 
top four tacklers. 

B+ 
defensive backs: The secondarv isn't the same without Sapp, and his absence showed. The Irish had a tough time con­
taining the outside runs, but managed to 
severely constrict Navy's passing attack. 
A-
special teams: Duffs return gave the Irish a big boost right after a key Navy touch­down and kept them in the game and 
Hildbold had a good day punting. Setta's only field goal was blocked, however, and the Irish allowed a couple big returns. 
coaching: It's not like the coaches didn't try 
C 
to get the players to focus on the game, 
but whatever they did didn't work. Both 
coordinators admitted that at times, they dldn't know what Navy was doing. 
2.89 
overall: The Irish showed poise in coming from behind to win late, but Navy shouldn't have even been close to begin with. 
adding up the numbers 
players in Noire Dame history to return a punt, 

I 
kickoff and interception for a touchdown in the same season -Vontez Duff is the only one 
166 yards receiving compiled by Omar Jenkins, the most in a game by an Irish receiver since Rocket Ismail had 173 yards in a1990 game 
rushing yards Navy compiled in the third 126 
quarter 
84.6 average rushing yards the Irish defense had given up during its first nine games 
times this season the Irish won a game with a 
2 
touchdown in the final three minutes ­Michigan State and Navy 
completions Navy quarterback Aaron Polanco threw in the second half 
interceptions Navy quarterback Aaron Polanco 
2 
threw in the second half 
1 
times the JumboTron flashed a message promis­ing the brigade weekend leave if they beat the Irish 

BALTIMOHE 
Football's a funny game. 

Some days you go out and domi­nate Florida State on the road. Others you fumble seven times and lose to Boston 
College. And then they are the days you have to pull out a come-from­behind victory over lowly 1-8 Navy. 
Welcome to Notre Dame 


football. Joe Hettler 
After watch­ing the Irish rcll off eight Associate straight wins 
Sports Editor 
against a tough scheduie to begin the sea­son, it's been downright scary see­ing them play so poorly the last two weeks. 
For a moment I even thought I saw a glimpse of Bob Davie on the Notre Dame sideline. Luckily, that was just an illusion. 
But even with Tyror.e Willingham at the helm, Irish fans and the team should be very concerned about their play the last two weeks. 
After generously giving Boston College a win last week, Notre Dame found themselves down by eight points with five minutes remaining against a Navy team that had won two games in the last three years -and the Midshipmen were winning with their backup quarterback at the helm. 
Maybe I've been spoiled in seeing Willingham lead this team to places no one thought possible. During their first eight games, the team didn't make mistakes, didn't lose focus and found ways to win every game, no matter what. 
But the last two weeks, the Irish have looked very human. They've made mistakes, turned over the football and played lackluster foot­ball. The contrast between their first eight games and last two is strikingly different. And that's what should concern Notre Dame and its fans. 
Is it time to panic? Of course not. Should the Irish bandwagon lose a few members? No way. 
But if Notre Dame is going accomplish their goal of being one of the best teams in the country, they had better get back to playing Irish football. 
Willingham knows this. He voiced his concern at the press conference after the Navy game. 
"You're always concerned about [fumbles and a lack of focus]." Willingham said. "It's difficult sometimes for a coach to [tell] your players just how tough it's going to be. Ifs not like a light switch. You can't turn emotion on or turn on focus and concentration." 
Notre Dame's players seem to understand they need to play better too. After the Navy game, players told the media they were pleased with the team win, but not their overall performance. 
"[Inconsistency] comes with just playing football," Irish defensive back Vontez Duff said. "Things are going to happen, bad things are going to happen, good things are going to happen and you just have to know how to step up and make plays. We didn't want to believe [the Boston College loss], but we lost. We had to come out and finish this thing off." 
And they did finish it off, give them credit. Even though it took a 67-yard touchdown pass from Carlyle Holiday to Omar Jenkins with a little over two minutes left in the game against a 27.5-point underdog to do it, Notre Dame found another way to win. 
But will the Irish be able to finish off a top 10 USC team or a BCS opponent like Oklahoma or Texas? I think so, but not if they play the way they did against Navy or Boston College. 
The Irish now have an extra week to get healthy, rest and recover from an emotional two weeks of football. They've hit a couple bumps in the road, but they still have time to fix it. 
When Notre Dame won its lirsL eight games, people still doubted them. After their last two, even more people doubted them. 
Notre Dame can silence the doubters one last time by ending their season the way they began it -forcing turnovers, playing suffo­cating defense, and doing the little things right. 
Great teams do those things. They don't let opponents like Navy come within a touchdown of win­ning. Or allow teams to force 11 fumbles in two games. 
Notre Dame is close to being a great team. They've got a chance to prove that to their critics one last time by playing their kind of foot­ball. By forcing turnovers. By play­ing, arguably, the best defense in the country. By winning their last three games. 
And if they do that, the Irish will do something many in the college football world didn't believe could ever happen -return Notre Dame football to glory. 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are nut necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Joe Hettler al jhettler@nd.edu. 
....----------------------------------~--------------------------­
Monday, November ] 1, 2002 page 3
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Powers-Neal helps Irish hang on to win 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associa1e Spom Ediror 
BALTIMORE 

Hashon Powers-Neal may not have had his best career game against Navy, but he did one thing his fellow backfield mates couldn't do during the last two weeks ­hang onto the football. 
The Irish running back carried the ball 17 times for a modest 51 yards and a toucl1down against the Midshipmen, but more importantly, he didn't fumble. He didn't bobble a handoff. Ile didn't drop the ball. Powers-Neal simply gained positive yards almost every time he touched the pigskin and didn't make costly mistakes. 
"Things weren't really going our way at the time so I just wanted to come in there and make sure I was able to produce in a positive manner for my teammates," Powers-Neal said. ··1 just wanted to come out there and make sure I was able to pro­duc;e in manner towards my teammates. f just wanted to gu out and play hard. I wasn'l worried with what happened blll'ore Iwith the fumbles I. I just wanted to make sure the nnxt play was a good play.'' 
Powers-Neal did just that. By simply hanging onto the football. Powers-Neal gave the Irish Lhc boosl lhey needed lo bounce back and win against Navy 30-23 Saturday. 
Al'tcr starting the season 8-0, Notre Dame struggled with turnovers last week in ttwir loss to Boston College, uncharac­teristically fumbling Lhe football seven times and losing three of those to the Eagles. 
This week against Navy was no dillerent us Notre Dame fumbled four more times, losing three to the Midshipmen. 
The Irish needed a plug to stop the leak in their backfield. Despite missing the last three weeks with a leg injury, Powers-Neal provided that plug against Navy and helped put the Irish back in the win col­umn. 
"It felt great to be back there, with my teammates, going through the battle with handoff in the final quarter after Grant done." them," Powers-Neal said. "It's fun being fumbled for a third time late in the third. It wasn't an outstanding game for out there with them and going through the Grant didn't return because of an ankle Powers-Neal, but it was more than enough things they go through and experience the injury, putting the pressure on Powers­to help an Irish backfield that had been emotion. It just felt really great to be out Neal to pick up the slack. struggling recently. According to Powers­there and supporting them." In the fourth quarter, Powers-Neal Neal, the Irish needed to overcome obsta­
Powers-Neal also did most of' his work rushed five times on Notre Dame's game­cles, such as the recent fumbles. and get when it counted the most -in the fourtl1 tying touchdown drive, including the back to winning. quarter. I le didn't get his first rushing touchdown itself. He ended the quarter "If you want to be a good team, you 're opportunity until the end o!' the lirst quar­with 10 carries fur 36 yards. going to have games like this," Powers­ter, when he rushed for a loss of a yard. "It was a weird [game]." Powers-Neal Neal said. "We've had it the last couple llis next carricis didn 'l come until Grant said. "But we just kept after it, kept going. weeks. We just have to find ways to win, fumbled in the second quarter, leaving We knew we were going to have to get find ways to get it done and find ways to l'owers-Nnal with only live carries for 12 one. We just kept playing hard, believing go out there and get the win." yards at hall'lime. I le got only two more in the offense, believing in the our team­ruslws in the third quarter. but took every mates and (knew] we were going to get it Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Irish running back Rashon Powers-Neal barrels upfield during Notre Dame's 30-23 win against Navy. Sidelined with injuries against Air Force, Florida State and Boston Collge, Saturday Powers-Neal returned and scored the tying touchdown. 
Emotions visible in Navy's eyes after loss 
Spe~ial to The Observer 
13ALTIMOHE 

It seemed the only things keeping Navy quarterback Aaron Polanco from bursting into tears were the bright tele­vision camera lighL">. 
In the interview room al'ter the game, a red-eyed Polanco seemed to choke back tears every time fw was asked a question and whispered his answnrs so quietly they were bardy audible. 
"I think we played with more intensity than we have all year," he said. "But things defi­nitely could have turned out better." 
So focused was Polanco. who entered the game when starter Craig Candeto sprained his ankle less than a minute and a half into the first quarter, that he didn't notice a tremendous roar from the brigade in the third quarter. 
The reason'? The Havnns Stadium JumboTron had just flashed a message that Polanco's classmates would get weekend leave if the Midshipmen beat the Irish -a huge deal for a brigade that has only seen its football team win twice in the past three years. 
"This hurts because we had a chance to make history," said linebacker Eddie Carthon. "Everyone would have looked at us a filtlc dillercntly." 
"I told Lhe guys there are no moral victories," first-year Navy coach Paul Johnson uchocd. "I was disappointed in our team. They laid it out on the lield. I'll get another shot at Notre Dame. but our seniors won't. They deserved a better fate than thL'>." 
Ravens watching 
Two Notre Dame football alumni got the chance to see the Irish play from the same field they play on Sundays. 
Wide receiver Javin Hunter and defensive lineman Anthony Weaver, both rookies on the Baltimore Ravens, had a great time watching their alma mater beat Navy in person. 
Both players graduated from Notre Dame last season. and each received a loud ovation when they appeared on the Jumbo Tron. 
Both players were also impressed with Notre Dame's progress under Tyrone Willingham. 
"They're a Joi more confident in themselves and their coach­ing staff," Hunter said. "I see a lot of growth in the guys and I'm really happy with their success this year." 
Lopienski rumbles 

Tom Lopienski rumbled toward the goal line, elevated over his linemen and landed on a combination of Navy defenders and blue paint in the end zone. He dropped the ball, stood up and raised his hands in celebration 
Lopienski 's I-yard touch­down run two minutes into the second quarter was the first career rushing touchdown for the Irish fullback. But more importantly, it gave the Irish a 9-7 lead. 
Safe play 
When the snap sailed high over John Skaggs head, the Navy punter quickly reacted. 
Skaggs chased down the ball and picked it up around his own 10-yard line, but instead of trying to get rid of the ball, he ran with it into the end zone, giving the Irish a safety and a 2-0 lead. 
"I thought it was a great play," Johnson said. "Ho did a great job adjusting to the situa­tion." 
It was the second time the Irish recorded a safety this season -the first game on a holding penalty in the end zone against Michigan. 
Game day captains. 
Arnaz Battle, Jeff Faine. Shane Walton and Ryan Roberts served as game day captains for Saturday's game. 
•

scoring sumn1ary 
1st 2nd :frd 4th Total 
Notre Dame  2  7  6  15  30  
Navy  7  o  16  O  23  
First quarter  

Notro Dame 2, Navy 0 
Team safety with 10:38 remaining 
N,lVy 7, Notre Dame 2 
Aaron Polanco 12-yd. run (Eric Rolfs kick) with 4:30 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 95 yards, 4:19 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 9, Navy 7 
Tom Loplenski 1-yard run (Nicholas Sella kick) with 13:01 remaining Orive: 3 plays, 74 yards, 6:29 elapsed 
Third quarter Navy 14, Notre Dame 9 Polanco 1-yard run (Rolfs kick) with 9:19 remaining Drive: 6 plays, 44 yards, 2:49 elapsed Notre Dame 15, Navy 14 Vontez Dull 92-yard kickoff return (Carlyle Holiday pass failed) with 9:01 remaining Navy 20, Notre Dame 15 Eric Roberts 10-yard. run (Polanco rush failed) with 3:17 remaining Drive: 12 plays, 80 yards, 5:44 elapsed 
Navy 23, Notre Dame 15 Rolfs 36-yard FG with 1:07 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 2yards, 1:52 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 23, Navy 23 
Rashon Powers-Neal 1-yard run with 4:28 remaining (Arnaz Battle pass from Holiday) Drive: 7 plays, 48 yards, 2:59 elapsed 
Notre Dame 30, Navy 23 Omar Jenkins 67-yard pass from Holiday (Sella kick) with 2:08 remaining Drive: 1 plays, 67 yards, :11 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
...~~<-'--.~"--t=t·,~•·•~~<·_.t_:1'_.•••'-'-___,I 268 340 
.... 1'_•. rushing yards 
186

l~~~il'ltlfI88 
passing yards 

272 
return yards 
186

~i,1Hiil1lt1~I 
NAVY· ] 88 
time of possession 
~1•11u1•1+mc----=s11 
NAVY --32:49
.~\ 
_,., .

Ct .. 
41-68 rushes-yards 56-216 13-21-0 comp-att-int 6-15-2 6-227 punts-yards 7-304 4-3 fumbles-lost 0-0 2-20 penalties-yards 2•25 
13 17
first downs 
passing  
Holiday  13-21-0  Polanco  5-14-2  
Candeto  1-1-0  

rushing 

Po.veis-Neal  17-52  Lane  6-93  
Grant  10-30  Roberts  5-50  
Wilson  2-4  Polanco  24-63  
Loplenski Holiday TEAM  1-1 10-27 1-0  Eckel McDonald Candela  13·38 4-14 2-13  
Mathews  1-5  
TEAM  1-(-34)  
receiving  

Battle  5-35  Sims  2-25  
Jenkins  4-166  Roberts  2-21  
Stovall  1-38  Yarbrough  2-6  
Godsey Rodamer  1-20 19  
Palmer  1-4  

O
THE Notre Dame 30, Navy 23 BSERVER Monday, November 11, 2002 

Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday tries unsuccessfully to scramble away from Navy's Ben Mathews. The sack was one of four the Midshipmen recorded Saturday. 
As visions of Notre Dmnc's loss to Boston College danced through JrL,;h players' minds, lowly Navy sur­prisingly led 23-15 as the game entered the fourth quarter. But with their BCS berth on the line the Irish offense struck twice -once on a 1-yard touchdovm run by Hashon Powers-Neal m1d again on a 67-yard 
pass to Omar Jenkins -to surge past Navy. 


Amaz Battle celebrates after catching a 2-point conversion pass late in Notre Dame's victory against Navy. 
NARROW ESCAPE 

O
THE 

BSERVER 

Monday, November 11, 2002 page 13 
Completing the Square adds melodic rock to campus music 
By PAUL KELLNER 
Scene Wriccr 
"Melodic Hock" is the only way that Complrting the Square could relate their sound in words, but concert goers have compared them to Jimmy Eat World. 
The band is the rebirth of a previous campus band, the Alpha Bet. Tim Bradley, John Fanning and Jesse Fa "completed the square" by adding their current drummer, Dan Schmid. This has turned out to be quite a comfortable line up. 
Bradley, Fanning and Fa first played as a group during their time in London. They mainly covered bands like Weezer, but did play some of Bradley's originals. When they returned to the USA, they were contacted to play a show for SUB and so limy quickly found a drummer and began writing and gigging. 
Throughout their incarnation as the Alpha Bel they began collaborating on songs and have only continued to do so more vigorously with Completing the Square. Even after scrapping most of their work as the Alpha Bet, they now boast a good deal of original work that is quite ran-friendly. 
llcrn is more information on the band members: 
Tim Bradley 
Bradley is a poppy, dual-citizen (he's also Canadian) that just can't stop a­rockin'. lie does vocals and plays gui­tar, bass, and drums. llis musical influ­ences are bands like Pixies, The Kinks and the Alkaline Trio. 
Bradley has been in a great deal of bands over the years, but most the most notable after Completing the Square is his first project, Tuna Pita. lie feels that Completing the Square is the first band that he has been in where all the members are on the same page. \A/hen asked what kind of pasta noodle he would be, given any choice in the world, he said he would be "the curly ones." He also has an af1inity for Pastaroni. 
John Fanning 
Fanning is a born rock star that began playing guitar in his freshman year of college. He started out playing Acoustic Cafe by himself during that year, but soon expanded to include other musicians in the lineup, and even­tually projects like the Alpha Bet and Completing the Square. 
Fa and Fanning bought cheap guitars together during their time in the London Program-, and Bradley was actually Fanning's guitar teacher at one point. He has since gotten into working at WVFI and The Observer. His influ­ences are artists like Dispatch and Bright Eyes. When asked what island he would be, given his choice of any island in the world, he said South Padre Island. lie said, "I went there fresh­man year and saw Vanilla Ice." 
Dan Schmid 
Schmid has the "best hair in the group" and hits harder than John Bonham. He has been drumming long enough to slap the skins for a few bands in high school, but Completing the Square is his first band in college. He had always been friends with the other members of the band, but when he heard that their drummer was graduat­ing he offered to fill the vacancy. Incidentally, their friendships were fos­tered by mutual friends at Lewis Hall. 
His influences are artists like Ted Leo (a Notre Dame grad) and various jam bands. When asked what hairy fruit or vegetable he would be, given his choice of any fruit or vegetable in the world, he chose the Kiwi. 


Jesse Fa Fa is known as "cheesecake" or "Fa 
rule," to his friends and also enjoys 
rocking hard. He started playing guitar when he was a fresh­man in high school after becoming tired of play­ing the piano. lie was in a band called Spanish Fly his senior year of high school, but sadly that project did not pan out due to the fact that his drummer knew one, and only one beat. 
Ile began writing and practicing with various musicians on campus his freshman year at Notre Dame, but is cur­rently quite content with Completing the Square. When asked whether he would prc­fe r to live in a Houseboat or a Winnebago, he chose a third option, the newly released Neimann-Marcus Luxury Submarine. 
If one takes a look at the band's Website, it is noticed that there is some Greek lettering in the background. Also their first incarnation is the Alpha Bet. The band did not confirm nor deny their incorpo­ration of Greek lettering, but they did state that it stems from their love of shwarma. 
The band made it quite clear that enjoy playing with bands such as the Choir Invisible and Clark. The band also said that they have been influenced by Clark, Ted Leo, and the Butterfly Effect, as well as many others. 
Completing the Square plans to do plenty of gigs this year so they ask stu­dents to keep their eyes peeled for ads around campus. They have already played venues like the State Theatre and houses on Bulla Hoad and St. Joseph's Street. 
One can find their special brand of tunes at NAZZ on Saturday. 
For a complete list of shows and news about the band one can go to the band's website at www.nd.edu/-jfa or can scan around through Mindset's website www.nd.edu/-mindset. Mindset is Notre Dames one-stop shop for show and album reviews, interviews. news on "the scene" at Notre Dame, show dates, album release dates and venue infor­mation. 
Completing the Square also hope to have merchandise available very soon. 
The band says that they arc happy with the direction things arc going these days and this happiness is evident in the quality of their work. 
Contact Paul Kellner at Kellner.2@nd.edu 

Monday, November 11, 2002

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Wild finish helps Patriots erase 27-6 deficit to top Bears 
Associ~ted Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
Tom Brady and New England pulled off one of the Patriots' greatest comebacks Sunday. 
Brady hit David Patten on a 20­yard TD pass with 21 seconds left -on a play that was upheld by video review -and the Patriots overcame a 27-6 second-half defidt Lo stun the Chicago Bears 33-30. 
The Bears' seventh straight loss was one they'll never forget. Twice in the final minute, video replays didn't go their way in a wild and disheartening finish. 
Chicago (2-7) took a 30-19 lead with 5:22 left on Paul Edinger's 32-yard field goal, and the Bears thought they had stopped New England's final drive when defen­sive lineman Brian Robinson stepped in front of Brady's pass with just under a minute left for an apparent interception. 
But Robinson juggled the ball as he was going down before los­ing it. Officials initially ruled that he'd intercepted the pass and fumbled before teammate Rosevelt Colvin recovered for the Bears. 
But officials reviewed the play and said Robinson never had pos­session, resulting in an incom­plete pass. That gave the Patriots one final chance with a fourth down at the Bears 30 with 54 seconds to go. 
New England (5-4) was out of timeouts. but Brady sneaked 3 yards on fourth down to keep the drive going. 
On second down, Brady some­how eluded a sack and shoveled a pass to Kevin Faulk for a 7 ­yard gain. Then on third-and-3 from the Bears 20, he found Patten in the back of the end zone. Patten had a step on defen­sive back H.W. McQuarters and dove to haul in the pass. 
Officials initially ruled touch­down, but then reviewed the play. They upheld the ruling on the lield, saying that Patten had his right foot down and was able to drag his left foot in the end zone before going out 
Falcons 34, Steelers 34 
Tommy Maddox's comeback story gets beLter with every week On this record-setting day, though, Michael Vick's comeback was just as remarkable. Vick ral­lied Atlanta from 17 points down in the fourth quarter and the Falcons withstood Maddox's club-record 473 yards passing to tie Pittsburgh 34-34 Sunday ­the NFL's first tie in five vears. 
After Pittsburgh's Todd Peterson and Atlanta's Jay Feely had overtime field goal attempts blocked, Pittsburgh still nearly won it. With only 1 second on the clock, Maddox lofted a 50-yard pass that Plaxico Burress caught at the Falcons' 1. Half of Burress' body was in the end zone but the ball wasn't, and the Steelers didn't have enough time to run another play. 

It was the Nf<'L's first tie since a 7-7 Giants-Hedskins game in 1997. Pittsburgh's l.i,st tie was 35-all against Denver in 1974, and Atlanta hadn't tied since a 20-20 deadlock with the Rams in 1971, long before the NFL went to overtime. 
Maddox was 28-of-4 l for 473 yards, easily breaking Bobby Layne's 1958 club record of 409 yards. Burress made nine catches for a club record 253 yards and two touchdowns, but Pittsburgh still couldn't hold a 34-17 lead in the fourth quarter. 
Both teams remained unbeaten in their last live games and are 5­
3-1. 
Remarkably, Vick -perhaps the fastest quarterback in NFL history -pulled off the come­back despite being forced into becoming a one-dimensional player. The Steelers' ever-chang­ing blitzes limited him to 52 yards rushing, but he still got free to run for an 11-yard touchdown on a broken play in the final minute of regulation that sent it to over­time. 
Despite fighting off the constant pressure, Vick dodged and weaved his way to a 294-yard passing day, going 24-of-46. 
The comeback started after Maddox's fourth scoring pass, an 18-yarder to Jerame Tuman, and Peterson's 34-yard field goal put Pittsburgh up 34-17 with 12 1/2 minutes to play. 
Antwaan Handle El's fumbled punt led to fullback Bob Christian's 1-yartl touchdown run, and a stalled Steelers drive allowed Feely to kick a 40-yard field goal with 2:26 left. 
Once more, Pittsburgh's offense couldn't get enough first downs to run out the clock. Vick hit Shawn Jefferson for 20 yards, which led to his tying scoring nm. 
Pittsburgh had the best chance to win it in overtime, but receiver Brian Finneran got his hand on Peterson's 48-yard attempt to block it on the Steelers' first OT possession. 
Six weeks ago, the Steelers overcame a blocked Peterson overtime field goal to beat Cleveland 19-16 in Maddox's first game, but they couldn't do it this time. 
Feely's 56-yard attempt in the closing seconds also was blocked, leading to the near-miracle 
Maddox-to-Burress completion on the final play. 
Rams 28, Chargers 24 
The St. Louis Rams' wild sea­son just got a little bit crazi.er. The defending NFC champions kept their midscason comeback on track in otT-the-wall fashion, overcoming four lost fumbles ­two of them returned for touch­downs -in a 28-24 viciorv over the San Diego Chargers on Sunday. 
The Rams (4-5) were Jed by Marc Bulger's team-record 36 completions and 453 yards pass­ing -the fourth-most in fran­chise history -and Isaac Bruce, who lost two of the fumbles but caught three touchdown passes, including the 7-yard game-win­ner with 1:14 to play. 
Bruce, who had 10 receptions for 163 yards. also caught TD passes of 27 and 34 yards, the latter an acrobatic grab that cut the Chargers' lead to 24-21 with 
3:06 to go. 

Having burnPd all three time­outs in the third quarter, the !lams were forced to try an onside kick, and Dre· Bly recov­ered at the SL Louis 46 to set up the winning score. 
The Rams staged their frenzied comeback without l\1arshall Faulk, who !ell with a sprained left ankle during the fourth quar­ter. Ile was held to 72 total yards and had a costlv fumble at the Chargers 3 at th~ end of the first half. 
Faulk, who missed Lime earlier in the game with a tendon prob­lem in his right foot, is expected to play next 1\1onday against the Bears. 
The Chargers (G-3) had more than a minute to work with after Bruce's go-ahead TD, and Ronney Jenkins returned the kickoff 52 yards to the St. Louis 
46. The Chargers advanced to the 30, but the threat ended when Drew Brees' pass was intercept­ed by Dexter McC!eon in the end zone with 11 seconds left 
Packers 40, Lions 14 
Brett Favre stood on the side­line after playing one of his best games, with the Green Bay Packers in the middle of a 37-0 run. With the game in hand. the Lambeau Field crowd had just one request for Darren Sharper. They wanted to him to put a lick­ing on former teammate Bill Schroeder during the Packers' 40-14 rout of the Lions on Sundav. 
Scht:oeder dropped three pass­es, one of v,;hich was intercepted by rookie safety Marques Anderson and returned for a touchdown, and another that Schroeder bobbled away in the end zone as time expired. 
The shutout of Schroeder was the icing for Green Bay, which improved its NFL-best record to 8-1 while taking a live-game lead over second-place Detroit (3-6) in the NfC North. 
Favre's sprained left knee gave him no problems in his second start since getting hurt, as he threw for 351 yards and two touchdowns. 
The only negative for Green Bay was injuries to running backs Ahman Gn~en (mild con­cussion) and Najeh Davenport (sprain1,d ankln). 
Green had 12 carries for 50 yards and didn't play after half­time. Davenport gained 73 yards on 10 carries before getting hurt in the third quarter. Coach Mike Sherman hopes to have both available next week. 
After Davenport went out, Sherman took no more chances with Favre. who guided the Packers on seven scoring drives in 10 possessions and compleled 26 of 39 passes. lie had 295 yards p,tssing by halflime. a career-best. 
Donald Driver caught a carePr­high 11 passes for 130 yards, and Byan Longwell kicked four field goals in Green Bay's seventh straight victory -their longest streak in the regular season since 1963, 
Anderson also had an intercep­tion return for a TD in Green Bay's 37-31 victory at Detroit on Sept. 22. 
Ilis score was part or a 27-point second-quarter outburst by the Packers, whose defense regrouped quickly after allowing Joey Ilarrington's 64-yard touch­down pass to Az-Zahir Ilakim on Detroit's first offensive play. 
Green Bay led 16-7 at the two­minute warning of the !irst hall', behind Longwel!'s field goals of' 30, 40 and 36 yards -the last of' which came after Hardy Nickerson stopped Ilarrington on fourth down at the IJctroit 35 ­and a 4-yard touchdown pass from Favre to tight end Bubba Franks. 
Then Schroeder let Harrington's short pass go through his arms, and Anderson was there to return it 14 yards for the score. 
Colts 35, Eagles 13 

The Indianapolis Colts found their offense against the No. 2 defense in the NFL. 
Peyton Manning threw for 319 yards and throe touchdowns passes, and James Mungro ran for 114 yards and two TDs, lead­ing the Colts to a 35-13 victory over the Philadelphia Eagles on Sundav. 
The· Colts (5-4) snapped a three-game losing streak. Philadelphia (6-3} had won three straight. 
Indianapolis' once-potent offense, outscored 64-10 in the first half or consecutive losses to Pittsburgh, Washington and Tennessee, racked up 446 yards against a defense that had allowed just 266.9 yards per game. 
Manning threw TD passes of 57 and 43 yards to Marvin Ilarrison and 27 yards to Heggie Wayne Mungro, making his first career start because Edgerrin James and Bickv \Villiams arc out with hamstring injuries, had TD runs of 6 and 10 yards. 1larrison lin­ished with six catches for 137 yards. 
Donovan McNabb threw for 28 l yards and one TD and ran for 62 yards, but d!'opped a pass on a critical fourth-and-1 in the third quarter and also lost a fum­ble. 
The Eagles have scored just G9 points in the last four ganrns aJtcr gelling 165 in their lirst live. 
Mungro ran for 84 yards in tlw lirst quarter, including 65 on tlw lirst sPrics. The most yards rush­ing tlw liaglcs had allo\\'l'd in a gam<i this season was 7<J yards by Tiki Barber in a 17-3 \Yin ovPr the Giants two weeks ago. 
Mungro ran right up tlrn middle for 49 yards on the Colts' f'irst play. But he fumbled at Philadelphia's 6 to end that drive. 
Indianapolis couldn't b1• stopped the rest of' the game. 
Mungro's 6-yard TD run gaV<' the Colts a 7-3 i<)ad. !\tanning's 57-yard TD pass to l larrison on the final play of the lirst quartPr made it 14-3. 
N'tcr David Akers kicked a 20­yard field goal to cut it to 14-(i at halftime, Manning connected vvith V\'ayne over the middle for a 27-yard TD on the opening pos­session of the third quarter. During the 71-yard drive, Wayne also had a 12-yard rec1•ption on a third-and-5 and a 19-vard catch on a third-and-13. · 
The Eagles drove inside thl· Coils 40 on their next two posses­sions but couldn't get any points. McNabb fumbled at Indianapolis' 22 to end orw drive, and the Eagles couldn't convert a trick play on fourth-and-I from the Colts :n. 
Dorsey Levens took a handoff, swept oubide, stopped and threw a pass across the l'icld to McNabb, who stepped in l'ront of' a defender. But the ball bounced off McNabb's hands and he inad­vertently kicked it before it foll to the tur[ 

The Ohserver accepts classifieds every business J:iy from 8 a.m. co 311.m. ;tt the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hal!. Deadline for ncxt-dar classifieds is 3 p.n1. A! cbssificds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per ch.1racter pa day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves die right ro edit all classifieds fo1 content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
...ACT NOWI Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardigras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+ 1 888 THINK SUN (1 888•844-6578 
dept 2626)/www.springbreakdis­counts.com 
••At Last Spring Break"* Book now Free Meats, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips.LowestPrices. sunsplash­tours.com 
18004267710 

Part time babysitter needed. My home; Ea.gle Lake AMs and PMs optional. Call Colleen. 
269-699-7613 
Charming home in beautiful sate neighborhood. 1 mile from ND. 3­bdrm, 1 1/2 bath.Ir, dr, family room, eat in kitchen, finished basement Beautiful hardwoods; new carpet throughout Buill in gas grill in large private backyard. All new appli­ances. References required. 950/mo 288·5118 
WANTED 
#1 Spring Break VacationslMexico. Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Mealsl 
1-800-234-7007 
endlesssummertours.com 

Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U167. 
WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
FOR SALE 

LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Willlamson.1@nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available tor 2003· 2004 rnmmrentals@aol.com www mmmrentals.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896 
nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses. 288,9673. Avail now 
3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq ft house. Close to ND All appli· ances,big yard,garage,C/A. 6eaut1tul. Must see. $1100/mo 243-9901 
TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911 
WANTED ND tickets· HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288·2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT· ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential suppon or assistance, please call Sr Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas 111 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1 •800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 


Monday, November 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Avalanche continues to post losses at home 
Asso~iated Press 
DENVEH 

The Nashville Predators were not only lhc worst team in the Western Conference but also wore nearing tho end of an exhausling seven-game road trip, and they must have sncmcd like easy pickings to the Colorado Avalanche. 
Nothing, however, is easy for 
• the Avalanche at home this sea­
son. Vladimir Orszagh scored at 
15:55 of the third period. Tomas Vokoun had 3:-J saves and tl1e Predators prevailed 4-3 Sunday night, prolonging the t\valandw's home-ice futility. 
Nashville wun for the first time in 13 road games dating to last season. Colorado !'ell to 0­4-J-1 al home this season -the worst honw start in the fran­chise's ~4-ycar history. 
Nashville was eVPll ab!{~ to ovMcomc thn loss ol' lwo play­nrs lO injury during tlw game. 
Defenseman Kimmo Timonen bruised his left ankle early in the second period and didn't return. Forward Dominic Pittis sustained a concussion in the tirst period and didn't return. 
''We lost Dominic and Kimmo early, but the guys dug in and got it done," coach Barry Trotz said. "We got really good goal­tending tonight, and we got some timely goals. A lot of our goals, like the winner by Orszagh, was just hard work." 
Joe Sakic's 10th goal of the season -on a rare power play ­pulled Colorado into a 3-3 tic u.l 
8:15 of' the linal period. 
During an ensuing scramble in front of the Colorado goal, Orszagh poked the puck past Patrick Hoy for his fourth goal of the season. 
"I felt the puck come between my leg," Orszagh said. "I put it on my backhand side and shoved it on the net. Luckily, it went in. 
"Wo put three quality periods together. We have been losing 
... 
or tying games on the road in the third period and that had been heartbreaking. This one could have been heartbreaking when we lost the lead. But we pulled together at the end." 
Hoy, returning to the ice after missing the last three games with a sore left hip, had 24 saves. 
"I think it's mental right now," Roy said. "We're not playing our game. Guys are putting too much pressure on themselves. We have to find a way to win one game here. After that we'll get going." 
Asked if the Avalanche viewed the gamo as a winnable one, Sakic said, "Yeah. you would think so. But when things arcn't going well. they're not going wdl. We're in it as a team. and we're going to have to gr.tout of it as a team." 
Colorado held a players-only mrcting af'tor tho gamr. 
Coach Bob llartley noted that the Avalanche "arc at .500 
after 15 games (4-4-4-3). and that's where we deserve to be right now. We're basically at the same spot we were in last year. The sad thing right now is that we're throwing valuable points in the garbage." 
Nashville's Wyatt Smith got his first goal of the season just 
1:14 into the game, scoring from inside the left circle. 
Vokoun stopped Steven Heinprecht and Peter Forsberg on back-to-back shots at close range. 
Each team scored two goals in the second period. · 
Colorado's AIC\x Tanguay scored from the slot at 6:03 after taking a pass from behind the net by Milan Ilejduk. The /\valanche went ahead 2-1 when Eric Messfor dug the puck out of the right corner and fed Mike Keane in the slot at 12:23. 
Barely a minute later, Jason York tied it with a power-play goal at 13:34. The Predators took a 3-2 lead on David Lcgwand's shorthanded goal. 
TURTLE CREEK APARTlVIENTS 
2 BEDROOMS AND TO\VNHOMES FROM AS LOW AS $300 PER _.._llllia. PERSON!!!! ~ 
PLENTY AVAILABLE. FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR BEST LOCATION AND SELECTION **APPLY TODAY!!** 
VISIT US ON THE '-VEB! WWW.T-URTLECREEKND.COM 

l(Yll}J/\l_JJOl(}~ 
ATHOLIC 
FAIi·'~! 
One-Credit Courses Spri11g 2003 
offered J~v the Department of Theology 
;,, coo11enitio11 wit!, tlw CJfjice of Campus Ministry 

Theo. 340C/01. 1 credit S/U 
Instructor: John Cavadini 
Monday Nights Marci, 17, 24, 31 April 7, 14, 21, Time: 6:00-8:05 p.m. Location: Keough lounge (to be confirmed) 
For further i11/or11iutio11, contact l~orotl!Y Anderson in the Theology Depart11,c11t, 631-7811. Syli,1hif,1r rh.:courw:.~ ca11 be o/ttr,i11,•d at the Tlu:ology Dept., 130 Malloy 1-foll. 
Mighty Ducks beat Wild 
Associaced Press 
t\NAIIEIM, Calif. 

• The Anaheim Mighty Ducks arc rapidly improving under rookie coach Mike Babcock. They're even talk­ing about the playoffs. 
Jean-Sebastien Giguere made 26 saves to cam his l1rst shutout of the season, and rookie Stanislav Chistov scored in the lirst period as the Ducks beat the Minnesota Wild 1-0 Sunday for their third straight victo­
ry. "We've raised it up a 
• level," Giguere said. "Obviously, our goal is to make the playoffs. It took a little while before it came together, but right now we realize that we're· a good team and we can compete against any team in this lcagun /\nd the morn we keep playing like this. the more we're going to be con­fident about getting to the playoffs." The budget-conscious Ducks chose not to go after a high-prof'ile coach during the offscason, when Bryan Murray discarded the coach­ing reins and devoted all his time to being general man­ager. They promoted Babcock, who coached their /\IIL affiliate in Cincinnati for two seasons. So l'ar, the players have bought into the program. The Ducks arc 6-6-3. arc more aggressive in the offensive end. and have fur­ther tightened a defense that set a club record last season for fewest goals allowed. "We have a lot more talent here," captain Paul Kariya said. "Bryan did a great job improving our team during the ofTseason and the young players are stepping up. "Mike, from day one, start­ed a high-tempo game, short shifts, and using our skill and speed to our advantage. If you look at the difference between our team this year and last year, we're a lot quicker. We want to make it tough on every team that plays us." Giguere, fifth in the NllL last season with a 2.13 goals-against average, recorded his ninth career shutout and his l1rst since April 5 against Edmonton. Making his 100th appear­ance with the Ducks. Giguere faced his stiffest challenge with about 7 min­utes left in the second period when he stopped point­blank shots by Hichard Park and Nick Schultz seconds apart. 
Minnesota rookie Pierre Marc-Bouchard, who scored his first NHL goal in Saturday night's 4-2 victory at San Jose. was robbed at the edge of the crease by Giguere about a minute later after a perfect centering pass from the left circle by Antti Laaksonen. 
www.cathoIicshirts.com 

page 16 
NBA 
Kings defeat Hawks 
Associated Pre» 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
There arc so many potent offensive weapons for the Sacramento Kings, often times Doug Christie can go unnoticed. 
That was the case Sunday night. After going scoreless in the first half, the veteran guard finished with 19 points, eight rebounds, seven assists and three steals as the Kings • pulled away from the Atlanta Hawks 105-97. 
Known as a stopper on defense, Christie's second­half production helped the Kings move to 4-0 this season in Arco Arena. 
"Doug was terrific," Kings coach Rick Adelman said. "He was all over the court, getting loose balls, rebounding and he really shot the ball well in the second half." 
It wasn't much of a first half for Christie, who has con­verted 16 consecutive free throws and made eight of 13 3-pointers this season. Despite missing all three first­half shots, Christie made three more 3-pointers in the second half. 
"In the first half I missed a couple of shots and that can kind of mess with your head," said Christie, who made seven of 11 shots. "I told myself to just keep shooting." 
Ahead by four points head­ing into the final period, the Kings went on a 16-5 run. Bobby Jackson closed the streak with a 3-pointer and a long jumper, giving Sacramento a 91-77 lead midway through the quarter. 
"We came out in the fourth quar,ter and missed some shots and had some turnovers," Atlanta center Theo Ratliff said. "You can't do that against a team like the Kings. But they knew we were coming back. We just ran out oftime." 
Bothered by a sore left hand, Chris Webber wore a black glove with a protective plastic piece on his right hand. He didn't seem too bothered, making 13 of 24 shots and scoring 27 points for the Kings. 
"I still feel I'm missing a lot of jumpers," Webber said." Shooting is so much about feel. It's like having a glove on and trying to touch someone's face. It's hard to feel any­thing." 
Jackson scored 23 points 
and had five steals for 
Sacramento. Pcja Stojakovic 
made three 3-pointers and 
had 17 points and Vlade 
Divac added nine points, 10 
rebounds and six assists. 
"Sacramento is a very good 
basketball team. if you have a 
little breakdown or a lapse, 
they put up six to eight points 
really fast," Atlanta coach 
Lon Kruger said. "They have 
so many weapons." 
The Hawks have a few as 
well, most notably Shareef 
Abdur-Rahim against the 
Kings. He made 14 of 16 free 
throws. 

The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 11, 2002 
ND SWIMMING 
Irish svVirnn1ers get back on trac~ against MSU 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associare Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame mens swim­ming team had been waiting three long weeks to redeem itself after losing to Air Poree Oct. 18 and Michigan State felt their frustra­tion. 
The Irish won the first raL:e of the meet and cruised from there to crush the Spartans 140.5­102.5. 
The win gives the Irish a 2-1 record on the season. 
Meanwhile, the Irish womens team exacted a little revenge of its own on the Spartans. Notre Dame had lost their first dual meet in two years Nov. J to Indiana, 154­
146. The previous week, Notre Dame had tied Purdue 150-150 when the Boilermakers won the final race to even the meet. 
This time around, Michigan State wouldn't make a late come­Doug Bauman, Frank Krakowski back, because Notre Dame had and Jason Fitzpatrick swam faster too big a lead near the end of the than any of them thought possible meet. at this point in the season, en 
The  wom­ route  to  win­ 
ens team won  ning  with  a  
their first race in the 200 medley relay behind  "Coach [Tim Welsh] told us to go out and bring it and we did. We had a  time of 3:28:01. "I didn't· expect to go that fast this  
a strong per­f or man c e from Danielle  really good meet. In general the team had a  e a r I y , " Randolph said. 'That we did is  
Hulick,  great meet. I don't think  very encourag­ 
Laurie Musgrave,  anyone had a bad race. "  ing. Randolph  
Christel  also  said  he  
Bouvron and  Tim Randolph  thought  the  
Katie Eckholt.  400-medley relay team  team's overall  
Eckholy came  performance  
back to win  was consistent.  
the  200  "Coach [Tim  

freestyle, while Musgrave was vic­Welsh] told us to go out and bring torious in the 100 breastroke. it and we did," Randolph said. On the mens side, the 400 med­"We had a really good meet. In ley relay team of Tim Randolph, general the team had a grr-at 
meet l don't think anyone had bad race." 
While the Spartans won the 1000 freestyle, the Irish took the second, third and fourth places in that event with strong times from Patrick Davis, Matt Bertke and 
J.R. Teddy. 
Matt Obringer added a win in the 200 freestyle and Jamie Lutkus took care of the 400 IM. 
Womens diver Meghan Perry­Eaton captured first-place in the • one-meter board, while lleidi Hendrick gave the Irish another victory in the 100 freestyle. 
The swims will be headed in very direction for their meets. The men journey south to !'ace Texas Christian University Friday and Saturday, while the women travel north to swim in the Minnesota Invitational Nov. 22-24 
Contact Joe: Hc.:ttlc.:r at jhc.:ttler@nd.edu. 

11Leading Responsibly" 
Chairman, Executive 
Committee of the Board 
Procter and Gamble 
Marina Whitman 
Professor of Business, University of Michigan 
Former Vice President, General Motors Corporation 
Wednesday, November 13 
3:00 p.m. -4:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
The lecture is open to the Notre 
N7&,'D
Univcr.-.lty of Notre Dame
Dame/SMC community. 
Mendoza College of Business 


·-~------·-.. -~ 

Monday, November 11, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Aggies upset No. 1 Sooners in College Station 
As,,ociated Press 
COLLEGE STATION, Texa.5 

Oklahoma escaped Kyle Field two years ago, clearing i.he way for the Sooners to win the national title. They couldn't pull o!T another victory against Texas A&M on 'aturday, and now the Sooners might not get another shot to win it all. 
"I never talked about it when we had a BCS future. I don't know that we have one now and don't really care," coach Bob Stoops said after his top-ranked Sooners lost .10-26. 
The Sooners (8-1, 4-1 Big 12} certainly will drop from the No. 1 position in both the Associated Press poll and the Bowl Championship Series standings. Second­ranked Miami had an easy 26-3 win at Tennessee on Saturday. 
The Aggies (6-4, 3-3) beat a No. 1 team for the first time in school history behind freshman quarterback Heggie McNeal, who came off the bench to throw for 191 yards and four touchdowns. 
McNeal had scoring passes on three straight possessions to give Texas A&M its first lead. llis fourth TD, a 40-yarder lo Terrence Murphy with l :51 left in the third quartP.r, put the Aggies ahead 27-23 before the teams traded field goals in the fourth quarter. 
Terrence Kief, who was burned for an earlier touchdown, intercepted Nate llybl's pass with 1 :12 left to seal the vic­tory. 
When the Sooners won the national championship two years ago, they arrived here coming off three straight impressive wins over Top 25 teams. Then they overcame a 10-point deflcil in the fourth quarter to win 35-31, propelling them to the national title game. 
Oklahoma was trying to follow the same path this time, having beaten 
Texas, Iowa State and Colorado its previ­ous three games. But the Aggies and McNeal, who also rushed for 89 yards, didn't cooperate. 
Texas A&M broke a three-game losing streak at Kyle Field, where they lost just four times throughout the 1990s. They had blown fourth-quarter leads of 18 and 17 points their last two home games. 
"It's been one of those challenge years," Slocum said. "It's gratifying to go in and play with the No. 1 team in a game where virtually no one gave us a chance to win. It is satisfying. This is pretty big." 
LSU 33, Kentucky 30 
LSU practices desperation pass plays every Thursday. but quarterback Marcus Randall said they never work. On Saturday, the Tigers made one of them work when they absolutely needed it. 
Devery Henderson caught a deflected 75-yard touchdown pass from Randall as time expired to lift the No. 16 Tigers to a stunning 33-30 victory. 
"We always say we need to play for 60 minutes," said LSU coach Nick Saban. "There is the reason why." 
LSU (7-2, 4-1 SEC) appeared headed for a second straight league loss afLer Taylor Begley's 29-yard field goal with 11 seconds left put Kentucky (6-4, 2-4} ahead 30-27. · 
Hundreds of blue-clad fans crowded the sidelines and were poised to charge onto the field as the Tigers got the ball back at their own 13-yard line. 
Before the final play, the Wildcats doused Coach Guy Morriss with a cooler of Gatorade. 
Randall passed to Michael Clayton at the 25, and LSU called a timeout wjth 2 seconds left. Saban gave Randall simple instructions on the sideline. 
"Coach Saban just told me to throw it as far as [ could," said Randall, a sopho­more making just his third career start. 
Randall took the snap, avoided the rush to his right and heaved the ball more than 60 yards. 
"I've never thrown a ball that far," Randall said. 
"He doesn't have that strong an arm and, then he throws it from his 20 to our 30," said Kentucky cornerback Leonard Burress, one of eight Wildcats who had a chance to make a play on the ball. 
As the ball sailed through the air, fire­works exploded out of the Kentucky scoreboard, and Wildcats fans attacked the goal post at the east end zone. 
At the other end, Kentucky linebacker Morris Lane and two other Wildcats tipped the ball, and Henderson caught it inside the 20. 
"I don't know who it was, but I thought we had a chance to intercept it," Morriss said. "I don't know just how it happened, but we had our hands on the ball." 
Cornerback Derrick Tatum missed a diving tackle, and Henderson reached the end zone as Kentucky fans continued to pull on ihe goal post at the other end, oblivious to the incredible outcome. 
The jubilant Tigers raced to mob Henderson, who finished the day with three TD catches. Kentucky fans slowly realized what had just happened. 
Many sat at midfield as a small group of LSU fans celebrated. The bitter defeat was Kentucky's 13th in a row against a ranked SEC opponent. 
"It's always hard when you come back in a game like this and something crazy like that happens to you," Saban said of Kentucky. ''I've never been on a team that had it completed, but I've been on teams that's had it completed against them. It's a little bit of disbelief." 
Ohio State 10, Purdue 6 
Ohio State was trailing on the road and facing fourth down late in the game, with not only a victory but also the Big Ten title and a chance at the Fiesta Bowl berth slipping away. 
Craig Krenzel found a way to keep it all within reach for the Buckeyes. He threw a 37-yard touchdown pass to Michael Jenkins on fourth-and-1 with 1:36 left as the third-ranked Buckeyes defeated Purdue 10-6 Saturday to keep their national championship hopes alive. 
The Buckeyes (6-0 Big Ten) are off to their fourth 11-0 start in team history, joining the 1975, 1979 and 1995 teams. More importantly, they probably will remain No. 2 in the BCS standings, keep­ing them on course for a trip to the Tempe, Ariz., and a shot at the national title. 
The Boilermakers (4-6, 2-4 Big Ten) were leading 6-3 when Krenzcl dropped back and found Jenkins -who sprinted down the sideline before cutting in -for an over-the-shoulder catch in the end zone. 
"It's a situation I wish everybody in the world could feel. with that kind of excite­ment, that natural high," Krenzel said. 
Krcnzcl completed 13 of 20 passes for 173 yards. He had been pressured the entire game by a bruising Purdue defense that held Ohio State to only 267 total yards and sacked Krenzel three .times. But Krenzel, using a no-huddle offense, got the play from the sidelines, and Jenkins beat Antwaun Rogers to get open. 
"That's what a receiver has to do. We have to separate when the ball is com­ing," Jenkins said. 
Purdue got the ball again, but Kyle Orton's long pass into double coverage was intercepted by Chris Gamble. 
csc 
CENTER FOR 
UrBAN PLuNgE
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
A 30 Year Notre Dame Tradition 
URBAN PLUNGE: A 48-HOUR IMMERSION EXPERIENCE INTO URBAN COMMUNITIES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY. STUDENTS MEET LOCAL INDIVIDUALS, WORK WITH AGENCIES, VOLUNTEER FOR PARISHES AND WITNESS THE DAILY ENVIRONMENT OF URBAN AREAS IN THE UNITED STATES. 

Application Deadline Extended Deadline Friday, Noveniber 15 
Sign -up Today! 
Don't miss out on this Great Service Opportunity! 
-------------·------­
page 18 Monday, November 11, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Scoring last 10 points, Hornets defeat Knicks in OT 
As.ociated l'ress 
NEW YORK 
Baron Davis couldn't be stopped in overtime, in part because the Knicks had no point guards available to defend him. 
Davis had five of his 24 points and two of his seven assists in overtime, and the New Orleans Hornets scored the final 10 points of the game to defeat New York 97-91 Sunday. 
With Charlie Ward sitting out with a bruised leg, Howard 
-
. 
~ 

Eisley having fouled out and rookie Frank Williams too inex­perienced to play in crunch time, 
Davis  took  advantage  as  
Shandon Anderson  tried  to  
defend him in overtime.  

"I thought it was significant. They went with who they had," Hornets coach Paul Silas said. "Had they had Charlie, it would have been different, but they chose to go that way and we really exploited it. 
"Of course, Baron did hit some big shots. l don't know if any­body could have done anything 
~Ht 

against him at that point." 
Davis shot 10-for-23 from the field and added six rebounds as New Orleans won on the road for the first time this season. P.J. Brown added 16 points and 11 rebounds, and Jamal Mashburn just missed a triple-double with 15 points. 10 rebounds and nine assists. 
For the Knicks, Allan Houston scored 27 but missed four of his live shots in overtime. Lee Nailon added 18 against his former team. 
The Knicks took a four-point 
SOPHOMORE ROAD TRIP 
14 Hl'f'flAI« 'fHt lll~V ~«~IN. 
If "'/DU M/,;,;w '--rJI-~ flf~,;-r t,~« Df •..-,r -rHt flDlt1J 'fKrP, PDW 14 -r.ff~ C,.ff/tPC,t fDK 1 "'/DU ? "'/DUK f KJ~p-p,; -ro «t-r DP /JD/tK1J 
the second 
DESTINATION:Vt1known 
adventure of the year. 
Meet the Buses at the CoMo on Thursday, Nov. 14th at 6:30 pm. 
• 
Plan on returning to campus around 10:30 pm. 
* 7P/rt,~ 14 /,,/Ml-rW * 
Reserve seats ASAP on the bus for you & friends 
by emailing fsantoni@nd.edu. We will take reservations on a First-Come, First-Served basis until the busses fill up or until Midnight on Wednesday, which ever comes first. 
• 


lead early in overtime, but Davis scored on a drive, hit a 3-pointer and assisted on a layup by Stacey Augmon that gave New Orleans its first lead of the game, 92-91. 
After Houston missed a jumper, Davis fed Brown for a bank shot and a three-point lead. 
"Any time I get a big guy on me I want to exploit that by get­ting to the hole," Davis said. 
Mashburn then made the biggest defensive play of over­time, deflecting away Anderson's entry pass and then throwing a 
60-foot pass. to Augmon for a 
breakaway dunk and a 96-91 
lead. 

Houston missed an open 3­
pointer. ending all hope for the 
Knicks. 

"I don't think I've been that 
open in seven games," said 
Houston, who injured his right 
heel during the fourth quarter. 
"I've got to knock them down, 
that's the bottom line. I can have a cast on my foot and I should be able to make those." 

Despite a 1-for-9 start by Houston, the Knicks took a 24-17 lead after one quarter and expanded it to 50-40 by halftime as Kurt Thomas had 12 points, nine rebounds and three blocks. 
New York maintained a lead throughout the third quarter, but things changed in the fourth as New Orleans opened the quarter with a 12·4 run to pull to 75-74. 
"The number one thing is poise," Knicks coach Don Chancy said. "We can't be in a frantic mode on offense. We have to be poised. That's something this team has to develop." 
The Hornets finally tied the game for the first time on a three-point play by Augmon with 
4:27 left, making it 77•77. Nailon scored four straight points to give New York an 83-79 lead, but Mashburn made· a free throw and Davis sank a 3-pointor from 26 feet away to tie it at 83-83. 

Clippers defeat Magic 
jumped on us. Co_ach told us Associated Press 
that this is the kmd of team that you have to keep your

ORLANDO. Fla. 
composure with." .

The Los Angeles Clippers Miller scored 29 pomts.
believe that point guard Andre 
Piatkowski and Michael

Miller is beginning to find his Olowokandi each had a season­
way. 
high 21 points and MaggetteMiller, acquired in an offsea­finished with 19. 

son trade with Cleveland, had a Elton Brand had 16 points
season-high 29 points to go 
and a game-high 12 rebounds

with seven assists and five 
for Los Angeles.

rebounds Sunday night in the The Clippers were 30-for-36Clippers' 120-117 victory over on foul shots, including 13-for­the Orlando Magic. 
16 in the fourth quarter.

Miller hit 11 of 13 free 
Orlando 
throws. includ­lost for the 
ing three of 
first time in

"[This is] a really
four in the four home 

final 16. 8 sec­dissapointing loss games this onds to seal 
because this is a game I season. 
the team's first 
T r a c y

thought we had a chance
road victory of McGradythe season. oftaking control early.,, scored 32 "You can tell 
for the 

when he's in Magic, but
Doc Rivers
the game had onlywe're a much Magic coach two points
better basket­ball team, guard Eric Piatkowski sa!d. "He does a good job of pushmg the ball when it needs to be pushed and he slows it down when it needs to be slowed down. 
"I love having him out there on the floor and I know all the other guys on the team feel the same way," he said. 
The Clippers led by 10 early in the fourth quarter. But Orlando's Darrell Armstrong scored eight consecutive points. including a pair of free throws that put the Magic ahead 113­
106. Starting at the 2:19 mark, 
Corey Maggette had a basket and shot 4-for-4 from the foul line to tie it at 115 with 55.9 
seconds remaining. 

After Armstrong missed a 3­pointer. Keyon Dooling's free throws put Los Angeles ahead for good, 117-115 with 22.4 seconds left. Miller followed by hitting three foul shots, and Orlando's Grant Hill made a layup at the buzzer. 
"It's big for us because Orlando is like Utah, one of the toughest teams in the league to beat at home," Maggette said. "We had a poor start and they 
in the final 
period when he made one of three attempts.
Hill finished with 29 points on lQ.for-12 shooting and Mike Miller added 18. 

"A really disappointing loss because this is a game I thought we had a ch.~nce ~f taking control early. Magic coach Doc Rivers said. "We allowed them back in it, which we knew they would be at some point. But when a team shoots 56 percent against you. you really shouldn't win a game." 
A pair of free throws by Sean Rooks put Los Angeles ahead 94-84 with 10:32 remaining in the game, but the Magic responded with an 11-0 run that was capped by McGrady's layup for a 95-94 lead. The teams exchanged leads until a 3•pointer by Armstrong put the Magic ahead. 109-106 at the 
4:09 mark. 

Piatkowski sparked Lo~ Angeles with 14 third-quarte11 points, giving the Clippers a 90­84 lead heading into the fourth quarter. Orlando missed 15 ol 21 attempts in the third. 
_, ·• ------·--··---------·-.. -----------·--.
. 

Monday, November 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Bonds bound to win his 5th MVP 
A.ssocia.tcd Press 
NEW YORK 

Barry Bonds probably will pick up a big postseason honor Monday, just not the one he wanted. 
Aflcr putting up another sea­son of historic statistics, Bonds is favored to win the National League Most Valuable Player Award for the fifth time when the Baseball Writers' Association of America announces its voting Monday. 
Bonds, the only player with more than three MVPs, won his first NL batting title this season with a .370 average and set records with 198 walks, 68 intentional walks and a .582 on­base percentage. 
"The guy to me, Bonds, has been the most dominant from what I've seen in 35 years of watching major league base­ball." said Hall of Farner Heggie Jackson. the AL MVP in 1973. haven't seen anybody do what Bonds has done the last two years." 
Bonds hit 46 homers, down from a record 73 the previous year, and a team-high 110 RBIs as San Francisco won its first NL pennant since 1989. But }fonds and the Giants lost the World Series to Anaheim in seven games after being just six outs from the title in Game 6. 
Bonds had said a World Series ring was the one thing he had wanted. 
"H's not going to haunt us," he said after the Game 7 loss two weeks ago. "We'll go to spring training and start again." 
MVP voting was conducted before the postseason, when Bonds hit .356 with eight homers. 16 R131s and 27 walks. The 38-ycar-old outfielder. who often appears aloof and com­bative. said he enjoyed the World Series, even though the Giants didn't win. He claims to dislike the attention. 
"I just want to go to the ball­park, do my job just like any­body else, go home and be with my family," he said during the World Series. "I chose to play baseball because I want to be the best at it for whatever it is for me. Being a team concept, doing the best I can. I don't like to talk about it really. I'd rather just show it on the field." 
He is showing his talents in Japan this week as part of tho major league all-star tour. He homered twice Saturday against the Yomiuri Giants. then struck out three time Sunday against Japanese All-Stars. 
Bonds won the MVP award for Pittsburgh in 1990 and 1992 and for the Giants in 1993 and 2001, and could be a unani­mous pick for the first time. He also l.inished second to Atlanta's Terry Pendleton in 1991 and to teammate Jeff Kent in 2000. 
For winning the award, he would get a $500,000 bonus added to his $13 million. 

IRISH STUDIES COURSES 
SPRING2003 

Don't be disappointed; sign up now: 
Anthropology IRST 228 Irish and American Tap Dance IRST 315 Irish Traditional Music 
Language 
lRST 101 Beginning Irish I l RST 102..Beginnit~g Irish II lRST 103 Intermediate Irish 
Literature. 
IRST 301 The Irish in Their Own Words IRST 302 Crime in 19th Century Novel IRST 382 2.dh Century Irish Literature 
Film, Television, and Theatre 
IRST 334-A National Cinema: Irish Cinema and Culture IRST 471D i\t'lodern Irish Drama 
History 
fRST 435 Medieval Ireland IRST 327 Irish History II: Ireland, 1800-2002 IRST 329 Northern Ireland since 1920 



Beane rejects Bean Town, stays with A's 
Assodaced Press 
OAKLAND. Calif. 
Oakland Athletics general manager Billy Beane with• drew from consideration for the same job with the Boston Red Sox on Sunday night, ending a whirlwind weekend in which he was widely expected to leave. 
"He left a very attractive offer on the table," A's spokesman Jim Young said. "He felt he belonged in Oakland and obviously we couldn't be happier." 
Boston will not be Beane town, and the A's scheduled a news conference for Monday morning to discuss his rea­soning for staying with the small-market team he has built into a perennial playoff contender. 
Earlier in the day, a base­ball source had told The Associated Press the deal was all but done, saying Beane had agreed to become the GM provided the teams could set­tle on compensation. 
Beane received a three-year contract extension with the A's through 2008 earlier this year. and the Athletics would have expected extensive com­pensation for releasing him from the deal. 
Earlier in the offseason, the AL West champion Athletics let manager Art Howe move to the New York Mets without compensation. 
Howe was replaced by for­mer bench coach Ken Macha. 
"He's a very hot commodity and very well respected," Macha said Sunday night from his Pittsburgh-area home. "He does a great job as general manager and I think as long as he's at peace with what he's doing, it's good for the Oakland A's. 
'The things he's done out in Oakland have drawn attention to him. He deserves a lot of the credit for everything that happens there. I look forward to working with him." 
After the season, owner Steve Schott said it would take an awful lot for him to give up Beane. He originally denied the Red Sox permission to speak to the 40-year-old Beane. But Beane convinced Schott to let him hear out the wealthy Red Sox, whose con­tract offer was likely several times what Beane could hope to make in Oakland. 

Calls to Beane on Sunday night were not immediately returned. 
Beane was identified as one of the top candidates for the job ever since Dan Duquette was fired in spring training and replaced by interim GM Mike Port. Once the season was over and Boston's search for a permanent replacement began, the team asked to speak to Beane but the A's never formally responded to the request. 
Officials from both teams confirmed Saturday that the Hed Sox had been given per­mission to speak with Beane after being put off on that request for weeks. 
The A's have won 100 or more games for two straight seasons and made the playoffs the last three years. losing in the first round each time. 
ln 2002, Oakland won 103 games and the AL West but lost to Minnesota in the first round of the AL playoffs. The A's also had an AL-record 20­game winning streak. 
Other candidates for the Hed Sox job include Port, Orioles adviser Mike Flanagan, Philadelphia assis­tant GM Mike Arbuckle, New York Mets assistant GM Jim Duquette, Cincinnati director of player personnel Leland Maddox, former Chicago White Sox general manager Ron Schueler. and Port's spe­cial assistant, Lee Thomas. 
Beane joined the A's front office in 1990 as an advance scout. He became an assistant general manager under Sandy Alderson in 1993. 
Beane played six years in the majors with the New York Mets. Minnesota Twins, Detroit Tigers and A's. He was a reserve on the 1989 World Series champion A's team, his final season as a player. 

page 20 


11~11•1


"Right now, I don't pulled him out. Shaquillc to determine 
Associated Press 

think that he's in a posi­Jackson said he didn't when he's ready," said EL SEGUNDO, Calif. tion where he feels com­want to push O'Neal in Rick Fox, who played in All indications are that fortable enough to play," practice. When O'Neal his first game of the sea­Lakers center Shaquille Lakers coach Phil Jackson does return to play, he son Friday night after O'Neal will not return to said. will play just 30 minutes missing the first six serv­action Tuesday night. O'Neal and his doctors per game until he gets ing a suspension for light­
O'Neal has been on the said he might be able to into shape, Jackson said. ing. injured list all season play eight weeks after the "I think it's a matter of "So we have to prepare recovering from right toe surgery nine weeks ago testing out what he can ourselves like we've pm­surgery. The Lakers had on Sept. 11. possibly do," he said. "It's pared ourselves for the pinpointed Tuesday Jackson said O'Neal still just getting comfortable last seven games, which night's game against the is feeling pain in the bot­and starting to feel like he was go on without him," Atlanta Hawks at Staples tom of the right foot. can start to move with said Fox. "If he wants to Center as the game "I still think he has that freedom that he put on a uniform, it would O'Neal would play. some questions about wants to be able to move be a pleasant surprise. 
But after practicing dealing with that," with." But right now, mtirc Sunday at the Lakers' Jackson said. O'Neal's teammates importantly, we can't Health South practice O'Neal didn't talk after don't want to rush him think ol' him as being here facility, it didn't sound as practice Sunday. But he back. because we 'vc heard if O'Neal would be able to did work out with his "We have an under­nothing along the lines as suit up. teammates until Jackson standing that it's up to a return." 
IN BRIEF 

Rockets retire Olajuwon's number 
Hakeem Olajuwon relived a moment from his past, hearing the Houston Rockets' fans chanting "/\JVP, MVP," just as they did when he won the honor in 1994. 
Then, Olajuwon departed to begin his new life away from basketball. And he promised not to look back. 
Olajuwon formally announced his retirement before an adoring audi­ence Saturday night, during a ceremo­ny at haiftime of the Rockets' game against the Golden State Warriors. The home team retired his No. 34 jer­sey and hoisted it to the rafters of Compaq Center, where Olajuwon played 17 of his 18 seasons and led Houston to consecutive NBA titles in 1994 and '95. 
"It's a wonderful feeling, just to sec that you're still so welcome and still so well-received," Olajuwon said. "That was something that was personally satisfying, and I'm very grateful for that." 
Olajuwon was an All-Star 12 times, holds the all-time record for career blocked shots and was named one of the NBA's 50 greatest players when the league celebrated its first half-cen­tury in business in 1996. 
Carter out indefinitely 

Miami Dolphins receiver Cris Carter witi be sidelined indefinitely a!'ter tests revealed kidney-function abnormali­ties, the team said Saturday. 
Carter, who came out of retirement three weeks ago, missed practice this week because he felt ill. When he was re-evaluated Friday by team physi­cians, tests disclosed the abnormali­ties. 
Carter will undergo further testing. He did not play Sunday night against the New York Jets and didn't accom­pany the Dolphins on their flight Saturday. Team officials would not elaborate on his condition and declined to say whether he had been hospitalized. 
Carter retired last spring after 15 NFL seasons. then signed with the Dolphins three weeks ago to reinforce an injury-depleted receiving corps. 
Colts discuss future in citywith Indianapolis 
The mayor of Indianapolis b11gan formal talks with Colts owner Jim lrsay about the team's future on Friday and sounded confident the NFL franchise wouldn't be leaving town. 
"That's not even part of the discus­sion," mayor Bart Peterson told reporters after the two-hour, closPd­door session at the Colts' headquar­ters. "They're not going to be leaving Indianapolis." 
Peterson did not discuss details of the opening meeting, which was intended to establish a framework for th·e negotiations. No timetable has been set for the meetings. 
The talks, which come amid specu­lation the Colts could eventually leave for Los Angeles or another city, arc aimed at finding ways to boost the Colts' bottom line. 
,---------------­
Monday, November 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
VOLLEYBALL 
Irish clinch Big East with 3-set win on the road 

Notre Dame setter Kelly Burrell serves in the volleyball team's recent victory over Boston College. Burrell and the Irish defeated Syracuse Saturday, clinching the Big East title. 

INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you can develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. Adescription of course offerings for SPRING 2003 can be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/~stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment.  


. Victory against Syracuse secures 4th consecutive conference title and 7th crown since 1995 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Entering the weekend. Notre Dame had won 86 of 88 conference matches since joining the Big East in 1995. The Irish also havl' been Big East regular season champi­ons six times. including the last three years. 
Saturday at Syracuse, the Irish did the only thing they know how to do in the Big East -take care of busi­ness. 
Using 16 

'"Blocking is a big goal l'or us. We set our goal really high for this match," Irish outside hitter Emily Loomis said. "We arc a really good blocking team and pride our­selves on that fact." 
For tlw third consocutivn match, the Irish hit over .:WO and rncordcd ;,I kills as a loam. 
Junior opposite Katie Ncf'I' led the Irish with 13 kills. Five Irish players hit .33:{ or better. 
M i cl d I c b l o c k n r La u r c• n Kelblcy continued hPr impressive l'irst year compil­ing a match-high .(,4:~ hitting percentage and killing 10. 
"I think it helps when our passing doos a great job," Loomis said. "We have also been working on hitting angles in practice." 
From the back row, Jpssica 
Kinder and 
libero Kcara 

blocks and a Coughlin led
"Blocking is a big goalfor
.333 team Notre Dame
us. We set our goal really 
hitting per­with IO digs 
centage, high for this match. We each. 
Notre Dame are a really good F o r defeated Syracuse,
blocking team and we
Syracuse 30-outside hit­
pride ourselves on this
26, 30-21, ters Morgan 30-26 to win fact." Jones and its 43 rd con­Kristen secutive reg­Conway each
Emily Loomis
u I ar season recorded 15 conference outside hitter kilJs. 
match. 
Coupled with Virginia Tcch's loss to Pittsburgh on Sunday, Notre Dame (21-5, 11-0 in the Big East) clinched its fourth con­secutive conf'crence title since the Irish have a three game lead in the Big East with two conference matches remaining. 
Syracuse (19-10, 5-6) found out why Notre Dame has the second best blocks per game average firsthand as Notre Dame's 16 blocks was its best blocking effort in the last two weeks. 
Freshman Lauren Brewster led the Irish with six blocks. 
Overall, the Irish had six players with three or more blocks. 
Jones led 

the OrangP­women with a .423 hitting pc rec n tage. As a team. Syracuse hit .143 and Jo1ws was the only player on Syracuse to hit above .150. 
Five Syracuse players had five or more digs. Conway led Syracuse with six. 
Notre Dame travels tu Miami and Virginia Tech next weekend looking to complete its seventh unde­feated regular season in the Big East. 
"Absolutely we want to go undefeated," Loomis said. "It almost goes unsaid for us." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

ORE-AT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan • Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
"'C Enft I T1 
ca..-.nus shonnes 
(0Joli1i•ll•tste1111JtftoJ11111¦ 
......... 


Monday, November 11, 2002

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 

Dogfight 
continued from page 24 
remaining. Irish forward Prescod was driving down the right side of the field and was challenged by a Georgetown defender inside the penalty area. 
It is not clear what the call was based on, but after the dust was settled, Pn\scod ­after falling to the ground ­was issued a yellow card and a major Irish offensive oppor­tunity was stopped. 
"I thought it was a very harsh call on Devon," Clark said. "It seemed a good oppor­tunity. But at the end of the day. these things ... there's no use talking about them now. Once they happen, lhey hap­pen." 
The Irish spent much of the second half threatening the Hoyas' defense, out shooting Georgelown 8-1 in the period. 
It was one of the late Irish offensive runs that featured the most intense emotional flare-up in the game. After taking over on a bad pass by Georgetown, Notre Dame mid­fielder Luke Boughen was slide-tackled from behind by Georgetown's Kevin Sindelar. The officials immediately whistled Sindelar for a red card, and the Irish would play the remaining time with an 11-10 player advantage. 
However, in the chaos after the initial foul, players from both sides exchanged words -and shoves -on the far side of the field. As the players were getting ready to restart, the head referee whistled Georgetown's Kaiser Chowdry for a yellow card for mouthing off. 
A fierce Irish offensive attack concluded the second half, but the Irish could not capitalize on three corner kicks in the final two minutes, so the game proceeded to overtime, when the steady rain became a ferocious downpour. 
The best opportunity for the Irish occurred two minutes into the period, as Prescod was able to maneuver his way around a Georgetown defend­er with a shot on goal, but his shot was deflected high or the net. 


The overtime was played mainly back-and-forth. with neither side claiming much in the way of offense, until Goodrich's goal. Goodrich took a cross pass from Tim McAnally and blasted a skid­ding shot that deflected just off the fingertips of Sawyer and into the left corner of the net to give the Hoyas lhe sud­den-death victory with 5:14 to go in the first overtime. 
"That's twice now that we've had tough luck against them," Clark said. "[Georgetown] seemed to get a few little breaks against us." 
Now eliminated from the Big East tournament, the Irish must await the decision from the NCM as to whether it has qualified for the national post­season tournament. 
With an 11-5-3 record, and some key victories under their belt, the Irish would be a hard team to overlook. 
"I'd be amazed if we didn't [make the NCAAs]," Clark said. "I would think we'd be fairly comfortable." 
Announcements of NCAA Tournament matches will be made Nov. 18. 
"Hopefully, we've got a lot of this season left," Clark said. "In all honesty, if you want to have a run at anything -I'd liked to have won the Big East Tournament this year, that was obviously one of our goals -but if you gave me a choice, I'd rather have a run in the NCAAs." 
Note: 
. Saturday's loss for the Irish marked the second game this season in which the Irish lost a game after having an l 1-on­10 advantage. The other loss -to Pittsburgh on Oct. 4 ­also occurred in overtime, and also took place at Alumni Field. Saturday's loss and the loss to Pittsburgh were the only two home losses for the Irish this season. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 
Goalies 
continued from page 24 
a mistake, so I took advantage of it.n 
Miami got one goal back with just over two minutes left to play in the contest. With six skaters on the ice and no goalie, Miami defenseman Matt Davis fired a shot from the right point that was stopped by Cey. But Redhawk center Mike Kampon gathered the rebound and slipped it past Cey for Miami's only goal of the night. 
In Friday's acion, Miami jumped out to a quick 2-0 lead on the irish in the first period. 
At the 5:05 mark, Redhawk center Derek Edwardson fired a shot from the center of the Notre Dame zone that crossed 
Gttee and Conversation 
for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 12, 2002 
...and every second Tuesday of the month 
7:00 -9:30 pm 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Comittee 
for Gay and Lesbian 
Student Needs invites 
Gay, Lesbian, and 
Bisexual members ofthe 
Notre Dame family, their 
friends and supporters to 
an informal coffee at the 
Co-Mo. 

Everyo,1e is welcome and confidentiality is assured. 
*Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
up the Irish defense, slipping past Cey and off the post for the 1-0 lead. 
With just over nine minutes to play in the period, Miami added a goal to its lead when Kampon found Edwardson coming out of the penalty box on a 2-on-1 chance against Cey. Kampon dished off to Edwardson who knocked his second goal of the game into the Irish net for a 2-0 lead. 
Only 30 seconds into the third period, the Irish cut l\Iiami's lead in half when center Aaron Gil took a pass from McLean and fired a shot past Burleigh for his fifth goal of the season. 
Miami put the game out of reach at the 13:15 mark, when defenseman Ben Tharp scored a short-handed goal on another 2-on-1 opportunity for the Redhawks. 
The victory and loss for the Irish moves their record to 4-3­2 on the season and 3-3-0 in conference play. But the victory Saturday was important for the Irish, sending them into the off­week with a victory and win­ning record. 
"I said between the second and third periods that whoever make the plays is going to win this one," Poulin said. "l told the guys, 'You've got to want it more than they do. You've got to want to go into a break weak on a winning note over .500, having beaten a very good team."' 
After the off-week next week­end, the Irish return to the ice Nov. 22 at Michigan. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

r----------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, November 11, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-

CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

JACK MONAHAN
HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

Yikes! What have you
done to rne?I -~,---1 
ROUCS -:::--.'~~~ 1 
rJ I 
02002 Tribune Media Services, 1nc. All Rights Reserved 
AKDEB 
tVIDDIE 

WHAT 'SHE FEL.T L.IKE WHEN HER HAIR WAS CUT
IJ I lu
WWW.jumble.corn 
TOO SHORT. 


(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer  ADMIT GAUZE CHISEL QUAVER What he got when he ate lunch with a computer  
geek ­A "SQUARE" MEAL  

JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 2~ • To order, send your name, addren and $5.95 and make chec:k payable lo TrJbune Medle ServicH, P.0. Boie 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330, 
CROSSWORD  WILL SHORTZ  
ACROSS  27 Half a famous  63 "Who  we  
Oregon's capital 6 Sounds worked on by speech therapists 11 With 69-Across, a film with 27­ Hollywood duo 33 Place for a breath of fresh air? 36 Wriggly fish 37 Precisely  kidding?" 64 Other half of the Hollywood duo 66 Half a dozen 67 Go out with _ 68 Bury  
and 64-Across  38 Give  _  time  69 See 11-Across  
14 Appliance maker 15 Immobile 16 Wire service  40 Mo. with Columbus Day 42 Giant  70 Pianist Hess and others 71 Poor  
inits. 17 27-and 64-Across film, with "The" 19 Wager 20 W.W. I! area: Abbr.  43 Dummies 45 Rankle 47 Unhip person 48 27-and 64-Across film 51 Certain legal protection  DOWN 1 TV comic Bob 2 Celebrated Italian violinmaker 3 Apply, as a coat of wax  
21 Principles 22 Risque  52 DifficuIt experience  4 Epilogue 5 Rum cocktail  
23 A nonmusician may have one  56 Outlaws 59 "_Fideles"  6 MGM symbol 7 Regarding  
25 Exude  62 Untruth  aPie chart part  
9 Arrange by ZIP  

code, e.g.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Fr. holy woman 
Puzzle by Bette Sue Cohen 11 Oompah 
29 Spanish hero 50 Obtuse one 60 Dame_,· instrument who died in 1099 53 A-list types Barry Humphries 12 Assn. with many character30 Suffix with cigar 54 Broadcast
Gulf members 31 Behind 55 Apprehensive 61 Droops
13 Feel sorry for 32 Transmit 56 Big party 64 Mom, dad and
18 "From the Earth the kids: Abbr. 
to the Moon" 33 Boys 57 Opera excerpt writer 34 "This looks bad" 58 Cashier's cry 65 Gas suffix 22 Put on again, as 
35 Nothin' 
weight 39 Meat slicer site Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 24 Appetizers with 41 _-la-la are available by touch-tone phone:sweet-and-sour 

44 Believe in 1-900-420-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
sauce wholeheartedly Annual subscriptions are available for the
26 Kind of suit 46 Ship speed units best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
28 1980's-90's car name 49 Make beloved years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON TIIIS DAY: Demi Moore, Jonathan Winters, Kurt Vonnegut Jr., Calista 1-'lockhan 
Happy Birthday: You will have a very eclectic outlook this year. That, coupled with your determination and unique ideas, will help you reach your objectives. You have traveled down many different avenues and now you can put all the information you've gathered to good use. Success 1s not far off. Your numbers arc 19, 23, 27, 31, 36, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your efforts will bring rewards if you have to work overtime. Dive in and do a good job. Romance is likely, but proceed with extreme caution.**** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Push to get everything completed 
...... today. You may need to turn on the charm in order 10 convince others. If you don't work fast, delays may set in and you may not have this or,portunity again. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may find that demanding relatives or minor health problems upset your plans. Try to go with the flow and not. get upset. Situations may not be as they appear. Don't be too eager to sign legal documents.***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be upset if someone has 
borrowed something that belongs to you. Try not to lose your cool. but make your point known. Be clear with others about your boundaries. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be feeling sorry for yourself. Don't look at the end of a relationship as a loss. Keep in touch with friends. You may make a new love connection through work associates. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be self-reliant, make your own plans and don't wait for others 10 phone. You will see good results if you make some of those IJhysical changes that you've been thinking about. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Try not to be judgmental of relatives who don't have the same ambitions as you. Tension will fill the air if you continue to criticize others. Consider how you would feel if the tables were turned. 
***** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have difficulties relating to foreigners. Read about their culture to understand their point of view. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's time to take a break. Plan to do things with the ones you love. A short trip will ease the stress and break tne monotony.****CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone you love will neither listen nor believe what you have to say. Actions speak louder than words in this case. Pull out all the stops and make sure that you get your point across. * * * AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-J,'eb. 18): Uncertainties at work will result in unexpected changes. You may be concerned at first, however, as the day unfolds. you will find yourself in a good position.***PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't overspend on children, entertainment or organizations. This is a time to be frugal. Instead, offer your time and talent to groups. Investments should be looked at carefully. *** Birthday Baby: You will always be looking for something that captures your imagination and allows you to move in a new direction. You will be dedicated, determined and willing to go the extra mile. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found Tho Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ----------------------------­Address --------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Monday, November 11, 2002 
MENS SOCCER 

Down in a dogfight 
Overtime goal by Hoyas eliminates Irish 2-1 in intense Big East quarterfinal 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sport> Wrire, 
To say that Saturday's Big East mens soccer quarterfinal between Notre Dame and Georgetown was fiery would be an understatement. 
Fighting the elements, some questionable calls by the offi­cials, and the Hoyas them­selves, the Irish fell in overtime, 2-1, on a goal by Georgetown's Trevor Goodrich -his second of the game -with 5 minutes, 14 seconds remaining in the first overtime. 
"I thought we were patient, we kept playing for [the victo­ry]. it just didn't work out for us," Irish head coach Bobby Clark said after the game. 
Saturday's game was a match in which the Irish statistically dominated, yet inexplicably were unable to convert on some key chances throughout the game. 
"It was a weird game," Clark said. "I thought from five min­utes into the second half we controlled the game. It was a playoff game, and these things happen in the playoffs." 
The game's scoring opened late in the first half -amidst a light drizzle -as Irish forward Erich Braun collected a good lead pass from midfielder Justin Detter and knocked the wide-open shot past Georgetown's goalie. The goal gave the Irish a 1-0 lead with 
3:54 left in the first half. 
Tempers began to flare for both sides later in the first half. 

After a Georgetown player was issued a yellow card for taking down Irish forward Devon Prescod. Notre Dame's Justin Ratcliffe retaliated by taking down a Georgetown player. Ratcliffe was instantly issued a yellow card and removed from the game by Clark. Ratcliffe did not return for the Irish until midfielder Greg Martin had to be removed from the game after suffering a leg injury with just less than 15 minutes left in the second half. 
As halftime concluded, the drizzle progressed into a steady rain, which made play early in the second half very unsteady, as passes skidded wildly and players struggled to control the ball. 
However, Georgetown was able to get onto the board with 
33:22 left in the half, as the Hoyas' Michael Banner stole an errant Irish clearance and passed it to Ben Jefferson-Dow. Jefferson-Dow's cross pass found Goodrich, whose 12-yard shot beat Irish goalie Chris Sawyer to even the game at 1­1. 
The second half also featured much more intense play, as both teams aggressively sought the tie-breaking goal. 
The last 10 minutes of the half featured four of the game's eight overall cards issued, including a red card against Georgetown. 
However, the most controver­sial card of the game occurred with just under four minutes 
see DOGFIGHT/page 22 

HOCKEY 

Goaltenders shine as Irish, Redhawks split weekend series 
.,. 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Spom Edicor 
Irish goaltender Morgan Cey had something to prove Saturday night in Notre Dame's second game in a pair against Miami of Ohio. 
Cey, who earned the starting job in net as a freshman last season with a 2.72 goals against average, has estab­lished himself as one of the top returning goalies in the CCI-IA this season. 
But Friday night, Miami goalie David Burleigh outshined the Irish sophomore, stopping 36 of Notre Dame's 37 shots in the Mimi's 3-1 victory. 

Saturday, it was Cey's chance to make a statement. 
"[Cey] was tremendous tonight," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. "I talked about the game being a personal battle for him. Burleigh is off to a tremendous start this year. He was 9-2 going into the game, and goalies take that personal­ly. Morgan knows he's one of the top returning goalies in the league, and he wanted to answer that challenge. He answered it in a big way tonight." 
In nearly a complete rule reversal from the previous night, the Redhawks pf;Jpered Cey with 44 shots. anct''he turned back all but one in Notre Dame's 2-1 win to cap­ture a split in the two-game CCHA series. He finished with 
"They came at us pretty hard, but I got a couple of shots early on that got me into the game, and I really got in a groove there," Cey said. "When my defensemen clear the rebounds and let me see the shots, that's a definite plus for me when I'm in the net." 
The game Saturday proved a showcase for the two goalies, as Burleigh and Cey combined for a total of 49 saves in the scoreless first and second peri­ods. 
The lrish finally broke 
through first at 7:53 of the third period on a Notre Dame power play. Junior defenseman Neil Komadoski slapped a shot from a point during the Irish advantage, and sophomore wing Cory McLean put away Komadoski's rebound for the 1­0 lead. 
The goal snapped a streak of 21 scoreless power plays for Notre Dame. 
''We changed the units up a little tonight," Poulin said. "There was the same structure, just different players in differ­ent positions. McLean was on it, and [Irish wing] Alex Lalonde was on it. On scoring the goal. they made a very good play." 
Just six minutes later, Irish wing Rob Globke provided a much needed Irish insurance goal on a spectacular play. The sophomore eluded two Hedhawk defenders cutting across the ice and fired a shot from the right side past Burleigh into the lower left cor­ner of the net. 
"I had the puck, and it was late in the shift. so I just want­ed to try to make a play and get off the ice," Globke said. '"l was just looking to take a shot and get a change. It surprised me that their defense kind of made 
sec GOALIES/page 22 

en 
VOLLEYBALL 
FOOTBALL
w 

u Notre Dame 3 (30-30-30) 
Notre Dame 30
~ 

~-
z Syracuse 0 (26-21-26) 
Navy 23
:3 

c.:, Saturday's Irish victory, combined with Virginia Tech's loss to 
The Irish needed a furious fourth-quarter comeback to overtake the Midshipmen 
Pittsburgh, confirmed a fourth straight Big East title for the Irish. 
and improve their record to 9-1 on the season. 
CZ: 

ti page 21 
Irish Insider
en 






