
Traumatic Troma movies
PARTLY 

Thursday

Scene looks at the sick and twisted Troma
CLOUDY 
movies, packed with excessive violence and sexuality. 
APRIL 18, 
· Scene . pages 10-11
HIGH 87° 
2002 
LOW 59° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 127 
STUDENT SENATE 
Members pass FMB budget 22-3 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Assistant News Editor 
After tabling the Financial Management Board's budget last week, senators on Wednesday approved the bud­get 22-3. 
At the regular meeting, sen­ators resumed their debate about how much money should be allocated to the Club Coordination Council. 
Rick Harris, Siegfried Hall senator, suggested that an amendment be made to the constitution to deduct a $47,000 rolling debt from the budget before the budget was distributed among student organizations. 
"I don't think we should consider who did the debt but how it will affect students," said Harris. 
Harris said by not deducting the debt beforehand, the CCC would receive about 39 per­cent of the total available funds. If the debt were deducted beforehand, then the CCC would receive the minimum share of the budget, 
36.75 percent. 
The concern held by Harris and Jesse Norman, O'Neill Hall senator, was that the CCC was receiving too large of a percentage of the funds that are actually available, while other student organizations, such as Hall Presidents Council, were not receiving sufficient funding. 
Danielle Ledesma, Judicial Council president, said after reviewing the constitution, the correct percentage interpreta­tion is 36.75 for the CCC. 
"If you choose to take away money from the clubs, you will be in violation of the con­stitution," said Ledesma. 
Pointing out that the April 15 deadline for approving the budget had lapsed, Norman suggested that if senators approve the budget, the over-
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

sight committee should review it. 
"Keep in mind every single member of the FMB and every single club manager has approved the budget, and they are looking for you to approve," said Jim Ryan, the Senate representative to the 

FMB. 
Ryan acknowledged that there is little time left in the school year to restructure the budget. He also stated that if the Senate opted to do so, they would discredit the FMB and call into question its process. 

In other Senate news: 
. 
Senators bestowed the title of emeritus upon former chief of staff Jonathan Jorissen. 

. 
Senator Kate Schlosser was elected the Senate representa­tive to the Advisory Committee on Academic and Student Life. 

. 
Senators Sarah Bates, Blake Haan and Neil Vargas were elected as the Senate repre­sentatives to the Campus Life Council. Harris was elected as the alternate. 


Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu. 







SMC plans to break ground on center 
By EMILY FORD 
News Writer 
The official groundbreaking ceremony for the new Saint Mary's student center is set for Friday at 4:30 p.m. on the Library Green. 
"It was really a student-gen­erated idea," said Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm. "Starting in 1997­98, student government began exploring the idea of a Student Center." 
According to Timm, the pro­ject's first phase will be finished in June of 2003 with the con­struction of the new Noble Family Dining Hall. The Dining Hall will change its service drastically, preparing meals in front of diners instead of buffet style. The entire layout will also transform with new tables, booths and three small spaces that can convert into a large area capable of seating 45 patrons. There will be the addi­tion of a private dining room, complete with its own kitchen, as well as a terrace area for outdoor dining. 
"Clearly, the dining situation is going to get much, much bet­ter." said Vice President of Finance and Administration 
see CENTER/page 4 

NEWS ANALYSIS 


Priest scandal has several roots, solutions 
priests, but a Catholic crisis, happens in the Catholic Church the Church crisis and its nation­Program of Liberal Studies, By HELENA PAYNE clergymen say. -whether the election of a al impact. But he said Notre said people should realize that News Editor "The Catholic Church is new pope or a scandal of this Dame should provide a forum the problem of sexual abuse, 
always big news because it is sort -it's front-page news," for people to talk about the should be treated as an illness 
After months of seeing priests the largest Christian denomina­said McBrien. "If the story is recent scandals. but that students and the resign and face charges of sex­tion in the world, comprising really big, with continually "The polls show that the over­Church have a responsibility in ual abuse, the nation and the nearly 1 billion members," said unfolding new developments, .it whelming majority of U.S. addressing the problem. world have placed a magnifying Father Richard McBrien, a just doesn't go away." Catholics have lost confidence ''I'd like to see the issue truly, glass on top University theology professor. in the Church and its hierar­fairly, openly talked about," of the 
McBrien traced the beginning Campus focus on the crisis chy," said McBrien. "It is likely Ayo said. Catholic of the Church's problem to the On a campus recognized as that the same is true among He added that students need Church. scandal in Boston, where for­one of the most prominent our own faculty and student to better educate themselves on The prob­mer priest John Geoghan was Catholic institutions of higher body." what the Bible teaches about lem of sex­convicted of child sexual abuse. learning, Notre Dame priests The Washington Post report­sexuality and that the Church ual miscon­The case generated a $30 mil­are beginning to address the ed on April 4 that seven in 10 should handle the issues of sex­duct among lion lawsuit. issue of sexual misconduct in Americans believed the Church ual misconduct candidly. priests and Since the rumors in January the Church. Several clergymen "has been harmed by the reve­"I think there was an attempt members of began circulating about the for­believe now is the time for the lations" of sexual misconduct to hide some of this, to keep the t h e i r McBrlen mer priest's conduct, the media Church to promote open dis­by clergy. according to a recent bad publicity away," Ayo said. parishes or has picked up related stories course, as well as honesty poll by the Washington Post, "And that, I think, is the bigger dioceses has grown to the point involving the Church, piquing about the issue. ABC News and Belief.com. problem." where the issue is no longer public interest in the scandals. McBricn has courted the Father Nicholas Ayo, a pro­about the individual crimes of "When something significant media frequently to talk about fessor in Notre Dame's see CHURCH/page 4 
Thursday, April 18, 2002

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
-Mincing Words 
It is interesting to see how things work out. Everything happens for a reason. I am sure of that. I tore my ACL in the 10th grade while running hurdles. I learned to find strength within me to heal and repair both the physical 
and mental aspects of my life, with the help of my friends and family. My bike, which was stolen in October, was recovered this weekend. I realized that I was doing too many things and relying on my bike so much that I was running myself ragged. Without the bike, I learned restraint and patience as I rearranged the tight schedule I had planned for myself this semester. 
So what does this have to 


Angela Campos 
Lab Tech 
do with anything? It has a lot to do with how 
we look at our everyday lives and how we 
respond to the challenges with which we are 
faced and how we deal with how people 
respond to us. Life is a chain reaction. If we 
look at everything that way, we might smile 
more often. hold our heads up high more often 
and not be as worried about what someone 
might think about us as how they will take 
what you give them. 
I have three calendars in my room that have sayings on them for each day of the year. The first one is about friendship. The second one is about God's love. The third one has inspira­tional sayings on it. If you would indulge me to focus on the lattermost calendar, there are some sayings I have found most helpful in the past few days. 
In dealing with hard times, Confucius said, "Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall." John Powell said, "The only real mistake is the one from which we learn nothing." Eddie Rickenbacher said, "Courage is doing what you're afraid to do. There can be no courage unless you're scared." To me, these things mean that you learn more from going through times of trial. When you go through hard times, and you strive to make your way out of them, then you achieve and learn more than you ever could have if you had not had that challenge. 
In dealing with situations where you don't have all the facts, Confucius said, "Real knowl­edge is to know the extent of one's ignorance." Lao Tzu said, "Those who know do not talk. Those who talk do not know." For me, these quotes refer to when you find yourself at a loss of information, to know when and when not to speak. Often by speaking you can cause more harm than good to yourself and the one's you are trying to support. At the same time. you must know when to speak and when to be 
t silent. And you cannot try to please everyone or
•
' try not to step on their toes. We can try to mince words, fight about meanings, or even 
l t debate causes, but if we are truly knowledge­able, we will know when we do not know any more and when we need to be quiet. I guess the quote from Goethe sums up what I'm trying to say, "Everybody wants to be somebody, nobody wants to grow." To be your­self, to be a fuller, richer person, you need to take chances, to speak up and to stay silent. You need to fall and get back up. You need to make mistakes, to fail, to feel horrid. You only fail when you cease to learn from your mis­takes. Let's never fail, and only grow. 
Contact Angela Campos at acampos@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o/The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize chat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi>hed Monday through Friday cxcepc during exam and vacation periods. The Obsen-cr is a member ofthe Associaced Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
Thursday 

. 
Movie: "Apocalypse Now," Hesburgh Library, Carey Auditotium, 7:00 p.m. 

. 
Play: 'The Life of Galileo," . Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. 


Friday 

. Lecture: "Religion, Repression, Revolution: The Churches in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union Before and During the Upheavals of 1989­1991," Jan Kubik. professor at Rutgers University, Hesburgh Center Auditorium, 3:30 p.m. 
Saturday 

. 
Game: Softball vs. Virginia Tech, Ivy Field, 11 :00 a.m. 

. 
Play: "The Life of Galileo," Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. 


Compiled from U-Wire reports 

BEYOND CAMPUS 

Penn State rally planned to 'Take Back the Night' 
UNIVERSITY PARK. Pa. 

It has been a long road for the marchers who will rally against sexual assault Wednesday at the 17th annual Take Back the Night. 
For years, they have endured shouts of •·we want rape," "Men are number one," and "Go home, bitch." They have listened to yells of "Get back to your f--­ing kitchens," and "All you girls want is to get f---ed." They have been called "dykes" and "whores." 
Sometimes, they have silently defied the whistles and shouts. Other times, they have drowned out the hecklers with their own chants: "What do we want? No rape! When do we want it? Now!" 
Occasionally, the marchers have encountered problems along Fraternity Row. "'No means yes, take off your · dress,' is one I remember," said Laurie Rosenberger, c~~dfre~tor of Womyn's Concerns. her voice choking with emo­tion. 
Dora McQuaid, a lecturer in commu­nications sciences and technology, also remembered the heckling along Fraternity Row last year. 
"My initial response was an unbeliev­able sense of sadness, but I wasn't sur­prised at all, because violence against women is so damn rampant," said McQuaid, who is a founding member of Women of Courage. a group that works to end violence against women. Her sadness. she said, was both for the women who had to endure the taunting and for the men who were doing it. 
"Jesus, how did we get this divided?" she remembered thinking. "It made me sad for the guys who were doing it. I mean truly, how pathetic are they?" 
But she said the harassment indicates the march's strength. "When people retaliate like that, they feel threatened," she said. "Obviously, there was a threat to their power, or their privilege. or their self or group identity. Anytime you deal with that retaliation, you're doing good work. You're pissing people off." 
The periodic harassment along Fraternity Row, McQuaid and Rosenberger said, was not a reflection of all fraternity members, who often applaud, chant along and light candles. 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
Number of non-tenure profs soar 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
They tend to be social creatures, congregating in clusters throughout the United States. Mating often occurs late in life, and migratory patterns level off at 
35. The preferred habitat is among books, artifacts, compositions and equations. Species: tenure-track professors. The question is whether or not the clas­sification is protected. A new breed of instructors is increasingly evident in this habitat. Indiana University has seen a 63 percent increase in the number of full-time, non-tenure-track faculty teach­ing classes from 1991 to 2001. Meanwhile, the num­ber of tenure-track professors has decreased by almost 1.5 percent, while Indiana enrollment has seen a 7 percent upswing. Administrators predict the trend will continue; it has the potential to save Indiana money as state appropriations continue to fall. It also has the potential. some educators say, to undermine the quality of an Indiana diploma. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
School's budget cuts not severe 
STILLWATER, Okla. 

Possible budget cuts at Oklahoma State University are not as severe as those at some Big 12 universi­ties. Oklahmoa State is looking at possible budget cuts around 2.1 percent for fiscal year 2003, the same percentage that was cut this year. However, some of the other schools in the Big 12 are facing much tougher financial times. Cuba Plain, director for Budget Planning and Development at the University of Missouri, said the University of Missouri is facing possible cuts of 10 percent. This would mean a loss of $45.7 million from its four campuses located in Columbia, Kansas City, St. Louis and Rolla. Plain said the cut could be more than 10 percent. The university made a number of changes to combat the drop in state appropria­tions. Also. faculty members at the University of Missouri will not receive raises. Students will notice a difference in the classroom, as well. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon, Thursday, April 18. 
FRONTS: 

50• ........................ 
Ct 2002 AecuWeather, Inc. Prea1U1e: ®©GlwJ High Low Shower• Rain  ES] T-1lorm•  ~ Flurrle•  E32 Snow  COLD . Ice  WARM STATIONARY () ¼@~ 4¾ki Sunny Pt. Cloudy CkJudy  
Via Assoaaled Press  
Atlanta  83  61  Las Veijas  71  50  Portland  58  41  
Baltimore  84  60  Memphis  84  64  Sacramento  68  41  
Boston  74  51  Milwaukee  75  51  St. LOUIS  61  46  
Chicago  78  54  New Yori<  84  58  Tampa  86  67  
Houston  67  66  Philadelphia  86  60  Washington  84  62  


Thursday, April 18, 2002 The Obierver . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

....~ 
Ltllino studies 
Study finds binge drinking on the rise 
However, F;irth agreed whole­have women competing with
• But ND surveys 

heartedly with the studies' rev­men on a regular basis," sheindicate binge elation of an increase in binge said. "They are also trying to drinking among undergraduate out-drink the guys." 
drinking down in 

females. Firth's idea was also second­last five years "Women are drinking harder ed in the Time article. 
and faster than ever before," "In recent years, however, ByJOHN FANNING Firth said, an. "There has been some colleges have found a News Writer a definite increase of the new cause for concern: young 
amount of female referrals over women who drink as danger­
A recent study done by the time." ously as. if not more so than, University of' Michigan revealed "However, the number of their male classmates," the that binge drinking among col­women not choosing to drink is article says. lege students is on the rise, higher than ever," Firth added. The article also cited college especially among undergradu­While there is a strong non­females who saw their high tol­ate females. drinking female population at erance and drinking abilities as 
But according to Notre N o t r c a "badge of 
Dam e , honor'',
Dame's Gina Firth, director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug those who "Our society is not getting which they Education, ''Binge drinking lev­are drink­used to 
ing are any easier for women. It's retain
els are not up here. In fact, it has actually gone down in the doing so getting more confusing as equality more frc­with their
last five years." the traditional gender roles 
Although Firth maintains the q u en t l y m a I e 
are getting more and more
numbers are on the decline, and heavi­friends in binge drinking is still a serious ly. said mixed up." social situa­problem at Notre Dame and the Firth. tions. efforts being made to combat T h i s "Our soci­
Gina Firth
the problem certainly need to alarming ety is not 
trend has director of Notre Dame's getting any
continue. 

"The levels arc still problem­also been Office of Alcohol and Drug Education easier for atic," Firth said, "Even though document­women," they are starting to go down, ed in a Firth said. we still need to continue our recent Time magazine article "It's getting more confusing as 
efforts." entitled, "Women on a Binge." the traditional gender roles are 
Firth's statistics are based on According to the article, getting more and more mixed an online survey sent out to the which was featured in the April up. The stress of the new com­student body that received over 1 issue of Time, "Since 1999, petitiveness with males can be 2,200 responses, far more than some 16,000 men but more tough on personal identity." the traditional mail survey that than 19,000 women have Overall, the problem seems to had previously been used. After requested screening for alcohol be gradually improving, as analyzing these numbers, Firth abuse at federally funded day­reflected by Zahm junior Jesse 
said, "The numbers are down long clinics held each spring at Fa. from five years ago, both online about 400 colleges." "A few students engage in and in the mail." The article goes on to say binge drinking, but in the end 
The surveys look at student's that binge drinking has also they normally learn their les­perceptions of the problem on increased at all-women col­son," Fa said. campus. in addition to their leges. However, if the trends indi­
individual behaviors. Firth indi­"According to a study being cated by the University of cated that the perceptions are published this week in the Michigan study are true, there beginning to match the behav­Journal of American College remains much work to be done iors, which is a positive in that Health... between 1993 and in order to bring the problem it helps to dispel the myth of a 2001, all-women colleges saw a under control. Firth urges any 
campus where everyone drinks. 125 percent increase in fre­student who feels that they are quent binge drinking, defined having a problem with alcohol as consuming four or more to contact the office of Alcohol drinks in a row. three or more and Drug Education for a free times in the past two weeks," and confidential screening. the article said. "Its an opportunity to slow 
This trend has been alarming down and get some objective to schools around the country feedback on the problem," and has prompted investigation Firth said. "We are really dedi­into the cause of the problem. cated to helping our students. Firth speculated a reason for That's what we are here for." the increase. 
"Especially in this environ­ment where we have a tradi­Contact John Fanning at tional male curriculum, we jfanning@nd.edu. 
Wednesday-Saturday 
April 17-20, 7:30 p.m. 
Sunday 
April 21, 2:30 p.m. 
Post-performance 
discussion on 
Wednesday, Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday. 
Reserved seats $10, 
$9 senior citizens, 
$7 students 
Tickets are available at the Lafortune Student Center Box Office or by calling 574-631-8128 . 
by BERTOLT BRECHT TRANSLATION BY DAVID HARE DIRECTED BY GUEST ARTIST HOLGER TESCHKE 
For more information. please visit www.nd.edu/-ftt/mainstage.html 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 18, 2002 
TELL YOUR PARENTS 


PETE YORN
WHERETO GO... 
•Slow roasted prime rib 
wIspecial guests EI bow 

for your Graduation dinner. 
•Fall--Offthe-bone BBQ ribs 
LIVE this FRIDAY 
•The ONLY steakhouse in 
4/19/02
South Bend 
•Reservations Accepted doors@ 8pm 
2 2 2 S. Michigan 

show@ 10pm 
South Bend 

574-2 34-5200 One of a kind, 
prime space fer your private party I 0-250 guests
just like the city it's named after. 
., 


THURSDAYS•COLLEGE NIGHT NO COVER BEFORE 11 Pm LOTS OF STUFF FOR A BUCK BRING COLLEGE·· ID 
MUST BE 21 
222 S. MICHIGAN:: SOUTH BEND:: 514.234.5200 :: HEARTIANDSOIHHBEND.COM CALI! THE HEARTIAND CONCERT & EVENT LINE 574-251-2568 
TICKETS AVAILABLE@ 
77i:<iif~~. 
574.272.7979 
& at the heartland 
Center 
continued from page 1 
Keith Dennis. "The existing facility, wonderful as it is, has some real limitations in terms of the different varieties of the ways they can cook food and present food and seating arrangements. Plus, handi­capped accessibility is a real problem in that facility." 
The second phase of the pro­ject, the student center, is meant to be the hub of the col­lege. It will provide a place for students to convene with its various lounges, cyber cafe and 100-seat theater room. 
New conveniences include a "Grab 'n' Go" facility, a two­story bookstore and a copy shop, according to Timm. 
The offices currently located in Haggar College Center will move to the new building along with offices for The Observer, Blue Mantle and student government. 
The gallery, President's Dining Room and Terrace will be a few of the highlights of the new structure. The most important aspect of the new Student Center will be the sense of comm unity it aims to bring to campus, officials said. 
"Since we really don't have an anchor on campus where students can go to gather ... we'll have several different kinds of venues within the space.... So just having real common, large enough space on campus where all students can go to and gather is proba­bly the biggest advantage," Dennis said. 
The entire project will cost about $17 million. 

The majority of the cost ­about $12.8 million -will pay for the actual construction, according to Dennis, with the remainder covering kitchen equipment, furnishings, design and testing fees. Though stu­dents' tuition will contribute to some operating costs and utili­ties, the additions are subsi­dized by other sources. 
"Most of the funding for the project is going to come from gifts. We have raised about $14.5 to $15 million worth of gifts from trustees and alum­nae and other folks," Dennis said. 
While students do not have to shoulder the burden for the cost of the project, they must deal with the inconveniences that progress brings. Since groundbreaking of the new Noble Family Dining Hall has already begun in the LeMans Lot, there is a parking short­age for students and staff. 
"Everyone has had to alter their parking habits. Students, faculty and staff have all had to adjust to the loss of a major part of LeMans lot," said Timm. "However, over the summer, it is expected that another lot, north of the Facilities building, will be grated and paved. The end result, the new building, is going to be well worth the cur­rent slight adjustment in park­ing." 
People will have the oppor­tunity to view the construction via Web cams to be installed and linked to the Saint Mary's Web page, Timm said. 
Contact Emily Ford at ford6S04@saintmarys.edu. 
Church 
continued from page l 
Clearing up confusion 
Fellow Notre Dame theologian, Eugene Ulrich. reiterated the theme of disclosure as a way for the Church to restore its mem­bers' -and other Americans' ­confidence. 
He said the scandals have overwhelmingly damaged the image of candidates for the priesthood, men he called mostly "healthy and good human beings trying to offer a service to the Church." 
Most priests, Ulrich said, are "honestly trying to do a good job," but the recent controver­sies highlight a problem among a small percentage of the approximately 45,000 priests in the nation. 
''There is, nonetheless, a frighteningly large number of humans who have been severely physically damaged while they were innocently seeking an avenue to God," said Ulrich. 
He suggested "absolutely full disclosure" of information regarding sexual misconduct by clergy and said the Church needs to exercise its role as moral teacher and set an exam­ple. 
"The Church should not act like a corporation -denying, stonewalling, minimizing," Ulrich said. 
Despite the fact that the Church is not a corporation, Ayo said it is a "large bureaucratic organization." That makes all of its members responsible for dealing with its problems, including sexual misconduct, he said. 

Vocation and career the issue cannot be simplified. 
The priesthood itself' doesn't "On the one hand, if priests attract the large numbers of men had a satisfying sex life, they that it once did. might not prey on young boys; on 
The priesthood has been a the other, married adults, male career option for many Catholic and female, abuse their own chil­men in the past. McBrien said, dren, male and female," said 
but  an  Ulrich.  
increase  "Celibacy, like  
in average household income for  "Celibacy, like marriage, can be a good thing if  marriage, can be a good thing, if freely chosen.  
Catholics in the last  freely chosen."  But and  both do  can fail  
century  despite  one's  
has  led  Eugene Ulrich  best efforts."  
fewer men  Notre Dame theologian  

to consid­er lives as clergy. The result has been a lim­ited pool of priest candidates for the Church. 

"Back in the 1950s, most Catholic young men had limited options: a police officer, a fire­fighter, an FBI agent or a priest. Of these, the priesthood was the most respected and honored call­ing," McBrien said. 
Now, the number of men choosing to become priests has plunged, so much so that the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports the line of work as hav­ing a "very favorable outlook through the year 2010." The shortage of priests, according to McBrien. has attracted more homosexual men and pedophiles. 

"As the number of heterosexu­al candidates for the priesthood declined, the percentage -not necessarily the number -of homosexual candidates increased, along with the sexual­ly immature," McBrien said. 
Although some argue that the Catholic policies mandating celibacy and banning marriage for priests have turned away many qualified men, Ulrich said 
Waiting it out 

The current crisis of the Catholic Church has sparked both dialogue and debate from a variety of perspec­tives, but with the rising number of exposed scandals and the decreasing number of priests, the outlook of the Catholic Church remains unpredictable. 
Next week, the 11 U.S. cardi­nals will convene in the Vatican to talk with Pope John Paul II about the scandals. Because the pope has long called the alleged incidents of sexual misconduct among priests an "American problem." the meeting marks a critical turning point for discus­sion of the issue. 
The University, too, has been taking steps to develop a com­mittee to address the Church cri­sis. In the mean time, many Notre Dame priests are encour­aging disclosure and discourse. 
"Universities are places where societies think, so we should think about these things," Ayo said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 

W0RL 
ATION 
Thursday, April 18, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD News BRIEFS 
Rebel presence increases in Congo: 
The United Nations warned Wednesday of what it called a "dangerous and troubling" intensification of fighting and buildup of forces in rebel-held east Congo. The warn• ing comes even as Congo's government and rebels move into the scheduled last days of South African-sponsored power­sharing talks. 
South Africa alters AIDS drug policy: 
In a major shift in policy, the government announced Wednesday that sexual assault victims would be given access to AIDS drugs. The government had long argued thal the drugs' safety remained unproven, and ignored pleas that they be provided to rape victims. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Military admits lack of information: 
Despite a massive number of tips, rumors and other intelligence, the U.S. military has never had good enough information on Osama bin Laden's whereabouts to mount a mission to go after him, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said Wednesday. Some intelligence officials disagree, saying bin Laden probably was at his Tora Bora stronghold during December airstrikes but escaped because too few American troops were committed to the hunt. 
Virginia;s abortion ban rejected: 
State lawmakers failed Wednesday to over­ride Gov. Mark Warner's veto and revive Virginia's ban on a late-term abortion pro­cedure. The House of Delegates voted 71-28 to override the veto, but the 24-14 vote in the Senate was three votes shy of the two­thirds majority needed to pass the bill. Two senators did not vote. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Officials launch contamination probe: 
State officials have ordered a gasoline sta­tion near a northwestern Indiana school which has had its water contaminated by a gasoline additive to install wells to deter­mine whether the station is to blame. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management on Tuesday ordered Boezeman Oil Co. to install eight monitoring wells despite the fact soil and water borings taken April 10 showed no off-site release of MTBE -methyl tertiary butyl ether, a suspected carcinogen. 
Market Watch April 17 

Dow 
10,220.78 -80.54 

Jones 

CompositeSame: 

Volume:
198 

1,358,((i),992 
l¥I:)t~ll!:i§iil!:1:~I'.Itt:]tI~~¼~t:l¼!~jj~!;j~~Ii&~~'.~li!~~f~!:lmU'.i]j~~
NASDAQ: 1,810.67 -6.12 
Ml:flfmSll!.WJ#Mliit%11',l,llmts:9.3'JW.lt@:i@Mm5t%\Nt: 
S&P 500: 1,125.88 -2.30 TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) +4.48 +0.27 6.51 APPLIED DIGITAL (ADSX) +64. 37 +0. 70 1. 79 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -0.97 -0.08 8.23 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -0.51 -0.18 35.02 RAZORFISH INC. (RAZF)+220.00 +0.33 0.48 
VENEZUELA 

Associated Press 
CARACAS 

An unusually blunt Organization of American States chief warned embit­tered Venezuelans to talk to one another in the wake of a failed coup or risk the loss of their democracy ­and their lives. 
"This country has to 
· learn from the traumatic events of last week," OAS chief Cesar Gaviria said Wednesday as he ended a fact-finding mission into the uprisings that over­threw President Hugo Chavez on Friday and brought him back to power on Sunday. 
"Episodes such as those that occurred have enor­mous risks in human lives and in the preservation of institutions," Gaviria said. 
Chavez, whose initial popularity in office allowed him to run roughshod over opponents, has admitted errors and appealed for the country to calmly retreat from violence. 
Gaviria is to report his findings Thursday to the General Assembly of the Organization of American States. He declined to say what he might recommend. 
"I think that if in the international community we are not able to do something, there is a risk -probably not of another coup -but that social unrest will come again soon," Gaviria told foreign reporters. 
He expressed alarm at the bitterness expressed both by Chavez's foes and friends after three years of growing confrontations that exploded over the weekend. At least 49 peo­ple died -some say far more -in massive street protests in the capital as soldiers first ousted Chavez, then brought him back. Both sides blame the other for most of the deaths. 
"On both sides there is a theory that confrontation is inevitable, as if this is impossible to solve." Gaviria said. "Those theo­ries lead to instability and war." 

Pope John Paul II also appealed for Venezuelans "to leave aside all tempta­tions for revenge or vio­lence." As the 1 million­member Confederation of Venezuelan Workers called for a referendum on whether the government should stay, the National Assembly began a bitter, partisan debate on the coup. 
"Let us all resign and go to elections," urged opposi­tion Congressman Julio Borges. "No more deaths!" 
SIERRA LEONE 
Sierra Leone celebrates election 
rally by President Ahmed Tejan "I have never seen such a thing
Associated Press 
Kabbah. who presided over the end like this in my life or in the history FREETOWN of Sierra Leone's vicious 10-year of the country," said another watch­
Singing and dancing in the streets war in January, with the decisive er, businessman Vivian Davis. by the tens of thousands, Sierra intervention of U.N. and British Kabbah is one of nine candidates Leone's people celebrated on forces. for Sierra Leone's May 14 presiden­Wednesday in a rally marking the Many in the capital seemed ready tial elections. West African nation's first post-war to seize on any excuse to celebrate. The rebel Revolutionary United elections. Cheers· drowned out Kabbah as he Front, remaking itself as a political 
Market women abandoned their tried to speak to a sea of people in party, also is fielding a candidate ­stalls. offices shut down and chil­Freetown's Victoria Park. but not former leader Foday Sankoh, dren spilled out of classrooms, wav­"That is the best speech the presi­now on trial in multiple murder ing palm fronds and turning war dent could make -that is, the fact counts stemming from the war. refugee-crowded Freetown into a he could not tnake one," said one in The national election council earli­carnival for much of the day. . the teeming crowq., instructor er this month officially barred 
The occasion was a re-election Dennis Bright. Sankoh from the race. 
page 6 The Observer . HEALTH NEWS Thursday, April 18, 2002 
House hopes to pass senior drug benefit 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
House Republicans hope to pass a prescription drug benefit for seniors by Memorial Day and include substantial improvements to keep the 37­year-old program afloat. 
Hearings Wednesday on the issue showed the sharp differ­ences between Democrats and Republicans on the best way to help the millions of seniors bur­dened by costly prescriptions. 
House Republicans have pro­posed using $350 billion over 10 years for Medicare improve­ments while Senate Democrats want to set aside $500 billion. President Bush has proposed $190 billion. 
Speaker Dennis Hastert has asked GOP leaders "to have a bill on the floor before Memorial Day so that we can move it to the Senate with suffi­cient time for the Senate to respond," Hep. Bill Thomas. R­Calif. and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said Wednesday. 
The Ways and Means and the Energy and Commerce commit­tees will writing the GOP Medicare proposal. 
Republicans insisted at a hearing Wednesday that it would be useless to add a pre­scription drug benefit to Medicare without making sub­stantial changes to modernize the program, which is projected to run out of money in 2030. 
Democrats said there is not enough money to upgrade Medicare, provide a prescrip­tion drug benefit and increase reimbursements for Medicare health providers -all items on the GOP agenda for Medicare. Republicans are raiding the budget with tax cuts, Democrats said. 

"It does not add up," said Rep. Charles Rangel of New York, the leading Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee. "Republicans have no sound fiscal plan." 
But GOP leaders said with the nation's elderly population expected to double by 2030 with the aging of baby boomers, the time to modernize Medicare is now. 
"We believe strongly that you can't simply add a new pre­scription drug benefit to Medicare," Thomas said. 
Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson told lawmakers, "It's clear that if we add a drug benefit with­out comprehensive moderniza­tion of the system, we will only deepen the financial crisis Medicare faces in coming years." 
Thomas said in addition to a prescription drug benefit a Medicare modernization pack­age should reduce paperwork and regulatory burdens for Medicare health providers, improve reimbursement formu­las for doctors and strengthen Medicare's managed care pro­gram. 
HMOs participating in the managed care program have complained that they cannot afford to stay in the program unless Congress increases their payments. 
Those issues "while perhaps not as politically headline-grab­bing as prescription drugs, are serious, cannot be left for later and need to be done," Thomas said. 

ND cinema 
THURS DAY, APRIL 18 
HES BURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
7:00 PM 
FREE ADMISSION 
PRC~C:Ni CD OY 
THE DEPARTMENT OF" FILM, TELEVl!31 . N AND Tt IC:ATRC: 
Cigarette-maker pulls 'light' label 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Star Scientific Inc. is the first 
U.S. tobacco company to announce plans to stop identi­fying its cigarettes as "light" or "ultralight," which critics say mislead smokers into believing the cigarettes are safer. 
The Chester, Va., company sent letters to other cigarette manufacturers and lawmakers Wednesday that said it would drop the terms from its Vegas brand of cigarettes by the end of September. 
Spokeswoman Sara Machir said the company will assess whether to remove the terms from its other brands -Main Street, Sport and Gsmoke. Star products account for less than 1 percent of U.S. cigarette sales. Machir said. 
"Star deserves to be applauded for being the first tobacco company to eliminate the use of light and ultralight," said Matthew Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco­Free Kids. However, Myers said Star should go ahead and remove the terms from all its brands. 
The tobacco industry gener­ally uses the term "light" to describe cigarettes with less than 15 milligrams of tar, a carcinogen produced when tobacco is burned. Tar helps deliver nicotine to smokers. 
In the letter to other compa­nies and lawmakers. Star Chairman Paul Perito cited a National Cancer Institute study published last year that found 
Moving lo Chicogo? 
Contact Ben@ 
NEW WEST Realty 
312.942.1202 bbischmanr@hobnail.com 

smoking light cigarettes does not decrease smoking-related disease. 
The study found that while the cigarettes yield less tar and tobacco company would con­tinue using the terms. 
"We think they provide use­ful points of comparison regarding the characteristics 
nicotine when tested on gov­

ernment -"In taking this step, we 
a p p r o v e d hope to challenge all machines, real 
tobacco manufacturers 
smokers tend 

to inhale more to follow our lead. " deeply and take more 
Paul Perito
puffs. 

Star Scientific Inc. chairman
"In taking this step, we hope to chal­lenge all tobacco manufactur­ers to follow our lead," Perito wrote. "Fundamental changes in the industry must take place, so that tobacco users can make informed decisions about the use of tobacco prod­ucts and their inherent risk." 
Brendan McCormick, a spokesman for Philip Morris Inc., said the nation's largest of various cigarette brands. such as strength of taste and reported tar yields," McCormick said. 
Lawyers in 11 states have filed 
class-action lawsuits against Philip Morris. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. and Brown & Williamson Corp. over the use of terms such as "light." saying they constitute a deliberate attempt to mislead smokers. The lawsuits seek billions of dollars in damages for alleged violations of consumer protec­tion laws. 
This Weekend in the Department of Music 
Fri. April 19: Sat. April 20: Sat. April 20: 
Sun. April 21: 
Sun. April 21: Sun. April 21: 

Seunghee Lee, violin & Kimberly Schmidt, piano 7.:30 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission. 
Jacqueline Schmidt, graduate piano recital 
2 pm, Annenberg Audtiorium. Free Admission. 
Katie Brown, senior voice recital 
w/ Megan Walsh, piano 
3:30 pm, Annenberg Auditorium. Free admission. Karen Buranskas, cello & Maria Stablein, piano I pm, Annenberg Auditorum. Tickets ($3-10) available at LaFortune Box Office: (574) 631-8128 
Please note the 1:00 starting time! ND Jazz Bands 
3 pm, Band Building. Free admission. 
ND Glee Club 

8:15 pm, Basilica. Free admission. 
Call 631-6201 for more information 


comedian comedian 
LAURA LIFSHITZ
.. 

s 1 
a 0
t 
u 
p
r 
m
d 

a t y 
0 a p m. 
I
r 
. 

I d 
I n 
2 0 

free free 


--------. ---------­
Thursday, April 18, 2002 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Powell fails to secure cease-fire after peace mission 
Pre-register at LaFortune box office, 180or come a few minutes early to sign up! 
IN BOOKSTORE GIFT CERTIFICATES AS PAll£S!! ! 
Sponsored by your friendly neighborhood Student Activities Office. For more info call 1-7308. :-) 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Secretary of State Colin Powell failed to get the cease­fire he sought as he ended his 10-day peace mission Wednesday, leaving Israel and the Palestinians mired in vio­lence and recrimination. 
Powell also was snubbed in
~~~~~~~==~========~i\ SUMMERJOBS e ENVIRONMENT 
Don't let Indiana become the nuclear crossroads of America 
top the Transportation of High-level Nuclear WasteT Mobile Chernobyl 
The propoocd swrage fllcility tw rcpcatoily failed all acicnlific critaia for containment 
Are you staying in the South Bend area this summer? The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana is hiring individuals to staff environmental and consumer rights campaigns. 
Citizens Action Coalition is a twenty-eight year old citizens lobby organization. With JS0,000 memben statewide, ,we routinely battle the largesl utilities and poDuten in Indiana on behalf of cltizena...and win! We are working to stop the transportation of high-level nuclear waste toYucca Mtn. in Nevada Help stop thirty years of radioactive railroads and highw11y5 in Indiaila. 
Work M-F 2-10:30 pm¢F.am $350-$425/wk-¢-Work outdoors-¢" Sleep Late"¢-casual atmosphere ... Serious work 
Call 232-7905 for more information. 
FOY othtY offi.c.ts, Chtc.R us ow.t OII\.LLll\.t www.cLtact.or0 
Fort Wayne: ZGO-.fZS-4(9% Indiuu:')01.ia: St 7-Z0ll-3535 New Albany: &IZ-9. 1-117 

THISF/IIDAY.•• 11PN~ I AN••• 
IN THE NOT/IE DANE IIOtlN••• 

Egypt as he returned home to report to President Bush. Still, he pointed to what he called signs of progress, especially a promise by Israel to accelerate military withdrawal from the West Bank. 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon gave assurances of "real results in the next few days," Powell said. "Only with the end of the incursion and with the engage­ment in security talks can a cease-fire be achieved." 
He admonished Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat anew to "decide as the rest of the world has decided, that terrorism must end." 
But U.S. suggestions before Powell's trip that the peace mis­sion would be Arafat's last chance had vanished by jour­ney's end. 
·· He holds the office or the presidency of the Palestinian Authority," Powell said at a news conference after his meet­ing with Arafat. "So wh-ether one approves of that or disap­proves it, or likes it or doesn't like it, it's a reality." 
Bush, in a speech at the Virginia Military Institute. said Powell had made progress. He, too, urged Arafat to do more to stop violence. 
"The Palestinian Authority must act -must act -on its words of condemnation of ter­ror," Bush s-aid. 
The president will assemble his national security team Thursday to hear from Powell and discuss the possibility of a Mideast peace conference. Bush wants to be sure the idea makes sense before embracing it, said a senior administration official. 
CIA Director George J. Tenet is likely to head to the region next week, but a final decision will be made after Powell's White House meeting, the offi­cial said. Bush and Powell also will discuss when Powell plans to return. 
The United States hopes to "restart the clock" to conditions that were in place before the Passover bombing that killed 28 people in Netanya on March 27, with Israel getting a resumption of Tenet-led security talks and the Palestinians knowing that the political process is not far behind, said the official, speak­ing on condition of anonymity. 

Another top official said the region will get a steady stream of visits from U.S. officials prod­ding the parties toward political and security negotiations. 
Bush is trying to find a way to give Israel hope for an end to terrorism while giving Palestinians, in return, a reason to believe they will get their own state and land gains, the official said. 
U.S. officials said Bush is no longer tied to the old view that security talks must proceed negotiations on political issues, such as dividing up land and deciding the contentious issue of Israeli settlements. He is will­ing to mix up the formula -or find a new one -if that would jump-start talks. 
Powell, after meeting with Arafat Wednesday, met in Cairo with Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher of Egypt and Foreign Minister Marwan Muasher of Jordan before heading home. Powell was supposed to see President Hosni Mubarak, but was told Mubarak was "indis­posed," Powell said. 
That rebuff came as some in the Arab world complained that Powell had not brought ade­quate pressure on Israel to end its offensive, which is designed to stop Palestinian militants from launching more suicide attacks. 
Israel must leave the West Bank before Arab states co_mply with calls for a peace confer­ence or a cease-fire, the Arabs said. "We explained to him [Powell] that any talk of politi­cal or security issues must be preceded by an Israeli with­
-drawal and an end to the Israeli threats of either attacking Arafat's compound or the Church of Nativity," Maher said. Powell, who held talks with Arafat in the Ramallah office where the Palestinian leader is confined by Israeli tanks and troops, said: "He has a powerful voice and can be heard, so he should use his position of lead­ership and his powerful voice," to end terror. Arafat saw Powell to the door of his battered headquarters after their two-hour meeting, but did not step outside. He then complained angrily to reporters about his confinement and appealed for international help. "I have to ask the whole inter­national world, I have to ask excellency President Bush, I have to ask the United Nations, is this acceptable that I can't go outside the door?" he said, his voice rising. Just next door, Israeli gun­ners peeked through ha!~ opened windows. "They are returning," Arafat said, referring to Israel's latest surge into Palestinian areas, after Sharon had said he would withdraw Israeli troops within a week from all towns and vil­lages except Ramallah and Bethlehem. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, April 18, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
TM Jadqmdn,1, D,iily Nnnpaprr Sm,i111 Nam v.,., 4'1'1d s,,;,,, MAry'I 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN ~556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARv's EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Ndlie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Malt Lucz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski DEVEWPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 Af>VERTISING ................... ,.......... ,......631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDnoRIAssT. ME................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA.Rv's............................................631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................ 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB A.DMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports. features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
min u re forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online featum; for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 

about The Observec 
anicles published afrer 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. Editorial content, including advertisements. is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The nt,WS is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Question; regarding Ob,m,erpolici6 ,hould b, direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFar/q. 
Success brings a crushing, poignant burden 
"What could we do to make it into your next article?" asked the giggling freshman from Lewis. "No. like. guarantee we'd be in an article?" clarified her equally giggly friend. 
Guarantee themselves a spot in my article? I could think of at least one thing they could do. Sadly for me I wasn't cocky enough to say it. Joe Muto 
Actually, for the record, sadly for them. 
It all started a week before when an innocuous-looking envelope bearing my Livin' on a name slid under my door. Inside I found 
Prayer

an invitation to the Lewis Crush. This caused me no small amount of concern, especially considering that I don't hang out with any girls from Lewis. and I definitely am not on the verge of a romantic relationship with one. 
Being paranoid enough as it is without being sent anonymous invitations, I pondered whether or not to go. I had a notion deep down that it was a trick. I kept picturing myself going to Lewis, asking to meet my date and being shown into a basement room where a group of University administrators and FlipSide members would be waiting to beat the living piss out of me using heavy prayer books and whatever metal-based crafts they had been working on at Saturday night Crafting Corner, respectively. 
In the end, despite misgivings, I decid­ed to go, ifonly to sec which lucky lady had made the best decision of her life. Plus, I just can't find it in me to pass up free booze. 
The lady in question turned out to be a group of ladies. "We're all members of your fan club!" exclaimed the bright-eyed freshmen, look­ing much younger than their age to my jaded 20-year­old eyes. They insisted on posing for pictures with me, and although I couldn't help but feel a little like the Elephant Man, I let myself enjoy the moment. Writing for the school paper is not supposed to get you dates. It's supposed to get you beat up by the cool kids. And here I was getting invited to a dance anonymously. Ahh ... 
· Notoriety, you fickle wench! You're mine at last! 
As much as you hear Hollywood celebrities gripe about it, it's nice being recognized by total strangers. In Jamaica on spring break, when muscle-headed state-school frat boys were scoop­ing up sorority girls with alarming regularity and thought-pro­voking skill, imagine my shock when four good-looking girls in Pangborn T-shirts came up to me and asked, "Are you the sex 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Allegations do not prove guilt 
I would like to respond to Erin Kennedy's letter regard­ing the support of victims of sexual assault. As Erin stated, I too am a "silent supporter of every assault and rape vic­tim." However, not all persons alleging sexual assault or misconduct are necessarily victims. People lie, people deceive and people exaggerate the truth. It is sad, but it happens. Comments such as "I have never met you, nor do l need to, in order to know that you are telling the truth," are inappropriate and unjust. Judgments should not be made until all facts from both sides come out. To believe guy?" This seems to be my nickname of choice. 
As demoralizing as it is sometimes to have all of one's liter­ary achievements for an entire year condensed into one title. I guess it could be worse. I could be the "Follows girls home from the library late at night while breathing suggestively sev­eral paces behind them guy." 
Lord knows it would be more accurate than "sex guy." My biggest problem is that my notoriety was totally unex­pected. 
Coming into this, I didn't think anyone would actually read my articles. My understanding of the average Observer reader is that if he reads the Viewpoint page it is only inadvertently. He accidentally flipped to it while looking for the comic strips or the roughly two-dozen pages of sports. That being said, I 
still wake up in cold sweats at night worrying that if some­one actually reads my articles closely enough they·u realize how poor of a writer I really am. Anyone can write like me. You just need to think up a 
couple of jokes about Jesus, the Notre Dame administration, non-drinkers and virgins and string them together loosely while 
pretending you have a point to make. It's that simple. 
Of course, as humble as I try to be, my head swells that much more every time someone tells me they enjoy my writing. At this point I'm a few compliments away from telling people that it was actually me who died on the cross for 
the sins of humanity. Overall, I'm pretty uncomfortable with success, mostly because my life up to this point has been a succession of spectacular failures. For example, my high school career was charac­terized by my senior year, when my girlfriend of a month and a half dumped me the actual night before my prom. And I don't even want to delve into grade school. I would like to thank those of you who have supported me this past year. 
Thanks for reading. This article's my little gift for you, what I choose to leave you with to meditate over this summer. And you should thank me for it. I could have left you with a totally. egotistical, self-aggrandizing fluff piece, but I like you too much for that. 
Joe Muto is a sophomore FIT and English double major. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached at jmuto@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
that an allegation indicates guilt is naive. If this girl was actually raped or sexually assaulted, she has my full sup0 port. If the rape did not occur, then I hope that those accused may not be affected unjustly. However, until the facts are out. my judgment will not be made. 
Arianne Obering junior Pasquerilla West April 17, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Sheila Egts C. Spencer Beggs L{l,ura Rompf Production Meghan Martin Joe Hettler Sports Graphics Kerry Smith Jimmy Atkinson Viewpoint Lab Tech Sheila Flynn Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Student Activities censor the names of Bookstore Basketball teams? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nobody ever mentions the weather can make or break your day. Nobody ever seems to remember life is a game we play. " 
Oasis British rock band 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 18, 2002 page 9 
Celibacy offers unique freedom 
Perhaps our greatest fear is to go through life alone. We fill our daily lives with distractions, whether through work, entertainment or any number of things. Rarely do we have the chance to sit in soli­tude and confront ourselves honestly. 
Rarely do we ask the hard questions: What is my life's purpose? 
What meaning can be attributed to my life? Have I found fulfillment, and if not, how may I find it? 
For some, self-confrontation is better avoid­ed. The profound emptiness it can reveal is terrifying. Most people attempt to erase this loneliness by surrounding themselves with acquaintances or lovers. Indeed, the message society transmits reinforces this idea. 
Christine Niles 
As I See It ... 
Hollywood romanticizes love: You meet your soulmate. fall in love, experience physical intimacy and never suffer lo.ne!iness again. Most young girls are expected to grow up a.nd eventually become wives and bear children. Young boys are raised believing they should sow their wild oats before finally settling down. If not, they 
have the option of remaining sexually active bachelors. 
For men and women who choose the nonconformist vow of celiba­cy, an alternative path to fulfillment is embraced. Their motives are generally questioned by skeptics, who view such people as sexually repressed and abnormal. In a society obsessed with sex, the aver­age person wonders how anyone could make a vow to abstain from what many deem a necessity. Sex, so says the norm, is the requisite accompaniment to any romantic relationship. 
Anyone who chooses to abstain until marriage is considered a prude. Those who choose to abstain for life are thought to be down­right aberrant. 
These are unfortunate stereotypes. They stem from a fundamental misconception of the significance of chastity and celibacy. 
Although all are called to be chaste, whether single or married, only some are called to the vow of celibacy. which is the commit­ment to remain unmarried. True, people exist who make the vow of celibacy for the wrong reasons. But the vast majority do so for the right reasons. And, contrary to popular misconceptions, the celibate are joyful, deeply fulfilled individuals. 
For the celibate, the issue is not merely about giving up a sexual need. Celibacy is accompanied by a vow of poverty; thus. the issue is centrally one of giving up possession of all earthly things ­including possession of another person. Why? In order to under­stand this, one must first understand the role of God in one's life. 
Some think of God as an abstract principle floating in the sky, utterly irrelevant to us on any level, or a vengeful judge ready to strike us with holy lightning. However, if you believe that God is Love itself, that He knows you intimately and desires only good for you, then one can more readily understand the willingness to trust oneself wholly to Him. 
Celibacy is a gift. lt is a calling for some, just as marriage is a calling for others. Both vocations experience their own sacrifices, their own duties, their own blessings. God can be profoundly expe­rienced through both paths. 
However, despite the joys of married life, loneliness is not erased through finding a spouse. No human is capable of fulfilling all the deepest yearnings of our hearts. Earthly relationships, as satisfying as they are, can also involve misunderstanding and heartache. Certainly there have been times in our lives when we have been dis­appointed by our relationships and disappointed in ourselves. To what, or to whom, do we turn then? 
Blaise Pascal wrote that in every heart there is a God-shaped vac­uum. Taking the vow of celibacy involves confronting that vacuum and boldly stepping forth in faith. Celibates give up all earthly things -all the things that distract, burden and limit us -in order to be filled with God alone. It is, as the priest Henri Nouwen said, a "holy emptiness" which God alone sates. The thought of making such a sacrifice is formidable -until faith steps in to reassure us that God will. indeed, fulfill our hearts' longings. 
Despite society's demand for absolute sexual freedom, it is the celibate, I surmise, who are truly free. St. Augustine was tortured by doubt before his conversion. He was 32 years old and had lived the life of the common bachelor. It was his fear of losing female companionship that kept him from totally committing himself to God. After a tearful struggle, he finally took that courageous step of faith -and his writings attest to a life fulfilled, a life of true free­dom. 
Thus, the message of celibacy is one society should respect and celebrate. It is truly a path for the courageous, who seek less of themselves in order to receive more of Him. Those who are called to this life experience the richness and depth of a life free from many fears that burden the rest of us. And that, above all, is to be envied. 
Christine Niles is a second-year law student and her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at niles. 7@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Catholicism lacking 
In my time at Notre Dame. I have been struck by the difference between the pur­ported Catholicism of its students and administration and the lack of real Catholicism expressed in many of their actions. Two opinion pieces have recently been published in campus newspapers regarding the blatant contradiction between Catholic teaching and the University's policy of not paying a living wage if the market allows it. I was also struck by a column on Tuesday in which John Litle expressed some pride in his Catholicism, and then proceeded to attack an entire race based on the extreme actions of a few. Not a very Christian analy­sis of a complex issue, I would argue. 
lf Notre Dame's religious affiliations can ever be reconciled with its extreme privi­lege and influence, then this must be done through a willingness to use its assets to reduce inequalities and increase tolerance. The administration can do this by ensuring that its policies are socially responsible. We as students can do this by educating our­selves about issues beyond campus and ensuring that both now and when we leave Notre Dame we address those issues in compassionate and constructive ways. My two examples, which I feel are symptomatic of broader trends, show distinct failures within the Notre Dame community to follow these simple rules. This compromises Notre Dame's claim to be a truly religious institu-. tion. 
Reuben Keller 
first-year biology graduace student O'Hara-Grace Townhouses April 17, 2002 


Lack of response reflects respect of privacy 
This letter is in response to Sarah Edwards' letter to the editor on Tuesday. She questions why the classmates of the woman who reported being raped have not come to her side with articles expressing our support of her. 
The horrible things that happened to the student have not been discussed because they are too severe to trivialize by blanket­ing articles of students' opinions over the Viewpoint section. The majority of the stu­dent body does not know exactly what hap­pened to her. It would be presumptuous to think that the half-story we know is grounds enough to write an article about the terrible, intimate things that happened to this woman. If I were her, I would not want people who do not know me. speculat­ing about the details of my rape and what they think. 
Edwards asks, "What kind of message does this send?" The message is: The stu­dents of Notre Dame do not know enough about what happened to comment on it, and because of that, we respect this woman's privacy and her feelings enough to not write letters about our views. There is no lack of support shown here. 
Edwards wrote, "Students are more con­cerned about their drinking 'rights' and SYRs than they are about the alleged viola­tion of one of their sisters." The comparison to the reaction about the alcohol policy and the reaction to the rape is completely inap­propriate. The policy change _is something that there is a debate about. 
When something covers three pages of the Viewpoint section, it is because there is a controversial issue that has many sides to it. What happened to the student is not a controversial issue. There are not two sides. one claiming rape is bad. the other that rape is good. I hope that there is not a person on campus that does not feel pain for the victims of such a horrible crime. 
Edwards calls for a "re-evaluation of pri­orities." I believe we have our priorities straight: We know what is our business to discuss and what is someone else's person­al life that is inappropriate for a public forum of debate. 
Meghan McCall 
freshman Pasquerilla West April 16, 2002 

--,· ______ _
t --·-------,_ ---_· ---------------':'f_ --------:...... -----. ----f, 
Ob~ERVER 


page 10 Thursday, April 18, 2002 

Cult movies' reigning dynasty, Troma 
By MATT HOLMES 
Scene W rirer 

Some days, a hard-working student wants to watch a thought-provoking film with a great script, talented actors. great special effects and high production value. Other days, stu­dents need to kick back and enjoy a purely entertaining or offensive film. On those 
Kitchen. The company began when two Yale students, Lloyd Kaufman and Michael Herz, started producing violent and erotic low-budget comedies such as "Squeeze Play!," "Waitress!" and sev­eral other films (with titles ending in an exclamation points) produced in the early '70s. 

like "Sergio Lapel's 
Troma Films are characterized by their extremely low budgets and pro­duction values. They are best known, however, for their over-the-top atti­tude toward on-screen sex and violence. A typical Troma release will contain scores of topless women, exploding heads, blood, guns, gore, toxic waste and loud punk rock music. 
Troma Films scored a fiscal and critical success in 1984 with the release of "The Toxic Avenger," The film recounts the exploits of a humble health club mop boy who is trans­formed by toxic waste into a hideously deformed crime fighter with superhu­
m a n 

young artists to make films without the help of major studios and financiers. 
Fans of the early Troma films have gone on to major Hollywood success and include such directors as Quentin Tarantino, Kevin Smith and "South Park" creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone. 
Troma Films continued their mis­sion of giving the medium of film back to the people in January 2000 with the creation of the Tromadance Film Festival. The Festival, hosted every year in Park City, Utah, has no entry fees for potential films, offers free tickets to all patrons and throws a gala concert/party with no admission charge. Since its inception, Tromadance has grown in popularity and has drawn some of Hollywood's elite away from the nearby Sundance Film Festival. 
Troma Films are not for everyone. Compare them to the shock comedies of John Waters or the Italian horror films of Lucio Fulci and Dario Argento. They are extremely violent and often blatantly offensive. Kaufman and Herz's intention to show that "Art ain't always pretty" comes across clearly. The Troma answer is best described by a fan in one of its recent flicks "Terror Firmer." 
When asked, "How can you like this offensive garbage?" The fan responded, "I like it because it's offensive garbage." 
Not all Troma films are alike; although each film attempts to demol­ish or parody cinematic convention, there are distinct categories within the Troma production group. Comedies like "Cannibal! The Musical" and "Teenage Cat Girls in 
Heat" vary greatly from horror films 
Drawing Blood" 
and "Parts of the 
Family." The 

Troma Team also 
produces action 
films like "Wizard of 
the Demon Sword" 
and the infamous 
"Toxic Avenger" 
sertes. 
Troma's forays into 
television include the 
"Toxic Crusaders 
Animated Series" and 
"Edge TV," both ill­
fated attempts at tar­
geting mainstream 
television audiences. 
Viewers interested in 
beginning their 
Tromatic experience 
should begin with one 
of the more accessible 
films. "The Toxic 
Avenger" and "Sgt. 
Kabukiman, NYPD" offer 
good starting point. 
They are ridiculous with­
out being overly offen­
sive. "Kabukiman" is an 
undercover cop in New 
ent days, and powers. the perfect While fight-way to cel­ing evil ebrate cin­with his ematic gra­m o p , tuity is to "Toxie" view a falls in love T r o m a with a blind Film. woman. 
Tr om a They live Films is an happily indepen­ever after. dent film The '80s company also yielded based in Troma hits New York in the form City's so­of such c all e d Generation­Hell's X classics 
as the "Class of Nuke 'Em High" trilogy, "Surf Nazis Must Die," "Sgt. Kabukiman NYPD" and the sequels to the original "Toxic Avenger." 
The mission of Troma Films is to keep independent films truly indepen­dent and to push the envelope regard­ing what can and can't be shown on film. The films it creates and pro­duces are an attempt to give indepen­dent filmmaking back to the people by 
encouraging 

York City until he is possesed by an ancient Japanese spirit and is trans­formed into a superhuman crime fighter armed with an awesome array of antique Chinese weapons. Viewers also get to hear the classi.c line, "I can't believe this. I'm eating a smelly dead fish and I'm loving it." 
I f Tromaheads have the stom­ach for those two, they could consider mov­ing on to gorier subject matter. "Cannibal! the Musical" is probably. the most easily digested of the Troma Films. It recounts the true story of Alfred Packer, the only American ever convicted of cannibalism in the United States. After incompetently leading a group of miners on their way to Breckenridge, Colo., from Provo, Utah, he and his group of latter-day travelers encounter harsh condi­
Troma films' biggest star, 
tions in the 
movie must-see.

wild Rocky Mountains. In order to sur~ vive, they resort to horrible acts of violence and truly original musical numbers. 
Along their journey, they meet greaser-like trappers and a very Chinese tribe of native Americans. Created by Trey Parker and starring Matt Stone, "Cannibal! The Musical" is like "Grapes of Wrath" meets "West Side Story" meets "Bloodsucking Freaks." 

If a more erotic or comedic Troma experience is what you seek, "Teenage Catgirls in Heat" or "Nymphoid Barbarian in Dinosaur Hell" is the answer. "Catgirls" is the story of a town about to be_ overrun by an evil Egyptian cat goddess and her 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


.,. 
Thursday, April 18, 2002 page 11 



hoto courtesy of www.toxicavenger.com 
Toxic Avenger, is a B-
next to your roommate and watch a cinematic atrocity. Your Tromatic experience may not be pleasant, but it is guaranteed to be an enlightening experience you will never forget. 
Contact Matt Holmes at holmes. l6@nd.edu. 
litter of nubile and very naked teenage beau­ties, all risen from the ashes of suicidal cats. The towns only hope lies in the hands of a hitchhiking teenager and the town's deranged "cat catcher." 
"Nymphoid Barbarian in Dinosaur Hell" is a Tromatic throw-back to the claymation dinosaur films of the '50s. It features a B­movie feel complete with cheesy latex gore with a kind of "Mysterious Island" dinosaur charm. "Nymphoid Barbarian" is a good example of Troma's attempt to use titillating titles to market their product. 
After sam­pling these tamer offer­ings, the Troma viewer is ready for the most offensive offerings of the production company. Released just last year, 
"Terror 

Firmer" is among the most bloody and ridiculous of the Troma line. Directed by and starring Llovd Kaufman himself, "Firmer" is the·story of a serial murderer stalking a Troma film set. Among its most offensive moments are a man being beaten to death with his own severed leg, a man being sucked into an esca­lator and a man being crushed by a 
falling sedan. "Terror Firmer" is the most self­aware of the Troma films. It melds offensive material and jokes about censorship into its already excessive scenes of violence and sex. Kaufman drops his movie persona to interrupt the film at its most graphic points making hysterical comments about the problems the MPAA (Motion Picture Association of America) had 
with rating the film. Cameos by vari• ous underground celebrities. includ­ing a particularly gory appearance by former adult film star Ron Jeremy, and an all-star punk and metal sound­track complement the already auda­cious screen shocker. 
If viewers are willing to sacrifice even the minimal production value of the rest of the Troma line, they can view the most offensive of the Troma films. Shot in another country and badly dubbed into English, "Maniac Nurses Find Ecstasy" is far and away the most offensive thing Troma has ever produced. The film revolves around a group of insane nurses and their sadistic head surgeon, Ilsa, as they strive for entertainment in an abandoned hospital. 
If you choose to view this film expect to see rampant drug use, sado­masochism, cannibalism, amputa­tions, live dissections and plenty of exploding heads. A particularly mem­orable scene involves an innocent gar­dener getting shot in the forehead and then impaling himself on a garden gnome. 
The significance of Troma films does not lie entirely in their extremely entertaining feats of cinematic obscenity, but in the effect that they have had on the rest of film culture. Several critics cite Troma Films as the inspiration for such cult hits as "Cecil 
B. Demented" and "Scary Movie." It is a common opinion that raunchy block­busters such as "There's Something About Mary," "Me, Myself, and Irene" and "Kingpin" would not have been possible if Troma had not been push­ing the envelope of acceptability for the last three decades. 
The punk rock feel of Troma Films 
energy that was tradi­tionally reserved for hard core rock-and-roll and alternative fiction. Troma has emerged as the voice of people who are tired of films like "Titanic" and "Pearl Harbor." Troma fans are those who can't stand to see another preachy. lofty, themed film pontifi­cate about the goodness of mankind. 
The minimalist budget and planning of the films along with their in-your­face attitude represent the do-it-yourself ethos of the punk movement. Kaufman compares it to the exhibit "Sensations" which recently made its appear­ance at the Museum Modern Art in New York. The exhibit featured a shark suspended in formaldehyde and a cow cut into foot-thick slabs and then suspended in glass. It is not art that is designed to please the eye. It is designed to affect you on a more primal level. The effect may be nausea, but the art will be preserved in the manner intended by the artist no matter how graphic. 
So, if its one of those days when "Memento" just sounds a little too heavy or you are afraid you'll fall asleep before the end of "Wings of the Dove" or you've seen "Office Space" one too many times, Troma is the solution. Get a bucket of popcorn, snuggle up 
-
Thursday, April 18, 2002

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS 
... 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Butler looks toward NBA career 
. Sophomore to announce decision to go pro today 
Associated Press 

Although Connecticut for­ward Caron Butler appears ready to declare himself eligi­ble for the NBA draft, his coach said Wednesday it's not 100 percent certain. 
"He wants one more night to sleep on it," Huskies coach Jim Calhoun said. 
Butler and Calhoun have scheduled a news conference for Thursday at 2 p.m at Gampel Pavilion on the Storrs campus. A news release said Butler "will address his future plans." 
WTNH-TV in Hartford and ESPN.corn reported Wednesday that Butler has decided to leave school after his sophomore season. 
Calhoun, who said he talked with Butler on Wednesday, agreed it is hard to ignore the mounting evidence that the 6­foot-8 forward was heading to the NBA. Calhoun said information he's received from NBA scouts is that Butler will most likely be a top 10 pick and that his draft position would not likely change much if he were to stay one more year. 
"He's probably one of the. most mature kids I've ever dealt with and he really enjoyed this year," Calhoun said. "He was having fun out there." 
Butler averaged 20.3 points and 7 .5 rebounds and led the Huskies (27 -7) to the Big East championship and the round of eight of the NCAA tourna­ment. He had a career-high 34 points in the second-round win over North Carolina State and then had 32 in the loss to eventual national champion Maryland in the East Regional final. 
The co-Big East Player of ment, Butler hinted that an NBA contract would be a big help to his family. 
"We came from basically nothing, we had to work for 

the Year, Butler emerged as the undisput­ed team leader as the Huskies went from failing to make the NCAA tour­nament last year to get­ting within 
"He's probably one ofthe most mature kids I've ever dealt with and he really enjoyed this year. " 
Jim Calhoun head coach 
everything we got," Butler said. "I paid my dues. Now it's time for me to start getting the rich end of the stick." 
The father of two chil­dren, the 22­

one game of the Final Four. yea r-old Butler spent the In an interview with WTNH weekend in his native Racine, before the Big East tourna-Wis., to help his son, Caron, 

celebrate his second birthday and to discuss his decision with his mother, Mattie Paden. 
If Butler is one of the top 13 picks in the June 26 draft, he would be guaranteed a three­year contract worth at least $3.9 million. 
Danyell Marshall, Ray Allen and Richard Hamilton all left Connecticut after their junior year and were first-round draft picks. 
Butler's success on the court belied a rough start in his hometown. Arrested 15 times before he was 15, Butler spent a year in jail for bringing a gun and cocaine to school. 
Freshman will leave for draft 
. Wagner departs after leading ligers to first NIT title 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
Freshman guard Dajuan Wagner, who led Memphis to the NIT championship last month, said Wednesday he will make himself eligible for the NBA draft. 
"This was a difficult decision; however my lifelong dream has been to play in the NBA and I am anxious to begin my profes­sional basketball career," Wagner said. "I am going to continue to attend classes and finish the semester, as I promised my mother that I would get my degree." 
The 6-foot-3 Wagner averaged 
21.2 points and shot 41 percent from the field this season. He also averaged 3.6 assists, 2.5 rebounds and 1.2 steals. Wagner was selected the MVP of the NIT, Memphis' first postsea­son basketball championship. 
Tigers coach John Calipari said he hates to see Wagner go, but supports him. 
"I agreed with Dajuan and his family," Calipari said. "Looking at all the factors involved, this is the time for this young man to take on all the challenges of the NBA. It was a wonderful experi­ence coaching Dajuan." 
Wagner, a projected lottery pick in the draft, was a high school sensation in Camden, N.J., averaging over 40 points and scoring 100 in a game as a senior. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Need 1 or 2 Grad tix Call Dave @  LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES·  5-Bedroom.5 min from campus.  I wish to thank all of you for your  
247-1148 Greatly Appreciated  TIONABLE AREA.  All the goodies ..  thoughfulness and your prayers. I  
WANTED  FOR RENT  NICE HOME NORTH OF ND  dancing-OKI  miss all  
BABYSITTER:wkdys/wnds.  2773097  Dave 291-2209  of you. Hope to see you in the fall.  
Must have a car-Granger home.  Sincerely. Mary  
Reliable businessman looking to  Call Laura 243-4776.  MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm- HOUSES FOR RENT:  SUMMER SUBLET  
rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home for 9 to 12 months or longer. ASAP. Gall Tim 574-250-8552. Lv. message if necessary. Looking for single Castle  FOR SALE 98 Honda Civic EX, 2-dr., auto,  rentals@aol.com MMMRentals.com OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking ... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air,  1) large (6-9 people) 2) medium (3-5 people) Call Bill at 532-1896. Upstairs apt., single person, no smoking/pets. All ulil.paid.  female to share 2 bdrm apmt, June and July, by ND, Emily 255· 6314 PERSONAL  Want to leave a note to your friends? Take out an Observer Classified. Stop by The Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall during normal . business hours.  
Point roommate coming summer  49k miles.  sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cot- Avail now or Fall 02.  
- and/or fall. Free high-speed DSL internet. cur• rently $323 per month + utils. Call 574.2n.9322 if interested. 99 ND grad seeks male to share spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. for 3-9 months, Great location & furnished. Gall George Carr at (773) 975-0563 or e-mail at George. E.Carr@us.andersen.com  All power, air, cassette+ 6 CD changer. $10,900 obo. Call Mark 631-7716 or email mshawcro@nd.edu Couch, loveseat, and recliner. $450 or best otter. Less than a year old. Perfect condition. 233-0360 Selling all household goods. Good quality & cheap. For info: 277-1379 after 12 pm daily.  tage..cute.. DAVE 291-2209 3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. ClA. Security system. Close to campus. 616-699-5841 Have a job in Chicago this summer? Rent my furnished bdr in awesome 3 bdr apt w/ND grad. Close to El & Wrigley. M/F. Call Kristin @ 773-388-2704  For info, call 574-255-1738. Close to ND. 3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE, ANDA DECK, WASHER & DRYER. CORNER OF EDDY AND HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF LOGAN CENTER. FREE KEG WITH RENTAL. Call Gary or Lynne 616-699-5841 HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03,  Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819 For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. ELECTRONIC DIGITAL PRINTING Black & White or Full Color at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Submit your work  Like Sports? Work for the Observer Sports Department. Call Chris Federico at 1-4543. The Observer's Scene section is looking for a pair of movie review• ers to collaborate on a bi-weekly column. If interested, call Spencer Beggs at 1-3043.  
~  SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFERENCES REOD CALL LYNN @ 616·849·7022  Toshiba Laptop 300Mhz 13.3" screen, 96MB, 4GigHD, Modem, Cd. Superb condition. $430OBO. E-mail dtlynchy@yahoo.com  Lrg lux 1-bdrm aptin historic home Garage. Must Seel Call Tammy(616)684-1049. 4&5 Bdrm, W&D, CLOSE. ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255­8403.  5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2 bath, central ale, washer & dryer, alarm system, call 773-486·8822. Two bedroom cottage 5 min from campus $325. Dave 291-2209  via email for details call: 574-631-COPY GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS & CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by local PGA professional. Call Dick at 276•9670.  Take out a birthday advertisement for your friends on their big day! Stop by the Observer Advertising office in the basement of South Dining Hall during normal business hours or call 1-6900. Check out The observer online at www.nd.edu/ ~observer  


Thursday, April 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Bonds home run not enough in loss 
• Klesko leads Padres in victory over Giants 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 

Ryan Klesko homered and drove in three runs as the San Diego Padres overcame an impressive homer by Barry 
Bonds  to  beat  the  San  
Francisco  Giants  5-3  
Wednesday night.  

The Padres were 7-2 on their opening homestand after a 1-5 start on the road, including a sweep at San Francisco April 5­
7. The Padres hadn't won a series against the Giants since also taking two of three from their division rivals at home Sept. 17-19, 1999. 
Bonds gave the Giants a 1-0 lead in the first inning with his eighth homer, a 442-foot shot that reached the second deck in right field at Qualcomm Stadium. Bonds is tied for the major league lead with Houston's Lance Berkman, who hit his eighth on Wednesday. 
After the Giants scored twice to close to 4-3 in the seventh, reliever Jeremy Fikac got Bonds to ground out to end the 
homer in the ninth in Monday night's 4-3 win. Benito Santiago had an RBI 
.................P.• •••••••••• e ••••• ti ............... -~, 

University Resources for Gay Lesbian & 
' ' 

Bisexual Students 
THE STANDING Co~MlrTEE ON GAY AND LESS IAN STUDENT NEEDS 
•

• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
• 

Lesbian Student Needs 
• (Confidential information, education, anc! iesourc..:;;) •
•

•0 Contact: Sr. Ml. Gude, CSC, 1-.5550, o;·student
•

• members (see web site for student contact info.) 
•
•

••• Office of Campus Ministry • 
("GLB Together" --confidential group meetings which inning with runners on first and second. 

Padres starter Kevin Jarvis (1-3) left after five innings with soreness in his right elbow. He allowed one run and three hits. 
Trevor Hoffman pitched the ninth for his sixth save in as many opportunities. It was the 320th of his career. 
Bonds homered on a 90-mph fastball from Jarvis. Coming in, the San Francisco star had been just 2-for-15 with no homers against Jarvis. 
It was the 33rd time in 34 major 1eague seasons in San Diego that a player homered into the second deck. It was the fourth time a player has hit one into the right-field second deck. which was added as part of an expansion in 1997. 
Bonds' 33 homers at the sta­dium are his most in any road ballpark, and his 65 lifetime homers against San Diego are his most against any team. 
The Giants' lead didn't last long, though, as Kurt Ainsworth (1-1) allowed four straight sin­gles opening the bottom of the first, including RBI hits by Phil Nevin and K.lesko. 
Klesko homered to right off Aaron Fultz in the fifth, his third. Nevin was aboard on his third straight single. 
Nevin was 7-for-12 with four RBIs in this series, including 4­for-5 with a game-winning 
double and Rich Aurilia an RBI single in the Giants' seventh. Tom Lampkin had an RBI sin­gle in the Padres' eighth. 
The Padres finally scored some runs for Jarvis, who got his first win in seven decisions against San Francisco. The Padres scored just one run in his first three starts, which 
included  shutout  losses at  
Arizona  and  against  Los  
Angeles.  

Ainsworth allowed two runs and six hits in four innings, struck out three and walked three. He was hit on the right arm by Ray 
Royals 16, Twins 4 
While Minnesota's starting pitching continued to struggle, the bullpen added its worst out­ing of the season and the Kansas City Royals beat the Twins for their most lopsided loss since 1994. 
Carlos Beltran broke open a close game with a three-run homer in the seventh inning and the Royals added nine runs in the eighth to break a three-game losing streak. 
Paul Byrd (3-0) pitched six innings, allowing three runs on homers by Bobby Kielty and David Ortiz in snapping the Twins' four-game winning streak. 
"We needed that, it was a big win tonight. I think we're learn­ing to forget (about losing three straight)," said Joe Randa, who 

: this year to a 5-6 record with a 
• 7.47 ERA. : "I didn't really get my groove : until the fourth inning. It was a 
: good ballgame until almost the 
•
• 
: 
•
•
• • 
" 
• 

drove in three runs. 
Byrd, who has three of Kansas City's five wins this sea­son, said: "The key today was our outfielders, tracking balls the way they were, diving the way they were. The effort out there, Kielty hits a home run and Beltran's climbing the wall like Spiderman." 
Beltran's first homer of the season made it 7-3. 
"That was the big hit, it start­ed it," Royals manager Tony Muser said. ''Those are the things that can happen in a baHgame that can change the emotion and the 
m o m e n -"A bad night, all around. lowed with a tum." grounder to first
We couldn't stop 
Beltran baseman Doug 
added a them . ... We got our butts Mientkiewicz. who sacrifice kicked, that's all I know." overthrew Cristian 
fly and Guzman at sec­R a u 1 ond. One out later, 
Ron Gardenhire

I b a n e 2 Beltran homered. 
s i n g I e d manager and hit a three-run double in the eighth. Brent Mayne ended the outburst with a flyout, bringing sarcastic applause from the crowd. 
"A bad night, all around," Twins manager Ron Gardenhire said. "We couldn't stop them.... We got our butts kicked, that's all I know." 
Brad Radke (2-1) has given up nine runs in 10 innings against the Royals this season. Minnesota's ace continued the latest trend for the Twins 
starters, who have struggled 
fr!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l'I 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone . 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1°7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 



~..~,.... OREAr WALL 
'J; 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant tor Seven Years in a Row Szechuan • Hunan -Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon -Fri 11 :30 -3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday • Thursday 11 :30 AM • 10:00 PM 
!. , . .• Sunday ~~;~ts:~:~~~1 ~3~~~~ ~::d:y 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 1 O 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 2n-7376 
end. We almost pulled it off after trailing 4-0," Radke said. 
Radke's troubles started in the first when Mike Sweeney hit an RBI single and Randa had a two-run double. He was pulled in the sixth after Randa drove in Michael Tucker with a single that made it 4-1. 
The Twins pulled to 4-3 in the sixth on Ortiz's two-run homer. Ortiz was in a 2-for-22 slump before hitting his fourth home run of the season. 
But Twins reliever LaTroy Hawkins got in trouble after walking Mayne to lead off the seventh. Chuck Knoblauch fol­
In the eighth, 
the Royals hit five 

consecutive sin­gles with one out off Bob Wells. Reliever Jack Cressend gave up an RBI double to Neifi Perez that made it 11-3, Beltran hit a sacrifice fly, Tucker had an RBI single and Ibanez doubled. 
While Byrd frustrated Minnesota with his solid pitch­ing, it was a pitch thrown by Cory Bailey in the bottom of the eighth that upset the Twins. 
With the Royals already ahead 16-3, Bailey's pitch just missed hitting Jacque Jones, creating a brief scPne. An angry Jones, who hit an opening day homer off Bailey, exchanged words with Mayne and players from both dugouts ran onto the field to separate the two. 
page 14 Thursday, April 18, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 

NFL 
49ers continue to build 
the two remaining spots. "There's this pool of players, 
. Team returns 20 
"Since I've been here, we and unless we do something.starters, signed 7 haven't been able to keep a we're going to be sitting there free agents team together," said coach eating a bagel while they're 
Steve Mariucci, who will return being selected," Donahue said. this fall for his sixth season. "If we could move back and get Associated Press "Ever since '97, we've been los-in this pool. we'd like that." ing players like crazy.... This The 49ers' last two drafts SANTA CIARA, Calif. time, we're able to keep this focused primarily on defense, 
With the San Francisco 49ers young team together so we can but San Francisco is interested back in their customary spot build it." in upgrading depth on its among NFL contenders. Terry That's why the 49ers aren't offense. Stone's signing obviat­Donahue and Bill Walsh have a terribly worried about the rela­ed the need for an offensive much different approach to the tively poor draft position they guard, so Donahue's first desire latest draft. · hold. San Francisco's first-on the line would be a left tack­
"Now, a draft pick is going to round selection is 27th in a le or a backup center. have to go through somebody draft in which Donahue can see San Francisco also hopes to to make this team," said only 20 bonafide first round­pick another tight end, al least Donahue, the first-year general caliber play­one line­manager who will get the final ers. backer and a say on Saturday's selections. W h a t ' s 'There's this pool of receiver. "In the past, that wasn't always more, the Several quali­
players, and unless we 
the case. They just had to show 49ers forfeit­ty wideouts
do something, we're
up. have a pulse, and they had ed their figure to be a pretty good chance of wear-third-round going to be sitting there available ing our uniform." pick for when the
eating a bagel while 
The 49ers rebuilt a large por-salary cap 49ers' first­
they're being selected." 
tion of a team mired in medioc-infr acti o n s round pick rity with outstanding selections committed by comes up, but in the past two drafts. the team's Donahue said
Terry Donahue 
They acquired seven full-time p r e v i o u s if the team
general manager
starters. everywhere from the management picks a receiv­first round (linebacker Julian regime five er, it won't Peterson and defensive end years ago. That's a concern to mean the end of J.J. Stokes' Andre Carter) and the seventh Donahue, who sees a large pool days with the Niners. round (tight end Eric Johnson). of capable players likely to be Overall, the 49ers are Several more picks and a few seJP,cted between the late sec­relieved to enter the draft with undrafted free agents were ond round and the fourth no dire needs. Their focus is on found to add depth. round. improving the young players 
That patient, judicious roster Donahue makes no secret of already in their locker room, management paid off last fall his desire to trade the Niners' not finding players to fill empty during San Francisco's 12-5 first-round pick to get more spots. season, in which the 49ers selections from that mid-draft "Being very careful and very returned to the playoffs. pool, but San Francisco doesn't thorough is important this year, Twenty starters return, with have much to offer. Three of its because we're drafting for the key free-agent signees Tony nine selections are compen­future," Mariucci said. "It's nice Parrish and Ron Stone filling satory picks that can't be dealt. to be in this position." 
Lions ink free agent wide receiver Ricks 
career.
Associated Press 
The San Diego Chargers 

drafted Ricks out of Stephen 
ALLEN PAHK, Mich. Austin in the second round of 
The Detroit Lions on the 1998 draft. He spent 2 1/2 Wednesday signed unrestricted seasons with the Chargers free agent tight end Mikhael before signing with the Kansas Ricks. City Chiefs in October 2000. 
Contract terms were undis­Hicks played in all 16 games closed. last season at tight end and on 
The 6-foot-5, 242-pound special teams for the Chiefs. He Ricks has 91 receptions for had 18 catches for 252 yards 1,166 yards and three touch­and one touchdown and downs in his four-year NFL blocked a punt for a safety. 
Re.::-~ 
Proud(yPresents 
The RecSpys 
Vote for your favorite candidates in the following categories: 
Undergraduate Female of the Year Undergraduate Male of the Year Grad/Fae/Staff Female of the Year Grad/Fae/Staff Male of the Year Game of the Year Team of the Year Fans of the Year 
Vote online April 22 through April 26 at: http://www.reesports.nd.edu/reespys 
ND AFTER FIVE 
Thursday, April 18  Friday, April 19  Saturday, April 20  
5:00 p.m. ND Women's Softball vs. Bowling  5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred  5:00 p.m. Saturday Vigil Mass, Basilica of  
Green, Ivy Fleld  Heart  the Sacred Heart  
5:00 p.m. RecSports Tennis Tournament,  5:30 p.m. -7:30 p.m. Spring Breakdown  6:00 p.m. Exhibition: ND Women's Soccer  
Courtney Tennis Courts (rain date April 19)  (Karaoke contest), South Quad  vs. Illinois, Alumni Field  
5:15 p.m. Daily Mass, Basilica of the Sacred  7:00 p.m. -10:00 p.m. Drop-In Badminton,  7:30 p.m. Performance: The Life of Galileo,  
Heart  Rolfs Sports Recreation Center  Washington Hall*  
7:00 p.m. Film: Apocalypse Now Redux,  7:00 p.m. MFA Creative Writing P~ogram  7:30 p.m. Movies: Black Hawk Down and  
Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium  Graduates Thesis Reading, Hesburgh Center  Lady and the Tramp, DeBartolo 101 and  
7:00 p.m. A Debate Between Republican  for International Studies Auditorium  155*  
Primary Candidates for The State House of  7:30 p.m. Movies: Black Hawk Down and Lady  8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool  
Representatives: James Ehrhard and Carl  and the Tramp, DeBartolo 101 and 155*  Room open, free billiards, Lafortune  
Baxmeyer, DeBartolo Hall 155  7:30 p.m. Performance: The Life of Galileo,  Student Center  
7:00 p.m. Book talk and signing, Ruthann  Washington Hall*  9:30 p.m. -1 :30 a.m. FASO Island Formal,  
Knechel Johansen, Hammes Bookstore  8:00 p.m. Trip to Hackers* (buses leave Main  Ballroom, Lafortune Student Center*  
7:30 p.m. Performance: The Life of Galileo,  Circle at 8:15 p.m.)  10:00 p.m. Comedy Doubleheader featuring  
Washington Hall*  8:00 p.m. Pat McGee Band, Stepan Center*  Adam Garrien and Laura Lifshitz, Reckers  
7:30 p.m. ND Brass Ensemble, Band  8:00 p.m. 807 Mass, Coleman-Morse Center  10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Open Karaoke,  
Building  Student Lounge  Lafortune Student Center Huddle  
7:30 p.m. Concert: Jiangnan Silk & Bamboo  8:30 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool Room  10:00 p.m. Movies: Black Hawk Down and  
Quartet, Eck Visitors' Center  open, free billiards, Lafortune Student  Lady and the Tramp, DeBartolo 101 and  
8:00 p.m. Performance: Lalo & LaChola,  Center  155*  
Together at Last, Annenbuerg Auditorium,  9:00 p.m. Crafting Corner: Earth Day Project,  10:00 p.m. -1 :00 a.m. Class of 2005 Late  
Snite Museum  LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room  Night Grill, Fieldhouse Mall  
8:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. Drop-In Lacrosse,  10:00 p.m. Movies: Black Hawk and Lady and  
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center  the Tramp, DeBartolo 101 and 155*  This ad is published by the Student  
9:00 p.m. -Midnight ND Express Pool  10:00 p.m. -1 :30 a.m. Tournament Fridays:  Activities Office. Programs are subject  
Room open, LaFortune Student Center  Euchre, Lafortune Student Center Notre  to change without notice. All programs  
9:00 p.m. Acousticafe, Lafortune Student  Dame Room  are free to Notre Dame students unless  
Center Huddle  marked by an asterisk (*),  
10:00 p.m. Movies: Black Hawk Down and  
Lady and the Tramp, DeBartolo 101 and  
155*  

FOR ~ORE IMFOR~ATIOM, VISIT: www.nd.edu/Nsao/ 
Thursday, April 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 · 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
inning, the Irish were able to get 13 batters to the plate and put nine runs on the board. After three inning-opening walks loaded the bases, Bushey hit a sin­gle to right, driving in Stanley. The next batter, O'Toole, smashed a towering grand slam to right-cen­ter field, extending the Irish lead to 8-1 and driving the Rockets' starting pitcher out of the game after just over two innings of work. 
"O'Toole's grand slam was a big blow for us; we were able to take control of the game right away," Mainieri said. 
After the pitching change, an error by Toledo, a single by Irish shortstop Javier Sanchez and a walk to Joe Thaman re-loaded the bases for Stanley, who lined a sin­gle to left, extending his hitting streak to 11 straight games and driving in another run for the Irish. and push the Irish lead to 10-1. 
The Rockets scored twice more in the top of the fourth, which chased Jones out of the game for the Irish. However. reliever Scott Bickford retired the first three batters he faced to end the inning. 

With such a big lead the Irish were able to play many of their non-starters. One such player, second baseman GeoIT Milsom, took full advantage of his playing time, notching the first hit of his career at Notre Dame -a two­run home run in the bottom of the eighth inning. 
"The more pitches I saw, the 
NBA 


better I felt," Milsom said. "After the couple of pitches that I took, I knew I was going to get a base hit, Ijust didn't realize it was going to go out." 
The Irish will play a critical three-game series at Seton Hall this weekend. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu. 
Warriors beat Clippers by 4 
Associated Pres, 
Trail Blazers 92, 

OAKLAND, Calif. Rockets 79 
Antawn Jamison scored a Damon Stoudamire got a season-high 35 points as warm ovation in his first the Golden State Warriors game since his drug case held off the Los Angeles became public. and the Clippers 107-103 on Portland Trail Blazers beat Wednesday night in the the Houston Rockets in an season finale for both otherwise forgettable regu­teams. lar-season finale. 
Jason Richardson added Stoudamire, whose felony 23 points as the Warriors case will be sent to a grand snapped a six-game losing jury by a county prosecu­streak. Gilbert Arenas tor. had eight points and added 19. three assists in 26 minutes. 
Golden State finished in a Steve Kerr added 16 points tie with Chicago for the for the Blazers. who will league's worst record, giv­play the Lakers in the first ing the teams equal round of the playoffs. chances -225 out of Kenny Thomas had 19 1,001 -to win the top pick points to lead the Rockets, in the NBA draft lottery. who were without Steve 
Corey Maggette scored Francis (right shoulder), 27 points for the Clippers, Cuttino Mobley (flu) and who lost for the 10th time Kevin Willis (sprained left in their last 13 games. JeIT wrist). Mcinnis added 22 points. 
T'wolves 104, Pistons 123, Bucks 89 Nuggets 90 
The Milwaukee Bucks Enough of this regular failed miserably in their season stuff. The last chance to clinch a Minnesota Timberwolves playoff spot, losing by 34 are craving for the playoffs points to the Detroit Pistons to start. as Ben Wallace all but Wally Szczerbiak scored locked up the rebounding 20 points in 23 minutes as title. the Timberwolves tuned up 
The blowout loss was the for the postseason with a final act in a dramatic meaningless victory over Milwaukee collapse, as the .the depleted Denver Bucks -who came within Nuggets. one game of going to the The Timberwolves. who NBA Finals last year -lost clinched the Western 16 of their final 22 games. Conference's fifth seed last 
With both Toronto and week, closed the regular Indiana winning season by winning eight of Wednesday night, the 12 and tied a franchise Bucks dropped into ninth' record with 50 wins. place in the conference. Minnesota will play the 
Dallas Mavericks in the 
first round. 
SuperSonics 109, 
Grizzlies 94 Pacers 103, 76ers 80
Desmond Mason scored 
When they couldn't33 points on 13-of-16 
afford to lose, the Indianashooting and Gary Payton Pacers put together a sea­
son-high winning streak toSuperSonics clinched the make it into the playoffs. 
No. 7 playoff berth in the 
Brad Miller scored 19
Western Conference with a 
points and Jermaine
victory over the Memphis 
O'Neal added 18 as the
Grizzlies. 
Indiana Pacers beat the
The Sonics (45-37) will 
Philadelphia 76ers, win­
open their best-of-five first­ning their fifth straight and
round series Saturday at clinching eighth place in
Midwest Division champion the Eastern Conference. 
San Antonio (58-24). The The Pacers needed a vic­
teams split four regular­
tory and a loss by eitherseason games. 
Milwaukee or Toronto toThe Grizzlies (23-59) make the playoffs. Toronto
were led by Stromile 
won, but the Bucks lost to
Swift's career-high 31 
Detroit. By the time thepoints. Memphis' Paul Bucks score was posted,Gasol, the l~ading candi­
the Pacers held a 15-pointdate for NBA Rookie of the 
lead.
Year with a 17.6 scoring 

Indiana will play No. 1 ­
average coming into the 
seed New Jersey. The Netsgame, had 13 and shot just 
went 3-1 against the3-for-10 from the free 
Pacers this season.
throw line. 

page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 18, 2002 


-
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 


Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Senior Retreat #7 
April 19-20 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
NDE Retreat #71 
April 19-21 Fatima Retreat Center 

RCIA-Mystagogia 
10:00 a.rn. 
330 Coleman-Morse Center 
The Way Bible Study
•
8:30 p.m. 
331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. 
Fisher Hall Chapel 
Rsdav 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 
114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D' Alonzo, csc, Director 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m. · 11 :00 p.m. 
Fisher Hall Chapel 


~.--Chedule 
¦ Basllica ol lbe Sacred Heart 
Saturday, April 20 
5:00p.m. 

Rev. Peter A. Jarret, c.s.c. 
Sunday, April 21 
10:00a.m. 

Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 

Rev. Peter A. Jarret, c.s.c. 
¦ Around campus 
Sunday, April 21 Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law Schpol Mass 
5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 

7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Chapel 
Further Reflections on the Church Scandals 
Signs of Hope 
¦ by Fr. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Counselor to the President & Director, Campus Ministry 
Just before the ordination to the priesthood of four young Holy Cross priests on Saturday of Easter Week in the Basilica of the Sacred Heare, and in the midst of the unprecedented and negative publicity against the Catholic Church, several hundred priests and several bishops, I tried to ac­knowledge that the actions of priests who violated their vows by sexually abusing minors was sinful and a betrayal of a sacred trust, and the actions of the Church authorities who covered up these abuses, through transfers or other means, were simply wrong and completely unjustified. 
Now, on the eve of Pope John Paul Il's all but unprecedented summoning of the U.S.cardinals and the president and vice president ofthe United States Conference ofCatholic Bishops, to gather in Rome for a two day meeting to begin next Tuesday, I would like to share further reflections on this crisis with you. 
Many ofthe cases ofsexual abuse ofminors which appear daily in the secular press, occurred from 20 to 70 years ago. This time frame predates your birth at the very least, and your grandparents' birth at the extreme! Yet the stories appear in the newspapers, especially The Boston Globe, where the crisis began three months ago, and The New York Times, on a daily basis. Sometimes the coverage includes a full page or more; sometimes slightly less. The current crisis is, in part, media-driven. Indeed, one can legitimately claim that the Catholic Church in the United States (not the "American 
Catholic Church") is as weak and vulnerable as it has been perhaps for scores of years.
We know what an incredible 
Yet at another level, judging from the example and privilege it is to offer the sacrifice the lives of Notre Dame undergraduate students, there has never been a group ofyoung people as committed to
of the Mass. And at Notre Dame, 
the faith as there is now on our Campus. Notre Dame we know what a thrill it is to offer undergraduate students today are as intelligent and as talented as ever before. But, at the same time, there has 
Mass for and with you, the Notre 
rarely been a more fervently religious group of young Dame undergraduates, whether men and women than you. You practice your religion with intensity and deep feeling; and you serve others on an unprec­
in the Basilica or a hall, on a 
edented scale, both during your undergraduate years and in the years following graduation. 
retreat or in a locker room, on an 
Young Notre Dame alumni serve when they leave Campus to 
extraordinary day like Freshman 
continue the satisfying religious experience they enjoyed while at Notre Dame. Often they continue the search until they find a wor­
Orientation, JPW or 
shiping community where they feel both welcome and well-served Commencement or on a quiet through beautiful liturgies, meaningful homilies, many opportuni­ties for service and a community of believers that sustains and nour­
Thursday night in the dorm. 
ishes them. Many Notre Dame faculty members serve as your mentors and guides, in the intellectual and religious spheres. They teach you to think critically and to assist you in your efforts to believe without reserve. 
Many commentators claim that the current crisis and scandal is due to celibacy. Yet it is clear that despite the all-too-public and all-too-publicized sins of a relatively few priests, tens of thousands of others have served the Church and the people they love well. We are sinful men, but so often at the end of the day, we are incredibly grateful to God for the grace ofbeing called to serve God's people as priests. It is hard sometimes, not to feel even for just a fleeting moment some type of"guilt by association." But that does not happen too often, and it never lasts more than a second. 
For as priests, we know who we are. We know our strengths and our weaknesses. We know who we have been called by Jesus Christ to be and to become. We know the joy of brotherhood in the Congregation of the Holy Cross. We know too many astounding moments in our lives when we have been an instrument of God's grace for others. We know from first hand experience how humbling it is to hear a confession, and to encourage a penitent well on the way to holiness to continue to strive to grow in God's love and grace, because we, too, know how essential it is for us to be willing again and again to recommit ourselves to God through the Church and the Church's sacramental ministry. 
We know what an incredible privilege it is to offer the sacrifice of the Mass. And at Notre Dame, we know what a thrill it is to offer Mass for and with you, the Notre Dame undergraduates, whether in the Basilica or a hall, on a retreat or in a locker room, on an extraordinary day like Freshman Orientation, JPW or Commence­ment or on a quiet Thursday night in the dorm. 
I pray for current and former priests in the Catholic Church in Boston and everywhere else, who have brought the Catholic Church in the United States to such a terrible moment ofscandal and horror. I pray, too, for the victims of their sinfulness. 
But I know and believe with all my heart that the Catholic Church, in the United States and throughout the world, today and until the end of time, is the instrument of God's salvation for all people of all cultures, and tongues and moments, through the life, death and resurrection ofJesus Christ.· 
And I know and believe with all my heart that the ministry of the Church is entrusted to all Caµiolic believers, priests and faithful alike, each according to the call they have received, to continue the mission ofJesus Christ and His ministry until the end of time. 
I am confident that out ofthe current moment ofcrisis and horror, the Catholic Church in the United States and the priesthood, will emerge renewed through a crucible ofpain and error to a moment ofnew faith, strength, hope and trustworthiness before God and for all God's people through the instrumentality of the Church. 
¦ ·Sunday's Scripture Readings 1st Rdg Acts 2:14a, 36-41 2nd Rdg 1 Pt 2:2ob-25 Gospel John 10:1-10 


Thursday, April 18, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
THE COLLEGE 
di.I
Summer Program 
Pit. REPUBLICANS ~ 
Assistant 
are hosting: 
The Student Activities Office will be hiring a Program Assistants for the Summer 2002 semester. 
A Debate Between Republican 
Program Assistants responsibilities include: 
Primary Candidates For The 
Assist in the planning and implementation of Student 
State House of Representatives: 
Activities sponsored events, including ticket sales, facility setup and clean up and more. Some events you 
James Ehrhard and Carl Baxmeyer 
might be working with include our summer music series, summer movie series, tournaments, bus trips and more. Assist in office projects and other duties as assigned. 
This position is a stipend position and requires 5-10 hours per week (primarily 8:00am -5:00pm but will include some 
Today Thursday, April 181h night and weekend hours). Applications are available out­
7:00-8:00 PM side the Student Activities Office located at 315 LaFortune. 
155 DeBartoio Hall 
For more information contact Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631-7308. 
j 

AT C~AFTIN(; CO~NE~ THIS F~IDAY 

FR,EE! 


~ri~~Y, April 1~'1­9 p~ -11 Pt" l~~2r\UNE: 022(E:y R22~ 


Sponsored by Student Activities For more information call I-7308 
Warn Soukup at Mr President 414. 
-------------------.-----------------.score 6-0.
"I am just seeing it [the ball] really good," said Loman, who also hit two home runs as a freshman on March 17, 2000. "It's really big coming in there. I'm just trying to keep my eye on it and take it for a ride." 
In the bottom of the fourth, the Irish sent 10 bat­ters to the plate and added six more runs to their 8-1 
Now Hiring a 
SOFTBALL 

Irish bounce back, pound Indiana State 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 

Losing Sunday for the first time in almost a month reminded the Notre Dame softball team that it is not perfect. But behind a powerful offense Wednesday, the Irish returned to the win column with two dominating victories. 
Led by Andrea Loman's two home runs, Notre Dame swept a doubleheader against Indiana State, 14-1 and 11-2. 
Suffering its first loss in 15 games to Syracuse made the Irish re-evaluate their approach for their game against Indiana State. 
"I think they needed a couple of days to figure it out. and they did," head coach Deanna Gumpf said. "They came back here and gave everything they had, and they did a much better job getting after it." 
In the doubleheader, Loman went three for four, scored five runs. drove in five and hit two home runs. After Sunday's 3-0 loss to Syracuse, the Irish came out v,ith a different attitude. 
"We know that we can be beat, just like anybody else," said Loman, who played first base for an injured Lisa Mattison. "We get in that winning mode and get after it. I think it was really important, just to put things into per­spective, to come out and get two big wins today," 
Up 1-0 in the bottom of the second, the Irish batted around and scored five times, all with two outs. After a Carrie Wisen double and Annie Dell'Aria single, center fielder Jenny Kriech brought them home \,ith a single to left. 
Kriech scored on a Megan Ciolli single to make the score 4-0. Loman came to the plate and sent the first pitch to center field making the 
advantage. Loman drew a lead-off walk and scored on catcher Jarrah Myers' home run, her sixth of the season. Jessica Sharron singled with one out in her first at-bat of the season. 
With two outs, Dell'Aria singled and Sharron scored on Kriech's double to left. Ciolli drove in two more runners with a single to center and made the score 14-1. 
Wisen and Sharron combined to allow only one hit in Game 1. 
Loman took no time putting the Irish on the board in Game 2. The Sycamores scored a run in the top of the first but Loman put the Irish ahead 2-1 with her second home run of the day. 
"She's [Loman] a great player," Gumpf said. "You want to take her wherever you go." 
Tied 2-2 in the bottom of the third, Notre Dame broke the game open. Kriech and Ciolli singled to right, and Loman walked to load the bases. Myers drew a bases-loaded walk to make the game 3-2. 
Shortstop Andria Bledsoe brought Ciolli home with a sacrifice fly. Loman scored on a wild pitch, extending the lead to 5-2. Wisen singled home Myers to make the game 6-2. 
After Nicole deFau reached on an error, Dell'Aria hit a sacrifice fly to cen­ter to score Wisen. Second baseman Alexis Madrid's single to center scored 
deFau and made the game 8-2. 
"They [Irish hitters] hit the ball. They hit it well," Gumpf said. "This is the kind of day where they can play with them or they can play above them. 
They did a great job of playing above them." 
Wisen (10-4) went· the distance for the Irish. In the doubleheader, the freshman threw eight innings, gave up two runs and two hits and struck out five. 
Mattison and left fielder Liz Hartmann both sat out Wednesday's doubleheader but are expected to play in the game on today against Bowling Green. The Falcons are 14-20-1 on the season and 5­9 in Mid-American Conference action. 
Shortstop Libby Voshell leads Bowling Green with a .330 batting average, 18 RBIs and 13 doubles. Left fielder Kandice Machain is first on the team with 35 hits and is second with 14 runs scored. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. 
Thursday, April 18, 2002
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 

tilCO CASARES/The Observer 
Irish coach Trent Miles instructs his players during a recent practice. Miles met fellow coach Trent Walters 25 years ago. 
srG u~SulE 




16 Inch 2 Topping "Big E" Pizza $8.99! 
Hurry........Limited time onlyf 

Visa & Maste.rcard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood [Next to SUBWAY] 
To ALL THE DONORS FOR THE 2002 MCGLINN HALL CASINO NIGHT 


Beacon Bowl Martin's Supermarket 
Shear Phazes Atria Salon Papa Vino's Warren Golf Course Pro­Shop C'J's Pub Rocco's Restaurant Bruno's Pizza North Lula's Cafe bw-3's 

Hammes ND Bookstore Office Max Cafe de Grasta Action Park Paintball The Copy Shop Tippecanoe Place Wings, etc. Hacienda Reeker's AP Image Irish Gardens Papa John's Borders 
Coaches 
continued from page 20 
in." 
Although Walters coached at Indiana State for eight years. he left in 1980 -two years before Miles joined the Hoosiers as a wide receiver. 
Now the two are coaching against each other, helping to incorporate the new West Coast-type offense into the Notre Dame game plan. With that sort of close contact every day at practice. they've begun to have a solid work­ing relationship that expands 
far  beyond  that  casual  
remembrance of a  football  
camp.  

"This is the first time we've actually coached together. I've known him but I can't say I really knew him," Miles said. ''I'd say we've got a really good relationship con­sidering he·s [defensive backs! and I'm recefvers and we're always working against each other." 
Walters has a slightly dif­ferent lake on the relation­ship. 
"I hate his guts," he said Tuesday after practice. Then 
The Unlwrslty Df Not19 0.ma OepartllMfll of Mlllk Pretanta 
Seunghee Cee, violin Kimberly Schmidt, piano 

Perform11t9 woflu by Schubert. lartok, Blach and Fr•nck 
Jriday, April 19, 2002 ~:30 pm, t'lnnenberg Auditorium Snlte }Vluseum ofArt 
free and open to the public 

he laughed and added, "No. we have a great time." 
Coaching against each other offers more than just a chancP-for their players to have some competition. The two men use that opportunity to improve their own coach­ing as well, but they make sure they don't take that competition home with them. 
"It's fun. it's exciting. We challenge each other a lot. It's a challenge," Miles said. "No [we don't compete off the field]. It's a good challenge." 
Twenty-five years after they first met, the two seem to have one thing in common now that they didn't have in common back then -their 
respect for head coach Tyrone Willingham. Both cited him as the main reason for coming to coach for the Irish. 
And now they both face one problem working for Willingham, a question they have to answer every day. Who exactly is Willingham talking to'? 
"Every time Ty or someone calls Trent we both look. we look at each other first and then we look to see who he's talking to," Miles said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 


Looking for a safe place to store your "stuff' during the summer? We have just what you need! 
5 x 5 to 15 x 30 size units Available NOW! 
15 Minutes from the Golden Dome! From ND Campus go east 8.8 miles on Douglas Road to dead end, then go north 1. 7 miles on Ash Road. Located directly across from Discovery Middle School 
24 -Hour Digital Surveillance Cameras With Keypad Entry 
52336 Ash Road ~ Gran2er, IN 46530 
t1otre Dame SoftlJa// 
DORm WHRS!! 
Thursday, Apr. 18 @ 3:00pm ND vs. Bow ling Green 
*1st 150 fans receive a FREE ND stadium cup and a coupon for a FREE spaghetti dinner from 
Dorm Wars Rules: 
Brother/Sister dorms will compete with each 
other against other dorms to earn: *free catered dinner for winning donns from 
fazoli's 

*S1 00 cash for dorm accounts courtesy of 
Student Hctiuities *Recognition in the Obseruer *Bragging Rights ouer all other dorms 
Thursday, April 18, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
THE HIGH .STAKES VNDERWORlD Of 
BOOK.STORE BASKETBALL GAMB 

FOXTROT 
TOM KEELEY 
IT'S A LOT UKE flu.ING OVT AN NCAA BRACKET. EXCEPT INSTEAO Of TAKING THE TEAM THAT MATCHES UP THE 6EST, YOU PIO: THE TEAM LEAST LlKaY TO SHOW Uf> WASTEO 
BILL AMEND 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
I J"* ~Vo\e. bee 

~~"' +lJ f%(t·9" o~ l,e.\dP.D. Lw> 'fi1 klie.ve. +kere. 1u~so. 
h..,,_e.-wke." +k!­
RYAN 
CUNNINGHAM 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 With 61-Across, river of Quebec 
1 Sachet scent 26 Snake's sound 
6 Resting place 27 Michelangelo10 Harbinger 
sculpture 14 Pitcher Hideki 
29 Snorkeling areas 15 Epps of "The 31 Dust collector? Mod Squad," 
32 Court fig.

1999 
34 Oversupply16 De_ (from 
35 Corinth cartoonthe start) 

character? 17 Top of the 
39 Imploredmilitary? 

40 Aries assent 

18 They may make 41 10th, 20th, 30th, great etc., in N.Y.C.
comebacks 42 West Wing 
20 Aylesbury workersactress? 
44 Spud22 Majors on TV 

46 Self-titled 2001 23 Vacation time in #1 album Valois 
49 Loan-making 24 Nutritional stat org. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
E A s T ..,;.+-,+.,...+-::,+.,,,. A B 
R U L E 
E G A N 

50 Is down with 52 AC. stat 53 Muffin material 54 Pamplona 
playwright? 58 _ Day (Holy Thursday} 59 Publisher _ 
Nast 60 Essential 61 See 25-Across 62 "Lou Granr star 63 Bookie's 
concern 64 First to vote 65 Converges on 
DOWN 
1 Puts down 2 Dunne and Ryan 
3 Certain soft drink buys 4 1960's-70's 
steelworkers' 
chief 5 Attractive one 6 Long-tailed finch 7 Pass over 
8 Sports car since 
1926 

9 Challah, e.g. 10 Storybook beginning 11 In a sulky way 
13 Most curious U C O N E R I L E 19 Fruit spray G O R O D S E E R 21 Ripped 

Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gorski 28 Sly's "Rocky" 46 Title girl in a co-star 1983 Kool & the 30 Inflatable things Gang hit 31 Elio!'s "Adam 47 Storage room 
48 Frisky critters 

33 Idiot boxes 35 Saw 
51 Analyze 36 Embarrassed 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
TIIIS DAY: Rick Moranis, Hayley l'vlills, Conan O'Brien 
Happy Birthday: Social activi­ties will be plentiful this year. Expect your creative abilities to surface. Plan a special vacation this year. You can make money through investments but don't take financial risks. You will be con­cerned about your health and well­being especially if you have been working long hours. Lifestyle changes may be necessary. Your numbers are 9, 12,. 18, 'ZJ, 36, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Things may not run smoothly at home today. You may take things the wrong way or overreact to what is going on around you. Back up and try to staycalm. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You will be in an entertaining and social mood today. Pleasure trips will enhance love and romance. Catch up on correspondence or visit people that you don't get to see often. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Opportunities are apparent If you give yourself a chance. You must have a greater belief in your poten­tial. Attend a seminar that will boostyourconfidence.000 
CANCER (June Zl-July 22): 
Don't get involved with govern­
55 Beatty and 
ment agencies today unless you
Rorem 
are prepared to put up with the frustrations that you will
56 "The Best Little 
encounter. Focus on family matters 
Whorehouse in 
and creative projects for best 
Texas" woman 
results. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will
57 Thoroughly wet, 
have to keep your intentions a 
with "down" 
secret today. If you let too many people in on what you are doing 
you stand to face competition.

37 Upstage 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are 
Work on home-improvement proj­

38 Ancient Italian 
ects or investments. 000
available by touch-tone phone: 

39 Pal 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): You will have a lot to offer an intellectu­al group that you join. Be careful not to give too much of your time or money. You can meet some interesting people today if you aren't too shy. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can expect to encounter problems at home. Someone you live wjth will be unpredictable. Problems with your house must be taken care of immediately. Things will cost more than you anticipate. Get a second opinion. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have a greater interest in cultural differences and tradition. You should take a look at your family tree. It may help you under­stand your family and your past a little better. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (NO',( 22-Dec. 21): 
You will be able to take advantage of a great deal today. Your ability to know what will work will help you make the right decisions. Don't let a partner take advantage of your good nature. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be in the mood for love and romance. If you are too pushy you may not be well received. Talk to someone you respect in order to get some sound advice. 000 
AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make career changes if you want. An apprenticeship will help you raise your earning poten­tial Leaming new skills will lead to an exciting change of scene. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Your creative ability will be at an all-time high and should be put to good use. Social events will bring you in contact with interesting peo­p le. You can make physical changes that will enhance your appearance. 00000 
Birthday Baby: You will need to be allowed the freedom to come and
43 Clamber up Annual subscriptions are available for the 
go as you please. Your beliefs will play an important role in your life. You 
45 Steakhouse best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
will be insightful and therefore will know instinctively what is required of orders years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
you. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) © 2002 Univer.;aJ Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
-------------------~-------------------------------------~---------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
,-----------------------------------------------------------------­
Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Softball, p. 17 
. NFL, p. 14 
. 
MLB, p. 13 

. 
NCAA Basketball, p. 12



PORTS 
Thursday, April 18, 2002 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Ballers get bounced 

. Four Gaijins and a Guido advance with 21-12 victory 
By TIM McKENZIE 
Spores Wrirer 
There was nothing clean 

about the 21-12 second-round 
Bookstore Basketball victory by 
the Four Gaijins and a Guido 
against Naughty Ballers. 
The game promised to be one 

of the more interesting of the 
afternoon. as from the opening 
tip-off, the squad of Naughty 
Ballers from Cavanaugh Hall 
resorted to its "secret 
weapons" to combat the Four 
Gaijins and a Guido. 
In addition to a tenacious 

defense, the Ballers squad, 
comprised of Kristen Lesesky, 
Susan Riley, Emily Lorenz, 
Angela Lyzinski and Angela 
DeBruno, pulled out water pis­
tols and silly string bottles 
from their T-shirts to distract 
the Gaijins' offense by spraying 
them in the face as they shot. 
The Ballers' cheering section 

followed suit by thoroughly 
dousing the Gaijins from the 
sidelines with handfuls of 
water balloons. 
"It was really a group effort," said Lyzinski. 
"We wanted to bring a sur­prise attack," said Riley. "We think it definitely caught them off guard." 
Undeterred, the Gaijins con­

•tin ued the game in a fun 
atmosphere. The Gaijins, a team of four friends who'd studied in Nagano, Japan, was made up of students Grant Kreizenbeck. Paul DeJarnatt. Kris Zemlyak. Chas Grundy and their name­sake, Guido DiStefano. 
They didn't disappoint with their antics either, attempting to play without their hands. 
"We wanted to even the game up," said DeJarnatt. "When that wasn't enough, we started playing on just one foot." 
Although the game quickly degenerated into a comedic routine, with the Gaijins inter­mittently dribbling the ball with their foreheads and the Naughty Ballers spraying them in the face with silly string, the Gaijins emerged victorious, though soaking wet. 
"It was a very fun game. They were great to play against and it was really sportsmanlike," DeJ arnatt said. 
Another ranked team fell vic­tim to the upset bug Wednesday, as unranked Soggy Pillow Sandwich beat No. 12 Team Boat Club 21-15. 
Soggy Pillow Sandwich got a boost in its win from the addi­tion of former Irish tailback Tony Fisher. Sandwich attrib­uted its victory to a solid game plan that allowed it to pull an upset on the taller Boat Club squad. 
Contact Tim McKenzie at tmckenz@nd.edu. 
BASEBALL 

Grand slam leads Irish past Rockets 
By BRYAN KRONK Sports Writer• 
The Notre Dame baseball team finished its 14-game homestand in grand style, as the Irish over­powered the outmatched Rockets ofToledo, 15-4. 
"It was a good offensive day for the Irish tonight; we got some big hits early," head coach Paul Mainieri said. "(It was] a good overall win for us." 
The Irish finished their homes­tand with a 12-2 record and have won 15 of their last 17 games dat­ing back to the end of March. 
The Irish opened the scoring with three quick nm.s in the bot­tom of the first inning. Center fielder Steve Stanley led off the inning with a walk. Two batters later, Brian Stavisky hit a double to left field, advancing Stanley to third. Andrew Bu'lhey then tripled down the right field line, scoring Stavisky and Stanley and setting up a sacrifice fly by Paul O'Toole which put the Irish ahead early, 3-0. 

Notre Dame freshman pitcher Tyler Jones, in his first career start in an Irish uniform, got into a jam in the third inning when he issued two walks to Toledo hit­ters, before giving up an RBI sin­gle which cut the Irish lead to 3-1. 
Then the floodgates opened. 
In the bottom of the third 
see BASEBALL/page! 5 
FOOTBALL 

Coaches meet again 
~ Miles, Walters met each other 25 years ago 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Spores Et!iror 
Many years ago on a prac­tice field at Indiana University, a relationship began that was recently rekindled. A 13-year old boy made a discovery that day, a discovery he still remembers -someone else had his name. 
When Notre Dame receivers coach Trent Miles went to football camp at Indiana University, he found, the only other person he had 
met at that point in his life whose name was Trent. And now, 25 years later, he is coaching with that other Trent -Notre Dame sec­ondary coach Trent Walters. 
"It was kind of funny that he was the only person I met at that point whose name was Trent," Miles said. 
Although Miles was a wide receiver by the time he hit Indiana State for college, grade school football camp didn't make those distinc­tions and he got to spend part of his day with current colleague Walters, who Miles said is a class act all the way. 
After joining Walters in the coaching profession, the two would remember that camp. 
''I'd say, "Hey you, remem­ber me?" and we'd laugh about it," Miles said. "Now that we're working together it's ironic." 

Walters remembers a little bit about the boy who came to football camp 25 years ago. But bringing it tu his attention reminds him of something else too -the age different between he and Miles. 
''I'm sorry he has to bring that up 'cause it kind of dates me by saying that," Walters said. "But it was a great experience. Now, barely remember it but I do remember the time when he came in." 
see COACHES / page 18 




. Softball vs. Bowling Green,today, 3 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Baseball at Seton Hall, Saturday, noon 
onUne 

. Women's Lacrosse at Georgetown, Saturday, noon 
. Men's Lacrosse vs. Fairfield, Sunday, 1 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/~observer 






