
Thursday,., October 17, 2002 
Mens soccer 

beats MSU 
page 19 The Independent Ne:wspaper Serving Notre Danie and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXVIII NO. 38 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Administration r.einstates the Irish Guard 
. Guardsmen permitted to perform, but with strict stipulations on their behavior 

By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
As,iscanr News Editor 
The University reinstated thn Irish Guard Tuesday and it will perform at Saturday's Nutre Dame-Florida State game, school officials said. 
The Guard met with Father Mark Poorman, vice presi­den L for Student Affairs, Tuesday to discuss their lackluster behavior at the Oct. 5 Notre Dame-Stanford football game. 
"Father Poorman met with them last night," said Matt Storin. associate vice presi­dent for n e w s 
"We are pleased to be rein­stated. I didn't really know what to expect, but I went in there with an open mind to hear what the administra­tion had to say." 
The stipulations placed on 

the Guard are specific to this inci­dent and year. Raih, Storin and D a v i d M o s s • 
assistant vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, declined to comment on the specifics of 

"We have certain standards for our performing groups and, in particular, for those who are performing publicly for the University." 
David Moss assistant vice president for Student Affairs 
the stipulations. Moss said the high stan­
dards for the Guard, along with the Band, will be main­


a n d "They were given tained. infor­stipulations for their "We have cer­
mation. tain standards for
behavior for the
"They our performing w e r e remainder ofthe year. " groups and in g i v e n particular for stipula­those who are
Matt Storin 
tions for performing pub-associate vice president for news 1 i cly fO r the
t h c i r behav­and information University," said ior for Moss. 
the remainder of the year. Moss declined to This was well received by comment on whether the the Guard." University would be further Guardsman John Raih said, exploring consequences for 
the Guard. 
ESPN's SportsCenter and NBC showed guardsmen sleeping and looking bored. An NBC commentator said, during the second quarter when Stanford led 7-0. 
"Well, when three of your offensive pos­sessions have netted nega­tive yardage, this is what happens to your fans." 
Footage then showed senior Guard member Tom McGinty and an unidentifi­a b I e Guardsman 
sleeping on the sidelines. Band members claimed other Guardsmen slept dur­ing the game. 
The University then sus­pended the Guard from Saturday's Notre Dame­Pittsburgh game. 
The University disbanded the Guard in 1986 and 1992 due to alcohol violations. The Guard protects the band and cheers on the sidelines during games and is known for its mystique and tradi­tion. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes1@nd.edu 


ALUMNI SPOOK·TACULAR SPIRIT


Officers elected to freshman council 
each position followed 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
speeches made by the candi­
News Wrirer 
dates. Speeches included music from Ben Folds Five, The Freshman Class the Notre Dame Victory Council elected their presi­March and a self-composed dent, vice-president, secre­rap song. Run-off elections 
tary and treasurer occurred for the positions of Wednesday. president and vice president. Dave Baron. Morrissey Hall In her speech, Ditzler said, representa-"I am orga­tive, Kate nized and
"/ will go out ofmy way
Diztler, reliable. I Pasquerilla to incorporate and commit East resident, myself to
involve everyone and get
Anna Skoir,r, everything
done what people want."
Lewis Ilall 
I do. I will resident. and work hard, .lames Leito, Kate Ditzler not only for Siegfried Hall 
freshman class council president this coun­
resident, won cil, bur for the four our entire respective offices. class. I will go out of my way 
"I am extremely proud to to incorporate and involve be a part of this Student everyone and get done what Council All-Star Team," people want." Buron said. "I think that this Each of the 27 residence 
group and our class as a halls elected one representa­
whole have the ability to tive to the Class of 2006 become something very council in early September. impressive and influential. The council held several 
It's up to us now to take the meetings to plan social first few steps." Individual elections for sec OFFICERS/page 3 

page 2 The Observer .. WHAT'S UP Thursday, October 17, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Guarded napping 
Everybody needs a good nap now and then. 
Babies need their sleep, third-shifters love that extra hour ofZ's and the French love l.o drift o.lfto sleep when the fute of their country is at 
stake. I personally prefer to doze off right after a hard­fought round of foot­ball video games because my thumbs just aren't quite the 
same. 
So don't be too 


rough on some members of the Irish Andrew Soukup Guard for hitting the snooze button in the 
Assistant
front row of the 
Managing
band at a home foot­
Editor
ball game against Stanford on national television. Guards­men were probably just a little sleepy and had to rest up for their rigorous halftime perfonnance. Apparently, their show was so good, ad.idac; wants to create a special line of underwear modeled after the brand the Guard wears while in uniform. 
Look what happened the last time a Noire Dame official fell asleep on the job. George O'Leary got hired. lie still hasn't lost a game at Notre Dame. 
So don't blame the Guardsmen for want­ing to sleep. They've got a tough weekend. It starts around four o'clock Friday after­noon, where tradition demands the Guardsmen rid the world of 40-ounce bot­tles before standing for an entire pep rally. Then they're expected to party until a red haze creeps over the South Bend sky or until they forget their name, whichever happens last. 
The next morning, on a mere two or three hours of sleep, the Guardsmen have to get up and lead the band arotmd cam­pus. So after marching from bed to toilet, they have to march from the Stadium to Bond Hall. Excuse them if they're tired by kickoff. 
And that's just on a normal Saturday. Did you see the first half against Stanford? \'Vhile Notre Dame's offense was busy giv­ing Joey Hildbold little time to rest, fans kept waiting for Al Gore to walk out of the tunnel and do the Macarena to liven things up. 
Sadly, Notre Dame missed a golden opportunity to establish a new tradition. The administration, which prefers chang­ing tradition to changing underwear, could pass seat cushions to the Guard since the metal chairs make it hard to sleep. 
Then the bookstore could get in on the act and make Kelly-green pillows for fans to use when Notre Dame's offense is on the field. And you thought The Shirt was the most popular thing the bookstore could sell. 
Apparently, this isn't the first time mem­bers of the Guard have dozed off during a game. Yes, they have bad seats, and yffi, they're exhausted from living up to tradi­tion earlier in the day. But after they were caught rolling their heads on television, heads started rolling inside the Dome and Notre Dame suspended the Guard for a game. 
The Guard will be back in uniform when the band travels to Florida State next weekend, but has certain performance standards that nobody wants to discuss. Supposedly, that means the Guard will have to stay awake the entire game and won't be able to rest up -after a morning of fulfilling tradition -for its halftime per­formance. 
Talk about giving "stagger-step" new 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­,ion and strives for the highest stand:uds of journal­ism at all times. We do, however; recognize that we will make mistakes Ifwe have made a mistake, plea.e contacc us at 6 31-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC lecturer to talk on edu­
cation 
Suellen Reed, 
ndiana Superintendent of Public Instruction, will speak today at Saint Mary's as part of her tour of northern Indiana. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
N. Korea has secret nuclear program 
North Korea admitted to a the existence of a nuclear weapon program in viola­tion of a 1994 
agreement. 


page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING@ NO 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Anderson given probation 
The accounting firm was fined $500,000 and put on probation for five years. 
page 7 
C-103, 4:15 p.m. . 
. Concert: Traje Nuevo, Hesburgh Center for Studies, 7 p.m. 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
VIEWPOINT 
Students respond to Viewpoint rant 
Multiple readers respond to McCarthy and Fitzpatrick's letter which claimed Notre Dame lacked patriotism. 
page 11 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Individual assaulted at the circle 
NDSP is investigating an assault at Moose Krause Circle on Saturday. 
!\{ultiple alcohol violations 


issued 
Indiana State Excise Police issued a state citation for inducing a minor to pos­sess alcohol beverages on Friday in D6 parking lot. Two individuals were issued citations for minor possession of alcohol. 

Flag-napping reported 
A Notre Dame post office employee reported the flag was stolen from the flag pole Friday. NDSP does not have any sus­pects. 
Copiled by the NDSP crime blotter 
SPORTS 
Womens soc­cer on the rebound 
No. 23 Notre Dame gears up for regional rivalry No. 13 Michigan at Ann Arbor tonight. 
page 24 

. 
Lecture: Market Potential and the Location of Japanese Investment in Europe, Ilcsburgh Center for International Studies 

. 
Speaker: Dr. Suell.en Reed, Indiana State Superintendent, Stapleton Lounge, 6 p.m. 

. 
RIIA meeting, HCC #304, 7 p.m. 

. 
SAC meeting, HCC #304, 8 to 9:30 p.m. 


International 
WHAT'S COOKING North Dining Hall 
No Dining Hall menus available today. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Meatball with sauce, baked cheese ravioli, pesto sauce, Mexican beef pizza, macaroni and cheese, cauliflower, BBQ chicken, grilled tuna with lemon, turkey bre-ast, bread stuffing, long grain and wild rice, grilled chicken, reuben sandwich, seasoned fries, onion rings, BBQ can­tonese pork, arroz con pollo 
Today Dinner: Baked cheese ravioli, pesto sauce, Mexican beef pizza, spinach pie, green bean casserole, turkey noodle casserole, fried perch, roast top round, Cajun chicken breast sandwich, sea­soned fries, onion rings, chicken kung pao, taco baskets 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

a::: 
LLI 
:c 
ti: 
LLI 
~ 
....I 
<( (.) 






0

-I HIGH 46 40 HIGH 55 LOW 38 35 LOW 42 
HIGH LOW 

54 
30 
HIGH LOW 
SCENE 

Pour on the Brown Sugar 
The hip-hop love of Brown Sugar is reviewed in the world according to Coop. 
page 13 

Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Pasta marinara, har­vest rice, seven vegetable stew, grilled vegetables, beef teriyaki with steamed rice, grilled patty melt, open face tuna melt, chicken breast, french fries, cajun honey roasted pork loin, dijon potatoes, grilled portobella pizza, cheese pizza 
Today Dinner: Pasta marinara, curry crepes with spicy thai vegetables, sweet rice, egg foo young, vegetable fried rice, chicken wings, curly french fries, zucchini sticks. carved meat loaf. whipped potatoes and gravy, french bread pizza. vegetable ranch pizza 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


58 54 38 35 

Atlanta 64 I 46 Boston 60 I 49 Chicago 47 / 37 Denver 64 / 42 Houston 78 / 59 Los Angeles 66 / 56 Minneapolis 43 / 34 New York 62 / 47 Philadelphia 61 / 45 Phoenix 84 / 62 Seattle 67 / 47 St. Louis 53 / 38 Tampa 80 / 59 Washington 61 / 47 
Thursday, Occober 17, 2002 The Obsm1er . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE
SMC lecturer to 





discuss education 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Indiana Super­intendent of Public Instruction, Dr. Suellen Heed, will speak on the edu­cation system at Saint Mary's today as part of her lour ol" t h e northern portion of the state. Heed has already 
mad c 
stops this month in F o r t Wayne, Muncie, Gary, Lafayette and Kokomo. 
Though Reed was sched­uled lo come tu South Bend last summer she did not originally plan on stopping at Saint Mary's. 
Jessica Kosco, Saint Mary's junior and Student Academic Council represen­tative, contacted the Indiana State education department last summer about having Heed as a guest speaker. 
"I was thinking of speakers that could come to Saint Mary's, so that students can become more informed about issues that affect the education system," Kosco said. 
"I think her coming is real­ly important because she's a really good source for pro­fessional development." 
Heed will discuss issues of teacher accountability, stan-dardized testing and what local, national educators are doing to better the education system, said Kosco. 


"Standards are a really big issue right now and she's [Reed] in charge of the Indiana State standards," Kosco said. 
"I know they are necessary but as educators we arc becoming more accountable for our students standards." 
Reed is Indiana's Chief State School Officer, serving as the chairperson of the State Board of Education and CEO of the Indiana Department of Ed ucaUon. 
She was first elected in November 1992 and was re­elected to a third four-year term in November 2000. When Reed was re-elected in 2000 she made a promise to visit all 92 Indiana counties, giving her a chance to meet with local educators and hold town meetings. 
"Our town meetings will enable us, as in the past, to take our message out of Indianapolis and to deliver it in a respectable, localized, and old-fashioned atmos­phere," Reed said in a press release. 
Reed will speak to students at Washington High School at 1:00 p.m. and then the town hall meeting will be held at Saint Mary's in Stapleton starting at 6:00 p.m. 
The meeting is open to everyone in the community. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
Observer Staff Repon 
The Senate approved Cheryl Smith as their faculty repre­sentative at .Wednesday's meeting. Smith is the first permanent representative to fill the position since it was created two years ago. 
In other Senate news: 
. Libby Bishop, Student Body President, discussed the suc­cessfulness of coeducation week. "It was a fantastic week overall. The panel dis­cussion was really cool and I wish more people could have been there. I think we accom­pIis hedour mission,'' said Bishop. 
. Senators received a CLC Leadership task force survey. The survey asks questions about leadership qualities and opportunities. 

U-WIRE 
Students tense w-ith sniper loose 
By JESSICA BILLINGSLEY and 
lAURA KENNEDY 
The Maryland Diamondback 
COLLEGE PARK. Md. 

For the first time since Sept. 11. 2001, Maryland students have been forced to bridge a unique gap between the isolated universi­ty community and the outside world. 
Area residents remain on heightened alert as a sniper con­tinues to attack people i.n the Washlngton area. The sniper has already killed nine victims and injured two others in the past two weeks, continuing to instill fear in many. 
The most recent attack took place Tuesday night in a parking garage in front of a Home Depot in Falls Church, Va. The sniper took the life of Linda Franklin, a 4 7-year-old woman from Arlington, Va., and left police con­tinuing to clamor to arrest the elusive marksman. 
Some students are fearful of the sniper, while others take comfort in what they consider to be the security of their environment. 
Jonathan Kandell, assistant director of the university Counseling Center, said students' differing reactions result from their relatively recent experiences with traumatic events. 
"People on campus seem to be experiencing less stress related to this event, especially in light of events like 9/11 and the tornadoes [on the campus) last year," Kandell said. 
Appointments at the Counseling Center have not increased as a result of the shootings, but the issue sometimes arises in discus­sions, he said. 
For many, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks had little effect on daily routines. The sniper attacks have the opposite effect, as many College Park residents are now more cautious when performing everyday tasks. 
"When I cross Route 1, I make sure to cross with a pack of girls from my [sorority] house," said sophomore American studies major Lauren Angelo. She also said she parked closer to the Target store's entrance in Greenbelt on a recent visit. 
Weekend attendance at some area restaurants dropped, as many students were reluctant to leave the campus. 
However, some students said they feel the events of the last year, particularly those near the 

.GreatJapanese food
Ml~A 


A JAPA11(H: R(SfflU~Ai'1T 

at great prices.
Carry Out and DinP-In 
Cleveland 

Come join us fqr our lunch specials! 
402 US 31 North 

South Bend, IN 46637 Early Bird Dinner (219) 272-2535 
Sl.50 off for Students 
university, numbed them to tragedy. 
"I can't really say that [coping with the shootings is] easier. Tragedy is tragedy," said Daniel Lee, a sophomore communication major. "Nine-eleven was a tragedy like we'd never seen before, so yeah, I feel a little bit desensitized." 
Similarly, many students said the impact of the shootings has been dulled by the onslaught of media coverage. 
"It's definitely soinething we need to know about," said Ryan Fisher, a freshman mechanical engineering major. "But we don't need to be constantly reminded." 
Still, some students said they find no correlation between last year's attacks and the sniper attacks and are therefore having separate emotional reactions. 
'Tm worried about people who are close to campus but it hasn't changed my reaction," said sophomore Chris Dilonno, "I take it as two different events." 
Despite students' initial reac­tions, the true emotional effects of a highly publicized tragedy may only be understood after a longer period of time, Kandell said, citing an increase in visits to the Counseling Center after Sept. 11. 
Officers 
continued from page 1 
events, raise funds and pro­mote spiritual and service events to help unite the fresh­man class. 
"The [Class of 2006] council has a lot of things going for it and I really want to be a part of it [as an officer]," Leito said. 
The council solidified plans for the Freshman-Sophomore Dance, which will be held Oct. 31 in the Lafortune Ballroom. The costume dance is co­sponsored by the Class of 2005, the Class of 2006 and the Student Union Board. The council discussed plans for the Class of 2006 T-shirt. 
Amy Geist, Class of 2006 sponsor, said, "I am looking forward to seeing the kinds of things the class council will produce now that the officers have been elected." 
The council also elected five committee chairs. Marcus Brutoco, Stanford Hall repre­sentative, Steve Canham, Knott Hall representative, Jackie Clark, Welsh Hall rep­resentative, Megan Hanzlik, Farley Hall representative, and Kathryn Reynolds, Pasquerilla West Hall repre­sentative, were elected as fundraising, social, service, spiritual and publicity/com­munication chairs, respective­ly. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 


page4 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 17, 2002 
Jury deliberates in Ira Einhorn trial 
As•ociated Pres. 
PHilADELPHIA 
A jury has begun deliberating the fate of Ira Einhorn, the for­mer hippie guru accused of killing his girlfriend in 1979. 
Einhorn's attorney said during his closing argument that the dis­covery of the mwnmified corpse in the apartment the couple once shared is "just a piece of circum­stantial evidence" that doesn't prove his client's guilt. 
"It doesn't mean at all that Ira Einhorn is responsible for her murder," William 
Cannon said. "There were people who so ludicrous, it Prosecutor simply didn't like Ira is so outra-
Joel Rosen geous. you
Einhorn, people who were
said the evi­should be dence of capable ofdoing offended," he Einhorn's guilt said. "If a
something about it." 
is overwhelm­woman wasn't ing. brutally mur­
Jurors delib­William Cannon dered, you erated more defense attorney would almost 
gests she was killed somewhere else and later placed in the trunk, Cannon said. 
Einhorn has denied killing Maddux and maintains the body was put there to frame him. He has accused the CIA of setting him up because of his research into the agency's "psychic war­fare" experiments. 
"There were people who sim­ply didn't like Ira Einhorn, people who were capable of doing some­thing about it and, I suggest, did something about it," Cannon said. 
Rosen called those allegations ridiculous. "It is so laughable and 
than an hour Wednesday before retiring for the day. They were to resume their work Thursday. 
Einhorn, 62, is accused of killing Holly Maddux 25 years ago because she wanted to end their turbulent five-year relation­ship. Her remains were found in a steamer trunk in the closet of their Philadelphia apartment in 1979, 18 months after she disap­peared. 
He could get life in prison if convicted. 
Cannon said that there is a lack of physical evidence tying Einhorn to the crime, and that Maddux's bludgeoning death would have left bloodstains in the apartment. The lack of blood sug­laugh at it." 
Prosecutors had Einhorn read to the jury from his poems and diary entries, in which he wrote "to kill what you love when you can't have it seems so natural'' and "violence always marks the end of a rela­tionship." 
Prosecutors also called the for­mer owner of a bookstore who said Einhorn once asked for a "how-to" book on mummifica­tion. Einhorn jumped bail weeks before his trial was set to begin in 1981, and lived in Europe under assumed names until he was found in France in 1997. He was convicted in absentia in 1993, a verdict that was set aside to clear the way for his extradition in 2001. 
Heat, dehydration killed 11 
men died from hyperthermia, In Deni-son, the Rev. Jose 
Associated Pees• 

or extreme overheating. and Herrera led a memorial ser­dehydration, State Medical vice Wednesday night for the DES MOINES, Iowa Examiner Dr. Julia Goodin rail car victims. He told 45 Eleven suspected illegal said. Authorities were work­mostly Hispanic parishioners 
immigrants whose badly ing with a decomposed bodies were forensic found in a rail car died of anthropolo­extreme heat and dehydra­gist to iden­tion, the state medical exam­tify them. iner said Wednesday. According 
Workers at a grain elevator to the U.S. in Denison, about 60 miles Border northeast of Omaha, Neb., Patrol, discovered the victims immigrants Monday as they prepared to are killed clean grain cars. every year 
The rail car left while try­Matamoros, Mexico, in June, ing to ride and was hauled to Denison. freight Authorities said it's likely the trains. The 
"In olden times it was said that we had to do what was said because it was the law. Today we have to pay attention to the justice of the laws." 
Rev. Jose Denison 
Iowa resident 
at St. Rose of Lima that immigration should be made easier to avoid such tragedies. 
"In olden times it was said that we had to do what was said because it was the law. Today we have to 

immigrants jumped aboard death toll has been as low as pay attention to the justice of after they· entered the United two in fiscal year 2002, the laws," he said. States. which ended Sept. 30, and as "Sometimes laws get too 
The four women and seven high as 18 in 1987. rigid." 
95 charged with voter fraud 
As,ociated Press 

COATES, Minn. 
Prosecutors charged 95 peo­ple with forgery Wednesday for an alleged scheme in which they all registered to vote using the same address: a strip club recently shut down by city officials. 
Most of the alleged forgers lived outside the town. The scheme, in which the club's owner also was charged, could have given club sup­porters a political majority in the town of 163 people. The mayor and two council mem­bers are in contested races next month in Coates, where 79 voted in the 2000 general election. 
"It's shocking to see such a blatant attempt to undermine the most fundamental pillar of our democracy -our right to vote," Dakota County Attorney James Backstrom said. 
Club owner Richard J. Jacobson, 32, of Prescott, Wis., was charged with con­spiracy to commit forgery and conspiracy to commit unlaw­ful voting for allegedly orches­trating the scheme. The other 94 were charged with forgery and conspiracy to commit forgery. All the charges are felonies, and each carries a maximum sentence of three years in prison. 
Backstrom said he believed some of the defendants were employees at the club, called Jake's, but thought most were customers who might have been duped into signing the registration cards. 
A federal judge ordered Jake's closed last week for violating the city's law regu­lating sexually oriented busi­
nesses.  
Reached  at  the  club,  
Jacobson declined  to  com­ 
ment.  

His attorney, Randall Tigue, said under Minnesota law county auditors are supposed to notify people believed to be registered improperly. It's fraud only if those people then try to vote. 
"I think that it is real clear that no crime has been com­mitted," he said. 
Coates is about 15 miles south of St. Paul. 

OSCEOLA SELF STORAGE 
Winter Specials 
Cars, Boats, Motor Homes & Other Goods Best Rate in Area... Call for Quote 
10 X 10, 10 X 20, 10 X 30, 10 X 40 
1344 Third Street Osceola, IN Call: 674-0998 Day 630-0278 Evenings 

HALI..DWUN Nl6dlr 
ULTl~Alt fRl~Btt 
TOURNAHtNT 
1nu~, Oc.tober 31 (,:3opm • 
F-iffl\i fie\d, 
-Simplified Rules -Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and spouses· 
-Co-Rec 5 on 5, min. of 2 females on the field at all times -Space limited -Register a team in advance at RecSports -Deadline to register: Wednesday, October 30 at 5:00pm -All teams guaranteed at least 2 games 
for more information la\\ 1-lPIOO or visit re-lsports.nd.e-du 
MAYBE YOU'VE HEARD ABOUT US. 
USDA "Prime" Steaks 
Dry Aged & Cut to Order. 
Exquisite Fresh Fish and Seafood. Wine Spectator Awars ofExcellence. Live Entertainment. Reservations too! 
We're Eastern Pacific Grille and Bar. Featuring the Fusion Cuisine of Chef Sean Garrett and his staff. 
Private Dining Rooms Available. 
. 

FRIDAY: "LITTLE FRANK AND THE IMPERIALS" -Friday Night SATURDAY: "E2 ED WRIGHT" -Saturday Night. 

EASTERN PACIFIC GRllll AND BAR-501 NORTH NllES AVENUE-SOUTH BEND, IN 46617-574-233-1300 
WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 17, 2002 COMPILED FROM Tim OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
N. Korea acknowledges nuclear weapon program 
are back to square one.
Associated Press 
It was not clear from the 
remarks by McCormack and 
WASHINGTON other officials whether the 
In a startling revelation, North United States believes the North Korea has told the United States actually has the bomb or it has a secret nuclear weapons whether it is still being devel­program in violation of an 1994 oped. agreement with the United There was no immediate reac­Slates, the White House said tion from North Korea .to the Wednesday night. White House announcement. 
Spokesman Sean McCormack The two countries had just called the North Korean disclo­resumed high-level security talks sure a serious infringement of less than two weeks ago for the 
thn agreument, under which first time in two years. 
Pyongyang promised not to It was during those discussions develop nuclear weapons. that North Korea informed the 
U.S. oflicials, who spoke on the United States of its nuclear activ­condition of anonymity, said ities. 
North Korea told U.S. officials McCormack said the United that it was no longer bound by States is consulting with it allies, the anti-nuclear agreement. South Korea and Japan. and 
State Department spokesman with members of Congress on 
Hichard Boucher said late next steps. Wednesday the United States "We seek a peaceful resolution had been ready to offer North of this situation," McCormack 
Koma economic· and other bene­said. "Everyone in the region has 
fits if Pyongyang agreed to curb a stake in this issue and no missile programs, end threats peaceful nation wants to see a and change il'i behavior in other nuclear-armed North Korea." 
ways. "The United States and our 
"In light of our concerns about allies call on North Korea to the North's nuclear weapons comply with its commitments program, however, we are under the nonproliferation treaty unable to pursue this approach," and to eliminate its nuclear 
Boucher said. weapons program in a verifiable lie said Undersecretary of manner." State John Bolton and other offi­The dramatic disclosure com­cials are traveling to the region plicates President Bush's cam­It seems unlikely, however, still under way, threats against countries. Now North Korea's to exchange views with allies. paign to disarm Iraq under that North Korea will become a North Korea could leave the nuclear program is added to the The 1994 commitment had threat of military force, coming target country for the United United States overextended. mix. 
raised hopes for a nuclear-free almost nine months after Bush States much as Iraq is nowadays. Until now, the United States' The United States has been Korean peninsula, but that hope said North Korea was part of an With war plans for Iraq main concern with North Korea suspicious about North Korea's is dashed for the time being, and "axis of evil" along with Iran and already on the drawing board has been its sale of ballistic mis­nuclear intentions for some time 
relations with the United States Iraq. and a broader war on terrorism siles to Syria, Iran and other despite the agreement. 

Bush signs resolution authorizing war against Iraq 
A..ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush on Wednesday signed a congressional resolution authorizing war against Iraq, and told Prime Minister Ariel Sharon that Israel has a right to retaliate if Saddam Hussein strikes his nation now without provocation. 
"If Iraq attacks Israel tomorrow, I would assume the prime minister would respond," Bush said in remarks that created confu­sion about his expectations for Israel if America goes to war. "He's got a desire to defend himself." 
In a flurry of activity, Bush tried to use Sharon's visit and the vote of support in Congress to ease opposition at the United 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Indonesia pledges to combat terrorism: 
Accused of having ignored demands to crack down on terrorism, Indonesia pledged Wednesday to press ahead with tough new security laws and formed an international investigative team to hunt for the culprits in the Bali nightclub bombing. 
Police in Bali said they had detained two Indonesian men for further questioning after an ini­tial round of interrogation. They are a security guard and the brother of a man whose ID card was found at the blast scene. 
Nine killed in Columbia rebel fighting: 
More than ·1 ,000 police and soldiers backed by heli­copter gunships stormed a violence-plagued neighbor­hood in Colombia's second largest city Wednesday. exchanging heavy fire with leftist rebels. Authorities said at least nine people were killed. including a 16­ycar-old boy. The security forces were trying to oust lcrtist rebels of the Armed Command of the People from the Comuna 13 neighborhood, police said. 
Nations for a tough new anti-Iraq resolu­tion. He warned France, Russia, China and other balking allies that Saddam poses a grave threat to their security. 
"Those who choose to live in denial may eventually be forced to live in fear," the president said as the United Nations opened two days of contentious debate over his Iraqi plans. In an East Room ceremony to sign the war-making resolution. Bush also said it's time to "fully and finally" disarm Iraq and remove Saddam from power. 
After a lengthy meeting with Sharon, the president was asked whether he wanted Israel to refrain from retaliating if Iraq attacks in response to a U.S.-led war. Bush's father persuaded Israel to hold its fire during the 1991 Persian Gulf War. 
Sidestepping the question, Bush said, "First of all, I have told the prime minister that my hope is that we could achieve disar­mament ofthe Iraq regime peacefully." 
On a follow-up question, Bush seemed to limit the discussion to the consequences of an immediate, unprovoked attack by Saddam. "If Iraq were to attack Israel tomorrow, I'm sure there would be an appropriate response," he said. 
White House officials hastily tried to clari­fy Bush's remarks, saying he was not giving Israel a green light to retaliate if Iraq attacks in response to U.S. action. 
In a war situation, the United States would consult Israel, spokesman Ari Fleischer said. "That is a separate issue from if Iraq tomorrow launched an attack unprovoked, whether they would have a right to defend themselves," he said. 
Fleischer would not say whether Bush asked Sharon to hold his fire if attacked by Iraq amid a U.S.-led war. 
However, a senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Sharon would be asked to "understand how we can work together to achieve our big­picture goals" -a subtle but unmistakable signal that the United States would prefer that Israel not retaliate. 
A senior Israeli official, also asking not to be identified, said Bush did not ask Sharon to show restraint in the face of an Iraqi attack. However, such a request would nor­mally be made by presidential advisers. Sharon met Tuesday with National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice and he meets Thursday with Secretary of State Colin Powell. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Not enough details for sniper sketch: 
People who saw the Washington-area sniper aim, open fire and tlee in a white van were not able to give investigators enough details to create a composite sketch, police said Wednesday. It was the latest setback in the hunt for the gunman who has killed nine people in two weeks. 
"Unfortunately, distance and darkness, and per­haps adrenaline have made them unable to give a clear composite that we can disseminate," Montgomery County Police Capt. Nancy Demme said. "I know that's not what the public wants to hear." 
Calif. farmers to give up some water: 
Southern California water agencies reached a tentative agreement Wednesday to shift millions of gallons of Colorado River water used by desert farmers to fast-growing urban San Diego. The plan is a key step in an overall effort to reduce California's over-reliance on the Colorado River. 
Archdiocese of Boston loses in appeal: 
The Archdiocese of Boston must hand over inter­nal records of 85 priests facing sex-abuse allega­tions. a judge ruled Wednesday, rejecting a church request for more time to gather tens of thousands of documents. Appeals Court Justice Kenneth Laurence ruled the same day church officials appealed a 3-week-old order to produce the docu­ments in a civil case against retired priest Paul Shanley and the archdiocese. 
Atlantis shuttle departs space station: 
After a tearful farewell, space shuttle Atlantis and its astronauts undocked Wednesday from the international space station, leaving it a bigger and more elaborate outpost. 
Shouts of "We want to stay!" came from Atlantis just before the two spacecraft parted company 250 miles above the Russian-Ukrainian border, ending one week ofjoint flight. 
page 6 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Thursday, October 17, 2002 
Faith Hill gets funky on latest CD 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
Hill's newest album, "Cry," released Tuesday, is laced with R&B and rock, completing her transformation from country ingenue to full-blown pop diva. 
"I don't know if it's risky or not," she says, "I hope my fans like it, but I'm sure there will be those who question it." 
On the new album, Hill becomes a one-woman En Vogue on a song written by Pink, "If You're Gonna Fly Away." She tries a dramatic recitation on "Beautiful," a Motown groove on "Unsaveable" and edges into Barbra Streisand territory on "One." A plan to have Aerosmith lead singer Steven Tyler sing on the title track didn't work out. 
"It came very, very close, and it didn't happen," Hill says with disappointment, talking by cell phone from Los Angeles while being driven from a TV taping to a photo shoot. 
She was in New York'last weekend for an appearance on "Saturday Night Live," and her own special airs on NBC Nov. 28. 
Where she once naively chirped about being a "Wild One," Hill now sings with authority about being "Free," backed by percolating R&B rhythms and electronic effects. 
"My fans have actually seen that side of me many, many times in concert. I've just never captured it on record like I have now," she says. 
"It's just growth. It might sell 200,000 or it might sell 8 mil­lion. It would be heartbreaking if not as many people got to hear it, but I would still be very, very proud of it." 
Odds are Hill won't be nurs­ing a broken heart this time around. "Cry" is expected to be one of the year's top selling albums. 
Hill has already sold more than 25 million records, includ­ing 8 million of "Breathe." which won best country album in 2001 -one of three Grammys for Hill that year. 
She crossed over to the pop charts with hits like "This Kiss" and "The Way You Love Me." and the new material ventures further. away from wholesome pop for a more urban sound. 
~1 don't think the consumer cares" how Hill's music is labeled, said Jim Ed Norman, president of her label, Warner Bros. Nashville. "It's going to appeal to them or not." 
Michael McCall, senior editor of Country Music Magazine, said Hill's latest sound is part of "a gradual but steady musi­cal progression." 
"If you're a purist, you were already upset about her," he said. 
"I don't think it's a given that she's going to be a huge pop star, but it's certainly what they're going for." 
Hill, 35, says the album is a return to her roots, in a way. 
"Most of my fans know where the root of my music started, and that's the church," she said. "I have a very very strong, heavy gospel and R&B foundation.... I just never have been able to find the songs that have allowed me to be free with it." 
After six years in Nashville, she scored her first record deal, with Warner Bros .. and her first single -"Wild One" -went to No. 1. She shifted to a more pop sound and scored more hits with "This Kiss" and "Breathe." 
She also has recorded duets with husband Tim McGraw, whom she met on tour and married in 1996. [She and first husband Dan Hill divorced in 1994.] The couple lives outside of Nashville, and Hill has spent the past couple of years largely out of the public eye. She gave birth to their third daughter, Audrey Caroline McGraw, in December. 
"I've been having a regular life," Hill says. "Not being in front of a camera every day was definitely a change for me. I was working on this album the whole time, just at a less frantic pace than usual. Just having the time to really work on it made a big difference." 
To promote the album, Hill is traveling to Europe, Australia and Japan, as well as around the United States over the next month. Most of the time, her girls go with her. 
"The suitcases are larger and more plentiful," the singer says. "Anybody who knows traveling with kids. it's just hilarious, the things that you have to take .... You don't know what you'll be able to walk around the corner and grab. It's like a traveling circus." 

Irreverent cartoon hits timeIy note 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Cartoonist Larry Gonick knew he might be asking for trouble when he set out to draw a comic-strip version about the birth of Islam. 
He had no idea that the third volume in his "Cartoon History of the Universe" series, now in bookstores, would arrive at such a con­tentious time. 
Gonick said he tried to be fair and accurate, but he also want­ed to have some fun. 
He is an equal-opportunity offender, using references to actual historical events he digs out of his research to draw car­toons of such nuggets as these: pre-Islamic Meccans defecating in a Yemenite cathedral to protest the Christian presence in Arabia: ninth-century Hindus expressing their belief that sex ruled tho 

As tensions "/ don't want to be universe. reach a "I don't
blasphemous. I just want 
breaking want to be
to be irreverent."
point in the blasphe­Middle East, mous." Gonick hopes Larry Gonick Gonick said, to give read­"I just want
cartoonist 

ers a lively history lesson in his "From the Rise of Arabia to the Renaissance." 
Garry Trudeau, creator of "Doonesbury," said Gonick's "unexpectedly timely" volume may help people understand the current tensions. "Will reading an erudite, if flat-out hilarious account of Middle East history help us make sense of our current clash of cultures? Let's put it this way: Ignorance hasn't worked," Trudeau said. 
Still, the 300-pages of cartoon panels are sure to offend some conservative Muslims and Islamic scholars who may take offense at the author's humor­ous take on their history. 
to be irrev­
ercnt." 
But some critics say Gonick goes too far, that he takes too many liberties with historical fact and that his cartoon histo­ry book perpetrates the notion that "Muslims have always dL5­liked Jews." 
In the latest installment of black and white drawings, bearded prophets travel the desert, their robes blowing in the winds: armor-clad Chinese nobles parade the head of an unkind emperor on a bamboo staff: and on the book's cover, in a possible premonition, a narrator resembling Albert Einstein flees as an angry crowd hurls oranges, apples and fish at him. 

;1/EEO 11 RIOE Tl) TIIEAIRPORT? 
FREE SHUTTLE TO SOUTH BEND AIRPORT THIS FRIDAY 

As a service to students traveling home for fall break, Notre Dame Express Shuttle will be running to the airport INSTEAD of providing 
its regular service. 
SHUTTLE SCHEDULE (Oct.18th) 
MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT RUNS 
1  2  3  4  5  
LIBRARY CIRCLE  NOON  1: 15  2:30  3:45  5:00  
MAIN CIRCLE  12:15  1:30  2:45  4:00  5:15  
REGINA  12:25  1:40  2:55  4:10  5:25  
MCCANDLESS  12:30  1:45  3:00  4:15  5:30  
MICHIANA AIRPORT 12:50  2:05  3:20  4:35  5:50  

Ad sponsored by Student Government 


Thursday, October 17, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch October 16 
DowJones 
8,036.03 -219.65 
l\MSDAQ 
1,232.42 -22.91 
S&P500 
860.02 -21.25 
AMEX 

800.33 -10.23
•
NYSE 

462.31 -9.88 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -18.04 -2.9813.54 
c1sc91ii~i§i~ffli::111~1~tg~~11:1111oom:i~~1;;i1i11i:111:~:;*1 
NASDAQ-100 INDE (QQQ) -3.31 -0.7822.78 
~x~2~:::::i111:t:~ml~l!:llli~llli[l11:li:;:111!t:li~il:ir1!ilii~!II 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -9.39 -0.29 2.86 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. judge extends port work order 
The labor dispute at West Coast ports appears set to escalate, with shipping compa­nies planning to give federal prosecutors data on Thursday that they say show an orches­trated slowdown by longshoremen in the week since a federal judge reopened the ports. 
The Pacific Maritime Association, which has been monitoring dockside productivity since the 10-day lockout ended, hopes that Justice Department lawyers will use the documenta­tion to ask the judge to force dockworkers to pick up the pace -or to penalize them. 
On Wednesday, U.S. District Judge William Alsup formally approved the 80-day "cooling­off' period mandated under the Taft-Hartley Act. Last week, President Bush invoked that law, which allows the government to inter­vene in a strike or lockout that threatens to "imperil the national safety or health." 
FDIC chief: Overhaul banking rules 
The head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. on Wednesday proposed a major over­hatll of the system for regulating the nation's banks that would replace the current patch­work of federal agencies with a single U.S. bank regulator. 
The proposal by FDIC Chairman Donald Powell. in a speech to a financial issues group, was a surprise to other federal bank regulators. it wasn't immediately clear whether the Bush administration was sup­porting the idea; the FDIC is an independent agency. 
Ford beats Wall Street expectations 
Ford Motor Co. posted a $326 million loss in the third quarter Wednesday but its results before one-time expenses topped Wall Streel predictions -just as bigger rival General Motors Corp. did a day earlier. 
The world's two largest automakers also face similar concerns over mounting pen­sion liabilities. Such worries on Wednesday prompted SLandard & Poor's to lower GM's long-term credit rating. 
and announce it was reviewing Ford's rat­ing to see if it should be lowered. 
Andersen put on probation 
. Accounting firm given fines, probation 
Associated PreH 
HOUSTON 

Already shattered by the Enron scandal, the Arthur Andersen accounting firm was sentenced Wednesday to five years probation and fined $500,000 for thwart• ing the federal investigation of the fallen energy giant. 
The punishment for Andersen ·s obstruction-of­justice conviction was the maximum allowed under law. Prosecutors had asked for the harshest possible penalty to make an example of the once-proud firm. 
"Andersen's conduct in obstructing the Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of Enron con­tributed to the historic shak­ing of the foundations of our markets," prosecutor Sam Buell told the judge. 
Probation seems a hollow threat for a firm that shut­tered its audit practice and closed offices across the country after its conviction in June. Andersen, once a revered member of the Big Five accounting firms, has fewer than 1,000 of 28,000 employees left on the pay­roll. 
Probation means Andersen faces more fines "Good work, guys," he Enron, David Duncan, told prefer to avoid," according and extended probation if it said to prosecutors outside jurors how he ordered to testimony and court doc­violates terms set by U.S. court. "Take it to your employees to comply with uments. She also suggested District Judge Melinda grave." the firm's document reten­Duncan delete "language Harmon. The terms include Leslie Caldwell, head of tion policy, which calls for that might suggest we have no criminal activity and per­the Justice Department's the destruction of extrane­concluded the [Enron earn­mission from a federal pro­Enron Task Force, said firm ous material. ings] release was mislead­bation officer before managers are responsible He admitted he knew ing." Andersen can sell its assets. for Andersen's demise -material that might be of The Oct. 16 press release Andersen also was ordered not the government. interest to investigators disclosed a $618 million loss to pay $400 in court costs. Andersen's criminal trial would be destroyed. and elimination of $1.2 bil­
Andersen attorney Rusty was the first to emerge from But after the verdict, lion of shareholder equity, Hardin said the company last year's dizzying collapse jurors said they did not pay news that sent Enron shares still believes its employees of Enron, which cost share­much attention to the tumbling. Enron filed for committed no crime and ho Iders millions and shredding, and instead bankruptcy six weeks later. accused the government of employees their nest eggs. focused on an e-mail sent by Andersen fired Duncan in "drumming an entire com­Most of the testimony dur­Andersen lawyer Nancy January after he publicly pany out of business for the ing Andersen's trial focused Temple to Duncan over a acknowledged Enron docu­actions ofa few." on document shredding and press release about Enron's ments had been shredded. 
Former partner Bob the destruction of computer earnings. He later pleaded guilty to Palmquist called the case a records. Prosecutors sug­Temple asked Duncan to obstruction and agreed to "sideshow" that forced gested the actions were remove a sentence and cooperate with the govern­thousands of workers who intended to keep material eliminate her as an ment. His sentencing is set never touched the Enron from investigators looking addressee because it might for Jan. 3. account to scramble for into Enron's collapse. increase "the chances that I No one else at Andersen other jobs. The auditor in charge of might be a witness, which I has been charged. NYSE 

Dynegy, Inc. to quit energy trading 
ness cuts pressure to borrow money. "I fully support the steps leadership 
A.s.ociated Press 
The company had faced the need to is taking to address current market 
HOUSTON renew $1.3 billion in credit over the conditions and position the company 
Dynegy Inc., which once considered next several months but was hin­for the future," Bergstrom said. a rescue buyout of Enron Corp.• dered by its below-investment-grade Other energy marketers grappling announced Wednesday it is getting credit ratings. with the weak trading environment 
out of the energy trading business, its "The decision to exit this business also have scaled back those opera­chief operating officer is resigning is expected to reduce the company's tions with layoffs in recent months, and significant layoffs are coming. collateral requirements and overall including El Paso Corp., UBS 
The company also said it is decen­corporate expenses," the company Warburg Energy and Reliant tralizing its corporate structure, mak­said. Resources. Williams Cos. is seeking a ing business units in power genera­Steve Bergstrom, a holdover from buyer for its trading operation. tion, natural gas liquids, regulated the management team led by compa­Last month Kansas City-based energy delivery and communications ny founder and former chief execu­Aquila Inc. announced it would aban­more autonomous. tive Chuck Watson, who resigned in don its trading business, and earlier 
Dynegy said it will wind down out­May, will resign as chief operating this month said former president and standing energy trading contracts. officer and withdraw as a candidate chief executive officer Robert K. but dumping the cash-hungry busi-to replace Watson. Green would step down. 

page 8 The Observer . ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Thursday, October 17, 2002 

Winona Ryder drug charge tossed out 
Associated Pre•• 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. 

A judge dismissed a drug charge Wednesday against actress Winona Ryder and rescheduled her trial for Oct. 2:1­on three remaining felony counts from her shoplifting arrest. 
Superior Court Judge Elden Fox ruled in favor of a 
prosecution 'The worst thing you can is not motion to dis­say is that she was (Ryder's)." miss the Gibbons said 
trying to save a couple of
charge that there was an Ryder was bucks." ongoing invcs­illegally carry­tigation into ing painkillers how the
Mark Geragos
when she was actress
defense lawyer
arrested last obtained the 
Dec. 12 out­side a Saks Fifth Avenue store in Beverly Hills. 
"It's unfortunate it's taken them 10 months to do this," said Mark Gcragos, Ryder's attorney. "I applaud them." 
Geragos said prosecutors had evidence almost immediately after Ryder's arrest that she had a prescription for the two pills, a generic form of the painkiller Percocet. 
"The worst thing you can say is that she was trying to save a couple of bucks," Geragos quipped outside court in refer­ence to the generic pills. 
Deputy District Attorney Ann Rundle said after the hearing that the charge was dropped after defense lawyers provided a sworn declaration from Ryder's doctor that he'd given her the Oxycodone pills without a pre­scription. 
"The responsibility for provid ­ing the drug would be the doc­tor's," said Sandi Gibbons, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office. "Therefore, the criminal responsibility 
pills, but declined fur­ther comment. 
Ryder, accused of shop lifting $6,000 worth of merchandise, will stand trial on the remaining charges of felony grand theft. burglary and vandalism. She faces up to three years in prison if convicted. 
The 30-year-old star of such films as "Girl, Interrupted" and "Heathers" smiled at court employees and seemed upbeat as she chatted with the bailiff before the hearing. 
She said little, only answering "Yes, sir" when asked whether she agreed to the trial date, and offered no comment while leav­ing the courtroom. 
Santana has 'Supernatural' bent 
Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. 
The followup to Santana's 
hugely successful 
"Supernatural," "Shaman" ­
due out Tuesday -is one of 
the year's most anticipated 
albums. Like its predecessor, 
which won nine Grammys 
and sold 25 million copies, 
it's loaded with guest artists 
and a blend of musical styles. 
"S.hamans heal with music 
and herbs," Carols Santana 
says. "You have Buddha, 
Krishna, Allah, Rama, 
Jehovah ... they all want unity 
and harmony on this planet, 
all of them. That's the mes­
sage: unity and harmony and 
transform your fear." 
There's blues, jazz, Latin, 
hip-hop and classical. There's 
the early hit single, "The 
Game of' Love," with 19-year­
old pop star Michelle Branch, 
and the startling "Novus," 
with tenor Placido Domingo. 
In the 40-plus years since 
Santana played mariachi as a 
boy in Mexico, he has built a 
style that weaves such varied 
elements and makes them 
distinctively his. 
His openness to such collab­
oration evolved through a spiritual process, he says, some of it coming to him in · 1997 or 1998 after the death 
of his father, a violinist. 
As a boy, Carlos had first 
wanted to play saxophone. 
but taking up the guitar could 
hardly be called a mistake. 
Nor could his move as a teenager to San Francisco, where he and his wife of many years still live. They have three children. 

In the 1960s, the Bay Area offered every kind of music, and promoter Bill Graham's Fillmore West, which put much of it onstage, was more than a music Mecca. 
"This was my alma mater, 
m a n . 
Fillmore 
"Shamans heal with 
West is new genera­where I music and herbs. You tion of fans learned to after years
have Buddha, Krishna, 
articulate," out of the
Allah, Rama, Jehovah ...
Santana limelight. said in an they all want unity and They used interview in the same
harmony on this planet, 
Albuq uer­blueprint on
all ofthem. That's the 
que during "Shaman,'' h i s message: unity and and hope to 
"Shaman" harmony and transform prove that 
tour. "Supernat­
yourfear."
In San ural" was no Francisco, fluke, says Santana's Carlos Santana Davis, one of roots in the three execu­
musician
blues of Lightning Hopkins, Jimmy Reed, John Lee Hooker, T-Bone Walker and 
B.B. King took a sharp turn with the jazz influences of Miles Davis, John Coltrane, Herbie Hancock, Wayne Shorter, Gabor Szabo and the majestic chord architecture of Gil Evans, among others. 
"I used to get headaches lis­tening to Coltrane's music because my brain was think­ing: How and where is one?" Santana says, admitting he's still a little intimidated by jazz. It's the ocean. he said, and "l hang around a lake. The ocean's too deep for me." 
But  now  and  then  he  
breathes sa lt air into  his  
music.  

Clive Davis, who signed Santana to his first record deal with Columbia back in 1969, rcteamcd with him on Arista's "Superna-tural," 
bringing Santana to a 
tive produc­
ers on the 
album, with Santana and Antonio "L.A." Reid. 
"vVe never expected this thing would explode the way it did," Davis says by phone from New York. The prospect of repeating "Supernatural's" success is "even more daunt­ing." 
If "Shaman" can repeat "Supernatural's" success, Davis says, it would show that "music can transcend age boundaries and perpetuate careers." 
ROU1 & 

Medium Pizza 
Cheese &1Topping 
Large
Pizza 
Cheese &1Topping 
No Coupon Necessary Plus Tax. FREE DELIVERY. $7.00 
Minimum For Delivery. Not Valid With Any Other Offer. Valid 
Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's Serving Bethel College
Only At Listed Marco's Pizza Locations, Expires 12·15·02. 
52750 IN 633 326 N. Ironwood
~E !GI ACCEPTED HERE 
Must pro~de credil card information when orderill{J lor delivery. 
574-243-1122 574-243-1111 
Now Open Until 3:00am Fri. & Sat.! Corner of Ironwood & McKinley 
V1:.1t I.lb Ofl ltio Wob at www.ma.re01.c0m ©'ZOiJ2 Marco's, Inc. 2662~la}·002 
Thursday, October 17, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ENGLAND 
Bloody Sunday witness testifies 
Associated P reos 
LONDON 

Elite British troops killed 13 Catholic civilians without justi­fication and committed "unspeakable acts" on Bloody Sunday 30 years ago, a veteran of the Northern Ireland mas­sacre testified Wednesday. 
Testimony by the former paratrooper, who is identified only as Soldier 027 and has his face concealed by a screen, was expected to take up to four days. 
The former soldier, once a member of the elite Parachute Hcgiment, has lived for the past three years on a British wit­ness-protection program because of fears that former regimental comrades could attack him. 
The Bloody Sunday Inquiry is trying to establish what hap­pened in Londonderry on Jan. 30, 1972, when paratroopers opened fire on Catholic demon­strators. 
Bloody Sunday was a water­shed event in the history of Northern Ireland, radicalizing many Catholics to support the IRA, which killed about 1,800 people before calling a 1997 cease-fire. The British army killed about 350 people in the conflict, none since 1992. 
"Unspeakable acts took place on Bloody Sunday," he said. "There was no justification for a single shot I saw fired. 
The only threat was a large assembly of people, and we were all experienced soldiers who had been through riol sit­uations before." 
Britain appointed the three­judge panel from England, Australia and Canada in 1998, and its conclusions are sup­posed to be published in 2004. 
Other soldiers -scores of whom are scheduled to testify during the tribunal's London session in coming weeks ­insist they fired in response to gunfire from the Irish Republican Army and were aiming at gunmen within the crowd. A 197 2 tribunal ruled largely in the soldiers' favor. 
But Soldier 027 said his bat­talion, 1 Para. had become brutal and frustrated from months of duty in Belfast in late 1971, the year that the IRA began sniping at British sol­diers and bombing their bases. 
"There was nothing 1 Para wanted more than for the IRA to come out into the open and take us on," he testified. 
The night before his unit was deployed to Londonderry to police a Catholic protest march, he said, a commander briefed soldiers that it was "likely that there would be shooting incidents the following day which would result in us getting kills." 
In early 1972, the Catholic west side of Londonderry was an uncontested IRA power base, with roads blocked to prevent access by police and the local army garrison. Soldier 027 said the paratroopers were told to expect IRA gunfire when they crossed a barricade to arrest protesters. 
"What made Bloody Sunday so significant was that the rule book was torn up and the accepted game plan, developed through precedent. was thrown away," he said. 
Once across the barrier, Soldier 027 said, two para­troopers began firing directly into the crowd, other soldiers joined in, and '"there was no command to prevent or stop this happening." 
One soldier "indicated to me that he thought what was hap­pening .was great. He was exu­berant," he said. 
"I looked through my sights, scanning across the crowd. I was as keen to find a target as anyone, but I just could not identify a target that appeared to justify engaging. I did not see anyone with a weapon or see or hear an explosive device. 
"I have a clear memory of consciously thinking, 'What are they firing at?"' 
Soldier 027 said his original 1972 accounts, presented to military police and the original tribunal, contained false details designed to justify the soldiers' shooting. The 1972 tribunal also accepted forensic evi­dence, later discredited, that some of those slain were using weapons. 
IRELAND 
EU needs Irish vote 
DUBLIN 
Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen warned of dire consequences for European integration Tuesday if Irish voters again reject a plan to bring 12 new member nations into the European Union. 
"We are at a historic cross­roads in Europe," Fogh Rasmussen said after meeting with Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern. "We have a historic chance to reunite Europe." 
Ireland is scheduled to hold a referendum Saturday on the Treaty of Nice, which autho­rizes nations of southern and eastern Europe to join the Union. 
The first Irish referendum last year failed 54 percent to 46 percent. Ireland is the only EU member to reject the treaty, which must be ratified by all 15 nations in the Union. 
Fogh Rasmussen came to Ireland to address concerns about expansion, which many fear would hurt the Irish econo­my, erode its influence within the EU. and require an end to its neutrality. Opponents have focused on those fears, plaster­ing Dublin with posters such as one showing an anxious man with a gun pointed at his head. 
But Fogh Rasmussen warned in a news conference of an "unprecedented crisis" in efforts to create a peaceful. eco­nomically integrated European continent if the referendum fails. 
"I am confident the Irish peo­ple know the importance of the vote," said the prime minister of Denmark, which currently holds the rotating EU presiden­cy. 
Fogh Rasmussen is scheduled to be the chairman of a summit next week for the 15 EU lead­ers to discuss the cost of nearly doubling membership in the Union. But that meeting will become irrelevant if Ireland rejects the treaty. "There is no Plan B," he said. 
The Treaty of Nice was approved by EU leaders after intense negotiations in 2000. It would allow the entry by Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Cyprus and Malta by 2004 and Romania and Bulgaria by 2007. 
Opponents in Ireland include members of the Green Party, anti-globalists, left-wing activists and conservative Catholics. Some stress Irish that neutrality will evaporate as the EU builds a 60,000-strong force of peacekeepers that needs NATO backing. 
The opposition Fine Gael party urged voters to endorse the treaty, saying the EU has been good for Ireland. "Rather than seeing conspiracies in every clause of this treaty, we should treat it as ... an opportu­nity to build a dynamic union," said Richard Bruton, a party spokesman. 


. _.... ... . .. .. . . .._ 

And kiCkibffj~'~f~jfffifONIGHT. 
,"'''.""''' ,.. ,.,,.,,·:'""''' :. :,,:·::;...,,,::,>':;r,,,.,,,/\,,r·w::,,,:,.;,,,, ' 
y
'H'-'. 

AThursday Tradition... 
LOTS OF STUFF FOR ABUCK -NO COVER BEFORE 11PM 

BRING YOUR COLLEGE ID-21+ ONLY 
222 S. MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND 574-234-5200 HEARTLANDSOUTHBEND.COM 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, October 17, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 4G556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kare Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrc:W Soukup  Bob Wood.  

NEWS EIJITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 

SCENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR, Katie McKcnna 
ADVERI1S!NG MANAGER; Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieco 

CONTROLLER: Lori Lcwalski 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO............631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....•...............................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/ASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
S!'ORfS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE..................... ·•••··•··••·••··• .. •••·•········ ....631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMs/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visir our Web sire at http:lloburoer. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofal! opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rt:garding Obmverpolicia should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJaron McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tlie Observer (USPS 59"9 240) ii; publi.!ihcd Mond.iy thrm..1gh Friday c:::ucp1 dullng exam .nd v.icarion rc,iodi. A rub.criprion IO~ ObterVer i.i. SIOO furOftol' ac:idcmic ye.ii; 155 for one .itflldtco. 
The Observer h publi,hed ar: POSTMASTER 
024 S@uth Oininc Hall 
Nui:n: Da..mc-, IN 46556 ThcObKJv.,, 
P.O.llo,Q 1\-riodic:al pon:tgc jnlcl at Nofk Damc­Notre D;i.mc, IN 46'J56-07'9 .nd .ddidnn.J rn:lilirig office:. 
The-Ob.crvc:r lJ a rm:mbcr of{ht: AIIIOCW«I Pres,. All rrrl'OductiOl'l right1 ue 
,.,,...,..J 
A day in the life of an English bum 
I met Danny J. a few blocks from our flat. It was evening, and I was heading to a pub in search of a story. Danny J. stopped me along the way and asked if I had some spare change. I saw the opportunity. Andrew explained my OeBerry quest and asked if he had some 
ND Going 

spare time. He looked at me, I Global 
looked at him and 
he motioned towards the McDonald's: "How 'bout some coffee? I can explain a day in the life of an Englishman on the streets." 
We ordered some coffee inside and took a seat. DJ put down the cup of change he was carrying and explained the notebook he was car­rying. 'Tm raising 20 pounds for the Saint Mungos charity. I need it to have a bed for the night. If you had 17 quid, that would be great, Andrew." I asked him about his char­ity. He said they had offices all over London. He couldn't name where the closest one was and said he wasn't allowed to give the location of their main office. I started to doubt his integrity. 
DJ reported that his day began a few blocks away outside Cullens, a grocery store near a tube station. He had slept only five hours or so, and his eyes drooped the longer we talked. He owns a sleeping bag and a rucksack with his belongings, but those were in a friend's care at the moment. In the morning he went to the Mission, a day center for the homeless. There he got a free show­er and exchanged his clothes. 
His hands are smudged with dirt and brown hair protrudes from a cap with a construction company's logo. A white and gray flannel covered his blue adidas shirt. He said 300 go to the Mission daily, though he hadn't become friends with any of them. When asked what food they served, he hesitated and said they had copy­right rules and he wasn't allowed to tell. My suspicion grew. 
After spending the time at the shel­ter, he begged in the streets, trying to make 40 pounds ($60 U.S.) as he does each day. The responses he gets begging are "decent." Some give him change, a couple give him a cigarette and others pick up a bit of food in the grocery stores for him. But. a few hurl insults at him. leaving him feel­ing ignored and frustrated: 'Tm ask­ing politely. Basically I'm surviving! Don't tell me you're sorry!" A survey taken on London homelessness shows that intimidation from the public is second to the cold for being the worst part of sleeping rough. 
If people have other financial obli­gations or question if spare change would feed an addition, how does he want them to reply? "By not judging us. By giving us a chance. We're human people, just like you. We've just got nowhere to live." People can help with more than their money. "We need someone to talk to." Ile appreciates anyone who pauses even for just one second to greet him and ask how he is doing. 
Dismissal by common people walk­ing by follows a pattern of rejection that drives many into homelessness. One agency notes that "the break-up of a relationship is the most common trigger for going on the street. Even those on the street that society criti­cizes for being alcoholics and drug users deserve their mercy too." The same agency notes that "poor par­enting, parents who themselves are heavy drinkers or neglectful or abu­sive, can set bad examples for their children's behaviour." 
A number who become homeless due to factors unrelated to drugs become substance abusers to help numb the pain faced on the street. One man is noted for saying. "You are let down too many times in life and in the end you don't bother with people anymore." 
Homelessness is a lonely, down­ward spiral for some. But, when asked what, if anything, those sleep­ing rough enjoyed about it, they noted the companionship. DJ said that he did have a few friends on the street. "You look after each other. We're our own little community. At the end of the day, you survive each other." While he criticized the police who may take them to jail for beg­ging, few people do more than insult them. "The homeless backs arc watched." 
After 45 minutes of talking, DJ was ready to leave and raise the money he still needed for the night. I gave him the three pounds and 50 pence I had in my pocket and asked what advice he would pass on to college students in America. 
"Take each day as it comes. Live life fully. If you meet a homeless per­son, stop and talk to them. Listen to them. If you can, help them." 
On our way out, he grabbed some French fries on a table, and we walked for a couple blocks. He eagerly asked people for change, and when they declined or kept walking, he yelled after them: "Please don't ignore me! What would you do if you were homeless?" We shook hands, he walked after another man he saw. and I returned to my life of luxury at the Landward. 
I don't know how much of DJ's story was true. But, as I type, I'm looking at a Web site of Saint Mungos, an actual building only a couple blocks away. 
Even if his story was all lies, there's something momentously important about having that gift of direct interaction with someone. Service is often viewed as an action. But, service is at its best when real­ized in a relationship. Service becomes a way of live where the relationship becomes a service in itself for both involved. 
I will go to St. Mungos and learn about their services to help the homeless. For the next column, I will also learn about another service for the homeless, which is known around here as The Big Issue. If I'm lucky, maybe I will be meet Daniel J again to ask him how his day has been. 
Andrew DeBerry is a senior study­ing aerospace engineering in London. He doesn't recommend standing alone on a street corner at night for long periods of time unless you appreciate extra attention. His col­umn appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Bring back the Irish Guard 
First of all, let me say that I have been a Notre Dame football season ticket holder for 36 years. 
To my shock and dismay and that of all the old-time fans around me, the Irish Guard was missing from the game day against Pittsburgh. Not knowing what was hap­pening, I asked around. 
The rumor was that two members of the Irish Guard were caught sleeping on national television. Then you hear all the other stuff. 
Bottom line, the entire Irish Guard were excluded from the day's activities. 
Of course I said, "In 36 years of Irish home games, I never remember the entire Guard not participating with the band and the team." Then in The Observer I read an article that says the Guard has been disbanded in two or three separate seasons for various reasons. 
Keep the return to glory alive. Bring back the Irish Guard. 
Timothy S. Eagan Sturgis, Mich. Oct. 14 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Meghanne Downes Sheila Flynn John Fanning Viewpoint Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 

Katie McKenna 
Sports 
Bryan Kronk Lauren Dasso Pat Leonard 
Scene 
Maria Smith 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams Sarah Lathrop 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Was Notre Dame justified in suspending the Irish Guard from last Saturday's game? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"During times of universal deceit, telling the truth becomes a revolutionary act." 
George Orwell British author 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 17, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Readers support a truly American debate 
Liberals seek an open discussion 
Attachment to America should be an attachment to peace, instead of to a symbol or an outdated idea. \-\'hen considering patriotism and national­ism one should remember the words of Ken Kesey who declared, "The flag is a symbol we attach our emotions to, but it isn't the emotion itself and it isn 'L the thing we really care about. Sometimes we don't even realize what wo really care about, because we get so distracted by the symbols." 
In the future, when making a polit­ical statement, the students of Notre Dame should think about the emo­tion and belief they' are professing and not simply rely on a symbol that they believe to represent those ideals. 
None of us peace-loving, barefoot, stereotypical Phishheads ever said we "understood the plight of the Afghani refugees." We simply failed to understand the goals and beliefs of a wealthy, less than compassionate president who is solely concerned with oil and an insatiable desire to begin nation building in the Muslim world. 
Our confusion, pain and need for hope was instead expressed in the only way we knew how -discussing peace in small groups in the Morrissey Chapel, sharing ideas of a 
nuke-free world around tables in Waddick's and writing editorials regarding human rights in both Common Sense and The Observer. 
The small, liberal minority on this campus is not concerned \\ith con­quering the conservative majority, erasing their handed-down patriotic beliefs and misguided dreams for this country. Indeed, Notre Dame stu­dents concerned with peace desire to spread a message ofjustice and understanding, perhaps allowing the general population to see the other side of the story. 
The growing liberal presence is a beneficial addition to this campus; by creating a dialogue between the opposing views eventually we will be able to come upon a solution, goal or ideal that both sides can agree upon. Now is the time for students of each persuasion -liberal and conserva­tive -to make their words known, not in a hegemonic manner but instead one of mature and intellectu­al discussion. 
Joanne Davidson senior off-campus Oct. IS 
New US. role requires new ideas 
Patriotism should not be defined by one's willingness to blindly agree with prominent national leaders, even during times of national threat. Rather, Americans should be characterized as people who promote democratic val­ues of free speech, justice and human rights. Post-Sept. 11 does in fact call for a strengthening of our national character, but an educated person would recognize that this new foreign policy cannot be based on attitudes similar to our grandparents' generation. 
The United States is in a unique position to foster change. However, America's role as a superpower is not an absolute. Today's globalized world requires different types of negotiation. 
American leaders must be aware of the reactions and repercussions their actions and decisions have abroad. We must promote American values in a positive light; the go-it-alone and double-standard attitude typical of past policies will not suffice. If Americans fail to recognize our patriotism in terms of democratic ideals and continue to advocate narrow foreign policy, we risk a loss of power that will isolate us from the rest of the world. 
Students' concern with the causes of anti-American sentiment is justified and suggests positive change. It represents new options to be exhausted before returning to old avenues. 
As a last resort, I would gladly stand among my fellow Americans to defend the values that my grandparents fought for and our way of life, However, terrorism is a new type of war that will not be defeated by nuclear or conventional forces. 
Americans shouldn't be afraid to challenge old ways with new diplomatic ideas, as long as they correspond with our inherent identity. There are many Notre Dame students who continue to display patriotic feelings. Patriotism is alive and well, even if it takes on a new face. However, we must be willing to admit that our future is now tied up in others; we need to expand American patriotism beyond our borders. To do so, America must accept its position in the new world order. United we stand. 
Mary Ann Mazzarini 
senior off-campus Oct. 16 
We're looking for people motivated by ideas. Become an opinion broker. Join the Viewpoint team. Now accepting applications for editing and illustrating positions. Email for information: Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
In rough times, consider words ofsages 
To claim that Notre Dame and everyone associated with it are not patriotic is to make a very bold claim. 
How exactly is patriotism defined? ls patri­otism the willingness to kill and be killed for trivial reasons, as Bertrand Russell suggest­ed? Or perhaps George Bernard Shaw was correct when he said, "patriotism is your conviction that this country is superior to all other countries because you were born in it." 
While these may be acceptable definitions for some, to those who founded this country patriotism would probably be defined quite differently. These men and women, the first patriots, defined a patriot as someone who is free to express their own opinions, is able to have open discussion with others and does not blindly or uniformly follow. 
When one claims that everyone should take up the philosophy of the World War II generation, he or she also is telling people to deny that the Vietnam War and the social movement of the time took place. 
During the Vietnam Era, there were two main philosophies present. The first was that of the World War II generation, and its motto was, "America: Love it or leave it." The sec­ond was that of the younger generation, and the motto was, "America: Change it or loose it." 
During this time of great political, racial and emotional strife, one figure stepped in and brought clarity to the situation. That person was Father Theodore Hesburgh. He told us that society was being torn apart because of two types of people: the "uncriti­cal lovers" and the "unloving critics." 
Rather than conformity or anarchy, rather Hesburgh suggested that the nation needed to become one of"loving critics." This teach­ing was an important one during that time, and it is one that we must revisit now. 
Mahatma Ghandi told us, "The things that will destroy us are: politics without principle; pleasure without conscience; wealth without work; knowledge without character; business without morality; science without humanity; and worship without sacrifice." 
In this world, especially during these times, it is not possible to ignore the beliefs, ideas and opinions of others. It is not enough to blindly support that which has not been ana­lyzed. 
In order to truly fulfill the vision with which our nation was founded and be true patriots, we must follow another of Father Hesburgh's teachings. He stated, "you don't make decisions because they are easy; you don't make them because they are cheap; you don't make them because they are popu­lar; you make them because they're right." 
Casey Dunn 
sophomore Zahm Hall Oct. 15 

Silencing opinions, not dissenting, zs the truly 'un-American' activity 
I am offended at Mr. McCarthy's and Ms. Fitzpatrick's slew of uninformed rants regarding those who are not only patriotic Americans, but are also true defenders of democracy. 
In a time where ordinary people are strug­gling to decipher from the chaos of events, the political battles, the war of words, the accusations of lack of patriotism and the zinging near misses of civil rights violations what course of action is best for our nation, it is ignorant to demand a suspension of reason and diplomacy. 
It is ignorant to hide it behind a cry for a return to patriotism. McCarthy and Fitzpatrick use emotions rather than reason. In their evidence they fail to recognize that of the 2,800 dead, over 500 were foreigners. This attack was not on America alone. 
In regard to the "bed-wetting limousine lib­erals"' lack of patriotism, such charges have served in the past only as a galvanizing force that leads to the eventual outlawing and cur­tailing of discussion and debate. People use the charge of lack of patriotism to terrorize people into feeling the fear of being per­ceived as unpatriotic. They shift the focus from much needed debate on actual issues to targeting red herrings. 
The tree-huggers, peace advocates and whale savers are participating more in the American system than their condemning counterparts standing in the corners igno­rant, scared and yelling fire. When enough people claim to smell smoke, is it not weird how your senses can sometimes perceive its pungent odor even when it is not present. 
These raging liberals that dominate Notre Dame, who escape my attention, actually risk evaluating what they are told and risk ulti­mately making an informed decision. I can respect that. 
Being an American affords us the right to evaluate decisions, and just because those decisions and opinions may not necessarily put someone first in line as a patriot -there exists an inherent patriotism by observing the right to dissent. Perhaps we need a color­coded alert system to alert us to shield our civil liberties, to tell us when it could be con­sidered un-patriotic to evaluate both sides of an argument. 
The Great Generation which was alluded to fought for democracy to endure. As you might recall, this Great Generation debated intensely over two years before deciding to go to war and did so only after provoked. Yet we do not waste our breath evaluating what would be the first overtly preemptive strike the United States would take against a sover­eign nation -a nation, which unlike Japan in WWII has not made a direct attack on the United States. 
Whether you are for or against a war, it is not unpatriotic to protest, to talk or God for­bid make a careful evaluation of all scenar­ios. Debate must not be curtailed in the face of scare tactics and in the absence of a legiti­mate "clear and present danger." 
John Stuart Mill used liberty and democra­cy to allow for the possibility of "human excellence." Liberty of thought, discussion and action are crucial for the creation of independent thought and judgment, accord­ing to his political theory. 
Although Mill may have said a person must have something to fight for, he most definitely would have fought for human reason or rationality first. We are not living in an America that is "increasingly un-American." We are living in the most real extension of what America is: a democracy, in the most tangible form. yellow shirts and all. 
Dominic Paschel 
junior Washington, D,C. Oct. 15 
O
THE BSERVER 


page 12 Thursday, October 17, 2002 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Attraction' has action but no plot 
By NICK LESCANIC Scene Movie Critic 

"The Rules of Attraction" is a dis­turbing movie, but a good kind of dis­turbing like "Requiem for a Dream," not a bad kind of disturbing like "Freddy Got Fingered." 
"Attraction," the new, dark teen comedy from first-time director Roger Avary (who 
helped pro­
of the

"The Rules of Attraction"
duce "Pulp 


film lies
Fiction" and 
in this
"American 
love tri­
Psycho"), fea­
angle, or 
tures a wide 
pentagon,

Director: Roger Avery
array of 
perhaps?

Writer: Roger Avery
young stars. 
First,

Starring: James Van Der Beek, Shannyn
This is not a 

Sossamon, Ian Somerhalder
conventional film for the faint of heart, or for anyone who thinks of Hob Schneider movies as a little too cere­bral. There are no likeable characters here, or a concrete storyline or a moral to the story. Rather, it's a fren­zied amalgamation of excessively raunchy sex, excessively casual drug use, and excessively graphic violence, interspersed with moments of exces­sively brilliant filmmaking. 
It's pornography interlaced with art. The plot, so to speak. centers on a twisted love triangle between Sean (James Van Der Beek). Lauren (Shannyn Sossamon) and Paul (Ian 
Sornerhalder). Basically, Paul is in love with Sean, who is in love with Lauren, who is kind of in love with Sean, who screws Lauren's roommate (a vapid Jessica Biel), who screws Lauren's boyfriend Victor. 
That's the more than slightly abridged version, as there are many tangential plot elements, but the essence 

what was g o o d about the movie. Stylistically, it was top-notch, with some cool visuals. Avary uses a lot of fast backwards 
Ian Somerhalder plays Paul Denton, blsexual ex-boyfriend of Lauren Hynde (Shannun
cinematography, especially at 
Sossamon) who Is In love with Sean Bateman (James Van Der Beek). 
the beginning of the film, rewinding to the same moment several times to get a different per­spective on the goings-on. It comes off well, without seeming like another "Go"-esque rip-off of "Pulp Fiction." 
Some other scenes to look for and admire are a split-screen walkthrough of Scan and Lauren's morning rou­tines, a suicide scene that Avary man­ages to make incredibly beautiful, 
albeit extremely sad and disturbing, 
and a frenetic three-minute montage 
in which a several-month long trip to 
Europe is boiled down to a dizzying 
series of snapshots and ultra-fast nar­
ration. "Attraction" has an extremely dark 
sense of humor that I thought was 
hilarious, but if your idea of high comedy is watching someone unknowing­ly take an overdose of laxative and then get really bad diar­rhea, don't go see this. This movie's laughs are generated by botched suicide attempts, freaky sex, eating disorders, freaky sex and the misuse of powerful narcotics. And freaky sex. The actors all do a good job. It's funny to see the darker side of the WB's Dawson (Van Der Beek). and Thomas Ian Nicholas, pl-aying Paul's old flame, steals the show for the few crazy minutes that he's in the film. There are also some hilarious cameo appearances by a stoned-out-of­his-mind, clad-only­in-his-underwear 
Fred Savage, and a self-medicating, negligent Faye Dunaway. 
Finally, the soundtrack is fantastic. featuring great songs like "Situation" by Yaz, "Afternoon Delight" by the Starland Vocal Band, George Michael's "Faith," and Harry Nilsson's "Without You." All are used particularly well in their respective scenes. 
However, the story didn't work. It just seems like the filmmakers decid­ed to cram as much debauchery into 90 minutes as they could, and it ends up just being a mish-mash of insane events thrown together into the f1imsi­est of story arcs. 
Furthermore, all of the main char­acters are horribly flawed people. While this makes for some good laughs, it's hard to identify with any of them or to understand their moti­vations for doing the things they do. This detracts from the potential appeal of the film. 
At times, the direction is so good that these faults can be ignored, but for the rest of the film viewers are left wondering, "What's the point?" While its style is impressive, the lack of mes­sage in the film is not. · 
If you want to see an incredibly cool, stylish, and raunchy but ultimately insubstantial film, see "The Rules of Attraction." If not, rent "American Psycho" and see what satire and excess are all about. 
Contact Nick Lescanic at nlescani@nd.edu 

Want to share your ideas on theatre, television, the arts, or entertainment in general? 
Scene is looking for feature writers. 
Contact Spencer Beggs at 631-4541 or email scene@nd.edu. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, October 17, 2002 page 13 
THE WORLD ACCORDING TO COOP 
'Brown Sugar:' a riotous comedy 
"When did you first fall in love with hip-hop?" 
"Brown Sugar" the new movie by director Rick Famuyiwa, is a story aboul one woman's love with the great art form. !lip-hop. This movie awakons in the viewer an appreci­ation !'or the great artisls that have helped to sculpt and mold hip-hop ovnr the years. Thr soundtrack is filled with memo­rable tunes that causes a wave of nostalgia to just overtake you and sweep you along as the story progress. 
The love that Sidney. played by Sanaa Lathan, feels is more than just for the music. This love is shared with Dre, played by Taye Diggs, her longtime compan­ion all the way from childhood. After growing up together, loving hip-hop together, they discover that there is more to this relationship than just a mutual appreciation for music. If you enjoy African-American culture and music, this movie is fantastic because it celebrates one of the best parts of the culture: music. Music has always been an important part of African­American culture. In the days of slav­ery, it provided slaves with a way to communicate and keep a part of their African heritage. The drum beats of Lhe slaves is echoed years later in the beats of hip-hop artists. 
The rhythmic nature of the music has always inspired dance, which also comes from the African heritage of the slaves. It is amazing how much music has changed and yet in a way it has stayed similar to the roots from which it sprang forth. 
There was only one small, barely insignificant problem with this other­wise wonderful film, and it had noth­ing to do with the movie. There is American cul­ture, it was even more refreshing in light of who was stationed out the door. 


If you are look­ing for a movie that will engage the viewer and sweep you away with a feeling. a longing for the good old days of hip-hop, this movie wiJl surely move you in a deep and soulful way. The music is the lovechild of the two prin­ciple characters and defines there love. It is impossible not to found yourself swaying to the beat and enjoy­ing the tunes of yesterday. 

This movie Kelby (Boris Kodjoe), Reese (Nicole Ari Parker), Sidney (Sanaa Lathan} and Dre (Taye Diggs) con­reminds the 
sider their romantic options In "Brown Sugar." 
nothing more demeaning to African­and watch a good movie. Granted, American people than to be racially there have been instances where profiled by fights have broken cops. and who out, but the fact was standing by "Brown Sugar" that the very first the entrance 
thing you see inside the the­when walking in ater, none other the theater was than South cops. and they Bend's finest. even brought out
Director: Rick Famuyiwa
It is very dis­the K-9 units
Writer: Michael Elliot (IV)
turbing to have speaks volumes of
Starring: Taye Diggs, Sanaa Lathan, Nicole 
to come face to race relations in
Ari Parker, Boris Kodjoe
face with police this town, state officers when and country. Since all you wanted this movie was cel­to do was hangout with some friends ebrating a great part of the African-viewer of anoth­
er epic, African­

American love story, "Love & Basketball," just replace the love of basketball with the love of the music. This is why when­ever Sidney (Sanaa Lathan) begins an interview, she starts out with. "When did you first fall in love with hip­hop?" For the viewer. this movie reminds them of why love such a beautiful thing. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Christopher Cooper can be contacted at coope.42@nd.edu. 


Sidney Shaw (Sanaa Lathan) enjoys the company of childhood friend and fellow hip-hop lover Andre Romulus "Dre" Ellis (Taye Diggs). 
,..... 
Thursday, October, 17, 2002

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Allen's 14 points lead Bucks over Clippers 

Nuggets Wednesday night in points and never trailed until
Associated. Prcss 
an NBA exhibition game. the fourth. They used a 12-2 
Oliver Miller, the 6-foot-9, run in the second quarter to 
MILWAUKEE 325-pound center trying to lead by 18. 
Ray Allen scored 14 points revive his career after sitting The Pacers have 14 players to lead six players in double out the last two seasons, under contract, leaving one figures as the Milwaukee scored seven points and spot for one of the three free­Bucks beat the Los Angeles established himself as a fan agent signees -Oliver Clippers 98-76 in an NBA favorite. Ile drew rousing Miller, Greg Foster and Nate exhibition game Wednesday ovations each time he Green. With the Pacers so night. touched the ball. banged up, coach Isiah 
Milwaukee forward Tim Miller had a basket and an Thomas said he'll probably Thomas sprained his right assist on consecutive plays in keep the players around until ankle less than three minutes the fourth, giving Indiana an the end of the preseason. into the game and didn't 80-75 lead. Indiana didn't make a 3­return. Mercer has started all four pointcr. 
Rookie Ronald Murray and exhibition games at shooting Cedric Henderson scored 15 guard in place of an injured Knicks 87, Kings 84 points apiece for the Bucks Reggie Miller, and Bender got Allan Houston scored 19 (2-1). Toni Kukoc and Dan his first start at forward in points and Clarence Gadzuric each added 13. place of Jermaine O'Neal. Weatherspoon added 16 as Marcus Haislip had 11 points Miller and O'Neal were the New York Knicks beat the and 10 rebounds. joined on the bench by point Sacramento Kings in an NBA 
Eric Piatkowski led the guard Jamaal Tinsley, who exhibition game Wednesday Clippers (3-2) with 16 points. bruised his right thigh late in night. Marko Jaric, a rookie from the first half. He received The Knicks (3-2) played Yugoslavia, added 12. treatment at halftime and did their first game without 
Milwaukee led 74-64 after not return. power forward Antonio three quarters, using a 15-0 The Nuggets (1-3) trailed by McDyess, who had surgery run to rally from a 60-5 5 20 before rallying to take a Wednesday on his broken deficit. Allen scored nine 73-72 lead in the fourth. kneecap and is expected to points during the run. Darrick Martin hit a 3-point­miss the entire season. 
The Bucks scored the first er, Donnell Harvey converted McDyess, acquired in a seven points of the fourth a turnover into a layup, then draft day trade with Denver, quarter to lead by 17. The hit a free throw to give was injured in an exhibition Clippers, missing nine players Denver a one-point lead. game last Saturday. due to injury, didn't mount a Fred Jones, Indiana's first­Bobby Jackson scored 18 rally the rest of the way. round draft pick, scored and points for the Kings (2-2), 
Michael Olowokandi, Elton Erick Strickland made two and Peja Stojakovic had 14. 
Brand, Chris Wilcox, Melvin free throws for a 76-73 lead. Chris Webber added 12 
Ely, Quentin Richardson, The Pacers (3-1) never points and 11 rebounds. 
Bryant Stith and Keyon trailed again. After closing the third quar­
Dooling were among those James Posey led Denver ter with nine straights points 
who sat out for Los Angeles. with 13 points and Kenny to take a 74-68 lead, New 
Murray scored 13 points Satterfield had 11. York went scoreless for the 
for New York. Shandon from the field as six players
and Gadzuric had nine in the The Pacers have been ham­first 7:10 of the fourth quar­first half, which ended with pered by injuries throughout ter before Howard Eisley Anderson scored 14 points, scored in double digits. the Bucks leading 46-44. the preseason. made two free throws for a and Kirk Thomas added 12. Both teams shot exception­
Piatkowski played only 21 Miller has missed the entire 76-74 lead. ally well in the first half, with 
minutes, and Andre Miller preseason with a sprained Weatherspoon made a Blazers 110, Sonics 98 Seattle hitting 7 4. 3 percent. Derek Anderson scored 18 But the Sonics struggled in
didn't play in the second half right ankle, Ron Artest will baseline jumper and followed for Los Angeles after scoring miss the next two weeks to with two free throws, putting points as the Portland Trail the second half, connecting nine points in the first half. allow an injured left pinkie to the Knicks in front for good Blazers beat the Seattle on 20 percent of their shots 
Super Sonics 110-98 as they were held to 14
The Bucks, who matched heal and O'Neal has a at 83-80 with 57 seconds the offer sheet by Dallas to sprained left ankle. remaining. Wednesday night in an NBA points in the third quarter. 
exhibition game. Portland was without
guard Michael Redd, expect Austin Croshere will likely Hedo Turkoglu and Portland (4-1) also got 17 Scottie Pippen (knee surgery),the third-year player to open the season on the Lawrence Funderburke each 
points from Bonzi Wells and Arvydas Sabonis (strained
report as early as Thursday injured list with a stress frac­had 15 points for 
15 from Damon Stoudamire. quadriceps). Ruben Patterson
and no later than Friday. ture in his right foot. Sacramento. Stojakovic 
Vladimir Radmanovic led (sprained ankle), and CharlesO'Neal played 11 minutes scored 10 in the third quar­
the Sonics with 21 points. Smith (sore hip).
Pacers 91, Nuggets 86 off the bench and scored ter, when the Kings started 
Ron Mercer scored 17 Desmond Mason added 14. Vitaly Potapenko (knee
eight points. playing more inspired 
points and Jonathan Bender Even without their injured defense following a lethargic The Blazers, sluggish in a surgery) and Ansu Sesay added 13 as the Indiana stars, the Pacers rolled early, first half. 97-79 loss to Golden State on (back spasms) sat out for Pacers beat the Denver as they scored the first eight Charlie Ward had 11 assists Monday, shot 67 .6 percent Seattle. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
'  
I  
I I I ' I  NOTICES  Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187.  1995 Mazda MPV (minivan) $7,500 obo. Excellent condition. 1 owner ­all repair records. 272-3651  5 & 6 bdrm. houses. Close. Fall 2003. Call Fronse 574-220-8403. DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96)  Juls... physic doesn't stand a chance! Way no. 946: while swinging on a  
I t ! I  $250 a day potentiallbartending Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext 556  Tutor to assist high school girl w/homework especially English. Spanish helpful but not required.  PROFESSORS & STAFF -Live in Lovely Wooded Estates in a home with 40 years of ND History. Walk or Bike to work -3 bedrooms 1.5  LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-4-5-8·9 & 10 BEDROOM  bringing family, friends & girlfriend to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck at 677.654.8472 or email at jbmal­ley@global.t-bird.edu  chandelier Gooooo Tami and Lisall Beeeeeeeeeat Midterms!!  
!  Must have transportation to stu­ baths with beautiful FLORIDA  HOUSES ­STUDENT NEIGHBOR­ 
II  Losr & FOUND  dents home. 574-243-2623. Looking for a playful, kind and responsible person to watch my 2  ROOM and partially finished base­men! on large corner lot. Call 234­8858to see.  HOODS -SECURITY SYSTEM ­MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS -CALL TODAY · HOUSES GOING FAST -CON­ PERSONAL  Adrienne: how'd ya do??? ;) YEAH, BUDDY!  
II !  FOUND: ladys bracelet in Joyce Center on Oct. 5 Call Judy at 237­8312 to identify & claim. Digital Camera Lost Nikon CoolPix 775 Before Pitt Game Lost near  children (5 & 1 1/2 yrs) in my home 2-8 hrs. per week. Flex hours. Call Jill at 288-7118. FOR SALE  FOR RENT ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  TACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 · (574)274-9955 -(574)674-2471 TICKETS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. II you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly  Hey, Katie: (moister laugh) Too bad Sports isn't going to finish early tonight: we're just too sexy! That's Sports is so hot right now...  
I  stadium Call Destanie at 4-4283  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223.  N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911.  ad in THE OBSERVER. SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  Amazing Grace! How sweet the sound... Ahh, the memories of 249  
I  WANTED  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from  WANTED: ND tickets. HIGHEST  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  LeMans...  
ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  Notre Dame -Perfect for Football  PRICES PAID 251-1570  Information/Reservations 1-800­ Hi. I'm in... Delaware...  
$99,500. Williamson.1 @nd.edu  Weekend Resort in Union Pier on  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico,  Lak.e Michigan. Most units  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST  
Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas!  rehabbed In 2002 • 269-469-0245  PRICES 289-9280  ARE YOU DOWN WITH ONE-OH­ OSCO!  
Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices  All size homes available tor 2003·  ONE-FOUR?  
Free Parties & Meals' 1 ·800-234·  2004 mmmrentals@aol.com  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR  Sports Cups had your mom three  
7007 endlesssummertours.com  www.mmmrentals.com  2003/2004: Call Bill at 532-1896  SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  I got BK lonight!ll!I  limes and she was good!  


Thursday, October I 7, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
AUDITIONS 
DUE IMMEDIATELY
FOLLOWING 
FALL BREAK
>>>>>> 

201 
:LA FORTUNE 
The sho-w Friday.ll.16_02 @ SENIOR BAR. 


Owens doesn't understand furor 
Associated P rcss 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
Terrell Owens won't be fined or disciplined by the NFL for his latest innovation in touchdown celebrations -pulling a pen rrom his sock to autograph the ball. 
"However, such acts will not be tolerated going forward," league spokesman Greg Aiello said Wednesday. 
Owens, the· San Francisco 49ers' All-Pro receiver, caused a stir Monday night in a 28-21 vic­tory over Seattle. After beating corncrback Shawn Springs to score the winning touchdown in the fourth quarter, Owens pro­duced a pen, signed the football and presented it to his financial adviser in the front row. 
Owens and many of his team­mates thought it was a unique, creative celebration, but some of the Seahawks thought it bor­dered on taunting. More than one Seattle player suggested retaliation might be in order when the teams play at San Francisco on Dec. 1. 
Owens made television and radio appearances earlier this week to defend his actions, but he refused to talk to nearly all local reporters on Wednesday, leaving his teammates to speak for him. 
"It's really getting blown out of proportion." center Jeremy Newberry said. "It's ridiculous. I don't think he offended any­body. Any time T.O. does some­thing, the media wants to make a bigger deal about it than it deserves. He didn't sign the ball and give it to Shawn Springs. I don't think anybody in this lock­er room sees anything wrong with it." 
But some members of the Seahawks were angered by Owens' celebration, with coach Mike Holmgren calling it "shameful" and "a dishonor to anyone who ever played this game." 
Owens has employed a variety of odd dances and choreo­graphed moves after scoring. He caused his biggest stir more than two years ago when he cel­ebrated two touchdowns by run­ning to the Dallas Cowboys' star logo at midfield in Texas Stadium. 
For that, San Francisco coach Steve Mariucci suspended Owens for one game. The episode catalyzed months of bad feelings between player and coach. 
Mariucci and the rest of the 49ers had no problem with Owens' latest self-expression, however. The team won't disci­pline the wideout, Mariucci said. 
Boselli's injuries not hidden 
Associated Press 

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
ff there was a lemon law in the NFL, the· Jacksonville Jaguars would be under investi­gation for letting the Houston Texans take Tony Boselli in the expansion draft. 
But Jaguars coach Tom Coughlin has a clear con­science. 
He says the Jaguars never hid any of Boselli's injuries when they talked to the Texans about the All-Pro left tackle. Roselli, stilt not recovered from three offseason shoulder operations, went on injured reserve Tuesday without playing a snap for the Texans. 
"That never entered my mind. Absolutely not," Coughlin said Wednesday when asked ·if injury considerations led him to expose Boselli to the expansion draft. 
It was a move viewed as a stroke of luck and brilliance for the Jaguars. They took advan­tage of an unprecedented opportunity to not only jettison Boselli's huge contract to clean up their salary-cap mess. but to release a player whose body had clearly taken the punish­ment of seven tough years in the NFL. 
Boselli missed the final 13 games of 2001 with the same shoulder injury that is still both­ering him with the Texans. He tore a knee ligament that forced him out of the 1999 playoffs. He had ankle injuries that forced him out of one game in 1998 and four in 1997. A knee injury kept him out for the first three games of his rookie season in 1995. 
Boselli, contacted by ESPN.com, declined to elabo­rate on how much he knew about his shoulder injuries when he was with the Jaguars, other than to say, 'Tm dealing with more than l thought I was dealing with." 
However, Boselli said he has no plans to take any legal action against the firm that originally operated on his shoulder. Boselli's agent, Jack Mills, had suggested in August that he would not "rule out" a medical malpractice lawsuit against the Jaguars team doc­tor who had originally operated on his shoulder. But when asked by ESPN.com on Wednesday about pursuing that option, Boselli said, 'Tm not thinking that way right now." 
In May, Boselli testified on behalf of former teammate Jeff Novak in Novak's medical mal­practice suit against Jacksonville Orthopaedic Institute, the Jaguars' team doctor. Portions of his video­taped testimony were shown when the lawsuit went to trial in July. A jury award of $5.35 million to Novak was later thrown out by the trial judge, and the lawsuit was later resolved in a confidential man­ner. 
Boselli was the first player the Jaguars selected in their expansion season, and the cor­nerstone of the Jacksonville franchise. Coughlin said letting him go was one of the most dif­ficult things he's done as a coach. He stood by that Wednesday, even though it is becoming more clear each day that the Jaguars made an enlightened decision. 
"My gut, my heart was in my throat about doing what we had to do with him," Coughlin said. 
Before the Texans took Boselli, the Jaguars supplied them with all his medical records. The Texans also had their own team doctors exam­ine him. Finally, the NFL sent in an independent doctor. who tested Boselli and said he believed he would be able to start working out for the team by June. 
In the news conference Tuesday, Houston general man­ager Charley Casserly acknowl­edged the miscalculation. 
"I have been in the league 25 years and every year you have to make a number of decisions on choosing a player who is not totally recovered from an injury," Casserly said. "So, this was not an uncommon occur­rence for us to be in. At the time we made it we thought that Tony would play this sea­son. As happens sometimes with injuries, they are unpre­dictable." 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 17, 2002 
NFL 
Shanahan uses videotape to dispute suspension 
Associated Pres• 
DENVER Class was in session at Denver Broncos headquarters. 
Broncos coach Mike Shanahan broke out a video machine, a large screen and a laser pointer Wednesday in an effort to exonerate strong safety Kenoy Kennedy. 
Kennedy was suspended from Denver's game against Kansas City on Sunday for a helmet-to-helmet hit on Miami's Chris Chambers last Sunday. An appeal of the suspension was denied by the league Wednesday morning. 
Shanahan started his weekly news con­ference by showing videos of Kennedy's hit on Chambers and two others thls sea­son to support his belief that Kennedy should not have been suspended. He also showed the video to Broncos players in the morning. 
"The reputation of Kenoy Kennedy light now is somewhat damaged." Shanahan said. "I think it's fair for people to look at that film and make their own decisions. You may not agree with my assessment, that's up to you. 
"But I thought it was fair, though, to show you exactly what I was look­ing at, and what I based my opin­ions on." 
Shanahan first showed a helmet­to-helmet hit Kennedy had on San Diego's Fred McCrary last week, one that cost Kennedy $10,000. 
McCrary caught a sideline pass inside Denver's 10-yard line on the play, then was hit straight on by Kennedy. 
Shanahan said the league told him that Kennedy was fined because McCrary was in a defense­less position, but he moved the video back and forth several times to show McCrary's feet were already on the ground when Kennedy hit him. 
He also said the league told him that it was obvious McCrary was going to come down without the ball. 
"The NFL discrepancy right now is that they know that this ball is going to the ground. They know it's incomplete," Shanahan said. 'Tm saying, 'Wait a minute, there's a disagreement there.' If you can't tell 100 percent one way or the other. how can you fine a guy? To me, that's a solid football play. It should not be fined." 
Shanahan next showed Kennedy's hit on Chambers in Miami's 24-22 victory over the Broncos. 
Chambers went up to catch a high pass from Jay Fiedler, but dropped the ball when the top of Kennedy's helmet hit him in the facemask. 
Chambers, who lay on the field for about five minutes before being helped off, suffered a concussion and might not be able to play against Buffalo this weekend. 
Shanahan said the league sus­pended Kennedy because there was an intent to injure, but he used the video to show that Chambers' head was actually knocked down toward Kennedy by Denver's Denard Walker. 
Showing the angle from the end zone, Shanahan used the laser pointer to indicate where Walker took both of his hands and pushed Chambers' head down toward his chest. He said Kennedy was on line io hit Chambers in the chest until Walker pushed his head. 
Shanahan said he showed the image to the league, but was told Walker's actions had no impact on the hit. 
"Now, don't get me wrong. Anytime a guy hits helmet-to-hel­met, regardless of what Denard does. it's a fine," Shanahan said. "My problem with this play was that there was no intent, in my opinion, to do this. The only reason it happened this way, is he's pushing his head down." 
Shanahan also showed a clip of a hit Kennedy had earlier in the Miami game in which Kennedy pulls up instead of hitting the player head on. 
He said Kennedy was thinking about his two fines this season -he was also docked $7,500 for a hit on St. Louis' Isaac Bruce -when he pulled up, which shows he was conscious about not leading with his head. 
"In the National Football League, integrity is No. 1, but also what's impor­tant is how people perceive our organiza­tion and our football players," Shanahan said. "I have a difference of opinion, that this guy should not be suspended. And there's no way, in my opinion. is there intent." 
"He wasn't doing anything malicious. I know the type of guy he is and what type of player he is, and that's not his type of game. The film showed it," safety Izell Reese said. "It was evident that he didn't try to hit the guy head to head. He was .:5 aiming for his chest and his head got AFP PHOTO 
pushed from behind. What do you do The Broncos' Kenoy Kennedy tackles San Diego's Tim Dwight. Kennedy was about that?" 
suspended for a helmet-to-helmet hit he made last week. 

>tfil!UiJE!!IlUJmI 
SPEA.KERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL" INSTANT MESSENGER"' service TWO-WA\' MESSAGING JA\IA"' GAMES S APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 

'To"'-""Y tl.\e "'-i-'it..,I w<O\l\c.ie+...l\c.ie wo.-\c.s ove.-sevev...1f....1>.'l\.,l..-e.,l. ""'iles. A'"-J. ~'"'ovvc,w, 'l\<Jl\l-iO'l\wiJ.e. 
NEXrEl 
They've ""11 COV.\\M\\B O\\ yov.. Which is why yov. \\eeJ. t-ie)Ci-el's J.iBii-""1 w""l\:.ie+"'-1\:.ie .Pe""i-v.ve. Ii-let-s yov. Be+-viBhi-i-hvov.Bh wit\,\ i-he pv.sh o.P "" 'bv.H-o\\. ThO\i-1Me0\\\S \\O 1MisseJ. c""lls, voice IM"'-il ov pho\\e i-""B· Si-"'-Y i" co\\i-0\c+-wii-h everyo\\e .Pvo1M +-he Flo""+-(01M1Mii-t-ee to the Al1>.1M\\i (01M1Mii-t-ee, wii-hov.t 1Missi"B "" J.et"'-il. t-iow yov.'ve veO\J.y-Bvi\\B It. 
t-iow's "" BveO\i-tiw.e t-o Be+-)lle)Ctel: ""11 1'10-h-e D""""'e si-v.J.e"ts Bet ""\0%4-~lSCCl,\\\'t' O\\ "'-"Y v""t-e pl"'" "'"J. $\00" o..P,.P """Y pho'l\e. 
-ro bl.\y: , 80 to \\e;,ctel.co""'/ivlsL-\-stl"cAe\\t. , cc,1,ll toll-Pvee I-n1-s-o,-2.'12.'. , co\\tc,1,ci-JD!-\ Co1.••UA.o\v.\\i.cc,1,tio\\S 
C\t' S74-2.4'3-'3818 

page 17

Thursday, October 17, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
PR9JECT 
Give away your coat...and SHARE THE WARMTH. 
WARMTH 
Facts and Figures on Poverty and America's Working Poor 
The poverty rate in 2001 was 11.7 percent, up from 11.3 percent in 2000. 
In 2001, there were 6.8 million poor families, up from 6.4 million poor families in 2000. 
36% of persons living ln poverty are children-the 2001 poverty rate of 16.3% for children is is over 1.5 times 
as high as the poverty rate for any other age group: 
Two trends appear in the rise in homelessness in the past 15-20 years: a growing shortage of affordable rental housing and a simultaneous increase in poverty. 
Two prime factors account for the increase in poverty: eroding employment opportunities for large seg­ments of the workforce and declining value and availability of public assistance. 
Things are heating up again! 
The Center for Social Concerns is gearing up for another successful run of Project Warmth. Last year, over 2000 coats were received and distributed to sites all across the country, including the Appalachia region, Indian reserva­tions in the Dakotas, and outreach facilities around the South Bend area. 
EVERYONE can participate! Starting October 28, immedi­
ately after fall break, collection sites spread all over campus will be eager to accept your coat donations. These sites include: 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Bookstore * LaFortune Information Desk * RecSports * Grace Hall * ~L:; North Dining Hall * South Dining Hall * Campus Ministry/ ::,~ 
•if < 
. s.,·

Hesburgh Library *All Residence Halls * College of 
'" 

Business Administration * St. Michael's Laundry Distribu­tion Center * 
Other sites will soon be announced! 
In return for your coat donation, you will receive a coupon for 25% Off Of any new Coat of your choice from the Notre Dame Bookstore. Keep that Fighting Irish spirit and generosity alive while fighting for the rights and dignity of the poor. 
Hall Competition 
As Project Warmth heats up again, so do the prizes for the two dorms with the highest percentage ofparticipa­tion. The first place dorm will receive $1000 and the second place dorm will win $500. Start energizing hall spirit for this great cause! 
Sponsored by: 

ST. MICHAEL'S
UNIVERSITY OF N..:>TRE DAME 
BUILDING STUDENT HAMMES BOOKSTORE LAUNDRY SERVICES ACTIVITIES
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 


AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSliRVER WIRE SERVICES Thursday, Ocrober 17, 2002 

IN BRIEF 
Williams close to signing 
contract extension 
Gary Williams, who guided Maryland to its first national basket­ball championship in April, may soon have another cause for celebration. 
Maryland and representatives for the Terrapins' coach are moving clos­er to an agreement on a contract extension and pay raise for Williams, who is already signed through the 2007-08 season. 
Sources told the Baltimore Sun that the new deal could be signed by next week. 
The new deal would keep Williams under contract for an additional year, through 2009. 
Williams signed a seven-year extension in May 2001, shortly after taking the Terrapins to their first Final Four appearance. 
The current pact pays him $1 mil­lion a year plus incentives. He has a record of 27 4-143 at Maryland and has taken the Terrapins to the NCAA tournament in nine straight seasons. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK Lou Piniella may not be out of work very long. 
After releasing Piniella from the final year of his contract because he wants to work closer to home, the Seattle Mariners on Wednesday fielded calls from other teams interest­ed in talking with their ex­manager. 
Mariners president Chuck Armstrong spoke with New York Mets owner Fred Wilpon and Tampa Bay Devil Rays managing general partner Vince Naimoli but made no deals involving outgoing manag­er Piniella. 
"No agreements were reached," Mariners spokesman Tim Hevly said. 
If he really wants a short commute from his Florida home, the Tampa Bay job is open. 
However, it's unlikely the budget-conscious Devil Rays would be able to pay him enough or be able to adequately compensate the Mariners for allowing him to manage elsewhere. 
The New York Mets, how­ever, are another story. 
Although the team owes ex-manager Bobby Valentine $2.7 million for the final year of his con­tract, Wilpon wants a high­profile individual with a background as a winner as the next bench boss. That comes with a high price tag. 
Piniella fits that profile, managing Cincinnati to the World Series championship in 1990 and Seattle to a record 116 victories in 2001. 
He also has New York roots, with two terms as manager of the Yankees, a team he played with for 11 seasons. 
Piniella won't come cheap. He was due to make $2.5 million with the Mariners next season and would likely want at least three years at $3 million. That's well beyond the Tampa Bay budget. 
The Mariners said they'd listen to the Mets and Devil Rays and the conversation could be compelling. 
On Tuesday night, Armstrong said a third team he would not identify asked for permission to interview Piniella. 
"The Mariners will seek to negotiate reasonable compensation from such clubs in exchange for releasing Lou from his employment contract," the team said. 
That means players and/or cash. 
If he doesn't find another job Piniella wouldn't be paid the $2.5 million that is due in the final year of his contract. 


Gadsden and Chambers 
questionable for Sunday 
Dolphins receiver Oronde Gadsden might miss the rest of the season after spraining his left wrist last weekend against the Broncos. 
He was listed as questionable for Sunday's game against Buffalo. 
Miami's other starting receiver, Chris Chambers, has a concussion and also was listed as questionable Wednesday. 
As it is, the Dolphins will be forced to turn to a backup at quarterback. Ray Lucas will replace Jay Fiedler, who has a broken thumb. 
Dcdric Ward and James McKnight would start for Gadsden and Chamber": 
"It's ,ie to shine," Ward said. "We h .u step up and play a big role." 
Robert Baker, a third-year pro who has never played in an NFL game, could become the No. 3 receiver. 
Gadsden hurt his wrist at Denver but played the rest of the game. 
Lewis anxious to return, 
doctors not so anxious 

Ray Lewis remains sidelined by a shoulder injury and could miss the Baltimore Ravens' game against the Jacksonville Jaguars on Sunday. 
The Pro Bowl linebacker partially separated his left shoulder on Oct. 6 against the Cleveland Hrowns. 
He sat out Baltimore's 22-20 loss to the Indianapolis Colts last week ­ending a run of 63 straight starts ­and was listed as doubtful Wednesday in the team's injury report. 
"I don't know if I can play this Sunday," Lewis said. "I want to, but the doctors will let me know. My gut tells me that if I can play, it will be a game-day decision." 
The last thing the Ravens want to do is have their stellar middle line­backer further injure himself by returning prematurely. 
"We don't want to risk long-term ramifications," coach Brian Billick said. "We're going to be smart." 
Thursday, October 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MENS SOCCER 
Irish dominate Spartans 2-0 for third shutout 

By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
It wasn't a Big East oppo­nent, but embarrassing Michigan State 2-0 still felt good for the Notre Dame mens soccer team Wednesday night at Alumni Field. 
The Irish outs-hot the Spartans 27-3 in the first match between the programs since 1993. The win gives Notre Dame (7-3-3) their third straight shutout victory and their longest winning streak of the season 
The win also helps improve Notre Dame's standing in the regional rankings used for NCAA Tournament considera­tions. 
"[Michigan StateJ had done well earlier in the season and so they were respected around our region," defense­man Luke Boughcn said. "So it was kind of nice to take them apart like we did." 
Notre Dame's defense was so dominating that Irish goal­keeper Greg Tait had to make only one stop all night. Spartan goalkeeper Tyler Robinson saved 11 shots. 
Notre Dame's leading point scorer, Chad Riley, put the Irish ahead early with his third goal of the season. The goal came with less than two minutes left before halftime. 
In the second half. Riley's roommate, Devon Prescod, 
added another goal for Notre Dame when he headed in a direct kick from teammate Kevin Goldthwaite at the 
64:40 mark. 
Notre Dame's solid defen­sive line of Jack Stewart, Kevin Richards and Dale Rcllas prevented the Spartans from mounting any offensive attack and provided Tait with his third consecutive shutout since he replaced injured goalie Chris Sawyer Oct. 4. 
In their 13 games played this season. the Irish have allowed a total of 12 goals. 
Boughen said the team knew Michigan State would be a tough opponent and came out ready to play well. 
"The problem we had been having was coming into games against 11nranked opponents and not playing as well as we can," Boughen said. "We always seem to get up for the big games, so we kind of knew we had to take this team a little more seri­ously. and that's partly why we did so well." 
With the win Wednesday, the Irish improve to 7-0-1 against the Spartans at home. 
Notre Dame's next game will be critical as the Irish face Big East rival Connecticut Oct. 20 at 2 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.ec1u 

Notre Dame forward Erich Braun maneuvers with the ball during Wednesday's game against Michigan State. The Irish shut out the Spartans 2-0 for their third straight victory. 

Thinking of The London Program For Fall 2003 or Spring 2004? 
You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 5:00pm, Friday, October 18, 200~ 
Applications will be accepted until 5:00pm on Monday, October 28, 2002 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, October 17, 2002 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Baskets of Elegance

Siegfried steamrolls over St. Edward's 
Custom Made Theme Baskets 
for any Occasion 

the game following their first 
By PAT LEONARD and 

(574) 674-0022
loss of the season, a 12-7
JUSTIN SCHUVER thriller against Stanford. 
Sports Writers 
The Knights (1-2) come into 
Fax(574)674-0033 

the game following their first Siegfried was there last year. win of the season, a 20-0 drub­
ND themed baskels our specialM

They were undefeated in the bing of O'Neill. regular season. They marched With playoff positions at through the playoffs. They stake, both teams will be readyreached the interhall champi­to put it all on the line onship game in the Stadium. Thursday. 
But they were denied in the "The loss definitely providesgrand finale. motivation," said Morrissey
Wednesday night at Riehle captain John Caver. "We've had Field, the Siegfried Ramblers practice every day this week. steamrolled St. Ed's, 22-6, fin­We know we have to win to getishing a second straight season in the playoffs." without a loss and securing the "A win would definitely put us 
theclogstore.com

No. 1 seed in the interhall play­in contention for a playoff spot," offs. said Keenan captain Brent 
1·800•948,CLOG

The Siegfried offense was in Morlok. playoff form against St. Ed's The Knights suffered two Siegfried running back Tim Breitbach notches some rushing yardsWednesday. Quarterback Bill close losses this year and inarecentgame.Siegfriedwillentertheplayoffsasthetopseed.
Bingle threw for 73 yards, three Morlok said his team did a lot in touchdowns, and a pair of 2-the O'Neill game to fix the prob-.B a c h a -t: a • S a 'I». b a point conversions. Running 
lerns of its first two games. ---.---.-_.­
back Tim Breitbach turned in a 
a • • •-• •-• • •-•-•­
Caver said that his team was ,. • •• •• •• • •• •• •• •
solid performance with 116 affected by their first loss of the •. • i= 
yards on the ground and nine yards receiving. se:~:·were really progressing fU ,• TIRED OJ? THE SAME OLD STEPS? •\ 0 
"We usually try to put it on toward our goal of making the vt •. -IIIIR • • the ground first and then see 
playoffs the first two games," he ~ a• .-.. ~ what happens from there," said said. "The Stanford game was a fU ,. u... D L • :S 
Bingle. 
bit of a setback." •. • ,11ree anCe eSSOUS ·•
The Ramblers ran five times For their matchup against fl. '--........__ 0 on their opening, eight-play ­
... ...
Keenan, Caver said that the ,. l;:.:iiiii~~~~~f!! Chi ' n •
drive, which was capped by a 4 Manorites have focused on the • • A "'*• • .Cago Snest ·•
yard touchdown pass from defensive side of the ball. • • $a} D ' • 
Bingle. This became a trend in •• sa Js ...
"We pretty much have been .fU ,. ---~~~!i--!~~~...,. • n,play-calling during the remain­able to stop the run this year," •JI( • • _.• • der of the first half. Breitbach he said. "Our defensive backs • • .,
gained substantial yardage to have made mistakes and that's ,.Q ' • •. DJ open drives, and Bingle capital­hurt us. We know Keenan is a 
s • M. "'~. , n t •
ized when the Ramblers neared the end zone. 
'"£::Ogr';~i;~~·rt: play of ~' 1C1uana snes :• n
;I

"Those three guys -Bingle. Breitbach, and John Karp ­have been our best on offense ~~~~~~s:~;eii:w;line, in the Stanford loss. ~
stt: ~~l!n~~v: .·.,.· 
SalsaDance Party .·-.~ ;
this season," said Torgenson. "I was proud of their perfor-• 9 Karp caught Bingle's second mance," he said. • and longest touchdown pass of 
It should be an interesting ~ • • ~ ~ •.
36 yards against St. Ed's on struggle Thursday because :, • _. 11 E Th d ,, ·~ '\\ _.•
'' -.i.

Wednesday. 
Morlok said that his team's • very urs ay 8llm .,­
"The goal all year has been to strength was its offensive line. ! •• .t.' · •· 
return to the championship, 
and we're not going to stop "They've done a great job : •. C / 3 hs d JD ·• until we do," said Torgenson. ~~:\~h~o!!!st~~•~anec::sii~~ w '• $5 over $ wit tu ent • 
St. Ed's, on the other hand, tent!y all year." ~ • -M··,.. b "1J 'th alid ID -• 


U,)\,
managed only a spurt of When asked if his team's lop-~ • eL. WI V · • • offense. They opened the sec­
sided win may give the Knights • • • 
ond half with a nine-play, 65-,: 
yard drive. Joe Pomeranke ~!!:~.ds, Morlok had a simple l .• Club Landing· 1717 Lincolnway East •South"Bend, IN '· 
made a diving catch in the cor­
. •. •. •. •. .•-.•. •. •. . {Q 
ner of the endzone to put St.Ed's on the board. ContactPatLeonardat -• -• -• ti,• ---• -•
pleonard@nd.edu and Justin : b S I a • e; u -.n. b i a
The heroics came too late, 
Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu S a In a • a S 



however. The 22-0 deficit Siegfried had built in the first half proved too much for the undermanned St. Ed's squad. With the dorm's baseball team playing in the interhall champi­onship game, the St. Ed's foot­ball squad was missing five starters. 
"We were short-handed against a very good team," said Zeller. "But I think we gave a good effort against a tea:m that made it to the championship game last year." 
The Siegfried coaches and players did not use St. Ed's being short-handed as an excuse to minimize their efforts on this night. They also feel confident in their overall effi­ciency this season. 
"Our offense has been pretty 
consistent all year. with the 
exception of the Knott game 
when we came out a little flat," 
said Torgenson. 
Morrissey vs. Keenan 
Thursday's game between 
Morrissey and Keenan should 
be a matchup of two opponents 
battling for playoff positions. 
The Manorites (2-1} come into 
J')lJIO& €I.ASS I>Imm• ..' I )).·\ L
(EV.Ji':F

f\ t ~( '; 
I. \ ..I'.f.. , ' -"5) $ TS ALL YOV
•~ I\
'\..,,, t & .., .... ... 
•1-.( ' ~.,..-"" 
WINGS 
~~ 
/,,,.,;\, 
(rj'
" 
r~o 
{iw·'l t 

'-­THUilSi>A..Y
c::;·.:~, 

.OI\Eil I7TH, 
• ~ 
#);!", 
V 8 

P:I/WWW,lfll.El>V/,,.C:.LA.88041
/1 w 

MO.llE I1f:FO.llMATION
~,t,-1 



Thursday, Ocrober 17, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 

~-,o· • '\, "'-'~ • • • 
~ ~ Quhf,ttt\'IE~ 
~~ 

~ 
-·!:. . -!(-• ,~ -.a 
if,~!.··. ~~~;\1Ft~:-•• 

wednedday I 0/1 6 & fkur:Jdalf I 0/1 7 IO I debarto/o 10 pm $3 
page 21 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
the athlete. 
With the coach, the leader and the athlete having no trouble making noise, Earl is left to be the non-vocal mem­ber of the team. The question remains, however. whether it's because Earl is naturally soft-spoken, or because he just can't get a word in edge­wise. 
"I am not sure if the others leave enough space for him to communicate," Willingham laughed. "I mean. he might just naturally take that role because that's all that's left." 
Earl has spent a lot of time hoping to be that big hitter, but injuries have kept in on the sideline. He missed a majority of last season due to a variety of injuries, including a strained quadriceps and a separated shoulder. But this season, he's been back on the field and hasn't let injury keep him out. 
"Some guys have it in their makeup," Willingham said. "They just love the physical portion of it and they play more physical than the next man.... I think Glenn is a spe­cial kind of guy that he really enjoys that and whatever his wiring is or makeup is, that's a huge part of what he does and how he plays." 
On Saturday, the coach, the athlete, the leader and, most importantly, the head hunter will be out looking to make the big plays one more time. 
"It's the mentality of our coaches, telling us that we not only want to make the team turn it over, we want to score," Earl said. "It just rubs off, and everyone gets a chance." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu 

NHL 
Bruins secure win Murray's two goals 
pass from behind the net

Associated Press 
behind Dan Cloutier. VANCOUVER Murray scored his first two 
A big night from the big line goals of the season and assisted was all the Boston Bruins need­on the go-ahead goal. and ed to beat the Vancouver Thornton added his first goal Canucks on Wednesday night. into an empty net and had two 
Sergei Samsonov, Joe assists. Thornton and Glen Murray P.J. Axelsson had a short­combined for four goals and five handed goal, and Marty Mcinnis assists as Boston came from also scored for the Bruins (2-1), behind three times to win 6-3. who rebounded from a lopsided 
The Bruins took the lead for season-opening loss in good when Samsonov scored Minnesota with impressive road with 2:08 left in the second wins over Colorado and period. Samsonov, all .alone in Vancouver. the slot, one-timed Thornton s 
1
~:
:1:111111-lilj!i!!l'.!:ma,

·•·.••••>•·•< .,4<i>i'iitH~~fii' INPl~A~ J.$-4!¢:? (574) 288-7777 
SOUTH BEND'S NEWEST CAB COMPANY, SERVING ND/ST. MARY'S AND ALL OF MICHIANA. MAKE YOUR FALL BREAK RESERVATIONS NOW. 
S.B. AIRPORT/AMTRAK-$10.00 -ONE PASS $6.00 EACH -TWO OR MORE PASS 
ASK ABOUT OUR LOW RATES TO CHICAGO/INDIANAPOLIS/DETROIT 
Beginners 
Martial Arts 
Instruction 

Unique combination of Tae Kwon Do and Ju Jitsu 
When: Tuesdays, November 5-December 10, 
5:15;6:45pm . 
Where: Rockne·Memorial Room 301 
Registration begins October 30. Limited to the first 25. Registration fee is $10'.00:~-Fees due at time of registration 
., 
, 'I, 
Demonstration • ,Information Meeting 
October; 29.{5:15pm Room 301 -,~ockne Memorial 
For more information call 1-6100 or visitteos~t~~9u 


Thursday, October 17, 2002 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
WOMENS GOLF 

Womens golf ties for seventh place 


By ANDY TROEGER 
Sports Writer 

For the first two rounds of the Marilynn Smith Sunflower Invitational, the Notre Dame womens golf team played just as it had hoped all season. While the third round was more of a struggle, the team still was pleased with its overall perfor­mance as they tied for seventh in the 17-team field. 
The Irish fired rounds of 307 ­308-320 for a 935 total. 
The 307 and 308 marked the team's two best rounds of the season thus far, and was also a milestone for the history of Irish golf. Notre Dame's previous best round was a 310 in the second round of the Notre Dame Invitational in September. 
"That was the first time that 
we've broken 310 two times in a 
row in the program's history," 
said Notre Dame coach Debby 
King. "Mentally they're trying to 
just play in the moment and take 
one shot at a time and it is final­
ly starting to sink in." 

Youth again paced the Irish, as 
freshman Sarah Bassett and 
sophomore Karen Lotta led the 
Irish by tying for 20th at 231. 
Bassett fired rounds of 76 and 
74 Monday to put herself in con­
tention before struggling with an 
81 Tuesday. Lotta fired three 
consecutive rounds of 77 to pace 
the Irish. 

Freshman Katie Brophy also played well, firing rounds of 77, 76 and 80 to finish at 233 in a tie for 28th. 
"That's what I expect of them," King said of her top golfers. "It doesn't surprise me at all to see them play well, they're that good." 
Rounding out the Irish contin­gent were junior Shannon Byrne, who tied for 50th at a score of 240 (77-81-82), and junior Rebecca Rogers, who fired 249 to tie for 76th (81-83­85). 
Despite the last round strug­
gle, King was very pleased with 
her squad's overall effort over 
the course of the tournament. 
"It's a step up," said King com­
paring this week to past events. 
"The conditions were tougher on 
the last day; the wind coming 
from the opposite direction from 
the first day turned it into a dif­
ferent course. At the same time, 
you can't choke until given the 
opportunity to do so. The next 
time we put ourselves in posi­
tion, we should be able to come 
through." 
Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu 
-SMC SOCCER 

Belles fall to Britons by a goal 
By LAURA CORISTIN Sports Writer 

The Belles lost to Albion in a defensive battle Wednesday 1­0. 
Saint Mary's goalkeeper Maureen MacDonald had eight saves in the match and the one goal she did give up to did not come witil the 5 minute, 59 sec­ond mark of the second half. 
Defensive standouts were senior captain Lynn Taylor and sophomore Katie Taylor. 
"Our defense really sucked it up and played their hearts out," proud of the way we played. forward Wendy Irvin said. "We [Albion is] a very talented team 
just couldn't score." 
and we played really hard At the 5:59 mark in the sec­against them." 
ond half, Albion midfielder Yesterday's game brought the Ashley Rosaen scored her sec­Belles' record in the MIAA to 2­ond goal of the season off of an 6-2, and 4-9-2 overall while 
assist from midfielder Deanna Albion improved to 7 -2 in the 
DeRoo. That goal gave Albion conference and 11-4 overall. the one goal they needed to The Britons are now tied for win. 
second in the MIAA with Calvin 

The Belles previously lost to College, who were defeated by Albion 4-2 and came into the conference rival Adrian in over­game seeking revenge on the time. Britons. 
"We played really well," the Contact Laura Coristin at 
Belles' Lynn Taylor said. "I was cori0333@saintmarys.edu 

und 
~ WSND 88.9 FM 
Interested in ..... . News Broadcasting Begin a DJ of Classical Music DJing SYR's and Other Events 
with a 
REAL FM RADIO STATION?!?! 
Contact Aggie Noble for news: anoble@nd.edu Molly Walsh for Classical DJ: mwalsh2@nd.edu Ferrell Datcher for Dance DJ: fdatcher@nd.edu 

Unplanned Pregnancy? 
Don't go it alone. 
ffyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, 0.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillori, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

. 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3 I 11 





Thursday, October 17, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

HENRI ARNOLD 

CLARE O'BRIEN 
JUMBLE
SCHOOL DAZE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
Let me take 

to lorn, four ordinary words. a close look 
I

DYNAS 
j
CII ' 
02002 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rlghta Rosorvod. 
TRINP 
j
rJ r tJ 
EJERTS ± 

WHAT AN !:YI=
HAPPY TOWN 
DOC.TOI< 00£:5 . DURING OFFICE:

www.Jumble.com 
HOURS.

I ERAUSS I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
t IJ tJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: 
(IXIJ (IIIIIIXJ
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: CRACK SINGE FATHOM CLUMSY Answer: The birds flocked to the church because it was -A SANCTUARY 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIE.S NO.30 • To order, nnd your name, 1ddre11 and $5.4511'\d m¦lce chock payable to Tribune Media Sorvlceo, P.O. Sox "330, Chlcaoo, IL 80680-4330. 


------------------------------------------------------------------~--~---~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Entrance requirement,
1 Novelist perhaps
Melanie_ Thon 
35 Hoofer's technique4 Kind of saw 37 Hydrocarbon

8 Goalpost parts 
suffix 13 Delineate 
38 The Senate 15 Shakespearean declared him a verb public enemy 39 K+, e.g.
16 On again, in a way 40 Lenten serving 43 Fish catcher
17 French illustrator 44 Carrier with Gustave tight security 
46 Informal shirt 
18 "William Tell" part 47 Mountains (Appalachian19 In reserve range)20 Basic algebra 49 Part of una
technique casa 23 "Don't stop!" 
50 Extra: Abbr. 

24 They may be 52 Stumbled uponflipped past 
53 Missouri or 

25 Vote for a Maine preceder member of the 55 Words of other political clarification party 
57 Lindbergh 28 Far from fat achievement 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE E A S E S 
T I 
-=+..,-1-,=-1 --+--+---t 
-,,.+-,-+,,""'""'.....,,..f-::-f 
-,,,-1-,,.......,.......,,-,1 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
65 It's on the Missouri 66 Spanner of 11 time zones 67 See 68-Across 68 With 67-Across, sworn 69 Cost of living? 70 Marching band member 71 Hoppers 72 Game with goalies 73 Pedestrian, at times 
DOWN 1 Relief provider 2 Wee bit 3 Natural shade 4 Target-centering 
aid 5 Kind of beetle 6 Water supplier, 
e.g.: Abbr. 7 Hot cuisine s Traffic light site, 
maybe 9 Treasury secretary before Rubin 10 Others, to Octavian 11 Anticrime acronym since 
1970 12 W.W. II gun 14 34·Down 
protection 21 It includes 
Exodus 
22 Arose 
25 Rail supports 
26 Alley Oop's mate 27 Open to bribery 
WILLSHORTZ 

29 Intersected  41 Sitcom  57 Strike  
again  newsman Baxter  58 •-.-expert, but  
30 Having five  42 Waterwheel  
sharps  45 Cracked up  59 Zippo  
32 It's a gas  48 Defeatist's word  60 Equivalent of a  
33 Game site  51 Common  European count  
34 Driving  church figure  61 In deep water?  
competition  54 Castor and  62 It's T-shaped  
36 Fertilizer  Pollux  63 "What'II _?"  
compound  56 Roofing material  64 Bum  

Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puule and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords tor young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name 
Address -----------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEB~ BORN ON TIDS DAY: Beverly Garland, Geoige Wendi, MaigO! Ki:kb; Evel Kni:vd 
Happy Birthday: Yoo may nrol to step back and take a sronl look at S001e of !he /Jl!iects yoo are wooong on this year. More detail may be lUjlllTed to advaoce in lhe direction yru've been trying to go. S<i yrur J]'iorities ~gill so that yoo oont fall soot of yoor exjXXtlliom. Wori<ing aloog.si<k OOJel1l will be btn:ficial lhis year and shoold lead to &m:rewand~o::nmin.Ylll'llllIDlSare2.9, 13, 24, 27, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Yoo can gct OOJel1l to oo things for yoo, rut be sure oot to OVC!JllY lhem or lend lhem money. &lucational ("WIS will bring you in touch wilh ir1msing.rdjliJ! ~Takeoovartigecfthe~yruarein. 3!iars 
TAURUS (April 20-May lJ): Difficulties wilh ywr mate may lead to estrangement. Don't rely on other.. to handle lhe worldoad You may have peoonal problems. but professional duties may be pressing. You must ti)' to establish a balance. 4 star.; GEMINI (May 21-Jllllf 1.0): Yoo can utili7.e yrur Yellillile mioo in all that you oo. Yoor ability to perfoon with si=! and accuracy will dazzle too;e aroond yoo aro create new CWJll.llfu.2!iars CANCER (Jime 21-July 22): Health IJOOlems may J]eV3il if you havent l=1 getting enough rest. Make sure you look after yourself. Be careful OOI to take on OOJer people's pookm;.5Stlr.i LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): Yoo may fim tha! reJaticmiiµ; are rxx ~ as well as yrucl like. ~are likely if yrur mate ~yw in front of fiienk It may be tim: tore=all }Ulfreltxmliµ;. 3m VIRGO (Aug. 2.lSq>t. 22): Yru can am: up wi1h future trerds in creative fidd5. DJnt hesitile to (lesent yrur unique ideas. You may have difficulties with somaxie who fives \\1h}UL3!iais LIBRA (Sept. 23-0d. 22): Yru can pick up woo.bful ruys if yoo really kd hard ttxlay. Invite friero; over rdher than spero mcney on laVNJ enlertairurenl. Mcn:y is rxx the lnsis tir~fi.n3m SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): Be sure to chible-dJeck the hwse on ywr way oot The locks, stove, gas or electric MreS may rxx be secure. Yoo have l=1 !1=JPiec1 lately and mventlwias(OOv.llas yruguJiloc 5stl'S SAGITTARRJS (No~ 22-Doc. 21): Yoo can get pieoonaial relUrIB ifyru Jll!'i6l! yoor das to thaie who can rock yoor interess. Yoo will fird lhem far more 11:'Cf!live than yru exp.'lj.2m CAPRICORN (Doc. 22-Jan. 19): You can mix business with pleasure to get favorable re5Ults. Yoor fffil)asive rnlUre will win the OOIII of !Olffllre yru've had yoor eye m Dont lx:afi:lidto!X]lla.talllh.:~nlgofirl.4m AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Yoo will learn valuable information if yoo travd ttxlay. Yoo can make reasonable bid,; on real estate or large items for yoor home. Yoo can be .mmrlcfgtiling~v.u:fcr)l::ur~-3stus PISCES (Feb. 19-Mardt 20): Yoo can make JX2SOnal changes that will enhaoce yrur ~Try a filness pugram or see a!xxJl a makeover. These alleralions can 1mg yoo gn:mrµ:µibrity. Gct imclverl in the~cfchikhm 3m Birthday Baby: Yoo will seaith fer kmwledge tluwghoot yoor life. Yoo are sopiisticated irtdligm.and in11.nr \\1h tlm:aiunrl yru. Yoo \\oill hivetheaeaive tabt lO vruilizt: and µuu:e. 
Gieck out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom, astromate.com. COPYRK.mlX12 UNMRSALffiES.5 SYNDIC'ATE 



PORTS 
Thursday, October 17, 2002 

FOOTBALL 
Earl made big block, now wants big hits 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associare Sports Editor 
T~ey call him the "big hit­ter. 
As part of a secondary that is never at a loss for words, Glf'nn Earl comes across as the quiet one. He doesn't have Shane Walton or Vontez Duffs cocky comebacks or Gerome Sapp's "natural born leader" fa(:ade. But he doesn't need those. When he hits, he hits hard. 
"He loves to hear [that he's the big hitter]." defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "When we talk to him about it, when I talk to him about. his eyes light up." 
He's aiming to be the big hit­ter. Two years ago, when he was a little-known member of the Irish special teams unit, he made himself famous by blocking an Air Force field goal that allowed the Irish to take the game into overtime. What's more, he blocked it because he was doing the wrong thing. But he doesn't want to be remembered for that, he wants to really make a name as that big hitter. 
"If my job is to hit people and try to cause some chaos, that's fine with me," Earl said. 
Earl did just that on Saturday against Pittsburgh. Late in the fourth quarter, Earl hit Pittsburgh's quarter­back Rod Rutherford, causing a fumble, which he recovered. That was a step in the right direction. 
•The secondary and the defense are really opportunis­tic," Earl said. "We always try to make a play -to pop a ball loose or get a pick and score with it." 
Earl is a member of sec­ondary that has been making those big plays all season. Labeling themselves as "the coach," "the athlete," "the 1eader." and "the head­hunter." According to Walton, the coach, Earl is the head­hunter. 
Although Irish coach Tyrone Willingham wasn't completely aware of the nicknames the secondary had assigned to themselves, his assessment of his secondary was close to their own. 
"You have got Shane [Walton] that's probably a lit­tle more outspoken," Willingham said. "He could be the legislator of the group. You have got Glenn [Earl] that's probably a little more quiet, probably the hitter of the group ... Gerome [Sapp] could be kind of the overall leader. I think you might say Vontez [Duff] may be he ath­letic specimen." 
So, there's the coach, the head-hunter, the leader and 
see IRISH/page 21 


WOMENS SOCCER 
Rebounding Irish hope to topple Wolverines 
By ANDY TROEGER Spans Writer  to finish out strong for the NCAA's." The Irish re-entered the  six losses have come against teams currently ranked. In all, 12 of the 18 Irish oppo­ Gunnarsdottir are likely out for the remainder of the season due to injuries.  they still have bigger goals. "I think the win over UConn showed us that it's not too  
NSCAA coaches' poll this week  nents this season  either are  Michigan will be looking to  late," said junior Amy Warner.  
The Notre Dame womens soc­ at  No.  23.  currently  defeat Notre  "It  shows  
cer team sent a message last Sunday to the rest of the teams that they will play this season. Despite struggling through the middle of their season, the Irish dominated No. 8  They are counting on their strength of schedule and potential late-season  "/ hope [the win over Connecticut] is a takeoff for the rest ofthe week and the rest ofthe  ranked or have been ranked at some point this season. The Irish  Dame for the first time in nine meet­ings. The Irish defeated t h e  "/ think the win over UConn showed us that it's not too late."  everyone that we're still playing for something." "I \\;as real pleased," said  
Connecticut on their way to a 3­1 win. Now they hope to continue their good play as they travel Michigan to play an important regional game against the No.  success to propel them into the N C A A Tournament despite not  season." Randy Waldrum Irish coach  have also finally stabi­lized their lineup in the past week due to the  Wolverines last year at Alumni Field in overtime on a goal from Amanda  Amy Warner Irish forward  Waldrum last Sunday. "We've just got to build on this now. [This looked  
13 Wolverines.  qualifying for  return  of  Guertin.  like] the Notre Dame team of  
"I  hope  [the  win  over  the Big East Tournament. The  junior Melissa Tancredi and  The teams last played in Ann  old."  
Connecticut] is a takeoff for the  game against Michigan will be  senior captain Ashley Dryer.  Arbor in 2000, and Notre Dame  
rest of the week and the rest of the season," said Irish coach Randy Waldrum. "We still need  the fourth consecutive for the Irish against a ranked oppo­nent, while five of Notre Dame's  However. the Irish also recently announced that defenders Vanessa Pruzinsky and Gudrun  demolished Michigan 5-1. Despite the big win last Sunday, the Irish know that  Contact Andy Troeger at atroeger@nd.edu  


MENS lffTERHALL 
MENS SOCCER 
WOMENS GOLF 
INTERHAU FOOTBALL 
SMC SOCCER 

Notre Dame 2 
Irish tie for seventh 
Morrissey vs. Keenan 
Adrian1

~~ Siefried 22 
St. d's 6 
Michigan State O 
at the Sunflower 
SMC 0 

With the win, the 
Roommates Chad Riley and 
Invitational 
In a highly defensive

A playoff spot is on the
cc:~ 
(:, Ramblers enter the postsea-
Devon Prescod scored for 
match, the Belles were

line in this matchup. 
son undefeated for the sec-
Notre Dame in a game the Irish 
unable to exact revenge on

The Irish shattered a 
ond straight season. 
dominated. 
the Britons Wednesday. 

scho.ol record at the Kansas 
tournament.

~ ~ 
page 20 
page 20
page 19 

page 22 
page 22 





