
VOL. XXXVII NO. 57 . 
New Sbarro opens today 
By CALLIE WHELAN News Writer 
After numerous delays due to construction and logistics issues, tho new Sbarro pizza restaurant will open for business today at 10 a.m. in the LaFortune base­ment. 
Construction on the new facili­ty beKan in July of this past sum­mer and was originally sched­uled to bn completed by Nov. 4. 
"Wf) had a delay with the pizza ovens," said Dave Prentkowski, director of food services at the University. 
In addition to minor delays with equipment, space concerns prompted managers to make changes in the size of the counter and a reorganization of some equipment and facilities, according Lo Prcntkowski. 
Now that construction issues have been resolved, Sbarro employees have been rushing to prepare for opening day. With the Subway restaurant upstairs in LaFortunc netting one of the highest revenues among Subway franchises in the country, offi­cials expect that the new restau­rant will also be very busy, according to Jim Labella. general manager of The Huddle and the newSbarro. 
"The ovens each make 14 piz­zas every four minutes," he said. 
Sbarro employees have spent 

LAUREN FORBtS/The Observer A Sbarro employee tosses pizza dough for practice in prepa­ration for the restaurant's grand opening today. 
the last two days preparing the full menu in practice mode to prepare for today's opening. Some lucky students at LaFortune were even welcomed inside the new facility to taste sample pizzas. 
The new pizza restaurant's menu boasts Italian favorites such as pan pizza, breadsticks, pasta and hero sandwiches. 
Starting today, Sbarro will be open until 4 a.m. Thursday through Saturday nights, and until 2 a.m. during the rest of the week. These hours will offer stu­dents a near-by late night dining option for those customers who may be located far away on cam­pus from the 24-hour Reeker's restaurant, managers said. 
Managers also expect that the new restaurant will eventually offer students on-campus pizza delivery. 
"Pizza delivery will begin in January when we have perfected the pizza recipes," Labella said. 
Contact Callie Whelan at cwhelan@nd.edu 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
SMC bars suspended officer frotn catnpus 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's security officer Belinda Rathert remains on sus­pension but is now also prohibit­ed from entering the campus. Rathert, who was suspended Nov. 7, has been with the College for three years. 
The secu­rity officer received a Belinda Rathert letter Tuesday from Debbie Kelly, Saint Mary's director of human resources, confirming the College's "suspension and notice of absolute prohibition from cam­pus." 


Rathert claims that Kelly sus­pended her because her college transcripts were missing from Rathert's personnel file. Rathert was originally told she had until Wednesday to turn in a copy or her transcripts along with two let­ters of accreditation from Indiana University Southeast, where Rathert says she graduated in 1989. 
"How am I supposed to turn in my transcripts?" Rathert said. "I can't even visit my daughter [on campus]." 
Hathert, whose daughter is a freshman at Saint Mary's, claims that Kelly imposed the trespass­ing order because of an alleged incident in which llathcrt made a threatening remark about the College. 
"I thought we were having an intelligent conversation about workplace violence," said Rathert. "All I was talking about was that Saint Mary's docs not have training for workplace vio­lence." 
According to Melanie Engler. a spokeswoman for the College, "Ms. Rathert contacted Director ofHuman Resources Debbie Kelly and Ms. Rathert requested an extension of [the] deadline for information. Debbie Kelly did grant that extension." 
Rathert said she contacted Kelly Tuesday to inform her that all communications would be conducted through her lawyer and that she would not be meet­ing with her lawyer until Priday. Rathert said she would turn her transcripts over to her lawyer who would then contact Saint Mary's. 
"I gave them a set of transcripts when they hired me," Rathert said. 'They suspend me for vio­
see OFFICER/page 6 

Students discuss parietals and housing 
. Campus group gathers to share concerns 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
Assistant News Editor 
Students gathered Wednesday evening to discuss the much­debated topic of parietals and weighnd in with their feelings on the subject. 
"We wanted to foster discussion and dialogue and make people realize there is a need for change," said sophomore Bill Hinner. one of the discussion's organizers. 
The discussion be~an with the qunstion of why parietals exist at Notre Dame. Students said the University uses the parietal policy to maintain respect. safety, secu­rity and privacy within the resi­dence halls. Monitors are placed only in women's residence halls in order to uphold this level of security. Amber Jackson said, "If we are worried about the safety and security of women, then there is a greater issue that we need to address." 
Many said they have felt the glaring eyes of rectors and moni­tors when they have entered a member of the opposite sex's hall. The false stigma that men are sexual predators creates strainl'd gender relations on this campus, said Martha Patzer, ed out the ridiculousness of this another ofthe organizers. when she said, "One foot on the 
Manv recounted incidents tloor or you are screwed." where amonitor would come into Several said the University pro­24-hour space and scold them for vides reasons for parietals that "inappropriate behavior." Ava can easily be disproven. Preacher, assistant dean in the "The reason for parietals my College of Arts and Letters, point-rectress gave me was that I could 
. New student group organizes conversation 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
A group of six Notre Dame students that unoffi­cially call themselves "The Parietals Question" wants to start a dialogue about gender relations and the possibility of co-ed living on campus. 
Made up of a mixture of male and female sopho­mores, The Parietals Question plans to f'acilitatc discussions among stu­dents, faculty, rectors and administrators throughout the year. 
"Something is missing here, and we think it's healthy gender relations." said sophomore Martha Patzer, one of the members in the group. 
The Parietals Question emerged during a study session for an international relations test. The mem­bers started conversing about campus issues and decided to form a group Rather than be a group 
sec GROUP/page 6 


run down my hallway in my paja­mas without feeling comfortable," said Patzer. 
Women have been seen wear­ing their pajamas and walking to and from the shower in their tow-
see PARIETALS/page 8 

page 2 1 uu11>uay, 1>1uve1noer l'l:, .lUUL
1 ne VllJ'trv~, ,,. •• ... .&..£ ..... """ -.... 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Sharing the 


freshman 
•


experience 
Hurling a turtleneck into my duffie bag, I realize that I do not even know what doilies to pack for the Nov. S-9 rreshman Retreat that starts in 20 min­utes. I have no idea what I should be expecting, what kind of activities I Joe Trombello will be participat­ing in. what kind of 
News Wire 
people I will soon 
Editor
meet. It is 
Freshman 
Orientation all over again. 
The walk to the Coleman Morse Center is a blur as my mind contem­plates all of the things that could go wrong. I enter room 114 to find a hand­ful of girls already seated and settle into a comfortable couch. expecting to pass the time in isolated silence. Instead, I am instantly greeted by a flurry of con­versation and welcoming handshakes. 
After arriving at Sacred Heart Parish Center, the retreat leaders orchestrate an icebreaker, then progress to a dis­cussion of the difficulties in transition­ing from high school to Notre Dame. After listening to their talk, I join fellow freshman in discussion of what we have just heard. I realize that my difficulties are not unique -each freshman explains some ofthe uncertainties they have faced since arriving on campus. I no longer feel alone. 
The 25 freshman and I spend the night in prayer, contemplation and a game of Mafia, which I lose. Being Italian, Ishould have some advantage, but no. We dance, mingle, discuss and reflect. I find myself laughing more than I have recently and stay up until 3, not caring if Iam tired the following morn­ing. 
Sitting outside on the final day of the retreat, the brilliance ofthe Golden Dome looms beyond the placidity of St. Joseph's Lake and the abundance of trees whose golden leaves make the ground erupt with color. Ispend a moment in quiet reflection, then turn my attention to the nine undergradu­ates in my small discussion group whose faith, intelligence and compas­sion echo the physical beauty of my sur­roundings. With them, I share things I have not spoken about to anybody at Notre Dame. They listen. patiently, as I unburden myself, then do the same. We watch the football game and cheer as the Irish pull out a close one. The day concludes with a Mass and a multitude of hugs. 
1join past graduates and leaders of freshman retreats the following night as we join our hands in unified prayer at the Grotto, a weekly rite. After the intentions are said, I clutch the bor­rowed rosary beads of a friend as a group member leads us in the Apostles' Creed. I begin the rosary haltingly, as I have not said it in years, but I find the words coming easier. Itake courage in knowing that I will have many weeks of practice. I have heard so much about the Notre Dame family. but they were always just words. Now, I begin to expe­rience it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAM.PUS NEWS 
Student Senate discusses campus water quality 
Senators report on the staus of bad­smelling water in the residence halls that has been reported by many students. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATION 

Iraq approves new U.N. resolution on disarmament 
Top Iraqi officials informed U.N. sec­retary general Kofi Annan yestarday in letter that they would agree to 
U.N. weapons inspections. 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. Lecture with Donald Pope-David "Sports, }face and Multi­Culturalism: A Perspective on Notre Dame" 
8:15 p.m. at Ilesburgh Center 
. "A Very Potter Evening" 6 p.m. at Ilammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Womens Choir Concert 
7:30 p.m. at O'Laughlin Auditorium 
. Theater Department production "The Odd Couple" 8 p.m. at Little Theater 
WHAT'5 COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Fried cheese ravioli, pepperoni piza, cheese pizza, sausage pizza, breadsticks, tomato soup, four grain soup, pepperoni pizza, swiss steak, whipped potatoes, sugar snap peas, cream of wheat, sausage links. hamburg­ers, chicken patties, hotdogs, krinkle cut fries, plain rice, vegetable egg rolls, chicken tacos, refried beans 
Today's Dinner: Vegetable pizza, cheese frenchbread, baked sweet pota­toes, grilled cheese on wheat, vegetable eggrolls, Spanish rice, chicken in the pot soup, pepperoni pizza, four cheese pizza, French dip sand~iches, boiled mostacci­oli, boiled fettuccine, alfredo sauce 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Former stock analyst admits he lied about ratings report 
Jack Grubman, a former Wall Street tech stock analyst, told officials yester­day that he falsified stock reports to improve his profes­sional image. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Making it through the 
U.S. Customs bureaucracy 
New Viewpoint columnist and Notre Dame gradu­ate student Peter Wicks relates his experiences and frustrations with the American cus­toms system. 
page 13 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
NDSP apprehend suspicious person 
NDSP responded to a report of a suspicious person by the bike racks outside Building G of University Village early Wednesday morning. Officers apprehended the individual, identified him and issued a no tres­pass warning letter to the person. The suspicious individual was then realeased. 
Bike found near Lewis Hall 
A bike found early Wednesday morning near Lewis Hall was released to the owner. 
Visitor reports missing bike 
A visitor was arrested around 2 
a.m. Tuesday morning for public intoxication and possesion of mari­juana near lot A15. 
Car hits light pole 
NDSP responded to a case of prop­erty damage and a traffic accident of a vehicle hitting a concrete pillar on a light pole in lot Cl. No injuries were reported. 
Locked bike stolen 
A student reported her locked free­standing bike was taken from the east side of Howard Hall on Tuesday 
South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, fettuccine, bianco pizza, Greek pork loin, white beans with ham, cornbread, vegetable rice pilaf, sauteed julienne vegetables, turkey pot pie, long grain and wild rice, chicken nuggets, sea­soned fries, onion rings. soft pretzel. chicken teriyaki, portobello fajita 
Today's Dinner: Tortellini with basil cheese sauce, fettuccine, bianco pizza, peppered flank steak, barley risotto with greens and mushrooms, black beans with tomato and cilantro, buffalo chicken wings, grilled cod, lentil and barley stew, BBQ rib sandwich, sea.5oned fries, onion rings, peppered tangerine chicken 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


0::: 
&I.I
:c 
~ 


&I.I 
~ 
-I 
<( (.) 






0 

HIGH 48 HIGH HIGH HIGH
-' 

LOW 32 LOW LOW LOW 
43 32 
37 24 
35 25 
SCENE SPORTS 

Scene looks 
Notre Dame at the history 
mens baseball of blaxspoilta• 
signs high tion movies 
school seniors 

Scene reviewers 
High school discuss blaxpoloia­
seniors Colin Falls tion films, the 
and Omari Isreal "baddest" movie 
signed with the genre of all, . 
Irish mens baseball team Wednesday. 
page 14 page 28 

between 12 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. The case is pending and there are no sus­pects. 
Accident occurs at NOH 
NDSP responded to an occupational accident at North Dining Hall. The University employee was transported to the Health Center for treatment of a laceration. 
Complied from the NDSP crime blotter. 
Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Potato leek soup, spicy beef soup, cheese pizza, pepper­oni pizza, fried eggs with sausage, tor­tilla sandwiches, hamburgers, grilled cheese, chicken breast cordon bleu, broccoli rice casserole, yellow squash, seafood newburg, Californis wrap, herbed pasta, apple spice muffins 
Today's Dinner: Cajun sausage pizza, turkey pot pies, french fries, pizza que­sadillas, steak sandwiches, falafcls, poppy seed cake, Boston cream pie, corn, roasted butternut squash, cherry ribbon gelatin salad, salad bar, cheese pizza, roasted gold potatoes, citrus lentils and rice, potato lock soup 
SUNDAY MONDAY 




HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 65 / 42 Boston 52 / 44 Chicago 48 / 33 Denver 46 / 29 Houston 73 / 56 Los Angeles 77 / 55 Minneapolis 34 / 21 New York 55 I 45 Philadelphia 57 / 42 Phoenix 79 I 56 Seattle 57 / 42 St. Louis 53 I 37 Tampa 75 / 57 Washington 59 / 44 

JThursday, November 14, 2002 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


STUDENT SENATE 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Ethical issues involving technology assessment, bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, computer technology, engineering, and architectural design constantly raise new and difficult dilemmas for society. 
To explore these issues in depth, investigate the unique Notre Dame Science, Technology, and Values Program (STV). This is an academic Minor requiring 15 credit hours that may be taken in conjunction with any major. Within the STV Program, you can develop specific emphases on STV issues in relation to Business; Environmental Studies; Biomedical Ethics; Philosophy and Theology; History and Philosophy of Science; and Government and Public Policy. 
Adescription of course offerings for SPRING 2003 can be obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessy, or visit our website at http:i/www.nd.edu/~stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment. 

Do you love mu,ic1 ft.re you Intere,ted In workin9 on a concert ,chedu led for the be9innin9 of the raH >eme,ter, 20031 if ,o, you are encoura9ed to apply to ,erve a, fhe >how', Chairper,on 
and Vice Chair er,on 
If you are interested in aPPl!/in!! as The Show Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson. Please stop bY the Student Activities Office. 3 15 Lafortune Student Center to Pick UP an aPPlication. The aPPlication deadline is Nov. 22. Interviews wm be held the week of Dec. I. for more information. Please call the 
Student Activities Office at 631-7308 or e-mail us at sao@nd.ed_u_._ ___, 



Students report on campus water quality 
By MEGHANN£ DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
As Senate committees near completion of their projects, senators on Wednesday report­ed on the status of the water quality in residence halls. 
In several dorms, smelly water pours out of faucets and showerheads, senators said at their weekly meeting. 
At the recently renovated Pangborn Hall, odorous water continues to be a problem. Kate Schlosser, the dorm's sen­ator, said the problem reached the point where hall residents do not use their sinks. Maintenance flushed out the dorm's water system three times since the beginning of the year to rid the pipes of stagnant water, but the prob­lem persists, said Schlosser. When the water builds up in the pipe, due to infrequent use. an odor comes from the faucets. 
Courtney Badgely, Farley senator, said, "The problem is hard water and they are doing what they can." 
Notre Dame is located in a region with is extremely hard water, according to mainte­nance officials. Although the maintenance department is investigating efforts to soften the water, the funds are not available to solve the problem, said Badgely. The department is trying to acquire additional money. 
Deb Murray, manager of maintenance and projects, sug­gested students run the water for long periods of times so that the water will cycle and the smell will flush out, said Badgely. 
In an effort to be environ­mentally conscious, the main­tenance department will be installing environmentally safe showerheads in all of the dorms. A lever is located on the showerhead that controls water usage while still main­taining water temperature. Sarah Bates, Pasquerilla West senator, provided examples 
A;acuity Artist Series Concer:~ 
Georgine Resick, soprano Warren Jones, piano l) \ 

"The Wanderer": 
JI 

The Song Cycle in Migration 
,,f 

Works by Paladilhe, Cui, Szymanowski, , i Rangstrom, Malipiero, and Honegger -· /
.,·
,;/ 

Sunday,Novem er 17,2002 2 pm,Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art 
Tickets ($3-10): Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128 
This concert made possible through support from th• Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, College of Arts &Letter<, Univorsity of Notre Dame; and by th• Boehnen Fund for Excellence in tho Arts 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
DEPARTMENT 01' MUSIC 
such as shaving or conditioning hair for why the special show­erheads are beneficial. 
In other Senate news: 
. 
Courtney Kohout, chairper­son of the committee on diver­sity, presented a revised ver­sion of the sexual awareness poster. Though the Senate opted to make further revi­sions, it decided that posters would be placed in residence hall bathrooms and outside resident assistants' rooms. This year's poster is a continuance of the previous Senate's efforts to raise awareness of sexual assaults. 

. 
Senators voted on their Senate T-shirt. It will be gray and have the slogan "Saving the school one resolution at a time" printed on it. 

. 
Danielle LeDesma, judicial council president, informed Senate of the scheduled dates for the 2003 -2004 elections. The election for student union president will be Feb. 10 and the run-off will be Feb. 13. The class officer election will be Feb. 24, with the run-off election on Feb. 27. Dorm sen­ators must be elected by March 


1. 
An information meeting will be held on Dec. 5 for all prospective presidential candi­dates. 
. Paul Graham, representative from Progressive Student Alliance, talked to Senate about PSA's efforts to increase awareness of workers' rights on campus. He submitted a let­ter addressed to Senate seeking their approval before PSA sub­mits it to Father Edward Malloy, the University's presi­dent, and Father Tim Scully, executive vice president, and said that as leaders, this was the best opportunity to take a stand on the issue. 
"It's our role, as students, to get the workers to the table with the University. We are not being anti-administration or anti-Catholic," said Graham. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes I@nd.edu 


,--------------------------------------------------­
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 14, 2002 
' 
Merritt presents Last Lecture 
By JIM GAFFEY 
News Writer 
Traveling well and being aware of subtle differences in foreign cultures was the emphasis of Martha Merritt's talk Wednesday in McGlinn Hall's 24-hour lounge. Her speech was the first in this year's Last Lecture series, an effort to promote faculty-stu­dent inter­
action "There is tremendous is merely sponsored value in going back to a to say that 
by student you've
place you've visited 
g o v e r n • been to a ment. before.,. particular Merritt is p I a c e . 
a political Choosing
Martha Merritt
science pro­destina­
political science Professor
fessor tions based 
mary of her travelogues, Merritt shared anecdotal stories about her trips that illustrated a way of travel­ing well and demonstrated a "silent cultural understand­ing" that adds to the experi­ence of any international vacation. 
One of the ways to travel well Merritt discussed was to avoid "power travel." a way of vacationing whose dri­ving force 

w h o s e informal teaching style and dynamic speaking has attracted a following of students, as well as the invitation to lec­ture to students in an infor­mal setting. Her speech, titled "Wanderlust! An Appeal for International Travel with Passion and Engagement," contained several travel tips for the student audience. 
Merritt's own internation­al travel experience began when, at 24 years old, she quit her job as a secretary with a New York-based magazine for the opportuni­ty to travel to Moscow. Her travels also brought her to destinations in France, England. Spain, Italy, Estonia and China. But rather than giving a sum-
on how 
exciting they will seem to others is a habit to avoid. Merritt said. 
Another situation to avoid is what Merritt coined "being traveled." She told the story of a friend whose career requires monthly travel to Budapest, and who, as a result, has lost her sense of excitement in international travel. "There is tremendous value in going back to a place you've visited before," said Merritt, but she stressed that it is important to take an active role in choosing your disti­nations. Merritt, for instance, has made several return trips to Paris to see her favorite museum exhib­it. 
Merritt also stressed the importance of adequate 




enormous 

FLEECE 

Selecti:• 
~ 
from 0UTP0ST Campus s ors 


Thursday, November 14 If 8:00 pm Friday, November 15 ii 8:00 pm Saturday, November 16 !!I 8:00 pm Sunday, November 17 8 2:30 pm LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at 574/284-1626 
preparation for traveling abroad. One way to do this is by reading travel guides, she said. But travel guides can also have a downside. Having your nose in a travel guide while visiting famous sights may take away from the actual experience of vis­iting them, said Merritt. 
Another great way to get the sense of a foreign land is to travel alone, said Merritt, who traveled throughout the Chinese countryside alone. Although it's fun to travel in groups, "you'll have more cultural insight when you're travel­ing alone," she said. Merritt relayed a story of how trav­eling alone in China allowed her the opportunity to befriend a family and expe­rience their hospitality. 
Finally, Merritt stressed the importance of recording her adventures abroad in a journal. It was through her journal, she said, that she was able to recapture the oxperience of traveling around the world much more powerfully than a photograph could. "The problem with having a cam­era," she said, is that "everything becomes a vignette to be pho­tographed." If that mode of thinking dominates a vaca­tion, then many sights may be overlooked. Merritt said she hoped her talk would inspire a "deep and abiding wanderlust" in her stu­dents. 
Contact Jim Gaffey at jgaffey@nd.edu 

Students de1nonstrate against militaryschool 
misleading, however, says
By MATT BRAMANTI 
sophomore Michael 
News Writer 
Poffenberger, one of the 
trip's organizers. 

As part of a national "We arc responsible for protest this weekend; student training the militaries of activists from Notre Dame some of the worst dictators and Saint Mary's will travel the world has known," to Port Benning, Ga. to Poffenberger said. demon-The protest strate is organized
"We are responsible for 
against the by SOA School of training the militaries of Watch. a t h e national
some ofthe worst dicta­
Americas, group dedi­
tors the world has
a U.S.­cated to backed known." closing down military Michael Poffenberger the military training training
protest organizer
school they believe C O n ­tributes to international human rights abuses. 
Over 50 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will join an estimated 10,000 marchers to protest at the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation located at Fort Benning. 
The institute was estab­lished in Panama by the U.S. military in 1946 as the School of the Americas (SOA). Its mission is to "sup­port the democratic princi­ples of the western hemi­sphere" by training military personnel, law enforcement officers and civilians. The school has traditionally focused on teaching tactics used in suppressing Marxist rebel groups. 
That mission statement is school. The 
group was 
established in 1990 following the killings of eight civilians in El Salvador, including six Jesuit priests. by SOA graduates. The organization advocates civil disobedience as a means of raising public awareness. 
Poffenberger stressed the importance of the Christian spirit of the movement, adding that this year's vigil has additional relevance due to the possibility of an American-led war in Iraq. 
"This vigil is a statement that we do not advocate self­interest at the expense of human life," said Poffenberger. "[It is] con­trary to the culture of life that Catholics are called to defend." 
Contact Matt Brarnanti at mbrarnant@nd.edu 






WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Iraq accepts U.N. weapon inspectors resolution 
Annan said. But, he added,

A.soci.,tcd Pre .. 
''the issue is not acceptance but 
UNITED NATIONS performance on the ground. 

Facing a tighl deadline and Let the inspectors go in. I urge the threat of war, Iraq accept­the Iraqis to cooperate with cu a Lough, new U.N. resolution them and to perform and I on Wednesday that will return think that is the test we are all weapons inspectors to the waiting for." country after nearly four years. Hush said he wouldn't toler­Iraq's U.N. ambassador said his ate "deception or denial or country hadn't placed any con­deceit" from Iraqi President ditions on the resolution's Saddam Hussein and he Lcrms. renewed his warning that if 
In an argumentative and Iraq "chooses not to disarm, we sometimes threatening nine­will have a coalition of the will­page acceptance letter to ing with us" to do the job. Sccrctary-Gcncrnl Kofi Annan, Bush declined to discuss the Iraqi Foreign Minister Naji letter, though he thanked the Sabri attacked the United U.N. Security Council for pass­States and Britain. the co-spon­ing the U.S.-backed resolution. sors of the resolution, and The Council approved the reso­called the U.N. action unjust lution last Friday and gave Iraq and illegal. But he declared to accept its terms. nont\thcless that Baghdad "They had no choice" but to would abide by the resolution. accept, said a U.S. official, 
"We hereby inform you that speaking on condition of we will deal with resolution anonymity. ''Iraqis need to give 1441, despite its bad contents. their full cooperation to the ... The important thing is trying inspectors to bring about com­to spare our people from any plete and verifiable disarma­harm," Sabri wrote. The letter ment. Nothing else will do." 
Iraq President Saddam Hussein addresses members of the Revolutionary Command Council In
went on to add that Iraq is Russian Foreign Minister Igor 

Baghdad on Wednesday. Iraq decided to accept the United Nation's resolution calling for
"prepared to receive the Ivanov. whose country is Iraq's 

weapons inspectors to be allowed back into Iraq after a four-year absence. 
inspectors within the assigned closest Security Council ally, timetable." said on state-controlled ORT acceptance of the Security itary officers. The picture was wicked slander against Iraq" by 
Annan, speaking to reporters television: "We were confident Council resolution two hours frozen on the screen while an claiming that it had or was on in Washington after a meeting that Iraq would make this deci­after Iraq's U.N. Ambassador announcer read the message its way to producing nuclear with President Bush. said "we sion, which opens the way for a Mohammed Al-Douri told the recounting at length a history weapons. take it that they have accepted" political resolution of the situa­rest of the world. of Iraq's dispute with the He also warned inspectors the resolution. clearing the way tion. Now it is important that Iraqi TV showed images of United Nations. that Iraq will be watching their for an advance team of U.N. the international inspectors Saddam, in a dark suit and tie, In the letter, Sabri accused actions very closely. In 1998, inspectors to arrive in Iraq on quickly return to Iraq." presiding over a meeting of his Bush and British Prime Baghdad accused inspectors of Monday. In Baghdad, state-run televi­Revolutionary Command Minister Tony Blair of fabricat­spying for the United States 
"Yes, Iraq has accepted," sion announced Saddam's Council, made up of senior mil-ing "the biggest and most and Israel. 

U.S. bishops approve policy regarding sexual abuse 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

U.S. Roman Catholic bishops over­whelmingly approved a compromise sex abuse policy Wednesday after the Vatican demanded they make changes to balance fairness to priests with com­passion for victims. 
Weary of scandal, bishops hoped the new plan would restore their credibility after 10 months of revelations that church leaders have sheltered molesters in the clergy. Victims and some rank­and-lile Catholics were dissatisfied, and pledged to fight on for greater account­ability from bishops. 
The Vatican still must approve the pol­icy to make it church law, and therefore binding on the bishops, but the revisions were worked out with officials from the Holy See. U.S. prelates are certain the document will receive Vatican approval. 
"We are sometimes asked to choose between the accuser and the accused," Chicago Cardinal Francis George said as he introduced the revisions for a vote. "We cannot choose one or the other. We have to choose both. We have to love both." 
The bishops voted 246-7 with six abstentions to adopt the Vatican­demanded changes, which were devel­oped to ensure due process protections for accused priests. The prelates stressed that the policy still promises clergymen will be removed from public ministry -saying Mass, teaching in Catholic schools, wearing a Roman col­lar -after "even one act of sexual abuse of a minor." 

A few bishops said the plan was unfair to priests who had been rehabilitated. Washington's Cardinal Theodore Mccarrick responded: "We had no choice, We must move forward." 
The Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests said the policy gives too much discretion to bishops, whose negligence caused the abuse crisis. 
"Bishops have voted to give themselves more power and backtracked from their earlier promises," said Barbara Blaine, the group's president. "It is critical that survivors keep coming forward, regard­less of the obstacles." 
The lay reform group Voice of the 
Faithful. created in response to the molestation scandals, said the plan cre­ated "a cumbersome procedure" that overlooks "the spiritual and pastoral needs of the survivors." 
The policy allows bishops to conduct a confidential. preliminary inquiry when a molestation claim is made to determine whether it is plausible. If it is, the accused priest is to be put on leave, then must go before a clerical tribunal to determine his guilt or innocence. 
Bishop Thomas Doran of Rockford, Ill., who contributed to the revisions. plead­ed for patience as the bishops worked out implementation of the policy. It will take at least a year to form the courts and train church prosecutors and judges, he said. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Journalist finds alleged bin Laden tape: 
A journalist with an Arab TV station that broadcast n purported Osama bin Laden audiotape said Wednesday he received the recording in Pakistan from an agent or the al-Qaida leader. Ahmad MuafTaq Zaidan of Al-Jazeera TV said the bin Laden emissary contacted him by phone Tuesday and asked to meet in Islamabad that night. Zaidan would not say where they met in the Pakistani capital. 

200 people feared dead in Bangladesh: 
Nineteen boats disappeared in a fierce storm off Bangladesh on Wednesday and officials and wit­nesses said about 200 fishermen were missing and feared dead. Resc'ue workers were battling high waves to search the seas and offshore islands for the missing men. At least 10 wooden fishing boats sank ofT Cox's Bazar, 185 miles southeast of Dhaka, local official Azimuddin Chowdhury said. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Senate stops Homeland Security plan: 
The Senate rejected a Democratic plan Wednesday for combining several agencies into a new Department of Homeland Security, clearing the path for a version President Bush prefers and reflecting the White House's new post-election muscle. On a largely party-line roll call the Senate voted 50-47 to set aside a Democratic version that became the focus of Republican delay tactics for several weeks before the election. 
Officials charge fraud in WTC attacks: 
A lawyer and a hospital morgue manager were among 26 people arrested Wednesday on charges of stealing a total $508,000 from Sept. 11-related charities. The charges bring to more than 200 the number of people arrested for allegedly defraud­ing agencies trying to help victims of the terrorist attacks, District Attorney Robert Morgenthau said. 
Attorney declares leak in sniper case: 
The lawyer for sniper suspect John Allen Muhammad denounced the "cowards in law enforcement" Wednesday for leaking details of the investigation to a newspaper. The comments by Peter Greenspun came after Muhammad made his second appearance in a Prince William County cour­thouse to face capital murder charges in a fatal Oct. 9 shooting at a Manassas-area gas station. 

Bush declares Tennessee disaster areas: 
President Bush declared 16 Tennessee counties dis­aster areas Wednesday, freeing millions in federal aid for a state that lost 16 people in weekend torna­does that cut a deadly path across l'ive states. Federal Emergency Management Agency Director Joe Allbaugh brought the news to still-dazed victims in this mountain community 40 miles northwest of Knoxville. 



Group 
continued from page 1 
that solely wants to elimi­nate the University's pari­etal hours. when students of the opposite sex are allowed in the residence halls, members say they want to promote an envi­ronment that encourages more male-female rela­tionships. 
Both Patzer and fellow member Bill Rinner said they did not realize the negative side to single-sex dorms and parietals when they decided to come to the University. 
"Frankly, I feel isolated from half the University," Patzer said. 
The two added that after talking to other students. they notice a spirit of cyni­cism among many students who believe they have little power to challenge long­standing policies on cam­pus. But Rinner said stu­dents should not be daunt­ed by institutional conven­tions. 
"That doesn't mean that we shouldn't at least be entitled to hope for change," he said. 
Currently, all 27 of the Notre Dame residence halls are single-sex dorms. Parietal hours, when stu­dents of the opposite sex are permitted in the dorm rooms, are 9 a.m. to mid­night Sunday through Thursday. In some resi­dence halls, parietals are extended to 12:30 a.m. on Sundays due to later dorm Masses. On Fridays and Saturdays, parietals are 9 
a.m. to 2 a.m. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu 
Come hang out with the late night crew. Work for Observer news. 

Call 631-5323. 
Thursday, November 14, 2002

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Rathert said she attended her degree. on whether or not Rathert's posi­Purdue University from 197 4 to "Debbie [Kellyl could have han­tion requires a college degree. 

Officer 

1976, leaving to attend the dled this so much better. They 'The situation will probably be Indiana State Police Academy. could have just asked me for my resolved by the end of this week
continued from page 1 

Rathert contends that she gradu­transcripts," Rathert said. or the beginning of next week," lating College policy when I don't ated from Indiana University Kelly said that not all positions know what College policy I have Southeast in 1989, when she require college degrees or tran­
Contact Sarah Nestor at 

violated." returned to college and earned scripts, but would not comment 
nesc9877@saintmarys.edu 

Work. . Work. . Work. . Why have b h?
Leisure. Leisure. Leisure. not ot . 
FORTUNE' What does a job at Ernst & Young give you? The best of both worlds. After all, 100 BEST the focus of our business has always been its people, and we are devoted to helping
COMPANIES~

TO WORK FOR ~ them realize their career go.:ils while encouraging their personal aspirations. The result is you'll be challenged, but you'll also be rewarded. Maybe that's why we've been named one of the "100 Best Companies to Work For," four years in arow. So why not bounce on over and see for yourself? 
ey.com/us/careers 

al/ fRNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.TM 

Thursday, November 14, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch November 13 
Dow Jones 
8,398.49 ~ +12.49 




NASDAQ 
1,361.34 ~ +11.78 
S&P5{X) 
882.53 -0.43
•

AMEX 
810.47 -3.83
•


NYSE •
468.90 -1.27 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +4.27 +0.55 13.42 

NAS~:::iliil:i~ffll::lil!tm;:~1!lllll!!lll:1i;,!l(~ill:llill!l:ll; 
SUNMICROSYSTEM (SUNW)+4.27 +0.14 3.42 
P~~[~N~III~~§£Bi§l~:1:~imi~~ffil!1fliii!~l;~l1~Ji11Ji~1:il~ 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +1.85 +0.33 18.12 
IN BRIEF 
Commi~ion approves cable merger 
• Federal regulators approved the $29.2 bil­lion merger of Comcast and AT&T Broadband Wednesday, clearing the way for creation of the nation's la_rgest cable television company. 
The Federal Communications Commission said its decision was contingent on the com­bined company selling its 25 percent stake in Time Warner Entertainment. 
The FCC voted 3-1 for the deal over the objections of consumer groups, which filed a motion last week asking the agency to delay its decision. The groups contend the new cable giant would limit customers' choices in television viewing and Internet access. 
But FCC Chairman Michael Powell said "the benefits of this transaction are considerable, the potential harms negligible." 
Commissioner Michael Copps, the panel's only Democrat, voted against the deal. 

Steelworkers pursue price increase 
Some U.S. steelmakers, their position strengthened by an industry shakeout and tar­iffs on foreign steel, are pursuing their first price hikes in seven years from car manufac­turers. 
The steel companies are pushing for increases of as high as 10 percent in their con­tracts with the Big Three of General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler i\G, according to automotive and metal ana­lysts, responding to a report in The Wall Street Journal. The contracts run up to five years. 
Bethlehem Steel of Bethlehem, Pa., and National Steel or Mishawaka, Ind., confirmed they had negotiated higher prices, but declined to discuss details. U.S. Steel, AK Steel and !spat Inland declined to discuss details of the negotiations, as did Ford and General Motors. 
Automakers each year buy about 14.4 mil­lion Lons or domestic steel, which accounts for more than half the weight of the average car, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute. 









Grubman admits falsification 
. Analyst said he invented stock story 
Associated Pres.• 
NEW YORK 
Jack Grubman, a star Wall Street analyst during the heyday for technology stocks. said Wednesday that he made up a story about how he used his rat­ings of AT&T stock to help his boss win a power strug­gle at Citigroup Inc . 
Grubman said the story, sent by him in e-mail memos to another analyst, was just baseless boasting un his part. "I invented a story in ari effort to inflate my professional impor­tance and make an impres­sion on a colleague and friend," he said in a state­ment. 
Grubman, who worked at Citigroup's Salomon Smith Barney brokerage, is among analysts under investigation and is named in shareholder lawsuits over alleged manipulation of' stock ratings. He resigned in August but insists he never issued a biased rating. 

He was responding to a Wall Street Journal story that disclosed the e-mail, in which Grubman said Citigroup chief executive Sanford Weill pushed him been leaked. been named in some 62 and state regulators. to review his rating of In the late 1990s, class-action complaints. In the e-mail memo, AT&T stock to curry favor Grubman became one of New York State Attorney Grubman said Weill was from AT&T CEO C. Michael Wall Street's most power­General Eliot Spitzer, who seeking Armstrong's sup­Armstrong, a Citigroup ful analysts. His advice was has been probing conflicts port to "nuke" Citi's then board member, in a bid to sought and closely followed of interest at Wall Street co-chairman John Heed, oust a boardroom rival. by both top executives firms involved in research­the Journal said, citing 
Weill also denied the making billion-dollar deals ing and trading stocks, people who have reviewed account in a memo sent to and small investors who uncovered the e-mail from it. Reed retired in April employees and made pub­staked their savings. Grubman, according to the 2000 after two years of lic by the company. "I have . When technology stocks Journal. clashing with Weill follow­said before, and will say collapsed and many high­Spitzer is interested in ing the $37 billion merger again: I never told any flying companies such as what role Weill had in of Reed's Citibank and analyst what he or she had Global Crossing and Salomon's AT&T rating, Weill's Travelers Group. to write and I never WorldCom fell in bankrupt­including an upgrade by In his statement would," he said. "Nor cy or scandal, he and other Grubman right before the Wednesday, Grubman said, would l ever attempt to leading analysts were telephone giant was plan­"I have said a number of manipulate a board mem­accused of touting weak ning a massive stock sale inappropriate, even silly, ber's vote. Any suggestion stocks to lure business to to finance its wireless unit. things in a few private e­that I did is just wrong." their companies. Last month, Citi said it mails that have been made 
Weill said the New York In a filing with the was separating its stock public over the last few state investigators who Securities and Exchange research from its invest­months. The contents of first uncovered the e-mail Commission on ment banking operation, these particular e-mails, had already been told the Wednesday, Citigroup said which is in line with an while personally embar­story was made up, and he Grubman and its Salomon inrlustrywide restructuring rassing, are completely expressed anger that it had Smith Barney unit have being drawn up by federal baseless. 

Greenspan: Economy in 'soft patch' 
Associated I'ress 
WASHINGTON 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Wednesday the economy has hit a "soft patch" as corporate accounting scandals and a possible war with Iraq have shaken consumer and business confidence. 
Greenspan made clear in tehirno­ny to Congress that the Fed would not hesitate to cut interest rates fur­ther if necessary to bolster the wob­bly economy. But he also indicated that the central bank believes the most likely economic outcome is a return to stronger growth next year. 
If the economy does rebound, 

Greenspan said, the Fed is ready to quickly reverse course and begin raising interest rates to make sure that the extraordinarily low interest rates of the past year do not drive prices higher. 
The central bank last week reduced its target for overnight bank loans by a half-point to 1.25 percent, the lowest level since July 1961. 
It was the Fed's first rate move since last December. Commercial banks responded by pushing their prime lending rate down by a half­point to 4.25 percent, the lowest point since May 1959 for this bench­mark for millions of business and consumer loans. 
Greenspan explained Wednesday that the central bank felt the need to respond aggressively to variety of factors depressing growth, ranging from the fallout from the corporate accounting scandals and the big drop in stock prices to rising worries about a possible war with Iraq. 
"Over the last few months, these forces have taken their toll on activi­ty and evidence has accumulated that the economy has hit a soft patch," Greenspan said. 
Wall Street took Greenspan's com­ments in stride, with investors focus­ing their attention on the news that Iraq has agreed to a U.N. resolution calling for weapons inspections. 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 14, 2002 
Parietals 
continued from page l 
els during the hours that men are permitted in the halls, said stu­dents. 
University officials deny pre­vention of sex as the reason for parietals at the beginning ofeach new student's orientation and state privacy as the main reason. Students overwhelming contra­dicted the University's position and said the University wishes to uphold its "holier than thou" existence. One student referred to ResLlfe's harsh consequences when students are found having sex or breaking parietals as evi­dence. Not only can students be taken out of their dorm commu­nity but Lhey can have it put on their official record for up to seven years. 
Many students said they are of age to make moral decisions for themselves and should not be limited in what views they hold. Many implied the University was being impractical and should promote sexual education and not establish a rule in order to deter sex. "People aren't going to say 'oh it's parietals' I guess we can't have sex witil we are mar­ried," said Rinner. 
Some said the University is too paternalistic in believing that men and women can neither make responsible decisions nor handle themselves around one another. Students discounted pri­vacy as a viable reason for pari­etals and said students could close their doors and study at other locations. Treating students like children does not promote learning and that is part of the process of becoming adults, said discussion participants. 
Randall said, "It [the University's position] says that the only relationship I can have with a male is sexual." 
Students said they experienced a culture shock when they arrived here and found an envi­ronment that does not promote friendship with members of the opposite sex. They found it diffi­cult to meet and speak with members of the opposite sex. "T feel socially handicapped now and I don't think that's good for students coming out of Notre Dame," said Jesus Bravo. 
Weekends are filled with dorm parties that only further compli­cate gender relations. "You go to theses parties and you have to get drunk really fast because you have to be out by two. What girl wan1s to meet that drunken guy who can't remember her name? The only other real option to meet members of the opposite sex is at parties because it's diffi­cult at classes," said Randall. 
Parietals not only affect social life but the academic life as well said students at the discussion. Several women engineers said they would not make friends with men in their classes because they know their studying options are limited by establishing meeting locations. 
Others pointed out the inconve­nience of arranging for friends of the opposite sex to stay in other dorms and the awkwardness that creates. "Wh[y] docs it say that my little brother can't sleep on my couch when he comes to a football game?," said Katie Ball, McGlinn Hall resident assistant. 
The University includes the dorm community as one of its traditions. Students pointed out that traditions can evolve and asked why some traditions are maintained while others are changed. Before 1972 Notre Dame did not admit women and since then, the traditional spirit of• Notre Dame did not weaken but strengthened with women because the environment changed. A popular tradition of in-hall dances fell last year, leav­ing many to wonder if the tradi­tional spirit of community in halls would weaken. Ava Preacher, assistant dean, dismissed the idea that the University's stay hall policy of community building could be considered a long tradi­tion because it only evolved in the 
1960s. 
Patzer said, "We wouldn't have to eliminate the fun things in the community [by becoming co-resi­dential]. It's not as though co-res­idential housing would eliminate the community. The interaction would foster it." 
Preacher said the University reviewed the option to establish co-residential housing in the past and that several president­appointed committees even rec­ommended it. She said that since she came to Notre Dame. she believes its position has regressed to the point where the discussion of co-residential housing is no longer included in the president's report. 
She dispelled the student belief that they were alone in this bat­tle. "You have powerful allies. Faculty members are on your side and there are members of the administration with you who are. We can help you. We have strategy," said Preacher. 
Besides Patzer and Rinner, other organizers of the discussion included Andrea Brault, Katie Boyle and Andy Starkey. The group intends to hold another meeting in the near future and create a testimony book from stu­dent's statements collected at the 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 



s·panish poet giVeS presentation at SMC 
luck when the translation
By MEGAN O'NEIL comes out okay," Aragon said. 
News Writer 

The differences in the two languages often make it diffi­Spanish poet and translator cult to translate such poetic 
Francisco Aragon presented his techniques as rhyme scheme 
and meter, said Aragon, and

translations of Spanish poetry at Saint Mary's yesterday in a literal translations do not literary always accu­exhibit entf­rately reflect 
"Sometimes fit's] a
tled Versions the original of Ruben: matter ofluck when the style of the Modes of Spanish
translation comes out 
poems. Aragon's okay." Because of presentation these lan­guage diffi­
Translation. 

included Francisco Aragon poems writ­culties,
poet and translater 
ten in Aragon has 
Spanish by writers Federico Garcia Lorca, Francisco Alarcon and Ruben Dario. After reciting the poems in their original language, Aragon then presented his English translations to the audience. 
The child of Nicaraguan immigrants, Aragon said he first developed an interest in translating Spanish poetry while an undergraduate at the University of California­Berkley. 
Aragon's early translation methods involved a very literal translation of the original texts, he said. He translated the vocabulary of the poems almost word for word in a process that sometimes compromised the original beauty of the poetry. 
"Sometimes [it's] a matter of 
begun to 
take certain linguistic liberties in his most recent work with translations of Dario's poetry. 
"[Dario's poetry] does not lend itself well to conventional translation," said Aragon. 
Using Dario's pieces as a springboard, Aragon writes interpretive versions of the author's poems, but still acknowledges the author of the original piece at the end of his translations. Although initially hesitant to take any liberties with Dario's work, Aragon said he feels that his improvised translations help make Dario's poetry more accessible to English speakers. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu . 

At:tent:ion. St:udent:s! Sign up for a New Course! 
Global Business Ethics: A  Lecture Series  
(SPRING 2003, BA-3 11 &  J\,,iBA-5 1 1)  
WHAT Is THIS?  

A solid foundation in business ethics is more important than ever in today"s business climate. Businesses with global operations -and professionals working for such firms ­face special challenges in the ethical realm.,. given the differing cultural norms, religious underpinnings, and governmental systems around the world. 
This 1.5-credit-hou.r course -sponsored by Professors Thomas Klein, Patrick l'vfurphy and Georges Enderle and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide -will examine the nature and kinds of ethical challenges facing organizations doing business globally. We'll hear how leading businesses deal with such issues as human. rights in. the workplace, environ.mental sustain.ability, religious and cultural diCCeren.ces, and corrupt: political environ.men.ts. Course participants will gain. new insights on the linkages between ethics and the functions oforganizational leadership. human resource management, marketing, finance and operati0n.s_ 
WHEN IS IT? 

We'll meet on. nine selected l\11on.day afternoons in. Jordan. Auditorium, M:endoza College of Business.,. from 3:00 p_m_ to 4:30 p_m_ du.ring Spring Semester 2003_ You will hear from recognized experts in global business ethics in.eluding: 
• 
Dean. J\11aines, University of St_ Thomas/Cummins Engine (ret.) 

• 
Fritz Heimann.,. GE/Transparency International 


• 
David Lov.rry, Freeport-J'VIcM:oRan J'Vlining Company 

• 
Walt Riker & Bob Langert. M:cDonald's Corporation 

• 
Lynn Sharp Paine, Harvard University 

• 
Scott Appleby, University ofNotre Dame 

• 
Klaus Leisinger, Novartis 



A complete list ofguest speakers and their topics will be available in late November_ 
°WHAT ARE THE COURSE REQUIREMENTS? 

You are expected to attend nine M:onday afternoon lectures and be pr~pared to discuss assigned readings_ This is a 04 $atisfactory/1Jnsatisfactory" course with no more than one verified, excused absence to receive a grade of«Satisfactory_" No examinations or term paper required_ 

WHO CAN ENROLL'? 

The course is open to any Notre Dame or Saint J'Vlary's Student via DART. There arc no prerequisites_ See your academic advisor or your department chair for addition.al detaiL 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 
The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS page 9 
NYU student found dead in his dorm 
By USA FLEISHER Washington Square N-,ws 
Justin Ulrich, a Tisch School of the Arts senior and a leader ln campus pol­itics, was found dead in his Alumni residence hall room Sunday evening, after telling friends the night before that he was not feel­ing well. 
Though the cause and time of death arc still under invesligation, the police report stated that Ulrich, 
23. possibly died of an acci­dental prescription drug overdose. 
Sources close to the inves­tigation and friends of Ulrich confirmed that he had been taking prescrip­tion an ti-depressanls since shortly after Sept. 1l, 200l. Prior to his death, he had also taken Bcnadryl to fight an allergy or rash. friends 
L 
J 
~ f .. 
• ..,~ .: t••#~ j . 
f 
i~Oc 
said. 
At 6:45 p.m. on Sunday, Ulrich's roommate and resi­dent assistant found him unconscious and not breathing on his bed. The exact time of death is uncertain. 
Alumni residents were not notified about what hap­pened until Monday morn­ing, after Ulrich's father had been contacted, univer­sity spokesman John Beckman said. 
Ulrich had just moved down the hall to a new room in Alumni and had not met his new roommate. 
Ulrich. a film and televi­sion major, served as the Tisch undergraduate sena­tor on the Student Senators Council, and recently became the College Republicans' publicity director. He was also involved in local Republican political campaigns. 




Akron shootings worry students 
By JACLYN YOUHANA 
Daily Kent Stater 
A man carrying around a backpack containing a machete, a .40-caliber hand­gun and ammunition was shot and killed at the University of Akron Tuesday. 
Thomas Tremko, Jr., a for­mer University of Akron jani­tor, holed himself up in a bathroom stall after a struggle with the police loft them with nothing but his backpack. Tremko, armed with a .45-cal­iber handgun, stayed inside the stall for 10 hours before being forced out by tear gas. 
It was the first time anyone had ever been shot on campus, said Bruce Vernyi, University of Akron senior public rela­tions representative. 
"It was just a different situa­tion entirely (than anything in the past)," he said. 
Dan FitzPatrick, Kent State University assistant police chief, said this could happen anywhere. 
"In a free society, where people have free movement, H 
You're the Homecoming chairperson. All you have to do is organize 10,000 students, 20 events and 1 parade. 


Tuey'v-e eo.ll col.\\\ti\\B O\\ yol.\. Which is why
;"~:~-~-,.....··· j} 

SPfAKfR PffONf yov. 11eeJ. Nex+·el's .J.ie,itt>1I wt>1\\:.ie+01.l\:.ie 
WIRELESS WEB ACCESS .Pe01.t-l.\v-e. H· let-s yov. ~et-v-i.Bl-\t-thv-ol.\~h AOL• INSTANT ME5S£NliER'" service 
with the plAS'k o.P "' 'ol.\t+O\\. -rh"'t l-'\eoi.\\5
TWO-WAY .lf£SSAGING 

JAVA"' GANES & APPLICATIONS \\O ~isse.J. c"'lls, voice ""'"'ii ov pho\\e t"'~­
DIGITAL cnLUUR St"'y i\\ co\\i-t11.ct wit-It\ evevyo\\e .PYoiM t-he Flooi.t Co1M1Mit+ee to the Alv.iM\\i Co1M~i.t+ee, wi.tl-\ol.,\t 1Missi11~ "' .J.eh:,.,i.l. Now yo11..'re ve~J.y-l>v-i\o\~ It-. 
Now's Cl. 8v-e""-+-+-i1Me t-o ~et Ne,ctel: "'11 Nohe 1).,._~e stv..Ae\\t-s -,et­
C\107..., J.i.scal.\\\t 0\\ '1\\\)1 YO\\-e pl"'-"' ""'"';.$\00-t-o.Pf ""-"'Y pL-.ol\e. 

would be difficult to prevent it," FitzPatrick said. "I think it is important, too, that no insti­tution, place of business or public place is immune to this type of thing, though they are exceedingly rare occur­rences." 
This is the second violent act committed on the University of Akron campus in the past six months, said Leah Werner, Akron senior advertising major. Over the summer. a woman was raped in a bath­room after a man got her there by telling her his sister needed help. 
"1 don't like the way the administration handles a lot of things,' she said. "Nothing was said (to the students about Tremko). The same with the rape." 
Akron administration is unsure what it can do to change their security, Vernyi said. 
"It's too early to say what can be done in a situation like this," he said. 
Werner said she also doesn't know what the administration could do. 


· l don't know how they could 
change security things," she 
said. "More, 1 think they 
should work on awareness. If 
they are doing things like this, 
they're not doing very much to 
make students aware of it." 
In spite of the Tremko situa­tion and the rape over the summer, students say they aren't afraid to be on campus -but they are worried. 
"It's my first semester here, so it's very concerning that two major things have hap­pened since I started here," said Jason Lisowski, Akron junior finance major. "It really surprised me that something like this happened. I'm a night student, and I see police on campus all the time. But it raises eyebrows." 
Lisowski does have a few 
day classes, and he said he 
doesn't feel any less safe in 
the day. But he doesn't have a 
long walk from the parking 
garage to his classes, he 
added. 
"ff I had to walk across cam­
pus, I'd feel much different," 
he said. 
Werner said she's not too worried about it because she has been on campus for so long. It's important for fresh­men and sophomores to feel safe on campus "if this is their first taste of independence," she said. If this had happened when Werner was an under­classmen, it might have turned her off to the university. 
'It turns me off more that I am at the university and noth­ing is done about it," she said. 
The Buchetelite, the University of Akron's student newspaper, asked seven stu­dents and a faculty member, "Do you think the police were justified in shooting Thomas J. Tremko, Jr.?" Four answered various forms of "Yes," while the other four wanted to know more about the situation. 
The actions were fitting to the situation, FitzPatrick said. 
"The person was not acting rationally, refused to talk to the negotiator, and very well may have been intent upon suicide by police, which doesn't leave a lot of options available,' he said. "II' the per­son does not converse with the police or points firearms at the police, it doesn't leave many options for the police." 
"We would prefer to talk, talk, talk through a negotiator and reresolve the matter peacefully, as I'm sure the Akron police would ii' they were given a chance." 




a.:~ 
CUTPCST 
~ 
Cold Weatner Experts 

5minutes om Cam us 


ERASMUS BOOKS 

-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Paperback 
boob in stock ·Out.of-Print search service -Appraisa1s large and small 
Open noon to six Tunday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
SOUlh Bend, IN 46817 (219) 232"""4 
page 10 Thursday, November 14, 2002 
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
GAZA STRIP 

Israeli Army storms Gaza City 
Associated Prc"5 
GAZA CITY 
Israeli forces backed by 30 tanks and three helicopters stormed into central Gaza City early Thursday -the deepest incursion into the city in more than two years, Palestinian security officials and witnesses said. 
In the second major incursion by Israeli troops in as many days, the army raided the two­story home of Yosef Meqdiad, an officer in the Palestinian pre­ventive security service, to arrest him and three of his brothers, according to a 21­year-old relative. Majida Meqdiad. 
The operation began about 2 
a.m. and ended less than two hours later. Soldiers fired machine guns as they penetrat­ed just over a mile into the city from the south, witnesses said. 
The army declined immediate comment. 
The incursion marked the far­th est penetration by Israeli forces into the city since renewed fighting erupted between Palestinians and Israelis in the fall of 2000, wit­nesses said. 
It came hours after Yasser Arafat warned Wednesday against any attempt to send him into exile. while Israeli Cabinet ministers repeated calls to drive the Palestinian leader out of the region following an attack that killed five Israelis. 
The proposal to expel Arafat. backed by several members of Israel's Security Cabinet, failed to win approval Wednesday. 
The move into Gaza City also followed Wednesday's incursion into the West Bank's largest city, Nablus, by dozens of Israeli tanks and armored vehicles to round up 30 suspected Palestinian militants in what was the biggest security sweep in months. 
In Thursday's early-morning raid in central Gaza City, Israeli forces rolled into the Talalhawa neighborhood, an area where the headquarters of the preven­tive security service and the stu­dios of Palestinian state televi­sion are located. 
Troops also swept into the neighborhood of Sabra. home to many members of the militant Palestinian group Hamas, including its spiritual leader, Sheik Ahmed Yassin. 
Two Palestinians, including a guard at the television station, were taken to the hospital with light injuries. At least a dozen ambulances rushed to the area of the siege, witnesses said. 
At least two bulldozers took part in the operation, though witnesses said they were not used. The Israeli army often uses bulldozers to demolish homes of militants suspected to have carried out attacks against Israelis. 
In a pre-dawn strike a day earlier, Israeli helicopters fired four missiles on a suspected weaoons-makinl! workshop in the city center, the second such strike on the site in two days. 

The attack demolished an automotive repair shop whose owner insisted had nothing to do with the manufacture of weapons. Israel said th,e site was believed to produce mortar shells and rockets like ones used in recent attacks on near­by rsraeli communities. 
The Israeli invasion of Nablus was triggered by a Sunday shooting at an Israeli communal farm in which five people, including two small boys, were killed by a gunman from the Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade. a militia linked to Arafat's Fatah i~roup. The attacker managed to Oee the scene. 
Israeli officials identified the gunman as Sirhan Sirhan, a 19­y ear-old from the Tulkarem refugee camp, Officials initially said they believed he was a dis­tant relative of the assassin by the same name who killed: pres­idential candidate Robert Kennedy in 1968 -but later withdrew that claim. 
lsraeli security official1o have said the order for the commu­nal farm attack came from mili­tiamen in Nablus. 
Arafat denounced the Nablus raid as a "new war crime." 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said in a television interview Wednesday that Israel's i;ecuri­ty chiefs have advised him not to expel Arafat, as demamled by several hard-line ministers in his Cabinet. But he also said the debate would continue. 
CANADA 

Tighter border policy raises questions 
As.ociated Press 

TORONTO The cases of two Canadian citi­zens ensnared by tighter U.S. bor­der screenings have so angered the country that the Canadian foreign affairs minister will raise · the i'isue with Secretary of State Colin Powell during a visit on 
11mrsday. 

Powell's visit is to discuss a pos­
sible military strike against Iraq. 
But Canadian Foreign Affairs 
Minister Bill Graham plans to 
raise the cases of the two 
Canadians, one involving a man 
jailed in Maine after crossing the 
border to buy cheaper American 
gas. 

The other involves a dual 
Canadian-Syrian citizen deported 
to Syria while switching planes at 
New York's John F. Kennedy 
International Airport after U.S. 
officials reportedly accused him 
of links to al-Qaida. Graham has 
protested that the man should 
have been deported to Canada. 
Canada has criticized the U.S. 
National Security Entry Exit 
Registration System created after 
the Sept. 11 attacks. It authorizes 
border officials to fingerprint and 
photograph people who were 
born in or are citizens of the five 
countries accused by the U.S. 
government of having terrorism 
links. 

Those countries are Iran, Iraq, 
Libya, Sudan and Syria. 
Canada even issued a travel advisory warning people born in those countries to avoid trips south of the border. 
The Americans responded by promfaing Canadians equal treat­ment but saying U.S. security overrode any Canailian concerns about unfair treatment. 
Graham rescinded the travel advisory last week, but foreign affairs spokesman Rodney Moore said the "high-profile consular cases" would be discussed with Powell. 
Michel Jalbert, a 32-year-old French-speaking Quebec resident living near Maine. was arrested Oct. 11 while doing what people in Pohenegamook, Quebec, rou­tinely do -driving a few yards into America to buy gas. 
The gas station is less than a mile from a U.S. border post on a road primarily used for logging in northern Maine. Residents rou­tinely buy gas without first regis­tering with U.S. authorities. 
When Jalbert stopped for gas, he had a hunting rifle in his vehi­cle that attracted the attention of a U.S. policeman. A background check found a 13-year-old crimi­nal conviction for vandalism and possessing stolen property, mak­ing him inadmissible for entry into the United States. 
Jalbert faces felony charges of illegally entering the country and illegal possession of a firearm. 



Best Deal on Campus. 
Student discounts and other exclusive promos from Apple make the holidays merrier and switching to the Mac easier. 


In Sync. 

The new iMac • St,nting at $1,099 .. 
Holds up to 4,000 songs Discounted just for Students 

'.,,. ..;:..:..: -.. •• .. ·• ...........-.... ~ "! .':' "/
70 hour battery life Download a CD in seconds 



iPod • Starting at $269 

Special Promos 
Discounted just for Students 

Apple ha~ great promos going to help make buying a Mac and the accessories you need more affordable, all discounted for Students. 

Double your m•!moty. 


Brighten your holidays. 
Double the ;tandard configuration of 

Buy a Mac and an HP Desk.Jet 3820 or 5550 memory for only $40 or, any Mac. 
printer and receive a $99 rebate. Expires Dect-nher :n, 2002 
For morn information on these and other promocions,please visic www.appie.com/education/promos/ 


Room 112 Information Technology Center 
•

Get your student discount at: S'ofuftoJt~ C7dJtt6r http://solution.nd.edu/ 
Notre Dame's Computer Products Store 574-631 •7477 
I 
I I 
I 

Thursday, November 14, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 

ENGLAND 
New-justice system proposed 
Associated Pre•• 
LONDON 

Prime Minister Tony Blair's government promised major reforms to Britain's justice sys­tem Wednesday, including strip­ping some suspects of the right not to be tried twice for the same crime. 
The Criminal Justice Bill, announced by Queen Elizabeth II as she op1med a new session of Parliament, would "rebalance the system in favor of the victim," Blair said. 
Heading a government-drafted speech, the queen. wearing a lav­ish white gown and jeweled crown, outlined legislative plans to lawmakers and red-robed peers in the Ilouse of Lords. 
The proposed laws will allow juries to be told details of defen­danlc;' previous convictions and will scrap Lhe centuries-old "dou­ble jeopardy'' prohibition on sus­pects facing retrial for a single crime. Included are plans to introduce new types of sentences for dangerous offenders and young criminals. and the indefi­nite jailing of serious offenders. 
A new criminal justice bill. the queen said. "will ... allow retri­als for those acquitted of serious offenses where new and com­pelling evidence emerges." 
Lawyers and human rights groups oppose abolition of the double jeopardy rule. Matthias Kelly. spokesman for lawyers' organization the Bar Council, said the change would encourage police to prosecute on the basL<; of shaky evidence, knowing they could have a second chance later. 
"The risk is these proposals will lead to more miscarriages of justice," he said. 
The principle of double jeop­ardy first appeared in England in the 1160s. at the center of a squabble between King Henry II and Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Becket. The rule is enshrined in the legal codes of many of Britain's former colonies, including the United States. 
In a ceremony filled with pomp and pageantry, the queen rode from Buckingham Palace to the Houses of Parliament in a gilded, horse-drawn carriage, preceded by ranks of cavalry. 
Once in parliament, members of the Lords -whose robes were trimmed with ermine -sat on padded seats, while Blair and other members of the I-louse of Commons -summoned by an official called Black Rod who banged on the closed door of the house -were obliged to stand. 
"At the heart of my govern­ment's legislative program is a commitment to reform and rebalance the criminal justice system to deliver justice for all and to safeguard the interests of victims, witnesses and communi­ties." said the queen, who sat on a golden throne. 
The government also used the speech to declare war on van­dals, litterers and louts. 
"On the basis of the opportuni­ties we are giving. we arc entitled to demand responsibilities in return and say that those things that make people's lives a misery in communities -the graffiti, the vandalism. the aggressive behav­ior, the fly tipping (rubbish dumping), abandoned cars, anti­social tenan1s, truancy, irrespon­sible use of air guns -all these things should be dealt with com­prehensively and a simple system of penalties put in place," Blair told the House of Commons in a later debate. 
The government says on-the­spot fines for petty crimes will relieve pressure on the courts, but human rights groups have criticized them as giving police Wlprccedented powers and being wifair to poorer people. 
Iain Duncan Smith, leader of the opposition Conservative Party, said the speech promised much bui would deliver little. 
"Five years after the prime minister said he'd be tough on crime, a crime is committed here every five seconds," he said. The speech, he said, "offers more of the same failed policies as before. More edicts. More targets. More indicators. More centralization. More spin and more control." 
The speech also announced the reform of Britain's famously restrictive alcohol licensing laws. In a long-anticipated move, the government intends to abolish fixed hours of business that require most pubs and bars to close at 11 p.m. 

FRANCE 



In11nigrants threaten to commit suicide 
Associated Press 
CAIAIS 
Desperate refugees occupying a church in this northern French port threatened suicide Wednesday if police try to forcibly evict them, the latest episode in a struggle between authorities and illegal immi­grants hoping to sneak into Britain. 
About 90 immigrants, mostly Iraqi Kurds and Afghans, say they have nowhere else to go since a nearby Red Cross shel­ter was closed to new arrivals last week. They were given temporary refuge over the weekend at Calais' Saint-Pierre Saint-Paul church. which offi­cials say is unsuitable for hous­ing people. 
On Tuesday, officials gave them an ultimatum: Leave the building or face forcible removal within 24 hours. 
The church has one working toilet and one sink. Many of the refugees are sick, and authori­ties suspect about 15 cases of scabies. They sleep on flimsy mattresses and wrap them­selves in parkas or sleeping bags at night. The Roman Catholic church was shut to worshippers this summer so authorities could inspect it for suspected traces ofasbestos. 
A Red Cross center in the 
nearby town of Sangatte has long served as a stepping stone for refugees trying to smuggle themselves through the Channel Tunnel. Many risk their lives to stow away on freight trains heading through the tunnel to Britain, where asylum laws arc more relaxed than in France. 
Officials in France and Britain are planning to close the center permanently in April. As a first step, they said last week it would stop accepting new refugees. 
Many illegal immigrants see Sangattc as their only hope for a new life. Refugees at the church held up a hand-painted sign for television cameras: "We want to go to Sangatte or to die." On Wednesday, they threatened to kill themselves if police use force. said Joel Loevilleux, the Calais president of the Human Rights League. 
One refugee also told reporters of the suicide threat. 
"We don't want to eat some­thing, and we don't want to do anything," said the man, who called himself Keroan and said he was the group's spokesman. "We just need to stay in Calais and get into England." 
Police surrounding the church prevented more refugees from entering, but they allowed volunteers to bring food, such as cheese and water. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 








IEWPC)INT
page 12 Thursday, November 14, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EorroR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  K.-vin Ry.m  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWl'0INf EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 

SCENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GIW'HICS EDITOR, Katie McKenna 
SAINT MA.Rv's EDITOR Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lui;, 
AD DESIGN MANAGER, Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR, Todd Nieto 
C0NTR0llERl Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGERIGENEII.AL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIASST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWP0JNT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu Sl'ORTS . .......................................................631-4543 observer.sporcs. l@nd.edu ScEN.E.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l @nd. ed u PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:!lobserver.ndedu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 

POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comen t. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntiom regarding Obserotrpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJaron McFarky. 

POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oruervcr(USPS 591J 240) is published Monday through Frida)' ncqn during n:am and ncarion period,:. A 11lmeription m The Observer is llOO for one academic year; SSS fur one-scmcntt. 
TliC' Obsetm i1 publithcJ ac POSTMASTF.R 024 South Dinini H.JI .Xnd .idWU.. c.o.roctiom 10; Notre Damr, !N 465)6 Th~ Ob5.ervcr 
r.o. Bo,Q PCTiodicaJ postagl" pil!d .11, N-otn: 0.11mc No,R Dmll", IN 46556--0779 .1mi ;i.,ddicion~ mai!l1tg uffi14, 
'fhr Obic:rvt!f i.1 ~ mcmba-ot die A-xiakd rrcss. All rrproductiOA righa ;lTC oacmd 

Interview with a cuddly celebrity 

I go through periodic withdrawal from my high school days of journal­ism. I miss the difficult interviews, like the new teachers and the 4-H club. Those were the days -the quick repartee, the 
Marlayna

witty banter, the pressing questions. Soenneker So, in a nostalgic effort (hey, be glad 
Here We Go

this column isn't 
Again ...

the seventh in a series about how much I am going to miss Notre Dame) to relive the old days, I've decided to bring you my one and only college interview. 
Who did I interview? Who was the most interesting entity I could think of? 
You guessed it -a Notre Dame squirrel. 
Q: So. You're a squirrel. 
A: Pretty much. 
Q: How's that working out for you? 
A: Pretty well. 
Q: Tell the truth -ever attacked a student for food? 
A: I've never been desperate enough to do it for food. I have done it for kicks a few times. You know those pre-med kids, when they're wandering around campus before the MCAT with their flashcards, not pay­ing any attention to what's going on? They're the best. You get up on the back of a bench and you launch your­self up on their head as they go by. The best is when they get scared, drop all their flashcards, and run away. Without those cards, you know those kids aren't going to med school. 
Q: Are you a big fan of Notre Dame football? 
A: Are you kidding me? I never miss a game. 
Q: What do you think of the season so far? 
A: It was great right up until Boston 
College. What was that? I could have played better than that. Me and my squirrel buddies -we've been work­ing out. I can almost lift the ball now. We'll have an offense in no time, and even ifwe don't have one, we're still no worse off than the real team. We also have a whole new take on defense -jump up, bite their noses and hang on. It's not easy to concen­trate o:n the ball when someone is bit­ing your nose off. 
Q: About squirrels playing football -do you know the squirrel who was on the field my freshman year at the BC game? 
A: Kr;.ow him? He's a legend. He is, after all, the only Notre Dame squir­rel to log actual playing time. And, as I recall, he played better than the Notre Dame team at that game. Much as my buddies and I would have played better then they did at the last Boston College game. 
Q: Have you talked to Coach Willingham about this? 
A: We tried to get in to talk to him early in the season, but he was hav­ing eye surgery at some Laser Center or something. 
Q: What's your favorite thing about Notre Dame? 
A: The trash cans are easy to chew through. 
Q: 
What's your biggest problem with Notre Dame? 

A: Parietals. 

Q: 
It bothers you that the Notre Dame guys can't be in the girls' dorms after midnight? 


A: I don't care about the Notre Dame guys. I care about the squirrel guys. Y.ou know what the ND police do after midnight? They check up on all the boy squirrels to make sure we aren't shacking up with the girl squir­rels. 
Q: Wow. That's hard core. 
A: Th,ay keep waving around the catechism and telling us we're Catholic squirrels at a Catholic University. Yet if we try to go into the Basilica, they chase us out and scream at us. Hypocrisy is alive and well at Notre Dame. 
Q: 
Speaking of hypocrisy, how do you feel about politics? 

A: Bad, most of the time. 

Q: 
Did you vote in the election last week? 


A: I'm a squirrel. Do you think I voted? 
Q: Oh yeah. My bad. What do you think about President Bush? 
A: I think his name is deceptive. 1 do not think he is a good place to hide in case of emergency. 
Q: Do you have an opinion on the possibility of war with Iraq? 
A: I think that the issue and distur­bances in the Middle East and throughout the Arab and Muslim worlds (which are not and ought not be seen as synonymous) are rooted in conflicts we Westerners should have endeavored to comprehend more than a century ago, well before we initiat­ed programs that so deeply affected the troubled region. 
Q: Wow. That's a pretty developed opinion for a squirrel. 
A: I got if off some chick's paper. She dropped it accidentally on her way to class. Guess she's not going to med school either. 
Marlayna is a senior psychology and theology major. She would like to say hi to the dining hall crew this week and hopes that people will stop requesting shout-outs now. She would also like to thank/blame Travis for the idea that spawned this column. She can be reached at msoennek@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Teresa Fralish Chris Federico Sarah Nestor Rachael Joe Trombello Protzman Viewpoint Charee Holloway Patrick Scene McElwee C. Spencer Beggs 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Chris N aider Chip Marks 


NDTODAY/0BSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Does the recent lawsuit against Lafayette Apartments make you reconsider the decision to move off-campus'? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There is no fundamental difference between man and the higher animals in their mental faculties." 
Charles Darwin naturalist 

THE 
OBSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 page 13 
Coming to America 
llello. 
I suppose I should start by introducing myself. My name is 
Peter Wicks and I'd like to welcome you to this, my first column. 
I am, as you have probably already guessed from my accent, 
English. 
And before I say anything else, I want to Peter Wicks say how delighted l am to be here. I'm entranced by the beauty of your campus, challenged by your academic rigor and Englishman frankly in awe of your sporting prowess. (Go Abroad Irish, by the way.) 
But more than anything else I'm just real­
ly pleased to have made it through customs. The United States is 
not an easy country to which to gain access. 
This summer the London Embassy sent me a plethora of forms with the assurance that were they returned correctly completed, I would be sent a visa in exchange. Filling out the forms proved difficult. Some of them referred me to other forms, some of which didn't exist. 
One required me to provide assurance that in the course of my studies I hadn't acquired practical knowledge of the manufac­ture of explosives. I was also required to guarantee that while an undergraduate at Oxford I hadn't knowingly been involved in a war, either as a combatant or a victim. I dutifully assured the Consul that while .I could not vouch for those who had chosen to study at Cambridge, at Oxford such behavior was considered quite beyond the pale. 
After several days of filling out forms, I decided to phone the Embassy to explain that I was intending to come to the U.S. to study Aristotle and Aquinas, but had inadvertently been sent a set of forms designed to cater to someone defecting from the KGB. With infinite patience, the phone operator assured me that it was absolutely essential that every form be completed. 
Several weeks into the process I came to the conclusion that illegal immigrants probably just really hate paperwork. Nevertheless, I resolved to persevere. I'd spent a good part of the summer learning to pronounce "Notre Dame" to rhyme with "rota fame" and I was determined that my effort would not be wasted. 
It's easier for tourists. Currently British citizens can enter the United States as tourists without a visa for a period ofup to 90 days. To do that all they need to do is fill out an l-94W form, which is what the State Department waggishly calls a Nonimmigrant Visa Waiver Arrival-Departure Record. 
The I-94W asks each visitor a series of questions. The ques­tions include whether the tourist has a serious communicable disease, whether he is or plans to be involved in the trafficking and sale of illegal drugs, whether he was a Nazi or has been oth­erwise involved in the perpetration of genocide and whether he is carrying fruit. 
The form betrays not the slightest hint of awareness that smuggling a contraband pear through customs -while no doubt a serious infraction -belongs on an entirely different list of misdemeanors than, say, active participation in the Holocaust. 
Equally troubling is the false premise upon which the whole process is based: that drug traffickers and former Nazis will instantly confess to their crimes when asked. I somehow doubt that the following exchange may be observed frequently at Customs: 
"I see here that you were an SS Einzatsgruppen commander during the Second World War." 
"Will that be a problem?" 
Furthermore, it seems to me that a dissident dumb enough to tick the "Yes" box next to the question, "Are you plotting to over­throw the U.S. government'?" is probably not a dissident about whom the U.S. government need be overly concerned. 
Despite my evident fruitlessness, the customs officer decided to give me a hard time because he could. Throughout our conver­sation I expected him to tell me that he·d only let me into the country if I agreed to eat a cockroach. My papers he regarded with a frown. 
Then he said something that I really, really didn't want to hear; "This is wrong. You can only use this form to enter in New York or Philadelphia. You'll have to fly back and come in via one of those two places.•· 
We stared at each other in silence while I mentally calculated the cost of flying back to England, thence to New York. before finally returning to the exact spot in O'Hare airport where I was standing. 
He let a full minute pass before he cracked a grin and said, "Ha! I'm just kidding with you." 
I was about let forth an uncouth barrage of words, insinuating in no uncertain terms that my interlocutor had an unduly inti­mate relationship with his mother and was in this and many other respects a very bad man. I held back however, for at the last moment I saw, like Banquo's ghost, the apparition of a latex glove floating before my eyes. 
"I la! Good one," I said. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in philosophy. He can be reached at pwicks@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sanctions in Iraq: America's dirty little secret 
It has become unavoidable. It has become impos­sible to miss the messages for war or peace with Iraq. At first, I wanted to just avoid this issue and continue to live an "ignorance is bliss" existence in the Notre Dame bubble, but such an existence has become impractical. 
So rather than just say, ''Peace sounds cool,'' or, "Nuke them all," I figured I would do a little reading 
to gain some perspective on this issue. 1quick­much more complex and much less pretty ly learned that the situation is not exactly for all of America's militaristic hawks. as it might appear to the average con­Ilow can we reconcile the fact that sumer of the American mass media. our country has been the leading 
On Aug. 2, 1990, after the United player in what seems to be a geno­States' involvement in Kuwait, the cide attempt upon the Iraqi peo­United Nations Security Council, ple? That is not to mention the largely led by the United States, fact that we are now about to placed the most comprehensive further attack these people for sanctions in world history on Iraq. unsubstantiated claims that 
The results were immediate and Saddam Hussein possesses immense. A study done by Harvard weapons of mass destruction. University reported that 46,700 We are going to war because children under the age of five died in of hypothetical situations? Why the first seven months of 1991, due not go after Russia then? They mainly to drinking water contamina­have weapons. Or China? Or India? tion, lack of medical supplies, starvation These countries are more likely to and malnutrition. All of these problems have weapons that could hurt our can be attributed to the sanctions. country. But then again, maybe we don't 
Further, it was reported that more kilotons of bombs were dropped on Iraq in 1991 than all those that exploded during World War II. Again, the work of our country and the U.N. 
Since 1991, things have only gotten worse. UNICEF reported in April 1998 that there had been 90,000 more Iraqi civilian deaths per year since 1991 by comparison with pre-sanctions Iraq. Also, they reported that there has been a 160 percent increase in under-five mortality rates. The figures continue on, but figures can only say so much. 
Kathy Kelly, two-time Nobel Peace Prize nominee, founded Voices in the Wilderness to look into this problem in 1996 and has been traveling to Iraq since that time. 
She said, "In hospitals, schools, mosques, church­es and homes, people here ask us why the U.S. peo­ple want to punish them even more. For 11 years, they've been told that sanctions were a peaceful alternative to open warfare. Now they're being told that war is the solution to the suffering caused by 


Bring in the Republicans 
Last Tuesday, we witnessed something special in this great country, something not seen in 50 years -the end of the Democratic Party reign. 
The Republicans now hold the political Triple Crown -the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the White House -while maintaining a major­ity of the governorships. 
The events and aftermath of Election Day indi­cate the Democratic Party is in a state of bewilder­ment, disbelief and shock which has subsequently led to finger pointing and dissention among the party's rank and file. 
Richard Gephardt decided he would step down from his post as House Minority Leader, which caused heated debate between his potential suc­cessors. 
The party's chairman Terry McAuliffe and Senate Majority (soon to be Minority) Leader Tom Daschle have come under intense scrutiny for their inability to lead the party to victory on Election Day. 
One thing is for certain -the American people did not buy the class-warfare and scare tactics of the Democrats. These same scare tactics have been used by the Democrats for the last 20 years. and frankly I think the American people demonstrated their disdain for it with their vote. One could go "Back to the Future" in Michael J. Fox's Delorean to 1985 and hear the same rhetoric as today. 
The fact is that President Bush and the Republicans have put forth a plan to stimulate the economy. Whether you agree with it or not, a plan sanctions. It would seem that the message from the 
U.S. to the Iraqi people is in a twisted way at least consistent: please remember that you're being killed with the best of intentions." 
That is coming straight from someone who has been to the heart of Iraq and heard the sentiment of its people. 
Hearing all of this makes the Iraq question 
go to war over probability-rather, over economy, over oil. The facts just do not seem to add up for the argument that America should go to war. 
Finally, the war-mongers of Notre Dame can con­tinue to label and try to attack "the liberals" of Notre Dame for preaching peace, but the fact is that there is world movement to work for peace and jus­tice growing rapidly as we speak. Last weekend, 400,000 people marched against war in Florence, Italy. On Oct. 26, over 100,000 people headed to Washington, D.C. for a non-violent protest that was the largest since the days of Vietnam. That is not to mention the rallies and protests in Tokyo, Mexico City, London, Copenhagen and all over the world. 
Whether you like it or not, the peace movement is back and ready to take on the evils of war. 
Peter Quaranto 
freshman Sorin Hall Nov. 13 

is better than simply talking down the economy as the Democrats have done for the past six months. 
The Democrats lost the votes of suburban investors with their refusal to support President Bush's proposal to cut capital-gains taxes. And their desire to "freeze" the Bush tax cut -i.e. rais­ing taxes -did not resonate with voters, consider­ing that the vast majority of voters pay exorbitant amounts of taxes (taxes have not been this high since World War II) and do not rely on the govern­ment handouts promised by the Democrats. 
The bottom line is that most Americans relate to the practical, common-sense economic proposals of President Bush and the Republicans. Lower taxes put more of our money in our pockets, stimulating economic growth which in turn increases overall tax revenues, which along with fiscal discipline will lead us back to long-term balanced budgets. 
The Republicans finally have control and, as a famous proverb says, "with great power comes great responsibility." President Bush and the Republicans now have both in order to produce tangible results in the next two years. They under­stand that unless the war looming in Iraq, the war on terror and an economy sputtering along are fully addressed, their reign will be short-lived and Election Day 2004 could be a long one for them. 
Michael Derocher sophomore Sainr Joe's Hall Nov. 13 

OTHE BSERVER 

page 14 Thursday, November 14, 2002 

The darker sicle of cinem'" 
Blaxploitation movies' rise from divisiveness to dialogu 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 

Huge Afros. gigantic medallions and righteous defiance of "The Man." It might sound like your average SYR, but there's actually a reason that the mod­ern conception of the '70s always involves pimps, hos and gratuitous sex­uality: blaxploitation movies. 
Blaxploitation, a film genre meant to reflect black culture, began emerging in the early '70s after black directors had finally been allowed to direct larger Hollywood films. 
Blaxploitation movies began by taking inspiration from old gangster films militant black power superhero. 
Though neither movie could be called box office successes. they did generate enough revenue to pique Hollywood's interest in marketing films that appealed to a black demographic. 
It was 1971's "Shaft" that put blax­ploitation on the map. Taking the gritty detective motif of "Cotton Comes to Harlem" and the black power message of "Sweet Sweetback," "Shaft'' created one of the genre's most memorable characters:"the baddest mother of them all" detective John Shaft. And a genre was born. 
Blaxploitation movies are all about extremes. They typically feature central 
characters who 
have enormous 


and pulp detective "The beautiful thing, I think, physical appeal to novels. 
the opposite sex

was that from those movies 
One of the first and sometimes to 

movies in the evolved a kind of literary genre 
their own as well. 

genre, Ossie where writers began to reflect Male protagonistsDavis' "Cotton 
about the impact that those are often pimps or 
Comes to 
street hustlers. 

Harlem," tells the movies had on the shaping of 
Women, on a con­story of two black an American perception ofthe trasting note, are homicide detec­
African-American community." most often por­
tives working in 
trayed as sociallythe Harlem ghet­
conscious work­

to. Though the Chandra Johnson 
ing-class sisters novel that the Assistant Director of fighting not onlymovie is based on 
Cross-Cultural Ministry against oppressive
reads like a seri­ous detective thriller, Davis chose to add a comedic element to the story that was meant to pay homage to a vibrant and ignored culture in the predominantly black inner city. 
"Sweet Sweetback's Baadassss Song," tells a quiet different story. When Sweet Sweetback, a swinging pimp, witnesses the assault of black civil rights activist, he becomes enraged and goes on a vigi­lante crusade and becomes a sort of white society, but 
also to stop black culture from self-destructing with drugs and excess. 
Blacks are depicted as oppressed but unified and whites as bumbling, racist morons who are out to get the protago­nist. Often times, part of the conflict in blaxploitation movies arises from pres­sures for the protagonist to sell out to rich white America; perhaps a metaphor for the resistance of black culture to be completely assimilated into whlte ideals. 

Almm;t all of the stereotypes found in blaxploitation movies are grossly offen­sive from a modern perspective. But the cultural boundaries dictated by race were much different in the '70s. Chandra Johnson, assistant director of Cross-Cultural Ministry at Notre Dame, points out how the stereotypes blax­ploitation movies contain might have had a beneficial effect on race rela­tions. 
"The beautiful thing, I think, was that from those movies evolved a kind of lit­erary genre where writers began to reflect ,)n the impact that those movies had on the shaping of an American per­ception of the African-American com­munity. So, it set the stage for a lot of black scholars to examine how those movies might have harmed the black commu11ity," Johnson said. 
The stereotypes blaxploitation used in the '70s illustrate not only the tense racial climate of the country at the time, but how divided the black and white cultures were. Representation of black mlture by mainstream Hollywood directors often smacked of gospel of wealth-style pity. Conversely, blax­ploitaLon treated mainstream white culture as almost exclusively oppres­sive, malicious and destructive. 
Thou:~h not all blaxploitation movies were directed by black directors, a number of the most extreme movies were produced by almost all-black casts and crews. Black directors could get away 1.vith more stereotyping than white directors who feared legal action 
by the NAACP. 
Many studios took a hands-off 
appro~.ch to blaxploitation movies, giv­
ing their directors a large amount of 
artistk license as long as they were 
pulling in big bucks at the box office. Studios also gave younger directors a chance to break in to the ind us try by directing blaxploitation flicks. This poli­cy often led to extremely poor quality acting and scripting, creating out­landish characters like the pimp cane­wielding martial arts expert Dolomite and the shotgun renegade Foxy Brown. 
Johnson believes that no matter how politicized those stereotypes were, they served to force both black and white cultures to examine how they perceived each other. 
"Some people have used [the stereo­types in blaxploitation movies] to impart a negative effect on the black community. It's those people who con­tinue to be closed to the black commu­nity. It became negative because people didn't want to see black people as other than what they saw on the movie screen. They didn't want to enter into the black community and discover for themselves the value of' black communi­ty," Johnson said. 
Blaxploitation aficionado sophomore Dan "Muppet" Ballantine disagrees. 
"Blaxploitation isn't a venue for cross-cultural discussion. It's not any­thing that can promote discussion. It's Hollywood. If you're basing socio-politi­cal ideas on Hollywood, you've got problems of your own," Ballantine said. 
Johnson suggests that the value of the blaxploitation genre may be in part lost or seem absurd to a younger generation that has lived in a world where cross­cultural dialogue is much more com­mon. 
"I think with the resurrection of these movies, the current generation sees these movies as being so out there because they don't see the black com­munity as that anymore.... There is a 
O
THE 

BSERVER 

Thursday, November 14, 2002 page 15 . 


literally 
to absurdity 
shift in consciousness in the 21st century intellectually because there ·s a crossover in popular culture," Johnson said. 
Ballantine half-heartedly agreed. 
"The over-the-top lack of quali­ty in acting, dialogue and every aspect of film is amazing and h<iautiful ui the same time," 
While the blaxploitation genre fizzled out for the most part by lhe late '80s, a slow but steady stream of movies continued to be produced all the way through the next decade and a half. 

Jackson even starred in a lackluster remake of "Shaft" in 2000. 
After "Shaft" didn't do as well as expected at the box office, inlercst in blaxploitation waned lo some extent. Recently, the genre has been an object of ridicule in a number of major media outlets like Saturday Night Live's "The Ladies' Man" and Mad TV's "Funky Walker. Dirty Talker" and parody of real-life blaxploitation flick "Black Belt Jones." 
One of the best, if overlooked, modern blaxploitation parodies was 2001 's "Pootie Tang." Based on the skit from ''The Chris Rock Show," "Pootie Tang'' may well be the uliimate parody of the genre to date: it takes on almost every blaxploitation stereotype as well as a number of modern cultural aesthetics like R&B videos. 
"Pootie Tang" was a dismal fail­
Suddenly in the 

"Blaxploitation isn't a
mid '90s, there seemed to be a venue for cross-cultural rcsurgcncn of 
discussion. it not 
interest in the 

anything that can 
genre. Movies such as "New promote discussion. It's 
Jack City," Hollywood. Ifyou 're 
" D e a d 

basing socio-political 
Presidents" and 

Quentin ideas on Hollywood, 
Tarnetino's you've got problems of "Pulp Fiction" 
your own." 
all owe debts of gratitude to blaxploitation. Dan "Muppet" Ballantine 
Samuel L. blaxploitation aficionado 
ure at the box office; audi­ences and crit­ics alike were aghast and puz­zled by what seemed to be a completely dis­jointed train wreck of movie. 
But perhaps, its failure indi­cates a shift in social con­sciousness for the better. While blax­ploitation may be fast becom­ing a passe genre fit only 
for nostalgic comedy, maybe that means that the boundaries that blaxploitation took for granted are becoming more obscure. 
"You guys are living this reality, professors have only learned about it," Johnson said. 
Contact ·c. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu 

Blaxploltatlon movies llke "Scream, Blacula, Scream!" took a new black perspective on classic mainstream stories. 

THE WORLD ACCORDING TO Coop 


Blaxploitation: Let me break it down for ya 
Blaxploitation is more than just a genre of movies. It is a part of a whole movement that shifted how America viewed African­Americans in cinema. In the '70s, over 200 movies would be made that fall under this genre were made. Some of the more notable films include "Shaft," starring Richard Roundtree in 1971, "Superfly," starring Antonio Fargas in 1972 and "Foxy Brown," star­ring Pam Grier in 1974. 
Although the term blax­ploitation is viewed by some as derogatory, the movies nevertheless enabled African Americans to progress from the traditional roles of cooks, waiters and ser­vants to prominent roles in movies in which the entire cast was black. Some people might not understand where the term came from and what it means. It was coined by the press to describe the movies because they predomi­nately portrayed African Americans as cold­hearted heroes, gangstas, drug dealers, pimps and thugs. However, during the '70s, African­Americans were being depicted by the media as revolutionaries and militants due largely to the violent race riots and the Black Panther movement. So, in light of the social strife, black people were in desperate need of heroes and this is ultimately what blaxploitation pro­vided. 
In 1971, blaxploitation was born from the movie "Sweet Sweetback's Badaaasss Song," which was, written, produced and featured black actors and director Melvin Van Peebles. This marked the end the real "exploitation" of African Americans in film. In the early 20th century, racism in film was overt and perfectly acceptable to society. 
These were films like 'The Wooing and Wedding of a Coon" and D.W. Griffith's "Birth of a Nation" where all white casts put on makeup to do blackface instead of casting black people to play the part of black people. 
Even in old Warner Brother's cartoons, blackface is a common occurrence as is widely characterized by that the wide flat nose and overly exaggerated thick lips. Black men were seen as huge and muscled from working out in the field or meek and submissive to their white massas. Whereas light-skinned black women were seen as sexual creatures and dark­skinned black women were depicted as Mammy: large, submissive and always singing and cooking for white folks. These are the imagines our society had of African-Americans in mm before the Civil Rights movement ush­ered in a new genre of film: Blaxploitation. 
African-American women in films before the '?Os had two types of roles: the sultry, light­skinned sex goddess who had predominately white features and the Mammies, the large, jolly women who were seen as being as sexu­ally unappealing as possible. With movies like "Cleopatra Jones" and "Foxy Brown," we final­ly see black women in leading roles, and although roxy Brown is as sexual as possible, she is the heroine and focus of the movie. In "Cleopatra Jones," African-American women have a role they can truly chcrLi;h and look up to. Inspired by the early James Bond movins of the '60s, this movie stars 6-foot-2 Tamara Dobson in the role of an international spy fighting against "The Man" all around the world while wearing the outrageous furs and clothing characteristic of the glamorous '70s, 


This was finally a role where African­American women are allowed to express themselves. 
Music is a huge part of African-American culture, and blaxploitation provided a way for artists to gain exposure to a larger market. Artists like Curtis Mayfield, Quincy Jones and Isaac llayes all composed soundtracks for blaxploitation films, while Arethra Franklin, Gladys Knight and the Staples Singers per­formed hit singles for the films. When Isaac Hayes won an Academy Award for his innova­tive theme music for "Shaft," it was a major step toward gaining respectability and access as artists. The soundtracks of the blaxploita­tion movies often contained many chart-top­ping singles. The music by James Brown and others reflected the social strif"c African Americans were dealing with and conveyed a serious political message. 
The term "blaxploitation" has been a subject of debate for 30 years. Originally, it was coined by the black press to talk about the roles that black actors took in the lilms. It was not met to mean that black people exploited by the Hollywood executives when making the movie. However, Richard Houndtrce in particular har­bors animosity toward the term and refuses to discuss the subject. 
Not everyone feels the term is derogatory, indeed Hudy Ray Moore, star of the not-quite­as-acclaimed-as "Shaft" movie "Dolemite" embraced the genre and felt it was more of a cultural movement than just a type of film. Indeed, there were great developments to spring forth due to blaxploitation movies as well as some negative affect. The mere name blaxploitation contributed to its downfall. The thought of exploitation with black on the front of it stopped appealing to people after a decade of movies that became progressively more formulaic. However, the damage was done, as in African Americans have gone on to gain more respect in acting, ultimately coming together at last year's Academy Awards. The ceremony was a long overdue celebration of African Americans in film where Sidney Poitier was awarded an Oscar for his lifetime of achievement and Denzel Washington and Halle Berry walked away with Oscars for Best Actor and Actress respectively. 
African Americans have come a long way in the past century, especially in the media and film. From being portrayed as animalistic, vio­lent and overly sexual, subservient creatures to eventually the roles of blaxploitation roles that allowed African Americans a chance to play the hero and heroine. We have pro­gressed and people like Morgan Freeman, Denzel Washington, Angela Bassett and I lalle Berry arc household names. 
This change our society has slowly seen has brought us a long way, however there is always room for improvement. Hopefully we will not have to wait over 35 years for the next time an African-American man gives a per­formance that deserves an Oscar: it was the first time an African-American woman has ever won the award for best actress. I trust this is the beginning of a trend in society to reward African-Americans for excellence in fields outside of sports. We already dominate those -at least the important ones anyways. 
The opinions expressed in lhis column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Christopher Cooper is "had motha" MIS major and can be contacted at cooper.42@nd.edu. 
Thursday, November 14, 2002
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Nowitzki gets hot late, keeps Mavs perfect 
Davis for all but six minutes 
Associaced Press 
against the Pacers, and left his guard behind in the locker CLEVELAND room for the second half. The Dallas Mavericks are still The Mavericks didn't take perfect. their first lead until Eduardo 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 13 of his Najera hit a reverse layup to 17 points in the fourth quarter make it 74-73 with 10:29 left. as Dallas remained the NBA's Nowitzki missed his first only unbeaten team, improving seven shots from the floor to 8-0 with a 1 o:1-99 victory before backing down Darius Wednesday night over the Miles and hitting a 10-fooLer Cleveland Cavaliers. with 9:17 to play. Nowitzki then 
Michael Finley scored a sea­hit a jumper and two free son-high 26 points and Walt throws, giving Dallas an 81-78 
Williams and Steve Nash had 14 lead with 8:21 remaining. apiece for the Mavericks, who Ilgauskas helped the Cavs overcame a career-high 34 hold off the Mavericks during a 
points by Zydrunas Ilgauskas two-minute stretch of the third 
and a dunk by Cavs guard Ricky quarter when the 7-foot-3 cen­Davis on which he jumped over ter showed his complete game. 
Nash. 
First, he drove past ShawnDallas rallied from a 13-point Bradley in the foul lane anddeficit in the third quarter to 
softly dropped in a running,
extend the best start in fran­
left-handed layup. On
chise history. 
Cleveland's next possession,
Jumaine Jones had 23 points Ilgauskas crashed the boards tofor the Cavs, who dropped their tip in a miss.

fifth straight since their home Following his own miss,opener when they stunned the llgauskas stripped NowitzkI,defending champion Los 
and after diving for the looseAngeles Lakers. 
ball, he passed while laying on
Nowitzki made two free 

the floor to Tyrone Hill for a
throws with 4: 14 left to put 
basket to put the Cavs up 65-56.
Dallas ahead 89-87. 
Davis, who was kept out of But Ilgauskas went out with 
the starting lineup while being 3:17 remaining, and the disciplined by coach John Mavericks immediately went to Lucas, then hit a runner in the work. Williams hit two straight lane to tie it, and made a steal 3-pointers, Finley scored on a on Dallas' next possession. drive and Dallas closed with a 
As he approached the basket, 12-0 spurt to pull within 71-70 the 6-foot-7 Davis took off in the heading to the fourth. middle of the lane and soared over the 6-foot-3 Nash's head Celtics 91, 76ers 81. 
before slamming the ball in to Antoine Walker scored 20 that met in the first round of the Keith Van Horn made a baby The difference in the game give the Cavs a 91-89 lead. points and Paul Pierce made a playoffs last year, when Boston hook to end the 13-0 run, but was Harris. The backup shoot­After a basket by Williams, few key baskets while shooting beat Philadelphia 3-2 in the Boston's lead grew bigger when ing guard scored 12 of his 15 Nash hit a runner in the lane to 4-for-20 as the Boston Celtics best-of-5 series. McCarty made a 3-pointer and points in the final 12 minutes to 
put the Mavericks up 93-91 break open a game in which
won their sixth consecutive Philadelphia led 65-59 with Baker hit two free throws to 
with 2:31 to play. 
game Wednesday night, beating 2:00 left in the third before make it 77-69. After Todd neither team led by more than Cleveland point guard Milt the Philadelphia 76ers 91-81. Boston scored the next ;,3 McCulloch made a layup, seven points in the first three 
Palcio was then whistled for Pierce, who scored 13, hit a 3-points to take the lead for good. Shammond Williams hit a 3-quarters. 
traveling -the first of two vio­Pierce hit a 3-pointer, Walter Harris hit a layup and a
pointer to start a 13-0 run that pointer to give Boston an 80-69
lations for him in the final 1:39 McCarty hit one of two free jumper in a 6-2 run to push a
turned a six-point third-quarter lead with 8:10 left. 
-and Nowitzki hit two free throws and Eric Williams made three-point lead entering the
deficit into a 72-65 fourth-quar­
throws for a 95-92 lead. a pair to tie it, 65-all. Pierce fourth to 70-63. The Spurs
ter lead. He also hit a fadeaway Nets 91, Spurs 82
Finley then scored on a slicing pulled within four points twice
made a nice drive to the basket 
jumper after the Sixers had cut Lucious Harris broke open a 
move through the lane, and his to put in a layup with 0.2 sec­down the stretch, the last time 
an 11-point deficit to seven with close game by hitting his first
two free throws made it 101-96 onds left in the third, but he on a dunk by Malik Rose with
2:01 left. three shots of the fourth quar­
with nine seconds to go. was called for an offensive foul 7:44 to play.
Allen Iverson had 25 points ter to lead New Jersey to a 91­
Palacio made a 3-pointer with and the game remained tied Kenyon Martin banked in a
and Eric Snow had 13 assists 82 victory over San Antonio
3.7 seconds left, but Nash's two heading into the fourth. shot after muscling Duncan out
for the Sixers, who are still Wednesday night. 
free throws sealed it with 2.6 The run continued, though. of the way to ignite a 10-2 spurt
looking for their first road win Richard Jefferson added a
seconds remaining. Dallas went Vin Baker made a lay-in, that put the game away.
career-high 27 points and Jason 

8-for-8 from the line in the final of the season. They are 4-0 at McCarty hit a 3-pointer and The Nets limited the Spurs to home and 0-3 on the road. Kidd had 18 as the Nets
55 seconds. then Baker, who has done little 13 baskets in the second half,
remained perfect at home, win­

Davis, the Cavs' leading scor­Iverson was 3-for-6 from 3-for the Celtics since coming over holding them to 37. 7 percent 
er, didn't start for the first time point range after missing his in an offseason trade, made a ning their fifth straight. shooting from the field. Duncan this season as punishment for first 19 this season. putback in and drew a foul. He Tim Duncan had 21 points, and Jackson combined to shoot 
an on-court squabble with Boston had six scorers in dou­pumped his fist and chest­Stephen Jackson added a sea­15-for-33 from the field, but teammate Bimbo Coles and ble digits, including three off bumped two teammates before son-high 20 and David Robinson. Tony Parker and Robinson had 14 rebounds for
Lucas during Tuesday night's the bench. missing the free throw, leaving Bruce Bowen -the other 
loss at Indiana. Lucas benched The game matched two teams it 72-65 with 10:05 to play. the Spurs. starters -were 8-for-29. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
Thi· charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

#1 Spring Break Vacations'Mexico, WoodbridQIICondo (Ironwood, N. HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.It. NEED 2 TIX FOR RUTGERS. Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! of Douglas) OPEN HOUSE Sun. 2003/2004: Call Elill at 532-1896. house. Close to ND. All appli-PLEASE CALL 674-6593. NOTICES Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. 11/17/02, 1-3 pm. Over 900 sq.ft. ances,big yard,garage,C/A. 
Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234· Completely updated REDUCED to SUBLEASE AVA LABLE-fully fur-Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo. 'At Last Spring Break*' Sook now 7007 endlesssummertours.com $81,900. See at reedburrer .com nished 2 bdrm apt avail. spring 243-9901. Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free semester or from Jan-Aug 03, w/d PERSONAL Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash-Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 Incl, DSL, heated parking garage, tours.com 1800426n1o per day. No experience necessary. FOR RENT TICKETS UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 4 miles from ND ,~ located on bus not go it alone. If you or someone Charming home in beautiful safe All size homes a11ailable for 2003-route, $950/mo (util. incl.) N D tickets buy and sell. Please you love needs confidential support neighborhood. 1 mile from ND. 3-WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com check our prices. 273-3911. or assistance, please call Sr. Mary bdrm, 1 1/2 bath,lr, dr, family room, YEARBOOKS. CALL 233·1296. www.mmmrentals.com call 234-4536 Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For 
eat in kitchen, finished basement. WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST more information, see our bi-weekly Beautiful hardwoods; new carpel Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from nice 3 & 4 bdrm r.ouses. PRICES PAID 251-1570 ad in THE OBSERVER. throughout. Built in gas grill in large Notre Dame -Perteet tor Football 288-9673.
FOR SALE
private backyard. All new appli-Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Avail now. ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS ances Lake Michigan Most units PRICES 289-9280 Americas #1 Student Tour Operator References required LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245 3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.It. Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free 950/mo. 288-5118 FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. house. Close to ~ID. All appli-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR Information/Reservations 1-800· 
NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-3-Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. ances,big yard,g•.rage,C/A. SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. Garage, alarm system, A/C. Beautiful. $99,500. Availimmed , $650/mo. Call 220-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WAf.lT-booze, i need booze
WANTED Williamson.l@nd edu 0499 Must see. $1000/'Tio. 243-9901 ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 please? 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Slow market at GM meeting 
A•sociatcd Pres• 
TUCSON. Ariz. 

Despite the fact that nearly all of baseball's general man­agers and a handful of agents are together this week, only one notable player has changed teams so Car. 
The Chicago Cubs beefed up their catching Wednesday, acquiring Damian Miller from Arizona for two minor lea­guers. 
But the lack of dealing isn't from a lack of trying. 
"We've talked to a lot of peo­ple this week. But 99 percent of what we talk about doesn't lead to anything," Diamondbacks GM Joe Garagiola Jr. said. "This one just happened to work out." 
Most of the work being done at the general managers' meet­ings is setting the stage for the next two months. 
Teams have started prelimi­nary trade talks -finding out which opposing players are available and which of their own players are coveted. Agents and teams have also expressed interest to each other to hold more significant talks in the next few weeks, possibly at next month's winter meetings. 
But except for the Philadelphia Phillies, who made contract offers to free agents Jim Thome, Tom Glavine and David Bell on Tuesday, most teams arc moving cautiously. 
"Ii will be a slower-develop­So far, the Phillies have been ing market, which is what we the most aggressive team this anticipated coming out here," offseason. They offered Thome Mets general manager Steve a reported five-year. $75 mil­Phillips said. "Teams have con­lion contract, Glavine about $30 tracts they would like to trade million for three years and a to change their configuration." three-year contract to Bell. Arizona and Colorado have But the [ndians are still hope-
talked  ful they can keep  
a  b  o u  t  Thome, the top  
swapping  "It will be a slower­ hitter on the mar­ 
outfielder L a r r y Walker  developing market, which is what we anticipated  ket despite offer­ing the slugger a four-year package  
and third baseman  coming out here. "  believed to be worth between  
M a t t Williams.  Steve Phillips  $40 and $48 mil­lion.  
T  h  e  Mets' manager  "The only thing  

Rockies are also exploring to see if there is anv interest in overpaid pitchers Mike Hampton and Denny Neagle. 
Florida, which is looking to unload Charles Johnson and Preston Wilson, could be inter­ested in Hampton. 
The Mets might be willing to take on Neagle as long as the Rockies take back one of New York's undesirable players: Jeromy Burnitz, Rey Ordonez or Roger Cedeno. 
Even the usually free-spend­ing Yankees are looking to slash payroll. GM Brian Cashman is under orders to save money and is looking to deal Raul Mondesi, Rondell White and Sterling Hitchcock. 
"I have a lot of ideas floating around," Cashman said. ''I'm just waiting for responses." 
they can offer Jim 
more of is money," Indians GM Mark Shapiro said. "If it comes down to that, we'll probably_ lose the player. I still feel Jim Thome is a player who valued more than that." 
The cost-cutting Braves have only offered Glavinc a one-year deal, worth about $9 million. That could force the two-time Cy Young award winner to leave Atlanta after 16 years. 
Glavine was 18-11 with a 
2.96 ERA this season and has 242 career wins. 
"The chance today of Tom Glavine leaving Atlanta is a very real possibility," said Gregg Clifton, Glavine's agent. "Six months ago that wasn't the case. But today, the chance that Tom Glavine will play with another team is a very viable possibility. It's not just smoke." 
Shapiro said be has "no idea" about what might be included in Philadelphia's offer to Thome, who hit 52 homers last season for the Indians. 
At Thome's request. the Indians made their offer to Thome on Oct. 31, days before the 31•year-old was wined and dined by the Phillies, who gave him a tour of their new stadi­um set to open in 2004. 
Shapiro said Rooney promised to get back to him after he received the Phillies' offer. 
Rooney did not immediately return a phone message seek­ing comment. 
The Indians have until Dec. 7 to offer Thome salary arbi­tration. If' he accepts, they can negotiate with him until Jan. 
8. ff he rejects it, the club would lose his rights until May 
1. 
Shapiro said the Indians have not set a deadline and plan to raise their offer to Thome when the time is right. 
"We've left some room for creativity," Shapiro said. "We've left some room to bet­ter our offer. We did not initi­ate our offer to be a drop-dead offer." 
Since the beginning of last season, Thome has maintained that Cleveland is his first choice and his decision will not be based solely on money. 
Shapiro is countin~ on that. 


Close to campus! 


Cleveland awaits Thome' s decision 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Mark Shapiro's heart must jump every time the phone 
...,rings. Cleveland's general manager is nervously waiting to hear from free-agent first baseman Jim Thome, who is weighing contract offers from the Indians and Philadelphia Phillies. Right now, silence is all that Shapiro is hearing. "There's no protocol," Shapiro said from the GM meetings in Arizona. "We made a proposal and we have not heard back." Thome. the top slugger in this year's free-agent market, received a reported five-year, $ 7 5 million offer from the free-spending Phillies on Tuesday -the first day teams could make money proposals. Philadelphia's deal dwarfs the Indians' offering, a four­year package believed to be worth between $40 and $48 million. While he waits to hear from Thome or his agent, Pat Rooney, Shapiro has been planning for life with and without Cleveland's career home-run leader. "It's our responsibility," Shapiro said. "We have to pre­pare for both alternatives." 

(Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) Special Event Friendly!! 
page 18 The Observer . HOUSE ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 14, 2002 
LIKE THE PHOTOS YOU'VE SEEN IN THE C>BSERVER? 




WANT COLOR :REPRINTS? 
The Observer announces its PHOTO REPRINT SERVICE 
THIS IS ANEW SERVICE AVAJlLABLE TO OBSERVER READERS INTERESTED IN ]BUYING ARCHIVED PHOTOS THAT HAVE APPEARED IN THE PAPER. WHETHER IT'S THE PHOTO 111AT RAN WITH THE PROFILE OF YOUR CAMPUS tCLUB OR THE MUST­HAVE SPORTS SHOT THAT yo·u SAwON THE BACK PAGE, THE OBSERVER CMl GIVE YOU PHOTO MEMORIES TO LAST ALIFETIME. 
Prices vary depending on aesired size artd quantity of photos ordered. Photos are also available on CD. 
For n1ore inforn1ation or to place~ an order, call 631-8767. 
If ordering, please specify whicl-t photos and what size you want. Please allow up to a week to receive the order. 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 The Observer . SPORT~ 
NBA 


Brown holds first practice 
A,.ociatcd Pre•• 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
Hubie Brown held his first practice with the Memphis Grizzlies and his edict was clear: Play hard all the time. or don'l expccl to play at all. 
The 69-year-old coach was back at work as an NBA coach Wednesday for the first time in 15 years. Ht~ replaces Sidney Lowe. who resigned Tuesday after an 0-8 start left Memphis as the league's only winless team. 
Brown gave up his TV broad­casting job t.o take over the Grizzlies because "it is the ulti­mate challenge." 
lie was drawn to Memphis by Jerry West, who became president of basketball opera­tions last year. 
West describes Brown. a for­mer NBA coach of the year, as "one of the premier basketball minds in the business" and an outstanding teacher. 
Looking for a new coach after Lowe's sudden departure. West's first call was to Brown. 
"When Jerry West calls, you listen up. There's not going to be any massaging. There's not going to be any blowing smoke," Brown said at a news conference, with West and Michael Heisley, the team's majority owner, sitting beside him. 
Brown said the Grizzlies must develop better chemistry, tougher defense and a style of play. 

"You give me any team worth a grain of salt and they have a distinct style of play." he said. "I don't care what sport it is." 
Brown, a former coach of the New York Knicks and Atlanta Hawks, said the Grizzlies need "two teams of five guys that will respect one another." 
"They will be unselfish with one another. and they'll pay the price and give the effort," he said. 
Brown also intends to respond to criticism that the Grizzlies are sluggish and unmotivated, particularly on defense. 
"The defense must make a major transition," he said. "We know that the team ranks 29th in three or four critical defen­sive areas. Now that's not going to change over night. What has to happen here is days of practice, days of drills, days of the staff working with people and getting the right people in the right places." 
Hard work and discipline can turn the Grizzlies around if the "talent base" is broad enough. 
"ls the talent base enough to do that?" he said. "Well, we'll see." 
Brown said he could not pre­dict how long it will take the Grizzlies to play to his stan­dards, but it's imperative "from day one that we only talk about offenses and defens­es that work against the good teams." 
"The first thing is we're going to work on discipline," Brown said. "Either you play or you sit, OK." 
It's important, he said. that the coach and his staff "take a young player and show him how much he's got to work in order for us as a group to go on." 
The Grizzlies depend heavily on their two top rookies from last year, Shane Battier and Pau Gasol; this year's first­round draft choice, Drew Gooden; and a newcomer from the Russian league, Gordan Giricek. 
Brown said he was not con­cerned about complaints directed at particular players. Point guard Jason Williams has been criticized as unpre­dictable on offense and lacking emotion on defense. 
"Today is a new day for everyone one of those kids in there," he said. 
Brown said he has lined up a staff of assistants who can work with young players. 
"I only bring guys who can teach," he said. 
His assistants are Hal Wissel. a shooting coach and former scout with Dallas; Lionel Hollins, a holdover from Lowe's staff; Tony Barone, the Grizzlies former director of player personnel; and Brenden Brown, the new coach's son and a former scout for the Grizzlies. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


First all-female crew officiates mens game 
think it's an example of three
Associated Press 

quality referees who happen to NASHVILLE, Tenn. be female." Three women refereed an Bain and TranSouth 
~IA game in what appears to Conference commissioner E.L. be the first time an all-female Hutton had talked of using an crew oiliciated in mens college all-female crew a few years basketball during the regular ago. Bain reminded Hutton 
season. when assign­Mona Miller. men ts were 
Erica Bradley "/ don't think its a big made for this and Leigh deal. I think it's an season. and 
Anne Webb they sched­
example ofthree quality 
were the offi­uled the 
cials for Martin referees who happen to women for Methodist's 82-be female." Martin 44 victory over Methodist's Atlanta season open­
Steve Baker
Christian in er. Pulaski on NAIA president They didn't 
Tuesday night. 
"We didn't know what we were doing until we did it," Martin Methodist athletic director Jeff Bain said Wednesday. 
Bain recently checked with the NAIA. then the NCAA. Officials are not tracked, but the only all-female crew used before worked an exhibition game at LSU a few years ago. 
Bain said the NAIA and NCAA e-mailed the women who worked that exhibition, and they knew of no other such crew working a regular-season game. 
"I don't think it's a big deal," NAIA president Steve B.aker. "I publicize the 

crew, and the coaches didn't tell the players until shortly before tipoff. About 300 people attended, and Hutton heard one fan at a con­cession stand admit he didn't realize women were calling the game. 
Hutton plans to ask the crew if it will work together again for a rescheduled game in late December. Men regularly offici­ate women's games. 
"We're kind of leaking over into their realm and proving that we can do as equally a good a job as they do," Bradley, a fourth-year NAIA official, told The Tennessean. 
A new fitness center and Taekwondo school has opened close to campus 


Join us for our Open House Saturday, November 16th , 9am -2pm 
•!•
Taekwondo and fitness demonstrations 

•!•Free 
food 


•!•Stop 
by and mention this ad for a FREE 2 week pass! 


4609 Grape Rd., suite A? (across from Barnes and Noble) 247-2555 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 14, 2002 
NBA 

Manuto Bol makes the switch from basketball to hockey 




Kick-off the weekend early TONIGHT. AThursday Tradition... 
ti) 

Associated Pres• 
Manute Bo! has traded in his basketball sneakers and boxing trunks and now is in a shocking search for a pair of ice skates. 
Seriously. 

The 7-foot-7 former NBA shot-blocker agreed to terms Tuesday to play with the Indianapolis Ice of the Central Hockey League. 
Bol is expected to be in uni­form for an appearnnco with the Ice on Saturday night, but it is unlikely he will play in the game against the Amarillo Gorillas. 
"We're in the business of selling tickets. the business of entertainment," Ice general manager Larry Linde said. "We're not going to do any­thing to jeopardize the integrity of the game or Manute. We're out there to have fun. 
"We're not going to throw him out there if he's going to kill himself or someone else." 
Linde hasn't yet spoken to Bol. 40, and admitted that the deal is mainly to generate interest in his team. 
Linde was the driving force behind the signing after he read an article a month or so ago about Bol's difficult life after he left the NBA. 
By all accounts, Bol has never played the sport or ever laced up a pair of skates. At this point, equipment that would fit the Dinka tribesman has not been located. 
"We're always looking for a unique angle," Linde said. "We like to expose our fans to people they might like to n1eet." 
Born in Turalie, a remote village in southern Sudan, Bol now lives in Hartford. Conn., with his family. 
Over the years he has spent most of his life's savings try­ing to bring peace to his war­torn homeland, where many of his relatives were leaders in the Sudanese Peoples Liberation Army, a rebel movement. At one point he became an important backer of the rebels, contributing an estimated $3.5 million. 
Linde contacted Bol's rep­resentatives to set up a public appearance at an Ice game. 
Bo! recently took part in Fox TV's Celebrity Boxing show and beat former foot­ball player William "The Refrigerator" Perry in a bout. 
Bol agreed to take part, so long as Fox agreed to air a toll-free number for the Ring True Foundation, a West Hartford-based charity he set up to benefit southern Sudanese children. He donat­ed his $35,000 purse from the boxing match to the group. 
Linde also wants to help Bol's cause. 
"According to what I've been told he's open to differ­ent kinds of ideas," Linde said. "It seems like everything he's doing these days is trying to bring attention to his foun­dation." 
Linde said that Bo! will sign a standard player contract with the team and then try to skate with the team on Friday and Saturday. 
Contracts last for a mini­mum of one season, but they are rarely guaranteed. Players are paid on a weekly basis at a minimum of $350. 
"We're attempting to find skates and equipment to fit him," Linde said. "He's com­ing in Friday. We'll attempt to get him suited up. We'll see what we can do." 
CHL spokesman Steve Cherwonak said the league would not stand in the way if Indianapolis filed a contract. 
It was believed Bo!, who weighs 225 pounds, would become the tallest player under contract in the history of professional hockey. 
"We commend the Ice for a unique and interesting man­ner of promoting ice hockey and a worthwhile cause," Cherwonak said. 
Bol was a 1985 second­round draft pick of the Washington Bullets. 
He played 11 seasons in the NBA with four teams, block­ing more shots per minute than anyone in league histo­ry. He retired from in 1995 after averaging 4.2 rebounds per game and 2.6 points dur­ing his career. 
LOTS Of STUFF FOR ABUCK -NO COVER BEFORE 11PM 
BRING YDUR COLLEDE JD -2J. OHlY 

CALL THE HEARTLAND CONCERT &EVENT LINE 574-251-2&68 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Mackovic denies early reports, will not resign 
Associated Press 
TUCSON. Ariz. 

Arizona football coach John Mackovic. his voice choking with emotion Wednesday, admitted major mistakes in dealing with his players and assistant coaches. 
llowever, Mackovic said he would not resign and pledged to do a better job in the future. An earlier report that Mackovic was going to step down turned out to be premature. 
Ile has three years remaining on a contract that pays him $800,000 annually. 
Arizona is winless in the l'acific-10 Conference at 0-6 for the first time in their 25 years in the league. 
The Wildcats arc 3-7 overall with two games remaining this season. 
They arc 8-13 overall and 2­12 in the Pac-10 under Mackovic, who replaced Dick Tomey on Dec. 4, 2000. Tomey quit after 14 seasons. 

Mackovic met wilh his play­ers for 90 minutes Wednesday afternoon and allowed them to air their grievances with him. 
More than 40 players met with school president Peter Likins on Tuesday night ­without Mackovic's knowledge -to reportedly voice their concerns about their head coach. 
At a news conference, Mackovic apologized for remarks he had made to some players, including one in which he told a player that he "was a disgrace to his family" by the way he had performed. 
Mackovic said the comment came after Arizona's 31-10 loss Sept. 21 at Wisconsin and he had "allowed it to fester since then." 
: University Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, & : Bisexual Students 


: ~T-Hlilll9¦Til•N.Dll,IINlfll> 
• 
COMMITTa:[ ON 

• 
GATA.HD t.aaalAN e STUDKNT N•aoa


• 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student 
members (see web sitefor student contact info.) 
..

Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students . and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) • 
Contact: Fr. J. Steele, CSC, at Steele.31@1')d.edu • 

University Counseling Center. ·" 
·(Individual counseling) · Contact· Dr. Pat Utz at Utz. l@nd.edu, or Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/~scglsD' 
.. . . ............. . ... . ...; ...................... 




Alabama faces NCAA again 
Alabama, which in February pleaded guilty to a federal Associate<I Press 
was hit with scholarship limita­racketeering charge and tions, a two-year bowl ban and agreed to cooperate with inves­
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 
five years of probation. tigators. A former Lang assis­
A recruiting scandal that 
Yeager said the staff would tant, Milton Kirk, previouslylanded Alabama's football pro­
pass along only information pleaded guilty. 
gram on probation could go 
that was substantially different With his plea, Lang agreed to before the NCAA again based 
from what the 

on new information made pub­committee pre­lic in court last week. 
~io u sly heard. 

Tom Yeager, chairman of the 
But it's not infractions committee, said 
uncommon for Wednesday the NCAA is evalu­
the committee ating claims revealed during a 
to receive hearing in which a former high reports about school coach pleaded guilty to infractions it accepting $150,000 to steer a previously con­prized recruit to Alabama. The sider() d, he plea directly implicated two said. 
the govern­ment's con­"In some cases it's a tention that he took
lingering chain of events 
money from 

that can occur. " L o g a n Young, a wealthy
Tom Yeager 
Memphis


NCAA official 
business­
man and 
longtime 

former Alabama coaches. "In some cases it's a linger­Alabama booster, to steer 
The enforcement staff could ing chain of events that can defensive lineman Albert either shelve the matter or occur," Yeager said. Means toward Alabama. Young send it to the committee for University counsel Stan is a longtime friend of Alabama further review, Yeager said in Murphy referred a call to uni­athletic director Mal Moore. a telephone interview with The versity spokesman Larry Lang said he was referred to Associated Press. No decision White, who declined comment. Young by Ivy Williams, a for­has been made. An NCAA investigator was in mer Alabama assistant, and 
Yeager declined comment on court last week in Memphis, that he discussed the deal with whether additional penalties Tenn .. as former Trezevant Ronnie Cottrell. a fo'rint'lr were possible against High School coach Lynn Lang Alabama recruiting coordina­
tor. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Frnd Godwin also said in court that Williams suggested that Lang arrange for someone to take the place of Means during a college entrance test. 
The disclosures appeared to be at odds with the NCAA's previous decision in the Alabama case since the sanc­tioning body did not direWy implicate the Alabama coach­ing staff in any major recruit­ing violations. 
Alabama was not cited for lack of institutional control, a violation that could have brought more severe sanctions, possibly even the "death penal­ty," which shuts down a pro­gram for at least one season. 
The NCAA cleared Williams of lying to an NCM investiga­tor about the scandal after ini­tially accusing him of providing false information about the case. Williams has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. 
Cottrell, who also has denied wrongdoing, was accused of taking a home loan from Young. Young has described the loan as a normal business transaction. 
Williams and Cottrell are both out of coaching. Means transferred from Alabama to Memphis, where he played last year but was declared academ­ically ineligible this season. 
o you want to improve your pro em solving and peep es ills 
Then Sign up for Leadership Learn how to: 
* Lead and delegate based on skill 
• Motivate a team or group ""Recover from mistakes 
* 
Read and utilize the abilities of others 

* 
Manage time for a team or group 

* 
Deal with confrontation 

* 
Translate leadership skills into things that will help you in the "real world" 



INTERESTED? 
Visit wwvv.nd.edu/-sao/li/index.htm to read more about the Leadership Institute and fill out the application form! 
Application deadline is Nov. 15 at 3:00 p.m. Contact Amy Geist via e-mail (geist.7@nd.edu) or by phone (1-7308) if you have any questions. Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities 
Baskets of Elegance Custom Made Theme Baskets for any Occasion {574) 674-0022 
Fax(574)674-0033 

I ND themed baskets our specialcy!
I 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 14, 2002 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Felipe Alou returns to manage the San Francisco Giants 

Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Felipe Alou never envisioned it would happen this way, finishing up his baseball career right back where it all started nearly a half­century ago. 
A.lou was hired Wednesday to manage the National League champion San Francisco Giants, returning to the team he played for in the 1950s and '60s. Ile calls himself a "soldier of this game." 
'Tm going back home to where l started and, hopefully, I'm going to end it right there," Alou said. 
The former manager of the Montreal Expos takes over for Dusty Baker and inherits a team that came within six outs of a World Series title. 
The 6 7 -year-old Alou, the bench coach for Detroit last sea­son, agreed to a three-year con­tract and becomes the oldest m.tnag'er in the major leagues. He was 691-717 in 10 seasons managing the Expos. 
The popular Baker did not have his contract renewed by the Giants. Baker is talking with the Chicago Cubs about becoming their manager. Alou's son Moises plays for the Cubs. 
"I was happily surprised," Moises said. "For him to get a job with a team like the Giants is awesome." 
Alou played for the Giants from 1958-63 as part of a 17-season major league career in which he hit .286 with 206 homers and 852 RBIs. He also spent 1970 and part of 1971 in the Bay area playing for the Oakland Athletics. 
On the Giants. he joined broth­ers Matty and Jesus in an all­Alou outfield in some games. 

The Notre Dame Collegium Musicum 
Daniel Stowe, director 
Q:ltusic oftfje <Counter 9Reformation 
1,)a(estrina: C11tissa cpapae cmar«ill 'motets 6_y cpa(estrina an& .£assus 

Friday, November 15, 2002 
8:00 pm, Moreau Seminary Chapel 
University ofNotre Dame Free and open to the public 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
DllPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
That's one of the highlights of his playing days in San Francisco, along with a string of nine con­secutive hits. 
"When I received the first notice that I might be the guy, or the club was interested in me, I was really shocked," he said. "l was working with a team in the Dominican Hepublic and was far from major league baseball." 
It is the first time in nearly three decades that a manager takes over a pennant-winning team in the oITseason. Alvin Dark became manager of the A's when Dick Williams retired following their 1973 World Series champi­onship. 
"We're obviously thrilled we're able to welcome Felipe back." general manager Brian Sabean said. "Everybody in baseball real• izes what he's done in the game. It's thrilling because he's a Giant at heart. 
"He calls himself a baseball sol­dier in conversation. He's more like baseball royalty to us." 
Alou was fired by the Expos during the 2001 season, and was with the Tigers this year. 
He is a native of the Dominican Republic. The Giants had hoped tu replace Baker, who is black, with another minority. 
Shortstop Rich Aurilia appreci­ated the Giants' speed in hiring a manager. The team announced Baker would not return last Wednesday. 
"We were a few steps behind other clubs having been in the World Series," Aurilia said. "It's nice to know that they went out and got somebody who's well respected around baseball and has done a good job with his teams." 
Alou has the challenge of deal­ing with Barry Bonds, whose dugout shoving match with sec-

ICON Photo 
Felipe Alou, former manager of the Montreal Expos, will return to where he started as the man­
ager of the San Francisco Giants. 
ond baseman JeIT Kent -a free ate," Alou said. "Mvself, I was a agent not expected to return to decent player, but i didn't oper­the Giants -was a low point in ate at that level." the team's successful year. Sabean is confident Alou can 
He said he expected no pro o­handle what has been at times a lems. contentious San Francisco club­
"Barry Bonds and other play­house. ers operate at a very high level, a "He dealt with an interesting, level not many people have oper­diverse group in Montreal and ated at in the course of their our clubhouse is one of the lives. I respect the way they oper-same," said Sabean, who inter­
. tJNlVE SITY OF NOTR:E DAME 



WASHI GTON PR'()GRAM­
.:~ ... .,,. • < ••• 
•
Studyinthe nation's capitol 

•
Workin aninternship 

•
Fulfill philosophy, theology,and fine arts requirements 


•Studypublic affairs 
•Live in an exciting city 
{i;,,y~
John Eriksen, Director 

338 O'Shaughnessy 'bla~ at1011s O-= ·:1 
Eriksen. l@ncl.edu 


-!!'!!!!JI 1~i 
""""""""""'=-..,..,,....---~=-..,,-----------,, 
..,J 
•~_11;;:· '' 
'ii~.-;-:-.• }11,Ir;11\ 
,..<~7...:~:YJ.•,,t• 

. ""1· . 
ww. n d. edu/~s e 111ester. 
:;,;-. 
, 

•
Applications for Fall 2003 & Spring 2004 are now being accepted online 

•Open 
to Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors from all colleges 


viewed Alou over two days in Florida. "l spoke of pedigree and blood lines, and it doesn't get any better than this. He's a guy who can and will make a difference." 
Alou insists he has plenty of energy despite his age, and plans to fulfill all three years of his con­tract. Eventually. he will become a special assistant with the club, Sabean said. 
~J 

' v ,I•;,, 
. . r: 

------------------·-------­
Thursday, November 14, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Two Miami of Ohio coaches suspended 
Applications are now being accepted 
for the President of the Student 
Campus Orientation Committee 
Responsibilities of the SCOC President include: 
*
To help promote ND's orientation ministry among the hall orientation commissioners, campus orientation commissioners and hall orientation committee members. 

*
To role model University expectations for orientation commissioners and hall orientation committee members. To assist with the hall and campus orientation committees. 

*
To serve as peer educators to hall orientation commissioners and committee members. 

*
To plan campus-wide orientation events for students and parents.

*
To assist in facilitating the hall orientation programs (i.e., ice breakers at mixers) during the fall semester. 


If you are interested in applying as SCOC President, please stop by the Student Activities Office at 315 Lafortune Student Center to pick up an application. The application deadline is November 22nd. Interviews will be held the week of 







FAITH 
One-Credit Courses 
Spring 2003 
offered by the Department of Theology 
in coo11eration with the Office of Campus Ministry 


Creation 
Theo. 340C/01. 1credit. SIU Instructor: John Cavadini 
Monday Nights March 17, 24, 31 April 7, 14, 21. Time: 6:00-8:05 p.m. Location: Keough lounge (to be confirmed) 

For further information, contact Dorot~v Anderson in the Theology Department, 631-7811. Syl/111,ifor the courses can be obtained at the Theolo[Y Dept., 130 Malloy Hall. 
Associated Pre•• 
OXFORD, Ohio 
Two Miami University assis­ff'ant football coaches were sus­pended Wednesday after one was charged with assaulting a fan and another acknowledged damaging a coaches' box at Marshall. 
Coach Terry Hoeppner apolo­
gized Wednesday, saying things 
got out of control when fans 
rushed the field following 
Marshall's last-second, 36-34 
win over its Mid-American 
Conference rival. 
Hoeppner took two university 
police officers with him for 
extra protection on the field, 
anticipating a volatile situation. 
"It's scary," said Hoeppner, 
who hadn't slept following the 
bus ride back from West 
Virginia. "I had more police 
protection around me last 
night, and that shouldn't be 
necessary. We've lost a little bit 
of our perspective." 
Defensive coordinator Jon 
Wauford and linebackers coach 
Taver Johnson were suspended 
with pay while the southwest 

theclogstore.com 
l-800-948-CLO.G 
Ohio school investigates. 

Wauford was led off the field in handcuffs and charged with battery, a misdemeanor, for allegedly shoving a fan who ran on the field after the game. Johnson acknowledged damag­ing the visiting coaches' box, Hoeppner said. 
The post-game problems were uncharacteristic for a school that prides itself as the "Cradle of Coaches." 
"I don't want to prejudge our investigation of the facts. But I have to tell you, as president, to see one of my coaches led away in handcuffs was one of the most difficult things I·ve seen since I've been here," school president James Garland said in a phone interview. 
"We justify our support of athletics because of the mes­sage that it sends about charac­ter," Garland said. "These events of yesterday suggest that we've fallen short of our goal." 
Interim athletic director Steve Snyder said Miami will pay to repair the coaches' box. A shelf and chairs were damaged, and holes were knocked in the wall, Snyder said. 




~e!i~
only at --=--.~ 

Sminutes~
from OUTPOST 
Camnus s ors 
r Cold Weather Experts 

Call 259-iooo for more details 

The Road lo Perdtlton 
PLu1n!J in JOl lJelLdolo, $3 
Uuu·s(l«IJ Nov. 14, JO pm L·iclau Nov.15, 7:30 & JO J)m Solnnln~J Nov. Hi, 7:30 & 10 pm 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 24 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIHE SERVICES Thursday, November 14, 2002 

MLB 

around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Louisville at Southern Mississippi 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 

COLLEGE BASKETBALL COACHES VS. CANCER CLASSIC Memphis vs. Syracuse 7 p.m., ESPN2 Alabama vs. Oklahoma 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Alex Rodriguez won his first American League Gold Glove on Wednesday, a vote that Omar Vizquel didn't handle too cleanly. 
Vizquel had won nine straight times at shortstop. But the fancy fielder from Cleveland had his streak broken by A-Rod, the Texas Rangers star. 
"Obviously, I didn't think I was going to lose the Gold Glove this year. I don't think I gave it up. I know I had the numbers to com­pete," Vizquel said. 
"I know he improved his defensive numbers. He had a good year. The voting could go either way," Vizquel said of Rodriguez. "He's on TV everyday. He's in the national papers everyday." 
Vizquel said he thought Baltimore's Mike Bordick, who did not make an error in his final 110 games, was as deserving as Rodriguez. 
"I don't know why he wasn't recognized as one of the best," Vizquel said. 
"The batting champion has always been the one who hits for the highest average. The fielding cham­pion should be the guy who had less errors or the bet­ter percentage," he said. "They are probably going to have to change the voting." 
A-Rod made 10 errors, had a .987 fielding percent­age and took part in 108 double plays. Vizquel made seven errors, had a .990 fielding percentage and participated in 98 DPs. 
Gold Gloves, presented since 1957 by St. Louis­based Rawlings, are voted on by managers and coach­es before the end of the regular season. They may not select players on their own teams, and they vote only for players in their own league. 
The World Series cham­pion Anaheim Angels won two Gold Gloves, with catcher Bengie Molina breaking the 10-year winning streak of Texas' Ivan Rodriguez and Darin Erstad replacing Seattle's Mike Cameron in the out­field. 
Mariners first baseman John Olerud, second baseman Bret Boone and outfielder lchiro Suzuki all won AL Gold Gloves. 
Olerud won his second Gold Glove, replacing Minnesota's Doug Mientkiewicz at first base. Boone won his first in the AL, taking over from Roberto Alomar, a 10-time winner who was traded from Cleveland to the New York Mets fol­lowing the 2001 season. 
IN BRIEF 
Faulk may play Monday 
The St. Louis Rams aren't ruling Marshall Faulk out of Monday night's game with Chicago. 
The All-Pro running back left Sunday's victory over the Chargers with a sprained left ankle and strained te~n in his right foot, and was on crutches the next day. But he was feeling much better on Wednesday. 
"Nobody heals like he does," coach Mike Martz said. "This will be some­thing we'll take to the very end." 
Martz said Faulk, listed as ques­tionable, probably wouldn't practice at least until Saturday in preparation for Monday night's game. 
"We '11 be pessimistic at this point and say he won't be ready," Martz said. "If he is ready, it'll be a sur­prise, and that's how we'll prepare. He's improved quite a bit, so we'll see." 
When they practice for the first time this game week on Thursday, rookie Lamar Gordon will be the starting tailback ahead of Trung Canidate, a first-round pick in 2000. 
WNJJA announces new team 
A 1/vNBA franchise will be based in San Antonio for the 2003 season, the leagiue's president announced Wedresday. 
Th~ team doesn't yet have a name, and 1it has not been determined whether it will be a new franchise or one moved from an existing WNBA city. 
WNBA president Val Ackerman was joined for the announcement at the SBC Center arena by WNBA play­ers Lisa Leslie, Tamika Catchings and Edna Campbell. Also on hand was Houston Comets coach Van Cha~1cellor. 
''This is a great day for the WNBA and the city of ~an Antonio," Ackerman said. 
The team will be operated by the NBA 's San Antonio Spurs. The WNIM and its teams are now collec­tively owned by the NBA, though the women's league is moving toward an individual ownership system. 
Fan attacks CFL player 
Admitting he had too much to drink and yielded to peer pressure, a CFL fan says he deserved his on-field beating after he attacked a player during a game. 
Jody Reraple, a 22-year-old con­struction worker, left the stands dur­ing a CFL West semifinal Sunday between the Winnipeg Blue Bombers and B.C. Lions. 
With seven seconds left and Winnipeg ahead 30-3, Remple ran on the field and jumped on Lions cor­nerback Eric Carter. He was prompt­ly kicked and beaten by players. 
"I was looking to tackle him down, I guess," Hemple said in the Winnipeg Free Press on Wednesday. "But I'm 5-foot-8, 175 pounds, what was I thinking?" 
Remple was fined $180 for causing a disturbance. He understood why he was pummeled . 
... _ 
--------~------------------------1 Thursday, November 14, 2002 The Observer . SPQRTS page 25 
.... 
time captain. your teammates." went into overtime and then charm? "When 1 was voted captain A turning point for the Irish into a second overtime period With Martin being only a
Soccer 
again my junior year, it was this season came in mid­when an Irish goal upset the junior, one can only assume 
continued from page 28 
marked only the 10th time in the school's history that a mens soccer player was named two-definitely not something taken September, as the Irish bashed for granted or taken lightly," heads with national powerhouse Martin said. "It's something -and then-fifth-ranked ­that's special every time you're Furman at Alumni Field. given something like that by The closely-matched game Paladins and launched the Irish further into national promi­nence. 
Who scored the game-winning goal? Greg Martin. 
"It was an important win for the team, that win gave us some confidence [to play in overtime games]. That was really a team goal, it wasn't necessarily a goal I scored individually, but it was one that, because the guys kept knocking for 110 minutes, it tnally came." 
Martin also scored two of his six goals so far this season in a key Big East game against then­No. S Connecticut, which the Irish won 3-1. 
With those six goals, Martin has 12 points on the season, which puts him in fourth place on this year's squad, behind Braun (21), Chad Riley (19) and Justin Detter (17). 
Currently, the Irish are in the midst of their second consecu­tive winning season, and after the Big East tournament is com­pleted this weekend, will more than likely see their name in the field of 48 teams of the NCAA Tournament -which is to be announced on Monday -for the second straight year. 
Third time's a (historic) 



Special to The Observer 
Seniors Eric Simon, John Souch and Travis Wells and junior Steve Clagett have been selected as 
Sportswear
largest selectioq at 
5minute~~ from CUTPCST 

that he will go on to be named co-captain again in his senior year. 
If he is indeed named a co­captain for the 2003 season, he will again make history for the Irish in becoming the only three-time captain in the history of Notre Dame mens soccer. 
"[Being a three-time captain] is not something I try to get or set my sights for. It's something that if it falls into place, so be it. I'll accept the honor with a lot of pride," Martin said. "More than anything else, it's a special way to lead your peers through a really special experience." 
And with Martin leading the Irish for a third straight season, one can only imagine the boundless -and perhaps his­toric -potential for success on the 2003 Notre Dame mens soc­cer team. 
"He is a good leader of the players he represents," Clark said. "He works really hard to put the best face forward for his team. I think in his senior year he will become a superb cap­tain." 
Contact Bryan Kronk at kronk.3@nd.edu. 
MENS LACROSSE 

Irish seniors chosen as 2003 captains , 
captains for the 2003 Notre Dame mens lacrosse season. 
Simon, a defenseman, became a starter for the Irish in 2002 and has been one of the squad's most improved players since his fresh­man season. He earned starts in all nine contests he played and missed four contests because of a broken hand. 
After seeing action in just three games as a freshman, Simon played in all 16 contests in 2001 during the Irish's run to the national lacrosse semifinals. As a junior, he scored one goal and collected a personal-best 36 ground balls, the third highest total on the team. 

two time ~ national comedian of the year nominee
I 
! 
Lafortune Ballr0001 
91)1\ 



page 26 
B-ball 
continued from page 28 
Notre Dame and Brey. The recruit and the coach both come from Rockville, Md., and during the recruitment process, Brev and Isreal were both verv fam"iliar with the popular spo~ in town. 
And at Our Lady of Good Counsell High School, Isreal's verbal commitment brought waves of congratulations from classmates also hoping to attend Notre Dame. 
Unlike Isreal, Falls grew up a big-time Duke fan. But as he started searching for colleges, he grew increasingly attracted to Notre Dame. 
When Falls took an official visit to the campus last winter to watch the Irish play, he immediately felt a connection with the team. He also noticed he had a good chance of getting playing time right off the bat since Notre Dame's top shoot­ing guards will have graduated. 
But one of the coolest aspects of the trip was hearing the stu­dent section chant Fall's name. 
"That student section, having 5,000 people chanting your name, that was pretty exciting." he said. "The enthusiasm that the student body shows is impressive." 
Watching Chris Thomas' suc­cess last season and hearing about Torin Francis' potential contributions this year embold­ened the pair into thinking that they too can have a chance to play early. Falls could poten­tially come in as a shooting guard to replace Carroll while Isreal said coaches have pegged him as a potential replacement to Dan Miller at small forward. 
And both players are anxious to come in and make an impact. 
''I'm going to come in and play hard, but I'm not one of those types of players who cares a lot about starting as a freshman," Isreal said. "I know I'll have to pay my dues." 
"When I come in, Torrian is a wing, but other than that, there's no other wings," Falls said. "I have to come in think­ing I can play. If I don't, we'll be in trouble. I hope I can come in and fit in and get playing." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre PRESENTS 
WRITTEN BY paula vogel • DIRECTED BY wendy arons 
Washington Ha.II 
WED. NOVEMBER 20, 7:30 P.M. 
THU, NOVEMBER 21, 7:30 rM. FRI. NOVEMBER 22, 7:30 P.M. SAT, NOVEMBER 23, 7:30 P.M. 
SUN, NOVEMBER 24, 2:30 rM. 
Tickets 
RESERVED SEATS $10 SEN!Oll CITIZENS$') ALL STUDENTS $7 Available ac rhc Lafonuue Studenr Center ticket office. Mastercard and Visa orders call 574-631-8128. 
This production is supported by rhe Institute for Scholarship in rhe Liberal Att.s. 

Thursday, November 14, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Brey remains open to all possibilities 

By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

Chris Thomas has repeated­ly and emphatically said that he won't head to the NBA until he's played four years at Notre Dame. 
But Irish coach Mike Brey isn't ignoring the possibility that last season's national freshman of the year could depart a year or two early. 
"I don't think I can sit here and put my head in the sand and be nai:ve about talented guys in the program," Brey said. "Chris and I have talked about it a little. Now, in the November of his sophomore year, he wants to be a heck of a college player. But four to five months into the season, things can change." 
In many ways, Thomas' sit­uation is strikingly similar to that faced by Troy Murphy, who left Notre Dame two years ago and is now playing for the Golden State Warriors. Murphy strongly toyed with the notion of leaving after a first team All-American sophomore campaign, but stayed one more year -and earned another All-American award -before heading for the NBA. 
In fact, Brey said part of the reason the Irish recruited Chris Quinn was so Notre Dame would have depth at point guard. 
"I know when he thinks long term, he thinks about being an ND guy for a long time," Brey said of Thomas' current mantra to stay all four years. 'Tm not sure what that means, though, and that's 
kind of his thinking and his with whom he would be play-done in terms of fall condi-asoukup@nd.edu.
,-----------------------....!-_;,;_______ 
Pataronia 
exclOSively 
at-.~ 
Sminute~ from DUT'i=IDST Campus s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
2002-2003 Mainstage Season 
family's thinking." 
When Murphy was consider­ing leaving after his junior year, Brey was instrumental in helping his protege find out what his draft potential would be like so he could make an informed decision. The com­munication between player and coach, Brey 1;aid, is essential toward filling holes in the program and improving a players' chances or profes­sional success in the event of an early departure. 
"With the high-level guys, they need to know tbere's a line of communication if they're ready to do sc,mething before four years," B1,ey said. "Its not going to be looked at as not being loyal, that's the world we live in. 
"But I do know Chris' mind­set is being a college player, and he wants to help this team before he take:, on the next challenge." 
Brey thinks Thoma:; closely watches former high school foe and current Arizona guard Jason Gardner, who toyed with the idea of declaring early for the NBA draft before deciding to come back to col­lege. And the Irish coach knows the success of players like Shane Battier, Juan Dixon and Mateen Cleaves, talented college prospects wh D stayed all four years and won a national championship, is running through 1 homas' head. 
Right now, Brey said Thomas is focused on helping increase Notre Dame's sue­cess. And when Brey talks to his team about players on the Irish recruiting list, Thomas is extremely interested to see 
CHIP MARKS/The Observer 
Torrlan Jones pushes past a defender In Notre Dame's game against the EA All-stars last weekend. 
ing down the road. tioning, and Brey said he 
"It's like talking to one of doesn't know where, or even my assistants," Brey said. "It if, the Irish would travel. shows where his mindset is But a week-long foreign right now, and I think that's tour would benefit the Irish where is focus is." because it would give Irish 
recruits Colin Falls and Omari Isreal a chance to play com­
Studying abroad 

petitively with their newThe Irish are "thoroughly 
teammates.

investigating" the possibility "It is in thorough investiga­of playing in a foreign tour tion mode right now," Breyover fall break next season, said. "That's something we'reBrey said Wednesday. 
taking a look at in the nextAmong the factors the Irish few months." 
have to consider include where home football week­ends fall and what needs to be Contact Andrew Soukup at 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  30 Destructive  61 Silk dress: Var.  
1 Figuring-out  digger  62 License issuer,  
shout  33 Directions,  for short  
4 Switch material  part 3  63 Stationer's  
9 Register transaction  36 Producers of green eggs  supply 64 Business, e.g.  
13 Ball honoree 14 Where enfants are educated 15 One may be impounded 16 Columnist Smith 17 Start of some directions by 49-Across 19 Elicited 21 Coup participant, e.g. 22 Directions, part 2 24 With 9-Down, pickup points 25 "Love and Squalor" girl of literature 26 "That was sure something I" 27 Personality part  37 William Shatner's _War'' 38 Missouri River native 39 & 43 Where the directions at 17-, 22-, 33-and 57-Across lead 44 Young or little follower 45 Mason's burden 46 Same: Fr. 48 Fresh from the shower 49 See 17-Across 53 Melodramatic cry 56 Actress Andress 57 End of the directions 59 Cool 60 Tough tests  65 Shade of blue DOWN 1 Grace of "Will & Grace" 2 Spyri heroine 3 Feminist Bella 4 Attacks 5 They form when melted snow refreezes at roof edges 6 "Arabian Nights" menace 7 Sun block? e Some are cooped up 9 See 24-Across 10 Italian busts, e.g. 11 "The Wizard of Oz" actor 12 One of Argus's  h":--t--t---"'. 30 Taster's choices 31 Black cat, e.g.  42 Fixes, as an instrument  52 1980's White House name  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE __,......,..-,-,-,--,  array 15 Like lights on a Christmas tree  32 Pampers rival 34 Prepare to drag-race  47 Consolidates 48 Things to draw from  53 Hidden mike 54 "The Good Earth" wife  
--t--=--1-,,.,.-t-,,,.....,,-1 -,,-1,....,-:+.N,,+,E:,-1 0 N  18 Persian Gulf emirate 20 Oft-heard word in a portrait studio  35 Nine-_ (some golf courses) 40 French cathedral city  49 Like prisons 50 Cheese (snack) 51 Disheartened  55 Fonzie's name for Richie's morn 57 Trump 58 Bank offering,  
G  p  1  23 Took home  41 Untrue  en;  for short  
26 Authority­ 
--:-+-=-+,,...,._,,-1 28 "You were Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000


----·--·-------­
----------------------------------------------~--------------------------­
defying dare For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
-=-t--t-.,..-t,,,,-i--,-,-1-:=-t-,::-1 27 James credit card, 1-800-814-5554. nicknamed Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday "Miss Peaches" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
U C A L 

A saying ... " past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). 
C O L E 

S T E R 29 Lacking width Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network,T H A R H A C K and depth nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ____________________ 
Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Prince Charles, Barbara Hut1on McLean Stevenson, Mamie Eisenhower 
Happy Birthday: Don't limit yourself this year. If you feel that you want to d( something, just do it. Trust in yourself and your ability to do what's best fo you. This is the year for change, but only if it is going to take you in a directior that is more suitable for you. Your numbers arc 13, 18. 25, 3 I, 36. 4, 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Problems surrounding inheritance or familJ money are probable. Don't let outsiders get involved in handling persona matters. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep busy. Work followed by a shopping spre< will help ease the tension. Sometimes just sharing a project together will eas, the stress. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Channel your energy into moneymaking projects Work extra hours, but let your male know ahead of time what your plans are. *j CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get busy. The creative projects you have in mine will take time, and you're on a deadline. Solicit help from children and clos( friends. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your mate may be a little disgruntled if you are l0< 
busy to spend time together. Plan a winter vacation for two in order 10 mak, 
amends.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The word "hectic" should sum things up. Keer your organizer open and don't leave any small detail undone. Delegate jobs t( every member of the family in order to ease your schedule. **j LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Apparent changes regarding your mate will b, 
upsetting. Don't jump to conclusions until you have all the facts. Remain a! 
unbiased as possible.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let jealousy get the better of you. Take : deep breath before you say anything. Travel will be your best outlet. Talk t< friends you trust. *** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A family member may become a burden i you bend to all of their demands. Use reason and diplomacy. Entertain in you: home or prepare for distant visitors, ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your atlitudes and opinions are changin! rapidly. Make sure you have all the facts. Arguments will erupt if you overreact so refrain from getting overly emotional. **** AQUARRJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Depression will stand in your way. You have t< get involved in courses or trips that will enable you to keep moving in a positiv, direction. You've been stagnant 100 long. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can meet exciting new friends througl seminars or organizations you join. Spend time with like-minde( individuals. Don't let others stop you from getting involved in things that inlcrcs you.*** 
Birthday Baby: You will be sensitive, intuitive and a crusader for a worth) cause. You will be a giver. Although this can lead to heartache, it is also wha will bring you the greatest joy. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 The Observer . TODAY CLARE O'BRIEN
SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN 

page 27 HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
j 
Th•nk you for your order to form tour ordinary words. 
one letter to each square, 

=
I ENFLO 
I I t 
~002 Tribune Media Servicea, Inc. All RIQhta Reserved, 
NIHKT 
± 
I I t J 
COAZID 
WHAT THE= PHONE=
I I I trJ 
501.-IC.ITOI<. C.ON­

www.jumble.com ....
510£:R.E=D HIS Joe.tUNGOLE t Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as

J I I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer: A 

"( J I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: JETTY AHEAD POLICE TINKLE Answer: Why the musician worked out daily -TO KEEP " TONED" 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 18 • To orddr, HRd your n ¦ rne, ¦ddreH ¦ nd $5.45 end make oheek payable to Tribune Medi ¦ Servlca ¦, P.O. Box 4330, Chloaga, IL 606804330. 

PORTS 
Thursday, November 14, 2002 
...... 
MENS BASKETBALL 

Falls, Isreal sign letters-of-intent 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Spores Wrirer 

.... 
Colin Falls knew Notre Dame was the place for him when the student section chanted his name at a basketball game last season. Omari Isreal trusted the word of his coach, who just happened to be an Irish legend, by picking Notre Dame. 
Both players verbally committed to Notre Dame several months ago, but after formally signing their letters-of­intent Wednesdav. the Irish alreadv have next season;s freshman class in the fold days before the Irish play their first regular-season game of the 2002 season. 
"It's evident with the cycle of recruit­ing now and how early kids are making commitments that this seemed like this happened a year ago," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "It's kind of a formality with these guys, and certainly we're very excited to have both of them join us." 
Brey expects the two players, both ranked in the top 20 nationally in their positions by Rivals.com, will fill the holes left by the graduation of Matt Carroll, Dan Miller and Jere Macura in the spring. 
He compared the 6-foot-4 guard Falls to Carroll, an outside shooter who can also create his own shots off the drib­ble. The 6-foot-7 forward Isreal resem­bles Irish sophomore Jordan Cornette with his rangy defensive skills and his ability to play on the perimeter. 
Thanks to NCAA recruiting rules changes, the very nature of college 
basketball recruiting has changed so dramatically that Irish coaches have already shifted their focus to high school juniors, who will comprise the class of 2008. While Brey didn't rule out the possibility of adding a senior prospect or a college transfer -Notre Dame has only 11 scholarship players on the roster next season -he said the Irish were already looking ahead to next year. 
"I never remember signing day any­more," Brey said, "because kids make commitments way before the signing day. But our clock moved up with juniors being able to take official visits. 
With the signings, the Irish opened a pair of recruiting pipelines that have long lain dormant. 
Falls, who lives just outside of Chicago, played on the same MU team as current Irish freshman Rick Cornett and is the second straight Irish player to come from the Chicago area. 
Meanwhile, Isreal is the most recent Irish recruit to come from the Washington, D.C., area, following in the footsteps of legendary Irish players Austin Carr and Adrian Dantley. 
"I know in the past Notre Dame has gotten a lot of players from D.C.," Isreal said. 'Tm happy that I can be one of the first players. Hopefully, I'll start a trend." 
It seems fitting that Dantley coached Isreal since he was 11 years old and advised the forward during the recruit­ment process. 
Isreal has many more connections to 
see 8-BALL/ page 26 

MENS SOCCER 

Martin steers the Irish ship as captain 

By BRYAN KRONK Sports Writer 

Leadership, competitiveness and a good team spirit. 
Generally, these are good qual­ities -in fact, most would say the best qualities -for the cap­tain of a team to possess. 
On the collegiate level of athlet­ics, these qualities usually require two or three years of playing experience to be fully developed. 
At Notre Dame, Greg Martin broke that mold. 
Making history 

In the 2000 soccer season for the Irish, Martin was only one of three freshmen who played in each of Notre Dame's 17 games that season. Then, heading into his second season with the team, Martin was named co-captain of the 2001 Notre Dame mens soc­cer team, along with senior Griffin Howard and junior Andreas Forstner. 
"It was an honor ... when I was voted captain, I was voted by my teammates initially as a sopho­more, so anytime your peers appoint you to a position like that, it's certainly an honor." 
In being named captain, Martin became the first sophomore cap­tain in the 24-year history of the program. 
"A sophomore captain, for sure, is Ia rarity in soccer]." Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said. "This was thr, first time in my years as a coach that I'd ever had a sophomore captain." 
Martin's leadership helped the Irish under Clark, who was then in his first year at Notre Dame, to a 12-7 record in 2001, guiding them to their first NCAA tourna­ment appearance in five years. 

"It was a special time because I felt the program was in a transi­tion," Martin said. "It took a turn for the better when Coach Clark joined us, so I just felt like I was being given an honor in a very special time for the program." 
After the successful 2001 sea­son had ended, there was no doubt in Clark's mind that Martin would make a repeat appearance as an Irish captain in 2002. 
And in late April 2002, the squad named its three captains for the 2002 season -and Martin's name was on the list again. 
Doing it all over again 

When Martin was named cap­tain for this season's team, it 
see SOCCER/page 25 
en LLI
1-w c., 
z 
:5

c~ c:, 
a. 1i C 
Cl) 
NBA 

MENS LACROSSE 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Mavericks remain perfect 
Irish pick captains 
Brey stays realistic 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 13 points in the fourth 
Three senior and one junior were chosen as Notre 
Irish head coach Mike Brey remains open to all 
quarter to keep Dallas undefeated. 
Dame captains for the 2003 season. 
possibilites, despite Chris Thomas' intent to stay at 
page 25 
Notre Dame. 

page 16 
page 26 
~ 
t,______ ­





