
VOL XXXVII NO. 70 
Alumna killed in Moscow 
Sp«ial to The Observer 
A memorial Mass for a 1996 University ol' Notre Dume gruduate who wus murdered last month in Moscow will be celebrated at 8 p.m. Thursday in the chapel of Malloy Hall on campus. 
Elizaveta "Liza" Kuznetsova. a native of Perm, Hussia, was killed in her apartment Nov. 20. Moscow police are investigating and few details arc available. 
Kuznetsova was graduated cum laude Notre Dame with a bachelor's degree in accoun­tancy and had worked for six years for Deloitte & Touche in New York, Chicago and London. While in Chicago, she earned a low degree from the Northwestern University School of Law. 
Earlier th is year, Kuxnetsova relocated to Moscow to work as manager of the Deloitte & Touche tax and legal department in the Hussuan capital. 
Kuznetsva was engaged to Igor Kricoshekov, who earned a master's degree in interna­tional peace studies and a law degree from Notre Dame in 1993 and 1997, respective­ly. They were to be wed next year. 
Krivoshekov will attend the memorial Mass. which will be celebrated by Father Theodore Hesburgh. presi­dent emeritus of the University, and Rev. Michael Hutson, a priest from Scotland and current interna­tional student at Notre Dame. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Beer prices worry students 
By MELISSA LOU 
Nc-ws Writer 
According to students and liquor store owners, an across-the-board increase in American beer prices has marked the last weekend before finals frenzy. 
"The price increase occurs every year, always around the end of November," said Mary Beth Lang, manager of Belmont Beverage at 254 N. Dixie Way in South Bend. "Last year the breweries did not raise the prices. which was an unusual move for them," added Lang. 
According to local store representatives, the change will affect retail prices by increasing them from at least $1 to $2 per case. Students who enjoy tap beer said they found that the prices for kegs went up about $4 to $6 a keg. 
Hoss Spore, co-owner of Bullseye Discount Liquors, commented on the possible negative impact of the timing for the increase. "LThey] hit at the same time that the statewide hike in sales taxes occurred," he said. Consumers will find they are paying more for the beer itself, as well as more in­state sales taxes, now up by 1 percent. said Spore. 
Students who prefer inter­national or specialty brews remain unaffected, as micro­breweries and imports did not change their prices. Microbreweries might still increase their prices during the upcoming year, according to Lang. 
Students reacted in varying degrees to the change. Senior Dan Crowley said he was sur­prised to hear about the boost in prices. "It might cut back on consumption a little, 

ROASTING REINDEER ON THE QUAD 
Conference examines Euro 


since my bank account isn't exactly overflowing," said Crowley. "The increase might make me look into some of the smaller breweries as an alternative." 
Senior Eric Gobel said he does not believe that this change will really affect his personal consumption habits. "Since the beers that I pur­chase are a little more expensive anyways, the increase probably won't affect me," said Gobel. 
Saint Mary's senior Alisa Driscoll said she might con­sider changing which bever­ages she purchases, but was not overly concerned about the price increase. 
"It just means I either have 
to switch to a cheaper beer or compensate by working more hours," said Driscoll. "The increase will probably push me to try the local brews. which were not affect­ed by the boost. but I doubt I will switch completely." 
see BEER/page 4 
By JOE TROMBELLO 
News Writer 
The "Year of the Euro" con­ference held over the weekend in McKenna Hall assembled a variety of prominent histori­ans, economists, sociologists and political scientists from both American and foreign universities to evaluate the effects of the single currency adopted in twelve European countries. The interdiscipli­nary forum was sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and featured various opinions regarding the Euro's past, present and future effects on both econom­ic and non-economic issues. 
Eight academic sessions including, "The Euro and 

Transnational Migration: Managing the Politics of Change" and "Public Opinion and Political Discourse," each featured one chairperson and two to three participants who presented papers meant to analyze their respective topics. 
The session entitled "The Euro as a Catalyst of Economic Change" featured three Notre Dame economics professors Jaime Ros and Teresa Ghilarducci as chair and dis­cussant, respectively, and political science professor Layna Mosley as presenter. University of Oklahoma politi­cal science professor Mitchell Smith rounded out the panel as the second presenter. 
In her paper "New Currency, New Constraints? The Euro and Financial Market-
Government Relationships" and subsequent presentation, Mosley analyzed the effects that the single currency has taken on the relationships between financial markets, resident investors and European governments. 
"The EMU [European Monetary Union! presents an additional restriction on physi­cal autonomy," said Mosley. "It changes how governments can interact with financial mar­kets." 
Mosley described the eco­nomic differences between countries pre-EMU and post­EMU, including the decline or resident investment, the elimi­nation of currency risk, and the prominence or default risk. 
see EURO/page 4 
Monday, December 9, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Sharing
freshman 
•


experiences 
While Father Sam Peters, rector of Sorin Hall claimed that he could "make Jesus" and a Singaporean retreat leader searched for fellow nationals, close to two dozen Notre Dame freshman took part in the Himanshu 44th freshman 
Kothari 

retreat of the year. The retreat 
News Wire 

organized by 
Editor

Campus Ministry took place at the Sacred Heart Parish center across the lake from Notre Dame this past weekend. The retreat was headed by Holy Cross priests Father Sam and Father Kevin with help from student co-coordinator Kristina Deham. 
The retreat involved games, small group discussions and activi­ties meant to lead students into realizing the value and changes we meet as we adapt to life at Notre Dame. The small group discussions were headed by 20 student leaders. The retreat was like Frosh-0 all over again except this time, people said more than just "Hi what's your name? Where are you from? And what's your major?" And the reply was much different from "Katie, outside of Chicago and business." 
The discussions were initiated by four leaders or sometimes individ­ual speeches talking about their experience with one aspect of Notre Dame life. The topics changed from relationships, God in everyday life, coming to Notre Dame and roommates. Through the discussion we realized how similar the problems each of us faced were. Saying goodbye to our par­ents, going back home and then missing Notre Dame. 
The retreat meant a diversion from the monotonous dorm life and conversations that revolved around basically the same things. The retreat helped one in reflecting on how life at Notre Dame had improved his or her own life and had given us an opportunities to worship God, be successful and help others. The students prayed for each other and through that learnt to be selfless in understand­ing the troubles of another. 
The retreat was the best way to unwind and be fully prepared for finals. Many of us there made friends that we understood better in one day than we understood our roommate of three months. Most of all the retreat allowed students to appreciate all that Notre Dame offers and thus to get involved with charity and religious activities. The retreat might have lasted a day but felt like a month. With only three more retreats coming up, the freshmen of Notre Dame have little time left to find out how to "make Jesus." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Himanshu Kothari at 
hkothari@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize char we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
ND announces 
3 promotions in finance office 
Joseph Russo, Eugene Pilawski and Courtney Swift were promoted last week to new posi­tions in the Financial Services office. 
page 3 
WORLD& NATION 
Iraq calls for evidence in 
U.S. weapons claims 
Iraqi officials challenged the U.S. to produce evi­dence confirming that Iraq still poss­es e d weapons of mass destruction. 
page 5 
BUSINESS NEWS 
United Airlines plans Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing 
Officials from the world's second largest carrier announced that the company will file for Chapter 11 pro­tection Monday. 
page 7 
WHAT'S HAPPENING@ ND 
. Notre Dame Concert Band performance 8 p.m. at Washington llall 
VIEWPOINT 
Plant a tree and burn your turtleneck sweater 
Viewpoint columnist David Barrett offers advice on how to discover your inner cool. 
page 10 WHAT'S GOING DOWN 


Speeding citation issued 
NDSP issued a state citation for exceeding the posted speed limit on Edison Road around 2 a.m. Friday morning. 
Empl9yee !9UStains injury 

near Morns Inn 
NDSP transported an employee to the University Health Services for treatment of a laceration sustained in an occupational injury near the Morris Inn on Thursday. 

Credit fraud investigated 
NDSP investigated the attempted fraudulent use of a credit card at an off campus location on Thursday. 

Student's vehicle towed 
A student's vehicle was towed for a parking violation from lot 81 on Thursday. 
complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
SPORTS 
ND womens volleyball loses in 2nd round 
Irish womens volleyball won Saturday in round one of the NCAA tournament but lost in the second round on Sunday. 
page 20 
. 
Confornnco on German Jclcalism and Analytic Philosophy All day at McKcnna llall Auditorium 

. 
UNICEF card and gift sale 9:30-4:30 p.m. at llesburgh Library Concourse 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Board of Governance meeting 

4:30 p.m. at Hoom 304, llaggar College Center 

. 
Sophomore Board meeting 8-9 p.m. at Hoom :104, Haggar College Center 

. 
ln'diana lns1itutn on disability mc<'ting 8-4 p.m. at Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today Lunch's: Meatless baked ziti, marinara sauce, supreme pizza, bread­sticks, smoked creole flank steak, roast­ed poupon potatoes, corn, apple cob­bler, pasta primavera, baked swiss spinach, oriental vegetables, cream of wheat, sausage links, scrambled eggs, apple pancakes, o 'brien potatoes, philly steak sandwich, steakhouse fries 
Today Dinner's: Meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff sauce, supreme pizza, breadsticks, pork loin with apples, hot applesauce, peas, apple cobbler, baked haddock jardiniere, sea­soned lemon couscous, noodles romano!T, hot and spicy sea nuggets 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch's: Pasta shells, primav­era, fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce, french bread pizza, collard greens, turkey turnovers, London broil with wine marinade, cheddar-baked pol­lock, shrimp creole, potatoes au gratin, grilled turkey sandwich. crinkle fries, soft pretzel, chicken teriyaki 
Today Dinner's: Chicken cacciatore, fettuccine, gorgonzola sauce, french bread pizza, roast top round, oven­fried chicken, grilled polish sausage, rotini with spring vegetables, Polish­style kluski noodles, cabbage, honey­mustard chicken, seasoned fries, onion rings, fiestada beef pizza 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
~ 
w 
::c 
ti 


3: w 
.,J 

~ 
cc 
(.) 

.9 HIGH 29 HIGH 22 HIGH 38 HIGH 39 LOW 12 LOW 20 LOW 20 LOW 23 
SCENE 

Scene takes a look at campus retreats and experiences 
Scene provides the inside scoop on the Freshman Retreat, Sophomore Road Trip and the Notre Dame Encounter Retreat. 
pages 12-13 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Turkey noodle soup, tomato basil bisque, white pizza, cheese pizza, deli bar, grilled chicken breast, monte cristo sandwich, french fried onion rings, bratwurst cooked in beer sandwiches, wild rice blend, corn, fettuccine, garlic bread, baked pota­toes, caesar bean burgers, marinated cucumber salad, Greek mixed greens 
Today's Dinner: Corned beef, parsley potatoes, zucchini, wings and things bar, Mexian fried rice, rainbow veg­etable medley, apple walnut and wild rice salad, pinneapple upside down cake, apple brown betty, oatmeal raisin cookies, pasta pronto procedure 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 38 HIGH 36 LOW 32 LOW 26 
Atlanta 50 / 38 Boston 25 / 22 Chicago 31 / 23 Denver 53 / 30 Houston 52 / 39 Los Angeles 68 / 50 Minneapolis 34 / 24 New York 30 / 22 Philadelphia 30 / 19 Phoenix 70 / 48 Seattle 48 / 44 St. Louis 37 / 25 Tampa 73 / 65 Washington 33 / 25 
---~---------­Monday, December 9, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 

Notre Dame promotes 3 financial officers 
Special to The Observer 
Three promotions in Notre Dame's Office of Student Financial ervices (OSFS) have been announced by Scott Malpass, vice-president for finance and chief investment officer for the University. 
Joseph Russo, the director of financial aid since 1978, has been appointed director of the OSFS. Eugene Pilawski, assistant director of financial aid has been appointed asso­ciate director of the OSFS. "These changes not only rec­ognize the outstanding leaderhi skills and perfor­mance of these individuals." Malpass said, "but also pro­vide ror an even stronger platform for the important roles which the OSFS will be playing in the years ahead." 
Now in his 25th year as the principal administrator of student financial aid at Notre Dame, Husso has received numerous honors from the University, including a spe• cial presidential award in 1984 and an honorary degree from the Notre DameAlumni 
Association in 1992. 
In 1998 he received the Golden Quill Award from the National Association of Financial Aid Administrators for his long service as editor of the Journal of Student Financial Aid. 
Pilawski, a 1989 Notre Dame graduate who received an MSA degree from the University in 1999, has worked at Notre Dame since 1990, coordinating the University's loan programs and advising students and parents on financial aid. He is a member of the Indiana and Midwest Associations of Student Financial Aid Administrators. 
Swift graduated from Notre Dame in 1998 and worked for First Source Bank for a year before returning to the University to work as a senior financial aid adminis­trator. In addition to admin­istering federal. state and University financial aid, she oversees the student employ­ment program and the finan­cial aid customer service team. 

Landrieu retains La. Senate seat 
Landrieu's victory "proves field of nine candidates to 
As•ociated Press 

the Democrats are alive and win the other runoff spot. well" and noted that During the runoff cam­
NEW ORLEANS Louisiana voters also chose paign, both sides got into

President Bush's midterm Democrat Rodney negative television ads that

election magic failed in 

Alexander over Republican dominated prime time. "ILouisiana as Democrat Sen. 
Lee Fletcher for the open think a large number of vot­Mary Landrieu defeated a congressional seat in the ers were so turned off bystrong challenge from 
5th District. the ads, said, 'a plague on
Republican Suzanne Haik "Her victory puts a happy both houses," and stayed

Terrell in 

ending on a home, Renwick said. 
an unusual tough year Both candidates are cen­

December "If there's one state that 

f o r trists and not far apart on
runoff. 

can stand up against Democrats," issues such as Social
National 

Democratic destructive, poison parti­Sen. Joseph Security, health care and 
Lieberman, prescription drugs.
Party lead­sanship, it's Louisiana." 

D-Conn., However, national 
ers saw 

said on "Fox Republicans resorted to TV
Landrieu's 

Mary Landrieu N e w s ads labeling Landrieu as the
close victo­Sunday." most liberal senator in state 

ry as salve Senator from Louisiana 

W h i t e history, claiming she lived
for their 

H o u s e in a Washington mansion
wounded 

spokesman Scott McClellan and had lost touch with the
pride after November elec­said the president "congrat­people back home. They

tions that boosted Bush's 

ulates Senator Landrieu and also accused her ol' voling
numbers in Congress and looks forward to Congress 120 times to raise taxes,

gave the GOP control of the returning, and working in a although Landrieu was oneSenate with a slilm majority 

bipartisan way with of the Democrats who bolt­
of51 seats. 

Republicans and ed and voted for Bush's tax
Senate Republicans will 

Democrats, including package.
now command committees 

Senator Landrieu, to get In the final days of the
and decide which bills the things done." campaign, one radio ad fea­

chamber debates, putting 

Terrell stayed in seclusion tured a Bill Clinton imper­
Bush's proposals on the 

Sunday. sonator saying Landricuagenda and Democrats in a Landrieu. 46, agreed at a was closer to Hillary thandefensive role. 
news conference Sunday he was.
Sen. Tom Daschle, D-S.D.• 

that the campaign was a During the primary,soon to lose his job as battle between her and Landrieu maintained her
Senate majority leader, said 

Bush. distance and did not 
ANNOUNCIN 



DeBartolo Hall:  
Dec 12 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 13 10pm to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 14  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 15  8am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  

Dec 16, 17, 18, 19: 8am to 3:00am 36 Non-technology rooms, first come first serve basis. If you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person for assistance. Room 104, 105. 
Mendoza: Dec 12 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 13 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 14 5:30pm to 3:00am Dec 15 1:00pm to 3:00am Dec 16, 17, 18, 19 5:30pm to 1:00am 
Rooms: 121, 122, 203B, 266, 369. 
Coleman-Morse: 1st Floor Lounge 7;00am-4am daily. Always Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:OOpm to 1:00am. !Vlonday-Thursday 7:00am-1 :00am. Rooms: 108, 109, 203, 203A, 204, 206, 207,208,209. 
"If there is one state that respond to the attacks, a can stand up against tactic she later said was a destructive, poison parti­mistake. Finally, her cam­sanship, it's Louisiana," she paign cranked out its own said. mud, trying to portray 
Complete but unofficial Terrell as a backer of the returns had Landrieu with prescription drug industry 643,359 votes, or 52 per­who would favor high drug cent, to 603,293 for Terrell, prices. the state's elections com­Landrieu also scored with missioner said. Turnout was repeated accusations that 43 percent, about two the Bush administration points below the primary had struck a secret deal figures. with the Mexican govern­
Turnout was a key to ment to import millions of Landrieu's victory. tons of sugar a move she Although Republicans said would hurt Louisiana launched their "72-hour" sugar cane farmers. plan of vol-Abortion unteers was an 
going on "I think a large numbr of undercur­
the phone voters were so turned off r e n t and in the throughout
by the ads. ,.
street to get the cam­the voters p a i g n. to the polls, Ed Renwick Landrieu t h e supports
Loyola Institute of Politics 
Democrats abortion were more rights with successful, limits and particularly Terrell is among blacks. anti-abortion, although she 
Terrell got some momen­was accused of waffling on tum going in the final week her position. as Bush visited. However, Both candidates are said Ed Renwick of the Roman Catholic, as are 1.3 Loyola Institute of Politics, million of the state's 4.4 "That momentum was tem­million people. Yard signs porary, transient." without any candidate's 
Landrieu, as expected, name urged people to "vote took the urban areas with pro-life." heavy black voter concen­Republican Gov. Mike trations and Terrell won in Foster's home parish of St. most of the bedroom com­Mary went for Terrell by munities built by white only four votes. flight from the cities. Foster backed Rep. John 
In all, Landrieu carried 35 Cooksey in the Senate pri­of the 64 parishes. mary Cooksey ran a distant 
Landrieu was on the third and did not endorse defensive from Republican Terrell until the final two mudslinging ads throughout weeks of the runoff cam­Louisiana's unique open paign. primary campaign in which He congratulated candidates of both parties Landrieu: "We don't always run. The negative cam­agree on the issues but I paigning held her to 46 per· have always been able to cent of the vote on Nov. 5; work with her." Terrell came in second in a 

Monday, December 9, 2002 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
explored the relationship European and Trans-Atlantic are not overly concerned between the Euro currency and Aspects" focused on the cur­about the hike in prices, but
Euro Beer
European governance. rency's effect on European Bullseye has anticipated the 
continued from page 1 
Furthermore, whereas coun­tries displayed wide varieties in interest-rate payouts before the new currency, the adoption of the Euro has created interest­rate convergence and near par­ity, said Mosley. Her descrip­tion of these and other macro­economic considerations led into a brief discussion of the implications the currency will have on the future of the con­temporary European welfare state. 
"EMU marks a breaking point in government tinancial-market relations," Mosley said. "The ultimate impact of the EMU remains to be seen." 

Panelists includ-institutions ed political sci­and inter­ence professors "There is a kind oftrans­governmen­R a i m o tal bodies.
Atlantic stalemate

Vayrynen as He also
because neither side is 

presenter and assessed the Daniel Philpott satisfied but almost any debate as discussant. between
other agreement would 

Brandeis Europeans
be riskier. " 

University pro­and skepti­fessor of labor c a 1 and social Americans
Raimo Vayrynon

thought George with respect
political science professor

Ross also served to the 
Ghilarducci's 'The basic argument by sentation 
analysis of both American economist is discussed papers focused how the
that the EMU is bound to 
on the influence monetary of institutional fail." integration investors and has affect­money managers Raimo Vayrynon e d with respect to political science professors European 
the European Union as well as the aging of Europe and how these demographics will affect asset values in pension plans. She suggested that further exploration of these topics could enhance each work. 
"My concern is how EU inte­gration will affect so called best practices on corporate gover­nance especially in the context of a rise in pension funds and the power of money man­agers," she said. 
Another lecture session, "The Euro and Politics," chaired by history professor Doris Bergen, as a presenter. 

Ross' paper "Euros, Europeans, and Institutions: Threats to the European Model of Society from EMU and Institutional 
Change" and pre­
social poli­
cy. He 

offered his analysis that the idea of a sin­gle currency was launched nearly 30 years ago by France to restrict Germany's hold over the European economy. 
"Monetary institution is a process," Ross said. "The Euro is basically a process of chang­ing the macro-economic para­digm of Europe. This was a product of different interests over time [and] it was not inevitable." 
Euro's 
future. 
"The basic argument by American economists is that the EMU is bound to fail," Vayrynen said. 'There is a kind of trans-Atlantic stalemate because neither side is satisfied but almost any other agree­ment would be riskier." 
Philpott praised both works but also posed questions for further investigation and con­sideration. 
"The great strength [in Ross' paper] is its comprehensive­ness," he said. "Some scholars rnav want more in the area of causal generalizations. Little is said here about globalization that some scholars say leads to economic integration." 
The presented papers may soon be organized into a col­lected volume of works that will record the ideas and argu­ments put forth by the confer­ence's participants said who said. 
Contact Joe Trombello at 

Vayrynen's paper "The 
jtrombel@nd.edu

Politics of the Euro: Intra-
continued from page 1 

Senior Christopher Boehnen said he is definite­1y worried about the increase in beer prices. "We like to throw big par­ties," said Boehrnm. "Either this [change] will affect the amount of parties we have or the amount of beer we consume at them. It end-of-the-year rush and maintained some of their prices. "We held the prices per case for certain beers, such as Bud, Bud Light, Miller Light, Miller Genuine Draft and Coors Light," said Spore. "Six packs, 12-, 18­and 2O-packs will reflect the increases." 
According to Spore, "Students buy more [beer] in cases 
[and]

might also "ft just means I either affect how 
think this

have to switch to a 
many peo­is because ple we cheaper beer or compen­the weath­
invite and sate by working more er outside who we let 
is not con­
hours."

in." ducive to Due to keeping kegs."
the parties. Alisa Driscoll Boehnen 
Saint Mary's senior 
said he purchases mostly kegs. an area where the increase is most dramatic. This means that for high consumers like Boehnen an increase of a few dollars adds up and becomes a larger problem. However, iloehnen said that the change would not affect his loyalty to national brands or motivate a change toward hard alcohol. 
"Beer is still cheaper than hard liquor," he said. "The higher prices make them more comparable but not cheaper and for parties kegs are still the best way to purchase beer." 
In general, the liquor store managers said they 
"\!Ve are 
watching 
how the market reacts, as keeping the price per case the same has reduced our margin of profit," she said. This means that Bullseye cannot keep prices low for a long period, according to Spore. 
Spore said she is confi­dent that the increase will not affect long-term sales. "Even though we expect [the increase] to initially affect sales, people will get used to it and restructure their budgets accordingly," she said. 
Contact Melissa Lou at mlou@nd.edu 

THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE 
THIS CHRISTMAS SEASON, PLEASE VISIT THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE LOCATED OUTSIDE THE DOOLEY ROOM ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. DEDICATE AN ORNAMENT TO SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY ALCOHOL, SUCH AS IN AN ALCOHOL-RELATED ACCIDENT OR A CASE OF ALCOHOL ABUSE. ALL DEDICATIONS ARE CONFIDENTIAL. THERE WILL BE A PRAYER SERVICE ON DECEMBER 12TH TO PRAY FOR THOSE WHO ARE REMEMBERED BY ORNAMENTS ON THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TREE. 
ORNAMENTS ARE AVAILABLE THROUGH  ADDITIONAL HOURS:  
THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG  SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7TH  12-4PM  
EDUCATION (311 LAFORTUNE) FROM 8 AM  SUNDAY, DECEMEBER 8TH  2-6PM  
TO 5 PM DAILY, AND DURING  MONDAY, DECEMBER 9TH 6-9PM  
ADDITIONAL HOURS AT THE TREE  TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10TH 6-9PM  
LOCATION.  THERE IS A SUGGESTED  
DONATION OF $1 PER ORNAMENT.  ALL  

DONATIONS WILL GO TO THE ALCOHOL AND ADDICTIONS RESOURCE CENTER IN 
0 0
SOUTH BEND. SPONOSORED BY PILLARS 

WORLD & NATION 
Monday, December 9, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER \\'1RE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
Iraq calls for evidence in U.S. weapons claims 
Associated I'ress 
BAGHDAD 

A senior Iraqi official chal­lenged Washington on Sunday to "come up" with evidence it claims to have that Baghdad still holds weapons of mass dcslruction. "Why play this game'!" asked Lt. Gen. Amer al-Saadi. a top adviser to President Saddam Hussein. 
At the same time, al-Saadi told reporters that a huge, new Iraqi arms declaration, submitted to the United Nations on Saturday, doesn't offer fresh Iraqi evidence to allay U.N. suspicions that Kaghdad may retain weapons in two crucial areas; VX nerve agents and biological weapons. 
lie did speak of sensitive evi­dence in another area, howev­er; information about foreign help to Iraq's past weapons programs. If released, it will "embarrass" some countries and their companies, he said. 
The general, former military production chief and now Saddam's science adviser, spoke at a news conl'erence as the voluminous declaration, more than 12,000 pages on Iraqi nuclear, chemical and biological programs, was being 11own to U.N. headquar­ters in New York. 
The latest U.N. resolution 
required Iraq to give a full declaration detailing all its chemical, biological and nuclear programs, even those it says are peaceful. and pro­vide evidence it had gotten rid of the weapons programs it possessed in the past, as well as its programs to develop missiles to deliver the weapons. The White House underlined Sunday that the burden was on Iraq to prove that it had complied. 
U.N. officials have said that Iraq's previous disclosures made since inspections first began in 1991 have been nei­ther complete nor candid. 
A U.N. inspector brought a copy of the part of the report dealing with Iraq's nuclear program to Vienna on Sunday and handed it over to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the U.N. agency over­seeing nuclear inspections in Iraq. 
IAEA experts were to begin examining the documents Sunday night, searching for gaps and comparing Iraq's account to intelligence from other nations and to data from past and present inspections, said IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei. He said he hoped to have a preliminary report in 10 days and a more detailed analysis by the end of January. 

The two New York copies for violations of U.N resolu­were earmarked for the tions that since the Gulf War Security Council and the U.N. have forbidden weapons of Monitoring, Verification and mass destruction to Iraq. Inspection Commission, whose International inspectors in inspectors are here checking the 1990s destroyed many 
tons of Iraqi chemical and bio­logical weapons and disman­tled its effort to build a nuclear bomb. The Baghdad government denies it retains any such weapons. 

EGYPT 
Al-Qaida posts threats of further strikes on Web site 
Anociated Press 
CAIRO 
Al-Qaida threatened faster, harder strikes against the United States and Israel in a statement attributed to the group that appeared on a militant Web site Sunday. 
"The Jewish Crusader coalition will not be safe anywhere from the fight­ers' attacks," the audio statement said, using a term common among Islamic militants for what they sec as a U.S.-Israeli alliance. 
"We will hit the most vital centers and we will strike against its strategic 
operations with all possible means." 
The statement was attributed to al­Qaid a spokesman Sulaiman Abu Ghaith. The site, which has posted previous statements attributed to the terror network, included what appeared to be a photograph taken from a video frame of Abu Ghaith. 
The Web site also posted a text ver­sion of the statement. 
The pan-Arab satellite station Al­Jazeera broadcast parts of the audio version and said the voice sounded similar to that on past al-Qaida video­tapes featuring Abu Ghaith. 
In Washington, a White House offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the al-Qaida state­ment amounted to no more than a "same song, different day" threat. 
The whereabouts of Abu Ghaith, along with al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden, have been a mystery since the terror network was chased out of its haven in Afghanistan by U.S. bombing following the Sept. 11 attacks. 
"We will chase the enemy using the weapon of 'terror' by widening fight­ing fronts and conducting more con­centrated and faster operations ... so (the enemy) feels unsafe and unstable on land, air and sea," the statement said. 

The statement also said a purported al-Qaida claim of responsibility for the Nov. 28 attacks on Israel targets in Kenya was genuine. That claim was posted on several other Islamic sites last week. 
The attacks in Kenya included a hotel bombing that killed 10 Kenyans, three Israelis and the bombers, and a botched attempt to shoot down an Israeli charter plane. 
Sunday's statement said al-Qaida does not usually claim responsibility for attacks but would do so "according to the relevant circumstances." 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Israeli soldiers kill 1, wound 4 in Gaza 
Israeli soldiers killed a Palestinian woman and wounded her three children as well as a second woman in a refugee camp Sunday. Palestinian wit­nesses said. Israel said soldiers shot at armed Palestinians trying to inl.iltrate a Jewish settlement and had 110 information on civilians being shot. Early Sunday, two Israeli soldiers were wounded seriously when a bomb went off on the Israel­Lebanon border. Two other soldiers were wounded­when a bomb exploded next to their jeep near the West Hank town ofTulkarem, army officials said. 
Serbia fails to elect a president 
Serbia failed for a second time to elect a president on Sunday, as too few voters showed up to cast ballots, deepening a political crisis in the dominant Yugoslav republic, according to exit polls. The Center for Free Elections and Democracy, an independent group of observers, said turnout was around 45 percent. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Accused Cardinal Law visits Vatican 
Cardinal Bernard Law, facing rekindled calls t'or his resignation and a rebellion of Boston-area cler­gy, was in Rome on Sunday for a previously unan­nounced visit to the Vatican, an archdiocese spokeswoman said. Donna Morrissey refused to discuss the purpose of Law's trip. An archdiocese financial panel has authorized Law to tile for bank­ruptcy on behalf of the archdiocese, but he would need permission from the Vatican before doing so. Meanwhile, following new revelations of priest mis­conduct in the Boston Archdiocese. an estimated 400 people protested outside the Cathedral of the Holy Cross, the cathedral where Law typically cele­brates Mass. Sunday's larger-than-usual protest was fueled by last week's release of new internal church documents containing some of the most spectacular allegations yet, suggesting church offi­cials tolerated a wide range of' clergy misconduct, and not just sexual abuse of boys. 

Gore, Democrats fault Bush on economy 
Democrats Al Gore and Joe Lieberman, critical of' the White House's economic policy, expressed support Sunday for tax cuts aimed at the middle class and a stimulus package to revive the econ­omy. Gore and Lieberman, possible presidential contenders in 2004, said the shake-up in the Bush administration's economic team last week would mean little without changes in economic policy. Failing to offer new initiatives would make President Bush's replacements for Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and White House economic adviser Lawrence Lindsey "fall guys for failed policies," Gore said. Bush will announce successors to Lindsey and O'Neill as early as Monday, a senior administration official said. The president returned to the White House from Camp David Sunday with another key eco­nomic adviser -Commerce Secretary Don Evans. 
Monday, December 9, 2002 

page6 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS 
Roxio buys Napster, changes its format 
By RANDY WINDER 
Pennsylvania State Daily Collegian 
Napster is back with a new name, but now for a price. 
The software company Roxio purchased tho famous file-shar­ing program for about $5.2 mil­lion last week. The Recording Industry Association of America is satisfied that Napster's old ways of allowing the illegal down­loading of copyrighted material arc no more. Roxio will now be a subscription-based service, and a percentage of its profits will go to artists and record labels. 
Cary Sherman, president and general cowisel of RIM, said he thinks Roxio is a legitimate com­pany. 
Gary Augustson, Pennsylvania State University information tech­nology provost, said Roxio is the model needed for legally acquir­ing Internet files. 
Since Napster's demise in 2001, many students now use alterna­tive programs like Kazaa and Morpheus that operate the same way Napster did. RIM is calling on universities nationwide, including Penn State, to stop the large-scale use of illegal peer-to­peer Internet file sharing. 
Sherman said universities such as Penn State are contributing to an increasing number of copy­right Jaw infringements that are hurting the record and entertain­ment industry. The RJAA has evi­dence of massive violations occurring at universities across the country, Sherman added. 
"The university wouldn't want to send mixed messages of con­doning illegal filing sharing," he said. 
Penn State President Graham Spanier will be co-chairing a committee to study intellectual property issues and their effect on higher education and the entertainment industry. The com­mittee will include the RIM, the Motion Picture Association of America and others. 
Sherman said music consump­tion is at record highs, but nol many people are paying for it. He said last year record sales decreased by 5 percent, and the overall music market went down by 10 percent. 
Augustson said there is a possi­bility Penn State could subscribe to a service like Roxio and make the service available to students in order to ensure students are downloading material legally. This would only be done if the university determines offering such a service would serve an educational purpose, he added. 
Penn State does not monitor the content of what is down­loaded through its network, although it does monitor users' volume of downloading. Augustson said if there is valid evidence of music piracy, the Office of Judicial Affairs would take action. 
Some students said they sup­port Roxio. 
Harold Hall (freshman-commu­nications) said he thinks down­loading copyrighted material is wrong, but said it is so easily accessible and such a widespread practice that many students do not consider the legality of the act. 
Schools deal with football game riots 
By RICHARD RYKENS 
The Ohio State Lantern 
Students involved in riots fol­lowing the Ohio State-Michigan game are methodically being identified and submitted to judicial processes, not just on the Ohio State University cam­pus but on the campuses of several other universities. 
Ten students were previously under interim suspension at OSU, and eight students had their suspensions continued after a review of their charges, said Ruth Gerstner, director of communications for Student Affairs. 
Gerstner said the remaining two students are free to attend class, but all 10 will face a judicial review board to deter­mine their punishment. 
A summary of arrests and citations from the riots was released Monday by the Columbus Division of Police, and the majority of OSU stu­dents on the summary were arrested or cited on charges of underage drinking or open container violations. 
Three people identified by police as OSU students faced more serious charges -mis­conduct at an emergency, dis­orderly conduct and open burning. 
The arrest record identified 

six people as students from 
other universities; one each from Ashland University, Geneva College, Pittsburgh University and Capital University; and two from the University ofToledo. 
The students from Ashland. Geneva, and Pittsburgh, and one of the students from UT, were charged with underage drinking or open container vio­lations. 
The student from Capital University was charged with rioting, and one student from UT was charged with open burning and resisting arrest. 
Gerstner said letters were sent to other schools in Ohio and the Big Ten to notify those schools of their students' alleged participation in the riots. 
"We'll try to follow up. We're sharing names, but we're not getting involved with the judi­cial process at the other uni­versities,'' Gerstner said. 
Lori Edgeworth, director of Student Conduct at the University of Toledo, said she had received the Columbus Police's arrest record but had not yet contacted the students in question. 
"Unless the University of Toledo receives something offi­cial from Ohio State, we have no plans for a specific kind of punishment," Edgeworth said. 
Edgeworth said UT allows for the punishment of students even when the behavior did not occur on the UT campus. 
Activists may expel Yale president 
By CHRIS GILLON 
Columbia Daily Spectator 
Seventy-six undergraduate students at Yale University filed formal charges against Yale President Richard Levin Thursday, claiming he violat­ed university bylaws in his treatment of students, partic­ularly those exercising their freedom of speech right. 
If Levin is convicted by the University Tribunal, he could face suspension or expulsion, a press release by the Undergraduate Organizing Committee states. 
A letter, which was submit­ted with the charges, states, "the seriousness of [an expul­sion] matches the seriousness with which we take these issues." 
The letter cites the ongoing labor strife, which has left almost 4,000 Yale workers without renewed contracts as of yet. 
The press release argues that Levin has violated 

bylaws requiring administra­tors to "preserve mutual respect and charitable rela­tions within the Yale commu­nity." 
Yale freshman Thomas Frampton said Levin has done exactly the opposite, saying his inactions with regards to w·orkers' rights and students' rights have led to a crisis on campus. 
"We've approached him at open forums," Frampton said. "We've tried informal sit­downs with him where stu­dents felt disrespected or shutdown." 
Another charge states that Levin has misrepresented university policy to the stu­dent body. Frampton said he and other students were leafleting near the Woolsey Rotunda on campus and were harassed by police. 
"Repeatedly, President Levin was asked why it hap­pened," Frampton said. 
According to Frampton, Levin said leafleting is not allowed in that area, which prompted him and others to research Yale policies. 
"Nowhere it says leaf1eting is [prohibited]." Frampton said. 
The third and fourth charges listed claim Levin has violated Yale's Freedom of Expression Policy, stifling free speech through the use of university police. 
"There's a lot of students that feel marginalized and intimidated," Frampton said. 
Yale  spokesman  Tom  
Violante declined to  com­ 
ment.  

The letter from the students says that the charges are not a personal attack on Levin. 
"We are asking nothing more than that as University President you will be held to the same standards as you would hold your own under­graduates," the letter states. 
The next step, Frampton said, is unclear. He said an investigator will most likely investigate the complaints to try to informally resolve the problem. 




Monday, December 9, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch December 6 
DowJones  
8,645.77  .M4SDAQ  +22.49  
1,422.44 912.23  ~ S&P500 e AMEX  +11.69 +5.69  
825.25  ~  +3.79  
485.34  NYSE  +2.56  

TOP~ VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
RATIONAL SOFTWA(RATL)+25.95 +2.12 10.29 
~~Rlt~,l!i!!i!l:1!1111ijfll~:lil:11111111:li1i;llll:!II 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.32 -0.25 18.71 
s~[;:m~~xi:'1fiB!I~~'!ll~;!11iil;i11~~,1111:111111;1~:li 
UAL CORP (UAL) -7.00 -0.07 0.93 
IN BRIEF 
Dockworkers to convene Friday 
The bitter contract dispute that closed West Coast ports for 10 days this fall isn't over yet. 
Members of the dockworkers' union still must approve the tentative contract their rep­resentatives signed last month -and going into a union caucus that begins here Monday, signs arc that's far from automatic. 
That's because in the fiercely democratic International Longshore and Warehouse Union, such gatherings are traditionally rau­cous, ranging debates. What's more, this year's landmark contract is a tinderbox because it would usher in new cargo-tracking technology that costs about 400 union jobs in the short term. 
"I would be alarmed if there weren't people voicing objections, then I'd be concerned," union spokesman Steve Stallone said. "The only way for this to pass and work is that the members own it." 
About 80 delegates from Seattle to San Diego will convene here to entertain their negotiating committee's explanation of the contract before they pelt them with questions. On Friday, delegates will recommend that the union's 10,500 members either reject or approve the contract. The rank and lile will cast their ballots in January. 
OPEC to urge slower production 
With OPEC pumping oil far more than its output target, the crude producers' cartel is expected this week to insist that its members tighten their taps to help prevent a glut that could send crude prices tum­bling. 
Saudi Arabia -de facto leader of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries -will argue at the same lime for the group to increase the level of its targeted output, several analysts said. This would amount to moving the goal post for OPEC's production, to align it more closely with the amount of crude the group is actu­ally producing. 

United plans Chapter 11 filing 
. Airline to announce bank­ruptcy 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
United Airlines plans to fi!P. Monday for federal bankruptcy court protec­tion, a source close to the company said Sunday. 
The Chapter 11 filing ­four days after a federal panel declined to help the world's No. 2 carrier cover its mounting debt ­would be the largest air­Ii ne bankruptcy in U.S. history. and one of the nation's largest bankrupt­cies ever. 
United operates about 1,700 flights a day, or about 20 percent of all 
U.S. flights. A bankruptcy restructuring is likely to result in fewer flights, thousands of additional layoffs and other extensive cost-slashing, though the airline has pledged to keep flying. 
A federal judge would be put in charge of oversee­ing the tangled financial affairs of United, which owes nearly $1 billion in overdue debt payments 
GETTY
that would use up most of 

its remaining cash. United Passengers wait at the United Airlines terminal Dec. 2 at O'Hare lnternatlonal has been unable to stop Airport. Company sources expect United to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. more than two years of named, said the board up on us, because we're lines that wamt to sell tick­swelling losses. reconvened Sunday after-going to come through ets into and out of the 
United spokesman Joe noon. this. United States. Hopkins declined com­Union leaders have told "This is going to be Elk Grove Village-based ment and said the airline their members a bank-painful for the stockhold-United, on a pace to lose would have no announce­ruptcy filing is imminent ers and the employees, an industry-record $2.5 ment Sunday. and unavoidable, and CEO but the airline's going to billion this year, had 
The source close to the Glenn Tilton has told keep flying and we're warned for months a company, who spoke on employees it was becom-going to come out of this bankruptcy filing was like­condition of anonymity, ing "a more likely out-stronger. The passengers ly ifit didn't get a $1.8 bil­said the filing would be in come." shouldn't notice any dif-lion federal loan guaran-Chicago but would not A spokesman for ference." tee. The Air provide other details. United's pilot union urged Bankruptcy of United Tr a n s p o rt at i o n 
The company's board of passengers Sunday not to threatens to spread turbu-Stabilization Board reject­directors met in special abandon the airline in the lence throughout the Star ed the request weekend session to dis­event it files for bankrupt-Alliance network it shares Wednesday. cuss United's emergency. cy. with 13 other airlines -in United proposed $5.2 Hopkins would not con­"We're going to be flying particular, to German air-billion in labor cutbacks firm that the board, which airplanes, today, tomor-line Lufthansa and its by 2008 in its pitch to the recessed late Saturday, row, next week and next lucrative business-class government board, but the was in session again year," pilots spokesman traffic across the Atlantic. three-member panel Sunday. But a union Herb Hunter said. "We United provides key con-found the business plan source, who declined to be don't want people to give nections for non-U.S. air-was not financially sound. 
Shippers prepare for holiday rush 
with BB&T Capital Markets, a unit point" said FedEx spokeswoman
A.«ociated Press 

of Scott & Stringfellow Inc. in Pam Roberson. "After the season, ALPHARETTA, Ga. Richmond, Va."What may end up if there is a need for us to be in a 
Deep discounts driving merchan­happening is January and early peak mode. we will continue to do dise off store shelves this month February may be a little bit better whatever it takes to serve the cus­could lead to a busier-than-usual than normal. Inventories were tomers." 
shipping rush to restock the fairly lean coming in to the holiday To make things go more smooth­shelves next month, analysts say. season." ly, shipping companies are 
Major shippers like United Atlanta-based UPS and Memphis, encouraging customers to use Parcel Service and FedEx are pre­Tenn.-bascd FedEx expect Dec. 19 their Web sites to create address pared for a shorter holiday ship­to be their peak holiday delivery labels and pay shipping costs to 
ping season -only 17 instead of days; UPS plans to deliver l 9 mil­eliminate the time they would 21 regular shipping days between lion packages. FedEx five million. have to stand in line. The pack­Thanksgiving and Christmas this The companies arc bringing in ages can be dropped off at hun­year. But it's what happens after part-time seasonal workers to dreds of facilities around the the holidays that could catch them help; at UPS, it's 60,000 extra peo­country, or customers can sched­by surprise, analysts say. ple. ule to have them picked up, for an 
"'The retailers decided even if Beyond the holiday. the compa­extra fee in some cases. they're not going to have a good nies are taking a wait-and-see The companies are also remind­period for profits, they' re going to approach. ing people that there arc fewer have a good period for volume," "We're pretty much gearing up shipping days during the holiday said Thom Albrecht, an analyst just for our peak season at this season this year. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, December 9, 2002 
Justices to hear Va. cross-burning case 
Associated. Press 
RICHMOND, Va. 
Racial hatred was a some­what abstract concept to Susan Jubilee, who grew up in an open-minded white family, so the gravity of her husband's words did not sink in immedi­ately. 
James Jubilee. who is black, had just found a partially charred cross in the front yard of their Virginia Beach home. He told his wife he stowed the 4-foot cross in the garage because he didn't want her or their two sons to be scared. 
"It really took me a minute to 
understand what he was say­
ing," Susan Jubilee said. 
Someone wanted her family out of the neighborhood, she said, and they used the long­time Ku Klux Klan symbol Lo deliver the message. 
"That's the first warning. Next, they will come back and burn the house down," she said. 
Four years after the 1998 incident, the U.S. Supreme Court will hear arguments Wednesday on whether burn­ing a cross is constitutionally protected expression or an overt threat that can be banned by the states. The justices' rul­ing, expected next year, could affect laws in about a dozen other states. 
The Virginia Supreme Court ruled 4-3 last year that the state's SO-year-old law against cross burning violated the right to free speech. 
Virginia Attorney General Jerry Kilgore asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review the decision. 

"We believe that when some­one intentionally burns a cross for the purpose of intimidating another person, it ought to be a crime and states around the country ought to be able to pro­
tect their citizens." Kilgore said 
in an interview. 
Two neighbors were convict­
ed of attempting to burn the 
cross on the Jubilees' lawn one 
of two Virginia cases involved 
in the Supreme Court review. 
In the other case, Barry Black of Johnstown, Pa.. was convict­ed of burning a cross during a Klan rally on private land. His trial drew national attention when the American Civil Liberties Union hired a black lawyer, David P. Baugh, to defend Black. 
University of Richmond law professor Rodney Smolla, a prominent First Amendment lawyer, took over for Baugh on appeal and will urge the Supreme Court to affirm the Virginia justices' ruling. 
"Our position is that it vio­lates the First Amendment to single out any particular sym­bol or symbolic ritual for spe­cial punishment, even though that symbolic ritual may be highly offensive to most peo­ple," Smolla said. 
The Virginia Supreme Court relied heavily on a U.S. Supreme Court decision 10 years ago striking down a St. Paul, Minn., ordinance that outlawed cross-burning if it was aimed at others "on the basis of race, color, creed or gender." That ordinance violat­ed the First Amendment's free­speech protection because it sought to ban only certain viewpoints, the high court said. Kilgore said that ruling should not apply in Virginia because the state's law protect­ed everyone, not just those of targeted because of race or other characteristics. I 
Ten months after the cross ' burning, the Jubilees moved, fearing for their children's safety. 

$59.00 
Returning to campus early after Christmas break? The Morris Inn will he offering a special rate for returning students on Saturday, January 11. S59.00/ single or double occupancy. Please call to reserve aroom with us. 
The Morris Inn "On Tile Campus" Notre Dame, IN (574) 631-2000 
Give your car aChristmas present 
Store your automobile indoors during vacation. 
Avoid theft, vandalism, and weather damage. 
To reserve calfAbe,"The Dorm Storage Man" 
574-239-1310 or email storage@sbwd.com. Free ride from storage facility to campus or airport! 
Officials release Trade Center plans 
Aasociated Pre•• opment agency who has seen 
early versions of the plans. 
As officials prepare seven But as the plans near pub­alternative plans for recon­lic release, the Port struction of the World Trade Authority of New York and Center including a memorial New Jersey, which owns the in the sky and the world's 16-acre trade center site, tallest tower doubts about says it expects to produce a who is in charge of the separate master plan early process threaten to muffle next year. the fanfare. T h e 
"Things develop­
"There are all these

are very ment cor­unclear," different agencies poration said Mark released its
coming out with 

Ginsberg, a first batch
different plans hopefully

leader of of six pro­New York with some coordination." posals for New Visions, the trade a coalition of center last
Mark Ginsberg

architects July. The
architect and planner

and plan­plans all 
ners. "There are all these different agencies coming out with different plans hopefully with some coordi­nation.'' 
The Lower Manhattan Development Corp., a city­state agency created after last year's terrorist attacks to guide downtown redevel­opment, plans to unveil seven new designs Dec. 18. 
Several of the plans include a tower that would be the tallest in the world, said a redevelopment official who spoke on condition of anonymity. Malaysia's Petronas Twin Towers, at 
1.483 feet, are now the world's tallest. 
All of the plans include memorials to the victims of the Sept. 11 attack. the offi­cial said. One plan places it on top of a building, while another incorporates a for­mal, sunken garden. 
"They're inspiring. I think they are exactly what we need," said Roland Betts, a board member of the <level­

featured 
office build­ings grouped around a memorial to the Sept. 11 vic­tims and all were dismissed as bland and boring. 
The agency then put out a call for new architects to produce designs with relaxed requirements for the amount of commercial space the new buildings must accommodate. 
A final plan is to be chosen in February, and a design for the memorial is to be select­ed in a separate process by next Sept. 11, the second anniversary of the attack. 
The development corpora­tion and the Port Authority have promised several times to cooperate, only to have their efforts later diverge. 
Port Authority Executive Director Joseph Seymour said last month that his agency's plan for ground zero would focus on nuts­and-bolts concerns such as transportation improve­ments. 
Appearing to contradict 
Seymour, development cor­poration head Louis Tomson said last week that the authority's architect would not release his own plan but would work with the devel­opment corporation's staff to review the plans that are 
presented  by  the  seven  
architects.  
Tomson  acknowledged  

"many spirited debates" between the two agencies but said they are working together. How the two agen­cies' plans will be merged is unclear, although an official familiar with the rebuilding process said Sunday the agencies reached an agree­ment last week on a single integrated master plan process. 
Some independent urban planners worry that none of the government agencies will produce a design worthy of the challenge. 
Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, said he recently joined a group of civic lead­ers touring comparable pro­jects in Europe such as Berlin's Pottsdammer Platz. 
"Everywhere we went, business leaders, govern­ment leaders said that there are very, very high expecta­tions for what we're going to deliver at the trade center site," he said. "The world is watching." 

If you're a Windows 2000 or Windows XP user who logs on to a Notre Dame net­work domain and you plan to take your computer home to use over the holidays, please follow the steps listed here before you take offfor Christmas break. Else, you may not be 
able to use your computer while away from campus. It isn't necessary for Macintosh users to take these precautions. 
When you get home 
Use exactly the same log-on procedure in Step #2 for logging on to your computer when you get home. 
If you don't follow this procedure If you don't follow this procedure, your computer may lock you out, and you won't have access to your files and applications until you return to campus and log on to the network again. 

(1) 
Physically connect (via wire or wireless) the computer you'll take home to the Notre Dame Network. 

Log on to your network dom~in using your AFSID. But use theformat jdoe@ND.EDU (ND.EDU must be in uppercase) instead oftheformat you usually use, such asjdoe. 

(3) 
Enter yourpassword, and log on. 


~---------------....... 
For more information, go to the OTT home page, www.nd.edu/~ndoit, or call the Help Desk at 1-8111. 
Blotfice of Information Technologies 

Monday, December 9, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
SCOTLAND 
Fire destroys part of Edinburgh 
Associated Pre•• 
EDINBURGH 

A fire tore through Edinburgh ·s medieval Old Town, destroying 13 buildings, and firefighters working to control the blaze in the neigh­borhood's narrow cobblestone alleys said Sunday it would likely take two more days to put it out completely. 
The Old Town is the heart of Scotland's capital city and is listed as a World Heritage site. None of the damaged buildings wa.5 on the heritage listing. 
Firefighters were able to bring the fire under control 18 hours after it broke out Saturday night. But Lhey were still battling smaller blazes, trying to ensure that gusting winds did not spread the flames to historicallv and architecturally significant buildings. 
"ft is fair to say that we will be here I think for at least 

GERMANY 
Germany 
Associated Press 
Israeli President Moshe Katsav on Sunday urged Germans to fight anti­Semitism, warning that the influence of racist fringe groups cannot be underes­timated. 
Katsav became the first Israeli president to lead the dedication of a syna­gogue in Germany, when he participated in the 
another two days," said Del Simpson of' Lothian and Borders Fire Brigade. 
Police and the fire brigade were investigating the cause of the blaze. 
The fire, which broke out shortly after 8 p.m. on Saturday forced local authori­ties to evacuate about 150 peo­ple from their homes. 
The blaze caused some dam­age in the Grassmarket, a for­mer market place dating back to the J 5th century, which bustles with bars, cafes and restaurants. Though officials said no historic buildings were damaged, several well-known properties were, including the Guildcd Balloon a comedy venue for the Edinburgh Festival. 
Edinburgh University said research work on artificial intelligence was destroyed when one of its buildings was damaged. A spokesman said researchers would have back up records, however. 
The cobbled Royal Mile forms the spine of the Old Town, running from Edinburgh Castle to the Palace of Holyroodhouse Queen Elizabeth H's official residence when she stays in Scotland. 
A network of cobbled alley­ways, medieval courtyards and lanes branch off along its length. containing historic buildings such as St. Giles' Cathedral, Edinburgh University, the City Chambers and the Royal Museum of Scotland. 
The brigade's senior divi­sional officer Graham Torrie described the blaze as "cer­tainly the biggest fire in Edinburgh in living memory." 
The air was filled with the sound of loudspeakers. walkie­talkies and pumping equip­ment. Smoke billowed from buildings as firefighters sprayed water onto roofs to stop the flames spreading. 

fights anti-semitistn 
opening ceremony for the new Bergsiche Synagogue in this western city. 
"Here and there voices of anti-Semitism can be heard, also in Germany," Katsav said earlier Sunday at a news conference with his German counterpart Johannes Rau. 
He said racist groups may be small but their influence was hard to mea­sure. 
Katsav launched his three-day visit amid heightened security after the rightist National Democratic Party called on supporters to take to the streets in several demon­strations against the Israeli president. 
Authorities in Wuppertal banned a protest march planned by the party but kept 2,000 police on hand to ensure security. 

summer Service Project Internships 2003 
All vour Questions Answered Tonight December 9th at 6:30 in the csc 
PHILIPPINES 

Rebels warn against Christmas ceasefire 
Associated Press 
Communist guerrillas ruled out a cease-fire this Christmas and warned on Sunday that Americans would be targeted if they participate in Philippine government offensives against the insur­gents. 
The Marxist guerrillas also said a new logistics agree­ment that President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo signed with the United 
States could 

"We cannot put our include more
be used 

troops and police forces assaults
against the 
against com­

rebels. further at risk by declaring a 
munist
endangering 

unilateral ceasefire. " rebels.
already-stalled 
The rebels
peace talks 
generally

and violating Ignacio Bunye 
will be on
the sovereign­

press secretary 
the defensive
ty of the for­
mer American colony. 
The deal signed in late November calls for supplies such as food, water and fuel, and support and services, to be exchanged or transferred between the two nations' armed forces. 
American soldiers are extremely unlikely to fight under the deal. The Philippine constitution bars combat by foreign troops on its soil. 
Rebel spokesman Gregorio Rosal told a news conference that a Christmas cease-fire would not be held as in years past "because the Macapagal Arroyo regime has demon­strated outright puppetry (to the U.S. government) and per­petrated fascist and anti-peo­ple measures, especially this 
past year." 
The Philippine government 
also does not plan to declare 
a Christmas cease-fire, pres­
idential Press Secretary 
Ignacio Bunye said Sunday. 
i"We cannot put our troops 
and police forces at risk by 
theclogstore.com 
declaring a unilateral cease­fire," he said. 
Rosal read a statement from a laptop in a hilltop shed dec­orated with two M-16 rifles beside a red flag emblazoned with the hammer and sickle. A dozen young guerrillas stood guard. 
Hosal said the guerrillas were assessing the effect of 
U.S. support to Philippine mil­itary offensives against Muslim extremist that recent­
ly was expanded to 
but would 
t a r g e t Americans if they join Filipino assaults, Rosal said. 
"It is simple. If they join and enter our fronts, they will become a target of our offen­sives," Rosal said. 
Last August, the United States placed the guerrillas and the Communist Party on a list of foreign terrorist organi­zations that also includes the al-Qaida. Canada and the European Union followed suit. 
·Rosal said branding the communists terrorists was a way to justify increased mili­tary operations. Rosal reject­ed the terrorist label, claim­ing communists would only target soldiers and police, not malls and buses where civil­ians congregate. 
1·800,948-CLO.G

-----~-------'------------~ t, te Renta\\ 
free s"a 
Br;/J, 



'9 Yo1.t, 
'r l'D,1 
Saturday December 14 
7-9 pm 

Joyce Center Ice Rink 
Hot Chocolate and Cookies provided! 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, December 9, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Noire Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notn: Daroe, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kacc Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Ass'r, MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITORl Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR, C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR• Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR. Katie McKenna 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz Ao DESIGN MANAG.ER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangerr 
WEIi ADMINISTRATOR, Todd Nieto 
C0N"TROll.ER: Lori Lewa.lski 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGERIGEN.ERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. i@nd.edu YIEWPOJNT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT Mi\RYS.............................................631-4324 
obscrver.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB .ADMINISTRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site al http://obreroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofche University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administtation ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advercisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 1he majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depanmenl editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present che views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vicwpaint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrcrs is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include comact information. 
Quertiom rtgarding Observer policin ,huuld be dirm­d to Editor in Cbieffllfon McFar!ry. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob.ervcr tUSPS )99 240) II publu.hcd. Monday ttlrout,h Fnd.i.ycxcrptdurini cum md v~1.ion periodi. A1ubscriplK>n ro ThcObsr!"Yn' U $100 fur one .-::a.dcmic year; .S5 Sfur one a::mt51CI'_ 
The Ob~rvn i, puMi..hed lit: POSTMASTER 624 ~!h 0111,ing Hid.I Sa,J aJdJ,ns corm:rior1J ro; Noc"" D2flle, IN 46S)6 Tht> O~ 
P.0.S...Q l~iodical pw1• pa;J ar Norrc Dune Nmrc t>.,.n11:, IN '465S6-U779 and M!d.1tional m;,iiling officn, 
Tut-Ob...:rvc.r i• • mrntb-n ofch"Also..iac:~.J Pn.'U. Al! 1c:p,od.u~tion nghu &r(; rc:,;crvc-d 
Discovering your inner coolness 
I've been getting it a lot lately: "Dave, how can I be cooler?" 
My guess is that it's the time of year when people really try to change for the better, which has them chasing the all­elusive unicorn of 
coolness. David Barrett Appropriately, they come to me. Long 
have I wrestled with the spandex-ed Notre Bum beast in hopes of 
pinning him down. Long have I been 
unable to. Sadly, there is no recipe for cool. But ifthere was. I bet it would have paprika in it, and maybe a hint of dill. 
An:rway, how can you be cooler? Write this down. 
Stop listening to Nickelback. now. Embrace all things Jamaican. and only donate to Jamaican charities. If you are a guy, and you respect yourself, burn that turtleneck sweater. Kick anybody you see wearing one, and the person next to them. Instead, stock up on mock-turtlenecks­they are way cooler (www.landsend.com -I like the heather). Name your bike, if you haven't already, but please remember to wear a helmet and stay on the side­walks. Re-name your girlfriend. Don't come to my house claiming house beer if you don't live in my house. Avoid exces­sive punctuation. Really, what does the extra exclamation point accomplish, or the question mark-exclamation point­question mark sandwich?!? Right. Nothing. 
Plant a tree. Watch it grow. Do us all a favor and hang up the rollerblades. Honestly, this isn't the cul-de-sac, folks. Get a hover-board, or anything at all that has hovering capabilities. Get practical, people. Get with it. 
The list goes on. Of course, you may be wiwilling to part ways with the turtleneck sweater, or the rollerblades or the Nickelback. This is really too bad. There is nothing more excruciating than watching a loved one go down that path. I've seen it a hwiclred times. I've seen many a great man fall victim to the charms of No Fear and the Gap. Been tl1ere, wrecked that? Hey, wussy boy? We've all worn the shirts, and some of us still do. But for your O'Wn sake, stop now. 
As a big brother, all I've really ever wanted was for my younger siblings to turn out cool. It breaks my heart to wake up to the sounds ofmy little sister rapping in the shower. 
"The NORE album is sick, bro." 
What? Huh? 
Ijust don't want people to misunder­stand her. We're from the Midwest-the "burbs" -raised on James Taylor and trips to the Smoky Mountains. We're VI-11 and CMT. I ate breakfast opposite a little brother known by friends as the "thug­master." Maybe I shouldn't blame them, though. Maybe Ishould blame myself. "The Little Mermaid" is way too high on my all-time list for me to be blame-free. I had a tech-vest, once. My first album was a boot-stomping Billy Ray Cyrus success. 'The Lion King" was my middle school soundtrack. I played far too much kickball and have the grass stains to prove it. I grew up, though, and moved on. 
Where did I go wrong? Where were my role models? Happy hour, that's where. Everyday, I'd come home from school, relax to a snack of Fig Newtons and turn to the tube for a quick lesson in cool. We got J.T. from Step-by-Step and Eddie Winslow from Family Matters. We got Saved By The Bell. I looked to Belding's brother, who promised white-water raft­ing to Bayside, only to be disappointed. I looked to the movies and Robin of Locksley. Not only was he one cool dude who stole from the rich to give to the poor. commanded an army of woodsmen against the Sheriff of Nottingham and won the love of the fair maid Marion, but in the end Ijust couldn't apply his coolness to my own life. I needed something more. some­thing modern. I was lost. 

Just as I worry about my little brother and sister turning out cool, as I'm sure they will, my older brother and sister must have worried about me. They went through the same stages, some of them, and turned out cool enough. So maybe there is hope after all. My big brother once said, "Cool is doing your own thing, being individual, and being different." I really don't know how better to describe it. Even though I despise the year-round roller­bladers. there is something to be said for their dedication, their great skill and their unwavering individuality. Even the un­cool can be cool if that's your thing. (Though I must mention that throwing elbows in the omelet line is the exception. Don't do that.) 
So my advice to you is this: If you have a younger brother or sister, maybe even an older one, who has yet to come around, just be patient. Maybe try to introduce him or her to Robin Hood. Other than that, though, it's pretty much out of your hands. 
As for you, I can't keep you from listen­ing to bad music or wearing turtleneck sweaters, though Istrongly advise against it. Just be yourself. Please, just be cool. 
David Barrett is ajunior economics and phUosophy major. He apologizes to, and for, his family. His column appears every other Monday. Contact him at bar­rett. 43@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Study abroad ticket policy needs change 
Studying abroad has been a great time -definitely a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for many people. I get to live in Toledo, Spain for a year of my life, meet Spaniards and immerse myself in their culture while learning their language. It is an opportunity that I am so grateful I was presented with at Notre Dame. 
I am one of five students staying here in Spain for the entire school year. Included in our semester's tuition and some room and board of approximately $16,000 per semester is the education and facilities of the American school here in Spain, a few excursions and the choice of whether to live with a Spanish family or in dormitory­type housing. Included for all students, regardless of whether they are staying the year or semester abroad, is one round trip ticket from Chicago to Madrid. 
This is where my doubts arise. A student studying in Spain for a semester receives one round trip ticket. A student studying in Spain for a year, which is basically two semesters, receives one round trip ticket, as well. l consulted the foreign study department about this and they said that, basically, this is the way that it has been done in the past -that the students who stay the year only receive only round trip ticket like those who are staying only a semester. 

We have about a four-week break in between the fall and spring semesters and there is no housing provided. In essence, who wants to spend the holidays away from home, especially when you are already in a foreign atmosphere continuously from September to May? 
I am introducing this topic in hopes of provoking con­versation on campus, especially for those intending on studying in any foreign program. This is not meant at all to attack the foreign studies department because they have been very helpful with me in Toledo. However, although this has been the structure in the past, is there any way to change and progress? Perhaps this change and progression should include two round trip tickets for those staying two semesters abroad. 
Joe Guintu 
sophomore 
Toledo, Spain 
Dec. 6 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Teresa Fralish Bryan Kronk Shannon Chris Federico Nelligan Joe Llndsley 
Claire Heininger Scene Viewpoint Emily Howald Sheila Flynn Lab Tech Graphics Nellie Williams Katie McKenna 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
v\lhat is your favorite part of The Observer? Vote at NDToday.com by Tuesday at 5 p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don ·t be so humble ­you are not that great." 
Golda Meir former Israeli prime minister 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, December 9, 2002 page 11 
GUEST COLUMN 
New intelligence tactics reek of Cold War-era spying 
Hy now, most people are aware of the plans our government has made to col­lect information on American citizens, and most likely everyone acknowledges the dangers the Total Information Awareness Office poses to our civil 
Nlmlsh Desai 
liberties. Yet it appears that the majority of Americans do not 
Daily Texan 
seriously entertain the notion that the government will abuse this new power in any systemat­ic manner. Perhaps some problems might arise while combating terrorists, but that will be the extent of any abus­
es. 
Contrast this view with what the Church Commission reported to the Senate in 1976 after its investigation into intelligence activities within our borders: "We have seen segments of our government, in their attitudes and action, adopt tactics unworthy of a democracy, and occasionally reminis­cent of the tactics of totalitarian regimes." The Committee found, not surprisingly, that "programs initiated with limited goals ... such as identifying foreign spies," grew to the surveillance of political dissidents, even when their "beliefs posed no threat of violence or illegal acts." 
The most frightening abuse of power 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
was the FBl's covert counterintelli­
gence program, or COINTELPHO, 
under which the FBI employed tactics 
"indisputably d<igrading to a free soci­ety." This included instigating gang 
warfare among black activist groups 
such as the Black Panthers, mailing 
anonymous letters to political activists 
for the purpose of' breaking up their marriages, and a "war" against Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to "neutralize" him as a civil rights leader, as his rhetoric of equality and freedom did not resonate with our government. Indeed, 34 days before King was to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, the FBI sent him a letter indicating in essence that he ought to utilize one of those 34 days to commit suicide. "You are done," it ended, "There is but one way out l'or you." 
Should there be any false hopes Lhat the Church Commission's findings ended these horrific practices, consider news from the even more recent past. On Nov. 21, the American Civil Liberties Union Foundation of Colorado released documents "revealing that the Colorado Springs Police Department has collected intelligence information on the free speech activities of peaceful critics of government policy." In August, it was made public that the nation's secret intelligence court (who knew we had such a thing?) was misled over 75 times by the FBI in an attempt by the Bureau to obtain wiretaps and electronic surveillance. Of course we all remember hearing about the large detention camps being maintained by Attorney General John Ashcroft. 
We must place these new develop­ments in an appropriate historical con­text. From the Alien and Sedition Acts that neutralized populists such as Eugene Debs and Bill Haywood, to the Parmer raids that instilled fear in the poor immigrant classes who might have otherwise become politically active, to COINTELPRO, our history reveals that the government is likely to abuse its power. and to do so in order to destroy political movements that threaten the existing order. And how much doubt can there be now. as the war in Iraq looms, as the war on terror in general expands, as hard-earned pensions dry up (or a.re stolen, rather), as the economy continues to falter, that movements critical of government poli­cies will grow in size and veracity? 
What will be our government's response if and when this happens? When threatened seriously in the past it resorted to criminal behavior. The difference now is that it has made much of this previously illegal behavior legal. Are we to believe that it will be less likely to pursue these means now than in the past? To believe so would be foolish and dangerous. 
Nor would it be wise to believe that the fabled internal checks and bal­ances of our political system will save us from any "excesses," to put it euphemistically. One might note that to this day the Justice Department has made little to no attempt at bringing wrongdoers from the COINTELPRO era to justice; in fact, some of the perpetra­tors even received pardons from later presidents, Honald Reagan most notably. 

Remember, serious abuses against our rights have already begun. If they are to be prevented from becoming more widespread, and more important• ly if they are to be eventually reversed, we must first address frankly the real­istic chance that a future without our most treasured rights and freedoms is possible. The idea of a less-free America is not simply a thought experi­ment we must all consider so that we may truly enjoy and appreciate our lives as citizens; it is a possibility we must work diligently to avoid, so that in a generation it will still mean some­thing to be a citizen. 
This column first appeared in the Dec. 6 issue of the Daily Texan, the daily college newspaper ofthe University of Texas-Austin. It appears here courtesy of U-WlllE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Campus debates meaning ofracism definitions 
The phrase 'open-minded' is a questionable term 
I don't wish, in particular, to call a business a social structure. Now respond to Tona Boyd and Shamus let's say that the owner only hires peo­Hahn's Dec. 6 letter concerning ple of the same race, and that these racism. Hather, I'd like to ask some people in turn do the same. Isn't that a questions. racist social structure, and aren't the 
I am, first of all, curious about your people who are part of that business opinions of Barry Baumbaugh and acting racist? Andrew Henrick. Disregarding the Or what about a social structure that lack of substantiation of your claim exists right now: aflirmative action. concerning the "undercurrent of white The express purpose of affirmative supremacy" that is "still seething" action is to discriminate in favor of within what I assume is either the minorities. Doesn't that make it a American or the white American cul­racist social structure and those who ture, I'm just wondering how it is that participate in it racist? Or is it some­your views are untouched by this cul­how acceptable if the intentions ture. I confess to be ignorant of your behind the social structure are good? respective races. But if that's the case, whose place is it 
If you arc not white, is it because to decide the virtue of the intentions you are not white that you have been behind such a structure -the "open­able to avoid this closed-mindedness? minded?" If you are white, have you somehow I completely agree with you when broken out of this culture or disre­you say that racial discrimination is garded it in a way that Baumbaugh never permissible. However, I'm and Henrick have not? How is it that unclear about some of the points that you are unaffected? Or rather, how you bring up concerning racism. But cun you be so sure that two people then, what do I know? After all. I'm you don't appear to know personally probably just some closed-minded have been affected in some way that white guy. you have not? 
Moving on, I have some questions Christian Brawilich about your concept of racism. Let's say junior that someone who is a minority owns a Fisher Hall business. It seems reasonable to me to Dec. 7 
Manipulated definitions do not clarify a confusing issue 
I'd like to thank Tona Boyd and flawed and decide on their own Shamus Rohn for clarifying the what terms truly mean. It's really meaning of racism in their Dec. 6 almost magical, the way they can letter. In a world full of such racist tweak and manipulate terms to tracts as Mein Kampf and Webster's mean whatever they want them to English Dictionary, Boyd and Rohn mean. have provided guidance and under­I, as an intellectually underprivi­standing of a very confusing subject. leged minority, can only refer to I'm much better off for learning such things as the dictionary and their definition, as well, because it rules of English grammar explain to allows me to express my frustration understand what words mean. You with racism on a personal level. can imagine. then, how oppressive 
That's right. I'm a victim of the act of redefinition is on the part racism. I'm tremendously glad we of Boyd and· Rohn. It's just a typical­live in an enlightened university ly closed-minded intellectual environment, where the "archaic response to racism fostered within a status quo analyses" no longer culture still seething with an under­apply. or I might never be able to current of educational supremacy. properly express this. Taking Boyd I hope this isn't looked upon as and Rohn's analysis at face value, another "typically closed-minded we can agree that "racism is defined white response." The emotional as participation within [a] racist trauma I have suffered for so long social structure, a structure has simply been too much, and I designed to consolidate power for think it vital that we understand only one race." Boyd and Hohn ·s points before I suf­
Clearly, then, we must realize that fer further. It's so bad I don't even the Notre Dame, as an academic know if my kids will be able to get institution, perfectly represents such over it. Please, think of the children. a racist social structure. You see, I am not privileged, as Boyd and Rohn Peter Scott are, to be a member of the "race" sophomore on campus which is able to declare Carroll Hall reference texts fundamentally Dec. 6 
THE 
OBSERVER 

Monday, December 9, 2002 

page 12 
The inside scoop 


By SARAH VABULAS Assistant Scene Editor 
Campus retreats. You have heard about them, but never gone on one. Maybe because you don't know any­one that would go with you, or maybe you don't know enough about them to take the plunge and give it a shot. 
Notre Dame provides numerous opportunities to go on a retreat: Freshman Retreat, Sophomore Road Trip, Notre Dame Encounter (NDE), and Senior Retreat. Most who sacri­fice a weekend come out of the retreat with numerous new friends as well as being spiri­tually renewed. 
"It is a great time to
Sophomore, Christina Dehan of Badin Hall reflect on faith and says some of "the best 
reflect on how life will be 
memories I've had at 
like at Notre Dame-what 
Notre Dame are from retreats. They've been your faith will be like at huge blessings in my 
Notre Dame." 
life and I can't imagine my experience at Notre Dame without them." Julia Fitzpatrick 
Dehan went on freshman 
Freshman Retreat. Sophomore Road Trip, as well as lead the past three Freshman Retreats this year. 
The first year of college presents the challenges and opportunities of tran­sition: leaving the familiarity of fami­lies, schools, and communities to enter a world of new possibilities and choices. Often at the center of these transitions is a person's faith. 
Freshman retreat addresses these questions: How can we sustain the faith we have come to embrace grow­ing up? How might it be enriched? 
Who are the people around us asking the same questions? The Notre Dame Freshman Retreat is designed for all students, Catholic, and non-Catholic, to share this journey of faith with their peers and benefit from the expe­rience and wisdom of upperclassmen who have made this transition. 
Freshman retreat is a great way to get away and meet other freshman to realize that one is not alone at Notre Dame with both freshman and upper­classmen. 
On freshman retreat, there is a lot of talking about what the experience 
at Notre Dame has been like thus far and how God can be seen across campus. Upperclassmen give talks, act out skits, and interact with freshman in small group discussions, providing a time for freshman to be open and honest. The Mass at the end of the retreat solidifies the week­end and the experi­ence. 
Freshman Julia Fitzpatrick of Welsh Family Hall 
says "it was a great break from work and a great time for relaxation, reflection, meeting new people. It is a great time to reflect on faith and reflect on how life will be like at Notre Dame-what your faith life will be like at Notre Dame." 
Through presentations and discus­sions, prayer and song, as well as some fun activities, the twenty-six hour Notre Dame Freshman Retreat 
offers students a chance to address some important issues while mak­ing new friends. For two days and one night, the retreat draws first­year men and women together to reflect upon what they have brought to Notre Dame and their hopes for their lives at Notre Dame and beyond. This retreat is structured around three pillars: com­munity, faith, and hopes. 
The retreat pro­vides students with the opportunity to meet men and women from other dorms who are adjusting to life at Notre Dame. It encourages them to listen and speak with other students about what Notre Dame has been like so far. 
The retreat encourages stu­dents to express and explore the importance of their faith. It also pro­vides information about various opportunities within Campus Ministry where one might seek additional sus­tenance for personal and communal Christian enrichment. 

Students will be invited to reflect on their hopes for their time at Notre Dame. The retreat will provide partic­ipants with a context to explore some of the ways in which their faith in God will enrich their time at Notre Dame as well as how it will contribute tu the lives of others on, and beyond, cam­pus. 
But there is so much more beyond the two days spent on freshman retreat. Katie Hammond, freshman from Welsh Family Hail says it was an "awesome experience that allows you to know there is a lot more faith on campus. It is not just something for the weekend. The leaders provide ways to keep in touch with people because there is an activity at least once a week. One of the best things about freshman retreat occurs after the retreat: going to the Grotto and praying on Sunday nights." 
Don't be fooled. Not only is the weekend spiritual. but there is signifi­cant time provided to socialize and play games, Mafia is a popular game played on most freshman retreats. Meeting new people in this type of atmosphere is one of a kind. Everyone is there for the same reason. Dehan said, "Freshman retreat was the first time people ever experience how they thought the Notre Dame community would be." 
Sophomore Road Trip proves to be a much different type of retreat. Junior Joshua Stagni of Morrissey Manor said, "It was an awesome, 


THE 
OBSERVER 


us • 
Monday, December 9, 2002 page 13 
catnpus retreats 
but never really know exactly what to expect from them 

Photo courtesy al Angela Brewka 

stlvltles. The students spent their time d and Notre Dame. Many students said 
incredibly spiritual experience. You go in not knowing what to expect." 
The three days provide sophomores the opportunity to meet different peo­ple, as well as share and learn with others about the Notre Dame experi-
When to look for upcoming class retreats:  
Sophomore Class Retreat Feb. 7-8, 2003 Senior Retreat #8 Jan. 31-Feb. 1, 2003 -Sacred Heart Parish, 1 pm-7 pm Senior Retreat Day March 28-29, 2003 -Sacred Heart Parish Freshman Retreats Contact: Father Kevin Russeau, 631-6633 Freshman #45, Jan. 24-25, 2003 -Sacred Heart Parish, 1 pm-7 pm Freshman #46, Feb. 21-22, 2003 -St. Joseph Hall, 1 pm-7 pm Freshman #47, April 4-5, 2003 -St. Joseph Hall, 1 pm-7 pm NDE Retreats Contact: Sister Sue Bruno, 631-6633 NOE #7 4 Hetreat, Jan. 31-Feb. 2, 2003 -Fatima Retreat Center NOE #75 Hetreat, Feb. 28-March 2, 2003 -Fatima Retreat Center NDE #76 Hetreat, April 11-13, 2003 -Fatima Retreat Center  
What to expect from. each campus retreat:  
Freshman Retreat -A lot of talking about what the experience at Notre Dame has been like thus far -Discussions about how God can be seen across campus -Upperclassmen give talks and act out skits -Small group discussions between uppserclassmen and freshmen -A closing Mass Sophomore Retreat -Three-day road trip -The opportunity to meet different people and dicuss the Notre Dame experience -Many scavenger hunts -An outdoorsy envirnoment -Secretive activities that arc revealed on the retreat Notre Dame Encounter -Three-day retreat experience -Students explore the meaning of their relationship with God -Discuss their commitment to living the Christian life. -Held at the Fatima Retreat Center. which is located at the west end of campus -Large enough to house as many as 56 students -A team of 10 students and seven faculty or staff members assist  

cnce. 
Christina Dehan comment­ed that Sophomore Hoad Trip "solidified relationships made freshman year and provid­ed a time to address prob­lems one encounter as a sophomore." 
There are many scavenger hu n ts and the retreat is more outdoorsy. It involves fun activities with symbolic mean-
retreat, however, this is a fallacv. 
While the retreat tends to be heavily 
laden with juniors and seniors, a fair 
amount of sophomores and freshman 
utilize the opportunity to go. Through 
presentations and discussions, songs 
and prayer, as well as some fun 
activities. 
NDE is a three-day retreat experi­
ence that allows students to explore 
more deeply the meaning of their 
relationship with God and their com­
mitment to living the Christian life. 
NDE's are held at the Fatima Retreat 
Center, which is located at the west 
end of campus and is large enough to 
house as many as 56 students. A 
team of 10 students and seven faculty 
or staff members assist on the NOE 
weekends. 
Matthew Bleecher, a senior from 
Siegfried Hail, says NDE is "a deeply, 
personally challenging retreat. The 
most important part of it is that if 
you go there with an open mind and 
an open heart about your faith, then 
you can challenge yourself to look at 
how you see yourself, others, and 
God." 
Most who come off this retreat 
attest to the fact that it does make 
one think about themselves very 
much and where his or her life is 
headed. It is a learning experience 
and "Notre Dame spiritual experi­
ence personified," said Stagni. 
With a whole-hearted endorsement, 
Bleecher says, "if you're a person 
who can challenge themselves to 
want to learn more about themselves 
and God, this retreat is for you. But 
everyone should do an NDE retreat 
before they graduate." 
The retreats are set up well. They utilize the same basic format each time, but in reality, every retreat is unique, even on an individual basis. Most who go on a retreat come back singing its praises as well as encour­
"If you 're a person who can challenge themselves to want to learn more about themselves and God, this retreat is for you But everyone should do an NDE retreat before they graduate ... 
Matthew Bleecher 
senior 
aging other around them to attend the next one. 
Many students feel so blessed to be at a place where so many retreats are offered. Perhaps it was one of the reasons many of them decided to attend Notre Dame. 
Dehan says to "take advantage of the many retreats offered so fre­quently. There is a retreat almost every weekend in the spring. It is a wonderful way to step back and look at your life and what God has been doing in it. It is a great way to thank 

ing. Being so secretive, Dehan com­pared the experience of getting on a bus, not knowing the destination, while putting faith in campus ministry lo provide everything needed wilh lhe spirituul action of trusting in ~od and not worrying about where life is tak­ing you. You put your life in God's hands and learn not to be in control. 
The Notre Dame Encounter retreat rumors to be an upperclassmen 
Him for it." 
Further information about these retreats and others as well as retreat applications can be found at http://www. nd. cd u/-ministry/retreats. html. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at Vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS page 14 
NFL 
Texans top Steelers with only 47 yards of total offense 

Associated Press 

PITTSBUHGH 
No NFL team ever played worse offensively and won. What made the difference was very few teams ­much less an expansion one -have played a game like this defensively. 
Aaron Glenn scored twice on long interception returns and the Texans scored the first three defensive touch­downs in their history, all off Tommy Maddox turnovers, to stun the
.. 
Pittsburgh Steelers 24-6 Sunday . The Steelers (7-5-1) were 6-1-1 in their previous eight games, the NFL's best record over that span except for Atlanta's 7-0-1, yet lost to a first-year team that completed only three passes and had only three first downs. The Texans were outgained 422-47. the fewest yards ever by a winning team ... in NFL history . 
Remarkably, the Steelers lost to an expansion team in its first season of existence for the third time since 1995. The Steelers lost to Cleveland 16-15 in 1999, only weeks after beat­ing the Browns 43-0, and to expansion Jacksonville in 1995. 
Pittsburgh's unexpected loss and Cleveland's last-play 21-20 win at Jacksonville cut the Steelers' AFC North lead over the Browns to a half­game. 
Maddox couldn't have had a much worse day in his first game since being briefly paralyzed by a hit Nov. 17 in Tennessee, despite throwing for 325 yards. His fumble was returned 40 yards for a touchdown by Kenny Wright on Pittsburgh's first posses­sion, and Glenn's 70-yard interception return for a TD the next time the Steelers had the ball made it 14-0. 
Later, after the Steelers couldn't turn a Jabar Gaffney fumbled punt in the fourth quarter into any points, Glenn sealed it with a 65-yard inter­ception return touchdown -the fifth of his career. 
But he didn't put in Kordell Stewart, who led Pittsburgh to victories in its previous two games, and didn't say whether Stewart could start next week against Carolina. 
All of Houston's points came on defense or special teams. Former Steelers kicker Kris Brown kicked a 43-yard field goal that made it 17 -6 after Antwaan Randle El also fumbled away a punt in the fourth quarter. 
Browns 21, Jaguars 20 
The old Kardiac Kids were down­right boring compared to these new Cleveland Browns. 
Proving once again that none of their games are over until the clock reads ;00 -and sometimes, not even then ­the Browns beat Jacksonville 21-20 when Quincy Morgan caught a desper­ation heave for a touchdown with no time left Sunday. 
Officials needed 90 seconds to review and uphold Morgan's 50-yard catch. and when that drama was com­plete, Phil Dawson kicked the extra point for the one-point margin. 
Cleveland coach Butch Davis sprint­ed off the field with his son in his arms. Jaguars coach Tom Coughlin fell flat to the ground in disbelief. 
The Browns (7-6) looked all but out of the playoff _chase after a dishearten­ing 13-6 loss to Carolina last week. But it's folly to count them out. Their victory, combined with Pittsburgh's surprising loss to Houston, pulled them within a half-game of the Steelers in the AFC North. 
Morgan fought of'f tight coverage from Fernando Bryant on the final play. 
As the two fell to the ground, Morgan cradled Tim Couch's pass into his body with his right hand. 
Side judge Bill Spyksma signaled touchdown. The ball looked as if it might have touched the ground as Morgan hit the turf -in fact, Coughlin insists he saw it hit the ground -but after the review, referee Ron Winter said there was no indisputable evi­dence to overturn the play. 
It was a fitting finish to a rivalry that has served up a number of memorable moments. 
Last year in Cleveland, Morgan had a catch overturned by replay on the decisive play in Jacksonville's 15-10 victory. 
Cleveland fans responded by throw­ing bottles and debris onto the field. 
Unlike the Cleveland fans, Jacksonville fans didn't throw any­thing onto the field. Instead, they shuf­fled out of Alltel Stadium in shock. 
Patriots 2 7, BIiis 17 
For the second straight season, Tom Brady is pushing Drew Bledsoe toward a disappointing finish. 
Bledsoe threw four interceptions, and his former understudy threw two touchdown passes as the New England Patriots beat the Buffalo Bills 27 -17 Sunday. 
That put the Patriots (8-5) in first place in the AFC East by a half-game over Miami, which hosts Chicago on Monday night. The Bills (6-7) trail by two games with just three to play. 
This was Bledsoe's first game at New England since the team traded him following their Super Bowl win. 


Bledsoe's career was revived in Buffalo, and he helped the Bills go from a 3-13 season to challenging for the playoffs. But on Sunday, he threw his most interceptions in 33 games, and the Bills lost for the fourth time in five games. 
New England led 20-0 at halftime on the way to its fifth win in six games. 
Bledsoe received a standing ovation before Sunday's game. One fan held a sign reading, "Hey Drew Thanks For The Memories." 
Once the game started, the crowd roared for Brady, who completed 15 of 27 passes for 183 yards and no inter­ceptions. Bledsoe went 32-for-51 for 328 yards and two touchdowns. 

The Patriots dominated Buffalo for the second time in barely a month. New England won 38-7 at Buffalo on Nov. 3 to start the Patriots' current surge. 
They scored on all four of their first­half possessions and could have had more, but two apparent touchdown passes were nullified by penalties in the half. 
The Bills cut the lead to 20-10 in the third quarter on a26-yard field goal by Mike Hollis and a 12-yard pass from Bledsoe to Eric Moulds, who also caught a 4-yard scoring pass with 1;05 left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at .the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
"*At Last Spring Break'* Book now, Free meals, Parties, drinks, 2 free trips, Lowest prices. Sunsplashtours.com 1-800·426­
7710 
ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI­TOURS-SPRING BREAK! The only company exclusive to Acapulco! That's why we're the BEST. "Go Loco in Acapulco" with the #1 Spring Break Company in Acapulco for 16 years! Call 800-875-4525 Today. www.bianchi-rossi.com. Be a rep, travel FREE -ask howl 
SPRING BREAK INSANITY! WWWINTER-CAMPUS .COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN­TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE• 17 YEARS EXP.! REPS WANTED! 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Anlan Properties, L.L.C. 532-1896 Call Bill. 

WANTED 
Bartenders needed! Earn up to 
$300 Per day No experience nee­essary. Call 1.666.291.1884 ext U167. 
#1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas. Florida, Texas! Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertourS-l:om 
WANTED; OLD NOTRE DAME 
YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296. 
Males roommate for Spring semes­ter, Turtle Creek Town Home. Call Leonard 272-8582. 
FOR RENT 
3-bedroom Home , mile from ND Garage, alarm system, NC. Avail. lmmed. $650/mo. 
Call 220-0499 or 614-262-5880. 
Turtle Creek Townhouse available at discounted rate for Spring 2003. Maximum 3 people, 2 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, AC, dishwasher. Call 2n-0900 for details. 
All sizes homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
2 &. 4-bdrm houses for 2003. Close to ND. 616-699-5841. 
House for Rent: 2BR, 1 bath, 1/2mile ND, completely remodeled, very quiet/sate neighborhood, includes stove, ref rig., washer & dryer. $620 per month. Call 273-1717 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: Nomination Bracelet @ ND Stadium @ BC game. Call 271­0462. 
FOR SALE 
Immediate Occupancy. Newly remodeled 4 Bedroom house 6 blocks from campus. Central air, security system.Call 289-4071. 
Juday Lake 3 bdrm ranch on lake. Walk/bike to campus. Broker owned. 272-6306, 329-0241. 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd edu 
Notre Dame insignia medium black men's leather coat -brand new ­Sacrifice ... $200. Call Diana at 631-6234 or (269) 664-6692. 
TICKETS 
BCS COWL TICKETS FOR SALE (ALL LOCATIONS) Local (574)654­0168. TOLL FREE(800)272-8553 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGANCY? Do not go ii alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­
648-4849 or www.ststravel com 
Powerful prayer to the Holy Spirit. You who solve all my problems, who lights all roads .so that I can obtain my goals. You who give me the Divine gift to forgive and forget all evil against me and in all instances of my live. You are with me. I want in this short prayer to thank you for all things and to con­firm that I never want to be separat­ed from you, even in spite of all material illusions. I wish to be with you in eternal glory. Thank you for your mercy toward me and mine. 
E.J.P. 
Extra room in the car? ND grad moving -will pay you to take stuff to NYC, Philly or DC. Call 514-7407. 
EiC, no need to use AP style in your away messages. 
And what exactly are "non-repo" pens? And why can't I have one? 
I'm sure you made J-Lo proud. 
Congratulations on your engage­ment Phil and Alison 
Watch out Boston, here comes Payne. Congrats on the job, Helena. 
Tiger seeks housesitter for friend• ship, possibly more. 
SYS 2002: Return to .. Everything. 
Three issues, eight classes. five papers, one exam, one oral and 30 days Iii London. 
I'm outta here 


Monday, December 9, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Jacksons combine for 41 points Kings victory 
.. 
SAN ANTONIO 

The San Antonio Spurs might have fared better against the Sacramento Kings on Sunday if they had a pair of Jacksons. And some steals. And their coach for all four quarters. 
The Kings had all of these things, and they came away with a 104-80 victory over the Spurs in their first game at the SBC Center. 
The victory was the sixth in a row for Sacramento, which leads the Pacific Division with an 18-5 record. 
Jim Jackson came off the bench for 23 points and Bobby Jackson contributed 18 points for the Kings. Chris Webber also finished with 23 points by shoot­ing 6-for-8 in the second half, and he grabbed 13 rebounds. 
Doug Christie tied the Kings' team record with eight steals while also scoring 16 points and dishing out nine assists. 
"(Christie kept) getting in the passing lane and getting in their way," Bobby Jackson said. "He set the defensive tempo for us early and we just built on it." 
Christie said afterward that having so many injured team­mates -Sacramento had only eight players in uniform ­helped the Kings keep their focus. 
"Sometimes when you got a lot of people, there's a tendency ­myself included -to lay back," he said. "When you don't have the people, you got to play hard." 
Sacramento tied an NBA 
record by turning the ball over 
only three times -two of them 
by Bobby Jackson and the other 
by Jim Jackson. 
San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich was cjectetl at halftime after pie.king up his second tech­nical for arguing just after the buzzer. Assistant P.J. Carlesimo coached the team during the sec­ond half, during which a six­point Kings lead grew to more than 20 early in the fourth quar­ter. 
Sacramento blew the game open with a 12-2 run to open the third quarter. 
San Antonio center David Robinson said the team had talked about the Kings' six first­half steals, many of which turned into easy baskets. But Christie swiped the ball twice more in the first two minutes of the third. 
"We were so determined to not let that happen again, and then it happened again," Robinson said. 
The Spurs answered with a 12-4 tear of their own to cut their deficit to 66-58, with about four minutes left in the third. But the Kings worked their lead back up to 14. 79-65, with an offen­sive burst led by Jim Jackson's three baskets. 
"They created turnovers and shot the ball well," Popovich said. "It was a combination of our defense not being up to par and the turnovers leading to easy buckets." 
Lakers 110, Jazz 101 
The Los Angeles Lakers par­layed the momentum from their amazing comeback against Dallas into a 110-101 victory over the Utah Jazz and put themselves into position to win three consecutive games for the first time this season. 
Shaquille O'Ncal had 32 points and 11 rebounds and Kobe Bryant added 25 points and 14 assists as the Lakers posted con­secutive victories for the first time in two weeks Sunday night. 
"We're back to playing Lakers' style of basketball which is high­intensity defense, trying to get some easy opportunities, and because of that our rhythm is coming back and the game is more fun," Bryant said. "Right now it's just important to estab­lish a momentum, see if we can put together a nice little stretch." 
Bryant showed no ill effects from the pulled groin he sus­tained Friday against the Mavericks when he scored 21 points in the final 12 minutes. 
He punctuated the victory Sunday with a driving dunk with four seconds left. 
"My groin was pretty stiff when I went back in there for the last time. I couldn't really put it into fourth, fifth gear," Bryant said. "Tonight was a game I was really worried about. It seemed I was able to play pretty well. My range of motion was pretty good." 
The Lakers' 27-point fourth­quarter rally was the second­biggest in NBA history. They've now won back-to-back games for just the third time this sea­son. They'll try to get three in a row Tuesday night at Golden State. 
O'Neal in particular was on his game early, scoring 16 points in the first quarter. It was one of his most productive outings since returning from foot surgery Nov. 22. 
"It looks like he's getting him­self in game shape. When you have a rest. day between games it helps," Lakers coach Phil Jackson said. "Shaq was good and Kobe, at times, was terrific." 
Andrei Kirilenko scored a career-high 30 points and made all 10 of his free throws. Matt Harpring added 24 points for Utah, which had won nine of its previous 10 games. 
"We couldn't have beat anyone the way we played," Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. "I thought we played unfairly for anyone who had to pay the money to come sec us play." 
Trail Blazers 104, Raptors 91 
The Toronto Haptors just couldn't beat the Portland Trail Blazers without Antonio Davis. 
Bonzi Wells scored a season­high 29 points and Hasheed Wallace added 20 to lead the Trail Blazers to a 104-91 victory over the Raptors on Sunday. 
Portland outscored Toronto 44-18 in the pa.int. 
The injury-plagued Haptors, who have lost nine of 12, were without Davis. who is sidelined with a swollen right knee. 
"We took advantage of them not having their big man in the middle," Wells said. "We knew Antonio Davis wasn't going to play. We knew it was going to be a little light on the inside. We made it a focus." 
Davis doesn't expect to travel with the Raptors for their game in Cleveland on Wednesday night. 
"Right now there is just a lot of bleeding and swelling around the knee," Davis said. "The pic­tures that we saw show some aggravated cartilage. 1 had the same thing last year. 1 sat out four or five days, the swelling went down and I got back to work and everything was line. I'm hoping this is the case this time." 
Davis left a game against Chicago on Friday night in the second quarter with the injury and didn't return. Davis is aver­aging 13.5 points and 8.3 rebounds. 
Vince Carter scored 25 points for the Haptors, but he wasn't on the court when the Trail Blazers pulled away, bridging the third and fourth quarters with a 16-4 run. 

... 
• 
... 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, December 9, 2002 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Freshtnan leads Florida t10 victory over intra-state rival 
After a free throw by Matt "We obviously as coaches and ered. effective up-tempo attack. 
Associatcd Press 

Walsh, Roberson hit a 3 for his players have to take responsi­Blake had career-highs of 27 "We didn't press," Cary first points of the half and Lee bility that we weren't ready to points and live 3-pointers. and Williams said. "We just tried toGAINESVILLE, Fla. 
added a basket to make it 68-play," Minnesota coach Dan Nicholas added 27 points to get back down the court beforeAnthony Roberson increased 50 with just under two minutes Monson said. "When you get lead Maryland (No. 8 ESPNlUSA they did. We were able to short­his energy level and the result to go. down 16-0, it's a tough chore. Today, No. 9 AP) to a 93-82 vic­en the court a little bit." 
was a victory for Florida. 

"He gave them a lift when They'rn a tired team and, I tory over George Washington George Washington coachThe freshman guard had 19 
they needed one," South think, a team that has a lot of on Sunday in the third-place Karl Hobbs' strategy of utilizing points and David Lee added 16 Florida coach Seth Greenberg pride. They were embarrassed game of the BB&T Classic. the transition game hit a road­
as Florida (No. 9 ESPN/USA 
said of Roberson. "He made big today." Blake didn't score until he block when the Terrapins start­Today, No. 8 AP) beat South shots." Maurice Hargrow led the converted his first 3-pointer ing making shots and grabbingFlorida 68-52 Sunday. 
Lee had four slams and Gophers with 15 points and with 9:29 left in the first half rebounds for second-chance
"He has to come with energy
• Roberson hit two 3s to put Jerry Holman added 13. and the Colonials ahead 31-24. baskets. In the middle of the
and intensity," Florida coach 
Florida ahead 17-9 with 12:34 Rickert, the Big 10 freshman That started a streak of 10 Maryland comeback were Blake·Billy Donovan said of Roberson. 
left in the first half. of the year last season, played straight points by the senior and Nicholas.
"The last two games, he played only 17 minutes and was held guard. "They played like a teamwith great energy." 
scorelei:s. Rickert, who came "We were struggling a little committed to win today," HobbsFlorida (6-2) has won 33 con­Nebraska 80, Minnesota 60 
into the game averaging 18.3 bit and I wanted to get things said. "Blake and Nicholassecutive games against non­Minnesota was playing its 
points. nissed the Gophers' win going," Blake said. "[ told played like seniors are sup­conference opponents at home. third game in five days and over Bethune-Cookman on myself there was no way we posed to play. They played likeOver the past three seasons, the Rick Rickert, the Big 10 presea­were going to Jose this game. I guys who have won a nationalGators are 24-1 in December son player of the year. was feel­Friday because of the flu. He wanted to make things hap­championship. They played well games. ing the effects of the flu. still was ailing Sunday. 
pen." when they found themselves inNebraska took full advantage "Rick ,.s weak. He's obviously"The biggest thing right now The Terrapins (4-2). who a little bit of a hole."
is energy," Roberson said. 'Tm of the situation Sunday, run­not ready yet," Monson said. 
were only 4-for-17 on 3-point The Colonials used runs ofning away with an 80-60 victo­"Playing at this level. he wasn'ttrying to come in with lot of attempts in an upset loss to 14-5 and 10-2 to take a 29-17ry over the Golden Gophers (No. in any condition to do it, but weenergy." 
Notre Dame on Saturday, were lead with 11: 12 left in the half.
17 ESPN/USA Today, No. 20 needed him and he tried." 

Florida had struggled in its 
12-of-17 from beyond the arc But after Monroe's two free
AP). The Gophers, playing their

past two games, beating Florida against the Colonials (3-3). throws gave GW a 31-19 leadAndrew Drevo had career­first road game, shot a season­State 58-57 Friday. three days "Against Notre Dame, none of with 10:23 to go, Blake ralliedhighs of 27 points and 14 low 31.1 percent from the field.
after losing 68-66 at West 
us looked like we wanted to the Terrapins.
rebounds to lead the including just 22.2 percent
Virginia. 

play basketball," Nicholas said. Scoreless until that point,Cornhuskers. from 3-point range (6-of-27).
"Our goal is to take every 
"I think we showed we do Blake had the final 10 points ofDrevo, a transfer from They cor1mitted 16 turnovers.
game with the most energy we today." a 12-0 Maryland run that tiedDivision II Morningside, scored Holma.:1.'s basket early in the
can and at the same time devel­Nicholas tied a career-best the game at 31. After
10 points as the Cornhuskers second half got the Gophers

op a new level of toughness and with five 3s as the defending Thompson's four-point play put
took a 16-0 lead. 
within 46-32, but the Huskers

a new level of confidence," Lee national champions averted the Colonials up 35-31, the
"When you go on a big run, went on a 19-3 run to lead 65­

said. "r think if we bring energy their first three-game losing Terrapins closed the half by
it's important to not get too 
35 with 11 :40 left. 

and play the way we are capa­excited," Drevo said. "The ten­streak since February 2001. outscoring GW 17-8 as
Drevo, a 6-foot-8, 270-pound

ble of, we can beat anybody on dency is to let down. Minnesota Chris Monroe led George Nicholas, who had 20 first-half
junior forward who sat out last

any given night." made a couple runs, but we Washington with 19 points. points, knocked down three 3­
year after transferring, is aver­

Jimmy Baxter had 13 points never let down." Omar Williams scored 17 pointers.
aging 17.3 points in his last

for South Florida (4-1), which The Gophers (4-1) missed points and T.J. Thompson had Blake's driving layup with 
three games. This game was his

was looking to open the season their first five shots and com­15 points and 10 assists for the 3:37 left in the half gave
first double-double. 

with five straight wins for the mitted five turnovers before Colonials, who have lost two Maryland the lead for good at fourth time in school history. Michael Bauer scored 5:59 into straight. Mike Hall had 13 38-37. 
Roberson had 16 points as the game to end the drought. Maryland 93, George rebounds for GW. The Terrapins led by as many Florida took a 40-25 halftime The Huskers (3-3) scored on Washington 82 Maryland, which shot only 37 as 21 points on Travis lead. seven of their first 10 posses­When Gary Williams demand­percent from the field in the Garrison's jumper midway 
"He really opened the game sions to start the rout, with ed an emotional performance to ~p~~!ng-.r?~nd loss to the through the second half. 
........ .rl ... _...,_ .... 1 ....... .:---"----'-C"'.&.---­

for us in the first half," Drevo hitting two 3-pointers Donovan said. "He was terrif­and dunking two putbacks. 
ic." 

South Florida put together a 7-0 run, including a 3-pointer by Reggie Kohn, to get within 42-32 with 171/2 minutes to play. 
Florida responded with a 10­4 run to go up 52-36 midway through the second half as Brett Nelson and Matt Bonner each hit a 3-pointer. 
South Florida made a late 
run, cutting the deficit to 62-50 
on Will McDonald's basket. 


Monday, December 9, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Hurricanes storm_ to big Fiesta after defeating Hokies 



I t 1
"As You Wish" ,Q •WALLET
.. / -PUR5E5 
-~ -INCENSE 
, -HAMMOCKS

mpor 5 / I 
-CHANGEPUR5E5 

LOADS OF SILVER & 6EADED JEWELRY, SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala· 6ollvla -Peru -Mi:xlc;o -Thailand -India Lafortune: Room 108 
Dec. 2-7 (Sat.) 1O-Bpm 
Proceed& from W1lee. ofJewelry 1uarantee the loving hand& of Guatemalan f.!lmllieG 3 tlmee their sveraqe sslary. n well .!le fund& for their i,,lucatlon. 

ORE-Ar WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant tor Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan• Cantonese -American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch • Every Sunday 11 am. to 3 p.m $8.95 for Adults $4.50 tor Children under 10 
(574) 272•7376 • 222 Dlxleway South 


Associated Press 
MIAMI 

From the start of the season, the goal was simple for Miami: win every time out and return to the national championship game. 
After some twists and turns and a few closer-than-expected games, the Hurricanes accom­plished their mission. 
With Willis McGahcc running [or a scho<Jl-record six touch­downs and career-best 205 yards, the top-ranked Hurricanes earned a wild 56-45 victory over Virginia Tech (No. 14 ESPN/1.JSA Today, No. 18 AP) on Saturday to set up a national title game of unbcatens: 12-0 Miami against 13-0 Ohio State in the Fiesta Row! on Jan. 3. 
"ll feels great to go undefeated and earn our way to play for a national championship," said quarterback Ken Dorsey. who threw for 300 yards and two TDs while improving to 38-1 as a starter. 
Now for tho next step: repeat as champions. 
"Everybody expected to be here," said center Brett Hornberg. "We're not ecstatic, but we 're definitely happy that the goal is coming closer and closer. It's not finished yet. We've still get one more game, and that's when we'll cele­brate-when we win that game." 
The 'Canes will take a 34­gamc winning streak to Tempe, Ariz., a run that matches Penn for the sixth-longest in Division 1­/\ history. Miami's streak is the longest since Toledo won 35 straight from 1969-71. 
"I may be tho luckiest coach in the world," said Miami's Larry Coker, who was doused with a 
bucket of water as he ran off the 
field. 
Miami will attempt to become only the second team to repeat as national champions since 1980 and first since Nebraska won back-to-back crowns in 1994-95. The Hurricanes have won five national titles since 1983. under four coaches. 
The 'Canes put themselves in position for another title by win­ning n game that Coker called "quite a crazy attraction." 
Miami seemingly had control with a 49-21 lead early in the third quarter, but the Hokies (9­
4) came up with three big plays to pull within striking distance and then hung in until the end. 
Willie Pile returned an inter­ception 96 yards for a score ­on a play in which Dorsey was the intended receiver. Then DeAngelo llall returned a punt 71 yards to set up a field goal, and Raynell Whitaker ran 56 yards with an interception to set up the second of Lee Suggs' three TDs -a 9-yarder. 
And just like that, Virginia Tech whittled away Miami's lead to 49-37 entering the fourth quarter. 
Miami regrouped, though, thanks to lleisman Trophy con­tenders Dorsey and McGahee, who finished with 39 carries to tie a school record. On the open­ing drive of the fourth quarter, McGahee ran nine times for 31 yards, and Dorsey went 2-of-2, hitting Kellen Winslow Jr. with an 11-yard TD pass with 10:06 left to give the Hurricanes breathing room. 
Suggs scored from 4 yards with 1:51 left, and the llokies added a 2-point conversion pass to close the scoring. But Miami's firepower was just too much. 
Washington State 48, UCLA 27 
An elated Jason Gesser stood before several hundred cheering Washington State fans Saturday, smiling and waving a single rose. 
'Tm feeling no pain right now," the Cougars' quarterback said moments after leading his team to a 48-27 victory over UCLA and a berth in the Hose Bowl game on New Year's Day. 
Wearing braces on his sprained right knee and ankle, Gesser didn.'t have one of his best days, completing 15 of 24 passes for 24 7 yards and two touchdowns with two intercep­tions. 
But his performance was exceptional, considering many in his situation might not have played at all. Afterward, coach Mike Price said Gosser was 50­50 to play in the Rose Bowl game because of his injuries, even though the game is 3Vl weeks away. 
"Just because my log hurts now, I wasn't going to let my dream pass me by," said Gesser, whose 24-10 record as WSU's starting quarterback is the best in school history. 
Although his ankle hurt the entire game, he added that "there's no way that anyone can keep me out of the Rose Bowl." 
The seventh-ranked Cougars boat the Bruins soundly, despite botching a fake field goal and an onside kick and getting a field goal blocked. In addition, one poorly thrown pass by Gesser was intercepted by Ben Emanuel and returned for a touchdown, and another one was picked off by Emanuel in the UCLA end zone. 
But the offense did its part, and the Cougars' speedy defense and special teams proved too much for the Bruins. 
WSU (10-2, 7-1 Pac-10), which played in the Rose Bowl follow­ing the 1915, 1930 and 1997 seasons, will race No. 8 Oklahoma, the Big 12 champion. The Sooners (11-2) beat No. 12 Colorado 29-7 Saturday night in the Big 12 title game. 
"To go to the Rose Bowl two times in five years is really some­thing for our program, for our players, our coaches, and really for our school," Price said. 
Regarding Gesser, Price said: "I would never say I couldn't expect Jason to do something, because that's the kind of guy he is. He's got to be the MVP of Washington State history." 
Georgia 30, Arkansas 3 
Arkansas had already allowed two touchdowns and a field goal before otlicially gaining a yard, and it didn't get much better. 
The No. 22 Razorbacks had no answer for No. 4 Georgia, which boat Arkansas a 30-3 Saturday night in the Southeastern Conference championship game at the Georgia Dorne. 
Arkansas (9-4) had a six-game winning streak snapped and lost for the second time in two appearances in the title game. Those two losses have been by a combined 64-6. 
"These guys played with all their heart," Arkansas coach Houston Nutt said. "They laid it on the line." 
The Razorbacks lost two yards on three plays on their first pos­session before Richie Butler had his punt blocked by Decory Bryant. 
The block gave the Bulldogs (12-1) first-and-goal at the 2, and Musa Smith scored on the first play for a 7-0 lead. 
Arkansas played mistake-free for the rest of the half but strug­gled to move the ball, finishing with more punts (six) than first downs (five). The Razorbacks managed to cross midfield only once in the first 30 minutes, and that 26-yard drive stalled at the Georgia 39 after an incomplete pass. 
"We felt like we could come out and shut them down," Georgia defensive tackle Ken Veal said. "I don't know if it was our scheme or if we were just more fired up than them, but we were just able to stop them." 
The Razorbacks' initial first down was the result of a person­al foul late in the first quarter ­one of live in the game on the Bulldogs -and Arkansas didn't get a first down on its own until its first possession of the second quarter. 
Oklahoma 29, Colorado 7 
With no national championship 
berth on the line, Oklahoma (No. 
9 ESPN/USA Today, No. 8 AP) 
and No. 12 Colorado didn't pack 
the house for Saturday night's 
Big 12 title game. 
Oklahoma wide receiver Mark 
Clayton grabs the ball for an 11­
yard reception on Saturday. 
At least the Sooners arc head­ed for one of college football's coveted Bowl Championship Series spots, a nice consolation prize for missing out on the Fiesta Bowl. 
Nate Hybl threw two touch­downs passes and Quentin Griffin ran for a championship game-record 188 yards and two touchdowns as the Sooners beat the BulTaloes 29-7 to win the Big 12 for the second time in three years. 
The victory probably will send Oklahoma (11-2) to the Rose Bowl against Washington State (10-2). 

"Being the Big 12 champs, we'll go wherever they want to take us," Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops said. "All the bowls are excellent, and it will be a great environment." 
A disappointing announced crowd of 63,332 attended the game, although Reliant Stadium appeared far less than its 69,500 capicity. 
The Sooners beat Kansas State for the Big 12 title in 2000 and went on to beat Florida State in the Orange Bowl for the national championship. 
Griffin eclipsed 100 yards for the ninth straight time this sea­son. Griffin finished tho regular season No. 2 on Oklahoma's sin­gle-season rushing list with 1,740 yards; Billy Sims had 1,762 yards in 1978. 
"We've been executing a lot in the running game and pass pro­tection," said Griffin, the game's most valuable player, adding praise for his offensive line. "I can't say enough about those guys. They played really well the whole year." 
Brian Calhoun, starting for injured running back Chris Brown, ran for 122 yards for the Buffaloes. · 
AROUND T1HE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Monday, December 9, 2002 

around the dial 
NFL 

Chicago at Miami 9 p.m., ABC 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Vanderbilt at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Orlando at Boston 7 p.m., Fox Sports Net 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Roger Clemens, Greg Maddux and Jeff Kent were offered salary arbitration by their old teams, Ray Durham moved across San Francisco Bay to the Giants, and Texas said goodbye to Ivan Rodriguez on a busy deadline night in baseball. 
Teams had until mid­night EST to re-sign their former players who became free agents or offer them arbitration. The New York Yankees made the offer to Clemens, who wants to re-sign, Atlanta made the offer to Maddux just before midnight and the NL champion San Francisco Giants made the offer to Kent. 
In all, 24 players were offered arbitration, includ­ing pitcher Tom Glavine, who agreed Thursday to a tentative deal with the New York Mets. 
Those offered arbitration have until Dec. 19 to accept or reject the offers and can continue negotiations through Jan. 8. The 107 not offered arbitration can't re-sign until May 1. 
Durham, a second base­man who was Oakland's designated hitter, was among 13 free agents who signed Saturday. He agreed to a $20.1 million, three­year contract with the Giants, who also gave him a $7 million player option for 2006. San Francisco also signed outfielder Marquis Grissom to a $4.25 million. two-year deal. 

Left-hander Jamie Moyer got a $15.5 million, three­year contract to stay with Seattle, an agreement that includes $6 million in per­formance bonuses in the final season. The Mariners also agreed to a minor league contract with catch­er Pat Borders, who would get $500,000 if he's added to the major league roster. 
The Mets agreed to an $8 million, two-year contract with right-hander Steve Trachsel, who joins with Glavine, Al Leiter and Pedro Astacio in a rotation the Mets hope will end Atlanta's streak of 11 straight division titles. 
Philadelphia re-signed left-handed reliever Dan Plesac to a $2 million, one­year contract, and Boston re-signed right-hander Frank Castillo to an $800,000, one-year deal. 
Arizona re-signed out­fielder Steve Finley to an $11.25 million, two-year contract and gave minor league contracts to right­hander Armando Reynoso and infielder Chris Dannels. 
IN BRIEF 
Portland finally 3-ets NCAA womens soccer title 
Christine Sinclair looked at the rain and soggy field and liked Portland's chances of winning its first national championship. 
Put shots on goal, she said, and something's bound to go in. 
Sinclair scored twice on Sunday, sending the Pilots to a 2-1 victory over Santa Clara with a goal in sud­den-death overtime in the NCAA Women's College Cup final. 
"As an attacker, you like it," Sinclair said of the slick field. "Anything on net, keep it low and it could have a chance." 
A Canadian national team player, Sinclair tied the game at 1-1 with a goal in the 61st minute of reJulation. The game winner came when she put back a rebound of her own shol in the second overtime period. 
It was Sinclair's 26th goal of the season and her 10th of the NCAA tournament. She was named the tournament's most valuable iJffensive player. 
OneWorld Challenge loses a point, avoids disqualification 
Seattle's OneWorld Challenge avoided disqualilication Monday, but will be docked a point in each of the remaining stages of the America's Cup challenger rounds after admit­ting to breaches of the regatta's pro­tocol. 
The America's Cups arbitration panel announced the penalties Monday and gave OneWorld until Dec. 16 to pay $65,000 in costs. 
"The panel determines that OneWorld Challenge has been in breach of the protocol in that a designer employed by OWC had in his possession a computer file, a zip disk and a computer that contained design information that was the property of Team Now Zealand," the panel said in its ruling. 
OncWorld could have been disqual­ified after admitting to holding secret design information of a rival. However, after a two-day hearing, the panel ruled that OneWorld was eligible to continue in the semifinal series against Prada of Italy. 
Hecht loses part of right ear in game 
Buffalo Sabres forward Jochen Hecht lost part of his righi ear after being struck in the side of the head with a puck on Saturday night. 
"It's not a pretty sight," Sabres coach Lindy Ruff said after the Sabres rallied for a late 4-3 victory over Washington. "Once we get him off the [trainer's) table, and I don't think he's off yet, we'll see how he feels." 
Hecht was hurt seven minutes into the third period after the Sabres won a faceoff deep in the Capitals zone. Hecht, who wears a protective visor. was tumbling to the ice after appear­ing to lose his balance, and was hit by teammate Brian Campbell's point shot. 


Monctay, uecemoer ~ • ..:uuL. 1 he Observer . SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall to Chicago in final round of Roundball Classic 


By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN and. TREY WILLIAMS Spor<s Wri,~rs  Saint Mary's pul forth a valiant effort against the University of Chicago (2-3). but were unable to finish the job. losing 68-65 in overtime, after early domination  of All-Tournament forward Emily Creachbaum. Creachbaum was 9 for 15 in shooting and 5 for 8 from the line, leading the team in points and rebounds,  
Saint Mary's (2-3} was confi­dent in their abilities. and emo­tions were running high coming into Saturday's championship game following a 50-38 trounc­ing or Hose llulman (1-4) on Friday night. Leading the domi­nation of the Engineers was senior standout Shaun Russell, (eight points, five assists, two steals. four rebounds). and sophomore Emily Creachbaum (14 poinJ.<;}. Said Bussell, the only senior on the team, "We are so excited to be in the championship game. We haven't won this tournament in a long lime, and we have a great chance this year." However, despite Hussell's wishes. the Belles couldn't get it done in the championship of the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic, as they were defeated by a quick University ofChicago team.  by the Maroons. The Belles struggled early in the first half, going scoreless for nearly seven minutes. With ten minutes left in the first half, the Maroons had a commanding 18-4 lead. St. Mary's ball handling was ripped Lo shreds by a relentless Chicago defense led by guards Jaime Bleck and Paula Lepka. Bleck dominated the boards, with four first half rebounds, while Tournament MVP Lepka had 14 first half points, finishing with 21 for the game, to go with 11 rebounds. "Chicago had excellent cover­age," said Saint Mary's head coach Suzanne Bellina of their opponents' swarming defense. "We just tried to get between them and the ball and I think the girls gave H their best shot." However, the Belles managed to turn the game around late the first half, largely due to the play  with 25 and eight, respectively. In spite of the slow start, the Belles ended the half with a 41­32 lead. but ran into trouble again late in the second half, as the Maroons turned on the heat and tied the game at 61 to send the contest lo overtime. Overtime dragged on. as the game became foul-plagued, and Chicago gained the upper hand, pulling away with a 68-65 victo­ry, destroying the Belles' hope of their first tournament champi­onship since 1992. "There's really nowhere to put the blame," said Bellina. "Both teams played their own game." Saint Mary's looks to rebound against Goshen College Wednesday at 7 p.m. at home. Contact Heather Van Hoegarclen at hvanhoeg@nd.edu and Trey Williams at twillia6@nd.edu  

THE 
.
. 
-

Timeless Classics from One of America's Most Beloved Authors 
RICOMMfNDS 

Bowl 
continued from page 24 
nine years. 

"To have an opportunity to have Notre Dame play in a bowl game, any bowl in America would be absolutely standing on their head to make that happen," Gator Bowl president Rick Catlett said. "Some other bowls decided not to take a 10-2 Irish [team]. and we're happy they made that mistake." 
The Irish, who haven't won a bowl game since the 1993 sea­son, will face a stiff challenge from the 10-2 Wolfpack. After winning their first nine games, North Carolina State lost their next two 
ed Notre Dame's relationship with the Big East bowl arrange­ments, at one point saying Notre Da°!e should either "get in or get out. 
Under the arrangement Notre Dame has with the Big East, a bowl can select Notre Dame based on how it would have fin­ished in the Big East standings. In Notre Dame's case, the Irish bumped the Mountaineers, who would have earned a Gator Bowl invitation typically reserved for the second-place team in the Big East. 
"I don't know if slighted is the right word," Rodriguez said. "But I do question sometimes what is Notre Dame's affiliation with our league." 
"That relationship both pre­
dates Coach 

before beating Willingham Florida State "I don't know ifslighted and myself," 
17-7. is the right word. But I do Notre Dame T h e i r athletic direc­
question sometimes what
offense is led tor Kevin
is Notre Dame's 
by Philip W h i t e Rivers, who affiliation with our responded. has thrown We've
league."
for an average been a proud of 240 yards a member of game. Yet the Rich Rodriguez the Big East 
Wolfpack West Virginia coach conference in 
defense isn't everything to be taken else, and lightly, for it when this has allowed an average of just opportunity was afforded to us to 
17.8 points per game. be a participant of a so-called 
"The little knowledge that I do secondary package, we agreed to have, and it's just from seeing it in good faith." them on nationally televised Notre Dame's practice sched­games," Willingham said, "is that ule is still not completely final­they are a very potent football ized. With most of the coaches 
team ... This is an exciting and on the road this week recruiting, challenging team for us to play." Willingham said the players For the first time in it's four­might hold a practice of their 
year history, BCS selections own during the week and then came and went with very little the team will practice for a few controversy. The only two days before finals. After finals. Division I-A undefeated teams, Willingham said he expected the Miami and Ohio State. will meet Irish to practice for a few days Jan. 3 in the Fiesta Bowl for the and then go home to spend time national championship. with families. 
Meanwhile, Washington State The Irish have to report to the will play Big 12 champ Gator Bowl on Dec. 26. Oklahoma in the Hose Bowl, SEC "At the starL of the season, champion Georgia and ACC nobody gave us a chance, losing champion Florida State will meet like we did to SC has a lot of peo­in the Sugar Bowl and the two ple doubting again," Sapp said. at-large teams. USC and Iowa, "Going out and playing a great will play in the Orange Bowl. game this game is really going to 
Still, not all were happy with make a statement toward the how the bowl scenario shook program and toward the people 
out. West Virginia coach Hich in this program." Rodriguez, whose team was bumped from the Gator Bowl to Contact Andrew Soukup at the Continental Tire bowl, blast-asoukup@nd.edu 
..... 
page 20 Monday, December 9, 2002 
The Obser'ler . SPORTS 

========================================================================================================= 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Spartans end Irish title run, 26-match home win streak 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 
Something had to give. 
Notre Dame last advanced past the second round of the NCAA Tournament in 1995 and came into Sunday's second round match with a 36-match home winning streak. 
Michigan State last made it to the round of 16 in 1996 and was looking to knock the Irish out of the NCM Tournament for the second straight year. 
Grabbing control of the match by winning game 1, the Spartans used that momentum to sweep the Irish 30-28, 30-20, 30-23 and prevent the Irish from advancing to the Sweet 16 for the seventh straight post­season. 
"It's always disappointing to lose. You never want your sea­son to be over," Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown said. " ... Every year that you get there, you think this is the year you are going to take it a little bit farther, and we had every reason to believe that we could do that this year." 
As disappointed as the Irish were, the Spartans were equal­ly as happy. 
"We are excited, proud, relieved and feel all the emo­tions in the world," Michigan State coach Chuck Erbe said. "This was one of their goals to get past the second round." 
In a tightly-contested game one, the Irish gave the Spartans five points on bad serves and three points on hitting kills into the net. Losing the first game by only two points makes those mistakes even more agonizing. 
"I think obviously we lost that first game by two points and it was very competitive back and forth," Brown said. "Often when you are a little bit tight or nervous serving, that is going to show up. Winning game 1 is very important and that sets the tone for the match." 
With game 2 tied at six, the Spartans took control of the game by winning 14 of the next 16 points to take a commanding 20-8 lead. 
That deficit proved to be too much as the Irish drew no clos­er than eight in losing game 2 by 10. 
Notre Dame kept game 3 close despite hitting .077. Michigan State again made a run, this time the Spartans scored seven consecutive points with the game tied at 18. 
Once again, that hole proved to be too deep, as the Irish lost game 3 and saw their season come to an unexpected conclu­sion. 
"I think particularly in games 2 and 3 our passing broke down, and when that hap­pened, our offense just wasn't as productive," Brown said. "I think they also played really good defonse. We weren't get­ting a lot of kills and then we tried to force some shots that weren't there." 
Notre Dame came into the weekend tied with Nebraska for first in the country with 3.67 blocks per game. Michigan State gave the Irish some of their own medicine with 15 team blocks, including nine from sophomore Megan Wallin. 
The Spartans had four play­ers reach double digits in kills. Outside hitter Jenny Rood led the Spartans with 13 and hit .600. 
For the Irish, outside hitter Jessica Kinder recorded a match-high 20 digs. Sophomore Emily Loomis and freshmen Lauren Kelbley and Lauren Brewster led the Irish with 11 kills each. Kelbley hit .435 for the match. 
In Saturday's first round match, Notre Dame defeated the College of Charleston 30-23, 30-24, 28-30, 30-27. Loomis led the Irish with 19 kills. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

What a great break~ Thank you. Jackie Clark and Steve Miller and the Freshman Class 
for sponsoring a Thanksgiving Parents' Night Out 
Signed, Your favorite 30 kids on campus end their parents at University Village 

Senior defensive specialist Keara Coughlin dives to save the ball during the Notre Dame's second round NCAA Tournament loss to Michigan State Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
66@6666G66G66GGG~~
! 

ARE YOU READY FOR THE REAL WORLD? •.·\. 
v • 
;~--TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS IS DOING 6·· V THEIR CASTING CALL FOR THE 2003-2004 SCHOOL 
G 6
YEAR! 

~-'. Hurry And Sign Up Today For Your Spot In The Real L__ :• V World 2003-2004, You)II Meet Hundreds Of New People Vfi And Be Able To Live Next To Close Friends, Spaces Are 6 ~-:; Filling Up Fast. Don't Wait Apply Today! ~-1V Give Us A CaJI At (574) 272-8124. V 
6GGOOG6666GGG80906 
A holiday invitation to the ~' University ofNo-tre Dame Press's 
TwoDay... IJ3 j
t-... .... 
Pfe 

23d]{am6ag 1 oo c5% 
~ For all Faculty 1111d ,5taff 
• December 11th and 12th 
10:00 a. m. to 4:00 p.m.
c.. 
@310 Flanner Hall 
for sweets 
~ 

C 
and coffee, AND talie advantage 
·ofthe gre,1t 
.
savings on all our titles at 
40%off.
; _., , 


Monday, December 9, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
HOCKEY 
After brief losing streak, Irish post weekend victories 

17:02 of the first period, with for­pass from Cey and broke in
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER 
ward Hyan Barnett beating Irish one-on-one on Sigalet. Nielsen 
Sports Write, 
sophomore goaltender Morgan made a nifty move to fake his Cey top shelf. defender to the left, and then The Nielsen ratings were high 
The Irish retook the lead on a pulled back to center to rip a for the Irish this weekend as they power play goal about midway slap shot over the Falcon goal­swept Bowling Green in a two through the second period when tender's right shoulder to givegame series. junior wing and CCIIA leading Notre Dame a :i-3 advantage.
Notre Dame, who came into 
goal scorer Rob Globke beat "I knew somebody would getthe series on a lwo-game losing Sigalet following assists from one back for us," Nielsen said. streak, reversed their fortunes Nielsen and junior defenseman "I'm glad it ended up being
wilh a 6-3 victory over the Neil Komadowski. me." 
Falcons on Saturday and a 5-2 Cey provided his team with a The Irish got an insurance win Sunday. 
lift after robbing Bowling Green goal at 18:04 of the final peri­Evan Nielsen, the senior Irish 
of a goal about 11 minutes into od on the power play, with 
captain and top defenseman, had the period. The Irish goaltender McLean scoring his second of two goals and four assists in the stopped a Falcon shot from the the game after assists from two games, almost doubling his 
far side, but gave up a rebound Globke and Wroblewski. season point total of seven going right to the middle of the ice. Out Cey was good in net for the into the weekend. 
of position. Cey was just able to Irish in Saturday's win, stop­"It's so hard to score goals 5­
spread his stick across the mouth ping 37 of 40 shots. Sunday,on-5," Irish head coach Dave of the goal and block a Falcon he was unbelievable. The Poulin said. "You have to look to shot from point-blank range. Saskatchewan native saved 47 special teams and defense." "That was the turning point," of 49 shots, achieving a new Special teams were crucial in Poulin said. "That's the save career high for saves. Saturday's victory, with the Irish 
we've needed, and we got it." "I felt a Jot more comfortable 
capitalizing on four of six power of the first and a goal by forward and a half later with his second
At 12:06 of the second, Falcon this weekend," Cey said. 
plays, while killing all six Falcon D'Arcy McConvey at 12:23 of the goal of the season.
forward Brian Escobedo was "Worked out a lot of the bad power plays. second gave Bowling Green a 2-1 Wroblewski scored two even
able to tie the game back up, but stuff." Just a week before, in a 5-4 two straight power play goals Globke got the first goal of the lead. strength goals in the third to seal loss at Alaska-Fairbanks, the from sophomore wing Cory game just 20 seconds into the Nielsen tied the game back up the victory for the Irish. Stastny Irish gave up four power play McLean and junior defenseman contest. An attempted clear by for the Irish at 14:00 of the sec­and Nielsen assisted on his first, goals while going 0-for-4 with the gave Notre Dame a 4-2 lead Bowling Green was blocked by ond, after collecting a beautiful but the second was a beautiful man advantage. going into the third period. Nielsen in the neutral zone, who drop pass from Stastny and lip­individual effort where he faked Saturday, the Irish jumped out The Falcons cut the deficit to passed to senior center Connor ping the puck over Masters' Masters to the left and crossed to an early lead at 4:54 of the one just a minute into the third Dunlop who then found Globke glove. over to lip it into the vacated net. 
first period when sophomore after forward Brett Pilkington skating up the left side. Globke "That was really good vision by The Irish travel to Detroit Falcon goaltender Jordan Sigalet wristed a shot from the blue line launched a slap shot from the left Stastny," Poulin said. "Sometimes Saturday to take on Wayne State bobbled a shot from Nielsen and past an unscreened Cey. circle that beat senior Falcon when you're going on a rush you at Joe Louis Arena. Their next 
sophomore center Yan Stastny Nielsen answered for the Irish goaltender Tyler Masters high on get tunnel vision. He had a great home game is not until Jan. 17 was able to poke the rebound about three minutes later with the glove side. weekend overall." into the net. his first goal of the season. The A power play goal by the Senior wing Michael Chin gave Contact Justin Schuver at 
The Falcons tied the score at Irish defenseman took an intial Falcon forward Mike Falk at 9:34 the Irish a 3-2 lead just a minute jshuver@nd.edu 


-
All -Cite bec:1cltes All -Cite clubs l;lte Slll1 l;lt@ 0CQCIJ1 t;HE PAR1J2 
,; . 


,}·:~~\ . 
......~ 

ANTHONY TRAVEL SPRING BREAKS 
THE BEST SPOTS. THE BEST VALUE. THE BEST WEEK OF YOUR LIFE. 
,, 


page 22 
MENS SWIMMING 
By LISA REIJUI.A 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's swimming and diving team won the largest Notre Dame Invitational in school history, dominating the rest of field in the three-day event. 
Notre Dame never trailed in the meet and finished atop the standings each day. 
Winning with a final score of 1,840.50 points, the Irish were followed by Wyoming (1,227) in second and West Virginia (1,123.5) in third. 
"It was an effort by the team as a whole," freshman Tyler Grenda said. "We did even better than we thought we were going to do." 
Division III standout Denison (1,111.50) was next in fourth, fol­lowed by North Dakota (874.50), Wisconsin-Green Bay (726), Indianapolis (605), and Louisville (508). St. Louis (411). Shippensburg (168). and Hillsdale {40) completed the field of participants. 
The Irish faced tough competi­tion, including Wyoming's Jerram Chudleigh, who set two pool and meet records on the final day. Chudleigh broke the 200 backstroke record with a NCAA B qualifying time of 
1:46.95. Later that day, he set a pool and meet record in the 200 butterfly (1:47 .84). 
Notre Dame's Jason Fitzpatrick set a school record (55.71) in the 100 breaststroke on the second day, and later also led the 200 medley relay team to victory. 
Freshman Doug Bauman won the next event for the Irish, win­ning the 100 backstroke with a time of 51.40. The 200 freestyle relay team also placed first, as Adam Cahill, Frank Krakowski, Tim Randolph, and Jason Fitzpatrick edged North Dakota. 
In the 200 individual medley, Indianapolis' Orel Oral set a pool and meet record (1:50.14) and was closely followed by three Irish swimmers. Jamie Lutkus was second (1 :53.65). David Moisan third and junior Josh Dermott placed fourth. 
In diving action, Notre Dame's Tong Xie and Joe Miller were second and third, respectively, behind Louisville's Sean Wilkinson (539.40) in the three­meter board event. 
In the one-meter competition, Wilkinson again took first place with 286.40 points and Xie was second for the Irish (256.85). St. Louis's Bobby Wolf was third with 245.65 points. 

Ifyou arcreodyfor something different~ arbados is waiting for you! · Legendary beaches and fantastic nightlife makes · Spring Break in Barbados 
un/orgettablE, 
Wyoming's Scott Usher won the 200 breaststroke with an NCAA B qualifying time of 2:01.04, finishing just ahead of Notre Dame's Fitzpatrick. Usher set a meet record in the 100 breaststroke on the second day of competition, while Fitzpatrick set a new Irish record. Indianapolis' Oral finished third, followed by Moisan and Tyler Grenda. Oral also set a meet and pool record in the 50 freestyle. 
Notre Dame's victory was made certain after the Irish demolished the competition in the 400 relay. The team of Krakowski, Matt Obringer, Fitzpatrick, and Randolph took first in 3:03.40, beating second­place North Dakota handily. 
Grenda also said the win showed the Irish's progress this season. 
"We know that if we keep working to get where we want to go, we can do it," he said. CHIP MARKSIThe Observer 

Irish swimmer Adam Cahill Jets through the water In the mens 100-yard-freestyle at the Notre Dame Invitational Saturday. Notre Dame finished the three-day event in first place.
Contact Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu 
. , , 
CCIV\, you 'Petss Ov<.R. Drt,Vt,V\,g Test? 
1.. coffee overcoVIA,t~ the effects of drowst.~s.s wltl[Le cfrt.Vt.V\,g. 
2. 
1cli!V\, teLL wvteV\, avu. go[V\,g to go to sLetp.

3. 
l'vu. a safe c:tr[ver so [t doesll\,'t Vl,1.,li!tter i,f I avu. sLetpt'.1. 


1 
4. I Cli! II\,'t tlil R.e V\-lil'fS. 
5. "Bet.V\,g sLetpt'.1 Vvtlil~es t'.1O1,l ll¾t.spercei,ve tl-11,V\,gs. 

G. 1dt.d Mtj1A.St ft,11\,t.sh ft,V\,lilLs weeR., lilll\,d I lifVl,1., V\-Ot got.V\,g vtome for brea~. 
c11ec~ your AV\,swers. your L~fe Mc;tkj De-peV\,ct OV\, rt. 
1.. FALS6. StLl/1,{,l;(.LalA,ts are V\,Ot sl;(.b.st~tl;(.te for .sleep. t::>r~IA,~ colA,tt:iLIA,L~ caffeLVve 111,{,t:ftJ 111,{,t:fR.e k:jOI;(. feel 111,{,OYe c.1Lert, bl;(.t tne effects olA,Lt, La.st a snort tLl/1,{,e. if r1ou c<rilA,k coffee alA,ct aye .serLousLt, .sleep c<epn-vec<, k:jOI;(. ewe LLir<.eL!j to nave "Vl,\,LCYo-sLeep.s"--brLef IA,a-p.s tvicit Lt:f.st t:fY-OW'\,c< four or-ft,ve secoV\.-ds. At 55· VlA..LLes -per viol;(.r, ctn.VLIA,g tnc.1t i..s 11\A.,Or-e tvialA, 1.00 rjaYds .... wviLLe sLeepLIA,g. 
:2.. FALS6. Mo.st-peo-pLe beL;~eve tnet, ct:fVv coll\.,tr-oL H1eLr-.sleep. IIA, a test dolA,e brj tvie Al/1,{,er-Lcall\., sleep As..socLAtLOIA,, four ol,(,t of ft,ve people beLLeved tne11 eol;(.Ld -prec;Eet wvieV\, tne!1 wer-e goL~ to fi::iLL c.1sLeep Toe!j were wr-olA,g. if tJDl,l "re dr-owst,, !::jOI;(. caV\.-faLL a.sleep alA,c;( V\,ever evelA, kl/\.,ow Lt. 
3. FALS6. sveV\, tne .st:ffest ct rivers becoll\A.,e colA,fusect aVvct L<.Se poor-juc<gll\A.,elA,t wvielA, tl-ietJ are sLeept,-n,e !::jOl;(.IA,g 11\A.,lM, wi'l'IO woV\, "AIIIA.,er-Lca•.s .st1fest ctriver" tlA, 1..3.30 Lt:fter-feLL a.sleep beni.lA,ct tvie wvieeL /:flA,d was ir<.LLLect. 
4. FALS6. 6\/elA, peo-pLe w~w .satJ tnek:j t:fr-e V\,l)t tLrec{ WLLL q_uLclr<.L!:j faLL a.sleep LIA," ctc:irR.ell\,lct rool'\,\, Lf tnek:j nave IA,Ot beelA, getti.111-g elA,ougn sleep. 1f t,DI;(. tni.lA,R. k:jDI;(. ealA,1/\,0t fa LL a.sleep, .stop tll'le ear alA,d recLLV\,e for 1.s V\I\.LV\,ute.s c;il/\,tlwa!:1. yol;(. 11\,\,t:ftJ be .sl;(.rpr-L.sect at now q_uLclr<.L!::j !::jOu ft:fLL t:f.sLeep wvielA, !::jOI,(, give !::jDl;(.rseLf title cnt:fV\,C,e. 
s. TR.l,{_6. sl.eep!::j ctr-Lver-s 11\A.,L.Sjl;(.ctge tvieir SL,<.YYOl;(.IA,di.lA,gs. Tuerj caV\.11\,0t -process ilA,for-11\A.,t:ftLOV\, t~.s q l;(.Lclr<.L!j or as accurAteL!::j as aIA, t:f Lert ct rLVer r;i IA,d l¾a ti IA,Ot r-et:fet fast e1A-Ougn to avoLd a IA, accLctelA,t. 
G. FALS6.  you lriave beelA, stre.ssect t:f111.,d .sleep deprLvect for-tvie pti!st few wee~.  
Mc;iR.e .s.l;(.re tnat r,ou get a gooct IA,Lgnt·s .steep before kjOI;(. Leave for br-ei;iR..  
UB\VELL2:ct l\l)! i •\ .  
 

.....-----------------------------~---------------~ ·-·­
Monday, December 9, 2002 The Obseroer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRIEN

SCHOOL DAZE 

HAPPY TOWN JACK MONAHAN 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DUWNE 
j
I I r 
C'l002 Tribune Medi¦ Servicee, Inc. All Righi& Reseived. 
GWAON 
b 

OTTYNK 


RE:C.EIVl=O BV THE: 
STUDENT PIL-OT ~£=FORE: HIS FIRST LANDING. 
DECLUD 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 
THE 

"(III I I I ]" 
{Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: CABLE PHOTO RANCOR IMMUNE
Saturday's 

Answer: This was between the salesman and his good cus­tomer -THE COUNTER 
Sturrped? Call 1-900-776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 "Invasion of the Body Snatchers"
1 Test episode for container
a TV series 6 Front's opposite 37 Jungle 
declaration

10 Yen 
41 Main, Elm, etc.:

14 Came up Abbr.
15 Israeli airline 42 Sicilian volcano16 Actress Irene of 43 Turkic speaker
"Fame• 17 Expensive fur 4-4 Flower with 
colorful blotches

18 Christie's 'Death on the 46 "Peter Pan" playwright 
19 Diplomat Abba 47 Tasty 
20 007's 50 Stadium cheer introduction 51 Where Mindy's 23 Kind of sauce TV friend came 
from

25 Shipping magnate 52 First line of Onassis "Moby-Dick" 
26 Screwball 57 Spoken 
27 Thin 1960's 58 Poker paymentsupermodel 
59 President 29 Coil Nasser 
32_1he Cow 62 Dog on the 33 Mathematician Yellow Brick Descartes Road 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
J u M p s E A T J E T s K I 
I N C L O V E R O B R I E N 
N ..,;...;.....'-'-'-D E S 
B 
B 1-+--+--+-,,, S 
1 D T T E N I M E R T R E N T E A s y 

63 On the double, in the O.R. 64 Get around 65 Winter forecast 66 Civil wrong 67 Spanish kids 
DOWN 1 Mas' mates 2 Lyricist 
Gershwin 3Capitol Hill 
wheeler-dealers 4 Peace Prize city 5 Adolescent 6 Cinema canine 7 Inter_ 8 Serene 9 Swiss artist 
Paul 10 Fridge, old-style 11 Forbidden 12 How to start up 
a ModelT 13 Useful 21 Moistureless 22 Hit the slopes 
23 What roots 
connect to 24 Young hooter 28 Italian actress 
Scala 

one-liners 30 "Orinoco Flow" singer 31 Sign before Virgo 33 Followers of the Pied Piper of Hamelin 34 Officer on the beat 
WILL SHORTZ 


~.;;.,..;:;.,&.;o;;.j 29 Youngman of 

Puzzle by Randy Sowell  
35 Studio sign 36 Bo of "10" 38 Buddhist sect 39 Tony-winning  45 Navy bigwig: Abbr. 46 Crash sound 47Glasgow residents  53 Sunrise direction 54 Look_ (study) 55 Constellation  
actress lot "The Country Girl"  48 Composer Copland  component 56 Icicle site  
40 Cookie holder 44 Feather-filled  49 Academy founder  60 Citrus drink 61 ._  
item  50 Scarlett's love  Miserables"  

For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Allison Smith, Kirk Douglas, Emjay, Donny Osmond 
Happy Birthday: This is a greal year for love and forming new friendships and partnerships. You will attract all sorts of people with your outgoing nature and your ability to be colorful and witty. Your kindness and generosity could gel the better of you if you don't put a limit on how much you are willing to give. Your numbers are 9, 13, I8, 22, 26, 37 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can make a difference if you believe in lhe cause. Help plan social events for the festive season. Your enthusiasm and energy will make any occasion successful.**** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional confrontations will interfere with your performance at work. You must try to separate situations. Someone you care about will push you too far. It's time to let this person know thal enough is enough.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You need a change of pace. If you can't take a vacation, have a makeover and join an awareness group. This is definitely a time for change. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Investments made today will be lucrative and help you beat the tax system next year. Social activities will be enjoyable and very satisfying. Fitness programs will show favorable results. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Relationships will be a bit emotional today. Refrain from saying things you'll regret later. Social events that include colleagues will be beneficial if you mingle with superiors. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Financial concerns relating to work can be resolved. Don't be evasive about your intentions. You can get help from co-workers who believe in your ideas to improve your place of employment. 
*** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Pamper yourself. Self-improvement projects will pay off. You can gain approval from others if you use your sophisticated approach when dealing with them. This is a good time to present your ideas and recruit help.***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't trust other people with your belongings. Children may cause a problem if you haven't given them enough of your time. Make sure that you haven't neglected anyone. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't start a family feud by saying something that you were not supposed to repeat. Keep your thoughts and opinions to yourself and your day will run much more smoothly. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You must concern yourself with any legal or financial matters that need to be cleared up before year-end. Don't let officials keep putting you off. Make a few demands. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone around you will be emotional and erratic. Don't hold back; let this person know how you feel. Your discussion will enable you to come to terms with the issues, resulting in a better relationship. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Secret information must be kept that way if you want to stay out of trouble with family members. Work by yourself so that you aren't tempted to reveal secrets. *** Birthday Baby: You will be curious and ambitious. It's unlikely you'll let anything or anyone will stand in your way. You will be loyal to those who are worthy, and vengeful toward those who are not. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______State ____ Zip______ 
MENS BASKETBALL 

PORTS 
Monday, December 9, 2002 
Gian.t killers 


i 
I 
I I I I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
! 
•
I 
I 
I l 

. lrh;h knock off No. !~ Maryland, No. :z Texas to win BB&T Classic 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Edi cor 
H was a sweet homecoming for Dan'.ly Miller and a coming out party in the nation's capital for Torin Francis and the Irish as unranked Notre Dame knocked off No. 9 Maryland and No. 2 Texas in the BB&T Classic at tht, MCI Center in Washington. 
The p.air of upsets came on the heels of Notre Dame's 92-71 victory over No. 13 Marquette in the Joyce Center Dec. 2. 
"We ca,me into Washington off the rada.r screen," Irish coach Mike Br1~y told The Associated Press after the game Sunday. "We are going to be all over the radar screen now." 
Miller, a transfer from Maryland, had 17 points and seven rebounds against his for­mer Terrapin teammates, as the Irish grabbed a convincing 79-67 victory Saturday over Maryland in the first round of the BB&T Classic in the Terps' own backyard. 
The senior Irish forward was booed nearly every time he touched the ball Saturday from the hometown Maryland fans, but he quickly quieted the crowd, scoring Notre Dame's first poinls of the game with an early thme-pointer. Miller fin­ished 5-for-11 from behind the arc. 
"Boos and stuff don't bother me," Miller told the AP. "I expected them when I came in. I just shake it off." 

But the real star over the weekend for the Irish was the freshman Prancis. The Irish for­ward was 8-for-8 shooting from the field, finishing with 20 points, eight rebounds and three blocks against Maryland. 
Sunday, Francis had 21 points, 10 rebounds and eight blocked shots, falling just two blocks short of his first colle­giate triple-double. But more importantly, the freshman fin­ished 7 -for-8 from the free­throw line, icing the game for the Irish in the waning minutes of the game to secure Notre Dame's 98-92 win. 
"Torin has taken a huge step forward," Brey said. 
In Saturday's game, the Terrapins did a better job stop­ping themselves than the Irish could have hoped to do. Maryland shot a struggling 37 percent from the field and missed its first 11 3-point attempts. 
Francis hit a hot streak right before the end of the first half, when he scored 11 of his 14 first half points to lead the Irish on a 16-5 run to close out the period. 
The Irish took a 10-point lead into the locker room at halftime, but Maryland returned to the court ready to play and nar­rowed the Irish lead to 35-30 in the opening minutes of the sec­ond half. But that was as close as the Terps would get, as Notre Dame went on an 11-4 run and never looked back. 
The Irish had two other play­ers -guards Matt Carroll and Chris Thomas -score in double digits, with 19 and 10 points, respectively. 
Sunday's game was a much closer battle between the Irish and Longhorns. In a game that featured two of the top point guards in the nation in sopho­mores Thomas and Texas' T. J. Ford, it was the young guns who got the ball with the game on the line. 
After Texas erased a 13-point second-half deficit and took a five-point lead with three min­utes to play, Thomas nailed a key 3-pointer to give the Irish an 85-83 lead they never relin­quished through the help of some timely free-throw shooting from Thomas and Francis. 
Meanwhile, the superstar rord, who had 21 points and 12 assists for the Longhorns, stum­bled with the game on the line, getting a layup blocked, turning the ball over and missing a 3­pointer that could have nar­rowed Notre Dame's lead to a point in the game's final sec­onds. 
Along with Francis, the Irish again had four players finish with double digit points as Miller, Carroll and Thomas had 20, 20 and 19 points, respec­tively. 
The pair of victories moved the Irish to 8-1 on the season, as the three consecutive wins against ranked teams ought to move the unranked Irish into the national rankings when they are released today. 
"I can't quite digest this week yet," Brey said. "It's been a fab­ulous stretch. In the three games this week we did a lot of growing up." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Irish will face Wolfpack in $1.6M Gator Bowl 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Spores Writer 

What seemed certain after Washington State won Saturday became official Sunday. 
The BCS passed over Notre Dame for an at-large berth, giving the Gator Bowl first crack at the 10-2 Irish. They leapt at the chance, and Notre Dame will play No. 17 North Carolina State Jan. 1. 
For Notre Dame, the Gator Bowl gives the Irish an opportunity to erase the nightmarish memories of a 44-13 loss to USC two weeks ago that ultimately killed any chance the Irish had at squeaking into the BCS. 
"Now we can channel a lot of our antici­pation and aggression toward someb(ody," safety Gerome Sapp said. "Walking off the field at USC, it was kinda like, 'When are we going to find out who we're playing and where we're playing.' Now its actually tangible." 
Before Saturday, the best scenario for Irish fans would have involved Washington State losing to UCLA Saturday, which would have meant USC would clinch the Pac-10 title, freeing an at-large berth for the Irish. 
But Washington State won, clinching a berth in the Rose Bowl. The Orange Bowl then selected 10-2 USC, who earned an autDmatic at-large berth by finishing fourth in the final BCS standings, and 11-1 Iowa. 
Had the Irish qualified for a BCS berth, the school could have received up to $13 million. 
Instead, Notre Dame will earn $1.6 mil­lion from the Gator Bowl. 
However, if the Irish were disappointed, they didn't show it. A few players said they didn't watch the Washington State game Saturday nor the BCS selection show Sunday afternoon. only learning they qualified for the Gator Bowl at a team meeting later that night. 
"We do have that opportunity to get that bad taste out of our mouth, to try to elimi­nate that season-ending Joss to USC," said Irish coach Tyrone Willingham, who worked as an assistant at North Carolina State from 1983-85. "You always want to win at the end of the year, and this game provides us the opportunity to go out and win." 

Notre Dame's national fan base and its dramatic turnaround under Willingham failed to convince BCS officials the Irish were worthy of an at-large berth in the BCS. 
Now, Tyrone Willingham will lead the Irish onto the Gator Bowl field exactly one year after he was named Irish head coach. 
During that span, the Irish doubled their win total from the previous season, beat four ranked teams and have a chance to finish in the top 10 for the first time in 
see BOWL/page 19 


SMC BASKETBALL  MEMS swnvnvmm  VOLLEYBALL  
ChicagoSaint Mary's  68 65 (OT)  Notre Dame Invitational  Michigan St. Notrel>ame  3 0  
The Saint Mary's basketball team fell to the Engineers of the University of Chicago in the finals of the Roundball Classic held at SMC last weekend.  The Notre Dame mens swimming team cruised to victory at the Notre Dame Invitational over the weekend.  After defeating the College of Charleston in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, the Spartans swept the Irish in the second round.  
page 19  page 22  page 20  







