
INSIDE  
Washington students reflect  Notre Dame, Saint Mary's remembers the lost victims  
A year after the attacks, students remember the shock felt in the nation's capital. page 3  The memories of loved ones lost on September 11 still burn in the hearts of family members. page 4  

Keep the memory alive 
A jct slamming into a skyscraper ... two 110-story towers engulfed in flames ... our nation's capital enveloped in smoke ... a plane wrecked in a Pennsylvania field ... these are the images that will always come to mind when I hear 
the phrase 
"9/11." 
But for all the evil and fear and horror that I associate with that fateful day, I also remember 

the good that 
Andrew Thagard
came out of it. 
The events of that Tuesday one Assistant year ago didn't News Editor just motlvate firefighters and rescue workers of New York City to risk their lives in helping others, they moved a nation to act. Politicians put bipartisanship aside and worked together, church atten­dance dramatically increased, dona­tions of blood and money skyrocket­ed and a deep sense of patriotism pervaded the country. 
Around the world, nations grow­ing increasingly hostile toward the United States openly expressed their sorrow and sympathy. People crowded outside American embassies. covering the gates with cards and flowers and hosting can­dlelight vigils. President Bush's war on terrorism toppled the oppressive Taliban regime and guaranteed new freedoms for the men and women of Afghanistan. Osama bin Laden's al­Qaida terrorist network was weak­ened and driven further into moun­tainous caves. 
Closer to home, I remember the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munities uniting in prayer. Classes, practices and other normal activi­ties were cancelled and students and faculty gathered on South Quad to celebrate Mass. Around the coun­try, Notre.Dame clubs raised money to help those affected by the terror­ist attacks while mourning losses within the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's families as a result of the them. 
Back in South Bend, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students draped flags outside their dorm windows. They organized a massive collection at that weekend's football game. Many carpooled to local blood banks and waited hours in line for the chance to donate blood -so many, in fact, that some were turned away. 
God really does work in mysteri­ous ways. Today, one year later, I still can't fathom how so much good came from so much evil. 
Still, I worry. I worry that as time goes on we'll forget the good that came from last September and sim­ply focus on the bad. 
After all, the flags that once deco­rated our dorms are boxed away. our nation's blood supply has returned to normal levels (and in some areas is dangerously low) and stories of corporate greed have overshadowed our progress in the war on terrorism. 
Please don't let that happen. Please don't slip back into compla­cency. Today and always, remember to attend mass, light a candle at the Grotto .and volunteer to help others. 
And please, please, please don't forget. Don't forget what happened -the bad and especially the good. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsen,er. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
page 2 The Observer . ONE YEAR LATER Wednesday, September 11, 2002 

Americans misunderstand Arab hatred 
. Arab animosity has many origins 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
Major news networks broadcasted images of Palestinians rejoicing in the streets on Sept. 11, leaving many enraged Americans asking "Why do they hate us?" 
Scott Appleby. director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, at a Sunday panel discus­sion, was quick to point out that the "they" is not repre­sentative of the whole of Islam and that it was a small extremist faction that carried out the terrorist attacks. The geopolitical development of these states is important to understand­ing the conflicts, said Appleby. 
Within the Islamic world conspiracy theories abound and facts are distorted, 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Writer 
In the aftermath of Sept. 11, Notre Dame has added semester-long courses that deal with issues related to the terrorist attacks. 
"The events of Sept. 11 have changed how we see many issues and have pro­vided us with a 
of man­agement. 
These classes have proved to be popular among students as many of the classes filled up early. 
"The class [Problems of Contemporary Violence: Terrorism, War, and Peace After Sept. 11] filled up immediately when registra­tion opened," said Robert Johansen, director of grad­uate studies in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
This class dealt specifi­cally with the global role of the United States along with the meaning of human security and how to achieve it. 
"The class helped people to understand that acts of terror are political acts and that conditions of victim-
With regard to self-inter­est, Appleby said that America cannot be too pragmatic, narrow and short-sided. A sizeable and forceful political will will be necessary for this to be overcome. 
Americans are compelled to look at situations and believe that they arc the peacekeepers. Father Theodore Hesburgh, presi­dent emeritus, said at Sunday's panel that every time there is a disaster the United States and Red Cross are the first to arrive on the scene with manpower and financial aid, but this is a very small percentage of our gross national product. 
In this world of conflict, the United States, as well as other countries, is asking who the enemy is. "We are one of the candidates," said Appleby. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu. 
leading many Muslims to wrongly perceive Americans. Appleby provid­ed four masons for why there is animosity directed at the United States from the Islamic world. The gov­
ernment's relation­ship with Israel is blurred f ll r Muslims, and they wonder if t h C United States is the pup­pet of a Zionist 
state or is Israel the surro­gate of the United States. This hostility stems from the emasculization and repression within the cul­ture. Many Muslims carry a deep sense of humiliation. In several ways the US for­eign policy is hypocritical. If Islamic reign was permitted to be established in this region, democracy would ensue, but the government is too concerned about its oil, said Appleby. 
The United States has made Saudi Arabia an aJlv for strategic and self-inter­

"We don't need the oil to heat the homes for the needy poor but for our second homes, yachts and four cars. ,, 
Scott Appleby professor 
e s t e d means, despite its anti­de mo c­ratic sys­tem, said Apple­by. The govern­ment is willing to look the other w a y 
because of the oil resources available in that country. 
American self-interest becomes selfishness because Americans con­sume an enormous amount of oil. "We don't need the oil to heat the homes for the needy poor but for our second homes, yachts and four cars," said Appleby. 

Sept. 11 classes in popular demand 
ization increase a subcul­ture of support for terror­ism, but that nothing can justify terrorism," said Johansen. 
Johansen said that stu­dents showed a strong interest in the material that was presented and were concerned with what could 
be  done  to  address  the  
causes of terrorism.  
0  t  h  e  r  

of Sept. 11 were fallout from the collapse of the Ottoman Empire." 
Revelation and Revolution, taught by Joseph Amar, which looks at conflict from a religious point of view, is the theolo­gy department's contribu­tion to the new course offerings. 
"I It] broadened my world view show-
liberties [presented by the Web]." 
Many professors decided to restructure the content of already existing courses to examine issues related to Sept. 11. Heidi Ardizzone, assistant profes­sor of American Studies, left the final two weeks of her Homefronts During War class open to focus on 
develop­

classes ing me the ments in
"The class helped people "/ couldn't get into any
r e a 1 dealt more culture and the war on 
teachable to understand that acts general!/ the people of the Sept. 11 classes terrorism. moment," ofterror are political with the instead of because they were all Johan­
s a i d culture and just the sen said
acts.,, filled before my DART 
R e n e e religion of terrorists," that he is
time."
Tynan, the Middle said Linda addressing assistant Robert Johansen East. Both Melchor, a terrorism professor entry-level N o t r e Meghan Hahn in his
professor 
courses and D a m e existing
Notre Dame student
special senior. studies Arabic language Even the courses are being offered. abroad programs offered The histo-courses ry dcpart­dealing m e n t "[It] broadened my world with Sept. 
offered a view showing me the 11. The 
Modern London
culture and the people 
Middle Program Eastern instead ofjust the offered 
History terrorists. " Democracy 
course in the Age ranging of the Web,
Linda Melchor
from 500 dealing 
A.D. to the Notre Dame student with the present. way the P a u l Internet 
Cobb, assistant professor of affects American concep­History, helped illustrate tions of security and priva­the importance of history in cy in the wake of the ter­the contemporary situation rorist attacks. when he discussed World A. James McAdams, pro­War I with his students and fessor, said, "We will con­
asked them to, "assess the sider the threats to person­degree to which the events al privacy and democratic 
interna­
tional rela­tions courses. In the spring, he will teach a course on ethics and international relations that will address terrorism as well. 
There seemed to be an overabundance of appli­cants for several of the classes as many students were disappointed when they could not register for the classes that they had hoped to. 
"I couldn't get into any of the Sept. 11 classes because they were all filled before my DART time," said Notre Dame senior Meghan Hahn. 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing. l@nd.edu 




in memorial 
NOTRE DAME 
. 
Tri-militnry !'lag raising ceremony with pray1\rs anrl llw playing ol'"Taps," f'lagpolns al l'asqtll'rilla ContPr, 7 a.n1. 

. 
Hosary prayer snrvico Ind by Notrn Dame Studnnts, Grotto. ;\loon. 

. 
Memorial Mass c11lt1brati'd by Fallwr Edward Malloy, prcsitlMt. Hcl'!Pcting Pool I lnsburgh Library, 5 p.m. 



Wednesday, September 11, 2002 The Observer . ONE YEAR LATER page 3 
• 
Threats too close in Washington 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
If only she had stayed. 
A week before terrorists slammed a jet liner into the Pentagon, Lauren Berrigan quit her internship at the sym­bol of America's military might. Berrigan, studying in the Notre 0 a m e Washing­t o n Program, craved a job with better organiza­tion and rn o r e direction. 
On Sept. 11, 2001, she saw her former office 



trans­formed into smoldering rubble, and she instant­ly regretted ever walk­ing away. 
"Where I 


had worked Thompson was really close to the damaged area of the building," said Berrigan, now a senior. "It's a little strange to say, but in a lot of ways I felt guilty for not being there and experiencing what the other workers did that day." Berrigan was one of 19 stu­dents studying in Washington last fall when planes hit the Pentagon, toppled the twin peaks of the New York skyline and went careening into a Pennsylvania field. The stu­dents watched as the attacks and the events that followed in their wake played out like a national drama just beyond the group's own doorstep. 
For Berrigan. the pangs of guilt haven't subsided, not even a year later. She still thinks about the day of the mostly deadly terrorist strike on U.S. soil -sometimes more than she'd like to. 
"I still have the continual fear that every time I turn on the TV there's going to be something there," she said. "I have a sense that [terrorism against the United States] isn't done. It'll always be in my mind." 
It stays with Gail Thompson, too. She remembers clearly the morning of the attacks. 
The day began the same as most others had the past two weeks Thompson had been in Washington. She woke early, dressed and left on time to arrive by 9 a.m. at her intern­ship in New York Sen. Hillary Rodham-Clinton's office. Thompson stepped off the Metro subway system and into a world of panic. 

"Every-one was watching TV when I got to work" in the Russell Senate Building, she said. "They said the Pentagon had been hit, and outside you could see the smoke behind the building. We all ran to get out of there. rt was the fastest f had ever run in my life." 
Internship coordinators sent Thompson and other Notre 
Dame students home for the 

day. Thompson debated how 
to get back to her apartment. 
She would feel unsafe on the 
subway, she thought, so she 

opted to walk. But ominous 
feelings still enveloped her, 
particularly each time a plane 
flew overhead. 

The long, fearful walk 
home, however, did give her 
time to think. The thought that loomed most prominently in her mind was to leave the program. 
"I wanted to go home," she said. "Me and my mother had a serious conversation about me coming home." 
Although program directors gave students the option of departing the program and returning to Notre Dame for the semester, no students left Washington. Speculation that the University would cancel the program, in fact, con­cerned many ofthe students. 
Rachael Protzman's family and friends had a hard time understanding her reasons for wanting to stay in the nation's capital. 
"I never wanted to leave," said Protzman, who interned a public relations firm. "It was difficult talking to loved ones because they didn't compre­hend why I didn't want to leave." 
The attacks cancelled class and work for the students for about a week. Program offi­cials also scratched special events and city tours from the curriculum. They warned stu­dents to stay close to their apartments and to avoid taking the subway and gathering in crowded places. 
In October, students faced a renewed threat, as positive tests for the disease anthrax surfaced in government office buildings. Thompson, who by October was working for a senator from her home state of Louisiana, found herself dis­placed when officials closed the Hart Senate Building, fear­ing that airborne anthrax had entered tho building's ventila­tion system. 
Thompson submitted to an optional anthrax test and took Cipro pills as a precaution. No one who she worked with eventually tested positive for the disease. 
The Hart building's close forved displaced senators to relocate in the basement of the Russell Senate Building. The move made Thompson's internship experience better. 
"It was really tight quarters in the basement. If I leaned to the left, I could see what's going on in another office," she said. "If I went to get coffee, I could see what was going on in another office." 
Berrigan, who worked with a Congressional committee after leaving the Pentagon intern­ship, said her time in Washington ultimately was positive, too. She eventually wants to live and work in the city. 
On the anniversary of the tragedy today, Berrigan and her Washington Program classmates' thoughts won't necessarily dwell on the destruction and death toll. 
"I'm trying to put September 11 behind me," said Berrigan. "I almost wish there wasn't such an emphasis on it." 
Thompson says she'll be looking forward, not behind. 
"One of the biggest lessons I've learned is there are a lot of people who hate us what we stand for. They can either eliminate us or we can keep going. I think most likely we'll keep going," she said. 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcf.uley.l@nd.edu 

LonDomers felt shock from across the ocean 
ByJAMES GAFFEY 
News Writer 

Sept. 11, 2001 started out as a typical Tuesday for Notre Dame students studying abroad in London last semester. It was late afternoon London-time when the first plane was hijacked. Many of lhe 150 "LonDomers" were in class at the time; some were wrapping up assignments just off Trafalgar Square in the class­room building's library; some were unwinding at their apart­ments on Edgwarc Road; and some, undoubtedly, were sip­ping pints in a quaint English pub. 
They were focusing on adapt­ing to a different culture; the familiarity of life in America, for the sake of personal growth, was something they had left behind for the semes­ter. But the news of the World Trade Center's collapse struck Notre Dame London students just as deeply as if they were back home. The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 put LonDomers in an awkward position -they felt the shock and pain of having one's own country attacked and yet were strangely removed from it. 
Christine Bryant first got word of the attacks while in the computer lab of the London classroom building. The person sitting next to her received an Instant Message from a friend in America and shouted out to everyone in the room. Soon stu­dents were frantically attempt­ing to log on to CNN.com to find out more and sharing details as they uncovered them. 
"The site was blocked at first 
because there was so much 
traffic," said Bryant. 

As a result, many of the stu­dents in the computer lab filed into the basement of the build­ing to watch the news with dozens of other classmates as it came in on television. Bryant, though, went back to her apartment and found that all her roommates were trying to use the phone to call back home. The first few hours after the attack it was very difficult to get information about family and friend back home, Bryant said. "In my apartment the news was on all the time." 
Dave Relczyk, a senior who was in London last fall, recalls the anxiety he felt in being unable to contact his girlfriend who was studying in Washington, D.C. at the time. "I wished I could have been with family and friends," said Belczyk. "We were an ocean away from them, and that was very difficult." 
Aside from the safety of fami­ly and friends back home, Notre Dame London students had to worry about their own safety in the capital city of America's biggest ally. The London students' apartment building is situated in a largely Arab neighborhood, and a handful of students were ver­bally harassed during the weeks following the attack. 
London Program administra­tors and rectors advised stu­dents not to wear any U.S. clothing that might make them targets. Bryant recalls the uncertainty and helplessness many of the LonDomers felt. "It was unsettling because there were rumors about sending us back," she said. 
Although Bryant said she felt no less patriotic than if she had been in the U.S., she said, "We couldn't show our patriotism as much because we didn't want to make ourselves targets." 
The great majority of British citizens, however, did not pose the slightest threat to the safety of American students. In the week following the attacks, flowers, sympathetic notes. and candles filled Grosvenor Square, the park in front of the 
U.S. Embassy. Throughout London British flags hung at half-mast. And Sept. 14, the third day after the attacks, was declared a national day of mourning throughout the United Kingdom. At 11 a.m. Friday three minutes of silence were observed in memory of those killed in the attacks on America. 
Notre Dame London Program classes participated in the day of mourning. The streets of London were strangely quiet. Busses, taxis, and subway trains all stopped for the three­minute period. 
Despite the great sympathy of 
Contact James Gaffey at jgaffey@nd.edu 

What does September 11 mean to you? 

Kyle Fager 
Notre Dame student 
"/ was in London at the time and I didn't realize that it had happened right away, but when I went out­side, instanta­neously every sin­gle person was on a cell phone." 

Jerry Sheahan 
Notre Dame student 
"ft means more than just a down­/a fl for the U.S. Americans act as if they were the only ones affected but it {aJJectedJ the u•hole world, not just America." 

Caneesha Gordon 
Notre Dame student 
"ft showed how vulnerable we as Americans are. The problems of the Middle East are no longer for­eign to us because they were brought to our homefront." 
Rusty Lencioni 
Notre Dame student 

"It's one of the most /i:. ,'al days in Amr""1, -m histo­ry; i; · · e Pearl llarbor. , sparks anger in me. There's a feeling in me that we should have retribution. " 

Prince Lowe 
Notre Dame student 
"[A dayl when seemingly every social, economic and ethnic prob­lems all got put by the wayside and everyone came together as one. " 
Jen Wagner 
Saint Mary's student 
"It's only been a year and it still feels like the visu­al is still present, like it just hap­pened yesterday. It's still pretty fresh and is some­thing we'll never forget." 


Jessica Domingo 
Saint Mary's student 
"Ifeel like it was a tragedy. People have gone out of their way to trivi­alize it. I have a problem with us gning orerseas all the time invading other people's land." 

Renee Donovan 
Saint Mary's student 
"It's hard to find the words to describe it. Hverything has changed -every­thing down to our perception of peace and safe­
ty... 

• 






ONE YEAR LATER 
page 4 Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
Friends and family remembered 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
While America remembers last year's terrorist attacks, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities mourn the loved ones that they lost. 

A loving niece 
Amy Jarret, 28, lovEJd Notre Dame football and came with her brother, Jay Jarret '91, to at least one home game each year. Her ties to Notre Dame started with her grandfather, the late Aram P. Jarret, Sr. '38, her father Ararn P. Jarret '65, and uncle Father Peter Jarret '86, rector of Keough Hall. 
"Amy had a good love for life and a great love for people," Peter Jarret said. 
Amy Jarret, 28, began work­ing for United Airlines when she was 23 years old. She loved meeting new people and the freedom of being a flight atten­dant. Her family experienced little anxiety about her chosen career. 
"She was completely suited to it," Peter Jarret said. "Though she was engaged to be married so I think she was looking to get out of it." 
When United Airlines flight 175, en route from Boston to Los Angeles, crashed into the south tower of the World Trade Center no one in the family sus­pected that Amy Jarret had been working that flight. 
A call from United Airlines an hour later let the family in New Smithfield, R.I., know that Amy Jarret had been scheduled to work the flight, another call confirmed that Amy Jarret had been on flight 175. 

"It's been hard on the family because her bodv was never found," Peter Jarret said. "Instead the family has been finding other ways to remember her; dedicating a memorial in New Smithfield and through memorial masses for her." 
A role model alumna 

Suzanne Kondraten.ko, a Saint Mary's 1996 humanistic studies alumna, loved her time at col­lege and spoke so highly of Saint Mary's that she convinced her sister, Caroline Kondratenko, Saint Mary's senior, to apply. 
"I spent a lot of time here vis­iting her when J was younger," Caroline Kondratenko said. ''I've always tried to follow in her footsteps." 
Suzanne Kondratenko made the most of her time at Saint Mary's, earning a student inde­pendent study and research grant, spending a year abroad in Rome and graduating at the top of her class. 
"She was extremely brilliant, independent, but family was very important to her and she always found time for us," Caroline Kondratenko said. "She had a great sense of humor and people always loved her. You had to know her to experience it." 
Suzanne Kondratenko was a senior operations improvement consultant for Keane Consulting Group in Chicago. She was on assignment in New York City for a me<1ting with the Aon Corporation when one of the planes struck the south tower of the World Trado Center Suzanne Kondratenko was last seen heading down the stairs from the 90th floor of the sec­ond tower. 
Two weeks after the attacks, vvh ile the Kondraten ko family still searched for Suzanne Kondratenko in New York, Caroline Kondratenko left for Rome, following onre a.gain in her sister's footsteps. 
"I was in denial for a long tim0 and it was tough being so far away from what was hap­pening," Caroline Kondratenko said. "It was a great experience though and I knew how much she had loved it there." 
Today, the Kondratenko fami­ly is in New York City visiting Ground Zero, the place where Suzanne was last seen. 
"We are going to the memori­al services in New York City together, it's a chance for our family to spend time together there," Caroline Kondratenko said. 

A loved brother 

Timothy Byrne was a bond trader who worked on the one hundred fourth floor of the sec­ond tower of the World Trade Center. He loved working in the Twin Towers, so much that one of his brothers had given him a framed photo of the complex for a Christmas present the previ­ous year. 
Timothy Byrne, 36, brother of Notre Dame junior Colin Byrne, was last heard from when he phoned his mother to tell them he had just seen the first plane crash into the building next door. Apparently feeling safe because of the announcement that his building was secure, he said he wished he had a camera to take a picture. 
A bachelor, Tim Byrne had been a surrogate father to his eight brothers and one sister since their father, whose birth­day was Sept. 11, died in 1986 at age 47. 

A cherished cousin 

l'et<cir O'Neill began working at the company of Sandler and O'Neill at the beginning of August, just a short few weeks before the terrorist attacks. A recent graduate of Bentley College, the 21-year-old had competed against many appli­cants to be a bond trader on the 104th f1oor of the World Trade Center. 
Padraic McDermott, a Notre Dame junior, remembers his cousin's devotion to his family and friends and living at home to stay close to family and friends but commuting to work each day in New York City. 
"He was an athlete, he played lacrosse and liked to ski, he was a volunteer fireman," McDermott said. "His friends, as well as his family knew he was always looking out for them, he was devoted to serving others." 
Shortly after the south tower fell O'Neill's family began to fear for his safety, but amid the chaos they hoped he had safety in the city. A few days later, when O'Neill still had not come home. the family's worst fears were confirmed. 
"He was just the best guy, he had a great temperament, gen­tle and easy going," McDermott said. "It was just unthinkable for his parents and sister." 
Today, in O'Neill's hometown of Amityville, N.Y., family and friends have transformed a gar­den in the middle of town into a memorial park. 
"It's a beautiful park in his honor," McDermott said. "It was a big even in the town, many people from the village helped out, and it was a big event that really pulled the vil­lage together." 
While many members of the O'Neill family will be attending memorial service in New York in honor of the young man that graced so many lives, McDermott will be here with the support of the Notre Dame family. 
"It was really tough being out here when it happened," McDermott said. "It was the Notre Dame campus, friends and the Mass that helped, so that I didn't even feel homesick. I don't know what I would have done without that support." 
While these are a few from the thousands that lost their lives on Sept. 11, they represent the dreams that ended, the fam­ilies forever separated and the realization that life is so deli­cate. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 

.. 
c» 
cc 
LI.I 



N Cl 
z 
= 
c» 
cc 
Cl 
II.I
a: 
II.I 
m 
:& 
II.I 
==
LI.I 
= 
:;;::~~­

church right next to ·' outside oJ the church, · ¼Ue& frorp familf~etn 
ives in the attaf,;NI... 
'011n& 
ealy, seni.() 
u'reused , senl~r 
:: ,.-"'. 



Students reflect on life after Sept. 11 
. Community voices safety and security concerns 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
8:45 a.m. 9:03 a.m. 9:43 a.m. 
10:10 a.m. 
With each explosion America's sense of pride and security was chipped away. Americans were awakened to not only a black New York sky, but to the reality that they were no longer untouchable and were in fact vulnerable. 
A year after September 11 with Osama bin Laden not caught and war with Iraq immi­nent, Americans undoubtedly will be reflecting on not only how their lives have changed but their sense of security and their country's policy objectives. 
Safety 
Lisa Chester, a Saint Mary's student, grew up in a sheltered small town. The attacks forced her to become more conscious of potential problems. 
Although South Bend, IN is not a small town, several students feel relativity safe here because they are removed from potential targets and New York and Washington, D.C. 
"It depends where you are. Here I feel safe, but in a big city, I don't know. I wonder how easy it would be for terrorists to obtain nuclear weapons," said Luis Chiriboga, Notre Dame sophomore and international student from Ecuador. 
Aaron Briggs, Notre Dame junior, does not feel any safer, but he does not really feel any­more unsafe since the attacks. He feels that way because the situations unfolding in the Mideast and New York are not directly affecting him. 
"I think everything feels less safe. Even though we have more security, it draws attention to our vulnerability," said Erin Ryan. 
Students vary on their feelings regarding the effectiveness of the new security measures. Jacquelyn Kramer feels safe and would not hesitate to fly on an airplane. All students are not as assured as Kramer is. "As far as me feeling safe, I really don't think about it. I see the airport stuff and we are supposed to feel safer but I don't think it is that easy. I certainly don't feel safe because of a guy in uniform," said Chester. 
Alicia d'Alessandro. Notre Dame sophomore, said that the attacks show what we take for granted such as walking freely in an airport. 
Some are cautiously reassured by the belief that a sense of calm has returned to the nation after the initial wave of panic. 
"I feel safe because I feel like everyone is more aware now of their surroundings and what's going on, although there is still a threat," said Courtney Zeph, Notre Dame sophomore. 

Foreign policy 
In recent months, the govern­ment has made it apparent that a United States invasion of Iraq is on the horizon. Some students questioned whether it was the United States' role to take this position. 
"I think the government might be a tad too aggressive with regard to regime change in Iraq. Instead. I would rather see more humanitarian aid to Afghanistan and less covert operations," said Jacquelyn Kramer. 
Chester spoke of the duty that the United States has in the world and wondered if its ego has grown to the size that it automatically assumed that it has a duty to solve crime and poverty. 
"We have this elitist view that they [other countries] will listen to us because it is us, but we are always interfering and it doesn't mean that they will listen. We take it too far. It's not our duty to be there. It's foolish of us to think people will listen to us at all times," said Chester. 
Briggs believed that the nation does have a certain responsibility on the international scene. "I agree with America's foreign policy. I think terrorism is some­thing that we should not tolerate and I agree with our policy on Iraq," said Briggs. "I~ our duty as members of the human race 
see REFLECTION/page 4 


U.S. plans quiet 9 /11 m.em.orial observances 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The nation will remember last Sept. 11 mostly in silence, with few sounds other than bells tolling, military jets roaring in tribute and the reading of victims' names. 
At the World Trade Center, felled by two of the four hijacked jetliners, family members and dignitaries will read the names of the 2,801 dead and missing Wednesday morning, to begin and end with moments of silence and include readings of the Declaration of Independence and the Gettysburg Address. 
The city's remembrance is to begin with a moment of silence at 8:46 a.m., when the first plane hit the trade center -and end just before 10:30 a.m., when the second tower collapsed. 
A wall etched with the names of the dead and miss­ing was unveiled Tuesday at a new ground zero viewing stand. 
A ceremony was planned at the Oklahoma City National Memorial, which marks what had been the worst act of ter­rorism on American soil. In Chicago, home to the nation's tallest building -the Sears Tower -residents will observe three minutes of silence before an interfaith prayer at Daley Plaza. 
In New York, former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani was sched­uled to lead a long line of peo­pIe reading the victims' names in alphabetical order. Others include Secretary of State Colin Powell, actor Robert De Niro and Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
A ceremony at the Pentagon, where 189 people were killed, including five hijackers, will begin at 9:30 a.m., and include a moment of silence, the Pledge of Allegiance and musical selec­tions by military bands. 
Thousands were expected to gather Wednesday in the Pennsylvania field where the fourth hijacked plane crashed. Wednesday's cere­mony at 10:06 a.m., the time of the plane crash. will include a moment of silence and a reading of the 40 vic­tims' names as bells are tolled. 
President Bush will visit all three disaster sites Wednesday, traveling from the Pentagon to Pennsylvania to New York's Ground Zero. 
Bush will address the nation Wednesday night from Ellis Island, with another symbol -the Statue of Liberty -as his backdrop. 

page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Is Iraq worth it? 
War is nothing ifnot a gamble. From the earliest recorded battles straight through to today, this remains constant throughout history. As a result the vic­tor, no matter how powerful, is never invincible. 
Tom Haight

American, Israeli 
and British citi­
zens, as well as 
StaffWriter

soldiers have 
learned this the 
hard way over the 
last several decades as they have 
become targets of those whom they 
have vanquished on the battlefield. As 
the United States prepares to lace up 
the gloves again in the name of world 
peace {ironic, isn't it?), the world is 
abuzz with debate as to whether or not 
war is justified. Few, however, are ask­
ing whether it will be worth it. While 
the ethicists duke it out on the moral 
level, a far easier gage for the common 
man is a simple benefit/risk ratio. As 
any business major can tell you (and 
therefore I'm assuming most of you can 
follow this}, the benefit/risk ratio is a 
device for detennining whether an 
investment is worth making. 
Let's look first at the risks involved in 

a sustained war with Iraq. By sus­
tained, we actually mean a quick war 
which will drag on into a long occupa­
tion (see Afghanistan) wherein the 
resistance fighters will likely be armed 
with weapons such as poison gas, 
anthrax, and a host ofother weapons 
never before at the disposal ofguerilla 
fighters. While the current administra­
tion would like us to believe that the 
Iraqi people will all join hands with the 
United States (notice United States, not 
United Nations) troops and sing songs, 
keep in mind these people have 
absolutely no reason to like the United 
States. Remember, Sadam has done a 
good job convincing them that the 
United States embargos are the cause of 
all of their hardships. Casualties to 
occupying troops in the months follow­
ing will likely be high. Further, we will 
be inciting more acts of terrorism from 
a people who have, throughout history, 
predominately desired to be left alone. 
This will come back to haunt us, guar­
anteed. 
Next let's take a quick look at the potential benefits. Once again, the White House wants us to believe that we will be saving·ourselves from annihila­tion at the hands of Iraqi nukes. Please, can we be realistic? Sadam is power hungry, not suicidal. Any large-scale attack on United States soil will result in an end to his reign. Funding Palestinian suicide bombers is one thing, attacking the US directly is anoth­er. What real benefits do we get? Well, we get cheap oil from the new puppet government, the military gets to oil its gears (which it always likes), we'll hope the economy gets a boost, and the administration gets a "V" in its colwnn. Not bad ifyou're a rich American, in the military or involved in Bush's adminis­tration. Oh, wait, those are the only people in the world who are pushing for this war. 
The evaluation does not bode well for the case ofwar. Notice that we're tbe only country ready to fight. Even in Britain, the majority oppose this war. Statistically, America has seen a whole lot less war in the last century than the rest ofthe world. Do you think. just 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tom Haight at thaight@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards icself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ac all cirnes. We do, however, recognize rhac we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
ACE teacher 
Nation put on 
recognized 

higher alert 
President Bush 
As the nation's 
highlighted a 
terrorist alert is 
recent Notre Dame 
raised to the sec­
grad who is now 
ond highest level, 
an ACE volunteer 
security heightens 
when he was in 
and embassies 
town last week. 

dose. 
page 3 
page 5 

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Memorial Mass celebrated by Father Edward Malloy, president, Hefkcting Pool IIeshurgh Library, 5 p.m. 

. 
British drawings from the col­lection of Mr. and Mrs. Allan J. 

. 
Nineteenth-century European photographs from_ the Janos Scholz Collection, Sn1te Muse um, all day. 



WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Mass for Peace and Justice, lloly 
Spirit ChapeJ, Le Mans Hall, 9:30 p.m. 
. 
Student Diversity Board meet­ing, I ICC/#304, Noon. 

. 
Blue Mantle meeting, IICC/#303, 4:40 to 8 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING North Dining Hall 
BUSINESS NEWS 
Investigators finish probe 
Lawmakers sug­gested that the Justice Department conduct an investi­gation into Martha Stewart. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
Mother and son reflect on September U 
A Notre Dame student and her mother share their experiences of Ground Zero. 
page 11 

WHAT'S GOING DOWN 


Car broken into 
Between 8:30 p.m. Monday night and 7 :26 Tuesday morning. a car parked in D2 north was broken into. 

Solicitor given a warning 
NDSP apprehended an individual in a parking lot who was asking for money. The individual was issued a no trespass warning letter and released. 

Money taken from drawer 
Money was reported as being taken from the unlocked desk of an unlocked office in the Galvin Life Science Center. 
St. Ed's resident breaks the 

rules 

NDSP were called to St. Ed's Monday night because of a violation of University rules. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
SCENE 
Vigil lit by memories 
The Notre Dame community comes together to mourn the victims of Sept. 11 at the Grotto. 
page 13 
SPORTS 
Football preview 

Michigan quarter­back, John Navarre, faces many chal­lenges in this week­end's game. 
Car vandalized 
A car was reportedly vandalized on St. Joseph Drive Monday evening. There are no suspects. 
Unlocked bike stolen 
An unlocked bike was taken from a bike rack on the west side of the Hesburgh Library between 9:00 a.m.­3 p.m. on Monday. 
Today Lunch: Broccoli cheese soup, minestrone soup, hawaiian pizza, roast, champagne rice pilaf, apple crisp, baked cajun pollock, cheese and vegetable pie. long grain and wild rice, winter blend vegetables, oatmeal, bacon slices, scrambled eggs, sausage gravy and biscuits, hash browns, grilled turkey on kaiser, california casserole 
Today Dinner: Broccoli cheese soup, tomato soup, buffalo chicken lasagna, hawaiian pizza, roasted turkey breast, bread stuffing, apple crisp, broccoli and tofu, tuna casse­role, potato pancakes, applesauce, spinach, BBQ ribs 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY 
a:: 
LU 
::c 
~ 
LU 
~ 
.,,J 

~ 
~ 
c( 0 


.9 HIGH 75 HIGH 70 HIGH 78 LOW 58 LOW 49 LOW 54 
South Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Baked cheese ravioli, pesto sauce, pretzel stixks, mexican beef pizza, BBQ chicken, grilled tuna with lemon, turkey breast, bread stuffing, long grain and wild rice, onion rings, grilled chicken, oriental vegetables, can­tonese BBQ pork, chicken taco, arroz con pollo 
Today Dinner: Baked cheese ravioli, mexican beef pizza, sauteed mushrooms, spinach pie, green bean casserole, turkey noodle casserole, fried perch, roast top round, cajun chicken breast, seasoned fried, kung pao chicken, taco bas­kets 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
HIGH 87 HIGH 77 HIGH 76 LOW 59 LOW 58 LOW 54 
Atlanta 95/ 65 Boston 80/ 53 Chicago 75/ 53 Denver 69/58 Houston 90/ 71 Los Angeles 83/ 63 Minneapolis 76/ 56 New York 82/ 54 Philadelphia 95/ 78 Phoenix 76/ 55 Seattle 81/ 56 St. Louis 87/ 75 Tampa 89/ 69 Washington 85/ 58 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Prominent feminist author speaks at Saint Mary's 

By MELANIE BECKER 
NewsWrirer 
Through joint sponsorship of the Center for Women's Leadership (CWIL) and the Women's Studies department, feminist author Paula Kamen spoke to about 50 people at Saint Mary's Tuesday about the evolution of females in society. 
Kamen, whose book "Her Way" explored 20-year-olds vision of the future of women's movements, talked about the independence women have gained over the past 30 years, which has given them greater career options and sexual con­trol. 
Feminism and its implications were also addressed. Kamen stressed feminism is a way to give women a chance to explore their individualism. The ideals of feminism, she said, are not to encourage women to be more like men, but for them to gain more knowledge, political power and economic stability so that they can make their own decisions. While many women continue to have families, oth­ers choose to pursue careers. 
"Marriage, family and com­mitment are still important, but they are not set in stone," Kamen said. "Paths are very different then they were before." 
These outside factors revolu­tionized the way women are viewed, and view themselves sexually. As women's roles in society have changed, sexuality has been pushed to the fore­front, said Kamen. 
Sexual harassment, rape, sex out of marriage and lesbianism have come to light as women struggled to take control of their bodies and free them­selves from shame, Kamen added. Increasing sexual free­dom has put women into a more traditionally male realm as they are becoming more sex­ually active and aware. 
"In her research she is trying to connect women's personal struggles to larger social move­ments," Religious Studies Chair Phyllis Kaminski said. 
The audience raised ques­tions of how religion plays a factor in the changing view of women's sexuality. and several members of tlie audience raised issues about the struggle between religion and lifestyle issues espoused by Kamen. Kamen concluded her talk by saying women should listen to their own voice in making per­sonal decisions. Additionally, liberation should mean that women are given the right to follow their own morals and values. 
"I think that the amount of people that showed up shows what an important topic this is in the community," said junior Mary Beth Broviak. 
Contact Melanie Becker at beck093l@saintmarys.edu 

Bush highlighted ACE and Notre Dame graduate 
By TERESA FRALISH News Writer 
In his Sept. 5 speech at the South Bend Regional Airport, President Bush pointed specifi­cally to teacher and 1995 Notre Dame grad­uate Ricardo Rios as an example of h o w Americans could serve their coun­try. 
Rios, whom Bush met and introduced to the crowd at the airport, teaches sixth grade chil­dren at St. Adalbert Catholic School in South Bend through the Alliance for Catholic Education. 


The ACE program is a two­year service experience that places college graduates in understaffed and Catholic schools nationwide. While teach­ing, volunteers earn a tuition­free master's of education degree and receive a stipend to cover their living costs. 
Bush founded the Freedom Corps, an umbrella organization that encompasses Americorps, a sponsor organization for ACE, upon entering office. As a fairly new teacher, Rios said he hopes to help develop each of his stu­dent's potential and be sensitive to their learning styles. "The biggest challenge is to tap into the individual needs of the stu­dents," he said. "Children learn in different ways." 

To help his students be suc­cessful, Rios wants to offer dif­ferent types of instruction for his sixth-graders. Though the stu­dents aren't perfect, Rios said he feels optimistic about teaching. 
"You can't really have an off day," he said. "It's exciting because [the children] make you laugh." 
Over the course of the year, Rios hopes to improve as a 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With. Julliet Mayinja, Assistant Director International Study Programs And Returning Students 
**************************************************** 
Thursday, Sept. 12, 2002 5:00-6:00 PM 
129 Hayes-Healy 
Applicaton Deadline: Oct. 1, 2002 for Spring, 2003 Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ 
teacher and empower his stu­dents to achieve their goals. 
"I hope that my kids see through both my teaching and experiences that they can accomplish anything as long as they put forth the attitude and effort," said Rios. 
Rios did not enter the ACE pro­gram immediately after gradua­tion as many Notre Dame seniors do. After receiving a degree in accounting from the University, he instead worked for four years as an accountant, a career he found satisfying and challenging. 
Despite having a rewarding position in the business world, Rios eventually became interest­
ed in making a significant career change and decided to spend a year serving in a Mexican orphanage. 
"I think something pulled me," said Rios. 
When his year of service in Mexico ended, Rios initially looked for a teaching position, but found the search difficult since he had no academic back­ground in education. At that point Rios began to consider various service teaching oppor­tunities, and decided that the ACE program seemed like a good match for his interests. 
'The more I learned about the 
ACE program the more I was 
impressed," Rios said. 
Rios credits the ACE pro­gram's excellent recruitment and teacher support networks as key factors in his decision to apply and become a volunteer. 
"I liked the fact that they real­ly go out and find energetic peo­ple who want to do service and teach," he said. 

Rios found that, of all the ser­vice teaching opportunities avail­able, ACE offered the best chance to strongly influence chil­dren's lives. The ACE program also provides participants with several layers of support, Rios said, including sight supervisor teachers who offer volunteers positive reinforcement and as well as mentor teachers during the school year and summer ses­sions. 
"It's basically set up for suc­cess," said Rios. 
In addition to the ACE pro­gram itself, Rios also considers his experiences at Notre Dame as a significant factor in initially stimulating his interest in service with children. After spending one semester of his sophomore year studying abroad in Mexico, Rios felt his outlook on society had greatly broadened. 
"That experience gave me a greater world perspective," said Rios. When deciding to work as a volunteer teacher, Rios reflect­ed back on his time in Mexico to help him make the choice to enter the ACE program. 
While at Notre Dame, Rios also participated in a wide array of service opportunities with chil­dren, including working with children's after school programs at La Casa de Amistad and help­ing Hispanic families to learn English through the Buen Vecino program. Rios tutored children at Notre Dame's Northeast Neighborhood Center and worked as a resident advisor in Zahm Hall during his senior year. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 



Wet Your Whistle! 
(and stuff your face) 
DAILYSPECIALS 
Rated #l Hot Wings ~ in the area 
Wednesday: 
$1 so Domestic Bottles of Beer Family ~ight -Kids Eat Free* 
•one free meat for each adult meal purchased 1803 SOUTH BEND AVENUE -SOUTH HEND, IN,~-­
-

' • • I, • , • • : '.• I J' I i'' 
N"' '" SmJd,,s,k '""i41:9'i;~, in=~ 
Must he 21 with valid ID to consume alcohol S P O r ' ' 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
GSU outlines the 
•

upcoming year 
By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assistant News Editor 
The Graduate Student Union began its first meeting of the academic year Tuesday by dis­cussing proposed changes to its constitu­tion and outlining the organi­zation's goals for the coming 

Dale
year. 
In a fast paced meeting due mainly to President Tim Dale's commit­ment to limit each monthly meeting to one hour, members considered changing the consti­tution to give all committee members voting rights. The constitution currently only allows elected academic depart­ment representatives to vote, although in the past committee chairs have exercised a right to vote despite it being unconstitu­tional. The suggestion, accord­ing to Dale, was a move to align the constitution to practices within the meeting. 
"There are several things within the constitution that either seem ridiculous or make no sense," Dale said. 
The GSU, however, quickly became locked in debate as members questioned the logic behind diluting the power of elected members and giving some of it to representatives appointed by the president. In the end, members decided to maintain the current wording of the constitution but allow an open discussion at each meeting 

Reflection 
continued from page I 
to protect those who can't pro­tect themselves." 
Chiriboga supports the United States but feels as though tit may be overstepping its bounds. "The United States does a good job helping people, but it is too involved and let people resolve things on their own. It's their fight," said Chiriboga. 
Chiriboga recognizes that while this position may help the United States it may negatively affect the international commu­nity. "The world won't be able to feel safe until the United States and Mideast relations improve. If we allowed Iraq the situation to determine who could vote. 
Members unanimously approved stipend increases for the Social. Healthcare and Orientation Committee Chairs and approved the organization's 2002-03 budget. They also voted to allow the president to make himself or any voting member chairman of the meet­ing. 
Any of the motions that out­line constitutional changes will have to pass again at next month's meeting in order to go into effect, as dictated by the organization's constitution. 
In other GSU news: 
. 
Members unanimously voted to donate $200 to an endow­ment honoring former Notre Dame graduate student Vernon Lau. A student of the Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering department, Lau graduated from Notre Dame in January and was killed by a drunk dri­ver in March. The GSU's dona­tion increased the endowment to $1,500. Once $2,000 dollars is raised, a bookshelf will be purchased and the interest earned on the remaining amount will be used to buy a reference book each year. 

. 
Sister Jean Lenz introduced herself to the GSU and promised to continue working closely with the organization. 


"It's wonderful to have you here at Notre Dame," she said. "I've worked with the Graduate Student Union for the past 15 years. It's been wonderful to watch how this group has devel­oped. I think it's going to be a great year. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu 
won't improve. Instead of using force, the United States should try to improve relations with these people but I also think that maybe it's too late," said Chiriboga. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at downesl@nd.edu 
F-16s to fly over Stadium before Notre Dame-Michigan game 
Special to The Observer 

Two U.S. Air Force F-16 fighter jets piloted by University of Notre Dame alumni will fly over Notre Dame Stadium just before the start of Saturday's football game between the Fighting Irish and the University of Michigan. The flyby is part of a national observance of POW/MIA Day. 
The participating pilots -1993 graduates Capt. Mark D'Auteuil and Capt. Pat Hund, 1989 graduate Maj. Tom Stewart, and 1986 graduate Maj. Dudley Kelsey -are based at Luke Air Force Base near Phoenix. Their appearance at Notre Dame is part of a cross-country training mission. 
Since 1979, POW/MIA Day has honored repa­triated soldiers and those still missing and unac­counted for during American wars abroad. Ceremonies are held throughout the United States and around the world on military installa­tions and ships at sea, with national veterans and civic organizations, and at state capitols, schools,_ churches, and police and fire depart­ments. 

lnl Git Yl¦r llllr 111.liD'I 
..................................,rft,1'9.__....______....,_ .......""'"""................... 
Lif~111y!UII,' loll ~.JA!li~fonM:fl1¥'1~~u,.·MIIS»-..:l~AHII:._ 



RESUMES 
Anyone can write a resume -but will it be effective? A+ Resumes is the answer. 
q> Resumes that work qi FREE consultation q, Located near campus 
A+ Resumes 
243-3140 www.aplusrez.com 

"NWTRE DAME STYlE" 

Thundav se111m111r 12. 2002 9:00-11:00 IOI COIIDIII-Mlrsa Cellar 
Oi'llt~ ~ 
rt'lt~ ...is . · 
E,lt tlO 1'1'\0r . 
o,sc~,-v--"t'wJ' GIIISI Sllllhn f'00 ND-Laprachaun aid Ch11r11adan 
Ralrlshments 
WORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
U.S. raises nation's terror alert level 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Bush administration raised the nationwide terror alert to its second-highest level, closed nine U.S. embassies overseas and heightened secu­rity at federal buildings and landmarks in America as new intelligence warned of car bombings. suicide attacks and other strikes linked to the Sept. 11 anniversary. 
Americans were urged Tuesday to be alert but unbowed -go to work, to school, on trips -despite spe­cific threats against U.S. inter­ests abroad and less credible concerns that terrorists might attack America again. 
After a hectic series of tele­phone calls and late-night meetings, President Bush's top advisers decided Monday to recommend raising the level from code yellow -"significant risk" of attack -to code orange -a "high risk." Bush met twice with the advisers Tuesday morning, the last time in the top-secret Situation Room, before telling them, "Let's do it." 
Despite no evidence of a plot against the United States. the Sept. 11 anniversary and intelli­gence gathered in the last 48 hours -some from a high­ranking al-Qaida operative ­prompted the decision. Tom Ridge, Bush's homeland securi­ty director, said plans for multi­ple attacks on U.S. targets in southeast Asia were in "an operational phase." 
Code orange is the highest alert level imposed since the system was established in March. The only higher status, code red, reflects a severe risk of attack on U.S. soil based on credible evidence. 
"The threats that we have heard recently remind us of the pattern of threats we heard prior to Sept. 11,'' Bush said on the eve of the anniversary. "We have no specific threat to America, but we're taking everything seriously." 
From immigration officers to meat inspectors. government workers were put on high alert as security precautions rivaled measures taken immediately after last year's attacks. 
Vice President Dick Cheney canceled a Tuesday night speech and was taken to a secret location to protect the presidential line of succession in case of an attack. He will remain in seclusion at least through the Sept. 11 obser­vances, a senior administration official said. 
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld ordered that live anti­aircraft missiles be stationed near launchers that had been deployed around Washington for a training exercise. 
Across the country, access was restricted to public places and events. Colorado Gov. Bill Owens, announcing security measures at the state Capitol, told residents. ''You should probably bring your driver's license" to the building. 
The government sent a sepa­rate alert to local law enforce­ment across the United States warning of possible scattered attacks. prompting discussions in communities on how best to protect potential targets like shopping malls, schools and public gatherings. 
Echoing the words of Attorney General John Ashcroft in a news conference earlier, the alert said: "Reporting also indicates that lower level al­Qaida operatives and sympa­thizers view the Sept. 11 time­frame as a suitable time to lash out in small strikes to demon­strate their worldwide presence and resolve. Widely dispersed. unsophisticated strikes are pos­sible." 
Local police were on edge. They urged residents to report any suspicious activity. 
"There's no such thing as a stupid phone call," said Lt. Kelly Willis, spokesman for the Des Moines, Iowa, police department. "We're here to be bothered." 
Among 15 or so U.S. diplo­matic posts closed overseas, the embassy in Jakarta and a con­sular office in Surabaya, both in Indonesia, were shut down due to what officials called credible and specific information about security threats. 

Bush to ask U.N. for help with Iraq 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Bush said Tuesday he will ask the United Nations "to deal with the problem" of Iraq and dispatched top members of his national security team to Capitol Hill to talk to skeptical lawmak­ers. 
Bush tied his goal of toppling Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to the war on terror he began after the Sept. 11 attacks a year ago. 
'Tm deeply concerned about a leader who has ignored the United Nations for all these years, refused to conform to resolution after resolution after resolu­tion, who has weapons of mass destruc­tion," Bush said during a visit to the Afghan Embassy. "And the battlefield has now shifted to America; so there's a different dynamic than we've ever faced before." 
The president does not plan to offer new information about an Iraqi threat or recommend any specific actions in his Thursday speech, a senior White House official said on condition of anonymity. Lawmakers said George Tenet, the direc­tor of central intelligence, and national security adviser Condoleezza Rice like­wise gave no new information in private congressional briefings Tuesday. 
Bush also continued phone conversa­tions on Iraq, talking to Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain, President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia and President Vicente Fox of Mexico. He plans to host Italian Premier Silvio Berlusconi at Camp David Saturday, continuing a pattern of inviting like-minded leaders to the presi­dential retreat. 
Berlusconi has frequently allied him­self with Bush on foreign policy, and in a letter to a newspaper to be published Wednesday, laid out his strongest case yet in support of the U.S. demand for ousting the Iraqi president, saying pre­ventive military action was legitimate if Baghdad doesn't change its ways. 
U.S. allies and members of Congress have urged Bush to give them more evi­dence that Saddam's nuclear, biological and chemical weapons programs pose a direct threat. 
In his U.N. speech Thursday, the administration official said, Bush plans to respond with a challenge of his own: "What more do we need to know?" 
Outside experts and U.S. officials say Iraq probably has stocks of chemical and biological weapons and could make a nuclear bomb if it could obtain enough nuclear material. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq appeals to Arabs to confront U.S.: 
In conflicting signals, a senior Iraqi official on Tuesday called on Arabs to rise and "confront" America, barely a day after another official said Iraq wanted to be a trade partner. not a battlefield foe, with the United States. In the United Nations, meanwhile, U.N. chief arms inspector Hans Blix said there was no evidence from aerial photos or other sources that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction or is trying to build them. But he added there are still "many open questions" about Iraq's weapons programs that need to be answered. 
Arab station broadcasts Bin Laden tape: 
The Arab satellite station Al-Jazeera broadcast more excerpts of a videotape on Tuesday in which a male voice attributed to Osama bin Laden can be heard naming all 19 Sept. 11 hijackers and later the four leaders of the Sept. 11 attacks -Mohamed Atta. Marwan Al-Shehhi, Ziad Jarrah and Hani Hanjour. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Medical helicopter crashes in S. Dakota: 
A medical helicopter crashed while taking a patient to a hospital in Sioux Falls, killing all four people on board, officials said Tuesday. The heli­copter, missing since late Monday, was found Tuesday morning in a field southeast of Doland in northeastern South Dakota, Gov. Bill Janklow said. "There arc no survivors," he said. The CarefHght air ambulance, leased by Avera St. Luke's Hospital in Aberdeen, was on its way from Aberdeen to the Heart Hospital of South Dakota in Sioux Falls with a patient, the pilot. a flight nurse and a flight medic, officials said. 
Police investigate Buzz Aldrin: 
Detectives are investigating a complaint that retired astronaut Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin punched a man in the face at the Luke Hotel on Rodeo Drive, after being asked to swear on a Bible that he'd been to the moon. 
FBI searches Islamic leader's home: 
Federal agents Tuesday searched the apartment of a prominent local Islamic leader charged with docu­ment fraud and a judge ordered him held without bail pending trial. FBI spokeswoman Beth Anne Steele wouldn't disclose details of the search. Sheik Mohamed Abdirahman Kariye pleaded innocent to felony charges of unlawful use of a Social Security number and unlawful possession of a U.S. govern­ment document. A trial is scheduled for Nov. 5. 
Map shows miners didn't have updates: 
A newly discovered map appears to show that mine operators didn't have the most recent survey of the area when nine miners got trapped for three days, authorities said Tuesday. The map found by federal investigators shows more exten­sive digging in an abandoned mine that was not shown on maps being used by the nine miners, mine safety officials said. 


page 6 The Ohserver . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
New shuttle service gets students around campus 
Two business students awarded Fanning scholarship 
who taught business communication
Special to The Observer 
as a guest instructor in the college 
from 1989-95. A 1953 Notre Dame 
Edward O'Connell, a finance major graduate, Fanning was a Universityfrom Oak Lawn, Ill., and Catherine benefactor and a longtime member of Totten, a marketing major from the college's advisory council. 
Pittsburgh, have been named the 2002 O'Connell and Totten were selected recipients of Eugene D. Fanning by faculty of Notre Dame's Fanning Scholarships at the University of Notre Center for Business Communication Dame. for their excellence in communication Funded by donations from members skills. The scholarship includes a 
of the University's advisory council for $3,500 credit to each student's tuition the Mendoza College of Business, the account a.nd a commemorative pewterscholarships were established in 1995 plate. The two students are the 15th 
in honor of the late Gene Fanning, a and 16th recipients of the scholar­Chicago businessman and investor ships. 
Collect Calls 

Save The Max 

1800MAXSAVE.COM 
1-800-MAX-SAVE 
(1-800-629-7283) 
*Plus set-up. lnterstate/8p.m.-7a.m. 

DIAL 10·10-226 THEN 1 + AREA CODE AND NUMBER 
50%MORE TALK TIME 
WWW.10-10-226.COM 

LeBrunch LeLunch 
By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
In an attempt to keep students out of the rain and snow in between campus­es this fall, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's consolidated the shuttle sched­ule by eliminating seven stops, includ­ing LeMans and Holy Cross Halls. 
According to Dan Skendzel, Notre Dame's director of administrative ser­vices, the stops that were eliminated either had a low rate of student use or could be easily served by a nearby stop. 
Prior to the implementation of the new plan for the shuttle schedule, there was a consensus between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student gov­ernment and administration to amend the service. A portion of this decision was based on ridership data provided by shuttle operator, Coach USA. 
"In previous years the shuttle has been very unreliable, arriving and departing stops at various times because it could not possibly make all of its scheduled stops in the allotted time," Skendzel said. 
The revised schedule hopes to create a dependable 40-minute loop around Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. A second bus services the Legal Aid Clinic and Robinson Learning Center on weekday afternoons. 
According to Rebecca Spann, a Saint Mary's freshman, who rides the shut­tle from McCandless Hall, the shuttle is occasionally early or late in the evening, but it is still faster than walk­ing to and from the two campuses. 
Although the new schedule has yet to increase efficiency and timeliness, Melissa Peters, LeMans Hall director said. "There have been no complaints about shuttle service at this time." 
The change in bus stops has not posed any security issues and has caused few complaints. 
"At this time there have been no official reports of security problems due to the location of the bus stops," said Dan Woods, Saint Mary's interim director of security. 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at snelliga@nd.edu 
By CHRISTINA CEPERO 
News Writer 
After the tumultuous decades of crime and corruption, which occurred during its rocky transition from 75 years of Communism to a capitalist economy during the 90's, Russia has emerged as a prosperous country. 
This month Notre Dame welcomes Russian economist Victor Supyan, vis­iting fellow of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and deputy director of the Institute of the USA and Canada Studies, Russian Academy of Sciences .. 
On Sept. 10, he gave a presentation entitled "The social and economic consequences of the Russian privati­zation" at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Supyan reviewed Russia's current economic situation. Its economy has been growing steadily since 1998 after experiencing a deep depression. Supyan said this economic growth is not directly connected with privatiza­tion as was initially expected. 
Rather, the four main reasons for economic success have been: 
. 
Import substitution (meaning focus­ing on the domestic market) 

. 
Solid growth in export volumes 

. 
Better tax collection 

. 
Increased domestic investments 


Supyan then discussed the three dif­ferent approaches to privatization Russia considered. The first, most lib­eral approach was "based on the proposition that the state's property should be sold to anyone who was ready to pay." 
Although this would have been the most economically efficient method, it was unref!,listic because no one, including criminals, had enough capi­tal to buy the huge amounts of land, and it would also be socially unfair. 
The second approach to privatiza­tion involved leftist forces such as trade unions and the socialist and communist parties who supposed that the enterprise assets should be trans­ferred or sold to them. 
This system had worked in Germany, but its shortcoming was that it ignored all other populations in the country. 
The third, called the voucher 
approach. advocated the free distribu­tion of state-owned property through­out the whole of the Russian popula­tion. Its limitations were that it did not create any economic incentive for the accumulation of capital and no effec­tive mechanism was introduced on how to utilize these potential shares of state property. 
The actual approach to privatization Russia employed in 1992 after the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991 most resembled the last "but was actually based on the shared interest among several social forces," said Supyan. 
It had the following six main objec­tives: create a middle class, increase employee productivity, social protec­tion, enhance financial stability, cre­ate strong national economy and attract foreign capital. 
Voucher privatization failed to fulfill its goals of economic effectiveness and foreign investment because companies did not make serious changes in orga­nizational and man­agerial structures, and it did not add to new investments. Supyan said, "The privatization in Russia did not create a stable middle class as was expected." 
Rather. it created a class of private own­ers. 
During the 1990's, political instability, legislation, a general economic slowdown and relativeIy high inflation also pre­vented privatization from taking off. 
The primary benefit of privatization, therefore, was the creation of the poten­tial for flow of capi­tal, a factor that allowed the Russian economy to flourish after 1998, said Supyan. 
Contact Christina 
Cepero at 
ccepero@nd.edu 

Speaker highlights effect of Russian privatization 

Wednesday, September 11, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stewart investigation complete 
Market Watch Se ten1ber 10 
Dow Jones 

8,602.61 +83.23 
NASDAQ 

1,320.09  t­ +15.49  
S&P500  
909.58  
 +6.62  
AME¥  
876.97  t­ +3.65  
NYSE  
491.71  +2.65  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
PALM INC(PALM) +2.47 +0.57 0.7! 
¦¦ilii·--····••.•···••.---·.•· 
··~~~rl{l~'.~:1,ijj~:1j:ffl~;1i-~ 
CISCO SYSTEMS(CSCO) +0.83 +0.03 13.4: 
¦1!!:111¦111:~1¦1:111:11111i11111~1111:;!rlli!1!!illlf1:1~ 
INTEL CORP(INTC) 2.24 +1.09 16.4; 
IN BRIEF 

Boeing workers vote to go on strike 
Nearly 1,500 employees of Boeing's subur­ban Philadelphia plant have voted to go on strike early Saturday unless the company improves on a contract offer made Sunday. 
About 98 percent of the membership of United Aerospace Workers Local 1069 voted in favor of a strike, local President John DiFrancisco said Tuesday. He said the union offered to negotiate further but received no response from Boeing. 
Madelyn Bush, a Boeing spokeswoman, said no talks were scheduled. Bush didn't rule out further negotiations, but said a contract the company proposed on Sunday was "our best and final offer." 
United: No deadline extension yet 
United Airlines' new chief executive is wait­ing to see unions' proposal for a financial recovery plan before deciding whether a Monday deadline for reaching labor agree­ments should be pushed back, a spokesman said. Glenn Tilton said shortly after taking over the ailing carrier's top job last week that he might seek an extension to the Sept. 16 deadline imposed by his predecessor. 
Pilots union spokesman Steve Derebey said Tuesday that Tilton had indicated to union leaders that he was inclined to ask the Air Transportation Stabilization Board for about two more weeks to amend United's applica­tion for a $1.8 billion government loan guar­antee. 
Sidgmore to quit as WorldCom CEO 
WorldCom Inc. chief executive John Sidgmore said Tuesday he would step down as soon as a permanent replacement can be found to lead the bankrupt telecommunications provider. 
"I have concluded that having moved WorldCom through the initial phase of the bankruptcy process, now is the appropriate time for the company to initiate a search for a long-term CEO," said Sidgmore. who replaced former CEO Bernie Ebbers in April. 
. Results sent to Department of Justice 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Lawmakers asked the Justice Department on Tuesday to begin a crimi­nal investigation into whether Martha Stewart lied to a House committee trying to determine if she received inside information before selling her ImClone stock. 
"As members of Congress we believe it is our obligation to forward specific and credible infor­mation in our possession that could suggest a feder­al crime has been commit­ted," the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee wrote to Attorney General John Ashcroft. 
Shares of Stewart's com­pany, Martha Stewart Omnimedia, jumped almost 10 percent immediately after the lawmakers' announcement Tuesday afternoon. Analysts said investors apparently viewed the referral to the Justice Department as preferable because it spares Stewart from hav­ing to appear before Congress under subpoena. The shares closed Tuesday at $9.05, up $1.30, or 16.8 this matter will now termi­4,000 shares of ImClone ers said they have been percent, from a day earlier nate and am confident that stock on Dec. 27, a day prevented from resolving in afternoon trading on the the investigation will lead before the company's discrepancies and "suspi­New York Stock Exchange. to Ms. Stewart's exonera­application for federal cious communications·· 
Stewart's attorneys said tion." review of its highly touted involving the stock sale. they welcomed the com­At the Justice colon cancer drug, Erbitux, The domestic design mittee's action because the Department, spokesman was denied. tycoon has refused repeat­Justice Department is the Mark Corallo said the "I think that she did that edly to be interviewed by appropriate authority to agency will review the law­innocently," Stewart committee staff members, address questions related makers' letter. He declined lawyer James Fitzpatrick they said, and her attor­to her stock sale. comment. said on CNN's "Moneyline" neys have said Stewart, if 
"I strongly disagree with Stewart is a friend of for­Tuesday night. subpoenaed, would invoke the analysis of the commit­mer ImClone chief execu­Committee spokesman her Fifth Amendment right tee and its staff but am tive Sam Waksal, the only Ken Johnson said panel not to incriminate herself. pleased that the matter person so far charged in investigators negotiated Pieces of evidence will now be exclusively in the federal investigation of with Stewart's attorneys obtained by the committee the hands of professional ImClone Systems Inc., until shortly before the "cause us to be deeply law enforcement authori­which he founded. He announcement, offering skeptical of Ms. Stewart's ties who are trained to pleaded innocent last not to seek a Justice accounts and raise a seri­conduct a responsible and month to charges of securi­Department probe if she ous question as to whether 
· thorough investigation," ties fraud, perjury, bank would agree to appear vol­those accounts were false, said Stewart attorney fraud and obstruction of untarily and testify at a misleading and designed to Robert Morvillo. 'Tm glad justice. hearing next week. conceal material facts," the that the political aspects of Stewart sold nearly In the letter, the lawmak-letter to Ashcroft said. 

Port Authority sued over WTC tanks 
Center. little structural damage and col­
Associated Press 
In particular, the lawsuit lapsed due to fire alone, the first WASHINGTON claimed, the Port Authority failed fireproofed steel structure to do so. A utility and five insurance com­to properly monitor multiple diesel Consolidated Edison Co. of New panies filed a $314 million lawsuit fuel tanks installed in 1999 to pro­York Inc. and five of its insurance blaming the Sept. 11 collapse of a vide power to the city's emergency companies -including Aegis 47-story World Trade Center com­command bunker on the building's Insurance Services Inc. and Lloyds plex building on the Port Authority 23rd floor. The Port Authority -accused the Port Authority of of New York and New Jersey's neg­denied the lawsuit's accusations. failing to apply, interpret and ligence in monitoring diesel fuel The building also housed a secret enforce safe engineering practices tanks in the building. CIA station, believed to be the most and standards commonly used for 
The lawsuit, filed Tuesday in U.S. important CIA domestic station out­high-rise office buildings through­District Court in Manhattan, said side Washington. It was near the out the state. the Port Authority, owner of the two 110-story trade center towers They said the Port Authority also trade center complex, was respon­th at collapsed after they were did not properly apply, interpret sible for the collapse because it struck by planes hijacked by ter­and enforce New York City and 
poorly controlled the design, use rorists. state fire safety rules and regula­and occupancy of 7 World Trade It was believed to have sustained tions. 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002
page 8 The Observer . NEWS 
UC-Berkeley students 
receive hate e-mail 
Flight 93 victitns' falllilies visit crash site a year later 
Associated Pr<!ss 

SHANKSVILLE, Pa. 
Friends and family of the victims of United Flight 93 privately shared their grief and memories at the crash site Tuesday, a day before a public ceremo­ny marking the one-year anniversary. 
Preparations for Wednesday's event were put on hold for two hours as the nearly 500 people walked on the grassy field in western Pennsylvania to remem­ber their loved ones, who investigators believe overpowered the hijackers and prevented the plane from reaching its target. 
Reporters and the public were barred from the site, where 44 people died ­including the four hijackers -when the plane went down Sept. 11 just outside Shanksville. Family members later described the gathering as a healing way to remember the passengers and crew. 
The gathering was "solemn and sad, and yet celebratory," said Alice Hoglan, 52, of Los Gatos, Calif., whose son, Mark Bingham, was killed. "It was very heal­ing. It was almost a joyful event for me." 
"The most important thing to me is that we do not forget,"said Hamilton Peterson of Bethesda, Md., who lost his father and stepmother in the crash. 
Some of the relatives and friends were making their first visit to the site, about 70 miles southeast of Pittsburgh. 
Several spoke about the natural beau­ty of the site, against the backdrop of a tree line, and said it was a fitting resting place. 
"It was such a place that was so much about my brother, that there was actual­ly a comfort in it,"said Lori Guadagno, of Jacksonville, Fla., whose brother, Richard, died. 
On Wednesday morning, organizers expect some 20,000 people to attend a public memorial in a field a few hundred yards away from the crash site. 
At 10:06 a.m.• the time the plane crashed. a bell will toll as the name of each victim is read. Scheduled speakers were to include homeland security chief Tom Ridge, who was Pennsylvania's governor at the time of the crash, and Sandy Dahl, the wife of Flight 93 pilot Jason Dahl. President Bush was expect­ed to visit privately with families at the crash site Wednesday afternoon. 
By EMMA SCHWARTZ 
Daily Californian 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

Some University of California­Berkeley students planning Wednesday's Sept. 11 memorial con­tinue to receive hate messages -a result of their widely publicized state­ments against distributing red.white and blue ribbons. 
Students began receiving hate e­mails and phone calls after a conserv­ative campus publication, The California Patriot, ran an online article on the decision made by the event's planning committee noL Lo hand out red, white and blue ribbons during the memorial. Some students received more than 200 hate e-mails each ­many containing racial slurs -over the issue. 
"You're nothing but an anti­American hate monger," said an anonymous e-mail sent to Graduate Assembly President Jessica Quindel. "You offend and disgust me and other veterans of this great country." 
ASUC President Jesse Gabriel and members of his office said they also received hate messages.Students who received hate messages said they have been unfairly singled out and added the messages have taken away from the memorial's importance. 
"The controversy has detracted from the idea of grieving the loss of life," Quindel said. "We're trying to include all voices and are being outcast and seen as wrong, which goes against American ideals. I think that shows the irony of trying to be patriotic." California Patriot writers said in a statement released Monday that they intended for their article to ignite a reaction but did not mean for it to result in hate messages or harm those involved in planning the memorial. 
"It's important to remember we shouldn't let (the students' decision] translate into vicious telephone and/or e-mail attacks directed towards those who wanted to keep red, white and blue out," the statement said. 
Sources quoted in the California Patriot's article, who wished to remain anonymous, said it misrepresented their views and included factually incorrect information. 
But editors of the publication said they presented all material accurately in the article. 
"It's a question of [them] lying or us [lying] and we have the notation to back it up," said Seth Norman, man­aging editor of the California Patriot. 
Steve Sexton, the writer of the arti­cle and former news editor of The Daily Californian, declined to comment on the allegations. 
Some Berkeley faculty members said the controversy has been blown out of proportion. 
"It's really sort of surprising how big an issue this has become," said politi­cal science professor Henry Brady. ''[The hate mail] shows the depth and concerns and fears that some people have and it's a shame that they've come out in this way." 
Last Thursday Berkeley Chancellor Robert Berdahl overruled the white­ribbon decision and allowed the use of ribbons that bear the colors of the U.S. flag. 
In a joint meeting the next day, organizers said they plan to distribute various colors of ribbons. including white. 
"I deeply resent the implication that by planning this service in this way, we are unpatriotic," said Berdahl at a press conference Thursday. 
"We believe it is a disservice to those who died to allow this memorial to become a political rally of any kind." 
Utah questions the right to revoke parents' guardianship 
Mitchell recognizes the boy's biologi­
By MEAGAN ANDERSON 

cal parents do have legal ground to 
The Daily Universe 

oppose the ruling, but feels strongly 
that they should not maintain their PROVO, Utah parental rights. 
The parental rights of a mother and "They can't hide behind the federal father are in jeopardy after the Utah constitution,"Mitchell said. "The boy is Supreme Court convened Friday morn­here and his parents are elsewhere." ing. According to Jim Shirley, attorney for 
The argument in this case is whether the boy's mother, Utah the state of Utah has the right totermi­has the authority to make 
nate parenral rights of a mother and decisions about the boy's father who do not live in Utah. foster care, but it does no~ 
The parents in question, who have have jurisdiction to termi-' not been identified, are serving jail nate parental rights. time in Texas and Oklahoma after Utah officials say the being separately convicted of sexually hoy's parents were noti-1 abusing children. iied of the termination 
The couple's 13-year-old son has proceedings but chose not been in Utah state foster care since to participate. 1998, when his older sister, who had "Incarcerated parents legal guardianship, was unable to care communicate all of the for the boy and turned him over to the time,"said Martha Pierce, state. The state of Utah has found the an attorney defending the boy's biological parents unfit and deter­boy's welfare. The boy's mined that their parental rights should parents could have com­be terminated. Annina Mitchell, attor­municated their concerns ney for the state, said she is aware how by telephone or by video sensitive this case is. with Utah State attorneys 

"The issue here is whether Utah has but no contact was made, 

Students can exchange
the right to terminate parental rights," she said. she said. 
their football tickets for regular 


admission tickets. 
In order to exchange a student ticket for a regular admission ticket to a specific football game: 
1.students must go to Gate 10 Box Office during the exchange period for the game, which runs from Tuesday through Thursday the week prior to the game. 
2. 
Notre Dame students must pay $22.00, and Saint Mary's and Holy cross students must pay S14.00 <the difference between their price per game and the regular admission price). 

3. 
Each student must exchange his/her own ticket and present his/her student I.D. 


For more information on ticket exchanges and restrictions, call the Ticket Office at 1-7356. 
Sponsored by Student Government 

Wednesday, September l l, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
INDONESIA 

Nine United States embassies close worldwide 
As•odated Pres• 
JAKARTA 
Nine U.S. embassies in Asia, Africa and the Middle East were closed, and U.S. military bases and embassies in Europe enforced tightened security Tuesday, the eve of the anniversary of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. 
Shortly after dawn broke in New Zealand Wednesday, Prime Minister Helen Clark planted trees on the grounds of the U.S. Embassy to com­memorate the attacks. 
"This date has been forever 
etched into our memories," 
Clark said. ''The world will 
never forget the tragedy which 
took place. 
Those attacks were acts of 
utterly incomprehensible vio­
lence which shook us all pro­
foundly." 
In Australia, flags flew at half staff and people began laying wreaths at makeshift memorials early Wednesday. 
In Washington. Bush admin­istration officials cited the threats against U.S. embassies in southeast Asia in raising the nation's terror alert to "code orange," its second­highest level. 
German authorities raided a 
trading company Tuesday that 
a German official said once 
employed a suspected al­
Qaida recruiter accused of 
drafting members of the terror 
cell that dispatched the Sept. 
11 suicide hijackers, and 
Turkey was on alert for the 
possibility that militants 
linked to al-Qaida might be 
planning poison gas attacks. 
But the most direct threats 


were in Southeast Asia, where Dominican Republic and oth­saying there was a "continu­from Gatwick. dozens of Islamic hard-liners ers -also heightened security ing threat of terrorist actions, In France, Transport allegedly linked to the al­ahead of the anniversary of which may target civilians and Minister Gilles de Robien Qaida terror network have the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. include suicide operations." warned that aviation "has been arrested over the last In Puerto Rico, U.S. military About 10 unarmed London become a weapon" as he year in Singapore and bases tightened security police officers, backed by toured Charles de Gaulle air­Malaysia. Tuesday following a govern­armed soldiers, were on duty port outside Paris to demon­
In Indonesia, the world's ment decision to raise its ter­at the U.S. Embassy on strate extra security measures most populous Muslim nation ror alert warning to the sec­Grosvenor put in place and home to several hard-line ond-highest level -code Square, since Sept. 11. 
"Monstrosity is always
Islamic groups, the U.S. orange. w h e r e "At any Embassy announced it was In Europe, extra security security lying in wait, it's out instant. any­closed until further notice was ordered at airports, gov­has been where in
there, and it is always
because of a "credible and ernment offices and stepped up France or in
possible . .,
specific" terrorist threat. embassies. for the the world. ter­"We know that the al-Qaida The Vatican newspaper, anniver-rorism can network is still far from L'Osservatore Romano, dedi­sary. U.S. strike, and
Jean-Pierre Raffarln 
defeated," Ambassador Ralph cated most of its Tuesday edi-diplomats therefore, we
France Prime Minister
Boyce said. tion to the said secu­are not free in H e anniversary of rity also the face of ter­implied the the terror remained rorism, we are
'This date has been
warning attacks. high at the embassy in Berlin, on watch,"
forever etched into our
w a s "The duty of sealed off for a block on all Prime Minister Jean-Pierre received memories. memory is sides by armed police. Raffarin said in an interview through accompanied The U.S. military's European with Radio France intelligence by another Command, based at a sprawl­Internationale. "Monstrosity is
Helen Clark
sources, imperative ing headquarters in Stuttgart, always lying in wait. it's out saying it New Zealand Prime Minister that unites all Germany. and responsible for there, and it is always possi­was "more of humanity: American forces in Europe ble." than an the duty to and parts of Africa, said secu­With the al-Qaida network anonymous conquer fear," rity measures were being kept disrupted by the U.S.-led war e-mail or a the newspaper at levels of recent months, but on terrorism, European offi­phoned in threat." said. "The absurd and heinous that base commanders could cials were warning of the 
U.S. officials in neighboring logic of terrorism also feeds on order extra measures as war­threat of attacks by individual Malaysia, a mostly Muslim the fear that it provokes." ranted. Islamic extremists who might country of 23 million people, Italy assigned 4,000 soldiers Last week, German police act without outside direction. said the embassy there would to protect "sensitive sites," acting on an FBI tip arrested a The prosecutor who led the close until further notice due while Belgium ordered "strict 24-year-old Turkish man and probe into Osama bin Laden's to a specific threat. vigilance" for its security his fiancee, a U.S.-German cit­operations in Italy said the 
The American diplomatic _ authorities. German police izen, on suspicion of planning new threat to Europe in the mission in Cambodia will shut said they were stepping up to bomb U.S. military installa­aftermath of Sept. 11 comes for at least three days as a security at Frankfurt airport, tions in Heidelberg. from "free-lance" terrorists security precaution, said continental Europe's biggest. Investigators said they have without direct connections to charge d'affaires Alex Arvizu. "Now, we always have to no evidence linking them to al-Qaida. He gave no details. consider the unthinkable," al-Qaida and believe they "At the moment, we are not 
U.S. embassies were also Belgian Interior Minister were acting alone. threatened by the same net­closed in Vietnam, Pakistan, Antoine Duquesne said. At the Spangdahlem U.S. air work as before Sept. 11," Tajikistan, Bahrain, the United The U.S. State Department force base in western Stefano Dambruoso told The Arab Emirates and Malawi. issued a worldwide caution Germany, 12 buildings were Associated Press in an inter­
U.S. embassies in Caribbean this week urging Americans to evacuated for several hours view Monday night. "Al-Qaida 
countries Haiti, the remain especially vigilant, Monday after an explosives­as we knew it has been largely sniffing dog alerted authorities dismembered." to a gravel truck entering the "But there are many frus­base. No bomb was found. trated Muslims in Europe, who 
At London area airports, live on the fringes of society. officials said airlines canceled They are close to fundamen­18 trans-Atlantic flights from talist groups but don't belong Heathrow and at least two to any organization." 
Orthodox Christian Fellowship Club 

All are invited to the first meeting of the year on Thursday, September 12 at 9:00pm in 108 DeBartolo. 
or more information please email us at jlohkamp@nd.edl 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagenga.st  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPE.RATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payn" 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR, Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto CoNTROLLER.; Lori L:walski 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFo..............631-7471 FAX. ............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..................................,•• 631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORiAssT. ME....................631-454 l BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoim. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARrs ............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
VLSit our Web sire at http://oburver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves ,he right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Question., regarding Obruverpolic~ should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The OhK~r (USPS 599 2--4000) ti, published Monda.y th.rough Friday nap, during c:xam .n-d -v11eacion periods. AJubscription tc The Obxrvu is S 100 for one academic 'f'~f'55foronc.scmc.uu. 
The Obacn,a U pwh\Uhed at: POSTMASTER 
Ol4 Solich Dining Hall ScnJ ~•cum:t:tic:m1 to: 
N""' o....,. IN <16516-0'n9 Tho:.O~r 
Pcriocb.;11 pcu~gc paid n Nouc Dirm­P.O. BoxQ Mad adJitiuna.1 mailing off1c.u. OH Suulh D.ning Hall Notrt Ocm,e, IN 4&5-56--0779 
Thf'Ob~ if a mnnlxrofrhc Aswci:n.:d Pren:. All ""Pmduetion nghu ~ """"d. 
Sept. 11 observances unite students 
The enduring image of Sept. 11 at Notre Dame will not isn't about Americans putting on the best show or distanc­only be crumbling towers and a smoke-filled New York ing themselves from one another with events that segre­horizon, but also 81000 people blanketing South Quad gate them rather than draw them closer. under a pristine blue afternoon sky. Hours after hijacked What makes the memorials by the Notre Dame and Saint planes crashed into the World Trade Mary's communities so special is their common Center towers in New York City and the Ql5~rver goal. Their events aren't meant to out-do or one-Pentagon in Washington, D.C., the Mass •a1 up each other. The campuses mark the fateful brought mourners together in a commu­date just as they do any other tragedy-in a
Edit-:on 
nal outpouring of prayer and grief. lJ spirit of faith and solidarity. 
On the first anniversary of the terrorist On campus today. students should see patrio­attacks, the lasting memory this year may tism at its finest. The day will bring everyone be of Tuesday's candlelight vigil or today's Mass at the together -students who studied abroad during the Hesburgh Library reflecting pool. What freezes these attacks, professors who lost family and community mem­moments in time is not the uplifting words of priests or the bers who had no connection to the affected cities at all. beauty of a thousand candles glowing in the night sky. It's At a time when it's hard enough to agree on the coun­the spirit of cooperation and unity that represents the try's military response to the war on terror, it's refreshing events. to see Notre Dame again offer an outlet for all students to 
Since the deadly attacks on U.S. soil a year ago. express their various emotions about the event. On Sept. Americans have kept the date of this anniversary in mind. 11, Notre Dame drew students together with a Mass to First they grieved over it; now they're observing it. What unite them in mourning and prayer. One year later, it con­they shouldn't do is compete over it. tinues to encourage that spirit of community by helping 
While other people in other places bickered over how students come to terms with their emotions and memories best to remember Sept. 11, the Notre Dame and Saint in a collective outpouring of support and grievance. Mary's community proposed a memorial applicable to all While students still remember the event in their own its members. personal ways, it's encouraging that such a united front 
Why plan 200 Sept. 11 memorial services when two will stands tall on the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint do? Celebrating this anniversary and future anniversaries Mary's. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Fly the flag proudly 
It is with a heavy heart that I read tured lwo Jima, did they put up an 11 prayer service at St. Charles Anna Nussbaum's letter printed in The Earth flag? When my grandfather, an Catholic School in Rochester, N.Y., Observer Sept. 4. While I expect to see Italian-born American immigrant who USA. We will sing "God Bless America" a certain degree of liberalism from fought (to protect your freedom) in the (not "God Bless Earth"), and then the some college students. it saddens me American Army cavalry, died, did they "Battle Hymn of the Republic" (Not the to no end that even Domers can be so lay on Earth Day flag on his casket? "Battle Hymn of Earth"), because our misguided. When the NYC firefighters raised a Republic is at battle, whether the Anna 
There has been an American flag flag at Ground Zero after America (not Nussbaums of the world like it or not. flown in the front yard of my house Earth) was attacked by Muslim terror­There is nothing wrong, Ms. every day since July 4, 1975. It flew at ists, was it an Earth flag? Do our Nussbaum, with a little idealism. half-staff from Sept. 11, 2001 until our armed forces, who are fighting at this There is nothing wrong with wanting president asked that flags be returned very moment to preserve your right to world peace; most of us do. There is to full-staff. It will fly again at half­hold your opinion that we should not nothing wrong with holding the opin­staff this Sept. 11. fly American flags on the anniversary ion that war is evil, even while there 
There are people on my street that of the attack on America, wear Earth are brave men and women who have are not from the United States, and flags on their uniforms? never met you fighting a war right some are not American citizens. Am I If you want to forget that it was now for you to keep that opinion. not being "hospitable" to them by fly­America that was attacked, or you see There is, however, something wrong ing an American flag? I spent part of the American flag as some sort of with turning your back on your coun­my summer in Canada and would awful symbol, there are a number of try. never give a thought to asking them places that call themselves colleges We've seen just how much the peo­not to fly a Canadian flag because I felt (Stanford, Berkeley, Kent State) where ple of planet Earth are behind us in they were being inhospitable. I expect these sorts of ideas are embraced. The our war on terror. the same from people who are not Notre Dame that I know is not one of So you fly your Earth Flag, and I'll American and who live on my street, them. I hope it never is. fly Old Glory. are at Notre Dame or are guests any­Ms. Nussbaum suggests that this where else in our country. Sept. 11, I "chill with a group of peo­Joseph F. Lombard 
When our Marines (you know, the ple and sing." Well, I will. 1will sit class of 1999 men who die to give you freedom) cap-with my first grade class at our Sept. Sepe. IO 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Meghanne Katie McVoy Downes Bryan Kronk Bill Puckett Scene John Fanning C. Spencer Beggs 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 

Sheila Flynn Nellie Williams Graphics Illustrator Katie McKenna Veronica Kelleher 
NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should students in air-conditioned dorms pay more for room and board? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The liberties ofour country, the freedom of our civil constitution, are worth defending at all hazards; and it is our duty to defend them against all attacks. " 
Samuel Adams American revolutionary leader 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Mother reflects on son's response to tragedy 
Stephen was home from Notre Dame for Christmas, 2001. He had described to us how the University had respond­ed on Sept. 11, and that was when I knew, more than ever, that he was in a good place. 
Over 6,000 people had turned out for Mass on South Quad. As a member of the Notre Dame Chorale, he sang with the Mass choir. Honestly, not only was I grateful he was where he was, I was also a little jealous. 
We had a remarkably usual Christmas in Pennsylvania. Stephen helped out the men's section of our parish choir on Christmas Eve, and the extended family gathered at my sis­ter's on the 25th. On Dec. 27, we made our customary holiday journey to visit his grandmother in Queens, N.Y., over the Vcrrazano-Narrows Bridge, past the now-altered Manhattan skyline. He grew quiet and reiterated his desire to visit Ground Zero. He had trained to be an EMT after his junior year of high school, volunteering Fridays and Saturdays, 6 p.m. to midnight, with the local ambulance corps during his senior year. Wanting to work in EMS at Notre Dame. he was told he needed to be certified as a firefighter. He took Firefighting I in Pennsylvania the sum­mer after his freshman year and was hired as a part-timer by the Notre Dame Fire Department in the days before Sept. 11. He felt part of the brotherhood of EMS workers and fire­fighters. 
We took the subway into Manhattan early on Dec. 28. The public viewing ramp was slated to open the following Monday. Walking past the makeshift memorials and plywood barricades, we could only glimpse the site. 
People had laid flowers, hung pic­tures of loved ones and left mementos of every sort from all across our nation and the world. There was a reverent silence. Someone put a pamphlet into my hand. The cover photo showed peo­ple running for their lives from the smoke and deadly debris of a collaps­ing tower. We kept walking and walk­ing, seemingly around an endless perimeter, drawn to but still afraid of the elusive look into the crater. Barricades were manned by armed soldiers and IDs were being examined scrupulously. 
It seemed we had come nearly full circle. Our son had grown more and more silent and despairing. I finally said. "If you are sure you have to see this, and if you really do want to see it, then you have to go up to that check­point, explain your situation and show that soldier your credentials. We'll wait here for you." 
He looked from the barricade to the soldier to the inner-circle ramp that went up to the site and back to us, turned and strode to the guard. We sheltered in the lee of an office build­ing (we weren't allowed inside because of security precautions) and watched. It was the coldest day of 2001. 
Stephen spoke to the soldier. He offered two IDs. Each was thoroughly checked, each picture held up for com­parison. More discussion. 
Then -he's in. Not a look back in our direction. Head down, he's moving precisely as directed, as if in proces­sion. (He didn't spend all those years in Catholic school for nothing.) Up the ramp. Out of sight. Later we learn that he was told to be very careful about saying anything -that "victims' family members could be there." 
Twelve minutes later he emerges, as grim-faced as a 19-year-old can be. "Unreal doesn't begin to describe it," is all he can say. 
We walk the long way back. He wants to leave his Notre Dame Fire Department shirt at the fence memori­al. By this time there's a crowd -we start to get separated. He points and calls out, 'TU meet you there!" 
We slowly make our way "there," a triangular street corner, with saw­horse barricades I can Jean on, wearily grateful. I still have the pamphlet that was pressed into my hand two hours earlier. It offers carefully non-denomi­national spiritual comfort. I slowly realize that the horrifying photo on the cover was taken from the spot on which I am standing. Now I'm the silent one. 
Notre Dame, Our Mother, pray for us. 
Joanne M. Carroll Downingtown, Pa. Sept. 6 
GUEST COLUMN 
Mark this anniversary with inclusive vision 
One year ago, in the days before the terrorist attacks, Sept. 11 was a date like any other. It had no symbolic importance, its mention did not elicit a vis­ceral sinking or a mental vortex of nightmarish images. 
One year ago, had you asked me if Sept.· 11 would be an Mike Still important day, I would have said, "Well, it'll be a busy day ... I have to get to the involvement 
Daily

fair by 9 a.m. and then be back 
Collegian

at my apartment to wait for the cable-internet guy to get me online." 
One year ago, the top stories were Chandra Levy and stem-cell research. 
Things are a bit different now from a year ago. Following the attacks, our nation and the world have acted in ways that hitherto seemed impossible. 
Americans rallied together as a people in a way unseen since the Second World War. There was an outpouring of support throughout the world from countries as disparate as Russia and Malaysia. For the first time since the 1979 revolution, no chants of "Death to America" were uttered at the Friday public prayer sessions in Iran. 
And George W. Bush, a man seemingly better suit­ed for the Waffle House than the White House, rose to the occasion and became a leader. 
On Sept. 11, the Kegmeister grew up. He was no longer two sizes too small for his office. He realized that success in his war on terrorism would be fleet­ing without deep and true international support. So Bush's folks, led by Secretary of State Colin Powell and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, fanned out across the globe, searching for international part­ners to vanquish the looming and hidden threat. 
Although improbable and without precedent, deep and true international support seemed within reach. In the days after the September attacks, nation after nation agreed to help Bush snuff out terror cells. British Prime Minister Tony Blair called on the inter­national community to "reorder this world around us" and "create lasting good out of the shadow of evil." Pakistan agreed to allow the United States like renegade cowboys on the issue of a global cam­paign against terrorism. 
But something happened in the first, long year after Sept. 11. Bush mistook a world sympathetic to the horror and pain of the terrorist attacks for an international mandate to allow unchecked United States military action across the world. He mistook national grief as a cry to create an imperial presidency, whose decisions were beyond question and actions above scrutiny. 
Bush now feels as though he has an unlimited mandate, one which covers the right to wage war on Saddam Hussein's Iraq. 
There is no doubt that Hussein is a vile dicta­tor. He is a man who has used chemical weapons on his own people, a man who has actively pur­sued the develop­ment of weapons of mass destruction. But does he present such a security risk that we might send a quarter million of our American sons, daughters, friends and siblings over to the Persian Gulf region, a large number of whom might never come back? Does he present such a security risk that we should risk generating increased anti­Americanism throughout the Arab world and beyond? 
According to CIA officials, proof of links between Iraq and al Qaeda are sketchy at best. Says Sen. Chuck 
ingly building an international consensus on our 
right to wage war on radical Muslims, we now find 
that through unilateral decision-making and disre­
spect of international opinion, global support for the 
United States has fallen to levels seldom experi­
enced. Even Britain is a bit shaky about whether to 
get into the Hussein ouster game. One year later, we need to remind our­selves that it was not Iraq that struck at our capital, scarred Pennsylvania, and caused the World Trade Center to fall, but terrorists blinded by violent and hateful rage towards America -precisely the ;-. type of rage engendered 'l•-'t by unilateral action and · t the flouting of interna­tional coalitions. One year later, we need to reflect on 
the horror of Sept. 11, honor those we lost and find solace and pride in our ability to come together as a nation. 
We need to show the rest of the world that our 
response to the ter­ror attack will con­tinue to be one based 
on reason and not simply raw emotion. One year later, we need to call on President 

Bush to present a vision for our place in the interna­tional community, one which does not place us in a realm alone, cut off from international support and dialogue. 
unprecedented support in the Afghanistan strikes. 
Russia's Vladimir Putin reached out to Bush with a warmth that melted away four decades of lingering Cold War distrust. Our president was leading the international community into a just war. For a brief time, it seemed as though we weren't going to act Hagel (R-Neb.), a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, "Saddam is not in league with al Qaeda. Of course he cheers and encourages them. But I have not seen any intelligence that would lead me to connect Saddam Hussein with al Qaeda." 
In the first, long year after Sept. 11, after painstak-
This column first appeared in the Sept, 10 issue of the Daily Collegian, the daily campus news­paper ofPennsylvania State University. It is reprint­ed here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

THE 
OBSERVER 


....
l edition 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002 page 13 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Graves' first career start a shutout for Reds 
.., 
Associaced Press 
CINCINNATI 
Russell Branyan hit a solo horner to back Danny Graves and four relievers who com­bined on a six-hitter that led the Cincinnati Reds over the Pittsburgh Pirates 3-0 Tuesday night. 
Cincinnati, which gave Graves his first career start, got its sixth shutout of the sea­son and sent Pittsburgh to its 14th shutout loss. The Pirates (63-82) are ensured of a 10th straight losing season, a fran­chise record that broke the mark set from 1949 through 1957. 
They are the 18th major league franchise to record at least 10 consecutive losing seasons, a group that includes the 1945 to 1955 Reds. 
The crowd of 13,153 was Cincinnati's third-smallest of the season. 
Branyan 's sixth-inning homer off Kip Wells (12-14). his 11th since the Reds acquired him from Cleveland on June 7, cleared the 40-foot "batter's eye" wall located 393 feet away in center field. He is the fourth player and first Red to clear the wall since it was built before the 2001 season. 
Jose Guillen and Aaron Boone added run-scoring hits in the eighth. 
Chris Reitsma (6-10) pitched 3 1-3 innings in relief of Graves, who threw three innings. Scott Sullivan got a popup and strikeout to strand the bases loaded in the sev­enth. 
After not earning a save since May 3, 2000, Scott Williamson got his second in two nights. 
Graves, Cincinnati's closer since 1999, had made 363 relief appearances, the most by any pitcher making his first start since Los Angeles' Terry Adams also compiled 363 relief appearances before starting at Arizona on June 5 last year. 

Chuck McElroy, who played for the Reds from 1999 to 1996, set the record by mak­ing 603 relief appearances before starting for Baltimore against Oakland on Sept. 2, 2000. 
Graves, whose career high is four innings, threw 38 pitches. 25 for strikes, before rookie Wily Mo Pena pinch hit for him and got an infield single in his first major league plate appearance. Graves allowed two hits and walked none but hit two batters. 
Wells allowed five hits in six innings. He has lost three straight decisions for the sec­ond time this season. 
Braves 12, Mets 6 

Just because they've already clinched the NL East. the Atlanta Braves don't have to stop beating up on the New York Mets. 
A day after wrapping up their 11th straight division title, the Braves overcame a five-run deficit for a victory over New York behind two homers from Andruw Jones and five RBIs from pinch-hit­ters. 
Jones homered in four straight at-bats, going back to Saturday's game against Montreal. He became only the 11th player in NL history to accomplish the feat. 
Trey Hodges (1-0) earned the win in his big league debut. Mets starter Pedro Astacio (12-9) gave up four homers and was ejected in the fifth inning after he plunked Gary Sheffield in the arm with a pitch. 
The Braves, who have base­ball's best record, missed a chance to clinch themselves by losing Sunday to Montreal. 
They were idle Monday when the Mets defeated Philadelphia, handing the Braves another division cham­pionship. 
The team noted the accom­plishment before the game, showing season highlights on the video board and unveiling a 2002 pennant alongside the 10 others that have been won since 1991. 
New York's Hoger Cedeno dampened the mood on the first pitch of the game. homer­ing into the center-field seats against Damian Moss. 
Moss gave up four more runs in the second, including a mammoth homer by Mike Piazza. The left-hander was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the bottom half, leaving him with the shortest start of his career. 
Moss might have escaped the second without any damage if Chipper Jones had not lost a flyball in the lights, giving Joe McEwing a leadoff double. 
Moss retired the next two hitters, but Cedeno and Raul Gonzalez followed with run­scoring singles and Piazza hit a 434-foot drive into the left­field seats for his 28th homer, a two-run shot. 
Chipper Jones picked up that hit right away, looking sky­ward to follow the flight of the ball without moving a step. 
But the Braves responded as if they were mad at the Mets for taking away their chance to celebrate on the field. 
Marlins 6, Phlllles 4 

Mike Redmond wasn't sup­posed to play in the opener of Florida's doubleheader against Philadelphia on Tuesday night, then provided the much of the Marlins' offense. 
Redmond, who entered dur­ing a double switch in the sixth inning, hit a tiebreaking two-run homer in the seventh inning and had three RBI in Florida's 6-4 win. 
"It was one of those things where I was kind of relaxing, waiting for the second game," Redmond said. "But you always have to be ready, and when they told me I was going to double switch, l went and had a catch to get ready." 
He connected off Randy Wolf (11-8) for his second homer of the season. It followed a lead­off single by Mike Mordecai, who had three hits. 
'Tm not a big home-run hit­ter so it surprised me as much as it surprised everyone else," Redmond said. 
"Actually I foresaw what was going to happen," Marlins manager Jeff Torborg jokingly said when asked about the double switch, made to allow reliever Vladimir Nunez to pitch two innings. 
Derrek Lee had a bases­loaded triple in the first inning for the Marlins, who sent the Phillies to their eighth loss in nine games. 
"I know that those things are going to happen," Wolf said of the first inning. "You just have to try and minimize them." 
Graeme Lloyd (4-4) pitched a hitless sixth in relief of Julian Tavarez, who gave up three runs, seven hits and five walks in five innings. Armando Almanza pitched the ninth for his second save in four chances. 
Wolf, who had been 6-0 in eight starts since a July 21 loss to Atlanta, gave up five runs and seven hits in seven innings. 
After falling behind, Philadelphia got a run from Tomas Perez's second-inning RBI grounder, then tied it in the fifth when Bobby Abreu hit an RBI double and scored on a single by Travis Lee, who had three hits. 
Abreu was thrown out at the plate in the third by second baseman Luis Castillo, who took the throw from Kevin Millar after Pat Burrell dou­bled. 
Cardinals 8, Brewers 3 

Matt Morris, activated from the disabled list before the game, allowed one run in five innings Tuesday night as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Milwaukee Brewers 8-3. · 
Eduardo Perez hit a three­run homer and Scott Rolen had a solo shot for the Cardinals, who have won seven straight for the first time since a nine-game streak from Sept. 8-22 last year. St. Louis maintained a 5{-game lead over second-place Houston in the NL Central. 
Morris (16-7). who went on the disabled list Aug. 24 after straining his left hamstring the previous day against Philadelphia, allowed five hits, struck out three and walked one. He threw 7 4 pitches, 44 for strikes. 
Milwaukee's only run off him came on Jim Rushford's RBI single in the second. The Brewers' 51-94 record is the worst in the National League and they went 2-for-9 with runners in scoring position, making them 3-for-32 in their last three games. 
Wayne Franklin (1-0), mak­ing his first major league start, allowed six runs _ five earned _ and six hits in five­plus innings. 
Perez homered in the fourth for a 3-1 lead, and St. Louis added a run later in the inning when Edgar Renteria stole second, took third when catch­er Robert Machado's throw went wide and high into cen­ter field and came around when Jeffrey Hammonds' throw went past third for another error. 
The Observer acc_epts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the tight to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
CJs Pub See whats happening www.cjspub.com 
Attention Spring Breakers Travel Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Most Reliable www.sunsptashtours.com 
1-B00-426-nrn 
NeeQ 4 tickets for the ND vs Michigan game. 
Call 4-4622 and ask for Roy 
ND Alumni wish to rent Turtle Creek apartment for the Michigan game weekend. Will offer good $$$. If interested, call 773-209-4623. 
Available Game Weekends: COUN­TRY ESTATE Three Bedroom Home, Country Setting on Operating Horse Farm, 20 min from campus. Contact Mitch Magari-Ya Stables and Equestrian Center 
574-299-1607 or magariyasta­bles@aol com 
MICHIGAN Tix (2) with Lodging 
near N.D. 
271-7205. 

WANTED 
$250 a day potentiallbartending. Training provided 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 
Housemate in 3 bdrm house in a quiet nbrhood. close to campus. $350/mo incl all util. Gall Niki 574­287-7869. 
RIDING INSTRUCTORS; ENGLISH /WESTERN PART-TIME POSI­TIONS TO WORK AROUND CLASSES 20 MIN FROM CAM­PUS. Contact Milch Nihart Magari-Ya Stables and Equestrian Center 574-299-1607 
Nanny wanted for 3 children Approx. 12-15 hrs. per week (very flexible) 271.0766 Kim 
AFTER SCHOOL CARE FOR TWO CHILDREN, 3PM-5:30PM, MON THAU THURS. GOOD PAY! CALL LISA AT 631-9947 OR 2n-8564. 
FOR SALE 
91 Honda Accord EX, 4 dr, teal, clean, 1-owner, 11ery good condi­
lion. $4200. 
2n-01e9. 
Large one-bedroom condo for sale. One mile to ND. Non-rental. Newly remodeled. Fully equipped. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
Dratting tables -$25-30 Student desks $25 631-4969 
1993 FORD AEROSTAA. Asking $1500. Call Leah 233-8411. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished rooms for rent in a spa­cious comfortable home. Includes kitchen privileges, washer/dryer, A/C, internet, quiet reading rooms, swimming pool and patio. 2 miles from campus. $330 month. 
Call Tom at 574-243-4749. 
All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmrnrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. 
CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. 
Awesome! We have a 2 bedroom 2 bath apartment available now at College Park Condos on Bulla. Celebrate Junior or Senior living at its best 
Call Patti 235-7234. 
ND ALUMS: Rent a 4-bdr condo 5 min from NO for football weekends. Email ndcondo2002@yahoo.com 
BED n BREAKFAST for FOOT­BALL WKENDS blocks from cam­pus call KEVIN 574-288-5377 ­
New Studio Apartment available lo rent for NO games and events. Walking distance to Univ. on Dunn Rd. Call 340-S938/272-3116. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR • WELL MAIN­TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED· ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS • SECURITY SYSTEM -MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL • WASHER/DRYERS • CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER 
(574)234-2436 · (574)274-9955 • (574)674-2471 
HOUSE FOR RENT 2002/2003: We have a variety of houses includ­ing two of the best undergrad hous­es you can rent. Call Bill at 532· 1896 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for lootbatl/par­en! wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487 
TICKETS 

N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911 . 
NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. CALL JACK 674-6593. 
Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289· 8048 or astrog999@aol.com 
Need 2 or 4 GA tix to home games. 276-8507. Call 288-28n after 5. 
Need 3 tickets to 9/14 Mich. game. 255-8256. 
WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Philadelphia-area alum needs one ticket tor U of Michigan game. Call John 610-688-1710 
Need many tickets(6)for BC game. 
Call Brian at 4-0881 

Need 1 GA for Michigan call collect 317.582.1492 
Want 4 MICH !ix call 312-925-8961. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1­7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Give adoption a chance..we are happily married and need your help in starting a family. Will provide a lifetime of love, laughter and end­less opportunities. Call our attorney toll free at 866-215-2229. 
B-Two-Feel better! We need to go out soon. 

Let's skip the foreign languages ­YOURMOMI 
Lauren. Your little nuts was looking for you Monday night. He said he didn't want you to work anymore 
I'm out early tomorrow night. I haven't been to The Stale yet. Yeah Wednesday nights 

Wednesday, September 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Burkett gets win in Red Sox rout of Rays 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

John Burkett snapped a seven­game winless streak and Manny Ramirez homered for the second straight day as the Boston Red Sox beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 12-1 Tuesday night. 
Doug Mirabelli and Nomar Garciaparra each hit a two-run homer for Boston, which began the day 7 1/2 games behind the Anaheim Angels in the AL wild­card race. 
Burkett (11-7) gave up one run and six hits in seven innings for his first win since July 27. He had been 0-4 with an 8.47 ERA in his la.st seven starts. 
Ramirez also hit an RBI dou­ble. He has seven homers and 20 HBls against Tampa Bay this season. 
Aubrey Huff extended his career-high hitting streak to 17 games with a fifth-inning homer for the Devil Rays. 
Joe Kennedy (7-11) lost his third straight start, giving up seven runs and seven hits in six innings. The Devil Rays (48-96) have the fewest wins by an AL team after 144 games since the 1979 Toronto Blue Jays were 46-98. 
Ramirez hit his 28th homer in the third, an opposite-field solo shot that put Boston up 2-0. 
The Red Sox went ahead 7-1 with a five-run sixth. Ramirez and Cliff Floyd hit consecutive RBI doubles. After Benny Agbayani drove in a run with a single, Mirabelli hit a two-run homer. 
Garciaparra hit a two-run homer during a four-run sev­enth that made it 11-1. Pinch­hitter Freddy Sanchez delivered a two-run single in bis major league debut. 
Yankees 5, Orioles 2 Yankees 3, Orioles 1 
Jeff Weaver made the most out of his rare opportunity to start. 
Weaver allowed one run in eight innings and Raul Mondesi homered as the New York Yankees completed a sweep of a split doubleheader with a 3-1 victory over the Baltimore Orioles on Tuesday night. 
Rookie Juan Rivera drove in two runs, including a tiebreak­ing single in the seventh, and Andy Pettitte (10-5) allowed one run in 7 1-3 innings to lead New York to a 5-2 victory in the opener. 
The Yankees have won seven of eight, reducing their magic number to 10 for clinching their fifth straight AL East title. 
Joe Torre's second-game line­up looked more like a split­squad team from spring training than the regular Yankees. 
Alfonso Soriano, Derek Jeter, Jason Giambi, Bernie Williams, Jorge Posada and Robin Ventura sat out in favor of Enrique Wilson, Alex Arias, John Vander Wal, Chris Widger and Ron Coomer. 
But it proved to be enough against the Orioles, who have lost 16 of 17 games. 
After Chris Richard's RBI dou­ble gave Baltimore a 1-0 lead in the second inning, the Yankees tied it in the third. 
John Vander Wal and Rivera opened the inning with line dri­ves to left field. Marty Cordova just missed on diving attempts on both balls, putting runners on second and third. 
With one out, Vander Wal scored on a passed ball by Brook Fordyce, narrowly beating Fordyce's throw to Sidney Ponson (7-6). 
With one out in the fourth, Mondesi hit his 26th homer, giv­ing the Yankees 209 on the sea­son -second-most in franchise history. Led by Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle, New York hit 240 homers in 1961. 
Rivera added an RBI single to right in the seventh inning, giv­ing him three RBIs on the day and four in his career as he tries to win a spot on New York's postseason roster. 
Weaver (9-11). making his second start since Aug. 1, allowed four hits and retired 20 of his last 21 batters. He has had a tough time cracking the Yankees' deep starting rotation since being acquired from Detroit on July 5. 
Steve Karsay pitched the ninth for his 11th save and seventh straight since Mariano Rivera went on the disabled list Aug. 19. 
The Yankees didn't walk a batter for the sixth straight game, extending their walkless streak to 58 innings since Pettitte walked Boston's Nomar Garciaparra in the fifth inning last Wednesday. 
Only 8,875 fans showed up for opener. a makeup of a June 6 rainout -New York's smallest crowd of the year. 
Pettitte left with a 2-1 lead after giving up a one-out double in the eighth to Luis Matos. After an error by first baseman Nick Johnson, Ramiro Mendoza got out of a first-and-third jam by getting Jerry Hairston to hit into a double play. 
Mendoza allowed a ninth­inning homer to Tony Batista before Mike Stanton got the last out for his fourth save. 
Baltimore starter Jason Johnson (4-13), bothered by an upset stomach, allowed two runs and four hits in 6 1-3 innings. 
Blue Jays 5, Indians 4 
On a night when a bunch of rookies played like veterans. a veteran made a rookie mistake that cost the Cleveland Indians the game. 
Reliever Mark Wohlers made a throwing error in the ninth inning that allowed Shannon Stewart to score the go-ahead run as the Toronto Blue Jays beat the Indians 5-4 Tuesday night. 
With runners on first and sec­ond and one out, Vernon Wells smashed a grounder back to Wohlers (2-4), who spun around and made a wild throw to sec­ond base. 
Wohlers had plenty of time to wait for shortstop Omar Vizquel to get to second and make the throw, but just rushed it, Indians interim manager Joel Skinner said. 
"I just turned and fired and threw it to nobody," Wohlers said. "I knew as soon as I let it go, the result wasn't going to be too good." 
The Indians and Blue Jays, both rebuilding, have a com­bined 25 rookies on their ros­ters. Eleven rookies started Tuesday's game including both starting pitchers. Cleveland was mathematically eliminated from contention with the loss. 
Indians catcher Victor Martinez, making his major league debut. hit a single to shallow left to drive in a pair of runs in the seventh and tie it at 4. 
Martinez's first career hit and RBI chased Justin Miller, who was in control through six innings. 
"I just threw my hands toward the ball and finally I got a little blooper, but I'll take it anyway," Martinez said. "I was so happy. That's all I can say." 
Ellis Burks hit his 28th home run, a two-run shot in the fourth. 
MLB 
Angels' Washburn under investigation for sexual assault 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Anaheim Angels ace Jarrod Washburn is under investigation by Anaheim police in an alleged sexual assault, the team said Tuesday. 
The 28-year-old Washburn has not been charged and the case has yet to be turned over to the Orange County district attorney's office. said Scott Boras, Washburn's agent. 
"This case is under inves­tigation and unfortunately. because of the nature of the case, we're not at liber­ty to go into details of exactly what is occurring and what may have occurred," said Sgt. Rick Martinez. an Anaheim police spokesman. 
Angels spokesman Tim Mead said the investigation involves an alleged sexual assault. 
KA BC-TV. citing an unidentified source, report­ed a 16-year-old girl called police from an Orange County hospital room on Sept. 1 and made the alle­gation. 


I I 
I 
I ' I I I I 
page 16 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
This is Citigroup. 


We invite you to attend our recruitment presentation 
at 6:00 p.m. on Thursday, September 12, 2002 in the Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall, Room 210. 
c1t1group1' · 
Salomon Smith Barney & Citibank 
This year, her research helped launch a new business model in biotech. 
In her final year, Janice spent hours examining literary manuscripts in The New York Public Library. Fourteen months later, she returned as an investment bank analyst to research a bio-tech startup. Janice believes this could only have happened at Citigroup. With a revolutionary business model that is quickly changing the industry, Citigroup recruits ambitious, highly talented people and allows them to find their own path to their potential. To find out more, come to one of our on-campus presentations or have a look online. Who knows? Perhaps Wuthering Heights is closer to Wall Street than you think. Citigroup.com 
© 2002 Salomon Smith Barney Inc. Member SIPC. Citigroup and the Umbrella Device are trademarks and service marks of Citicorp and are used and registered throughout the world. Salomon Smith Barney and Citibank are affiliated companies under the common control of Citigroup. Citibank and Salomon Smith Barney are equal opportunity employers M/F/D/V. 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
TENNIS 
Sampras, Agassi will sit out Davis Cup to rest 

Pete Sampras follows through on a serve in the U.S. Open. Sampras won the tournament and will sit out this weekend's Davis Cup to rest. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The all-American U.S. Open final between Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi took enough out of both play­ers to keep them off the Davis Cup team. 
Sampras beat Agassi to win the U.S. Open on Sunday, and told team cap­tain Patrick McEnroe a day later that he wasn't ready to play in next week­end's Davis Cup semifinal match against France in Paris. 
"I think Pete needs time to digest what happened and decide what he wants to do," McEnroe said Tuesday. "I think he's just worn out, and I cer­tainly understand that." 
Once the United States' top two players passed on the chance, McEnroe chose Andy Roddick, James Blake. Todd Martin and Mardy Fish to play France on the clay at Roland Garros. home of the French Open. 
Roddick and Blake will play singles, and there is a good chance that Blake and Martin will comprise the doubles team. That pair beat Mahesh Bhupathi and Max Mirnyi, the U.S. Open doubles champions, to win the ATP Tour's event in Cincinnati last month. 
Sampras eliminated Roddick in the 
U.S. Open quarterfinals en route to his first singles title since winning Wimbledon in 2000. 
"It's time for the younger guys to take the baton and run with it," said McEnroe, whose term as captain was extended by two years on Tuesday. "This is a big step, we're relying on them." 
Agassi had previously decided that he wasn't going to play, but McEnroe held out hope that he would change his mind. 
"I really want the guys who want to be there," McEnroe said. ''I've seen too many situations in Davis Cup when the so-called best players were there and didn't want to be there for whatever reason. And that never works." 
McEnroe said that had Agassi won the U.S. Open, he thinks Agassi's Davis Cup decision might have changed. 
"I think Andre was devastated with his loss," McEnroe said. "Andre has said all along he is not going to play Davis Cup. I wasn't surprised that he declined." 
Sampras, who has won a record 14 Grand Slam singles titles, has never advanced past the semifinals on the red clay of Roland Garros, losing in the first round this year McEnroe noted that. saying that having Sampras on the team didn't guarantee a U.S. victory. 
"I had a conversation with Pete that was very honest and very straightfor­ward," McEnroe said. "When he told me that he's exhausted and having lots of emotions, that was pretty much the answer." 
Sebastien Grosjean, Arnaud Clement, Fabrice Santoro and Michael Llodra were chosen last week to rep­resent defending champion France in the semifinal, scheduled for Sept. 20­22. 
The United States and France have met 13 times in Davis Cup play, with the Americans holding a 7-6 advan­tage. 
The last match between France and the United States at Roland Carros was the 1932 final, which France won 3-2. France hasn't played there since 1982, when it defeated Czechoslovakia in a quarterfinal. 
"I think our chances are excellent," McEnroe said. "Obviously, playing in Paris will be difficult, but we're look­ing forward to it. The guys really wanted to play at Roland Garros." 

Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer 
Our advice.about your n~xt career moye: be bullls:h ­
mI.com/careers iMerrillLynch 


f 
i 
i 
i 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Miami receiver to miss next game after surgery 
Associated Press 

CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
Miami receiver Andre Johnson will miss Saturday's game at Temple after having surgery on his left shoulder. 
Johnson. who leads the team with seven catches for 100 yards and two touch­downs, had surgery Monday to remove loose particles. His arm was in a sling Tuesday, and Hurricanes coach Larry Coker said Johnson will not practice this 
week. 

Coker did not set a date for Johnson's return but said he expects him to play Sept. 21 against Boston College. 
The 6-foot-3 junior caught four passes for 56 yards in the top-ranked Hurricanes' 41-16 win over Florida on Saturday, play­ing with discomfort in his shoulder for the second consecutive week. 
"It's something that's been bothering him, and something needed to be done," Coker said. 
The surgery comes before what should be the easiest part of Miami's schedule ­a three-game stretch against Temple, Boston College and Connecticut. After that, the Hurricanes have a week off before playing No. 5 Florida State. 
"He was hurting a little bit last week, but it was a big game and he toughed it out," teammate Vernon Carey said. "Now he wants to get ready for the rest of the season." 
With Johnson out. the Hurricanes will turn to Ethenic Sands, Kevin Beard and Roscoe Parrish. Coker said freshmen Akieem Jolla and Ryan Moore also wiil play Saturday against the Owls, a team Miami has outscored 180-24 over the last four meetings. 
The Hurricanes also lost defensive tack­le Santonio Thomas for the rest of the sea­son. Thomas, a 6-foot-4, 302-pound junior, tore a chest muscle against the Gators. 
He will redshirt this season, leaving him with two years of eligibility. 
Thomas played sparingly the last two seasons. He was a backup behind William Joseph, Vince Wilfork and Matt Walters this year. 
"He's in good spirits and in great shape," Coker said. "He's very upbeat about it. He said, 'Coach, you wanted to redshirt me anyway, didn't you?' I said, 'Maybe, maybe not."' 
against Akron may not have been the team's 50 carries or its 209 rushing yards, but rather the way the running backs ran -straight ahead. 
In his short tenure as the Terps' coach, Ralph Friedgen has hammered home the impor­tance of his running backs run­ning from north to south. Many attribute his philosophy to the success of junior tailback Bruce Perry, who improved greatly in that area last season on his way to becoming the ACC Offensive Player ofthe Year. 
That element of the Terps' ground game was absent in their season-opening loss to Notre Dame, and they needed it to come from sophomore tail­back Jason Crawford, who joined the Terps last season with a reputation as a big, pun­ishing back. 
Save for his first few runs against Notre Dame, Crawford didn't have many plays up the 

U-WIRE 
Gators hope to rebound after loss to Hurricanes 
The Gators (1-1) face Ohio (0-2) this By SETH TRAUB week before heading to Tennessee on 
Florida Alligaror 
Sept. 21. 
Florida is 8-1 all-time against mem­
GAINESVILLE, Fla. bers of the Mid-American Conference. 
Florida got a day off from practicing While Saturday's 41-16 loss was hum­Monday as the Gators took a day off bling. it didn't take Florida out of the Instead, the No. 12 Gators will practice picture of its season-long goals, includ­
Friday instead of a light walk-through or team meeting. 
When players take the practice field today there will be some renewed position battles coach Ron Zook will be evalu­ating, including at the offensive line. defensive line and in the kicking game. 
Zook said he is ing the SEC champi­onship and are still a
"We've told them all year 
long shot for the now, 'We are going to national championship. face adversity and really "We've told them all 
year now, 'We are
how you handle that is 
going to face adversity
going to be the tell-tale and really how you sign ofthe kind of handle that is going to be the tell-tale sign of
football team you are.'" 
the kind of football team you are,"' Zook Ron Zook said. It is certain that
Aorida head coach 
confident that problems made evident against the Hurricanes can and will be fixed. 
"I feel confident this team will do the things we need to do to get those things corrected," he said. 
making the inevitable 
comparisons between Zook and former coach Steve Spurrier are unfair at this point, but one inter­esting fact remains: 
Spurrier lost five games at Tho Swamp by a combined 25 points. Zook's first loss was by 25 points. 
U-WIRE 

Friedgen revamps Terps' ailing running game 
middle, either by design or last­and often capped off their car­north-south. Their hard reads Earl was in heavy pursuit ofByANDREW LEVINE second adjustment. ries with an extra burst. were pretty much right on." McBrien, who was scrambling
Maryland Diamondback 

A decidedly different Crawford "I saw it from all of them," Perhaps no play electrified the out of the pocket when Harrison showed up Saturday when he Friedgen said of his team's Byrd Stadium crowd on bolted across the field and COLLEGE PARK, Md. entered the game in the second hard-nosed running. "Even Saturday like junior wide receiv­crushed the unsuspecting line­
The biggest difference in the quarter. The 6-foot-2, 220-Mario, who was making cuts er Latrez Harrison's devastating backer. Maryland Terrapin football pounder stiff-armed and bull­and running east-west most of third-quarter block on Akron Earl launched backward as team's running game Saturday rushed his way to 29 yards on the time, finished off going linebacker Diontre Earl. his helmet flew off his head. 
six carries, including a six-yard touchdown run off a pitch from junior quarterback Scott McBrien early in the second quarter. 
On his first carry, he took it straight up the middle and rum­bled through a group of Akron defenders for a 12-yard gain. 
"I tried to get in Jason's ear because I noticed against Notre Dame he was running more left­to-right," junior offensive guard Lamar Bryant said. "I told him earlier in the week he's 220 pounds and there aren't many backs in the ACC that are 220 pounds and if he tries to shake someone I'm going to hit him. I told him to just run north-south and run everyone over and when I saw him in the open field running someone over I was like, 'he pays attention."' 
Meanwhile, freshman Mario Merrills and senior Chris Downs -both elusive backs -were more decisive in their running 

The Souncl o(Fteeclom 
CD's Celebrating the Anniversary of 9/11 Original Music by ND Students Only $8 Proceeds go to Feed the Children On sale at Lafortune Wednesday, September 11 9am-5pm 

Wednesday, September 11, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Cavaliers acquire Cleaves in trade with Kings 
. Addition adds depth at point guard for Cleveland  "I think it's a perfect spot for me because Cleveland has an energetic, young, up-and-com­ing team with Miles, Ricky Davis and DaJuan Wagner and  32 games for the Kings. 'Tm so excited because I really feel like I'm getting a chance to play and that's all I've ever wanted," Cleaves  but nothing is imminent," said Paxson, who indicated the club might use its trade excep­tion to acquire another ball­handler.  depth up front. "He's a good athlete, which is where we wanted to get bet• ter," said Kings coach Rick Adelman. "We felt like we  
Associated Press  I'm hungry to show people what J can do," Cleaves said.  said. "I enjoyed the winning and all of the great people in  For now, Cleaves gives the Cavs an insurance policy at  didn't need three point guards. This is going to add to  
CLEVELAND  "I haven't felt  Sacramento,  the point.  our depth and flexibility."  
Needing another point guard after trading Andre Miller ear­lier this summer, the  this good since college." Cleaves  "I'm so excited because I really feel like I'm getting  but I want to be in the mix on the  Coles, a 12-year veteran, played in just 33 games last season before having knee  Jones became expendable after the Cavs acquired Miles and re-signed restricted free  
Cleveland Cavaliers acquired Mateen Cleaves on Tuesday from the Sacramento Kings for forward Jumaine Jones.  began his pro career in Detroit about 70 miles  a chance to play and that's all I've ever wanted.,,  court." He'll get his chance with the  surgery. Rookie Wagner played some point guard in college, but he's better suited as a shooting  agent Ricky Davis. Cleveland also has Lamond Murray at small forward, although he could be the next  
After dealing Mil1er to the  from  his  Cavs.  guard and the Cavs don't want  player dealt.  
Los Angeles Clippers in July for forward Darius Miles, the Cavs were left with Bimbo  hometown of Flint, Mich. -after leading  Mateen Cleaves Cavaliers point guard  "He's got something to prove," Cavs  to use him at the point unless they have to. The 23-year-old Jones aver­ Murray recently released a statement voicing his displea­sure with the Cavs· latest  
Coles as  the only true point  Michigan  general man­ aged  8.3 points  and  6.0  rebuilding effort. He closed by  
guard on their roster.  State to an NCAA title in 2000.  ager Jim Paxson said. "There's  rebounds in his first season  saying, "Play me or trade me."  
The Cavs are hoping the 25­ He averaged 5.4 points and  an opportunity for him to earn  with the Cavs, who got the  Paxson said he spoke with  
year-old Cleaves, who was  2. 7 assists in 7 8 games as a  minutes here. He's excited. He  small forward along with for­ Murray's agent last week.  
buried on Sacramento's bench  rookie,  but  was  traded  to  wants to play."  ward Tyrone Hill in the trade  "I  told  him  we  expect  
behind Mike Bibby and Bobby  Sacramento before last season  Cleveland is looking to add  that  sent  Matt  Harpring,  Lamond to  come in ready to  
Jackson, can solve some of their backcourt issues -and jumpstart his pro career in  for guard Jon Barry and a future first-round draft pick. Cleaves got little time sitting  another guard, and Paxson said the team has been talking with 36-year-old free agent  Cedric Henderson and Robert Traylor to the Philadelphia 76ers.  play and compete," Paxson said. "If something can be worked out with a trade, then  
Cleveland. Cleaves can't wait to try.  behind Bibby and Jackson, and averaged just 2.2 points in  Rod Strickland. "We're having discussions,  The 6-foot-8 Jones will give the Kings some much needed  the best thing Lamond can do is be ready to play."  


MIIJ IICKIT LOIIlllY VINNllll 
For those whose ticket numbers are drawn as winners, tickets will be sold at the LaFortune Info Desk (NOTTHE SUB OFFICE) starting Thursday, September 12. Winners will have until Saturday, September 14 to purchase up to 2 game tickets per winning lottery ticket at $42 each. Alternates will be able to purchase any remaining tickets at the Lafortune Info Desk (NOT THE SUB OFFICE} starting 9 am on Monday, September 16 (NOT FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 13). 
457824 457939 458056 458167 458304 ALTERNATES 457828 457942 458057 458179 458308 457839 457832 457943 458062 458180 458317 457873 457833 457944 458064 458184 458319 457893 457834 457945 458065 458186 458323 457936 457841 457947 458066 458200 458325 457955 457842 457948 458073 458202 458328 457971 457843 457949 458076 458219 458330 458021 457848 457952 458086 458220 458335 458028 457854 457961 458094 458224 458337 458048 457855 457966 458095 458229 458341 458084 457856 457970 458097 458231 458343 458144 457861 457972 458098 458235 458354 458158 457862 457975 458106 458245 458357 458189 457875 457976 458108 458247 458374 458212 457876 457988 458113 458250 458377 458279 457878 457992 458115 458255 458378 458314 457879 458006 458126 458263 458379 458361 457881 458007 458127 458265 458390 458364 457883 458009 458128 458271 458394 458381 457894 458013 458130 458272 458393 457898 458018 458134 458278 457899 458022 458138 458280 457900 458024 458142 458283 457914 458031 458143 458286 457915 458033 458145 458288 457917 458034 458150 458291 457918 458035 458153 458293 457923 458036 458157 458294 457925 458043 458161 458297 457929 458047 458162 458298 457935 458054 458164 458300 
G@l 
PGA TOUR 
PGAmay cut Tour tourney players 
Associated Press 
The PGA Tour policy board is considering reducing the number of players in as many as 10 tournaments next year. 
"It's a matter of daylight more than anything else," Olin Browne, a policy board mem­ber, said over the weekend at the Canadian Open. "It's oner­ous to expect a guy to warm up in the dark or finish in the dark." 
That was the case at the Phoenix Open this year. one of the events targeted for change. Because of frost delays and limited daylight, 21 players didn't finish the first round and 25 players had ~ to return Saturday morning to complete the second round. The tour policy is for full-field events to have 144 players before April, and 156 players during daylight-saving times (with a few exceptions). Browne said the board has proposed reducing fields by 12 players at certain events. 
Among those targeted are the Sony Open, Phoenix Open and Nissan Open early in the season, along with Greensboro and Tampa Bay in the fall. The issue now goes to the Players Advisory Council, which will poll PGA Tour members. A final decision is expected at the next policy board meeting in November. 
"Most members are not in favor," Browne said. "The board isn't in favor of it, either. I think we all agree that everyone should have as many opportunities to play as possible. But we should be able to start and finish in day· light." 
AROUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPllED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, September 11, 2002 

around the dial 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Red Sox at Devil Rays 6 p.m., ESPN2 White Sox at Royals 7 p.m., FOXSPORTS Orioles at Yankees 7 p.m., ESPN 
FOOTBALL 

Rebuilding of the FDNY Football Club 
7 p.m., ESPN 

NBA 

who befriended kids like U.S. attorney's office in Webber, who had just
Associated Press 
myself, preying on our Detroit. finished a workout, said he 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. naivete, our innocence, "I did not lie to the grand was speaking out because 
Chris Webber, making his claiming that he loved us jury," Webber said. "l wanted to show my sup­first public statement since and that he wanted to sup­Kings coach Rick porters I am not running being indicted on federal port us, but later wanting Adelman and vice presi­away from the situation." charges, said Tuesday he to cash in on that love and dent of basketball opera­And he said he will con­did not lie to a grand jury support that we thought tions Geoff Petrie joined tinue to speak out. and that he tried to help was free," Webber said. Webber outside the team's "I will dedicate time prosecutors in their case Webber, who led practice facility next to speaking to kids and fami­against a University of Michigan's "Fab Five" team Arco Arena. lies that are in athletics Michigan booster about his to two NCAA title games, is "We'll support Chris in such as myself about the dealings with Ed Martin, in the second year of a whatever he chooses to do. pitfalls of athletics and who admits lending the $123 million, seven-year And we don't think it will those who prey on kids and NBA star $280,000 while contract with the affect what he does on the young families. Hopefully, he was still an amateur. Sacramento Kings. court," said Petrie, who they can learn from this Martin also admitted lend­He was charged with added it was too early to experience," he said. ing money to other obstruction of justice and speculate whether Webber Martin pleaded guilty in Michigan basketball play­making a false declaration will miss any games May to conspiracy to laun­ers. before a grand jury, because of his legal prob­der money, admitting he 
"This case is about a man according to the FBI and lems. took gambling money, com-
IN BRIEF 
Washington Wizards coach Doug Wizards on Tuesday signed Bryon
Baseball not affected 
Collins said Tuesday that Jordan Russell to start at small forward ­by security hoped the insert would get his foot Jordan's usual position last season Major league baseball's schedule in better alignment and "take away -and Collins said recently signed 
was unaffected by Tuesday's deci­some of the pain on outside of the Larry Hughes and Richard sion by the government to raise the joint" of his right knee. Hamilton arc penciled in as his United States' security alert warn­Jordan had surgery on the knee starting guards.ing to "high risk." in February, cutting short the first 
Sixteen games were scheduled for season of his second comeback. He 
Selig fine after 

Wednesday, and baseball has said he plans to play another spokesman Rich Levin said no season if his health allows, and that accident changes were planned. his final decision won't be Baseball commissioner Bud Selig
The commissioner's office said announced until shortly before the was in a minor car accident but did 
last week that all major league Wizards open training camp Oct. 1 . not appear to be hurt. night games on Sept. 11 will pause Collins said Jordan has experi­Laurel Prieb, vice president of at 9: 11 p.m. local time for a enced no new swelling or fluid marketing for the Milwaukee 
moment of silence in remembrance buildup on the knee over the sum­Brewers and Selig's son-in-law, 
of last year's terrorist attacks. mer, but that Jordan's final deci­said the accident occurred during a sion could hinge on how he feels lunchtime trip Monday to his once he starts practicing with the favorite fast-food spot, a custard
Jordan fitted with shoe 
shoe inserts. stand in the suburban area ofinsert "I don't think that decision's Wauwatosa. 
Michael Jordan was fitted with a going to come for a couple of "I haven't talked to him today," shoe insert this week to deal with weeks," Collins said. said Prieb, the husband of Brewers discomfort in his knee as he con­Should Jordan play, he would president Wendy Sclig-Prieb said. te mp lates whether to return for likely be a regular off the bench for "Based on last night's phone con­another NBA season. the first time in his career. The versation, he's fine." 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002 The Obseroer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMENS VOLLEYBALL 
Irish sweat out 3-set victory over Crusaders 
seize control. Junior Kim Fletcher and fresh­the charge with four kills and a into matches this weekend,"
. Team survives 
Leading 12-10, Notre Dame man Kelly Corbett each had hit­block in the game. Brown said. " ... We did play bet­hot gym to beat won 14 of the next 18 points. ting percentages of .333. "The team in general was just ter in game 2 and even better in Valparaiso for fifth During the run, setter Kristen In game 2. Emily Loomis playing better and better as the game 3. The main thing we are 
Kinder had two of her six kills. recorded five of her team-high match went on, so it was easier taking form here is to play better 
consecutive year 
The junior tri-captain finished 11 kills and registered two to contribute in game three," from the beginning. It is going to 
with a game-blocks. Neff said. be a challeng­ByMATILOZAR high .750 hit• Notre Dame Neff fin-ing weekend." Spom Writer ting percent­trailed 5-4 ished the "We are
"It was very hot and "The team in general was 
age and 11 early in the match with looking for• 
For live consecutive seasons, digs. humid. The gym is not air­game and seven kills, just playing better and ward to the Notre Dame has played "I thought conditioned. I don't really built a 14-10 three blocks better as the match went games in our Valparaiso in volleyball, and the we had a lead by capi­and a .462 tournament,"
think it affected us at all. on, so it was easier to
result has been the same every slow start, talizing on hitting per­Neff said. time -an Irish victory. then we We had plenty ofwater. m o r e centage. contribute in game "That's going Tuesday night. the Irish (5-2) ended up but I don't think it Valparaiso Outside hit­three ... to be big for swept the Crusaders 30-23, 30-playing pretty errors. ter Marion us. We are
affected our play at all."
23, 30-18 at the sweltering well," Brown The Irish Hansen led expecting to 
Katie Neff 
Valparaiso Athletic and said. "It was took control Valparaiso play well." Recreation Center. a good Debbie Brown of the game with nine kills middle blocker This week· 
"It was very hot and humid. opportunity head coach and won by and 12 digs. end, the Irish The gym is not air-conditioned," to play a seven. Overall, the return to the Notre Dame coach Debbie large amount Notre Dame Crusaders combined for a team Joyce Center to host the Golden Brown said. "[ don't think it real­of people. I built its lead hitting percentage of .070 and Dome Invitational. ly affected us at all. We had thought the people off the bench in game 3 in a similar fashion to had only four blocks. Notre Dame begins play in the plenty of water, but I don't think played especially well." the first two. By comparison, the Irish hit tournament Friday against it affected our play at all." Freshman Meg Henican con­With a 10-8 lead, the Irish .227 as a team and recorded 10 Northwestern at 3:45. 
The Irish started off slowly in tributed off the bench with solid won eight straight points en blocks. game 1. but were able to take play in the back row, recording route to a 12-point win. "I think the way we started Contact Matt Loza.r at advantage of Crusader errors to three digs. Middle blocker Katie Neff led wasn't good in terms of going mloza.r@nd.edu
-

Meeting friends? They've got to be h.ere somewhere. 
) DIGITAL WALKIE-TUKIE 
1.::;-1000 ~""\\s'? ~o pyo\:;,le1M.. ~e:,c:\-el jives
) SPEAKERPHONE 
) WIRELESS WEB ACCESS yov. so 1Mi;,o.l\y wC\yS t-o {;il\J.. who o.... wh""+­) AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER"' service yov.\e loo~i\\~ .Pov-. Meet-yov.r .f;.,..ie\\J..s 
) TWO-WA\' MESSAGING 
..,..,.. t-1.-.e ~ext-el k.ios~ tie.Po....e ·H,,e ~""""'-e 
) JAVA"' GAMES & APPLICATIONS 
o"--s;..,..-\-v...-J..e,,.y t-o ~et-J,..001.,:eJ.. v.r wit-h
) DIGITAL CELLULAR 
t-he \\ewes+-pho\\es, coolest-.Pee,,.rv..... es 
"""-J.. swee-\-esr v-C\re pl,,.."-s. ~ow yov.'v-e 
v-ee,,.J..y-Bri\.\~ Ir. 
Now's ... :;re"'-\-h\."\e -1-o ,el-Ne:,cl-el: "'ll Nah-e l) ...l".e sl-i,,,J.e".l-s ,el-"' 
\Ott'AtSCC,"\\f-<l". "'"-Y M¼-e pl"'"-"'".A $\ 00., c:,_p_p """-Y ph-'"-e. 
'T-' \?v.y: 
* ~o t-o 1.1.e,d-el.co,,,,,Jiv-isl-\~st-v.J.e\\t-. -c""ll h~H...Pv-e.e. 1-r11-s-o,-2.12.,, 1 to .Pt\\J. "" t,te.,ctel-Ow"'.eJ. Reh~.il
-s:1 ·~ <;tov-e \\ee,o.v-yolA, Lt:1\ll I-~OO-n'S'-<;2'3S-.
NEXT
II ._!I= 

'Offer is valid for Notre Dame students and parents and expires December 31, 2002, While supplies last Requires new activation. one year Service Agreement and credtt approval. $200 early termination fee applies. Must be 18 years of age to purchase. In-store purchases require at least 2 forms of valid identification. Account set-up fee of $35 per phone; maximum $70 per account. Fees may vary by market. $100 instant savings is ofl the Regular Retail Price and will be applied at point of sale. 10% off monthly rate plan is valid on any rate plan activated with this offer. Other restrictions may apply. Rate plans are subject to laxes, fees and other charges. Current prices are subject to change. Read Service Agreement for details. ©2002 Nextel Communications. Inc. All rights reserved. Nextel and the Nextel logo are registered trademarks of Nextel Communications. Inc. Motorola and the Stylized M logo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Java and all other Java-based marks are registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems. Inc. AOL. AIM, Buddy List and the triangle design are registered trademarks of America Online. Inc. Instant Messenger is atrademark of America Online. Inc. 
MENS SOCCER 
Irish earn player of week honors 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Spores Writer 
The accolades just keep on coming for the Notre Dame mens soccer team. 
After garnering its highest national ranking in school histo­ry -at No. 5 -it was announced Monday that two Irish players received individual honors for their out­

Goldthwaite

st anding play last week. 
Sophomore Kevin Goldthwaite earned co-Big East Player of the Week honors for his solid defen­sive efforts against Seton Hall on Saturday. Goldthwaite tallied two assists against the Pirates, bringing his season total to three. 
In addi­tion, Irish forward Erich Braun was named Braun to the 11­player College Soccer News Team of the Weck for last week. His two goals against Seton Hall in just over 10 minutes helped garner Braun this nomination. He now leads the Irish with four goals in three games. 


Contact Bryan Kronk at bkronk@nd.edu 




page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
FOOTBALL 

Michigan's Navarre looks to anchor offense 
8COUNDl!tl 
4. crowd pleasing comedy presented by the Repertory Theater of 4.merica 
friday, September 13 9:00P~ Washington nall 


ByKATIEMcVOY Associate Sports Ediror 
On Saturday Michigan will enter Notre Dame Stadium and not one of the players will have ever played on Notre Dame turf. The defense may not be so wor­ried. Michigan's has been touted as one of the strongest defensive units in the country. But what about the Michigan offense? 
The Wolverine offense will be facing a very solid Notre Dame defense, one that has shut down two teams' passing game and one team's running game. They will face off against a veteran defense. And they will face off amidst the yells and screams of a green student section and an alumni section that wouldn't put Michigan high on its list of favorite schools. So who can they depend on? 
They will all tell you John Navarre. 
"I have had confidence since he got here and took over for Drew Henson in 2000," said senior tight end Bennie Joppru. "He is playing with more confi­dence now. and I think that is very dangerous." 
Navarre, the senior quarter­back from Cudahy, Wis., has started the last 16 games. After taking over for Henson in 2000, he started all 12 games last sea­son, attempting a record 385 passes. 
As he enters this Saturday's game, Navarre is just a little more than 500 yards short of reaching the 4,000-yard mark. He would be only the eighth quarterback in Michigan football history to reach that landmark. He is eighth on the Michigan career passing yards list and seventh on the career touch­down list with 32. If he contin­ues to play well this season he could move all the way to sec­ond on that list, finishing 2002 behind Elvis Grbac's 71 touch­downs record. 

But those stats aren't as key this weekend when Michigan comes to Notre Dame as the fact that Navarre has game experi­ence. 
"I think anytime you would rather have a guy that has some experience in those kinds of games [road games]." said Michigan coach Lloyd Carr. "In terms of this game, I think that the fact that John has played in a lot of big games on the road will help him certainly." 
Navarre started this season with a career-high 286 yards against Washington. But he hasn't faced a secondary like Notre Dame's. If he wants to add any more yards to that 3,460, he's going to have to protect the ball. 
"[Protecting the ball] is a big premium every game but espe­cially against a team that is dan­gerous," Navarre said. "With the speed that they have and what they have done in the past cou­ple of games, you have to be especially careful." 
Navarre, who through 13 interceptions last season, would hate to add one more to the two­interception total this season. Navarre took some heat last season and losing the ball was a contributing factor. But his team is focused on helping him keep the ball this season, even against a defense like Notre Dame's. 
"l think [Navarre] has a lot more confidence," said junior running back Chris Perry. "Last year he took a lot of heat that he didn't deserve. But the support­ing cast didn't help him out too much either. Everyone is a Jot stronger and we know our assignments, which in turn makes everyone look a lot bet­ter." 
But before he can focus on protecting the ball, he needs to just focus on the ball. The ques­tion buzzing around the weekly Michigan press conference on Monday was whether Navarre could focus on the game despite the distractions of playing in Notre Dame Stadium. 
It goes without saying that the crowd will be hyped for this game. And, although Notre Dame Stadium doesn't rival sta­diums like Nebraska's for its noise, the crowd will do its best to be a distraction. 
"You cannot look at the big picture and all the surroundings and noise," Navarre said. "You have to focus on what you are doing and what your offense is doing." 
As Navarre looks to better his 
58.3 career completion percent­age amidst the hoots and hollers of Notre Dame stadium, Carr is worried about just one thing ­communication. 
"The question is if you have guys that can hear, and some­times you can't hear," the coach said. "There are stadiums out there where you can't hear and you have to feel the guy next to you." 

So is Navarre ready for this game? Is he preparing any dif­ferently? 
"You have to ask John that question," senior offensive line­man Tony Pape said. "He pre­pares every game like any other 
game." And if you ask him, he's just focused on getting his job done. 
Navarre said, "If we play like we did on Saturday, if we con­trol the ball and stop the defense like we did last week, things will take care of themselves." 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo596S@saintmarys.edu 

Sponsored by Student Activities Contact the Student Activities Office at 1-7308 for more information 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CLARE O'BRJEN

SCHOOL DAZE 
JACK MONAHAN

HAPPY TOWN 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
MYMUG 
I 
I t J 
~002: Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
OSPOT 
(I J
tPACAlA I
J 
www.jumble.com
IWHAYNO j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: r "[ I I I J. rn? " 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: SMOKY BLIMP POISON ELICIT Answer: What the band considered the skinny guitar player -SLIM PICKi N'S 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO, 30 -To order, Hnd your name, addreH ¦ nd $5.95 and mak• ch6ck pay•bl• to Tribune Medla Services, P.O. Box 4330, Chlcago, IL 8068()..4330. 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 35 A founder of 64 Plays the toady, Dadaism perhaps
1 _Lilly&Co. 38 Beaten? 65 "The lady _
4 Had creditors protest .. ."
41 Oxford-to­8 Copier London dir. 66 Sounds during14 Meld of the doctor's exams42 Simpleton

queen of spades and jack 43 Job-specific of diamonds vocabulary DOWN 
16 Some sorority 44 Nut used to 1 They might women flavor Coke touch one's heart
17 Peruse? 45 Chip in 2 Yam makers
18 Gets even with 46 Atrophy? 3 Personified
19 Timeline 
51 Mathematician's segments degree? 4 Columbus Day 
20 Chemin de 
54 In myth she mo. 21 Lotion was turned into 5 Quick smells ingredient a spring 6 Bull in 22 Lith., formerly 55 Suffix with real advertising 7 'Nothing runs
23 Foreign 56 Ancient like a •
exchange? colonnade 8 Narrow sailing
27 Takes a siesta 57 Mere 1%, say 
rte. 

30 Touched down 60 Shortstop? 
9 Compadre ot
31 Swimming (in) 62 Protective cover Puule by Jerry E. ROlman
Fidel 33 "Believe ii 63 Fix firmly in . 33 At the break 40 Busts inside a so "_hooks"
10 Buffet, e.g.
" place museum (box caution)
11 Author Calvino 34 Blushing 44 Rascally sorts 52 Spelunker's aid
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Marshy inlet 
35 "Evita" setting 45 Best suited 53 DetestsA s p 13 Winding paths 36 "Citizen Kane" 46 Impertinent 56 HBO rivalo o o 15 Circus cries 
studio 

47 Veil fabric 58 Forbidden fruit 

M U 24 Capital of 37 Winter hrs. in 
partaker

ancient Lorraine L.A. 48 Natural athlete, supposedly 59 In medias _
25 Flow stopper 39 Lady Macbeth, 
e.g. 49 Named 61 Educ. institution murder 
28 Agent of Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute.
Cleopatra's demise Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
29 Carbolic acid 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00031 Ripen past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions {$19.95 a year). 32 Horror maven Crosswords for young solvers: The Learning Network, Craven nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brian De Palma, Harry Connick Jr., Moby, Kristy McNichol Happy Birthday: Put your heart and soul into everything you do this year and it will turn into not only a romantic year, but also one of great satisfaction both creatively and professionally. Honesty and integrity will play a major role in how well you do. Now is the time to be yourself and follow a path that you have longed to travel. Your nwnbers are 3, 17, 22, 34, 40, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Tiris will not be the day to take a chance with money. You may find that other people will cost you if you aren't careful. Responsibility for older relatives will cause frustration. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't spill your secrets to someonewho may not be trustworthy. Emotional ups and downs will lead to distancing yourself from someone you thought was your mend ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's up to you to decide what is and what isn't important to you. Spending time with children will help put your life back in perspective. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may not recognize that someone is interested in you. Be receptive to those individuals who are asking you about your life. Someone who interests you may exaggerate. ***** LEO {July 23-Aug. 22): Don't expect loved ones to be on your side today. It may be time for you to take a look at your options and your future regarding your fiiends and romantic partner. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get out and join groups that interest you. You will meet new tiiends and build up your confidence. Short trips and communication will satisfy you. You can expect to receive something interesting in the mail.**** LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Work on home improvement projects. Do the labor yourself and avoid asking for help. If someone offers you a hand, you can be sure that they will want something in return. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Whatever can go wrong probably will, and ifyou let yourself become flustered, you will only make matters worse. Patience will pay off especially when dealing with a business or personal partner. ** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do not tell relatives or close friends about your private life or they will judge you harshly. If you haven't been honest 
with yourself or others, you can expect to experience a revelation today. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let money issues come between you and a fiiend. If you spend time with an organiz.ation that helps those less fortunate, you will feel good about yourself, and you'll meet people who are kind, generous and responsible.**** AQUARIUS {Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Voicing your opinion before you have all the facts could lead to problems with the people you work with. An older person in your family may not want to do what's best for himself. You may need to be forceful. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get involved in activities that satisfy you. You need to do things that are creative and unusual. 1bis is a great day to do something with your lover or, ifyou are single, to get out and meet someone special. ***** Birthday Baby: Your high energy and determination will lead you in directions that many would be afraid to take. You are brave, relentless and excellent when it comes to finding solutions. 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com. 
COPYRIGITT 2002 UNNERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name --------------------------­
...,_
Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

PORTS 
Wednesday, September 11, 2002 
Play ball 
Following Sept. 11} 2001} sports show American spirit lives on 
Associated Press While this week will be a chance for Americans to reflect on the tragic events of the last year, this past week­end exhibited why sports are so important to this country's psyche. Whether it was the intensity of team competition or the beauty of a one-on-one battle, sports has done so much over the past 12 months to heal America's wounds. It has provided a brief escape from "the real world", and may be the only part of American society that hasn't changed post-Sept. 11 -that is, if you don't count the longer lines for security checks. It was a banner weekend for most American sports, from the kickoff of the NFL season to the complete domination by Americans at the U.S. Open. More important is the fact that everyone got a chance to see that New York has started to recover and rebuild. The NFL season started in spectacular fashion Thursday as 500,000 fans jammed into Times Square for a blowout concert, followed by San Francisco's exciting 16-13 win over the New York Giants. The kickoff party was the league's way of demonstrating the resilience of the Big Apple. "They really wanted to show the country, and the world, 
that New York City is back," 
said John Collins, the NFL's senior vice president of mar­keting and entertainment. 
That was only the beginning of an outstanding weekend for America's passion. The NFL saw three games decided in overtime, one in the final minute and 10 others decided by one touchdown or less. The only other time there were three overtime games on opening weekend was 1979. 
Across town from Times Square, the U.S. Open was preparing itself for an All­American final on both the men's and women's side of the draw. 
The Williams sisters squared off in a Grand Slam final for the third time this season, and like the previous two, Serena got the best of Venus, who had America in her heart wearing a red, white and blue tradi­tional tennis dress. 
Two American old-timers renewed their rivalry in the men's final. as Pete Sampras 


During the halftime show of Super Bowl XXXVIII, U2 paid tribute to the victims of Sept. 11. In the past year, sporting events have helped heal the wounds caused by the attacks. 
won his 14th grand slam title, No offense to Agassi, but Everyone would have suffered beating Andre Agassi. It was New York sports fans have -from the owners to the the first time the two had met had something to cheer about players to the peanut vendors. in a major championship since all summer long with the "America needs this. Wimbledon in 1999. perennial success of the Especially with Sept. 11 com­
"Pete just played a little too Yankees. ing up," said Tony Pencek, a good for me today," Agassi America's pastime almost fan sitting in a bar across the said. "It's great to hear New suffered a big loss, but the street from Wrigley Field. York cheer again. It was beau­impending labor strike was "You need to get people's tiful being here." averted at the last minute. minds off of it. And for some­
thing good to happen is great." But not all American sports shined this weekend. 
The United States basketball team finished an unbelievable sixth at the World Championships in Indianapolis, the hotbed of American basketball. They had been 58-0 in international competition when using NBA players. It was an outcome worse than anyone could have envisioned coming into the tournament. resulting in the country's worst showing in history at a World Championships. 
"I still think we're the best, the model for the world, but people are catching up. They beat us, and they beat us in our own country. We have to tip our hat to them," USA coach George Karl said. 
While patriotism has been prevalent at sporting events since Sept. 11, the United States appeared to play with­out passion in this tourna­ment. It seemed the Americans were foreigners in their own home. Teams like Turkey, Argen tin a and Yugoslavia had rabid fans that spurred on their squads with a wild patriotic fervor. 
"We didn't play the right way, we didn't play with the passion of the other teams," Antonio Davis said. 
The American players seemed to have adapted the fans apathy. The stands were mostly empty when the Americans were on the court and those who did attend showed nowhere near as much spirit as their foreign counterparts. 
Heck, there were more peo­ple watching the U.S. Open on an outdoor 20-foot screen in midtown Manhattan than were at the fifth-place game which America lost to Spain. 
Despite the lack of spirit in Indianapolis, every weekend millions of Americans go to sporting events all over the country. ranging from NASCAR racing to college foot­ball. They provide a chance for us to forget for a few hours what is happening in our lives and live vicariously through those athletes and teams. 
It may have been taken somewhat for granted before the terrorist attacks, but the role of sports became increas­ingly evident afterward. And that is something that will hopefully never change. 


FOOTBALL  VOLLEYBALL  MENS SOCCER  
Leading the pack Just a little more than 500 yards away from 4,000, Michigan quarterback John Navarre will  Notre Dame 3 Valparaiso 0 The Irish returned to play against the Crusaders  After the Irish received their highest ranking in school history Monday, Irish players Kevin Goldthwaite and Erich Braun garnered indidivid­ual honors for their play last week.  
have to be cool under pressure and protect the  Tuesday night after finishing the Loyola­ 
ball against a serious Irish defensive attack on  Marymount Classic 1-2 over the weekend. Notre  
Saturday.  page 22  Dame swept Valparaiso in three sets for the win. page 21  page 21  








