
The Late Show with Craig Kilborn salutes ND
SNOW 
Wednesday 
The Late Show with Craig Kilborn will air its special college-themed salute 
to Notre Dame as a prelude to the men's basketball game against Kentucky. 
HIGH 29° 

JANUARY 16, 
News . page 7
LOW 25° 
2002 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Daine and Saint Mary's 
VOL. XXXV NO. 67 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Coaching search ends in a 'Ty' 

Named as Notre Dame's 28th head football coach, Tyrone Willingham takes the lead after the resignation of former Georgia Tech head coach, George O'Leary. 
Hesburgh passes on the Olympic torch 
By JASON McFARLEY News F.Jitor 
Fath1ir Theodore llesburgh hadn't us1,d his running shoes in four decades. But they car­ried him the distanrn on .Tan. 4 -two-tenths of' a mile on Lim Olympic torch route. 
Al 84, llcsburgh, Notre Dame's president nnrnritus. was orw of two rumrnrs with Univ11rsity ties to participate in of'fidal torch rnlay that passPd through South Rend .Ian. 4 en routn to Salt Lake City. IJchbin Brown, head vol­leyhall coach, also was a torchbnarn r. 
"I hadn'l run in 45 years," llesburgh said in an inter­view la.st W<'ek in his 1 '.~th­f'I o o r I ibr a r y o l'f'i c e . " My biggest challenge was coming up on 8:i ynars of' agt> in May." 
llis keepsah Olympic uni­form. with whitn-and-laven­
dnr jacket and pants, white glovns and hat was hanging on a nearby shelf. The gray torch was in a chair just bnneath the clothing. 
Hesburgh said he wnuld put some of' the memorabilia on display in the library. Pic'turPs and other items will become part of the University archives. 
"It's nice passing along a tradition that goes back 2.000 years," he said of passing the !lame during the chilly morn­ing ceremony. 
For Brown, the nxcitement or the r.vent was indescrib­able. 
"Tlw support of the commu­nity -it was very patriotic," she said about Urn crowd that linPd the relay route, waving flags and cheering runners. ''It's rnally hard to capture the emotion." 
Brown has connoctions·to 
see HESBURGH/page ,j By JASON McFARLEY '.\/ew, Ed,mr 
In the end, thn starring role in Notrn Danrn's month-long foo1 ball drama w1•11t lo man who auditimwd for it first. 
hmr woeks and two See Also r 11 c a s t i n gs 
"Willingham

after Bob Davin's cur­first-ever black tain call, 
NO head coach" 

UnivPrsity 
officials  page 3  
agreed  that  
Tyronn Willingham  was  best·  
suited for the part.  

"Tyrone was tlrn vnry first person l talked to," athletic din~ctor Krwin Whit<' said New Year's Day following a news conference announc;ing Willingham as the Cniversity's 28th head football roitch. "WP simply got absolutdy the per­fnct guy, and I kncnv it's going to sound Pollyanna. but maybci it's divine intervention, but we got th1c1 right guy. I'm con­vinced of it." 
Willingham. the head coach at Stanford University the past snven snasons. signed a six­year contract. The 48-year-old North Carolina native became Notre Dame's first black head r.oach or any sport. 
" .. .it is about, yes, great foot­ball excellence, but also about the mind and spiritual dnvclop­mcnt ol' young people." Willingham said during the news confornncc with his wife, Kirn. and Lhf'ir three children in attnndanco, "I think that fits 
very  w1dl  with  Tyrone  
Willingha111.  
"This  is  an  exciting  

moment," Im continued. "It is a moment that you of'ttm go back in your lit'n and vou try to lig­ure out what has brought you to this momnnt." 
What brought Willingham. a 25-year vetnran with collngiate and professional coaching experience. to the Jan. 1 intro­duction as !mad coach was a serins of landmark Pvents dat­ing back to last month. 
It began with the Dnc. 2 oust­ing of Bob Davie, tlw first Irish head football coach to be fired. 
On~Dec. 9, the University named former Georgia Jech head coarh GeorgP O'Lr1ary as Davie's repiac()ment. But just f'ive days latcir, O'Leary announced his rnsignation l'ol­lowing revelations that he embellished his background. 
Officials new Willingham to South Bend Dec. 31 for a meet­ing with the advisory commit­tne that helped with the coach­ing selection. Willingham and administrators completed terms of the contract that night, White said. 
White would not comment on specific terms of the contract but said he had "virtually no 

nngotiation with Tyrone" and that Willingham would rnccivn tlrn sanw compensation that O'Loary would haw been paid under his six-year deaf. 
Spf!Culation that th() snarch for a coach cost morn than $10 million was off-base. University spokesman Dennis Moore said. 
Willingham received tlrn job aftnr two mentings with Univc·rsity oflkiab, nncti bnf'ore O'Leary's appointmPnt and once following it. NotrP Damn delayPd tlw second mPeting until arter Stanford's now-iron­ic appnaranrn against Gnorgia Tech in the Sc!attle Bowl. 
"We were very cardul not to ask for permission Iof Stanford AD Tod Lnland I to rn-approach Tyrone until the day after his bowl game," White said, "and that's exactly what we did." 
With students away for win­ter vacation. Willingham's .Ian. 1 meding with rnportnrs lacked tlrn f'anf'arn that grnntPd O'L(mry just thrnn wnPks narli­er. Of'licials introd ucnd O'Leary as head coach bdorn rnrnrly 2,000 supporters in the Joyce Center last month. 
If his appearance Jan. 1 was an indication, in Willingham the University has found a witty and frank p11rs1mality to direct the football program. 
Asked what offensive strate­
see FOOTBALL/page 4 


Father Theodore Hesburgh recieves the Olympic torch on its journey through South Bend to Salt Lake City for the winter games. Debbie Brown, head volleyball coach, also participated as a torchbearer in the official torch relay. 
Layover ~t the gas station 
Since Mondav I've heard a lot of' horror stories of delayi>d llightc, and lost luggage that plagued holiday travel. but I have yet to hear one that compares to my clash with brutal Mother Naturn in a near-death experienre. Well. not quite near­death. but let's just say l 
would rather have a bird crap in my hair on my wed­ding day than experience this again. 
Isuppose l should feel lucky that my travels from South Rend lO neighboring Fort Wayne did not involve removing my shoes and 


exposing my rotten socks to  Sheila Egts  
security guards. Nor was I  
forced to sit next to a sweaty man in desperate need ol'  Cupy Editor  
Gas-X while a 4-year-old  

kickPd the back of'rny chair. Jlowrwer, thesP may have made for a more enjoyable trip after all. 
On Dec. 19. we set out at 1:30 on an innocent two-hour drive back to Fort \Nayne. l\ly mom was to meet me at a gas station in Columbia City at 3 p.m., a town 45 minutes from my home. l waved goodbye to my ride as she pulled away at 3: 15 
p.m .. and sank to the curb hopelessly as my mom was nowhere in sight. 
So there l sat at this shady BP on top of my overflowing bag of dirty laundry like a homeless person. It was so cold I put on more and more layers of clothes from the bag until I eventually smelled bad too. 
An older man actually held out his hand to give me some change until he saw me whip out my cell phone. Every five minutes I called home and every five minutes I got the answering machine. 
Between swear words, I tried to remind myself' to go easy on my mom for this little mishap of for­getting her oldest daughter at a gas station in the frigid cold. After all, she was the one who I puked on repeatedly as a small child. But the thought of puking on my mom only brought a smile to my face at that point. 
Within minutPs, the wind pickPd up and sting­ing rain was coming down in big cold drops so I decided to swallow my pride and carry my two bags over to a rn~arby Arby's. Yes, I would be embarrassed br.yond belief but at lea'it I would be warm. But sadly as I reached for my bags and lifted up, the handles came ripping completely off my durable paper bag luggage, spilling my cloth­ing and undergarments in piles on the curb. 
As my luck would have it, I had a total of only $.17 on my person. not even enough to buy a warm drink. For the first time. I was grateful for my freshman 15 that wa,;; playing a key role in keeping me from freezing to death. 
I couldn't fed my legs anymore when I got up to use the restroom and warm up for a minute inside. For some strange reason. the toilets in this bathroom wen' not even separated by walls. so l aborted the mission and went back to my miser­able waiting spot on the curb. 
At 3:45 p.m., my mom answered the phone. I had never been happier to hear her voice. I had also never yelled at her so viciously in my life. On the way home, she tried to sweet talk me into keeping the scenario a secret from my dad. 
My cell phone bill camr. in the mail yesterday and said I placed 25 phone calls to my house within the span of two hours. 
I framed it and hung it up with the family pho­tos so my mom would remember the incident. 
I also wrote this column for circulation to the whole campus and will mail her multiplP copies that ran also b(' framed nirely as a reminder. 
As I packed up my bags int;> the trunk beforn leaving home on Sunday, l thanked my mom for doing my laundry, letting me drivn her rar. and preparing home-cooked meals. 
Contact Sheila Egts al egls0236@sainlmarys.edu. 

The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily thosP ofTJw Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
fhe Observer regards itself ,1s a prnfossional publication an<l stnves [~,r the highee1r standards of journ.1lis1n ar all rimes. W/e do, however. recognize that w,: will make mistakes. If we havt' made a mtscakc, please conracc us ar 631-4541 so we cm torren our t!rror. 
Th< Oh,nver {liSPS ';'N 2-400IJ) is 1mblid1«I Nlo11,lay iliroul-'.lt Frid.tr excepl durin~ ex,1m ,1nd v,1c,uion pt:riods. The Observer is ,1 mernber of rl1t· Ass.oci,1[<.'d Pn.•ss. All rcproduc:tion righrs .ire reser\'cd. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
\Nedncsday ·Thursday Friday 
. Wintcrfcst: Salsa dance with Son . Lecture: "The New Horsemen of . Winterfest: Comedian Mike de Aqui., LaForLUne Ballroom, the Apocalypse," Shirley Williams. Barbiglia. LaFortune_ Ballroom. 9 ­lessons from 7 -8 p.m .. dance f'rom Baroness Williams of Crosby, 11 p.m. 8 -10 p.m. llesburgh Center Auditorium, 4 
p.m. 
. Winterfcst: Ice skating, Joycp Center. 10:45 p.m. -12:45 a.m. 
Compiled from UWire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
Utah student union to serve alcohol during Olympics 
SALT LAKE CITY Among the many Olympic changei; -parking disruplions. giant caul­. drons and building size bannPrs ~ 
one romf's in liquid form. 
Alcohol will be served in the student 
union for "the first and last time." said 
Stayner Landward. dean of students. 
"I believe the attorney general said 
that under this special circumstance, 
alcohol can be served, rven though 
this is an alcohol-free campus," 
Landward said. 
Because of this ruling, only certain 
entities can serve alcohol in the Union. 
"Areas will be cordoned off or par­
ties will be held in private rooms." 
said Whit Hollis, Union director. 
"Partir.s serving alcohol will be 
Olympic related and separated from 
the [univr.rsity] community. This isn't 
a blanket policy. If [students want[ to 

The point of serving akohol is basi­cally for the sake of international rela­tions. 
"We're trying to be good neighbors ... good Olympic hosts," Hollis said. 
Landward !eels serving alcohol will make international guests feel more comfortable. 
"It's under the heading of' being a gracious host to countries where alco­hol is a traditional part of' a meal," he said. 
Corporations and entities involved with the Olympics are limited lo serv­ing only beer and wine, but only in specific areas. 
Entities have requested the Panorama West Room and the Saltair Boom, but the requests must go through an application process. 
llollis receives written requests which are sent to the Salt Lake Organizing Committee and to Barbara Snyder, vice president for student affairs, and they eventually reach Utah President Bernie Machen, Landward said. 
"SLOC gets a say in who hosts par­ties in the Union as part of their con­trart," Hollis said. "But they haven't turned anyone down yet, and I don't think they're going to." 

UCLA 
Horowitz speaks at rally 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Conservativr. media magnet David Ilorowitz often f'inds himself in the middle ol' controversy. llis accomplished past. career in journalism and activist nature has made the 15-tinrn Emmy winner a famil­iar face around collBgr. campuses. And during a rally at Westwood Plaza Monday. he reiterated his main concerns with what he called the extreme leftist uni­versity system that "deprives every student at UCLA of a balanced education." lie went on to ridicule "leftist" policies of thr. last 10 years. which he said contributed to the inability to prevent the Sept. 11 attar.ks. In February 2001, Horowitz purchased space in the advertising section of 20 college news­p ape rs that listr.d the "Ten Hnasons Why Heparations for Blacks Is a Bad Idea for Blacks ­and Hacist Too." Whiln many newspapers rnjected thn advertisnmnnt, th(1 art sparked a national d(~bate and resulted in some college newspapers printing apologies f'or running the ad. 
GEORGETOWN 
Turkey study program put on hold 
WASHINGTON 

Post-Sept. 11 fears have led to the suspension of' Georgetown's study abroad program in Alanya, Turkey this semester and have kept all but a handful of Georgetown students from studying this spring in the Middle East. The Alanya program is one of Georgetown's two owned-and-operated study abroad programs and held the maximum number of students last year. It has been suspended two other times in its 12-year history: during the Gulf War and the peri­od following a 1998 earthquake. Deborah Brown, associatr. director for Overseas Studies, cited parental concerns as thr. main reason students did not enroll for spring study in Turkr.y and the Middle East. "It's all about Sept. 11," she said. "Students' parents wPre more reluctant to send students abroad. They werPn't interested in taking chances." No Georgetown students are studying in the Middle East now unless they signed up before Sept. 11, she said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South !lend Forecast 
AccuWeather'., fore(as.t for <laytimt:: conditions. an<l hig,h 1cmpt.!n.llurcs 

Thursdf}y Friday ~ 
Saturday ~ Sunday ~ ............. 
Cl 2002 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
r---.....ff 
-----~·~,· 
PrtUJSUrtt 

® © DD. LJ. c::J 
Hlgt1 low ShQWers H.-ln T-slorms Flurrle~ Snow k:e Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via As,oc,ored Press

Mont~Y",,~/'~ t)~ , ..•...•5.•.•_-_-._(_•····:-.•.•..ti. 
~;,_;, i:if/ ~ . I 

*i::'t);l,':c' Atlanta 56 37 Las Vegas 53 30 Portland 35 19 

Baltimore 44 33 Memphis 56 42 Sacramento 54 33 Boston 59 50 Milwaukee 27 19 St. Louis 45 30
4,Q,~P.QQ~~u 
Chicago 31 22 New York 42 30 Tampa 70 54 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 74 56 Philadelphia 42 33 Washington, DC 45 33 
Vra Associated Press Grap/J/csNet 
Wednesday, January 16, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Willingham first-ever black Notre Dame head coach 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporrs EJitoi 
TyrmH' Willingham didn't say lllUC'h about th(! sorial signil"i­cancP of' his nnw _job. Ile clidn 't liav1: to; his prnsPnce sa.id ii. all. 
Wlwn Willingham stepp('rl to thn Monogram Hoorn podium on limsday. tlw 48-year old !\iorth <:ar11lina nativr· bccarne Urn first :\friran-i\mnriran head roarh of any sport in Notn, Dame history. 
"IL !possibly µaving tlm way for more' .i\f'rican-i\mPrican roarhes I has bt•Pn important to me bPcausc part of my philosophy is that tlwrn's a greatm· good, that ,,.,p·re out there to benefit not just yourself. that's important, but to !Jeuelit others," Willingham said. "So is this significant? Yf's. I say it is significant. But I am first and foremost a football coach at the University of l\'otn· D<1mc." 
Willingham later denied that being an African-American coach at \Jotre Dame was a "major issmi". But while Willingham and Notre Damn administrators stressed LhaL Willingham was hirPd not becausn of his racn but his coaching crndentials, the fact Lhat a11 Al'rican-Ameril.:an now occupiPs one of tlw most high­profile coaching positions in American has not gone unnoticed. 
"Fiftv-four vears aftPr Jackie Rohinson did ·it, we're breaking 
Master's in Clinical Social Work 
\'\Ll I'S• K:-;O\YI EDGf • TR\D!TIO'.'; 
Loyola's MSW, accredited since 1921: 

• Clinical speciali:.cations: children, families, adults, couples, elderly, health, and school social work 
• 
four dual degree programs: MSW and Child Development (MS); Law (JD); Divinity (MDiv); or Child and Family Law (MJ) 

• 
Available at Lovola's Water Tower 


Campus, Chicago, and at Carthage --~~:f College, Kenosha, Wis. 
.-. ·l.. 
.J
.,~~·' 

Also available at Loyola's School of Social Work: BSW and PhD degree programs 
Chicago's Jesuit UniW:rsity 
i=;., 
LOYOLA MSW Admissions: ~ UNIVERSITY Jude Gonzales i ol CHICAGO at 312.915.7289 > s
0"9'. .~ Graduate School <;i,.~' of Social Work 
Loyola University Chicago is an equal opportunity educator and employer. ©2002 loyola University of Chicago. 
another barrier," Jesse Jackson told the South Bend Triuuue. "This is a, victory for collegos cvervwherc. If Notre Dame could do i( it \Vill set a standard for the nation." 
The barrier Jackson refers to is the lack of African-American ht•ad coaches in NCAA Diyjs[on I­A football. Acrnrding to data com­piled by the Hainbow/Push Wall Street project, a l,'l·oup that looks to improve minority n.dvnncrmnnt in the sporl'i industry, of the 156 Division 1 football head coaching jobs that ham opened up since 1992. only 12 were filled with African-Americans. 
.\s of Tuesday only four Division 
coaches -Willingham. Michigan Statti's Bobby Williams, Franz Hill at San Jose State and New Mexico Statfl's Tonv Samuel -were African-American. Charles Farrell, the director of Rainbow Sports. told PSPN.com on Monday that he thinks Willingham's hiring will open up doors. 
"Notre Dame was obviously not going to pick a coach -black or white -who didn't have previous surcess," Farrell said. "But we think that there are other suc­cessful black coaches in Division I-A and Division 1-AA that will now be looked at. They will be able to get interviews more easily and if they can get interviews, they can get jobs." 
Notre Dame received permis­sion from Stanford to talk to Willingham before choosing to hire George O'Leary. White chose to go with O'Leary because of the Georgia Tech coach's natural fit for the program. Jackson thinks that Willingham was always the more qualified candidate and that Notre Dame got its due reward when thP fnrmc·r Georgia Tech coach resigned after revelations that he falsified his athletic and academic accomplishmr-nts. 
"Notre Damn chose less than the btist and they got embar­rassed," Jackson said. 
Last fall, the Black Coaches Association sent out a list of 52 qualified African-American head coaching candida,tes to all rollrge football programs -a list includ­ing Willingham, \Villiams and many high-profile assistant coaches. 
"This is a classic example 

"Notre Dame was
of taking the sity in particu­
initiative and obviously not going to lar, have been 
showing lead­pick a coach -black or vvorking very ership by mak­hard on being a
white -who didn't /zaue
ing this very high-quali­
aµpointment," previous SllCCCSS ty, multi-cultur­Bob Minnix, al environment Florida State's and in my
Charles Farrell 
associate ath­administration
director of Rainbow Sports
letic director we have a num­
told the Chicago Tribune Monday. "l don't think it's goiHg to be a floodgate of J\friran-Arnerican coaches. Hopefully, presidents and athletic directors take a little dnepnr look at minorities at a lot of universities -head roarhes and coordinators." 
Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy also stressed that Willingham was hired not because or his race but his essen­tial rharacteristics. But Malloy was quick to point out that Willingham 's hiring fits within Notrn Dame's mission to create a multi-cultural environment. 
"Universities, 
and this univer­
and the presi­dent of the Black Coaches Association, said in a release. "Hopefully it sets a tone that a lot of outstanding minority coaches are out there Tyrone Willingham is just one of many. Perhaps it will set the tone for other universities to give consid­eration to other worthy minority candidates." 
But despite Willingham's hire and the efforts of the BCA., some high-profile black assistant coach­es don't expect a rapid influx of black head coaches. 
"l think it would open some more opportunities," Nebraska quarterbacks coach Turner Gill 

ber of outstand­ing people that have been added to the university community to help bring us in that direction," Malloy said. "There's no doubt in my mind that Tyrone will be a tremendous asset." 
In the end, it all comes down to wins and losses and as Farrell astutely pointed out, the more success Willingham has at Notre Dame, the greater the benefit for both the Irish and the African­American coaching community. 
"The best thing Tyrone can do for other African-American head coaches waiting in the wings is do the same thing he did at Stanford, win," Farrell said. 
Baroness Shirley Williams, the Catholic intellectual who helped to reshape the landscape of British politics, leader and foreign-policy spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats in the House of Lords 

The Second Annual Notre Dame Erasmus Lectures Shirley Willian1s 
The Morality of Globalization 
January 15, 2002  Global Inequality and the Gospel to the Poor  
January 17, 2002  The New Horsemen ofthe Apocalypse  
January 22, 2002  Science as God  
January 24, 2002  The Kingdom of God  

All lectures are held on consecutive Tuesdays and Thursdays in the auditorium of the Hes burgh Center for International Studies and begin at 4 p.1n. 
Initial funding for the Erasmus Institute comes from the generosity of individual contributors, The Pe,v Charitable Trusts, the \Villiam J. Carey Endowment, and the University of Notre Dame. 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
University. He graduated received a bach­
continued from page I elor's degree from the school in 1977 and 
Football 

gy he would incorporate into tho 
began work that 
program. Willingham told the year as an MSU
corps of reporters: "Well. you 
Football gradu­know what, I am primed for this atr. assistant. 
one. I want you to know that. 
He was a sec­
Because as I understand the 
ondary coad1 forNotre Dame tradition, the focus 
Central
is 'win.' So my offense .. .is about 
Michigan
winning." \nd latrr, "l\1y 
University fromdefense, before the next person 1()78 to 1979gets the mike, is about win­
and then was a
ning." 

secondary and
Officials praised his pointed­
special-teams
ness. 

coach for his
"You just need to do a good 
alma mater for
job. be focused and have the. 
the next three
kind of relationship with your 
SC'asons.
student-athletes and with the 
He held thoserest of tho university that we positions also atexpect of you," Malloy said. "I 
North Carolina
just want him to be himself. Ile State University
dot)sn'l havP to tell jokes. He from 1983 lo
doesn't have to spend huge 
1985.
amounts of time in public per­
At Rief'formance." 
University, heThe University president 
c o a c h e d NOAH AMSTADTER/The Observer 
noted that Willingham was an 
receivers and University President Father Edward Malloy
all-around institutional fit. At 
special tlrnms speaks at the press conference announcing
Stanford, he coached playPrs in 
from 1986 to Tyrone Willingham as the new Irish coach.
a rigorous academic environ­
1988.
ment similar lo Notre Dame's. 
He spent the next six seasons President Bush, said in a state­
In srven seasons at the helm 
as a running-backs coach -at ment. "lie will be good wilh the
of the Cardinal team, 
Stanford from 1989 to 1991 and alumni and someone NotreWillingham coached Stanford to with the Minnesota Vikings from Dame will bo very proud of." 
a 44-36-1 record, including four 
1992to1994. Former Vikings head coach
bowl appearances and a Pacific-He returned to Stanford in Dennis Green called Willingham10 Conference championship in 
1995 as head coach. an "ideal selection" for the
1999. His 2001 Cardinal team 
Friends and former colleagues University.
was his most successful, with a lauded his appointment at Notre "I le has thP grnat combination
9-3 record and berth in the 
Dame. of being demanding and under­Seattle Bowl. 
"He is someone who has so standing," Green, also a formerWillingham was twice named 
many intangibles and will be an Stanford coach, said in a state­PAC-10 Coach of the Year. fie 
excellent !'it at Notre Dame," ment, "and I think that he is 
was a finalist for the national­
Condoleeza Rice, former going go hr,lp the players reach
coach-of-the-year award in 
Stanford provost and current their goals -and that's what
1995 and won the equivalent of 
national security adviser to it's all about."
that honor from the Black 

Coaches Association in 1995 and 1996. 
Protect Your Asset & Privacy

Sl'BIIIS BIIEJllt'
He holds a 3-2 record against With an affordable International Trust 
Cancun, Acapulco, Mazatlan,
the [rish the past five seasons. and build wealth at the same time.
Jan,aica, Batia111a, &S.Padr!
The Kinston, N.C., native was 
plus help St. Johns Center

www.atud9ntexpr9U,com
a walk-on in both football and 
Cati Now: 1-800-787-3787 Call 1-888-437-0077
baseball at Michigan State 
LAFAYETTE SUDARE TOWN HOMES 
"The Best Value Per Student" 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWN HOMES OFFER: 
• 
4/5 Private Bedrooms 

• 
Fully Equipped Kitchens ONLY AFEW LEFT 

• 
Washer & Dryer in Each Unit FOR 2002-2003 

• 
Central Air Conditioning lnnn Youn Tnu! 

• 
Assigned Parking Spaces 


Call 219-234-9923
• 
ADT Security Systems 

• 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 


Professionally Managed by: /':_.--~ Real Estate Management Corporalion · .. '''.· . 
P.O. Box 540 130 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46624-0540 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
SOME REASONS WHY You SHOULD JOIN OUR COMMUNITY: 
• 
Over 1,000 SF of Living Space 

• 
2 Bedrooms/ 1 Bedroom --Double Vanity Sinks 

• 
4 Blocks South From Notre Dame Campus 

• 
On-Site Laundry Facilities 

• 
On "Transpo" Bus-Line 


Call 219-234-9923 

• 
Professional Management 

• 
24-Hour Emergency "On-Call" Maintenance 


Notre Dame Apartments Continues to Offer Quality Housing Opportunitiesand Has Become The Best Yalue in OffCamp11s tiring 
Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
previous Olympics. She was co-captain of thn U.S. Olympic volleyball team but didn't play because America boycotted the 1980 Summer Games in Moscow. Slrn was assistant coach of' the U.S. volleyball 
squad  that competed  in  
Seoul,  Sou th  Korea,  in  
the1988 Olympics.  

"Not having an Olympic exp1HiencP in 1980 was definitely a disappointment in my athlelic career,"she said. "l l'elt like going to Seoul in 1988 gave me a chance to experience the 
Olympics a little differently. 
"[Being a torchbearer] was very short-lived but very exciting," she contin­ued. "There's something about carrying the Olympic name that's very thrilling." 
The route began at the northern edge of rampus at Juniper and Douglas roads and procPeded south on Juniper during a seven­mile tour lhrough the city. From South Bend, it hPad­ed to Chicago. 
In all, the torch will trav­el 13,500 mrles along its route from Atlanta to Salt Lake City, where it is scheduled to arrive Feb. 2, two days before the open­ing of the 2002 Wintflr Olympic Games. 
The Observer Now looking for news writers observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 

OU CAN MAKE ADIFFERENCE! 
Train to be aVolunteer Advocatefor 
S-0-S 
The Rape Crisis Centerfor St, Joseph County 
To Provide: 
• 
Crisis Intervention 

• 
Emotional Support 

• 
Information 


For Women, Men, and Children who are victims of: 
• 
Rape 

• 
Domestic Violence 

• 
Child Molestation 

• 
Sexual Harassment 


Call S-0-S at 283-1308 NOWfor information on how YOU can help! Training sessions begin on January 31, 2002 

RL , f:. , ATION 
Wednesday, January 16, 2002 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Palestinians detain faction leader: 
Palestinian police on Tuesday detained the leader of a faction that claimed responsibility for thr assassination of an Israeli cabinet minis­tor -a movP that appcarrd to be aim<'d at defusing spiraling tensions. The moVf>. rnme just hours af'trr gunmen shot and killed two Israelis in thr \'\'{!St 13ank: a 72-year-old lsraeli­AmPrir.an man shopping for building supplies and a 45-yrar-nld ,,,oman driving to a \Yedding. 
Argentines burn ATMs: Argentines angry over a banking freeze ransacked banks and torc·hrd /\TMs nn Tuesday as President Eduardo Duhalde vowed to eventually relax n1rbs that have brought the linancial system to a standstill. Hag,~ over tlw G-week-old n~strit:­lions shutting off Argentines' ac'.CPSS to their savings boiled over around tlrn country mixed wilh the rising anger of unemployed workers. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Man acquitted of gun charge: A fed­eral jury deliberated for just 15 minutes Tuesday bdore acquitting a Colorado business­man of trying to board an airplane with a handgun packed in his briefcase. Douglas Miller. 65. or Highlands Ranch. Colo., said he packed the .38-caliber revolver months before and had forgotten about it when he went to board a flight at Omaha's Eppley Airfield on Nov. 10. Miller was arrested after security workers found the gun buried beneath paper­work. He said he started carrying the gun last year after he was harassed ·while trying to r.hange a flat tire. 
American Taliban fighter charged: 
Thi' Bush administration will charge American Taliban John Walker Lindh with conspiracy to kill U.S. citiz1ms in Afghanistan and vvill ask for life imprisonment rather than the death penal­ty, AUorney General John Ashcroft said. 
INDIANA News BRIEFS 
Man falls asleep, rear-ends police: 
A car rear-ended an Indiana State Police cruis­er that a trooper had parked along Interstate 69 while he ticketed the driver of a sport utility vehicle. A'i he saw the r.ar about to hit his cruis­er. Trooper Michael Wylie avoided injury by jumping onto the SUV's hood. The impar.t shoved the police car into the Chevrolet Blazer that Wylie had stopped for speeding near Gas City on Sunday.The driver of the car that hit the rruiser. Phillip Coomer. 51, of Fort Wayne, told investigators he had fallen asleep at the wheel of his 1987 Nissan. 
Market Watch January 15 
Dow 9,924.15 +32.73 

Composite
]~ sr~e 
Volume: 1,370,980.992 
AMEX: 835.52 +5.73 NASDAQ: L000.91 +10.17 NYSE: 582.63 +3.59 S&P 500: 1, I 46.19 +7.78 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
TYCO INTL LTD (TYC) -8.49 -4.45 47.95 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +0.95 +0.38 40.34 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -4.06 -0.53 12.53 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.46 -0.16 34.68 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.25 +0.05 19.68 
KASHMIR 

Associated Press 
ISlAMABAD. Pakistan 
Police shut the offices of 
another militant group 
Tuesday ahead of a visit by 
Secretary of State Colin 
Powell aimed at defusing 
the threat of war between 
Pakistan and India. But a 
defiant President Pervez 
Musharraf said he still 
bar.ks Kashmir's struggle 
against "Indian occupa­
tion." 
Musharraf told the newly formed National Kashmir Committee that he hoped for a peaceful end to the standoff with India -but repeated Pakistan's "resolve and will" to defend il,;;elf. 
Pakistani police kept up 
their sweep of suspected 
Islamic extremists, closing three offices of the Harkat­ul-Muj ahedeen, or Movement of Holy Warriors, a group India accuses of staging attacks in Kashmir. 
More than 70 suspected militants were detained Tuesday, the fourth day of a crackdown ordered by Musharraf, bringing total arrests to more than 1,600 and offices closed to nearly 500, authorities said. 
India, however, has said Pakistan must do more to prevent terror attacks against it. Powell was to arrive in Pakistan on Wednesday before continu­ing onto Kabul, Afghanistan, the next day. He was to travel to New Delhi, India, as well, for more talks on the Indian­Pakistani confrontation that last month led the two nuclear-armed neighbors to mass hundreds of thou­sands of troops on their joint border. 

Ahead of his departure, Powell expressed confi­dence that Musharrafwould make good on promises to crack down. 
"We need India and Pakistan to pull back," Powell said Tuesday on CNN. "We need to reduce the possibility that some­thing could spark a conflict between the two sides." 
So far, Musharraf has banned the three radical Islamic organizations and two Muslim militant groups India blames for a deadly attack on India's Parliament. On Tuesday. the government ordered Pakistani banks to freeze the accounts of the five organizations outlawed Saturday, a move apparent­ly timed to Powell's arrival. 
Powell told Fox News that Musharraf should be com­mended for saying "pxtrem­ism and terrorism have no place in Pakistani society." 
But India says it wants tougher action. Before leav­ing for Washington on Tuesdav, Indian Defense Minister· George Fernandes said his country would keep its troops mobilized along the frontier with Pakistan until Islamabad curbs ter­rorist attacks on Indian­controlled Kashmir. 

Baggage law could create delays 
Currently, less than 10 percent of The precaution means that if a
Associated Press 
the 14 billion bags flown in domes­passenger fails to board a plane, or 
DENVER tic airliners' holds annually are gets off just before takeoff, airline 
Across the country, more airline screened for explosives by such workers will have to climb into the passengers could find themsdvPs methods. hold to remove his 01· her luggage. standing in line or sitting on planes For security reasons, airline offi­That could create delays in pulling delayed at the gate when a federal cials declined to comment on how away from the gate. law requiring the screening of all they plan to comply on Friday. But The measure would also fail to checked baggage for bombs takes airport officials around the country stop a suicide bomber. In addition. effect Friday. said most airlines apparently will plans call for requiring the bag 
The law req uircs airlines to use use bag-matching. match to be done when a passen­any of four methods: hand search­The techniquP is designed to pre­ger first boards a plane, and not es, bomb detection machines, vent someone from checking a bag done a second time for a connect­bomb-sniffing dogs or the matching with a bomb and never boarding ing flight, said a government of every piece of luggage to a pas­the aircraft. The approach already source, speaking on condition of senger on board a plane. is used on international flights. anonymity. 
L:::::::::::::;:::::::;:::::;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::I 


page(-, The Observe1 . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 16, 2002 

Start the Year OffRight!! 
Join us at the Social Concerns Festival! Thursday, January 241\ 7:00 -9:00 p.m. at the CSC! Learn more about the many ways to g·et involved in service activities through community organizations and campus clubs. 
Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs 

~; ~ Summer Service Project Internships: The final information session for the 2002 Summer Service Project Internships will be ·• Tuesday, January 22nd 6:30 PM at the Center for Social Concerns. Come and hear from others who have had this eight-week 
_

..I...experience, find out the requirements -It is a Course! -Theo 360. $1900.00 Scholarship 
Urban Plun1:e! Debriefin1: for all Urban Plun2e Participants! 
Spring Break Seminars! 
Will be held this Sunday, January 20th at 6:30 p.m. 
Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns for the 
in the Mendoza College of Business Auditorium! 
following five spring break seminars: Appalachia, L' Arche, Washington, Migrant Experiences, and Holy Cross Mission Seminar: Coachella.
Vehicle Trainine Information 
For more information: Call or stop by the CSC, check out our website, or Imporlant CSC Vehicle Driver Update visit these seminars' information tables at the CSC's Social Concerns CSC Driver Authorization Certification cards issued prior to Festival on January 24th (7-9 p.m. at the CSC)! January 2002 will no longer be accepted! All drivers must 
SENIOR TRANSITION PROGRAMS 
*Senior Service Retreat -Sign up this week at the CSC for the Feb. 8-9 Retreat! Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry. 
*Interviewing Workshop For Post-Graduate Service Programs ­Jan. 23 -5:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Presenters: MJ Adams from ACE and John Pinter from Holy Cross Associates 
Faculty! 
Over the winter break, about 200 students had an intense 48-hour experience in a city somewhere in the U.S., with individuals, organizations, and parishes ad­dressing urban problems including poverty, racism, and violence. We are looking for faculty to spend a few hours with a small group of these students, to help them think about the questions, both personal and academic, that this opportunity has provoked, and to guide them toward resources (courses, readings, individu­
attend a new information session. Only the actual driver of 
als) for pursuing their questions further. Ifyou are .willing to explore this possi­bility, please contact Mary B.eckman at the CSC. 
Julie Dawson 329-9756 (cell) 232-0895 (home) 
Hoping to find a tutor, preferably female, to work with her daughter Brianne, who attends St. Joe grade school, especially needs help in reading comprehension and math. A location on campus can be arranged. 
Tutor for High School Junior Yolanda Carson 234-1949 
She's looking for a tutor for her daughter who is a Junior in H.S. She is being recruited for college basketball, but needs some help with Algebra and English to keep her grades up, she can meet with the tutor on campus. 
Mentor for 13 yr old at Madison Center Barbara Burkett or Jerri Dunn 651-1255 
Looking for a male mentor to spend some quality time with a 13 yr old boy who needs a positive role model in his life. Time commitment involves meeting with him weekly or biweekly. 
Spanish Speaking Volunteer for Preschooler Marissa Runkle (219) 289-4831 marissar@logancenter.org 
A four year old Hispanic little boy needs someone who speaks Spanish to play with him his preschool which is a short driving distance from campus. 
Volunteer for Preschooler Marissa Runkle (219) 289-4831 marissar@Iogancenter.org 
A three year old little boy needs a student volunteer to be with him as he plays at Edison preschool close to campus. The student will direct him in meaningful play. Please be available from 9-IOa.m. on Tuesdays. 
Logan Dance Marissa Runkle (219) 289-4831 marissar@Jogancenter.org Dance the night away on January 25th from 7-lOp.m.with Logan Center adults who have developmental disabilities. Pick ups: 6:30 p.m. LeMans, 
6:45 p.m. P.W. Circle (outside), & 6:50 p.m. O'Neill (outside curb) ***If you have any questions about these volunte~r projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu. *** 
a vehicle may submit a request for use due to policy and procedural changes for CSC vehicle drivers. 
ALL STUDENTS WHO PLAN TO DRIVE CSC VEHICLES {be2inning ,January 21, 2002) MUST ATTEND A NEW INFO SESSION THIS SEMESTER! The following hour-long sessions are the ONLY sessions that will be offered at the CSC this semester: January 20, 6:30-7:30 p.m. January 22, 5:30 -6:30 p.m. January 27, 6:30-7:30 p.m. January 31, 8:00-9:00 p.m. February 3, 6:30-7:30 p.m. March 3, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
There is no need to register. Bring pen and driver's license to session. Que st ions? e-mail: cscvans@nd.edu 
Current Volunteer Needs 
Tutor for Eleven-year-old 
http://6ente;focsccial<Xii ICe"lS..nd.edu 631-5293 Hal.rs: M-F 8AM-10EM Sat. 10AM-2IN SUn. 6™-9:EM
* * 

Wedne~day, January 1G, 2002 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
To All Potential Student Body PresidentNice-President Candidates: 
Petitions can be picked up from the Student Government Office 203 LaFortune 
All Candidates must get at least 300 signatures from undergraduate students By Noon on Wednesday, January 23. 
Craig Kilborn to salute ND 
By KIFLIN TURNER A.1sisiam Newi Ediror 
Ttw Lam Show with Craig Kilborn will slwwc.isc i'\otrn IJamP tonight as a part of its weekly salut11 to America's colleg<1s and universities. 
The college thcmP show will prnludH the Notrn Dame mr>n's honw hask1-tball game against Kentucky on Saturday Jan. 19. 
Tonigl;t's show will be the last of the eight college­th,inwd broadcasts. "J · strongly believe that higher 
the efforts of thf' men's bas­ketball team. 
THAI RESTAURANT 
"The finest Thai restaurant in to,rn. lfr imit~ mu to trl" 1n1rld-class cuisil1lc, Thai cuisine. th~ delicate·art lhal descend, from primoi;mitor. TI,ai cuisine is designed to excite your five scn,es; Sweet, Stiur. Salty, Spin·, and \iatur,1I." 
education improves one's segments including, "In The ability to watch and under­News," "Desk Chat" and stand late night television Kilborn 's trademark "5 and /\morica's collegf:! stu­Questions" will specifically 
d<rnls liuve mv solemn o,;tl1 that our comedy kcg will nnver run dry," said Kilborn i.n a prPss release. 
Tlw Late Show's sig­nature comedy 
211 North Mam Street 
of Tennessee, West Point, the 
Downtown South Bend ~ Naval Academy, Michigan State University, Indiana , ~ ,,-..,. , , University, the University of 
.:rc•ri•t'-•Alabama and UCLA 
highlight Notre Dame. "J strongly believe that Kilborn's off-beat
higher education 
sense or

improves one's ability to 
humor that watch and understand bo1·ders on cynical to
late night telez,ision . ., 
the absurd will attemptCraig Kilborn to make 
talk show host, comedian light out of the upcomi ng game this 
.Saturday while supµorting 
Kilhorn has sur.essfullv 
predicted the outcome of si~ 1 of the past seven featured . university basketball teams 
on the show. 
Kil.born picked two upsets · last week including the · Michigan State defeated ,Arizona and UCLA beating 
No. 1-ranked Kansas, 
With a 6-1 rncord thus far, 1'-ilborn attempts to µrolong . his winning predictions this ., . weekend with a Notre Dame 
" victory against Kentucky. 
•· 1 Since the kick-off of the
f:.'"-y; college series beginning with the University of Florida. the
) featured schools on the show have included the University 
ND trustee, revered athlete dies at 66 
Special to the Observer 

Word has been received of the death of Aubrey C. Lewis, a trustee of Notre Dame and chairman of the board of the Sports Hall of Fame of New Jersey Inc. He vrns 66. 
Lewis died at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York Dec. 10, about six weeks after he entered the facility in nPed of a heart transplant. 
Lewis was a record-setting prep athlete who went on to 
become  one  of  the  first  
African-Ame rican  FBI  
agf:!nts.  

Ile first won recognition for his football exploits at Montclair (N.J.) High School. His accomplishments were recognized in 2000 when the Star Ledger, Now Jersey's· largest newspaper, selected him as the outstanding high school offensive player of the century. 
A 1958 graduate of Notre Dame, he earned three monograms in football and captained the track team, setting a world record in the 440-yard hurdles. · 
After careers as a high school teacher, coach, FBI agent and a senior retail executive at F.W. Woolworth Company, Lewis served on the boards of PNC Bank. the United States Naval Academy and the Chinatown YMCA. 
/\her careers as a high school teacher, coach, FBI agent and a senior retail executive at r.w. Woolworth Company, Lewis served on the boards of PNC Bank, the Cnited States Naval Academy and the Chinatown YMCA. 
For the past two years he served on the board of com­missioners of the Port Authority of NAw York and New Jersey, also serving as vice chairman of the Now Jersey Highway Authority. 
Lewis was a charter com­missioner of the New Jersey Sports and Exhibition Authority (Meadowlan~s Sports Complex). 
Ile returned as a board member and commissiorH~r in J 999 and headed the authority's construction committee. 
Lewis received the coveted NCAA Silver Anniversary Award and numerous USA Presidential Awards for his work with youth. 
He is survived by his wife, Annie; sons, Aubrey C. Jr., John Edgar and Gary Robert; daughters Lauren Leslie 
Stewart  and  Lisa  Ann  
Owens; and 11  grandchil­ 
dren.  


Lundi. 
Mon-Fri 11am-2p111 
(j)imzer 
Mon-Sat 3pm-9pru 
211 r . 
0 Ii MAIII L ST 
f 
L 
>, 
~ 
L 
L 
1232-4445! 
***There will be a MANDATORY MEETING for all candidates*** On Thursday, January 17, at 7 PM in the Student Government Office 
~ , • I r :; 1 r ·r1: : ·1r.; ,_ .. 1L }'Y/ 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
PHILIPPINES

INDIA 
Afghanistan asks for aid 
. Leaders seek support in rebuild­ing war-torn nation 
Associaced Press 
NEW DELHI 

Avoiding neighboring Pakistan, a stream of leaders from Afghanistan's new inter­im administration have come to India f'or advice on rebuild­ing their war-ruined nation. 
Leaders of the northern alliance, who dominate Afghan Prime Minister Hamid Karzai's administration. view India as a loyal friend. 
Within days after the Taliban militia fled the Afghan capital, India announced it would reopen its embassy in Kabul. send a million tons of wheat in emergency aid and extend a credit line of 100 million for reconstruction. 
Pakistan has pledged the same amount for Afghan reconstruction and has reopened its embassy in Kabul. But Pakistan also rec­ognized and supported the Taliban regime. India, by con­tr ast. never granted the Taliban diplomatic status. 
"People in Afghanistan have long memories.... They will. not forget who was a friend and others, who supported and propped up the Taliban," said Masood Khalili, Afghanistan's ambassador to India. "It's natural that we will turn to India for assis­tance." 
On Dec. 22, when the Afghan interim administration took office, the Indian Embassy was open for busi­ness. 
Bul Kabul's estrangement with Pakistan was evident: Pakistan received no invita­tion from the new government to its Dec. 22 inaugural cere­monies. Instead, the United Nations invited Pakistan's for­eign minister to the event. 
"W!l have diplomatic rela­tions with Pakistan, but 
Afghan wounds are fresh," unmatchable. Indian compa­Khalili said. "Mv countrymen nies have enormous experi­ask who is responsible for ence in building bridges and propping up tho Taliban, for roads in difficult terrain. the sufferings and depriva­These companies must makn tions, for the tragedy that has the must of the multilatnral visited Afghanistan?" assistance being offered f'or 
During Urn five years the Afghanistan's reconstruction," northern alliance fought the India's special envoy to Taliban, Pakistan was the Afghanistan. Satindcr hard-line militia's principle Lambah, told a crowded nrnet­backer. Even after the U.S. ing of Indian nntrcprennurs bombing campaign began, on Tuesday. Prcside:i1t Gen. Pervcz Af'ghani~tan is also looking Musharraf lobbied the United to India for help in building a States to prevent the northern democracy. alliance from seizing Kabul, , "India has a billion plus peo­which it did on Nov. 13. ple, with so many ethnic 
Looking forward to reconstruc­"We have diplomatic tion, Khalili 
relations with Pakistan. 
told a meet­
but Afghan wounds are
ing organized by tho fresh." Federation of I n d i a n 
Masood Khalili
Chambers of 
Afghanistan's ambassador to
Commerce and Industry India on Tuesday: "The people 
groups, lan­guages, reli­gions --all enjoying democracy and finding their place under the sun," said Khalili. the Afghan ambassador. "Afghanistan, too, has many 


FITNESS SPRING SCHEDULE ~ 2002 
RSRC ACTIVITY ROOM 1 1 12:15-12:45 Cardio Sculpt (ends 5/17) M/W/F $36 
2  4:15-5:15  Step II  
3  5:30-6:45  Power Step n'Purnp  
4  8:30-9:30pm  Cardio Box  
5  12:15-12:45  Flex n'Tone (ends 5/16)  
6  4:15-5:15  Step II  
7  5:30-6:30  Cardio Box  

8 9:45-10:45am Step II (ends 3/3) 9 11:00-11:30 Arms n'Abs (ends 3/3) 10 4:15-5:30 Cardio Sculpt 11 5:45-6:00 All Abs M/W/F $38 M/W $33 
M/W $26 
Tffh $23 Tffh $26 Tffh $26 Sa $7 Sa $5 Su $14 Su $10 
RSRC ACTIVITY ROOM 2 
12 4:15-5:15  Cardio Box  
13 5:25-6:10  Flex n'Tone  
14 7:15-8:30am  Step II n' Sculpt  
15 4:15-5:15  Cardio Sculpt  
16 5:25-6:10  Lo Impact  
17 4:45-5:15  Arms n'Abs  
ROCKNE ROOM 301  
18 5:30-6:30  Cardio Box  
19 5:30-6:30  Step I  

M/W M/W Tffh Tffh T/Th Su  $26 $26 $33 $26 $26 $10  
M/W  $26  
TfTh  $26  

ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 20 7:00-7:45prn Aquacise TfTh $26 
REGISTRATION Begins Thursday, January 17, 7:30am in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Classes are open to all ND students, staff, faculty, retirees 
and their spouses. Registration takes place throughout the semester. 
Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 14 class registrants. lasses begin the week of January 21 and unless noted, end the week of April 29. Please call 1-6100 with questions. 
Demonstration kills 15 officials 
Associated Press 

JOU) 
A shooting erupted between Muslim demonstn1tors and police after a rally in the south­ern Philippines Tuesday leav­ing 15 soldiers and police dead, 
officials said. Three  more sol­ 
diers  died  hours  later  in  
rcm1wcd violence.  

Officials said nirrn marines and two police ol'f'icnrs were among those who died Tuesday in a shootout following the demonstration in Jolo, about 580 miles south of' Manila. 
Col. Holand Dctabali of the military's Soutlwrn Command said Muslim residents were holding a rally in support of' former govornor Nur Misuari whnn some accost.eel a marine in civilian 1·.lotlrns and took a grenade he was carrying. 
As demonstrators began mauling the solditH, other marinus armed with rif'les arrived, and shooting erupted, Detabali said. It was not dear who startncl the shooting. 
Tho police iuvolved in the shooting were b1~lieved to be former rebels from Misuari's Moro National Liberation Front, a Muslim separatist group, who were integrated into tho national police force after Misuari signed a p<~ace accord with the Philippine gov­ernment in 1996. 
Army spokesman Col. Jose Mabanta said military and police in the predominantly Muslim provincn wern patrolling Jolo after the shootout to prevent f'urther vio­lence. Armored personnel car­riers guarded the streets as 
most rcsidrints remained indoors. 
But early Wednesday, at least three soldiers died when they were attacked by policenrnn in Jolo's open air rnarkBt, oflicials said. 
Lt. Gen. Roy Cimatu. head of military forces in thr southern Philippines, said about IO sol­diii rs were shopping when police opened firn, killing thn~e. 
The violence is the latest in a series of bloody events linked to Misuari, who was replaced as governor of an autonomous Muslim region in the southnrn Philippines in Novmnlwr. 
A wnek befor11 tlw Nov. 2(i regional elections, about (iOO Misuari f'ollowPrs att.tu:kPd an army base in .Jolo, sdting off clashes that killed more than 100 peopll'. AuthoritiPs chargnd Misuari with rnb1dlion afterward, claiming th1) attack was meant to dorail the cl1w­tions for his succnssor. 
Vlalaysian authorities arrest­ed Misuari and seven support­ers on Nov. 24 as they appar­ently wnrc trying to fl1~e a Philippine military manhunt, of'fidals said. 
On the outskirts of' Zamboanga city, anotlwr group of Misuari followers refus!\cl military orders to ltrnve a gov­11rnment complex, triggering fighting that killPd at least 25 robels, two soldiers and a civil­
ian. 
After weeks of' detPntion in Malaysia, Misuari was brought back to the Philippines last week. IIn is bc~ing cldained in a police camp outsidn Manila pending trial on rebellion charges. 

of' Afghanistan want to lay down their Kalashnikovs and take up spades. Instead of tanks, we want to sec tractors plowing the fields of' Afghanistan." 
They arc looking to India to help, and New Delhi is responding, seeing a chance to isolate Pakistan -its long­time rival and nuclear-arm1~d enemy. 
Mohammed Norzai, Afghanistan's minister of small industries, visited India last weekend seeking assis­tance from lndian construc­tion companies. 
Indian industrialists swamp the organizers of meetings on rebuilding Afghanistan, snatching up information on investment opportunities despite the lack of infrastruc­ture, large tracts of land laid waste by land mines and the absence of' direct air or road links with India. 
"India's expertise in infor­m a ti on technology is 
tribes, many clans. Ilow will a new government meet their aspirations'? In our neighbor­hood, there's only India we can learn f'rnm." 
Afghanistan also has sought India's help in creating a modern police force, setting up courts and prisons and forming an integrated army, Khalili said. 
Islamic links between Afghans and Pakistanis will continue, however, and the presence of tribal clans that straddle tlw border further cements the tics. Karzai, the Al'ghan prime minister, is Pashtun -Afghanistan's largest flthnic group and a major ethnic group in north­western Pakistan. 

~ -­
Wednesday, January 16, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Adults have obesity syndrome 
or obese, and there arc 16 mil­deciliter; HDL levels of less than
. Condition affects 
lion Americans with diabetes, 1 40 mgs in men and less than 50
47 million 
know the number would be mgs in women; blood pressure fairly large," Ford said. of at least 135/80; and blood 
A»ociatcd Press 
CHICAGO 

At lea.st 47 million l\mr.rkan adults -or rnorP than om' in fiv1i -have nrntabolic syn­dronHi, a disorder that oft<m includes a Le1~r belly, high blood pn)ssun\ poor cholPsterol 1·ead­in ~s and high blood sugar, according lo a disturbing new study. 
Metabolic syndrome has been recogniz1d since at least the 1920s, though it has b1wn called diffnrnnt things over the years. It is nol a single disease but a duster of health problPms, and despite its name, does not nee­Pssarily mean a person's rmitabolism is ddl:1·th.1i. 
Though I\X}rnrts say the syn­drome nray bo caused by a combination of' genes and lifestylP factors, lifestyle ­including tJVPrnating and a lack of' exorcis,, -am probably Urn most important factors. said Dr. Earl Ford of Lhc Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. who Ind the study. Experts sus­pt~ctcd the syndrome was com­mon but were uncertain about its prnvalence. 
This study puts a numblir on the sco1w of tlw problem. "When you consider that 50 to 1,0 million Americans have hypertension, about 60 percent or adults quality as overweight Metabolic syndrome greatly sugar of at least 1l Omgs. increases the risk of diabetes, The CDC team used the defin­heart attacks and stroke. ition to analyze data from a 
The findings were published nationally representative sam­in Wednesday's Journal of the ple ot' 8,814 men and wom1m American Medical Association. who participated in a 1988-94 The disorder often features a health survey. While about 22 disproportionate amount of percent of U.S. adults were cal­abdominal fat -th0 so-callPd culated to have the syndrome, bner bnlly -as well as elevated rates range from 6.7 percent blood pressure, blood sugar and among those in their 20s to 43.5 triglycerides and low levels of percent in adults in their 60s. IIDL. the good kind of choles­The rates among men and 
terol.  women  were  
The CDC real'hcd its estimate by using the  'This is one syndrome that is exquisitely lifestyle-sensitive."  24 percent and 2:~ .4 percent, respectively. Dr. Margo  
first-ever spe­ Denke, a  pro­ 
l'ilic definition  Dr. Margo Denke  fessor of medi­ 
ut' the syn­drome devel- University of Texas Southwestern  cine University  at of  
oped by  the  T  e  x  a  s  
National  Southwestern  

Institutes of Health. The defini­Medical Center in Dallas, said tion could help doctors idrmtify tho report may prompt doctors and treat patients by giving to more aggressively investigate them blood pressure or choles­what would previously have terol drugs or getting them to been dismissed as isolated lose weight, eat better and get symptoms. morn exercise. The numbers suggest "you're 
According to the NIH defini­not going to have to look that tion, metabolic disorder is pre­hard to find patients" who have sent if a patient has any three the multiple symptoms, she or more symptoms: a waist said. "This is one syndrome that mnasuring at least 40 inches for is exquisitely lifestyle-sensitive men and 35 inches for women; -it's an area where we can get levels of triglycerides -fats people to pay attention and if that circulate in the blood -of they do pay attention, there's at least 150 milligrams per big rewards," she said. 
UN: Afghans need economic assistance 
As.ociared Press 

W,'.\SHINGTON 
Rebuilding Afghanistan will cost $15 billion over the next 10 years, and World Bank President James Woll'onsohn says it is crucial to get money flowing quickly so the interim government can hire civil ser­vants and start functioning. He said $5 billion will be needed in the first 2 1/2 years for recon­struction needs in the shattered nation after more than two decades of civil war, Soviet invasion and Taliban repres­sion. 
"The first thing that needs to be done is to get the govern­ment some cash flow," Wolfensohn said, "That's the critical issue right now. We need to give them the capacity to govern." He spoke to reporters after the bank, the 
U.N. Development Program (UNDPl and the Asia Development Bank issued the $15 billion estimate of Afghanistan's needs in advance of next week's donors confer­ence in Tokyo. 
The meeting is aimed at securing money to provide a new start for the country fol­lowing the rout of the Taliban. 
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan, Secretary of State Colin Powell, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and representa­tives from Japan, the European Union, Saudi Arabia and a host of other countries are expected to attend the gathering. Besides agreeing on aid for Prime 
Minister Hamid Karzai's inter­
im government, which took 
power in December. 
Wolfensohn said the confer­
ence had to produce a recon­
struction program that is 
"pragmatic, realistic and effec­
tive." 
"It's not an issue of charity 
but an issue of sell'-intcrnst,'' he 
said. "I cannot imagine that we 
have spent billions on a war to 
allow it to recur two or three 
years down the track," · Among the needs that have to 
be addressed, he said. are edu­
cation and health programs, 
particularly for women and 
children. He said removing 
mines would be essential to 
reviving agriculture. Incentives 
have to be provided to farmers 
so they do not revert to grow­
ing poppies used tu produce 
drugs, Wolfensohn said. 
HA said donor countries and 
international organizations 
would have to overcome the 
bureaucratic hurdles that 
dflveloped when aid had to bfl 
delivered to Bosnia and East 
Timor. "It's like starting a car 
with a dead battery. You have 
to jump it and jump it until it 
starts," Wolfensohn said. 
"That's exactly the position we 
are in now." 
In New York, UNDP adminis­
trator Mark Malloch-Brown, 
who is coordinating U.N. recon­
struction efforts in Afghanistan, 
said· at a press conference the 
cost estimates are "very much 
in the range what all of the 
comparable big reconstruction 
operations have ended up. 
OPEN 

AUDmONS 7:30 
Successful Applicants Receive: 
Summer Housing -Summer Stipend -1/2 Tuition Remission 
Shakespeare -in performance ( 6 credit hours) 
Opportunity to perform in an equity company roduction 
Time: 7:30 Sh 1Surnmer 
101 DeBartolo Jan. 21-22 
I 
In its third season, Summer Shakespeare proudly presents: 
THE 

TEMPEST 
BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE 
A Story ofMagic, Love, and Forgiveness 
JULY 23 -28 
Directed by Gavin Cameron-Webb 
aKes~-eare 
univenityufl!un,dame 
pmdu!.'tl/Jl/. urulmcrita
National-
Produced by Paul Rathburn 
Washington Hall 
University of Notre Dame 
For ticket information and reservations, call 
219.631.5069 
or visit www.nd.edu/ ~sumrshak 

OPEN 
AUDmONS 
101 DeBartolo 
Opportunities for: Actors Singers 
-Dancers -Assistant to a Director -Assistant to a Stage 
Manager -Assistant to a Producer -Other Technical Theatre Positions 
7:30 

101 DeBartolo 
Jan 21 & 22 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sou,h Dining Hall, Norrc D,mc, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 

MANAGING EDITOR Noreen Gillespie  8UMNES.'i MANAGER Bob Woods  
AsST. MANAGl!'{G EDITOR Kerry Smith  OPERATIONS MANAGER Par Petrrs  

NE\1C'S EorroR: Jason McFarley 

V!E\'l'POINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee 
SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amsradrer 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Mvra McGriff 

PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: A.Jex Menze 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvcl Chin 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner 
CONTROLLER: Kevin Ryan 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO .............631-7 4 7J FAx.... .. .. ........... ......................631-6927 ADVERTISING.................... ................63 l-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.................................•......631-4542 MA.1'fAGING EmToR/AssT, ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE................•.••..............•.••..631·53!3 
NEWS.. ·······················································631-5323 observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................631·5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS............ ...........................................631-4543 observer.spores. 1@nd.edu 
ScENE........................•••.............•..•...•..•...•..631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S.............................................63[.4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMI!'IISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:lhbserver. nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 

movies/music for
weather for up-to•the 
minute forecasts 

weekly smdem reviews 
advenise for policies 

online features for spe• 
and races ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage . 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published alter 

m meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by rhe students of the University ofNacre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edimrial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse adverrisemencs based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofrhe Editor in Chief. Managing Ediror, Assiscanc Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenc the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is enco.urnged. Lcrrcrs to the Edirur muse be signed and must include concacL infr>rn1auon. 
Quminm rey;ardmg Ohserver policies should be direct­ed 10 Editor III Chief Mike Connolly. 
Wednesday, January 15, 2002 


Take pride in Catholic tradition 
In announcing Notre Dame's plan to spend $500 million on new building projects, Vice President Timothy H. Scully, said, "We really feel a deep responsibility to build the world's leading Catholic university." A worthy objective. But the Catholic Church alone has authority to define the "Catholic university." John Paul II did so in 1990 in Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the apostolic constitution on Catholic higher education. 
Notre Dame's focus on monev and a veritable building binge might obscure an important question: If Notre Dame is to become a really Catholic university, what attitude must our leaders have toward Ex: Corde? 
Fortunately, Avery Cardinal Dulles, the eminent Jesuit scholar, offered some guidance on that point in his recent address on John Henry Cardinal Newman. the great 19th century Catholic educator. To put Cardinal Dulles's advice in context, we ought to look at some basics. 
In Nov. 1999, the bishops approved an Application or Ex Corde to the United States. The Application's emphasis on dialogue rather than formal enforcemPnt makes it likely that the implementation of Ex Corde, that is, whether a university will be truly Catholic or Catholic-lite, will be up to the choice or the university itself. 
The Application specifies some obligations ol' a Catholic university: "[T]he university should ... appoint Catholics ... so that, to the extent possible. those committed to the witness of the faith will constitute a majority of the faculty. 
"All professors are expected to be ... committed lo the Catholic mission ... of thoir institutions land to] exhibit nut only academic competence and good character but also respect for Catholic doctrine." /\t Notre Dame, 54 percent of the teaching and research faculty list themselves as Catholic; the number is headed south. 
"Roth the university and the bishops," said the Application. "have a right to expm:t [theologians! to present authentic Catholic teaching. Catholic !theologians] havn a ... duty to be faithful to tho church's magisterium as the authoritative interpreter of sacrPCI scripture and sacred tra­dition." 
Much discussion has focus11d on Hx Corde ·s requirem1rnt that "Catholic.s who teach the theological disciplines in a Catholic university are required to lrnv(i a mandatum grant­ed by ... ecc!Psiastical authority." The mandatum, notns Father Edward D. O'Connor, "is meant us a first step" to reverse "a widespread and grave situation: that so-called Catholic faculties have largely abandoned or disfigured their Catholicism." 


"The mandatum," says the Application, "recognizes the professor's ... responsibility to teach authentic Catholic doc­trine and to refrain from putting forth as Catholic teaching anything contrary to the church·s magisterium." Even with­out the mandatum. that obligation would arise from the truth-in-labeling duty to avoid consumer fraud. 
As the Application notes. "Catholic students have a right to receive from a university instruction in authentic Catholic doctrine\ and practice, especially from those who teach the theological disciplines." Un.iversities that claim to be Catholic ought to conform their product to their fund-raising pitch. 
There is no mystery about what it takes to be a Catholic university. Head Ex Corde and the Application. And reflect on Cardinal Dulles's analysis. "If Newman were alive today," said Cardinal Dulles, "he would enthusiastically embrace the principles set forth by John Paul II in Ex Corde Ecclesiae." 
Describing Newman's position, Dulles said. "because the university cannot fulfill its mission without revealed truth. and because the Church has full authority to teach the con­tents of revelation. the university must accept the Church's guidance ... the higher authority of the Church was neces­sary to rescue freedom of thought from what Newman called its own ·suicidal excesses."' 
"In the United States," said Cardinal Dulles. "Catholic uni­versities have been very apologetic, almost embarrassed, by their obligation to adhere to the faith of the Church. For Newman and for John Paul II, any university that lacks the guidance ol' Christian revelation and the oversight of the Catholic magisterium is ... impeded in its mission to find and transmit truth. 
"It fails to make use of an important resource that God in llis providence has provided. Surrounded by powPrful insti­tutions constructed on principles of metaphysical and reli­gious agnosticism, tlrn Catholic universities ur this nation have too long been on the defensive. While making certain nr,cessary adaptations to the needs of our own day. they should proudly reaffirm the essentials of their own tradition, so brilliantly synthesized by Newman in his classic work." 
Cardinal Dulles's analysis should be instructive for our leaders, especially on the necessary rnlation between the Catholic univNsity and the magisterium. the teaching authority of the Church. 
Professor fimeritus Rice is on the /,aw Schon! Farnlty. I/is column normally appears euC'ry other Thursday. /fr can be contacted at plawecki. 7@nd.edu. 
71te rir•u•s Pxpressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol necessarily those q{ The Obseroer. 
======================================================================================== 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Krimn Turner C. Spencer Heggs Scott Graphics Brodfuehrer Andy Devoto 
Sports Lab Tech 
Andrew Soukup Peter Viewpoint Richardson Term,a Fralish 
POLL QUESTION 
Was the hiring of Tyrone Willingham the right choice for Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Rome has spoken, the case is ended." 
St. Augustine Catholic philosopher 
.. 
O
fll[
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 1 5, 2002 page 11 
-======================================================================================================================== 
Getting past suffocating 
''tllnnel vision'' 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Praise new coach on his own merit 
I ,vish a black man, Alan Keyes, were president -but it has nothing to do with the fact he is black. I hope a black man, Cardinal Arinze, becomes the next pope -but that he is black matters not at aH for me. I am glad Tyrone Willingham is the new football coach -but I do not cam what color his skin is. 
Today, however, such sentiments can somehow get a per­son brandPd as "racist." Opposing affirmative action, a dis­crimiuatory policy which uses race as a basis for personnel decisions, can also earn that tag. I would think that using race to make choices and seeing persons primarily as mem­bers of one race or another, would be the very epitome of racis1:1, but people like .fosse Jackson who live off playing the race card see it differently. 
I welcome the addition of Coach Willingham to the Notre Dame community, and I foci everyone in that community should do the same -not because he is black, but because he is such a manifestly rlignified, decent and respectable man. [ hope the decision to hire him was indeed made because of his competence and, more important by far, char­acter, rather than to appease demagogues like Jesse Jackson. I look forward to the day when it will be no big deal if Notre Dame hires a black coach, an Hispanic coach or even a Muslim coach. If the "leaders" who see individuals in terms of color disappear, then that day may come a little sooner. 
Nick Ismert class of '99 Dec. 4, 2001 


Rr\C"ently a group of 15 stndents S!'t out on a week-long experience. The focus was "Issues of Diversity in an Urban Setting." 1was serving as the student coordinator for this group -a part of the Cultural Diversity Seminar and our intention was to expose stud<ents to different r.ondit.ions and per­Sandhyaspectives than those they 
Acharya
were used to within Notre Dame and thus give them a better insight about the What's Your world ar_ounrl us. 
Shade 
Our journey brought us to Chicago, considered one of the most diverse cities in the nation. As the activitit!s began, I was slightly ner­vous and uncertain us to how the participants would take it sirn~e this was the first time many of us wcrP experiencing urban life from such closP quarters. As the week progressed, however, my doubts wen' laid asidt> as I saw how t>nthusiasti­cally everyone was participating in the plelhora of activities planned. These included conversa­tions with community activists, touring communi­ties and foasting upon a variety of ethnic dishes. By the end of the seminar, 1am sure, each one of us was able to gain a feel for urban life first hand and do away with any prer,onceived notions and prejudices. The lessons we learned are priceless and eontinue to help us in our day-to-day life. 
It is perhaps not so common to observe stu­dents at Notre Dame reaching beyond the "bub­ble" and expanding their perspectives of the world and in particular other cultures. Even whilP being a part of nunrnrous organizations and community opportunities and committing time and effort to it, they still suffer from what I call the "tunnel vision syndrome." Tunnel vision is a condition in which one perceives life through a myopic scope and fails to extend his or her vision bevond the immediate. 
(Ve are often surrounded in an environment that is not necessarily representative of society. This can prove detrimental for an individual's grm,vth process if one does not attempt to ques­tion existing social norms. Orn~ can hear senti­ments of ethnic and social intolerance even when walking on the quad or eating at the dining hall. History seems to be repeating itself as progress is occurring in matPrialistic matters but not in intel­lectual elevation. 
As the nation is experiencing a state of uncer­tainty, it is time for every individual to make a difference. The first stpp is to step out of our nat­uraIcomfort zones and educatA ourselves about the world. Making an attempt to recognize and understand different ethnicities and cultures is necessary. If we do not open our minds to new ideas or changes, our society will stagnate and not progress in the right direction. 
"What's Your Shade" is the Multicultural Students Programs and Services column. It appears every other Wednesday. Contact MSPS at sacharya@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this article represent those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
GUEST COLUMN 
A plea for parietals at Georgetown 
The moral life of [Georgetown's] campus is in cri­sis. The Catholic identity of our great university is threatened. John Carroll shudders as he looks down upon what has come of his once great college. Ever since the end of the '60s, when females were first 
admitted to all fields of study to  
this once holy campus, our hill­top has become a den of iniquity  Blake Roberts  
and fornication.  
All the while, the administra­ 
tion insists on tr,aching students  The Hoya  
"moral responsibility." Hogwash.  
It's limP to redaim thP  

Georgetown Lhat once was. It's time to reassert our Jesuit identity. It's time for parietals. 
While it may be too late to kick women off campus, it's still possible to kick them out of dorm rooms when it gets too late. Parietals would limit the hours students could spend in the on-campus room of a member of the opposite gender. For example, from Sunday to Thursday, male students could not be in a female student's room after midnight. On Saturday anrl Sundav, students would have to leave at 2 a.m., preventing·Urn otherwise promiscuous youths from shaming themselves and Georgetown. 
1know that you're thinking -"This utopia of colle­giate virtue could never exist." But ynu·re wrong. It already does. You'll find such a haven for chastity in South Rend, Ind., home of Notre Dame, America's highest-rankect Catholic university. Apparnntly, U.S. News & World Report thinks parietals are a good idea too. 
At that virtuous academy, the administration has wisely decided to side with prudence and orthodoxy, unlike the loose and liberal DeGioia-Gonzalez team we've been cursed with. Intent on destroying the Catholic identity of Georgetown, this dubious duo has repeatedly failed to respond to student demands for parietals. 
But back to Notre Dame. If vou ask any student there about the effect of parietals on hooking up, you won't get an answer. You see, in innocent South Bend, they don't even know what "hooking up" is. 
Tti.e parietals policy has so effectively molded the moral beliefs of Notre Damfl sturl.ents that they can't even comprehend the vor.abulary of our illicit cul­ture. And Notre Dame isn't the only Catholir. school that holds true to the faith; Providence College in Rhode Island is another school that has parietals. No fornication there, eitlrnr. 
Put down those transfer applications; I'm not try-· ing to make you envious of our peers at real Catholic schools. I'm just attempting to show that parietals can happen at Georgetown. This isn't just an impos­sible dream :_ if students band togethN and fight, we too can replace our personal responsibility with administrative rules. 
Parietals would do more than just radically dimin­ish the level of undergraduate sexual indecency on campus, they could address other issues Georgetown faces. Who needs to worry about the unavailability of condoms on campus with the unavailahility of thfl opposite sex created by parietals? STDs on campus'? No longer a problem. Instead of fighting about whether to teach safe sex, there will be no sex. Elaborate Catholic teachings on sexuality? Why both­er when coercion is an option? Student pregnancy? Highly unlikely with parietals in effect. Study habits? Dramatically improved without the tempting distrac­tions of the flesh. And last of all, drinking: if you know you can't be in someone else's room after 12 
a.m. or two a.m., you've got to make some hard choices between vices. Either way, the level of immorality on campus will plummet. All because of parietals. 
Still unsure about whether or not you support pari­etals? Consider their effect on your moral develop­ment: no more "discerning" what's right, no more relying on your "will" to do what you think is good, no more hard thinking about complicated and diffi­cult issues, Just follow the rules. It's so much sim­pler. Who said being moral had to be hard work? 
Let's hope and pray that our liberal administration finally decides to return to the flock by instituting parietals like they have at real Catholic schools. No more of this nonsensical reliance on educating the individual to make informed and responsible choices -let's have somP institutional rules, then we'll be Catholic. 
This column first appeared Jan. 11, in the Georgetown university newspaper, The Hoya. It appears here courtesy ofU-Wire. 
The views expressPd in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 






•

Ill 
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Edi cor 
Sometimes the best way to look at a culture is to see the way iu which they look at themselves. "Mask and Figures, Form and Style: The Christensen Family Collects African Art," a reinstal­lation of a portion of the Snite Museum of Art's African art collection, gives patrons a glimpse of how traditional African cultures understood their world; a world so different from, but at the same time relevant to, our own. 
The Christensen family collection of African art consists of 26 piece that they have acquired over the last 30 years. The exhibition represents about a quarter of their current holdings. The family was struck by the sculptural quality of African Art and contacted art dealers in Chicago and New York that were able to help the family acquire a high quality collection of West African art. 
"Mask and Figures, Form and Style: The Christensen Family Collects African Art" represents some of the collection's strengths. Most of the pieces are from the late 19th and early 20th centuries and many are artistically important to a form of expression that is disappear­ing and in some cases lost in the modern world. 
Masks and figures serve a utilitari­an function in their respective African cultures. 
"Most masks are used for social con­trol; they arc objects which are worn by humans but ... motivated by spirits of the bush that are called upon to help human restore social order," said Douglas Bradley, curator of the Arts of the America, Africa and Oceania at the Suite Museum of Art. 
For example, one of the pieces, an Egungun mask, was traditionally used to punish witches. Other masks are used to iconize cultural heroes and to breed reverence. 
Figures, on the other hand, often are used to supplicate, invoke or communi­cate with spirits, gods or ancestors. One of the statues from the Songye people in the exhibit is used to prevent smallpox. 
"We are all trapped 
well go take a 


in our post­look ... It's a wide
modern, 

"It's a wide world out world out there and -we
early 21st 

there and we ought to ought to expand our hori­
century 
zons. " 
world view expand our horizons." 
The pieces often use symbol­
... but it's 
ism to express meaning. Figuresvery impor­

Douglas Bradley may use exaggerated features to
tant to see 
idealize certain virtues, although
curator
that in the these may represent either thelast 150 
virtues of an individual or an 
years peo­
icon.
ple from all The pieces in the exhibit draw 
over the 

primarily from two of Africa's ecologi­world, in this case Africa, are trained 
cal zones, the Sudanic grasslands andto solve the same problems that we 
the Guinea coast. Both areas are 
. deal with every day," Bradley said. 

known for their beautiful traditional
"While we may not feel that it is as 

artwork. 
---"--­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


CEN ar 


Monday, January 16, 2001 page 13 

•
or1zons 
ristensen familys collection ofAfrican art 
collection and Bradley feels that the Christensen collection expands on the museum's exploration of the art genre. 
"We have always thought that the exhibition and display of African art is an important part of our mission [as a museumJ," Bradley said. 
In addition to the Christensen family collection, the Snite Museum of Art will be exhibiting a number of recent acqui­sitions from the Fon group in the People's Republic of Benin. Haitian and Voodoo sculptures as well as two pieces borrowed from private collections. 
"Mask and Figures, Form and Style: The Christensen Family Collects African Art" will be on display at the Snlte Museum of Art in the Mestrovic Studio Gallery from Jan. 13 to Mar. 10. An opening reception for the exhibition is scheduled for Sunday at 2:30 p.m. The reception will feature a libation cere­mony performed by Chandra Johnson. assistant director of Cross Cultural Ministry. 
Vernell Ball-Daniel, High/Scope Mentor Coordinator at Indiana University South Bend. will tell the sto­
ries of Harriet Tubman and the Underground Railroad on Feb. 19 at 8 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. And the Snite Museum of Art will, in conjunction with the Black Cultural Art Association, offer a Special Evening for Notre Dame students to 
view the exhibition on Feb. 21 at 7 
p.m. entitled "From Africa to America: a Cultural Sojourn of Masks and Memories." 

The Snite Museum of Art is open daily to the public from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. 
on Thursday through Saturday, 1 

p.m. 
to 5 p.m. on Sunday and is closed on Monday and all major holidays. Admission is free. For information call {219) 631-5466. 


In the end, the exhibition is about understanding and inspiration. Bradley hopes that the collection will help Notre Dame students understand the world in which they live. 
"These are works of art that are beautiful by the definitions of societies that may not exist or exist in vastly altered forms today. These are their traditions; their ancient ways of looking 
at the world. Every time 

or a 21st centu­"We have always thought 
lhat you ry Notre Dame stu-that the exhibition and dis• can see dent ascetic view, they 
play ofAfrican art is an something
will smack you right between 
that you've
the eyes, It is important to look important part ofour mis­
never seen 
though the eyes of other peo­sion [as a museum]." 
before,
ples; it's the whole reason stu­
k n o w 
dents are here at the 
nothing
Douglas Bradley
University," Bradley said. , 
about. youThe exhibit is especially rele­curator 
should 
vant to Notre Dame not only 
take time 
because the Christensen family 
to ... you 
arc local art collectors but because it may find something that surprises and 
serves as a follow up to another exhibi­
humbles you," Bradley said. 
tion of African art the Snite Museum of Art presented in 1998, the Beatrice Riese Collection. The Riese Collection is Contact C. Spencer Beggs at 
heggs.3@nd.edu. . . . " 
known as a very important African Art 

L}• ~-~ ,-1.··~ 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 
Ill Will

Iverson scores 58 • • 
Marcus Fizer made things first half. Ollie linally stopped
Associated Press 
interesting in the last minute, the run, making a free throw hitting back-to-back 3-pointers after Magliore was called for aPHILAOELPIIIA to pull Chicago to 90-86 with technical, and Robinson con­
Allen Iverson scored a 
17 seconds left. But Wesley, verted a tlm~e-point play. 
careerchigh 58 points, the most who had 1l points in the fourth But Hryc1~ l)rew and Wesleyin an NBA game in almost two 
quarter, made four free throws hit back-lo-back 3s, and the years and the fourth-highest 
to seal lhc victory. Hornets were back up 45-31,total in team history, as the George Lynch, making his their largest lead of the game.
Philadelphia 76ers beat the 
season debut after missing the
Houston Hockets 112-106 in first 36 games with a brokP-n San Antonio 96,overtime Tuesday night. 
foot, was scoreless in five min­Washington 91
Iverson shot 21-of-42 and 
utes. Tim Duncan came back frommade all 14 of his free throws Ron Artest led the Bulls with a 1-for-12 start to score 16 offor his seventh 50-point game, 22, and Pizer added 16 points his 22 points in the fourthincludincr two in the playoffs. It 
I:> ' ' and 10 rebounds. Eddie quarter as the San Antonio 
was the fifth 50-pomt game m Robinson, activated earlier in Spurs held off the Washington
the NBA this season, coming 
the dav after missin!{ all but Wizards 96-9 l Tuesday night. 
one night after Kobe 13ryant three games with a sore left After the Wizards closed toscored 56 in just three quar­toe, scored five points in 11 91-88 on a free throw by
tc rs for the Los Angeles 
minutes. Michael Jordan with 27 sec­Lakers. 
The Bulls were playing short­onds remaining, Duncan
lverson's previous career­
handed, with center Brad banked in a 15-footer with 12.3
high was 54, accomplished 
Miller and forward Charles seconds left for a 93-88 I,iad. 
twice. The franchise record is Oakley serving suspensions for Hubert Davis answered with68 points by Wilt Chamberlain 
their role in Saturday night's a 3-poinler with 9.2 seconds
in 1968. 
brawl with Shaquille O'Neal. left to pull the Wizards to 93­
The defending Eastern 
Miller is out for one game, 91. Antonio Daniels, fouled in
Conference champions have 
while Oaklev will also miss the backcourt Ly Chris 
won live of sevfrn since losing Thursday n"ight's game in Whitney, hit the second of two13 of 18. The Rockets have lost Atlanta. free throws for a 94-91 lead20 of 25. 
But sloppy play, not a thin with 8.6 seconds remaining. 
Cuttino Mohlev scored 25 
roster, did the Bulls in. Chicago Jordan passed the ball afterpoints, Kenny Th~n1as had 20, 
gave up 20 points on 16 being double-teamed, and
and Eddie Griffin added 17 for turnovers and shot just 4-of-19 Whitney missed a game-tyingthe Rockets. 
in the fourth quarter after 3-pointer with three secondsSpeedy Claxton scored 16 
leading hy as many as 1~ight in remaining. Duncan added apoints and Dikembe Mutombo the third. pair of free throws with 1. 1 
grabbed 13 rebounds for the A pair of free throws by seconds left as the Spurs
Sixers, who played with three Kevin Ollie and one from Fizer snapped a two-gamn losing
and even four guards on the 
pulled Chicago to 73-72 at the streak.
floor at times. 
start of the fourth. But the Hubert Davis led Washington
After Houston scored five 
Bulls made just one field goal with a season-high 22 pointsstraight to get within 105-104 in the first 10 minutes. on 10-for-l 4 shooting. Whitney in overtime, Iverson hit a 3­
And even that one was an added season-highs of 20pointer to give himself 56 
effort, as Greg Anthony points and four steals. .Jahidi
points and the Sixers a 108­rebounded his own miss and White finished with a career­104 lead with 1:47 left. 
laid it up to tie the game at 75 high 19 rebounds and 15A goaltending call on Griffin with 7:40 to play. points.
on a shot by Dikembe Mutombo Then Wesley hit another 3, Jordan struggled for 20made it 110-104 with 27 sec­Davis scored on a jumper from points on 5-for-21 shooting,onds left, and Iverson iced it the top of the key and Wesley making onlv 10 of 16 freewith a pair of free throws. 
followed with a fastbreak throws, as \!\lizards lost theirMobley, with Eric Snow all layup. A couple of free throws third in a row. 
over him, had a chance to win from Jamaal Magliore. and Charles Smith made his firstit in regulation, but missed a Charlotte was back to a com­career start and scored ajumper as time expired. 
fortable 84-76 lead. career-high 21 points for San
Griffin's turnaround jumper 
With Miller and Oakley out, Antonio. Steve Smith added 20
and free threw completed a 
rookie Eddy Curry made his points on 8-for-11 shooting,
three-point play, giving the 
first career start. Curry, the including 3-of-4 from 3-pointRockets a 99-97 lead with 48.5 
fourth overall pick of the draft, range. David Robinson had 10seconds left in the fourth. But was matched up against Elden points and 10 rebounds.
Iverson made two foul shots to 
Campbell, and Campbell got After Jordan pulled thetie it at 99 with 23.9 seconds 
the best of the 19-year-old Wizards to 77-73 un a jumperleft. 
earlv. in thfl lane with 8:20 left, Smith Campbell had seven of his 13 silenced the MCI Center crowd Charlotte 94, Chicago 86 points in the first 15 minutes of with a 3-pointer for an 80-7:1 
David Wesley tied his season­the game. lead. Duncan blocked Jordan's high with 26 points and Baron The rest of the Hornets got doublfl-pump layup attempt on Davis added 16 points and 11 hot, too. P . .J. Brown converted Washington's ensuing posses­assists Tuesday night as the on a three-point play to start a sion and hit a jumper at the Charlotte Hornets beat the 22-8 run that gave Charlotte a other end to give San Antonio Chicago Bulls. 39-27 lead with 8:40 left in the an 82-73 lead with 7:06 left. 
.... \ ­
Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
Soukup 
continued from page 24 

is a great football coach. And we knew that in the begin­ning," White said. "[Hace] 
was never an issue." 

Race was never an issue to an athletic director looking to find someone who could bring Notre Dame l'ootball back among the nation's elite programs. Unfortunately, it became an isime to just about everyone elsn. 
On day two of' O'Lnary's five-day reign, Jesse Jackson suggested Notre Dame should have strongly considered a minority candidate. And whenevflr .Jackson starts sug­gesting, race immediately bP,comes an issue. 
Never mind the fact that White interviewed Willingham before he talked to O'Leary. Jackson was upset hecauso the most high­profile college football pro­gram in the country didn't hire a minority head coach. 
And when Willingham was hired, Jackson turned around and praised Notre Dame for making a great hire, saying Willingham was the best can­didate all-along for the coaching job. Hut does any­one really think that he would have said Notre Dame got the right guy if the Irish picked Jun Cruden, Steve Mariucci or Mike Bellotti? 
Jackson does have a point by saying the hiring is a tremendous triumph for minority coaches. Including Willingham, only four out of 115 l)ivision I-A football coaches are black. That's just unacceptable. 
But how many more minor­ity coaches need to be hired before that number reaches an acceptable level? For that matter, what is the accept­able number? 10? 20'? 50? 
American society has come a long way from the days when white offensive lineman refused to block for a black quarterback. Now, Carlyle Holiday and Matt Lovecchio can battle for the starting quarterback position and have it be a fierce competi­tion between triends rather than an epic racial clash. And if a white quarterback hands off to a black running back, nobody thinks twice about it. As soon as the shoulder pads are strapped on and the ball is placed on the field, only one thing becomes important -win­ning. 
However, as the hoopla surrounding Willingham's hiring has shown, the instant you step off the field, you step into a whirlwind of issues. 
The Irish will undoubtPdly reap added benefits because Willingham is black. When he walks into a high school senior's living room to sell Notre Dame, the articulate, well-educated, well-rounded coach may even sway a few recruits simply because he is black. And Notre Dame will probably be regarded highly by several minority organiza­tions because it hired a black coach. 
But the very fact that Notre Dame is earning national praise shows how much l'ur­ther our society has to go. Terms like 'social signifi­cance' shouldn't even be brought up in a press confer­ence involving a football coach. Willingham's hiring shouldn't give Notre Dame a recruiting boost or any other added benefits. Notre Dame shouldn't be a social pioneer simply because it hired a black head coach. 
Tyrone Willingham wasn't hired because he is black, just like Bob Davie wasn't fired because he is white. Willingham was brought in to win after it became clear Davie could not. Somehow, that has gotten lost in the analysis of his skin color. 
"Is this significant'?" Willingham said the day he was hired. "Yes.' I say it is significant. Hut I am first and foremost a football coach at the University of Notre Dame. The young men will expect me to be that, to be the kind of leader that they expect their fathers to be and that's the role that I will try to go for." 
That's also the role he was hired for and that's the role he'II be judged in. lie can follow Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian and Boltz if he wins, or he'll join Faust and Davie if he doesn't. 
A year from now, alumni won't care what color Willingham 's skin is, they'll only care if the Irish are playing a football game on Jan. 1, 2 or 3. 
Call it a social statement. Call it an event of historical importance. Call it whatever you want. 
Just don't forget that at the end of next season, his skin color won't matter. 
His record will. 
The views of this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd. edu. 

l 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a. 111. to 3 \>.m. at the Notre Dame office, I 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds muse be p_repatd. . 
I The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edH I • 
I CLASSIFIEDS 
I all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
I I I 
I 
I 
LOOKING TO LIVEIN CHICAGO? New 3-4 bdrms, 3 bath homes fea­Spring Break with STS, Americas Grab The Observer for the latest Apartment for Sublease turing fireplace, skylights, cathedral #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote campus newsWANTED (ASAP -June 1) ceilings. family room. 1 0x20 deck, trips on-
NOTICES 
$5Jtlmth + utilities for 3rd Fl 2-car garage. $1500/mo. campus earn cash and free trips. After school care for two children. Apartment off Belmont 2 SMC 2000 Info/Reservations 1-800-646·4849 SPRING BREAK Cancun, Jamaica. 3pm-5:30pm. Good pay! Please call Grads looking for a 3rd Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. www.ststravel.com Interested in writing for The 
S. Padre, & all Florida destinations 631-9947 Block from the train and 1 Oto the Observer's News Department? BEST or 277-8564. Loop 4 Blocks to Wrigley field nice homes north of ND [close] for Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it Call Jason at 1-5323. 
next school year ideal !or 3-8 stu­alone. If you or someone you love Hotels, FREE parties. LOWEST PLEASE CALL dents needs confidential support or assis­prices! www.breakerstravel.com 773-398-3384 great area tance. please call Sr. Mary Louise
FoR RENT
(800) 985-6789. Gude. CSC. at 1-7819. For more Want to write Sports? 
2773097 information. see our weekly ad in Call Noah at 1-4543. 3 TO 6 BDRM HOMES NEAR 3-bdrm. 1-1/2 bath tri-level. sale THE OBSERVER. CAMPUS.SPRING 2002 & FALL neighborhood, new appliances, 2-MMMRentals.com ------·--·--·----------·--· 
LOST & FOUND 
2003.272-6306 car garage, fenced yard. A/C, gas 
heat. W/D. 272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com Welcome back to Notre Dame! Good luck second semester! FOUND: Watch outside of South Why live in crowded houses? Have Aug. 2002. Dining Hall on Monday, Jan. 14. your own space, privacy & security. $1.050/mo. --------------·--·····---·--­Call Claire 634-Mar-Main Place classifieds in The Observer Visit The Observer online at
PERSONAL

3677 to identify. Apartments 233-2098 232-4527 or 616-683-5038. for just pennies a day! www.nd.edu/-observer 
------· ---· ---------------------­
page 15

Wednesday, January 16, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

I 

I
l.,:.,~Ll/!1:t' I 
~ I I 
i 
~ www.nd.edu/~sub IM name: ndSUBinfo 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
Irish in 14th place of Want to write Sports? Sears Cup standings Call 1-4543 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame stands 14th in tlu\ final set of fall sports standings released in the 2001-02 Sears Directors' Cup all-sports compe­tition. 
Fall NCM competition earned the lrish 171 poiuts based on their sixth-plan' finish in men's cross country 168), their 19th­place finish in women's cross country (33 points), tlrnir advancement to the second round of the NCAAs in women's soccer [30 points) and their first-round NCAA participation in both volleyball and men's soc­cer (20 points each). 
Notre Dame and Stanford were the only schools to score in each of five traditional fall Olympic sports -men's and women's cross country, men's and women's soccer and women's volleyball. 
Stanford [521 points) leads the competition thanks to its NCAA championships in men's water polo and women's volleyball and its sAcond-place finish in men's cross country. Second is North Carolina 1'01 NCAA men's soc­C(lr champion and women's soc­cer runnerup), followed by UCLA, Colorado ('01 men's cross country champion) and BYU ('()1 NCAA women's cross country champion), · 
The current stand\ngs include results from NCAA fall compl~ti­tion in women's volleyball, field hockey, men's and women's soc­cer, mf'n's water polo, Division I-A and I-AA football, and men's and women's cross country. 
In recent years, Notre Damn has finished 11th in 1993-94, 30th in 1994-95, l 1th in 1995­96, 14th in 1996-97, lied for 31st in 1997-98, 25th in 1998­99, 21st in 1999-2000 ~ and 11th again in 2000-01. 

NYSP 2002 summer Service Program Do you want to work with young people this summer? Do you want to stay on campus and make $1,500 for six weeks of work? If you like kids, sports, and working outdoors, then the National Youth Sports Program is for you! n NYSP. The National Youth Sports Program, (NYSP), is a sports and enrichment summer program serving 10-16 year-old students from economically disadvantaged backgrounds on the campus ofthe University ofNotre Dame. Camp runs June 24-July 26, Monday­Friday, from 8:00-2:30, with the addition of Saturday, July 6th to make up for the 4th of July holiday. We also hold a staff training week from June 17th-21st• Our camp features basketball, soccer, softball, swimming, golf, and other sports combined with drug and alcohol prevention, computer, and selfesteem/life skills programs. We need you. The NYSP is looking to hire 25+ undergraduate or graduate students from all backgrounds to be role-models and leaders for the summer as project aids. Those students selected as aids will act as camp counselors leading their team of 12-15 campers throughout the five-week program. This summer service project pays $1,500 for the six­week experience and will result in a ND theology credit through the Center for Social Concerns. Ifyou are interested, pick up an application in the Center for Social Concerns. Ifyou have any additional questions, call Pam or Ryan at 63 1-6614.  
ATTENTION BUSINESS MAJORS!! IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO ADD THE FOLLOWING COURSES: ETHICS COURSES FOR SPRING 2002 Each 1-credit, five-week long course is available to sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Introduction to Business Ethics: BA 241 This five-week course is designed to give the student an introduction to the central questions and fundamental character of ethics and morality. It focuses on a discussion of ethical theories that can help guide the student's problem solving in business situations. (01) MWF 10:40-11 :30 (1/16 through 2/18) (K. Mack) (02) MWF 11:45-12:35 (1/16 through 2/18) (K. Mack) (03) TTH 2:00-3:15 (1/15 through 2/14) (0. Williams) Topics in Business Ethics: BA 341 In this five-week course, the student will use cases to analyze ethical problems in the business disciplines including accounting, management, marketing, finance, and MIS. (01) MWF 10:40-11 :30 (2/20 through 3/27) (K. Mack) (02) MWF 1:55-2:45 (2/20 through 3/27) (K. Piskadlo) (03) TTH 12:30-1:45 (2/19 through 3/26) (P. Murphy) Business Ethics Field Project: BA 441 This five-week course is designed to give the student practical experience in a social service setting. The course meets as a class five times with the majority of the students' time spent in the volunteer setting. This exciting course is a great way to integrate community service into your academic curriculum. (01) H 3:30-4:45 (3/28 through 5/01) (l McManus) (02) M 3:00-4:15 (3/28 through 5/01) (J. McManus) (03) W 3:00-4:15 (3/28 through 5/01) (J. McManus)  

. 
Super Size 18" Party Mate with 1 Medium size 2 Toppings Each 

•u.99 
~­
Special (ends Dec.';o, 2001) Fne •reaclnidu ,...it.la -p•r •ill• SB 
,...itltpart~ --· 
Special (ends Dec. 30, 2001) 
2. Large. 5 topping,s each ......$.1.3.4• 
2. Medium. 5 toppings each .. .$.1..1..•• 
2 Super Size 18" 2 Toppings Each
......, 
(IIJllject to price dtaqc) 
Additional topping (each pizza) .....75 Breadsticks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...• I. 7 5 Buffalo/ Hot Cbicken Tenders ....3.00 2 Liters Coke ........................ L:25 Cheesesticks..........................2.99 (minimum delivery order ..........$9.00) 
Need a job this spring? 
The Development Phone Center is hiring! 
15 PAID STUDENT CALLER POsmoNs ARE CVRRENTLY AVAILABLE 
Cali alumni on b,half of Nctr# Dame's A11111Jaf FIJlld. 
• EVENING HOUR5 
• PAIi) TRAINING 
• 
GAEAT ENVIRONMENT 

• 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSJ\RY 



OPEN HOUSE  
When:  Today, Wed,, Jan, 16 Tomorrow, Thurs., Jan.17 10:00 am to 4:00 pm  
Where;  Third Floor. Grace Hall  
Why:  For information and app Ii cations.  

Questions. Call ShaMOn O'Keefe or Jill Donnelly at 631-8426. 

Welcome back to campus! 
Impact1rig students Enabling futures 
··;;t, ··''.t. ·' // 

Wednesday, January 16, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Offensive woes plague 12-4 Irish over break 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
Wednesday, January 23 7:30-8:30 p.m. Reeker's Hospitality Room 
Light refreshments served 
For Information Call: Office of Student Affairs -631-5550 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
After going 2-3 since Christmas, the 12-4 men's bas­ketball team is evaluating where it stands heading into the thick of the Big East sea­son. 
"We're happy, but we're not satisfied," said freshman point guard Chris Thomas. "I feel like we could have gotten all three of [the games we lost]. In all three of them we didn't play our best game ... Four games you lose by a total of 11 points. You just can't accept that as a player and a competi­tor." 
Despite three losses in five games. the Irish have seen improvements since the open­ing of the season. 
"We've improved and gotten better. The competition has gotten better," starting for­ward David Graves said. "A lot of people didn't think we'd be in this position ... We're hang­ing in there. We're right at the line, we just need to jump over it and once we get over that hurdle it'll be downhill and smooth sailing for the rest of the season." 
But the last three weeks have been anything but smooth sailing for head coach Mike Brey's squad. Struggling offensively, the Irish dropped games to then No. 21 Alabama, Villanova and No. 12 Syracuse. 
"We need to put the ball in the hole," Graves said. "I think our defense is really starting to come together. We need to convert our shots and if we 
WoD1en 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame victory against Setlm Hall on Jan. 9. In 40 min­utes of play the Irish managed to hold the Pirates lo 45 points while scoring 79 themselves. The Irish jumped out to an early double-digit lead and never let go as they took home their thir<l Big East victory of the season. 
The victory, which McGraw labeled the best game Notre Dame has played this season, highlighted the improved play by the teams six freshmen. 
"I think that the freshmen am just feeling a lot more comfort­able," McGraw said. "They look really relaxed on the court and I think everybody's starting to understand where they fit in." 
During the four conference games, freshmen Alison Bustamante, Kelsev Wicks and Borton added so;nf1 serious help to the Irish effort. Ilorton ended the four game stand shooting .864 from the field. 
"T(1resa, Kelsey, they're all getting their career highs," Batteast said of her classmates. "Everybody's feeling more com­fortable and that's good." 
The early lead mirrored a similar lead Notre Dame took against Providence four days earlier. However, they let that lead slip away and aimost lost it in the second_ hall' during a 72-66 win. 
"We had that 20-point lead at can do that and get back in the groove that we were in earlier then we'll be a tough team to beat." 

Never was that more appar­ent than in Monday's 56-51 loss to the Orangemen at the Carrier Dome. Forward Ryan Humphrey scored more than half the team's points tallying 28 on the night, while the remainder of the Irish squad came up dry. The rest of the Irish combined for just 23 points, shooting 9-42 from the field and 5-24 from behind the arc. Even Humphrey, the game's leading scorer, went 1­7 before turning up the heat against a stingy Syracuse zone defense. 
"We weren't able to get into a groove offensively," Thomas said. "We didn't have our fair share of easy buckets." 
The Irish have struggled with slow starts, poor shooting and an inability to finish close games in recent outings. The task for the team now is to prove that the last few weeks will not be the norm for the rest of the season. 
"We want to be 16-0, but the games we lost we had chances to win. That's all you can ask for," Graves said. "We just want a chance to win the game ... We've had our struggles, but the mark of a good team is they way you bounce back from those struggles." 
The Irish plan to start that bounce back to the winning column Saturday when they play host to Kentucky at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kerry Smith at ksmith2@nd.edu. 
halftime and they got what they wanted in the second half," Batteast said. 
The Irish opened Big East play on Jan. 2 against the Miami Hurricanes. The 69-65 victory marked the first time Notre Dame took a win on the road. Ratay sparked the Irish effort, scoring seven three­pointers on nine attempts while Ratteast grabbed her seventh double-double of the season. 
The low point of the Notre Dame run came during a 72-61 loss to Rice on Dec. 28. The Owls led the whole game. 
The loss snapped a three game winning streak after con­secutive Irish victories against Marquette (60-33), Western Michigan (71-48) and USC (62­
49). 
Notes: 
. 
Junior Monique Hernandez left the team of her own voli­tion citing personal reasons. She will continue to pursue her degree at Notre Dame. McGraw declined to comment beyond stating Hernandez was leaving for personal reasons. 

. 
Batteast was named Big East Hookie of the Week following the Notre Dame victory against Providence. That marks the fourth time the freshman has earned the award. 


"These were the expectations that were set when I came here and I would feel bad if I wasn't making them," she said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 

page 18 

The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
HOCKEY 

Irish bounce back into contention 
By MATT ORENCHUK Sporrs Writer 
llold on to your hats eviffy­body, bemuse the Notre Dame hockey team might be onto something big. 
After the Irish stumbkd out of the gates in Or.tnbcr with a 0-4­2 record, things seemed bleak. But in January, the lrhih gained a different perspective on things. In the last six weeks. Notre Dame is 6-3-1. In that recent run, the Irish colloctod wins enth plani in the (CHA with l(j points in conference play. Tbe CCI-IA standings are ti-ghlly pachd. Hight now, there are eight teams that are within six points of third place. The Irish know that if thPy rnntinu1' their stellar play, they will be ablf' to move up in the conforence. 
"WP havf' it all in front of us," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "In the next six weeks we have a schedule that will give us a gnmt rhance to makr a movP in tlw confcrnnrn." 
/\ big inlluence l'or the Irish has been the play of freshman goaltender Morgan C<!y. Cey has been spectacular over the past couple of weeks. In his last nine games Cey has a suve percent­age of .936 with a goals against average or 2.00. The impact of Cnv isn't lost on Poulin. 
.:He !Coy! gives-us a chance to win every night," said Poulin. In lhe pasl six weeks, the Irish have also had to rope, with tlw 
loss of sophomores Brett Lcbda 
and Bob Globk11. Lebda and 
(;lobke are part of tlrn U.S. Junior National Team and missed games this DccmnbPr to participate in the World Junior Championships. 
13ut the pair rettirni;d to Notre Dame for last weekend's seritis against Northern .\1id1igan. The return was nsp1icially important for the Notre Dame offense, because it allowed Poulin to reunite one of' his most produc­
tivo lines. The li1w of Dav11 
Inman, Mike Chin and Hob 
Clobke has been diligently pro­
ducing goals for the Irish for the 
last two months_ 
"Wo're playing well," said Cey. "The coaches have all been very positive. We feel like w11 ar1-1 one step away from being an Plite team in the leagwi." 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu. 

MEDJUGORJE 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT PILGRIMAGE Spring Break, 2002 (March 9 -17) Deadline to sign up: January 24th! 
Limited seats .... don't delay .... email your name (as it appears on your passport) to Matt or Mary today!!! (see below) 
Spend your Spring Break with Our Lady in Medjugorje, the Queen of Peace! Climb the mountains, have an opportunity to meet the visionaries, find peace through the parish's evening program of prayer. 
Departing together from Notre Dame, we will fly from Chicago to Frankfurt to Split, Croatia and then 
bus to Medjugorje, where the Blessed Mother continues coming everyday. Staying in a local family's 
pension, days will be filled with prayer, talks by the Visionaries, priests and lay witnesses to the events of 
Medjugorje. You will find an Oasis of Peace! Join student organizations "Children of Mary" and "Knights 
of the Immaculata" and the apostolate "Children of Medjugorje" for this amazing pilgrimage! 
Student contacts: 
Matthew Reisenauer Mary Tarsha 317 Dillon Tel: 634 -1600 Reisenauer.2(a.Jnd.edu 136 Howard Tel: 634 -2588 Mtarsha@nd.edu (or email to <dnolan@childrenofmedjugorje.com>) Estimated Cost: $990 
COME TO A MEETING TO ANSWER QUESTIONS: 4:00 P,1if ONSUNDAY, JAN 20TH IN THE DOOLEYROOM OF LAFORTUNE (1st Floor). ALL ARE WELCOME! 
No reservations taken after January 24th, (To be assured of a seat on the plane, send your name -as written on your passport -right away!) Nota Bene: We will be returning to Notre Dame on March 17th -the last day of Spring Break. However, the visionary, Mirjana, has her yearly apparition of Our Lady on March 18th .... If you want to stay for it -and return on March 19th, TELL MATT OR MARY WHEN YOU SIGN UP! 
"IfI weren't Pope I'd be in Medjugorje ... "Our Lady ofMedjugorje will save America!" Pope John Paul II 
against perennial hockey power Princeton and natiouallv-ranked Northern Michigan. · 
On Dec. 21 Notre Dame defeated the USA Under-18 team 3-2 in an exhibition. On the weekend of Dec. 28 and 29, the Irish traveled to New Jersey where they swept Princeton. Finally. for the past two week­ends Notre Dame has been at home to host nationally ranked Michigan and Northern Michigan. The Irish tied Michigan 3-3 before dropping a 2-1 decision in the second game. The Irish defeated Northern Michigan 4-1 Friday before los­ing to the Wildcats 4-0 Saturday. 
Currently, the Irish sit in sev-
A FREE SPRING BREAK! 
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels! Free Food' 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales. Earn Cash! Group Discounts! Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com 
1-800-426-771 0 

LAST CALL ... 
for literature submissions to this year's 
JUGGLER 
Drop poetry, short story or essays in the box out­side the Scholastic office in the BASEMENT of SOUTH DINING HALL Send your written creation from last semester to the pages ofNotre Dame's literary annual this spring! FINAL DEADLINE: JANUARY 18, 2002 (THAT'S THIS FRIDAY!) 
questions: juggler@nd.edu 
p.s. Final deadline for artwork: Friday February I 
Wednesday_s and Thursdays are student nights. Students receive 20% of meal price with student I.D. 
U£! 

Michi?na's most unique dining experience. Located In the brewery at the Historic 100 Center in Mishiwaka (219) 257-1792 www.1OOcenter.com 
Wednesday, January 16, 2002 The 01:Jserver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

MAKING A DIFFERENCE PIECE BY PEACE 
FROM THE INSIDE OUT 
An Expression of Self through 
Dance, Poetry and Music Tuesday, January 22 La Fortune Ballroom 
6:30-8:30pm 
SPEAKING THE TRUTH 
A Fireside Chat with Student Leaders and Others Wednesday, January 23 Coleman Morse Center Student Lounge 7:00-8:30pm 
MAKING A DIFFERENCE PIECE BY PEACE The Peace Quilt: Tied Together in the Single Garment of Destiny Thursday, January 24 Keenan-Stanford Chapel 7:00-8:00pm 
Sponsored by: 
Campus Ministry Center for Social Concerns Multicultural Student Programs and Services Office of the President 
I 
l 
-I 
I 
l 
l 
~-~--­page 20 The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
How to get ajob 
I'll have to admit that I used to be a little worried about my employment prospects following my hopeful gradu­ation from college. After all, the econ­omy is in a slump that has lasted longer than your average Notre Dame head coaching tenure and besides, I have few mar­ketable skills and as for exp<'rience well, I'm hoping to get me some of that. 
Now, however, my fears are at ease. Instead of lining up intern­ships for next summer or perusing the lat­est businflss journals, I'm just "touch­ing up" the old resume because that appears to be my ticket to the big time. 
You see George O'Leary has sho\vn me the light. I now know that my future employment will best be gained not by perspiration but by lots of mis­information. If Gnorgie boy can tell a few whoppers to land the job of his dreams then I figure so can I. 
Not wanting to get too carried away, l began the reconstruction of my life's resume by making a few minor alter­ations. The line that details my 2 and 1 victory in match play, secured by draining a six-foot putt on the 17th green, over my high school friend who can barely advance the ball off the tee was amended. Now I trumpet my tri­umph in the 1998 Masters Tournament highlighted by a final round in which I shot a course record­shattering 61. 
My election to student council looks a heck of a lot better now too. According to my resume I actually served as our great nation's 39th President. Of course that would make me well older than 60 years of age, but come on -l mean its not like anyone is actually going to check any of this stuff out. 
Realizing my resume included only the aforementioned entries I was once again panic-stricken. Sure I can lead the free world while winning its most prestigious golf tournament but I needed to unearth some other talents to catch the eyes of would be employ­ers. l tried to recall simple events from my everyday existence that I could tweak into a solid resume entry. 
After much introspection I remem­bered the hide and seek game from third grade where I had been crowned undisputed champion. I entered the line to read as follows: Third grade hide-and-seek \\-inner; found Billy hiding in the shed in the backyard. 
No doubt even the most difficult to impress folk would have been charmed by my stealth and resource­fulness demonstrated at such an early age, but clearly the line needed some dressing up. It now reads, 2001; cap­tured Osama bin Laden, found him in a cave in his backyard, saved world from further threats of international terrorism. 
Remembering that I had once sepa­rated my friends Mike and Kevin dur­ing a scuflle. I quickly added to my resume that I had once won the Nobel Peace Prize. (Think I could win a Pulitzer for this column?) 
Now that my resume is set, I figure I really don't have anything to worry about. Surely I can find gainful employment nearly anywhere I choose. Even if l can't, l can always coach a football team. 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Kevin Berchou at kberchou@nd.edu. 


O'Leary 
continued from page 24 
"I was asked for my resig­nation, whicb, I wasn't going to fight," O'Leary said. "Kevin was very sick over it and we didn't spend much time on the phone discussing it. I don't hold any animosity toward :'Jotre Dame at all." 
O'Leary also said that he never actually wrote any­where that he attained a master's degree, suggesting that information that has appeared in his biography since the 1980's began as someone else's misunder­standing. O'Leary also men­tioned that on an application he filled out at Notre Dame the Wednesday after he was hired, he correct.Iv described his graduate scl10<>l study, 
On New Year's Day. White declined to comment specifi­callv on the ESPN interview, but· did give his version of the course of events. 
"It was r.eorge's decision,'' White said. "George resigned four or five times to Lou Nanni before I ever got into tho scene. I didn't even know he had a problem. George was really compelled emotionally just to step away. And that really didn't have anything to do with me. By the time [ got to the issue, George wanted to tials. Some fans and talk people. He said he's been country and then Bill Cosby.
resign." 
show hosts have even called called by more than half of I thought he was going to
White said that he would 
for White to be fired. Malloy the Division l athletic direc­offer candidates and
have preferred to have 
said Tuesday that White still tor's since O'Leary's resig­prospects, but he was just
O'Leary fly back to Notre has his full support. nation and even got some really disappointed about
Dame and discuss the issue 
"Kevin and I arc a team," words of support from what transpired and how it
face-to-face, rather than 
Malloy said. "We've been a comedian Bill Cosby. transpired. And he has
accepting his resignation team from day one. 1 believe "I couldn't get off the great, great love for Notre
over the telephone. 
he's the No. 1 athletic direc­phone with him," White Dame."
"What I would have invited 
tor in the country. He's done said. "That's how far-reach­
George to do is visit with 
great things here." ing the people were who
Father Malloy and me and 
Contact Noah Amstadter at

In fact, White has received called me. I got calls from
talk this thing out," White 
namstadt@nd.edu.

said. "But he wanted to resign. I'm heartsick. If you didn't feel bad for the O'Leary family, then there's something wrong with you." 
Malloy's stressed that the University was as eager to accept the res­ignation as O'Leary was to tender it. 
"We went forward and said 'We want to accept your resignation,"' Malloy said. "I think he was very straightfor­ward when the issue was ferreted out that he was willing to resign if we wanted him to. So he did and we did." 
Malloy pointed out that he was involved in the process from the point Nanni got a call from the New Hampshire newspa­per revealing the incon­sistencies in O'Leary's playing history to the point when the resigna­tion was accepted. The inaccuracies about the master's degree were an obstacle Malloy could not ignore. 
"You cannot operate in a university with claims about a false degree," l\.lalloy said. "That's sim­ply a boundry line that we cannot cross. We could have tried to finesse it but that simply would be not appropri­ate for the kind of school that we are." 
After O'Leary's resig­nation, White received a great deal of criticism for hiring O'Leary with­out verifying his credcn­
supports from hundreds of athletic directors across the 
Need Business News and Information? We Have Itl 
University Libraries of Notre Dame 
A special branch library dedicated to business information conveniently located in Mendoza College of Business staffed with highly experienced information professionals. 
Over 30 online resources available to ND students and faculty, most accessible on or off campus, containing business information and news including: 
More than 500 business-and economics-related journals housed in the Current Periodicals Center in Hesburgh Library, including popular business and trade titles. 

FT .C{)tn
Dov.. J,:ift-li~ 
Illt'f!t.>ttNe­


tbc~nui]ork GmtS 
Bus.lneH 
Visit the Mahaffey Business Information Center's Home page for all your business news needs: 
(http:/ /bic.library.nd.edu/) 


Wednesday, January 16, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
FOOTBALL 
Mattison, 7 Stanford assistants form new staff 
By NOAH AMST ADTER 
Sports Ed icor 
Wneks into his new job, Tyrone Willingham's staff appears com­pletP -with one old face and eight coarhes from clifforent pro­grams. An olTicial announcement is expectnd aft.Pr thr coaclrns clear Notr<\ Dame's public rnlations ollice. 
Greg Mattison, who led Notre Dame·s recruiting efforL'i between GeorgP O'Leary's resignation and Willingham's hiring, will return as the Irish defensive line coach. Mattison, S2, served as Bob Davie's defensive coordinator the past five seasons. 
"I spent the last four or five yrars with those guys," Mattison told the South Bend Tribune. "Leaving them wouldn't have been easy. This is the next rhapter in my lite, but what makes it nicn will be being around those great kids. 
Mattison will be working under Kent Baer, Willingharn's defensive coordinator and linebackers coach at Stanford. Baer, 50, took over as defensive coordinator at Stanford in 1999. Before that he had been Willingham's linebackers coach following stinL5 as defensive coor­dinator at Arizona State, California, Idaho and Utah State, his alma mater. 
While Baer tries to keep Irish opponents out of the end zone, former Stanford offensive coordi­nator Bill Diedrick comes to Notre Dame to get the Irish on the score­board. DiPdrick brings in an entirely different perspective than his predecessor, Kevin Hogers. He intends to scrap the option and nm a version of the West Coast offense. 
"I guess you have to label it as the West Coa-;t offense, but there are so many different families in it," Diedrick told the Tribune. "You have to develop your system to fit your personnel. There are some basics or the offense. The first is spend. Then there's consis­tency of execution and the devel­opment of a solid running game." 
Also expected make the move from Palo Alto to South Bend are former Stanford running backs coach Buzz Preston, tight ends and tackles coach Mike D~nbrock, 
centers and guards coach .John McDonell and defensive ends coach Phil Zacharias. 
Hounding out the staff is Charlie Baggett, Willingham's roommate and follow quarterback during their days at Michigan State. 
Baggett was recently fired along with head coach Dennis Green in Minnesota. According to the St. Paul Pioneer Press, he would work with the receivers at Notre Dame. 
Contact Noah Amstadter at nam­stadt@nd.edu. 


~· 
0 
--t 
~~,o 
Welcome Back Studentslll 
Starting your last semester? Just turn 21? Celebrate with the rest of your classmates at the Alumni-Senior Club. The Place to be on Wednesday Nights. 

$10 Lifetime Membership Special All This Month. 
Check out www.nd.edu/ ~asc for more info. 
As always, you must be 21 with a valid ID to enter. 
CAMPUS BOOKSTORES LIKE TO S CK IT TO YA. 
' 
I 
j
Shopping for textbooks 
shouldn't be asore 
~ 
I
subject. 
You'll find what you need and you'll get it up to 50% OFF. Plus, you'll experience convenient online shopping 24 hours aday, 7 days aweek. No lines. No waiting. Plus, ecampus,com has one of the largest sed book selections in the world! 
Want more cash back? Sell your books to ecampus.com and watch for the check in the mail.
r--------, 
1FREE T-Shirt.1 
I~ I 
~~~J~!~~J 
r-~~---------------------, 

··eA,T Of I -CHICAGO i PIZZA COMPANV'~I 
: 

••••••••••~nn••n-¦ --•••••••••••••••..••••••••••••--u•••••••••••..•••••,....,....••••••••• ..•••,....•~ 
January Super Special! 
Large 1 Topping Pizza $7.99 (with coupon) Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1 .49! 
We'll Match Any Papa John's, Domino's or Marco's Coupon! We Take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 2/2/02 
L------------------------J 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
SMC BASKETBALL 
4 Belles out for season after games in Hawaii 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports \'(cite, 
Desµitf' having an array or injuries, tlw Saint \lary's bas­ketball t,~am playPd its bPst baskPtball of tlw sPason on a rPCPnt trip to Hawaii and canw honw with a two-ganw split. 
Tht> B,-!les blew out St. Joseph CollPge 69-29 on l)e1·. 17 before losing to unddcated Georgl' Fox College 62-48. 
"It was probably our best baskl'tball that we've played all vnar," said !mad coach Suz,in1w Smith. "Wt~ just really click,~d and came out focused and I thought WP played really wPll. WP canw out and killed St. Jop's and had Pverything going and a lot of people came in and contributed. Then we played George Fox who was undefeatfid and we were onlv down three at half and tha't was a definitely a boost for our confidence." 
Some of the excitement from the success in Hawaii was lost when the Belle's lost Kristen Matha. Kate Christensen and Meghan Fitrzgerald for the season with injuries. Senior Mary Campione also quit the team as well leaving the Belles with the problem of filling those slots in the line-up. 
"l\larv decided it was better off for ·her to not be a part of the team any more," said Smith. "Kristen Matha has been battling concussions for a while and it just wasn't getting better and we just found out she's done for the season. Katie Christensen was in the same situation before break and it looks likt! now that WP won't bP having her for the rest of the season as well." 
Senior co-captain Anne Blair feels that despite the loss of players, the Bell,\s have become closer as a team. 
"We lovir everyone that's gone but we've just had step up, especially the younger players and it's made us doser as a team." said Blair. 
The Belles now look to con­tinue their solid play against Olivet tonight. Blair believes the Belles need to shut down Olivct's :1-point shooting to be successful. 
"First of all, our defense nepds to stop their outside shooting," said Blair. "We need to work the ball inside as well. 
r 
I 
I I i SrBlllll BIIEJIIC . 
' 
Best Alcline,; 

Ill l r~Hf:i Ara: t,r..~ conr~1~:1:"~:l II. 
Be!lt Prices & Be~t Parties Cancun. Ar.apuk.o. Mazadan Ja111a1ca. Baluunas 
FlerNla. Soatll Padre Island 

aa FREEi ...t:IUL IIOWI
.. . ­

. . . 
www.studentexpress rn,r, 
TAXI 
233-1234 
Student Rate Fares, courtesy Irish Cab. 
Coach Smith thinks that tlw girls will br able to ovt>rconrn the injurirs to tlwir upptir­dassman." 
"Wp had a lot or dPpth on our lt>am to begin with and now we just have to have a couple pnoplP play a fnw extra minut.ns and have rvnryonn stPp up a littk," said Smith. "I just think wr need to comn out ready to go from the tip and shut thnir big scorers down. Offensivrly we're looking for things to click right now. We've done all right off1rnsively but I clon't think we'w hit that point wlwrn wt•rn comfortable with who wt•rn playing with. But we arc starting to find some combinations that work well togethnr." 
Saint Mary's hosts Olivet tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhet­tler@nd.edu. 



we throw al.l kinds of 
[obstacles] at you. 
tuition isn't one of them. 
Sheer cliffs, rope bridges, final exams. With obstacles like these in your way, 
tuition's the last thing you should have to worry about. But if you qualify, you can 
get a 2-or 3-year Army ROTC scholarship that'll help make life easier over the long 
haul. Talk to your U.S. Army ROTC representative. And get a leg up on your future. 
AR MY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 


For more details about our Campus Scholarship Programs, call Captain Hennessey at (219) 631-6264/4656 



EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE CELEBRITIES BORN ON time-being. 00000 ACROSS 21 Chinese 56 Mark on a graph 
THIS DAY: Terry Labonte, Marg VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): restaurant flower 57 "The Black 
Helgenberger, Lisa Bonet, Martha Mellow out and refuse to get
1 Like a melon 
Plimpton, Diana Krall wrapped up in other people's
21 Fix Stallion" boy & Be itinerant 
Happy Birthday: Keep your melodrama. Follow your own path
30 Costa del 51 Commercials for 10 One who's 
personal and professional lives to prepare for whatever you want
a Des Moines 
31 Baseball's Bud driving on air? 

separate to achieve your goals this to do next. Your composure will
driving org.? 
32 Succor 

year. Both areas are equally impor­help calm others. 00
14 Top mark 
&1 "Etta_•
33 Bronte heroine 

tant and need to be nurtured. LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): Don't
1s Book before 12 Raised34 Fast jets for a 
Organize your time wisely so you push your luck with those in influ­
Nehemiah 
63 Neither early top banana? 
don't miss out on any opportuni­ential positions. Make sure your
1& Take on nor late 
ties. If you are well-informed and legal papers are in proper order 11 Telephone the &o1 little Oil Drop 
Je Velvety growth 

astute, you will do well. Your mun­and updated. The sooner you clear 
41 Sch. group

catalog was its mascot 
bers: 9, 12, 14, 27, 31, 42 things up, the better you will feel.
42 Cummerbund's

merchant Bean 65 Statistics figure 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 0000 ­
place 

You may need to scramble to tie up SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):
at midnight? 66 Stays fresh 
• Wrath 

loose ends before the weekend. Do something entertaining and
11 Census data 47 All-Star third 
Paying attention to the details and enjoyable today, but don't go over­
20 Record label DOWN
baseman Ron 

meeting all your deadlines would board in spending. If you decide to 
known for 1 Hardcover
,.. Gripes 

impress the people who can influ­join a club, pick one that isn't exor­
compilations covers
so Half a dozen 

ence your future. A promotion bitant. 000 
21 Pencil holder, at 2 Trapped
erotic pictures 

could be forthcoming. 00000 SAGITTARIUS (Nmt 22--Dec. 21):
times 3 Criminal
of chests? 

TAURUS (A)>ril 20-May 20): Make plans, or you will become 22 President·_ 53 "The Bells" poet 4 Select 
You are in a high cycle for travel, bored and restless today. Travel or 23 Physics unit 54 Wreck s Fashion inits. 
education and creative endeavors, intellectual pursuits will provide & Tie the knot a 
but will have to be extremely care­stimulation and excitement. If no
24 Select a 1918 ss Hall-of-Farner 
ful with money and investments. one will join you, go alone and
second time? 
Billy Murray nicknamed 
Plan an inexpensive but education­meet new people. 000
song? "Bobby Hockey" 1 Arkansas's _ Mountains 
al and inspiring trip. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be You should be smoothing out any
a College major 
compassionate and considerate, imperfections in your ideas and
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
, Madonna's role 
and you will get along well with waiting for the best time to present 
E T in "A League of Puzzle by P-Gordon
U N CA 
others. The more honest you are, them. Be assured that someone will
Their Own· 
33 Actor Morales u First year in St. 
the better the results. You can make try to take credit for your work.
NO OS 
10 Pool hall need Pius l's papacy 35 Glasses, 
changes by being upfront. 000 000
M U M S 
11 New Orleans, 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS Qan. 20-Feb. 18):
commercially « Thanksgivingwith "the" 
Choose someone to spend time Monitor your budget carefully to 12 Builder 
36 Charon's river Day event 
with today or you may become avoid unnecessary stress. If some­
37 •-.-the night 
13 Change the look " Vega's 
caught in the middle of an argu­one wants to borrow or entice you
constenationof 
ment that has nothing to do with into expensive entertainment,
31 Boner
11 luau souvenirs s1 Brand of knife 
you. Tal<ing sides will make mat­don't be embarrassed to say you ,...,..+=+,:-+-:,.-1, 22 Heart chart: 31 Ripken's team 
ters worse. Do what you enjoy. can't afford it. 0000 
for 3,001 games 
000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): Plan a Don't say anything you might
2, Comics possum 40 Ice hockey teams, e.g. are available by touch-tone phone: 
fun-filled day and an entertaining regret later. Misinterpretation will 
25 Rap's _ Kross 
1-900·420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
evening away from people who leave you in a difficult position. 
43 One way to jog
~...+.....+-=+=+.:e-t 2& Grade-P E D schoolers 44 Arose Annual subscriptions are available for the 
are argumentative or in a bad You will enjoy large groups where frame of mind. Surround yourself you can listen, learn and meet new
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50
~-=+;,;R+,N::+:E:-t 21 Barbecue fare 45 Flies over the 
with movers and shakers for the friends.00
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
~__.,__A.._T....._S_. 32 Simile center equator? Birthday Baby: You are a wanderer and an adventurer. You will always be where the action is and gravitate toward the fast lane. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
© 2001 Universal Press Syndicate 

-------------------------------------~-----------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 Published Monday through Friday, The D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
THE OBSERVER 
Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semesterMary's Community. 

Name 

--------------------------~ Address 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
-------------------------~
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City _______ State ____ Zip______
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
() 

Fox TROT 
IT'S COLD ANO WE.T OUT, AND I'M Sul<E I WOULD MINO IT Cil\JITE. A BIT. 
\ 
It 
The Observer . TODAY 
TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
I DortT l<NOW WHY SHE EVEN BoTHERS ASKING. 
\ 
page 23 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 


Campus Sports 
OBSERVER Campus Sports 
. 
SMC Basketball, p. 22 . Men's Hockey, p. 18 

. 
Football, p. 16, 21 . Men's Basketball, p. 17 

. 
Column: Berchou, p. 20 


PORTS 
Wednesday, January 16, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
What happened to O'Leary? 

. O'Leary told ESPN he never offered to resign; White, Malloy said he 
.. 
resigned several times 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sporn Editor 
Notre Dame Athletic Director Kevin White and University President Father Edward Malloy stepped to the podium Tuesday to usher in the Tyrone Willingham era at l\otre Dame. But when the off-camera interview session came around. both had questions to answer about the previous administra­tion -George O'Leary's five-day reign. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
This much is J'or sure: O'Leary resigned five days after acrnpting 1hr I\otre Dame coaching position af'ter it was revealed that his biography con­tained inaccurate information regard­ing his athletic and academic achieve­ments. A month later. he took a job as assistant head coach with the M_innesota Vikings. Where the stories diverge is in how that resignation actually came about. 
O'Leary has spoken publicly just once since his resignation -an ESPN Sunday Conversation with Mike Tirico that aired Dec. 23. In that interview, O'Leary indicated that he was asked lo resign. According to O'Leary, in the first conversation between the coach and White, the athletic director spoke of the damage done to O'Leary's credi­bility. 
"/\t that time I said KPvin. 'ListC'n, the first thing I don't want to do is embarrass Notre Dame, the credibility of' Notrn Dame, and the job that he has done in trying to secure a coach and that If th is is sornethi ng that can't be controlled. I will tender my resigna­tion,"' O'Leary said. "lie said TII gnt back to you in 10 minutes.' When Im didn't call in 10 minutes, I had a prntty good idea there was a problem." 
While White, Vice President for Public Affairs Lou Nanni and otlrnr '.'Jot rn I) ame o ffi c i a Is con tend th at O'Leary offered his resignation without any prompting, the former coach sens the situation differently. 
see O'LEARY/page20 

Race shouldn't be 
•
an issue 

On Nnw Year's Day, Tyrone Willingham was hirPcl as the first black head coach at Notn, Dam<'. Signilicant'! You bPL llistorical? Sun,. 
But to think that Willingham was hired hncaus<• Im was black is prepos­terous. 
Wlwn KPvin White lravnlncl around Urn country looking f'or a rPplact~­nwnl for Bob DaviP, lw wasn't trying to find SOlllPOIH' whose skin complexion happPnnd to be cl iffprc•n t from his nwn. tit• was looking l'or a foot­ball roach who can win. 
Willingham's ran, had nothing to do with his succPss 011 tlw football (fold. Ile would havP IH'Pn hin•d ii' lw had blond hair. bluP PVns or skin cnwrncl with pink and pu.rplP polka dots. White was ahlP to knPp rani and success as s1iparate as George O'LPary and ho,wsty. 
Consider the following: Two-tinw Pac-JO Coach ol'tlw YPar. Four bowl appnarancns. including a 1998 Hos11 Bowl berth. A conf'pn•ncP championship. Thrne victories in live tries against tlrn Irish. And all this al a school with acadnmic rnquirmnnnts at lnast as tough as thosn he will facn al Notrn Danw. · "All thn football pundits, prof'es­sionally or collegiately, say this guy 
see SOUKUP/page 14 


Young Irish show improvment over break 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Ediror 
The Irish have a different look. They've tried some new line-ups. The young players look more at home on the court. But most importantly, they're winning games. 
The Irish (9-6, 3-1 in the Dig East) showed marked improve­ment, defeating Marquette, DePaul, Miami, Providence and Seton Hall during a seven-game stretch. A loss to Villanova on Saturday ended a four-game win streak and left the Irish with the knowledge that they can hold their own in the Hig East. 
"I think we should be unde­
feated [in the Big East!." head coach \1uffet McGraw said. "I'm disappointed that we 're not undefeated." 
McGraw, who kept with a fairly consistent line-up throughout November. switched things up in the last four weeks. Ericka Haney and Jeneka Joyce took their turn at starting positions while center Amanda Barksdale laid claim to the starling center position, allowing freshman Teresa Borton to be a threat off the bench. 
"I think they're a great tan­dem," McGraw said of the cen­ter pair. 
Joyce came in as a starter and "took some pressure off of Le 'Tania Severn, who had been 
starting at point guard for the Irish. Severe, who had been turning the ball over a lot. found some relief coming off the bench. 
"It was taking the pressure off of Le !Severe I." McGraw said. "Slrn had a couple of games where she had a lot of turnovers. I think she wanted to come off of the bench." 
The varied line-ups offered success for the Jrish. In nine games their opponents scored more than 70 points only once and tlrn tlrnm's shooting per­centage is back up around 50 percent. 
"I think the biggest diffen•ncc is we're making a lot more shots,'' McGraw said. "I think we're gntting th<' sanrn [shots], but instead of shooting :18 or 40 p,!rcent, we're shooting 50 per­cent. Things are rnally clicking for us." 
Junior guard Alicia Balay has also stepped into her roln with more aggressive play. In four game since an Irish victory against the Hurricanes, Hatay upped her average points per game from 12 to 14 and topped 20 points in a game twice. 
"I think she's finally just real­ly taking to the role of Tvo got to do it,"' \1cGraw said. "I think that we'vf) been encouraging her to shoot morn and take more of an aggressive role and looking for the shots." 
Despite more solid offnnsive and defensive efforts, Villanova found the nerve :'llolre Dame is still leaving 1ixposecl -40 min­utns of focus. Tim Irish jumped out to several early leads dur­ing their nin,~-ganrn run, how­ever the final minul!\s still caused a few problems. like tlw 60-59 loss to the Wildcats. 
"!The freshman I arn gelling more used to thn college ganw and everything," forward .Jackie Batteast said. "But wn'rn still having a little lroubln focusing the whole game." 
"We played really well for :)5 minutes [against Villanoval," McGraw said. "Tlrnn at. thn end we got a little nervous ... instead of saying we're going to win this gamn." 
Thn loss canw af'Lnr a solid 
see WOMEN/page 17 

. SMC Basketball vs. Olivet, Today, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. Women's Swimming, Friday, 6 p.m.
SPORTS 
on!ine 

. Men's Hockey vs. Nebraska-Omaha, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Basketball vs. Kentucky, Saturday, noon http://www.nd.edu/~ohserver 





