

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
BOG helps fund security devices for students 
Ulrich will be also be presenting Kristin Martha, student trustee,By SHANNON NELLIGAN information promoting awareness reiterated this point by stating
News Writer 
on club drugs such as ecstasy. that security is making great "It is important for the student efforts, this year, with the securi-Belinda Hathert, security inves­body to be ty forum and tigator at Saint Mary's College, aware of the other pro-requested funds from the Board drugs that grams that
"We want to provide these 

of Governance Monday that will are in their reach out to allow for the partial funding of a community safety devices to make the the students. safety alarm key chains for the 
and neigh­students feel safer in their After some 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and borhood .... debate, the
surroundings."

Holy Cross Communities. It is also BOG moved to 
The key chains are similar to good to be grant funding safety alarms that are currently informed Belinda Pathert to cover a por­equipped in most automobiles. To about the tion of the
Saint Mary's security investigator

activate the key chain, the victim conse­funds needed simply pulls a pin and an alarm quences of to provide the will sound. taking these safety key 
"We want to provide these safe­drugs and chains ty devices to make the students know what's in them," Rathert feel safer in their surroundings," said. In other BOG news: Pathert said. llathert also asked the student BOG officially recognized an 
The key chains will be present­body to work with security and independent Irish dance club that ed to the entire college communi­come to them with any concerns will welcome all students in the ty on Oct. 29 during a security about safety. three-college community. presentation by Paul Ulrich, a "We are trying to be a more current federal Drug Enforcement friendly and approachable enti­Contact Shannon Nelligan at Agent. ty," she said. TI'BULTl@aol.com 

Tuesday, October 15, 2002

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and SaintMary's 
VOL. XXXVI NO. 36 

Conference analyzes church sex scandal 
By LAURAN WILLIAMSON 
News Writer 
The Church Study Committee, appointed last spring by University President Father Edward Malloy in response to the sexual abuse scandal in the Catholic Church, a panel discus­s ion Monday in McKenna Hall on "Dallas and Beyond: The Experience and the Future." 
Part of a conference entitled, "Hestoring Trust: Perspectives after Dallas," panelists included Commonwealth editor Margaret O'Brien Steinfels, Scott Applebee, pro­fessor of history and director of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, and Father Richard McBrien and Crowley-O'Brien Professor of Theology at Notre Dame. 
Steinfels and Applebee spoke at the June 14 meeting in Dallas, where the American Catholic bishops imposed a one-size-fits-all system of permanent separation from ministry "for even a single act of sexual abuse ... of a minor -past, present or future." 
Steinfels was the first to speak. She described the conference in Dallas as "an awesome experience -in the archaic sense." 
Her overriding feeling concerning the conference was one of dread. According to Steinfels, in the future, Catholics need to determine who they are as a Church. She concluded that the problems surrounding the Church now cannot he resolved from the top down. What is needed is a reorganiza­tion of relationships, she said. That is, the relationship between the bishops and priests, and among the bishops, other clergy and the people they serve. 
"Great good may come," Steinfels said. "The Church has been wounded and it requires examination and repair." 
Applebee began his speech using a psychological analogy in which he compared an inkblot test with five images taken from the traumatic ordeal of the Church. Applebee also touched upon the fact that while in Dallas he was warned not to touch the subject of the role of women in the church because the bishops did not take well to this subject. However, he spoke on the issue anyway and raised it again. "Women should be empow­ered in leadership capacities [within the church]." Applebee said. He also addressed the issue of married priests and women being ordained, as a possi­ble solution to the sex-abuse scandals. 

The final panelist speaker was McBrien. He immediately established the fact that the sex-abuse scandals are explicit to the Roman Catholic Church and they are not such a prob­lem for other Catholic churches. His hypothesis as to why this is was the fact that non-Roman Catholics allow married men into the priesthood. In his speech he addressed three specific questions: Whose trust needs to be restored? Trust in whom? How can this be accomplished? He also spoke about the "failure of pastoral leader­ship," claiming that the Church is too concerned with percentage of priests rather than the quality. He criticized bishops for reassigning known preda­tory priests to different parishes. He said that the "health of the Church sacramental life is at risk." We need to change the way bishops are selected and promoted from dioceses to anoth­er. 
At the conclusion of the panel dis­cussion, the floor was opened for the audience to ask questions. 
Contact Lauran Williamson at lwillia@nd.edu 

Ben Folds goes live 

page 12 

HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Father Joyce continues recovery 
By MATT BRAMANTI 
News Writer 
Father Edmund Joyce continues to recuperate at the St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in South Bend and shows signs of improve­ment, said Father William Seetch, CSC religious superior. 
Joyce, Notre Dame's executive vice president emeritus, suffered a stroke on Sept. 20 at the age of 85. 
He is currently located in the reha­bilitation unit of the hospital and is undergoing physical therapy. 
"He's regained some movement in his left side," said Seetch, having just returned from an assessment of Joyce's condition. 
However, despite this improve­ment, a date has still not been set for his release from the hospital. 
Joyce will likely remain hospital­ized for several more weeks to a month at least. 
For the present, visitors have been discouraged at Fr. Joyce's request, as he continues his slow but steady recovery. 
Joyce remains in intensive therapy at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center. 
Joyce retired in 1987, when the board of trustees voted to name the Athletic and Convocation Center after him. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti. l@nd.edu 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Don't be 

'that guy' 
You'll see him biking around cam­pus with an oversized helmet, spilling his tray all over the dining hall floor or at a party spending more time in the bathroom than the dance floor. Everyone refers 
to him as "that Justin Krlvlckas 
guy" and he is 
content to 
remain anony­

Assistant
mous to save his 
News Editor 
dignity. 
"That guy" sure gets around cam­pus, but nobody ever wants to be in his shoes. I guess climbing into the wrong bed, on the wrong dorm floor that is already occupied isn't cool anymore. Stories about "that guy" are the life blood of a college campus and you have to give him credit for being who he is. Without caring about embarrassment or disgust from oth­ers. he takes it upon himself to do something that will be remembered and retold by every bystander who witnesses his feat of uncouth bravery. 
For example, only "that guy" would show up as a senior to a freshman chemistry final and scream hysteri­cally that he's tired of taking the same class for four years and proceed to light the test on fire. Or perhaps he made us laugh when he peed on my dorm room floor because he mistook my room for the bathroom. He fin­ished his business. then casually washed his hands in my sink and went back to bed. 
Treat him with justice because he gives us something better to talk about. The endless debate over why the dining hall calls chicken noodle soup "chicken in the pot" is beginning to lose its place in my heart. 
Furthermore, laughter is the key to living a worthwhile life and "that guy" gives us a plentiful dose of amuse­ment each week to make up for the more trying moments of life. A good chuckle after hearing a story about "that guy's" shenanigans last week­end can help brighten up even the more depressing days of the semes­ter. 
Yet, besides his popularity, nobody ever seems to want to be him but merely be the witness to his madness. Yet, we have all unwittingly assumed the role of "that guy" or "that girl" in one time or another and I guarantee that as long as you are breathing, you'll be it again and again. 
Perhaps the role ofthat guy doesn't appeal to you, but everyone has to take a turn at the part or he will die out. In my opinion, life without "that guy" isn't a life worth living. The entertain­ment he provides more than makes up for the embarrassment "that guy" faces after one ofhis follies. 
Although being "that guy" can entail some criticism and degradation, his stories can create a legend. So, the next time you see him wearing a black turtleneck in 90-degree weather don't fret, but shake his hand for doing his duty for that day. Just remember that tomorrow might be yours and that you will be merely doing your part to make the world a more enjoyable place. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Justin Krividcas at jkrivick@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer tegards itself as a ptofessional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize thacwe will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS NEWS 
Campus life council plans Web site to improve com­munication 
The campus life council focused on the development of a Web site similar to the ones used at Yale and other major universities to help improve communications with students. 
page4 
WORLD& NATION 
Indonesia blames al­Quaida for 181 bomb deaths 
The Indonesian government has now acknowledged an al-Aqaida pres­ence in their coun­try in response to a car bomb explosion 
that killed 181. 
page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
Holy Cross College, Hoom 304 
WHAT'S COOKING North Dining Hall 
Dining Hall menu not available today. 
TODAY TONIGHT 
IX 
w 
::c 
~ 
w 
==...J 
,II( 
(.) 

0 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Additions to Tyco audit team 
More auditors were assigned to review Tyco's accounting books. The former chief financial officer and chief executive are facing charges of fraud and may serve prison time. 
page 7 
SCENE 
Stones really know how to rock 
The Rolling Stones' new anniversary album entitled "40 Licks" traces the Stones' history, and Scene reviews the album, deciding whether it's a bust 
or a must buy. 
page 13 

. 
Cholesterol Scrccnings, 7 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Available to ND faculty only, in the Monogram Hoom at the Joyce Center 

. 
Lecture: "Conceptualizing and Measuring Democracy and the Huie of Law," presented by Gerardo Munck, visiting fellow from the University of Illinois, Hoom C-104, Ilesburgh Center 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Multicultural Affairs Brown Bag Luncheon, 


11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at the Stapleton Lounge 

. 
Minority and Women Business Development Council. 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.. Madclcva 247 

. 
Senior Board Meeting. 9:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. at 


South Dining Hall 
VIEWPOINT 
A modest proposal to end poverty 
Columnist Amy Schill devises a way to purge America of its poor and presents a sar­castic article that attacks the death penalty. 
page 10 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
SPORTS 

Hildbold and punt team pin opponents deep 
The punt team came through for the Irish while playing Pitt. Their punts helped to bury the Panthers deep inside their own territory, 
page 24 

Motor vehicle theft pending 
A theft in the COl Parking Lot on Sept. 18 was investigated further, and because no suspect infor­mation was developed the case is still pending. 
Assault being transferred to review 

board 
The case was investigated further involving an assault on Oct, 1 at DeBartolo Hall and is being referred to an administrative review. 

Suspicious person case closed 
A case involving a suspicious person on Sept. 30 at the Stadium was investigated further and is being closed at this time. 
Today Lunch: Manicotti, Cacciatore Sauce, Chicken Fajita Pizza, Mushroom Stroganoff. Sauteed Zucchini & Yellow Squash, Meatloaf. Mississippi Fried Catfish, Baked Ham. Baked Red-Skin Mashed Potatoes, Gyros, Potato Skins, Onion Rings, Sweet & Sour Pork, Chili Crispitos, Roasted Corn and Black Beans 
Today Dinner: Chicken Vesuvio, Cacciatore Sauce, Chicken Fajita Pizza, Veal Parmigiana, Spinach, Rice with Olives, Beef Stew, Roasted Pork Loin, Roasted Poupon Potatoes. Chicken Strips, Potato Skins and Onion Rings 
WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
.J HIGH 58 HIGH 53 HIGH 45 HIGH 43 LOW 54 LOW 35 LOW 27 LOW 30 
Complied from NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Dining Hall menu not available today. 

FR1DAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 50 HIGH 53 LOW 35 LOW 38 
Atlanta 52 / 51 Boston 56 / 44 Chicago 58 / 34 Denver 55 / 30 Houston 72 / 47 Los Angeles 76/ 54 Minneapolis 44 / 26 New York 60 / 52 Philadelphia 60 / 50 Phoenix 91 / 67 Seattle 69 / 50 St. Louis 62 / 36 Tampa 84 / 71 Washington 55 / 51 

Tuesday, October 15, 2002 The Observer . COLLEGE NEWS page 3 


U-WIRE 
Students protest Clinton vote, organize sit in 
prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-year job in the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goal. Apply by November 8, 2002. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May 2003) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information contact Mrs. Lisa Tranberg (_631-6676). 
By USA FLOISHER Washington Square News 
NEW YORK 

Five New York University stu­dents sat inside Sen. Hillary Clinton's New York offices last Thursday and refused to leave for nine hours. asking that she vote against military action in Iraq. 
The students made an appoint­ment with Clinton's aides on the premise that they were deliver­ing an anti-war petition with more than 1,000 signatures, which they circulated around the university the week before. However, they refused to leave the offices after Clinton's aides told th~m she would not sign a 
statement guaranteeing her vote against military action. The group left at about 10 
p.m.. after it was evident Clinton would vote in favor of a resolu­tion being debated in the U.S. Senate. The resolution gives President George W. Bush the power to use military force against Iraq if it does not comply with United Nations demands to get rid of its weapons of mass destruction. 
Clinton's aides promised that the senator would meet with the students within the next 30 days, said Jason Rowe, one of the stu­dents inside the office. However, they were not given a specific appointment. 
The House approved the reso­lution on Thursday, 296-133, fol­lowed by the Senate's approval, 77-23, on Friday. 
"She was a coward. plain and simple," Rowe said of Clinton. "She didn't have the courage to vote against the resolution." 
Outside the office building at 770 Third Ave., nearly 50 pro­testers chanted anti-war slogans and held signs, asking passing traffic to "honk for peace." 
"We want Hillary Clinton to vote with the people," said Jane Hirschman, an Upper West Side resident and protest organizer. 
Many of the protesters were members of the NYU Peace Coalition and Pax Christi, but the group included private citizens who said they had read about the event on the Internet that day. 

"Money for peace, money for housing, money for jobs, not for war," they shouted. 
The students inside Clinton's offices said · they were approached by the Secret Service, who asked for their names and social security num­bers. However, the students refused to give out any informa­tion and resisted a search, Rowe said. 
"They tried to trick us into consenting to be searched, though we were smart enough to say explicitly, 'I do not consent to be searched,"' Rowe said. 
While they were in the office, the students received a confer­ence call from several university officials, including Tom Ellett, executive director of housing and residence life, and Richard Kalb, associate dean for stu­dents. 
Rowe said he thought that uni­versity officials supplied the Secret Service agents with the students' social security num­bers and birthdates. 
The officials contacted the stu­dentc; and were put on a speaker phone in the office, Rowe said. The otflcials said they would call the students' parents and threat­ened academic repercussions for participation in the sit-in, Rowe said. 
"I have a 3.88 GPA,' I said. I probably used bad language,'' Rowe said. "I said, 'There's no way that you can tell me you're going to get me in academic trouble.'" 
~ When it's the 


THE HELEN KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR 

INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AND THE 
INSTITUTE FOR LATINO STUDIES 
PROUDLY PRESENT 


PROFUNDO CARMESI 
TUESDAY, OCOTBER 15 AT 7 PM AUDITORIUM OF THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
THE FILM IS PART OF THE ''LOOKING OUT, LOOKING IN" FILM SERIES: 1 HOUR, 54 MINUTES 
SPANISH, WITH SUBTITLES IN ENGLISH 
THIS IS THE SECOND FILM ON THE MONTH'S THEME VIOLENCE IN MEXAMERICA 



L------------------------------------------'mailbox, 




Program targets student plagiarism 
ByANDREW FRISTCH 
The Daily Cougar 
HOUSTON 
Although academic dishon­esty may never be eliminated from the education system, a common form -plagiarism ­got one step closer to leaving the University of Houston's campus with the addition of new anti-plagiarism software. 
UH faculty and staff can now use the services of Turnitin.com, the world's largest non-profit, anti-plagia­rism service-providing organi­zation, said Marshal Schott. UH's director of education out­reach and technology. 
UH purchased a campus-wide license for about $9,000 per year, said Betty Roberts, vice president of information tech­nology. 
"Faculty had indicated this [plagiarism] was a real issue," Schott said. 
He said Turnitin.com was chosen because of its reputa­tion, easy use and excellent online support. Roberts said any 
students or facul­ty need­ing addi­tional h e I p using the program would receive support from the I T depart­ment. Students in their classes e-mail t h e i r papers to the mailbox for pla­giarism revision through instruc­tors who use the program are pro­vided with an on line 

user ID and password. 
Turnitin.com, Roberts said. The 
program then goes online and 
works like a search engine to 
check for plagiarism. 
Turnitin.com first appeared at 
UH in Fall 2001 when the 
Department of History pur­
chased a license to use the 
product. 
"What I like about this pro­gram is it makes people think they might get caught," said Sarah Fishman-Boyd. an associ­ate dean of undergraduate studies in the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences. She was also instrumental in bring­ing Turnitin.com to UH. "It gives us a tool to use to dis­suade students form going other places for their work." 
Fishman-Boyd said the histo­ry department started using the product because much of the course work involves writing. She said the department was afraid that students were using someone else's ideas found online instead of presenting their own ideas. 
"I think the main reason stu­dents plagiarize is fear when they don't have any ideas, but instead of getting a C they end up with an F and possibly harsher consequences," Fishman-Boyd said. According to the Student handbook's poli­cy on Academic honesty, the punishment for academic dis­honesty such as plagiarism can be as mild as a lowered grade on the project or as harsh as expulsion from the University, depending on the nature of the act and the record of the stu­dent. Catching students is not how the program succeeds, Fishman-Boyd said. She said success comes from preventing cheating and reducing suspi­cion, which will allow profes­sors to concentrate on students more. Fishman-Boyd said she hasn't caught anyone plagiariz­ing by using the program. She did say that matches for book titles and properly cited infor­mation did come back for some papers, but those instances were trivial. 
Brian McKinney. the director of academic program manage­ment in the Office of the Provost, said the idea for cam­pus-wide use of Turnitin.com was brought before Undergraduate Council in Spring 2002. 

page4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, October 15, 2002 

Council's new web site to improve communication 
By MATI BRA.MANTI 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council met Monday night to discuss ways of improving communication with students and focused on the development of a Web­based model similar to the ones used at Yale and other major universities. 
Off-campus senior Erin Cushing pointed out the vast quantity of information posted on the countless bulletin boards across campus. 
"We all realized a need for the University to consolidate its information," Cushing said. 
David Moss. assistant vice president for student affairs, agreed, adding that the pro­posed website could serve multiple ends. 
"We see the website ... as a public relations tool," Moss said. 
Rick Harris, who heads the CLC's leadership task force, emphasized the effect that the website could have on leader­ship development for students. Harris proposed allowing stu­dent groups to post their lead­ership and training opportuni­ties on the site, so that the broader campus community could benefit. 
"We could get a lot ofleader­ship opportunities out there," Harris said. 
Contact Matt Bramanti at bramanti.l@nd.edu 


Private colleges ban fraternities, sororities 
By LEANA DONOFRIO 
Daily Kent Stater 
The numbers are staggering. Greeks claim a large number of the most powerful people in the United States: 75 percent of the 
U.S. 
Congress is Greek. More than 85 percent of student lead­ers in 720 college campuses are Greek members. Eighty percent of Fortune 500 executives are Greek, according to Kent State University's Greek-life Web site "10 Fast Greek Facts." 

But a "fast fact"that is not listed on the site is that only three of the top 10 most presti­gious liberal arts schools have Greek systems, according to 

U.S. 
News and World Report's 2002 report on U.S. colleges and universities. 


Deaths among college Greek members and the movement away from community service has left some schools with the choice of removing fraternities and sororities from their cam­puses. 
This decision to do away with the Greek system has already happened at schools like Williams College, Bowdoin College, Colby College and Alfred University in New York. 
Alfred faced a nightmare situ­ation that contributed to the demise of its Greek system after a student was found dead behind a fraternity house in February. 
Benjamin Klein, 21, was allegedly beaten by members of his fraternity, Zeta Beta Tau. 
Alfred spokeswoman Susan Goetschius said the student's death was not found to be a direct result of the beating, and charges have not been brought against the fraternity brothers who beat him. 
"What we heard is that they [Klein and some fraternity brothers] divulged secrets [about the fraternity] at a chap­ter meeting in Syracuse," Goetschius said. 
Although she warned that details surrounding the incident are only hearsay, she said his fraternity brothers beat him on the way home from the meeting in Syracuse on a Saturday. 
She said it is then believed Klein apologized to his brothers and said he was going home. 
Goetschius said members of the fraternity reported Klein missing when they discovered his car was still at the fraternity house. 
Klein was officially reported missing the next day. and was found frozen and dead later that night just yards away from the backdoor of the Zeta Beta Tau fraternity house. 
Klein's death was a factor taken into consideration by the Alfred board of trustees when deciding whether or not to phase out Greek organizations on the campus. 
All the board of trustees members but one, who abstained from voting, recom­mend the organizations be removed. 
Although a few fraternities and sororities still exist at Alfred, they cannot recruit new members and cannot remain at all if they are not in good stand­ing with the university. 
Two Greek organizations at the university were removed recently after breaking the school's anti-hazing policy. The hazing infractions happened after Klein's death. 
"The Greek system is beyond repair," Robert McComsey, the chairman of Alfred's board, told The New York Times. 
Removing fraternities and sororities from college campus­es is not new. Williams College began phasing out fraternities and sororities in the early 1960s, spokesman Jim Kolesar said. None were left by 1969. 
And deaths are not new, either. Alfred experienced another death of a member of a local fraternity, Klan Alpine, in February 1978. This one direct­ly related to hazing. 
"He [the student] was put in a trunk of a car with a six pack and a bottle of liquor and told to drink," Goetschlus said. 
The student was found dead at the fraternity house. Alfred has done a number of studies on fraternities and sororities following the deaths. 
Researchers found the num­ber of students who binge drink and receive low grades was higher with Greek members than students not involved in a Greek organization. 
And hazing is an ongoing problem in the Greek system despite efforts made by Greeks themselves to stop it. 
U-WIRE 

Bioterrorism conference examines threat 
By DAVID ROBINSON 
The Daily Princeronia.n 

PRINCETON, N.J. 
The risk of bioterrorism is not about to go away, but it has to be kept in perspective, said participants in a confer­ence Friday. 
The meeting, "Bioterrorism: Science, Security and Preparedness," was organized by a pair of Princeton gradu­ate students -Rebecca Katz, who studies the politics of bio­logical weapons in the Wilson School, and Scott Steele, who works in molecular biology. 
The response to last fall's anthrax attacks has translated into a huge increase in support for biodefense research, said Jack Killen, assistant director for biodefense research at the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, a unit of tho National Institutes of Health. 
The president requested a total of $5.9 billion for bioter­rorism preparedness in next year's budget, Killen said. NIH's biodefense research pro­gram is slated to receive $1.75 billion, up from less than $275 million this year, he said. 
Killen explained that NIH's research will focus on ways to deal with "Category A" biologi­cal agents -a list of the most dangerous known diseases. These agents are both lethal and easy to spread, he said, and they include such age-old human scourges as smallpox and the plague, along with anthrax. 
One goal of the new research will be to screen existing medi­cines for effectiveness against bioterrorism agents, to get away from a "one bug, one drug" strategy that requires the use of special treatments in response to a particular type of bioterror attack, Killen said. 
Using existing drugs, when possible, is easier than deploy­ing special treatments during an emergency, he said. 
Nonetheless, Killen said that the main effect of last year's anthrax mailings was to pro­duce disruption and fear ­not death. The attacks pro­duced just 23 cases of anthrax, of which five were fatal. he said. "If you step back from the last year, the threat we need to be worried about in terms of infection is the natur­al threat." he said. 
Ile pointed to the reemer­gence of AIDS, West Nile, Lyme disease and drug-resis­tant forms of tuberculosis and malaria as major areas of con­cern. Using disease as a weapon is not a new idea, noted Stephen Morse, director of the Center for Public Health Preparedness at Columbia University's school of public health. It has been successfully used not only recently, but throughout history, he said. 
In 1346, Mongol warriors threw plague-infested corpses over the walls of the city of Caffa. triggering a pandemic the next year. And during the colonization of America, Lord Jeffery Amherst gave blankets laced with smallpox to Native Americans, he said. 
Summarizing the day's events, molecular biology pro­fessor Lee Silver said biologi­cal weapons are easily accessi­ble. 
TM!'. NOfRC DAl'\C DEPARWNT OF r:lUSIC PRtStNlS 
NOTRE DAl'\E A.JSISTANT PROFESSOR or t:1USIC 



J<?MN E>LACKL<?W 

PIAN<? 

WEDNLSDAY. OCT05ER lb. 2<2<22 
7:"'JQ Pf'\. ANNENE>[RQ AUDIT0 RIU/'\ TICKETS ($"'J-1Q): LA,?RTUN[ l"PX OFFICE (574) <':,"'Jh'512o n.1'1 ('J7ul t,'.lH2Ql FOR /'\?RI'. IN,0 R/'\ATl0 N 
'YOV 1'v'E sY.£<£9( <JJ-l!E fj0£(JY.£9((])09.1.<:£... 
!NO'W C09,l.'E sY.E'E <JJ-l!E <.Rf)!M.Jl!NO~! 

ROME PROGRAM INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday,Oct. 15,2002 

5:00 PM 101 DEBARTOLO 
International Study Programs: http://www.nd.edu/~intlstud Rome On-line Application Deadline: December 1, 2002 (for academic year, fall & spring semesters) 
.\ 








WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INDONESIA 
Indonesia blames al-Qaida for 181 bomb deaths 
Reu1ers Live Photos President Bush makes a statement Monday before he departs the White House en route to Detroit. Bush said Indonesia must crack down on the terrorists operating In that country. 
Sniper suspected in Virginia murder investigation 
Associated Press 
FALL.5 CHURCH. Va. 

A woman was shot in the head and killed Monday night as she and her hus­band loaded packages into their car out­side a Home Depot in suburban Washington. Police were investigating whether it was the latest shooting by a sniper already blamed for eight deaths in the past 12 days. 
Police swiftly closed down highways in the area, about 10 miles west of the nation's capital, creating massive gridlock as they searched for a van from which the shooter might have fired. 
Fairfax County Police Chief Tom Manger said authorities were on the look­out for a cream-colored Chevy Astra van that was missing a left rear tail light and had a silver roof ladder. Virginia State Police said the van was last seen traveling east on Route 50 from Falls Church. Interstates 66 and 1-95 are nearby. 
Witnesses at some of the earlier shoot­ings also reported seeing a white or cream-colored van or truck. 
The woman was felled by a single shot about 9:15 p.m., authorities said. All the other deaths in the sniper spree were also caused by one shot, and two people also were wounded by a single bullet. 
The Maryland task force investigating the sniper attacks was conferring with Fairfax County authorities to see if Monday's victim was the sniper's ninth. 
"It's too early to tell at this time [if the shooting is linked], however we are work­ing it and investigating it with that poten­tial in mind," Manger said. 

The woman was shot in the head as she and her husband loaded packages into their car's trunk, said Ellen Qualls, a spokeswoman for Virginia Gov. Mark R. Warner. Someone fired the fatal shot from a van, she said. 
"There's some pretty decent eyewitness information that maybe we haven't had in some of the previous shootings," Qualls said. 
Immediately after the shooting, the vic­tim's body lay under a sheet 30 yards in front of the store entrance. 
Police were still scouring the parking lot for evidence and interviewing witnesses early Tuesday. There were a number of people in the parking lot when the shoot­ing occurred, Manger said. 
"More than anything else, I wished I was outside so I could identify this guy," one woman who had been stuck inside the Home Depot as authorities closed it told CNN. "I am used to seeing blood, but this amount of blood shocked me." 
The Home Depot is located in the Seven Corners Shopping Center. a 450,000­square-foot strip shopping center with a parking garage. 
Monday's killing occurred at one of northern Virginia's busiest intersections, where major arteries come together to form seven corners. Clint Van Zandt, a former FBI profiler who lives in Fredericksburg, Va., said the location sets the slaying apart from the others. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bin Laden allegedly praised attacks: 
_ A signed statement allegedly from Osama bin Laden claimed Monday that recent attacks in Yemen and Kuwait were designed to coincide with the anniversary of the war in Afghanistan and to send a "clear and strong message" to the world that his al-Qaida organization is still active. The statement, which was faxed to the Al­Jazeera network and posted on an Islamic Web site. appeared to have been written on a comput­er, using an Arabic font that looks like handwrit­ing. The signature at the bottom is similar to bin Laden's distinctive style, with a loop at the end. Still, there was no way to authenticate the state­ment. Bin Laden's whereabouts are unknown and President Bush said Monday: "We don't know whether bin Laden is alive or dead. We do know that al-Qaida's still dangerous, and while we've made good progress, there is a lot more work to do." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Large meat recall covers 6 months: 
Pilgrim's Pride voluntary recalled 27.4 million pounds of sliced deli poultry Sunday over concerns about possible listeria contamination. The parent of Wampler Foods announced its decision after a strain of the potentially fatal bacteria was found at a Wampler plant in suburban Philadelphia. The nationwide recall covers meat processed at the Franconia plant from May 1 through Oct. 11. 

Ohio panel gives evolution debate nod: 
A state school board panel Monday recommended that Ohio science classes emphasize both evolution and the debate over its validity. The committee left it up to individual school districts to decide whether to include in the debate the concept of "intelligent design," which holds that the universe is guided by a higher intelligence. The guidelines for the science curriculum simply put into writing what many school districts already do. 
1"1DIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Columbus Day parade excludes actors: 
Did the mayor ruin the celebration by skipping New York's Columbus Day parade? Fuhgeddaboudit. Mayor Michael Bloomberg bowed out Monday after parade organizers said two actors from "The Sopranos" were not welcome because the HBO hit negatively portrays Italian-American life. Not that the controversy stopped the annual parade up Pifth Avenue. "These are fictional characters. People have to remember that it's telling a story," said "Sopranos" fan Sal Ciniglio, 29, as he snapped a photo of his girlfriend. "It's a show. Get a life." The Columbus Citizens Foundation had sought a federal court order to bar Dominic Chianese and Lorraine Bracco from marching in the parade. Chianese plays mob boss Junior Soprano; Bracco plays psy­chiatrist Dr. Melfi. Bloomberg said he invited the pair because Bracco acts as a city spokeswoman on environmental issues and Chianese makes a public service announcement for tourism. 

A,soci.tcd Pren 
BALI 

Indonesia's government, reel­ing from a bomb attack that killed at least 180 people, acknowledged for the first time Monday that al-Qaida is active on its soil -setting the stage for a possible crackdown on extremists. 
Stocks plummeted in the capi­tal Jakarta, and markets sank elsewhere in Southeast Asia as tourists fled the country, already one of the region's most fragile economics. 
But many Americans said they were planning to stay, contrary to State Department advice and despite warnings U.S. interests could be the next targets. 
The car bomb Saturday at a nightclub packed with foreign­ers on this resort island is likely to harm more than just the economy and tourism. Since the Sept. 11 attacks, and despite 
U.S. pressure and the discovery of an al-Qaida-linked terror net­work in neighboring Singapore and Malaysia, Indonesia has insisted there is no threat of vio­lent extremism on its soil. 
The turnaround came after a Cabinet meeting in Jakarta Monday, when Defense Minister Matori Abdul Djalil said, "We are sure al-Qaida is here." 
"The Bali bomb blast is linked to al-Qaida with the cooperation of local terrorists," he said. 
President Megawati Sukarnoputri is likely to face growing demands to arrest high-profile suspects whose continued freedom has astound­ed law enforcement officials in other countries. Whether she can do so without provoking extremists -and possible fur­ther attacks -is an open ques­tion. / 
In Washington, Presicl/nt Bush had strong words f6rth~ Indonesian leader, saying he planned to talk to her about the need to crack down on terror­ism. 
"I hope I hear the resolve of a leader who recognizes that any time terrorists take hold in a country it's going to weaken the country itself," Bush said. 
"And there has to be a firm and deliberate desire to find out -find the killers before they kill somebody else,'' he said. 
Security Minister Bambang Susilo Yudoyono said there were signs terrorists were plan­ning attacks against industrial sites, including ExxonMobil's Arun liquefied natural gas ,plant in Aceh and the Caltex refinery in Sumatra. 
"We will increase the security alert in those areas," Yudoyono said. 
On Bali, there was no visible evidence of a higher security presence or stricter controls at / 

the airport, though police insist­
ed an elite unit had been 
deployed. 

The FBI and Australian detec­
tives joined the hunt for the 
killers. Investigators from 
Scotland Yard were on the way, and Germany said it might send experts. 
Bali police said 27 witnesses had been questioned. Suspicion has fallen on 
Jemaah Islamiyah, a group that Singapore says is based in Indonesia and is linked to Osama bin Laden's terror net­work. But the group's leader denied involvement. 

pa.ge6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesda.y, October 15, 2002 
Police doused with sniper tips Largest-ever U.S. 
Associated Press 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 
The longest lull yet in the Washington sniper's killing spree brought little relief Monday as jittery residents flooded police with calls upon hearing car backfire, firecrack­ers or breaking glass. 1 
"Everyone is edgy," said Montgomery County Police Chief Charles Moose, who is heading the investigation. 
"People are hearing things that may normal­ly be over­looked." 
President Bush said the "cold-blood­ed" attacks have made him sick to his stomach. 
showed video of police in Washington, D.C., towing an abandoned white box truck from near the Sousa Bridge. The truck had a rear fender dent similar to one in a com­posite image that a task force investigating the shootings released Saturday, It also appeared to have a fresh coat of paint, FOX said. 
"There is nothing at this time to indicate it had anything to do with anything," said a Washington police spokesman, 
"People this deep into aberrant behavior aren't going to hang it up and call it quits. " 
Robert Ressler fonner FBI profiler 
Sgt. Joe Gentile. 
Monday marked the sniper's longest break -two days and counting -since the killing spree began on Oct. 
2. The sniper has shot 10 
"I weep for those who have lost people in all. The eighth and their loved ones," he said. latest killing came Friday "The idea of moms taking their morning when a 53-year-oldkids to school and sheltering Philadelphia man was gunned them from a potential sniper down in Spotsylvania County, attack is not the America that I Va.• as he pumped gas. The know." killer has now gone two 
Four police squad cars rushed straight weekends without an 
to  a  Silver  attack.  
Spring car dealership  "Every time I hear the  Profilers say the long  
Monday after the window of a customer's BMW shat­ sirens, I think there's been a shooting. I wish this person were done with it,  break could suggest the sniper is try­ing to out­ 
tered when he closed the  but I don't think so. "  smart police and change 
door. man  The dialed  Sandra Compher  routine. "Falling 
911, thinking  resident of Bethesda, Md.  into  a  pat­ 

a bullet broke 
the glass. 
"He had no idea what happened -he was just freaked out," said David Earhardt, the dealership's ser­vice manager. 
"People hear a noise, they're going to call -they want to put an end to this just like we do," said Prince William County, Va., Detective Dennis Mangan, whose department brought in a helicopter to search the woods before deter­mining a reported gunshot was just a car backfiring. 
Authorities in Baltimore, meanwhile, seized a white van and found an assault rifle, sniper manual and ammunition similar to the .223 bullets used in attacks that have killed eight people and wounded two oth­ers, WBAL-TV reported. 
The van's owner was being questioned by police Monday night. 
"At this time, the task force believes this is not related to our sniper incidents," said Louise Marthens, a Montgomery County police spokeswoman. 
Also, FOX News Channel 
tern is 
falling into a 
trap," said 
Robert. Ressler, a former FBI profiler who helped investiga­tors track killers such as Jeffrey Dahmer. "People this deep into aberrant behavior aren't just going to hang it up and call it quits. A week may go by now before they strike again, but I believe there are going to be more killings." 
Monday was Columbus Day, a holiday for the many federal workers in the Washaington area. By midday, none of the thousands of calls received by police were related to the sniper attacks. But as people went about their daily errands, many felt it was only a matter of time. 
"He's luring people into being confident again," said Betty Charlton, who shopped with a friend at a Rockville shopping center. 
"Every time I hear the sirens, I think there's been a shoot­ing," said Sandra Compher of Bethesda, Md. "I wish this per­son were done with it, but I don't think.so." 
With a new regional task 
PIZZA & STICKS -NO SALES TAX Large 1 Topping Pizza & Breadsticks 


Only $9.00!! 
Delivered to your Door! We Pay the Tax! 
NOT GOOD WITH OTHER OFFERS. EXPIRES 10/27/02."NO SALES TAX" OFFER GOOD WITH ABOVE 


PROMOTION ONLY. • VISA & MASTERCARD ACCEPTED. WE WATCH COMPETITOR'S COUPONS. 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD 
(Next ,o Subway) 

271-1277 

force operating in the 




meat recall made
Washington area, authorities can immediately shut down roads and highways at the 
Associated Press 
slightest possibility of a sniper shooting. 
Poultry processor Pilgrim's 
A 17-mile section of the 
Pride is recalling 27.4 million Capital Beltway in Maryland 
pounds of cooked sandwich was closed over the weekend 
meat after warnings of possi­after a woman was shot by an ble contamination from liste­
unidentified attacker. State 
ria -the largest meat recall
troopers kept a vigil at the 
in U.S. history.
Woodrow Wilson Bridge over 
The company pulled
the Potomac River until it was 295,000 pounds of turkey and 
determined the shooting was 
chicken products Wednesday unrelated. 
but expanded the recall over
Many schools remained 
the weekend after tests came
under lockdown Monday, 
back positive for a strain of
meaning outdoor recess and 
the potentially fatal bacteria,
physic al education classes 
the company said Sunday. 
were canceled, and students 
The nationwide recall cov­were kept indoors all day. 
ers meat processed at theIn Fredericksburg, Va., a 
company's plant in suburbanfield hockey game was can­
Franconia from May 1
celed at James Monroe High through Oct. 11.
School. Monday night's 
The recall covers deli meatrescheduled homecoming game primarily sold under the com­was still on, but moved to a 
pany's Wampler Foodsnearby rural county where 
brand, though it is also soldthere have been no shootings. 
under brands including Block 'Tm looking around for every 
& Barrel, Banos, Golden
white van I see," said Richard Acre, Reliance and a varietySpears, who was mowing grass of private labels. The prod­at the school. "It makes you a uc1s include turkey and poul­little leery." 
try sold freshly sliced or
Federal and local investiga­made into sandwiches at deli
tors refuse to discuss any 
counters and in individually
details of the manhunt. But 
sold packages of sliced delithey have logged some consis­meats.
tencies: the killer favors subur­
Because consumers mightban gas stations; takes down 
not have access to the meat'seach victim with a single bul­original packaging. the bestlet; and, judging from a tarot • way to know if a product fallscard left at one of the shoot­under the recall is to ask if itings, appears to enjoy taunting 
comes from a package that
police. 

bears the plant number P-
It read: "Dear Policeman, I 
1351 inside the U.S.
am God." 

Department of Agriculture
"I think this person is waiting mark of inspection, said com­
for an opportune moment," pany spokesman Ray
said Navy chaplain Jane Vieira, 
Atkinson. Production dates
who mailed a letter Monday at 
also can be found on that
a Rockville shopping mall. "He part of the label.
is taking precautions. This guy The deli products were soldisn't stupid." 
in retail groceries. in deli-


Toledo, Spain 
Information Meeting 

Don Quixote by Pablo Picasso 
Bridget Franco, Assistant Director International Study Programs 
catessens and by food service distributors. 
Pilgrim's Pride, based in Pittsburg, Texas, is the nation's second-largest poul­try company behind Tyson Foods. Its stock price plunged 24.7 percent, down $1.73, to close Monday at $5.28, on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Consumers were urged by the company to return any affected meat to the store or deli where it was purchased for a full refund. 
The discovery followed an investigation of a listeria out­break in eight Northeast states since early summer that caused at least 120 ill­nesses and 20 deaths, the USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service said. 
"We want consumers to be aware of the recall because of the potential for foodborne illness," said Dr. Garry L. McKee, the inspection ser­vice's administrator. 
No products have been linked to that outbreak, said David Van Hoose, Wampler's chief executive officer. The genetic strain that caused the outbreak is different from the strain found at the plant, offi­cials said. 
"We don't have any scien­tific evidence at this point that there is a connection, but our analysis of sampling in that plant is not com­plete," said the USDA's Steven Cohen. He said the recall was the largest in U.S. history. 
Company officials said the recall didn't include fresh turkeys, and that it should have no effect on the holiday season. 

Tuesday, Oct. 15, 2002 


6:00 PM 101 DeBartolo 
Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud Toledo On-line application deadline: December 1, 2002 ( for academic year, fall & spring semesters) 


Bus0iNESS 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page7 
MARKET RECAP 
Market Watch October 14 

DowJones 

7,877.40  t­ +27.11  
1,220.53  NASDAQ1lt  +l0.06  
S&P500  
841.44  
 +6.12  
AMFX  
802.86  1lt  +12.20  
NYSE  
452.63  +2.96  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ)+l.17 +0.26 22.4E 


[~~S:9;:1:111~~~1:~l~l:·· ii!!ll/1111111!1:~r!l;~~!!!!f!/i,I! 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0. 79 -0 .12 15. lE 
1

~!ij:l::1~1¦1.: . ...•,.: ;.111~:;1~:g::11:~111!1!:1:i;l;!~ill 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) +18.97 +0.11 0.6S 
IN BRIEF 
EasyJet to buy I 20 Airbus planes 
EasyJet PLC has agreed in principle to buy 120 planes from European aircraft maker Airbus SAS with an option to purchase anoth­er 120 over the next decade, the budget air­line announced Monday. The long awaited deal is a snub to The Boeing Co., which has long been the preferred supplier to low-cost operators in Europe and the United States. 
EasyJet is only the second low-cost carrier, after JetBlue Airways Corp., to order Airbus planes. However, the deal may be an expen­sive one for Airbus. Britain's easyJet said it will pay about 30 percent less for the air­planes than it paid for Boeing 737s almost four years ago after adjusting for inflation. This suggests a deep discount to the roughly $51 million catalog price for both models. 'There is some sort of discount in the contract ... but we never sell aircraft at a loss," an Airbus spokesman said. 

Germany backs off budget restraints 
German leaders wrapped up budget talks Monday saying they had agreed to borrow more heavily to help plug a $10 billion budget gap. backing off from fiscal restraints in order to spur the economy. 
Greens party co-leader Fritz Kuhn said the parties had decided to be "flexible" in their drive to balance the budget by 2006, and would borrow an additional $2.6 billion in the next year. The rest of the budget gap will be made up by closing tax loopholes and subsi­dies. which will save $4.2 billion, and through budget cuts. said Franz Muentefering, the par­liamentary leader of Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder's Social Democrats party. 
Tax measures decided upon included setting a minimum corporate tax, which will limit the ability of companies to offset current taxes with past losses. In borrowing more, Germany is llirting with an annual deficit of 3 percent ­a ceiling agreed upon by the 12 nations using the euro currency. Still, Muentefering and Kuhn insisted the country was still on track to balance the budget in four years, also mandat­ed by the European Union. 



Additions to Tyco audit team 
. Auditors to examine looting by officials 
As,ociated l'cess 
NEW YORK 
Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP has assigned more auditors to look at the books of Tyco International Ltd. as it conducts its annual audit of the troubled conglom­erate. Spokesman David 
"-Nestor said Monday the 'firm added the auditors several months ago at Tyco 's request, and not in response to a widening investigation of Tyco's accounting. "It's not a reaction to reports of earlier in the week," Nestor said. Tyco's request for addi­tional audit staffers on its account was first report­ed Monday by The Wall Street Journal. Tyco representatives did not immediately return a message seeking comment. Last week. law enforce­ment sources said the Manhattan district attor­ney is investigating indi­vidual auditors at PricewaterhouseCoopers 

Former Tyco International CEO Dennis Kozlowski leaves Manhattan Supreme
who were supposed to 


Court following his bail hearing Sept. 27 In New York City. Kozlowski is charged
review payouts to the for­


with looting $600 million from Tyco lntematlonal.
mer chief executive of Tyco. 


Among other issues, investigators are looking at whether auditors in New York and Boston should have disclosed in a proxy statement that a $32 million bonus was paid to former CEO L. Dennis Kozlowski, according to the source, who spoke to The Associated Press on con­dition on anonymity. 

The inquiry is looking at individual auditors, not the accounting firm itself, according to the source, who added that criminal charges are not immi­nent. The firm said it was cooperating with the investigation. 
Kozlowski, Tyco's for­mer chief executive, and Mark Swartz, its former chief financial officer, have been charged with enterprise corruption and grand larceny for allegedly stealing $600 million from the compa­ny. They face up to 25 years in prison on each charge if convicted. 
Based in Bermuda, the diversified conglomerate is headquartered in Exeter, N.H., and had $36 billion in sales last year. 
Shares of Tyco fell 5.3 percent, or 72 cents, to close Monday at $12.92 on the New York Stock Exchange. 


Hughes Electronics narrows loss 
to file an amended application to company shut off premium services 
Associated Press 

address the agency's concerns that they were getting through the use of 
NEWYORK the merger would be anticompetitive. illegal set-top boxes. 
Hughes Electronics Corp. said "We will file with both agencies and DireclV increased its revenue per Monday it would aggressively pursue we will continue to work aggressively subscriber by eliminating its lowest­its merger with EchoStar to achieve approval of the merger," priced package. requiring full-year Communications Corp. as its DireclV Shaw said. commitments and increasing the satellite television service continues Revenue increased 5 percent to number of homes receiving the ser­to increase profits. $2.21 billion from $2.1 billion. vice on more than one television. 
Hughes, whose proposed merger Shares of Hughes closed at $8.52 Gains at DirecTV, however, were with EchoStar was -rejected last week each on the New York Stock offset by continuing losses at the by federal regulators, said Monday Exchange, down 24 cents. or 2.7 per• Hughes' DireclV Latin America oper­that its third-quarter net loss nar­cent. ation and its broadband Internet unit. rowed from a year earlier. Results at DireclV have apparently The latest quarter's results includ­
The company posted a net loss of not been hurt by uncertainty over the ed a pretax gain of $158 million from $13.6 million, compared with a Joss of pending merger. the sale of a stake in Thomson $227.2 million a year earlier. The Cost cutting and increasing profits Multimedia; a $32 million write-down company doesn't issue per-share fig­generated from each subscriber were of two equity investments; a pretax ures because it is a tracking stock of enough for the unit to raise its fourth loss of $25 million from the sale of General Motors Corp. quarter and full-year estimates. SkyPerfecTV! stock and increased net 
Jack Shaw, Hughes president and DirecTV's chief competitor in the interest expense. chief executive officer, said he satellite industry is Dish Network, Results for the 2001 third quarter expects to file an amended applica­which is operated by EchoStar. included: a pretax charge of $212 tion with the Federal The unit added 206,000 DirecTV million from the write-down of Communications Commission and the subscribers in the quarter. The num­Hughes's SkyPerfeclV! investment; a 
U.S. Department of Justice as early as ber was lower than expected because pretax gain of $108 million from the this week, when the FCC is expected of an aggressive anti-piracy campaign sale of 4.1 million shares of Thomson to release the official order rejecting the company launched. About 50,000 Multimedia; and a favorable adjust­the merger. suspected pirates who were paying ment to the expected costs associated 
The FCC has given both parties 30 for basic service dropped out during with the shutdown of the DirecTV's days from the release of the decision the quarter, presumably because the Japan business. 
r-----------------­
page 8 Tuesday, October 15, 2002
The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

JAPAN 
Five kidnapped 
Japanese return hom.e 
Stumping Monday for parlia­

Associated Press 
mentary elections, Koizumi echoed the concerns, saying,

TOKYO 
"Certainly North Korea is anFive Japanese kidnapped a outrageous country -kidnap­quarter-century ago by North ping and killing our people."

Korean spies returned to Japan on T h e 
returnees'

Tuesday in the 
"Today I'm going to be families

nation·s most 
h a v e

emotional home• cheerful to welcome 
requested

coming since 
her and forget the past t h e

troops returned 
just for now." reunions be

from World War 
low-key,

II. 
private

The abductees' affairs, and
chartered jet 
Koizumi

touched down at 
Yuko Hamamoto no
has

Tokyo's IIaneda 
brother of returnee plans to

airport after picking them up Fukie Hamamoto greet or 
earlier in the day 
from the North Korean capital, Pyongyang. 
Stepping off the plane in crisp suits and dresses, the returnees clung to each other and erupted into tears and then broad smiles as they hugged family members wait­ing at the bottom of the stairs. Waving Japanese flags, family members showered them with large bouquets of red and pink roses. 
During the two-hour flight, they were treated to a Japanese style lunch of tuna sashimi, grilled beef and soba noodles, as well as welcome­home notes and digital photos of what their relatives look like after decades of lost contact. 
Family and friends awaited them with a mix of excitement and unease. 
"Today I'm going to be very cheerful to welcome her and forget the past just for now," said Yuko Hamamoto, brother of returnee Fukie Hamamoto. 
She and her then-fiancee Yasushi Chimura were grabbed from behind, wrapped in bags and whisked away in North Korean boats as they strolled along a secluded Japanese beach in 1978, when both were just 23 years old. 
Now married, they are among the five returnees who are the only known survivors of at least 13 people abducted by the North in the 1970s and early 80s to train its spies in the Japanese language and culture. 
Tempering the jubilation about their return, however, was renewed anxiety about the fate of eight other abductees whom North Korea says died in the interim, under what many Japanese deem mysterious cir­cumstances. 
'Tm very happy about the development. But this does not close the abduction issues,"chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuo Fukuda said. 
Suspicion also runs high because the abductees, now all in their 40s, are only allowed to stay a week or two and for­bidden to bring their children. Calling the children hostages, family members and govern• ment officials have said the abductees won't be able to speak openly about North Korea for fear of retribution. 
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi helped broker the homecoming through his unprecedented Sept. 17 sum­mit with North Korean leader Kim Jong 11. But he has since faced widespread Japanese anger over the North's expla­nation of the others' fate. 
meet the visitors while they 
stay in Tokyo for two days before returning to their home­towns. 



9 p.m. Saturday night. Your 
plans have changed three 

times in the last half hour. 
>UJWfratticifaitJMS! 

SPEAKERPHONE WIRELESS WEB ACCESS AOL• INSTANT MESSENGER"' service lWO-WAV MESSAGING JAVA'" GAMES 6 APPLICATIONS DIGITAL CELLULAR 
i10c 
-roJ""Y H,e J..l~11-"'I w"'l~1e+"'l~ie 
wov~s (J\/ev seve.-""l hl.\"IJ.veJ. "'liles. A\\J.. 1-o"""""w, \\<'1.l-t6"<wiJ.e. 





NEXTE[ 
J-. ,-, 


IBr,'f~i~ 

'fov.. ...._eve., \A\i.Ss o::i\\\yt-ki....._8i wky st-o::i\n-...._ow? Ne)Ct-el's .:l.iBit-o::i\l wo::i\l\:.ie+o::i\l\:.ie .Peo::i\hwe lets yov. ,et .,i.,t-.t tk.,ov.Bk witt-. tke pv.sk 
o.P "" b1>..H-o...._. Tu""t-\A\eci....._s ...._o \A\isse.:l. cci.lls, v.\\ckecke.:A. voice \A\O\tl OY pko...._e +-"'-8· 1C<'\1>..Se wko ~"'-S ½-i\A\e .Po., ""ll t-k"'t-wke...._ yo1>.. c"'...._'t eve...._ .:l.eci.:l.e wk""+-to we""v? Now yo1>..1Ye veci..:l.y-5.,i...._8 It-. 
lllow's "'-~Yet'\\-ti1Me to Bet )lle>Ctel: ,:,i.ll ~otve t),:,i.""e stl.\.Ae\\½ ~et­"'-\0%* J.'i.SCClA\\t-o\\ "'-\\Y v-,:,i.te pl,:!\\\ el\\\.A $f00* o# el\\\Y pl,,.o\\e. 
--ro 't,wy: , fjO t-o \\e)C+-e\.co~/i.,isl-\-st-lA.Ae\\t-. , Cc,\ll toll...Pvee 1-rrn-s-0,-z.12.,. # CO\\h'\.d-Jl)M co~~l.\\\lC()I.HO\\S 
O\t-S74-2.4'3-'38' 18' 


CHINA 

China's Jiang faces uncertainty 
Associate.! Press 

SHANGHAI 
Down the quiet tree-lined alley, past the four-story Art Deco apartments, an officer of the People's Armed Police steps out of the shadows, cries "Halt!" and turns away cars and pedestrians. 
Even many longtime Shanghai residents have never heard of Dechang Road, tucked in one of the city's smartest neighborhoods. But word has it that this is where Chinese President Jiang Zemin will live after his expected retirement as Communist Party chief in November, and as president next year. 
If people are unsure where 72-year-old Jiang will spend his silver years, they're even less certain what sort of legacy he'll leave. Unlike his prede­cessors, Jiang has failed to make a strong personal imprint on the world's most populous nation. 
He's not a revered nation­builder like Mao Zedong, or a pragmatic visionary like Deng Xiaoping. But his bland, con­sensus-oriented style of lead­ership may have been exactly what was needed by a country weary of decades of political persecutions and failed eco­nomic utopianism. 
''He's no Deng Xiaoping," said Cheng Li, author of the book, "China's Leaders: The New Generation." 
"Deng had a broader vision. But Jiang's weakness is his strength. He relied on think tanks. He talks to other peo­ple." 
Deng, the peasant who became a revolutionary, installed Jiang, the university• educated electrical engineer, as successor at a difficult time -after the 1989 suppression of democracy protesters on Tiananmen Square. The cau­tious, pliable Jiang, mayor and then party boss of Shanghai, was apparently picked because he was inoffensive to Beijing's political factions. 
Widely seen as a temporary choice, Jiang held on as party general secretary -China's top post -for 13 years by shepherding Deng's reform course forward. Deng, who died in 1997, moved China away from Mao's collectivist experiments with a mix of eco­nomic freedoms and tightly reined politics. 
China under Jiang has seen surging incomes and soaring skyscrapers, and an unprece­dented engagement in world affairs, winning the 2008 Olympics and membership in the World Trade Organization. 
Jiang has worked to frame the country's future as one of pragmatism and middle-of­the-road nationalism specially crafted to the Chinese people. 
But he also leaves behind corruption. massive unemploy­ment, a banking system ridden with bad debts, and a growing income gap. 

Center for Socia( Concerns 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
~.~~ 


http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PMFri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Oci©lb~r 1en ff~ W@r#dl F@~dl Dcf1Jy = A F@C(J)J~ f~r Year=Ar©(J)Jrrod/ AccU©Jrro 
World Food Day is a worldwide event designed to increase awareness, understanding and informed, year-around action to alleviate hunger. It is observed each October 16th in recognition of the founding of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (PAO) in 1945. The first World Food Day was in 1981. In the United States the endeavor is sponsored by 450 national, private voluntary organizations. -Takenfrom http://www.worldfooddayusa.org/ 
We encourage you to participate in the following events leading up to this day: 
TONIGHT!, Tuesday, October 15111, "Hungry Farmworkers" The Coalition of Immokalee Workers will speak regarding the Taco Bell boycott and other issues related to migrant farming. Held in 155 Debartolo at 7 p.m. 
Wednesday, October 16th, fforld Food Day 12-3 p.m. World Food Day Teleconference. Tentatively scheduled for the Hesburgh Conference Center in the Hesbur3h Center for International Studies: First Hour: Professor Michael Lipton, international authority on rural poverty in developing countries is the featured guest. Ray Suarez, senior correspondent for the PBS Jim Lehrer News Hour will host the conversation. There will be cameo appearances with former .Ambas­sador George McGovern, and Dr. Louise Fresco, Asst. Director General of the Agriculture Department of the Food and Agricu\ture Organization (FAO) in Rome. 
Second Hour: Prepared questions and a video, Hear Our Voices: The Poor 011 Poverty 
Third Hour: CalJ in session for people from around the world (including ND) 

FACULTY OPPORTUNITIES ... 
The Center offers resources to faculty members teaching 
community-based learning and research courses. If yo1; are 
interested in. some support for your work in this area, please 
contact Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Center Associate Director, 
Concurrent Associate Professor of Economics, at 
beckman.9@nd.edu or 1-4172. She can assist 'vVith course 
development grants, workshops, reading materiais, and more. 








~----~~~~~~--~-~~~---------~,
,~Conference: Option for the Poor in Christian Theology 
November 10-13, MpKenna Hall 
Plan Ahead! 


Registration & Conference Schedule Or..line: www.nd.edu/~latino/optionforpoor . 
·.· ;ii~ ~


----------------------~'.r..--­

U, Elderly: QJ Students are needed to sit with an elderly woman while she undergoes her kidney dialysis treatment. She is ..., treated on T/fh/Sat from 12-3. Differently volunteers for each day would be fine. Transportation would be 
·­
•-needed. Contact Kathy Fodness@ 220-1182. 
C 
:J 

Tutors/Mentors: 

~ Tutor needed for a 12-year old in reading and math comprehension. A female student in math or education would be ideal. Student can come to Hesburgh Library or dorm on Tuesdays from 4-5. Contact Julie 
0 



Dawson@ 243-7950, cell@ 329-9756, home@ 654-8741. 
A male mentor is needed for a seven-year old boy who does not have a dad in his life. There would be no cost
0 
to the student and the commitment would be about two times a month. Contact Delores @ 631-4115. L QJ 
The Juvenile Justice Center needs tutors for 14-17 year olds in Math and English. Tutors could come from OJ 5:30-6:30 Mon -Fri to the Juvenile Justice Center. There is a small screening process. Contact Anthony 
...., 

Castellino @ 235-5457.
C ::l

-
Volunteers are needed to be one-to-one mentors with teenagers from the Juvenile Justice Center. Single sex pairing; there is a screening process. Contact Anthony Castellino @ 235-5457.
0 

>
..., Tutors are needed for a 17-year old senior in math and a ten-year old in reading. Wed/fh evening or Mon afternoon. Can bring children to Hesburgh Library. 
C 


Contact Diane Braisher at work, 8-4:30, @ 284-3510, or home @ 232-3412.
QJ 
L. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer 
L. 


projects, please email cscvols@nd.edu. ***
:J 



.. TEACH FOR AMERICA "' APPLICATION PARTY 
TOMORROW! Wed, Oct 16 7:0() -8:00 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall Basement 
Teach ForAmerica is the national corps of outstanding recent col­lege graduates of all academic majors who commit two years to teach in urban and rural public schools and become lifelong leaders in the effort to expand op­portunity for children. 
Seeking all majors. No previous education experience Qr course work necessary. Full salary plus $9,450 education award and loan forbearance. 
Application deadlines are October 25, 2002 and February 21, 2003. 
Join the force ofleaders committed to change. 
www.teachforamerica.org 
O
TH[
BSERVER 




VIEWPOINT 
page IO Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dam,, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
A.ssT. MANAGING EDllOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck 
Sa.NE ED1roR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna 

ADVERrISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz AD DESIGN MANAG'E.R: Meghan Goran 
WEB ADMINISTRA1UR: Todd Nieto Cor;rnoLLElu Lori Lewalski 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..•.••.......•631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................631--4542 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME....................631--4541 BUSINESS OFFICE ........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu ScFNE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO ........ ······ .. ··· ... ···•··•···•··••·••• ...............631-8767 SYSTI.MSIWE~ ADMINIS'IRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobsm,er.nd.,du for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiiy ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and ob jeccively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lecrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact ;nformation. 
Questions rrgarding Obsm,,r polici~ should b, di"ct· ed lo Editor in Chief/= McFarky. 
POST OFFICE IMF0RMATI0K 
1kOMCJVC.T (USPS 5991",0} is puhJUld Mond;ay through Friday o.:cpt during ~~ and va:aUOII pcrioch. A suhsaiprion to 1llC'.' Omcrvn i, SI 00 fu.r one acai.lnnic yrar; S5S for one ,cmcsrcr. 
The Omcrve, U puhU,hed zt: POSfMASTE!t 024 South Dining Hall S.::..J adJrcu ccum:riolll kl~ 
Nm:n: D~mc, IN 46SSt: 'f"k~cr 
1'0.l!o-<Q l\Tiowcal i-•paiJ • Notre 01tPC' No.. Dam,. Jill «;5)6.<1779 _,J a:fduiolW mailaog offi"". 
The Obt.crvct ii• mcmbrr ur tbc Aiioci..itt::d r-.en. Al1 ttpt0d..ctioo tighu. UC 
rc'Sen-ed 


~ 
..' 
'. _-'...\..

,'  ,r  
.  
i  
 

-~ 


A modest proposal to end poverty 
If Saddam Hussein and the Iraq situ­ation weren't dominating national dis­cussion (and sidewalk space), we would be hearing a lot more about wel­fare reform right now. The 1996 Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Amy Schill Reconciliation Act, also known as The Most Politically Dazed and Correctly Named Amused Act Ever, is up for reauthorization. 
Debate on this issue has been post­poned at present, but as soon as the president has finished relating every­thing on his pre-existing agenda to the war on terrorism, Congress can once again discuss poverty, which of course has absolutely nothing to do with ter­rorism. The debate will go on for weeks and result in little actual reform: Republicans want stricter work requirements, Democrats want more money allocated for childcare. Eventually, the 2003 Still More Personal Responsibility, Work Opportunity, Effective Child-Rearing, Enduring Freedom Reconciliation Act will be born. 
I fail to see why we would waste our time in endless political debate and big government when the answer to America's poverty problem is right under our noses: the death penalty. 
No, I'm not suggesting we round up poor people and summarily kill them like animals. But if we just let our economy and criminal justice system work as they have for years, we can get rid of poor people as successfully as we were eliminating the mentally retarded before the Supreme Court made us stop. 
Okay, think about it. Capital punish­ment has an almost perfect efficiency record in eliminating the poor. Ninety­eight percent of convicted criminals sentenced to death could not afford their own attorney. This is the result of the beautiful system I like to call the Capitalism and Criminal Justice Cooperation Act. It's genius. 

Economics teaches us that we all have equal opportunity to improve our lotin life, and whoever is poor is poor because they simply choose not to work hard enough. These people con­tribute nothing to our way of life, but luckily they can be eliminated. You see, when the poor are accused of grievous crimes, they obviously can't afford an attorney of their choosing. 
This is good, of course, because they didn't work hard enough to get a good attorney, so they don't deserve a good one. Unfortunately, public defenders interfere with the market, but luckily they are underpaid, overworked and occasionally asleep during the trial. With such inadequate representation, poor defendants don't stand much of a chance of avoiding a death sentence for their crimes. 
Non-poor murderers and rapists, however, can usually gain a prison sen­tence and hopefully return to the labor market eventually. It's unfortunate that the non-poor have to serve any time at all, but if we spared them punishment, the criminal justice system might be accused of being unfair or economical­ly biased. It is clear to any enlightened observer, however, that with the help of the invisible hand that pushes the less ambitious into poverty, the blind Lady of Justice serves to extinguish once and for all those who wish to hinder the Angel of Progress. 
Hey there liberals, you want some cheese with that whine? I can hear the objections a;lready. First, some say that the competitive market is not perfect, since there are "barriers" to employ­ment for those who want it like "racial discrimination," "grossly unequal edu­cation opportunities" and "some people got no legs." Well, I'm looking at my supply and demand graph, and 1don't see anything that keeps anyone who wants a job from getting one, so why don't you get back on the crazy train to Commieland? (Oh, and I suppose you'll want a wheelchair ramp for Stumpy.) 
And there arc those who equate capi­tal punishment with state-sponsored murder and think it even more repre­hensible than those subject to it because the government should be held to a higher standarri than the basest criminals. There a1 e even those who suggest that a government that gives out visas to dead terrorists might not be the best authority to determine who has the right to live and who does not. 
To those people I have this response: Do you know who doesn't have the death penalty? France. Do you know who cares about France? No one. It is odd that the United States is the only Western industrial nation that still practices the death penalty and that we are a world leader in executing our own citizens, topped only by China, Iran and Saudi Arabia -countries not exactly on the honor roll in morality and economic freedom. 
These other countries have not uti­lized the death penalty as efficiently as we have. Unlike the United States, which has built an execution system that inherently targets the poor, igno­rant and underprivileged, the other world leaders will execute any adulter­ess, homosexual or drug trafficker of any social class. For this reason, we have more PlayStations. 
So, I hope the efficacy of my plan to continue to use the death penalty as a mode of economic development is clear. Welfare programs, even those with work requirements, will never get all the poor completely free of govern­ment assistance. Killing them will. This modest proposal will eliminate some of the least productive members of socie­ty. The only people less productive than the poor are babies. If there were only something we could do with them. 
Amy Schill is a senior English major and Catholic Social Tradition minor who sincerely hopes she hasn't just lost halfher audience. Though she would prefer not to receive hostile emails, she can be reached at Schill.2@nd.edu. After reading them, she will cry softly to herself in a dark room. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­saril.11 those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Justin Krivickas 
Maureen 
Reynolds 
Viewpoint 

Kristin Yemm Patrick McElwee 
Graphics 

Andy Devoto 

Sports 
Joe Hettler Lauren Dasso Christine Armstrong 


Scene 
Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Lisa Vclte 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Was Notre Dame justified in suspending the Irish Guard from last Saturday's game? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 

p.m. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The poverty ofour century is unlike that ofany other. It is not, as poverty was before, the result ofnatural scarcity, but ofa set ofpriorities imposed upon the rest of the world by the rich. Consequently, the modern poor are not pitied ... but written off as trash. " 
John Berger British author 
O
J'HE 
BSERVER 





VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
U.S. trains terrorists at School of the Americas 
After the attacks of Sept. 11 last year, we as a country have experienced the unspeakable pain of terrorism. When President Bush addressed The Citadel in South Carolina last year, he stated: "We cannot accept -and we will not accept -states that harbor, finance, train or equip the agents of terror. Those nations that violate this principle will be regarded as hostile regimes. They have been warned. they are being watched and they will be held to account." Sounds like jus­tice, right? 
While the United States goes stomping about the globe on this new crusade, per­haps Bush and company should do some soul-searching here at home, particularly in regard to the kind of training the U.S. Army gives at Fort Benning's School of the Americas (now the Western Ilcmisphere Institute for Security Cooperation). Since 1946, the U.S. Army has trained Latin American military per­sonnel at the School of the Americas (SOA). 
SOA graduates have been notorious for their complicity in human rights abuses and death squad activity. These include the murders of Archbishop Romero and six Jesuit priests and the rapes and mur­ders of four U.S. churchwomen in El Salvador. In response to the claim of many SOA supporters that the responsi­bility for such incidents lies with a "few bad apples" and not the majority of SOA graduates, a United Nations report stated that more than two-thirds of the more than 60 officers cited in the worst atroci­ties of El Salvador were committed by alumni of the School of the Americas. 
In fact, according to Arthur Jones's article in the Nov. 19, 1993 issue of the National Catholic Reporter entitled, "Haiti, Salvador Links Viewed," thou­sands of declassified documents showed 
that the Reagan Administration was fully 
cognizant of who ran, funded and pro­
tected the El Salvador death squads and 
planned the death of Archbishop Oscar 
Romero. 
Also disturbing and hypocritical were the terrorist tactics and training our gov­ernment offered the contra forces during the U.S. intervention in Nicaragua during in the 1980s. In addition to CIA trainers, the U.S. government contracted out the services of SOA graduates such as former dictator Leopoldo Galtieri, who headed up Argentina's military junta during an infamous period where the number killed and ''disappeared" totaled 30,000 people. 
CIA official John Stockwell claimed ter­rorist tactics were a key part-of the U.S. strategy, saying that "encouraging tech­niques of raping women and executing men and children is a coordinated policy of the destabilization program" in Nicaragua. Manuals were distributed to contra forces with instructions on "Implicit and Explicit Terror," as well as large knives, which, according to former contra leader Edgar Chamorro, were used for cutting peoples' throats. In his affidavit to the World Court, he explained that while in contra camps along the Honduran border, he frequently heard offhand comments like, "Oh, I cut his throat." He also testified that, "we were told that the only way to defeat the Sandinistas [the left-wing opposition in Nicaragua] was to ... kill, kidnap, rob and torture." Terrorism? I think so. 
The School of the Americas continues to operate today under the name of the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation. Human rights abuses and terrorist attacks carried out by SOA graduates continue today, espe-

Revive patriotism on this too-liberal campus 
Bedwetting limousine liberals are overrunning the traditional values of American society and our campus, our University of Notre Dame, has become a breeding ground for these ideas. It started last year on Sept. 12, when students were poisoned with the idea that Sept. 11 was "our fault" and "we brought this upon ourselves." Last time we checked, two of our buildings full of American civilians fell and over 3,000 American citizens were murdered. 
It appeared again last year when South Quad was inundated with yellow shirt­wcaring, Frisbee-throwing, tree-hugging children who believed they could understand the plight of Afghani refugees. Most recently, signs calling for "No War In Iraq" and "Pray for Peace" have degraded further the already decrepit state of patriotic feeling on campus. We are living in an America increasingly un-American. Sixty years ago a different attack was carried out on American soil and American servicemen and civilians were killed. The "greatest genera­tion" put down their books and rallied around something greater than them­selves: the flag, the country and the ideals upon which America was founded. 
When called upon today, the grandchildren of this great generation look up from their copies of "The Communist Manifesto" and their grande steamed latte and say, "not today Uncle Sam, I'm too busy saving the whales." Sacred notions of freedom and liberty have been discarded. Instead, we waste our breath defending oppressive terrorist regimes bent on acquiring weapons of mass destruction. We waste our time in talk instead of action. 
Hecall the famous scene in H.G. Wells' "War of the Worlds." The priest bolieves he can save earth through diplomacy. Just like today, diplomacy's and reason's time have passed. If we continue talking and discussing, we will meet the same end as the priest -death. John Stuart Mill once wrote, "The person who has nothing for which he is willing to fight. nothing which is more impor­tant than his own personal safety, is a miserable creature and has no chance of being free unless made and kept so by the exertions of better men than him­self." God bless America. 
Erin Fitzgerald 
junior, Farley Hall 
Michael McCarthy 
senior, Knott Hall Oct. 14 

dally as opposition to neo-liberal eco­nomic policies by Latin America's mar­ginalized people grows. Atrocities com­mitted by SOA graduates in Colombia in recent years are too numerous to count. 
Colonel Jesus Maria Clavijo, a graduate of the SOA, is currently under investiga­tion for collusion with paramili­tary forces in 160 social cleansing murders from 1995 to 1998 in Colombia. SOA graduate Brigadier General Jaime Ernesto Canal Alban was involved in helping to establish a paramilitary group known as the "Calima Front." Canal's brigade was found to have supplied the front with weapons and intelligence. In addi­tion to his involvement with the Calima Front, Canal was in com­mand of soldiers who entered a home and killed five civilians during the birth­day party of a 15-year-old child in 1998. 
Last year the Bolivian government sold the public water system of Cochamba to a private corporation, resulting in skyrock­eting water rates for the people of Bolivia. As thousands took to the streets, Bolivian president, former military dicta­tor and SOA graduate Hugo Banzer sent out the armed forces to attack civilians. In April 2000, after four days of anti-pri­vatization protests, Banzer declared a "state of siege," sending soldiers into the street with live bullets. Seventeen-year­old Victor Hugo Daza was killed by a shot through his face and at least seven others were killed. The number of injuries resulting from military violence totaled over 100. 
Given the SOA's horrific track record and involvement in state-spon­
sored violence and terrorism. the only viable solution is to shut it down. This is 
the only way to stop in part the U.S. government's role 
in supporting terrorism and violence. By 
bringing ter­rorists here to the United States for train­
ing, we become part of a new and different "Ax.is of Evil," one between elites here and elites in other parts of the world. We join the group of states that, in 
President Bush's own words, "harbor, finance. train or equip the agents ofter­ror," and as a patriotic American, an American who loves this country, I can­not accept this. 
If we truly love this country, we would do more good to rise up in opposition against injustice rather than burying our heads in the flag and accepting it as something essential to our security 
Ryan Abrams freshman Morrissey Manor Oct. 10 




Holy Cross Order forthright in abuse cases 
I write in response to John Michael Vore's Oct. 7 letter, "Investigate hidden scandals at Notre Dame." I currently serve as counsel to the Priests of Holy Cross, Indiana Province, Inc. Father Malloy and a large number of Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame are members of the Province. I do not represent them as indi­viduals nor do I represent the University. This response will hopefully allay any fears someone may have that there is a "conspiracy of silence" on the part of the Holy Cross order to cover up allegations of abuse by members of the Province. 
I do not minimize the pain Vore contin­ues to suffer as a result of his experience. I once served as a Deputy Prosecuting Attorney and specialized for a time in Sexual Abuse cases. The longstanding pain and suffering of victims of sexual abuse should never be underestimated. However, it is unfair for victims to blame those who are not responsible and in fact have taken aggressive and appropriate action to not only prevent abuse but to act decisively on the infrequent occasions when it does occur. 
The Holy Cross Order has been operat­ing under a sexual abuse policy protocol for the past decade which in large part was adopted by the American Bishops at the conference this summer in Dallas. Scholars from Notre Dame helped con­tribute to this conference by providing the Bishops with a "White Paper" on the sub­ject. 
Recently cases which are alleged to have occurred many years ago have resurfaced because of the media reports of abuse by clerics throughout the coun­try. The Holy Cross Order has cooperated fully with civil authorities and met with victims to help provide support and com­fort. Father Malloy has been a full sup­porter of these efforts and works openly with the Order to provide us with the information necessary for the Order to fol­low its policies and to make sure that we further our mission of helping those in need and not ever harming anyone. 
These efforts and policies have evolved over the years. Could we have done things better and differently in the past? There is no doubt we could have. Just like in socie­ty as a whole, the protocols of dealing with sexual abuse have improved dramat­ically in recent years. We acknowledge that sexual abuse occurs in every social stratum and profession. With this acknowledgement comes tho responsibili­ty to deal with the issue so that those we serve will be able to trust their Church in the same way their parents did. I have every confidence that the Priests of Holy Cross will meet this challenge and am glad to have Father Malloy and Notre Dame as an ally in that effort. 
Richaro A. Nussbaum II 
South Bend, In 
class of'74, 77 
Ocr. 14 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 


Folds shines in his solitude 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scene Music Critic 
Ben Folds' third solo release and his first attempt at a Jive album successfully conveys his genuine talent as a singer/songwriter/performer. Featuring 17 career-span­
ning tracks from his sold out solo tour, Ben Folds Live contains both unreleased solo songs as well as classic Ben Folds Five hits. However, don't think of this as a greatest hits collection. Some songs that received a decent amount of airplay, such as "Song for the Dumped" and "Battle of Who Could Care Less," are noticeably absent from this collection. 
But no matter, the songs that have been included create a well-rounded and accurate portrayal of the music that Folds tends to write and enjoy playing. He has obvi­ously matured as an artist over the years, and in continuation of this trend 
Ben Folds Live mostly contains ballads 
from his more recent albums. Unlike most other live releases, which are a continuous recording of one show, Ben Folds Live pulls songs from several stops on the tour that were then seam­lessly edited in the studio to create the flow that is so crucial to a live release. 
Although most of the songs on Ben Folds Live are performed in a very similar manner to the studio versions, there are cer­tain differences that make this album a stand­out. Because he has been left with only his piano and a microphone, Folds is forced to improvise on certain songs that require more resources than he has on stage with him. During "Army," he splits the audience down the middle, having one side perform the trumpet part 
while the other half sings the part of the 
saxophones. The result is an amusingly 
accurate sound that makes the listener 
want to sing along. 

The audience also suc­cessfully provides haunting background vocals on "Not the Same," a song originally from Rockin' the Suburbs, Ben Folds' previous solo release. The live version of this song should definitely win the Most Improved award, for it is far superior to the original version included on the studio album. 
The lyrics of "Not the Same" get lost in the dense musical composition of the studio version on which Folds plays not only piano, but also guitar and drums. Luckily, on Ben Folds Live. the melody is greatly sim­plified due to the fact Ben is only able to play one instrument, giv­ing us a chance to focus not only on the lyrics but also on Folds' talent as a pianist. Just in case we had any doubts about his mad piano-playing skills, "Philosophy" includes an extensive jam session that reiterates Folds' raw talent as a musician. Another talented musi­cian, John McCrea of Cake, surprisingly chimes in to provide vocals on "Fred Jones Part 2," just as he does on the original recording from Rockin' the Suburbs. Also included on Ben Folds Live is a cover of Elton John's "Tiny Dancer," and a song called "Silver Street" which was originally recorded for Ben Folds Five's demo tape but never released. 
Anyone with a taste for witty lyrics and piano music will enjoy Ben Folds Live. But don't expect a lot of variety from this album -one man with a piano can only do so much. Folds does, however, offer a few surprises that man­age to keep things interesting. He is able to captivate the audience without the flashy displays of most popular artists. He puts himself in a vulnerable position by performing solo with absolutely no back-ups, a position that many musi­cians would not feel comfortable in. Many of the songs on this album, howev­er, are better than their originals due to Folds' solitude. Through his deeply per­sonal lyrics and the stories he tells, lis­teners are able to get an idea of who Folds really is. Everyone can relate to at least one of the songs on this album. 

Contact EmilyTumbrink at tum­brink.l@nd.edu 


ALBUM REVIEW 
Elvis proves his royalty on Hits 
By LIAM FARRELL 
Scene Music Critic 
For many people, the image of Elvis is not a brash young teenager walking into Sun Studio to record revolutionary music. The image they see is a tired running joke with an exaggerated lip curl and shaking hips. 
That's not to say Elvis' music hasn't been respected. Artists such as Bruce Springsteen celebrate his work reli­giously, and rarely will there be a worthwhile musician who doesn't give a nod to Elvis at some point or another. But for a lot of people, Elvis was simply the beginning of something that got a lot better as people expanded on what he did. 
30 #1 Hits is a must-have album for any Elvis-doubters out there. From the opening lines of "Heartbreak Hotel" to the backup singers in "Suspicious Minds," this album has 30 tracks (plus a JXL bonus track of "A Little Less Conversation") that prove undeniably that Elvis rocks. This was an artist that could inject more soul, rhythm, and feeling into a single note than most artists could in an entire career. Elvis never sang a song that he wrote, and he never contributed lyrics or melodies; his artistic achievements were not in the realm of song creation. 
But, his talents in song performance away, as he began to hit a rather more than makeup for any lack of painful artistic slump. "Burning Love" composition. Each of these songs is is definitely not his best song and it undeniably Elvis' own, regardless of works almost like self-parody. "In the whose name Ghetto" shows appears after 
how Elvis' strong "written by." 
point was never Like the simi­
political state­
Elvis 30 #1 Hits
lar release by the Beatles a few years ago, this Elvis album is a compilation of No. 1 hits on the pop, coun­try, R&B and 
U.K. charts. It also is a great introduction to his music as not a single facet of his career is left out, from his early days with Sam Phillips to his years spent singing in Las Vegas. 
The last few 
tracks come 


of his musical from the period 
caree~ the open­when Elvis had 
ing tracks from become the rea­
Elvis' earlier ses­son most artists sions have enough wanted to burn out rather than fade power, energy and old fashioned rock ments. But in the middle of this period.Elvis recorded what is arguably his finest song, "Suspicious Minds." The pro­duction is incredi­ble, something that would make Phil Spector proud. 
One of the marks of a great artist is leaving something worth­while even amongst his poor­est work. If Elvis got a little too slick near the end and roll to sustain any music fan. From the driving "Jailhouse Rock" to the beautiful ballad "Love Me Tender," Elvis' early music remains a high watermark for achievement in rock and roll. 
There is a quote inside the CD case that says, "Before anyone did anything, Elvis did everything." How true that quote is. The importance of Elvis is within his music, not in his movies or clothes. It is easy to write him off as overemphasized or quaint when listen­ing to bands that pride themselves on independent success, artistic credibili­ty, and the ever-present disdain for people who "sell out" to commercial­ism. For fans of such music, Elvis could appear to be the quintessential sellout, the figurehead of all that can go wrong when musical talent and drive is taken over by record labels and outside interests. But those concerns should evaporate when Elvis breaks out his voice and backing band. This is rock and roll at its finest and purest. No one is like Elvis, and no one ever will be like Elvis. He once said that he didn't sound like any other singer and that is tremendously accurate because no one else could be as powerful, as meaning­ful or as necessary as the King of Rock and Roll, Elvis Presley. 
Contact Liam Farrell at farrell.50@nd.edu 
. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, October 15, 2002 page 13 
By JULIE BENDER 
song still rings with the same urgency as it they aren't good songs,
Assisrant Scene Editor 
did back then. however. The more The tantalizing sounds of disc one of this refined sounds of these 
Rock n' roll will never die. And the albwn don't give the ears any chance for tracks reflect the chang­Holling Stones are living proof. With the rest. With songs like "Let's Spend the Night ing of music from the release of their anniversary album 40 Together," "Honky Tonk Woman" and 1960s to present. Over a Licks, the Stones display the naked essence "Paint It Black" the rock and roll purity 40-year span, music is of rock. The two-disc, 40-song album trav­bleeds from every track. The band does bound to evolve. erses the Stones· entire career, from the slow it down periodically with gentler, but Despite this evolution, Ume they were skinny, British kids messing still stunning numbers like "You Can't the Stones can still write around with a few killer guitar riffs up to Always Get What You Want" and the lovely a fantastic rock song. their present status as the savvy and cxpe­"Wild Horses." Their newest single off rien ced kings of rock with a few more Every phase of the Stones repertoire is the album "Don't Stop," is wrinkles. catalogued. There are the rough, a frolicking number. 
The album starts off on a punch with makeshift sounds of the early band on Jaggar's rough and that ever-familiar coarse strum of "Street­tracks like "Not Fade Away," the eeriness uneven voice is eclipsed Fighting Man." A fierce recollection of the of the band on "Under My Thumb," and of perfectly against the pre­course the all-out rock and roll of cise splicing of Keith songs like "(I Can't Get No) Richards' guitar and Satisfaction" and "Jumpin' Jack Charlie Watts drumming. Flash." Richards, one of the Disc two of the album covers best-known guitar side­more of the later releases of the men in the history of rock Stones, as well as four new songs. and the essential second As with the first disc, the opening half of the Jaggar­track gets the blood frenzied with Richards duo, shows his the cut-up energy of "Start Me skill at balladry in the Up." The next song "Brown closing track, "Losing My Sugar" keeps the album brewing Touch." These boys most with its inciteful riffs and hard­certainly are not losing line beat. their touch, as the 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Stones really know how to rock 
turmoil and carnage of the late 1960s, the shown in earlier anthems. That's not to say So Cold," "Let It Bleed," and the country­
infused "Dead 
Flowers." The per­fect collection of Stones songs can only be accom­

40 Licl<s 
plished by owning all their albums. 
Despite this minor setback, 40 Licks proves once again that the Stones are the quintessential rock band. Licks is an essential album for any music fan. To be such a dominant force in music for 40 years is feat not many can accom­plish, yet the Stones
-rhe R~lH \\~ 
have managed it quite well. Sex and
-Sr-d\\es 
drugs may have taken their tollABKCOMusic physically over the 


four decades (look at Keith Richards' most recent Rolling Stone cover). but 


the band has sur­

Although this disc contains  album's new songs clearly display.  vived and so has the music. The Stones  
essential Stones numbers like  The one fault of this album comes in the  have stayed true to their rock and roll  
"Beast of Burden," "Angie" and  songs that are not included on the two-disc  roots and have earned their title as the  
"It's Only Rock and Roll," it is the  set. With only 40 tracks, it would be impos­ World's Greatest Rock and Roll Band.  
weaker of the two discs. The  sible for a band of such immense talent  
songs seem to show the age of  and such a huge repertoire to include all  
their writers with a difference in  their best songs. Most notably missing are  Contact Julie Bender at  
energy and the lack of the chaos  classics like "Time is on My Side," "She's  bender.I O@nd.edu  

ALBUM REVIEW 
JS delivers powerful performance 
and on the other; they would like to escape liar instruments, various sound effects and for J5 as they discuss the relationshipBy MIKE SCHMUHL from the shadow of their previous efforts. altered beats make it seem as though there between two friends: "I love you like you
Scene Music Critic 
Jurassic 5's latest hip-hop endeavor, are three or four songs in one. was mine / Think about you all the time / Power in Numbers, succeeds on both The watery, lazy melody and scratchy Very close friend of mine/ Please respectA fresh release from any artist is a chal­
fronts, by creating a more mature album beats of "Hey" has the artists singing most the thin line." 
1enge. On one hand, they are trying to than 1997's Jurassic 5 (EP) and 2000's of their verses as remain consistent with their level of work 
Quality Control. The ingenuity the song lurks and creativity of JS remains through the scene untarnished as their vocal skill of a party. stays on par and they experiment Other highlights with even more intricate beats. include the speedy 
Originally from South Central "Day At The LA, J5 has been the most suc­Races" where the cessful group to emerge from the rappers play with underground "rap" scene of the a fast-paced old early and mid nineties. In recent school-sounding times, the six (not five) member beat and a motor­crew, consLciting of rappers Marc ized effect swerves 7, Chali 2na, Zaakir and Aki! and in and out of the DJs/producers Cut Chemist and song. The ghetto Nu-Mark, has been hailed as one tale "Remember of the best hip-hop acts offering His Name" talks opposition to mainstream rap about a bad-boy music. neighborhood 
From start to finish the album acquaintance that is a remarkable feat of bizarre everyone knows sounds, smooth beats. loud­by face, but not by speaker effects and impressive name. Phone con­vocals. With the first song, versations and "Freedom," J5 express some background men­themes evident in all their work, tal messages scat­the problems of our society and ter the song, cre­the need for political change. ating an amazing 
Along with cultural declara­yet grave song as tions, the group maintains their the mysterious fig­ability to disguise melody and a ure revealed at common beat with the songs the end is Death. 

Power in Numbers 

lnterscope Records 

The song that obvi­ously shows a more experienced J5 is the album's single, "What's Golden." Including the group's signature unified chorus and layered with an organ effect, flaring trumpet and heavy beat, the track amplifies J5's ability to create an artistic treasure. 
Jurassic 5 succeeds again in creating ·an outstanding hip-hop album. Perhaps Marc 7 sums up the group's outlook best by sa:ying, "It's not to be at 'the top,' because that means you have to fail. We're striving for consistency, to make a solid record every time." They have certainly done that with Power in 
Numbers. 

"Break" and "Acetate Prophets." In contrast, the pop song "Thin Line" fea­Contact Mike Schmuhl at As each song progresses, pecu-turing Nelly Furtado, is a new enterprise schmuhl.5@nd.edu 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
SENDWICH INDEX 
Hokies overtake Hurricanes, Irish at No. 3 
Miami established a new Associated Press Poll record this week with their 19th straight No. 1 ranking, but they remained at No. 2 in the Sendwich Index for the second straight week. 
Florida State kicker Xavier Beitia barely missed a 43­yq.rd field goal attempt as time expired to hand the for­mer No. 3 Seminoles a heart-breaking 28-27 loss at Miami. After four game­deciding missed field goals against the Hurricanes since 1991, Seminoles coach Bobby Bowden might want to think about taking a knee to avoid the agony next time around. 
Miami remained No. 2, just behind new No. 1 Virginia Tech, who gained some steam with a road win over Boston College. Notre Dame, Ohio State and Georgia finish out the top five. Florida State dropped from No. 3 to No. 6 with the loss. 
Horns Get Hooked 
It seems as if each college football season ush­ers in the claims that this is "the year" for Texas. With an 11-point lead in the second quarter against Oklahoma, it looked like this just might be "the year." 
Enter Longhorn-killer Quentin Griffin, who ran wild for 248 yards and added two touchdowns against a Texas team that hadn't allowed a 100­yard runner all season and led the Sooners to a 35-24 victory. We think it's safe to say that Griffin is not the prodigal son of Austin, after this performance and his six-touchdown day against Texas in 2000. 
Texas quarterback and former all-universe recruit Chris Simms completed only 12 passes for 156 yards and threw three interceptions. Not to be outdone, Oklahoma's Nate Hybl also completed only 12 passes and tossed four picks of his own. Hybl. however, was able to connect for two touchdown passes while Simms was shut out. 
Considering the best team that Texas has beaten this year is No. 58 Tulane, it's not sur­prising the Longhorns took a major plunge from No. 16 to No. 33 in the Sendwich Index. Oklahoma moved up three spots to No. 7. 
The Contenders 
Miami and Oklahoma both escaped this week­end undefeated but Virginia Tech, Notre Dame, Ohio State, Georgia, Oregon, North Carolina State, Air Force and Bowling Green all still own perfect records as well. Of course, an undefeat­ed season isn't a prerequisite for a national championship, but it certainly can't hurt. So let's take a look at the chances of these teams finish­ing the regular season with a perfect record. 



The biggest remaining game of the year will occur Dec. 7 when Virginia Tech travels to Miami. Miami's run defense definitely showed holes against Florida State, as Greg Jones ran 
for 191 yards. It should be interesting to see what the Hokies elite ground tandem of Lee Suggs and Kevin Jones can do against the Hurricanes. 
Notre Dame squares off against Air Force this week­end in Colorado Springs, so only one team will exit with a goose egg in the loss col­umn. Air Force's only remaining obstacle is a home game with No. 14 Colorado State. Notre Dame, however, must also play at No. 6 Florida State and No. 13 use. 
Georgia, Oklahoma, Oregon, and Ohio State still must win their remaining anything-can-hap­pen in-conference games in the SEC, Big 12, Pac-10 and Big 10 respectively. Going undefeat­ed in any of these conferences is an accomplish­ment of its own, but Georgia and Oklahoma must also potentially play in their conference championship games. 
Four of untested North Carolina State's next six opponents own winning records, including their final regular season foe, No. 6 Florida State, so it's not looking good for Philip Rivers and friends. 
No. 21 Bowling Green should run the table and end up in the MAC championship. If they can beat likely opponent Marshall, the Falcons won't be in the national championship, but they might lay claim to a BCS bid. 
TOP 5 GAMES TO WATCH FOR WEEK 9 No. 3 Notre Dame at No. 12 Air Force 
Forecast: The Irish contain the Falcons' ground game and leave as the undefeated team. 
No. 10 Iowa State at No. 7 Oklahoma 

Seneca Wallace capitalizes on Oklahoma's let­down and leads the Cyclones to a solid win. 
No. 4 Ohio State at No. 18 Wisconsin 

Forecast: The Buckeyes get yet another run for their money, but somehow manage a victory. 
No. 20 Iowa at No. 31 Indiana 

Forecast: Jerry DiNardo's Hoosier squad pulls off its second upset in as many weeks. 
No. 33 Texas at No. 22 Kansas State 

Forecast: Are these teams for real this year? No, but KSU is more legit than UT this Saturday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \ .m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR Turtle Creek townhouse for rent at RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. a discounted price! 2-4 personNOTICES WANTED FOR SALE CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. townhouse available lorsecond PERSONAL 
semester sublease. Call 277-0900 

for details $250 a day potentiaVbartending #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Training provided 1-800-293-3965 Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. LEASING FOR 2003-2004 not go it alone. II you or someone ext 556 Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD-SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN-you love needs confidential support 
TICKETS

Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234-ELED FULLY EQUIPPED. TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM-or assistance, please call Sr. Mary 
Lost Kairos (waffle) cross. Believed 7007 endlesssummertours.com $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd.edu PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED-Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For lost near west entrance to library. ROOM HOUSES -STUDENT N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please more information, see our bi-weekly Has burgandy piece of velvet tied Make $320 Weeki Sunchase Ski NEIGHBORHOODS -SECURITY check our prices. 273-3911. ad in THE OBSERVER. around top and two pins, a celtic and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. 1991 Honda Civic Hatchback. 135k SYSTEM· MAINTENANCE STAFF 
cross and a lootpl'ints pin. PRICE-positions available now. Largest miles.Good cond. $2200. 574-277-ON CALL-WASHER/DRYERS-SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS LESS to owner. REWARD offered. commissions. Travel Freel 1-800-3189. CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING WANTED: ND tickets -HIGHEST Americas #1 Student Tour Operator PLEASE call Cristin at 634-1057 SUNCHASE ext. 123 WWW SUN• FAST-CONTACT:KRAMER PRICES PAID 251-1570 Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free 
CHASECOM (574)234-2436 -(574)274-9955 -Information/Reservations 1-800­RecSports Basketball officials PROFESSORS & STAFF -Live in (574)674-2471 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
NEEDED Apply al Rolls Sports Rec Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 Lovely Wooded Estates In a home ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST Center Clinic: Wed. 11/S 7PM, per day. No experience necessary. with 40 years of ND History. Walk PRICES 289-9280 I'd do anything for some Burger RSRC Contact hadams@nd.edu Call 1.866 291 .1884 ext U187. or Bike to work -3 bedrooms 1.5 Thal Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast King right now... 
baths with beautiful FLORIDA has space available for foolbalVpar-Tutor to assist high school gir1 ROOM and partially finished base-ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR You"d be a man if you had the w/homework especially English. ment on large comer lot. Call 234-hot breakla$t, $80-$115, SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 goods!
LOST & FOUND 
Spanish helpful but not required. 8858to see. Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Must have transportation to stu-Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT-Good u:kto the natural born leader. FOUND: Ladys bracelet in Joyce dents home. 574-243-2623. ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Even ~ the book stayed ii ils plastic Center on Oct. 5. Call Judy al 237­
wrap, I WJUld have folbwed ~­
FOR RENT

8312 to identify & claim. HOUSES FOR RENT FOR Looking for a playful, kind, and 2003/2004; Call Bill at 532-1896 NEED BC TICKETS Alum (67 & 96) I was NOT the weak link. Clearly 
FOUND: Ladys bracelet in Joyce responsible person to watch my 2 bringing family, friends & girlfriend those that "lost 1r were... Center on Oct. 5. Call Judy a! 237-children (5 & 1 1/2 yr) in my home All size homes available tor 2003-to 1st ND game-Please call Chuck 8312 to identtty & claim. 2-8 hr per week. Flexible Hours. 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com 5 & 6 bdrm. houses. Close. Fall at an.654.8472 or email at jbmal· Just for you katie: 
Call Jill at 288-7118 www.mmmrentals.com 2003. Call Fronse 574-220-8403. ley@global.t-bird.edu (Molester laugh) 
,-.--------------------------------------------------------------·------. . ---­
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Equestrian team wins first title in four years 
Spcci.J to the Observer 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cqucslrian teams opened the season by capturing team Highpoint honors at the IUPUI show. Under the guidance of new coach Kathryn Wells. the club claimed its first title in four years. 
Only lO riders were able to make the trip and an ankle injury to Callie Willis further reduced a squad that was com­peting against schools with more Lhan twice the number of riders. The team entered 16 classes and was able to place in the top four in 12 events 
!\fog lloJ'fman captured first place in the Open Flat and third in the Open Fences to pace the team. The team dominated the Intermediate Flat and Intermediate Fences events as Kelly Gentine took first and fourth, Julia Burke placed sec­ond and third and Liz Bell fin­ished fourth and seventh. Molly Kopacz also tied for second in 
the Intermediate Flat and fin• 
ished fourth in Open Fences. 
The squad's was also evident in the Novice events as Hebecca Lindrew garnered first in Fences and second in Flat, with Katie Shoultz taking sixth and third respectively. 
Marta Acsadi and Heather Dziedzic rounded out the team scoring. 
Ultimate frlsbee 
Nashville, Tenn. was the venue for Vanderbilt's Itchfest Invitational this weekend as bolh the mens and womens squads advanced through the early rounds. Veterans Julie Schutte and Naomi Cordell teamed with Junior Shannon Heuer to lead the women as they came out of the blocks strong, easily beating Tulane 7-3 and Tennessee, 13-4. 
The club then defeated Towson 13-0. but lost the services of juniors Jill Scarborough and Katie Twidwell, to injuries. With only seven players remaining, the undermanned club fell to the host Commodores, 13-6. 
On Sunday, the Irish gamely hung on before finally falling in a 6-5 sudden death overtime semi­final to Tennessee. 
The mens team entered both an A and a B squad. The B team overcame an opening round 7-4 halftime deficit to defeat Southern Polytechnical State 11­
10. After defeating Vanderbilt Alumni 13-9, the B squad had its run ended by Georgia Tech, 13-7 
The A squad rolled through the tournament with a bye. a 13-0 whitewash of Vanderbilt B and a solid 13-8 win over Purdue. The Irish continued to advance with a 13-10 win over Tulane and fin­ished the day by drubbing Missouri. 13-4. 
On Sunday. the Irish defeated Towson 13-6 in the semifinals, setting up a showdown with top­seeded Tennessee. The Irish bat­tled back to claim their final lead at 12-11, before a rush at the end enabled the Volunteers to prevail 14-12. The Irish claimed third place among the eighteen competing teams. 

Mens water polo 
The mens water polo club will host next weekend's a Great Lakes Conference Championship, with a berth in the Nationals o.n the line. 
In the final conference round­robin this past weekend, the Irish first scheduled opponent, Ball State, forfeited the match. In the second round, play Notre Dame had little difficulty with Toledo with Danny Wiederkehr and Rory Clear leading the scor­ing onslaught. Jay Deimel John Penilla, Keith Rauenbuehler, Greg Krouse and Pat Watts com­pleted the scoring, while a swarming press defense limited the Rockets' offense, resulting in a 22-4 runaway. 
The Irish then found them­selves facing Grand Valley State and in another classic, the Lakers earned a 17 -12 victory. Rauenbuehler's five goals paced the Irish attack, while Rory Cleary added four. Brendan Doherty frustrated shooters all day in goal. 
In the anticlimactic final, the Irish overpowered Lewis, 16-3. The Irish used this game to work on their 6 on 5 offensive sets as Lewis had a player ejection and played the match shorthanded. John Becher and Ryan Downey scored their first collegiate goals. while Deimel and Devlin McCormick split duties in goal 
Mens rowing 
The Notre Dame mens crew club opened its season at the Head of the Hock in Rockford, Ill. The club finished seventh in the mens point standings with 53 points. 
In mens pairs, the Irish entered three boats, as Brendan McKay and Luke McClellan fin­ished fifth with a time of 18 min­utes 18 minutes, 95 seconds, fol­lowed by Brad Voller and Hich Mciver (19:00.18) tenth and Steve Kettler and Dan Robinson (19:00. 7 4) in eleventh. 
Club rowers placed fourth and seventh in novice mens four. Abbi Daugherty, Dan Pearson, Joe Blakely. Evan Donoughue and John Duffner (18:15), and Jordan Frankel. Mick Mathew, Nick Catella, John Park and John Chin (16:42) competed in the twenty-boat event. In open four's, the crew of Voller, Kettler, Robinson, Mclver and Christina Aune finished 14th among 22 crews with a time of 16:42. 
-r ALLAIR 
··.: (:·(~. 
UD::NTS FL'f'P -.' . . ·~ ) 
r::::-rrJNG THEJR -rum 
;~1-•:~~~.l 
-rnr:. AIR FOFICE JS ·rH?.JLL'::' 
' -:---~(~1 
.,, . ·,.,.
' ',. 
'' <, -~: 
AF'rJo-rc.coM 
J-ass-~}E3-7S3E 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
NFL 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Injury to thumb Piniella to leave Mariners 

seek compensation "in Lincoln said Gillick would
As•ociatcd Press
keeps Fiedler out 

exchange for releasing Lou oversee the search for a new from his employment con­manager, but he declined to SEATILE tract," the team said. say much about what kind of Lou Piniella won't be back Lincoln also spoke sentimen­candidate the Mariners want.
39 yards in the final seconds. 
Associated Press 

with the Seattle Mariners next tally about losing Piniella. He said there is no timetable,"If anybody needed additional season. "Really, even more than our but the team expects to have aDAVIE, Fla. information to reaffirm the type The Mariners agreed to players, he epitomized the new manager before the win­Miami Dolphins quarterback of winner Jay Fiedler is and release Piniella from the final Seattle Mariners," Lincoln said. ter meetings.
Jay Fiedler will miss at least what he's willing to sacrifice year of his contract, allowing "He was so helpful. His pres­"We want to get the best per­four weeks because of a broken and do to give this team a him to leave Seattle after a 10-ence was so important in sav­son for this particular job, thisright thumb, making Ray Lucas chance to win, it's just another year span during which he ele­ing major league baseball for baseball team. this ball park,"

a starter for the first time in example of that," Wannstedt throe seasons. said. "He didn't want to come 

vated the team to baseball's Seattle and the Pacific Lincoln said. "Pat Gillick is upper tier. Northwest." focusing on a person who canFiedler had surgery to repair out. He wanted to see this thing Mariners chief executive Piniella didn't return several handle the players we havethe joint, team trainer Kevin through." 
Howard Lincoln said the team messages left at his home in now, the strengths and weak­O'Neill said. His throwing hand X-rays after the game will allow other clubs to inter­Tampa, Fla. nesses of our team as it exists." 
will be placed in a cast for sev­revealed a broken bone. 

view him, provided that "ade­Mariners officials "under­The Mets or Tampa Bay
eraI weeks before beginning Fiedler is 26-11 as a starter 

quate compensation" can be stand what I'm trying to do," Devil Rays are mentioned as
rehabilitation. for the Dolphins and has missed It could be a significant loss just one start since signing with 

arranged. Both the New York Piniella told The Tampa the most likely candidates to Mets and the Tampa Bay Devil Tribune. "It's just too far to be lure the 59-year-old Piniella,for a team that is 5-1, has a two­the team in 2000. 
Rays may be interested in in Seattle. It's a burden on me, who lives in the Tampa Baygame lead in the AFC East and "It will be somewhat frustrat­high hopes of reaching the ing just because I'm a competi­
Piniella, also a former manag­on my family. It's just too far area during the offseason. His er and GM of the New York fromhome." parents and grandchildren also 
Super Bowl for the first time tor and want to be out on the since 1985. field and helping the team," 

Yankees. Piniella met with Lincoln, live there. Lincoln and team president general manager Pat Gillick "We just became aware of"We just need to piece this Fiedler said. "But I'll help in the Chuck Armstrong spoke to and team president Armstrong this statement tonight and wething together and figure out best way that I know how right Piniella. on Friday. He told them that are going to reserve further
what we need to do as a staff now. I plan on being a coach for "We reiterated our mutual "for personal and family rea­comment until we have time to
and a team to win this football however many weeks this keeps friendship and respect, that we sons," he had decided not to digest it," Mets spokesman Jay

game," said coach Dave me out." 

were disappointed he wasn't return to Seattle for the 2003 Horwitz said. 
Wannstedt. whose Dolphins play Wannstedt said nothing will coming back, that based on season. The Devil Rays also said theyBuffalo on Sunday. change with Lucas under cen­what he told us in Tampa Bay 'The meeting in Tampa Bay need some time to decide

Fiedler sustained the injury ter. 

there was a pressing and real on Friday was very emotional," whether to pursue Piniella.
late in Sunday night's 24-22 vic­Lucas posted a 6-3 record as a need to live and work closer to Lincoln said. "It ended with a "We will discuss it internallv

tory over the Denver Broncos. starter with the New York Jets He was hurt with 3:30 remain­in 1999, when he filled in for an his family in Tampa Bay. We lot of hugs. It's fair to say we tomorrow and then make a understood and we were sym­have parted as good and warm decision on our course ofing in the game, hitting his injured Vinny Testaverde. 

pathetic," Lincoln said. friends." action," Tampa Bay
throwing hand on a helmet He completed 59 percent of He declined to elaborate on Piniella managed the spokesman Rick Vaughn said. 
while completing a 5-yard pass his passes and threw 14 touch­

what compensation the Mariners for the past 10 sea­The last time Seattle went
to Ricky Williams. downs and six interceptions that But Fiedler remained in the season. He has played sparingly 

Mariners would seek, but it sons, directing a perennial no­looking for a new manager game and played the final since but looked sharp this pre­
probably would be money or name team to three straight was in 1992, needing a players. playoff appearances and a replacement for Bill Plummer.
series, setting up Olindo Mare's season, getting the majority of At least one suitor already is record-tying 116 victories in Reports in the Seattle area53-yard winning field goal with the work while Fiedler recov­waiting. Lincoln said he 2001. Seattle won 93 games have focused on Dusty Baker,two critical completions totaling ered from hip surgery. 

planned to return a telephone this season, but finished third who is managing the San call to Mets owner Fred Wilpon in the AL West behind Oakland Francisco Giants in the NLCS. after speaking with Seattle and Anaheim. Other possibilities include 
Knee injury puts 
.. 
I I I 
Peete on sideline 
wasn't going to affect his status
Associated Press 
I
for this week." Peete took over the starting job 
I
CHARLOTTE, N.C. when Fox benched Weinke at 
Carolina Panthers quarterback the beginning of the season. I Rodney Peete needs surgery on Peete led Carolina to a 3-0 start, 
I
his knee and will be sidelined at but the Panthers have lost three 
least three weeks, putting Chris straight since then and Peete has I Weinke back in the starting line­struggled to get the offense mov­up. I

ing efficiently. Carolina coach John Fox said There were rumblings he :I I that Peete has been playing with could have been benched at any a torn meniscus in his right knee time for Weinke, but the injuryall season and will have it made the move official. I 
I 
I BURNS COSTUME SHOP 11 
repaired on Tuesday. "My knee didn't allow me to 

"It's been a lingering thing run when I needed to run, to I I since camp and it became a little burst when I needed to burst," I I more problematic when we Peete said. "It was either contin­started the regular season," Fox ue to hobble around or get it I I said. "Playing football on a fixed." 
332 W. Mishawaka Avenue
I I
meniscus tear is not really good Peete will be out about a 

treatment for it." month, targeting Nov. 10 as his I I Peete wasn't the only injured return date, 
I I
Carolina player following Fox, in his first season as a 

Mishwaka, In. 46545 phn. 574-259-4807
Sunday's loss to Dallas -special head coach, said he has no set. I I teams ace Jarrod Cooper is out policy about starters reclaiming 
I I
for the season with a torn anteri­their jobs when they return to or cruciate ligament in his left the lineup, I I knee, linebacker Dan Morgan 
That puts the pressure on strained his groin and receiver Weinke, who played the entire I I Steve Smith bruised his ribs. second half against Dallas and I ICooper will be placed on the completed 7 of 12 passes for 114 
injured list, Morgan is doubtful yards. I I
WITH THIS V.I.P. COUPON YOU I
for Sunday's game against "I thought for coming off the I Atlanta, and Smith is question­bench his performance was good able. enough to win," Fox said. "It is I I But Peete's status was the very seldom a guy is 100 per­I I
biggest shocker. He was knocked cent. 

out of Sunday's game with a I CAN GET 10% OFF ONE COSTUME 
"But l think Chris made the I 
concussion, but that was lost in statement the last couple of 

I I
the news about his knee. 

weeks that he has had his best "There wasn't a lot of discus­couple of weeks of practice. He's I I sion about his concussion," Fox prepared hard and I think that 
RENTAL. 

said. "My impression was it was evident Sunday." I I 
I. ... 

Tuesday, October 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
49ers improve to 4-1 with 28-21 win over the Seahaw-ks 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Terrell Owens had some fun at Shawn Springs' expense ­twice. 
Not only did the All-Pro receiver catch a 37-yard touch­down pass over the Seattle cor­nerback to give San Francisco a 28-21 win over the Seahawks, but he added an extra flourish by pulling out a pen and auto­graphing the ball for a mutual friend sitting in Springs' suite. 
Seattle (1-4) led 21-20 and was driving for another score when Ahmad Plummer inter­cepted an ill-advised pass by Trent Dilfer at the San Francisco 32 with 10 minutes left. The 49ers 
one game ahead of Arizona in the NFC West. The 49ers won the division 14 times between 1981 and 1997. 
The Seahawks, who moved this year from the AFC West to the NFC West, took little conso­lation from the loss despite play­ing well. 
"J don't think you can take any satisfaction from losing whatso­ever," said Dilfer, who lost for the third time in four starts this season after 15 straight victo­ries, most of them with Super Bowl-winning Baltimore two years ago. "In this league you continue to try to get better." 
Garcia also starred for the 49ers. throwing for 202 yards and two TDs and running seven times for 48 yards. 
S a n 

moved to the Francisco took
"I don't think you can

Seattle 37, a 10-0 lead on
take any satisfaction 

where Jeff Jose Cortez's Garcia found from losing whatsoever." 37-yard field 
Owens down goal and the left side, Garcia's 8­
Trent Dilfer 

where he yard TD passcaught the ball Seattle quarterback to Owens, who 
over Springs. 
Owens then took a pen from his sock and signed the ball. 
"I just tried to be creative," Owens said. "I was just trying to have fun. It was a situation where l knew we would be going to the end zone in the fourth quarter." 
Garcia then hit Garrison llcarst for a 2-point conversion. 
"He was talking the most trash, how he was going to do this and do that," said San Francisco running back Kevan Barlow, also a friend of Springs. "Our big-time player showed him. Terrell's a beast." 
The win kept the 49ers (4-1) finished with 
six catches for 
84 yards. 
The field goal came on a 73­yard drive off the opening kick­off. 
Then Zack Bronson, who later left the game with a broken foot, intercepted a pass by Dilfer on Seattle's first possession. The 49ers took six plays to complete the drive when Garcia rolled right and found Owens all alone on the goal line and he stepped into the end zone -no auto­graph on that one. 
Stiattle retaliated immediately, going 69 yards in 10 plays to score on Dilfer's 5-yard touch­down pass to Mack Strong with 
1:45 left in the first quarter. 

Reuters San Francisco wide receiver Tai Streets breaks the tackle of Seattle defensive back Ken Lucas. The 49ers went on to win 28-21 and take command of the NFC West. 
Dilfer had two critical third-and­long completions to Bobby Engram to keep the drive alive. 
Then Engram struck again. He took Jason Baker's punt at his 39, broke a tackle by Jong snap­per Brian Jennings and was free, weaving his way 61 yards to give Seattle a 14-10 lead with 
5:41 left until halftime. 
Cortez's 29-yard field goal on the next drive made it 14-13 and that's the way the half ended. 
The 49ers' first possession of the second half was their best ­a 12-play, 99-yard drive primar-ily on the ground capped by Barlow's 6-yard run off left tackle for a 20-14 lead. 


"We took the opportunity to let the defense rest and recover," Garcia said. "We took it 99 yards. That's huge, That can be a game-winner." 
It wasn't quite then. 
Back came Seattle. Shaun Alexander went 42 yards on the first play from scrimmage, then capped the 76-yard drive with a 1-yard run with 1:11 left in the third quarter to make it 21-20. 
But in the end, it wasn't enough to hold down Owens ­and his pen. The beneficiary was Greg Eastman, a financial consultant to Owens, Springs and Barlow -who said that if he had scored in the fourth quarter, he would have done the same thing. 
But the show was Owens, who two years ago provoked a dis­turbance in Dallas by dancing twice on the star at midfield after scoring against the Cowboys. 
"Everybody's always saying I'm being disrespectful," he said. "But I'm just trying to have fun." 

NHL 
Lemieux scores two in Pens' win 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Mario Lemieux wasn't about to let the Toronto Maple Leafs humiliate his team again. 
Lemieux scored twice and assisted on Aleksey Morozov's two power-play goals as the Pittsburgh Penguins recovered from their worst opening-game loss ever with a 5-4 victory over the Maple Leafs. 
Morozov also had two assists for the Penguins, who have won two straight following Thursday's 6-0 home loss to Toronto. 
"It's not revenge, but we were embarrassed in the first game," Lemieux said. "All hockey players have pride. You have to come back and play better and that's what we did." 
Lemieux, who also had two goals in Saturday's 6-0 victory over the New York Rangers, scored the game-winner on the power play with 2:18 left when his shot from the behind the net deflected off Trevor Kidd's pads. 
"They came in our house and abused us in the first game," goalie Johan Hedberg said. "We really wanted to come here and beat them." 
Tie Domi, Mats Sundin, Darcy Tucker and Alexander Mogilny scored power-play goals for the Maple Leafs, who have lost two straight. 
Mogilny appeared to score the tying goal with 24 seconds remaining, but it was taken away after it was ruled that Toronto's Shayne Corson knocked the net off its moor­ings before the puck went in .. 
"I thought it was a goal for sure," Corson said. "The puck was in before it came off." 
After Domi gave Toronto a 1­0 lead early in the first, Lemieux tied it with his third goal of the season and the 657th of his career. 
He fired a slap shot past Kidd at 10:01. 
Sundin gave Toronto the lead again with his 400th career goal. Ile received a standing ovation after Mogilny found him alone at the side of the net. 
''I'll cherish that. It was awe­some, but too bad we didn't get the two points," Sundin said. 

AROUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, October 15, 2002 

around the dial 
NASCAR 
Totally NASCAR 6 p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Inside Notre Dame Football, 7 p.m, FOX 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO At long last, Barry Bonds will get his chance. 
Kenny Lofton hit an RBI single with two outs in the ninth inning that sent Bonds to his first World Series as the San Francisco Giants beat the St. Louis Cardinals 2-1 Monday night to win the NL championship series. 
Bonds did his part in Game 5, hitting a tying sac­rifice fly in the eighth off a determined Matt Morris. And now, in his 17th sea­son, baseball's biggest star will finally get a chance to play on baseball's biggest stage. 

Bonds, often criticized for being selfish and not inter­acting with his teammates, led the sprint from the Giants' dugout to congratu­late Lofton. The four-time MVP was the first player off the bench to reach him. 
"We played great,"Bonds said. "We've got a tough series ahead of us. The Angels have been playing great in the clutch. It's going to be down to the wire with them. 
"We've got some gusty guys out here. just like the Angels,"he said. "Who would've thought two wild­card teams would make it? That's just amazing." 
The Cardinals, playing on emotion since the death of Darryl Kile in June, once again could not get a big hit when it counted. 
And the Giants took advantage, breaking through against Morris to tie it in the eighth. In the ninth, Morris retired the first two batters before David Bell and Shawon Dunston singled. 
At that point, Steve Kline relieved and Lofton pulled the first pitch into right field. Bell scored easily, sending the Giants to their first World Series since 1989 as the sellout crowd of 42,673 erupted at Pacific Bell Park. 
Lofton especially enjoyed the party, having been booed at Busch Stadium last week when his objec­tion to an inside pitch trig­gered a bench-clearing skirmish. 
"It's an awesome feeling at this point,"Lofton said. 
Bonds, at 38, jumped up and down with the NLCS MVP, 37-year-old catcher Benito Santiago. 
Bonds got the chance of a lifetime in the eighth, com­ing up with the bases loaded, one out and the Giants down 1-0. The home-run king and first­time batting champion delivered -sort of -with a fly ball that evened it. 
IN BRIEF 

Thomas helps rescue man Monday. At least 188 people were killed from car fire There was no immediate word on and hundreds more injured in the Chicago Bears running back the results, although Giants coach blasts on Saturday at a nightclubJim Fassel is confident that the
Anthony Thomas helped pull a man district packed with foreign 
injury won't end the career of the
from a burning car. tourists. The attack was thought to 
11-year veteran.
The 2001 rookie of the year was be the work of terrorists.
Trainer Ronnie Barnes told Fassel
on his way to visit teammate David 
The 34-year-old Young was in Bali 

that the tear might only be a partial
Terrell late Sunday when he saw a 
to play a final tournament with his 

smoldering car on the road. one. 
rugby team from Hong Kong before

Dr. Russ Warren, the Giants'
"The car was smoking at first, but 
joining his wife, Laura. and their 2­

orthopedic surgeon. also told Fassel
it wasn't really on fire," Thomas said. "But when I got there and I on Sunday night that the injury year-old son in the Kansas City 
would be more career-threatening area, said his father, Jacob Young.
pulled over. it sounded like. 'Boom,' 

if Hamilton, 31, was a receiver or The young attorney had been work­
and then a tire popped and a big fire blew out. running back. ing in Hong Kong for a London­"Knowing Keith, he'll work and
"When you see a car fire you based law firm. 
come back," Fassel said. "I know a
never know if it's going to blow up Speaking by telephone from his 
big part of that is.a serious surgery
or not. So the main thing, I was try­home in Midland, Texas, Jacob 
and after that, the guy's ethic and
ing to get the guy away from the Young said that he had received an
desire to come back."
car and get me and my wife away e-mail from his son's rugby club in 
from the car." 
Hong Kong, saying people were still

Young still missing after 
looking but, "They have found noth­

Hamilton's Achilles tear Bali tiombing 
ing."

may only be a partial one Jake Young, an All-America center 
"We're clinging to a thin ray of

at Nebraska in 1988 and 1989, was
New York Giants defensive tackle 
hope that he's going to be found

Keith Hamilton had an MRI on his missing in the area of the bomb 
alive," he had said earlier.

torn right Achilles' tendon on blasts in Bali, Indonesia. 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
their support throughout the contest. Fisher 9, St. Edward's 0 

Interhall 
Both quarterbacks were Going into the second half of 
intercepted twice.. Bingle made Sunday's game, it looked ascontinued from page 24 

up for his errors by throwing to though the only points would lent game plan and working wide receiver John Kaup for a be courtesy of a 32-yard Fisher with the team to improve its touchdown in the third quarter. field goal that overcame a defense throughout practice Bingle showed his versatility strong wind. However. Fisher that week. by scrambling for several first running back Kameron 
"Our defense won that game downs when Knott's defense Chappell had other ideas. 
for us," he said. had the Chappell Morrissey junior wide receiv­Siegfried took over the er and safety John Mulligan receivers game after a
"We will take it one game

said the loss was a tough pill tightly cov­Neil Vargas
at a time and play every

for his team to swallow. ered. Ho was interception 
"They were a good team," he 7-for-13 on game like it is our last. " and 25-yard said. "We kind of hurt our­the afternoon return to put selves with some penalties. with two them in Steds
Kameron Chappell

We're definitely going to come touchdown territory. The
Fisher running back

out and play Thursday night passes and Green Wave because it's a must win for us two intercep­(3-1) pro-now. This Joss will definitely be tions. ceeded to motivating in that game." Siegfried's score four 
defense faced a bigger chal­plays later. Siegfried 12, Knott 3 lenge against Knott than they Quarter-back Jimmy 
Knott got on the board first had the previous week against Costanzo set up the touchdown Sunday. but still came up short an inexperienced Carroll team. with a 15-yard play action against Siegfried. The Juggs After a slow start, the completion to Chappell, who lost 12-3 to their Mod Quad Ramblers got into their rhythm wrestled the ball away from rivals and any hopes of a play­gradually and dominated the two defenders. From the 5, off berth were vanquished. second half. Chappell then ran it in on a 
The Juggs (1-3) intercepted Knott's defense played well in toss play, giving Fisher the only Rambler quarterback Bill the first half, but things began touchdown of the game and a Bingle in the second quarter. to unravel for the Juggs after comfortable nine point lead. The resulting offensive drive halftime. They had trouble sus­"After the first half, we got ended in a field goal, their only taining a drive against the into the game mentally," score. hard-hitting Rambler defense. Chappell said. "We were then 
Siegfried (3-0) answered later The undefeated Ramblers on the same page as a team in that quarter when Bingle com­head into the postseason look­the second half, and that made pleted a touchdown pass. The ing like an early favorite. the difference, allowing us to extra point attempt was The Siegfried defense has pull out the victory." blocked by the Knott defense. only surrendered three points Meanwhile, St. Ed's (0-3) 
The Juggs were playing for this season. Coupled with a tal­continued to struggle on their postseason lives and the ented offense led by Bingle, offense. Their last chance to intensity of the game reflected Kaup and running back Tim score was spoiled by a Tom their urgency. Both sidelines Breitbach, the Ramblers will be Gorman interception. St. Ed's had enthusiastic fans yelling tough to beat. has not scored thus far this 
Fall Break preparations for Windows 2000 and XP Professional users on ResNet. 
Dear Students, 
As you prepare for Fall Break many of you will take your computers with you. Those of you who log in to the Windows or ND.EDU domain on your personal computer running Windows 2000 or XP Professional will need to pay special attention to this message. All others may disregard this message. 
While you are away and disconnected from the campus network, you will need to utilize a different method to logon to your computer. Once you leave campus you no longer have the network to guarantee that you are eligible to log on to your machine. You must use the following new method to login to your computer while you are on or off campus, in order to guarantee that you can access your computer from all locations. To successfully log on to your computer, utilize the following method: 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

User name: afsid@ND.EDU (ND.EDU must be capitalized) Password: <your password> 

When you type the@ symbol, you automatically select the nd.edu domain. This will force the drop down menu you usually see to gray out. When you are on the ND network, you will automatically log into the ND.EDU domain without having to use the drop down menu. When you are not on the ND network. this method of logging on will allow you to use "cached credentials" from your previous logon. Cached credentials are essentially previous logon information stored about you on your computer. 
Please begin using this special method for logging on today. 
If you don't use the above method for logging on when you are on or off campus, you could lose the ability to log on at all. In case you forget to log on using the above method, please verify that you have set yourself up as an administrator on your local machine before you leave campus. To verify, please visit http://www.nd.edu/-ndoiVhelpdesk/faqresnet.html#admin 
If you have any difficulties please feel free to contact the Help Desk by phone at 631­8111 or via the web at: https://websupport.nd.edu 
Have a wonderful break. 

season in their three losses. On a day when the offense strug­gled once again, the defense held its own against the high powered Fisher offense. 
On Fisher's longest drive. where they converted two fourth and short situations, St. Ed's stopped Fisher at the 20­yard line. as the defensive line stuffed the Fisher plunge. They also blocked the Fisher extra point attempt. 
While St. Ed's tries to rebuild. Fisher will take the 

Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Penn State officials have called for a comprehensive review of Big Ten football after controversial calls in its two overtime losses and disciplinary action taken against officials after another conference game. 
"I am of the opinion that Big Ten officiating has not met the usual high standards associated with the Big Ten in all areas," Penn State athletic director Tim Curley said in a statement. 
"We realize officials will make mistakes, but we have seen too many instances in not only our games, but other conference games, that Penn State is no longer comfortable with this trend." 
Curley said he had asked com­missioner Jim Delany to review policies on crew assignments, performance evaluation. tech­nology, accountability, recruit­ment and training of officials. 
The statement did not mention specific concerns. but a contro­versial call might have cost Penn ·St...~;; ::. chwr1~e for a game-week off to study for midterms. They look to come back from break strong and ready to com­pete in the playoffs. 

"We just want to win, play in the Stadium and then win," Chappell said. "We will take it one game at a time and play every game like it is our last." 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu, Lisa Reijula at lreijula@nd.edu, and Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
winning field goal Saturday at 
Michigan. a game the Nittany 
Lions lost 27-24 in overtime. 
In the last minute of regula­tion, Tony Johnson was called out of bounds after a catch along the left sideline near the Michigan 20. Television replays appeared to show Johnson land­ing with both feet in bounds. 
Delany said in a statement that the conference would look into Penn State's complaint. 
"In the spirit of openness. as we have done previously with other Big Ten institutions, we have asked Penn State for a detailed critique of its concerns and will provide a candid and detailed response," he said. 
After Penn State's 42-35 over­time loss to Iowa on Sept. 28, coach Joe Paterno sprinted down the field and grabbed the jersey of a referee to complain about two calls. Paterno, who was not punished after the inci­dent, did not say what calls he was complaining about, bu! Johnson also had a sideline catch in that game during over­time. One oflicial ruled the catch good, but a second official over­turned the call. ruling that Johnson was out of bounds. 
The Big Ten disciplined four game officials Oct. 2 after deter­mining they did a poor job dur­ing a Sept. 21 game between Wake Forest and Purdue. Delany said the four "did not officiate well enough to meet Big Ten standards" and would for­feit future officiating assign­ments. 

page 20 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
\ 



VOTED NUMBER ONE IDEAL EMPLOYER. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers was voted the number one ideal employer in the 2002 Universum Undergraduate Survey of more than 4,000 business students and the number one recruiter in our profession in the 2002 Emerson Company Campus Recruiting Survey. 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere. 
Look beyond the numbers. 

<Ill 2002 PncewaterhouseCoor,ers LLP PncewaterhouseGoopers ref8rs lo the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and other members of the wo~dw1de Pr1cewaterhouseCoopers organization. We are proud to be an Affirmative Aotion and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
HOCKEY 
Irish start year with win and tie in Minnesota 
Last Chance ... 

Concession Stand Training 
... for the Boston College and Rutgers Football Games 
Wednesday, October 16, 2002 at 4:00pm in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center 
For more information contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 

Special to the Observer 
Hob Globke notched his first career hat trick and John Wroblewski scored twice to lead Notre Dame to a 5-3 win over the Minnesota-Duluth Bulldogs Saturday at the Duluth Entertainment and Convention Center. 
Senior goaltender Tony Zasowski, making his first start since Dec. 1, 2001, shook off some early rust to make 39 saves to backstop the Irish to the win. 
Globkc scored all three goals in the third period using his speed and skill to beat the Bulldog defense. His first goal of the night, at 3 minutes, 13 seconds of the third period gave Notre Dame its first lead of the weekend. Connor Dunlop wrapped the puck around the boards to fresh­man Tim Wallace. Wallace hit Globke in stride at center ice and the junior snapped a wrist shot past Bulldog goaltender Isaac Reichmuth for his first goal of the night. 
UMD tied the game at 13:28 when Tyler Brosz redirected Drew Otten's shot from the left wing boards past Zasowski to even the score at 3-3. 
Globke's second goal of the night proved to be the game winner at 14:46 of the third period. Defenseman Brett l.ebda found Globke near the right wing circle and he whipped it past Reichmuth for a 4-3 lead. 
The big ·right wing sealed the win when he scored into Lhe empty net with 18 seconds left as Wroblewski broke up a Bulldog rush at center ice and slid it to Globke as he skated through center. 
The Irish started the night on an ominous note as they allowed Minnesota-Duluth to jump out to a 2-0 first-period 
lead  on  goals  by  Luke  
Stauffacher  and  Jon  
Francisco.  

Stauffacher got the Bulldogs on the scoreboard just 1:45 into the game when he redi­rected Marco Peluso's shot from the left point between goaltender Tony Zasowski's pads for the 1-0 lead. 
With Jake Wiegand off for crosschecking, UMD's power play clicked. Junior Lessard fired a shot from the right cir­cle that Zasowski stopped but couldn't control the rebound. The Bulldogs top returning scorer, senior center Jon Francisco was there to flip the rebound over the Zasowski for the 2·0 lead at 15:39. 
The Irish were able to cut the lead to 2·1 with a power­play goal of their own at 
17:17. Rob Globke found John Wroblewski all alone in front with a great pass from the top of the left circle. Wroblewski outwaited goaltender Isaac Reichmuth and fired the puck from the top of the crease under the crossbar for his first goal of the season. 
Wroblewski wasn't finished with just the power-play goal. He tied the game for Notre Dame with a shorthanded tally in the second. 
With T.J Mathieson off for an interference call, the speedy Wroblewski stepped in front of a Minnesota-Duluth pass at the Notre Dame blue line and it was off to the races. 
The senior went in on Reichmuth all alone, deked the freshman goaltender to the ice and drilled a wrist shot from between the hashmarks at 11 :09 to knot the score at 2­
2. The shorthanded goal was the first of Wroblewski's career. 
Zasowski turned in one of the best nights of his career with 39 saves on the night, just one off his career-high of 40 saves. The senior was espe­cially sharp after the first period as he made 30 of his saves in those two periods, giving up just one goal. 
Notes: 
. 
The Irish got late game heroics from sophomore left wing Yan Stastny and goal­tender Morgan Cey turned in another brilliant performance in goal as the Irish rallied for a 2-2 tie versus the Bulldogs. The season-opening tie was played in front of 3,321 fans at the Duluth Entertainment and Convention Center Friday night. 

. 
With the Irish trailing and time running out, Notre Dame got an icing call with 1 :07 left in the game. Coach Dave Poulin called timeout and pulled Cey in favor of a sixth attacker. Connor Dunlop won the faceoff to the left of UMD goaltender Rob Anderson. The draw went to Evan Nielsen who's pass to Brett Lebda going to the net was behind him. Lebda tracked the puck down in the right wing corner and slid it in front to Stastny who slid the puck under Anderson for the 2-2 tie. 



Special to the Observer 
Senior Greg Tait who regis­tered four saves in Notre Dame's 1-0 overtime victory at Boston College on Saturday has been named the Big East Conference Goalkeeper of the Week. He earns the honors for the second time in his career and becomes the third Irish player to earn one of the con­ference's weekly awards this season. 
Tait has started the last two games in goal for Notre Dame, filling in for sophomore Chris Sawyer who was injured in the game against Pittsburgh. Tait also posted a shutout in the Irish's 1-0 road win at Akron and came up with five saves in the contest. 
Tait played the final 47 min­utes, 48 seconds of the 1-0 overtime loss to tho Panthers and was in goal when the Pittsburgh tallied the game­winning score. 
Tait has played in four con­tests overall and has allowed two goals in 256:32 of action. He owns a 0. 70 goals against average and .875 save per­centage. 
Sophomore Luke Boughen has been named to College Soccer News' Team of the Week after leading the Irish in victory over the Golden Eagles. 
Boughen netted the game­winner at the 93:36 mark of the contest off an assist from teammate Chad Riley as Notre Dame defeated its third ranked opponent of the sea­son, a first for an Irish team since the 1996 campaign. 
The Irish midfielder has played in all 12 of Notre Dame's games this season and has scored three goals. 
He scored the first two goals of his career in the squad's 5­1 victory over Providenc·e College earlier in the season. His score against Boston College marked the first game­
winning goal of his career.  
Boughen stands fifth  on  the  
team  in  scoring  with  six  
points.  




page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish continue to roll in Big East, beat Hoyas 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Despite strong start, Belles unable to get victory 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sports Ec!i1or 
Saint Mary's remained winless in MIAA play Friday night with a hard-fought home loss to a strong Adrian College squad 30­26, 30-26. 30-21. 
The Belles jumped out to a strong start over the fourth­place Bulldogs, but were unable to put them away in the opening games. 
"We played well as a team. very well," Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "We led most of these games within the match. We played well, but we unfortunately have these lit­tle lapses, and just didn't finish the match as hard as we started. We'd start very strong and play hard through the first 20-25 points, but then we'd get 
October 18 
2002 
· 7:30 p.m.
i" ..1,:, .,, · ' 
' :·,Moreau Center ... -::-· m for the ArtS 
Little 
Theatre 
mg,f~()
I ~ 
1H~ ART$ 
~#OTJla"D.Ull!,fJlf 
For tickets, call Saint Macy's College Box Office 574/284~4626 
relaxed." 
The close match was an improvement for the Belles after the outcome of the last meeting between these two teams, when Adrian outscored Saint Mary's 90-50 in three games. 
Schroeder-Biek says she has seen great improvement in her young team. Nine of the 11 members of the squad are sophomores or freshmen. 
"They played much better though," Schroeder-Riek said. "I've really seen improvement, and it's nice to see that my fresh­men and sophomores are getting such a very good experience. " 
Defensively, the Belles had a strong showing. Sophomore defensive specialist Michelle Gary led the squad with 22 digs, the third highest three-match total this year in MIAA play. 
Outside attacker Alison Shevik 
Friday 

and defensive specialist Jenny Wilkins also had 17 and 15 digs, respectively. 
Setter Bridget Wakaruk again paced the team with 15 assists, while Shevik was the Belles leader in kills, with 10. 
The Belles have one of their best chances of the season to get an MIAA victory Wednesday with a home match against Olivet 
Without you, Campus Ministry doesn 't have a prayer ........ . 
Attention: Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
You are invited to compose a personal prayer for the new edition of the Notre Dame Student Prayer Book. Please visit our new website 
.. 

today/or information about how to compose and submit a prayer. 
http://www.nd.edu/~prayers/ 
College. 
Saint Mary's actually outscored Olivet earlier this sea­son, but couldn't put all the points together at the right time in suffering a five-game loss 30­20, 30-27, 13-30, 20-30, 15-12. 
"[Olivet] is a team that I think we should have beaten the first time through, and I'm very excit­ed for the rematch," Schroeder­
ofthe NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY 
Biek said. 
The Comets are 4-18 on the season, 1-8 in MIAA play. Meanwhile, Saint Mary's is 5-15 and 0-9 in conference action. 
The two teams face oIT at 5:30 
p.m. Wednesd11y at Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Chris Federico at . cfederico@nd.edu 
ByMAITLOZAR Sports Wrirer 
The last time Notre Dame played Georgetown. the Irish were taken to five games by the Hoyas in a tightly-contested match. This time around. the Irish had it much easier. 
Continuing its strong confer­ence play, the Notre Dame vol­leyball team defeated Georgetown 30-26, 31-29. 30­
21. On Sunday. the Irish beat Villanova 30-25. 28-30, 30-28. 30-17. 
"All I remember about last year's game is that it was really exciting, a heated match, a huge rivalry." outside hitter Emily Loomis said. "[On Saturday.] we played well. came out strong and beat them handily." 
Despite hitting under .200 in games one and two, the Irish were able to pull out those two games and they cruised in game three with a .429 hitting percent­age. The difference in the two games was simple. 
"We finally just came out and executed," Loomis said. 
Outside hitter Lauren Kelbley led Notre Dame (15-3, 6-0 in the Big East) with 13 kills against Georgetown {12-7, 3-2). The freshman recorded a .611 hitting percentage -the highest hitting percentage for an Irish player this season. For her efforts over the weekend, Kelbley was named co-Big East Rookie of the Year on Monday. 
"Lauren has been big for us all year," Loomis said. "She really came out and played awesome in the 1st tournament and she has the capability to do that in every game. She played awesome this weekend." 
Loomis had 11 kills and middle blocker Katie Neff had 13. Keara Coughlin led Notre Dame defen­sively with 11 digs. 
Georgetown had a difficult time hitting against Notre Dame as the Hoyas hit .044 and .074 in games two and three. For the match, Georgetown had a .078 hitting percentage, 

Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown was able to play all 15 of her players in Sunday's four­game \-Vin over Villanova (10-13, 1-5). Four players recorded dou­ble-digit kills for the Irish. Middle blocker Lauren Brewster and Neff each had 12. Brewster led Notre Dame ½ith a .440 hit­ting percentage. 
Kelbley killed 13 and had a team-best seven blocks. Loomis played well again, leading the Irish with 16 kills and 15 digs. 
Despite the filled-out stat sheet, Loomis wasn't happy with dropping a game to the Wildcats. "I think we did a terrible job with our serving -we missed 17 serves," she said. "That gave them a lot of points and left us without the opportunity to score." 
The Irish are currently on a seven-game winning streak and they have won 12 of their last 13 matches. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 15, 2002 Th, Observer . TODAY page 23 
SCHOOL DAZE 
CLARE O'BRIEN 

HAPPY TOWN 
wno.au-,~ 
'I• MN a\ \1lAI ~t.1.m 

!l~llu1'14UI& ~ of­t•o4ed by \h• po~ of Qlll' t~ ;1'acllitift la ~,rt,• 
•r4af'• lia1'PJ '!!own. Ill• not1<>D that 11e ar,t _.tit kMPi'lli e. 50--;foot l.epNOhalW \bat •ta ~t~ 
1lt aiJlPly ~­
•• would uu " torul 
apol.OD to an-r toawrOW 1n ~ Obaer'f•r• 

JACK MONAHAN 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NIGLY 
±
( J ( ]
C:,:,:002 TrJ>uno Media Sorvlcee, Inc. Ail Aig~ts R ..erved 
DADIE 
I (I j 

I GLEANB j 
www.jurrble.corn 
I SMAJET I j
[] ( (] 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Amold and Mike Arglrlon 
11·1 the 111111MWS8ry Wlllhe ... 
of our flrat dale GYerpq,lhe quesllon?
\ 

WH!=N IT C.AMI= 
TO MARRIAGE:, THE BACHEL.OR WAS THIS, 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A{ I I I I I )·( I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: HOIST BALMY GASKET LATEST Answer: The treadmill broke down because it was ­ON ITS LAST LEGS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 29 • Ta ord•r...nd your n1mo, addreH and $5.ff on<I 11111ko chocl< poyabla lo Tnbu,,. Media s.rvtoaa, P.O. So• 4330, Chicago, IL 60880-4330. 
CROSSWORD 
a!ht Ntmlork a!imeB /
Crossword Edited by Will Shortz 
ACROSS 34 From which gold is spun, in
1 Deck out 
a fairy tale 6 Sign of stitches 
38 Smooth-talking 10 Found's partner 
40 Church council 14 Donnybrook 
43 Per 15 Use a 
44 Late bloomer
whetslone on 46 _-engine
16 Aware of 48"_ Loves You"
17 Strips away 49 Actor Liam's
18 Composer younger kin?
Franz-Joseph's la110rile 53 Southwestern 58-Across? saloon 
20 Clean-shaven 56 Bar order, wtth "the"
22 Ore deposit 57 Champ who
23 Golf ball prop 
could "sting Jike 24 "Woe is me!" a bee" 
26 Nursling 58 Go fish, e.g. 28 Enough for 60 Sheepdog, by former hurler training Dwight? 
64 Presidential 32 Order before shaving goofs? "Fire!" 
67 Spaghetti 33 Withered strainer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

68 •-plaisir" 
69 Campsite sight 70 Florida keys. 
e.g. 71 For fear that 72 Do in 73 Stuffed item? 
DOWN 
1 Roadie's load 2 Judge 3 Toast topper 4 Put in fresh film 5 Snuggfes down 6 Librarian's 
admonition 7 Kentucky 
resource a"_home?" 9 Begin to blush 
10 Alamos 11 • a customer" 12 Beef on the 
hoof
13 Arcade coin 19 Ells grown up 21 Briefs brand 25 Peppy 27 Memory unit 28 Totally smitten 29 Softens, as 
leather 30 Pass over 31 Slowly, on a 
score 35 Allergy indication 
36 Yearn 

WILLSHORTZ 
No. 0827 

Puull, by Denb• M. NIUtndorl 
37 "That was 47 Unbeatable foe close!" 
50 Puts on the 39 Like the wire in 
books 
a croquet wicket 51 Patriot Adams
41 Holds the deed to 
52 Meet an 42 Washington untimely fate who sang the 
59 Sicilian smoker 61 Sub shop 62 At any time 63 Take five 
53 Gondola's place 65 Fall mo.
blues 45 Wear the crown 54 Still in play 66 Slop spot 
Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone 
phone: 1·900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comldiversions ($19.95 a year). Crosswords !or young solvers: The Leaming Nelwork, nytimes.comlleaming/xwords. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIF.S BORN ON THIS DAY: Sarah Ferguson. Penny Marshall, Emeril Lagasse, r1m Palmer 
Happy Birthlay: Should you choose to jwnp in wid1 bolh fee~ this can be an exciting year. Know that the hard wmk you have put in will pay off and be conficknt in your ability to finish with finesse what you start. Prosperity will be a given, but the prospect of in a much better personal life will be the biggest reward of all. Your oombers are 4, 19, 22, 25, 31, 38 
ARIFS (March 21-April 19): Today will be rather hectic on the domestic scene. Expect intenuptioos from family members. Organize your day well if you wish 10 occomplish all yoo set out to do. 1rtt:* TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Travel and family gatherings should be in orckr. Plan an outing to apark or avisit to relatives in another city. You will pick up valuable knowledge through conversations with experienced individuals. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Go out to visit friends or participate in groups. Get involved in physical activities that will stimulate you and use up some of that excess eocrgy yru ~**1ftt CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional upset may preoccupy your day. Focus on physical activities oc excursioru with your family. In this way you should be able to avoid argwnerJs. H* LEO (July 2.'-Aug. 22): lnsirre'e gesllll'eS of friendlill:SS are likely today. Be careful what you say to whom. Put in some overtime rather than getting involved in family 
~H* 
VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-Sept. 22): You may not be that popular at home. but you should l:e able to shine at social gatherings. Don't let the opinions of family members get you down. Tuke tirre to ermoce yoor appearan:e by making physical improvemems. *** LIBRA (SepL 2.'\.()cL 22): Don't bother trying to make someone you live with sec your point of view. Put your efforts into red:corating or inviting friends over. The distra:lion wiU be good foc both ofyru *H** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A little extra lime spent on preparation now will save yru time down the road, You can find out interesting infoonation if you get achaoce to talk to peqile yru respect tt SAGfITARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 21): You wiU have the rx:ed lo make some changes today. Your health may have suffered ciJe to rcglect oc abuse. It's time to pay attention and listen to what ywr lxldy and mind rm!. 1rtt:* • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.19): You may fioo that ywr emotional partrcr will mt re too eager to accommodate you. Try to stay out of treir way and oo what you have to do. Don\make promises that youcant~bly krep. H* AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may want to stay in the 1:0:kground today. Your ckpressed mood has been hard to shake. It's OK to take alime out from the oction to 
regroup.ti* 
PISCFS (Feb.19-Marcli 20): Get out and rub shoulckrs with people in high positions ifat all pa;.sible. There is an ~~tyfoc yoo to ottain some very good infCfll1alion that could be helpful. You can make excellent investments if you are in the right pla:e at Ire right time. 1ftt 
Birthday Baby: You will be an individual who will attra:t attention and popularity throughoot yrur life. Yru will re inten:sting. intelligent and intuitive in all that yru do and trerefoce should l:e able to .rcomplish what you set out to do. 
Oleck out F.ugenia's Web Sites at ~troadvice.com, eugenialast.com. a.stromate.com. 
OOPYRIGHrlXJZ UNNERSALPRESS SYNDICATE 

-~----~----~~--------~---------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ----------------------------­
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 



PORTS 
Tuesday, October 15, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Hildbold and punt team pin opponents deep 
ANDREW KENNA/The Observer Notre Dame punter Joey Hildbold kicks during Saturday's win over Pittsburgh. Hildbold pinned the Panthers inside their own 10-yard line twice . 
• 
MENS INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Stanford takes out.Morrissey in hard-fought game 
ByJUSTIN SCHUVER, LISA 
REIJUl.A, and HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN Sports Writers 
Wide receiver Adam Oyster and the rest of the Stanford Griffins found a pearl Sunday as they handed Morrissey its first loss this season with a come-from-behind 12-7 win. 
The win guarantees the Griffins (3-1) a playoff spot in this year's postseason. 
"We needed this win to make sure we were going to make it," said Oyster, who also serves as team captain. 
His team was not sharp early in the game, when a high snap on a punt gave Morrissey (2-1) excellent field position. The Manorites were able to take advantage of the short field and scored on a 5-yard touch­down pass from quarterback Rick Ysasi to tight end David Purcell. 
The extra point kick was good, to give Morrissey a 7-0 lead in the first quarter. 

The Griffins' next punt included another mistake, but this one was in the team's favor, as the Manorite returner muffed the punt and Stanford recovered it. 
The Griffins were able to drive 44 yards on the ensuing drive, culminating with a 3­yard quarterback keeper by quarterback Rich Whitney to put Stanford on the board. 
Stanford, who was without a kicker, failed its two-point con­version attempt, making the score 7-6. 
The score remained 7-6 until the fourth quarter. With less than three minutes remaining in the game, Stanford was able to complete a drive from its own 14-yard line. 
The scoring play was a 9­yard touchdown pass from Whitney to Oyster with less than a minute remaining in the game. Again the two-point attempt failed, making the score 12-7. 
"[That catch] felt really great for our team," Oyster said. "We played hard the whole game and I was just happy our team came away with the win." 
The Griffin sideline celebrat­ed and cheered, but there was still time for the Manorites to engineer an answer. This drive was extinguished when a Griffin defensive back inter­cepted Ysasi, leaving only a kneel by Whitney to make the game official. 
Oyster credited his team's defensive coach Matt Sollitto for putting together an excel-
see INTER.HALL/page 19 

By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
Irish punter Joey Hildbold came into the game more times than most everyone associated with the Irish would have liked. 
But as the Notre Dame offense failed to move the ball most of the day, it constantly turned to Hildbold and the punt team to bury the Panthers deep in their own territory. 
Saturday, they came through. 
"Our punt team is great," Hildbold said after the game Saturday. "We have great cover­age and great protection. We work on it every week, two to three times a week." 
Hildbold had nine punts Saturday, averaging 39.0 yards per punt. But the important stats were that Pittsburgh only got 4.6 yards per return due to Hildbold's kicking and the punt team's solid coverage. 
Pittsburgh's average field posi­tion Saturday was at its own 23­yard line. Giving the Panthers a long field to work with enabled the Notre Dame defense to be largely successful in keeping Pittsburgh off the scoreboard. 
"You always enjoy being the factor in the game." Hildbold said. "I think a lot of times field position is a big part of the game, so we're always going to be a fac­tor." 
Three of Hildbold's punts put the Panthers up against a wall inside their 20-yard line, while another barely snuck into the end zone for a touchback. 
The biggest of these plays could have been Hildbold's punt with roughly 9 minutes, 30 sec­onds left in the game that sailed out at Pittsburgh's 7-yard line. 
On the Panthers' second play from deep in their territory, Irish safety Glenn Earl hit quarterback Rod Rutherford to force a fum­ble, recovering the ball for the Irish. 
The Notre Dame offense then only had 12 yards to go for its eventual touchdown. 
"[Downing a punt near the goal line] is critical, because what it does in most cases is that it changes the offensive scheme that they bring to you," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "So if we can force them to back up, then they have to be con­scious of the fact that a mistake down there leads to an easy score. So they change their calls, and maybe get a little more con­servative. It allows us to pack things in and hopefully get to three and out, then all of a sud­den you're starting to get control ofthe football game." 
On the other hand. Pittsburgh punter Andy Lee failed to take advantage of his opportunities to pin the Irish offense deep in its own territory. Lee's first four punt attempts came from within Notre Dame's 42-yard line, and all sailed into the end zone for touchbacks. Only one of his nine punts on the day landed inside Notre Dame's 20-yard line. 
"If the team has to go 80 yards, that's not as bad as the team having to go 95 yards," Hildbold said. "Getting the ball in there, down inside the 5 and 10, like coach said before, changes their whole offense." 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederico@nd.edu 
---.. __ JY'''\%\ 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
SMC VOU.EYBALL 

HOCKEY 
SENDWICH INDEX 
ND 3, Georgetown 0 Adrian 3, Saint Mary's 0 

Notre Dame 5 ND 3, Villanova 1 
Minnesota-Duluth 3 
This week's computer index gener­ated by two Notre Dame studentsBelles failed to capitalize on strongIrish continue their dominance in had Virginia Tech at the top. TheIn their opening weekend of the

start and stayed winless in the 
Big East conference play. 

Irish move up to No. 3. hat trick to pick up their first win. 
season, the Irish use Rob Globke's
MIAA. 

en 
page 22 
page 22 
page 21 page 14 





