
Spell out clear tailgating rules
PARTLY 
Wednesday
Following student confusion over the tailgating policy last fall, The 
CLOUDY 
Observer praises the proposed revised policy while calling for clarification on 
MARCH 20, 
issues not addressed in father Poorman's e-mail. 
HIGH 48° 
2002
Viewpoint . page 10 
LOW29° 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 107 HTTP://OBSERYER.ND.E 

Leaders challenge policy with signs 

By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
Student government's execu­tive cabinet sponsored the pub­lication of thousands of signs challenging the Notre Dame administration's decision to end in-hall dances, better known as "SYRs." 
The signs, which read, "We need a voice," and "Save the SYR," were distributed to the Hall President's Council Tuesday night as a protest of just one of the several regula­t i o n s announced See Also in the 
"Students voice

University's new alcohol opposition to new policy by 
alcohol policy"

vice presi­dent for pageB Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman Tuesday. The major changes included the ban of all hard alcohol in resi­dence halls, the end of in-hall dances and the enforcement of the rule that only students 21­years-old or older may host tail­gaters in a designated lot. 
"We're asking all the students to pul them in their windows and in their doors," said Student Body Vice President Brian Moscona. 
Members of the executive cabinet said they were disap­pointed that the administration did not seek more of their input before making the new alcohol policy. 
"The real frustration of exec­utive cabinet was about stu­dents having a voice in these decisions," said senior class president Peter Rossman. "It could be any big decision, not just alcohol." 
Moscona, who will be a resi­dent assistant in Stanford Hall next year, said the end of SYR dances will be detrimental to the Notre Dame residence hall life. The SYR, which stands for "Screw Your Roommate," is a casual to semi-formal dance in the dorm, usually with themes like O'Neill Hall's Mardi Gras or Lyons Hall's Luau. The original concept of the SYR was that students would get dates for their roommates, hence the expression, but now it varies depending on the dorm and the individual. 
'The SYR is a major part of Notre Dame tradition and it's a huge part of the residential community tliat we try to foster here at Notre Dame," said Moscona. 
Junior Amy O'Connor, the executive cabinet's Club Coordination Council athletic division representative, said she and others were shocked about the soon-to-end SYR tradition. According to O'Connor, there had been many rumors about banning hard alcohol, and addi­tional changes to the tailgating policy, but many were com­pletely unaware of the plans to move all dances out of the resi­dence halls. 
"The SYRs had seemed to just come out of the blue," said O'Connor. "To think when my brother comes here, he's not going to get to go to an SYR in his dorm, is something I can't believe." 
O'Connor said she was sym­pathetic of the administration's concern regarding alcohol use on campus, but she disagreed with the way it made the deci­sions. 
"I believe that there is a pos­
see ALCOHOL/page 6 

Lehrer blasts entertainIDent news influence 
By KATE NAGENGAST 
News Writer 
Jim Lehrer, executive editor and anchor of "NewsHour with Jim Lehrer," admonished mod­ern media for the increasing influence of cable news net­works and sensationalism dur­ing his speech Tuesday at this year's Red Smith Lecture in Journalism in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Although cable news net­works such as CNN, MSNBC and Fox News have relatively small audiences compared to Lehrer's NewsHour on PBS, the news networks' pervasive pres­ence in newsrooms influences journalists, he said 
"People engaged in the prac­tice of journalism are watching cable news channels and this will have an enormous, but not necessarily a bad or an evil sig­nificance," said Lehrer. 'Tm waving a yellow flag of caution because cable news networks have air time to fill and excite­ment to generate -issues that arc not always related to news relevance." 
Lehrer cautioned that this quest to engage viewers is intriguing, but can also blur the line between entertainment and information. 
"There is an increasing ten­dency to see news as entertain­ment, not information," said Lehrer. "Using an entertaining way to inform is fine, but the purpose of news is to inform.... If you want to be entertained, go to the circus." 
At a time of when many inde­pendent news organizations are joining conglomerations, Lehrer stressed the importance of "independent news judge­ments ... for a fully functioning free press." 
Lehrer highlighted signs of hope in the industry as well, mostly credited to the after­math of Sept. 11. 
"There is and has been a serious world out there that deserves to be covered serious­ly," said Lehrer. "You cannot tell American people that the world is getting smaller and then not tell them what's going on in the rest of the world." 
To demonstrate how drasti­cally things have changed in the last six months, Lehrer revealed that during his early years in journalism his col­leagues coined the term "Afghanistanism" to describe stories considered irrelevant to the American public. "But nothing is irrelevant anymore," he said. 
Lehrer responded to ques­tions from the standing-room­only audience on a variety of topics including how he decides what to discuss on his show, 

Lehrer, a correspondent at PBS for the last 30 years, criti­cized sensationalism in the media during a speech at this year's Red Smith Lecture in Journalism. 
how he handled the 2000 years worked with Hobert Presidential debates personally MacNeil on "The and whether or not PBS con-MacNeil/Lehrer Report" and cerns itself with ratings in the "The MacNeil/Lehrer same way commercial net-NewsHour" for 20 years before works might. he became the show's sole 
Lehrer, a correspondent and anchor at PBS for the last 30 see LEHRER/page 8 


Thieves take cash 
from 
SMC choir 
By SHEILA EGTS Saint Mary's Editor 
A total of $2,335 dollars was stolen on March 11 from the purses of about 30 Saint Mary's students while they were on tour with the College choir in Redmond, Wa., according to a King County police report. 
The Saint Mary's choir toured the Pacific Northwest, giving performances at area churches as part of their spring break tour. The money was stolen during the first half of their concert · at Washington Cathedral, between 7 and 7:45 p.m. 
The thieves stole cash only from the women's purses, which were unattended in an upper room of the church. 
Nancy Menk, chair of the Saint Mary's Department of Music noticed the money was missing when the choir went back to the dressing room at intermission. 
Karen Webb Wasserman, an "88 Saint Mary's alumna, was present at the performance and happened to overhear Menk give news of the theft to two choir members while she was purchasing a CD. 
"There was a short delay, but just a few minutes later the choir ushered back in and retook the stage, several of them wiping away their tears as they walked," said Wasserman. "Without a word about the incident, they began the second half of their reper­toire. The audience gave them a standing ovation for their superb performance." 
A' church leader asked that a special collection be taken up after the performance to help reimburse the loss. The collection amounted to more than the stolen money. 
"I was able to reimburse each student for her loss the following morning, and the rest of the tour continued without any problems," said Menk. "We made sure our belongings were locked up while we were singing, how­ever. 
According to Menk, the choir plans to return the tick­et sale proceeds to the Washington Cathedral to put toward their mission Guatemala. 
Contact Sheila Egts at egts0236@saintmarys.edu. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Are you called? 
As the end of the school year approaches and graduation looms overhead, those of us who are seniors have to look at where we stand and where we will be in the next couple months. This is a time that will get us ready for the rest of our lives. It is during this 
time that we get ready to leave our haven at Notre Dame and prepare to take on the world. 
In this time of decisions, we must be willing to look at every option, explore every opportunity, and jump at every chance we 


have to make sure that we Angela Campos don't accidentally miss something really important. We must also make sure we Lab Tech don't walk past our voca­tions. 
Did she just say what we all just thought she said? Did she say vocation? I don't want a vocation ... l just want to get a good job. I just want to help people through service. I just want to live out my dream. 
For one thing, everyone is called to a voca­tion. A vocation is a summons or strong incli­nation to a particular state or course of action. or the work in which a person is regularly employed. That job that you always wanted as a consultant with Deloitte & Touche or as a programmer with Microsoft could be your vocation. Teaching children could be your vocation. You could be called to a religious vocation. Your vocation could be documenting tribes along the Amazon and Congo rivers. It could be helping the poor and the sick to find help. Or to counsel, console and help those people who have problems or are going through hard times. It could just be to give ser­vice. 
How do you know that you are called to a particular vocation? For one, don't count any­thing out. You might find that your branch of Microsoft is sponsoring a computer field day for elementary school kids and, while you are there helping out, you discover that you are really good at helping the kids understand how things work. So you start volunteering at the local elementary school or recreation center. You were called to work with kids, but would not have necessarily realized it if you had not worked at that particular Microsoft branch. 
Likewise, don't limit what you allow yourself to do. There are so many ways for people to find their vocations. Some people know that they can make a rational choice to be a football player, a priest, a teacher, or a lawyer. Others take a little persuasion from fate by being in the right place at the right time. Some people go through three, four or more occupations (or companies) before they find what they really want to do. or know what they need to do. 
So, to all of you seniors out there: good luck in finding your vocation. Be open to the spec­trum of opportunities that is open to you. Listen. Are you being called? 
Contact Angela Campos at Campos.2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 
The Observer regards itsdfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recogniz,-rhar we will mak<'." mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except du.nng exam an.d vacadon periods. The Observer is a memUer of chc Assoclaled Press. All reproduction .righu are reserved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
Wednesday  Thursday  
. Town Hall meeting:  . Lecture: "Philosophy  
Student government ­ and the Common Good,"  
sponsored discussion  Ralph Hancock, Debartolo  
about proposed alcohol  Hall room, 214, 4:30 p.m.  
policy, Stonehenge. 5  
p.m.  

Friday 
. Theatre: "Learned Ladies," by Moliere. Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. Saint Mary's College. Tickets available at SMC box office or at door, 8 p.m. 
Saturday 
. Musical Review: 
"Reading Rainbow," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. For tickets call SMC box office at (574) 284-4626. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


BEYOND CAMPUS 
Virginia student's death raises depression issues 
CIIARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
The death of junior Aaron John Fox in his father's home over spring break has brought the issue of sui­cide among college students to the forefront of the University communi­ty. 
The details of Fox's death had not been released as of Monday, but it has been identified as suicide. 
The Office of the Dean of Students "received word from his father, say­ing he was comfortable with people knowing the manner of his [Aaron's] death," Dean of Students Penny Rue said. 
A memorial service for Fox was held Friday in Fairfax, Va., at Everly Funeral Home. 
Individuals wishing to offer condo­lences to Fox's family may contact the Office of the Dean of Students at 

Although this suicide is the first in the University community in the past two years. suicide is a serious issue in the college community nationally. According to the American Federation for the Prevention of Suicide, suicide is the second-lead­ing cause of death among American college students. trailing only traffic 


UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Student suicide opposes privacy 
LOS ANGELES 
A negligence lawsuit involving student and parent rights has sparked a national debate on where confi­dentiality lines should be drawn, but University of Southern California will continue to follow federal law when dealing with student privacy. USC strictly follows the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act when it comes to disclosing information, said Ken Taylor, director of the Office of Residential and Greek Life. The act prevents colleges and universi­ties from disclosing any personal information about students. "We judge everything on a case-by-case basis," Taylor said. "We follow federal law. The cri­teria for disclosing any student information is as the law dictates." The only exception is if the situation is a life-threatening emergency -a situation the par­ents of Elizabeth Shin, a sophomore who committed suicide at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said they believe she was facing. 

LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

accidents. 
Since 1950, the suicide rate among college-age women has more than doubled, and the rate among college-age men has tripled. 
While some individuals do not show any sign they are contemplat­ing suicide, some give warning sig­nals in a "cry for help." 
Depressed individuals are most susceptible to suicide. More than 95 percent of all suicide victims were depressed before death. 
"They may say something like, 'Everything would be better off without me.' Or 'It doesn't matter. I won't be around much longer, any­way,' according to the Web site for Suicide Awareness Voices for Education. "We need to 'key into' phrases like those instead of dis­missing them as just talk." 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Federal agents arrest student 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Federal Bureau of Investigation agents arrested a Harvard University Kennedy School of Government (KSG) student Friday at Peabody Terrace on charges he allegedly embezzled $3.35 million from a Hong Kong company. The Hong Kong government charged 34-year-old Kenneth Kin-Yuen Fung, who is also known as Kenneth Chi-Keung Fung and Edward Fong, with 12 counts of theft and seven counts of false accounting records. according to documents from the 
U.S. Attorney's Office in Boston. The Hong Kong war­rant for Fung's arrest, issued Dec. 21, 2001, describes his nationality as British and Canadian. According to the KSG registrar's office, Fung is registered there as Edward Fong, the same name he uses on his Canadian passport. From February 1997 to March 1998, Fung served as chairman and chief executive officer of Climax International Company Ltd. (CICL), a firm which specializes in the production and distribution of paper products and stationery, the documents said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

A11an1a  80  52  Las Vegas  73  49  Portland  54  42  
Baltimore  50  39  Memphis  58  44  Sacramento  71  45  
Boston  39  34  Milwaukee  44  22  St. Louis  54  37  
Chicago  51  28  New York  43  37  Tampa  83  65  
Houston  75  54  Philadelphia  46  40  Washington  50  43  




Wednesday, March 20, 2002 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


OIT adds bandwidth, monitors use of file-sharing sites 
Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College proudly announces its Sixth Annual GALA-ND/SMC Memorial Grants 
GAIA-ND/SMC is now accepting applications for the Sixth Annual GAi.A-ND/SMC Memorial Grants. Two $2,000.00 grants will be presented to students of Notre Dame and/or Saint Mary's College to honor leadership and to support the students' participation in a six­to eight-week summer service project benefiting the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered community. Projects at agencies providing services to individuals with HIV/ AIDS or agencies providing services to gay and lesbian youth are encouraged. 
The deadline for applications is April 4, 2002. Grant applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame, the SURV Office at Saint Mary's, or by e-mail request from: GAlANDSMC@aol.com. Names of grant recipients will be kept confidential pending their consent. 
Past winners have included students from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Grant winners have performed a variety of summer service projects including: the AIDS Project Los Angeles; the Massachusetts Attorney General's Office in Boston; Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders in Boston; Better Existence with HIV in the Chicago area; AIDS Referral &Information Services in San Jose, CA; performing civil rights research in Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa; and archiving a collection oflesbigay newspa­pers from a collection held at the University of California, Santa Cruz. 
It is anticipated that the grants will be conferred at the OUTreachND April Follies by representatives of GAIA-ND/SMC in South Bend/ Mishawaka. 
The Gay and Lesbian Alumnilae of the University ofNotre Dame and Saint Marjs College is an independent 501 (c)(3) charitable organization with no official affiliation with either the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Our strength comes from our membership and our numbers. 
By HELENA PAYNE N1:ws Editor 
The increase of file-sharing on web sites like Audiogalaxy.com has prompted the Office of Information Technologies to adopt new ways to control net­work traffic. 
OIT's two main solutions cur­rently are to provide more band­width for users of ResNet by adding a second Internet service prnvider (ISP) and to cap the amount of network bandwidth available to an individual user. 
"The growth of demand fur network bandwidth and the growth in utilization of the net­tional activity." 
Klimek said he and other OIT 
employees had noticed that 
more students were using band­
width on sites such as 
Audiogalaxy .com and 
Gnutella.com, which are most 
often used to download music in 
the form of MP3 files. 
Also, called peer-to-peer pro­
tocols, MP3 file-sharing Web 
sites can clog the Internet and 
slow down the speed of 
browsers or other online activity 
for network users. 
"At one point, all the traffic with the peer-to-peer protocols used for downloading files off the Internet substantially incrc~sed the demands for Internet bandwidth," said Klimek. "It impacted the [net­·work's] pe"rformance for the entire campus. It made it diffi­cult to browse the Internet to do 
any work." 
In order to reduce the network 
congestion, OIT has engaged in 
a task called "packet shaping," 
which allows the OIT staff to 
control the Internet trafTic for a 
particular protocol. 
"Shaping is a way of allocating 
bandwidth," said Klimek. "That 
means you can define a half a 
meg[abyte per second] for a spe­
cific purpose." 
In the case of protocols like 
the popular file-sharing site 
Audiogalaxy, Klimek said OTT 
has designated exactly one-half 
a megabyte p"er second to that 
site for the entire campus. 
"It's a trade-off," said Klimek. 
"We're giving you faster brows­
ing performing and slower 
downloading performance." 
Through "shaping," Klimek 
and Wishon said OIT hopes to make browsing the Internet quicker and monitor the exces­sive use of certain protocol. 
So far, the following sites have been shaped: Aimster,. Audiogalaxy, Directconnect, Gnutella, !mesh, Kazaa, Napster, and Edonkey2000. 
"We allocated a certain amount of bandwidth to each protocol," Klimek said. 
Although rumors had circulat­ed before the mid-semester break that Audiogalaxy had been blocked, or "firewalled," Klimek and Wishon said that was not the case. 
"[There is] no firewall in place at the university," Wishon said. "Orr is not blocking access to Audiogalaxy or any other file­sharing or peer networking. pro­tocols or servers." 
OIT has been packet shaping since the last academic year when the heightened use of Napster became an issue on campus as well as at other insti­tutions. 
Wishon said, although all incoming students learn about rules regarding the use of the network, they need to respect those rules. The OTT web site, www.nd.edu/~ndoit, contains a responsible use policy under the link titled "Getting Started with IT." 
"We provide access to the net­work principally to support the educational objectives of the university and that will always be our first priority," Wishon said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
work participation by students in the residence halls has exceeded our ability to deliver," said Gordon Wishon, chief infor­mation officer. 
Before the mid-semester break, OIT had the limited band­width of 20 megabytes per sec­ond for the entire campus net­work with the Genuity, a nation­al company. However, OlT has now doubled the campus bandwidth through Gra.mtel, a local ISP that "provides good, reliable, redundant access to the Internet," Wishon said. 
OIT has beeu planning this change for the last six months, but many of the final steps took place during the break. 
Well maintained houses near campus 
• 
Washers and dryt::rs provided 

• 
24-hour maintainancc staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, •1-, 5-, & 8-bedroom houses 


Only 4 left for the 2002-2003 school year 
Also leasing for the 2003-2004 school year 
Call today, houses are 


going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 274-9955 Voicemail: 674-2571 
"The added bandwidth means you won't be competing with the rest of campus for bandwidth," said manager of OIT network engineering Tom Klimek. "I think you'll notice a perfor­mance boost." 
However, with this rise in net­work performance, OIT staff said they would continue to monitor the network space that students use for non-academic activities, like downloading from file-sharing Web sites. 
"OIT is not blocking any of those applications," said Wishon. "We are, however, cap­ping their utilization during periods of high network activity ... to give preference to educa­

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 20, 2002 

AII-calllpus Dleeting 
Peace conference begins Friday 
By LIZ KAHLING



gets green light 
By JASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 

A day after announcing major changes to the University alcohol policy, stu­dent life officials cleared a rushed initiative Tuesday by student leaders opposed to the revisions. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice pres­ident for Residence Life, signed off on a sl.udent govern­ment plan to host a campus­wide meeting today on the Fieldhouse M a I I . 
Organizers "A lot of
"We needed to do some­
University and is the founder ofplanned the members 

the Center for Teaching Peace, a nonprofit organization that

5 p.m. thing to show that we are were recep­
meeting to concerned and want to get tive and 
promotes education in nonvio­

raise con­wanted to
students involved." 
lence and peacemaking. 

cerns about sec that lhe 
The conference will continue

the alcohol administra­
with panel presentations from 9

policy Brooke Norton tion knows 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday in thechanges the positive,

student body president 
Hesburgh Center for
and other University 

decisions, Student Body 
President Brooke Norton said. 
"We wanted to show that as students we are a strong com­munity and are a voice for change on this campus," ­Norton said. 
The action comes just two days after Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman unveiled the three policy changes: 
. 
the outlaw of "hard alco­hol" in undergraduate resi­dence halls 

. the ban of in-hall dances 

. 
and the revision of tailgat­ing rules to allow 21-year-old students to host parties in des­ignated par!<ing lots before home football games · 


University officers will likely formally approve the changes this summer and enact them in the fall. 
Norton criticized University officials for not working close­ly with students to rewrite the policy. 
"We weren't able to be a part of this before Monday," she said. "We needed to do something to show that we are concerned and want to get students involved." 
Norton expected that several student leaders, including her­tions and worries. Organizers will field questions on stage at the meeting, and designated people with notepads will be available to write down ques­tions and deliver them to stu­dent leaders for answers later. 
"We want students to feel like we're listening," Bishop said. 
Contact Jason McFarley at 
"With the war on terrorism and the prospect of starting war with Iraq, what better opportu­nity to speak out against vio­lence and injustice than now?" 
These complex issues that the speakers will address include ethnic and religious dimensions of conflict, multi-faceted solu­tions for peace and develop­ment, the role of youth, media and military in the advance­ment of' peace and more. 
A number of the students involved with the conference are from Notre Dame, but there are also presenters from many Midwest colleges including Western Michigan University, Kent State, Purdue University and St. John's University. 
Kristin Corcoran, committee head on panelists presenters, said there was a great response to the invil.ations to speak but unfortunately not enough fund­ing to fly presenters in from around the world. 
"We had responses from all over the world including Uzbekistan and the Balkans," said Corcoran. 
Many of the presenters have had some kind of experience with their topic through intern­ships, studying abroad or class­es. Lauren Berrigan, presenting on Nuclear Weapons, had an internship last semester in Washington D.C. and is dis­cussing issues that she researched. Berrigan sees the topic as one that is not easily understood because it can get very technical but is very important to explain and teach. 
"I want to educate people to the [nuclear weapon] threat out there. It's an issue that needs to be constantly presented and addressed," said Berrigan. 
Liam Dacey will be critically analyzing how the media has sensationalized and spun the news and the possible role for 
2112 
the media to play in peace. 
"You rarely see peace advo­cates on the major networks. In recent years the media has twisted the underlying issues," said Dacey. 
Dacey planned on drawing on the examples like the media coverage of the WTO demon­stration in Seattle in 1999. 
Beth Krause and the Notre Dame Take Ten team will fea­ture area elementary children to present their award winning essays and posters addressing conflict management in elemen­tary school. 
The conference will feature not only peace studies minors and government majors but also students majoring in film, biology and pre-medical stud­ies. Boyd hopes the conference will reach the nontraditional humanity and peace studies group and highlight the impor­tance of being aware of interna­tional and domestic events for college students. 
"Often as college students we can become immersed in the 'bubble,' oblivious to what is going on in the world around us," Boyd said. 'The conference is a forum where undergradu­ate students have the opportu­nity to engage in open dialogue with other undergraduates and experts about a variety of peace and social justice issues." 
Registration will take place from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday and Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon at the Krock Institute 
. Great Hall in the Hesburgh Center. Lunch is provided with registration. Event times and locations and online registra­tion can be found at http//www.nd.edu/-krocinst/be change02.html 
Contact Liz Kahling at kahling. l@nd.edu. 


self, would make brief com­ments at the meeting but use the event mainly as a forum for students to ask questions and relay concerns. 
The measure already has the concern, Norton said, of the Hall Presidents Council, Office of the Student Body President staff, the Executive Cabinet and students unaffiliated with campus government. 
Norton spoke Tuesday at the HPC meeting, where her appeal for support was well­received, according to HPC co-
chair Bob 
LeBlanc. 
News Writer 
Nearly 50 students from Notre Dame and other universi­ties will be presenting at the 2002 Undergraduate Peace Conference at the I-lesburgh Center this weekend. 
This year's conference titled, "Be the Change," will feature seminars, lectures, artistic per­formances and exhibits on how to strive for peace. 
Colman McCarthy, a syndicat­ed columnist and editorial page reporter for the Washington Posl, will give the keynote address at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. McCarthy teaches at Georgetown 

community-
bu i Id in g experience that the change hurts," LeBlanc said, noting that most HPC representatives took particular issue with the announced ban on in-hall dances. 
LeBlanc, the Carroll Hall president, will be off campus today and wasn't sure if he could attend the meeting, but several hall presidents are expected to speak. Norton said they would talk the policy changes meaning the end of their residence halls marquee dances and events. 
Student Body President-elect Libby Bishop also will speak. Bishop and vice president­elect Trip Foley take office April 1. 
Bishop said the meeting comes at a critical time when students have a lot of ques­International Studies. A round­table discussion with University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh will take place from 2:45 to 3:45 p.m. on Saturday in Room C-103. The conference will end with dance and music concert.s. 
Tona Boyd, conference coor­dinator, sees this conference as a way for students to "be the change you want to see in the world." Boyd was a member of a group of students that met to discuss how they could be a voice for peace in the recent aftermath of September 11th. 
"After September 11th, I think many people wanted to 'do something' but were com­pletely overwhelmed by the magnitude and complexity of the issues involved," Boyd said. 
mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 






r-----------, 
I I I ....,........ I 


I ~-I 

111,s 11 r11r11 .11,
I >--=; ====' €A~ OF I ..___._. CHIOIGO

1 1 Wednesday, March 20 
: ..__Pl~-z_Z.4_C_O_M_PA_N_V_a : 


4:30 •6:00 p.m.


1pi7zadoneright 1 

Library Concourse
:i.-~~~&tMIW•!'>'i"'ffffiiwi1~· ';I 


Advisors from every Major, Minor and Area Studies Program will be available to provide infQrmation and answer questions for all students. 




ATION 
Wednesday, March 20, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Romanians seize illegal horses: 
Authorities in Bucharest halted dozens of horses and carts and escorted them to a city pound Tuesday, fining their owners to enforce a year-old ban on illegal equestrian traffic in the Homanian capital. Horses pulling carts of scrap metal to sell to recycling companies arc a common sight on Bucharest's overcrowded streets. 
Aussie hostel arsonist gets life: 
Hobert Paul Long, a 38-year-old drifter. received a life sentence Monday from the Brisbane Supreme Court for the murder of two backpackers who died in the Palace lfackpackers Hotel fire in June 2000. Long also got 15 years for arson at his sentencing Monday. OITicials called thfdirc the \Vorst in Queensland state historv 

NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Man held after bodies found: Patrick Daniel, 31, of Ann Arbor, Michigan was arraigned Tuesday in Utah after highway patrol stopped Daniel last week and found the frozen, dismembered body of a woman and the body of a man with a noose around his neck. The man, Robert Bilton Jr., 35, of Dearborn was strangled and had head injuries. Troopers said they pulled Daniel over because his Missouri-registered car did not have a front license plate as required. 
One-armed golfer's limb stolen: 
Larry Alford, the "One-Armed Bandit," reported the $15,000 custom-made golfing arm he uses for charity matches stolen early Saturday. The limb was in his sport utility vehicle, also stolen from Spring, Texas. No arrests have been made. Alford, 28, was a promising amateur golfer before losing his arm below the elbow 10 years ago in a car wreck. 

INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Two arrested after body found: 
Police arrested Timothy Dennison, 40, on murder charges and his girlfriend, Patricia Stahl, on charges of assisting a criminal. after the body of Bradley Swabb, 26, was found Tuesday by a mother walking her child to school. Stahl told police that Dennison shot Swabb with a gun in her trailer. An autopsy was scheduled for Tuesday. Dennison was being held without bond in the Delaware County Jail. Stahl was released after posting bond. Swabb, who visited Stahl, believed Dennison was angry at him. 
Market Watch March 19 

Dow 10,635.25 + 57.50 Jones 

Composite
~ Same: 
Volume:
t:) 
207 

1,252,339,547 
AMEX: 899.06 +l.63 NASDAQ: 1,880.87 +3.81 NYSE: 609.53 +2.29 S&P500: 1,170.28 +4.74 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LUCENT TECH INC (LU) -10.04 -0.48 4.30 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUM-I) +2.01 +0.18 9.14 COOP.Al) COOPlJTER (CPQ) +7.53 +0.78 11.14 NAS~-100 INDEX (@) -0.16 -0.06 37.38 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.33 +0.22 16.74 
PAKISTAN 



Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD 
Islamabad's police chief and four other senior poUce officials were fired Tuesday after a deadly grenade attack on a Protestant church frequented by for­eigners. 
The shake-up came as police said they would send the United States DNA sam­ples from the body of a man they suspect carried out the attack that killed five peo­ple, including two Americans. 
Forty-five people, most of them foreigners, were injured when an attacker hurled grenades in the church in a heavily guarded diplomatic quarter near the 

U.S. Embassy during a Sunday morning service. 
The attack on the Protestant International Church has prompted the State Department to warn Americans against traveling to Pakistan. Agents from the department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security will help with the investigation. 
The president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, ordered "imme­diate and effective steps" to improve law and order after meeting with top security officials and regional officials Tuesday to review the case. 
The government announced the dismissal of Islamabad's police chief and four other top police officials in the capital. 
No group has claimed responsibility for the attack, but investigators focused on Islamic extremists who were outraged by Musharraf's support for the United States in its war on terrorism. 
Attacks linked to Muslim militants have surged throughout Pakistan since Musharraf banned five Islamic extremist groups in January. 
The Pakistani newspaper Dawn said Tuesday that the "abject failure" of law enforcement agencies to counter the militant threat called the sincerity of Musharrafs crackdown into question. 

Another newspaper, The Nation, reported that police were investigating whether the attacker was linked to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist network. 
A senior Interior Ministry official said authorities believe the church was attacked because of the large num­ber of Americans and other foreigners in the congregation. 
However, he said investi­gators are also looking into the possibility that Christians -regardless of nationality -were the tar­gets. 
World's oldest person dies at 115 
daughter Laurie Ferris, 32. "She lived alone and cared for herself until she
Associated Press 

a lung time and now she's in a better broke her hip in 1991 and moved to COLDWATER, Mich. place. She passed away very, very the Laurels nursing home. 
Maud Farris-Luse, recognized last peacefully." She remained mentally alert until year by the Guinness World Records Last June, Guinness editors recog­about live years ago. By her birthday book as the world's oldest living per­nized Farris-Luse as the oldest living in January, relatives said she could son, has died. She was 115. person whose age could be verified. not see or hear them or understand 
She died Monday from complica­Though her birth certificate was lost what was happening, but still seemed tions of pneumonia at Community over the years, the editors authenti­to enjoy visitors. Health Center of Branch County in cated her age through other docu­"She was just a wonderful woman. Coldwater, Michigan. She had been in ments, including U.S. Census Bureau loved her family, always happy," said the hospital since Sunday night, said records and her 1903 marriage ferris. Kyle Fassett, administrator of the license. According to records, she was Farris-Luse was born Jan. 21, Laurels of Coldwater, the nursing 115 years and 56 days old. 1887 near Grand Rapids. She out• home where Farris-Luse lived. Described as a sharp and fiercely lived two husbands and all but one of 
"It was her time," said great-grand-independent woman, Farris-Luse lived her seven children. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 20, 2002 

Be TJie Change . . . 
2002 Notre D~me Undergraduate Peace Co-n.fe,-mce 
\1/hen: 

Friday March 22~d and Saturday March 23"4 Where: 
Hesburgh Center f<)r International Studies 
,_ 
Also feiiltUring:

Keynote Speaker: 
a round table

Colman McCarthy 
discussion withfamed peace advocate 

Father Hesburgh
and educator 
seminars, lectures,R.EGISTER artistic performances and exhibits on issues related to 
NOW!!! peace, and a I dosing concert j
(ifs FREE and you get a free lunch!) 
www,.tui.eilu 1---krocinstl heclu2ngel2.html 

Join us tonight for a special 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
as we pray for peace in the spirit of St. Francis of Assisi. 
In Prayer for Peace 
The prayer will be led by six ND students who attended the Day ofI nterreligious Prayer for Peace in Assisi, Italy on January 24th, a day called for by John Paul II that gathered more than 200 leaders from all of the world's major religions and thousands of pilgrims. 
Tonight • 1Opm Morrissey Chapel 
Hall presidents distributed these signs to students In resi­dence halls and encouraged students to hang the signs up in response to the new alcohol policy. 
the Fieldhouse Mall at 5 p.m., as well as the Campus Life
Alcohol 

Council meeting Monday, March 25.
continued from page 1 Moscona said students could 

bring the signs, which were sible different solution than just printed by Adworks and completely banning SYRs," said approved by Student Activities, O'Connor. to the town hall meeting. 
A resident " T h e of Pasquerilla major thing West Hall, that we're
"I believe that there is a 
O'Connor said going to
possible different solu­
her friends challenge is enjoy SYRs tion than just completely the process for the conve­[through
banning SYRs." 
nience of which the dancing and administra­entertaining Amy O'Connor tion decided their dates in junior to change the dorm. the alcohol 
"It's some-policy]," said thing that they look forward to Moscona. "Students need to more than going to an off-cam­have more input when major pus dance," said O'Connor. decisions like these are being 
Many student government made." leaders will be listening to the concerns of students about the 
Contact Helena Payne at 
alcohol policy changes at 

payne.30@nd.edu.
today's all-campus meeting at 

Master's in Clinical Social Work 
V A L l' E S • K N O \\. L E D G E • T R A I) I T I O N 
An.\llSSJON C:\LEND:\R 2002-03 June 15 Last day to apply for Fall 2002 August 26 First day of Fall Session 
• 
Master's degree in Clinical Social \Vork (1\1.S.W:) 

• 
Dual degrees: M.S.W. and Child D .. velopmt>nt (M.S.), Law (J.D.), Divinity (lvLDiv.), or Child and Family Law (M.J.) 


;;-• Classes .at our \Vater Tower Campus, off North l\1ichigan Avenue 
C11kago's Tesui l University 
LOYOLA MSW Admission: Jude Gonzales 
~-~ UNIVERSITY at 312.915.7289
. § CIIlCAGO 
~f.] ,r.:, Graduate Scl1ool ~-~ ofSocialW:>rk 
Loyola University Oiicago i1 an equal opporbJnity edu;ator-~·~d e~ioy~~. ~2002 Loyola University of Chicago. 
Wednesdays and Thursdays are student nights. Students receive 20% of meal price with student 1.0. 
Michiana's most unique dining experience. Located in the brewery at the Historic 100 Center in Mishawaka (219) 257-1792 www. 1 00center. corn 

Wednesday, March 20, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Recycle the Obsel-'"ver. 
Undergraduate members ofthe gay, lesbian, and bisexual comn1unity are invited to apply for men1bership on the 
Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
Applications are now available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Standing Committee web site: 
http://www.nd.edu/,_,scglsn/applications.htm 
Applications are due by 5 :00 p.m. on Thursday, April 4, 2002, and can be submitted at the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 
Jury mulling over evidence in dog attack 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

The dog-mauling trial that began with a defense attorney crawling on the courtroom floor during her opening statement neared its end with a judge threatening to lock her up if she didn't sit down and keep quiet. 
Jurors began deliberating the case on Tuesday following a stormy closing rebuttal by the prosecution during which Nedra Ruiz was rebuked for her interruption. 
"Take your seat now and do not get up again or your next objection will be made from the holding cell behind you," Superior Court Judge James Warren warned. 
Ruiz represents Marjorie Knoller, who is charged with second-degree murder, involun­tary manslaughter and owning a mischievous dog that killed a person. She was walking her two huge presa canario dogs when they mauled neighbor Diane Whipple to death in January of 2000. 
Knoller, 46, could get 15 years to life in prison if convict­ed. Her 60-year-old husband, Robert Noel, faces involuntary manslaughter and keeping a mischievous dog that killed a person and could get up to four years. 
Ruiz had tried to argue that prosecutor Jim Hammer was misinterpreting a piece of evi­dence when the courtroom fire­works erupted. The judge said Hammer was entitled to give his own interpretation. 
Warren had also rebuked Ruiz at the beginning of the trial for crawling on the floor during her opening statement. 
Hammer told the jury it was clear the defendants ignored repeated warnings that their dogs, Bane and Hera, were dangerous. 
He also criticized Ruiz for accusing Whipple's domestic partner, Sharon Smith, of lying on the witness stand when she said Whipple had been bitten by one of the dogs before and was afraid of them. 
Hammer declined to respond to another of Ruiz's statements during her closing argument on Monday, that the prosecution was trying to curry favor with the San Francisco homosexual community by bringing the case. Whipple was gay. 
The case was moved to San Francisco because of pretrial publicity. 



College of Arts and Letters University of Notre Dame 
Invites 
Nominations 
for 

the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award~ named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters,. honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations for this year's award. Please send your letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Greg Dowd, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Thursday, March 21st, 2002 

AFtJrtll/lB50B•D1JS/g11 •III11watioas •MarteHog, Consaltanrs Seminar· Learn The Methods OfAProfessional Business Man's Priceless Achievements : 1An ABC-123 ~fan To Follow, To Help You Chase Your Dreams & Win. AOne DarSeml11ar,A Boak OfOver Ten Years Ofln11alua1Jle Experi11nc11.:o This class is de~igne~ to short cutyou to the. simple focused thoughts you must hava mbusiness to move forward m high level business. r The class ;s taught by a man whose work, ona Fortune 500 Company V.P. says will, "change the course of an entire indust~. • ' • ·J• 'ABE For class dates, private classes &~ ~ · . ~OSOAB ~ore information, go to our webUlltldulllt,_,_.,,,_mm. site, or call Mr. Adams at 277-8104 .llllllfl'll!,.USBsta_nll.cam E-mail~ in_veritor@usastand.com  


Student Government Positions Available: 
Student Union Parliamentarian 
Judicial Council President 
Judicial Council Vice-President for Peer Advocacy 
Judicial Council Vice-President for Elections 
Peer Advocates 

Ifyou are interested, please contact the Student Government Office at 1-7668 Or pick up applications at the Student Government Office 203 La.Fortune Student Center By Friday, March 22, 2002 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
Students voice opposition to new alcohol policy 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES Assistant News Editor 
Between classes, on the quad, in the dining hall, and at LaFortune, the topic of discus­sion for many students yesterday was the proposed changes sug­gested by Father Mark Poorman to the University's alcohol policy. 
Students expressed surprise and irritation at these changes that will affect in hall dances, tailgating regulations and hard alcohol consumption. 
"People will drink regardless. I don't understand how they will find out who is drinking hard liquor," said off-campus senior Eileen Lewis. "Moving off cam­pus is becoming more popular and for people who are on the brink this could push them. I also think that moving the dances is ridiculous and by doing so they are taking away something that is a tradition and a poor decision." 
Many students are concerned with the effect that these pro­posed changes would have on dorm life. Notre Dame prides itself on its strong residential life program. 
"It really disrupts the whole concept of residential life that Notre Dame advocates," said junior Miguel Vieyra. "Since we were freshmen they talked about the uniqueness of residential life here and that will be changed because this policy will be forc­ing students off campus. There won't be that sense of unity in the halls." 

According to Vieyra, he has to assume next year. Ewing heard several students. who believes an RA has the role of either were not considering to being a friend but also a facilita­move off campus or whom he tor to ensure there is a certain would not have expected to level of responsibility. move off campus, discussing "It will turn the role of the RA how these changes could effect into a policeman," said Ewing. their decisions about remaining "J\ person will be less likely to on campus. approach you with problems if 
The University boasts now you are constantly breathing almost 80 percent of students down his back." live on campus. Senior Jed Dooley said that the 
"Dorm life is already strug­dorm would take on a provincial gling," said sophomore Marin atmosphere. Brinkman. "People are unhappy Father Poorman said in his let-
with  the  ter, "Hall staffs  
rules and this will  "Tailgating and SYRs are  spend a dispro­portionate  
lead to students wanting to move ear­ two major things that make Notre Dame what it is. It will change the traditional  amount of time and energy addressing behavior relat­ 
lier." With an  flare ofresidential life. "  ed to alcohol." Ewing coun­ 
increasing amount of  Ana Farach  tered by saying that hall staffs  
rising  sophomore  will still have tu  

juniors a n d seniors discussing the possibility of moving off campus, the com­
position  of the  halls  could  
change.  
According  to  sophomore  

Elizabeth Martin, an resident assistant that she spoke with was concerned with how the atmosphere of the dorm would change because unique person­alities would be absent. This new policy would almost certain­ly increase the number of stu­dents moving off campus. 
Lane Ewing, an RA at Sorin Hall, expressed concern about the new role that RAs will have 
deal with the alcohol issue but in a different way. 
According to Rrinkman, future RAs commented to her that they would not be overtly fervent in enforcing alcohol policy should it be passed. 
There has not been a revision in the University's alcohol policy in the past fourteen years, and some wonder if the current pro­posal could signal an even stricter policy in the future. 
"It's a step towards eliminating alcohol. which will destroy resi­dential life on this campus ­something Notre Dame takes pride in," said sophomore Denis 
got news? Call 1-5323. 
ATTENTION SENIORS! 
Sign up for LI -IV 
LI-IV-Wednesdays, March 27-April 17 8:30 pm -9:30pm 
Who? Students who have been leaders of Notre Dame student groups, who are currently in the transition towards the end of their term in office, or those who will be graduating within one year. 
What? Interactive sessions which review how you can put the skills you learned to use in your professional career. Session topics include: 
* 
Etiquette/Personal Development 

* 
Negotiation/Conflict Resolution Skills 

* 
Values/Personal Mission Statement 

* 
Leadership for the Real World 


To complete your leadership tenure at Notre Dame, you should take 
the time to reflect on your past and think about your future. LI IV will 
provide this capstone. 
How? Visit the Student Activities website below and fill out the registration --form! 
WHY PARTICIPATE? 
There are many great reasons why you should participate in Leadership Institute. Some of these include: 
* 
Opportunity to develop your leadership skills. 

* 
Learn more about your leadership style. 

* 
Meet other student leaders. 

* 
Have practical experience you can take with you into the "real world." 

* 
Receive individualized attention to your leadership development. 


Sullivan. 
Many students expressed con­cern about the fairness of adopt­ing the amendment that would eliminate hard alcohol from resi­dence halls, including students who are over 21. 
"I understand where they are coming from, but I don't think it's fair to say that even if you arc 21 you can't have hard liquor," said Brinkman. 
Dooley said, "It's the University's policy and they can do what they want but it is somewhat unfortunate." 
According to students, stricter alcohol policies would force more students to leave campus to drink. Many believe that this would create more problems and possibly raise the incidents of alcohol-related accidents as students find their ways back to campus after drinking. 
"There should be communica­tion and education instead of restriction," said Martin. 
Other students pointed out the discrepancies between the poli­cies on hard alcohol and tailgat­ing. 
The letter says, "Students, regardless of age, will not be allowed to possess or consume 'hard' alcohol in undergraduate halls.... Undergraduate students who are 21 years of are may host tailgate gatherings in a des­ignated parking lot on home football Saturdays, provided that these gatherings are properly registered." 
"I thought that it was really interesting they changed the tail­gating policy to follow state law, 
Lehrer 
continued from page 1 
two Emmys, Lehrer received the National Humanities Medal in 1999 in addition to a num­ber of other journalistic achievements. 
"I was 16-years-old when I decided to write," said Lehrer "And I've been in journalism every day since." 
"Jim is a journalist who has a clear understanding of who he is and what his role should be, he doesn't confuse himself with the story ... and that sets him apart," said Terence but they changed the dorm poli­cy to be further from state law," said Martin. 

Sophomore Paul Madrid won­dered if the provisions outlined in the tailgating policy were made to placate those who were over 21 who objected to other aspects of the alcohol policy. 
"It basically says that we will let you tailgate but hard liquor will not be tolerated," said Madrid. 
Many saw the new proposal as detracting from the traditions that exist at Notre Dame. Tailgating and SYRs are the lat­est traditions that seem to be facing impending extinction such as Sophomore Siblings Weekend and the Graffiti Dance. 
Many believe that moving SYRs outside of the dorm would negatively affect the hall atmos­phere because of the section or floor unity that it creates through pre-dance related con­tests, activities and decorating. 
"Tailgating and SYRs are two major things that make Notre Dame what it is," said sopho­more Ana Farach. "It will change the traditional flare of residential life." 
Students surprised by these unexpected changes, as student government was not consulted or asked for input in any way. 
"I wasn't angered so much by the loss of alcohol. That students were not involved in the process angered me the most," said Vierya. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownes.l@nd.edu. 
Smith, the media correspon­dent and senior producer for "NewsHour" and the son of Red Smith, the lecture series' honoree. 
Red Smith was sportswriter and a 1927 Notre Dame alum­nus who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for distinguished criti­cism. The Smith Lectureship began in 1983 and is adminis­tered by the John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy and supported by a gift from John and Susan McMeel and Universal Press Syndicate. 
Contact Kate Nagengast at knagenga@nd.edu. 

'-. 
-----. 

Wednesday, March 20, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Captured Afghns not al-Qaida 

By ANDREW THAGARD 
Assisrant News Editor 
Latin American Cardinal Oscar Andres Rodriguez Maradiaga referred to Oscar Romero, the famous Salvadoran bishop assassinated in March 1980, as a model for all Catholic bishops and remembered him from pro­fessional and personal experi­ence in a Tuesday evening lec­ture. 
"I was moved by his profound piety and his simplicity," Rodriguez said of everybody's radio," he said. 
Romero also used his power as Archbishop to comment on the political and social scene in his war-torn country -a practice that led to his martyrdom, according to Rodriguez. 
"I have no ambition of power and because of that I tell those in power what is good and bad," Rodriguez recalled Romero as saying. 
Although Romero's death was a tragedy, the Cardinal said, it also had positive consequences, including an increase in voca­tions and the estab­
Romero to a "After Sept. I I, it is lishment 
crowd that of addi­
difficult to talk about 
filled the tional 
Hesburgh hope. J!Vhat was Oscar dioceses 
Center Romero's secret?" in El 
auditorium Salvador. to capacity "The 
Oscar Andres Rodiriguez Maradiaga
and spilled martyr over to an cardinal archbishop of Honduras strength­adjoining ens us on room where our jour­
AS$ociated Press 
WASHINGTON 

lt's an example of what has been called the invisihle part of the war against terror. 
American forces swoop down on a suspected al-Qaida or Taliban hide-out, some­times raiding unoccupied sites, where they collect only intelli­gence, sometimes taking pris­oners. Sometimes the prison­ers arc nothing more than ordinary Afghans. 
Prisoners captured in the latest raid on a suspected Afghan terrorist compound turned out to be neither 
"Over the last two weeks would be
members of 
released, but

the former most ofthe focus. has 
it was

ruling 
been in and around 
unclear

Taliban mili­
Anaconda ... our largest exactly
tia nor the 
when.

al-Qaida ter­offensive." 
Officials

ror network, 
have given

military offi­
John Rosa, Jr. very few
r.i a Is said 
U.S. general details about
Tuesday. 
The devel­opment highlights difficulties the U.S.­led coalition faces to figure out who's who in a nation where lawlessness is rampant and one-time supporters switched sides after the harsh Taliban governing system fell. 
It also highlights the difficul­ty in collecting good intelli­gence as coalition forces seek out scattered and hiding enemy fighters. 
Additionally, it is an example of operations rarely talked about openly by the Pentagon. Sunday's raid was made pub­lic, but an unknown number of others with similar outcomes have remained secret, defense officials said. 
After watching and gather­ing intelligence, American forces detained 31 suspected 
al-Qaida or Taliban fighters Sunday in what they called a military compound near the southern Afghan city of Kandahar. 
"We continue to screen them to determine exactly who they are,"Maj. Ralph Mills, a spokesman for the U.S. Central Command, said Tuesday night. 
Two other defecse officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that upon interrogating the detainees, Americans found they were not wanted by the United States in its campaign to root terrorists out of Afghanistan. 
They said 
the men 
the opera· 

tion except to say U.S. forces went into the compound some 40 miles west of Kandahar and detained the 
31. The capture came as coali­tion forces were winding down Operation Anaconda, a 2,000­troop assault to kill or capture al-Qaida and Taliban fighters believed regrouping in eastern Afghanistan. 
"Over the last two weeks most of the focus has been in and around Anaconda ...• our largest offensive," Gen. John Rosa Jr. told reporters Monday. 
"But we continue to surveil. We continued our intelligence efforts all through the coun­try,"he said. "It's ongoing, and the key indicators made us believe that we needed to go into that compound." 
Before Anaconda, the last known ground operation was on Jan. 23, when U.S. special forces raided a compound where the United States mis­takenly believed enemy figures were holed up. 
The Pentagon has said 16 people who turned out not to be to al-Qaida or Taliban were killed when they resisted and another 27 captured were later released to Afghan authorities. 
Smaller. undisclosed raids took place before and after the Jan. 23 raid, otftcials have said privately. Those raids concen­trated on gathering informa­tion about pockets of resis­tance and at times netted doc­um ents or individuals who were interrogated or then released, officials said. 
On Sunday, a team of Army Special Forces soldiers attacked a convoy that American intelligence had been watching, three vehicles traveling about 45 miles southwest of the city of Gardez. Sixteen people in the convoy were killed, and the military said they were believed to be al-Qaida fight­ers. One man was detained, officials said. 
Although Anaconda was the largest U.S. ground operation in the war, it is not expected to be the last. 
On Wednesday, gunmen attacked U.S. coalition forces in eastern Afghanistan, touch­ing off a firefight that last~d several hours, a U.S. military spokesman said. 
One U.S. soldier with the . 101st Airborne Division was shot in the arm during the attack in the city of Khost, which is on the southeastern end of the valley where Operation Anaconda was staged. 


people watched a video presen­tation of the speech. "If you will allow me this daring statement, he was the most beloved martyr of the 20th century." 
Romero, according to Rodriguez, was a brilliant leader who had the power to instill hope in even the most desperate people. 
"A leader is someone with a clear idea who can communicate it and who moves forward giving witness to it," he said. 
Romero, Rodriguez said, had these qualities and used them to spread a message of hope. 
"After Sept. 11, it is difficult to talk about hope," he said. "fn a global world it is also difficult to 
talk about hope  as  poverty  
increases. What  was  Oscar  
Romero's secret?"  

Romero, according to the Cardinal. focused on the hope of Easter. promoting it in his first Pastoral letter as Archbishop. 
"The Easter Church is a Church of the cross, of hope, of power, of contemplation. This was the Church of Archbishop Romero's dreams -a Church that· exists here and now," Rodriguez said. "Focusing the Church on Raster is a brilliant move, to say Easter is to say unfailing hope." 
People, the Cardinal said, jumped at the opportunity to hear Romero speak. 
"It was said that during the eight o'clock Mass in the towns and vi!Jages you could walk up and dov.n the street and see that Archbishop Romero was on ney," he said. "People like Archbishop Romero restore our pride in being Christians and Latin Americans. With Bishops like him the Church can stand for hope in the world." 
Rodriguez also remembered the person behind the title, recalling Romero as a timid, lit­tle man filled with God who had compassion and a special rela­tionship with the poor. 
"His priest friends remember him as a man of God with fer­vent discipline of prayer with love of confession and love of the Gospel," the Cardinal said. 
As a person, Rodriguez said that Romero could often be impatient and shy, but he was also a man filled with the Holy Spirit and gave an air of being in perpetual conversion. 
Progress is being made as a result of Romero's work, Rodriguez said. 
"We have seen little steps but strong steps in the right direc­tion," he said. 
The Tuesday night lecture "Archbishop Romero: A Bishop for the Third Millennium" was sponsored by the Kroc and Kellogg Institutes. 
Rodriguez is the archbishop of Tegucigalpa and Honduras' first cardinal. He has served as a Vatican representative on Third World debt to the International Monetary fund and the World Bank. 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.edu. 
"Killing Cool: Igniting the Soul of Society" 

Derrick is an actor and activist who had a feature role in Steven Spielberg's "AMISTAD" and was the President of the Black Students Organization at Harvard University 
Thursday, March 21 
6:00 PM Debartolo 101 
FREE. ADMI.SSION
. , . . . . . . ---. . . -' . ' 
Special thanks to all our contributing co-sponsors! 
OTI-IE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 

Tailgating policy needs clarification 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

I 
I • 
024 SoUlh Dining Hall. Notr~ Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHlliF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  0l'ERAHONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payn<: VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR; C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARt's EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lurz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alei. Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Score Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER; Lori Lc:walski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX-............................................................ 631-6927 ADVERTISINC.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EmroR/AssT. ME.................... 631-454] BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWl'0INT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinc.l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4 543 observer.sport.s. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MA!lv's ............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc.I@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISfRAT0RS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!lobserver.nd edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/mwic for 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers co the Editor must be signed and must include con tact information. 
Quatiom rtgarding Observ.er policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarlq 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Sheila Egts Sarah Rykowski Van Giles 
Sports 
Joe Hettler 
Viewpoint 

Teresa Fralish 
Scene 

Laura Kelley 
Graphics Jimmy Atkinson Production Chris Federico Lab Tech Nellie Williams 
This second in a series of editorials commenting on the maturity and continue to allow underage students to attend proposed alcohol policy changes at Notre Dame. tailgates sponsored by family and friends of a legal drinking age. Banning underage students from even being present at The University's proposed revisions to clarify the tailgat­tailgates would destroy another of Notre Dame's traditions. ing policy that upset many students last fall are fair policies, However, students should be aware that their presence at but require a two-way commitment~ the these tailgates is not a free pass for those
O Th
administration must enforce them reasonably underage to blatantly disregard Universjty poli­
bserver
and students must obey them.· By creating a cy and Indiana law. policy that mirrors Indiana state law, the The University also needs to clarify the spe­University preserves the right of students of cific regulations surrounding designated park­
Editorial 
legal drinking age to consume alcohol in a ing lots for student tailgates. Issues involving responsible manner. While the enforcement of a ban on the details of the registration process required to partic­underage drinking is unpopular, students must understand ipate in the tailgates and potential division of student versus that these regulations are necessary because the public alumni tailgates remain unresolved. nature of tailgating makes it inherently different than party­The University has now shown students respect by clarify­ing in private. ing the policy and leaving the responsibilities and privileges 
However, as the University completes the final version of associated with Indiana law intact, but student frustrations the new alcohol policy, it still must clarify several important could continue unless parking and registration permits are issues that were not specified in the explanation Father made convenient and plentiful. As the tailgating policy is Mark Poorman provided in a campus-wide e-mail Monday. formalized and written, the administration should involve 
If sludents accept rcsponsibilil.y for their behavior in pub­students in the entire process before students leave campus lic, the University should respond by acknowledging this for the summer. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Correcting advice to rape victims 
While John Litle's column in the tim to express her feelings without is often the best option for a victim to March 5 edition of The Observer enti­judgment and encouraging her to seek make sure her attacker gets the mes­tled, "Blaming victims promotes rape," counseling from professionals. If the sage that his behavior is unacceptable provides some worthwhile information, system is flawed, you can best effect under any circumstance. it also continues to promote some com­change by using the Kori Pienovi The best advice, as Mr. Lltle pointed mon misinformation that can be dam­method of approaching those who head out, is for victims to go to the hospital aging to victims of sexual assault. His the system to find ways to make posi­as soon as possible after the assault. condemnation of Residence Life proce­tive change. The victim should not shower, bathe, dures, based on information that he Kori's intervention led to several urinate, smoke, drink, eat, change or says "comes directly from someone changes in the hearing process, as well discard clothes. Even if more than who has endured ResLife 'justice,"' is as an emphasis in First Year three days have passed, the victim hearsay. Orientation on education about rape should go to a hospital to be examined 
Residence Life collects information and the creation of the position I now by a physician if for no other reason from both accused and accuser and hold as Victim's Resource Person. My than to seek preventive care for possi­makes a decision based on accounts job is precisely to provide information ble sexually transmitted diseases. and information from them and wit­on what a student can do and expect The hospital will assist in referring nesses. While Mr. Litle may believe and when she decides to go forward with a her to the appropriate agency for dislike what he heard from his infor­case in any venue. reporting the assault. At Notre Dame, if mant, he cannot make judgments on I was distressed by Mr. Lltle's advice any student wants information about the appropriateness of Residence Life to victims to "bypass Notre Dame at all any aspect of an assault, she or he may decisions without knowing all the infor­costs" and report cases directly to the come to see me at any time in 101 mation from both sides of the case. The St. Joseph County sheriff. The sheriff's O'Shaughnessy or call me at 631-7728, accuser as well as the accused must be office may not be the appropriate law a private line to which no one has treated with dignity even though the enforcement agency to contact. Often access but me, set up for response to victim often feels re-victimized in such victims receive much less satisfaction victims and others. circumstances. and feel much more frustrated with the 
The best thing for friends to do to legal system than with Residence Life. Ava Preacher help victims is not to rail against the Notre Dame cases are often unlikely to victim's resource person system, but to provide more productive be prosecuted either in the city or the assistant dean of the College ofArrs & Letters emotional support by allowing the vie-county for a variety of reasons. ResLife March· 13, 2002 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame make the proposed changes to the alcohol policy? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Life isn't all beer and skittles, but beer and skittles. or something better of the same sort, must form a good part ofevery Englishman's education." 
Thomas Hughes writer 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 20, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Letters criticize alcohol policy 
New standards will not solve drinking problem 
This letter is in response to the recent will begin acting just how the article outlining the new alcohol policy University is treating them -as chil­unveiled by Father Mark Poorman. I dren. believe this new policy will produce I have always defended and support­more harm than good and, in short, is a ed Notre Dame's traditional alcohol huge mistake. policy because it has always given 
The decision to ban "hard" alcohol in Notre Dame students the freedom to residence halls, even among those stu­drink or not within set boundaries. In dents who are 21 years or older, baffles addition, as someone who has lost me. First and foremost, why is a dis­many friends to drunk-driving acci­tinction being made between hard alco­dents, I was always incredibly thankful hol and other alcoholic beverages, such that as a student I could attend parties as beer and wine? Does the University and dances on campus where there really have the authority to determine was never the risk of students driving that XYZ kind of alcohol is okay to drunk. Tightening the on-campus alco­drink, but ABC is not, especially if the hol policy will simply force those stu­decision-maker is a 21-year-old stu­dents who would like to drink to seek dent? It is my understanding that the out parties and dances off-campus, University would like to instill the belief increasing the chances of drunk-dri­every student makes independent deci­ving incidents greatly. Is this something sions regarding their lives. This new the University is willing to risk? My rule is completely contradictory to this. parents were always incredibly grateful 
As a student at Notre Dame I was that they never had to worry about me faced with situations where I could getting in a car with a drunk driver choose to drink and if I chose to do so, I while I was attending Notre Dame, and chose what to drink. Every person com­I know they were not alone. If these ing of age is faced with these decisions, new policies were to be implemented, and it should be their prerogative to Notre Dame parents would be losing make their own choices. their assurance that their children 
The decision to ban in-hall dances, in would be safe on the roads near cam­addition, has absolutely no basis for pus. being included in this alcohol policy. It There are an endless number of absolutely saddens me to hear think other issues I would like to address that my former dorm, Cavanaugh Hall, regarding this topic, but it would take will no longer host SYRs on-site. In-hall too long to outline them. I simply ask dances are a Notre Dame tradition and that Father Poorman re-evaluate these a nationwide college tradition, for that new policies and take a hard look at matter. What next, force us all to study the realistic consequences that will in our rooms from 4 p.m. until 11 p.m. inevitably result from them rather than every night? This micro-managing of the idealistic goals behind them. the student body is again telling stu­dents that the University has absolutely Kate Coughlin no trust in them. If these rules become class of'97 the new law at Notre Dame, students March 19, 2002 
Administration ignores student concerns 
Love them or hate them, you have absolutely no say in them. This new to hand it to members of the adminis­alcohol policy is about much more tration for knowing what they are _ than alcohol. We put up with a lot as doing regarding the recent changes Notre Dame students, and the admin­in the alcohol policy. Inevitably, more istration seems to have no apprecia­students will move off campus tion for it. University officials manage because they are fed up with being to maintain a facade of understand­treated like children. leaving more ing through organizations such as dorm rooms for incoming freshmen. student government, the Campus Life Students over the age of 21 who live Council, SUB and any other groups on-campus will most likely welcome you want to throw in there. their new-found ability to tailgate at However, when the rubber hits the the cost of their right to have hard road, don't think for a minute that liquor in their rooms. the administration is anything other 
Moderate drinkers should not be than apathetic to dissension from stu­directly affected by a ban on hard dents. Their general attitude seems liquor and actually may support the to be "love it or leave it." Somebody intent to decrease on-campus drunk­handed them the Golden Dome and enness. It appears that the only seg­they use it against us every chance ments of our community that will they get. I could be wrong. In fact, I oppose these changes will be heavy hope I am. But if not, this is still our drinkers who live on campus and school, and I can only hope that underage drinkers who still lack the someday we'll actually have the guts ability to tailgate. The last time I to take it back. checked, neither demographic was busy forming a special interest group. Vinnie Zuccaro 
However, all students should be sophomore opposed to these changes for no Dillon Hall other reason than that we had March 19, 2002 
Community and tradition destroyed by unfair policy 
Several weekends ago, I was at a cies of problem dorms and develop ways ResLil'e job fair hunting for an assistant to make their SYRs safer. rector position for next year. Time and And why ban both hard alcohol and time again, potential employers, all SYRs? If alcohol is the creator of all of the employees in the residential life field SYR problems, isn't it enough just to get themselves, praised Notre Dame for our rid of the liquor? I'm thankful I don't live fantastic dorm system. How, they wanted in Lewis or McGlinn because your SYR to know, did we manage to keep so many ban has left them with no signature kids on campus and maintain our famous events. And what will Alumni be like school spirit? Simple, I said, it's the dorm without the Wake? As past director and life. Living in the dorms is fun -they're head writer of the Keenan Revue I faced like fraternities, and our dorm mates are the possibility of losing our dorm event, like family members. and I can only imagine how these stu­
Guess what. Father Poorman and crew, dents are reacting to the news. thanks to the bomb you just dropped on Much has been said over the tailgating the alcohol policy, you can kiss your -I issue, and I'll not rehash all of that now. mean our -precious "residentiali­But though many of the over-21 ilk ty" good-bye. are grateful for a place where 
Strangely, you've failed to we can enjoy non-Animal recognize that, for better or House tailgating, I for one for worse, college students am greatly concerned like to drink alcohol, and about the under-21 Notre Dame is no excep­crowd. Not only is tail­tion. But instead of gating a large part of implementing programs the football weekend ­aimed at responsible though I disdain those drinking, you've cho­who insist it's the focal sen an all-out ban on point -now you've hard alcohol and in­driven students away dorm SYRs. from their families. A 
Though I find it sad father and son won't that Notre Dame stu­even be able to enjoy a dents would leave their beer and a brat before dorms simply because a game, and what's of stricter alcohol poli­more, you've effectively cies, the truth is that turned Turtle Creek many will. And with into the Boat Club of tail­them will go our cher­gaters. How many fresh­ished and coveted residen­man and sophomores do tial system. you think will elect to stay 
The most glaring error in off-campus and pass out on your assessment is that you someone's futon as opposed to claim that banning hard alcohol going to the game? As any true in the dorms is a safer alternative to Notre Dame football fan would the current policy. Is it safer that stu­attest, this behavior is inexcusable. But dents leave their dorms and drive to bars like it or not, it'll be a reality. or off-campus parties? Wasn't this the The purpose of this letter is not to reason for the relatively lax alcohol poli­champion alcohol. It's not about the alco­cies in the past? Do you honestly think hol. I rarely drink myself and when I do, I that students will simply stop drinking? It don't get drunk. I'm writing about pre­is my prayer that the Notre Dame com­serving traditions that began far before munity never has to endure the loss of any of us were born -traditions that are one of our own when he or she is killed in bigger than any single one of us. By an alcohol-related car accident. Schools enacting these changes so swiftly and across the country have not been definitely, you're not only creating a dis­immune to these tragedies but our alco­cipline nightmare for yourselves -and hol policies have spared us from this. the poor resident assistants who unwit­
Earlier this year, we resident assistants tingly signed on for next year before were asked to provide our residents with these unenforceable changes were made alternatives to off-campus parties. It was known -until all of the current students said that too many of our students, espe­are graduated, but you're sacrificing resi­cially freshmen, were getting drunk off­dentiality, tailgating and dorm dances campus and having trouble getting home. without giving a thought to the role these Essentially, what you've done is taken institution play in forming the Notre them out of an environment where a net­Dame experience. And by the way, a work of assistant rectors, resident assis­quick history lesson will tell you that tants, rectors and countless non-intoxi­Notre Dame's alcohol ban of 1984 didn't cated fellow students are able to offer work -that's why the rules are the way them help if they've had too much and they are today. left them in one full of equally-intoxicated I know what I've said is going to have strangers. That's safety! absolutely no impact on the University's 
I also find it strange that in-dorm SYRs decision. I only hope that my fellow stu­have been banned, despite the fact that dents will make their collective voice some dorms experience almost no prob­heard on these matters and hope that lems during dances. My dorm, Keenan any alumni who don't want to see these Hall, simply does not have the kind of beloved traditions trampled on make problems that other dorms have because their voices heard as well. our staff, our upper-classmen and espe­cially our rector, have cultivated an envi­Grant Gholson ronment where responsibility is encour­resident assiscanc aged. Instead of punishing us for the mis­senior deeds of others, perhaps your office Keenan Hall should take a long look at the inadequa-March 19, 2002 
THE 
OBSERVER 


CENE 


page 12 Wednesday, March 20, 2002 


Above, director Mark Abram-Copenhaver checks Saint Mary's freshman Nicole Hogarty's makeup before the show. To the left, Sarah, played by Saint Mary's junior Erin Schultz, incredulously reads from her script. Below, the phenomenally pretentious Trissotin, played by Holy Cross sophomore Shane Lewis, dazzles the pretentious Armade with a poem. 
. 
Photos by 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 



By C. SPENCER BEGGS 
Scene Editor 
The Saint Mary's campus may have a wrinkle in time this week­end as the Saint Mary's Department of Communication, Dance and Theatre opens its spring 2002 show "The Learned Ladies." 
The French playwright Jean­Baptiste Poquelin, better known by his penname Moliere, finished "The Learned Ladies" in 1672 after working on the script for four years, which is notable because most of his plays were completed in a matter of months. 
"The Learned Ladies" was Moliere's penultimate play; he completed the farcical "La Malade Imaginaire" before his death a year later. "The Learned Ladies" is Moliere's least performed play, although there has been resur­gence in interest since Richard Wilbur's translation of the show began to be produced in 1982. Wilber's translation, which is used by Saint Mary's, rhymes in five-foot iambic pentameter as opposed to the original French that follows the 12-foot Alexandrian meter. 
Most of Moliere's work was done under the command of King Louis XIV. The king was a deep­pocketed patron of the arts and paid many artists for command performances before his court. It was the king's court that Moliere often lampooned in his comedies. Although Louis XIV's sponsorship of Moliere may seem philanthrop­ic, his underlying motivation is much more self-serving. By creat­ing an extremely class-conscious society, Louis XlV's nobility bus­ied themselves trying to out-dress and outwit each other instead of plotting rebellions. 
"The Learned Ladies" follows the farcical courtships in the house of a well-to-do 17th centu­ry French bourgeois Chrysale (played by Saint Mary's director of Special Events Hichard Baxter). When Chyrsale's youngest daugh­ter, Henriette (played by junior Maria Conticelli). sets her sights on marriage, she is chastised by her older sister, Armade (played by Saint Mary's freshman Nicole Hogarty), for pursuing base activ­ities unlike herself and their phi­losophy-reading, self-proclaimed intellectual, shrew of a mother, Philamente (play by Saint Mary's junior Merideth Pierce). 
But Henriette persuades her lover, Clitandre (played by Vini DeDario). to attempt to win the favor of the matriarchal Philamente by feigning interest in her and her entourage's intellec­tual pursuits and gaining the favor of Philamente's cronies. Unfortunately, Clitandrc's plan fails when Chyrsale's megaloman­ical sister, Belise (played by Saint Mary's junior !leather Muth), interprets his pleas for her sup­port in his suit as a clandestine way of hitting on her. 
Exasperated, Clitandre implores Chyrsale's brother, Ariste (played by Greg Melton), to take his suit directly to Chrysale himself. Chrysale approves of the match and vows to inform his domineer­ing wife of his decision. But before he can get the words out of his mouth, Philamente informs him that she has chosen one of her "cultured" acquaintances to be llenriette's betrothed: the fop­p is h Trissotin (played by Holy Cross sophomore Shane Lewis). 
Faced with Philamente's procla­mation, the lovers hatch new schemes· to dispose of Trissotin and gain the family's consent in their marriage. 
"The Learned Ladies" features some marvelous acting, especially from Baxter whose hysterical facial expressions and razor sharp timing lead to big laughs. Muth's over-the-top rendition of the spacey Belise is certain to bring down the house too. Along with Lewis' gives-a-new-meaning­to-the-word "pompous" perfor­mance as Trissotin, the cast of "The Learned Ladies" will have the audience falling out of their scats. As an ensemble, the group's obvious dedication and hard work pays off. 
The Saint Mary's production of the show also includes a framing play, which was written by tl~e show's dramaturge Henee Kingcaid. The framing play is set at Saint Mary's where the produc­tion of "The Learned Ladies" is in l'ull-swing. A student, Sarah (played by Saint Mary's junior Erin Schultz). struggling to learn her lines and trying to come to terms with the meaning of the show, is visited by the ghosts of Moliere (played by Notre Dame fifth-year graduate student Troy Feay) and le Tartuffe (played by Notre Dame Associate Professor of Homancc Languages and Literature Louis MacKenzie). a. 
.------------------------------------------------------------~-------------
O
THt 
BSERVER 



Wednesday, March 20, 2002 page 13 


Above, the frustrated Chrysale, played by Saint Mary's director of Special Events Richard Baxter fumes at his wife's overbearing nature. To the right, Saint Mary's junior Maria Conticelli as the grounded Henriette. Below, Clitandre, Martine and Chrysale finally stand up to the domineering Philamente. 
. 
Photos by 
C. SPENCER BEGGS 


character from one of Moliere's most famous plays of the same name. Moliere's phantasm acts as Sarah muse and helps her to understand why the play is not misogynistic even though it is making fun of educated women. 
The framing piece over-ago­nizes the meaning of the play, attempting to explicitly justify the show's role at a women's college. This hyper-sensitivity to the slightest possibly of offending the College's character reflects the disturbing trend of tacit and self­imposed censorship in theatre on the Saint Mary's campus preva­lent in the last few years. Campus theatre patrons have witnessed a decline from the blatant censor­ship of "The Vagina Monologues" to a tamed version of "The Keenan Revue" to a politically correct situating of Moliere. 
Moliere's words speak for them­selves. It is obvious that he was not ridiculing educated women, but rather pretension. The fram­ing ·piece, in one sense, detracts from Moliere's intent of making fun of the very people that were in his audience. Ironically, if one were offended on behalf of Saint Mary's by the lines Moliere uses, he or she would, in fact, be pre­tentious and rightly ridiculed by the show. At times the framing piece comes close to insulting the audience's intelligence. 
The framing piece is, however. well-written and Schultz, Feay and MacKenzie are entertaining in their roles. Although it adds time to the two hour and 15 minule show. the framing piece does elaborate on a few theatrical conventions and philosophic points that the audience would otherwise almost certainly miss. In the end, the framing piece is entertaining to watch with its anachronistic humor, but adds only a moderate amoun l to the overall show's meaning. 
The Saint Mary's production of "The Learned Ladies" strives to recreate the setting in which the play was originally produced. 
"We wanted to be as historically authentic as we could in Lhe pre­sentation in the show," Kingcaid said. 
Doing so is a daunting task, but 1.he crew pulls it off quite nicely. The elaborate costumes and make-up were researched thor­oughly by Kingcaid. Further. because parts of the show are politically referential poetry in French, Kingcaid often had to go beyond simple meanings and find out to what Moliere may have been subtly referring. 
Kingcaid also researched what a 17th century French bourgeois salon looked like and the results are stunningly accurate. The stage looks like something out of a painting. 
The director, Mark Abram­Copenhaver, knew from the beginning that the show would be challenging to produce from the acting standpoint as well. 
"There are so many technical things that have to be dealt with: how to move in the corset. how to move even for the men who aren't corseted, how you carry your body. And then, once you mater the physical life of the characters, it's important for the actors to start to deal with the fact that the play is in rhyme. Every other line rhymes," Abram-Copenhaver said. 
Abram-Copenhaver even brought in a motion coach, junior Adrienne DeGraffe, to teach the cast how to carry themselves in the proper 17th century French manner. The women were all required to wear corsets and pet­ticoats from the beginning of the rehearsal process to give them an idea of what (and how uncomfort­able} their costumes would be. 
Kingcaid taught members of the cast some French so they could recite their lines or catch their cues; as a result, the ensemble has impeccable French accents. 
"It's been difficult, but it's been a good experience because you learn so much," Conticelli said. 
"The Learned Ladies" opens tomorrow night and runs through Saturday night at 8 p.m., there will be a matinee on both Saturday and Sunday at 2:30 
p.m.. The show will be performed in the Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall. General Admission is $8.50, $7.50 for senior citizens, $6.50 for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community members and $5.50 for students. Tickets can be purchased from the Saint Mary's Box Office in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. To make reservations call the box office at (574) 284­4626. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
THEATER PREVIEW 


The company of "A Night on Broadway: Musical Revue 2002" rehearses in the LaFortune Ballroom Tuesday night in preparation for per­formances this upcoming Thursday and Friday at 
7:30pm. 
. 
photos by 
SEAN GRIFFIN 

Scene previews "A Night on Broadway" revue 

By CHRISTOPHER SCOTT 
Scene Theater Critic 
Every February, an article appears in this newspaper touting the unending talent and innovation of the Pasquerilla East Musical Company (PEMC). This year was no exception as the members of PEMC wowed sold­out crowds on three successive nights with their pro­duction of "Damn Yankees." 
Last year, Notre Dame students' appetites for musical theater was wetted on more than just the PEMC musi­cal by the Farley Hall Players production of "Chance at Love." The musical, which poked fun at musical theater itself, was the product of a capricious Lafortune con­versation between seniors Ryan Cunningham and Tommy Curtin during their freshman year. 
"Chance at Love" was such a hit during its two-night debut in the LaFortune Ballroom that the cast, com­posed of members from PEMC. gave an encore perfor­mance in Washington Hall during study days and even took the show on a national tour this past summer. 
Now. the PEMC members are at it again, performing the PEMC Musical Revue this Thursday and Friday in the LaFortune Ballroom. Titled "A Night on Broadway," the Revue includes songs from popu­
the acts, Linnert and Griffin selected senior Tommy Curtin and sophomore Shawna Monson as music direc­tor and choreographer respectively. The group held auditions during late February and left the choices of songs solely up to the company members. Linnert and Griffin felt that not only should the company members be in the spotlight, but also they should perform what they wanted to perform. And the interested parties responded 
amazingly. 'The great thing about the never been part of PEMC. The "After we saw the first audi­Revue is that everyone is a lead Revue features the vocal talents 
tion, we knew the show would be of Kajdzik and sophomore Becki
and a company member. Each
awesome," Linnert proclaimed. Dowling, two PEMC members While this may have made the person has the opportunity to who until now have only worked initial task of casting the show behind the scenes.
stand in the spotlight" 
slightly difficult, Griffin said it The versatility of the Revue proved beneficial in the end. performers is easily demonstrat­"The show is so saturated with Zack Linnert ed by Horvath. A backup vocal­talent that our job consisted only Co-director of the 2002 Musical Revue ist/dancer in "Bring on the Men" 
of tweaking here and adding there," he said. "It has been amazing to work with such dedicated and gifted per­formers." 
The selected songs range from solo acts to whole company numbers and are arranged into vignettes by similar themes and aspects of rela­
lar musicals such as Rent, Jesus 
tionships/friendships. such as songs Christ Superstar, Jekyll & Hyde and about love and desire or about jeal­even the summer blockbuster movie ousy and regret. While each particu­musical Moulin Rouge. lar song is marvelous in its own fash­
The Revue was the brainchild of ion, there are a few notable acts that junior Zack Linnert. Actually, seem to summarize the overall nature Linnert's original plan was to imple­of the Revue. ment a cabaret-style performance Freshman Erin Sjostrom was only a where the stage barrier would be bro­member of the chorus in Damn ken and the PEMC performers could Yankees. In the Revue, she performs interact intimately with their audi­"I Don't Know How to Love Him" from ence. The original idea combined with Jesus Christ Superstar and is a true the input of PEMC producer Sean representative of the opportunity the Griffin while Linnert studied abroad Revue provides for former chorus 
in London last semester lead to the concept of a musical revue. 
Linnert and Griffin's main concern for the Revue was that there be an opportunity for normally unassuming chorus members to stand out. As Linnert stated, "The great thing about the Revue is that everyone is a lead and a company member. Each person has an opportu­nity to stand in the spotlight." In fact only 3 of the 25 company members have previously held leads in any PEMC production. 
To help them in their task of choosing and directing 
members to shine. Sjostrom also appears with eight other freshman from PEMC in the feel-good, Act I closer "Happiness" from "You're a Good Man Charlie Brown." This song takes the audience back to elementary school days and reminisces of the joys and simple pleasure of life at that age. 
Opposing simple childhood memories is the song "Bring on the Men" from Jekyll & Hyde, performed by freshman Beth Duran. Junior Kristin Kajdzik and sophomores Lindsey Horvath, Claire McAuliffe and April Trimble support her in both vocals and dance. 
This sexy number addresses Duran's character's lust for men and how she cannot get enough of them. "Bring on the Men" should easily impress audience members with its display of vocal and dance talent. 
Duran is unique in that she was not part of the PEMC musical this year. Sophomore Mike Romano also deserves this distinction as he performs "They Can't Take That Away From Me" from Crazy For You and yet has also 
she then appears in "Take Me or 
Leave Me" from Rent opposite junior Mary Beth Asmussen as a brazen young diva proclaiming how lucky her female partner is to date her. Only a few songs later she returns, attempting to convince the man she loves (played by senior Christopher Scott) to "Forget regret / Or life is yours to miss" in "Another Day," also from Rent. Finally she per­forms as a woman hoping that this time she will have found the right man in "Maybe This Time" from the musical Cabaret. 
"A Night on Broadway" breaches the realms of hilari­ty as well. Sophomore Katie Welch and freshman Theresa Sherman perform "Stepsister's Lament" from Cinderella demonstrating the sisters constant attempt to put Cinderella down while competing with each other in everything. The song "Big Ass Rock" from the Full Monty depicts the wide-reaching capacities of friend­ship. Scott and freshman Brian Grundy play two friends who encounter a former co-worker (freshman KC Kenney) attempting suicide and befriend him in his time of need. 
Piecing together this production from nothing has been a grueling process for the director duo, their musical director and choreographer. However they all believe that "A Night on Broadway" will be a spectacu­lar show for the company members performing in it and the 500 audience members who have the opportu­nity to experience the first annual Revue this week. 
Contact Christopher Scott at cscottl@nd.edu 
page 15 The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
NBA 
Nets snagged by Murray's last-second shot 
a 30-26 deficit into a 41-38
Associated Press 
lead. He had 19 points, seven rebounds and six assists before
CLEVELAND the break.

Lamond Murray swished a 
Miller had 13 points and 11desperation 3-pointer from the assists in the first half, which corner as time expired to give ended in a 52-52 tie. 
the Cleveland Cavaliers a 100­97 win over the New Jersey 
76ers 91, Heat 79
Nets. 
Coming out of a timeout with Allen Iverson scored 33 
0.5 seconds left, Murray took 
points, including 21 in the sec­an inbounds pass from Andre ond half, to lead Philadelphia 
Miller. turned and shot. Nets to a 91-79 victory over Miami. coach Byron Scott went to cen­Iverson, who started the ter court to argue with officials game l-of-7, finished 1l-of-28 that the clock did not start soon to help the Sixers snap a two­enough. game losing streak and remain 
1 112 games behind Orlando for 
Keith Van Horn had tied the score at 97 with a 3-pointcr the fifth playoff spot in the 
moments earlier after taking Eastern Conference. an inbounds pass from Jason The Heat, coming off their Kidd, who scored 30 points but most lopsided win of the season 
Saturday against Denver, lostmissed a forced jumper with 
for only the third time in 1O
five seconds to play that would have put his team ahead. games and fell two games 
Kidd, wh() also had 10 behind the Hornets for the final rebounds and 10 assists for his playoff spot in the 8astern eighth triple-double this sea­Conference. 
The teams were playing the
son, had slapped the ball away from Andre Miller with 23 sec­first of back-to-back games, onds left to set up the attempt. wHh a second meeting on 
Wesley Person got the Wednesday in Philadelphia. 13 points in the fourth, while Memphis went on a 14-3 run Veteran Robert Pack, signed rebound of Kidd's miss, was The Sixers are 3-0 against Allan Houston had 10 of his to open the third quarter to to a 10-day contract Monday as fouled and made two free the Heat this season, and team-high 26 in the final peri­build its first double-digit lead, abackup to Chauncey Billups, 
Iverson has scored 25, 31 and
throws for a 97-94 lead. od. Kurt Thomas added 18 65-55. The Grizzlies shot 72 had 12 points and five assists 
33 points while shooting 33
Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored a points and 16 rebounds for percent in the quarter, missing in his first game with the season-high 26 points and percent. New York. only five of 18 shots, and car­Timberwolves -and his first dominated the fourth quarter. After trailing 45-41 at half­New York has won three of ried a 76-68 lead into the of the season. The 7 -foot-3 center also had a time, Philadelphia closed the its last four, while Memphis fourth. Pack, who finished last sea­
third quarter with a 15-2 run
season-highs 14 rebounds and dropped its fourth straight. The They still led by double digits son with Denver, gave Wally 
went 14-of-17 on free throws over the final 5 1/2 minutes to Grizzlies have lost 13 of their before going on the scoreless Szczerbiak an assist on his first 
take a 66-60 lead. Iverson
in his best game since return­last 15. streak that gave the Knicks the possession and hit a long
scored 11 points, including a
ing Dec. 4 from foot surgery The Knicks, who trailed 85-lead for good. jumper the next trip up the that sidelined him nearly a free throw that put the Sixers 75 with just over seven minutes floor. year. ahead 61-60 with 44 seconds to play, went on a run of 17 The Raptors collapsed in the 
Ilguskas scored seven points left in the period. unanswered points to lead 92-Timberwolves 112, Raptors 80 third period. They shot 3-for-,-,.. 
Alonzo Mourning helped keep 
and had a key blocked shot in a 85 on a three-point play by Minnesota ended its season­18 and were outscored 24-10 
1:52 span to help Cleveland to the Heat close in the fourth Sprewell with 3:57 remaining. high seven-game losing streak -the second-lowest scoring a 95-92 lead. His three-point with 11 points. and Eddie Memphis went four minutes and kept Toronto in a miser­quarter in their seven-year his­play gave the Cavs a 91-90 lead Jones' layup closed the gap to without a point during that able slump, getting 20 points tory. with 3:06 to play. 74-72 with 7:01 left. stretch. from Kevin Garnett in a 112-80 Antonio Davis put up an air­
After Van Horn, who scored Iverson then hit a pair of 3-Tony Massenburg led victory. ball midway through the peri­27 points, scored on a layup, pointers, the second one pro­Memphis with 19 points and 11 Toronto, which has won just od, and Billups hit a 3-pointer Ilgauskas made a 10-foot ducing an 84-74 lead with 3:05 rebounds, while Jason Williams one game since Feb. 7, lost for on the other end to extend 
left.Jones scored 23 points for
jumper with 2:31 left, blocked added 17 points and 10 assists the 17th time in 18 tries and Minnesota's lead to 12. Later, a shot by Van Horn 21 seconds Miami, and Mourning added but committed eight of the had its most lopsided defeat of Peterson hit Vince Carter in the later, then scored again on a 21. Grizzlies' 17 turnovers. Shane the season. back with a poorly timed pass. 10-foot turnaround jumper. Derrick Coleman added 20 Battier added 14, and Pau Morris Peterson had 19 Minnesota led 79-60 entering 
Kidd hit a running 12-footer points for the 76ers. Gasol finished with 13 points points and Keon Clark had 18 the fourth quarter, and eventu­with 33. 7 seconds left to pull and matched Massenburg's 11 for the Raptors, who were 29-ally went ahead by as many as the Nets to 95-94. Knicks 101, Grizzlies 92 boards. 21 and in prime position for 34. 
Miller had 23 points and 14 Latrell Sprewell scored 23 The Knicks led 46-45 at the the playoffs before their slide. Garnett, who was 3-for-14 assists, and won for the first points, including 12 in the half behind Thomas' 12 points They've fallen to 11th place in from the field Sunday against time in seven career head-to­fourth quarter, and New York and 11 · by Sprewell. While the East. Utah, didn't score until making head matchups with Kidd. erased a 10-point deficit in the Houston scored 10 of his points Raslto Nesterovic had 14 a turnaround jumper with 5:41 
Kidd took over in the second final seven minutes to defeat in the first half, he was 3-of-10 points and 12 rebounds for left in the second period. He quarter, scoring 11 points in a Memphis 101-92. from the field, missing all three Minnesota, which had seven finished with 10 points in the 
4:03 span to help the Nets turn Charlie Ward scored 11 of his 3-point attempts. players score in double digits. first half. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  Well maintained houses near cam­pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for 2003-2004  WANTED  FOR SALE  HOUSES FOR RENT: 1)Iarge (6-9) people 2) medium (3-5 people). Call Bill at 532-1896.  Do you know the names and posi• lions of every Notre Dame football player far the past decade? Yau need to work with us at The  
$250 a day potential/bartending Training proviaea 1•800-293-3985 ext 556 Fraternities'Sororities'Clubs' Student Groups Earn $1,000-$2,000 with the easy Campusfundraiser.com three hour fundra,sing event Does not involve credit card appli­cations. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today' Contact Campuslundraiser.com at (888)-923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com  Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES­TIONABLE NEIGHBORHOOD 3 NICE HOMES CLOSE TO ND NORTH 3-6 STU­DENTS 2773097 B & B for ND grad 4 rooms 3 miles ND (574)287-4545 LOST AND FOUND SMC class ring lost in or around Senior Bar Wednesday, Feb. 28. Gold with diamond. "Noreen C. Gillespie" engraved. Please call 284-4417 if you find it.  2000 grad seeking room or apart­ment to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, 2002. Call Michelle 202-829-3725 or email krup78@hotmail.com Camp Counselor for children w/ dis­abilities. Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. $7-S11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 6 sites in Summit County. Must enjoy outdoor activities. Call 800-CYO-CAMP for an appli­cation.  Men s new black leather jacket (med) $150. 631-6234 or 616-684-6692. FOR RENT· MMMRentals.corn 272-1525 rnmm­rentals@aol .com MMMRentals.com 4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available after 6/1. 3 block from campus. Call (773)-486-8862.  Summer Rent 2-bdrm Castle Point part.furn 243-0195 PERSONAL Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, al 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  Observer Sports. Call Chris at 1-4543 for information. Do you like ta review free movies. rate free meals, and critique free CDs? II so, you should write for Scene. Call Spencer at 1 -4540 for info. Do you want to get the early scoop on all the happenings around earn• pus? Write far The Observer News. Call Helena at 1-5323 for details. Are you a person who would rather be behind the camera lens than in front of it? Call Nellie at 1-8767 for Photo.  ;.  

page 16 Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS 
NHL 

13-year-old.dies after being hit by hockey puck 
Hospital officials would not Dr. James Kelly ol'the Chicago loss. the public-address system about 
Associated Press 

disclose tho cause of her death Neurological Institute said he "It was just so much fun to be pucks flying into the crowd. Monday night and relatives could not offer an opinion on around her," she said. "She was They also place warnings on COLUMBUS, Ohio declined comment. Her class­the cause of death based on the so happy all the time. You never scoreboards and on the back of 
Seconds after being hit by a mates were in mourning and little he knew about the case. saw her in a sad moment." each ticket to trv to minimize puck as she watched an NHL the small town where she lived "Uelayed death is not unheard Teams warn spectators over their liability. · game, 13-year-old Brittanie was overcome by the loss. of from a head injury," Kelly Cecil held a jacket to her head "I spoke to Brittanie's father said. "But there are so many to staunch the bleeding and this morning," Blue Jackets reasons that it could happen." walked to an exit, president The small 
Two days later she was dead, and general farming town of 
Passion (Palm) Sunday
"Our fans are our family 

the first such fan fatality and manager almost 1,500 one of the few at an American D o u g and this tragic accident where Brittanie sports event. other than auto Mac Lean fill us all with a deep lived, West 
March 24, 2002 
racing, directly related to action said, teary Alexandria, was 
sense ofsorrow."

on the field, eyed and his in shock. 
An eighth grader at Twin voice chok­"Everybody Valley South Middle School near ing. "As a Gary Bettman knows every­Dayton, Brittanie would have father of a body, The kids
NHL Commissioner

turned 14 on Wednesday. Her 14-year-old are very close in father had taken her to the and an 11-this town," said game as an early present, year-old, I can't imagine the Stacy flabekost, who runs a friends said, grief the family is experienc­beauty shop. She said the girl's 
The girl was struck in the ing." aunt used to work at the salon head by a shot early in the sec­In a statement, NHL and that Brittanie had her hair 

We will celebrate with one
ond period of'Saturday night's Commissioner Gary Bettman cut there. game between the Columbus said, "Our fans are our family, "She's a pretty little girl," Blue Jackets and Calgary and this tragic accident fills us Habekost said, 
Campus-Wide Mass at 1 :30 PM 
Flames at Nationwide Arena. all with a deep sense of sor-An honor student and mem­
Church ofOur Lady of Loretto
Columbus center Espen row " ber of the school soccer team, Knutsen's slap shot from the top Children's Hospital confirmed Brittanie was remembered as a of the left circle appeared to be the girl had died but at the fam­hard worker who also loved to 
NO MASSES WILL BE CELEBRATED
deflected by a defenseman, with ily's request did not provide ~hop. Her friends on the team the puck flying over the high additional information about chose to go ahead with a prac­
IN THE RESIDENCE HALLS 
glass at the west end of the ice. how long she had been in the tice on a rainy day, kicking the It appeared to glance off anoth­hospital or the nature of her ball around a field near the 
Office of Campus Ministry er spectator and hit the teen in injury, An autopsy was sched­school, the left temple, witnesses said. uled for Wednesday morning. "It's a miserable day," coach 
--~-­
Arena officials and medical A brief news release issued by Bill Deleranko said. "I figure personnel immediately the hospital said the girl's par­that God's crying along with 
Saint MfilY-'S Colleg~ 
approached the girl and helped ents had donated her organs "in us." 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
her out of her seat -some 15 the hope that others will be Teammate Kari Summers said rows above the ice -and up blessed as much as they were many students were having a the steps to the exit. b her life." difficult time coping with the 
I 
' 
l 
I 
I I 

Wednesday, March 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish struggle at El Diablo 
+ Ratay's 4th-place finish impressive in tough field 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
Sports W ricer 
For senior star Steve Ratay, it was a weekend to remember. The rest of his teammates, however. would just as soon forget the lackluster play that saw them finish a collective 17th out of 20 teams at the El Diablo Invitational held at the par-72 country club for which the event is named. 
Hatay posted rounds of 73­68-76 en route to a fourth place finish. Able to harness the erratic driving that had plagued him in the past, Ratay kept the ball in play off the tee and thus gave himself many chances to score on the tight El Diablo track. 
"I was pretty pleased," Ratay said. "Keeping the ball in play was key. It's something that has been a problem in the past and on a course like this it was a must." 
First-year head coach John Jasinski was proud of his top player. 
"Steve's been solid all year," Jasinski said. "He's had a chance to win a couple of times and his mechanics have been solid. Notoriously, he's been a hit of a slow starter so for him to be playing this well early is a major plus." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, Ratay was the only golfer who seemed at ease in the difficult conditions. A 54 hole total of 918 put them a whopping 25 While the team's perfor­strokes behind William and mance this past weekend was Mary, the champions of the poor at best, Ratay said that event. much can be learned and lifted 
"We're a lot better than we from the carnage. performed," said Jasinski. "We were able to see where "Steve was really the only one we were at compared with that responded well to a tough other teams," he said. "It's an setup. I think we have enough opportunity to improve." talent, it's really just a matter While a better result at the El of getting everyone to be on Oiablo would have been great. their games at the same time." the poor showing has by no 
When at  means dampened  
its  best,  the  squad's  
N  o t  r  e  "We're a lat better than  hopes.  The  
Dame can score with  we performed. Steve was  team's focus is on the Big East  
any  team  really the only one that  Championships to  
in  the  responded well to a  be  held  in  late  
nation. The team  tough setup."  April at the Warren Course,  
is stocked  and the automat­ 
with  a  John Jasinski  ic NCAA tourna­ 
host  of  head coach  ment berth that  

players capable of going low. It seems that for Notre Dame, though, the bad days are far worse than those endured by other schools. When a player at the collegiate level is off his game, a score in the mid to high seventies can be expected. Too often in the recent past, struggling Notre Dame players have posted scores in the low 80s, numbers that at this level are unaccept­able. 
"Our bad days can't be as bad," said Ratay. "We have to find a level of consistency to really compete with some of these teams." 
His coach agreed. 
'There's a window of scoring that's acceptable," Jasinski added. "We overreacted to the conditions and that cost us." 
accompanies a first place finish in the event. 
"It's what our season builds toward," Ratay said. "It's defi­nitely the one that matters." 
Jasinski is confident that the team will respond well to the challenges ahead. 
"We're talented enough to make a run at it," he said. "We just need to get some of our confidence back and get every­one scoring again." 
The first opportunity to turn those bogeys into birdies and higher finishes comes this weekend when the Irish return 
to  action  in  the  Pepsi  
rnvitational  in  Pottsboro,  
Texas.  

Contact Kevin Berchou at kberchou@nd.edu. 



FA.FA. ;JOH I•S EB.EA:1>8TI~MS 
JUST STOV 1,-..TO Tli~ MAXIMUM §TUl)~,._T 1:211:§0UldC~ Cl:~Tl:12 (--Tli~ 1"AXX99 ) 1,-.. LA.a=Ol.2TU~~ 
11 TO J VM TOMOl.2120~ 

Memos from a bar napkin 
A lot of people view spring break as a hiatus from reali­ty. What happens on the beach should stay on the beach. 
In such a state, finding a pad, pen and a way to watch a mile­stone game for the Notre Dame men's bas­ketball program can get a little tricky. 
So on Saturday afternoon, with the Irish lead­ing Duke 10-8 with 
15:59 to go in the first half of their second round NCAA Tournament game, I fittingly entered an Irish pub called Finnegan's Way to watch the game. 
I grabbed a drink napkin from the bar, borrowed a pen from the bartender and prepared myself to take some copious notes. 
Now this Finnegan's, pre­sumably not related to the late South Bend venue, sits on Ocean Drive in Miami. You know, Will Smith, $100,000 cars, everybody's got 'em, the whole deal. Not your typical Lafortune game watch experience. 
And never mind that the Finnegan's Way sound sys­tem spins only the latest tracks from today's hottest groups, like Genesis and the guys who sing "Take These Broken Wings." 
The real attention-grabber was Notre Dame, looking from the start like it wasn't content as Duke's 15.5 point underdog. With that, a bizarre way of watching the ballgame faded into some building St. Patty's Eve magic. 
My only record of this almost surreal experience, which ultimately ended with an 84-77 Notre Dame loss, is the now crumpled-up nap­kin, roughly tracking the progress of the contest over 35 minutes and 59 seconds of game time. 
That napkin tells a crude story about the greatest Notre Dame men's basket­ball game in recent memory. 
Somewhere on the front side. at around four minutes to go in the first half, the Irish got down 38-30 on two Chris Duhon free throws. 
A coup!~ crinkles and folds later, inside of the two­minute mark. it says Matt Carroll pulled up for a three in transition, hit it, and Notre Dame had suddenly bounced hack within two, 39-37. 
Mike Dunleavy Jr., who has more flops to his credit than Steven Seagall. made four free throws in a row somewhere near the bottom of side one, and then hit a 3-pointer to start the second half. 
While the despaired writer of these notes didn't actually jot down that triple, the next five inches of corrugated paper do document the most amazing part of last Saturday: Notre Dame didn't ever go away. 


They went shot-for-shot ­luckily not in a Notre Dame dorm -with the best team 
in the country, which 
included a 14-0 run after 
that Dunleavy basket. 
True, the Irish laid their 
fair share of bricks for the 
next few minutes after their 
run, allowing the Dukies to 
surge back to the lead with 
under twelve to go. 
But since when can a 
Notre Dame basketball team 
dabble in masonry and still 
play a team from Tobacco 
Road straight up, (flip to 
inside of napkin) let alone 
have a seven-point lead 
with under seven minutes to 
go? 

Apparently, since now. 
The Napkin Chronicles end with about one minute to go in the game, the Irish trail­ing 77 -7 5 and the song "The Heat is On" said to be filling the bar, refusing to let the 80s just die in peace. 
In a sense. though, maybe there couldn't have been a better tune for the end of that game. Sure, Duke won. But they were sweating, something they usually don't have to do, especially not in March. 
Tending that boiler room were the Irish. Unfortunately for them, the fire got a little out of their control down the stretch. 
But their day is coming. Making the NCAA Tournament? Been there, done that, two years in a row now. Now we've seen there are bigger fish to fry than the Xaviers and Charlottes of the world. 
Chris Thomas will be as good as Jason Williams. Ryan Humphrey made Carlos Boozer look like he was standing still, except, of course, when he went out of his way to hump Humphrey coming off the court in the first half. 
That's what you do when you're battling for your post­season life, not cakewalking to the Sweet 16. Someone showed Notre Dame where the big dogs play, and the Irish just called "next". 
Somewhere in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, North Carolina head coach Matt Doherty had to be pulling for his former players to pull off the unthinkable against his in-state rival. 
Meanwhile, he's busy try• ing to reload his Tar Heels to compete with that team from Durham once again. 
However, Mike Brey's Irish would probably take the Blue Devils on over at Stepan right now. 
For the first time in a long time. that isn't a terrifying proposition for Irish fans. 
As long as there isn't any more Phil Collins. 
Contact Ted Fox at tfox@nd.edu. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
NHL 

Ferraro leads Blues past Predators 
Demitra scored in a 2;16 span of
Associated Press 

the second period as the Blues recovered from a sluggish start
ST. LOUIS 

and an early deficit. 
Ray Ferraro gave himself as 

Keith Tkachuk had two assistsmuch of a lift as his new team. 
for the Blues, who have won
Ferraro had a goal and an 

three of four after a seven-gameassist in the final two minutes of winless slump endangered theirhis first game with the St. Louis 
playoff hopes. They have 79
!Hues, helping turn a tight con­

points, sixth in the Western
test into a 5-1 blowout over the Conference, but three teams areNashville Predators on Tuesday within three points. 

night. 

"We got the job done,"
The goal was only his ninth of Quenneville said. "But we've gotthe season, after totaling 29 last to be better than that." 

season, and his first since Feb. 8. 

Brent Johnson made his eighth "I got here today. so whatever straight start for St. Louis andwas before I'm trying to erase made 25 saves. The Blues gave
that from my memory, along Johnson a vote of confidence,

with all the stats that went with electing not Lo shop for a veteranit," Ferraro said. "As much as I 

goalie before Tuesday's trade
liked Atlanta and as much as the deadline.

people were great to me, I really look at this as a fresh start." 

Sabres 5, Senators 1 
Perraro, acquired Monday 

Chris Gratton got the vote of phone to ring and you're hoping weeks because of a concussion.
from the Thrashers for a fourth­confidence he wanted when the that it doesn't. Miroslav Satan, Brianround draft pick, and coach Joel Buffalo Sabres kept him at NHL "It's a big relief, and now we Campbell, Ales Kotalik andQuenneville were teammates on trade deadline. can settle down. hunker in here Curtis Hruwn, with a short-hand­

the Hartford Whalers in the 

Gratton returned the favor a and really focus cm making these ed goal, also scored for theearly 1980s. Quenneville caught few hours later, scoring the playoffs." Sabres. Martin Biron stopped 33himself using Ferraro's old nick­eventual game-winner and For Gratton it was his first shots, ending an 0-2-1 skid. 
name, "Pee Wee," a couple of add:ng two assists in a victory three-point regular-season per­Buffalo moved into a tie fortimes on the bench. 

over the Ottawa Senators. formance since joining the ninth with the New York
"We were teammate-friends 

"The rumors and stuff, hope­Sabres in a trade deadline-day Hangers, and inched within twoand we got along pretty ,vell, but fully. they're forgotten and now deal from Tampa Ray two years points of eighth-place Montrealit's a different way of life here," we can move on," said Gratton, ago. And it came at a crucial in the Eastern Conference. 
Quenneville said. "I think he's admitting he was anxious as the time with Buffalo playing its first Daniel Alfredsson foiledready to help the team and be 3 p.m. deadline approached. "I game without captain -and Biron's shutout bid. scoring a one of the guys." 

don't think many guys slept second-leading scorer -Stu power-play goal seven minutes
Scott Mellanby and Pavol 

today. You're waiting for your Barnes, who will miss about two into the third period after the 
~· 

Sabres opened a 3-0 lead. Ottawa squandered an opportu­nity to tie idle Philadelphia for the most points in the East. The Senators extended their winless streak in Buffalo to eight games (0-7-1). 
"Obviously, it's an opportunity lost, but we can't get caught too far ahead," Alfredsson said. "We're playing some hungry teams, but we're pretty hungry, too. Today it was a matter of get­ting the bounces. They got up early, and we had to go for it coming from behind." 
. 

Miss out on Partyin' it up IRISH style on St. Patty's Day? 
Corne to the Alumni Senior Club's OFFICIAL 

St. Patrick's Day Party 
(Tonight 9PM -2AM) 
Because we all know here at Notre Dame, Just one St. Patrick's Day is never enough to satisfy our Irish needs ... 
As always, you must be 21 with a valid ID to partake in the fun. 
Wednesday, March 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
l 

CHEERLEADING L~ptt~cbaun 
Tryouts 
Informal INFORMATION Meeting 
Monday, March 25, 2002 -5:30 p.m. La Fortune -Montgomery Theater 1st Floor 
a Ask Questions 
a Meet this year's cheer team members ., 
a 

Everyone welcome a NO prior cheerleading experience required -Clinics start 3/26/02 
page 19 

Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
be tighter" 
The Irish did just that by allowing only two goals all half, and by 
getting start­couple more
"If we had a couple more
ed on -the minutes on the offensive minutes on the clock, we clock, we had end with Big them beat,"
had them beat. " 

E a s t s a i d Offensive Mccardell. Player of the Kelly Mccardell "We could def­
W e e k Irish defender initely play 
Danielle 
Shearer. The junior midfielder scored a goal 
30 seconds into the second 
half on a play that found the 
net by way of two quick passes 
from Natalie Loftus and 
Eleanor Weille. The goal nar­
rowed the Irish deficit to 8-5. 
Cornell answered again with a free position goal to increase their lead back to four. 
The Irish continued to pres­sure offensively and were sparked by Kassen Delano's return to the field. Delano had taken a stick to the head on a defensive play and was forced to the bench to deal with the cut on her forehead. The sophomore would not be slowed, how­ever, and set net until Lauren Fischer con­verted her second goal with 15 seconds to play. Captain Kathryn Lam forced a turnover to give the Irish one last chance but her pass was knocked out of Kate Marotta's stick as time expired. 
"If we had a 

"We are going to focus on
up classmate stantly to Meredith the good things that keep position Simon on a on her.
happenedtoday We 
transition goal "I was just
learned a lot about 
to cut the trying to Cornell lead ourselves." take her out back to three. of her Shearer game," said
Tina Fedarcyk

scored again Fedarcyk.
Irish defender

and added Despite the 
with them and 

we know that going into the rest of the sea­son that we can play with top ten competition_" 
Notre Dame lined up against a much larger and higher­ranked Big Red team. One of the more exciting matchups of the day was between Fcdarcyk and Cornell's senior All­American, Jamiee Reynolds, who was four inches taller than Fedarcyk, Notre Dame's tallest defender. 
Reynolds was the target of every single draw, and would constantly switch from the offensive to the defensive end. But Fedarcyk refused to give their star player any open looks and hustled con­
another goal off a full-field charge from senior Maureen Henwood. Delano, despite the injury, led the Irish in points. Her goal cut the Cornell lead to 9-8. 
The Irish continued to push offensively, but could not con­nect for the tying goal. Jamiee Reynolds gave Cornell a bit more room with a goal with seven minutes to play in the game. 
The game then turned extremely scrappy as both teams were playing with great intensity. 
"We had them scared," said Fedarcyk. The Irish could not find the 
tough loss, 

the Irish plan to focus on the positive aspects that came from a solid second half where they both outplayed and outscored Cornell 6-2. 
"We are going to focus on the good things that happened today," said Fedarcyk. "We learned a lot about ourselves." 
The Irish will be looking for­ward to using their new knowledge when they play Delaware next Tuesday in the third game of a five-game homestand. 
Contact Chris Coleman at ccolemal@nd.edu. 
WORKING IN CHICAGO? NEED A PLACE TO LIVE? 
• 
4 and 5 month summer leases and full-time leases available 

• 
Two beautiful, spacious flat apartments available 

• 
More than enough room to accommodate 2 to 4 people per apartment 

• 
All apartments come with two good-sized bedrooms, large living room, dming room, full kitchen, work area and enclosed porch 

• 
FREE PARKING with garage access 

• 
Only 3 blocks from Metra train to downtown Chicago (10-15 minute train ride) 

• 
Easy access to expressways (7-10 minute drive downtown) 

• 
Located near Madison Street bars, several malls, and major movie theater 


• • $1,500 total per flat per month 
• 
$750 per person with two renters 

• 
$500 per person with three renters 

• 
$375 per person with four renters 



MUCH LESS EXPENSIVE THAN DOWNTOWN APARTMENTS FOR MUCH MORE SPACE AND GREAT QUALITY 
CALL CHRIS AT 273-5804 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles hang with competition 
By KATIEMcVOY 
Associace Sporrs Editor 
Last-minute travel changes didn't stop the Belles from serv­ing up a few victories in the last week. Despite the fa.ct that their first trip was cancelled when the resort closed, the Saint Mary's tennis team had a strong start in sunny Daytona, Fla., before dropping three matches. 
"We had several days where we played two matches in one day so that by the end of the trip the team was exhausted and some injuries had caught up with us," said head coach Dee Stevenson. "Otherwise, I feel that we would have won the match against Saint Cloud State. The competition was very good and better than any other spring trip since I have been here." 
The Belles dropped matches to Division I Creighton and Division II North Dakota and Saint Cloud State. But with seven matches under their belts, the defending MIAA champion Belles are ready to start the regular season. 
"The team is ready for the season to begin," said sopho­more Kris Spriggle. "After such an aggressive spring trip, we all are ready to begin the sea­son and move towards another conference title." 
Saint Mary's took home four wins against Springfield College. Haverford College, Hillsborough Community College and Pasco Ilernandao Community College. 
"The competition was more fitting this year," junior Elisa Ryan said. "We played Division III teams with nationally ranked players, as well as solid Division I and Division II teams." 
The Belles, who finished with a 4-3 record during their spring break trip, finished off the trip with a heart-breaking loss to Saint Cloud State. 4-5, coming close on the heels of a 4-5 loss to North Dakota. 
Following the singles match­es, Saint Mary's was tied at three apiece with North Dakota. But a close loss in No. 3 doubles (8-6) and a loss in No. 2 doubles left North Dakota with the 5-4 victory. 
Sophomore Jeannie Knish, sophomore Kaitlin Cutler and Ryan took home wins in No. 2 singles, No. 3 singles and No. 5 singles respectively. Knish teamed up with her older sister Annie to take home the win in No. 1 doubles. 
Before falling 9-0 to Division I Creighton, the Belles had solid victories against Haverford College (6-3) and Springfield College (9-0). 
The Belles followed up their 9-0 shut-out of Springfield with 
a  6-3  victory  against  
Hills borough.  
In  the  match  against  

Hillsborough, Cutler, Spriggle, Ryan and Angela Sandner took home wins in singles while the doubles teams of Ryan and Cutler and Sandncr and Spriggle took home wins in doubles. 
Today, the Belles will face off against Tri-State College in their home opener. Tri-State, which will be joining the MIAA in the near future, should allow Saint Mary's to get some hitting prac­tice before they head into the tough part ofthe MIAA schedule. Last season. Tri-State barely slipped past Saint Mary's JV squad, so Stevenson plans on playing some of his younger players. 
"Tri-State will be joining our conference in a couple of years but at the moment would not be in the upper echelon of the con­ference in tennis," Stevenson said. "I hope to allow a lot of players to play in this match. We will use this as a practice match in preparation for the confer­ence season which begins on Saturday at Albion." 
With another MIAA champi­onship looming in the minds of the returning players, the Belles are looking forward to getting back into regular season play. 
"The team is strong this year and is aiming to defend their undefeated season and confer­ence championship title," Ryan said. 
The match will get under way at Saint Mary's at 3 p.m. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
WNBA 

Ruth Riley selected to Senior Nationals 
Special to The Observer 
Former Notre Dame All­America center and 2001 Naismith Player of the Year Ruth Riley has been chosen to participate in the 2002 USA Basketball Senior Women's National Team spring training camps, which will be held from March 19 to April 10 in four cities across the country. 
Riley, who currently plays for the Miami Sol in the WNBA, will be competing for one of seven roster spots on the 2002 USA World Championship Team. The 14th FIBA World Championship for Women will feature teams from 16 nations competing in nine cities in the People's Republic of China from Sept. 14 to 25. 
Hiley completed her Notre Dame career last April as one of the most decorated players in school history. In addition to earning consensus national player of the year honors last year, she was a three-time All-America selection and was named the Most Outstanding Player at the 2001 NCAA Final Four, sparking the Irish to their first national champi­onship. 
She also was the 2001 Big East Player of the Year, a three-time Big East Defensive Player of the Year and a three-time all-Big East selec­tion. She is the only player in school history to log both 2,000 points and 1,000 rebounds. placing third on the Irish all-time scoring chart with 2,072 points and tops on the Notre Dame career rebounding ledger with 1,007 caroms. 

As the No. 5 overall pick in the 2001 WNBA Draft, Riley averaged 6.3 points and 4.1 rebounds per game for the Sol, and ranked ninth in the league with 1.44 blocks per game. In addition, Miami was 15-5 with the Macy, Ind., native in the starting lineup, qualifying for the playoffs in just its second year of exis­tence. 
If she is selected for the '02 World Championship squad, Riley would join her third USA Basketball unit. In 1998, she averaged 10.3 ppg. and a team-high 7.6 rpg. as a mem­ber of the USA Select Team that posted a 7-1 record against national teams from Puerto Rico, Poland and Spain. The following summer, she helped the United States collect a silver medal at the 1999 World University Games, notching 10.3 ppg. and 5.2 rpg. 


I I Ill Ill¦¦ 111¦ 1 llllll ill I Ill 11 IHI II
!II••••••• 
Ill I I

• • • •••• • • ••••iHIII 
I II ¦ ¦ I I 111 
1111111!1 1111111!1.1 

I I ¦II 111¦1 ••• ¦¦¦¦
II I ¦ ¦ I I ¦¦ I 
I ¦¦ ¦¦I¦ I I ¦¦I ¦¦¦ 
¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ •• II ¦ I 
I I ¦¦ II ¦¦¦¦¦ 1111 ¦ II 111 1111 ¦ 
••••• ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦¦¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦ 
¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ••• ¦¦ ¦¦ ¦• 
¦ ¦ ¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦ ¦¦ ¦ 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦¦= •¦ ¦• ¦ ¦¦ ¦
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦¦
¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ ¦¦ ¦¦¦ ¦¦¦¦¦ 
alumni senior club, friday, 8pm 
Tickets: $5 pre-sale (Lafortune Info. Desk) $7 at the door 
L-··-· 


Wednesday, March 20, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 


lifetime opportunities with multinational organization FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 

~ 
The South Bend Holy Cross Associates invite you to a· 
Open House & Community Night 

Tonight, Wednesday, March 20 at 7 p.m. ·:-8:30ish. 

+ 

(gj~ Location: 610 Cushing Street. This is an opportunity to participate in an informal community night, an essential component of the HCA experience. Join us for part or all of the evening. Hope to see you there. Please call 1-9930 with uestions!. 
~ http:holycrossassociates.nd.edu ~ 
page 21 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Illinois knocks off No. 4 Notre Dame in finals 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team learned two important lessons at the Blue-Gray National Tennis Classic held in Montgomery, Ala. over spring break. 
First, it is important to watch out for dehydration, even in winter, in the South. Second, going from underdog to favorite status is not always advanta­geous. 
Fourth-ranked Notre Dame fell to eighth-ranked Illinois 4-2 in the finals of the Blue-Gray Invitational after defeating lower seeds Tulsa, Alabama­Birmingham and Harvard to advance to the championship round. 
In past years, the Irish have been perceived as an underdog coming into this nationally esteemed tournament, but after last year's victory and this sea­son's high ranking and a 15-3 record, Notre Dame was clearly the team to beat in Montgomery. 
"We expect­ed a very and played maybe the best match we have played during my four years here." 
The Irish started off the final round against Illinois with Taborga and senior Casey Smith's doubles loss to Amer Delic and Michael Calkins, 7-6, 6-1. Taborga and Smith had defeated the same duo during the match at Illinois. 
According to Taborga, losing the doubles point was the turn­ing point of the match because it gave Illinois more confidence to add to their already-present desire for revenge. 
"(That is] one of the biggest things we have to work on, try­ing to come out strong after los­ing the doubles point because we cannot win the doubles point every single time," he said. 
Taborga and Scott achieved the only Irish singles victories on Sunday. Scott. who moved up to the No. 4 position after Talarico was taken out, defeat­ed Michael Costa 6-4, 7-5. 
"Beating Costa was a good win," said Scott. "He's their fire­
power,  their  leader  who  
screams  and  
shouts  and  

tough field," "In the past we were the gets in your
said senior 
underdogs, and this year face; so it was 
Javier good to beat 
Taborga who its the opposite. A lot of him." 
excelled indi­teams are looking to beat This was vidually dur­
us whenever they get the Notre Dame's 
ing the course first official
chance."

of the tourna­outdoor tour­
ment, includ­
nament and 

ing a win over 
Javier Taborga the Irish had 
No. 9 singles some trouble
Irish senior

player Amer Delic of Illinois, by scores of 1-6, 6-4 and 7-5. After finishing 4-0 in singles over the weekend. he was named the tournament's most valuable player. 
"We're ranked very high in the nation and I think a lot of teams wanted to get the chance to play against top ten teams," Taborga said. "In th·e past we were the underdogs, and this year it's the opposite. A lot of teams are looking to beat us whenever they get the chance. Blue-Gray was a great chance for us. It was really hard for us. Although [Illinois] were ranked lower than we were, we had to play really, really well to beat them." 
Notre Dame's toughest match before Sunday's loss was a close bout with Harvard, ranked No. 40 nationally. The Irish narrow­ly won 4-3 and it was evident th_at the Crimson were looking for an upset. 
"We knew that there were a lot of dangerous teams that were underrated, but I don't think we expected as tough as a match as we had against Harvard," said sophomore Matt Scott. 
Although the Irish had upset the Illini two weeks ago at Illinois, they were not expecting it to be easy to defeat them again to earn the Blue-Gray title for the second year in a row. Additionally, Notre Dame was without its No. 3 singles player Aaron Talarico, who had to be hospitalized Saturday after suf­fering severe dehydration. 
"We knew that we would have to play at a very high level [to beat Illinois]." Taborga said. "They were really disappointed with their performance. We came out strong [11 days agoJ 
making the 

transition from indoor to outdoor player. Talarico's sickness may have been a result of that, especially with the very hot conditions in Alabama. 
"Going from indoors to out­doors is one of the more difficult things to do in tennis," Scott said. "Going [against Illinois] without Aaron, we knew that we were a bit hurt in the line-up." 
"Going outdoors was a big change," Taborga said. "We had to try to save as much energy as we can." 
Taborga thought Talarico's dehydration was surprising though. 
"He's in better shape than the rest of the team," Taborga said. 
Despite Notre Dame's current ranking, the Irish are not com­placent. 
"I think [the tournament] was a big eye-opener," said Taborga. "We came into it thinking that we were a top 10 team and that we had earned it. We were wrong. We still have to earn our position, and we have to work even harder to stay up there. Other teams are coming after us. It's going to be very hard these last months of the season before the tournament starts." 
Yet the Irish feel lhat they are where they need to be at this early point of the outdoor sea• son as they progress towards their goal of a national champi­onship. 
"Overall, we reached the finals. won three matches, and got some experience playing outdoors," Scott said. 
Notre Dame will next compete against the Hoosiers at Indiana on March 23. 
Contact Joe Lindsley at jlindsle@nd.edu. 

Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
in coming from behind to beat Southern Cal and I just thought they showed unbelievable char­acter and determination in that game," said Mainieri. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame. they could not keep their momentum against Texas Pan-_ American. In that game, the Irish left the bases loaded in the ninth inning, en route to losing to Texas Pan-American 6-5. In the final game of the tournament the Irish suffered another close loss, this time to the hands of Creighton 8-6. 
"Already after a few days, it was a stressful weekend." said Mainieri. "I thought against Creighton we really felt the effects of the emotional draining of the first three days," said Maiuieri. 
Heading into the second leg of their spring break stint in San Antonio at the Irish Baseball Classic, Notre Dame was deter­mined to improve on their 5-6 record. 
In the first game, they avenged their earlier loss to Creighton by beating the Blucjays 6-2. After missing the previous nine gam_es due to a shoulder injury, pre­season All-American junior Brian Stavisky hit a home run on the first pitch he saw. He also added a triple later in the game. Freshman John Axford went seven strong innings, giving up no earned runs, striking out six and allowing zero walks. 
"[Axford] topped out at 94 mph and just had a really p_owerful performance," said Mainieri. 
The Irish came back strong against Southern Illinois in their next game and snapped the Salukis eight game winning streak by nabbing a 6-3 victory. Freshman Grant Johnson went eight innings, yielding only five hits and no earned runs. Johnson's classmate, Macri, hit his first collegiate home run and added a triple to lead the effort for the Irish offense. 
Despite their tendency to lose close games earlier in the sea­son, the Irish defeated Arkansas Little-Rock 7-5 when sophomore Joe Thaman blasted a two-run home run to end the game. Stavisky also connected for his second and third home runs of the season as the Irish improved to 8-6. Freshman pitcher Chris Niesel contributed another solid outing on the mound going seven innings and allowing only one earned run. 
"That was a wild game but it was a good win to give us three in a row," said Mainieri. 
In the finale of the spring break trip, Notre Dame used a late-run rally to upend Southern Illinois for the second time this season. Stanley tied the game with a triple in the eighth before scoring on a Paul O'Toole single. Pete Ogilvie pitched the final three innings for his second win of the year. 
In Mainieri's many years of coaching, he has never seen a team face so many early season obstacles. 
"Clearly, right now we have battled as much adversity in an early part of a season as you could face in an entire year. We have lost our top three middle infielders in Macri, [Steve] Sollman and Matt Edwards. I'm not sure how many teams in the country can lose their top three middle infielders and still battle the way we are." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 

Work. L . Work. . Work. . Why have
e1sure. Leisure. Leisure. not both? 
FORTUNE' What does a job at Ernst & Young give you? The best of both worlds. After all, 100 BEST the focus of our business has always been its people, and we are devoted to helping
COMPANIES§

TO WORK FOR N them realize their career goals while encouraging their personal aspirations. The result is you'll be challenged, but you'll also be rewarded. Maybe that's why we've been named one of the "100 Best Companies to Work For," four years in a row. So why not bounce on over and see for yourself? 
ey.com/us/careers i.!} f RNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 


Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
The Observer . TODAY page 23 
RYAN

TOM KEELEY 
BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED

FOURTH AND INCHES 
CUNNINGHAM 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Do some tub­64 Drained thumping
1 With 34-Down, 65 Get hitched an ordering 33 Sprint rival 
66 "Amen!" option 36 Figure-skating 
67 It may have an 4 Paul or Brown maneuver 
E.1.K. 7 "Them' 
39 Business end of 

68 Called the shots a missile
1OEngland's Queen 
41 Giant Giant 

DOWN
42 One way to ring

13 Earmark 1 Much spam44 Bizarre15 Fit 2 Writer Rosten 45 Ruminations17 "Well, sorr-ry'" 3 Jerk48 Prefix with 18 Woodworker, at culture 4 Placetimes 51 Daffy Duck or 5 Catch, as in a
19 Offer for 
Elmer Fudd netcampus visitors 52Gel 6 Takes care of21 Place to share a 53 Famous place 7 Third-ratetub with a hint to newspaper,24 Pack neatly 
this puzzle's slangily 25 Marquis name? theme 
8 "I'm_ you!' 26 Common shift 58 Not exactly tidy 
9 Isaac's eldest 31 Detective 
59 Access 

10 Craze Pinkerton 63 At work 
11 Overthrow 
12 Cause of a ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE traffic tie-up 

14 Jerk Puzzle by Joo OlPletro 
16 Kind of fit 34 See 1-Across 35 In other words news 37 It's picked out 
21 Org. abolished 38 Soldiers pitch in 19TT 
them 22 It may be within 
40 Car nut? 

your range 43 English prep
23 lace tip 
school 27 Golfer Sutton 
45 Where rye is 28 Govt. security 

"whiskey" 29 Chain letters? 
46 Chinese 0 M -:-+::+.::+-,,+,.,.. 0 N 30 "Just look _!" restaurant R A D 33 Unwanted 
offering E D S closet items 47 Cloverleaf part 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

48 Shining 57 Three sheets to the wind
49 Raise a stink 50 Carried on 60Zip 54 Time to attack 
61 Course 55 Motion picture 
requirement? 
56 Date with a dr. 62 "That's 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1 ·900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­Address------------------­City ---~---State ____ Zip______ > 
FOXTROT 

I CAN'T NOTHING? 
8EL1£VE Dor.J'T BE I'M SPENDING SILLY. 
I

SPRING 6REAK WITti NOTHING ~,' // To Do. 



T'...., 5.,."5 k !.f>e"tl r ..... .5°"'5 -h sel­1ew ...leohol roticr 
o.vse ot t~e 

+-1-e. ti.,...e T "°"'J ,.,,\C(,"'4\ ?•;,;o,-,:,,5 !:'.,., joi~ +. ~¼w 
k11.ve. s.re,,+ 1:1-I--c.1-t. p\oce ~ OIJr-sYR, lewnin5 \.\..Q \),.;.e,-~41 41>'~
or:~"j c-espo115ib1 

o.. seC<,r0 ,.."5.,,.Y 1\2.I~ "'e, 11or o..-e 
c,.11~ ...-esreA,,_) 

t-4 ~;";:S 4~!.t }kt ~~Hr li~b'e,1 'cJ'1' o+~e,.-~_I 
BILL AMEND 
YOU COULD CLEAN YOUR RooM.•• 
1 CAN'T 1N FA.CT, 1 

'(OV COULD &ET A :ruMP oN 
BELIEVE PUT T06ETHER 
YOUR HoMEWoRIC••• 'YoV COULD I'M SPENDING A LIST••• 
HELP ME WITH THE LAVNDltY ..• 
SPRING Si<EAIC 
I
1WITH PRACTICALLY I NOTHING To Do.
"Clv 
~J 
\' 
HOROSCOPE 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 2002 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: Holly Hunter, Spike Lee, CarlReineJ; Bobby Orr 
Happy Birthday: Focus on what it is you want to accomplish this year. If you allow yourself to get dragged into affaiis that really aren't your responsibility you won't get the opportunity to follow your dreams. Put yourself first for a change and see howmuch you can adlieve. Your numbers are 6, 13, 23, 37, 41, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Your attitude coupled with your friendly demeanor will help you to draw attention to yourself as well as make new friends today. Take part in whatever activities you come across. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You can make professional changes today that will lead to all sorts of new possibilities. You will not have any problems convincing others of your abilities. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be a little sensitive today if things don't go according to plan. Take time out to do things for your­self. Focus on making personal changes that will raise your self­esteem. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
You can make all sorts of good moves today if you roncentrate on investments, property, products and services for the home. You can turn your spare time into a money­making wnture. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your strong sense of pride and your abil­ity to take charge should enable you to take a position of leadership in groups in which you get involved. You can start a new friendship that can lead to a busi­ness partnership. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Don't let obstacles stand in your 

Birthday Baby: You are truly an individual, extremely intelligent and always eager to learn new things. You express yourself well and like to be thought of as articulate and bright You are forever trying to do too much. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
e 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 

way. If you plan your actions care­
fully you should be able to out­
maneuver any situation you face. 
Don't make promises that you 
know you will never be able to 
uphold.00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You 
will enjoy meeting interesting indi­
viduals who have something worth 
talking about You will understand 
yourself better by listening to those 
who already know what they want 
out of life. Take advantage of the 
opportunities offered. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): 
Put some thought into retirement plans. You may want to firm up on some solid investments that will help you feel more secure. Make the most of your time. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nau 22-Dec. 21): You may not want to face emotion­al issues today so it is best to avoid anyone who may just want to back you into a comer. It may be a make­it or break-it time for you and a partner who wants to get you to firm up on your intentions. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can get ahead professionally and financially if you push your ideas forward. You will get the help you need if you simply ask for it. Don't let a co-worker or peer stand in your way. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have a good handle on your life and your direction today. Don't let anyone ronfuse you or try to lead you astray. You know in your heart what it is that you want to accomplish. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may have a problem with someone you are close to. Let him or her know where you stand and how you feel. 1f you get things out in the open it will be much easier on everyone roncerned. 00 
National Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. NHL, p. 18, 17 
. Men's Tennis, p. 21 
. 
NBA, p. 15 . SMC Tennis, p. 20 

. 
Men's Golf, p. 17 

. 
Column, p. 17




PORTS 
Wednesday, March 20, 2002 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Edged by the Big Red 
. Irish second half rally not enough in 10-9 loss to No. 10 Cornell 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 

... 
The No. 15 Irish women's lacrosse team·s comeback fell just short as time ran out on Meyn Field Tuesday, losing to Cornell 10-9. 
Cornell started strong and quickly accumulated a 5-1 lead. 
"We didn't come out strong enough," senior Tina Fcdarcyk said. "We weren't playing our game in the beginning." 
But Kassen Delano started an Irish run when she dumped in a shot that snuck past Cornell's keeper. Then co­captain Alissa Moser stole the ball and carried it for 40 yards to set up Lauren Fischer's free position goal to make the score 5-3 with just six minutes left in the half. 
However, Cornell countered the run by scoring three quick goals to end the half, putting them in front 8-3. The Irish had trouble converting shots throughout the first half, despite having open looks. 
"We just didn't get to capitalize on opportunities that we had, especially in the first half," defender Kelly McCardelt said. "In the first half we made them look better than they were. We knew how important this game was -this was the first top-10 team we were play­ing. We knew we needed to pick it up in the second half. The defense needed to 
see IACROSSE/page 19 


BASEBALL 

Irish return from spring break in full swing 
. Notre Dame Things went from bad to cult day when it was windy," worse the next day when said head coach Paul Mainieri.
overcomes rash of 

freshman shortstop Matt "Both players were hustlinginjuries to finish Edwards, and they collid­already "Our players bounced ed and Matt
road trip 5-3 

playing in Edwards ended
back in coming from 

place of the up with a com­
injured behind to beat Southern pound fracture
By JOE HETTLER 

Matt Macri, Cal, and I just thought in his right leg." 
Assistant Sports Editor 

broke the Notre Dame
they showed unbelievable 

tibia and trailed at the 
· character and

After leading 3-2 with two fibula in his time of the outs in the ninth inning of its right leg determination in injury 8-4, but opening game in the Express during roared back for
that game."

College Classic against TCU, N o t r e 11 straight runs the Irish baseball team (9-6) Dame's and a 15-8 victo­seemed to have victory firmly g a m e Paul Mainieri ry. Seniors in its grasp. against head coach Andrew Bushey 
Six hits later, TCU took a 7-3 USC. The and Steve lead into the bottom of the game was Stanley each had ninth and won by that score. delayed 45 minutes as three hits in the comeback 
The Irish should have known Edwards was attended to. win. right then that the rest of the "[Edwards] was hustling "Our players bounced back Express College Classic was after a fly ball and Matt Bok going to be tough. was hustling in on a very diffi-see BASEBALL/page 22 

. ND Women's Tennis at Purdue, Thursday, 1:30 p.m. 
OBSERVER 

. ND Women's Swimming at NCAA Championships,
SPORTS on line Thursday-Saturday
AT AGLANCE . Fencing at NCAA Championships, Thursday-Sunday http://www.nd.edu/~observer 


