
-------------------. 
Dispatch releases a live album
PARTLY CLOUDY 

Tuesday 
Dis,:>atch's new live album, Gut the Van. features songs from each of the 
bands previous four albums that were performed during their 2001 tour. 
FEBRUARY 5,
HIGH 34° 
Scene . page 1o
LOW23° 
2002 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 80 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Speaker discusses architecture's role in the Holocaust 
After pouring over examples tural structure and its dedica­the workers and German­so he engineered a deal with the 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
of German households, funerary tion to efficiency and compe­designed housing for plant Slovakian government in which 
NcewsWricer 
architecture, monuments, and tence in the extermination of the administrators. its leaders paid for the reloca­governmental buildings con­Jewish in Europe, van Pelt The plans that van Pelt found tion of Jews from Slovakia to There is a connection between 
structed during the Third Reich, stumbled upon a map contain­were designs for the re-creation Auschwitz, where those who the architecture and function of van Pelt noticed striking similar­ing plans for revamping the of medieval Auschwitz, a town were physically able would German concentration camps at ities between the architecture of town of Auschwitz. which Hitler had claimed to work for the Germans, and 
Auschwitz, according to Robert such structures and the archi­The strategies for urban revi­have a German culture as a those who were not would be Jan van Pelt, a full-time profes­
tecture of their ancient Athenian talization were ironic and out of result of its location along the killed. 
sor at the University of Waterloo counterparts. place in a location built specifi­border of Austria-Hungary and "Suddenly the history of the 
in Ontario, Canada. 
Van Pelt's study of Nazi-era cally to carry out the destruction Russia earlier in German histo­camp became a part of the larg­Working with Carroll William structures inevitably led him to of an entire people. The profes­ry. er picture involving the immi­
Westfall, chair of Notre Dame's 
the concentration camps. sor discovered from this docu­With building plans already in gration of Germans" to staff the School of Architecture, van Pelt, According to van Pelt. they ment that Auschwitz was slated place, Heinrich Himmler, officer factory at Auschwitz, ethnic 
who has studied the relationship 
became the "garbage bins for to play a prominent role in the in charge of the small concen­cleansing, and the re-introduc­for more than a decade and a the contradictions" of a society larger scheme for German dom­tration camp that had been tion of "German glory," accord­half verified the normative that believed that the "German ination of eastern Europe. established outside of ing to van Pelt. nature of classical Athenian glory" of the Austro-Hungarian Van Pelt was soon to unearth Auschwitz, was charged with After studying original con­design. Empire could be re-created by a an agreement between industri• the task of providing enough centration camp blueprints at 
"If something is normative," 
pure Aryan race. al giant LG. Farbenindustrie workers to build it. As a result the site. van Pelt was appalled van Pelt argued in a lecture at The apex of this German plan and Nazi leaders to build a syn­of the military conflict that at the seeming efficiency and Notre Dame Monday, "it centered around plans for an thetic gas and rubber plant in Germany was simultaneously premeditation behind the func­
deserves to be repeated." 
ea.stern Utopia, in the small, the town, far removed from the engaged in, Himmler turned to tionality of Auschwitz's design.
Van Pelt's next task was to unassuming Polish town of threat of British bombers. A Slovakia. Van Pelt learned that the gasdetermine what society, if any, 
Oswiecim, better known to west­deal had been struck between As van Pelt put it, "Himmler chambers and ovens built under had attempted to re-create the ern audiences as Auschwitz. the two entities that, should the got control of the 'Jewish prob­the structures were only as good structure of ancient Greece. All Through his research of the company build the factory, the lem.' He needed Jewish labor signs pointed to Nazi Germany. concentration camp's architec-Nazi regime would provide both and control over Jewish labor," see ARCHITECTURE/pag.: 4 

Officials detail bar renovations 
+ New Alumni­Senior Club to be completed in 2003 
By JASON McFARLEY News Editor 
The University's top student life official unveiled Monday plans for major renovations to the Alumni-Senior Club. a venue whose use for social gatherings student groups had long urged administra­tors to expand. 
In the first public disclosure of the renovations, Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, told the Campus Life Council that changing the club to a sports­themed restaurant and bar will allow all students to socialize together on campus. 
"We have heard the mes­sage loud and clear that we need social venues on campus that bring together underage and of-age students," Poorman said, addressing the CLC for the first time in more than two years. The plans for the Alumni-Senior 
As presented Monday. the 
Club, above, include space for
plans will increase the club's 
720 patrons -400 on the dance
area by some 50 percent, from about 10,000 square floor, 190 in the restaurant, 90 in feet to more than 15,000, the pub and 40 in the game
according to a Jan. 21 project 
room. Father Mark Poorman, at
cost summary from the Office 
of the University Architect. right, vice-president for Student 
The summary estimated total Affairs, presented the plans for a cost for the initiative at more 
renovated senior bar to the
than $2 million. 
Campus Life Council, including
The revamped facility will be ready for use in fall 2003, lvfatt Smith, left, and Meghan O'Donnell. 
see BAR/page 4 



Elections lack social concerns candidates 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
Associate News Ediror 
This year's campaign for Notre Dame student body president is filled with promises of social events and policy initiatives aimed primarily at improving stu­dent life. 
What's missing, however, are "social conscience can­didates" -candidates with platforms based on social justice issues. Last year, Yogeld Andre and Demetra Smith ran together with a platform that included a living wage for campus employees, community hot topics forums and leader­ship-based scholarships. 
"Yogeld and I ran last year because we were approached by a group of students, and we all saw a need for a vision that was coming from an outsider's perspective," said Smith, now a senior. According to Smith, that vision was one that included both the Notre Dame community and the outside world. 
"I certainly hope every­one running this year will include ideas that look beyond themselves," said Smith. She added that it does not concern her that 
see CONCERNS/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tue5day, February 5, 2002 



INSIDE COLUMN 
The perfect road trip 

I have high standards. They shouldn't be too long. but they definitely shouldn't be too short. I've had some good, memorable ones, and some that were just miserable experiences that I 
couldn't wait to get to the end of.  
You can't have them every  
weekend or you would get  Katie Hughes  
much too tired. I've come  
close, but I've never cxpcri- Copy Editor  
enced one that I would give a  
score of a perfect 10.  

Road trips, that is. Sometimes, you gotta bust out. The elements or a good road trip: 
1. A Good Shotgun Rider. Compared to shotgun. back scat riders arc virtually invisible. They are the parasites in the road trip food chain, poking their necks between the front si>ats between naps. 
The basic duties of toll money finding. CD changing, snack opening, and "can we get over'.'" begging can give the shotgunner a solid score. 
But for a perfect 10, major navigation through ghettos and never being wrong when answering distraught "stay on or get off? what does that sign SAY?'' spaz-ish question attacks from the driver are also required. 
2. Musir.. Regardless of any ska or techno ten­dencies of any or all of the road trippers, "Free Fallin," "American Pie," and "Tiny Dancer" make even the most machisimo road trippers go all Thelma-and-Louise-ish, and yet mellow at the very same time. Rap songs from Office Space may be interspersed if the driver is in a slump. 
Since you are road-tripping from Notre Dame, the entire U2 Greatest Hits album will by uncon­trollable magnetic force begin to play after 2 .6 hours. Do not, I repeat. do NOT play the radio in the rectangle states. Back seaters can gain some respect by making a mix CD. 
3. 
The Destination. The actual destination of the road trip is important only because it influences the mood of the road trippers themselves. My in­depth research has shown that cars full of kids on their way to meet friends, or friends-of-friends who will lead them to out-of-state beer are 57.8 percent happier than any other road trippers. 

4. 
The Speed. The faster the better. though finding the balance of cop-avoidance and deliver­ance from those rectangle states is crucial. This balance does not actually exist. 


5.The Flow. No, not that kind of flow, although well-timed stops at rest stops where you stumble in squinting at the array of beef jerky and mullets this nation offers are an important part of a high scoring road trip. 
The flow is the deep, philosophical conversa­tions about what it must be like to live in Podunkville. amazing speeding ticket avoidance adventure story times. and how cool it would be to have a nice· car. Llke, whoa. 
It has also been scientifically proven that obser­vations of University absurdities increase expo­nentially as the distance from South Bend increases. 
6. The Stories. Though this is technically not part of the road trip itself, it is its most valuable result. When explaining details to those who have not even attempted the perfect road trip. always exaggerate. 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/ CLARIFICATIONS 

The Observer reg:1rds itself as a professional publicuion and strives for rhr highest st~ndarJs of journ.ilism ar all rimes. W c Jo, however, recog11ize ch;ir we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conract us :H 631-4541 so we can conect our error. 
The Observer (lJSPS 5'l9 2-'10001 is published Mon,fay rhrnush hid.,y txct"p! ,J,uin{! t:Aillll .md v.1c.ui<H1 periods, The Observer i~ a member of rlw A,soci;.iH•d PI,t'.\.,. All rrprrnJ11nion ri~ln.s ,ift" n·.scrvL~d. 
, .. ............ :.. ........................... . 
;,,. 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"We gotta take it back  "People started  "/ could have swam  
to the road where we really  congratulating us last week  through a brick wall at that  
like to play ... We don't  when the other ticket  point because the team was  
talk about it. but we do have  dropped out. They didn't  going crazy for me."  
a little bit of a road  realize that the process was  
presence.  far from over. "  Adam Cahill  
sophomore swimmer  
Mike Brey  Kim Jensen  on his Big East qualifying  
men's basketball head coach  stu"ent body presidential candidate  time in the SO-yard freestyle  
on the remainder of the season  on the lone ticket election  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
University of Arizona cuts 128 courses and jobs 
TUCSON, Ariz. regents met Priday at Arizona State 
Nearly 130 classes have bP.en can­University. celed and the same number of jobs cut Northern Arizona University's presi­as a result of state-mandated budget dent said his university is facing prob­cuts, University of Arizona President lems similar to UA's, having to elimi­Peter Likins told the Arizona Board of nate employees, classes and eventual­Regents Friday. ly some departments. 
None of the 128 classes that were "When institutions have been cut were graduation requirements, through this process before, the net and it is unclear how many of the 128 effect is that it will increase the time jobs that were eliminated actually to graduate," NAU President John were occupied, Likins said. The fact Haeger said. that the two numbers are the same is Despite all tho doom and gloom, coincidental. there was one upbeat note for those 
Likins said he will release a memo Likins and other senior administra­who support the Integrated Learning Monday stating the number of people tors still are working to eliminate the Center. Money within the UA budget who lost their jobs as a result of bud­remaining $1.96 million from the uni­will be reallocated to provide for hir­get cuts. Of the jobs cut, 56 were versity's budget. ing four !LC employees. The four new adjunct faculty positions and the rest This year's budget cuts and concern employees will be hired with the goal were temporary, full-time positions, over what funding the state of opening the media center in Likins said. Legislature may cut next year was on January 2003. 
The job and course cuts helped the everyone's minds and lips when the Arizona Daily Wildcat 

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Baby born in dorm bathroom dies 
MADISON, Wis. 
A baby girl born in a University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire residence hall bathroom died Sunday. Julienna Marie Hubbard died at the St. Joseph's Hospital in Marshfield, reportedly from a lack of' oxygen at the time of birth, an Eau Claire County deputy medical examiner said. She was in critical condition. The full-term baby was born Jan. 29 to Karen Hubbard, a UW-Eau Claire freshman who died after giving birth in a bathroom stall of Oak Ridge Hall, the all-girl dorm in which Hubbard lived. An autopsy revealed excessive bleeding caused by complications with childbirth resulted in Hubbard's death. Emergency personnel reportedly found Hubbard, 19, in a bathroom stall not breathing and with no pulse last Tuesday. When an officer removed Hubbard from the stall, he found the baby girl. A student reportedly began CPR procedures on the baby while officers attempted to revive Hubbard. 
Badger Herald 
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
Computer model monitors attacks 
SALT LAKE CITY A computer model developed at the University of 
., Utah will help detect possible bioterrorist attacks during the Olympic Games. Using medical records from some of' Utah's clinics, the model can detect dis­ease patterns that resemble a bioterrorist attack. The model retrieves medical data daily and creates reports used to identify an outbreak. Several clini­cians and public health specialists will monitor the data and notify state health officials of any suspicious trends. Because the medical records are already in electronic form, the surveillance team can perform its analysis quickly because it does not have to man­ually enter data. Dr. Kurt Hegmann, one of the pri­mary developers, said they are implementing 50 dif'­ferent analyses that examine a range of symptoms ­coughing, runny nose and vomiting. Based on these data, his team can track a number of infectious dis­eases, such as pneumonia and anthrax. Daily Utah Chronicle 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather1o,)forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon.Tuesday, Feb. 5. 
i 

Wedne~day 
l 

Thursd~y 
l 

Friday J 
! 

Saturd~y ql 
Pr,uur.· 

® (Q D D CJ]. D D
Sun$y . r-/~1 .
High Low Showers Rain T• ¦tortnl FlurrlH SnQW Ice sunny Pt. Cloucty Cloudy 
1

iJ•-,'\.f..-, "V,.,·~..} ..,_,,_, ·:~ Vja Assoeiate<J Press 
Atlanta 46 32 Las Vegas 58 34 Portland 47 38 
Baltimore 40 27 Memphis 40 27 Sacramento 58 38 
Boston 31 23 Milwaukee 33 20 St. Louis 43 28
Q,Q,Q9,6+Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 35 21 New York 36 28 Tampa 64 54 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurri95 Snow Ice Surlf'ly Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 50 42 Philadelphia 37 28 Washington. DC 42 30 
Wa Assocsa.tRd Pres& GraphicsNei 

Tuesday, February 5, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 
AFGHANISTAN 
Russian official promises· support 
Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida
Associated Press 
network has been training 
Chechen rebels and militants 
KABUL with the Islamic Movement of 
Russia's foreign minister visit-Uzbekistan, a group active in ed Kabul on Monday to pledge Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and support for helping Afghanistan Kyrgyzstan. Russia fears that recover from 23 years of war instability in those former Soviet and instability that began when republics could spread into the Soviet Union invaded the Russia proper. country. Since the defeat of the Taliban 
Igor Ivanov met with interim in November, Russia has Prime Minister Hamid Karzai to extended humanitarian aid to discuss rebuilding efforts, and Afghanistan, sending in workers was to leave to set up a field the country hospital and later in the 
"Mr. Karzai and other leading work to 
day. . reopen the 
"Mr. Karzai Afghan Ministers Salang Tunnel and other assured me that they will between Kabul Afghan 
do their best to prevent and the north· 
Ministers . The tunnel was assured me any threats ofterrorism, originally built 
that they will extremism, drug-dealing to assist the do their best 
and so-on for Russia Soviet invasior_i. 
to prevent . The Soviet any threats of from Afghanistan Union invaded terrorism, territory." Afghanistan in extremism, December 1979. drug-dealing, More than
Igor Ivanov

and so-on, for 115,000 Soviet Russia from Russian foreign minister soldiers fought Afghanistan there, and an 
estimated territory,"Ivanov said. "It is very 13,000 were killed and 35,000 important and principal for us, wounded before the Red Army because we know very well pulled out in February 1989. what those threats are. We have On Monday, Ivanov flew into been targets of those terrorist Kabul airport, a battered organizations based in airstrip still littered with Afghanistan." burned-out remains of military 
Russia has supported the U.S.­transport aircraft, amid tight led anti-terrorism campaign in security. part because it is also interested Dozens of soldiers carrying in weakening radical Islamic assault rifles and rocket-pro­groups. Those groups include pelled grenade launchers stood militants fighting in the break­guard. The plaster facade of one away republic of Chechnya and building near the airport's main in former Soviet republics of terminal was still pockmarked Central Asia. with bullet holes from past fight­
Russia is concerned that ing. 
Another casualty in Afghanistan: the environment 
Like the stability of its new government, Afghanistan's environmental outlook is unsure. But predictions are dire, given years of war, intense drought and the destruction of infrastructure. Until a United Nations team completes its planned environmental assessment, experts can only speculate on how conditions in the country have declined. 
Generally higher than the American Rocky Mountains, the rugged Hindu Kush mountains bisect the country and dictate much of its weather. 
100mi 
ntains 
0 u 
Woodlands on the slopes of the Hindu Kush account for most of Afghan­Irrigation istan's 3 percent of canals and forest cover. Up totunnels half may be gonechannel runoff now, pulverized byfrom the U.S. bombing ormountains. In depleted for fuel. 
the parched southwest, a A lucrative product due to itsruined canal scarcity, timber has reportedlycould knock been smuggled out of the Toraout a town's Bora area into Pakistan for sale.

water supply for weeks. 

The Abi-i-Estada and Dashte-Nawar wetlands host migratory birds, including the rare Siberian crane. These important staging areas may have been destroyed by war or years of drought. 
A varied landscape Withering dryness Species under pressure 
Afghanistan is defined by Drought magnifies other Snow leopard pelts can fetch extremes, but it's a land on damage. For example, without thousands of dollars. Probably which its people depend. An water to replenish vegetation, fewer than 100 of the endangered estimated 80 percent rely on overgrazing by livestock could cats survive. Other species are agriculture. take years to reverse. more valuable as food.

~,, 
_,._ -) I 
_..,,.-......... .,,..., ' • .--..-:r

t~::;;r·-
·~:if?·?2\~f; r1 
' ' , I 
...)

/· , I .
C:· .·· . .-··•··. l
.. ,1__~.,.­
Predominant land use Drought Species' habitat D Desert and oasis . severe !B Snow leopard Iii Irrigated areas lgJ Extremely severe 'fl1DJJ Wild sheepD Oasis and pasture ~ Gazelle !l'li'iil Rain-fed farming and pasture 
SOURCES: Peter Zahler, University of Massachusetts; United Nations; International 
CZ] Forest and pasture 

Centre for Integrated Mountain Development; National Atlas of Afghanistan 
Hassan Hodges; John Jurgensen; Tony Lugo; /AP 

_j 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 5, 2002 
Concerns 
continued from page 1 
no one is running on social justice issues this year. as long as they're running on what they believe is best for the Notre Dame community. Although Smith said she is not formally involved with a campaign this year. she said she has attended brainstorm­ing sessions for the Brian Moscona/Keri Oxley cam­paign. 
It is not clear why there isn't a ticket like Smith and Andre's in this election. Previously, candidates had to get 150 signatures to be allowed to run. The Judicial· Council changed the require­ment to 300 signatures for last year's election. This year, the council used the identical guidelines as last year, according to John McCarthy, the council's vice president in charge of elections. 
Some of this year's candi­dates, however, believe they incorporate some social jus­tice concerns into their plat­forms. 
"We have increased student activism on our platform," said Moscona, who explained that he and Oxley met with Smith and Andre this year. 
Moscona ran against Smith and Andre last year, when he was running for student body vice president with current student body president Brooke Norton. 
"We really had a lot of respect for Demetra and Yogeld," Moscona said. 
Norton and Moscona ended up winning the election, but the office of the president has adopted one of Smith and Andre's ideas during their term, Dinner with 7 Strangers. If he and Oxley are elected this year, said Moscona. they would like to expand the current dinner program. 
In addition, Moscona said he believes student govern­ment should work with groups such as the Progressive Student Alliance to help those students com­municate more effectively with the administration. The University tends to view activist groups such as the PSA as an unofficial student voice, according to Moscona, while student government enjoys the status of the offi­cial student voice. 
Moscona and Oxley also plan to work with Students for Environmental Action, he said, to increase recycling when fans come to campus for home football games. Moscona and Oxley's platform also proposes sample service days once a month to give busy students a chance to vol­unteer. 
Presidential candidate Nikki McCord similarly said that she and running mate Nick Williams incorporated social concerns into their platform. 
For example, McCord and Williams are proposing a "Take a Kid to College" pro­gram. According to McCord, a student they were talking to suggested the idea while the ticket was campaigning. 
The program would involve pairing up local school chil• dren with Notre Dame stu­dents on teacher in-service days. Domers would take the children to class, to the dining halls and to their dorms to show them what college is like so that the children "know that college can be for them," McCord said. 
"It's a good and easy way 
for students to connect with 
the community in a personal 
way," she added. 

Another part of their plat­form that incorporates social concerns. according to McCord, is the section about CSC vans. There is a chance that the University's risk management office will be taking the vans away from the center, she said. McCord and Williams want to make sure that does not happen. 
"We don't think any 
resources need to be taken 
away from the CSC," McCord 
said. 

However, while McCord stressed that social concerns are important to many Notre Dame students, she added that she does· not think it is the role of student govern· ment to actually create ser­vice opportunities. 
"There are so many differ­ent things going on on cam­pus ... The part the student government plays in service is publicity," said McCord. "Student government can help in publicizing the differ­ent avenues that students can get involved in service." 
For that reason, McCord said that there is "nothing missing" from the student body election without social conscience candidates in the race. 
"A lot of students are doing service. Student government doesn't need to make new ini­tiatives," she said. 
Other tickets are even more explicit that they are not social justice candidates. 
"We're very direct about the idea that we're a student­based platform," said presi­dential candidate Scott Palko, who is running with P.J. Mercanti. 
However, Palko added that because he works at NDToday.com, he helped make the decision for NDToday .com to endorse Smith and Andre last year. 
Another candidate running for president. Libby Bishop. also questioned whether all of Smith and Andre's platform ideas were reasonable issues for student government to address. 
"I think their platform last year was really inspirational, but it wasn't realistic," said Bishop, who is running with Trip Foley. Some of Smith and Andre's platform ideas also went beyond the realm of stu­dent government, according to Bishop. For example, she said their idea to start a semester abroad program in third world countries, over­lapped with programs run by the CSC. 
"We think there already are all these existing resources," said Bishop. 
However. although Bishop said her platform does not currently involve many social justice issues, Bishop said that she and running mate Trip Foley would .consider collaborating with existing organizations on such issues-if students wanted them to. 
"Our whole theme is to try to be more responsive to stu­dents," she said. 
Another element of past election that is not in this election, according to Palko. are "joke tickets." 
"AU the tickets are strong. That's why it's so interesting this year," he said. 
Contact Erin LaRuffa at elaruffa@nd.edu. 
Bar 
continued from page 1 
Poorman said. 
The plans include several key changes to the club: 
. 
Expansion of the dance floor to accommodate 400 people 

. 
Expansion of the restau­rant area to seat 190 patrons 

. 
Addition of a restaurant­style kitchen 

. 
Addition of offices and a storage room 

. 
Renovated game room 


Poorrnan's announcement followed a two-and-a-half­year study by his office into 
existing social s p a c e available to stu­dents on and off. campus. It essentially eliminated the possi­bility of renovating LaFortune Student Center to address social held underage dances at the club. 

Poorman said the changes were flexible and pledged to seek student input before work began. He said the club would like· ly close in December for six to eight months of renova­tions. It would reopen in August 2003. 
Poorman will present the plan to the Board of Trustees at the upcoming meeting. 
Students had lobbied administrators at least the past two years to renovate the club. 
The Student Senate com­pleted reports on campus social space that included 
"We've been talking for a long time about how wonderful that would be. It would help so much with programming. It would change the social life on campus and perceptions ofit. " 
Brooke Norton student body president 
space concerns. 
"We could wait around to renovate LaFortune," Poorman said, "but we'd be in a queue for building." 
Conversion of the club frees the University to change provisions of its liquor license and allow students under 21 into an establishment where alco­hol is served, Poorman said. 
Right now, the facility functions mainly as a bar for drinking-age students and alumni. Groups such as the freshman and sopho­more class councils have same issue. Norton 

revamp­ing the club. Last spring, Brooke Norton. student 
b o d y 
presi­d e n t , submitted to the Board of Trustees a report t h a t touched on the 
praised 

Poorman's announcement Monday to move forward with the initiative. 
"We've been talking for a long time about how won­derful that would be," she said. "It would help so much with programming. It would change the social life on campus and perceptions of it." 
Contact Jason McFarlcy at mcfarley. l@nd.edu. 
Holocaust 
continued from page 1 

as the number of corpses they could incinerate in a day. 
Van Pelt also noted with hor­ror the meticulous design of the entrance, "The Gate of Death," which was drawn and re­drawn to better accommodate the trains that transported pris­oners to their deaths and the large transformers used to elec­trify the barbed wire surround­ing the camp. 
"Here we see a war crime in progress, done by an architect," said van Pelt. 
The issue of ethics and morals in architecture became another point to van Pelt's lec­ture, in his emphasis on the exactness with which each space of Auschwitz was intend­ed, from the melting room for extracted gold teeth to the trea­sury to the pre-heating mecha­nisms found in gas chambers to better circulate the poison. 
"These architectural plans show everything ... you have these in your hand and you feel like you're close to the crime," he said. 
As such, Auschwitz has now become not only a stark symbol of the capabilities for human intolerance. but has also inad• vertently placed itself at the center of the "Holocaust denial" debate. 
Van Pelt, armed with archi­tectural records to add to the mountains of other evidence, has made it his duty to refute such theories that the Holocaust never happened. 
"The Holocaust was not an accident of history ... it was not a collateral of war," said van Pelt. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu. 

[J]mJ[I]IT][E][E)0@.l[rl 
C-reating an 
nte--r--racial ~amily 

6th
b

Wednesday, Fe ruary 5:30 pn1 Center for Social Concen1s 
Please RSVP @ 1-6841 

There will be ri panel discussion. as well as Soul Food served. All ar~ welcome. 

ATION 
Tuesday, February 5, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Space station loses power: A comput­er failure knocked out the international space station's guidance system Monday and pre­vented the power-generating solar wings from pointing toward the sun. To conserve power, the three men aboard the space sta­tion turned off secondary equipment as a pre­caution. 
Ethnic clashes in Nigeria escalate: 
Gangs of youths armed with machetes, swords, and bows and arrows took to the streets of Lagos Monday in a third day of ethnic bloodlet­ting in Nigeria's commercial capital. At least 55 people have been kHled. Grabbing what posses­sions they could, thousands fled as plumes of black smoke rose from the city's slums. The violence was the latest blow to a city still shak­en by explosions at an army munitions depot that killed at least 1,000 people last week. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Bush, Blair nominated for Nobels: 
President Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair have been nominated for the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize for fighting terrorism and securing world peace, a Norwegian lawmaker announced Monday. The Nobel Prize winners are named in mid-October and the awards are always presented on Dec. 10, the day their founder, Swedish industrialist Alfred Nobel, died in 1896. 
Police search for Texas inmates: 
Discarded jail clothing, clumps of black hair and fingerprints from a fugitive were found in a burglarized house by authorities searching for two convicted murderers and .two murder suspects who escaped from a Texas jail. By midday Monday, one week after the breakout, there was no sign of the escapees -two con­victed of killing a high school cheerleader and two awaiting trial in another killing. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Bar to end wet T-shirt contests: A 
South Bend bar has agreed to stop holding wet T-shirt contests after city officials accused the owners of violating an adult business ordi­nance. Assistant City Attorney Ann-Carol Nash filed a lawsuit against the Inferno bar's owners last month that sought a court order prohibiting activities such as the T-shirt con­tests. Neighborhood residents urged the city to take action after the bar began holding the contests late last summer. 
Market Watch February 4 
Dow 9,687.09 -220,17Jones 

Composite 
Volume:

'@ts:!' 
1,421,619,968 

AMEX: 836.64 NASDAQ: 1,855.53 ]1.-rySE: 562.64 S&P500: 1,094.44 


TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) -15.40 -1.48 8.13 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) -3.20 -1.22 36.92 nco INTL LTD (TIC) -16.08 -5. 73 29. 90 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -4.69 -0. 90 18. 31 ELAN CORP-ADR (ELN) -50.42 -15 .10 14. 85 
CUBA 

Associated Press 
HAVANA 

Juggling demands to prove he can support U.S.­style democracy without being controlled by the United States, Mexican President Vicente Fox met with dissidents in Cuba on Monday and said he pressed Fidel Castro on human rights issues. 
After lengthy talks Sunday with Castro, in power since 1959, Fox met briefly with seven of the Cuban leader's most prominent opponents shortly before the end of his first visit to the com­munist island since taking office 14 months ago. 
The meeting came a day after Fox's foreign minis­ter said Mexico would not challenge Cuba's human rights record in an annual 
U.N. vote that Castro's government sees as part of an American-led campaign to isolate the island, under a U.S. trade embargo for 40 years. 
Fox's election in 2000 ended the 71-year rule of Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary Party. The Mexican leader was under heavy pressure from his own conservative National Action Party and Washington to prove his democratic credentials by 
recognizing the Cuban opposition. 
But he was also under pressure not to fray ties with Cuba -valued in Mexico as a sign of inde­pendence from the United States -and Castro has bristled when high-level visitors have met with his opponents. 
On his flight back to Mexico, Fox told reporters he handed Castro a list of political prisoners whose cases he hoped would be reviewed and "emphasized that Cuba is not an excep­tion and that Mexico will seek to encourage the full observance of human rights the world over." 
He said he hoped "Cuba would come closer to the standards of human rights and of democracy that day-by-day help make things more secure, not only in Latin America but in the rest of the world." 
Fox said he and Castro were able to discuss human rights "precisely because of the maturity of our bilateral relationship and because of the frank­ness and closeness that characterizes our personal relationship." 
He said that he reaf­firmed to Castro his oppo­sition to the U.S. embargo and expressed opposition to the death penalty. 
McCain has surgery to remove lesion 
McCain's office said the lesion, a weeks ago, prompting a biopsy that
Associated Press 
tiny freckle on the left side of the determined it was nonmalignant. 
PHOENIX senator's nose, was not life-threaten­The procedure was performed at 
Sen. John McCain underwent ing. Mayo Clinic Hospital. McCain was surgery Monday to remove a non­The office first said the lesion was under local anesthesia during the cancerous lesion on his nose. an early case of melanoma, but the surgery. 
The Arizona Republican emerged senator later clarified that the lesion McCain is scheduled to undergo from surgery in good spirits, describ­had not developed into cancer. He plastic surgery late Tue:;day after­ing the 10-minute procedure as said it could have turned cancerous noon. Doctors will move some skin minor. He said the lesion was not if it had not been treated. from an adjacent area to cover the cancerous, and was unrelated to two McCain had a lesion removed from scar left by the surgery. past cases of melanoma. his upper arm in 1993 and his tem­The senator, who expects to head 
"I've had worse bouts with the ple during his 2000 presidential back to Capitol l.1ill next week, will dentist," McCain said outside his campaign. likely spend Tuesday night in the Phoenix home. A bandage covered McCain said he noticed a slight dis­hospital. He was spending Monday the tip of his nose. coloration on his nose two or three night at home. 
page6 The Observer . NEWS Thursday, February 5, 2002 
Texas A&M won't have 2002 bonfire 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Texas A&M University's near­ly century-old bonfire tradition -on hold since a deadly col­lapse in 1999 -will not be res­urrected this fall, the school's president said Monday. 
'Tm still determined that the .horror of that day will never visit our campus again," President Ray Bowen said. "My heart wanted to continue the bonfire, but I had to let my brain make the decision." 
The 90-year-old bonfire tradi­tion was suspended after 12 stu­dents were killed and 27 others injured on Nov. 18, 1999. The 59-foot-high, wedding cake­style stack of more than 5,000 logs collapsed while under con­struction. A school commission blamed flawed construction techniques and inadequate supervision of the students assembling the stack. 
Bowen said in June 2000 that the bonfire would return if it were professionally designed and built. 
But on Monday he said that those conditions, along with increased legal liability, would push the costs of building the bonfire to more than $1.5 mil­lion, compared with about $65,000 for the student-built bonfire. 

Bowen. who is retiring in June to return to teaching, said there are other ways Texas A&M stu­dents can show their school spirit. The bonfire traditionally has been lighted on the eve of A&M's football game against the University of Texas, its archri­val. 
Hundreds of students gath­ered to watch the announce­ment over large-screen televi­sions. Some cried as Bowen announced his decision. 
Marc Barringer, a political sci­ence major, said he was disap­pointed. "I learned more applic­able life skills in cut, load and stack than in all of my classes," he said. 
Surveys show students and alumni overwhelmingly support continuing the tradition. 
At least 11 lawsuits filed by families of dead and injured slu­dents accuse A&M administra­tors and former bonfire student leaders of negligence in the col­lapse. 
Kansas upholds a1:1ti-sodomy law 
Associated Press 
TOPEKA, Kan. 
A state appeals court upheld a Kansas law that allows young adults who have sex with underage partners to be punished more harshly if their partners are of the same sex. 
A three-judge panel ruled against Matthew R. Limon, who was seeking to overturn his sentence of 17 years and two months in prison for per­forming a sex act on a 14­year-old boy in February 2000. Limon was 18 at the time. 
If Limon or the boy had been female, Limon's maximum sentence would have been one year and three months in prison, the appeals court said. 
The American Civil Liberties Union argued the law discrimi­nates against homosexuals, and the DKT Liberty Project, a group with a Libertarian phi­losophy, said the law repre­sented gender discrimination. 

The appeals court ruling was issued Friday. Limon still may appeal to the Kansas Supreme Court. 
The year before the incident, legislators had enacted what became known as the "Romeo and Juliet" law, which was designed to separate consen­sual teen-age sexual relation­ships from cases in which older adults exploited young children. 
It lessened the penalties for unlawful but consensual sexu­al relations in which one per­son was under 19 and the other was 14 to 16. But the law only applied when the sex­ual partners were of the oppo­site sex. 
Limon was charged and con­victed under a criminal sodomy law because the "Romeo and Juliet" law didn't apply, the appeals court said. He had been convicted of a similar offense in 1998, which made his sentence more severe. 

SUPER SAVINGS! 
·~~ 
I 
PIZZA COMPANY®! 
Call: 271-1277 , 

(not good with other discounts or offers) Add 6 Breadsticks & Sauce $1.49! 
We'll match any Papa John's,Domino's or Marco's Coupon We take Visa & Mastercard! Expires 3/3/02 
~· I J l' : 1,· 1 4 -_,. J' J. _ 

Panels may subpoena Lay 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Congressional committees took steps Monday to subpoe­na Enron's no-show former chairman, while the Justice Department rejected a Democratic call for a special prosecutor to investigate the collapse of his energy-trading company. 
Former chairman Kenneth Lay was to have been the star witness at congressional hear­ings this week, but he abruptly backed out Sunday night. 
The Senate Commerce Committee scheduled a vote Tuesday on a subpoena to force Lay's appearance. Rep Michael Oxley, R-Ohio, said the ·House Financial Services Committee would issue a sub­poena to compel Lay's appear­ance "at the earliest practical date." 
Lay, who resigned as chair­man on Jan. 23, quit his remaining position as a direc­tor on Monday. 
"It's not possible to figure out what caused this huge Enron ship to capsize if you can't hear from the captain," said Sen. Ron Wyden, 0-0re. 
Sen. Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said a special prosecutor was needed because the Bush Justice Department could not be relied on to investigate objec­tively. 
The Justice Department said in a statement that it sees no reason to appoint a special counsel to investigate Enron. "No person involved in pursu­ing this investigation has any conflict, or any ties that would require a recusal," the depart-
Roundtable: 
Lay's assets 
Some of the assets of Kenneth Lay, the former chief executive of Enron Corp., show he may not be as broke as his wife Linda claimed last week during a television interview. The couple says they are in the process of selling off all of their properties except the $7.1 million penthouse (right) in downtown Houston. 
Real estate holdings 
Houston 


¦ 
Single-family ¦ Fourplex, home, $742,100. $320,760. 

¦ 
Single-family home $112,800. 


Galveston, Texas 

These five properties are in Pirates Cove on the west end of the coastal city. 
¦ 
Single-family home, $390,570. 

¦ 
Single-family home, $790,970. 

¦ 
Single-family home, $337,810. 

¦ 
Undeveloped lot, $105,880. 

¦ 
Undeveloped lot, $101,870. 


Aspen, Colo. 

¦ 
Undeveloped lot, listed at $2.95 million. 

¦ 
Four-bedroom home, listed at $6.125 million. 

¦ 
Five-bedroom home, listed at $6.15 million. 

¦ 
Three-bedroom cottage, appraised at $4.1 million. Not listed, sale being negotiated privately. 



SOURCES: Joshua Sas/ova of Joshua & Co.; Galveston County Appraisal District; Harris County Appraisal District; Thomson Financial/Lancer Analytics 
AP 
Stock holdings 
Directly held shares owned by Lay when he was a director or officer of the following companies and required to disclose his holdings publicly: 
¦ Compaq Computer Corp. (resigned December 2001) 
$4,156,832 
¦ Eli Lilly & Co. (resigned December 2001) 
$2,514,776 
¦ Enron Corp. (resigned February 2002) 
$968,450 
¦ Newpower Holdings Inc.* 
$60,000 
'Lay is still on the board of directors. 
ment said. 

Attorney General John Ashcroft stepped aside from the investigation last month because he had received cam­paign donations from Enron in his failed 2000 Senate bid. The probe is being led by Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson. 
"Cuban Catholicism in the Diaspora" 
Tuesday, February 5, 2002 McJ(enna Hall, Room 200 PART ONE 4:00 pm REFLECTIONS PART TWO 4:45 pm DISCUSSION 
5:30 pm Reception Featuring: 


Dr. Gerald E. Poyo, Historian, St. Mary's University, Texas/Visiting Professor Univ~rsity ofNotre Dame "Cuban Catholics in Exile" 
Dr. Maria de los Angeles Torres, Political Scientist, DePaul University "Politics and Exile: The Peter Pan Children" 
Rev. Mario Vizcaino, Director, Southeast Pastoral Institute "Cuban Catholic Pastoral Issues and Concerns" 
Dr. Sixto Garcia, Theologian, St. Vincent DePaul Seminary, Boynton Beach, Florida "Reconciliation" Theology and Practice among Cubans" 
1iv ST IT [J 'TE for 

Tuesday, February 5, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
PAKISTAN
Budget adds $48B for defense 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

The Bush administration's pro­
posed 2003 Pentagon budget 
weaves billions for high-tech 
weapons and the war against 
terrorism with old-style pay 
boosts for the troops, forging a 
$379 billion spending proposal 
that represents the biggest 
increase in two decades. 
"We need to defend freedom 
with the best equipment possi­
ble," President Bush told a 
cheering audience of military 
men and women at Eglin Air 
Force Base in Florida on 
Monday, speaking hours after his 
$2.13 trillion spending plan was 
sent to Capitol Hill. 
"We need to be agile, we need 
to be quick to move.... We need to recruit the best," Bush said, garnering the loudest applause · by mentioning his proposed 4.1 percent hike in basic pay for the 
military. 
The proposed defense budget 
for the year starting Oct. 1 would 
add $48 billion in budget author­
ity to the Pentagon's spending. 
That would amount to a 14 per­
cent increase, the biggest boost 
for the military in two decades. 
Bush would add more each suc­
ceeding year, reaching $451 bil­
lion in spending authority for 
2007. 
When past years' budgets are 
adjusted for inflation, that would 
be second only to President 
Ronald Reagan's 1985 budget of 
$451.8 billion. In 1981, Reagan's 
first year in office, the Pentagon 
budget grew by nearly 25 per­
cent. 
Defense Secretary Donald 
Rumsfeld said Monday the mas­
sive economic losses after the 
Sept. 11 attacks show why 
spending more on defense is a 
good idea. 
"The defense budget is cheap 
when one compares it to putting 
our security at risk, our lives at 
risk, our country at risk, our 
freedom at risk," Rumsfeld told 
reporters at a Pentagon briefing. 
Of the $379 billion in spending 
authority, only about $361 billion 
is expected to be paid out next 
year. 
Seven cents of every new dollar 
in the proposed spending plan 
would be devoted to the war on 
terrorism, including more than $1 billion to continue fighter air­craft flights over parts of the United States as a precaution against a repeat of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The new budget would pump money into purchasing a new generation of stealthy fighter jets and more precision munitions. It calls for accelerating develop­ment of pilotless planes, convert­ing four nuclear submarines to vessels that can fire cruise mis­siles and insert Special Forces into battle, and investing in new combat communications sys­tems. 
The budget does not allow for expanding active-duty forces beyond the 1.4 million now in uniform. but is supposed to help transform the military into a more versatile force that can prevail over so-called "uncon­ventional" enemies. 
The total earmarked for com­bating terrorism next year is $27 billion, of which $10 billion is considered a war reserve. 
The $27 billion compares ·with $4.6 billion in anti-terrorism spending in the 2000 defense budget. Last year, that category of spending was $5.2 billion, although it was boosted by $13.7 billion shortly after Sept. 11. This year's budget has $10.5 billion in this category. 
The Pentagon says it has spent about $7 billion so far on the war in Afghanistan, which began Oct. 
7. The costs have grown so rapidly, officials say, that Rumsfeld already has decided he must ask Congress for more money as early as March. 
Rumsfeld said the $10 billion war reserve fund is "more likely to be too little than too much," but it made sense to include at least an estimate for how much the war might cost. 
"The president knows he's in a war that's going to last for a long period of time. That's why he put a number in there," Rumsfeld said. 
Under the proposal, the budget for the Army would rise 10 per­cent to $91 billion; the Navy, including the .Marine Corps, would go up 9.5 percent to $108 billion; and the Air Force would increase nearly 13 percent to $107 billion. 
Missile defense would get $7.8 billion, the same as this year. Bush also wants $1 billion 
Editor wants to talk to reporter's kidnappers 

Associated Pre•• 
KARACHI 

After a series of hoax e­mails, the managing editor of The Wall Street Journal issued an open letter Monday to the group he believes responsible for the kidnapping of reporter Daniel Pearl. asking for a pri­vate dialogue to "address your concerns." 
Pearl's wife, meanwhile, issued an impassioned appeal for his life and said she was willing to die in his place. 
Paul Steiger, the Journal managing editor, addressed the letter to the National Movement for the Restoration of Pakistani Sovereignty. 
That organization signed the first e-mail sent on Jan. 27 claiming to have abducted Pearl who disappeared four days earlier. Attached to that claim were photographs of the journalist -one with a gun pointed at his head, another with Pearl holding a newspa­per of dated Jan. 27. 
That communication demanded that Washington return Pakistani prisoners held at the U.S. 
more for remote-controlled air­
naval base 
craft such as the Predator sur­
i n "Don't harm an innocent account or 
veillance plane used extensively Guantanamo private tele­
man because you 're just
in Afghanistan. The budget seeks Bay, Cuba, phone num­
going to create one more
22 new Predators and money to for trial in ber of one of 
upgrade the existing fleet. He 
Pakistan. misery. Using Daniel as a two Pearl 
also wants three more Global 
The Bush friends,
symbol and all ofthis is 
Hawk high-altitude surveillance 
administra-both best
completely wrong, 
planes operated from computer 
tion has men at his 
terminals on the ground. 
ruled out completely wrong.,, wedding, to 
· The Air Force's F-22 Raptor any negotia­restorestealth fighter would be a big tions. communica­
Mariane Pearl
winner. Though some critics "I know tion.
question the need for it, Bush is pregnant wife of kidnapped
that the "This line 
seeking $4.6 billion to build 23 F-National reporter of communi­22s and begin work on 27 more. 
Movement cation
Other major weapons pro­

for the would show grams recently thought to be in Restoration of Pakistani me that Danny is with you and trouble would come out winners Sovereignty is very serious and would allow us one-to-one con­
if Congress approves Bush's 
wants others to know about its tact. We are eager to hear plan, including the Joint Strike movement. To assure that this from you soon," Steiger con­Fighter, still in development, happens it is important for you cluded. 
which would get $3.5 billion. It is to respond to this message," Pearl's abductors last 
intended to replace the Air 
Steiger's letter said. released a photo of him Force's fleet of F-16s, the Navy's A number groups have been Wednesday, with a threat to F-14s and F/A-18s and the named by Pakistani authorities kill him in 24 hours. 
Marine Corps' F/A-18s. 
as possible suspects in the kid-Mariane Pearl, who is six months pregnant with the cou­ple's first child, urged the kid­
nappers to contact her. "Don't harm an innocent 
man because you're just going
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
1 Nothing Says "I Love You"Like a Valentine's Day Specialfrom 
1 Irish Gardens 
~ Flower Shop
1•SPECIAL: One Dozen Red Roses and a Vase $50 
1  •CUPID SPECIAL: Bud Vase with Teddy Bear and 2 Red Roses $15  
1 1  •VALENTINE'S DAY BOUQUET: Assortment of Roses and other Beautiful Flowers in a Vase $20  
cf  • BALLOON BOUQUET: 2 Valentine's Day Mylar Balloons  
~ 1  and 3 Latex Balloons $7 Place your orders early ­(574) 631-4004 ­ in the basement ofLafortune  

napping. When asked why Steiger addressed his letter to the National Movement for the Restoration of Pakistani Sovereignty. a Dow Jones' spokesman said the letter spoke for itself. Dow Jones publishes the Journal. 
"I have not heard from you for several days and want to begin a dialogue that will address your concerns and bring about Danny's safe release," Steiger's letter said. 
"Since your last e-mail I have received numerous e-mails from people who claim that they are holding Danny. Because of these claims, it has become difficult for me to know that I am communicating with the people holding Danny. These individuals have caused a great deal of confusion. 
"Also these numerous mes­sages, which have been made public, detract from your seri­ous concerns. The world is get­ting a mixed message, and perhaps a negative impression of the National Movement for the Restoration of Pakistani Sovereignty," the Steiger letter said. 
He suggested the kidnappers 
use the e­
m a i l 

1 to create one more misery," 
1 
she said in Karachi in a BBC television interview. "Using Daniel as a symbol and all of this is completely wrong, com­
f 
1 
pletely wrong." "If anyone's going to give his life to save him it's me," she 
said. "Please make contact with me -I'm ready." 
1 
Twelve days into Pearl's kid­nap ordeal, Pakistan's interior minister said efforts to find the journalist were now ''massive 
1 
1 
in scale, spread to all parts of Pakistan." "We are hopeful that Daniel Pearl is alive," said the minis­
ter, Moinuddin Haider, who is responsible for law and order 
1 
in Pakistan. "I can't claim of making any breakthrough though we are getting close to 
the men involved." 
1 
Pakistan is under pressure to find Pearl before President Pervez Musharraf visits Washington next week. 
Musharraf met late Monday 
with U.S. deputy Treasury Secretary Kenneth Dam, and
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
U.S. officials said the Pearl 
case was believed to have been amon!! thA tonics. 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 5, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Nocrc Dame, !N 46556 024 Sou,h Dining Hall, Notre Thune, IN 46556 
EDITOR 1N CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  B\JSINF..SS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
.AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPRRATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pac Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Patrick McE!wee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Amscadrcr SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MARV'S EDIT0RI Myra McGriff PHOTO EDITOR: Perer Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAG.El\: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, Pahvd Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner COl\'TROLLER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGI.RiGENERAL )NF0..............631-747 l FAX.............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING ....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING ErnTOa/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPO!NT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer .sporrs. l@nd.edu ScFNE......................................................... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MA!tv's ............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMIN!STRATORS................. 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://obsm,er.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as CU"toons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprint ads 
cial airnpus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
. POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du L,c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrracion of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor mu.st be signed and mu.st include contaet information. Questions regarding Obsm,upo/,cia should b, dirm­,d to Editor in Chief Milu Connolly. 

Transportation always an adventure in Africa 
Transportation in Mauritania is an adventure. It is like one long and some­times hellish amusement park ride. Before even getting into or onto the mode of transportation, the excitement begins. Getting the one kilo­
meter from the mar­ Malte Uranga  
ket to my village  
involves first sitting  
alongside the road at a seemingly arbi­ Life in Africa  
trary point that  
everyone knows.  
One day the spot  

moved. Perhaps one day it ~111 move back. After a while, the donkey cart comes and about 10 people pile on it. Everyone is carrying something: new clothes, watermelons, children, unidenti­fiable animal parts or lots of vegetables. 
Fifteen minutes later the cart jolts for­ward. Everyone nearly falls off and then we all readjust. I still do not quite know the balance of riding on a donkey cart. I am always a small bump away from plummeting to the ground. It is easy for about the first 50 feet as we go on pave­ment. But then there is a hard right-hand turn that sends us seemingly out of con­trol down a hill. Eventually our momen­tum slows and we plod towards the vil­lage ofToulde. In about 20 minutes we arrive at the donkey cart stop. 
The ride to the capital from Toulde is supposed to take five hours. I have only had the joy of taking this trip two times round trip. Each time I go to the taxi garage around 9:30 or 10 a.m. The first time we left at 10:30. The second time we left at 3 p.m. It all depends on when the taxi gets full. 
My usual choice of transportation is a 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Revue jokes predicated on myths 
Since many of our community saw the Keenan Revue this weekend, it allows me to pose a question I have been strug­gling with on my own for some time. 
What does our collective sense of humor say about us? 
Many of the jokes in the Revue, like many of the jokes we hear and tell everyday, were predicated on racial, religious, sexist or homophobic myths. I worry that these jokes suggest we are not nearly as serious as we claim about ending preju­dice and discrimination along those lines. 
I use the Revue only as an example of what I feel to be a fairly strong reflection of everyday humor. We hear these jokes constantly and dismiss them saying, "It's only a joke." I can no longer dismiss them so easily. I have to ask whether or not the jokes are representative of how we really feel about issues like race and religion more so than are our pub­lic proclamations of acceptance and non-discrimination. 
I want to make clear here that I am not simply another four-door Mercedes from around the 1970s. Six people is the standard carry­ing capacity. Four in the back, two in the passenger seat and the driver. For short distances this number increases. If I am really lucky sometimes there are two people in the driver's seat which always makes the ride more exciting. The price for this all depends on how much 
I feel like arguing that day. 
Once the car actually leaves the garage the saga continues. There are police stops about every half an hour; the pur­pose of which I am not entirely sure. During my first trip at the first police post outside of Toulde they stopped us and refused to let us continue (the driver would not pay the bribe). Everyone got out of the car and the driver returned to the garage to get some offi­cial paper and returned an hour later. During this 
time we sat in the shade of the guards shack having no idea whether our driver would actually return. 
Another trip during Ramadan a man cowered away from me because men and women are not supposed to touch during this time. 60 kilometers later the same man bought a goat leg at one of our stops 
thought-censor looking to silence what I find inappropriate. I have little use for political correctness or tastefulness, and too often they prevent us from openly dealing with these issues. If these issues are not dealt with openly, no progress can be made. This is the only good I see in the jokes: They seem to carry a higher level of honestly than our non-joke. politically-correct-for-the-sake-of-political-correctness state­ments. 
The problem I see is this: There is a major conflict between the loving and accepting community we claim to be and the jokes we tell in close company (or at the Revue). I invite responses from those who feel they can reconcile this conflict. 
Shamus Rohn junior Stanford Hall Feb.4,2002 
and put it behind our heads in the back seat. His friend brought a live mutton and the driver put it in the trunk with the rest of the luggage. Periodically we could hear it kick. 
Another trip I had the privilige of sitting next to a four-year-old girl who ate the entire time. By the end of the drive I had 
yogurt, chocolate. banana and 
milk all over my left arm. Every trip we stop at least twice for prayer. If the 1.ape player works, we get to listen to some semblance of Koranic chant­ing for at least. an hour. I have heard that some days the 5 hours turn into 24 and require every­one to sleep on the sand dunes for the night. Tomorrow I leave for Nouakchott although I have no idea when or in what condition I will arrive. 
Maite Uranga graduated 
from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic ofMauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Scott Sam Dcrheimer Brodfuehrer Chris Scott Sheila Egts Graphics Elizabeth Lee Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Katie Hughes Katie McVoy 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Lori Lewalski Amanda Greco 

ND TODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
For which ticket do you plan on voting in the upcoming student government elections? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I'd rather be rich than stupid. " 
Jack Handy comedian 
.. ' ' 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 5, 2002 page 9 
Student Government elections a farce 
Aaaahh. Refreshing. It's that time of year when campus urinals fill with the campaign propaganda distributed by over-eager candidates seeking student government office, not to benefit us students, but rather to pad their own resumes. Who will you vote for? The candidate promising air conditioning for all students (he 
John Litle 

might as well promise cheese from the moon)? Blah! Who cares about these things? 
Frankly

I propose that not one candidate 
Obnoxious

lias stated even one relevant issue on their platform. Why? Because student government is a total joke. It's a farce. They have no influence on the administration, they are simply a body instituted by the administration to appease students -you think you have a voice, so you're quiet. Well, maybe. I don't even think most of the sheep on this campus are convinced by this ruse. 
Why can't someone have a legitimate platform? I'll tell you who I'd vote for. I'd vote for whatever candi­date brought up a real issue -say academic free speech (we don't have it you know) -and then promised not to back off the issue. I would vote for the candidate who promised to dissolve student gov­ernment in protest of its total lack of relevance on campus. That's what would get me excited about stu­dent government. Not a laughable flex options plan that has the same chance of happening as the book­store lowering prices, or Bill Kirk riding around campus on a unicorn. 
It amazes me how any campaign can be run with a 150-member staff and still not address a single issue that matters to students. I guess politicians are the same at every level of the game. Heck, I'm not even running for office and I can come up with better than these goons who've been planning this since November. 
Here's another platform I could stand behind. It would be nice to gain some student rights at ResLife hearings. Right now, they can trample you into the ground. They can expel you even when you have an e-mail from your assistant rector exonerating you from the crime. Wouldn't it be a little more equitable if there was at least some student representation in a ResLife hearing? Maybe a panel of students and administrators? I realize that it is likely that nothing can be accomplished here, but wouldn't it he nobler to fail to help students on a legitimate issue than to fail to deliver a "hip-hop" day? 
Student government might as well be Pax Christi for the effect they have on the administration and on student's lives. Actually, that's not accurate. The administration has to send out workers to spray Pax Christi's mindless drivel off the sidewalks. Student government doesn't even get a cleanup crew. 
Something needs to change, and I'd like to see a candidate dedicate themselves to something impor­tant and difficult, not something impossible or irrele­vant. Let's see a student membership on ResLife panels; let's see some academic free speech; let's see someone taking a stance for the lack of student input in how our school is run. Who cares about a video game tournament, I can arrange that in my room in 10 minutes. 
John Litle is a junior MIS major wh_o would r_eally appreciate working for your company this summer. He has researched your company. and it really is the best fit for him. He couldn't imagine being happy any place else. His column runs every other Tuesday, and he can be contacted atjlitle@nd.edu 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
US Middle-East policy dangerously unbalanced 
President Bush and his foreign policy team have done a masterful job thus far in waging a complex and multi-lay­ered war against terrorism. They have conducted a prudent and effective mili­tary campaign in Afghanistan and have cajoled reluctant allies into our coali­tion. However, the Bush administra­tion's slavish support of right-wing Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's government is both a moral and a strategic blunder, one which risks undermining America's ongoing effort to fight terrorism in the Arab and Muslim world. 
The Bush administration continues to repeat the mantra of the Israeli right that the responsibility for stopping the recent spate of deadly suicide attacks on Israeli civilians falls solely on the shoulders of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. Such a policy of holding only one side responsible for Middle East violence is almost laughably simple­minded and doomed to certain failure. It fails to account for the role of Sharon's government in stoking the flames of violence. 
Nearly all of the recent suicide bombings carried out by Palestinian extremists have been in response to Israeli assassinations of Palestinian political leaders. The line separating Israeli assassinations from state-spon­sored terrorism is thin indeed. Israeli assassinations often target political leaders, rather than militants them­selves, and frequently cause civilian deaths. They cannot boast even the semblance of due process. And, per­haps most importantly, they do not reduce terrorism. The Israeli policy of · assassination is in every way counter­productive. 
In fact, the whole thrust of Israeli policy toward Arafat is counterproduc­tive. Sharon's government has demanded that Arafat crack down on militants and yet it has placed him under de facto house arrest and has bombed the offices of the very Palestinian security forces that it demands combat terrorism. 
Furthermore, when, in an unprece­dented political and personal gamble,· Yasser Arafat went on Palestinian tele­vision to call for a cessation of violence -even violence in self-defense -and by doing so produced a month of rela­tive calm, Sharon responded by bull­dozing the homes of Palestinian civil­ians, placing Arafat under house arrest, and ordering more assassina­tions.. Last week he destroyed the 
headquarters of Palestinian television. 
IfSharon really wanted peace, he could have capitalized on this period of calm by easing restrictions on Palestinians -who live in poverty and constant fear of Israeli security forces -or at the..very least by showing some willingness cooperate with the Palestinians. 
Instead, Sharon's actions show that he does not really want peace. This comes as no surprise to those who have followed the career of Ariel Sharon. Sharon's right-wing govern­ment came to power as a result of the most recent outbreak of violence in the Middle East and is most likely to stay in power only as long as the fear of violence persists within the Israeli electorate. He has long opposed a Palestinian state and has encouraged Israeli settlements on lands once occu­pied by Palestinians. 
In 1982, as Israeli Defense Minister, he colluded with right-wing Lebanese militias -read; terrorists in the mas­sacre of hundreds of Palestinians in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps. Now he seeks to destroy the Palestinian Authority and reassert Israeli military supremacy over the West Bank and Gaza Strip. If Sharon's policies were being carried out in Serbia they would go by the name "ethnic cleansing." 
If the United States is to maintain credibility in the Muslim world ­which we will desperately need as our war on Al Qaeda widens -we cannot continue to unquestioningly support the policies of Sharon's government. We must demand an end to Israeli assassinations and continued settle­ments and we should support the Palestinian call for international observers to monitor Israeli abuses ­a call supported by every member of the UN Security Council except the United States. 
Our demand that Arafat crack down on violence must not weaken, nor should our belief that the Jewish State has a right to exist in peace. But if we wish to maintain the moral high ground in the war on terror we must also recognize the right of the Palestinian people to the same endur­ing freedom for which we now fight. 
Tony Lusvardi senior Zahm Hall Feb.4,2002 

-----~-----------­
THE 
OBSERVER 


CENE.
music 
Tuesday, February 5, 2002 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Master P's latest, Game Face, fails to score big 
By LAURA ROMPF Scene Music Critic 

One might say the most lasting contri­butions Master P has made to the rap industry is the introduction of his son Lil' Romeo ·and the annoying yet catchy ~uh" sound that is found on each tune he has participated in since "Make 'em say Uh." \'\'ith a few exceptions, his latest album Game Face, will not silence the critics. 
The first single "0oooohhhweee" is lighting up the charts on rap stations across the country, but hasn't quite made it to the mi1instream pop stations yet. If you've heard it, you know. The chorus starts: "I like the way she shake it in the thong. 0ooohhhhweeo." The beat is catchy but repetitive. 
In "Real Love," with background vocals by Sera-Lynn, Master P raps along sounding a bit like Tupac, while noting another famous rapper, as he says, "I ain't Ludacris, but I'm an all­nighter." The song is fun and upbeat, and could be destine for heavy radio play. Sera-Lynn's hook, "I like the way yon do me baby. Keep it real. I like the way you feel. Keep it real." flows easily with Master P's lyrics. 
Both "'The Block" and "A Woman" are short tracks, but are produced well and have well writ.ten, novel lyrics. Once again, Master P sounds a bit like Tupac, especially in "The Block" where he 
laments about ghetto life. 
A huge problem with both pop artists and rappers is once they've been in the business for a while, they start writing about their lives as rappers or famous people. 
On "Back on Top," Master P sings with fellow No Llmit-ers Silkk the Shocker, C­Murder and Lil' Romeo. It's an OK beat. but frankly nobody cares that No Limit is 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Live album showcases Dispatch's diverse talents 
By JOHN FANNING Scene Music Critic 
December of 2001 saw the release of Gut the Van, a double live album showcasing the highpoints of up and coming band Dispatch's 2001 tour. Drawing mainly from shows in the Northeast, where the band has their strongest following, the material comes from all four of the albums the group has put out since forming in 1995. 
The strange album title makes reference to their rick­ety but faithful tour vans, Peg and Wimpy, after whom each of the two discs are named. The record was released on their label Bomber Records and mixed by Brett Eliason (who has also worked with Pearl Jam). 
Dispatch, formerly known as One Fell Swoop, has been writing, playing and recording together since it's three members Brad Corrigan, Pete Heimbold and Chad Urmston met in college. With their self-professed influ­ences coming from sources as diverse as Blind Melon, Ben Harper, Sublime and Rage Against the Machine, the band has developed their own very unique sound, and in the process, a very large underground following. In fact, these various influences can easily be traced throughout their successive albums. all released by their label Bomber Records. 
In comparison to their previous work, Gut the Van iseems the perfect culmination of Dispatch's gradual progression and experimentation with different genres and styles. While many would claim that releasing a live album after only four studio albums and little main­stream exposure may be a little pretentious, this is not at all the case, Dispatch's motives are much more respertable. Namely, the album showrases the diversity of the band's talent and style. and also establishes them as a band whose live show is a drastically different expe­rience from simply playing their studio albums at high 

suburbs," which arc novel and creative. The beat and melody !low quite well with the Isley Brothers singing background vocals. The song is one of the best on tho album. 
The problem with previous Master P albums is there arc too many filler songs which decreaso the overall quality of the album. Gameface is no different. Songs like "l Don't" and "Hock It" seem mundane and low quality. Simply put, it seems like they wern rushed through the writing and pro­
duction phases. While the album has some high points, 
if you're looking for an overall solid rap 
album, pi.ck up Jay Z's Blueprint or 
Ludacris's Word of Mouf. They're a 
much safer bet and more likely to make 
you say "Uh." 
Contact Laura Rompf at lrompf@nd.edu 
"Whoadie Gone," is a good song, which sounds a little likfl Master P's f'ormer hit "Ghetto D." Master P speaks of his brother, grandfather and uncle who have all past away. Though the topic of death is often addressed in rap songs, Master P has some new lyrics like, "Justice and peace only happens in the 
volume. 
The first of the two discs, Peg, is appropriately more energetic and relies heavily on Who Are We Living For?, their most recent album. In fact, the first two tracks "Open Up" and "Passerby" come from this latest effort, as do five of the total 12 tracks. However, the live versions arc notably more energetic and also, in almost every case, longer as the band seems to be treading into the feared "jam band" territory. 
The jam segments on the album do not go on for endless and debatably pointless minutes as is common in the live recordings of other bands of the genre, however. Rather. the multi-talented trio simply build~ upon their already impressive work, showcasing their 
impressive musical talents and Gut the Van, the new double live album by Dispatch, establishes the groupadding phenomenal build up into 
as an electrifying and dynamic live act beyond their success in the studio. 

each of their dynamic songs. The 
most notable examples of this are 
seen in "Here We Go" from Bang Bang, whose two minute intro slowly draws the listener into the momen­tum of the song before bowling them over with its rapid­fire lyrics and guitar riff. Moreover, the mediocre "Bullet Holes" from their first album, Silent Steeples, becomes as exciting as anything else Dispatch has done with the addition of keyboards and funky guitar solos between the 
verses. So as not to disappoint their less devoted fans, Dispatch also includes more true to form versions of their best known hits such as "The General" and "Bats in 
the Belfry." The only real addition to these songs being a littlr, bit of energy and the audible audience singing along to every word. 
Attending a Dispatr.h show is a truly amazing experience as lleimbold, Corrigan and Urmston are constantly trading instruments. each taking his turn on the drums, bongos, harmonica, electric guitar. keyboard and acoustic guitar. And where Peg demonstrated the more ampli­fiAd aspects of Dispatch's sound, Wimpy brings the group bad to their roots, exposing the pure power of their three part harmonies, acoustic guitar work and song writing. 
Though Wimpy is a little bit of a downer after Peg, the talent still shines through, just a little more quietly. The second disc opens with "Elias," which begins with an African.chant sung over bongos, and then segues into an acoustic masterpiece. From here many of their hits are inducted such as "Bang Bang," "Steeples" and "Water Stop," which, while not as drawn out as the elec­tric songs on Peg, arc still full of impressive acoustic and harmonica solos. Overall. where a little energy is lost. precision and finesse seem to be gained. 

Finally, to tio up the album, the trio finishes with two electric songs, the popular closer "Mission," and the newer "Time Served" -retaining their focus on forward progress and avoiding the stigma of a live "greatest hits" album. 
All in all. though their experimentation is not flawless, and works better in some songs than in others, the attempt is always admirable and usually successful. Bather than allowing themselves to be pigeon-holed into one restrir,ting genre, Dispatch has gradually expanded its sound to include more and more musical ter,hniquos and influences, while managing to tie them all together nicely into their characteristic sound. And with Gut the Van, Dispatch has added their live show to their catalog of' diverse sound and style, and has established them­selves as an up and coming musical force to be reckoned with. 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu 

--;-­


CENE. 
i1lttSlC 
Tuesday, February 5, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Bad Religion find the pertect Process for punk 
By TOM O'CONNELL 
S-:enc Music Crirk 
Bad BPligion is nnr. of thA bands rPspnnsihle for bringing punk rock to the mainstream. In 1980 they scraped Log<(ther enough money LD produce their first album and tlwir rrcorrl labr.l. Epitaph. was born. Sincp then, they hav11 grown a reasonably large Ian base. which is unique for a germ' that is u:;ually more 011 the fringes of main­stn'am Bad Hdigion put forth som<' quality efforlc; in th<' 1'JIJ0s. with such moderatelv successful albums as {;<'rwrator, No Control and Stranger Than Fiction. While continuing to make tlrnir own records. Bad Religion have spent th<' last 20 years grooming and producing other punk rock acts sur.h as NOFX. Minor Threat and their first platinum-selling band. The Offspring. 
IPad sing-er/guitarist Grng Craffin and lead guitarist Rret Gurewitz arC' responsible for most of Bad Hcligion's song­writing. and their uniquP styles reflect well off each other. GurPwitz is the better musir.ian. writing some of the better guitar rills. while Graf1in·s intelligent ly1ics and con flirting harmonies give the songs a deep meaning. The vocabulary used in Bad Religion songs is always sophisticated and complex. prompting the listener to occasionally refer to a dictionary to understand just what the hell the song is artuallv about. 
In the late 1990s, Brett Gurewitz split with the band so that he could run Epitaph full time. The band did not take his departure well, and a small feud followed. Other band members wanted to see him remain a musician, while he was leaning morP toward the business aspect of their 

Process of Belief 
Bad Religion 
Epitaph Records 
Rating 

...... 
small enterprise. Eventually the band convinced him that their musir. would be hollow without his input, and he agreed to go back into the recording studio. Gurewitz's intluence definitely added :;ongwriting quality, and the album shows it with 14 tracks of mostly high quality punk rock. 
"Supersonic" kicks off the album with a fast fury and a message about the unnatural fast pace of today's society. "Everything is alien. how does it feel to be out.:;tripped by the pace of r.ulLurnl change?" This song is a perfect example of Graffin's harmony arrange­ments. In many of his songs, most notably in the 1992 classic "American Jesus," he sets up two different sets of lvrics, both sung simultaneously, ·parallel to each other. What is so good about this style is that the lyrics do not step on each other, rather they blend into each other seamlessly. 
Bad Religion are long known for their social messages, and this album is no different. "Materialist" is a song about rejecting the social conformity brought upon us by 

9 
' 
advertising and the media. The lyrics preach about why we find it so hard to dif­fer from the belief system that has been forced upon us. "The process of belief is an elixir when you're weak/ I must confess, at times I indulge it on the sneak." 
The best song on the album is "Kyoto Now!" The song refers to the United Nations conference and the Kyoto Protocol that were to set emissions standards and other guidelines in order to slow pollution and global warming. As of yet, few coun­tries have made much progress on the agreed upon changes. The song makes it plea from a realistic approach without being preachy. "A brutal sun is rising on our sick horizon/ It's in the way we live our lives/ Exactly like the double edge of a cold familiar knife/ It's never really what you own but what you threw away/ And how much did you pay?/ In your dreams you saw a steady state/ a bounty for eternity." 
It's good to see Gurewitz bark for this album, because the band definitely reaches equilibrium with his presence. While not a masterpiece like No Control, The Process of Belief certainly has its high points. The band is talented, and they still remain one of the few musical groups that actually have a decent message. 
Bad Religion is never going to top the charts. You'll probably never see them on MTV, and Puff Daddy won't be bastardizing any of their songs with a ridiculous cover any time soon. But quality often lies on the fringes. If you're right in the middle, all you see around you is just like you. If you stand on the edge, it's much easier to see what's beyond the mainstream . 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 
NEW RELEASES 
Today 

Velvec Crush -Sofc sounds KNFDN -Boocs Deepsky -In Slilico Kine1ic 
February .12 


Johnny Cash -l'he Essentfal Johnny Cash Chris Isaak -Always Go1: l'ontahc N.E.R.D. • In Search of ••• 
Teenase Fanclub/Jad Fair -Words of Wisdom and Hope 
February 19 

Joey Ramone -Don•1: Worry Abouc Ne Air -Everybody Her-ez Less Than Jake -.Goodbye Blue and.-W.hllte Cl-Tip -Kamaal 
Courtesy of icemasazine,com 

(ON CERTS 
Feb. 14 

Feb. 28 Ben Folds ·Yo9ue Theater March ii 

creW' 
Nas 
B~nJ:'olcls Gorllllaz Bush 

John Mayer
R,:•nAclams
Jr;,-!,~• ,,.n...·.. ... ··"' 
UmRrhey•s.nc.Gee
*NSy'nc , ·•·. ,, . 
Feb. I a


.Alls••···••na 
House of Blues Feb. 27 YIC Theater March 2 RiYiera Theater March 3 RiYiera Thea1:er March S House of Blues March B-9 
.RiYiera Theater March 11 t1,use ,,••ue, March 20 
u t1011seof.a1.-es March 22 
Allstate Arena April 4 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 5, 2002 
NBA 
Rockets soar to victory against Jazz 
started at center.... The Rockets the quarter to complete a 10-2
Associated Press 
are 1-3 this season in games run that gave the Nets a 67 -56 Cato has missed. lead. After Webber hit consecu­
HOUSTON 
tive shots, Van Horn hit a 3 to

Steve Francis shot 18-for-22 
restore a 10-point lead and

from the line and scored 33 Nets 11.7, Kings 83 
Kenyon Martin took a behind­


points, and Cuttino Mobley Jason Kidd caught the 
the-back pass from Kidd and

added 30 points to lead the Sacramento Kings napping and 
turned it into a three-point play. 

Houston Rockets to a 104-97 vic­fired a 70-foot baseball pass to 
After Kidd hit a pair of free 

tory against the Utah Jazz on Keith Van Horn for a layup. Two 
throws to make it 75-60, he

Monday night. seconds later, Kerry Kittles 
started the decisive sequence

Karl Malone had 31 points and picked off Chris Webber's 
with his diagonal overhand pass

12 rebounds for the Jazz, who inbounds pass and calmly sank a to Van Horn.
had their three-game winning 3-pointer. 
Sacramento never rallied in

streak snapped. The third-quarter sequence 
the fourth -even when Nets

Houston led by 13 points late illustrated how the Nets were a 
coach Byron Scott went with a

in the fourth quarter when Utah faster and sharper team Monday 
lineup that included three rook­

rallied behind Malone. night, defeating Sacramento 
ies -Richard Jefferson, Jason

Malone scored seven points in 117-83 in a matchup of the top 
Collins and Brian Scalabrine ­

a 9-3 run that gave the Jazz a teams from the Eastern and early in the fourth. 
90-89 lead with 4:36 remaining. Western Conferences. 
Moochie Norris scored five The five-point sequence came points in a 7-0 run, and the as part of a 25-8 run to open the Raptors 100, 76ers 93 Rockets moved out to a 96-90 third quarter as the Nets turned Vince Carter made sure he lead with 2:39 left. a 57-54 halftime advantage into didn't have to win this one at the 
Francis then hit two free an 82-62 lead. The Kings, play­buzzer. throws with 1:19 to play, Mobley ing the second half of a back-to­Carter scored 13 of his 28 made two free throws with 57 back set, never threatened the points in the third quarter, lead­seconds remaining and Terence rest of the way as the Nets ing the Toronto Raptors to a Morris added a pair of free snapped Sacramento's five-game 100-93 victory over the throws that gave Houston a 102-winning streak. Philadelphia 76ers on Monday92 lead with 41 seconds left. Sacramento had its lowest night. The last time he played at 
Kenny Thomas scored the point total and most lopsided the First Union Center, Carter Rockets' first seven points, defeat of the season while being missed a 23-footer as time Mobley scored their next nine held 21.9 points below its expired that would have sent and Eddie Griffin hit a 3-pointer league-leading average of 104.9. Toronto to the Eastern to help Houston to a 19-9 lead in The loss was just the second in Conference finals. • the first six minutes. the last 19 games for "That was last season. It's a 
Mobley scored 11 points on 5-Sacramento, which still owns the different team now," Carter said. 
of-5 shooting, and Thomas NBA's best record (36-11). But "It was unfortunate we didn't added nine on 4-of-5 shooting as the Kings aren't separating win that game. But we don't the Rockets shot 75 percent and themselves from the pack in the think about it until you guysbuilt a 32-21 lead. West like the Nets (32-14) are in bring it up." 
Malone scored six straight the East, where their nearest Allen Iverson scored 36 pointspoints in the second quarter and pursuer is now 4 1/2 games and had seven assists, but was Utah closed within 47-41. behind. ejected after getting his second 
Mobley shot 9-for-9 from the New Jersey led by as many as technical foul with 6.3 seconds offense the whole game." Toronto broke it open with afield and scored 22 first-half 36 in winning its eighth straight left. 
The Sixers, who trailed by 15 12-4 run midway through thepoints as the Rockets took a 55-home game. "The officials didn't lose con­in the third, cut it to 91-89 on a third quarter that gave them45 lead into the break. Kidd had 14 points, seven trol of the game," Iverson said. 
pair of free throws by Eric Snow their biggest lead, 75-60.
Houston shot 19-for-28 from assists and seven rebounds, Van "They took control of the game. 
with 3:08 left. Williams hit a 3-pointer to startthe field in the opening half. Horn broke out of a scoring On my first technical, I wasn't But Dell Curry nailed a 3-the spurt and finished it with aJohn Stockton scored five slump with 25 points and Todd mad at the referee. I was mad pointer for a 95-89 lead with three-point play on a drivingpoints in an 11-4 run as the Jazz Macculloch outplayed Vlade because l stepped out of bounds, 1:50 left. After Speedy Claxton layup and free throw. 
pulled within 62-58 with 7:14 Divac at the center position, so I hit the table." 
and Chris Childs traded jumpers, The Raptors, already missing left in the third. Houston led 77-scoring 10 points and grabbing Alvin Williams had 17 points Snow made two more free Hakeem Olajuwon, Jerome73 after three quarters. six rebounds. and Keon Clark added 14 for the throws to make it 97-93 with Williams and Morris Peterson,Thomas left the game with a Lucious Harris added 17 and Raptors, who have won eight of 1:14 left. lost Tracy Murray to a left ankle strained left calf late in the third Kenyon Martin had 15. 11 to get within a half-game of Derrick Coleman, however, sprain at the end of the firstquarter. He finished with 13 Chris Webber had 23 points the Milwaukee Bucks in the missed a 3-pointer that would quarter. Murray had 12 points. 
points and eight rebounds. for the Kings. Sacramento is now Central Division. 
have cut the deficit to one with "We were struggling earlier soThe Jazz were playing the first 9-5 on the second night of back­The defending Eastern just under a minute left, and any win we can get now is aof a nine-game, 28-day road trip to-backs, with four of the losses Conference champion Sixers had Clark blocked Coleman's 3-point­great win for us," Williams said. 
necessitated by the Olympics.... coming by lopsided margins. won nine of 11 to move back into er with 11. 7 seconds to play. Dikembe Mutombo made six ofUtah has won 16 of 19 games The Nets have shown a ten­the playoff race. 
icing it for Toronto. his eight shots in the first half,against the Rockets.... Center dency to rally early in the third "They're a pretty good team "Our guys played with poise," but didn't take a shot in the sec­Kelvin Cato missed the game due quarter at home, which is exact­and we dug ourselves a hole," Raptors coach Lenny Wilkens ond half. 
to food poisoning, and backup ly what they did again after hold­Philadelphia coach Larry Brown said. "With all that was going on, "I was disappointed Dikembecenter Kevin Willis was out with ing a five-point halftime lead. said. "When you play from you can't let yourself get too didn't touch the ball," Brownan excused absence due to per­Kittles converted a fast-break behind, you have to play perfect. 
caught up in it because then you said. "That was a huge factor insonal reasons. Eddie Griffin layup less than four minutes into We never had control of our will be out of sync." the game." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r,m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$400 CCTour&Travel Florida Spring.Break pkg. Call 258-0718 
Hey Michael Chandler, Want Some Updawg? 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DUOEI 
WANTED 
Weosite help needed to revamp existing site. FrontPage. Good Pay. IHRD 273-8857 8-5 M-F. 
FOR SALE 
1998 Saturn Great Winter Car, Sweet Stereo, 40mpg $8,600/offer, 283-0901 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com Z72· 1525 mmm· rentals@aol.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3,4, and 9­bedroom houses. Call Bill at 532­1896 
HOMES FOR RENT.2002/03 YR.FURN. 272-6306 5 mins from NDl4-6 student house w/large common areas•prkg lot, appl. Fall 2002 

Dave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. Air,appl. 5 min from ND. 
Dave 291-2209 
THE BEST HOUSE FOR 5-8 STU­DENTS CLOSE TO ND GREAT AREA 2773097 
SUPER HOME GAEAT AREA CLOSE TO ND FOR 3-4 STU­DENTS 
2773097 
PERSONAL 

Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. lnfo.'Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go ii alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC,at1­7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space Is Umitedl!I 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
SPRING BREAK SUPER SALEI Book your trip with StudentCity.com and save up to $100 per person to Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Padre or Florida. Most popular student hotels including the Oasis and the Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! Prices start at $3991 Sale ends soonl CALL NOWI 1-800-293-1443 or go to StudentCity.coml 
Spring Break Tickets' Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to select shows when you book your Spring Break through StudentCity.com! Go to MTV.com or call StudentCity.com at 1-800-293-1443 for details! Tours and tickets are limited! 
Hey Chandler: OH OH OHOHOH, OH OH OH, OHOH OHOH, REGU­LATORS -Im hungry, Happy BDay Dude 
--------·--------·-----­
Found: quan yin bodhisattva pen­dant. rutuliated quartz. found out­side mcglinn hall. contact erika at 4-1179. 
Visit the Observer online. www.nd.edu/-0Bserver 
----------------------·· 

Tuesday, February5, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Social Concern Seminars/SSPis/ISSLPs 
*Haiti Experiential Seminar: -This May seminar involves learning about how to help the people of Haiti obtain clean drinking water. It also about considering our own lives in the context of service to, and learning from, members of our global community. It involves training in hand-pumps, as well as in the socia1, political, economic and religious context of Jiving and working in Haiti. It will involve training during the spring semester, plus the seven to ten days in Haiti in May (immediately after finals) . .=..::::.. For more information: Please contact Dr. Steve Silliman (siJliman.l@nd.edu) 
*SSP Internships/ACCION/NYSP: These summer internship applications and information are available at the Center for Social Concerns. All programs offer tuition scholarships and three elective Theology credits. Deadline for applications approaching (SSPI -Due Feb 15, ACCION -Due Feb 22, NYSP -Due Feb 8)! These are three credit courses! $1900.00 Scholarship 
*Hispanic Leadership Intern Proi:ram (HLIP): Applications available at the CSC. An eight-week long summer internship. Interns are exposed to, and experience Latino communities in metropolitan Chicago where they serve as leader and student of the community. 
Applications due February 15, 2002. 
*National Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice Internships! (http://www.nationalinterfaith.org/) "The National Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice is a network of people of faith that calls upon our religious values in order to educate, organize and mobilize the religious community in the United States on issues and campaigns that will improve wages.benefits and working conditions for workers, especially low wage workers." 
Information Session!; Thursday, Feb 7111, 7 -8:15 at the CSC! This is a 3 credit, SIU course (THEO), $2500 tuition scholarship. 
*African American Leadership Intern Pro&ram (AALIP): Spend an 8-week internship at St. Agatha's Parish in a Chicago African American neighborhood. Contact Colleen Knight Santoni at cknight2@nd.edu with questions. Applications available at the CSC. 



Deadline: February 15, 2002 
***EXTENDED DEADLINE: Washini:ton Seminar*** Spring Break -March 10-16 Monks, Workers, and Citizens: From Christian Anarchists to Christian Bureaucrats 
Deadline has been EXTENDED to TODAY Tuesday, February S! 
How are we, as followers of God, called to live and work in the world? Through use of our nation's capital, students will explore this question, by visiting a monastery, Catholic Worker, and several public policy organizations. 
Current Volunteer Needs: 
Tutoring/Children Activities 
St. Joseph Basketball Program Larry Bauer -BauerL@lst<,0urce.com Nazareth Conversations Played basketball in high school? 
An Opporlunity to Reflect and 
Do you want to work with 2nd-4th 
Integrate Faith and Justice Issues 
grade boys in a local grade school 
Come join us in reflec!ing on social intramural program? We are 
concerns, peace, and faith issues! looking for students to do cliriics 
First Meeting: help referee, coaching duties 
"Loving the Unbeloved" 
Saturdays in February and March. 
February 14th 
This starts February 2nd• 
6:30 -8:00 p.m. at the CSC 
Volunteer for Preschooler Soup and bread will be served. Marissa Runkle -289-4831 marissar@logancenter.org 
A three-year old Russian little boy needs a play companion at Open Door preschool. The 
~~ Vehicle Trainin2 Information 
Important CSC Vehicle Driver Update 
CSC Driver Authorization Certification cards issued prior to January 2002 will no longer be accepted! Only the actual driver of a vehicle may submit a request for use due to policy and procedural changes for CSC vehicle drivers. 
ALL STUDENTS WHO PLAN TO DRIVE CSC VEHICLES (be2innin1: January 21, 2002) MUST ATTEND A NEW INFO SESSION THIS SEMESTER! The following hour-long session is the FINAL session that will be offered at the CSC this semester: March 3, 6:30 -7:30 p.m. 
There is no need to register. Bring pen and driver's license to session. 
Questions? e-mail: cscvans@nd.edu 
J

Are YOU ready for....._ ________________.
student does not necessarily need to know Russian. Please be available on 
the DRAFT? 
Faculty Opportunities 
Tuesdays from 9:00-10:00 a.m. 
Do you know about the Gullah People? 
Big Brothers, Big Sisters 
Over fall break, students traveled to Appalachia, D.C., 
Call 232-9958 or visit bbbs_sjc.org 
New York City, and elsewhere for a week of experientialMentors needed for local children learning and service, as part of our one-credit seminars. 
please call or visit the website to We are thinking of offering a new seminar next fall with discover the many flexible volunteer the Gullah people. in South· Carolina, and are seekingopportunities available. 
Faculty members to assist us. If you h.ave some 
***If you have any questions about 
relevant expertise and/or interest, please contact Mary 
these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvoJs@nd.edu.*** 
ENCUENTRO CHICAGO 
2/23-2/24 

Applications are available at the CSC and at Campus Ministry. Join us for a weekend immersion into the Mexican immigrant community of Pilsen in Chicago. 
Beckman at the Center for Social Concerns. 
"Our Call to Mission in Everyday Life" Presented by Fr. Ray Riding Trinity Missions 
Tuesday, February 5 
7:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns 


page 14 The Ob.erver . SPORTS Tuesday, February 5, 2002 
NHL 
Red Wings melt Avalanche in 3-1 win 
Associated Press 
DENVER 

Darren McCarty and Kirk Maltby scored second-period goals, and Dominik Hasek pre­served the lead by stopping 13 shots in the third period as the Detroit Red Wings beat the Colorado Avalanche 3-1 Monday night. 
Nicklas Lidstrom scored into an empty net with two seconds left as the Red Wings raised their NHL-best point total to 82. 
Scott Parker had the lone goal for Colorado. Hasek finished with 23 saves, and Patrick Roy had 31, 
In one of the NHL's best rival­ries, Detroit outshot Colorado 12-7 in a scoreless first period. Roy stopped Luc Robitaille on two quick shots just right of the goal. Hasek made a save on Adam Foote's long shot and Milan Hejduk's rebound attempt. 
Play intensified in the second period, with three goals and two fights. The Red Wings again outshot Colorado 20-4 and took a 2-1 lead. 
The Avalanche went ahead l­
o at 2:31 when Brad Larsen passed from behind the net to Parker, who jammed in his first goal. 
McCarty tied it at 7 :07. Jesse Wallin's shot from the left point rebounded in front, and McCarty flipped it over Roy. 
Another rebound goal in a short-handed situation put the Red Wings in front. Colorado defcnseman Martin Skoula turned the puck over at mid-ice. setting up a breakaway by Kris Draper. Roy stopped Draper's shot, but Maltby punched in the rebound at 18:21. 
Islanders 6, Panthers 6 
Dick Tarnstrom scored the tying goal with 4:16 left in regu­lation Monday night as the New York Islanders salvaged a 6-6 draw with the Florida Panthers after squandering a three-goal lead in the third period. 
Tarnstrom deflected in a pass from Alexei Yashin past Trevor Kidd for his third goal of the season, as the Islanders rallied from a 6-5 deficit. 
New York led 5-2 heading into the third, but the Panthers scored four times in a 7:13 span. Florida took the lead with 
12:14 left in regulation on Robert Svehla's second goal of the game. 
Yashin and Kenny Jonsson each had a goal and two assists for the Islanders. 
Niklas Hagman, who had two goals and an assist, started Florida's comeback 33 seconds into the third period. Hagman scored again with 16:28 left, and Sandis Ozolinsh's wrist shot tied it at 5 with 14:04 to go. 
The Islanders pulled goalie Chris Osgood at that point. Svehla then beat Garth Snow, taking a feed from Pavel Bure. 
New York entered overtime on the power play after Pavel Bure was called for elbowing at 
19:12 of the third. 
In the extra session, Kidd made five saves, thwarting a charge by Shawn Bates with less than a minute remaining. Snow stopped three shots in overtime. robbing Ollie Jokinen from close range with 40 sec­onds remaining and nabbing a Ozolinsh drive with a glove save with 9.4 seconds left. 
Jonsson, back after missing a game with a neck strain, assist­ed on New York's first two goals. In the second period, he scored his first goal in 22 games, giving New York a 4-2 lead. 
Yashin capped a three-goal second period, scoring with the Islanders on a 5-on-3 advan­tage. 
Dave Scatchard opened the scoring with a short-handed goal, the Islanders' league-lead­ing 14th, at 7:29 of the first period. Adrian Aucoin made it 2-0 with a power-play goal, also with a 5-on-3 advantage, at 
14:00 of the first. Kidd replaced Roberto Luongo after Aucoin's goal. 
Jason Blake's wrist shot over Kidd's shoulder broke a 2-2 tie at 3:56 of the second period. 

The Panthers' first-period goals were by Svehla at 15:24 and Marcus Nilson, who scored with Florida shorthanded at 19:06. 
Senators 4, Lightning 4 
Daniel Alfredsson scored two goals, including the equalizer with 40.7 seconds left in regula­tion, as the Ottawa Senators tied the Tampa Bay Lightning 4­4 Monday night. 
Alfredsson tied it with his 26th goal from the slot. He also had an assist. 
The Senators are unbeaten in five games (2-0-3). 
Tampa Bay took a 4-3 lead after Pavel Kubina and Brad Richards scored two minutes apart late in the third period. 
Kubina tied it at 3 with 6:12 left, and Richards gave the Lightning the advantage with 4:10 remaining. 
Alfredsson gave the Senators a 3-2 lead with an early third­period goal on the power play. 
Ottawa goalie Jani Hurme faced 31 shots and is 6-0-1 against Tampa Bay. The Senators are 7-0-1 in the last eight meetings with the Lightning. 
Magnus Arvedson and Karel Rach unek also scored for the Senators. 
Vincent Lecavalier and Vaclav Prospal had the other Tampa Bay goals. 
Arvedson put the Senators 
ahead 1-0 at 1:21 of the first period. He has 10 goals in 12 games against the Lightning. 
Tampa Bay has allowed a goal in the opening 2 1/2 minutes seven times in 18 games. 
The Lightning tied it at 1 late in the first on Lecavalier's third goal in four games. 
The teams traded goals in the second period. Prospal had the Tampa Bay goal, and Rachunek scored for Ottawa. 
Bruins 8, Blue Jackets O 
Bill Guerin had three goals and an assist and John Grahame earned his first shutout of the season as the Boston Bruins beat the Columbus Blue Jackets 8-0 Monday night. 
The Bruins moved into a tie with idle Philadelphia for the best record in the Eastern Conference. 
It was the most lopsided loss in the Blue Jackets' two sea­sons. The Bruins scored their season-high in goals against a team they had never beaten. 
All the goals were even­strength, with the Bruins on the power play for only one second of the game. 
Guerin, with 31 goals, moved into second place in the NHL behind Calgary's Jarome Iginla. Guerin has scored in his last three games and ran his points streak to four (6-2-8). 
This C-MWeel< in Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/-ministry 

¦day
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 
1 14 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D' Alonzo, csc, Director 
Confirmation-Session #9 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. 
Fisher Hall Chapel 

·, nesdav 

Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. 
Morrissey Chapel 
av 

San Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Crypt 

dav 
Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Faith and Revelation Class Retreat 
part of the Know Your Catholic Faith Series 
Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Senior Service Retreat 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Learning to Talk About Race Retreat 
Lindenwood Retreat Center 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

Spanish Mass 
1 :30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
Freshman Retreat #40 
Retreat Date: Feb. 22-23 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Jan. 28 -Monday, Feb. 18 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. 

Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. 

Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

1dav 

The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. 
Fisher Hall Chapel 


Tuesday, February 5, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
OLYMPICS 
Opening with a new feeling 
Salt Lake City makes final preparations 
Associated Press 
SALT IAKE CITY. Utah 

Metal detectors will go up this week around Temple Square, the 35-acre complex owned by the Mormon Church in down­town Salt Lake City. 
"We walk a really fine line because we want to be as warm and welcoming as possible, but we want everyone to know they're safe," church spokes­woman Kim Farah said Monday. 
Detectors will go up at Road closed entrances to Temple Square, A suspicious package on the 
along with most of the other church buildings in the complex. Guards and hundreds of security volunteers will staff the metal detectors and perform bag searches. 
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints expects thou­sands of visitors during the next few weeks. Foot traffic at Temple Square was already heavy days before the Feb. 8 start of the Games. 
side of northbound Interstate 15 in Ogden briefly closed the free­way Monday morning. 
Authorities responded at 10 
a.m. to investigate what appeared to be a car battery inside an onion sack, with wires sticking out of it. 
A bomb team was called in and the interstate was closed in both directions for about ten minutes while the package was recovered. There was no explo­sive device inside the bag and no one was injured. 
"We don't know for sure why it was there and what was," said Sgt. Doug McCleve, spokesman for the Utah Department of Public Safety. "We don't know if it was intended to be a hoax or not." 


If it turns out to be a hoax, "we will file all possible charges -even federal charges for bomb threat," McCleve said. 
Your tum, Juanit 
Juan Antonio Samaranch Jr., the son of the former IOC presi­dent. sat in his first meeting as an International Olympic Committee member Monday and quickly became involved in floor debate. 
Samaranch, a 42-year-old Spanish businessman, took part in a discussion of how sports should be added to the Olympic schedules. His participation was short but did not go unnoticed. 
OBC ENGLISH ;-:~ CONVERSATION SCH ·•·· .L .. 1s seeking universily graduates for aone year teaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, beneflls and travel opporlunities. 
HECRUITIN6 DATES: February 13 lr 14., 2002 at Career and Placement Services . jJJ!PIJIN!t$/f /JJJ!NIJ!ilAJ<Glf $/K/1!1.11.$ i/lff2Jl.JB!t(IJ!il/ll.ilfffl. Open to all m(fjors. SIGN UPS NOW OPEN 
"You have a clarity and under­standing of sport similar to your father," IOC president Jacques Rogge said. 
And while members generally addressed their colleagues by last name, the new man was uni­-­versally referred to as Juanita, his family nickname. 
The younger Samaranch was elected to the IOC last March at the general assembly, where his father retired from the commit­tee after 21 years as president. 
Condom controversy 
A plan to distribute 12,000 free condoms at the Olympic athletes' village was condemned by a con­servative Utah political group. 
"I think it's an outrage that we as a city and state through the Olympics condone immoral sexu­al activity," said Gayle Ruzicka, president of the Utah Eagle Forum. "They can buy their own condoms if they want them." 
rsPRING BREAIC 
+f.Alaltt,llr.APulm, MAzATIAN +
JMwr.A. BAlwrllls, &s. PADRE .. www.studentexpress.com 
CaH Now: 1-800-787-3787 

. Sept. 11 is sure to affect Olympic ceremony 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 

Don Mischcr remembers attending the opening ceremo­ny at the 1984 Summer Games in Los Angeles and leaving with the feeling he had seen something very special. 
It wasn't until a dozen years later, when the Emmy Award­winning producer became involved with the Olympics, that a high-ranking foreign official told him the California ceremony was "second only to Hitler's in 1936" for jingoism. 
Balancing such concerns, particularly at the first Olympics since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, became one of the major problems for organizers of the Friday night opening ceremony. 
"When you produce some­thing like this, you have many audiences," Mischer said Monday in a break from rehearsals. "You have to be very careful not to concentrate too much on the United States. "This is a worldwide event." 
On a windy Monday after­noon with temperatures in the low 20s, the show's overseers conducted a dry run of several ceremony moments. A teen­ager in a black winter jacket ran into the stadium with an 
extinguished torch, subbing for the yet-to-be identified actual torch bearer, 
Trumpets blared, hot-air balloons floated, and covered wagons were parked. 
Outside, a dozen olive Humvees were parked as sol­diers in combat fatigues milled about. 
Mischer, standing in the middle of Rice-Eccles Olympic Stadium, said there was no question that Sept. 11 would affect every aspect of the opening ceremony. 
"This is going to feel very different,'' he said. "It's the first gathering of nations since the war on terrorism.... People are going to feel more emotional at what they see. Something simple, like the raising of the Olympic flag, becomes more meaningful." 
Mischer stressed that noth­ing in the opening ceremony was changed after Sept. 11, although there will be men­tions of the terrorist attacks in a 45-minute segment before the worldwide broadcast of the opening ceremony. 
Sting, the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, the Dixie Chicks and LeAnn Rimes were expected to perform. More than 5,000 cast members will perform in Friday's 2 hour, 15 minute extravaganza. 
Much of the opening ceremo­ny remains a secret just four days before it kicks off the Winter Games. 
One thing is certain: There will be plenty of ice. Nearly 

Frido.y 2:00PM-5:00PM 
Saturday 10:00AM-3:00PM Sunday 12:00PM-4:00PM 

'Golf Shop -Rockne Memorial ­
ENTAL RATEf 
5.00 FOR DAILY RENTAL .6.00 FOR OVERNIGHT RENTAL 
7.00 FOR TWO DAY RENTAL 
1-6809 
.,,. · 


800 skaters will be part of the um," said Kawahara, longtime and show director, estimated ceremony, zipping around the choreographer for Olympic that by Friday night, some of stadium, said Sarah gold medalist Scott Hamilton. the participants in the show Kawahara, choreographer for "We're not trying to present it will have put in as many as the opening. as an ice show." 100 hours of rehearsal in 
"We're reinventing the medi-Kenny Ortega, the artistic often brutal weather. 
Tuesday, February 5, 2002

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS
! 
' 
NFL

Fans inspired by victory 
Rams next 
Associated P re&s 
BOSTON 

The New England Patriots' improbable Super Bowl victory did more than end this city's major championship drought: It left fans feeling that perhaps the string of woe -from Bucky to Buckner to Bourque -is a thing of the past. 
"Boston deserves this," Tom Berry said Monday while standing outside the brick walls of Fenway Park. ''Boston sports fans are the greatest in th~ world." 
Berry, a 54-year-old Harvard Chili masseur. is legally blind, and watches games through a tele­scope-like apparatus. 
Bedecked in a Patriots hat, shirt and coat, and clutching three full bags of newly bought Patriots sou­venirs, Berry said he felt a new sense ofoptimism. 
"Hopefully this will continue around town," Berry said. 
Dan Reichgott saw the Patriots' 20-17. last-second upset of the St. Louis Rams on Sunday as a sign of better things to come. 
"I have a feeling the next cham­pionship will come down the street in Kenmore Square." the 19·year­old Boston University sophomore said, referring to the Red Sox. 
Reichgott is too young to remem• ber the city's last title team, the 1986 Boston Celtics of the NBA. 
Last year, none of the region's four major professional sports teams even made the playoffs. 
With a new Red Sox ov.nership, and with the Celtics and Bruins poised to make the playoffs, many Boston faithful are proudly pro­claiming that the drought is over. 
A downtown parade was planned for the Patriots on Tuesday, and celebratory signs with phrases like "We did it!" were posted all around tho city. Drivers jubilantly honked their horns throughout the day. 
Brian Codagnone, associate curator of the Sports Museum of New England, said Boston fans view the title as a reward for their loyalty. 
"They're intensely loyal." Codagnone said. "They follow our teams, win lose or draw.... We've had our hearts broken. There have been a couple of painful things, but we still stick with them." 
The Celtics' 16 titles in a 30-year span spoiled Boston fans, said K.C. Jones, who played on eight of those championship teams and coached two more. 
He said this year's team can't help but be inspired by the Patriots' victory. 
"If they watched it, they had to feel euphoric, like, 'We've got a chance to win this thing," ' Jones said." It had to motivate them." 
The Patriots, who joined the American Football League in 1960, were the oldest team to never win 
n.n AFL or NFL title. 
The Bruins haven't won the Stanley Cup since 1972, with Ray Bourque symbolizing their frustra­tion. He played more than two decades for Boston before winning a Cup with Colorado last season. 
But the Bruins nearly have the best record in the Eastern Conference this season. That and the Patriots' win led Bruins fan Dan Nardelli Lo think their 30-year drought also will end. 
"It's coming, it's coming," Nardelli said while shopping at The Souvenir Store across the street from Fenway. "I can feel it." 
And then there's the Red Sox, who have not won the World Series since 1918. Perhaps no team has broken more hearts, and no team has contributed more to 
Boston's so-called  "  Loserville"  
stereotype.  
Bill  Buckner's  groundball­ 

between-the-legs in the 1986 World Series is one of sports' biggest all-time gaffes. and so is Johnny Pesky's holding the ball while the winning run raced home in the Game 7 of the '46 Series. 
In 1978, Bucky Dent's home run over the Green Monster lifted the New York Yankees over Boston in a one-game playoff for the AL East title. 
On Sunday night, more than 1,000 fans filled Kenmore Square and chanted anti•Yankee slogans. 
From his home in suburban Swampscott. Pesky said Monday the euphoria surrounding the Patriots' Super Bowl win can be contagious. 
"This stuff spreads," Pesky said. "When good things happen, it spreads.... It's just a feeling you get. l can't explain it." 
The taste of a football title doesn't make him any hungrier for a World Series win, Pesky said. 
''I've been hungry for 50 years," Pesky said. 
year's favorite 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS 
Even as the New England Patriots cele­brated their Super Bowl title, Las Vegas odds­makers are betting there won't be a repeat. 
The St. Louis Rams, beaten 20-17 by the Patriots on Sunday, were installed Monday as the favorite to win t·he 2003 Super Bowl. 
"No doubt about it, we have the Rams by far the clear favorite, at 3-1." said Jay Kornegay race and sports book director at the Imperial Palace hotel-casino. 
The Patriots are tied with the Denver Broncos and Indianapolis Colts on the Imperial Palace board at 15-1. 
"There's just no respect for the Patriots," Kornegay said. "And the Patriots aren't really a public team that people like to play. We don't get too much money on the Patriots." 
Kornegay noted that loyalty pushes high pro­
file teams like the Oakland Raiders and the Broncos to the top of the betting favorites list. 
While odds varied along the Las Vegas Strip on Monday, rnspect for the Rams appeared solid. 
Baily's-Paris also has the Rams favored but at slightly longer odds, 9-2, to win next year. The Patriots opened at 10-1. 
The Stardust hotel­casino has the Patriots at 8-1. 
The Stardust's future book line opened with the Rams at 3-1, the Pittsburgh Steelers at 7 ­1, and the Raiders at 8­1. 
"The Rams are defi­nitely looked upon as the team to beat," Joe Lupo, oddsmaker at the Stardust said. "That number wouldn't have changed whether they won yesterday or not." 
The expansion Houston Texans are list­ed at 200-1 by the Stardust to win next year's Super Bowl, according to Lupo. 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT Genera:: E;:ection ne:&ates 2002 The debates will be held this Wednesday, February 6, at 7:30_pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. PLEASE STOP BY TO MEET THE CANDIDATES AND TO LEARN ABOUT THEIR IDEAS. The yrt,nary elections will be held on Monday, February 11 SPONSORED BY JUDICIAL COUNCIL  

page 17 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 5, 2002 
Do refs call it right? 
Do referees get the call right most of the time? 
Whoa, not everyone at once, and I'll ask the young man wearing the" I Don't Brake for Zebra:s" shirt to please calm down. 
The fact of the mat­ter is. if referees do their jobs right, they shouldn't be noticed. 
Sure. sometimes you'Il hear a broad­caster com­mend the crew on what a great job they've been doing all day. That usually sounds more forced than a girl telling you she really wishes she could go to your dance, if only her shampoo wasn't calling. 
When any typo of referee does get noticed, it's typically because the ever-unbiased opinion of the mob thinks he or she blew a call. This can range anywhere from missing a foul in basketball to the mis­handling of a coin toss in a Steelers-Lions game a few years ago. 
Sometimes, though, when the day is going just bad enough, the impartial third party of rules enforcers draws the collective ire of fans (whose ire is often more explicit). coaches, and players from both teams. 
Take, for example, last Wednesday at the Joyce Center, when the Notre Dame men's basketball team hosted Pittsburgh. The Irish came out blazing, led 49-21 at the half, and cruised, with a few bumps along the way, to an 89-76 win. 


What anyone who saw this game would remember from the first half is how well the Irish shot the basketball, con­necting on nearly 68 percent of their shots from the floor. Chris Thomas' runner at the horn summed up what the whole half had shown: this was Notre Dame's night. 
In the first 20 minutes, there were six team fouls called against Notre Dame and nine whistled on the Panthers. 
To an observer. it looked like Pittsburgh head coach Ben Howland might have been lobbying for some calls from time to time, but that comes with the territory when you're having a frustrating night and your team's getting pasted. 
And then came the second half that wouldn't end. 
" I think they [the referees] found out at halftime their plane got canceled," David Graves said after the game, " so they had to stay the night, they didn't have anywhere to go. So they just called every­thing." 
Indeed it seemed that way. Those 20 minutes of game time in the second half drug on longer than Lord of the Rings, as 34 fouls were called on the two teams. 
Notre Dame only ended up leading the second half foul tally 19-15, but, as Graves pointed out, there was one point when the Irish had been called for 10 infractions to the Panthers' one infraction. 
Coach Mike Brey was sur­prised it was that close. His response to that foul break­down?" It-.vas that even?" he asked. 
Of course, the rough and tumble nature of the Big East always plays a role in fouls stacking up, as Brey acknowl­edged: " I just think that's our league. People physically come after everybody in this league. They like coming after us. We talked about it at halftime, ( fully expected [Pittsburgh going at them}. 
"We can't back down. We can't throw punches and be lost for a game, but ... we ain't backing down." 
As referees, they had to maintain a sense of order in a game played in a very physical conference. 
But what did fans take away from this game? More than likely. it wasn't the Irish blow­ing up on a ranked team or Pittsburgh's heart in refusing to go away. 
It was the second half whis­tle chorus with a couple of technical crescendos. 
Officiating, no matter what sport, is a subjective art. There are rules that are writ­ten, and it is up to those on site, sometimes in the blink of an eye, to decide how the rules apply to any particular play. It would be unfair for players, coaches, or fans to expect the calls to be right every time. 
And yet listen to John Madden on Sunday, noting that penalty calls in the Super Bowl are much less likely than in other NFL games. 
Watch Major League Baseball umpires struggle to reconfigure their own strike zones to match that which is defined in the rulebook. 
Or count 34 fouls being called in 20 minutes of basket­ball. 
It's funny how discretion can change those steadfast rules from day to day. 

CLUB SPORTS 
Irish finish sixth at invite 
Special to the Observer 
The women's water polo club opened its quest for a national championship this weekend at the Miami OH Invitational. After finishing last year's regular sea­son as the number three ranked team, the club is determined to climb higher this year. Finding the right combinations and blending many promising fresh­men into the lineup for the sea­son ahead were the primary concerns as the chili split its four contests to finish sixth in the tournament. After dropping the opener to Purdue, 16-5, the club defeated Wisconsin, 8-2, and Emory, 6-5, before falling in the final to Illinois, 10-4. Seniors Lauren Kuzniar and Llz Paroliln figure to be among the national scoring leaders as they tallied fourteen and six goals respec­tively. Allison Gienko, Katie Kleber, and Jacqee Aragon all found the net as well to round out the scoring. Versatile Brigette Alge has moved to goal this year and showed improve­ment with each game. 
Ski Club 
Schuss Mountain was this week's venue for MCSA competi­tion as Molly Munsterer contin­ued her dominating perfor­mances in conference competi­tion. Munsterer followed her second place finish in the slalom with a first place performance in the giant slalom. Danielle Clements' fourth in the slalom and 20th in the giant slalom were next best for the Irish, while Ellen Block completed the team scoring with a 13th in the giant slalom and 22nd in the slalom. Anne Mahoney, Caitliln Wolf, Leslile Schmidt. Elizabeth Christianson, Jess Bland, and Sarah Coughlin also competed well, but finished out oft.he scor­ing. 
On the men's side, Marc Pribaz placed seventh in the slalom for the best finish by the men's squad in several years. Jason Leucht, 17th, Joe Payne, 20th, Wes Jacobs, 22nd, and Dan Block, 23rd, were the other top men in the giant slalom. In the slalom, Payne, Block, Eric Hansen, and Wes Jacobs fin­ished 17th, 20th, 22nd, and 26th respectively. 
Figure Skating 

Skating to a Latin theme, the figure skating chili placed fourth in a very strong 12 team field at the Midwestern Sectional Synchronized Skating Championships this weekend. Miami, Michigan State, and Illinois claimed the top three spots. The Irish fourth place fin­ish qualified the club for the 
U.S. National Synchronized Skating Championships to be hosted by Lake Placid, NY. 
Gymnastics 
With two tiles in the last four years, the defending national champion men's gymnastics squad and the women's squad, coming off it fourth consecutive top ten finish. opened the season this weekend at the Miami OH Invitational. The men's squad placed fourth among 10 teams, while the women finished fourth as well in a twelve team field. 
Andy Poe and Emily Smith were the meets standouts as they each captured first place in All Around competition. Poe fin­ished in the top six in each event, while Smilth captured first in both the uneven bars and the balance beam. 
Two freshmen showed promise as Caitlin O'Brien took first in the floor and Mary Blazewicz finished fourth in the vault. 

NFL 
Patriots QB's in question 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 

Tom Brady might as well rev up that luxury SUV he won as the Super Bowl's MVP and drive Drew Bledsoe out of town in style. 
Brady's latest suc­cess in foot­ball's biggest game left little doubt t h a t Bledsoe, the best quar­terback in New England Patriots history, will be playing elsewhere next season. 
Plenty of teams need quar­terbacks, and the Patriots could use the salary cap space. Team owner Robert Kraft said he'd like to keep both QBs but would consider a blockbuster trade. 
Bledsoe is scheduled to make $5 million next season, the sec­ond of a 10-year, $103 million contract. He probably won't be on the team's unprotected list to be announced 

ended last

Tuesday for "I still want to play, and I 
season as

the Houston feel like I can play this 
the team's

Texans draft, 
game at a very high No. 4 quar­
because the 
terback.

Patriots level." 
But he

would get 
worked

nothing in 
Drew Bledsoe hard on his
return. 
quarterback strength,
"l look for­
ward to my future," Bledsoe said after Sunday night's 20-17 upset of the St. Louis Rams. "I still want to play, and I feel like I can play this game at a very high level." 
The 29-year-old Bledsoe, a three-time Pro Bowler, likes living in New England but feels he has many productive years left. 
He was seriously injured in the second game of the season, suddenly changing the career of a player who had missed just six of 128 games. 
Then he watched while Brady took the team, which fin­ished at the bottom of the AFC East last season, to the top of the NFL. 
But Bledsoe added one 
-accomplishment to a career in which he has broken almost all ofthe team's passing records. He came in after Brady sprained his left ankle late in the first half of the AFC cham­pionship game, threw a touch­down pass and led the Patriots to a 24-17 win in Pittsburgh. 'Tm fortunate to be on a team with guys like Drew, or else we wouldn't have won the Super Bowl," Brady said Monday after a few hours of sleep following a team party. Moments after the win, Bledsoe and Brady smiled and embraced on the field. "There was a lot of emotion," said Brady, who has credited Bledsoe for helping him improve. "He was proud of me and I'm proud ofhim." Bledsoe ended his season the way he spent it: with an unselfish attitude, even though he knows he could be headed 
to a team such as Washington or Chicago -contenders who need a quarterback. 
"This whole season has been about playing as a team," he said. "I know my role and I do my part to support my team. I really do understand what my role has been." · 
Bledsoe's departure wouldn't be the only change coach Bill Belichick will make because of salary cap issues and free agency. 
''I'd love to be able to keep the team the way it is, but real­istically, I don't think that's 
totally possible," Belichick said Monday. 
Adam Vinatieri. whose 48· yard field goal as time expired won the Super Bowl, is a free agent. So is running back Antowain Smith. Several defen­sive players joined the team this season on one-year con­tracts. 
l 

Brady is signed through next season, but the Patriots might I I give him an extension rather -1 Ithan let him become an unre­
l

stricted free agent. The sixth­round draft pick from Michigan in 2000 hardly seemed that valuable when he 
technique 

and ability to read defenses and began this year as Bledsoe's primary backup. He ended it with nine straight wins. 
"There hasn't been a downer yet," Brady said, "except this morning at 6 a.m. when the alarm went off." 
Still, his trip Monday to Disney World as the Super Bowl MVP was more than he could have imagined. More public appearances and endorsements should follow for the photogenic 24-year-old with a dimple in his chin and a twinkle in his eye. 
"It's new to me," Brady said. 'Tm like a kite in the wind, just kind of going with the flow." 
One of his stops probably will be the White House. On Monday, President Bush called Kraft and invited the team there at an undetermined date, White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said. 
On Monday, Brady recalled going to a game in San Francisco near his home as a 
-

child. 
"My parents remind me that I cried the whole first half because they wouldn't buy me one of those dumb little '1' fin­gers that stuck up," Brady said, "but they finally got me to shut up and they bought me one." 
Now the Patriots arc No. 1 and Brady wants to savor that. He's acknowledged, though, that he has plenty of work to do to improve. 
"It's been an incredible ride this year," he said. "I know we always want to talk about get­ting back next year, but I want to appreciate this one." 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, January 29, 2002 
Irish• 
continued from page 20 
not starting gave me a little time to focus a little more," Severe said. "I realize that I need to be there in the begin­ning of the game. I just adjust­ed mentally to be effective." 
For Notre Dame, a win Tuesday night would be important in a historical con­text as well as within the con­text of this year's Big East sea­son. A win would mark the 500th for Notre Dame women's basketball, a mark achieved by only 49 other NCAA programs. 
A win also would move the Notre Dame into a tie with Boston College for second place in the Big East. 
The Irish host the Eagles on Sunday. 
For the Irish. who didn't win a road game until January this season, the team is finally able to settle in and go into a road game confident they can, and should, come out with a victo­ry. 
"I think that we're kind of getting in a rhythm now where we're looking forward to the games more," McGraw said. "Before, I think we worried about a lot of things going into games. Now, we just worry about ourselves. We don't worry as much about whal the other team's going to do to us so much as we have to take care of ourselves." 
That said, McGraw is not underestimating her oppo­nent, despite its less than stel­lar record which includes a six-game losing streak enter­ing tonight's game. 
"They're playing the defend­ing national champs," McGraw said. "This is the Super Bowl for them, that's what I told the team. This is a game that they think they can win. They're going to come out and play hard for 40 minutes. We have to win the game." 
Notes: 
. Joyce, who has missed the last three games with an Achilles heel injury, suited up for practice Monday but did not take the court. McGraw says Joyce will make the trip to Pittsburgh, but she is not 
expected to play.  
. Freshman  forward  Katy  
Flecky,  who  started  and  
scored  Notre  Dame's  first  

seven points Saturday at Seton Hall, could again see signifi­cant time tonight. 
"She's our best high-post player, she's a great passer and she can score on the block," McGraw said of the Colorado native. "If Pitt docs some things with trapping and all and we need to get the ball to somebody, I think she'll be somebody who'll get some time." 
Contact Noah Amstadter at amstadter.l@nd.edu. 
BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 

Junior guard Jeneka Joyce is still uncertain for play in tonight's matchup against Pittsburgh. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
76-64 win snaps Syracuse losing streak 
Williams keyed the spurt. range, had six assists and led "That's all the media wants to travel on the play -and also
Associated Press 
Shumpert, still recovering Kansas with seven rebounds as talk about, but we don't talk worried that he might have from an eye injury, was 7-for-the Jayhawks clinched their about it all that much," Hinrich charged into Kansas State'sSYRACUSE, N.Y. 
20 from the floor and 3-for-11 13th consecutive 20-win sea­said. "Coach [Roy Williams] Matt Seibrandt -but no callPreston Shumpert scored 20 
on 3-pointers. son. does bring it up before every was made.
points, and Josh Pace tied a "Earlier in the season he was game here -but he just says, "The officiating was fine,"career high with 12 points as struggling from the 3, and 'It's got to end sometime, but Wooldrige said. "It wasn't a
No. 23 Syracuse beat West Kansas 98, Kansas State 71 
every game I said that before let's try to extend it one more combination of things. ThereVirginia 76-64 on Monday Kirk Hinrich heard the chants it's over with he's going to start year." was one play I was upset about, night. of "Har-ry Pot-ter!" every time shooting it well," Kansas coach Kansas State (9-11, 3-6). and I reacted." 
The win snapped a two-game he stepped to the free-throw Roy Williams said. "He's in the which upset then-No. 9 Boschee hit three of the ensu­
losing streak for the line. 
middle of that right now, and I Oklahoma State 70-61 on ing free throws, giving Kansas a
Orangemen (18-6, 7-3 Big Nick Collison gets the sure 
hope it lasts a long time." Saturday, has never beaten two 77-46 lead. 
East), who had not lost three two points for Kansas.Kansas' 
Jeff Boschee added 16 points, Top 10 teams in a row. Thestraight since the 1995-96 sea­skinny, dark-haired junior and Nick Collison and Drew Wildcats haven't beaten rankedson. West Virginia (8-13, 1-8) swingman is getting used to Gooden each had 15 for Kansas teams in consecutive games
lost for the 11th time in 12 that. What's important to 
(20-2, 9-0 Big 12). The since defeating Oregon Stategames despite the return of Hinrich is that he didn't give 
Never Down Sized or Laid

Jayhawks won for the 19th (No. 2) and Illinois (No. 19) incoach Gale Catlett, who missed Kansas State's fans any reason 
Off Again

straight time in Manhattan and the 1981 NCAA Tournament.
the previous two games with a to mock his game. · 
Seeking Referral agents, earn $13,600+

have never lost in Bramlage Larry Reid led the Wildcatsviral infectiqn. Hinrich shot 10-for-10 from 
per month starting the first month, can

. Coliseum, the Wildcats' home with 27 points and PhineasJosh Yeager led West Virginia the free-throw line and scored 
work at home call : 888-407-0077

with 14 points, Chris Moss had 26 points Monday night as No. since 1988. Atchison finished with 16. Kansas State's last home vic­Freshman Wayne Simien had
13 and 10 rebounds, Drew 2 Kansas beat Kansas State 98­tory over the Jayhawks came 12 points for Kansas. 
Schifino had 11 points, and 71 in a game marred by four 
A FREE SPRING BREAK!

on Jan. 29, 1983, in Ahearn Wooldridge drew two techni­
Hottest Destinations/Parties! Lowest

Chaz Briggs 10. technical fouls and the ejection Fieldhouse, and the Wildcats cal fouls and was ejected with 
Prices Guaranteed! Best Airlines/Hotels' 

Kueth Duany had 17 points of Wildcats coach Jim 
Free Food! 2 Free Trips on 15 Sales.

last beat Kansas -then ranked 11:21 left when he stepped onand DeShaun Williams 13 for Wooldridge.
Syracuse, which was just 7-for­28 on 3-pointers and shot only 
38.5 percent from the floor. 
The Mountaineers made a game of it even though they committed 27 turnovers and trailed 38-21 at halftime. They began the second half with a 14-2 spurt behind 3-pointers by Yeager, Jonathan Hargett and Schifino to pull within 40-35. 
A follow shot by Moss tied it at 58-58 with 6:32 to go, but the Orangemen responded with a 12-3 run to finally take com­mand. 
Duany and Pace combined for the first eight points. each hit­ting two baskets. A layup by Pace off a no-look pass by Williams made it 66-61 with 
4:25 to go and a follow shot by Billy Celuck finished the run, giving the Orangemen a 70-61 edge with just over a minute remaining. 
West Virginia scored just three points after Yeager's layup with 4:43 left. 
Syracuse had nine steals and forced 17 turnovers in building a 38-21 halftime lead. The Orangemen used a 15-1 run in a 7:16 span to take what appeared to be a commanding lead. Four steals by Shumpert and three 3-pointers by 
Earn Cash! Group Discounts!

No. 1 -68-64 on Jan. 17, the court to protest a basket by
He was 4-for-5 from 3-point 
Book-online. www.sunsplashtours.com

1994, in Lawrence. Collison. Collison appeared to 
1-800-426-7710 

The Dome Yearbook is now taking applications for 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Applications 
2002-2003 
are due by  
4:00pm on Friday,  
February 15, 2002.  Please pick up an application at  
the Office of Student Activities  
in 315 LaFortune.  

E-MAIL dome@nd.edu WITH ANY QUESTIONS. 
ACROSS 1 Tennis champ  31 What Consumer Reports lacks  57 Noted fratricide victim  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Barbara Hershey, Al Kooper, Bobby Brown, Hank  Talk to a friend or relative about your future plans. Use your imag­ination and you will be able to  
Monica  32 Brink  58 Low digits  Aaron  make the gains you've been  
6 Fellow 10 Radio operators 14 Alamogordo event 15 Orange-roofed hotel, for short 16 Met song 17 Starbucks order 18 Harvard's Dershowitz 19 Main idea 20 In a semi-joking way 23 Santa _, Calif. 25 May honoree 26 New England prep school town 27 Listlessness 29 Ricky's portrayer  33 Dupe 35 Emergency medicine for infants 40 Customary practices 41 Sledding spot 43 Nuptial agreement 46 Cold war initials 47 "Yippee!" 49 Lilleharnmer's country 51 G-man 52 Batiking need 53 Feature of 20­and 35-Across, forward and backward  59 "All My Children" character 62 Pickle flavoring 63 She sheep 64 Window washer's mistake 65 Sushi fish 66 Earned 67 Sample DOWN 1 Mule of song 2 F ratermty letter 3 Listlessness 4"C6mo usted?"­5 Satlor's patron 6 Abyss 7 Ace place? 8 Not quite shut  4  Happy Birthday: Expect to have greater concern and more communication with family, friends and neighbors this year. You will be on the go continually; lots of moving about, conversa­tions and correspondence will fill each day. The more you can do to ensure advancement the better. Your numbers are 14, 19, 23, 32, 37,40 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Set your sights on doing better financially. Save, invest and put your money to good use. Listen but don't let anyone else take care of your financial future. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20)): The more you do for others the more they will do for you in return. Take advantage of a busi­ness deal. You can make a worth­while investment if you are quick to respond. 000 GEMINI (May 21-J1.1.ne 20): Deal with work issues today by  dreaming about. 0000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take hold of your life and your future and you can move forward in a positive manner regarding your professional direction. Someone you work with may be attracted to you in more ways than one. 000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be up and down emo­tionally. If you let your partner know where you stand rou will have a better chance o sorting out your differences. Future plans can be made. 00 SAGIITARIUS (N1111 22-Dec. 21): You will have· plenty on your mind today. Follow your intuition and don't let anyone l_ead you astray. Complete home improve­ment projects in order to avoid discord. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your involvement in groups will lead to great connections. Net­ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Pays 10 Noted court site,  building confidence in yourself so that your colleagues will believe in you as well. The more you get  work today and you will prosper in the future. Romantic involve­ment will lead to interesting new  
A T S  with "The"  Puzzle by Pelel Gordon  done the better your chance of  proposals. 0000  
T E  ..,--t,-.-t-,-Lt-A:-t-:-H":"1 11 Popular record label T C H 12 Deceived 13 Lechers i.;,;..,~~O-1-W~E~ 21 In place of •-=+=+::::+:+.;:1 22 Nitrous _ (laughing gas) 23 Took a meal 24 Silent assents  36 Typical 37 It's used for announcements 38 Hangs on the line 39 Potter's supply 42 Drain cleaner ingredient  47 Boating pronoun 48 Most bizarre 50 "The War of the Worlds" author 51 Choreographer Bob  54 Part of the Corn Belt 55 Reason for a donation 56 Witty Bernbeck 60 Garfield, e.g. 61 Exist  advancement will become. 000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be in the mood for love. Pursue your romantic partners or put more effort into the relation­ship that you are already involved in. 00000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is not the day to make changes or financial decisions. Put any major deals on the back burner until  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to take hold of your life and finish what you started way back when. Get busy doing what is necessary in order to tum your lifearoWld.00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be in the limelight today. Someone you admire will offer you assistance. Take care of those you care most about. Your ability  
=+,-,+.e-+-:-+,-,+=-i  28 Home for llamas 29 Put off 30 Yale players  43 Intrude upon 44 The Brothers of  Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute).  you feel comfortable that you will make a profit. 00 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):  to see the end result will help you to make the right decision. 00000  
-,,-+-.,,.+-,N-=-t-=Ac1  33 Follows  70's-80's rock  Annual subscriptions are available for the  Birthday Baby: You are well-disciplined, logical and practical in  
A D O  -:e+.:+::+=­ U D .  persistently  45 "Arnmal Farm"  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  everything you do. You are honest, true-blue and will fight for the  
P A W  __.,__.,_.__  M Y  34 Reverberate  author  years: 1-888· 7-ACROSS.  Wlderdog.  
{Need advice? Cieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,  
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.)  

Tuesday, February 5, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
-. 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNIGNHAM 
~o.h e-cliJly -pv<'ih"eJ 
1
C0(od.1, +~t ~ol\key 
Re-1 -\-c-vf~ ~ 
Qo ~i,I\ lo.I\ VQ..je, 
~ 

RIPPIN(:,  IT'S A TRADITIONAL  HOO YEAH!  NO ONE  
WHAT ARE . PHONE 6ooKS  WHAT  DEMoNSTRATION  WHO'S YoUR  CHICl(PEA SAID THE'Y HAD  
YOU IN HALF.  FoR?  oF oNE'S  DADDY?!  JUNCTION. To BE THICK.  
DOING? 1  /  MANLY Ml&HT. I  '­ PoPuL.A.T10N: ' '+O.  
\  

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
Cl 2002 Uru1rersal Press Syndlca1e

Visit The Observer on the web at htJp://observer.nd.edu/ 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 
MURPHY'S I.AW #78: AT THE MOST

I'VE NEVER OONE 
AWKWARD MOMENT, ALL OTHER

SO MIXH UCKING IN A 
ONVERSATION WILL INEVITABLY STOP

SINGLE NIGHT, BS-ORB 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
Campus Sports OTHE National Sports
BSERVER 

. Fox Column, p. 17 
. NCAA Basketball, p. 18 
. 
Club Sports, p. 17 . NFL, p. 16,17 

. 
Olympics, p. 15 

. 
NHL, p. 14




PORTS 
Tuesday, February 5, 2002 

FENCING 
Irish strong, but not deep 

. Wildcats take advantage of new line-up, win 6-3 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The No. 2 Notre Dame women's fencing team may be one of its most talented in his­tory, but it sorely lacks depth. When freshman foilist Andrea Ament traveled to Germany for a World Cup event rather than compete with the Irish in Colorado Springs, head coach Yves Auriol was forced to jug­gle his line-up. 
Sabrewoman Maggie Jordan moved back to foil to take Ament's place while Jesse Filkins moved into the starting line-up at sabre. The No. 6 Northwestern Wildcats took advantage of this switch to pick up a 6-3 win in sabre and defeat the Irish 15-12 overall. 
"It did make us a little weak­er," said sabrewoman Destanie Milo, who went 1-2 against Northwestern. "It may have been better if Maggie was at sabre." 
Filkins lost all three of her bouts against Northwestern in the place of Jordan. Although the Irish won the foil bout 5-4, Jordan went only 1-2 against the Wildcats. Freshman foilist Alicja Kryzcalo carried the Irish with a 3-0 record in foil. 
In epee, Northwestern won a closely contested match. 
Wildcat All-American Katie Rudkin won all three of her bouts against the Irish includ­ing a 5-2 win against Anna Carnick in the ninth bout. 
Northwestern, which also competes in the Midwest Fencing Conference with Notre Dame, is probably Notre Dame's biggest rival. Losing a match to them is disappointing, according to Milo. 
"Not only are they in our region but they are also very good," Milo said. "They are one of our big competitors so it does hurt a little more to lose because they are next door to use in Chicago. It's definitely a Midwest rivalry." 
Although the Irish dropped their match with the No. 6 Wildcats, the posted a 20-7 win against the No. 4 Stanford Cardinal. The women also picked up wins against UC-San Diego, Cal State-Fullerton, Duke and Air Force. 
The men sailed through the weekend meet unblemished to run their undefeated dual-meet winning streak to 61. The streak is the third longest in Notre Dame history. 
The men were led by an undefeated meet by Jan Viviani. Viviani's biggest win of the day came against Air Force All-American Seth Kelsey. Viviani defeated Kelsey 5-2. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Severe finds familiar foe in Selwyn 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Editor 
When Le'Tania Severe takes the court at Pittsburgh tonight, her assignment on defense will be a familiar one. 
The Panthers' point guard, junior Laine Selwyn, played against Severe when the Irish sophomore was the point guard at Florida's Ft. Lauderdale High School and Selwyn was dishing out passes for rival Coral Springs. The two also played together on an AAU team one summer and remain good friends. 
"It'll be a nice match-up," Severe said. "It'll be some­thing that I got to do in high 
school and I'd like to do again." 
But the match-up at the point is more than simply old friends being reacquainted. While the Panthers have struggled all season long to the tune of a 6-14 record (1-8 in Big East play). Selwyn has emerged as one of the few bright spots. 
She averages 6.80 assists per game, tops among Big East point guards. Connecticut All-American Sue Bird sits a close second with 6.80 assists per contest, while Severe is sixth with 5.15. 
"She's playing really well," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said of Selwyn, who also averages 14 points per contest. "She's improved a lot since last year and she's, I think, the key to their team." 
Severe's season has been up and down. After opening the season as the team's starting point guard, the sophomore moved to the bench in late December after a couple of sub-par performances. 
She played well off the bench. but with classmate Jeneka Joyce out with an Achilles heel injury, Severe was forced back into the start­ing lineup last week against Syracuse. She responded with two points and a career-high nine assists in 30 minutes. 
"That little time that I was 
see IRISH/page 18 


. Women's Basketball at Pittsburgh, tonight, 7 p.m. 
OBSERVER
. Men's Basketball vs. Rutgers, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
onHne 

. Hockey at Michigan State, Friday, 7 p.m.AT AGLANCE . Men's Swimming vs. Cleveland State, Saturday, 2 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer. 







