
VOL. XXXVII NO. 30 
Ristau 
•
resigns 
position 
By SARAH NESTOR 
Saine Mary's News Editor 
Karen Ristau, Saint Mary's vice president and dean of faculty, has announced that she will be leaving her position at the College in two weeks. 
Ristau said Wednesday at the Faculty Assembly meeting that her last day will be Oct. 18. 
Her colleagues said they weren't sure why she was leaving. 
"I don't know how long Karen was thinking of resigning, .. Saint Mary's President Marilou Eldred said. "We will appoint an interim dean from the faculty for the remainder of this year." 
Ristau did not return Observer phone calls. 
Once an interim dean of faculty has been named, Eldred will begin the search for a permanent replacement. 
"A search committee wrn be formed after fall break to begin the search process of finding a new dean for the College," she said. 
Ristau took over the position of vice president and dean of faculty in August 1999. replacing Dorothy Feigl who retired in May of 1999. 
Ristau formerly served as vice president for academic affairs at Saint Joseph College in West Hartford, Conn., and as a faculty member at the University of St. Thomas Graduate School of Business in St. Paul, Minn., before coming to Saint Mary's. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877 saintmarys.edu 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



College starts new program 
. Holy Cross 
d I f
eve OPS OUr yearbaccalaureate 

program 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Assistant News Editor 
The new Hardesty Plaza dedicated last Friday at the entrance to Holy Cross is sym­bolic of a new transformation occurring at the College -the creation of a, four-year bac­calaureate program to be added in the fall 2003. 
The initiative, begun last fall by the College, will allow stu­dents with an associate 's degree to receive a Holy Cross bachelor of arts degree with a broad emphasis in the liberal arts, according to William Mangan, vice president for academic affairs at Holy Cross. 
Since the decision last fall to develop a four-year program, administrators. faculty and students have been outlining the program's details and meeting with the required accreditation committees to develop the new program, said Mangan. Over the summer, faculty worked to develop the baccalaureate courses, and the College finalized an agree­ment with the Brothers of the Holy Cross in Ghana to host students for the program's mandatory international expe­rience. 
On Sept. 9 and 10, a com­mittee from the Higher Learning Commission visited Holy Cross to talk with admin­istrators and review the College's accreditation propos­al for the program. 
"The team has informed the College that [it] will recom­mend to the commission that the College receive accrcdita­

tion approval for the new bac­calaureate program," Mangan said. 
The commission at its Oct. 
28 and 29 meeting will consid­
er the team's report and 
decide whether to grant approval to the new program. 
On Friday, the College's Board of Trustees voted for a resolution to formally accept candidates for admission to the new program. According to Mangan, screening of the first applicants will begin in February 2003 and admitted students will be notified in April of their acceptance to the program. 
After the accreditation process is complete, Holy Cross will continue to search for additional internship and leadership opportunities for the program's participants, said Mangan. 
"The process is . . . a never­ending one," he said, "so we will continue to make connec­tions with leaders in the pri­vate and public sectors who recognize the value of a Holy Cross College education." 
Wide.ranging benefits 
According to Mangan, Holy Cross choose to create a four­year program for a variety of reasons...First and foremost was the recognition that the proposed degree fits the mis­sion of the College as a Holy Cross institution that educates students within the liberal arts," said Mangan. 
Along with this, the new program will add mature, upperclass students to the campus and help stabilize 
SOUTH QUAD CEMETERY 


enrollment with a base of bac­calaureate students, Mangan said. Finally, students' desire to stay at Holy Cross for four years was a factor in creating the new program. 
Justin Watson, director of the baccalaureate, stressed the important role upperclassmen in the new program would have on campus. 
"These older students will enrich both our campus life and our academic curriculum," he said. 
While faculty and administra­tors were designing the bac­calaureate degree. Watson 
see PROGRAM/page 4 

SMC kicks off breast cancer awareness week 
raise more than $7 million.

By ANNELIESE WOOLFORD 
This was Saint Mary's first-year 

News Writer 
participating in the denim fund 
raiser. Students and faculty have 

Friday's Lee National Denim Day been donating money to support at Saint Mary's kicked off the the breast cancer cause since the College's participation in events end of last month to. scheduled throughout the month "I have been so excited about to celebrate students' breast cancer response to awareness. "Going through breast this event," 
The fund rais­said Melissa
cancer treatment at such 
er invited com­Peters, 
paniE.s and orga­a young age has made LeMans Hall nizations to par­director and
me realize that life is 
ticipate by allow­event coordi­
short.,.

ing their employ­nator. "The ees to wear fact that they denim in are willing to
Melissa Peters
exchange for a donate $5 so 
$5 donation to LeMans Hall director they can 
the Susan G. wear jeansKomen Breast just proves Cancer Foundation. Within the that they know how important it is 
past six years, National Denim Day to find a cure for breast cancer." has raised more than $30 million Peters was diagnosed with to contribute to the foundation. I This year's national goal was to I 
see CANCER/page 9 

J 

Monday, October 7, 2002

page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN WHAT'S INSIDE 
Adopt a 
senior 

Whoever said senior year is the best year lied. Between senior com­prehensives, classes, homework, GREs and trying to have a life beyond campus, you can start to feel as if your life is spinning out of con­trol. 
And on top of all that, you're 

Sarah Nestor 

supposed to know 
what you 're going 
to do with the 
Saint Mary's

rest of your life 
Editor

when I don't even 
know what I'm 
going to be doing 
in the next half hour. 
I know the question of "What are you going to do after graduation?' is usually asked by well-meaning peo­ple. but when your biggest goal some days is just to try and fit din­ner in, the question of your life plan can become minuscule. 
Considering that I don't have my. life map planned out and that I have four different answers for "What are you doing after graduation?," I don't know whether I should look forward to May or look into becoming a fifth year senior. 
Maybe if I were to stick around for another year I might actually have the chance to see my friends on occasion. As it is right now we are all so busy with some student teach­ing. others studying for the LSAT and the rest of us trying to work on our senior projects that we barely see each other. 
This after the excitement of last year when everyone got his or her off-campus housing contracts signed, and we knew there would always be a place to go on a Friday. Saturday or even Tuesday night. 
Then the school year actually began and everyone began to real­ize: senior year is hard. 
Now that midterms are coming up, let the real fun begin. Everyone is going to be working on those essays and catching up on reading that has been put off to the last minute. or maybe that's just me. 
The sad thing is that I'm already exhausted and dreaming of gradua­tion, when snow hasn't even hit the ground yet. At least we do have October break coming up because I know I need a break from Notre Dame, Ind. 
Some skeptics might be thinking ­no, senior year can't be that bad. Well, you're right because of course there have been some awesome moments this year, I just wish I had the time to have more of them. 
So if you meet a senior anytime soon have pity on them and don't ask them about graduation or their life plans because chances are they don't know where they'll be the next minute. Instead you could adopt a senior. offer to do their reading and write a summary for them to study from, clean their room or fix them dinner. 
Well, I can wish. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards icself as a professional publica­rion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please co mace us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
Professor focuses on history of Shakespeare films  Congress will approve war resolution against lrag  
Professor Peter Holland discusses the success of Shakespeare film adaptations in helping viewers connect with litera­ture.  Congressional leaders expect a resolution autho­rizing war on Irag will pass with little dissent among members.  
page 3  page 5  

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 

BUSINESS NEWS 
Analysts note similarity between Enron and Global Crossing 
Chairmen of both Enron and Global Crossing claim ignorance of warn­ings about earnings shortages. 
page 7 
VIEWPOINT 
ND graduate alleges wide variety of cover-ups at the University 

Notre Dame graduate John Michael Vore ques­tions what admin­istrators knew about the priest sex abuse scandal and other issues. 
page 11 
. 
Movie: Corner in \Vhcat: A Story of California's Farmworkers 4-5:30 p.m. at llesburgh Center Auditorium 

. 
Lecture with David Dalin: ·'Pius XII and the Jnws" 7 p.1n. at De Bartolo Hall Boom 102 

. 
Lecture with Chandra Johnson: J\ Life Uncommon 8 p.m. at VVclsh Family Ilall 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 

. 
Board of Governance meeting 


4:30 p.m. at Ilaggar College Center, Boom 304 

. 
Hecital Forum 12-1 p.m. at the Little Theater, Moreau Center for Arts 

. 
Sernester Around the \Vorld 7-9 p.m. at Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva I lall 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today•s Lunch: Texas chili, tomato soup, pasta faziole soup, four-cheese pizza, vegetable lasagna, cherry turnover, southern-fried chicken, pota­toes au gratin, mixed vegetables, cherry crisp, vegetable lo mein, cajun-baked pollack, Italian rice pilaf, carrots, veg­etable ratatouille, swiss oatmeal 
Today Dinner•s: pasta faziole soup, tomato soup, vegetable lasagna, cherry turnover, grilled pork chops, broccoli­cheese-rice casserole, corn, cherry crisp. sesame soy chicken breast. grilled tilapia, baked noodle casserole, california-blend vegetables, jasmine rice, butternut squash 
TODAY TONIGHT 
a: 
LLI
:c 
ti:
LLI 
3: 
..J 
c( 
CJ 

0 
HIGH
...I 58 HIGH 56 LOW 40 LOW 38 

South Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni, supreme pizza, pasta primavera, spinach, chicken and dumplings, baked haddock jardiniere, London broil teriyaki, garlic mashed potatoes, philly steak sandwich, steakhouse fries, onion rings, sweet and sour chicken 
Today's Dinner: meatless baked ziti, meatball stroganoff, elbow macaroni, supreme pizza, noodles romanoff. mixed vegetables, roast beef hash, sauerkraut. turkey broccoli bake, pork loin with apples, cherry crisp, grilled vegetables, sea nuggets, steakhouse fries, onion rings 
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

HIGH 63 HIGH 62 LOW 43 LOW 46 
SCENE SPORTS 
Glee Club Saint Mary's 
travels around golf team the world to 
wins the MIAA share its 
championship musical talent 
Saint Mary's golf Scene reports on 
team wins itsthe music, tradi­
conference
tions and travels of championship with 
the Notre Dame 
a score of 625 in aGlee Club. 
two-day tourna­ment last weekend. 
page 24page 12 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 



Vandalism reported 
A University employee report­ed vandalism in DeBartolo Hall Friday morning. The case is pending and there are no sus­pects. 

Citation i~ued to 
visitor 
A visitor to campus was issued a state citation for con­sumption of alcohol by a minor near South Dining Hall Friday morning. 


Students receives 
citation 
NDSP issued a state citation to a Notre Dame student Friday morning near South Dining Hall for minor consumption of alcohol. The case is being referred for administrative review. 
complied from the NDSP crime blotter 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Chefs pasta, mari­nara sauce, potato wedges, garbanzo bean patties, sauteed vegetables, sesame chicken, lo mien noodles, grilled chicken breast, beer brats, jumbo pretzels, bat­tered onion rings, beef pot pies, veg­etable pot pies, herb breads and rolls, chefs vegetables, deli bar with hummus, dirty mashed potatoes 
Today's Dinner: Chef's pasta, mari­nara sauce, white rice, sauteed teriyaki tofu, beans, steak au poivre, herb roast­ed chicken, rice pilaf, spinach and toma­to basil pizza, deli bar with hummus. beef burgers, vegetable patties. sausage pizza, mashed potatoes 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
HIGH 65 HIGH 66 LOW 54 LOW 54 

Atlanta 79 / 57 Boston 67 I 49 Chicago 58 I 43 Denver 71 / 41 Houston 79 I 66 Los Angeles 92 / 61 Minneapolis 49 / 46 New York 68 / 50 Philadelphia 76 / 50 Phoenix 93 / 70 Seattle 64 / 48 St. Louis 63 / 42 Tampa 90 / 72 Washington 78 / 52 
·················7································································~ 
Monday, October 7, 2002 page 3
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 


•
anov1c
•
nst1tute 
for European Studies 



UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Claudia Schmid 
''Fighting Terrorism in Berlin'' 
October 7, 2002 
4:00 P.M. C 103 Hesburgh Center 
University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 


INNSBRUCK 
2003-04 Academic Year 


BERLIN 
2003-04, Fall '03 and Spring '04 
Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber and Returnees ofthe Program 
Wednesday, October 9, 2002 118 DeBartolo 
7:00 pm 
Application Deadlines: Innsbruck: Dec.1,2002 Berlin: Oct. 1, 2002 for Sp '03 
Dec. 1, 2002 for F '03 and AY 03-04 Questions??? Weber.l5@nd.edu Applications: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 

CHAT TIME 

MICHELLE OTTO'The Observer Coach Tyrone Willingham, Regls Philbin and Chuck Lemon, presi­dent of the Alumni Association, enjoy Friday's pep rally. 
Shakespearean films create understariding 
By SOFIA BALLON and 
MARIA SMITH 
News Writers 
Shakespeare film adaptations 
help viewers to connect with clas­
sic literature in a new way. said 
Peter Holland, the McMeel profes­
sor of Shakespeare studies at 
Notre Dame. 
"Shakespeare on Film," held Saturday, was the third lecture in the Saturday Scholar Series, which features talks on various topics held the morning before all home football games. 
Before talking about modern Shakespeare films, Holland described the success of the earli­est silent film adaptations of Shakespeare plays. 
"Over 400 silent films of Shakespeare were made," said Holland. "The audiences knew the stories." 
While Holland praised many of these early efforts, he said many modem Shakespearean films also show excellent understanding of the meaning of the plays, the diffi.­c ul ty of the language and the nature of the audiences. 
One example of modern Shakespearean film Holland dis­
cussed was director Baz 
Luhrmann's 1996 "Romeo and 
Juliet," which starred Leonardo 
DiCaprio and Claire Danes. 
Holland praised Luhrmann 's use 
of modern imagery and advanced 
film techniques in camera angles 
and film editing. 
"You have to find new audi­
ences that did not know they 
wanted to see Shakespeare," said 
Holland. 
Holland also discussed the 1993 film version of "Much Ado About Nothing." which he credits with helping to initiate a return to the earlier high quality of silent Shakespeare films. 
One problem Holland addressed was the antipathy among many viewers toward the idea of adapt­ing Shakespeare to film. "Many people have suggested that when Shakespeare meets Hollywood, the film has sold its soul to the devil," said Holland. He addressed this idea specifically in regards to films such as "Ten Things I Hate About You," which is modeled after Shakespeare's play "The Taming of the Shrew." 
Contact Sofia Ballon at sballon@nd.edu and Maria Smith at smith.525@nd.edu 


The Department of English Presents AN ENGLISH MAJOR EVENT 
GLENN HENDLER 
Associate Professor of English University of Notre Dame READING AND FEELING: 
EMOTIONAL RESPONSES TO LITiiRATURE 
Tuesday, October 8th, 7:30 pm Hospitality Roorr1, Reeker's Refreshments Will Be Served 
page 4 Monday, October 7, 2002
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



Program 
continued from page 1 
served as chair of the Faculty Forum and helped to lead the initiative for a four-year pro­gram. 
Increased ties with Holy Cross alumni will also be a key benefit of the new program, said Michael Mancini, director of development at the College. 
"Our alumni usually have a split allegiance between Holy Cross and the four-year institu­tion where they received their degree," said Mancini. "The bac­calaureate program will strengthen those ties with Holy Cross." 
Mancini said that alumni in general have been very support­ive of the new program. "They have enthusiastically endorsed [it]." he said. Some alumni wished the program had been in place while they were attending the College and were also impressed with the practicality of the proposed program. 
Students themselves are also very excited about the new changes that the baccalaureate program will bring to the Holy Cross campus. • 
"This is definitely a step in the right direction and where Holy Cross needs to go," said sopho­more Casey St. Aubin, president of the Student Advisory Council, Holy Cross' student government association. 







· S\00
\\egister to von a shopping spree 
._____
~ 
1723 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN Tuesday -Friday 11-7 . odle"!I 

Saturday -11-5 ._,.,• Closed: ~' Sunday and Honday



-------------------------t 
Unique women's clothing & accessories for the ~.chic-You! 
---fny-one-~e~=--·


\00!~ ~ 
Double 
for purchases t:_:f. over SI00 ftl 
---------------f 

Sophomore Jennifer Nelson, who intends to apply for the new program this spring and has been closely tracking its devel­opment, said it would combine excellent academics with increased leadership on cam­pus. 
"[The classes] are just so interesting," Nelson said Holy Cross sophomore Jennifer Nelson. "It's so creative but practical [and] it's going to change the dynamics of student life." 
Unique experiences 
The new program will offer several distinct features to incoming students. First, all stu­dents will follow the same pro­gram of core liberal arts courses with some options for electives. 
"The bulk of their upper divi­sion work will be a core group of multidisciplinary courses and experiences," said Mangan. "The program will build on the College's tradition of excellence in liberal education by providing a strong liberal arts experience in a cohort model for students." 
In addition to shared courses, students will be required to complete a study abroad experi­ence in an area where the Congregation or Brothers of the Holy Cross have a ministry, Mangan said. Program partici­pants-must also complete an internship the career field that they intend to pursue. Students interested in graduate school must work with a career mentor to plan their post-graduate stud­ies. 
Administrators hope that all these experiences will give Holy Cross graduates the broad­based skills they will need to continue their education or enter the workforce. 
To be admitted to the new program, applicants must com­plete a separate procedure from the two-year program and have earned ari associate of arts degree, Mangan said. 
"In addition, students must submit references from faculty and staff and participate in an interview," he said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 



For: BP Information Night 
Date: October 8th, 2002 

Time: 8:00 pm 
½ hr Presentation ½ hr Q&A 

Place: DeBartolo Rm 240 
This session will focus on 
full-time and internship 
opportunities at BP for 
undergraduate Chemical and 
Mechanical Engineers. 
BP is one of the world's largest energy companies. We are committed to finding innovative solutions and acting in a
you're invited! 
::s:::s~::::,:::;n obp 
us on October 8th • 
(~ ,..i y-"'t N'f.·...-,.• 1(? 
:J>,,. 11.,N.lr /.LJ..n., l'l<jl.J t,., ,-.,. ~,"lltt h~-nJ 11,,,/ 

.. 


Granger Area 
312 W. Clevelaod Rd• 
Granger, IN 46~30 

-

Monday, October 7, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Congress to approve war resolution against Iraq 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Congressional leaders said Sunday a resolution authorizing war against Iraq, expected to pass with little dissent, will strengthen the U.S. hand at the United Nations and increase pressure on Saddam Hussein to disarm. 
President Bush, after a week­end in Maine, returned to the White House and prepared to address the nation Monday night from Cincinnati. He was making the case against the Iraqi president on the one-year anniversary of the start of bombing tn Afghanistan. 
Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle, who has counseled caution in unilateral moves against Saddam, said he will vote for the resolution but only after trying to make it more to his liking. 
A leading moderate Democrat suggested Bush was winning broad Democratic support for reasons of domestic politics as well as concerns about Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. Many Democrats opposed simi­lar legislation that authorized the Persian Gulf War waged by Bush's father in 1991, and the party is still smarting from a perception as anti-war. 
"I think we need to work to improve our image on that score by taking a more aggres­sive posture with regard to Iraq, empowering the presi­dent," Sen. Evan Bayh of Indiana, a leader of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, told "Fox News Sunday." 
Bush requested a strong reso­1 u tio n that would have given him a virtual free hand to deal with Iraq's chemical and bio­logical weapons arsenals and its nuclear arms research pro­gram by removing Saddam. . Last week, a bipartisan group of lawmakers went to the White House and endorsed a some­what narrower version. It would give Bush broad authori­ty to use force to enforce rele­vant U.N. resolutions, with or without the cooperation of the United Nations. 
Daschle suggested would be more likely to win the approval he has requested from the U.N. Security Council if the case for moving against Saddam were to rest on a congressional resolu­tion. 
"I think he will be," Daschle told NBC's "Meet the Press." "At the end of the day, I think the U.N. is going to be with us." 
A House vote is expected Wednesday or Thursday, according to Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-111. Daschle said Senate passage should come by next week. Congress is getting ready to break for midterm horror" for the United States. The speech is meant to deliv­elections. Aides said Sunday his er in one cohesive 20-minute 


Bush warned in his radio Cincinnati speech will answer package Bush's arguments for address Saturday that "delay, lingering questions about why force as a last resort, a senior indecision and inaction ... could disarming Iraq is necessary. Bush administration official lead to massive and sudden even by force if required. said. 

EGYPT 
bin Laden might be speaker on tape about attacks 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 

The Arab satellite station al-Jazeera broadcast an audiotape Sunday in which a male voice attributed to Osama bin Laden said the "youths of God" are planning more attacks against the United States. 
"By God, the youths of God are preparing for you things that would fill your hearts with terror and target your economic life­line until you stop your oppression and aggression" against Muslims, said the voice in the audiotape. 
There was no way to verify whether the person speaking on the tape was bin Laden, or when the recording was made. 
The short message was broadcast with a photograph of bin Laden in the back­ground. 
Al-Jazeera chief editor Ibrahim Helal told The Associated Press by telephone that the station received the tape two hours before the Sunday evening broadcast. He refused to say how the tape was received. 
"We had no doubt this was bin Laden . .It was not only the tone of the voice but also the way he spoke and the logic of the mes­sage," Helal said. 
He said the fact the message was so brief "showed that the man (bin Laden) was in tough circumstances and does not have a chance to talk." 
Qatar-based al-Jazeera has become 

known for its broadcast ofaudio and video­tapes of al-Qaida leaders. Last month, it aired excerpts from a videotape in which a voice said to be bin Laden's is heard nam­ing the leaders of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers. 
Until then, bin Laden had not been heard from since shortly after the U.S.-led bomb­ing campaign began in Afghanistan last October. 
In the recording broadcast Sunday, the man said his message was addressed to the American people, whom he urged to "understand the message of the New York and Washington attacks which came in response to some of your previous crimes." 
"Those who have initiated (the attacks) are the ones who brought injustice," he said. 
"But those who follow the activities of the band of criminals in the White House, the Jewish agents, who are preparing for an attack on the Muslim world ... feel that you have not understood anything from the message of the two attacks," he said. 
"So let America increase the pace of this conflict or decrease it, and we will respond in kind," he said. 
The reference appeared to be to the U.S.­Iraq confrontation many believe _will lead to war, which would date the tape to recent weeks. The reference, however, could have been to another conflict. 
The U.S. State Department had no imme­diate reaction to the tape. 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

Oil tanker explodes off Yemen coast: 
An explosion and fire engulfed a French oil tanker on Sunday off the coast of Yemen, and the tanker owner said a small boat struck the vessel in a "deliberate attack." Yemeni officials, however, said there was no indication the tanker was attacked and that the fire was caused by an oil leak. French officials said it was still too early to say if the explosion was an act of terrorism. 
Ivory Coast cease-fire collapses: 
Heavy gunfire erupted around Ivory Coast's second city Sunday, heralding the start of a government offensive to reclaim the rebel-held north after cease-fire efforts col­lapsed. Government troops riding pickup trucks raced north toward rebels who have seized half this once-sta­ble West African nation since launching a bloody failed coup attempt Sept. 19. Presidential spokesman Toussaint Alain said lvorian troops had launched operations "aimed at liberating urban sites occupied by illegal fighters." 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 


Maryland shooting spree victim buried: 
One of the six people killed in a suburban Washington shooting spree was buried Sunday as investigators completed a profile that focuses on where the killer might live. Police also were awaiting an FBI psycho­logical profile of the shooter, Montgomery County Police Chief Charles Moose said. Police have begun to use a geographic profile submitted by investigators that uses crime locations to determine where the killer feels comfortable traveling and may live. 
Bishop touts Church role in policy: 
At a Mass for government officials, the head of the nation's Roman Catholic bishops expressed hope Sunday that the sex abuse scandals plaguing the American church would not lessen the role of reli­gious ideals in shaping public policy. Bishop Wilton Gregory said, "'It is the world's experience that true greatness in leadership, be it religious or secular, is a rare commodity." 
U.S. officials divided on smallpox policy: 
The Bush administration plans to offer the smallpox vaccine to the general public, but officials weighing the risk of the vaccine against the risk of bioterror remain divided over how quickly to act. Top federal health officials want a staged process in which the vaccine would not be offered to the public until it is fully licensed, probably in early 2004. 
N.J. gov. seeks authority to fire poet: 
Gov. James E. McGreevey is seeking the power to fire the state's poet laureate, who has refused repeated calls to resign after writing a Sept. 11 memorial poem criticized as anti-Semitic. Legislation giving the governor the authority to end Amiri Baraka's two-year term could be introduced as early as Monday, McGreevey said Sunday. Last month, McGreevey demanded Baraka's resignation after the poet read "Somebody Blew Up America" at an August festival. 
f' • t • 

page6 Tl,e ObSt.rot!J' . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 7, 2002 
Sister ~mmanue{, a mem6er o the Community o the 'Beatitudes w o has Uved in 'Med)u or_fe 
I'

since 1989, wi r~eak on the messaaes o Our Lady, Qyeen o Peace, and fead the 'Rosary at the Sacred Ueart Parish Center on 'Monday, October 7, 
the 'Memoria( o Our Lady 0 
t e 'Rosary, at 7:ooy.m. 
She wi(( afso yray the 'Rosary and ~eak to youna 
yeoyre at 1:00 p.m. 
on October 9th at Sacred Ueart Parish Center. ~(( are we(comel 'The words she brin s 
rom 




or

'Med)uaor_fe are a heaUna 6a m these trou6fed times. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Monday, October 7, 2002 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch for October 4 
DowJones 

7,528.40  ,. NASDAQ  -188.79  
1,139.90  ' 'S&P500  -25.66  
800.58  ' AMFX  -18.37  
813.78 436.31  ' NYSE '  -10.27 -9.93  

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -3.67 -0.36 9.46 
•Y.itfilli:i1:~~~gj~:::~:!fti~:1i.~:resji:,@.:~:~~r~ji~2~:ji~, 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW)-5.84 -0.15 2.42 
~~~!1:'!~B~ll!~~:l:if!~~l:~!!li~~~l~~~l1il!~ll!!l~J1!~1:!Jilg~~:~!
SPDR TRUST SER (SPY) -1.83 -1.51 80.80 
IN BRIEF 
Jobless rate drops to 5.6 percent 
The nation's unemployment rate unexpect­
edly dropped to 5.6 percent in September, 
even as the economy lost jobs for the first 
time in five months, highlighting the difficul­
ties some workers and businesses are con­
fronting given the uneven economic recovery. 
The latest snapshot of the country's employ­ment situation, released by the Labor Department Friday, offered B mixed picture of the jobs market as well as the national econo­my. 
But economists said that at least one clear 
theme emerged from the report: The econo­
my, after being knocked down by last year's 
recession, is back on its feet, but sure isn't 
bursting with vitality. 
September's 5.6 percent jobless rate ­down from 5.7 percent in August -repre­sented the lowest unemployment rate in seven months. But a big part of the hiring benefited teenagers. The jobless rates for adult men and women held steady. 

Drug companies cut back discounts 
Two pharmaceutical companies have cut back on discounts offered to the uninsured elderly because they fear the government will force them to offer similar prices to Medicaid, the federal insurance program for the poor. 
GlaxoSmithKline and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. pared their discounts on Oct. 1 because of questions about whether the reduced prices offered to seniors fell under the law that says the government must receive the lowest price offered to any buyer on the market. 
The two companies, along with five others, offer discounts through the Together RX card, which began four months ago and offers dis­counts of up to 40 percent to low-income, unin­sured seniors. Glaxo also has its own discount card that was affected by the pricing change. 
Health and Human Services Secretary Thomas Scully said he believed the companies wanted to change their prices and were using the government as a scapegoat. 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
Chainnen pleading ignorance 
. Enron and Global Crossing scandal similiar 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Two of the largest corpo­
rate collapses have at least 
one thing in common: com­
pany chairmen who took 
their creations to great 
heights, reaped millions 
from stock sales and said 
they knew nothing of prob­
lems until it was too late. 
Kenneth Lay's defense 
after Enron Corp.'s spectac­
ular downfall was that he 
was largely uninformed of 
how the energy-trading 
company's finances worked. 

In congressional testimony this week. Global Crossing Ltd. Chairman Gary Winnick could not remember receiv­ing a single warning about potential problems at his fiber-optic company. although senior executives were sounding alarms with Lawrence Mitchell, a George "Strategic ignorance, you, transactions related to the increasing frequency in the Washington University law might call it," Skeel said. "If partnerships. spring of 2001. professor. Chairmen who you can argue you didn't Lay resumed running 
Enron filed for bankruptcy are not also chief executive know what was going on, it's Enron when Skilling abrupt­protection in December. are not necessarily kept hard to mount a securities ly quit in August. He stepped Global Crossing followed suit abreast of day-to-day busi­fraud case against you." down as chairman and CEO a month later. ness, but instead focus on Rep. Billy Tauzin, R-La., in January. 
Critics have challenged the the big picture. At many cor­chairman of the House Lay, who asserted his con­veracity of the claims of porations, the positions are Energy and Commerce stitutional protection against ignorance, which also have combined. Committee, which is investi­self-incrimination when he raised questions about how Some chairmen are so gating Global Crossing, was summoned to testify involved chairmen should be closely linked to their com­called Winnick 's testimony before Congress, told an -especially when they are panies that pleading igno­something else -hard to internal investigation he so closely tied to their com­rance would not be credible. believe. knew little about how panies' rise. Winnick found­The government's antitrust "Impending corporate Enron's finances worked ed Global Crossing, while case against Microsoft, for doom. Billion-dollar short­and the forces behind its Lay transformed Enron from example, revealed that falls. As many times as he downfall. a small natural gas company Chairman Bill Gates was said he didn't know that, I In the Global Crossing into an energy giant. intimately involved in the can't believe he didn't know case, documents and the 
"Regardless of size, you company's affairs, Webb that," Tauzin said. testimony of other former should expect chairmen to said. Lay served as both chair­and current Global Crossing be aware of major factors David Skeel Jr., a man and CEO, then promot­employees . contradict affecting the business," said University of Pennsylvania ed Jeffrey Skilling to chief Winnick's assertion that he Robert Webb, professor of law professor and expert in executive last year. It was in had no hint of trouble finance at the University of corporate bankruptcy, said that period that many of despite daily conversations Virginia's McIntire School of executives who have assert­Enron's off-the-books part­with CEO Thomas Casey, Business. ed they did not know what nerships were formed and said Rep. James Greenwood, 
There are. however, no was happening in the recent used to hide some $1 billion R-Pa., chairman of the well-established rules about round of corporate failures in debt. Skilling also has tes­House panel at the forefront what chairmen are sup­were employing a potentially tified he could not recall of Congress' probe of corpo­posed to know, said effective legal strategy. being involved in approving rate f allures. 
Maximizing tax benefits with charity 
least partly, why investors are still and there are tax deductions that

Associated Press 

giving at high levels. Last year, you wouldn't get with a commercial 
NEW YORK nationwide charitable giving annuity," said Ray Ferrara, a certi­
When investors have less money, reached a record $212 billion. an fied financial planner in Clearwater, they look for more tax savings and increase of 0.5 percent over the Fla. this can affect the way they donate $210.89 billion the year before. For instance, let's say that you to charity. according to the American want to put $100,000 worth of stock 
"What we found in our research is Association of Fundraising Counsel. into a charitable remainder trust. that even with people who have sig­But after adjusting for inflation, You wouldn't have to pay capital nificant wealth, as they see their total charitable gifts last year fell gains tax because this is a gift to investment income decline, the bulk 2.3 percent compared with two charity, meaning that at current of giving is going to be tax-related," years ago. rates, you would be able to get an said Scott Slater, director of the People who want to give but are average payout of $7,200, or 7.2 Spectrem Group in Chicago. worried that they'll outlive their percent of the initial amount per 
So, before writing a check to char­money should consider charitable year, according to Ferrara. But with ity, consider these more tax-effi­remainder trusts. These irrevocable a commercial annuity, you'd have to cient strategies: charitable remain­trusts allow investors to put money sell the stock first and pay a capital der trusts, family foundations and in and get a monthly income from gains tax of 20 percent, leaving you donor-advised funds. These vehi­the trust until death. After the with $80,000. This amount, when cles, besides giving you a deduction investor passes away. the charity invested in a commercial annuity. for your gift, also can provide either gets the remainder of the balance. would currently pay out at about 8.4 tax-free growth of your money or "The payout schedules to the percent, a higher rate than with a income for life. donor can be significantly higher charitable remainder trust, he said. These benefits help to explain, at than it is with a commercial annuity Still, you'd only get $6,720 per year. 
· page 8 The O&st.'l'Vtr . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 7, 2002 

FOURCULTU 










OF ESTE 

Rev. John W. O'Malley s.J. 
Professor of Church History Weston Jesuit School of Theology 
AUTHOR OF The First Jesuits (1993) AND Trent and All That: Renaming Catholicism in the Early Modern Era (2000) 
Tuesday and Thursday nights October 8, 10, 15 & 17 
7:30.-9:30 pm 138 DeBartolo Hall 
Students may earn half a credit by registering for the course, THEO 3878 4 Cultures West Christianity. Please contact Dorothy Anderson in the Theology Department (631-7811) for more information. 
THESE LECTURES ARE SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY, MADE POSSIBLE BY A GRANT FROM THE DILENSCHNEIDER FAMILY. 
Monday, October 7, 2002 

The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

...Since 1842 and growing into the future. 
www.nd.edu/,---.,vocation 
ANSWER ~ 
ffiECALL '<!::/ 
Cancer 
continued from page 1 
breast cancer herself a year and a half ago at age 27. She found a lump while doing a self-exam and went to her doctor who con­firmed that she had Stage II can­cer. This month marks her one­year completion of a 10 month treatment process. 
"Going through breast cancer treatment at such a young 

age has made women's
"Now /"m a survivor and 
me realize that health and 
life is short and looking forward to the wellness on I had to work 
next chapter in my life . ., Oct. 30, spon­
hard and keep sored by the a positive atti­Student tude while Melissa Peters Diversity going through Board and
LeMans Hall director 
treatment," said Peters. "Now I'm a survivor and looking forward to the next chap­ter in my life." 
Only 0.3 percent of women under the age of 30 are diag­nosed with breast cancer, yet detecting it in its earliest stages increases treatment options as well as the chance for survival. Breast cancer is the leading can­cer site among American women and is second only to lung cancer in all cancer deaths. An estimated total of 203,500 women will be diagnosed with breast cancer this year. 
"In general, I feel that college­age women recognize breast can­cer as an important issue. although more so for older women. This is far from the truth," said Cathi DeCleene, director of health services. "Monthly breast self-examination is recommended for women from puberty on." 
Other campus events planned for the month to support aware­ness include "Love Your Body Day" on Oct. 14, sponsored by the women's studies department, and a forum to address 
the Health 
and Wellness 
Center. 

Peters will be one of many speakers at the event. LeMans Hall Council is sell­ing "Proud to Wear Pink" T-shirts with all proceeds going to the Susan G. Komen Foundation . 
Informational bulletin boards have also been put up in resi­dence halls to help students gain awareness about breast cancer facts. In addition, hall front desks are collecting Yoplait "Save Llds to Save Llves.. yogurt lids. 
Contact Anneliese Woolford at wool8338@saintma.rys.edu 
-
, 


-I 
f 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Excellent academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India. 5 courses, 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
Itinerary: Tokyo, Kyoto, Hong Kong, Beijing, Xian, Chengdu, Lhasa (Tibet), Singapore, Bangkok, Saigon, Bali, Delhi, Agra, Jaipur, Ajanta, Ellora, Bombay, Mahabalipuram, Pondicherry, Tanjore, Trichy, Madurai, Periyar, Munnar, Cochin. More travel opportunities in Eastern and Western Europe on the same air ticket. 

EVERYONE WELCOIWE! 
SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM (574) 284-4468 OR 4473, FAX (574) 284-4866 
e-mail: pullapil@saintmarys.edu; http:/ /www.saintrnarys.edu/saw 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, October 7, 2002 
page IO 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Nocrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs 
PHOTO EDITOR, Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTROLLER: Lori Lewalski 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0 .............. 631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 

observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT............···••····•••·........................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 

observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer po!icic should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarlty. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob<cm:r (USPS 599 HO) io published Monday mrough Friday c:xc.<pt during ,um and '"'""'" periods. A,ub.criplion "' The Oho<...,, i• $I 00 for OM academic ~.ar. S55 for one scrMSf.ff. 
Th, Obtcrwr i• publith,ed ar: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall S...d addn:u oorru:aont ro: Nau< Dame, IN 46556-0n9 ThcObl.:rwr Periodical po•ug,: paid 1t N.,.,., Dam, P.O.lloxQ and addirional mailing office,. Notre Dunc. IN .,;5¼,0779 
The ObictvtT ii • mcmbtr of ,he AJoociaicd Pms. All rq,roduaion right1 .,. m<m:d. 


GUEST COLUMN 

Quality ofTV news is questionable 
For a week at the beginning of the semester, my television was broken. Until it was magically repaired one afternoon while I was in class, I was completely out of touch. Gone were my morning updates with 
Katherine Reilly
Matt and Katie, evenings sessions of "Crossfire" and The Daily late nights Princetonian with the WB 
news team. 
After a sum­mer spent as an intern playing "Hardball'' with Chris Matthews at MSNBC, one would think I would know better than to rely on television for my news, but alas, I had fall en into the trap of every time-strapped 21st century information seeker. I had forgotten that television news is, by and large, a contradiction in terms. 
The problems with news broadcasts are evident no matter what time of day one tunes in. Local broadcasts are predictable: anchors will do 10 stories on street fairs and burglaries before they even mention City Hall. Network news producers are careful to offset any reference to Capitol Hill or the President with pieces on per­sonal finance or the latest outbreak of West Nile Virus. But the ultimate in current events inanity is the cable news industry, where the ethos of fluff and sound bites that has come to define television journalism is on dis­play 24 hours a day. 
Cable news' troubles begin with the stories they choose. Over the sum­mer, one couldn't flip through the channels without seeing a picture of Elizabeth Smart. The Smart story was a tragic one, but it was hardly as newsworthy as it was made out to be. As an intern, I watched producers reject stories about international women's rights, federal civil liberties mandates and American political maneuvering, in favor of reports that nothing new had turned up in the Smart case. When they tired of reporting the lack of news, the cre­ative geniuses at the three cable net­works found new kidnappings to 

cover. 

Each offset this coverage in its own way. MSNBC is a particular fan of showing footage from long, danger­ous car chases. Fox News, never able to turn down a story that makes fun of Democrats, once pre-empted a major White House press conference to air a piece about actors from The West Wing campaigning for Janet Reno. The judgment calls are ques­tionable at best. 
Even when they report on the important stories, television journal­ists don't always do it right. One of my tasks at "Hardball" was to identi­fy sound bites we could use in each evening's broadcast. The goal was not necessarily to capture the essence of someone's remarks but to find a quote that was inflammatory, provocative or off the wall. Similarly, guests for primetime discussions shows, from "Hardball" to "The O'Reilly Factor," are selected not necessarily for their level of expertise or insight but because they are enter­taining to watch. Anyone who has ever seen cable news favorite Ann Coulter, the conservative bombshell who is better at making unhappy faces and yelling at anchors than providing real analysis, can attest to this phenomenon. 
The people who make television news are not evil or stupid. They are caught in the chasm between jour­nalism and entertainment. As they struggle to fill the void between the two, we can make use of their work if we watch as savvy viewers. Cable news, for example, allows us to catch up on current events quickly, but we should read newspapers as well, seeking out the stories about interna­tional relations and domestic affairs that the networks maintain Americans could care less about. After all, most television producers get their ideas from print journalism, and the level of depth in any New York Times or Wall Street Journal article goes far beyond that of a minute long television hit. 
In addition, we have to be aware of the biases of our news outlets. For every kidnapping of a wealthy white child reported on the airwaves, there are dozens more that revolve around families with less-~icturesque snap­shots. Similarly, we should try and garner what logic and useful com­mentary there is from the yelling matches of "Hardball" and "Crossfire." By understanding the leanings and affiliations of talking heads, and trying to listen to the ideas beyond the smack down politi­cal rhetoric, we can actually gain some insight from the news being offered. 
Most of us are guilty of not being as informed as we should be, as stu­dents, voters and citizens. With tele­vision news in the state that it is, we can hardly be blamed for our fail­ings. Changing the industry ought to be a long-term goal of the American viewing populace, but in the mean­time, we can become more informed about the world around us by under­standing the failings of what we see on the airwaves and by, occasionally, turning off the television. 
This column first appeared Oct. 2 in The Daily Princetonian. the daily newspaper ofPrinceton University. It appears here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Teresa Fralish Bryan Kronk Tim Heine Chris Federico Sarah Nestor Scene Viewpoint Emily Howald Sheila Flynn Lab Tech Graphics Dorothy Carder Katie McKenna Illustrator Pat Quill 
NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 

Are women and men treated equally at Notre Dame? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Solitary trees, ifthey grow at all. grow strong . ., 
Sir Winston Churchill former British prime minister 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Monday, October 7, 2002 page 11 
Ordinary things make Notre Dame extraordinary 
I wanted something extraordinary to happen this weekend. 
Heading back to my first Notre Dame football game as an alumna, I thought for sure I would come back with some 
amazing story to write about. 
Either I'd see Regis in the dining hall, and he'd invite 
me to New York. Or better yet, I would sit next to Father Hesburgh at the 
Basilica, and he'd offer me a job at Notre Dame. 
But unfortunate­ly, nothing -extra­ordinary hap­pened. 
It was normal to be picked up from the airport by my best friend and rem­inisce about our lives in Badin Hall ­the SYRs and the formals. Our "com­fort" boy, the parties in the basement of 222 St. Louis St. and the numerous nights spent at The Observer. 
It was normal to listen to Ludacris, laugh and even cry because we miss the eve'tyday events so much. 
It was normal to get up early Saturday morning and head to the soc­cer fields to tailgate. It was normal to see the hundreds of Irish fans wearing their green shirts, eating burgers and drinking Strawberry Hill Boones Farm. 


It was normal to be in the house that Rockne built again. It was normal to sing the fight song, yell the "We are ND." cheer, and form a "W" with my hands alongside the 80,000 Irish fans during the "1812 Overture." 
It was normal to meet up with all the girls at the end of the game and listen to the band one more time. It was nor­mal to sing the Alma Mater, arm in arm, swaying back and forth. It was normal to see Touchdown Jesus in the dis­tance and the entire student section as one large entity. 
It was normal to meet up with my parents and siblings after the game and go to dinner. It was normal to all be sunburned, and tired and hungry. It was normal to talk about the "great plays" of the game and laugh about 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Incendiary insults do not support arguments 
This is in response to John Lltle's Oct. 4 column, "Where's the Class?" Let me start off by wholeheartedly agreeing with him: That horrendous column was as low-class as the so-called low-class activities of certain persons and groups men­tioned on campus. But setting aside the outrageous and ridiculous views asserted throughout the article, the immature and low-brow statements made to those groups and persons were not only low-class, but pointless. Explain to me for one second what that accomplishes beyond getting one avid reader fired up, and I'll be there to listen. 
Now, I won't go so far as to insult Mr. Litle by saying that he himself exemplifies everything that he complains about, but only for a simple and specific reason: Change is not brought about by insult and degradation. 
Even if the Stadium ushers were the insensitive, authoritarian Gestapo police that Mr. Litle depicts them as, it does no good whatsoever to call them "power­tripping, rent-a-cop wannabes," and if he wishes to go so far as to say that he feels "abject hatred" towards stadium ushers, I think a slight change in priorities and a visit to a ResLlfe counselor might be a more appropriate course of action for him. 
Even if not allowing students to tailgate before games on campus could be called low-class, it does no good whatsoever to say that Father Poorman "strives for low­class excellence" and does his best to be "offensively demeaning" towards the stu­dent body with his policies. 
Even if the NDSP was disrespectful to every single ticketed and non-ticketed per­son this past Sept. 11 (and mind you, I don't support this any more than the next person}, it does no good whatsoever to say that they are the prime members of a group that exhibits the ..lack of common human courtesy that we endure every day." 
Are these actions low-class? Possibly. But writing these words in a newspaper simply to get a rise out of the people reading or to get attention without regard for respect or courtesy to the readers or the people affected and denounced, and seemingly without the slightest degree of thought put into the criticisms is the true definition of low-class. 
Maybe I am nothing more than a happy-go-lucky, optimistic freshman. Maybe I have no idea what sort of unbearable torture it must be to wait a whole 10 min­utes in line to get into the student section yet. Maybe I haven't experienced first­hand the terrible, evil injustice of a parking ticket or a tailgating citation. Heck, maybe I'm not accomplishing any more than Mr. Litle will, in the end, by writing this i:esponse. . 
But if nothing else, I will learn, experience and accomplish it with far more class. 
John Klein 
freshman Dillon Hall Oct. 4 

past memories. In fact. it was even normal to hear about my younger brother's life at Notre Dame. It was normal that it is now his time to be under the Dome, eat in South Dining Hall, study in LaFortune. work out at Rolfs and rush the field after big wins. It was nor­mal to be 
exhausted on Saturday 
night and yet still rally to go to the 'Backer. It 
was normal · to drink a Long Island Ice Tea, dance and sing to "I 

Want It That Way." It was normal to 
end the night, once again arm in arm with the girls, as the fight song finished 
and "Oh What a Night" blasted over 
the loud speakers. It was normal to come home crammed in a taxi, laugh, eat Papa John's leftovers and go to bed way too 
late. It was normal to realize that I 
would leave these best friends in a 
matter of hours and miss them for 
months. 

It was normal to get up early Sunday morning and go with my family to Bibler's. It was normal to barely be able to keep my head up, wish the weekend had gone by more slowly and feel tears swelling up in my eyes as I hugged my mom, dad: sister and brothers goodbye. 
As I was flying back to Oklahom·a City Sunday, I realized nothing extra­ordinary happened this weekend at all. But perhaps that is the wonderful thing about Notre Dame. 
It is not the extraordinary events that happen on football weekends -it is the normal events. It's the traditions and the comfortable feeling that takes away the worries about work, the stack of papers I have to grade and the ACE assignment due today. 
In fact, it is all those ordinary events this weekend that made my trip to Notre Dame quite extraordinary. 
Laura Rompfis a 2002 graduate of Notre Dame. She is currently teaching in Oklahoma City through the Alliance for Catholic Education. Her column appears every other Monday. Contact her at lrompf@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Investigate hidden scandals at Notre Dame 
On Oct. 14, when the "Restoring Trust" conference on the sexual abuse crisis in the Church convenes at Notre Dame, its lead speaker will be University President Father Edward Malloy. I have been surprised to see him in the news over the past six months. 
I first wrote to Father Malloy about priest sexual abuse at Notre Dame in June of 1991. He never replied to my letter, he refused to meet with me and he avoided me when I tried to talk with him in a public forum. I wrote to him about a priest who had been the University Provost and Chair of the Theology Department in the 1970s, and later a "spiritual advisor" with an apartment in the back of Holy Cross Hall. When the stories broke about Father Burtchaell in the National Catholic Reporter, The Observer and Common Sense (December 1991), his defenders, including Notre Dame's Dennis Moore (now a vice president) came as close to calling me a liar and my allegations lies as anyone did. 
Nevertheless, Burtchaell reluctantly admitted the harm he caused to many of those he had advised (I'm told our numbers could fill a bus) and he resigned from the faculty. Notre Dame and Holy Cross officials said at the time that Burtchaell had essentially been a bad apple and that they acted as soon as they could. • 
A decade later, the times have changed and now I am the one that can say that Malloy and Moore were proba­bly the liars. Malloy is the closest per­son you'll find to Bernard Law on cam­pus. 
I wrote about this in my Masters the­
sis at Notre Dame, called "Tell Me What 
Home is Like" (1993); it's in the 
Hesburgh Library and was published 
last year (www.firetrap.com). To believe 
Malloy did not know of Burtchaell's 15­
plus year history of abuse, nor of the 
abuse of the many other Holy Cross 
priests and brothers, seems. well, unbe­
lievable. 

The questions that anyone who cares 
about this issue need ask are simple: 
Father Malloy, what did you know? And 
when did you know it? How many sexu­
ally abusive priests and brothers have 
you hidden? And for how long? 
An answer from him would be a wel­
come surprise; an honest one might 
qualify as a miracle. In the meantime. do a Google search on Notre Dame and 1 priest sexual abuse. You'll find out more 
about this University and the order that 
runs it than you probably care to know. 
The knowledge still turns my stomach. 
Ten years ago we called for an indepen­
dent investigation into the Burtchaell 
Matter. Malloy and company ignored 
that call. 

Now that it is standard practice in 
most parishes around the country, per­
haps Notre Dame can stop leading with 
words it doesn't intend on following and 
show leadership through action. The 
real problem, I imagine, is that if you 
root out all of those in the Holy Cross 
order who are guilty, the next president 
of Notre Dame will be the first not from 
the order. 
John Michael Vore 
class of 1986, 1993 New York City Oct. 6 


A1,.HE
vnSERVER 


page 12 Monday, October 7, 2002 

•

us1ca 

assa~ 
The Glee Club travels around the globe to share its musical talent 
years and not just because they're William Rehnquist. 
By MARIA SMITH 

singing guys in immaculate suits. "Today was an example of how
Assistant Scene Editor 

People throughout the Notre Dame hectic things can get," said senior community come to hear what never president Jacob Rodenbiker, It's a cool, clear Wednesday night fails to be an excellent show. between the performance at the and a few lucky girls are gathered The group performs fight songs, football luncheon Friday and a later around the steps of the Dome to lis­spirituals, Beethoven, Gilbert and show for alumni at the Eck Center. ten to the sounds of "Vive L'amour" Sullivan with equal ability and enthu­"The guys were excited though, we and "Loch Lomond." siasm. The music is always diverse got to hear Coach Willingham's
The next day the girls praised the and sophisticated, and the shows speech." show excitedly. themselves are simply fun. The Performing for so many functions 
"They sounded really good on Cavalcade of opponents fight songs at requires the group to have a largeW·ednesday night." said sophomore ·Notre Dame in Revue before home repertoire and to know their piecesGwen Schmiedebusch. "I was touched games and the bells and Santa hats very well. While the shows in them­at the end when we all put our arms of the Christmas concerts are all an selves take a lot of time, rehearsals around each other and they sang the important part of the Notre Dame take far more. The group rehearses alma mater." experience. every day Monday through Thursday
And who would­The Glee Club with director Dan Stowe, workingn't be? What's bet-has long been a first on the notes and then on the ter than being ser­Notre Dame tradi­details that go into making a good
"We can ·t have one voice
enaded under the tion. Established in performance. The group is constant­stars by a group of that's too edgy. It's an all­191 5 by Samue 1 ly expanding its collection, working cute, clean cut and or-nothing proposition. But Ward Perrott, it is on new pieces every year, as well as talented Notre the University's constantly brushing up old favorites
don't let that scare you. ••
Dame boys? oldest choir. More like Shenandoah and Franz Biebls Casual perform­than 2,000 men Ave Maria. 
ances like these Dan Stowe have sung with the "I've been really pleased with the The Glee Club dresses up and performs at the 2001 
are fun for the stu­Glee Club director club in the past 85 increase in musical sophistication in 
Stowe and performs at numerous campus events, su
dents and the years. the group," said Stowe, who has singers, but this The time com­directed the Glee Club since 1993. only scratches the mitment is The Glee Club begins performing local Notre Dame functions, but has surface of what the demanding, but early in the year, and new members represented the University coast to Notre Dame Glee Club is and what rewarding. Singing with the Glee especially have to work hard to learn coast and around the world. they do. Stereotypes aside, the Glee Club offers students a lot of exciting the new music and the old favorites. The club visits various U.S. cities Club is a group of talented and hard­· opportunities. The group is often Rehearsals run two hours, and while and towns on its yearly fall and working singers who put a lot of time seen at university functions ranging the first hour is optional, rookies spring break tours. performing in and effort into making their music from football luncheons to alumni especially are encouraged to attend. churches and concert halls for Notre sound great. birthday parties. A busy weekend "You really need to come to Dame alumni and fans. This year 
Over the years the Glee Club has might include five performances in a rehearsal as much as you can," said alone the Glee Club plans to visit 10 
represented every dorm, every major single day, and while not all are sophomore rookie Josh Towns. "But states in the northern Midwest and and every part of the country. No mandatory, the men rarely have to be it's like a planned study break. It's Great Lakes region and cross the matter what their backgrounds, these reminded to attend. more like playing basketball than like border into Canada. guys have one important thing in The Glee Club members have been a chore." Since 1960 the group has also common: they love music, and they honored to perform not only for No choir can succeed without a toured internationally every other love to sing. University celebrities like Kevin good conductor, and Stowe puts in as year, visiting Europe multiple times 
Notre Dame Glee Club performanc­White and Tyrone Willingham but much time and effort as any of his and recently breaking ground in new es are always exciting. Concerts have national figures such as Dick Vitale singers. parts of the world. The Glee Club been a huge draw for students for and Supreme Court Chief Justice "Dan's a great guy," said Towns. first performed in Israel in 1997, and ''He always has a sense recently visited Singapore, Beijing, of humor. and he's obvi­Shanghai and other cities on their ously knowledgeable first tour of Asia in 2001. The group about his music." plans to return to Europe in 2003, 
Though the prepara­and hopes to visit Latin America in tion for so many per­2005. formances can become "We say we're musical ambassa­intense, Stowe main­dors for Notre Dame, and it's true," tains a sense of humor said Rodenbiker. "We establish rela­and a friendship with tionships around the world and with his singers that keep alumni." 
rehearsals from being For many singers, touring is one of overwhelming. the most exciting opportunities the 
"We can't have one Glee Club offers. voice that's too edgy. It's "I've seen the world because of an all-or-nothing propo­Glee Club," said senior Sean Martin. sition," said Stowe, cul­"It was an amazing experience; the tivating a mellow tone culture was so different. The group in the choir's perform­spent almost a month in Asia, and ance of "Shenandoah" had plenty of time to explore and see in an open rehearsal the sights between performances. Friday. "But don't let Tours within the United States, that scare you." though not as exotic, often take 
The Glee Club's hard singers to their own hometowns. This work is noticed other· year's Midwest tour will give many places than just around friends and parents the chance to campus. hear the choir perform. 
The club has not only "Tours are more meaningful if performed at countless you're singing at someone's home," 


.. 
-""'1HE
\JnSERVER 
pus


Monday, October 7, 2002 page 13 

ors tot 
-ewor 


:s and develop close relationships with alumni, friends and family 

uch as Masses, graduation and social functions. 
said Rodenbiker. 
One of th~e club's most memorable concerts was on last year's tour of New England. The itinerary took the group to New York less than two months after Sept. 11. The club had been scheduled to perform for the New York alumni before the event, 

and kept the date "The best moment is when guys don't see their 
on the itinerary as we're singing and we all choir this way. a benefit concert. Members stay close,
come together on one note. 
The Glee Club and friendships
raised thousands And all the different guys 
formed in the choir of dollars for char­sound like one voice.,, often last a longity at Staten time, but the Glee Island. Club is not any sort
Josh Towns
"We met a lot of of exclusive club. 

the police and fire­Glee Club member "Some people
fighters, and visit­ed Ground Zero," said Martin. "It was one of the most amazing experi­ences we've ever had." 
While most of the group goes on tours, everyone turns out in full dress for the fall, Christmas and spring concerts. Stowe's musical selections 

. appeal to every taste. "Dan does an amazing job of setting up a concert," said Martin. The first half of every concert fea­tures difficult classical works, which would impress any music critic. The beginning always ends with the group signature "Ave Maria" by Franz Biehl. The second half features spirituals. Irish folk songs and other crowd pleasers. At the end of each concert the Glee Club alumni are invited to come on stage and sing the Alma Mater. The Christmas concert especially is a comm_unity event, benefiting the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
The group performs in Stepan 
Center instead of the smaller 
Washington Hall, and tickets usually 
sell out. People from South Bend and 
the area come to hear Christmas 
favorites. 
Notre Dame is famous for its loyal 
alumni, and Glee Club alums are 
some of the most enthusiastic. Many 
not only put up current members on 
tours but come back to hear the con­
certs and sing the traditional songs. 
Every four years the Glee Club has 
an alumni reunion, with a dinner 
banquet and concert with the gradu­
ates. 
"It's great, you can sit down and 
talk to any guy there and you have 
something in common,.. said Martin. 
The club periodically puts out 
alumni news letters as well, to let 
old members know -what's going on, 
who they have been singing for, 
where they're going to tour. No mat­
ter how long they've been gone 
alums never lose their Glee Club loy­
alties. 
An open rehearsal and perform­
ance at the Eck Center brought 
many alumni back to see their show. Alumni going back to 1948 attended the rehearsal. 
Many universities have glee clubs dating back to the 1800s, and the choirs can often begin to resemble fraternities. While the Notre Dame Glee Club might seem to have a sense of this as well, the glee club 
might call it frater­
nity. but it's friend­

ship," said Roden biker. 
"We sing. and we're all friends. That's pretty much it," said singer Corey Kelly. 
In the final analysis, the Glee Club is primarily a group of guys who love to perform and -are good at what they do. 
"The best moment is when we're singing and we all come together on one note," said Towns. "And all the different guys sound like one voice." 
Anyone who wants to hear more of what the Glee Club does can come to the fall concert the Thursday and Friday -of Halloween weekend or buy one of their many recordings in the bookstore. 
Contact Maria Smith at Smith.S25@nd.edu 
The Glee Club goes global 
The Glee Club traveled to abroad during their Asia Tour 2001. They visited places such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Beijing and per­formed for alumni and others around the nation. 




Monday, October 7, 2002 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Longhorns avoid getting spurred by Cowboys 

completion, and a 25-yard run proud to be writing history with Falcons beat Navy 48-7 of his two third-quarter intercep­
Associated Press 

by Seymore Shaw quickly moved him. Hopefully, we'll keep writ­Saturday. . tions 2_4 yards for the go-ahead the ball to midfield for the ing history together." Navy scored first, but Harridge touchdown, and Mississippi shutAUSTIN, Texas 
Cowboys (2-3, 0-1). Ryan Killeen missed a 52-yard had touchdown runs of 7 and 1 out the Gators (No. 8 ESPN/USAThe Texas Longhorns said they 
Facing third-and-23 from the field-goal attempt on USC's over­yards in the second quarter and Today, No. 6 AP) in the secondweren't looking past Oklahoma Texas 33, Fields threw a prayer time possession. He missed an added an 8-yarder early in the half to win 17-14 Saturday. 
State to their matchup with rival to John Lewis, who came down extra point earlier that would third to help Air Force pull away. It was the Rebels' first victoryOklahoma. 

Right. with the ball just inside the goal have won the game for the 18th­Harridge also hit 6 of 7 passes over a top-10 team since 1997. line for the touchdown. ranked Trojans (3-2, 1-1 Pac-10) for a career-high 107 yards, but , when they beat No. 8 LSU on the
Second-ranked Texas will have 

On the 2-point try, Fields found after Carson Palmer threw a 55-all he could talk about afterward· road, and one of their biggesta hard time getting anyone to 
believe them after Saturday's 17 -Woods at the goal line, but his yard touchdown pass to Mike was everthrowing Ricky victories ever in Oxford. back wa~ turned to the end zone Williams late in the game. Amezaga on a corner-post route "It feels great," Grier said.
15 victory over the Cowboys that 

and Babers stopped him before Gesser led the Cougars (5-1, 2-in the first quarter. "Florida is a national team. A
took cornerback Rod Babers' 

defensive stop on a 2-point con­he could get across. 0) with TD passes to Mike Bush ·Tm happy with that (game), win like this brings national version and a drive-killing inter­and Devard Darling, and but I'm not satisfied," said attention." ception in the fourth quarter to Washington State 30, USC 27 Jermaine Green ran 75 yards for Harridge, who also scored on a The Gators (4-2, 2-1) found seal the win. Drew Dunning is a soccer play­another score. Gesser, playing 3-yard run in the fourth quarter. themselves in a defensive strug­
"It was a good, hard fight," er who kicks footballs. He used with a padded flak jacket over a "We're trying to be perfect here. gle as Rex Grossman threw four said Texas quarterback Chris another sport to describe his sore rib, completed 23 of 44 We're down there trying to score interceptions. He was 19-of-41 Simms, who passed for 267 field goals. passes for 315 yards and one and we have to settle for a field for 205 yards and two touch­
yards and a touchdown and ran "It's kind of like a putt. When interception. goal. I make the right read and downs. for another in the Big 12 opener you know it's in, you know it's "The crowd kept me going," the throw and we have a touch-Grier's first interception came for both teams. in," Dunning said. Green said after finishing with down rather than a field goal." on Florida's first possession of 
Entering next week's show­The junior kicked a tying 35-92 yards on six carries. "The Air Force, the nation's second-the second half. He returned it down against rival Oklahoma, yard field goal with 1:50 left in momentum changed after the best rushing team, ran for 429 10 yards to the Florida 18, and Texas is 5-0 for the first time regulation, then made another first quarter." yards to improve to 5-0. its best three plays later, Vashon 
since 1983. The Longhorns went 35-yarder in overtime to give USC entered as the nation's top start since opening the 1997 sea-Pearson scored from 4 yards out. undefeated in the regular season Washington State {No. 17 defensive team, holding oppo­son with seven straight victories. Eli Manning hit Jason Armstead that year. ESPN/USA Today, No. 18 AP) a nents to an average of 204 The Falcons also have won six for the 2-point conversion to cut 
Texas was anything but per­30-27 victory over Southern yards. But Washington State had straight against Navy (1-4) and the Gators' lead to 14-10. fect Saturday. California (No. 20 ESPN/USA 216 yards by halftime as Gesser 19 of the last 21 meetings. Grier's clincher came when Missed field goals, a dropped Today) on Saturday night. hit his receivers on long pass Air Force needs to beat Army Grossman threw into double­
touchdown pass and an inability "My mindset was: What's dif­plays. on Nov. 9 to win the coverage. Grier caught the pass to put the Cowboys away in the ferent than any other kick I've Washington State had 201 Commander-in-Chiefs Trophy at the Florida 24 and made a second nearly did Texas in. had?" Dunning said. yards rushing, while USC had for the sixth straight year. nice cutback before vaulting into 
The crowd of 83,116 at Royal­Dunning, who last kicked a just 72. Navy. which has lost four the end zone to give Ole Miss its . Memorial Stadium was expecting game-winner as a senior in high "That's awesome. To put 200 straight after opening the season first lead. 17 -14, with 7:34 left in a typical home blowout. But they school, sprinted to midfield and yards up against the No. 1 with a win over SMU, continued the third quarter. couldn't start chanting "Beat did a soccer-style slide before defense in the nation,,. Gesser to struggle with turnovers. The Manning was 18-for-33 for OU!" until the final seconds being mobbed by teammates and said. "Our goal was to get 150 Midshipmen led early after a 5-154 yards, and for the first time ticked off of this one. fans. and we went way past that." yard touchdown run l;>y Kyle in his career he didn't throw a 
"Not many good things hap­The Cougars gave coach Mike Eckel but lost fumbles on their touchdown pass as a starter. But pened to us today," said Texas Price his first victory over USC at Air Force 48, Navy 7 next two drives. he did become the first member coach Mack Brovvn, who tried to home. The team gave the game Chance Harridge's career of his family to beat the Gators. find the positive. ball to Price, who has spent 14 game couldn't offset his disap­Ole Miss 17, Florida 14 His brother, Peyton, was 0-4 
It was a fight Texas could have years in Pullman. pointment at-missing an open Just when it looked like Florida against Florida while at lost. "He's the longest reigning receiver in the end zone. coach Ron Zook had quieted the Tennessee. 
Leading 17-9 in the fourth, coach in the Pac-10 and he final­Harridge ran for a career-high skeptics in Gator Nation. "He'll probably be the first one Texas pinned OSU.on its own 1 ly got his win against USC up 161 yards and scored two of his Mississippi gave them something to call me," Eli said of his older after a punt. Josh Fields then hit here in Martin Stadium,,. quar­four touchdowns in Air Force's new to complain about. brother, now the Indianapolis Rashaun Woods for a 25-yard terback Jason Gesser said. "I'm 21-point second quarter as the Matt Grier returned the second Colts' quarterback. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character p.er day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES LOST & FOUND 
CJs Pub See whats happening LOST· Signet Ring 14K white gold initials JME, size 1 O 3/4; engraved www.cjspub.com within. $100 REWARD. Lost 9/14 
Michigan game, stadium student Attention Spring Breakers Travel section or on field. Free in 2003 Trips, drinks&meals Party w/ MTV Hottest Destinations Jon Mack 309 Zahm, 634-1090. 
Most Reliable www.sunsplash-Lost: Kairas (waffle) cross ... tours.com believed lost near west entrance of library. Has burgundy piece of vel­1 ·800-426-7710 vet tied around top with 2 pins -one 
is footprint pin, other is Celtec cross ***ACT NOW! Guarantee the best J pin. Priceless to owner. spring break prices! 
Reward -please call Cristin at South Padre, Cancun, Jamaica, 4-1057 Bahamas, Acapulco, Florida & Mardi Gras. TRAVEL FREE, Reps needed, EARN$$$. 
WANTED 
Group Discounts for 6+. 

1 888 THINK SUN #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico, 
Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas! (1 888-844-6578 dept 2626) Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. www.springbreakdiscounts.com Free Parties & Meals! 
1-800-234-7007 endlesssumrner­$250 a day potential/bartending tours.com Training provided 
Make $320 Week! Sunchase Ski 1-800-293-3985 ext. 556 and Beach Breaks. Sales Rep. 
positions available now. Largest ROOMS B&B Near Campus for commissions. Travel Free! FOOTBALL GAMES 
1-800-SUNCHASE ext. 123. Call 288-5377 WWW.SUN CHASE.COM 
Earn extra money evenings sched­uling appointments and making customer calls for local State Farm agent. 4-7pm on 2-3 week nights, you choose from Tuesday­Thursday. Hourly plus bonus. Must be enthusiastic with great tele­phone presence. Fax resume to 574-232-9984. 
Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187. 
FOR SALE 
LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL. NEWLY REMOD­ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu 
If you enjoy natural woodwork and a beautiful spacious older home 
"" 
with a well~manicured yard, then see this 4-bed room , 1-1 /2 bath with formal dining room with crystal chandelier. Close to ND. Call Ellen Baker 255-5858. 
FOR RENT 
All size homes available tor 2003-. 2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com 

ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR RENT FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. CALL 243-0658 OR 298-0223. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES • NOW LEASING FOR 2003-2004 SCHOOL YEAR -WELL MAIN• TANIED HOUSES NEAR CAM­PUS-2-4-5-6-7-8-9 & 10 BED­ROOM HOUSES • STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS· SECURITY SYSTEM· MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL· WASHER/DRYERS· CALL TODAY -HOUSES GOING FAST -CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234-2436 • (.574)274-9955 • (574)674-2471 
That Pretty Place, Bed & Breakfast has space available for footbalVpar­ent wknds. 5 Rooms/private baths, hot breakfast, $80-$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit 107, 800-418-9487. 
Alum owned, 5Bdrm/2Bath, W/D,Security, 10 ft ceilings, HUGE Yard.very close to campus&well kept.2Bdrm w/view of dome also available.Call 674-0709. 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 11/26-5/12 Call Bill or mary Anne Benedict 607­723-7363 
LARGE, Clean 2+ BR 1/2 mile from ND. Basement, garage, safe and private. $640/mo. Great location • 1122 Woodward Ave. Call 360­2500 
B&B-Pitts & Rutg. Best Area (574)­287-4545 
TICKETS 
N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. 

NEED 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. 
CALL JACK 674-6593. 

Buy/Sell N.D. football tickets. 289-8048 or astrog999@aol.com 
WANTED: ND tickets • HIGHEST PRICES PAID 251-1570 
ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 
289-9280 

ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. 
AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED 
AM 232-2378 PM 288 2726 
Need Home GA tix. 
Call 276-8507, after 5 call 288-2877. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Give adoption a chance... we are happily married and need your help in starting a family. Will provide a lifetime of love, laughter and end­less opportunities. Call our attorney toll free at 866-215-2229. 
SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800· 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Shoutout to sticker, tiger, junior, daddy, punxsatawney and shakey. -chief 
IU sorority girls: come back to club leroy anytime. 
Wanted: companion/partner for mother of God-like Observer staffer. Looking for short-term/physical rela­tionship only. Little or no experience necessary. Age difference not an issue. 
KM, your mom is next. 
Monday, October 7, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
PGA 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 9, 2002 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
. -·Y ''1'}!~}1:\J1ilX 
' . 

Do you see a vvindy day or a vvay to generate povver for 1000 homes? 
Single wind turbines that can light entire communities. We're developing them right now at GE. If you're like us 
and see the world as full ofpossibilities, then you belong here. From advanced medical technology to jet 
engines, from financial services to power generation, the diverse businesses of GE will give you unlimited 
opportunities to make our world a better place. All you have to do is bring energy, ideas and passion to work 
every day. Visit us at gecareers.com. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
GE Information Night 
OCTOBER 7TH, 6:30 PM -8:30 PM ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
Meet GE reps from several different GE Businesses and Leadership Programs. All majors/years are welcome to attend! 


We bring good things to life. 
Howell III 
savors 1st 
•

tour win 
Associated Press 
Charles Howell III accom­
plished his top priority for the 
season by winning the 
Michelob Championship. 
Winning for the first time in 
his career was just gravy. 
"When I started the year, 
my No. 1 goal was to make 
the Tour Championship and 
there was no question about 
that," Howell said Sunday 
after shooting a 4-under-par 
67 -the best of the day ­
for a 14-under 270. 
The victory was worth 
$666,000 and vaulted Howell 
from 3 7th place to 18th on 
the PGA Tour's money list for 
the season. He has nearly 
clinched a spot in this 
month's $5 million event for 
the year's top 30 money win­
ners. 
"It's hard to put into words. 
It really hasn't sunk in yet," 
said Howell, who scored a 
two-shot victory over Brandt 
Jobe and 1996 winner Scott 
Hoch. 
The victory came in his 68th career start, and he was starting to get annoyed about questions if he felt overdue for a win. 
"After a while, you start lis­tening to it," the 23-year-old Howell said. "I know that ide­ally I'm not supposed to, but it starts to get in your head a little bit." 
Howell ended such talk with a clutch up-and-down birdie on No. 15. He had an eagle, four birdies and three bogeys on his card through 14 holes. He said challenging for the lead and giving shots back actually helped his game in quest of his first victory. 
"I was just enough in con­tention to get nervous but I was just enough out of con­tention to get hacked off at myself for not being ahead," he said. "So for the first win, I probably couldn't give a bet­ter scenario." 
Howell became the 14th first-time winner on the PGA Tour this year, tying the record set in 1991, and the sixth player to break through at this event. He's also the last since it was the 22nd and final PGA Tour event on the River Course, which will play host to the LPGA Tour next year. 
Jobe, who matched Howell's birdie at No. 15 but bogeyed the next hole, drove into the rough on the par-4 finishing hole. He hit his second shot into the greenside rough, missed a chip to tie it and two-putted for 72. 
"It was just a frustrating day because it was so close to being good and so close to being bad," Jobe said. "It was kind of one of those days." 
Jobe's career best finish on the PGA Tour earned him $325,600. 
Hoch's long putt gave him a 69 to match Jobe at 272. Geoff Oglivy was fourth at 273 after a 70 and Billy Mayfair finished in fifth at 27 4 after a final round 73. 
'..1.:.:.!.!.~-~-:.r.:.~.~-:.:,:.
-·. •• • --· .•..•... >:;:.:;:-:-:-:-:7:::;:;:•:::::'.:::-:.:-.­

r..,
\ 
\ 
! Monday, October 7, 2002 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS 
i{ 1'/
'' MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
i' 
~ 
,_! 
I:,, 
L Twins contract A's season with 5-4 victory
!i 
i( 
I who homered earlier and had Pierzynski homered off A's Giants 8, Braves 3 neighborhood is still alive. After 
( Associated Press 
t 
three hits in the game -fouled closer Billy Koch in the ninth to Livan Hernandez boasted the Oakland Athletics were i out to second baseman Denny finally give Minnesota some about his postseason perfection, eliminated by Minnesota in the OAKLAND, Calif. Hocking. breathing room, and the Twins then went out and backed it up. AL division series across San (1 
\. Not only are the Minnesota The Twins formed a joyous leaped out of their dugout to Hernandez won again in Francisco Bay, Hernandez gave ! ) Twins here to stay, now they're pile on the field, while many of celebrate. Several hitters later, October and the San Francisco fans plenty to cheer about. going home -to open a most the A's sat motionless in the David Ortiz added an RBI dou­Giants battered Tom Glavine The wild-card Giants won for
i\ 
\ unlikely AL championship dugout. Later, the Twins ble to make it 5-1 -and pro­for the second time to beat the the first time in six tries when ). series. doused each other with cham­vide what turned out to be the Atlanta Braves 8-3 Sunday and facing postseason elimination \i h Brad Radke pitched 6 2/3 pagne and beer -as well as winning run. even their NL Division Series at since the 1971 NL champi­\, dominant innings to beat the ice from the champagne With consecutive victories 2-2. onship series. li ~ Oakland again, and the Twins trays -while leaving a layer of against star Oakland pitchers "I tried not to put pressure Hernandez carried a no-hit 
i: survived a late rally to top the ice and water on the clubhouse Tim Hudson and Mark Mulder. on," Hernandez said. "I knew it bid into the fifth, but Vinny 
(' 
Athletics 5-4 Sunday in the carpet. the Twins stuck around while was a big game. I do it the Castilla hit a high popup that
(: 
decisive Game 5 of their The Twins, who ran away big spenders like the Yankees same as I do every day. I came dropped between Hernandez,
~:: 
Division Series. with the AL Central, will face and Arizona went home early into the park and batting prac­third baseman David Bell and The Twins made their first Anaheim in the ALCS beginning this October. tice relaxed, my mind relaxed. I shortstop Rich Aurilia for a sin­
I playoff appearance in 11 years Tuesday night in Minnesota. LaTroy Hawkins dramatically did not want to make a lot of gle. despite a tiny payroll and base­The wild-card Angels shocked struck out Miguel Tejada to end mistakes ... and I won again Bell charged in too far and ball's offseason plan to elimi­the four-time defending AL the eighth with a runner on, today." the ball fell behind him. Keith
! 
nate them. But facing consecu­champion New York Yankees in preserving a one-run lead. Barry Bonds drove in the first Lockhart followed with another
~ \ r 
r 
\) tive elimination games, the the division series. Guardado struggled mightily in run and the Giants led all the base hit. Contraction Kids won 11-2 at During spring training, there the ninth in a non-save situa­way, sending both teams back Hernandez allowed three 
the Metrodome on Saturday. probably wasn't a soul who tion, but he survived. to Atlanta for a decisive Game 5 runs and eight hits in 8 1/3 then crossed half the continent would have predicted a meeting Minnesota hadn't been to the on Monday night. Buses to innings, striking out six. Giants to win the tense clincher about between the underfunded postseason since 1991, but the carry the clubs to the airport manager Dusty Baker was 30 hours later. Twins and the overlooked Twins have won all five playoff for cross-country flights were booed when he lifted his 
"People keep underestimating Angels. series they've been in since lined up before it ended. starter, but Scott Eyre and us. but we've had our backs "l don't think we're surprised 1970. Oakland has lost its last Kevin Millwood, already wait­Robb Nen finished up. against the wall all year long." to be here, and I don't think five series since 1990 -the last ing at home in Atlanta, will "We were trying to make him said All-Star catcher A.J. Anaheim is surprised, either," three in a decisive fifth game. pitch for the Braves on three throw strikes," Braves manager Pierzynski, who hit a two-run All•Star outfielder Torii Hunter Oakland hoped the series days' rest against a fully rested Bobby Cox said of Hernandez. homer in the ninth. "We're the said. "Everybody else in the would turn on its outstanding Russ Ortiz. "The first inning we had three Twins. That's the way we like world? They're surprised as starting pitching. Instead, Handed a 7-0 lead. strikes (hard-hit balls) at him, to live, and we're not done yet." hell." Mulder and Barry Zito were Hernandez -the 1997 NLCS but we didn't do much after 
But it didn't happen without Matthew LeCroy drove home good but not great, while and World Series MVP -that. Livan's hard to hit. He drama. After A's closer Billy one run and scored another as Hudson was terrible in two improved to 6-0 in the postsea­comes with so many angles at Koch gave up three runs in the the Twins got two early runs to starts. son. Even after a disappointing you. He's sneaky quick." ninth, Mark Ellis hit a three-run support Radke, who got two of Radke, on the other hand, record of 12-16 in the regular Aurilia hit a three-run homer homer against Minnesota closer Minnesota's three wins in the was phenomenal in his first season, he was confident before in the third -his third hit of Eddie Guardado to pull Oakland series. The Twins simply out­postseason starts after eight his first outing of this series. the game -as the Giants found back within a run. pitched the A's, who won 103 seasons with Minnesota. He "I never lose in October," he the offense that eluded them in 
Randy Velarde singled with games and the AL West with struck out four and didn't walk said. the two previous games of the two outs, but Ray Durham -their peerless starting rotation. a batter Sunday. At least one team in the series, both losses. 

I
(1 
( 
/.
,, 
i 



Speaker: Rabbi David G. Dalin October 7th 7 -8:00 pm (with a period of time for questions after the talk) 
120 Debartolo 
Rabbi David G. Dalin, PhD,A widely-published scholar of American Judaism and the history of Christian-Jewish Relations, is the author or co-author of five books, including Religion and State in the Ameri.can Jewish Experience, published by the University of Notre Dame Press in 1997 and, most recently, The President ofThe United States and the Jews. His article, "Pius XII and the Jews," was published in the February 26, 2001 issue of the Weekly Standard, and was reprinted in the August-September issue of Inside the Vatican, 
published in Rome. Rabbi Dalin is a member of the Editorial Advisory Board of the 
iournal First Thinas. and a member of the Board of Governors of Sacred Heart 
Monday> October 7, 2002 
The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Rams continue slide, lose to San Francisco 

At a team meeting Saturday 
night, coach Steve Mariucci 
asked how many of his players 
J.ad beaten the Rams. 
"There weren't a lot of guys 
standing up," he said. "We have 
a really young team and it's a 
big win for all of us." 
Not only were the Rams miss­
ing Warner, out for up to two 
months with a broken pinkie on 
his throwing hand, but corner­
back Aeneas Williams sat out 
with a turf-toe injury, ending his 
streak of 177 consecutive starts. 
"It's a step backward," coach 
Mike Martz said. "This is a game 
of emotion, intensity and atti­
tude and we've got to restore 
that. We've got to put this thing 
together. This is a real challenge 
for this group." 
Before the Rams started their 
three-year run as one of the 
NFL's most powerful teams, 
including two trips to the Super 
Bowl and one championship, 
they lost 17 straight to the 49ers 
from 1990-98. 
The Rams are off to the worst 
start in franchise history since 
the 1963 Los Angeles Rams 
opened 0-5 en route to a 5-9 fin­
ish. 

Martin threw two intercep­
tions, and the Rams didn't score 
a touchdown until he hit running 
back Lamar Gordon with a pass 
with 29 seconds left in the game. 
Saints 32, Steelers 29 
The Pittsburgh Steelers haven't stopped anybody all sea­son, and Deuce McAllister was no different. 
The second-year running back rushed for 123 yards and two touchdowns on 23 carries as the New Orleans Saints held off Pittsburgh 32-29 Sunday. 
"It was a very poor defensive effort," Steelers coach Bill Cowher said. "There were too many big plays. I don't even think they punted until the fourth quarter. I'm very disap­pointed in how we performed defensively." 
The Steelers came in ranked 24th in the NFL in total defense, and McAllister took advantage. New Orleans (4-1) has won all three games this season when McAllister runs for 100 yards. 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

The St. Louis Rams were win­less and hurting. and the San Francisco 49ers were only too happy to shove their biggest rivals deeper into despair. 
Jeff Garcia threw for a touch­down and ran for another. and Garrison Hearst rushed for 116 yards and a score in a 37 -13 rout that ended the 49ers' six­game losing streak to the defending NFC champions. 
Jason Webster staggered the already roughed-up Rams when he intercepted career backup Jamie Martin -starting for the injured Kurt Warner -and returned it 37 yards for a touch­down and a 27-3 lead just before halftime. 
The 49ers (3-1) looked for­ward to this game for months. Not only did they reclaim superi­ority in the NFC West, they all but ended St. Louis' playoff 
The Keough Institute far Irish Studies warmly congratulates Irish Studies concentrator 
Anne Ellis 

on her acceptance into Riverdance! 
hopes -no team has come back from an 0-5 start to reach the postseason. 
"They're down right now, and we took the attitude that we wanted to take it to them and not allow them to get back into a playoff hunt or get back into a position where then can get rolling," Garcia said. 
"They're in a real difficult position right now and we didn't want them to have any breath­ing room." 

"When you can run your offense and don't have to throw it every time, they can't tee off on you," McAllister said. 
Steelers quarterback Tommy Maddox, the MVP of the XFL in its only season, made his first NFL start since 1992. 
A first-round flop in Denver, Maddox played well in place of the benched Kordell Stewart, but the Pittsburgh defense was riddled again. 
The Steelers (1-3) were shred­ded for big passing days by Tom Brady and Rich Gannon earlier this season. 
Saints safety Sammy Knight thwarted a late fourth-quarter drive when he intercepted Maddox. 
The Steelers then drove 4 7 yards, and Maddox hit Terance Mathis with a 14-yard touch­down pass. Maddox found Hines Ward for the 2-point conversion to bring Pittsburgh to 32-29 with 
1:26 remaining. 
The onside kick was recovered by the Saints, however, and New Orleans ran out the clock. 
Maddox completed 22 of 38 passes for a career-high 268 yards and three touchdowns. He was intercepted once and sacked four times. 
New Orleans quarterback Aaron Brooks was 14-of-24 passing for 207 yards and a touchdown. He was sacked twice. 
Dolphins 26, Patriots 13 
Zach Thomas busted his chin strap tackling Kevin Faulk, one in a series of jarring hits that helped the Miami Dolphins knock the New England Patriots out of first place. 
The Dolphins sacked Tom Brady three times, pressured him into mistakes, pounded the middle with Ricky Williams and handed the Patriots their second loss in a row Sunday, 26-13. 
The victory left Miami (4-1) alone atop the AFC East, while the defending Super Bowl cham­pion Patriots (3-2) fell a game back. 
"They have something we want," Dolphins cornerback Patrick Surtain said. "We want to get where they were last year." 
Surtain led a resurgent defense that rebounded from a 48-30 loss at Kansas City a week ago. Miami took a 16-0 lead in the first half, when New England totaled just 26 yards and com­mitted two turnovers, and the Dolphins finished with a 20­minute advantage in time of pos­session. 
ti

Williams lost a fumble for the second week in a row but topped 100 yards rushing for the fourth time in five games. He gained 105 tough yards on 36 carries, a team regular-season record. 
Jay Fiedler threw for two touchdowns and ran for anoth­er. all on third down. 
"We were embarrassed last week with what happened," Miami coach Dave Wannstedt said. "To see our team bounce back in every phase was rewarding." 
The Patriots fell to 0-13 in Miami in September and October. They can take some consolation that Sunday's loss was similar to a 30-10 drubbing in Miami a year ago, when Brady threw for just 86 yards. The Patriots recovered from that defeat. their worst of the season. and went on to win the Super Bowl. 

THE WASHINGTON PROGRAM APPLICATION MEETING For Fall 2003 and Spring 2004 Thursday, October 10 7:00 P.M. 208 DeBartolo FRESHMEN, SOPHOMORES, & JUNIORS ARE WELCOME  


page 18 

Tne O!Ase7Vts" . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 7, 2002 


I. 
t .. 
,; 
~ 
~· 

1 ( .. 
! 


( 
(
1, I(
ii 
t 
\' 
i 
(: 
l' , 

\ 
REFLECTIONS ON THE CURRENT CRISIS IN THE CHURCH 
4:30 p.m. Welcome and Introduction: 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Dallas and Beyond: The Experience and the Future 
Margaret O'Brien Steinfels 
Editor, Commonweal 
Prof. Scott Appleby, History 
Rev. Richard P. McBrien, Theology 
PERSPECTIVES AFTER DALLAS 
4:30 P.M. • MONDAY, OCTOBER 14 McKENNA HALL AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY THE CHURCH STUDY COMMITTEE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
I !  7:30 p.m. Panel Discussion: Emerging Issues for the Church Prof. Gerard V. Bradley, Law Prof. Mary Rose D' Angelo, Theology Rev. Brian Daley, S.J., Theology  
9:00 pm. Prayer Service Followed by Reception  
Draw/Ilg by 5,.,,.,. Et'!M""'' Lt111{J/Y Trnmitll/ Publ1ra1iu11>  


Monday, October 7, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 19 

I 

I £"'''"''' , "' ~ 
J



q 


t 

around the dial 
NFL 
Packers at Bears 8 p.m., ABC 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Rolen injured his left sion with Diamondbacks 
Associated Press 

shoulder in Thursday pinch runner Alex ST. LOUIS night's playoff game Cintron, underwent an Cardinals third base­against the Arizona MRI that lasted more than 
man Scott Rolen could not Diamond-raise his arm at the backs. shoulder and had limited including movement of his forearm a severe after sustaining multiple hyperex­sprains that could keep tension of him out of the National the three League championship ligaments series, the St. Louis Post­support­Dis patch reported ing his Sunday. clavicle. "It still hurts pretty the news­bad," Rolen said. p a p e r ESPN's Karl Ravech reported, 

t W 0 hours. "Right now. I'm just The exam 
waiting for it to stop revealed 
sprains in

hurting. I'm looking to 
f o u r make progress regions of 
day-by-day. ,. his shoul­
der and collar­

Scott Rolen bone. 
Cardinals third baseman Rolen s a i d surgery is 
reported Friday that citing unidentified not being considered. Rolen wouldn't return sources familiar with "To put it at seven days, unless the Cards advance tests performed Friday. 10 days or 14 days is a bit to the World Series. Rolen, injured in a colli-premature," Rolen said before Saturday night's Game 3 of the Division Series. "Right now, I'm just waiting for it stop hurting. I'm looking to make progress day by day. It's kind of hard to think about playing when it feels like this." 
Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said Saturday that the MRI agreed with the original diagnosis "that there wasn't a serious injury there . . . that would require surgery. It's a sprained shoulder and there isn't any perma­nent-type damage that we found or anything like that." 
IN BRIEF 
Nfl. may meet with lawyers over lack of black coaches 
The NFL is considering meeting with two lawyers threatening to sue the league over the lack of black head coaches. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello con­firmed Sunday that the league received a request from Johnnie Cochran Jr. and Cyrus Mehri, the two lawyers who released a report on the issue last week. 
"We've had many meetings over the years on this subject," Aiello said. "We're considering the request and will respond next week." 
The letter, first reported in the New York Times, was addressed to com­missioner Paul Tagliabue, who was out of town. Aiello said that while Tagliabue might not meet with Cochran and Mehri. they could meet with some other top league official. 
Tagliabue long has advocated hiring more black coaches. There are cur­rently two in the NFL -Tony Dungy of the Indianapolis Colts and Herman Edwards of the New York Jets. 

Using statistics from the past 15 years, the lawyers' report said black coaches had been more successful than their white counterparts, but that they weren't being hired in num­bers commensurate with that success on the field. 
Public course to hold U.S, Open in 2008 
The 2008 U.S. Open was awarded to the South Course at Torrey Pines in La Jolla, Calif., by the U.S. Golf Association on Saturday, pending approval of the San Diego City Council. 
It would be the second public course to host the tournament. 
The Black Course at the Bethpage State Park in New York, where this year's U.S. Open was played, is the only public layout to have been the site of the championship. 
Torrey Pines, site of a PGA Tour event each year, was designed by William Bell Sr. 
U.S. Open champions Tiger Woods, Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer and Tom Watson have won tournaments at Torrey Pines. 
The Open has been played in California nine times. most recently at Pebble Beach Golf Links in 2000. The Open was last played in southern California in 1948 at Riviera Country Club. 
Pippen to mi~ 10 days 
Portland Trail Blazers captain Scottie Pippen will miss at least 10 days of practice at the teams camp in Tualatin, Ore.. with swelling in his right knee. 
He had surgery on the knee in June to have bone chips removed and needed another operation because of an infection. 
The 37-year-old Pippen, ordered to skip practice by team orthopedist Don Roberts, might miss all of training camp. He also could be sidelined for the Oct. 30 season opener against the Los Angeles Lakers. 

Monday, October 7, 2002
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 
ROWING 

Irish win two races, finish in top five in several more 
By CHRISTINE ARMSTRONG Sports Writer 
The Irish triumphed Saturday at the Head of the Ohio Invitational. The team won two races, including the open four, and the open eight placed fourth. The club four and varsity four crews were successful. In the pairs races, the team finished in third through sixth places. 
The Irish A crew of coxswain Cassie Markstahler, Natalie La.dine, Ashlee Warren, Elizabeth Specht, Alice Bartek, Rachel Polinski, Erica Drennen, Kerri Murphy, and Kathleen Welsh fin. ished fourth in the open eight with a time of 15:25. Ohio State took first in 14:31, followed by Michigan State in 15:05, Boston University in 15:11. Kathryn Long, Kati Sedun, Ann Marie Dillhoff, Casey Buckstaff, Meghan Boyle, Diane Price, Meredith Thornburgh, Katie Chenoweth and Sarah Keefer led the Irish B crew to a sixth place finish. 

"Our performance this week tells us once again that we have great depth of talent, but that we need to improve as a group to have great depth at a higher level," said Drennen. "We all raced well and showed toughness in enduring some harsher water conditions than we ordinarily face here at home." 
The team of coxswain Caitlin Rackish, Shannon Mohan, Melissa Felker, Christine Donnally and Sarah Palandech won its var• sity four race. 
Notre Dame also secured third through sixth place in the pairs race. Bartek and Dillhoff led in third, followed by the twosome of Murphy and Price. Natalie Ladine and Ashlee Warren were fifth and Drennen and Keefer were sixth. 
"This was the most competition we have faced so far this fall, and our team handled it fairly well," said Drennen. "This weekend we saw Ohio State, Michigan, and Michigan St. and next weekend we'll face Iowa and Wisconsin ­rounding out the teams we con­sider to be our major competition for a team NCAA bid at the Central Regions this spring." 
The club four team of coxswain Kathryn Long (coxswain), Buckstaff, Boyle, Chenoweth and Thornburgh finished in first and the second club four Rebecca Campbell (coxswain). Katie O'Hara, Kristen Henkel, Antoinette Duck and Megan Sanders took fourth. 
The team has consistently per­formed well in races this fall and will travel to Rockford, Ill.• for the Head of the Rock On Oct. 13th. 
"With the Head of the Rock being our last fall race, it's our final chance to see how we stack up against some tough competi• tion before we head into winter training. Hopefully we will be able to end the fall season on a positive note so we can build off that energy as we shift the focus to spring racing," said Warren. "Each year we have been able to improve our speed as a team in relation to how some of the other schools are rowing. Two years ago we were third. Last year we were second. Hopefully we can continue this pattern." 
Contact Christine Armstrong at carmstro@nd.edu 
ND, SMC SWIMMING 

Irish men and women, Belles finish in top 5 at ND Relays 
. Belles' 5th placefinish marked byimprovement 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Belles took huge strides between last year's appearance at the Notre Dame Relays and this year's performance. For example, they qualified for all of their events. 
Last season, Saint Mary's was disqualified in three relays because of false starts. This sea• son, they only had one false start. 
"There was definitely [improve­ment]." said junior Megan Ramsey. "We only had one false start instead of three, so that's a good improvement." 
The Belles finished fifth or higher in nine of the 12 relays among a field of tough Division I competition. Last year's Big East 



. Irish squads each finish first, win all but two events overall 
By JOE HETTLER 
Associate Sports Editor 
In their first meet of the season, 
the Notre Dame mens and wom­
ens swimming and diving teams 
dominated the competition en 
route to winning the 2002 Notre 
Dame Relays Saturday. 
The teams combined to win all 
but two events during the meet. 
The mens team took first place by 
earning 220 points, which was 62 
points better than second-place 
Milwaukee•Wisconsin and over 
100 points ahead of third•place 
Valparaiso. The womens team 
outdistanced lllnois State 220­
166 for first-place, while 
Milwaukee Wisconsin came in , third. 
The Irish men won 12 events 
on the day. losing only the 800 
freestyle because of a disqualifi­
cation. The women also won 12 
events, but lost the 500 crescendo 
relay after being disqualified. 
"All the freshman really swam 
well, especially Doug Bauman. He 
probably had one of the best 
swims of the night," sophomore 
Frank Krakowski said. "He had a 
really excellent swim in the first 
event so he really got everyone 
started off." 
Bauman. along with relay part­
ners Tyler Grenda, Patrick 
Hefferman and David Moisan, 
won the 400 medley relay with a 
time of 3:33.46. Krakowski, Jason 
Fitzpatrick, Tim Randolph and 
Drew Pittman added a 200 free Champion, Notre Dame, won the meet, but Saint Mary's took home its small victories. 

"We never have any thoughts that we're going to catch the Notre Dames and Illinois States but we're trying to catch some of the programs," said Belles coach Greg Petcoff. "It's a matter of winning the small little battles but knowing we may not ever win the war." 
The first race of the night showed a lot of promise. When freshman Kelly Nelis left the blocks in the 200-yard freestyle relay, the Belles knew they were a stronger team. The Belles relay team finished in third place, behind Notre Dame and Illinois State. 
Not bad for a Division III team. 
"In the first college meet they definitely did [meet expecta­tions]," Petcoff said. "Last year some of our false starts were freshman aggressiveness. This 
relay win by posting a time of 1:27.39. 
The womens 200 free relay team of Heidi Hendrick, Courtney Campbell, Kalei \,Valker and Laurie Musgrave finished with a time of 1:39.39 to grab first-place in that event. 
Krakowski said he knows there are a lot of difficult events in the future. 
"This is probably the toughest schedule, from what I know, that we've had to date," Krakowski said. "We have to go to Texas to swim at Texas Christian University and Air Force to swim Air Force, plus we have another couple top 25 ranked teams. So ... everyone's goal is to win the Big East this year. We should hope• fully be in contention to win." 
Krakowski believes the Irish were confident they could win both mens and womens fields during the weekend meet because of their depth. 
"\,Ve kind of thought [we would do well] just because of the teams that came in we didn't think they had the depth that we had," Krakowski. "They had a couple fast people but they weren't as deep as we were. In events where you don't have depth you may win the event but the other team may come in second, third and fourth and then they end up hav­ing more points in the event than you." 
The mens team next faces Kalamzoo on Oct. 11 at home, while the womens team travels to the Colorado to take on the Air Force Academy on Oct. 18. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhcttler@nd.edu 
time around you can see the they're a little more than two sec­freshmen held their own. They onds off the team record in the answered the call." first meet of the season. They 
That was the highest finish of swam a very good race." the night for the Belles. Saint Mary's showed once Sophomore Molly Maloy, senior again that its strength is freestyle, 
L a n e Herrington and junior ''Last year some ofour 
Maureen 

false starts were
Palchak 

joined Nelis freshman aggressiveness. on the relay This time around you can 
team, coming 

see the freshmen held
home with a team time of their own.,. 1:45.66 sec.:. onds, just six 
Greg Petcoff 
seconds· away 

Belles coach
from the first­pl ace finish, and barely with its fourth place finish in the SQQ.yard freestyle relay. Sophomore Ashley Dyer and freshmen Leeann Godfrey and Leah Kimper joined Maloy and Herrington and finished with a time of 5:22.53. 

"We knew that our freshmen 
two seconds a way from a new were talented," Ramsey said. school record. "And it was great to see them in 
"I wasn't expecting that," action for the first time and have Petcoff said. "It's not that I had them live up to expectations." depressed expectations, but Saint Mary's took fifth in the 400•yard medley relay. the400­yard butterfly relay,.the 800•yard freestyle relay, the 400-yard backstroke, 400-yard breast­stroke, 1,000•yard freestyle and 200-yard medley, and sixth in the 400-yard freestyle. 
The only race in which the Belles were disqualified was the 400-yard medley. A false start took them and Illinois State out of competition. 
The Belles will have nearly a full month off before heading into their regular season. But, accord• ing to the team, prospects are looking good. 
"The team has already meshed well, there's a lot of good team spirit, we have a lot of people who had good races especially for early in the season," Ramsey said. 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo596;@saintmarys.edu 


Monday, October 7, 2002 page 21
The Observer . SPORTS 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
The Irish had plenty of opportunities to score Friday, as evidenced by their-20 shots on goal compared to the Panthers' 10. 
The weather played a factor in the game as well as strong winds wreaked havoc on Notre Dame's distance game, altering any ball kicked high in the air. 
The most significant threat for the Irish came in the first half, as a crossing pass from Kevin Richards to Kevin Goldthwaite was deflected by a Pitt defender. The ball bounced just in front of an unguarded goal line before it spun out of bounds just wide of the net. 
Another major opportunity for the Irish came late in the second half, when a shot from Luke Boughen was deflected towards the net by a Pitt defender. The ball seemed destined for the net but smacked the crossbar and went out of bounds. 
The goal for Pittsburgh came with 1:57 remaining in the first sudden-death over­time, as a high pass from for­ward Jeff Krause found a wide-open Keeyan Young. Young's shot sailed past Tait to give the Panthers a sudden 1-0 victory. On the scoring 
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
"We wanted to start off real­
ly strong and get the respect 
back from the coaches and 
players in the Big East," 
Coughlin said. 
Loomis led the Irish again, 
this time with 14 kills. She 
tied setter Kristen Kinder for 
the team-high in digs with 
seven. · Jessica Kinder played at the 
libero position against the 
Pirates instead of her usual 
position at outside hitter. 
Kelbley continued her 
recent strong play with eight 
kills and a .571 hitting per­
centage. 
-Notre Dame's defense 
played well for the second 
consecutive day holding Seton 
Hall's hitters to a .113 per­
centage. 
Neff had five-kills and six 
blocks -including three solo. 
-Leading Seton Hall (8~12, 0­
2) was outside hitter Jenna Myers with 10 kills. Middle blocker Alyson Furch had three blocks for the Pirates. 
Notre Dame's two wins this weekend extended the team's Big East regular winning streak to 37 games and over• all Big East winning streak to 30. 
Contact Matt Lozar at rnlozar@nd.edu 


play, several Irish players protested, claiming Young was offsides. However, Clark pulled his players aside and acknowledged the loss. 
The Irish rebounded Sunday against Akron, as the lone goal of the game was scored with 18:35 left in the second half. Chad Riley kicked a lead pass to Stewart, who booted the ball past Zips goalie Justin Christafaris for the lone goal of a very evenly-matched game. 
The goal for Stewart was the first of his career at Notre Dame, and the assist for Riley was his eighth of the season, marking the first time since 1998 that an Irish player has notched eight assists in a sea­son. 
The win Sunday for the Irish was their first victory in the nine-game series between Notre Dame and Akron. It was also the first win for the Irish since a 5-1 drubbing of Providence at Alumni Field on Sept. 22. 
After scoring 18 goals in their first seven games, the Irish have scored only twice in their last four games. 
The Irish have a six-day break between matches, before the Irish take on Big Easi rival Boston College in Chestnut Hill on Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Bryan Kronk at hkronk@nd.edu 

The number one free web site for Notre Dame athletics 
is looking for students to help with on-campus stories and site maintenance. No pay. All the glory. Email: boardops@ndnation.com if interested. 

......,Administrative Services cordially invites You-­
_Individuals, and small groups of' 10 or less, to utilize classrooms :Cor quiet study a:Cter class bookings 
DeBartolo Hall: Sunday 12:00noon t:ill 12:00am. M"onday through Thursday S:30pm-12:00midnight. Non-technology rooms, first come Cirst serve basis. 1£ you have specific needs please see the Building Support Person Cor assistance. Room 104, 105. 
1.Vlendoza: Sunday 12:00noon till I :OOam. Saturday 12:00 noon until 8:00pm.* non-f"ootball weekends only. Monday through Thursday S:30pm-1 :OOam Rooms: 121, 122, 266, 366. 
O'Shaughnessey: Sunday 1:00pm to 1:00am. Monday-Thursday 5:30p-l :OOam. Rooms: 108, 109, 203, 203A, 204, 206, 207, 208, 209. 
LIZ GAYDOS/The Observer Notre Dame setter Kristen Kinder passes to teammate Lauren Kelbley. The Irish swept Rutgers and Seton Hall last weekend. 

We know you are a youngin' Jamien, but Elmo? 
Happy 20th Birthday, Jason! 
Love, Meg, Stella. Renee, MC, Kim, Kelly, Steph. & Laurel 


rrnFoRMINGARTScENTER •sOU111 BENo. 1N 
Box Office, or charge by phone 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11 TH 
8:00 PM online@www.MorrisCenter.org 

A NiteLite Promotions Presentation 
1, ,• 1 I '1 1: . f J t J ) • 1 J J 1 J .' . ~ : • l 

page 22 The 0~7Vt!T' . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 7, 2002 
=======================================================================================================================================================~=-=-:::-:::-:::-:::-:::-:::--::::-========= 
:(.' ::!002 ?nci'Wat.-rt,ouso!('.,c,ope,-s LLP. Pncewa!errtc-u5"Coop!'rS ref.-rs to ihe US. f.-m of PricewaterhOtJSeC.:opers LLP and other members of the woridwio:-PricewaterhouseCoopers organt:atiOII. We are i:,.'<oud to be-an Affirmat,ve Action an<! Equal Opoortunrt;-· EnltJk,y&. 
PRI ~ousf(roPERS I 
VOTED •1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 
( 
-, ~.,r 
~t!'!i1,-:_,•\C--'' . 
.......~.' 
t-•. 


I' 
l 
I) 
'I 

Investors need assurance to make decisions. Help us help them and the companies whose stock they buy, and we'll help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 


.... 

Monday, October 7, 2002 page 23
The Observer . TODAY 

SCHOOL DAZE CLARE O'BRIEN 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE· 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
NIGLY 
±
() ( J 
C2002 Tribune Madia Services, Inc. AH Aighta Aeaervad. 
DADIE 
j
I rr IGLEANSI j 

TI>~
~ THi' 
www.j\Jlri)le.com 
1145. . 
SMAJET j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ r tJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:( I I I I I J·[ I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: HOIST BALMY GASKET LATEST Answer: The treadmill broke down because it was ­ON ITS LAST LEGS 
JUMBLE CLASSIC SERIES NO. 29 • To order, Hnd your name, address 1nd $5.95 and rnau ct.ck payabl9 lo TrlbuM Media s.mc.., P.O. Box 4330, Chicago, IL 60680-4330. 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 31 Demanding 58 Life of 1 Instruments at 34 Knee/ankle 59 Fix, as copy luaus connector 
60 Tricks 5 Island of 35 Trojan War hero 
61 Follows theNapoleon's exile 
36 Vehicle that's leader 9 Was in the hailed 
62 One giving
movies 
37 Astound orders 14 Man with an ark 
38 Capture 63 Voice above 15 Harvest bass
39 Song for a diva 16 Stage between 
40 Capitol feature egg and pupa 

DOWN
41 Ready to hit the 17 "Arsenic and sack 1 Open, as aOld Lace" star, bottle

1944 42 Shower accessories 2 Eucalyptus
19 Airedale, e.g., 
eater

for dogs 44 Copacabana city 3 Like the bird
20 Totally that catches the45 Manage
21 Scottish miss worm 46 Gatherings
22 Electricians, at 4 Timidwhere peopletimes hold hands 5 Straying23 Creditor's 50 Horrified 6 Minimum
demand 53 Foreboding 7 Outlaws
25 Numerous 54 Actress Gardner aFitting
26 Colony member Puale by Lynn Lempe! 55 Emergency light 9 Lacking pigment
27 Japanese 30 Fired 41 Crownlike 48 Episode farewell 56 "Liar Liar" star 1 O Noted anti­headgear 
49 Authority

alcohol crusader 31 Attempt 43 Ambles 50 Bushy doANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Elder or alder 32 Skater Lipinski 51 Smooth-talking44 Does a double12 "As_" (letter 33 Departure take, e.g.
..,,.....,.....,,... closing) 52 Robust 
13 June honorees 34 Struck hard 46 Round after the 53 Pal of Spot 
.,,,....,,,,+~~~:-1 
quarters

18 Shuttle-riding 56 One of the
37 Change

senator Bushes
according to 47 "Deck the ~~e-t 22 Oscar winner circumstances Halls," e.g. 57 Big TV maker for "True Grit" 
24 Top-selling Answers to clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone vocalist of the phone: 1-900-285-5656. $1.20 per minute. 1990's 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday "'!l!'+~~ 25 Com crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
----i 
27 Phonies past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).

28 A bit cracked? 
...,.+-,,,+.,,,.....,.+,~:-1 Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, 
______ 29 Tool with teeth 
nytimes.com/leamin~xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State ____ Zip_____ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

,.::, 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: John Mellencamp, Yo-Yo Ma Toni Braxton, Christopher Nonis 
Happy Birthday: You'll be a pillar of strength this year. You will welcome an) challenge that comes your way and you will consider the fact that people wan to compete with you a compliment. Winning will be second nature bringini you success in all that you do. Your numbers are 8, I 2, 14, 20, 35, 3~ ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can anticipate the reappearance of olc flames from your past. Don't be too eager to include them in your presen circumstances. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will meet a love interest through youi 
-
associations at work. Get out there and interact with fellow employees. Yom steadfastness and generosity will be admired. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Any individual alterations you make at this timt will cost you big bucks. Amorous relationships can be forged at this time, bu don't ITUst all that is said to you. 5 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your moodiness will cause your mate confusion While you are so indecisive, you should be less vocal. Someone close to ym may be able to shed some light on what is happening to you. 2 stari LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Broaden your circle of friends. Play the host anc have others come into your home. People will appreciate not only tht invitation, but also your generosity. 4 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Steer clear of collective money ventures. Wher going out, leave your wallet and credit cards at home. If you gamble, you'l lose that hard-earned cash. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your feelings will get the better of you. Don' let members of your household mentally abuse you. Instead, consider a nigh on the town with those you trust. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Change is essential. Explore methods to sprue< up your house and to improve its appearance. Restoration and beautificatior will elevate the spirits of the entire family. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Although the people you will meet will tx fascinating, don't believe all they tell you. They could be stringing you a line Keep your money close to your chest. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you follow acquaintances that go tc extremes, you will find yourself in some compromising situations. Your chaotic feelings are creating obvious distress at an emotional level. Engage ir competitive games for release. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Silent but wrathful anger will slowly consumt you. Steer clear of anyone who wants to engage you in an altercation. Allo\\ yourself to settle down before you address the situation. 5 stan PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Handling the difficult situations of othe1 individuals will be exacting. Your impulsiveness will get the better of you. Ym won't be able to hold your tongue and will probably make remarks you wil later regret. 2 stars 
....,. 

Birthday Baby: You will be a strong contender, never settling for second best You are a doer and will always strive to make those around you proud 
Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com astromate.com. 
COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE 

Monday, October 7, 2002 






SMC GOLF 

Finally champions 
. After many close calls, Belles finally take home MIAA Championship 
By KATIE McVOY Associate Sports Editor 
It was seven years in coming. It was filled with frustrating 
finishes. Ultimately, it was worth it. On Saturday, the Belles finally 
found what they were looking for. It took a second place finish early in the season to give them the motivation they needed, but that motivation catapulted them to their first MIAA Championship. 
"It's been long in waiting and 
we finally got it." Liz Hanlon 
said. "We deserve it." 
Behind the lead of course medalist Julia Adams, Saint Mary's turned in a performance that was good enough to give the team first place at the MIAA Championship meet, more than 10 strokes ahead of second­place finisher Hope. 
The win was what Saint Mary's had been striving for since its disappointing third­

-
place finish last season. But what is even more impor­tant is the short amount of time finished in the top 10 ­it took this team to be success­Simmerman in fourth with 165 ful. strokes and Mattia in fifth with 
Seven years ago, Saint Mary's 171. Hanlon finished off the had no golf program. Now it not weekend with a 182 total. only has a golf program, but it This season started off with a has an MIAA Championship, a bang for the Belles when they course medallist and a chance broke the Saint Mary's team at a bid for the NCAA record in their opening season Tournament. tournament. 
"It feels great to finally win," With that win, the goal of first­said sophomore Stefanie year head coach Mark Hamilton Simmerman. "I don't think we to win the MIM Championship could have asked for a better didn't seem too far out of reach. year to win it. "Our coach We put in a lot has been talk­of hard work "It's been long in waiting ing since the 
the past cou­and we finally got it. We spring when 
ple of years we inter­
deserve it ...

and we've got­viewed him ten a lot com-that his goal ing from hav­would' be to
Liz Hanlon 

ing no pro­win the con­
junior

gram to hav­ference cham­ing a confer-pionship," ence title Simmerman within seven years." said. "We kept our goal the 
Adams led the Belles charge entire season." at Zolner Golf Course in Angola, But when the first MIAA tour­Indiana. The sophomore had a nament came around, things two-day total of 161 strokes, just didn't go quite so well. The one stroke ahead of last year's Belles finished in a tie for second medallist, Alma's Courtney place, not quite where the Rheinhardt. record-breaking team wanted to 
Adding to the Belles team be. score were Simmerman. fresh­But the second place finish man Megan Mattia and Hanlon. gave them the boost they needed Both Simmerman and Mattia to carry on through the season. 
"I think starting out we were tied for second and it kind of gave us more drive," Hanlon said. "We still had the goal to get that first place finish." 
Last season, the Belles took home first place in the first con­ference tournament of the sea­son. After that tournament, they just couldn't get back to first. 
"Not winning our first match this year really gave us the momentum to go forward and work hard for the conference champsionship," Simmernan said. "It gave us something so that we didn't start of with really big heads, showed us that there were going to be challenges along the way." 
With the MIAA championship under their belts, the Belles still have work to do. An NCAA bid isn't guaranteed. 
Saint Mary's will play in one final tournament, again at Zolner Golf Course, on Saturday. DePauw, ranked fourth in the nation in Division III women's golf, will be the toughest compe­tition. 
"Our main goal is to beat DePauw," Simmerman said. "They're ranked fourth in Division III teams. If we beat DePauw the NCAA should look at us and hopefully they'll say 'Let's give them a chance."' 
MENS SOCCER 

Panthers stun Irish in overtime heartbreaker 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish take 
two Big 
East wins 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Spores Writer 

Setting the tone early in a road match can quickly deflate the home team's chances of upsetting the defending league champion. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team did just that this week­end in sweeping two road vic­tories. 
On Saturday, the Irish (13-3, 4-0 in the Big East) beat Rutgers 30-16, 30-24, 30-19 and Sunday defeated Seton Hall 30-14. 30-19, 30-25. 
"We actually had a pretty decent weekend," libero Keara Coughlin said. "Our goal was to play strong and consistent. no matter who showed up on the other side of the court, whether it was Rutgers or Seton Hall." 
Against the Scarlet Knights. the Irish compiled a .571 hit­ting percentage in cruising to a game one victory. 
Over the three games. the Irish hit a season-best .418 and collected 48 kills. 
Outside hitter Emily Loomis led Notre Dame with 13 kills and only committed one hit­ting error. 
Freshman Lauren Kelbley contributed 11 kills and five blocks while not commhting an error. 
Keara Coughlin recorded a match-high 16 digs. As a team, Notre Dame amassed 12 blocks. 
Outside hitter Jessica Kinder had six kills, 11 digs and three blocks-two solo. Middle blocker Lauren Brewster also had six kills while junior Katie Neff had seven kills along with three blocks. 
Rutgers outside hitter Shayla Bush led both teams with 16 kills. In Game 1, the Scarlet Knights (11-5. 0-1) hit only .061 and for the match they hit .128. 
Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown was able to give her regulars some rest against Seton Hall as 14 players saw game action. Freshman Carolyn Cooper had three kills and junior Christa Moen had three digs. 
The Irish hit only .565 in the first game and .362 for the match and had 47 kills. 
The team wanted to reestablish its status as the team to beat in the confer­ence. 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 21 

Notre Dame midfielder Chad Riley battles a Pittsburgh player tor the ball during Friday's 1-0 overtime loss for the Irish. The Irish rebounded from the loss Sunday by beating Akron 1-0. 
. Irish follow up 1-0 OT loss Friday with 1-0 victory at Akron Sunday 
By BRYAN KRONK Sports Writer 

One goal made a difference twice for the Notre Dame mens soccer team this weekend. 
After the Irish gave up the only goal of Friday's game in the first sudden-death over­time against Pittsburgh, Notre Dame defender Jack Stewart scored the only goal of the game in Sunday's match at Akron. 
The loss to Pittsburgh was 
-particularly costly. Not only did it hurt Notre Dame's position in the Big East standings, but starting goalie Chris Sawyer had to leave the game five min­utes into the second half with an injury. Sawyer was replaced by senior Greg Tait. who went on to give up the game-win­ning goal with just under two minutes remaining in overtime. 
see SOCCER/page 21 


FOOTBALL 
· Notre Dame 31 Stanford 7 The Irish returned two interceptions for touch­downs, and two Irish running backs ran for over 100 yards as Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham defeated his former team 
Irish Insider 

ROWING 
The Irish finished strongly at the Head of the Ohio regatta last weekend, winning two events and placing in the top five in several more. 
page 20 
SWIMMING 

Notre Dame Relays 
The Irish men and women won all but two events while the Belles finished fifth at the Notre Dame Relays held last weekend. 
page 20 
,---------------------------------­

O
THE 

Monday, October 7, 2002 BSERVER Notre Dame 31, Stanford 7 
Leaving his past behind 
Facing familiar faces across the field, Willingham led his new team to victory 
ByANDREW SOUKUP 
Sports Writer 

Stanford quarterback Chris Lewis made 
no attempt to be patient. Mumbling, 
"Excuse me, I need to shake a hand," he 
edged his way between reporters sur­
rounding Irish head coach Tyrone 
\,\Fillingham, who was preoccupied with a 
NBC interview. 

Suddenly, Lewis broke through the 
crowd surrounding his former head 
coach. Willingham stopped talking to the 
camera and embraced his former player, 
whispering something in Lewis' ear. Then 
the two symbolically parted, Willingham 
returning to his interview, Lewis return­
ing to his team. 

Lewis wasn't the first, nor was he the 
last, Stanford player to approach his for­
mer coach. As \Villingham jogged toward 
the tunnel under a deafening roar, 
Cardinal after Cardinal lined up to talk to 
their old coach. What Willingham told his 
former proteges, only they will know. 

But Willingham, who joined Jesse Harper, Knute Rockne and Ara Parseghian as the only Irish coaches to start 5-0 in their first season, didn't have to do much talking after Notre Dame's 31-7 win. The No. 8 Irish sent the Cardinal out of Notre Dame Stadium with a message of their own, showing Stanford what a Willingham-led team is capable of. 
"If I were on the other side of the ball and the game's over, whichever way it goes," Darrell Campbell said, "I would definitely start the line and shake coach Willingham's hand because he's such a tremendous person, such a tremendous coach. He's like a father figure to us." 
Carrying a 7-3 lead into the halftime, the Cardinal appeared poised to hand its former coach a shocking upset. But while Stanford celebrated in its locker room, the Irish -including Willingham -flung curse words around to express their dis­early Saturday morning he would start first-half offensive yards. Dillingham sures on you, he did a good job." pleasure with what Willingham called the over the injured Carlyle Holiday, led the looked shaky for most of the first half. For its part, the oft-maligned Irish worst half the team played all year. Irish on a 6-play, 57-yard drive that Notre Dame's offense had trouble moving offensive line had a field day against 
But as it has done all season long, ended in Rashon Powers-Neal's three­the ball and only generated five first Stanford's defensive front. The Irish ran Notre Dame relied on its defense to pro­yard touchdown run. downs. the ball extensively in the second half, vide a quick burst that preserved its Two plays later, Shane Walton picked "On the sidelines we told [our defense], clearing the way for Grant and Powers­undefeated season. Keyed by its third and off Lewis' pass and raced 18-yards for a 'We may have to score a touchdown here Neal to both finish with over 100 yards fourth defensive touchdowns of the sea­touchdown. Five plays after Walton's to win this thing,"' defensive coordinator rushing. son, the Irish rattled off 28 points in a score, Courtney Watson snatched a ball Kent Baer said. Notre Dame nearly had another touch­
6:54 span midway through the second away from tight end Alex Smith and But second half adjustments and a down in the first quarter, but a roughing half, a spurt from which the Cardinal sprinted 34-yards for another Irish touch­dominant running game helped the the center penalty nullified a 92-yard never recovered. down, giving Notre Dame a 24-7 lead Dillingham and the Irish offense inch Vontez Duff punt return for a touchdown. 
Campbell launched the rapid Irish turn­with 1:09 remaining in the third quarter. along. As the offensive line wore down Stanford got the bali back, moved 21­around when he launched himself at "A thing we stress to our football team Stanford's defense, Dillingham looked yards on a "fumble-rooskie" play and Lewis midway through the third quarter, is that we really need to elevate our ener­increasingly comfortable on the field. scored its lone touchdown of the day on a sacking the Stanford quarterback on the gy in all areas," Willingham said. "W~ hit With his father~ who works for t,h~, Teyo Johnson 14-yard r~ption. """' Cardinal 5-yard line. Almost single-hand­a stretch in the third quarter where it all Stanford medical staff, watching from the After the game, after Willingham fin­edly, Campbell had swung the momen­seemed to come together with the energy other sidelines, Dillingham finished 14-ished shaking hands of his former play­tum in favor of the Irish and the flood­of our defense and the energy of our for•27 with 129 passing yards. ers. after the Cardinal disappeared from gates opened. offense. We put together multiple scores "I have to hand it to him, he had confi­the field. Notre Dame's head coach ran 
"I think it inspired a lot of people at pretty quick." dence, he was emotionally stable, he han­out of the field pumping his fist toward that time, especially the fans in the But the Irish weren't finished yet. On dled all the pressures of paying here bet• the student section, leaving no doubt stands," defensive lineman Cedric Hilliard the first play of the fourth quarter, ter than anyone I have ever seen," Irish which team he was in charge of. said. "They really got into the game ... Gerome Sapp picked off another Lewis offensive lineman Jordan Black said. "It's To be 5-0, he said with a grin, "feels and made it hard for the offense to hear. pass, setting up Ryan Grant's 1-yard hard to play here, you've got millions of pretty special." I think it was definitely a turning point." touchdown run. people watching you on TV, 80,000 peo­
On Notre Dame's next possession, quar­Once again. the Irish defense rescued a ple in the stands, people expect you to Contact Andrew Soukup at terback Pat Dillingham, who learned lackluster offense that generated just 119 play a certain way. Having all those pres-asoukup@nd.edu 

player of the game 
stat of the game 

play of the game 
quote of the game 
Courtney Watson 
3 

Shane Walton's 18-yard Interception 
"Coach Willingham -he is the 
number ofIrish interceptions 

return for a touchdown 
man" 
The Irish linebacker had 11 tackles 

Walton ·s interception return 
and an interception return for a 
Two interceptions were returned 

helped turn the tide and give the 
Shane Walton 
touchdown. 

for touchdowns and the third set 
Irish the momentum they needed 
Irish comerback 
up another Irish touchdown. 

to win. 
___,I._ 

The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 7, 2002 
report card 
B A­B A­
B+ 
A­A­
C+ 
B 

quarterbacks: Although Pat Dillingham showed poise in his first start and was 14•for-27, he threw an intercep­tion and had trouble with the long pass. 
running backs: The running backs had their best game of the year, picking up 249 yards, 12 first downs and two touchdowns. 
receivers: Although eight Notre Dame players caught the ball, the Irish had only 129 passing yards. But the unproductive offense in the first half was just too much to overlook. 
offensive line: The offensive line showed major improvement. They opened huge holes for the running backs and allowed only one sack. 
defensive line: Darrell Campbell had the sack that turned the game around. The defensive line put good pressure on Lewis and had three sacks. 
linebackers: Courtney Watson had another phenomenal game -11 tack• les and an interception. Derek Curry added a big sack. 
defensive backs: The defensive backs did a good job containing Teyo Johnson and Shane Walton and Gerome Sapp both had interceptions which helped turn the tide. 
special teams: Nicholas Setta missed 
three field goals and Joey Hildbold 
didn't look very solid punting. 
However, Vontez Duff had serious 
return yardage. 

coaching: The Irish looked awful in the first half. However, the coaching staff managed to get the team back on track in the second half and win the game. 
overall: Despite a bad first 
half of football, the Irish pulled together and came up 
with the win thanks to a good running game and excellent defensive play. 
3.25 

adding up the numbers 
number of Irish players on the field during } 
o 
Vontez Duff's 92-yard punt return that was called back 

4 number of personal fouls called during the football game. Notre Dame had three, the Cardinal had one 
length of time In which Notre Dame 

6 54 
scored 28 points -two touchdowns on • Interceptions and two rushing • 
last time two Irish running backs had more than 1DD yards a piece. Autry
1997 

Denson and Clement Stokes picked up 100 yards each against Pitt 
total number of rushing yards picked up by 249 
the Irish offense -its best performance of the season 

0 
number of Notre Dame punts in the second half. The Irish had two touchdowns, two missed field goals and an interception 
Irish coaches who have begun the season 5-0. 
4 
Leahy, Parseghian, Harper and Willingham. Leahy also defeated Stanford in his fifth game 
5 
number of push-ups Shane Walton and Preston Jackson did after missing picks. They do 1D puh­ups for missing interceptions during practice 
Lightning strikes the Golden Dome 
When Irish head coach Tyrone Willingham walked into Notre Dame Stadium Saturday, he had already made believers out of fans and critics alike. 
People 
believed he could turn a 5­7 team that "didn't have enough talent or speed into a national title contender." 
People 

believed he 
could take a Chris Federico 
program tar­
nished by 
NCAA sanc­Sports 
tions, rape alle­Editor 
gations, expul­
sions and 
transfers and return it to glory. 
People even believed he could turn the fashionably non-homoge­nous Notre Dame Stadium into a sea of green. like he did Saturday. 
But few would believe he could conjure lighting out of a cloud­less, South Bend sky. Enter the electric Notre Dame defense, which forced three third-quarter Chris Lewis interceptions as the Irish scored four touchdowns in just 6:54. and Stanford watched a potential upset of its former coach float away like Lewis pass­es under pressure. 
"We went on the field unspirit­ed, but we knew the game wasn't over." linebacker Courtney Watson said. "It gave us a spark, that spark ... totally changed everything around." 
The Notre Dame offense had been largely ineffective all day against a Cardinal defense that yielded 535 yards to Arizona State a week ago. Notre Dame's first nine drives yielded five punts, two missed field goals, an interception and only three points. . 
When the Irish finally reached the end zone on a three-yard run by Rashon Powers-Neal with 4:22 left in the third quarter, almost nobody in Notre Dame Stadium expected the lightning storm that was about to erupt out Willingham's team. 
On Stanford's ensuing posses• sion, Irish cornerback Shane Walton picked off a Chris Lewis pass and strutted into the end zone. 
Lightning struck once. 
Just six plays later, Notre Dame linebacker Courtney Watson pulled a Lewis pass away from Stanford's Alex Smith and sprint­ed 34 yards for another touch­down. 
Lightning struck twice. 
On Stanford's next possession, 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer Courtney Watson celebrates after a 34-yard Interception return for a touchdown. The Irish defense burned Stanford quarterback Chris Lewis and made the big plays that turned the tide. 
Lewis threw his 

"That,s one ofour goals
third interception 

of the day to Irish -to go out there and 
safety Gerome take the other team ·s Sapp. 
heart from them. Once
Lighting struck 

you do that, they give up 
for the third time and Stanford was -game over." smoked. 
On that Notre 
Cedric Hilliard
Dame drive, Irish running back defensive tackle 
Ryan Grant punched it in for his first touch­down of the day on a 1-yard run, and the rout was on. 
"That's one of our goals -to go out there and take the other team's heart from them," Notre Dame defensive tackle Cedric Hilliard said. "Once you do that. they give up -game over." 
But the story of the Irish defense is nothing new this sea­son. All year it's been making up for a less-than-spectacular offense with big plays at key times. 

"On defense. we really strive on scoring and creating turnovers," 
Irish cornerback Vontez Duff said. "But we don't want to just create turnovers, we want to score on defense. If you score on defense or special teams, it really knocks their game out." 
Duff knows about landing that knockout punch on defense. His 

interception return for touchdown against Purdue turned the lights out on the Boilermakers in Notre Dame's second game. 
Against Michigan, it was Walton's turn with a pass deflec­tion on Michigan's two-point con­version attempt that would have tied the game. On the Wolverines' final drive, the defensive line swarmed quarterback John Navarre, who threw up a floater 
that was snared by Walton to end 
the game. 
The next week, Sapp intercept­ed Spartan quarterback Jeff Smoker's bomb to Charlie Rogers to seal the game after the Irish comeback. 
Willingham has his team -and especially his defense -doing what it hasn't been able to in a long time -make big plays at big times. 
Instead of waiting, hoping or praying for the big plays, they are going out and causing them. 
"I just believe that no matter the situation, in our heads, we know we're going to win," Walton said...That's just the confidence that Coach Willingham has instilled in us." 
So as the Irish pulled it out again, Willingham·s list of believ­ers got longer and longer: play­ers, fans, opponents, critics and even meteorologists. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 


Monday, October 7, 2002 page 3 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 

Irish rushing game returns to glory 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Rashon Powers-Neal and Ryan Grant 

didn't need the words emblazoned on 
their chests to point out what their goal 
was. The green "Return to Glory" shirts 
that the running backs donned Saturday 
evening served only as a gentle reminder 
of the power-packed punch they had 
delivered to Stanford that afternoon. 
"I came here, to this university, wanting to get back to where it used to be," Powers-Neal said. " ... Return to glory is what we thought about all year ... that's what it's all about." 
With the offensive line opening the way, Powers-Neal and Grant both rushed for over 100 yards as the Irish offense tallied 249 running yards, its best numbers of the season. 
A return to glory indeed. 

After a first half that had most fans struggling to keep their eyes open, the Irish run game was looking anything but glorious. Notre Dame had only tallied 59 rushing yards. The Irish were averaging four yards a carry, but no Irish back had found his way into the end zone. 
"Obviously, the first half, we didn't put a lot of runs together," said tackle Jordan Black. "The second half, we knew the run would work, so we just did run after run after run." 
In the final two quarters, Notre Dame recorded 190 rushing yards, eight rushing first downs and two touchdowns. 
"I think Stanford was getting tired and we saw that and started attacking them," Grant said. "Getting bodies on bodies and just driving them into the ground. We were moving chains and moving chains and moving chains." 
The Stanford defense, fabled for stop­ping the run, could not contain Powers­Neal or Grant in the second half of foot­averaged nearly 8.3 yards a carry, while zone. After the game, he said just exactly ball. Both running backs attributed that to Grant picked up nearly six yards a carry. how important the run game was. the offensive line. The running game pushed through. "A quarterback's best friend is the run 
"[The offensive line] "When you're work­game," Dillingham said. did an excellent job," ing with a quarterback Powers-Neal and Grant both found the
"We like to call it road 
Powers-Neal said. "I who is just getting his end zone, giving Notre Dame 14 of its 17 didn't really have to do rage. Just beat on them feet on the ground. it's offensive points. Both touchdowns came in anything, just run hard. important to have the the second half when Stanford's defense
and beat on them until 
The holes were so big rest of your team step was starting to suffer at the hands of the anybody could have run they fold ... up," Irish coach Irish running game. through them. All they Tyrone Willingham "(We] just pounded at them," Grant ask of us is run hard said. "And our running said.
Jordan Black
and all we ask of them game did just that In the end, Stanford just couldn't take it.
offensive tackle
is good blocking." today." "We like to call it road rage," Black said. 
By then end of the With quarterback "Just beat on them and beat on them until game, holes were open-Pat Dillingham starting they fold." ing up all over the place. The Stanford his first game since high school. the rush defense was thin inside and Powers-Neal. game was key for the Irish. Dillingham 
Contact Katie McVoy at 
Grant and sophomore Marcus Wilson only grabbed five first downs passing and 
mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu
made use of those holes. Powers-Neal the Irish receivers failed to find the end 

Penalties continue to plague Irish 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame continued to make critical mistakes Saturday to take themselves out of good position, com­mitting a total of 10 penal­ties for 109 yards. 
The most painful came on a StP..nford punt at the end of the first quarter, when Irish cornerback Vontez Duff broke an apparent 92-yard touchdown return to notch the first points of the game. The long return was called back, however, on a 15-yard personal foul for roughing the center on the punt rush. 
After the game, all Willingham had to say of the questionable call was that it was, "a little unusual." 
Once Stanford got the ball back, it only needed three plays to score on a 14-yard pass to receiver Teyo Johnson for a 14-point swing in the Cardinal's direction. 
"We've had some drives, 
but what we have continued to do all year is kind of shoot ourselves in the foot at certain points," Willingham said. "Occasionally we'll go in there and get a penalty that stops the drive. Right now, we've not been good enough to overcome the mis­takes and situations we've put ourselves in. 
Holiday's status 
Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday never stepped onto the field Saturday for the Irish. The starter injured his shoulder two weeks ago in the third quarter against Michigan State. 
"We just wanted to be cau­tious," Willingham said of his decision to keep Holiday on the sidelines. 
Willingham would not comment further on Holiday's health status after the game, nor would he mention which quarterback would start Saturday against Pittsburgh. 
Push 'em back, push 'em back 
The Irish defensive line con­tinued to get good pressure on the quarterback Saturday. The team combined for four sacks of Stanford quarterback Chris Lewis. The pressure also played a big part in Walton's and Sapp's intercep­tions as Lewis had to hurry and make a hasty pass, each time because of the rush. 
..You always love backpedaling and seeing the quarterback go down," Sapp said. "Coach Willingham always told us the quarter­back can't throw the ball if he's on his butt." 
It's their ball 
Irish cornerback Shane Walton's interception in the third quarter moved him into second place in the nation. Through Notre Dame's first five games, Walton has a team-high five interceptions, returning his most recent one Saturday for a touchdown. 

With Notre Dame's three interceptions as a team Saturday -the other two coming from safety Gerome Sapp and linebacker Courtney Watson -it moved into sev­enth place nationally with 10 interceptions, or two per game. 
But the stats aren't enough for now as Walton believes both he and the team should have even more. 
"I'm kind of disappointed, because we should have had three more [interceptions]. myself included," Walton said. "That's something we have to work out in practice. I should have more than [five). I dropped a couple in the Purdue game and today, so I'm really not very happy with myself right now." 
Gameday captains: 
Captains for the Irish Saturday were Walton, defen• sive end Ryan Roberts, center Jeff Faine and wide receiver Omar Jenkins. 
•

scoring 
summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  0  3  21  7  31  
Stanford  7  O  O  o  7  
,First quarter  

Stanford 7, Notre Dame 0 
Teyo Johnson 14-yd. pass from Chris Lewis with 0:46 remaining (Michael Sgori kick) Drive: 6 plays, 59 yards, 1:31 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 3, Stanford 7 
Nicholas Setta 30-yard FG with 2:03 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 67 yards, 3:54 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 10, Stanford 7 
Rashon Powers-Neal 3-yd. run with 4:22 remaining (Setta kick) Drive: 6 plays, 57 yards, 2:06 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17. Stanford 7 
Shane Walton 18-yd. interception return with 
3:58 remaining (Setta kick) 
Notre Dame 24, Stanford 7 
Courtney Watson 34-yd. Interception return with 1:09 remaining (Setta kick) 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 31, Stanford 7 
Ryan Grant 1-yd. run with 12:28 remaining (Setta kick) Drive: 7plays, 41 yards, 2:26 remaining 
statistics 
total yards 

378 
rushing yards passing yards 

1Jt1~1:W~'lx, ,~~~,1201 
return yards time of possession ­

111•11o¦•mm1 -30,32
isrANroRtl•<••· 29:28
.. ••••t•••••·••••< 


43-249 rushes-yards 30-61
•

14-27-1 comp-att-int 21-43·3 5-177 punts-yards 7-282 0-0 fumbles-lost 0-0 10·109 penalties-yards 9-72 16 17
first downs 
passing 

Dillingham 14-27-1 Lewis 20-42-3 
rushing 

Powers-Neal  13-108  Carter  7-35  
Grant  18-103  Sabes  2-21  
Wilson  7-35  Lemon  4.17  
O'Neill  2-18  Moore  9-16  
Loplenskl  1-5  Tolon  3-10  
DIiiingham  1-(20)  

receiving 

Jenkins  3-64  Mason  5-28  
Battle  3-26  Moore  3·54  
Stovall  2-21  Johnson  3·41  
Godsey  2-9  Camarillo  2-25  
McNalr  1-6  Carter  1-13  
Loplenski WIison  1-6 1-5  Crochet Wells  1-13 1-12  _,.  
Grant  1-(-8)  Powell  1-9  

tackling 

Watson  11  Atogwe  11  
Earl  7  Branch  8  
Sapp  6  Torrence  7  


(E, l\'> 

Notre Dame 31, Stanford 7 
Monday, October 7, 2002 



The Irish cheerleaders look on after the national anthem as fans raise green signs to create the "Sea of Green" that Irish coach Tyrone Willingham had requested earlier in the week. 


USA VEL TE/The Observer Shane Walton and Courtney Watson prepare to hit Grant Mason. Watson and Walton both returned interceptions for touchdowns In the third quarter of Saturday's game. 

LISA VEL TE/The Observer 
Marcus WIison finds a hole and runs through It on Saturday. The sophomore running back added to the Irish offense's 249-yard rushing effort Saturday. 

( 
I 
l , 
I 
!
) 
( 
I I 






