
Tight quarters
PARTLY 
• 
Friday
In the latest issue of limited space on campus, architecture students are the


CLOUDY 

victims. Read how Brownson Hall has become an extension of Bond Hall. 
FEBRUARY 22, 

HIGH 36° 

News . page 3
LOW24° 
2002 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
V L. XXXV NO. 95 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


Life still goes on for former TV star Burke 

By IAUREN BECK News Writer 
Actor Chris Burke never abandoned his dreams. 
Burke, who is best known for his portrayal of Corky on the television series "Life Goes On," overcame the challenges posed by 
See Also 
D o w n Syndrome to "Actor Burke achieve his 
reveals how
dream of suc­ceeding in he overcame 
show busi­

obstacles" 
ness. 

"I've always page 4 been a dreamer ... I never think about the obstacles because I keep my dreams in mind and make them come true," said Burke. 
Burke recognized his sup­portive family members and friends as the keys to his suc­cess. 
"My paren_ts had their dreams, and I saw how they achieved them~ They are my idols," he said. 
Notre Dame football legend Rudy Rudiger also inspired him to pursue his dreams. 
"Rudy's dream was to play football at Notre Dame and I felt the same way about acting -I wanted to do my own TV show. What he did was remark­able. He is my hero. He never gave up, and that's his mes­sage," Bµrke said. 
Burke's acting career began in 1987 when he appeared in the TV movie "Desperate." Network executives were impressed with his perfor­mance and asked the film's producer to write a television show that would feature Burke. The producer created "Life Goes On," which aired from 1989-1993 and earned Burke a Golden Globe nomination. 
"It was very hard for me because I felt left out at times, but I enjoyed those early episodes and never gave up on my goals, dreams, anything," Burke said. 
He said his co-stars on "Ufe Goes On" became a second family, and he still keeps in touch with them today. 
The show not only advanced Burke's career, but also created more acceptance for disabled people in general. 
Burke's father, Frank Burke, said his son's determination 
see BURKE/page 6 
To·p editors pick new dept. heads 
ByJEFF BALTRUZAK London Correspondent 
The Observer has rehired staff members Lauren Beck, C. Spencer Beggs and Katie McKenna to lead the Viewpoint, Scene and Graphic depart­ments, the paper's top editors for 2002-03 announced Thursday. 
Incoming Editor. in Chief Jason McFarley, Managing Editor Kate Nagengast and Assistant Managing Editor Andrew Soukup also announced selections for four other Editorial Board positions: 
. 
Sheila Egts, Saint Mary's Editor 

. 
Chris Federico, Sports Editor 

. 
Helena Payne, News Editor 

. 
Nellie Williams, Photo Editor 


Amanda Greco was named to the newly created position of Development Editor. 
The appointments are effec­tive March 18. 
"Each person we've selected brings so much talent and expe­rience to their respective posi­tions," said Nagengast, who as Managing Editor has immediate supervision over the editorial staff. "The staff we've assem­bled will surely build upon the strong tradition of excellence that the paper has established and find new and creative ways to enhance the product we put out each day." 
Beck, the current Associate Viewpoint Editor, will reclaim the Viewpoint Editor title she held last fall. 
A sophomore government major with a concentration in the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, Beck joined The Observer staff in the fall of 2000. The St. Louis native and Howard Hall resident has been a Viewpoint copy editor and a news writer. 
Fellow sophomore Beggs will retain his position as Scene Editor. 
A Program of Liberal Studies major from Yellow Springs, Ohio, Beggs began work at the paper as a theatre critic when he was a freshman. The Fisher 
see BOARD/page 7 


Old mainframe poses problem 
By GEREMY CARNES 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students should prepare themselves for far­reaching changes in campus computer technology. 
In October, Hewlett-Packard announced that in five years it will discontinue support on the mainframe the University cur­rently uses. As a result, the University must replace its computer hardware and soft­ware by January of 2007. 
"The Hewlett-Packard announcement came as a sur­prise to all of us," chief infor­mation officer Gordon Wishon said. "We're still in the early planning stage." 
Since the software that runs the University's administrative applications is dependent upon the Hewlett-Packard main­frame, both hardware and soft­ware must be replaced. 
The Strategic Systems Replacement Steering Committee (SSRSC) was formed to oversee the transition to new systems. 
"(The SSRSCJ has begun forming multiple subcommit­tees that focus on individual elements of the overall pro­gram," Wishon said. magnitude generally stretch 
These subcommittees will be out very far beyond the five­assigned to various offices on year window." campus, including admission, The changes will affect many financial aid, registration, of the systems students rely human resources, housing, upon regularly, but it is too · security and health services. early to say exactly how those 
The subcommittees must first changes will manifest them­identify the needed application selves. functions of "The dif­campus ferences offices. Then "We're trying to build a won't be 
an applica­Web-based inter/ace known until 
tion can be the vendors
through which [students] 
selected from are select­a vendor and can access most services. ,, ed," Wishon implemented. said. T h e "There are
Gordon Wishon
Department no students
chief infonnation officer
0 f on the 
Development has already begun implemen­tation of a system that will sup­port the University's fundrais­ing activities. Other University offices will follow suit in the next five years. 
In order to minimize the impact on students, replace­ments for student utilities will generally be implemented when students are not on cam­pus. Other offices may be updated on calendar or fiscal­year boundaries. 
"It's a very tight schedule," Wishon said. "Projects of this 
[SSRSCJ, but I expect there to be student representation on multiple application-specific subcom­mittees that are being formed," Wishon continued. "Several of the systems supporting the Student Services area will require student participation in the planning phases. Similarly, the Student/Faculty Information System effort will benefit from student participa­tion." 
The Office of Information 
see COMPUTER/page 9 


INSIDE COLUMN 



Warning: preserve print credits before it's too late 
The day finally happened and I want to send a warning to Notre Dame students that they could soon suffer the same experience. Recently, I went to DeBartolo's computer lab to print a paper 15 min­utes before class. Like many without a printer, I told myself the previous night, "I have plenty of time before class." 
Fact: There is NEVER plen­ty of time before class. "Plenty of time" inevitably turns into 10 minutes of scrambling in desperation to find an open Macintosh only to realize that there are none even ifthe consultants insist that "there should be some Macs open." 
Needless to say, all Macs were occupied and I had to stand in a mob of people to get added to the PC list. My 10 minutes of time soon became seven when I finally was able to sit down at a PC. 
At that point, I had about five minutes, but the computer lab hadn't failed me yet. I opened my doc­ument, and after a quick spell check, I clicked "print" and sprinted to the print station. Although I only had two minutes left in the obstacle course, my glass remained half-full because I was seconds away from holding the finished product of my labor. 
Then the drama unfolded. No matter how many times I logged into the print station, nothing appeared on the screen to show evidence of my doc­ument in the printer's queue. I was perplexed, not only because I had one minute left, but I couldn't figure out the problem. 
It wasn't until I returned to the PC that I read the message on the screen that notified me of my lack of print credits and how I could go to the CCMB to address the issue. CCMB? I know we live in a world of acronyms, but CCMB is not one that I use regu­larly especially since it is on the other side of cam­pus, far from my stomping grounds. 
Fortunately, a nice person I knew with print cred­its to spare helped me, but this is not where the story ends. 
I still have a trip to the CCMB ahead of me. 
At the beginning of the school year. I was told that the University had determined that $100 of print credit was adequate to cover the average student's print costs. This amounts to 1000 sheets at 10 cents per sheet. If that is so, I am concerned that it is February and I have to add credit already. I know that as an Arts and Letters student, I may not design programs or test formulas, but I do write and print electronic reserves and papers -which includes more than a final draft. 
I want to be among the first to encourage stu­dents to begin watching their print credits closely because being stuck during those critical computer lab minutes is less than thrilling. 
So ifyou see a forlorn-looking peer heading toward Juniper Road with an expression of gloom, have sympathy for that person because they might be going to the CCMB -the Computing Center and Mathematics Building, for those who might need to find it on a map. 
Contact Helena Payne at Payne.30@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are, those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
In a headline from the Feb. 21 Observer, the headline should have read "Bear in Mind Jesus' humanity" not "Bare in mind Jesus' humanity." The Observer regrets the error. The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The: Observer is a member of the: Associaced Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, February 22, 2002 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
ND approves master's in education 
Thursday, February 20, 1997 
Notre Dame introduced a new educational Leadership Program as part of the summer session on campus. This program was designed to be a combination of Notre Dame's master of science in administration program and . the Saint Mary's education department. This marked the first time in 20 years that the University had offered a degree in education. 
CLC debates prohibition of kegs on campus 
Thursday, February 16, 1978 
The Campus Life Council debated the alcohol policy regarding the keg directive in du Lac. Student Body President dave Bender, requested that CLC consider making a recommendation that the University policy regarding the prohibition of kegs on campus be rescinded. Rectors would exercise personal discretion as an alternative to the directive, according to Bender's suggestion. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

BEYOND CAMPUS 
University dismisses unsafe chemistry professor 
ARLINGTON, Texas. problems with chemical safety viola~ 
The University of Texas System tions during his 12 years at the Board of Regents fired a tenured UT­school, Powell said. This is mainly San Antonio chemistry professor _because administration and faculty Thursday alleging he had threatened cooperation with the new regula­colleagues' and students' safety by tions. improperly storing corrosive chemi­"Change is a difficult thing for peo­cals and keeping too many books in ple to get thefr hands around," he his office. . said, adding that the university's 
During the board's quarterly exec­environmental policies and regula• utive meeting, members voted eight tions change with federal and state to zero to dismiss Philip Stotter. One laws. member abstained from voting. The university also complies with 
According to the Associated Press regulations set f~rth by the city's and The Chronicle of Higher Water Utilities Department, which Education, UT-San Antonio officials designates what chemicals people repeatedly urged Stotter to clean up Chemical storage is a serious mat­can pour down the drains. UTA has his office and lab during the past two ter, according to Craig Powell, UT­won four environmental excellence years. Officials said his office stored Arlington Environmental Health and awards from the departm~nt for its approximately 100 boxes of books. Safety director. continued compliance. His lab was closed in January 2001 The university has not had any The Shorthorn 

UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA 
Police investigate house fire 
Police remained tight-lipped Wednesday as they con­tinued to search, with a warrant, the burned Missoula, Mont., home of a lesbian couple for evidence to sup­port information they have already gathered. A war­rant was issued Tuesday for a further exploration of the home of University of Montana assistant professor Carla Grayson and Adrianne Neff, the couple whose hoµse was intentionally set on fire early in the morn­ing of Friday, Feb. 8. The couple, along with their 22­month-old son, escaped the fire unharmed. The war­rant allowed for any evidence found in the home to be more easily submitted in court. Evidence found only through consent is difficult to use in court, Missoula Police Lt. Gregg Willoughby said. "We needed some things that may corroborate evidence or statements that we've already taken," said Willoughby. "We felt that the best route would be a warrant rather than putting someone in a position of having to give or deny consent." 
Montana Kaimin 

FARIFIELD UNIVERSITY 
University may restrict smokers 
Just .over a year after pulling tobacco products from the university bookstore, Fairfield University adminis­trators are considering restrictions on cigarette smok­ing within residence halls due to the negative health aspects of second hand smoke. Fairfield has considered regulations to smoking in residence halls before, but had never changed its policy. As more universities go to smoke-free dorms, the university requested that Gary Stephenson, director of h9using operations, gath­er information about the subject. The university will work in conjunction with Inter Residenc!3 Hall Government (IRHG) and Fairfield University Student Association (FUSA} to determine student opinion on the matter. "This is not a rights issue," Stephenson said. "We are not telling students they can't smoke, we are just looking to protect those who don't." 
The Mirror 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 



High  Low  Shower•  Rain  r..1onn•  Flurneo  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pl. Ck>uclv'  a...,  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Houston  53 49 49 37 63  32 26 31 27 39  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  71 47 34 48 50  44 28 26 31 31  Portland 54 Sacramento 66 St. Louis 46 Tampa 72 Washington DC 52  33 43 33 52 31  


Friday, February 22, 2002 

The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Cra,nped archies spread to Brownson 
. Architecture students cope with limited space in Bond Hall classrooms 
By MEGHAN MARTIN 
News Writer 
The growing interest in architecture have forced students out of Bond Hall and into Brownson Hall. which is cur­rently being used as an overflow space for classes. · 
Since its dedication •in 1855, Brownson Hall has been home to every­
thin g from a con­"Over the years, Brownson 

ently than their
vent to a printing 

has been a spillover area math-and-science 
company. graduate 

student housing to where people have had counterparts, space 
must be available to
the University ·their temporary offices . ., 

them on a 24-hour
kitchen. As of early 

basis. barring all
this semester. a new 

other departments
Harold Pace 
function has been 

and programs from
added to the distin­University registrar 
guished history of one of the oldest buildings on cam­pus. Due to the mounting issue of classroom avail­ability in Bond Hall, space has been set aside on the first floor of Brownson for a first-year architecture studio. 
"It's our melting pot, so to speak," said Joe Schellinger, director of Academic Space Management, about Brownson's many roles. 
Currently accommodating a number of University offices and two class­rooms, Brownson has served as what Schellinger calls "swing space," a building not earmarked for a specific department, but rather used for those immediate needs of the University as they arise. 
"Over the years. Brownson has been a spillover area where people have. had their temporary offices," regis­trar Harold Pace said. He also cited the necessity of such a facility on a campus because of the lack of acade­mic space becoming a major issue. 

making use of the 
facility. 

In years past, first-
and second-year architecture students typically worked side-by-side in the basement of Bond. Last semester, despite the large numbers of both classes, there was a specific studio designated for students from both. The· problem, however, was the cramped nature of students' surroundings. 
"Nobody worked over there because there was literally nowhere to work," said Sarah Wilson, first-year architec­ture student. 
Due to the cramped spaces, many architecture students simply brought their supplies to the residence halls, spreading their projects out on dorm­room floors and social spaces. Professor William Westfall, chair of the School of Architecture, agreed that workspace has become an issue, mentioning the fact that many stu­dents· were forced "to work on top·of each other, with very little space." 
This semester, however, the school has had the opportunity to collabo-
The instruction-space crunch can undoubtedly be felt most soundly in the corridors of Bond Hall, home to the University's · School of Architecture. Not only are incoming­class sizes increasing rapidly, but it is to the point that there is no place for students to work. However, the school's space-utilization needs are slightly different than those of other colleges within the University. 
It has been said that "the lights never go out in Bond Hall," ·and for architecture students juggling multi­ple projects at once, this myth has become a reality. Because architec­ture students use classrooms differ­
rate with Schellinger's Academic Space Management department to modify space on Brownson's first floor, so as to provide students with 
11.n adequate drafting studio. 

"We were able to undergo some renovations" to that part of the build­ing, Schellinger said, as the second semester of freshman year brings a significantly greater need for work­space, with the commencement of drafting classes for all those studying architecture. W.ith an above-average class size of 68 freshmen coupled with the necessity of both a drafting table and layout table for each, it was clear that for the first time, Bond would prove inadequate for the space required. 
In terms of the type of impact that this overcrowding may have on the School and the University in the future, Westfall could only speculate that '.'it is connected to oth-er topics that we are looking into for the University's long-term planning." 
Freshmen, like Wilson, however, will have to bear the brunt of the issue for the rest of the year. Although the facilities provided for them at Brownson are adequate in terms of space and availability, a number of students have voiced a concern that, of all classes, freshmen should have the opportunity to work in Bond. In order to fully gain expo­sure to interacting with upperclass­men in their fiel'd, and to gain a sense of what their work will be like in the future freshmen need to be working side by side with the upperclassmen. 
"The big disadvantage is that we are not in Bond," Wilson said. "It is nice to get to be near the upperclass­men." 
Either way, according to Schellinger, "Bond has basically run out of space," an issue which should prove to take the University to a new level of academic planning. 
Contact Meghan Martin at mmartin@nd.edu. 

GOP aims to attract Hispanics 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Republicans are stepping up efforts 

to win Hispanic voters this year. 
They're holding a Latino Summit in 

Los Angeles this weekend while advis­
ing party workers how to deal with 
Hispanic media, teaching them 
Spanish and giving potential Hispanic 
candidates lessons on running for 
office. 
The GOP is also continuing efforts to develop more Hispanic contacts in the communities and build grassroots strength. 
"Under the leadership of President Bush, we know we can continue to make important inroads," Republican national Chairman Marc Racicot said Thursday before leaving for California. "During the last election cycle, Bush got 35 percent of the Hispanic vote. They are taking a fresh new look at the Republican Party."Racicot said Republicans need to "seize the moment," starting with the Latino con­ference in California. 
Hispanics in that state have been much more inclined to support Democrats since the mid 1990s when Republican Gov. Pete Wilson pushed a tough stand against illegal immigration and Republicans in Congress followed with cutbacks in the rights and bene­fits of immigrants and refugees. 
Republicans noted Thursday that President Bush has focused on immi­gration issues since taking office and has made strong relations with Mexico a high priorii~3y. 
"His priorities remain the same," said Racicot. "He's working on a way to ensure legal, orderly and safe immi­gration to this country." 

fl,ze )Jou l!,ist 
Activities that speak to the 
FEBRUARY AO: 

/11.ondtUf, 7fe6'lua.rz11 25 7pm So'Zih 'Room, /!a. 
CAREfrontation -How can I help someon an eating aisoraer? 
(l,uesda.lf, 7}e6,zua.'l1( 26 7:30pm 'Reckets, S'l) 
Join Mark Sties for this message of hop as hr shares his story of recovery from anorexia ana obsessive exercise through woras ana music. 
Wednesda.11, 7fe6tua.tz11 27 7-9pm ([,est Kitchen, /\J'l)cfl 
Learn to create Pasta Perfect dishes with Chef Ellis. Register by calling 1-7253 
Wednesda.11, ;fe6tua'llf 27 7:3opm 'l::,eBa.ttolo 102 
I am Beautiful. Join Dana Carpenter ofSole 
Sisters, Inc. ana discover what it means to be beautiful! An engaging seminar to inspire women to celebrate their unique strengths,accomplishments ana worth. 
Sponsou.d 61( the Counseli11~ Ce1tte'l, ;food Se111lc.es, d-lealth Se111ic.es, .!J'R.!JSd-lealth, the °?)hl(sic.al 2.duc.ation 'l:}epa'ltment, 'RecSpo1ts, Student ActitJities and the Womens 'Resou'lce Cente'l. 
rrhis Weekend in the Department of Music 
Sat. Feb. 23: Anney Gillotte, voice recital 
w/ Kui Min, piano 3 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Sat. Feb. 23: Sean Lipscomb, trombone recital 
w/ Katie Badridze, piano 5 pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sun. Feb. 24: Aimee Szewka, voice recital 
w/ Mark Scozzafave, piano 2 pm, Annenberg Auditorium 
Sun. Feb. 24:· ND Concert Bands 
4 pm, Washington Hall 
All concerts are free and open to the public Call 631-6201 for more information 

.' 
Friday, February 22, 2002 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Actor Burke reveals how he overcame obstacles 
true -we all worked togeth­
By lAUREN BECK 
er," he said. 
News Writer 
Next on the agenda for Burke was to help other individuals Actor Chris Burke knows first with disabilities who faced sim­hand the challenges that dis­ilar difficulties. He has become abled individuals face, but he a spokesperson for people with also knows about overcoming the disability through his such obstacles. involvement with the National "I was challenged from the Down Syndrome Society-as edi­
day I was born,  tor-in-chief  
and I learned at  of  the  
an early age to keep trying," Burke said, who played Corky on the television  ..I was challengedfrom the day I was born. and I learned at an early age to keep trying...  group's magazine "News and Views." "It makes  
show "Life Goes On." When Burke was born with  Chris Burke actor  me happy to give people my time and love. I like  

D o w n to give
Syndrome, doc-because I was given so much. tors told his parents the things Everything has worked out so he would never do, he said in a well for me," he said. 
lecture Thursday about his Burke argued for equalityexperience with a disability. and independence for disabled 
But Burke's parents fought for people. He said he believed in a better life for him, and they the value of education, citing passed down their strength to his own middle and high school him. experiences that helped pro­
"If people say I can't do mote his inclusion. something, I try even harder; "When it came to education, that's my focus on life," he my parents made sure I had said. the very best," he said. 
Burke said his parents and Disabled people should also siblings played a significant be given the opportunity to role in his success. succeed in careers, said Burke. "They always did what was "We are entitled to good jobs best for me and gave me their and good pay, so that we can 
undivided attention. They take care of ourselves and be ' encouraged me in all facets of independent," he said. my life," he said. He emphasized the need for 
Burke's parents were more people with disabilities to work hesitant, however; when their in the real world and interact son announced his plan to in the community. become an actor. They tried to Burke recognized the hard­dissuade him from pursuing a ships that accompanied the career in Hollywood. but Burke fight for acceptance. 
said he never gave up on his "I must work hard so that I · dreams. may be ·able to live a perfect 
Eventually his parents life ... We must be persistentrespected his independence and get others to give us a and supported his decision. chance," he said. "That's how my dreams came People do not confront their disabilities alone, however. 

"People must assist us along the way, to guide us and help us see the right way to achieve things," said Burke. 
As an advocate for disability awareness, Burke said he believed college students were sensitive and willing to help disabled people face their chal­lenges. 
Ultimately, Burke urged his audience to remember that people who have disabilities also have abilities. 
"Believe in us as we believe in ourselves," he said. "Help us make our dreams come true." 
Best Buddies and Howard Hall sponsored Burke's speech as a part of Disability Awareness Week. 
Contact Lauren Beck at lbeck@nd.edu. 

KYLIE CARTER/The Observer Chris Burke, known as "Corky" on the series "Life Goes On," walks to the podium in a Thursday lecture in Stepan Center. 
I I 11 . 
PROPERTIES 
Well rnaintained houses near campus 
• 
Washers and dryers provided 

• 
Security systems 

• 
24-hour maintainance staff 

• 
Everybody gets their own bedroom! • 2-, 4-, 5-, & 8-bedroom houses 


Only 4 left for the 2002,2003 school year_ 
Also leasing for the 2003;2004 school year 
Call today, houses are 
going fast! 
Contact Kramer: Office: 234-2436 Cell: 298-9673 • Voicemail: 674-2571 

Gary/Chicago Airport 
1-800-FLY-PANAM 
www.garychicagoairport.com
www.flypanam.com 
or call your local travel agent. 



ATION 
Friday, February 22, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Venezuelan officer discharged: The first of three military officers to publicly demand President Hugo Chavez's resignation was discharged from the armed forces Thursday. A military investigative council ruled that Air Force Col. Pedro Soto should be discharged for publicly delivering an anti-gov­ernment speech that prompted thousands to protest against Chavez, Jose Vicente Rangel told reporters after meeting with Chavez. 
Sri Llnka plans cease-fire: Sri Lanka's government agreed Thursday to a long-term cease-fire plan already approved by the Tamil Tiger rebels and hopes to sign the truce deal within days. Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe's Cabinet gave its consent to a proposal prepared by Norwegian negotia­tors. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Muslim detainees to mark holiday: 
Muslims held in New Jersey jails as part of the terrorism investigation will be allowed to pray together and eat special meals as they celebrate a major religious holiday this week­end, federal officials said. Friday marks the beginning of the four-day Eid al-Adha. or "Feast Of the Sacrifice." During Ramadan, detainees complained they were not allowed to pray adequately and were not given food prepared according to Muslim dietary laws. In protest, some detainees staged a hunger strike lasting nearly two weeks. 
Man linked to hijackers indicted: A Virginia man with ties to Sept. 11 ringleader Mohammed Atta was indicted Thursday on two counts of document fraud, charged with helping an associate of Osama bin Laden obtain a fake ID. Agus Budiman, 31, an Indonesian native, has been detained since his arrest Oct. 30. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Texas prison escapee found: A con­victed killer who escaped Sunday from a Texas prison was tracked Thursday to a store in this west-central Indiana city. authorities in both states said. A credit card belonging to a guard John \Villiam Holand III overpowered in his escape was used Thursday afternoon at a Terre Haute Super Kmart, said Texas Department of Criminal Justice spokesman Larry Todd. Indiana State Police Cpl. Joe Watts told Terre Haute television station WTWO that officers missed Roland, 33, by about five minutes. 
l\tlarket Watch February 21 
Dow 9,834.68 -106.49 Jones 

Composite
Same: 

Volume:
226 
1,329,442,947 
AMEX: 847.97 +o.93 NASDAQ: 1,716.24 -59.33 NYSE: 563.58 -5.56 S&P 500: 1,080.95 -17.04 
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX -4.75 -1.57 33.48 CISCO SYSTEMS -9.47 -1. 58 15 .11 INTEL CORP (INTC) -5.23 -1. 95 29.48 WORLDCOM INC (WCOM) +2.13 +0.14 S. 72 NEXTEL COMM (NXTL) +2.74 +0.12 4. 50 

Officials confirm Pearl dead 
Associated Press 

State Department said the death" meant. Richard C. Reid, arrested 
NEW YORK U.S. Embassy in Pakistan The Journal said it in December on a Paris­
Daniel Pearl, the Wall had received evidence believed Pearl was dead. Miami flight he allegedly Street Journal reporter Thursday that Pearl is "His murder is an act of boarded with explosives take.n hostage a month dead, adding, "We have barbarism that makes a in his shoes. ago by Islamic extremists informed Mr. Pearl's fam­mockery of everything Pakistani officials said in Pakistan, is dead, the ily and expressed our sin­Danny's kidnappers there were indications State Department said cere condolences." claimed to believe in," the that Pearl had been lured Thursday. State Department newspaper said in a into a trap by false infor­
Pakistani authorities spokesman Richard statement. "They claimed mation. said a videotape indicated Boucher provided no to be Pakistani national­In an intensive sweep, Pearl, kidnapped in the details on the evidence. ists, but their actions Pakistani police seized port city of Karachi on Two U.S. officials said, must surely bring shame several suspects including Jan. 23, had been killed. however, the FBI had to all true Pakistani patri­Ahmad Omar Saeed 
"On the 21st of obtained a videotape pur­ots." Sheikh, an Islamic mili­February, a videotape portedly showing Pearl Journal spokesman tant who admitted in a was received which con­either dead or being Steve Goldstein said he court hearing that he had tained Daniel Pearl in killed, and was evaluating not know if a body had engineered Pearl's captivity and the scene of the tape's authenticity. been recovered. abduction to protest his death. The video The officials spoke on Pearl was abducted Pakistan's alliance with appears to be correct," condition of anonymity. after arranging to inter­the United States' post­said Mukhtar Ahmad Sheikh refused to say view the leader of a radi­Sept. 11 war on terror­Sheikh, interior minister whether he or other cal Muslim faction with ism. of the Sindh province, Pakistani officials had purported ties to the al­"Our country shouldn't which includes Karachi. seen the videotape or Qaida terrorist network be catering to America's 
In Washington, the what .. the scene of his and terror suspect needs," the militant said. 
COLOMBIA 

Government launches airstrikes 
Associated Press 

SAN VICENTE DELCAGUAN 
Military jets flew hundreds 
of sorties against a major 
rebel stronghold Thursday, 
bringing Colombia's 38-year 
civil war into a potentially 
bloodier phase after the 
peace process was abruptly 
halted. 

Bombs were falling on rebel 
territory just hours after 
President Andres Pastrana ­
angered by a rebel hijacking 
of a civilian airliner -broke 
off peace talks and con­
demned the rebel 
Revolutionary Armed Forces 
of Colombia, or FARC. 
The government ordered 13,000 troops to advance on the rebel stronghold, and three planeloads of coun­terinsurgency troops landed at an airport in Florencia, a three-hour drive to the west. 
Army officials said 85 tar­gets were hit in the first wave of attacks on the rebel safe haven, a Switzerland­sized area that was the sit.e of the peace negotiations. There were no immediate reports of casualties. 
Targets included clandes­tine airstrips and rebel train­ing camps in the zone, which Pastrana ceded the area to the FARC in November 1998 in an effort to bring the 16,000-strong rebel army to the negotiating table. The rebel haven in southern Colombia is sparsely populat­ed, with about 100,000 peo­ple. 
Caguan, posted white flags at their "The gringos give the arms.
A top army commander predict­homes in hopes of bringing protec­Colombia provides the dead," it
ed a bloody fight, but there were 
tion. "The white flags symbolize said. Some 3,500 people are killedno signs that military troops had 
yet entered the zone. peace. We don't want anything to annually in the 38-year war. 
"It's dicey, and we will surely happen," said homemaker Amelia A rebel in camouflage uniform suffer casualties, but we have a de Ficaro, 68. and brandishing an AK-47 rifle moral obligation to win this war," Citizens stripped six vehicles manned a checkpoint outside San Gen. Euclides Sanchez told abandoned by the rebels along a Vicente del Caguan. "We'll keep Caracol Radio. road outside town. Also left patrolling because this is 
Residents in the rebel area's behind was a sign that referred to Colombia and we're all over largest town, San Vicente del U.S. anti-drug aid to Colombia. Colombia," he said. 

Friday, February 22, 2002 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Burke's dreams became more Burke also serves as Editor­people with Down syndrome syndrome. "Our future is ours," ambitious as he desired to help in-Chief of "News and Views," believe in themselves and work he said. "We are all experienc­
Burke 

others who struggled like he a magazine written by and for hard, never giving up. They tell ing this idea of pursuing our did. He began speaking to pro­individuals with Down syn­how people can learn from indi­dream -that's what life is all
continued from page 1 

mote Down syndrome aware­drome and their families. The viduals with Down syndrome," about." 
ness in 1989, and he continues that practice today. 
As a Goodwill Ambassador for the National Down Syndrome Society, Burke advocates accep­tance for disabled people. 
"I like to speak up ... My work with the Society means a lot to me because it allows me to inspire people with disabilities," he said. 


and success opened doors for other people with disabilities. 
"It showed the so-called 'nor­mal' world that there are more similarities than dissimilarities between them and disabled people. Disabled people can accomplish a lot, but they just lack the opportunity. If given the opportunity. they can excel," he said. 
5:45 p.m. 
102 DeBartolo 
(reception to follow) 
COSPONSORED BY: 
Science, Technology & Values Program Kellogg Institute for International Studies Computer Appllcatlons Program Computer Science & Engineering Department 

magazine includes personal and said Burke. 
inspirational stories about expe­Burke said his overall goal 
riences with Down syndrome. was to be a voice and provide a Contact Lauren Beck at "They are stories about how vision for people with Down lbeck@nd.edu. 


9:00 -11 :00 p.m. ***
*** Wh.~-~-;. Friday, Feb.. 22 Where: LaFun Dooley Rm.. 
Sponst.'trcd. by Student ,A..ctivitics. Forn1ore inf<) call l-7308. 

Friday, February 22, 2002 

The Observer . NEWS page? 
Board 
continued from page 1 
paper as a theatre critic when he was a freshman. The Fisher Hall resident, who was first hired as Scene Editor in September, has also been a Scene copy editor, Assistant Scene Editor and Associate Scene Editor. 
McKenna, who temporarily vacated her position as Graphics Editor while study­ing abroad in Toledo, Spain, this semester, will reassume the post in the fall. 
She is a Notre Dame junior government major who lives in Pangborn Hall. McKenna. of East Amherst, N.Y., joined the Graphics staff as a sopho­more and was the depart­ment's editor last semester. 
In McKenna's absence, cur­rent Graphics Editor Andy Devoto will remain in the position for the rest of the semester. 
Egts, who has been hired as Saint Mary's Editor, is the lone freshman on the Editorial Board. 
A Fort Wayne; Ind., native, Egts has worked for The Observer since last semester. The McCandless Hall resident 
,:,,;. 

'~ 
. 
. 
f..)
1~., 
·:~
1,..::~
..­
has been a Wire Editor for 
the News Department and is 
currently a News copy editor. 
Federico, now an Assistant 
Sports Editor, was appointed 
Sports Editor. 
He is a sophomore science­
business major originally 
from New Orleans and who 
now lives in Pass Christian, 
Miss. A Knott Hall resident, 
Federico has covered inter­
hall football, men's soccer, 
hockey and baseball since he 
began working for the paper 
in fall of 2000. 
Payne is currently an Assistant News Editor and will take over next month as News Editor. 
A Notre Dame junior who lives in McGlinn Hall, she is an American studies major with a minor in Latin American studies. She has been a News wire editor and copy editor since joining The Observer staff as a freshman. 
Payne's hometown is Reston, Va., but she lived in Ohio for several years. She studied abroad last spring in Santiago, Chile. This summer, she will work for the Associated Press in New York as a business reporting intern. 
Williams, a Saint Mary's junior, was hired as Photo 

Editor after serving as Saint 
Mary's Photo Editor this year. 
She lives in Holy Cross Hall and is an English writing and literature major with a minor in photography. Williams, of Murray, Ky., has been a news and sports writer and general assignment photographer since she joined the staff in fall of 1999. 
She studied abroad for two semesters in Ireland as a sophomore. This semester she is a photography intern at the South Bend Tribune. 
McFarley, Nagengast and Soukup have appointed Greco to the new Development Editor position to coordinate staff recruitment and training in the paper's seven editorial departments. 
Greco, currently a part­time Holy Cross College stu­dent, has gained experience in several of the departments since she began work at The Observer in 1999. The Schaumburg, Ill., native is now an Associate Scene Editor. She has been Scene Editor, Assistant Viewpoint Editor, staff photographer, photo laboratory technician and news writer. 
Contact Jeff Baltruuk at jbaltru l@nd.edu. 

It's not easy caring for a parent. However, she was always there for you. Hamilton Communities has programs to help both of you. The Pointe. Offers apartment homes combined with helpful seivices, from maintenance and upkeep to assistance with daily living. 
Hamilton Grove Health Care Center. A distinctive program that provides short-term, rehabilitative, Alzheimer's, and extended nursing care. 
Hamilton Communities represents a collection of homes and seivices designed to meet your needs now and in years to come. Talk to us. We know you want to be there for your mom in her time of need. It's nice to know we'll be there too. 
(574) 654-2250 
31869 Chicago Trail 
' t... 

~ .
New Carlisle, IN 46552~0836
HAMILTON 

Website: http://www.hamiltoncomm.org 
•COMMUNITIES 
~­

"~. A Ricft Tradition of Caring for Older Adults Since 1922
h. .·~ 

.., .·. T~-find out more, clip and -~~ii"ti~-f~ii~~i~i·i-~f~~~-~-ti~~-t~~-------.················· l 
-'."· Hamilton Communities, 31869 Chicago Trail, New Carlisle, IN 46552 
~ Name:---------------------------­
Address: __________________ 
City: __________State: · Zip: ____ l 
: 

~ Telephone: ( -----+------------O/F
~\..~w-··.l:··_· -· ~::··;~=~::=-~··················· ····-···············:. 
c:fm SK ~r.1·. '~ .~ \:: ~~-Jal:...:':.~\-.! ,. ,. ·. · · 
GAO lawsuit could face opposition 
• White House says GAO does not need VP's Enron papers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
White House officials say they will challenge the inves­tigative authority of General Accounting Office if it sues the Bush administration to get access to Vice President Cheney's papers about meet­ings with Enron and other energy companies. 
A lawsuit by the GAO, Congress' investigative arm, could come as early as Friday. A spokesman refused to say when the agency would actu­ally file a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court in Washington. 
The dispute began last April but gained political traction once Enron, the largest single corporate benefactor of President Bush's political career, entered into bankrupt­cy on Dec. 2. 
The GAO wants to make White House officials identify the industry executives ­including some from now-col­lapsed Enron Corp. -who met last year with Bush's energy task force, saying that oversight of energy policy and investigating the Houston­based energy trading company 
are "important institutional 
prerogatives" of Congress. 
Bush has refused to hand 
over documents from the 
Cheney-chaired task force that 
formulated a national energy 
policy, saying to do so would 
encroach on his ability to seek 
candid advice. 
There probably won't be a compromise on that issue, said a senior administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
"I don't see us compromis­ing the principle that the pres­ident or the vice president would have to disclose to an arm of Congress what conver­sation we're having and with whom," the official said. 
The White House said it would challenge GAO's ability to seek the information. say­ing the law specifies that the agency's purpose is to investi­gate the expenditure and dis­bursement of public money. 
The White House has pro­vided the agency information relating to direct and indirect costs of the energy task force, the official said. 
"We believe that is the extent of the scope of authori­ty of GAO to access informa­tion from the vice president's offices." the official said. 
"If the GAO wants any addi­tional information, they have to look elsewhere." 


Words cannot express how grateful I am to all of you, not for your generous gift, but for the love and friend­ship you have all shared with me. Thank you guys, I love you all. -Tom McGinty 
P.S. Let's rage, kegs & eggs on Sunday. 

'Nothing to Wear? 
Come in andsee our Latest 9trriva(s for Syrine! Winter Safe sti({inyro3ressl 

WHERE: -9-Mpire rf!ef CORNER OF COLFAX AND HILL DOWNTOWN SoUTH Brno 
HERE'S OUR PHONE NUMBER; 
232-1822 
JUICY Courur<E NOMINATION HARDTAIL BITTEYJOHNSON LAUNDRY 
THEORY LILLY PULITZER FRANKIE 8 



Friday, February 22, 2002

page 10 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
CHINA 

Bush praises U.S. ideology, promotes religion 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
President Bush sought to dis­pel China's doubts and distrust of America on Friday and urged the Chinese to embrace liberty, tolerance 
and reli­gious free­d o m . "Diversity is not disor­der. Debate is not strife. And dissent is not revo­

1u t i o n , " Bush Bush said. 
"A free society trusts its citi­zens to seek greatness in them­selves and their country," Bush told students and faculty in remarks prepared for delivery at Tsinghua University. 
His appeal, which China promised to broadcast live, came on the last day of a weeklong Asian trip, even as he failed to persuade China's leadership to halt sales of missile technology and soften its stance on religious freedoms. 
Bush sought in the measured remarks to avoid lecturing the Chinese, but he argued passion­ately that America is a better place than China for the human spirit to flourish. 
"My country certainly has its share of problems and faults; like most nations we're on a long journey toward achieving our own ideals of equality and jus­tice," Bush said. "Yet there is a reason our nation shines as a beacon of hope, a reason many throughout the world dream of coming to America." 
He decried what he called Chinese misconceptions about the United States, blaming the disconnect on a distortion of American values in U.S. popular culture. Bush laid some blame on China too, noting that Chinese textbooks accuse Americans of bullying the weak and repress­ing the poor. 
"Neither of these is true -and while the books may be leftovers from a previous era, they are misleading and harmful," Bush said. 
Americans relish their liberty, abide by their laws, limit the powers of their leaders, love their families, serve their com­munities and respect others' right to religious worship, Bush said. 
"Someone once called us a nation with the soul of a church. 


Ninety-five percent of Americans say they believe in God, and I'm one of them," Bush declared. 
A day earlier, at a joint news conference with Bush, Chinese President Jiang Zemin said, "I don't have religious faith" and later claimed his government allowed its people to practice 
religion freely. Aides said Bush was not con­vinced. 
"My prayer is that all persecu­tion will end, so that all in China are free to gather and worship as they wish," Bush said. 
Bush said all of America's qualities were on display Sept. 
11, when firefighters and police died to save others and volun­teers poured into New York from around the nation to help their countrymen. "None of this was ordered by the government; it happened spontaneously, by the initiative of a free people," Bush said. 



' . 
. . . 
' 

Friday, February 22, 2002 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

How do you choose an employer in today's economy? Do you seek an organization who has been successful for nearly a century? A culture that promotes learning and a "think straight, talk straight" philosophy" Or, do-you want to be part of an organization that's committed to creating tangible, positive results for clients" 
If you've replied "yes" to all of the above, then Andersen may be right for you. 
For more information, contact your Andersen Recruiting Team for University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College at chi-campus.recruiting@us.andersen.com 
~ 

www.andersen.com/careers ANDERSEN 
<02002 Andersen. All rights reserved. Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 
.. 
• 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 12 Friday, February 22, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Connolly 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Noreen Gillespie  Bob Woods  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Kerry Smith  Pat Peters  

NEWS EDITOR: Jason McFarley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Patrick McElwee SPORTS EDITOR: Noah Arnstadter SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Peter Richardson 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Kimberly Springer AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Adam Turner C0NTR0llER: Kevin Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX......................... : ................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDIT0RIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0JNT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer .sports. I@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe. Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obreroer policies should br dirrct­rd to £litor in Chief Mikr Connolly. 

Bring 'Monologues' into the open 
Saint Mary's took an enlightened hallways and the performance will not step forward with President Marilou be officially recognized by the College. Eldred's decision not to fight an unoffi­"The Vagina Monologues" are not part cial reading of "The Vagina of the official image Saint Mary's pro­Monologues" that will take place on jects to itself and the world. A feeling campus this Tuesday. ofd~approv~hangsin 
. Th

Last year, when a simi­the air.
Ooserver

lar event was organized This attitude may seem after the play was offi­natural given the unique cially banned, Eldred nature of the College. It
Editorial

reprimanded the student officers of CARE for their involvement. 
This year, the College will respect the right of students engage in a reading of the play. That is certainly a praisewor­thy development: Thanks to a dedicat­ed group of students, the relevant and controversial issues of the Monologues will be addressed at Saint Mary's. 
Unfortunately, the production still must hide in the shadows -unseen, unheard and unwanted. Organizers refuse to go on the record; advertise­ments are conspicuously absent from 
is a Catholic institution 
with a mission to pro­mote and develop Catholic values in a modernizing, globalizing world. Its stu­dents typically come from middle-class families with convictions similar to those endorsed by the Church. And its largely self-sufficient campus without much interaction with the surrounding community creates a parental role for the administration. Thus, the adminis­tration must monitor the ideas to which students are exposed, ensuring that opposing perspectives do not unduly challenge students' inherited 
Understanding a different life 
Last week I looked in a mirror larg­er than 3 inches by 3 inches for the first time in about four and a half months. It scared me. I did not recog­nize myself. I looked older. My hair is bleached out and in some indescrib-Maite Uranga able way it simply looked like I had lived in Africa for awhile. This trig-Life in Africa gered multiple reactions, the major one being a realization that I now use very differ­ent characteristics to describe myself. 
Much of how I saw myself in the United States is gone. I wear ankle length dresses everyday with my hair in a ponytail. My last name is now Ba. When people ask about my family, I immediately describe my Mauritanian family. I am rich as a result of the approximately $100 a month I make, my United States citizenship and my skin color. No one cares what my major was in college or that I even graduated from college. I left almost all of my personal possessions at home. 
I speak French on a middle school level and Pulaar on a very elementary level so there are·few intellectually stimulating conversations. I think two story buildings are skyscrapers. I see pavement as an American luxury. I live in a culture that considers 23­year-old men and women children, polygamy, although uncommon, is acceptable and women are supposed to stay close to home and not go galli­vanting around the globe to live in strange and foreign places. 
More important than the change in my material possessions is the change in all of my personal relationships. I talk to my parents for about half an hour every two weeks. I have only talked to my best friend from college on the phone twice. Some of my rela­tionships at home have actually gotten stronger because of the honesty that letter writing tends to bring out in people. Other friends can not seem to . reconnect with the lost art of letter writing so I hear from them every three months over e-mail. 
No matter how much I write or talk to my family and friends they really have no understanding of my life. I can tell them how I heroically killed a scorpion with a flip flop, but they can­not truly comprehend how scary that is. They cannot understand how diffi­cult it is to function in a place where I hear four or five languages on a daily basis without a strong grasp of any of them. 
I have similar problems with my family here. I cannot talk to them very much about my life at home. I give them little bits and pieces of American life, but they cannot even imagine what a five-story building looks like. The concept of eating at a table with a fork and knife is completely foreign to them. Then there is the small problem that the average Notre Dame experi­ence and 23-year-old single American lifestyle does not tend to be acceptable in a dry Muslim country. 
The person I am in the United States andthepe~onthatlam~ Mauritania seem to be so different on the surface. I laugh at things I do here that I never did in America and vice versa. Here I have become obsessively clean in some sort of attempt to have beliefs. If students take it on them­selves bring one of these heresies to campus, they must be forced into the shadows. 
This attitude would seem natural except for the example of a very simi­lar university that has chosen a better path. Notre Dame will host an official production of "The Vagina Monologues" this Monday and Tuesday. Organizers are vocal; adver­tisements are prominent and LaFortune Student Center even has advanced ticket sales. Despite sharing the Catholic background of Saint Mary's and many, if not all, of its val­ues, Notre Dame has shown that the free expression of ideas is important to the University and that the option of censorship is not viable. 
Saint Mary's should follow Notre Dame's example by shining a light of tolerance on "The Vagina Monologues." Bring it out of the shad­ows. 
at least one thing in my life under control. Here I go to bed at 9:30 p.m. and wake up at 7 a.m. There I social­ized with people around my age group. My best friends here are my 80-year-old grandmother, my 16­year-old sister and my 4-year-old little brother. 
Here I have become proud to say that I am American. There I sat in front of a computer eight hours a day in a cubicle. Here I am completely aware of the cycles of the moon and can tell time by the movements of the constellations. 
All of these differences in the day­to-day existence of my life and the relationships that I have with people seem so glaring. It has forced me to look at myself differently and for pur­poses of mental health to search to find similarities between who I was and who I am.. 
After contemplating this for some days on my mat I have started to find more similarities than differences. I like to laugh. I like to be continually challenged. Friendship and family come before everything else. I like freedom. Most importantly I like wak­ing up everyday and being happy with where I am despite the drastic changes in my life. I find joy and chal­lenge at looking in a mirror and not recognizing the person looking back. 
Maite Uranga graduated from Notre Dame in 2000 as an anthropology and government major. She is currently a Peace Corps volunteer in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Helena Payne Amanda Greco Katie Rand Graphics Courtney Boyle Jimmy Atkinson 
Sports Production 
Chris Federico Andrew Soukup 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Kurt Bogaard Dorothy Carter 

NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL RESULTS 
Should "The Vagina Monologues" be perf onned at Notre Dame? 
Poll courtesy of NDToday.com Total Votes: 380 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'iln idea that is not dangerous is unworthy ofbeing called an idea at all. •• 
Oscar Wilde writer 



\. 

. .. I • 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

Friday, February 22, 2002 page 13 
Why can't we all hear voices? 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Agree to disagree 
I am tragically male. Worry ye not coming the male dominated climate of because I do not intend to lament about our world (admittedly conveyed through reverse discrimination or any such non­a medium that some understandably sense. I am a white male, meaning that · find to be objectionable), some benight­social amenities are more readily avail­ed nouveau riche kid has to start in with able to me than to any other segment of the generalizations and improperly the general population. I am tragic formed conclusions. because, as a male, a blueprint has been Of course, the enraged feminists write submitted to me, and I am expected to responses to the knee-jerk conservatives live in pursuance thereof. -That means and the polemic goes back and forth. that I am expected to live a life filled What people seem to forget here is that with violence of all kinds. I am, you neither side possesses the only moral know, one of those whom, if necessary, compass on the issue. It is permissible to will be called to·defend this country of allow others to express their ethos and ours. not to descend to petty bickering, with­
I recognize the capacity for violence out succumbing to pitiable moral rela• which has been conditioned into my tivism. The frustrating thing is that the personality and I work everyday to people who generally start these dia­effect its atrophy. What being male also tribes are usually disgorging some kind means is that I am expected to objectify of institutional rhetoric (probably incor­women. Do not mistake me, I do not rectly) without having experienced that mean objectification as blatant as some which they criticize. Thus, they have no kind of rapper schtick. It is more subtle validity in their criticism. than that. It means that I grow up read­What I would like to see is Catholics ing women only when I do so by my own trying to understand those other view­endeavor, and it translates into my points before they start into the dogmat­inability to think of one woman whom I ic criticism. Let's face facts, Catholicism admire intellectually. Try it, men -it is is not exactly the most plausible system harder than you would think. of faith that one can embrace. If you 
I am writing because I just returned want my honest opinion, I find it pretty from an Ani Difranco concert, and I silly, but that is because I also gave up realized that only four years ago, I ghost stories, cootie shots and swingsets would never have done such a thing. I when I was a child. would never have allowed myself to wit­I am also, however, looking in from ness such a strong, articulate, sensitive the outside. What that means is that and charismatic figure of femininity that Catholics have a considerable responsi­defies objectification in her very bility to act amenably to contrary view­demeanour. My blueprint tells me to . points, because we non-believers cer­fear and decry her and so I ignore what tainly accommodate you and your it tells me. cultish beliefs. And, my bottom line to 
Four years ago, I was Catholic. I am Catholics principally and to all verily ­recovered now. thank you. I do not respect other viewpoints and under­mean to single out Catholics, but I will stand them before you start in with your say that it warps your outlook. officious commentary. It is possible to Skimming editorials concerning "The agree to disagree. Vagina Monologues" for a few days makes that abundantly clear to me. At Jesse Daniel Schomer the very availability (nobody is forced to law student watch the show) of a program based on O'Hara-Grace Hall discovering feminine identity and over-Feb. 19, 2002 
'Free speech' limited 
Paul Schofield in a letter yesterday enti­Schofield points to Galileo as an exam­tled, "Knights misunderstand free ple of an incident in which the Catholic speech," attacks the criticisms of the Church has previously erred. Galileo rep­Knights of Columbus and claims they do resented a tangible advance in scientific not understand free speech. knowledge; the act noted in Schofield's 
May I suggest that it is Schofield -letter appears to be little ·more than an along with much of the rest of the country exercise in depravity. -who does not understand the term Admittedly the Church erred in "free speech." Although it is slowly being attempting to keep people from reading converted into a cultural term for the "The Catcher In the Rye." However, notion that we may publicize any the past mistakes of the Church conduct we like, the term origi­do not relieve Catholic insti­nates in the First Amendment. tutions of the right to bar 
It is at origin a legal term messages that not only with a precise meaning. For conflict with their view 170 years following the rat­of life but actually ification of the ~reaten the very stu• Constitution, the term 
dents whom it seeks to applied only to political, or 
assist. in a few cases commercial 
In sum, Catholic speech. As late as 1956, 
schools ought to feel Supreme Court Justice free -and in fact William Brennan acknowl­obligated -to bar car­edged that it did not apply nival acts such as the to popular entertainment. one described in 
Since then, the U.S. Supreme Schofield's letter. Such Court has made the arbitrary acts do not help students decision to expand the scope of the seek out truth. Catholic schools First Amendment to provide for com­like Saint Mary's and Notre Dame plete freedom of expression. The expan­ought to be more forthright in stating that sion of the scope of the First Amendment they will expose students only to paths in such a profound way should have been that lead them to understand themselves, done via amendment, not by judicial fiat. their world and their maker. If students 
Perhaps the more hnportant issue want to be taken to the carnival, they can though is whether all ideas, no matter go somewhere else. how destructive, need to be considered. I suppose Notre Dame has no one to They do not. By that logic we ought to blame but itself, because instead of 
watch murders and rapes in order to fully proudly advertising itself as Catholic uni­understand why they are wrong (or study versity where the ravings of the lost are racist theories such as eugenics). The role ignored, it seems to think, as a "national of the Catholic university is not to expose Catholic research university" that it must students to all viewpoints. Instead it is to go along with the popular trend in higher help students find the truth. Catholic education -expose everyone to every­schools, after all, have a mission not com­thing, no matter how confused, stupid or pletely unrelated to that of the Catholic destructive. Church: to help people achieve salvation. They cannot do that job while encourag­Peter Zavodnyik ing people to engage in conduct in direct class of'92 conflict with the teachings of the Catholic Chicago 
Church. Feb. 21,2002 
I often feel overwhelmed by expecta­tions and opinions. I remember one e­mail from the office of Dean Roche sent to all sophomores and juniors within the College of Arts and Letters this fall. It detailed a list of options that students should pursue "to achieve their academ­ic and career goals." I read the letter, some­what panicked and anxious. It offered useful advice. I think that I decided then , to rebel, to avoid the academic-internship scene and to wait­ress at the Jersey shore this summer. 
In a constant 
·stream of noise, pro­fessors, administra­tors, advisors and other students offer their views on how all students and I should think, believe, act and live. As a writer for this newspaper, I myself con­tribute to this confusion. 
We hear strong suggestions regarding not only what jobs we should pursue and what academic roads we should follow, but also what ideas we should cling to and which beliefs we should promote. Many times these voices that shout at us uphold the same beliefs and ideals; other times, these voices contradict each other. Students, like myself, are challenged to decide, from among or outside them which voice is their own. 


Most days, I have only a vague conception of my "voice" -little idea of what I believe, what road I want to take in life and what ideas I want to uphold. Yet, I have a good idea of what I do­not believe, what road I do not want to take and what ideas I do not want to uphold. In my search, beliefs, values and ideas that contra­dict my own have proven more useful than those that compel me to nod with agree­ment. 
Viewpoints that challenge, offend or destroy my own perspective have opened my mind and led me to think with honesty and seriousness. 
I have often discovered who I am not and what I do not want before I have dis­cerned who I am. 
In this sense, contradictory voices that can confuse and frustrate students serve a necessary function. However, at this 
university, the voices that shout at students too frequently convey the same message -uphold the same values. Without a city encroaching on the campus, little of the "real world" with its 
controversy and its non-Catholic under­standing infiltrates 
the University com­munity and the lives of students. 
Until I brought a '-car to school this _.._..-;.,Q semester, I could not travel beyond Grape 
Road into the South Bend-Mishawaka area without getting lost. Freshman year I saw little outside of the immediate area around my dorm and class build­ings. 
In this bubble, administrators and pro­fessors have an inordinate amount of influence over the ideas and beliefs given voice on campus. 
The greater the degree to which the viewpoints and ideas heard on campus are restricted, the greater the likelihood 
J 

that dialogue on campus will be reduced to a black and white issue. Students, for example, would choose either to stand with or to stand against the conception of faith that the University upholds. 
To ensure that students remain in a true dialogue with the Catholic values supported by this University, all adminis­trators and officers should work to give all controversial beliefs and viewpoints a "voice" on campus. 
The showing of plays, like the one cur­rently under debate that some within the community find challenging and insulting, does not threaten the values of the University community, but instead increases the student's understanding of them. 
The University should continue to increase the diversity of "voices" on cam­pus. It would further help students, like myself, discover new ways to believe and to think and new conceptions of the way to live life. 
It would help us discover who we aren't. 
Joanna Mikulski is a junior English and German major. Her column appears every other Friday. Contact Mikulski at mikulski. l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

.. ' 
AlHE
vnSERVER 


page 14 Friday, February 22, 2002 
Past, present and fut1 
Frank Helgesen, co-founder ofthe popular student-run Web site, comments 

NDToday presi­dent, junior Scott Palko, and sales manager, senior Robert Pazornik. There is also a general manager, sales representa­tives, a photogra­pher and a food critic. 
Although NDToday ' was founded and is run by Notre Darnel Saint Marv's stu­dents, the· site is not directly affili­ated with either the University or College. NDToday is exclusively a production of Jephne Studios. The ideas expressed on the pages are solely those of the ~uthors and do not reflect the opinions of Notre Dame nor the producers of the site. 
NDToday has grown from a page with few links to a r e s o u r c e f u I Internet applica­tion. With direct links to the most common Notre Dame home pages and sites created for the community,
AMANDA HUGHES/The Observer 

around the cam­
Scott Palko, NDToday president, P J Mercanti, business manager and Joel Pidel, site manage, 
pus, around the
take a break from the hard work of maintaining campus' favorite student Web site. 
town and more, the site appeals to many of the needs of students. 
The most commonly used aspects of the site are the teacher evalua­tions, the message boards, the front page and the student search. 
Teacher Evaluations 
NDToday prides itself on "sharing info for when you need it," pertaining to the teacher evaluations. 
"I think that the school before teacher evaluations and the school after evaluations are like night and day," Helgesen said. 
He also believes that the evaluations are beneficial because they do not 
( ,utomu.. pr,,f,141 Jf',lt • 
I • -,_,_,,.._,• .,._..,.,~,-~_..., ..­
!M~s,.uqc Text For __ ,_ ltrrul 11n?_ ~:t!:!:1_?,_~_::._._ lhis Topic hil!i l p119es; I l Il 1~ !~-e"i 
ca Oat. Po•ted1 Feb/18/20#: 
I have been in numerous disctii Israel/Palestine situation. Soi that each side is equally to bl! do not agree on the facts behiti Lt\"•1Memt.e, Anyone who finds a news ttal this board. I would like to find,.i bias or lack thereof in intematilJ 
Neb 
•He who loves himself, hath no1 
"':::;:::<,s 
(i Data Potltadt Feb/18/2002 
Idon, know about recent madh t.bii i$ it. 
·······················-
MHumor di&torts nothing, and OI -Agnes Repplier 

ta Data Pos'lllld: F•b/1t/20t2; 
1he euQf'llil I'm not potting links, just weiQ11 
The message board section of NDToday.com I the site. There are 10 different sections witt, can post ideas and respond to others'. 
ByEMILYHOWALD 
Scene Writer 
What was once a dream for gradu­ate Frank Helgesen is now a reality that is considered to be the third form of communication on campus. 
In 1998, Helgesen initiated a Web page that had only a student search. 
Due to the popularity that his per­sonal Web page received, he decided to make a Web site that would tell others what was hap­pening on campus. 
Helgesen began adver­tising and 
slowly devel-· oping a page that would appeal to all the students of Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's and would allow the students to share with each other what was going on around campus. 
With the help of three of his friends, ­they created a way to unite the Notre Dall}e/ Saint Mary's community via 

"'/ think that the school before Warzon, Helgesen, Nick Fellers and
teacher evaluations and the 

senior Robert
school after teacher evaluations 

Pazornik ar·e still 
are like night and day." very closely affili­ated with the site. NDToday is owned
Frank Helgesen 

and operated by
co-founder, NOToday.com 

Jephe, Inc. (for­
the Internet, through what is now known as NDToday .com. In March of 2000 the site took off and gained notoriety through the use of message boards. 
'"I thought once there was some­where to go, they are going to keep going there to see what was new," Helgesen said. "After the word got out, I hoped people would keep com­
ing back and it 
would build up," 
Helgesen said. 
Graduates Andy 
mally 3 bstudios) and all four founders have positions with the 
company. 

Jephe Inc. funds the site through selective advertising because they don't feel that college students should have to pay for use of the Web sites. Companies sometimes hope for expo­sure through the site so they offer a certain amount of money to NDToday for each response or reaction that is received about the campaign. NDToday recently made nearly $175 from a project similar to this done by Kaplan. 
The founders finance them­ .,· .::.'.,..  
selves by building other Web  /  
sites, and they all have other  .,  
jobs as well. Each founder  
still spends approximately  
10 to 15 hours  a  week on  
NDToday. Jephe, Inc. has also begun to franchise and  t  
will soon  be creating Web  
sites for other colleges.  
NDToday began with mes­ 
sage boards where students  
post their opinions, the student  

search, which can locate any stu­dent's address and the voting booth, which polls random questions and posts the answers. 
Now NDToday contains many appli­cations that are designed to aid the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's student. The content is usually produced by user input and the users are automat­ically linked to their desired locations within the site. 
The site contains powerful program­ming, but there is also interaction from Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's stu­dents relative to the staff. The _site is 
currently run by its 
"'I 

r'\l,.HE
VfiSERVER 

Friday, February 22, 2002 
page 15 

1re of NDToday.com 
on-the site :S history, while Scene explains what students· find on the site 
allow the school 
to get away with 

assigning bad teachers. According to Helgesen, there are hun­dreds of teachers who are subscribers to NDToday because they want to see what their competition is like and work to get good reviews. 
"I used NDToday for teacher evalua­tions, and they really help me to determine which classes I wanted to take," freshman Bridget Samuelson said. "The difference between first semester and second semester is defi­nitely noticeable, and I plan on using the evaluations for the next three years," Samuelson said. 


••••I lod~-, 1,.,1p hon,., loqout 
. ---.--------------. . . . 
[ FO~\Jl',i<; 1 TMkf.A(•:-:: Fl:fl"~·fSH : NEXT THktA(• 
-~-¥_, • " ---• w• •~-~~-••¥~ •~---­

121 PM 


ilon1 (with roommates, friends, etc.) regarding the lmly side with lsrasl, some with Palestine, and others say 
j. While I and those I argue with have our opipions, we ofte "" situation (eg. how many innocents killed by each $ide). !198rding acts by Israel or Palestine should post the links o thow much I really know about the facts and evaluate the at media. · 

133 PM 


but midea$lweb is a good site for the history of the conflict. 
t false godt are laughed off their earthly pedestals.• 


~--. ~--~ , .._,,.___ ,. 
Top Bot.torn NelCt 


IQ in with Isreal. 
Photo courtesy of NOToday.com • one of the most freqented features of n the message boards where students The Message Board 
There are 10 categories on the mes­sage board that enable students to post their opinions and questions in a place where they are viewed by whoever may want to look. The categories range from general chat, to the rant, the rave, the 
love board, sports and more. 
People who want to post their messages have to be members of the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's commu­nity and some messages are censored. The main purpose of the message board is to allow students to say nearly whatever they want about topics 
on their minds. 
The Front Page 

The front page shows the user all the options that NDToday offers. According to Helgesen, it is common for users to just check the front page to see if anything is going on. 
The front page contains sections such as Today's Polls, Campus Events, Observer Headlines, Photo Gallery and all the links that the pages pre­sent. 
"From time to time, I just check in on the front page to see if anything new is going on. It's quick and it's easy so I enjoy using it when I need to," freshman Sara Sheffield said. 
The Student 
Search 
This aspect of 
NDToday allows 
students to search 
the database and 
virtually do a 
reverse caller-ID. 
The information is 
a front-end to the 
database of Notre 
Dame. 
All of the infor­
mation that is on 
the student search 
is also on Notre 
Dame's homepage, 
but the availability 
is much more 
accommodating on 
NDToday. 
"Everybody has access to a comput­er and it is easier to use because you never really lose your computer, but you lose your phone book all the time," freshman Mike Roaldi said. "There is more information· and it is easier access too." 
Many features of the \Vcb page are only allowed to be used by students 

teacher evaluations are not available to any outside of the Notre Dame com• munity because the University does not want the future careers of any teachers to be jeopardized by the evaluations. 
The founders of the Web page try to maintain a close relationship with the University because they feel that the page is an important reference to the students and the founders don't want that privi­lege to be revoked. 
"Where we are right now 
NDToday is 

continuously is about 50 percent ofwere 
expanding and is 

we could be and hope to be in 
always open for 

the future" 
new changes or recommenda­tions. Frank Helgesen
The founders 

co-founder, NDToday.com
hope to start up a m1ni company that will be viewed as an unofficial club at the University. They hope to begin publishing articles and they want to come out with a new issue every two weeks. 
For now, Helgesen said the site is looking for new ideas and more help. Ideally, new people will bring in fresh ideas that will benefit both the com­munity and the Web site in general. 
The founders will be sending out an e-mail to all the subscribers hoping to get a response from students who are interested. They don't care how much experience people have, they just want their input and involvement to better NDToday. 
"Where we are right now is about 50 percent of where we could be and 
hope to be in the future," Helgesen said. 
Helgesen encour­ages students to look into NDToday because of all the benefits that are available to the stu­dents. All the medi· urns can be pub­lished on the page because they are done so via the Internet, so there are more variations available. 
"Come on, you 

are at ND!" Helgesen sa,id. "This is what people are talking about and thinking; so why not check it out? It's made for you; and personally, we love what we've done for the people." 
Contact Emily Howald at howald.2@nd.edu. 

Scott Palko, current president of NDToday.com, views the site from an on-campus computer. To
with an AFS ID password. The post messages on the site, users must have an AFS ID and password. 


r •-t 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS . Friday, February 22, 2002 


BIG EAST SWIMMING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Diver bounces back from injury 


-• Sophomoretakes second at Big East Championships 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Spores Writer 


UNIONDALE. N.Y. Last year, diver Meghan Perry-Eaton thought she 
' 
'\ would never get on the div­
'\ 
I • ing board again. Sidelined midway through her freshman year with fractures in her spine 
I and bulging discs, there
i \ 
I\ were days that she couldn't 
-', even bear the pain to pull herself out of the pool. 
"My freshman year was horrible. I was so excited about coming here and div­ing and then in just all stopped," the sophomore from Tampa. Fla. said. "I thought my career was over." 


But Thursday night at the Big East Swimming and Diving Championships, Perry-Eaton proved her career is just beginning. Taking the runner-up posi­tion on the 1-meter board, Perry-Eaton's first champi­onship performance was nearly flawless. 
Perry-Eaton narrowly missed defeating senior Michelle Davison of Miami, who won the event )'Vith a score of 300.65. Perry­Eaton finished with 293.30 points. No Notre Dame diver has ever defeated a Miami_ diver since joining the Big East. 


"I was a little nervous, and I'm not used to that," Perry-Eaton said. "I didn't know what to expect." 
Perry-Eaton took the lead in the competition after the fourth round, inching ahead of Davison by two points. She remained in the lead going into the sixth round by six points, but over-rotated on her final dive, a front 2 1/2 tuck. 


. 
She nailed the dive in preliminary competition Thursday morning, even though it wasn't one of her best dives. The slip in finals was the result of the trou­ble Perry-Eaton has had all season focusing on her dives. 
"Mentally, I'm just a bas­ket case right now," she said. "I don't know what to expect day to day. I'm real­ly excited -I wish I had won, because I could have. My last dive was pretty bad. but that's life." 
The win in the 1-meter comes after an inconsistent season for Perry-Eaton. She shined at the Minnesota Invitational in November, coming back from fifth place to win the 1-meter. But in dual meet performances she strug­gled, even failing a dive at the Northwestern meet in January. 
But she's the type of diver that hangs tough, said diving coach Caiming Xie. 
"I've told her the five 'C' words· confidence, compet­itive, calm, comfortable and concentrate," he said. ''I've said if you can control yourself, you can control the meet." 
The injury still nags at her, in practice and in competition, however. And · for a diver who is so tough, it's a constant struggle between coach and athlete about training. When she wants to push harder, Xie sometimes tells her to stop, Perry-Eaton said. There are times, too, when she's in pain and he tells her to 
keep going. 
Both are difficult in find­
ing a training balance that 
lets her push hard enough, 
but rest enough to heal. 
"I feel like a different 
diver, which is kind of 
upsetting," she said. 
"Sometimes because her 
back hurts, she cannot 
make her last dive," Xie 

Sophomore diver Meghan Perry-Eaton flips off the 1­mete r springboard during diving competition at Thursday's Big East Championships. 
said. "She's not at her best "I hope I do well," she yet, but she's getting said, smiling. "I feel like back." I'm ready to. Mentally, I'm 
Perry-Eaton will climb up getting ready. Physically. I on the boards again today can get up there and win. in the 3-meter competition. But mentally, I can get up Like every other perfor­there and lose." mance this season, she kn·ows it's a day-to-day guess at how she'll per­
Contact Noreen Gillespie at 
form. 
gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 
Women 
continued from page 28 
eration time of 3.40.98. 
The swimmers with consideration times won't find out if they will swim in the championship until March, but according to last year's entries. the consideration times should be fast enough to swim in the meet, Weathers said. 
"We would have liked to be about two-tenths faster," Weathers said. "We have to be a little guarded, because that 200 relay is right on the bubble." 
Nixon was the only swimmer to earn an automatic berth to the NCAA meet in the 50-yard freestyle. Touching the wall in 27.73, she won the event and defended her title from 1999. But she missed breaking the meet record she 
set in l 999 by three tenths of a  sec­ 
ond, and the finish  was almost a  sec­ 
ond from her best.  

"It was just real sloppy. It's good to get that au.tomatic time out of the way .... But I've definitely got a lot of areas to improve in,., Nixon said. 
The Irish qualified more swimmers for finals than any other team at the meet, securing their hold on the top position. 
Divers led the evening, with sopho.. more Meghan-Perry Eaton placing sec­ond on the 1-rneter board in her Big East debut. Perry-Eaton sat out her freshman season. due to back injury. Senior Heather Mattingly placed fourth in the event. · 
In the 50-yard freestyle, six Notre Dame swimmers qualified for finals in the event. Following Nixon, senior Brooke Davey and Eckholt placed sixth and seventh. Sophomore Danielle. Hulick won the consolation heat, fol­lowed by freshmen Hannah Pawlewicz and Heidi Hendrick in ninth and 10th. 
The 200-yard individual medley was also a strong event for the Irish. Following Garcia's second-place finish, Lloyd was seventh, sophomore Marie Labosky was eighth, sophomore Amy Deger was ninth, D'Olier was 14th and senior Maureen Hillenmeyer was 15th. 
The competition continues today with preliminaries at 10:30 a.m. and finals at 6:30 p.m. The challenge in getting through the weekend will be to stay focused, said co-captain Tara Riggs. 
"We have to remember this is a long meet," Riggs said. "We have to re­focus every session. Most of all, if we have disappointing swims, we have. to put it out of our minds." 
Contact Noreen Gillespie at gil10843@saintmarys.edu. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 4 and 9-bed­room houses. Call Bill at 532-1896 
4-7 BDRM HOMES.WALK TO ND.FURN. SUMMER,2002-03. 272-6306 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Diamond ring in ladies room of Nieuwland Hall. Will gladly return with correct description. Call Meg at 4-3477. 
LOST: Smalt platinum ring with channel-set diamonds. $200 
Reward. Please call 283-0811. 
WANTED 
TestMaster is looking for responsi­ble people to distribute information, post flyers and proctor trests. $10/hr. 
1-800-929-7724 
2000 grad seeking room or apart­ment to sublease/rent in New Orleans Mem. Day wknd to Sept. 1, 2002, Call Michelle 202-829-3725 or email krup78@hotmail.com 
Need tutor for Quicken 2000. Call 234-6698 or 234-9543. Leave mes­sage if necessary. 
FOR SALE 
2-story, 3 bedrooms, formal dining & living rooms. All appliances good. Carpeting & drapes throughout. Many closets. Gas heat & upper and lower air conditioners. Finished basement w/poot table. Call 574-234-9782. 
2001 Honda Accord Coupe. 
Loaded. Excellent condition. 
$19,000. Call Heather 
631-3578. 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 
272-1525 mmmrentals@aol.com 

Shared Living Opportunity Enjoy the benefits of a luxurious private home without the expense and upkeep. Private bath and room which you may furnish to your own taste (sizes ranging from 340 to 400 square feet} Common areas (over 2000 square feet) are maintained by a professional staff and include spacious living room, dining room, library, fully equipped shared mod­ern kitchen, laundry and parking facilities. Within walking distance to Tippecanoe, the library, St Joseph 
River, Memorial Health and Lifestyle Center and medical facilities. 800 per month includes utilities and hosting by a congenial couple with professional back• grounds. Call 234-1002 for informa­tion and appointment. 
5 mins from ND!4-6 student house w/large common areas-prkg lot, 
appl. Fall 

2002 Dave 291-2209 
Excellent house 3-4 students. 
Air,appL 5 min from ND. Dave 291­
2209 

MMMRentals.com 
3-4 person house, Close to cam• pus, eta Available June 1 Call 219­298-3800 
River Condo For Rent $1050 MO Mishawaka 219-532-1537. 
4 bdrm/2 bath house. Available alter 6/1. 3 block from campus. Call (773)-486-8862. 
THE BEST OFF CAMPUS HOUSE IDEAL FOR 4-5 STUDENTS ALL THE AMENITIES WASHl:R DRYER FRIDGE STOVE ETC GREAT AREA 2773097 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Promote trips on-campus earn cash and free trips. Info/Reservations 1-800-648· 
4849 
www.ststravel.com 
Good luck to themen's and women's basketball teams this weekend. 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
SPRING BREAK SUPER SALE! Book your trip with Studen!City.com and save up to $100 per person to Cancun, Bahamas. Jamaica, Padre or Florida. Most popular student hotels including the Oasis and the Nassau Marriott Crystal Palace! Prices start at $399! Sale ends soon! CALL NOW! 1-800-293-1443 or go to StudentCity.com! 
Spring Break Tickets! Get a FREE MTV audience ticket to select shows when you book your Spring Break through StudentCity.com! Go to MTV.com or call Studen!City.com at 1-800-293-1443 for detai!s! Tours and tickets are limited! 
Congratulations to the new Observer Editorial Board 
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida! Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices! Space is Limited!!! 1-800-234-7007 · www.endlesssummertours.com 
Interested in covering the latest news on campus? Call Jason at 1­5323 
Want to sit courtside at the next basketball game -without having to camp out the night before? Call Noah to wrtie Sports at 1-4543. 
Do you havea lot of free time on your hands? Or are you a movie or music buff? Give Spencer a call to write Scene at 1-4540. 
Please recycle~ The Observer 
Read The Observer online at www.nd.edu/-observer 

Friday, February 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Irish struggle after first day, hope to catch up 
By SHEILA EGTS 
Spores Writer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

The day went according to plan for tlw blue and gold at the Big East Championships on Thursday. But it was the wrong team of blue and gold. 
The Pittsburgh Panthers were well on their way to defending their Big East Championship title with a first-day score of 250 points. • 

Disappointing sixth and eighth place finishes in key relay events left the Irish questioning their ability to turn the meet around and reclaim the second­place finish they held in 1999 and 2000. 
"Both of our relays were slow­er than we had hoped they would be tonight," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "Can we still be second? Who knows?" 
According to Welsh prior to the meet, the team was relying on major point contributions from the senior Jonathan Pierce in the distance events. Pierce started off on the right foot with a preliminary swim in the 500­yard freestyle. But his final time was nearly four seconds. slower, leaving Pierce short of his expectations with a fifth-place tributing team points and get­took second in last year. . their work cut out for them if said Koss, who competes in the finish. ting the NCAA invitation he has "Four of the guys here were they hope to catch up with 100-yard backstroke today. "But 
"I know I personally did not been working for all season. really Olympic caliber divers," Rutgers, who is currently is sec• if you look at our scoring and swim as well as I wanted to 
"It's tough for Jonathan espe­he said. "l was shooting for fifth ond place. According to Welsh, our place compared to last year, tonight. I think I get caught up 
cially as a senior. I thought he place and one of the guys beat the team has an even set of we are way ahead of where we too much in ht>w fast I need to would do a little better, but this me out at the end, but I still feel entries for the rest of the meet were last year. What I think we go or who I need to beat," said is his weakest event," Koss said. good about the 3-meter finish. I with four or five swimmers qual­need to do is use this to build the 
Pierce, who swims again "His 400 IM and his mile should didn't dive my best but I placed ified in the majority of the momentum and really try to get Saturday in the 1,650-yard be a lot stronger." around where I should have." events. focused for our next two days." fre,~style. ··1 had a bad race .but I With the addition of two com­But Maggio is focusing on his "This has traditionally been a 
just need to look past it and petitive freshmen divers from stronger event in the 1-met.er tough day. What I think we need move on to my next races." Miami, Andy Maggio only man­diving to compensate for some to do is use this to build the 
Contact Sheila Egts at 

Fl'llow senior Mike Koss is still of the points he lost Thursday. momentum and really try to get
aged to place sixth in the 3­
egts0236@saintmarys.edu

optimistic about Pierce con-metPr diving, an event that he As a whole, the Irish have focused for our next two days," 

. . Two Roomates From Hell as,,; Tim O'Malley as Oscar Madison Fri/Sat, Feb. 22-23 7:30 p.m. Freewill offering for Holy Cross Missions .  

-


f i 
' i 
l :
I , 
page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 22, 2002 
Come and SUppo,t the Holy Cross Aflsslons In Bangladesh
• 

D 1• ,, ., t::.: 2·2·
,re,,m,nanes rebruary >/·· Quarterfinals February 24 Semifinals February 27 
Friday, February 22, 2002 page 19
The Observer . SPORTS 
BENGAL BOUTS: LIGHTWEIGHT • 145-POUNDS 

Lightweights begin fights on Sunday 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sporrs Writer 
The lightest weight class in the Bengal Bouts features three first-time competitors out of the seven fighters. 
The most experienced fighter in the bracket is junior captain Shawn Newburg, who lost in the finals last year to Camilo Rueda. 
Newburg will face the winner of the fight between senior Derrick Bravo and fresh­man Mike Feduska. Bravo may have the aid of experience on his side, having advanced to the semi-finals in the tourna­ment last year. 
One of the better match ups of the bracket may be between a pair of junior newcom­ers to the event, Lance Hendron and Peter Kim. 
"I fought some on and off through junior high and high school, but my father was a kick-boxer and he's tried to get me involved in boxing," Hendron said. 
On the other hand, Kim may be one ofthe smallest competitors in the group, but his size allows him to be very quick and strong. 
In the final bout of the bracket, freshman Mark Burdick takes on senior Jason McMahon. 
The first-year fighter Burdick may have his hands full with the more-experienced McMahon. The senior won the bouts in his freshman year, and even trained over break -with fellow competitor Hendron in Las Vegas. 
Because there are only seven boxers competing in this class, the first round of bouts will be Sunday at 2 p.m. 
135-pounds 
Those boxers that advance out ofthe first round of the 135-pound weight class tonight will face a tough road ahead as three boxers considered to be favorites for the title all drew first-round byes. Senior Matt Fumagali, captain and Boxing Club president, drew the spot at the top of the bracket. Sophomore Tony Hollowell, who upset Fumagali last year in the first round on his way to the finals before being defeat­ed by Joshua Coleman, drew the bye at the bottom of the bracket. 

"This class did not fill out, but the boxers in it are strong fighters," said sophomore 
T.J. D'Agostino, who drew the third bye in the bracket. 
At the top of the bracket, sparring part­ners Luke Dillon and Pedro Alves will square off for the right to fight the favorite Fumagali. 
Since the two fighters have sparred against each other, their styles should be familiar. 
"Luke has dropped about 13 pounds to fight in this class," Alves said. "When we sparred, I was faster than him and was able to throw clusters ofpunches. Since he's big­ger than me, he'll try to keep me away with his jab, and I'll have to try to get inside." 
In the top half of the bracket, senior Thomas McGree will take on classmate Richie "The Funky Cold" Redina and sopho­mores Jacob Cusack and Matt "The Bull Dog" Welsh will square off. 
In the bottom half of the bracket, juniors Kevin "I Pity Da" Hool and Chris "Please Turn Your Head And" Hoffman will fight for the right to take on D'Agostino. 
Hollowell will fight the winner of the matchup between Jon "Tejano Terror" Valenzuela and Matt Shulha. 

145-pounds 

Competition in the 145-pound weight class should be fierce with 16 fighters all competing in the first round tonight. With no byes available, even the favorites are subject to the open-round upset. 
"This a great class, and it's wide open since there are no byes," senior Jamar Tisby said. "These guys are some great fighters and I'm confident that any one of them w~uld put up a good challenge." 
Tisby may be viewed as one of the favorites, having advanced to the finals last year before loosing the championship match to Michael Waldo. 
Tisby will square off against freshman Ryan "The Tenacious Townie" Brady. 
At the other end of the bracket is one of the Boxing Oub captains Andrew "Golden Arms" Harms. Harms, considered one of the other favorites in the class will face off against junior Patrick Healy. 
Healy, who is competing in his first Bengal Bouts, remains optimistic despite the tough opening-round draw. 
"It's my first year, but you've got to fight the good fighters sometime," Healy said. "All you can do is remain confident and do your best." 
In other fights in the top of the bracket, sophomore Joe "Marnrna" Shonkwiler will square off against Tim "Pummelin" Hurn!. Jon "The Thunder from Down Under" Pribaz fights Matt "No Fat" Pyle and Sam "The Big Easy" Fuller takes on Eric Eddy. 
On the other side of the bracket, senior Daniel "Aztec Warrior" Gonzalez draws the freshman Nathan "Low Blow" Lohmeyer. Freshman Andy "The Sweet Computer Scientist" Callan fights junior Brent Lawton and Ryan "Rock Skin" Rogers faces Ted Volz. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu. 

Bengals 
continued from page 28 
their Notre Dame career pass by with­out stepping into the ring. 
"It was my last year at Notre Dame and I just wanted to be a part of it," said Kevin Conoscenti who has two roommates who fought in the Bouts before. 
The experience of training and work­ing out with the club is more important to Conoscenti than whether he wins or loses tonight. 
"If you don't enjoy training, it's not worth it," he said. "You are going to be in the ring for possibly 30 seconds. I've enjoyed the training and doing some• thing that is a big tradition and for a good cause." 
Many of the first year boxers expressed nervousness about fighting in front of a large crowd. Baker said he just hoped he didn't look foolish tonight. 
"Am I worried about completely embarrassing myself?" he said with a laugh. "Yes but hopefully that won't happen." 
The most important thing for first year fighters to reme!llber, two-~i~~ champion and captain Mark Cnmtl said, is to enjoy the experience. 
"They are never going to have anoth­er opportunity like this after they grad­uate," Criniti said. 
The most important piece of advice that Christoforetti got from his champi­on brother had nothing to do with tech­nique or strategy. 
"He suggested that I go to the grotto and pray and just enjoy it for what it is," he said. "Whatever happens in the fight, just appreciate the experience and enjoy it rather than focusing on winning and losing." 
Contact Mike Connolly at Connol1y.28@nd.edu. 
Looking for a night ofmusic and dancing with aforeignflavor? Well, look no further ... 
-

I ISCO 
eca 
is here! 

Club Beats froni 
Europe and---.Latin An1erica A :f,REE event Satllrday, February 2_3, 2002 Alumni-Senior Club All Ages Welcome! 
9p.m.-10 p.m. Dance Lessons 10p.m.-1:30 a.m. Dance-Fiesta! Come for food, drinks and.fun! Sponsored by The Spanish Club 


. 
' 
I. 
Ii 
I I I 
' 
I 
' 
; 
' 
. 
' 
I 
I 

l1 
l 


I, 
_ 
. 
' 
page 20 
HOCKEY 
Irish look for surge to playoffs 
By MATT ORENCHUK 
Sports Writer 
After a weekend off, the Notre Dame men's hockey team hits the road this weekend to take on the Lake Superior State Lakers. The biggest question for the Irish will be whether the time off will help or hurt the team. 
The last game Notre Dame played was a big one. They defeated No. 3 ranked Michigan State on the Spartans home ice. The Irish win ended Michigan State's 33-game home winning streak, and snapped Notre Dame's six game losing streak. 
However, any momentum the Irish gained from that win might have been negated by the two weeks in which all they have done is skate in practice. At the same time, the time off might also help heal those nagging injuries that always seem to occur in the final stretch of the season. 
Lake Superior State currently is last in the CCHA with a 4-18-2 conference record. Two of the conference losses for the Lakers were to Notre Dame back in December. The Irish defeated Lake Superior State 7-0 and 5-2 for a two game sweep. 
Lake Superior State's leading scorer is Adam Nightingale, who has six goals and nine assists over the season. Unlike Notre Dame, who has stuck with goal­tender Morgan Cey most of the season, Lake State likes to rotate their goaltenders. Matt Violin has appeared in 15 games, Terry Denike 14, and Scott Murray 10. Violin has the best stats of the three, with a 3-6-2 record and a . 920 save percent­age. 
The Irish are looking to play some consistent hockey going into the final two weeks of the season. Offensively, Notre Dame has been consistent this season. They currently have the No. 6 scorer in the league in Connor Dunlop, and the No. 10 scorer in David Inman. 
The uncertainty lies with the 
Notre Dame defense. On Feb_. 2 
and 3, the Irish gave up 13 goals 
in two losses to Alaska­
Fairbanks. The next weekend 
against Michigan State the 
defense only gave up four goals 
in splitting the series. 
For Notre Dame, these last 
two weekends of hockey will 
determine positioning for the 
CCHA playoffs. Currently the 
Irish are ninth in the CCHA with 
20 points. 
The drive to the finish for the 
Notre Dame hockey team will 
begin when the puck drops at 
7:05 p.m. 
Contact Matt Orenchuk at morenchu@nd.edu . 
A FREE SPRING BREAK! .-· 
-Ho~l1..'Sf Qef.Uoatiol lSIF'anh.tt,1 Low.ist Prices GuaraottM:id! Best Alrlines/Hulttlsl Fr68 Fopd! 2 f:ruu Trips on 15 Saleti. Earn Cut.hi Gr::>up Disto1111Jti! Oook•nnlinu. www.•&m11plashtot1r1i.com 
1--800-42G--7710 
. 
JOBS Model needed for Figure Drawing Classes. $12/hr. Please call Art Dept. 631,7602 for info. Male and Female models needed 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 22, 2002 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles in 5th after first day of MIAA 
By KATIE McVOY 
Associace Sports Editor 

Despite feeling a little tired from taper workouts, the Belles are in the thick of things at the MIM Tournament. 
Heading into this weekend's competition, head coach Greg Petcoff was looking optimistical­ly toward a third place finish. After the first leg of the three­day competition, the Belles are in fifth place, only four points behind fourth place team Alma. The Belles are a mere 18 points behind third place team Kalamazoo, a team the Belles beat in dual meet competition earlier this season. 
"I think we're not so far behind, we haven't lost touch with Kalamazoo up there," Petcoff said. "Albion lin sixth place] behind us are probably saying the same thing. We haven't broken free of them, but obviously. Between the three of us it could come down to a real close third day battle, but Albion could throw in some great swims and make it a third day battle." 
But the Belles could have a leg-up in third day competition. Saint Mary's has been a second half team; the Belles came from behind in that win against Kalamazoo. With that in mind, Saturday's events are Saint Mary's strongest and as long as they keep in close proximity to the third and fourth place teams. they have a solid chance of a top three finish. 
"We've been very strong in second half events and I think what that might lend itself to is the possibility that the third day, with the 200 fly and the 200 breast, we could have our best day," Petcoff said. "I think each day there will be strong events and some maybe not so strong. But our third day could possibly be our best day." 
Saint Mary's produced one top three finisher on Thursday in sophomore Megan Ramsey. 

Ramsey, a sophomore who is the Belles' best bet for a nation­al qualifier, took home third place in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 5 minitues 18.12 seconds. Defending champion Michelle Smith from llope took home first. Although she and Petcoff were looking for a little better time. her third place fin­ish met their goal. 
.. I think time wise we were hoping for a little it more but with the training she was a little bit tired and ultimately when we went into the evening she did what we wanted," Petcoff said. "When you swimming in the evening finals, you do swim for third place. She was seeded third and that's what she could do. The goal was third and she met it." 
Saint Mary's two relay teams, the 200-yard freestyle relay and the 400-yard medley relay, both took home fourth place finishes. The 200-yard team finished in 1:41.81, just five seconds behind first place finisher Hope. 
The 400-yard team was 14 sec­onds behind the first place fin­ishing team. 
The Belles had two place fin­ishers in the 50-yard freestyle event. Maureen Palchak fin­ished in ninth place with a tmie of 0:25.78 and teammate Lane Herrington finished right on her heels with a time of 0:25.80. 
"Some of those relay swim­mers in the prelims had great swims. So I think some of those people we're hoping will be in the 5-12 are really primed and ready to come through," Pctcoff said. "Our better days are ahead." 
After the first six events, Hope has a controlling first place lead, with 198 team points. Calvin is in second with 159. 
Today, the next 11 events of the tournament will take place, beginning with the preliminary for the 200-yard freestyle relay, 
Contact Katie McVoy at mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 





Domino's Pina Team Notre Dame 
1627 SEdison Ave 
South Bend, IN 
271-0300 
Store Hours: Mon thru Thurs 4 pm to 1am Fri & Sat 11 am to 3:15 am,. sun 11 am to 1 


This Weekend Only After Eight Special 
Large Cheese Pizza $6.99, Extra Topping $.99 Each Add On Bread Sticks Or A 2L Coke For $1.99 Offer Only Valid After 8:00 P~1 This \lleekend Only Offer expires Feb 24/02, Present This Add To The Driver 


• 



Friday, February 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Doubles matches crucial to Irish 
5-5 record so far this season. "Iowa's had lots of injuries Hokies. Virginia Tech enters
By COLIN BOYLAN 

"I don't know why [the dou­this season but they're going to this weekend with a 6-2 record 
Sports Writer 

bles point has been such a be at full strength this week­and a No. 75 national ranking. 
strong indicator of success],'' end," said sophomore Alicia As for Salas, she is just seek­As the Notre Dame women's said head coach Jay Salas. "And they've always ing to maintain the momentum tennis team approaches a Louderback. "I given us trou­she has built thus far in the sea­weekend face-off with Iowa and ble in the son. A reserve player for much
just think 

"/just think there's such 
Virginia Tech. it has a pretty there's such past, so were of her freshman year, the clear idea of what it will take to parity in the parity in the college treating this sophomore has emerged as one earn a pair of victories. Simply college game game today that the dou­as a very the Irish 's most consistent 
put, the team needs to win the today that the · important threats this season.
bles point bec01nes cru­
doublc~s point. doubles point match." Currently, she is riding a 13 
In the 10 matches the Irish becomes cru­cial in a seven point Louderback match winning streak and have played this season, the cial in a seven match.,, agreed. building upon the strengths she team has won the doubles point point match." "Iowa developed in the off-season. five times and lost five times. In While on knocked us "I played lots of matches over each of those competitions, the paper, one Jay Louderback out of the the summer and worked on my winner of that point has gone point shouldn't head coach NCAAs a cou­serve a lot," said Salas about on to win the match. be a big deal ple of years her success. "But we're working 
When tlw Irish take on the against the No. 48-ranked ago, so we know how danger­on team success above aB." Hawkcyes on Friday and the Hawkcycs, the Irish realize that ous they can be," he said. Hokies on Sunday, they will Iowa is much better than their The Irish will follow up their 
need to be on top of their dou­1-4 season record would indi-Friday match by traveling to Contact Colin Boylan at bles games to improve on their cate. Blacksburg, Va. to take on the cboylan@nd.edu. 
0 

How do you pray? 
Taize
Lectio Divina 
Ignatian Meditation

Rosary Adoration Stations of the Cross 
Praise & Worship Mass 
Wall( around the Lal(es 
Throughout history, people of faith have developed many creative ways to pray. No Greater Love is a day long retreat that offers you a chance to try some of these ways for yourself through inspirational talks and student-led music-filled prayer. Come experience something new. 
Keynote Speaker: Chandra Johnson Music led by Danielle Rose 
Other contributors include: Fr. ]. Steele, csc & Fr. Nick Ayo, csc 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD 
10 A.M. • COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER BREAKFAST, LUNCH & DINNER PROVIDED (LOSING MASS BEGINS@ 6:30 P.M. 

No sign up required • Space is Limited First 50 people get a FREE No 0ivc-atc-v L-ovc-T-Shirt 
For More Info: Go to www.nd.edu/ -nglove or Call 1-3250 
i•••••••• ::.'!11•~-­

FENCING 
Fencers return to action 
By MATT LOZA.Fl 
Sports Writer 
Mter a weekend off, the Notre Dame men's and women's fenc­ing teams return to action this weekend at the Wayne State Duals. 
While Notre Dame is the only team at the meet ranked in the top 10 nationally in both men's and women's competition, Andre Crompton knows this contest isn't meaningless. 
"I don't want us to get too overconfident because we still have some unfinished busi­ness," said the senior sabre­man. "\Ve still have to accom­plish our goal of having an undefeated season. But it is nice that some of the guys that don't usually get to travel can make the trip and get some experi­ence." 
Leading the men's team so far this season has been its three captains. Junior foilist Ozren Debic, junior epeeist Jan Viviani and Crompton have compiled a combined 98-10 record through the team's first three meets. 
"I know we [the captains] have just focused on winning," Crompton said. "We are trying to lead by example." 
Earlier this week, the men's team returned to the top spot in the country and claimed the No.1 ranking in the national poll. Coincidentally, last year during the same week, the men's team took over as the No. 1 team in the nation. 
"We shouldn't get too over­confident about this pre-tourna­ment ranking," said Crompton. "We are still the underdogs going into NCAAs since we fin­ished third last year." 
Last weekend, freshman Derek Snyder finished fifth in the junior men's foil at the Junior Olympics in Columbus, Ohio. Snyder is sti1l ranked sec­ond nationally in the junior men's foil. 
While the men's team moved up a spot in the national rank­ings, the women's team dropped to No. 3. Its loss to St. John's and split with Northwestern led to the change in the poll. 
Two weeks ago, the women's team compiled a 4-0 record. They look to regain that momentum this weekend. 
"Wayne State should be a nice practice meet," said sophomore Destanie Milo. "We are going to take it really easy, take our time and do our best." 
Having last weekend off, the 
Irish W(;lfe. .a;bJe \~r.u.sr. ~hei,r practice time to focus on becoming sharper and more prepared for the rest of the sea­son. 
"We have been working on the basics, doing some drills. and did a little bit of condition­ing,"Milo said. 
Besides host Wayne State, Detroit-Mercy, Lawrence, Michigan and Michigan State will be competing this weekend at the duals in Detroit. 
Next wef~kend, the Irish will host their only home meet of the year, the f\1idwest Fencing Conference Championships. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu. l~: ____ : .... ---~-------:.J 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 22, 2002 

By KATIE McVOY 
Associate Sports Editor 
At the beginning of the season, with a 2-4 record, the Irish were looking at a season that looked like it might never end. But now, with only two games left to play, Notre Dame is on an eight-game winning streak and just one win away from clinching the No. 2 spot in the Big East. 
Earlier in the year, the focus was on six freshman who would had a heavy load on their shoul­ders. But in recent games, it has been the Irish veterans that have stepped up and taken the lead and the spotlight. 
Junior guard Alicia Ratay has been the leading scorer for the Irish in their last two wins, with 25 and 31 points respectively. And a much-improved Ericka Haney has finished up with dou­ble figures in the last four games and stopped some of the toughest individual competition for the Irish. including West Virginia's Kate Bolger. 
As the Irish head into Georgetown on Saturday to face off against the 12-13 Hoy8:s, Haney will have to step up agam. Her assignment this time: post­player Rebekkah Brunson. 
"It's just like every player Ericka's had to guard," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "I feel like each game I'm saying the same thing over and over aga~. 'Ericka, the key to the game 1s this player and you have to guard her.'" 


Brunson has been they key to what success Georgetown has had this season. After sitting out six weeks with an injury, she returned to the Georgetown line­up and has been helped the team to three victories in its last seven. She averages nearly 16 points a game and promises to be a threat to the Irish defense. 
"[Brunson] is capable of getting double-double and taking the team, dbviously when she wasn'.! in they didn't win a lot of games, McGraw said. 

I , 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish veterans step up down the stretch 
Haney will have her work cut out for her. Used to guarding perimeter players, Haney will take on the new challenge of a post-player who scores off ~he block and is capable of grabbmg a lot of rebounds for her team. 
"I think Ericka can shut her down. and this is a little different for her because she's more of a post-up sort of a pla~er. _a rebounding player and Ericka IS so good on the perimeter," McGraw said. "It will be a little bit of a challenge for her. Brunson is a lot bigger than she is." 
However, Brunson isn't new to Haney. This summer Haney and Brunson were teammates on the mg East touring team and spent time together, working for the same team, in Germany. 
With Haney leading the charge on defense, the Irish will also have to look out for freshman guard Mary Llsicki who leads the Hoyas in 3-point shots and sets up a solid inside-outside game for the Boyas. 
"[Lisicki] is someone we're going to have to find on the perimeter," McGraw said. "So_ I guess an inside, outside team 1s always a problem." 
Despite the fact that the Irish have struggled on the road t~is season, they have found a routme in recent gams. A win on Saturday would bring their road winning percentage up from the very slow start at the beginning of the season. 
"If we win this game we'll be . 500 on the season and coming from whatever we started from, that's a really big jump," McGraw said. 
Notes: 
. 
Freshman Jackie Batteast will be sidelined again due to a leg injury, but should be ready for Big East Tournament play. . 

.Junior 
guard Jeneka Joyce 1s still questionable for play. 


Contact Katie McVoy it mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
CAPPADOCIA • CoLLESEA • AEGEAN SEA -ISTANBUL· ANKARA-ANTIOCH ·TARsus: EPHESUS iCONIA 
TOUR MEETING: COME DISCOVER "fHE ANCIENTCHRISTIANSITES OF TURKEY: AUGUST 9·2 1,


',, 

2002!!! 

. 
ALL-INCLUSIVE TOUR: THE FOOTSTEPS OF ST. PAUL AND THE FATHERS OF THE CHURCH WITH FR. BRIAN DALEY, S. J.! CONTACT: FR. DALEY: 1-6629 (FACULTY ADVISOR) JEANNE-NICOLE SAINT-LAURENT (STUDENT PLANNER): 4-3 1SS MEETING: FRIDAY FEB. 22, 2001 , 4:30 P.M. -320 MALLOY 


r , 
I, {· 
' 
Men 
continued from page 28 
their home court in 14 outings 
this season. 
"They are a great basketball team, a very effective machine," Brey said. 
For the Irish, who are coming off a dominating Wednesday win against conference bottom­dweller \\lest Virginia, a victory against No. 17 Miami is key in • securing the team's post-sea­son plans. 
"A win would mean a lot," freshman point guard Chris Thomas said. "They have big wins. They're a great team. Their RPI is so high it would definitely help our RPI." 
Notre Dame has had mixed results against ranked teams this season. 
The good news for the Hurricanes is that the Irish own only a 2-4 record when match­ing up with ranked opponents. But the bad news is in the four games they have dropped, the Irish have lost by a combined total of 16 points, meaning they can hang with the best of them. 
And that's exactly what the Irish plan to do Saturday. 
"It's going to be a hell of a game," forward David Graves said. "It's going to be fun." 
According to Brey, the keys to an Irish win will lie in his team's ability to rebound and take care of the ball. 
"Their length bothers you on the court," Brey said. 
Miami has much riding on Saturday's outing. 
One more notch in the win column will give the program its best regular season record in more than a decade, with two games still left to play. 
A win would also give the Hurricanes their fourth-consec­utive victory against the Iris_h. . 
Coming into the game, M1am1 boasts a balanced attacking field. All five starters average double-figure scoring numbers and the team has outscored its opponents by an average of almost 10 points a game. Forwards Darius Rice and John Salmons lead the Miami offense. averaging about 14 points and six rebounds game. 


"They don't have one single go-to player, but they play very well together," Graves said. 
But Irish forward Ryan Humphrey thinks the Irish pose a similar challenge to the Hurricanes with the depth Notre Dame has coming off the bench . 
"It's tough for people to just key in on the starters," he said. 
One starter who may be noticeably absent from the Irish line-up is junior guard Matt Carroll. Carroll re-injured his foot in the first-half of Wednesday's game and accord­ing to Brey on Wednesday night is "questionable" for Saturday. 
The match-up with Miami is the third-to-last regular season game for the Irish before they head to New York for the Big East Championship. 
Contact Kerry Smith at Smith.387@nd.edu. 


Friday, February 22, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
BASEBALL 

Irish eager to open season in New Orleans 
Tournament win, and we year. \'Ve're going to try to score By CHRIS FEDERICO haven't gotten to the College going to try to score more runs 
A~sistanr Sporrs Editor 

World Series. I think those are for them to help them get their 
things we can do." feet wet." 
The Notre Dame baseball team The Irish return to play this Returning as the probable top enjoyed a marquee season last year with one of the most experi­starter is junior Peter Ogilvie, year, winning a school-record enced teams they have ever who started seven games last 49 games and reaching the No. 1 fielded. Notre Dame returns 16 year with a 5-1 record and 1.90 ranking in both tlw Collegiate of 21 letter-winners from last ERA. Classmate J.P. Gagne will Baseball and Baseball America season, including seven of eight likely occupy the next starter polls for the first time in the pro­starters in the field. position. gram's history. "I think we have a really expe-Gagne threw 70.2 innings last 
Following rienced team this season, tallying a 5.35 ERA and such a suc­year, especially in a 5-5 record. In addition, the
"We 're fired up. We 're 

cess f u I the position play­Irish return t\-\O of their top 2001 sea-just getting through the ers," senior cap­relievers from last season in son, the practices inside. and I tain Andrew juniors Matt Laird and Brandon Irish are Bushey said. "I Villoria, who notched ERA's of
just can't wait to get out­

more than think we pretty 3.09 and 3.32, respectively. ready to there and play.... much know what "I think \vith our pitching staff, rPturn to we have to do we have some veterans that have thP dia-mentally and done the job day in and day out,
Steve Stanley

mond as physically to get but we also have some young
Irish centerfielder

they travel ready for this sea-guys that probably just need to New son." some confidence," Bushey said. Orleans this weekend for three Like Stanley, Bushey is another "As older position players, we games with l'vlissouri, the four-year starter who is expect­know that at the beginning of the University of New Orleans and ed to split time bP.tween catcher year, we can't play around. We Southern Illinois. and third base with classmate have to really start producing 
"We'rn fired up," Irish center­Paul O'Toole, another four-vear runs early to get them that confi­fielder Steve Stanlcv said. "We're starter who spent his first three dence and that maturity." just getting througl; th£~ practices seasons entirely behind the In addition to the many experi­inside, and Ijust can't wait to get plate. enced players, the Irish enter out there and play." Unlike last season, when the this season with the top-ranked 
The senior captain is coming Irish relied heavily on its pitch­class of freshmen, according to off of the best year of his colle­ing and on the strong arms of Baseball America. Most notably giate carper. Stanley batted .400 graduates Aaron Heilman and is shortstop Matt Macri, who last yf'ar and was nam(~d Rig Danny Tamayo, Notre Dame will should start right away for short­East Co-Plaver of the Year, earn­bP largely untested on the stop Alec Porzel, the only posi­ing nation~! All-American hon­mound. All of the returning tion player the Irish failed to ors. The four-year starter, how­pitchers to the Irish staff com­carry over from last season. ever. isn't as concerned with bined for only 49 percent of the Other freshmen that are likely individual goals as he is with innings pitched last season, as to have an early impact on the helping his team take that final Heilman and Tamayo handled Irish are pitchers Chris Niesel. step to the College \Norld Series. the bulk of the assignments. John Axford and Scott Bickford. 
"This year, I just want to go "I think even though we have a Niese!, a high school All­out there and have a good time young pitching staff, it's going to American according to Baseball and improve my individual help us and contribute a lot," America, is slated as the starter game, but most importantly help Stanley said. "We've got a very for Notre Dame's game Sunday the team in any way I can," experienced and veteran group against Southern Illinois. Stanley said. "As a team, \\'e just of hitters. and we're just going to The most difficult task the Irish haven't yet attained that Big East hnlp each other out during the could have to overcome in this 
INSTfTUTE f,1r 


Hispanic leadersl1ip Intern Program (HLIP) 
UNIVERSfTV OF' NOTl=fE: DAM£ 

Theyuryose efthis internsfi~ is to imme!-se students in 'Hi~anic comniu~iities where they resyond to ~pecific areas efneed through vanous_programs. Student interns wf([{ive in a 'Jfi~anic community_for eight weeks ctiiring the sum.mer. 
General Inlormation: 

* 
An eight-week summer internship in the Latino communities in metropolitan Chicago working with youth, community organizing, or a health clinic. 

* 
Leadership is emphasized 


* 
$2300 tuition stipend plus living stipend -.->· 

* 
Room and board 

* 
Three Theology credits 



DEADLINE EXTENDED to Tuesday, February 26th, 2002 Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for Latino Studies Contact cknight2@nd.edu ,vith any questions 
" ...Finally, I realized that "service" is not so much about u·hat you do; it is where you are. While my soccer game and my Spanish eventually improved, I learned that my most importantjob in Pilsen, was just living there. The act of "being present"for others necessarily begins with sharing a 
C E N ·T E R F O R 
h ,, 

ome .... SOCIAL 
•Miguel Vieyra (ND '03) CONCERNS 
Participated in the HllP last year in the Chicago Pilsen neighborhood 


first part of the season is 18-tournaments in Louisiana, straight road games. Much of Florida and Texas, inay hurt the their early competition will Irish out of the gates -especial~ include Southern schools that ly since their top ranking during 
have had the advantage of warm the season last year has madt> weather and the ability to play many other teams aware of their and practice outside before. ability -but the players fully Northern schools like NotrP anticipate a season at least as Dame. successful as the one last year. 
"The biggest adjustment [to "I think you might not see us the traveling] is that we have to get out to a start like we did last play Southern schools who have year," Stanley said. "Maybe you been outside and adjusted to the will -I don't know. But I think weather and everything else for that towards the end of the sea­at least a month," Bushey said. son, we 're going to be right "My sophomore and junior where we were last year." years, our first game was the first time we had been outside all year. It just takes a while to get adjusted to playing outside." 
Contact Chris Federico at

The long Southern road trips, 
cfederic@nd.edu.

in which the Irish will play in 

GREAT WALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan • Cantonese • American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days Lunch Special $4.75 -Mon. Fri 11 :30 • 3:00 PM Dinner Starting at $6.45 Sunday -Thursday 11 :30 AM • 10:00 PM Friday· Saturday 11 :30 AM· 11 :00 PM 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
222 Dixie Way, South Bend (219) 272•737& 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 

}\tl()J"S f,,r()lll rl1l1r· l-1Hl(l(Hl St,1g1~ 
Macbeth 
Wednesday, February 20 ............. 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 21 ................. 7:30 p.m. Friday, February 22 ...................... 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 23 ................. 7:30 p.m. 

Playing at Washington Hall • University of Notre Dame Reserved Seats $16 • Seniors $14 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 


SALT LAKE 2002 


page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 22, 2002 

BOBSLED 

2001 ND graduate competes in Olympics 
Gyulai said through e-mail earli­By NOAH AMSTADTER 
er this month, explaining his 
Sports Editor 

squad's limitations. "Even though we won an amateur race Two weekends ago, the Notre in Lake Placid, we are still a very Dame track and field team had young sport in Hungary. \!Ve just stepped off the bus and was finance most of the events and checking into their hotel in travel ourselves, which is not 
Windsor, Canada, where they cheap a sled costs
as new had a meet the next day. around $25,000. For this reason As the athletes waited for their 
we do not have a sled but rent room assignments, somebody one at every competition."flipped on the television to watch 
In fact, bobsledding as a sportthe Opening Ceremonies for the in Hungary is just 10 years old. Winter Olympics. The camera Back then, two young men were scanned the athletes, showing looking for fun and decided to faces from countries spanning give the sport a try. The worst Nepal to Cameroon. that could happen, they though, 
All of the sudden, a face from is that they would fun sliding
Hungary appeared on the down the hill at a speed of more 
screen, a face quite familiar to than 90 miles per hour. the Irish athletes. One of those men was Miklos 
It was Marton Gyulai, a 2001 Gyulai, Marlon's older brother Notre Dame graduate who com­who went on to compete for peted in the sprints for the Irish Hungary in the four-man event 

the previous four seasons. in 1994, when the team placed"The Opening Ceremonies 28th, and 1998, when the team were going on and for some rea­placed 24th. The elder Gyulai son they kind of zoomed in on also competed in the 4x100 Marton," Notre Dame sprint meter relay in the 2000 Sydney
coach John Millar said. "That Summer Olympics. Former Notre Dame student and Knott Hall RA Marton Gyulai ( second from right) stands with was kind of the talk of the meet · After watching all the fun that his teammates. The former Irish sprinter will compete for Hungary in the four-man bobsled. for a little while there." he was having, younger brother 
I, no space, and you are f1ying of a program. I think he had a that event, he must have shown 
I Gyulai, whose father and Marton wanted to try his hand at 
down an ice tunnel over 80 to 90 really strong work ethic that some abilities in it as well. I'm ', I brother have both previously bobsledding as a child. But the 
mph." people caught off of and saw sure you don't just walk out
represented Hungary in the rules stated that one cannot sit 
But Gyulai soon adjusted, and what he would do." there and jump on the sled andOlympics, is carrying on the fam­in a sled before the age of 18. By quickly found his way onto the Although Gyulai never all of the sudden become a bob­ily tradition as a member of his the time Marton was 18, he was 
national team. approached his brother's sledder."
country's four-man bobsled already enrolled as a student at 
"I no longer think about the Olympic numbers during his The Olympic experience has
team. Competition begins today Notre Dame. 

problems there could be," Gyulai time at Notre Dame -he suf­been interesting for Gyulai. who
at 5:30 p.m. EST at Utah's So when Marton returned 
said. "I am no longer scared by fored a torn knee ligament dur­says he is enjoying the atmos­Olympic Park. home after graduation, his the speed at which this thing ing his freshman season -he phere in the Olympic Village.
Gvulai's four-man team, which brother had an opportunity wait­flies, but enjoy the extreme situ­did earn a monogram last fall, "The town is nic1~. the peoplealso includes Nicholas Frankl, ing. The younger Gyulai first sat ation and thrive on it." when he finished fifth in the 60~ are great, you can really feelPeter Pallai and Bertalan Pinter in a sled this fall, an experienc(~ If the team reaches its goal of meters in an indoor dual meet they made a huge effort here,"took first place at the America's he will not soon forget. 
improving on its prior 24th-place against Michigan State and 13th he said. "The security is so-so.
Cup in Lake Placid, N.Y.. on Dec. "Initially, it was horrible," said 
finish and makes the top 20, in the 100-meters at Purdue's Some places it is extremely
15, 2001, edging out the Gyulai, who also worked as an some of that success can be Boilermaker Ope~. harsh, other places it is surpris­Austrian, United States and RA in Knott Hall last year. "You attributed to Gyulai's leadership "He enjoyed the sport," said ingly low. However, I feel safeCroatian teams. are shoved into a very tiny spot, and hard work, an attribute he Millar, who has coached multiple and enjoy it a whole lot. I don'tDespite that success, Gyulai with carbon fiber walls on either showed often as a member of the Olympic athletes in his career, think there will be any prob­realizes the competition in Salt side, no seats but a metal sheet track team at Notre Dame. but only Gyulai in a sport other lems."
Lake City today will be far that you sit on, nothing to really "Marton was a guy that came than track and field. "I think partgreater, so his expectations are hold on to. You wear a helmet, a out and would do anything you of that is why he did the bobsled­realistic. speed suit and a pair of spikes, asked him to do," Millar remem­ding. It's something that he"Hungary does not have a real­someone behind you probably bered. "I think he really liked enjoys doing I'm sure and obvi­Contact Noah Amstadter at istic chance of winning a medal, accidentally rested their spikes 
being part of the team and part ously making the Olympics in namstadt@nd.edu.
not even to be in the top l 0," in your calf just because there is 



WOMEN'S HOCKEY 

Canada upsets Americans 
: 
Associated Press 


WEST VALLEY CITY, Utah America's great winning streak ended at the worst time possible. 
I, Canada beat the U.S. women's hockey team 3-2 on Thursday night to win the gold medal and halt America's 35-game
' r \ string of victories, which included eight straight against the Canadians. Hayley Wickenheiser broke a second­period tie and Kim St-Pierre stopped 25 shots as Canada ended a SO-year gold medal drought in Olympic hockey. Canada, the seven-time world champi­ons, avenged a loss in the gold-medal game of the inaugural women's tourna­ment in Nagano four years ago. It is the first Olympic gold for Team Canada ­male or female -since 1952, when the men won for the sixth time in seven tries. And it was no fluke. The Canadians con­trolled the flow of play, and killed seven of America's nine power-play chances. The balance of power between the world's two best teams -far and away -shifted back to north of the border. Wayne Gretzky was called in to restore 

the men's program, but it was Wickenheiser who ended the drought with her goal 4:10 into the second period, knocking the rebound of Danielle Goyette's shot past Sara DeCosta to make it 2-1. 
Decosta stopped 26 shots, but defender Sue Merz -who went to the ice trying to stop the original shot -was in the goalie's way as she tried to get to Wickenheiser's shot. 
Canada made it 3-1 with one second left in the second when Jayna Hefford grabbed a bouncing puck with her glove, placed it in front of her stick and shot it off Decosta. The puck landed behind her and trickled into the net. 
The United States pulled within one when Karyn Bye's shot deflected off a Canadian stick into the net with 3:33 left in the game. Despite pulling Decosta after a timeout with l: 14 left, the Americans couldn't tie it. 
The Canadians poured over the boards onto the ice at the final buzzer, throwing their equipment into the air. Having beat­en the United States in every world cham­pionship ever played, the Olympic gold was the one prize they still sought. 
FIGURE SKATING 
Hughes shocks world, captures skating gold 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY 
Michelle Kwan's medals collec­tion still is incomplete. The gold she came back to win belongs, once again, to another American teen-ager -Sarah Hughes. 
Hughes, with the performance of her young life, soared from fourth place to win the free skate and the title Thursday night in one of the biggest upsets in Olympic figure skating history. 
While Hughes played the same role as Tara Lipinski four years ago, Kwan made two major mis­takes to fall to third, behind Russian Irina Slutskaya, who won the silver medal. 
But Hughes was sensational and the rest of the competitors were ordinary. 
Her mouth dropped open and tears sprang from her eyes when the marks showed she had won. Coach Robin Wagner, who was sitting beside her, screamed and the two of them hugged. 
Hughes showed none of the tension of her short program, rol­licking through seven triple jumps, five in combination. 
The smile on Hughes' face grew along with the crowd's din, and she nearly doubled over in joy when she finished a captivating program. Wagner, meanwhile, practically jumped over the side­boards to hug the youngster, who responded magnificently in the biggest moment of her life. 
Kwan did not respond nearly as well as her fellow countrywoman. She fell on a triple flip, two-foot­ed another triple jump in combi­nation and didn't skate with the passion and fire that has become her trademark in world and U.S. championships. 

-

Friday, February 22, 2002 

The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
BENGAL BOUTS 165-POUNDS -170-POUNDS 
Crosse, Matassa appear favorites for 165-pounds 
By BRIAN BURKE 
Sports Writer 

One look at the 165-pound bracket shows that there are two obvious front runners for the title: junior captain Clay Cosse and Chriss Matassa. Matassa narrowly lost a split decision thriller to Brock Heckman last year in the 150-pound final. 
Fighting for the right to take on Matassa will be Wyatt "Shifty" Shiflett and Justin "The ResLife Regular" Meyers. Meyers was a semifinalist last year at 165 pounds. 
The other end of the bracket has Matt "Diesel" Wilkerson facing off against first timer Mike "The Scottish Nightmare" MacRitche, with the winner taking on Cosse. 
The weight class has several other inexperienced fighters. The 
'preliminary bouts pitting Will "Muhammed" Holley against Mark "The Holy Ghost" Yost, Patrick "Moo Hair" Muehr and Nick "The Silent Assassin" Nanovic, Matt "The Meat Hook" Seidler and Michael "Bike Mike"_ McDonald, and David "The Double Barreled" Cannon against Matthew Klobucher all feature competitors making Bengal Bouts debuts. 
"You can see there's mixed emo­tions with the fights starting," Cannon said. "There's some ten­sion building in practice, you can see it in the Pit [the auxillary gym in the Joyce Center where the box­ers train]. 
170-pounds 
The 170-pound weight class should be one of the more enter­taining in the tournament, not only 
Brother/Sister 
Dorm. Tug..Q-War 
Tournament $100 ht PRIZES!! 
Sponsored by Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls 
0,-..IFI~ 
n11e FIUDAYRB 2211d fpm @ Holy ,s..,.. 11111 
(et. Mal'\l"s lake) 
because of its competitiveness, but 
the makeup of the fighters as well. 
"It's a real aggressive weight class," said Ryan "Rhino" Hernandez. who faces James Ward in the preliminaries. "There's a nice mix of power and endurance, so you see guys who are able to maintain a barrage throughout the fight." 
Hernandez, who lost a prelimi­nary round bout to eventual finalist Rob Joyce last year, has a slight advantage in experience over the first-time fighter Ward. 
The highlight of the 170 prelimi­naries matches Matt "Rocky Mountain Avalanche" Padilla against Nate Scheid. Last year, both boxers claimed preliminary victories in a relatively inexperi­enced bracket. Padilla lost to even­tual finalist Joyce. 
The only other fighter with . Bengal Bouts experience is Matt "The Booster" Knust, who lost a preliminary bout last year to even­tu al 175-pound champion Mark Criniti. Knust faces freshman Chris "The Count of Monte Fisto" Milliron. 
The other fights pitting Bengal Bouts rookies are Domingo "Lunes" Maynes against T.J. "The Human Punching Bag" Strachota, Geoff "Ragin' Asian" Dennie against William "The Kid" Phillip, Evan "Dysfunctional" Oliver against Kraig "Left On Colfax Right On Hill" Kotteman, Shaun Iversen versus Craig "The Devil's Advocate'' Oliver, and Eric "Broke" Barroso against Patrick "The Irish Curse" McGarry. 
Contact Brian Burke at bburkel@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY 
FEBI<U.Al<Y. 2~lrd 1-4p1n on NortJ1 Quad with kids from TI1ere Are Children Here and Teamwork for Tomn101Tow 

Cam pus Band Stv Pig Roastrv FarmAnimalsrv PopcornrvGamesN ClownrvCotton Ca ndy,vlnflatable Games"'FoodtvKIDS!!IV 
Come make son1e sntores and hear the ~am.pus ?rour 
Har1:-101u:1 pertom1. 

BENGAL Bours 180-POUNDS -HEAVYWEIGHTS 
Criniti awaits opponent 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Two-time champion Mark Criniti received the only bye in the 180-pound weight division and will watch Friday as 14 other fighters battle for a spot to join him in the quarterfinals. 
Criniti will use his extra night off to evaluate poten­tial opponents but he already knows there are several fighters who could take his title from him. 
"There are probably a group of four or five boxers that I would say are real solid boxers," he said. 
In the top part of the bracket, Keith "The Little Ball of Love" Arnold could pose the biggest challenge. The senior is a seasoned veteran of the bouts and made it to the semifinals last year. 
"He's won a few fights," Criniti said. "I see him as being a tough competitor." 
Arnold will face Cimarron "Wild Thing" Gilson in the first round. 
The winner of the Arnold­Gilson fight will await the winner of Kevin "Big Tank" Conoscenti and John "The Brick House" Wahoske. 
Conoscent, a first time fighter, hopes to use his 
reach to  keep the  more  
experienced  Wahoske  
away.  

"I am taller than most people so I just want to keep using my jab," he said. 
Alex Wood will face Eric "Crash Test" Callahan in the other preliminary fight in the top half of the 180­

pound bracket. The winner 
of that fight will face 
Criniti. 

Matt Sarb, a walk-on foot­ball player, is one of the favorites to emerge from the bottom half of the bracket, according to Criniti. Sarb will face law student Eric Goulet in the first round. 
Freshman Jim "Spicy Chicken Combo" Christoforetti faces Chris "The Sweet Scientist" Pearsall in a battle of youth against experience. Christoforetti comes from a good pedigree -his broth­er was a three-time cham­pion -but Pearsall has fought in the Bouts before. The winner will face either Sarb or Goulet 
Doug "As I Dug Your Grave" Lawrence battle law student Justin "Avarice" Alvarez in the first round. The winner will face either John "Shake On" Baker or Tommy "Gun" Demko. 
190-pounds 
Every fighter in the 190­pound weight division will need to win four bouts to be declared champion as no one gets a bye. 
John Lynk faces Shane "The Man in the Black Pajamas" Cooper in lhe first round. Lynk was a semifi­nalist in 2001. 
The winner of that bout will meet either Patrick "Soul Pole" Otlewski or Douglas ."Landon the Lugan" Pope in the second round. 
Fights between Jason "Willie Hayes" Mayes and 
Larry "The Anchor Yanker" 
Rooney and Alexander "Tell 
Your Girlfriend Not To Call 
Me" Menze and William 
Zizic round out the top 
bracket of the 190-pound 
weight class. 
Kevin "Hardcore" Brad} may be the favorite to come out of the bottom bracket. He was a finalist as a sophomore before losing in the semifinals as a junior. He will face Tony Mirabile in the first round. 
The winner of that fight awaits the winner of John "Your Favorite Flavor" Caver and Eddy "I'm Not For Play, Only For Show" Vulin. Vulin is a first time qualifier while Caver lost to eventual champion Josh Thompson in the quarterfi­nals last year. 
Law student Jeremy Gayed fights junior Jose "El Pepe" Ronchetta for ihe right to battle either Rick Hasty or Joshua "Da Flyin' Hawaiian" Kaakua in the quarterfinals. 
Heavyweights 
Knute Rockne started the Bengal Bouts in the 1920s in part to keep football players in shape in the off season. The heavyweight quarterfinals, which will be fought on Sunday, feature two senior walk-on football players -Eric Nelson and Jeffrey Campbell. 
Campbell will fight Herrity while Nelson battles Hinchman. 
Contact Mike Connolly a,t connolly.28@nd.edu. 



page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, February 22, 2002 

BENGAL BOUTS 155-P0UNDS -16O-P0UNDS 

Old bodies, new faces square off in Bouts 
is looking to improve on his per­tion and fight in the Joyce Arena
By PAUL CAMARATA 

formance last year, when as a one week from today. 
Sports Writer 

first year boxer he advanced to The 160-pound division the semifinals of his weight class. includes the only two Notre With a mix of seasoned boxers 
Third year law student Andy Dame boxers who hail from 
and rookies, the 155 and 160 

"The Atomic" Baum will bring overseas. Chris "Can't We All 
pound divisions of this year's 

his age .and the experience of Just" Kitalong, an off-campus
Bengal Bouts olTer many intrigu­

last year's Bouts to the first senior, is a native of Palau, a 
ing matchups. While several vet­

round to face off-campus senior small island southeast of the 
erans will bring both great tech­

Chris "Third Time's A Charm" Philippines in the Pacific Ocean. 
nical skill and past experience to 

Pettit. Fighting in his third A second-year boxer who relies 
the ring starting in tonight's pre­

Bengal Bouts, Pettit will try and on fast hands and athleticism,
liminary rounds, every fan who 

use his skills as a lefty, generally his first round opponent is law
knm,vs the Sweet Science knows 

atypical among boxers, to dis­student Ethan "The Dude" 
that predicting the results of any 

rupt the strong technique that McKinney, ironically, a native of 
given fight can be the most 

Baum has on both offense and nearby Mishawaka, Ind. 
unscientific aspect of the sport. 

defense. The other international match­Second year boxer Mike "The up pits former Dillon Hall rf'si­Militia Man" Melby, a Dillon Hall dent and current off-campus
155-pounds 

junior who is tall among the senior Dan "The Danimal"
Action in the 155 pound divi­

other 155 pound fighters, will try Probst, of Columbia, S.C.. with
sion will begin with seven fights 

to combine his strong jab and third-year law student and cur­
on Friday night. 

long reach to solve Chris Henry, rent Dillon assistant rector John
After winning the 150 pound 

a sophomore from Zahm Hall. "The Chris Reid Shamrock
title in 2001, bruiser Brock 

Brandon "4-1072" Gasser, a Express" Murphy from New
"Landers" Heckmann looks to 

sophomore from Alumni Hall Hoss, Ireland. Probst, who lost a
repeat his success in a different 

boxing for the second year, takes questionable decision as a
weight class. With the ability to 

on another South Quad sopho­sophomore, is eager to return to
withstand punches and his talent 

more in the first round, Fisher's action after missing last year's
as a strong counter puncher. the 

Christopher "Border Bandit" Bouts while abroad.
seasoned Heckmann may be the 

f i' Solis. Two freshman boxers will
boxer to beat at 155 pounds. He has received high marks from strong technical skills to the first 
Off-campus senior Mike square off in the preliminaries
will be challenged in the first the senior captains for his strong round to meet Knott Hall junior
Messina will challenge John when Keough's Mike "Pure
round by Morrissey senior and work ethic throughout the sea­Matt "The Hogtown Hurricane" 
'The L-Dizzle" Nowak in the first Sweetness" Panzica faces Galen
second year Bouts participant son. The well-conditioned McDonald.· 
round tonight. A left-handed "La Ma:qu'na" Loughrey from
Dan "The Manier" McCoy. Alumni resident will face Dillon's The bottom of the 160-pound
boxer, the sophomore Nowak is Dillon Hall. Both boxers have
Senior Mike "Dynamike" Eric "It Saul Good" Saul in the bracket matches two more South 
competing in the Bengal Bouts shown promise in their first
McCabe, a first year boxer who first round, a senior and one of Quad sophomores. Brent "Total 
for the second year. year, notably Panzica for his
brings to the ring the poise and the taller fighters in his division. Eclipse of the Heart" Burish, a 
Freshman Jesse "The technique and Loughrey for his
discipline he developed while An off-campus senior but first Dillon resident with a long jab,
Kangaroo" Shallcross received dedication during training.
earning a black belt in martial year boxer, Dan "Sunshine" will face Pat "The Beast from the 
an automatic bye into the quar­Zahm Hall sophomore Dusty
arts, will take on "One Punch" Frailey will also try to use his Bend" Dillon, of Morrissey
terfinals, after his first round Segretto's first round draw is
Paul Robinson, a sophomore long reach to advance to the Manor. A graduate of South 
opponent was declared medical­Jason "Donkey Punch" Voss, a

, I from Zahm who is also boxing quarterfinals. His first round Bend 's Marian High School,
ly ineligible to box. junior from Sorin Hall who has
for the first time. opponent is John Enterline, a Dillon is a second year boxer 
bulked up to compete in the 160­

Freshman Colin Kerrigan, who sophomore from O'Neill Hall. who has shown great improve­
pound weight class. Voss had

completed the novice training 160-pounds After transferring to Notre ment since his novice season a 
success last year in the 145­

period last semester. will An even pool of 16 boxers Dame, Pat "Boom-B-Yea" year ago.
pound division, advancing to the

matchup in his first ever Bengal means a full bracket in the 160 Hobbins competed in his first 
semifinals.

Bout with sophomore and pound weight class, so that every Bengal Bouts last year as a 
Mark "Donkey Punch" Contact Paul Camarata at 
Morrisesey resident Julian "Bel man must win three matches in sophomore. Now a junior from 
DeSplinter is a freshman that pcamarat@nd.edu.
Biv" DeVoe. The speedy DeVoe order to climb past the competi-Keenan, Hobbins will bring his 






Open to all Notre t)ame Students 

J 
.:J 

Friday, February 22, 2002 

The Observer . TODAY page 27 
RYAN

B B
FOURTH AND INCHES TOM KEELEY 
EFUDDLED AND EMUSED CUNNINGHAM 
... 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Not good at 48 Launcher's losing launch
1 Bring lunch from home 29 Surfing aid 49 Calculus 
developer

11 U.S.M.C. 32 First name in 
recruits: Abbr. 50 Send flying 

the White 15 100, for sure House, 1885 51 Yelled at 53 In addition
16 Silver lead 33 Shuffle along 54 Station wagons
17 Square 34 Bearded ones abroad 18 Mythical craft 35 Hollywood 
55 "Guarding _" 19 Square sightings (1994 movie) 20 Football Hall-of­36 "It's Too Late 56 Commercial Famer Ronnie Now" name for brine 
autobiographer

21 "Dear _: The shrimp Autobiography 37 Spout of Vincent Van 
38 Garden veggies DOWNGogh" 
1 Wembtey
39 Put coins in22 Surgical setup 

Stadium 23 Turkey, e.g. 40 Some chip borough
features

25 TV planet 2 Snake, e.g. 42 Walled town
26 1989 Grammy 3 Works winner tor "Nick 46 limes or 4 Darling girl of Time" Schoolbook 
5 Obviously interested ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Diner order 7 Capital near Encounter Bay 8 Quick-stepping dance 9 "But of course!" 10 Nearing the --+...+--+-.-t hour 11 Something to fall back on? 
12 "Total Recall" director Paul 
~_._...,_..._...,_. 13 Ornamental stone made of colored quartz 
......,.....,............. 14 Dupes 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Puzzle by Mark Diehl 
23 Catches red­handed 
24 Frank who wrote "The Pit,• 1903 
26 Kind of match 28 Picker's target 29 Side in a 
criminal case 30 Authenticity 31 Feds 32 Plays for money 33 Makes light of 


Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-285·5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Drew Barrymore, Edward Kennedy, Michael Chang, Julius Erving 
Happy Birthday: If you aren't happy with the situation, consider your options and don't be afraid to make a move. Your willpowe.i; oou• pied with your intuition, should help you accomplish all you set out to do. Stress and nervous tension must be dealt with and eliminated. Don't let anyone take advantage of you. Your numbers are 5, 17, 22, 35, 41,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
can organize an outing with friends today that will put you in the lime­light. Plan a pleasure trip today and it will lift your spirits. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make changes if you stand up for your rights. Join forces and press employers to improve your working conditions or talk to friends and work as a team to achieve self. 
improvement projeds. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be emotionally challenged today. You know in your heart that you need a change, but you just aren't sure where to start. Talk to someone you trust and ask his or her opinion. 0()0 
CANCER (Jwie 21-July 22): You may want to hibernate today. Spend time making yourself happy. Do the things that you enjoy the most It's lime to lower your stress, pamper yourself and get bad< on top of per­sonal matters. 0()0 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make a difference if you get involved in a fund-raising group or join an organization that has an intellectual slant. You are great at delegating work so don't hesitate to take a leaciership position 0000 
Birthday Baby: You can tum on the tears at the drop of a pin You are highly intuitive and can pick up on other people's feelings easily. You are truly an individual with vivid imagination and creative ability. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
will face frustration and obstacles if 
you try to interest someone in help­
ing you get ahead. Your ability to 
work with detail will help you but 
don't overdo it. You could end up 
missing your deadline. Be precise, 
efficient and wise. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You are intelligent, gifted and certainly intuitive. Don't stand in the way of your own advancement. You have the goods but you must believe in yourself as well 0()000 ) 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Saving is the key to getting ahead today. You need to mellow out and take better care of yourself. A regi­mented routine and proper diet will fix any stress that you have been 
experiendng.0()0 
SAGIITARIUS (NcnL 22.-Dec. 21): You will be on an emotional roller­coaster ride today. Try to stay grounded and don't let anyone upset you. Be true to yourself and honest about the way you feel. 0()0 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make manges that will tum your life around today. Take a look at all your options and don't be afraid to take a chance. Accept the changes going on arotmd you. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't hold yourself back. You have the opportunity to do something creative so take the plunge and let everyone see how gifted you are. Expand your knowledge through books, seminars or talking to intel­lectual people. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may want to remain quiet today. Problems will surface if you are too fort:ho:mung with your opinions. A misunderstanding may cause prob­lems with someone you considered to be dose. 00 
-. 
fl/NG BREAK BONANZA 
* 
The fan best dressed in Spring Break Gear will win two AIRLINE TICKETS courtesy ofAntho1w Travel 

* 
First 200 fans will receive a Notre Dame Lacrosse lanyard 

* 
10 STU D[NTS selected at ran~ dom will win Lacrosse Fl DOLE: STICKS courtesy of Brine 



StJN. 
N()TRE DAl\tlE 
-

* 
Three lucky fans win win piping~ hot PIZZAS counesy of Bruno·s 

* 
t\1any other great giveaways such as Adidas HATS and GIFT CER­TIFICATES from local restaurants 


•~..> 
1:7,{".r/VE:' 


34 Buffet staple 36 Early capital of 
Georgia 

38 Music box? 
41 Some refueling 
spots 42 Riviera, e.g. 
43 Arm parts 44 Take another 
stab at 45 "lckl" 47 Rare bills 49 First home 52 1944 initials 
BILL AMEND 
Do WE IT'S So CUTE HAVE A THE WAY YOU GLUEY SAY THINGS. GUNNY? 


\._ 

Even if this is true, for your own sake, please don't ever say it out loud. 

:m~ vs 
~ ~ 

nu: FIGHTING 
• 1n1sH PENN ST. 


> 


{ 
ll 
: t I :~ 
\ 
\ 
} 
) 
\ l 
' i• 
)J 
) 
/
I l 
~

' 
I { ,, 
\t1 
II\ 
I Hi 
t ~/ 
, -,1
1;·• 
,, 
., )
' 
;:) 
'!~. 
. " ; . J
! ,)··
I 
I 
l 

·• 
r'\J:HE

Campus Sports Campus Sports
VljSERVER 
. Women's Tennis, p.21
. Bengal Bouts, p. 19, 25, 26 

. Olympics, p. 24 
. Hockey, p. 20 
. 
Baseball, p.23 . SMC Swimming, p. 20 

. 
Women's Basketball, p. 22 . Men's Swimming, p. 17 

. 
Fencing, p.21 . Women's Swimming, p.16 


Friday, February 22, 2002 
BENGAL BOUTS 

First-time boxers await tonight's prelims 

. 72nd Bengal Bouts begin tonight at 5 p.m. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
Jim Christoforetti has been 
dreaming about a short walk for 
almost eight years. 
Ever since the freshman from 
McMurray, Pa. watched his 
brother John win three titles in 
1995, '96 and '97, he has waited 
for his chance to step into the 
ring. 
"I'd imagined it and envi­sioned it," Christoforetti said. "It was sort of one of those child­hood dreams. It seems weird that [tonight] it's going to come true when I step into the ring." 

Christoforetti is one of many first time boxers who will step into the ring tonight when the 72nd Bengal Bouts begin in the Joyce Center at 5 p.m. 
The first-time boxers have many different reasons for wanting to fight but for Christoforetti, the Bengal Bouts were the main reason he came to Notre Dame. As soon as he stepped on campus, he signed up to fight. 
"The second day I was here, I came on campus and went into the boxing room and signed up for it," he said. 
Although Christoforetti had never boxed before, he was a veteran of hand to hand combat. In addition to watching his brother win three titles, he has also taken kick-boxing lessons for five years. He said the tech­niques· and strategies are differ­ent in kick boxing but it did teach him one important lesson: how to take a punch. 
"I am used to fighting some­what," he said. "It's a new kind of fighting and a different tech­nique but it never hurts to have fought someone before." 
Not all the first time fighters have that experience. Sophomore Douglas Pope had never even been in a playground scuffle before he signed up for the Bouts at Activities Night. 
"I am usually quite a pacifist," 

BIG EAST SWIMMING AND DIVING CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Alone at the top 
Pope said. So when Pope first got popped in the face, he was stunned. 
"It was a real wake up call," Pope said. ''I've never been in a fight before. It was a real shock­er." 
Freshman John Baker had a similar reaction to his first good shot to the head. 
"It was kind of funny," Baker said. "I just kind of stood there for a moment and thought 'what did I get myself into?'" 
After five spars, however, the shock of getting punched has worn off but the pain remains. 
"It hurts a little more," Pope said. "My nose hurts a little more than I thought it would." 
Pope has also been forced to 
. Women lead by more than 100 points after first day of Big East finals 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sports Writer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
The meet had barely started before the Irish women's swimming and diving team sent a message to the Big East. 
In the second leg of the 200-yard freestyle relay, the Irish outdistanced the heat by a body length. By the end of the event, the Irish were ahead of the pack by more than a second, and secured the meet record and an NCAA consideration time of one minute, 32.01 seconds. 

The relay told any Big East teams looking to contest the Irish for the 2002 title there wasn't a chance. After day one of competition, the Irish lead with 210 points, more than 100 points ahead of closest-competitor Rutgers. 
"I think we're focused and where we need to be," said Irish head coach Bailey Weathers. 
But the Irish had limited success in their main goal for the conference championships. Aiming to use the meet as a stepping stone to NCAA champi­onships, Notre Dame wants to qualify as many swimmers as possible during the three-day weekend championship meet. 
In the first day of competition, the Irish posted three times that will be considered for entry at the national meet. 
The 200-yard freestyle relay of sopho­mores Katie Eckholt and Danielle Hulick and seniors Carrie Nixon and Kelly Hecking earned a consideration time with their first-place finish. Sophomore Lisa Garcia earned a con­sideration bid in the 200-yard individ­ual medley, finishing in 2:02.37. The 400-yard medley relay of Hecking, Nixon, senior Allison Lloyd and sopho­more Lisa D'Olier also earned a consid­
see WOMEN/page 16 
battle his natural instincts in the ring. When the instinctive fight or flight reaction kicks in, Pope's first thought was flight. But now he has to fight. 
"It's sort of fighting your nat­ural tendencies that you body has to just start flailing your arms and protecting your face," Pope said. "You. can't do that. I think I've gotten better through sparring." 
Although many first-time fighters are freshmen or sopho­mores, there are several seniors stepping into the ring for the first time. After watching the Bouts from the stands for four years, they weren't going to let 
see BENGALS/page 19 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hurricanes present big challenge 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
When the Miami Hurricanes arrived at the banquet hall of the Sugar Bowl Classic in late December, Mike Brey did a dou­ble-take. 
"They come walking in and I almost choked," the Irish head coach said. 
What Brey and the Irish saw at the New Orleans tournament was a team that boasts seven players who measure at least 6­foot-7. 
Two months later, Brey and his players repeat their initial impression of the Hurricanes over and over again: "They're just so long." 
And the Irish will find out just how their shorter roster will match up against that height Saturday when the two teams from the conference's West and East divisions clash in Coral Gables. 
The Irish own the third spot in the West division, behind Pittsburgh and Syracuse, with an 8-5 Big East record. 
The Hurricanes, who also have an 8-5 conference record, have captured the second spot in the East division and the sec­ond best conference and overall record in the Big East. 
Playing Miami on the road will not make Notre Dame's task any easier -the Hurricanes have dropped only one game on 
see MEN/page 22 

M . Bengal Bouts, today, 5p.m. 
. Big East Swimming Championships, today,
SPORTS 







