
Dashboard Confessional rocks the House
LIGHT 
Tuesday

Fans packed the House of Blues in Chicago to see up-and-coming
RAIN 
emo poster boy Christopher Ender Carrabba for the 
APRIL 9,

third consecutive performance. 
HIGH S0° 
2002
Scene . page 11

LOW30° 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXV NO. 119 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



Subway, Sbarro may come to LaFortune 
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor 
Notre Dame Food Services and LaFortune Student Center are finalizing the plans to con­vert pizza shop Tomassito's and sub sandwich store Allegro into two better-known food chains. 
"Right now, the top honors are Subway [to replace Tomassito'sJ and Sbarro's pizza in the basement [to replace Allegro)." said Jim Labella, Huddle general man­ager. 
Neither of the two has signed contracts yet, but Subway, a sandwich shop, and Sbarro, an Italian eatery, have sent pro­posed plans for the layout of their restaurants. Labella said these restaurants will have to examine the space availability, electricity and plumbing. 
Although, Subway and Sbarro are not definite choices to replace the present busi­nesses, two restaurants the University was considering ­Eddie Peppers and Taco Bell -will not be the new LaFortune food chains. Both Mexican-style food restau­rants, Eddie Peppers and Taco Bell would have appeased a majority of students, faculty and staff members who want­ed the next fast food restau­rant to serve M~xican food according to a market research study last spring. 
"We did that test and l think the consensus was that every­body liked [Eddie Peppers], but they really wanted a brand name like Taco Bell," said Labella. 
However, Taco Bell, which has a franchise located on U.S. 31 near the campus, did not support the construction of another store in LaFortune. 
"When we couldn't do Taco Bell, Subway was the second choice," said Labella. 
Another Mexican-style restaurant that Food Services did not seriously consider, but students have talked about was Burracho Burrito. 
"Burracho Burrito has little to offer us as far as the pro­gram is concerned," said Dave Prentkowski, director of Food Services. 
The major problems with the restaurant that Labella cited 
see LAFORTUNE/page 4 
Student government introduces petition 
ByJASON McFARLEY 
News Writer 
Undergraduates can begin signing today a petition that calls for the University to reverse planned changes to the alcohol 
policy and to allow more stu­dent voice in campus decision­making. 
The peti­tion is the 


latest stu-Bishop dent gov­ernment effort in protest of alcohol pol­icy changes that University administrators announced in mid-March. Student Activities officials this week gave Student Body President Libby 
Bishop and Vice President Trip Foley permission to spon­sor the petition. 
"As soon as the alcohol poli­cy was announced. we sat down and considered our options," said Bishop, who entered office a week ago. "We thought the idea of a petition was constructive and focused." 
Bishop and Foley distributed a page-long explanation of the petition and sign-up sheets at Monday's Hall Presidents Council meeting. HPC mem­bers will circulate the petition in each of the 27 campus resi­dence halls today through Thursday. 
Organizers said they also would make the petition avail­able at other on-campus loca­tions as well as some off-cam­pus apartment complexes. 
Announcement of the peti­tion appears as a letter to stu­dents in a full-page advertise­ment in today's Observer. The sentence "We have a voice" runs along the bottom of the ad, an assertive revision of the "We need a voice" signs that student government officials distributed last month. 
The petition demands that: 
. 
Father Mark Poorman, vice president for Student Affairs, repeal his own deci­sion to ban in-hall dances next school year, 

. 
Notre Dame use educa­tional initiatives instead of 


see PETITION/page 6 

KYLIE CARTEMhe Obser;er Tomassito's Italian Cafe, above, has been slated for replacement in Lafortune Student Center. Food service officials currently plan to replace Tomassito's with Subway and Allegro, the cur­rent basement sandwich shop, with Sbarro's. Eddie Peppers, Taco Bell and Burracho Burrito were considered for Lafortune but were eventually ruled out. 

Women discuss empowerment 
By SARAH NESTOR News Writer 
The Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWIL) sponsored "A Forum on Women's Rights: Reality and Promise" with guest speakers Layli Miller and Dr. Amy Tsanga. 
"It is a great opportunity to be able to provide to the students, faculty and community," Mana Derakhshani, interim CWIL director, said. "It is the promise of women empowerment in the future." 
Tsanga opened the forum with her speech "Social Activism on Women's Legal Rights: Understanding the Tension Behind Resistance." Tsanga is currently a Fulbright Scholar-in-Residence at the University of Southern Maine from Zimbabwe. 
"In the past 10 to 15 years legal aid has been brought to women in Africa, but less is known about its impact," Tsanga said. 
Zimbabwe itself only gained independence after many years of war in 1980 and is still in the process of trying to understand how the constitution and laws fit into its culture. 
"African women were consid­ered minors from cradle to grave. You went from the con­trol of your father to the control of your husband," Tsanga said. "That changed when the legal act of majority was passed so that women and men came into their majority at the age of18." 

Tsanga explained that this met a lot of resistance by the people who mainly the Tahirih Justice Center, a non-profit organization that works to protect women from abuse through the provision of legal aid and social services. 
Miller became involved in advocating women's rights while a student in law school when she became involved in the case of Fauziya 

thought "There is something very Kassinja, a that it was woman from
exciting going on today
Western Togo looking
because laws are
culture doc­for refugee sta­trine forc­changing to protect tus in the ing them to United States
women."
change. because of the The law tribal practice affected the Layll Miller of female geni­payment of attorney tal mutilation. 
seduction damages, the practice of a father suing if his daughter became pregnant outside of marriage because her value would go down, and women did not need family per­mission to marry after 18. 
Miller's speech "The Equality of Women and Men: Making the Ideal Real" focused on the changes going on today in respect to women's rights, not only in America but across the world, and how the law can help women. 
Miller is an attorney at Arnold & Porter in Washington D.C. and is the Executive Director at The case won 
on appeal and was the first to recognize gen­der as a basis for refugee status. 
"There is something very exciting going on today because laws are changing to protect women," Miller said. "There have been dramatic changes that we don't even realize." 
Miller likened the equality of women to the civil rights move­ment, because even though it was successful in changing laws and what was written it could not immediately change the hearts of the people, because 
see WOMEN/page 4 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Here's to you, Mr. Crazy Naked Man 
You all know this guy. He is a few steps beyond the Zahm Lafortune streakers, a one­man show that busts out spontaneously and can't be stopped. You might have thought he was a dream, a silly figment of your imagina­tion that you dreamed up in 
Katie Hughes

the midst of some frollick­ing, blissful festivities. Nope, Mr. Crazy Naked 
Sports Copy

Man was real. He is an 
Editor

everyman and no man, he 
is you, he is me. He is in his biri.hday suit and he is in his glory, and we are watching. 
Mr. Crazy Naked Man, I don't know who you are, but I'm a big fan of your work. It's not, like, an attraction kind of love. No, no, noooo, it's definitely not an attraction kind of love. It takes a little more than stripping to your skivvies to get that. It's more of an admiration of the exhibition, for the sweeping social state­ment. Or something like that. . 
Mr. Crazy Naked Man, you say, "Hey world, I feel like running around naked and shaking what my mamma gave me and gosh darn it, I'm gonna. I am going do continuous laps up and down the block party. I am gonna scream like a banshee. It is 45 degrees and I say, bah to the cold. I also say bah to indecent exposure laws, to what would your mother say, to corpo­rate America who has sold us this crazy idea that we have to wear clothes all the time, to the free membership at not one, but two state-of­the-art athletic facilities on campus that I choose never to use because I am just that carefree about my body. I say bah to judge­ments, to people in my classes who will look at me funny from now on, to the Garden of Eden and its evil serpent. I say wazzaap to my peeps in the balconies. Statues in museums are naked. The first Olympians were naked. We are naked when we are born. I am that guy who they would have to put the black squares on if I was on Jerry Springer. I am part Yatta, part Howard Stern. I am not repressed. I have no delusions that this will get me any girls." 
You bring people together, Mr. Crazy Naked Man. Friends meet at the party, talk briefly about a class or something, and then have nothing elseto talk about. Blah blah blah. Then they can say to each other, "Hey, did you see Mr. Crazy Naked Man running around here earlier? Ha, he wasn't wearing ANY clothes." 
"Yeah, that guy was crazy, cause, he, like, was totally naked." 
Instant re-bonding. 

By shedding your shirt, Mr. Crazy Naked Man, and pants, and socks, and shoes, and boxers, you have symbollically shed a little something for all of us. Your nakedness beck­ons the spring to hurry up and get here so that we can feel the soft lovely wind go through our hair and the sunshine luminously and warmly, and also so that you will be exposed to some ultra-violet rays and will no longer be so ridiculously white. 
Your reckless display challenges us all to look deeply into our souls, to look under our North Faces, then under that inside layer of our North Faces with the fleecy stuff. then under Abercrombies and Gaps, and then under our Victoria's Secrets and Jockeys and say, just like you can say, Mr. Crazy Naked Man, "Hey, we're all naked under our clothes." 
Contact Katie Hughes at khughes@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS /CLARIFICATIONS 
Monday's back page baseball photo incorrectly idemified Brandon Viloria as the Irish pitcher. The player picmred was John Axford. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccpr du.ring exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of lhe Associated Press. All r~proJuction rights are res<:rved. 
QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Man dies of heroine in frat house 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
A man found unresponsive in the basement of a fra­ternity March 29 died from a heroin overdose, according to the Ann Arbor Police Department. Dustin Goodman, a member of the Zeta Psi fraternity located on East University Avenue, and former employee of Jimmy's Sergeant Pepper's, had lethal amounts of heroin in his blood, the Ann Arbor News reported Friday. Goodman was found dead in the basement of the fraternity house around 1 p.m. on March 29. He was seen at the party March 28. Detective Lt. Chris Heatley said police have not yet determined if any­thing else contributed to his death, and he also had alcohol and trace amounts of marijuana in his blood, the Ann Arbor News reported. Zeta Psi is not affiliat­ed with the Interfraternity Council and does not par­ticipate in a formal rush process. Members reiterated that this event was an isolated incident and they did not know of any hard drug use at the house. 
Michigan Daily 
"We've got the best tradition the best history, the best football lore in the country. Nobody else matches it." 
Tyrone Willingham head football coach speaking on the national prominence of the Irish football program 
BEYOND CAMPUS 
"You never want to look ahead to other games but, this Syracuse game, we've been looking forward to this since day one." 
Alissa Moser women's lacrosse senior captain before the team played Syracuse 
Blair addresses Middle Eastern terrorism at Texas A&M 
COLLEGE STATION, Tex. 

Despite growing opposition at home to his steadfast support of America's war on terrorism, British Prime Minister Tony Blair moved closer to endorsing President George W. Rush's plan to remove Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein while speaking at Texas A&M Sunday, 
"We must be prepared to act when terrorism and weapons of mass destruction threaten us, and if neces­sary, that will involve military action and regime change," Blair said. "To let Iraq develop weapons of mass destruction is to ignore the lessons of Sept. 11, and we won't allow it." 
Blair visited the George Bush Presidential Library Complex after spending the weekend at Bush's ranch in Crawford, Texas, where he and the president discussed Iraq, the crisis in the Middle East and other pressing international issues. 

In an interview with The Battalion, Blair stopped short of seconding the Bush administration's commitment to remove Hussein through military action, but said Britain is seriously considering the option. 
"Iraq would be a much better place without Saddam Hussein," Blair said. Blair has encountered strong opposi­tion from within his own Labor Party 

"It ·s always the first thing I turn to when I pick up The Observer, because as much as I love Notre Dame, 'Fourth and Inches· shows how entertaining it is to make fun ofourselves." 
Monica Stone Notre Dame junior expressing her fondness for 'Fourth and Inches' 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
to military action in Iraq, and many observers say Blair's plummeting poll­numbers arc the result of growing dis­satisfaction with Blair's unwavering­support of America's war on terror­ism. However, Blair dismissed anti­American sentiment in Britain as a small but vocal minority, and said Britain did not lack the re;olvc to top­ple Hussein. 
"We'll take whatever action is nec­essary, and most people just want to know if that action is measured and reasoned," Blair said, 
In his speech, Blair racketed up the rhetoric against Hussein, describing the Iraqi regime as "detestable" and "brutal." Blair said sometimes it is necessary to forcefully remove a rogue regime, citing Serbia and Afghanistan as recent examples. 
The Battalion 

STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Students protest for workers' rights 
STANFORD, Calif. 

The Stanford Coalition for Labor Justice unveiled a 
mock time capsule as the surprise finale to its rally 
protesting the treatment of Stanford workers. Over 
1000 Stanford University students, workers and 
members of the local community marched from 
Memorial Auditorium down Palm Drive to the court­
yard of Littlefield Management Center at the 
Graduate School of Business. The procession was 
headed by students carrying three large puppets rep­
resenting a worker, passion for justice and the unifi­
cation of students and workers. Several students held 
a banner in front of the puppets that read, "Make 
Community a Priority: Code of Conduct Now!" 
Protesters chanted for worker rights in both English 
and Spanish. The goal of the protest was to obtain 
the right for students and workers to meet with the 
school president to discuss a worker code of conduct. 
The Stanford Daily 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
The AccuWeather.com forecast for noon,Tuesday, April 9. \ / 
eos-t), 
FRONTS: 


sos --r"r ........ ........,.. 
C2002 AccuWeathet, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PteHure: .1 
® © B ~ c:::J E:m l:B3l Em <) (.;~ 4-&4, 
High Low Shower ¦ Rain T-atorma Flurrle ¦ Snow loe Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vl11 A.Nloc,•Nld Prfl# 

Atlanta 55 26 Las Vegas 67 39 Portland 52 32 Baltimore 63 32 Memphis 33 21 Sacramento 68 41 Boston 54 45 Milwaukee 27 14 St. LOUIS 27 17
~,if/A~~~~~~~ 
Chicago 27 15 New York 57 36 Tampa 73 50
Showers T-srorms Rain Fluriies ~ fee Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
Houston 50 27 Philadelphia 64 36 Washington, DC 65 37
Via Associared Prnss GraphicsNet 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dollars for \ , ,,,, Innovative and 
~ Creative ---,,~ Entertainment 

Attentions Student 
Leaders! 
Apply to receive up to $2000.00 for campus events on Thursday~ Friday or Saturday ni9hts through the DICE Program. 
The DICE program offers funding for stu­dent groups to plan late night and weekend programs for the entire campus. 
• 
Groups can receive up to $2000.00 for each approved event. 

• 
Events are limited only by your imagina· tion. 

• 
Applications and DICE .,guidelines are avail· able online at www.nd.edu/-sao/dice and outside the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. 


Applications are due April.. 15~ 2002 




Particivate in PW's 
i 


Compassion Week 
-with love for our fellow neighbor, pleasejoin us for our week ofservice 
Tuesday4/9 


Student organizations fight for larger budget 
By LIZ KAHLING 
News Writer 

The battle to increase the student activity budget is not over yet. Several student organizations 
· that receive funding through the Financial Management Board con­tinue to fight to take a larger share of the pie. The two largest recipi­ents of the Student Union budget allocations, the Club Coordination Council and Student Union Board, recently debated the proposed amendment for a 3.25 percent increase in the CCC's constitutional allocation at a Senate meeting. Though the amendment did not pass Mar. 27, the CCC reports that it may resubmit the proposal. According to Amy O'Connor, CCC president, the CCC will resubmit a proposal to Senate next fall, "con­tingent upon club needs after the student's activity fee increase." The amendment was originally proposed because CCC argued the student activity fee increase of $15 would only sustain current club funding. The increase in the budget would help create new activities and programming that the clubs propose. Only the CCC and the Executive Cabinet Collaboration Fund have constitutionally minimum budget allocations. Thus, as the second largest recipient of the student union budget, SUB felt that the increase in the CCC allocation would have taken away from SUB's. In explaining SUB's position in the Senate meeting, Board Manager Stephen Christ said, "We are for status quo [in the constitu­tion]." 
Former Board Manager Paul Krivickas argued that if the reso­lution passed, "there's less money available to other organizations and SUB would probably be hurt the most." 


O'Connor approached SUB before submitting her proposal in order to downplay the percep­tion that thr amend­ment would result in a decision between SUB and CCC. Christ said he appreciated her coming to them before the meeting. However, the two organizations couldn't come to a compromise with which they could both be sat­isfied. 
Though both CCC and SUB stress that they didn't want the amend­ment to come down to CCC versus SUB, they were unable to avoid conflict as to who can better use funds to benefit the University. 
Krivickas expressed concern about the increase going to CCC. "I don't know if it's in the best inter­est of students," he said. 
Christ added, "We felt like we're qualified programmers and benefit the whole student body." 
O'Connor wrote in her proposal to Senate that while clubs form to address a limited constituency of the student body, "collectively clubs represent the interests of the entire body." 
In her speech to Senate, CCC member Kaitlin Dudley argued, "SUB is created to address those interests that large numbers of stu­
dents share, but it should not expected to provide a diversity of smaller collaborative events. That is the job of clubs." 
Even more frustrating for SUB is that the student activity fee increase had not benefited the stu­dent union budget as much as it was hoped. Andrew Oxenreiter, student union treasurer, reported that there was only an additional $8.000 to be allocated over last year's budget. The student trea­sury reportedly is paying off debts carried over from the 2000-2001 administration of the Office of the President, as well as SUB's cumu­lative $24,000 debt. 
Krivickas said that SUB is in a 
'i 
precarious situation as they are being pressured to do more cre­ative programming that may require established events, like the Comedy Series, to be cut. 
"We're all working on limited funds and we all have good ideas," 
said Christ. 
Krivickas added, "Resources are so limited that it comes down to 'Who needs the money more?"' 
Contact Liz Kahling at ekahling@nd.edu. 
Senior Spring Fling -go dance and cheer with a senior citizen at a local home. 
in the 
Meet in PW lobby at 7 pm 
Office ofStudent Activities 

for 2002-2003 
Wednesday 4/10 
• 
Blood Drive 11 am -5 pm 

• 
Section events 


Applications are now available and can be

Thursday 4/11 
picked up at 315 LaFortune in the 
Grab 'N Give 
Student Activities Office 
-Donate your Grab 'N Go for lunch or dinner @ NOH or 
SDH to the Life Treatment Center. Please include fruit, sandwiches, and juice boxes. 
Application Deadline: Friday, April 26 
Share the Spirit ofService 
Call Carol at 631-9314 with any questions 
with the Purple Weasels! 


Student Office Assistant Position Open 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002

page 4 The Observer . NEWS 
2002 PULITZER PRIZES 
Seven 'Times' 
The New York Times won a record seven Pulitzer Prizes in journalism Monday, including the public service award for its "A Nation Challenged" section. 
, Journalism 
Public service 
The New York Times 
Breaking news reporting 
The Wall Street Journal 
Investigative reporting 
Three writers tor The Washington Post 
Explanatory reporting 
Staff of The New York Times 
Beat reporting 
Gretchen Morgenson of The New York Times 
National reporting 
Staff of The Washington Post 
International reporting 
Barry Bearak of The New York Times 
Feature writing 
Barry Siegel of The Los Angeles Times 
Commentary 
Thomas Friedman of The New York Times 
Criticism 
Justin Davidson of Newsday 
Editorial writing 
Alex Raksin and Bob Sipchen of The Los Angeles Times 
Editorial cartooning 
Clay Bennett of The Christian Science Monitor 
Breaking news photography 
The New York Times 
Feature photography 
The New York Times 
The Prize Every Pulitzer winner receives a certificate and a $7,500 cash prize. A gold medal (pictured} is awarded in only one of the 21 Pulitzer categories -public service in journalism. 
Arts 
Fiction 

Richard Russo "Empire Falls" 
Drama 
Suzan-Lori Parks "Topdog/Underdog" 
History 

Louis Menand "The Metaphysical Club: A Story of Ideas in America" 
Biography 

David McCullough "John Adams" Poetry Carl Dennis "Practical Gods" General Nonfiction Diane McWhorter ''Carry Me Home: Birmingham, Alabama, the Climactic Battle of the Civil Rights Revolution" Music Henry Brant "Ice Field" 
SOURCE:The Pulitzer Prize Board AP 


Women 
continued from page 1 
even today racism and prejudice exist. 
"One thing is to realize that it is important, and another thing to talk about it and change it because achieving the equality of women and men is necessary in achieving world peace," Miller said. "There needs to not only be a transformation in justice but a personal transformation of every man and woman, one cannot happen without the other." 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

Tuesday -Thursday 
Mishawaka 5:00 to 9:00 
Corner of Logan & Lincolnway Friday & Saturday 
(574) 256-1444 5:00 to 10:00 
Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 25 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Make your reservations now for graduation! Free Bruschetta with this ad (except for graduation weekend) 
l Francesco's needs servers! j We specialize in special events and banquets. With private rooms seating 20 or ilO, we custom tailor each event according to the customer's exp.:ctations. We also welcome luncheons and events on Sundays. Be it a 
1business retreat, Board Meeting, Birthday, or a Holiday Party, we wish to I serve you. Please stop in or call for additional details and a quote.
I FULL BAR AVi4/LABLE 
1L_________________________.
(must be 21 oc older 10 purch2se or consume alcohol) 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Group considers new requests for money 
By SARAH NESTOR 
News Writer 

The inaugural meeting of 
the BOG representatives with 
President Kim Jensen and 
Vice-President Elizabeth 
Jablonski-Diehl was spent 
hearing motions and requests 
from members of the student 
body. 

Sarah Hoshaw, vice-presi­dent of the Biology Club, requested funds in the -amount of $272.97, to cover the costs of honoring senior biology students at their Tri Beta honor society hooding 
ceremony. 

"The Biology Club is coming to ask for money because we are running low at the end of the year and we want gifts for the senior biology graduates and an honored faculty mem­ber," Hoshaw said. "Basically we want to do this because it is important to show the seniors appreciation." 
A factor in the decision for the Board was that the Biology Club also wanted the funds so that money will be available for club next year and that the club already received $375 for the year. 
"One thing about the Biology Club is that it is very present on campus," Jensen said. "It is a positive that they 
have tried to f'undraise, where other clubs come in and ask for money without having tried."' 
The Board settled on giving the Biology Club $160 for the Tri Beta ceremony. 
"I think that department money should go towards the seniors who have spent four years working in that depart­ment," Hachel Finely, 2003 class president. said. "I don't think it is right to make a hooding BOG sponsored event." 
Also, the Board acknowl­edged Shannon Brewer and let her give a presentation about her work with Flipside and her involvement in plan· ning Flipstock for next year. 
"I am the only Saint Mary's representative and just want the support from BOG," Brewer said. "All three schools are helping with funding and volunteers and most of the costs go to the bands and production." 
Brewer estimated that costs will be about $80,000 and also specified that a member from the BOG could attend the committee meetings and keep the other members informed. 
Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 
Shops 
continued from page 1 
were its needed facilities and operation. Since Burracho Burrito is locally owned, the business would have to operate entirely out of LaFortune if it changed its location to the campus.· 
"We don't have the space to allow an outside compa­ny to actually operate a store in LaFortune," said Prentkowski, expressing concern about storage, loading and the workspace. 
Food Service also looks for stores that continue to introduce new products to appeal to the customers, as the most recent addition to LaFortune, Starbucks, has done. Starbucks opened offering new salads and sandwiches. 
"If we're going to pay for a brand to be here, we expect something in return." said Prentkowski. 
As of now, Prentkowski said the University would try to get the Sbarro con­tract taken care of first. 
"That will be the most critical because it takes the most equipment." said Prentkowski. 
"Assuming that every­thing will work, the idea is that we will finish the design work sometime this summer," said Prentkowski. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 




Attention sophomores! 
It"'s Your Turn To Organize & Run 

Junior Parents~ Weekend 2008 
We are currently taking applications for all positions. including Chair & Vice-Chair. 
Applications are available outside the JPW Office at 214 LaFortune. Applications are due Monday. April 15th• 
Please contact JPW at jpw@nd.edu for more information. 



ATION 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hong Kong deports Chinese migrant 
A Chinese migrant was sent back to the main­land Monday, the first forced deportation since thousands of mainlanders were ordered to leave Hong Kong by the end of March after a court denied them residency rights. The deportation came after Bong Kong security secretary Regina Ip warned that some 2,000 migrants staying illegally in Hong Kong would be deported in the coming weeks. 
Afghan poppy farmers revolt: 
Tribal poppy farmers in eastern Afghanistan opened fire on provincial officials surveying their fields as a government program to erad­icate opium poppies began Monday. At least one official was kil1ed. Sheuwari tribesmen also blocked the highway between Kabul and Pakistan. pelting vehicles with rocks. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Woman shot during 911 call: A 
woman was shot to death while making a frantic 911 call to say her boyfriend had been shot, authorities said. The 46-year-old boyfriend also was killed. The 39-year-old woman called 911 early Sunday to say a man had shot her boyfriend and driven away. She called back a few minutes later to say the sus­pect had returned, Martinez said. Dispatchers then heard gunshots. 
U.S. loses edge on spy satellites: 
Pictures from sharp-eyed satellites, once the domain of the United States and Russia, are becoming so easy to obtain that the military may have to alter its strategies knowing adversaries with a minimum of know-how and money can be watching. Perhaps a half­dozen countries as well as some private com­panies have spy satellites that, while not as good as those used by the United States, are able to supply solid military intelligence. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Obesity in children on the rise: 
Indiana's schools are devoting far less time to physical education classes than they did two decades ago -and it's showing in students' increasingly chubby profiles. Health experts said that as PE time declined over the past 20 years, the number of overweight Hoosier stu­dents grew, nearly doubling by 1999. "We're not teaching our kids to exercise," said Jeb Teichman, a Jeffersonville pediatrician who now treats more obese children than only a decade ago. 
Market Watch April 8 

Dow 
10,249.08 -22.59 

Jones 

COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -2.41 -0.21 8.50 NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) +l.25 +0.43 34.80 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.19 +0.03 15.18 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.40 -0.12 29.93 APPLIED DIGITAL (ADSX) +12.12 +0.08 0.74 

ISRAEL 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Monday that Israel's military offensive in the West Bank will con­tinue, despite demands by the United States that troops begin their with­drawal from Palestinian towns immediately. 
Sharon told Israel's par­liament that the military campaign was limited in time. but would continue until Palestinian militias have been crushed. 
"These missions have not been completed yet, and the army will continue operating as quickly as possible until the mission has been completed, until it has dismantled [Palestinian leader Yasser] Arafat's terror infrastruc­ture and until the murder­ers hiding in different places have been arrest­ed," Sharon said in a speech frequently inter­rupted by heckling, mainly from Arab legislators. 
President Bush demand­ed over the weekend that lsradl immediately with­draw from Palestinian areas. In 11 days of fight­ing, Israel has reoccupied six of the eight main Palestinian cities in the West Bank and has con­fined Arafat to a few rooms in his headquarters in the West Bank town of Ramallah. 

Addressing the U.S. demands, Sharon said that "we promised that we will expedite our operations and remove our forces from the places where we have finished." 
He said Israeli troops would then withdraw to buffer zones. presumably in the West Bank, "to keep the terrorists away from our cities." 
"At the same time, our forces will be ready to strike, selectively, those who want to continue to attack us," Sharon said. 
Sharon said that during "Operation Defensive Shield," Israeli forces have detained more than 1,500 wanted Palestinians, including more than 500 involved in attacks on Israelis. 
The prime minister again branded Arafat a terrorist and said the Palestinian leader was directly responsible for the shooting and bombing attacks on Israeli civilians in the past 18 months of fighting. 
Addressing the Palestinian people, Sharon suggested they should overthrow their current leadership and turn to him as their leader. 

Oil prices trouble White House 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said Monday the adminis­tration is greatly concerned with soaring gasoline prices and plans to meet with industry officials to try to head off distribution problems that could add to the recent price increases. 
Abraham also said the government was reactivating a federal hot line for consumers who want to complain about gasoline price gouging as prices jumped nearly 25 cents a gal-Ion over the past month. a record increase for such a period. 

"Those increases are a serious concern to this administration," said Abraham. 
Administration officials acknowl­edged the uncertainties in the Middle East may produce continued volatili­ty in crude prices and that Iraq's decision to suspend oil sales could temporarily push crude passed $30 a barrel, further impacting the price of gas. 
But Mary Hutzler, head of the Energy Department's statistical agency, said other OPEC and non-
OPEC countries have 7 million bar­rels a day of excess capacity and should be able to fill the gap left by Iraq. 
Iraq produces about 2. 3 million barrels a day, with the United States importing about a third of that. 
Aboard Air Force One, en route to Knoxville. Tenn .. White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said Iraq's decision to supend oil shipments is "another sign that Saddam Hussein is willing to starve his own people." 
Under a United Nations decree, revenue from Iraqi oil is supposed to go for Iraqi food purchases. 
'"T"'T 1ry, K'"T~T~rY --n FrT a ,11 Y • rY: • . _ 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

had taken office, the pair helped organize a 600-student

·Petition 
rally that led to a spontaneous 

continued from page I 
imposing restrictions to address alcohol abuse among students and 
. University officials promise undergraduates direct input in student life policy-making. 
"We believe moving dances out of the hall will deprive students of the important opportunity to build commu­nity and will con­sequently 
damage 'The idea ofworking for a 
the resi­
student voice is an issue

dential 
life and that goes beyond alcohol. It hall spirit is something that our 
at Notre 
administration will 

Dame," 
Bishop continue to fight for. " and Foley wrote in 
Trip Foley 

the signed 
Student Body Vice-President

letter. "We also do not believe that these proposed policy changes are the best way to address abusive drink­ing, because they do not 
attack the root of the prob­
lem." 
Student leaders will release the number of petition signa­tures by Monday. And admin­istrators, including Poorman, will receive the signatures next week. 
Bishop and Foley expect larger student response to the petition than to past protest efforts. 
On March 20, before they 
march to Main Building, headquarters of administra­tive offices. and where some students burned copies of du Lac, the student life hand­book. At student government leaders' urging, more than 200 students packed a March 25 Campus Life Council meet­ing, where Poorman formally introduced the alcohol policy changes. 
Poorman first announced 
the changes March 18, saying the policy revi­sions were necessary to keep the campus cul­ture from becoming alcohol­focused. 0 t h e r changes include the outlaw of "hard" liquor in residence 
halls and the loostming of tail­gating rules to allow 21-year­old students to host parties with alcohol in designated parking lots before home foot­ball games. 
"The idea of working for a student voice is an issue that goes beyond alcohol," Foley said. "It's something that our administration will continue to fight for." 
Contact Jason McFarley at mcfarley.l@nd.edu. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Series presents 

~benb:::MUSIQVE 
Concert XVIIl: Antiphonal Chant of the Middle Ages 
~11B ~cbola ;!Mustcorum 
Alexander Blachly, director 


Wed., April 10, 2002 
9:30 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public 
For more information, lease call (574) 631-6201 or visit htt ://www.nd.edu/-con oers 
.,


~~i ~ 


(Expires 4/10/02) 
SR 23 AT IRONWOOD 
~71t~1~71 

ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applications for the position of Admission Counselor 
As parl of the Undergraduate Admissions staff. the Counselor is expected to make an important rnmribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants. their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities, including the possibility of diversity recruitment, will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects or student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm. diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Preferred stall date is July I. 2002. 

Apply on-line via Human Resources web site or submit resume, cover letter and reference information by Wednesday, April 17, 2002 to: 
Admis~mns Counselor Job# 2007-077 Department or Human Resources University of Notre Dame NoLre Dame. IN 46556 


Sponsored by: 
n,4 an1'111,1 COCA COLA "f\Jotre LJcn-;e Al<xnn, Assocrat,on 
\l.tl·n·~ fldi (2 l111.·111i,111,t .,,, -.-\11 lmn~1.· ·1-:aun. 111,: 
,ftjlj:fihifft i~J 
THE FISHER REGATTA 
Saturday, April 13th 
1:00 PM St. Mary's Lake 
Captains Meeting: Wednesday, April 10th , 7:00pm, Montgomery Theatre in Lafortune 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002 The06server . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
OFFICE OF 
PHONE 574/631-7668 STUDENT GOVERNMENT FAX 574/631-4559 
203 LAFORTUNE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556-5602 
Dear Fellow Students, 

In response to the policy changes introduced on March 18, 2002 there has been a great deal of student discussion about the loss of hall traditions and the Jack of student participation in this process, Student Government has taken an active role in voicing these student concerns in recent weeks. However, we believe that students must unite in a single voice to most effectively make known their position on these issues. 
Therefore we have drafted the following petition to the administration and are asking for your support on this issue: 
We, the undersigned students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac, have signed this letter because we 
are concerned about the recent policy changes introduced on March 18, 2002, their effect on the 
University's residential atmosphere, and, most importantly, the lack of direct student input into this 
process. 

We believe the residential atmosphere at Notre Dame is a unique and important experience that brings 
students together into strong, spirited communities. Halls unite during in-hall dances which are an 
integral part of the strong traditions that characterize residential life at Notre Dame. The decoration and 
transformation of the students' home into a place that fosters unity and inspires excitement among 
residents is the direct result of hosting the dance in the hall. We believe moving dances out of the hall 
will deprive students of the important opportunity to build community and will consequently damage the residential life and hall spirit at Notre Dame. 
We also do not believe that these proposed policy changes are the best way to address abusive drinking because they do not attack the root of the problem. Simply creating a new policy denies students the opportunity to address this concern. Instead, we believe a multi-faceted approach-one that includes increased education and programming-is the best way to respond to this issue. 
Most importantly, however, the process by which these changes were implemented has illuminated a flaw in the way policy is created at Notre Dame. We object to the lack of student participation and input into the creation of these new policies. Students were not allowed to sufficiently participate in the creation of these policies and therefore were not empowered to create the solutions that will most effectively address our shared concerns. When students have an active voice in the policy development process, the resulting policies will better address student needs and problems. 
To that end, we call for the University to: 

• 
Allow in-hall dances to continue in a fashion that incorporates solutions from students and addresses the concerns of all parties. 

• 
Increase the University's commitment to education and programming to address the root cause of alcohol abuse. 

• 
Guarantee student participation in the decision making process on policies that affect their lives and the culture of Notre Dame. 


We believe that uniting the Notre Dame community is the best way to achieve our goals. Only when we 
come together can we fully make the changes needed to better our University.. 

This week your hall government will be requesting your signature on this petition. The discussion on this issue is far from over and we m:.:d you to make your voice heard. 
Sincerely, 



Trip Foley 
Student Body President Student Body Vice President 
WE HAVE A VOICE 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, April 9, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
Tin [ndrpmd~,u, Dllily Newsp,rprr Serving Notn o-~ ,uulSAir,t Mary's 
r 0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS M~AGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VJ.EWPOINI EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR\"s EDITOR: Sheila Egts PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devoto 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mart Lurz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Scott Brodfuehrer CONTROLLER: Lori Lewalski DEVEWrMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNFo..............631-7471 FAX...........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING .....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EoJToRIAssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.........................................631-5313 NEWS................................................... .......631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

V!EWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 obseIYer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 obseIYer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly srudent reviews 

advertise for policies 
online features for spe­

and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The ObseIYer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners co the Ediror must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rtgart/jng Obsm,erpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarlq. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Throughout time, countless prob­lems have plagued the Catholic Church. And throughout time, the crises of the Church have received great attention, great criticism and recently massive media coverage. People far and wide have been quick on their toes to grasp every shred of scandal that has any chance of denouncing the Church. Why? 
It's obvious. Because the Catholic Church represents the largest, longest running and still-standing symbol of solidarity, a foundation of strength, purity and faith. The requirements of the Catholic Church for its members to live a blessed life are, to say the least. rigorous. Many leave the faith, and many even become bitter towards it. This is because, quite simply, peo­ple are ignorant and often afraid. In a society where premarital sex is com­monplace and nobody can even remember what the Sacraments are, it is indeed difficult to understand what the faith asks of its members. It is difficult to put these demands into perspective. And it is a lot easier to just plain not be Catholic. Often you hear someone say, "The Church isn't dynamic enough. I don't need to listen to rules from 2,000 years ago." Or better yet, "I'm a Catholic, but I don't agree with some of the rules. God knows how I feel anyway so it's okay." 
Plain and simple, everyone's faith is his or her own. We are all free to come and go from the Church and into any other faith. But please. Don't tell me that you're a Catholic if you can't explain grace and you still don't understand why the Church will never allow women as priests. Pop quiz, did you know that it is a mortal sin to miss Communion on Sunday? Every Sunday? I know you don't all make it to Mass on Sunday, and this is Notre Dame. Think about it -here at one of the nation's leading Catholic universities, where about half the buildings have chapels, many people don't even understand their faith. Imagine the real world where your chances of seeing a priest on the street are slim to none. Here, they teach our classes and keep an eye on us at night. If you can't explain your own faith in the Catholic Church, do not attempt to denounce that same Church. In fact, you might want to question your own faith and where it is headed. 

Do not get me wrong. The issue of pedophilia in the Church is a grave one. But again, it must be taken into perspective. Our world is one filled with sensationalistic media, and denouncing something as massive and enduring as the Church is an easy target for sensationalism. There are a lot of ways to twist this one and make it look like the entire Church is the problem here. A tiny section of the Church has erred greatly, and thanks to media attention, now the whole Church is under attack. Don't try to tell me that because of something like this you're reconsidering your faith or considering changing religions alto­gether. Those who cannot handle it love to bash it. It is scary, I'll admit, to think of the demands of my faith. But I do not choose to run, and in my running turn and yell a few insults over my shoulder. 
On a final note on the current crisis, I have one comment. Priests do not become pedophiles. And most impor­tantly, the Church does not make priests become pedophiles. Do not attempt to argue that the require­ments of celibacy push these men to molest children. Anyone that believes in that argument is a perfect example of the overall decay of moral fiber in society today. Celibacy is age-old, and since the beginning of the faith man has had trouble with it, but since the beginning of the faith man has mas­tered it. 
A priest that has molested a child has issues of his own, he has fallen on his own fault and weakness to a terri­bly pathetic level. He does not deserve to serve God. He does not fit the moral requirements of a real priest. And I think God will handle the punishment part of the deal Himself. But the Church cannot be blamed for the shameful turning of a relative handful of these men. 
Can it be blamed for covering these scandals up? Perhaps. And that is it. They made a mistake, an impulse judgment error. But that doesn't change the fact that this religion is, by our beliefs, God's religion. This Church is God's Church. It doesn't change the fact that Jesus Christ came to man and taught him how to live and that through the ages these lessons have become traditions that have been carefully handed down to us today. It is sad to see society attempting to dismantle something so beautiful by dwelling on its shortcom­ings. And it is even sadder to witness the slow but steady loss of under­standing of our own Catholic faith. 
Johnny Burns junior T urrle Creek Apartments April 8, 2002 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Scott Brofuehrer Elizabeth Lee Justin Krivickas 
Sports 

Katie Hughes 
Viewpoint 

Kristin Y emm 
Scene MikeSchmuW Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Production 
Chris Federico 
Lab Tech 
Amanda Greco 

NOTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Should Notre Dame publicly address the recent cases of sexual abuse  "It is easier to make war than peace. "  
involving the Catholic Church?  Georges Clemenceau  
former French prime minister  
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m.  

O
THE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A ticket out of distribution hell 
Although everyone who knows me could testify how much I love this school, I do believe that there is one partirnlar problem here at Notre Dame that could use a little work. The problem? Ticket distribution. If college rankings factored in a school's etliciency at distributing tiny pieces of paper, our students would be transferring to Holy Cross. Football tickets have been a disaster year in and year out, ever since the "camp-out" tradition ended four glorious autumns ago. Virtually no one understands how or why they end up with the tickets they do, and most people feel that the "lottery" system is so confusing that they'd rather ignore it completely. take whatever book they're given and then sneak over to their friends' seats. 
Even more egregious was the laughable attempt to distribute U2 tickets this past fall. Two lotteries were required even before the lines were formed. some stu­dents waited for nine hours to get their tickets and then most of the people l know who thought they had bad seats somehow ended up standing inside the heart­shaped stage. three feet from Bono. 
Another case was last Friday's disgrace of a "Senior Week Ticket Sale." An e-mail was sent last week to all seniors, telling us what events were planned for our senior week and inviting us to drop by Senior Bar on Friday afternoon to purchase tickets for them. What they failed to tell us was that by "purchase tickets" they meant "stand in line in the freezing-cold parking lot for four hours until we run out of Cubs tickets." It honestly looked as if the workers were shocked that more than five seniors showed up at all, and they had no plan whatsoever for organizing a line. 
Luckily for Notre Dame, I happen to be a genius, and I'm willing to help solve this blight on our good school's name. Here are four possible solutions to end this mon­strosity of a ticket distribution problem: 
1. 
Take advantage of campus mail -Send each stu­dent a postcard with a certain amount of blank lines where they can write the student IDs of themselves and the friends they want to sit with. Then, have the students mail them back. Once tickets are assigned, most likely by a lottery, then announce a two-day period where stu­dents can pick up their tickets and hand in their cash. 

2. 
General admission football tickets -Want to elimi­nate the problem of people sitting in other people's seats and simplify ticket distribution too? Just make the seats general admission by section. That way whoever arrives earliest each week will get the best scats in their class's area, and no one will have to worry about whether or not they're going to be able to sit with their friends. 

3. 
Retire the "line-lottery-line-ticket" system -Easily the most common difficulty in these ticket situations of the past few years has been the insistence on behalf of planners that students wait in multiple lines on the same 



day in order to get tickets. How about offering a two or three-day windows where interested students can flash a student ID card at the LaFun information desk and instantly receive a lottery number? Afterward, print the winning lottery number in The Observer. along with approximate times that students should expect to arrive at the distribution site in order to buy their tickets. While it still includes a line to buy tickets, it eliminates the two to four hours that students are often required to waste in order to pick up a lottery number to popular events. 
4. Make tickets a Grab-'n'-Go item -Like U2? More than two cookies? Alright, this one's not exactly feasible, but at least there would be two places on campus you could get tickets. which would have saved those poor Bono fans roughly four hours each. 
Whatever plan you prefer, one thing should be painful­ly clear by now. This school needs to find a way to dis­tribute tickets for football. concerts and other popular events without requiring students to skip class, miss meals and spend four to nine hours standing in a park­ing lot. 
Alex Pagnani 
senior 
Dillon Hall April 6, 2002 

Understanding the Palestinians' plight 
Palestinians fight to end Israel's illegal, brutal occupation 
The Israelis are inflicting terrible violence on the Palestinian people through assassination and full occupation of the Palestinians lands. It is not about security. It is not even about revenge. It is about the fact that Israel will take any and all instances of Palestinians fighting back as another reason to kill as many Palestinians as they can. They are executing a state terrorism and a genocide. 
Where is the world? Where is the con­science? While the United States is trailing after Bush's Axis of Evil, Israel is continuing its night-time invasions and psychological and physical warfare -the most deserving of the label "Evil." People cannot see that because people are not receiving the truth or the facts. Now, the Israeli forces have maintained a rigid military blockade and occupation against all the Palestinians' territories. They have turned the use of F-16 bombing raids into a routine event, bulldozed hundreds of homes and ambulances with tanks, practiced a collective punishment, cut off water and electric power, prevented medical care and shelled hospitals and places of worship. In fact, they have vio­lated the international law by illegally occupy­ing the West Bank and Caza Strip since the 1967 War. along with many other internation­ally recognized war crimes. 
Israeli ·Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and now the Bush administration brand the Palestinian resistance as terrorists and claim that Israel is defending itself. What about the Israelis' crimes -are they not terrorism? It is a very straightforward concept that occupation has only bred terrorism. So how can you label fighting the occupation "terrorism?" In fact, the Palestinians are recognized internationally as freedom fighters, and they will continue lighting back against the immense oppressor. 
What do they have to fight back with? Do they have financial and military backing of the United States? No. Do they have bullet-proof vests and a military of thousands? No. Do they have even the slightest amount of humanistic support from the world? How long have the Palestinian people been asking for internation­al or United Nations observers? Why are they refused this basic and fundamental right? 
How long have the Palestinian people been asking for their rights as human to be respect­ed and not trampled upon only to be refused more. 
When you say the words "Geneva Convention," there is a sense that yes, there is perhaps such a thing, but it does not apply there. Why? How many resolutions have been made against Israel's violence and violations against the Palestinian people? How many times have these resolutions counted for any things? In fact, the Israeli leaders are not looking to end the occupation and bring a just peace to the region. Rejecting the Arab summit peace proposal, which has been appreciated internation­ally. and answering it with war is strong evidence. 
And what Sharon offered to Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat -a "one-way ticket" out of Palestine -is more evidence that he wants to destroy even the Oslo peace process, which he described previously as a destruction to Israel. Former Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pro­posed to entirely destroy the Palestinian Authority and reject any future Palestinian state. This action suggests their sanguineous mentality and the invalidation of any agreement or peace plan. The Palestinian people are alone in every sense of the word. They fight back with what they have and nothing more. They will continue to fight until the other few billion people on this planet recognize this situation and begin to do something to help. And until then, no one has the right to judge how they defend themselves to end the occupation. 
Sorour Alotaibi graduate student Department ofAerospace and Mechanical Engineering April 8, 2002 

Israel also at fault in Middle East conflict 
I am writing in response to an article that The Observer chose to reproduce by Julie Bernstein, a University of Southern California stu­dent. Her article was blatantly biased, and I hope that it was not repro­duced for good writing, but to show her ignorance. Bernstein claims not to judge and not to think about the politics of the Middle East, yet the only the issues she addresses are those of the Palestinian suicide bombers, the terrorists. She purposely avoids criticizing the Israeli army for bulldozing Palestinian homes and not a word is mentioned 
about the mass execution of Palestinian police forces, either. I just do not understand how an article of this nature can be reproduced. It regurgitates the Western and Israeli bias. It should be noted that Julie Bernstein sits on a committee at 
her university entitled, Southern California Students for Israel. It blows me away that she can go on and on about how no fingers should be pointed but at the 
same time she only implicates Palestinian suicide bombers. She defends Sharon against comparisons of him to Hitler, citing Hitler's genocide and other atroci­
. ties, when in reality the Israeli army is not much better at times. I am not saying that the Palestinians are not at fault, but she challenges Arafat to develop economic growth and schools for children. This is quite difficult while being confined to a few rooms during a gunfight and being offered an ultimatum to either flee or to die. l am upset that her article has made its way 
around the nation as the points are biased towards Ms. Bernstein's own cause. I appeal to our campus to truly look at the con­flict in the Middle East as a conflict in which neither side is completely in the right, nor is are they com­pletely in the wrong. The Palestinians arc limited in 
their resources, so they have taken to their last resort: terror -but the Israelis have given them few choices. In the days after Sept. 11, many said that the United 
States had brought the terror upon itself. To some extent this is correct, as our policies have offended many and ignored 
the cries of those which we have forced our ideas upon. The same can be said for Israel bringing so much of this upon itself. Israel is not helping its cause by murdering police officers execution-style or by bull­dozing the homes of Palestinian officials. Its refusal to bow to the United Nations' pleas for peace are more proof to this point, as Israel does not seem set in its ways to bring peace to the Holy Land. 
Daniel T yszka 
sophomore Sorin Hall April 5. 2002 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


page 10,,, Tuesday, April 9, 2002 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Pop producers N.E.R.D. take their turn 
By TOM O'CONNELL Scene Music Editor 
Fans of H&B, rap or pop music, have probably heard of The Neptunes. As the producing duo, The Neptunes, Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugol have been playing the role of pop music mechanics for about five years. In fact, it is very difficult to turn on your local Top 40 radio 
station without hearing something that has been produced by the Neptunes. Just a few of the groups they have worked with in the last five years include Jay-Z, Babyface, Janet Jackson, Backstreet Boys, Britney Spears, Usher, No Doubt and many others. 
With a reputation for inventive, inspired beats and producing cred­its on many multi-platinum albums, having the Neptunes produce an album has allowed artists to brag about having attained a certain level of industry credibility. Britney Spears wants to shed the schoolgirl image and become a woman? She hires the Neptunes. Backstreet Boys want to use more than cre­ative facial hair to adopt a tougher image? They hire the Neptunes. 
After a series of successes as pro­ducers, the Neptunes decided to put out their own album. Recording under the band name N.E.R.D. (No one Ever Really Dies). In Search of. . . is a creative and original debut album that mixes R&B, rap and hard rock. Resisting the urge to over-synthesize the album with multiple layers of computerized effects, N.E.R.D. uses electric and acoustic guitars, great basslines role in contributing to street violence. The Neptunes are not gansta rappers, but they let their voices take on that persona in this song in order to make it sound edgier, and the result is one of the better songs on the album. "Things Are Getting Better" is an amusing song that may or may not be a satire of popular musicians who think that their status as rock stars guarantees them success with any ~oman they choose. 
N.E.R.D. 

IN SEARCH OF... VIRGIN RECORDS 

"Brain" is a hilarious song of seduction that describes the singer's clumsy attempts at romance with a woman. The ending of the song is so funny 'that it is a shame it is too dirty to print. "Truth or Dare" juxtaposes a female and male lead, both speak­ing a.bout how desirable they arc to the opposite sex. Both groups agree to meet at a club for a highly sexualized game of truth or dare. The energy trading back and forth between the two lead singers gives the song a feel­ing that is not present on the other tracks, making it the best song on the album. 
"Tape You" is another funny song about a man trying to convince his girlfriend to let him videotape their bedroom antics. The comedy that is present on many of the tracks emphasizes that N.E.R.D. are not serious about any of the images they portray on this album, and that this project is primarily about having fun. 
"Bobby James" is one of the few 

and powerful drum beats to create what is essentially a rock album with an R&B vocal style. 
"Lapdance" starts off the album on an antagonistic note. A low and aggressive guitar riff and hard-hitting drums combined with angry vocals give the lyrics some bite. The song is a frustrated statement about society's 
serious songs on the album, and its 
acoustic guitar and piano melody give weight and depth to its lyrics. The song is about an unpopular and depressed boy named Bobby James who is tempted by a dealer to use crack to relieve his emo­tional anguish. He becomes an addict and eventually a starving runaway who loses everything to his addiction. 
In Search Of ... is the product of many years of pro-ducing experience from the Neptunes, and the time spent working on other albums pays off fairly well. It is very reassuring that an entire rap album can still be produced using original beats and melodies, without having to rely on a multitude of proven-hit samples to back up the lyrics. 


The faster songs on In Search Of ... are very powerful and engaging, and some of the slower tracks take away from that energy. Still, what the album is outshines what it is not or what it could have been, and definitely gives hope for their future as recording artists. 
Hopefully the album will succeed and the N.E.R.D. will make more original albums. The Neptunes might realize that their creativity is better spoken through 
N.E.R.D. than through another flash-in-the-pan pop star in need of an image overhaul. 
Contact Tom O'Connell at toconnel@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Indigo Girls still have what it takes 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Scene Music Editor 
The Indigo Girls latest release, Become You, returns to their tried and true basics reminiscent of earlier releases 
such as Rites of Passage and Strange Fire. With acoustic strums dominat­ing the sound­track rather than the more techni­cal sound they've been experiment­
ing with, Become 
You proves the girls are back to what they do best. 
The album opens on a strong note with "Moment of Forgiveness," a swanky tune with an easy toe tapping beat. Singing of a long-lost love, Amy Ray seems to find solace in her own weakness. "Well I guess that I was lonely/ That's why I called you on the phone/ 'Cause in a moment of forgive­ness/ I didn't wanna be alone." 
The title track, "Become You," has the capability of becoming a surefire hit for the duo. A thoughtful and inviting track, it dares the listener to sing along. It creates a nice balance between love and social activism. ''I'm sorry for what you have learned/ When you feel the tables turned/ You run so hard in your race and now/ You've finally set the pace." This pace is continued with the album's fifth track, "Yield." Fierce acoustics and mighty voices back up the demanding lyrics. "When you're three days down the highway/ And you're looking like I feel/ It takes a lot to keep it going/ It 
takes a lot to keep it real/ Take sometime for your­self and learn to yield." 
Just as catchy is "Bitter Root," a tune with Southern twang and artful lyricism. "Tonight I've been sleeping on a mountain top/ I got a billion stars for my witness/ In the morning I go down when the sun comes up/ And I take a drink from the Bitter Root River." A perfect campfire tune, "Bitter Root" shows off the duo's playful side. 

The two slow things down a bit with "You've Got to Show." Featuring a retro organ and a slow shuf­fle. the song radiates an air of desperation in Emily Salier's voice. "There are a thousand things about me I want only you to know. but I can't go there alone, you've got to show." This track's lyrics walk the line between sappy love song and indie might. 
That line is crossed with "Collecting You." A musically beautiful song, it just has an overabun­dance of sentimental sap. "I could paint you in the dark/ 'Cause I've studied you with hunger/ A work of art." The two have enough experience to resist writing lyrics worthy of a Hallmark card. That's not to say that the album's love songs are not worth lis­tening to, but at this point in their decade-plus career, it is fair for a listener to expect a little more. 
A truly beautiful love song, "Our Deliverance" could bring tears to the eyes of a listener. Pleading and sincere, the lyrics are only a side note. Despite a few disappointments in the generic love song lyrics, Become You is a quality Indigo Girls album. the kind that one can solidly listen from start to fin­ish. 
Contact Maureen Smithe at msmithe@nd.edu 


~ --· -­
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Tuesday, April 9, 2002 page 11 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Dashboard Conf~ional and others rock the House 
High expectations ruined with new back-up band 
ByJOHN FANNING 
Scene Music Cri ric 
The House of Blues in downtown Chicago was filled to capacity last Sunday night with under-aged emo rockers for a quadruple bill featuring Dashboard Confessional and opening acts the Legends of Rodeo, Ben Kweller and The Anniversary. The show was the first of three consecutive sold-out dates at the HOB for up-and­coming emo poster boy, Christopher Ender Carrabba, formally knowrt as Uashboard Confessional. 
As the mostly high-school aged crowd filtered in decked out with undersized thrift store T-shirts and thick-rimmed glasses, the Legends of Rodeo kicked off the first of the night's four acts. The relatively standard rock quartet gave it their all and ended up putting on a relatively entertaining performance, though they were soon forgotten after their exit from the stage. 
What followed however, ended up being one of the most entertaining acts of the evening. The relatively unknown Ben Kweller emerged from backstage, looking as if he belonged more in the crowd of youngsters than backstage with the performers. However, this shaggy-haired, awkward-looking kid ,vasted little time in winning over the audience. After beginning on a tired, but still relatively funny note, with his own acoustic version of "Ice, Ice, Baby," Kweller's band emerged and his set began. Though his sound is rather quirky, as is his matching per­sonality, the young artist proved him­self diversely talented, singing and playing both guitar and piano, while captivating the eager crowd with his offbeat demeanor. 
However. The Anniversary, probably the biggest opening name on the bill, followed Kweller without nearly as much success. The talented group, who share Dashboard's label Vagrant Records, are easily identifiable by their female keyboardist/vocalist, a rarity in contemporary mainstream rock. 
Despite their distinctively­timed rhythms and solid energy, the group was pitted against the huge obstacle of an increasingly anxious crowd. While all three openers were entertaining, their sheer num­ber was too much for the impatient crowd to sit through. Thus, by the time the talented Anniversary took the stage, the crowd's patience was run­ning a little thin, and after a solid set, The Anniversary left the stage visibly frustrated with crowd's indifferent reaction. 
Finally, after more than two hours of openers, Dashboard Confessional took the stage to an anxious crowd of teenagers who had promised their par­ents that they would be home no later than midnight. Emerging, as he should have, alone with his acoustic guitar, Carrabba opened with "Swiss Army Chris's elaborate guitar work that were the problem, as much as the fact that this gangly annoyance spent the entire set in a failed attempt to steal the show and fulfill his cliched dreams of rock and roll stardom. 



However, if someone could ignore the super annoying bass player (which was very tough to do), the rest of the set was relatively enjoy­able, and there were even instances in which the accompaniment worked. In songs such as "Saints and Sailors" and ''The Good Fight," which are already upbeat, the band man­aged to make the songs rock just a little bit more. 
However, on Dashboard's slightly more brooding and qui­etly intense songs, which compose the majority both of his song archive and Sunday night's set, the band simply interferes. The most impressive and dominating aspects of Carrabba's work stem from his intricate guitar work and insight­ful lyrics, which imme­diately became mud­

Chris Carrabba, a.k.a. Dashboard Confessional, recently took the stage at the House of Blues 
dled every time the 
in Chicago with his rough, acoustic sound and powerful vocals. 
Romance," the title-track from the first of his two full-length albums. Almost immediately setting a trend that was both endearing and slightly arrogant, and that would continue throughout the night, Carrabba retreated from the microphone during the song's climactic bridge to allow the crowd to take over the vocals. 
Carrabba then continued his acoustic solo act with the phenome­nal, "The Best Deceptions" from his critically acclaimed sopho­more album, "The Places You Have Come to Fear the Most." At this point, the show was off to a relatively good start; even if it did resemble some kind of large-scale camp­fire emo sing-along. 
However, it would not be long before the night took a turn for the worse. 
Enter Dashboard Confessional's new­found, and almost completely unneces­sary backup band. The most amazing thing about Carrabba's first two albums was his ability to give the lis­tener the impression that they were already listening to an entire band; while in actuality what they were hear­ing was nothing more than Chris and his acoustic guitar. The power of his music drew from his harrowing vocals and intricate guitar work, which when combined had the ability to plow the listener over with the force of a full symphony orchestra. 
Coming out for the third song, and then playing on and off for the majority of the set, the useless back-up trio served only to detract from, rather than improve Dashboard's sound. While watching this newly formed "group" perform, an old cliche kept coming to mind over and over again, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it." 
Moreover, the band entered for the mediocre, "Remember to Breathe" from Dashboard's most recent and more than disappointing So Impossible EP. The disposable trio consisted in part of a relatively unexciting drummer and a guitarist/keyboardist whose pulse is still yet to be confirmed, and who actually sat down during one of the songs while plucking out his trivial sin­gle note additions to Carrabba's guitar work. 
However, by far the worst offender was the bassist, Chris's own personal friend, who apparently also plays in Seville (he's probably the reason that no one has heard of them). This guy was kind of like that one friend that everyone has but that no one ever wants to bring along to the party because he creeps out everyone you introduce him to. At every opportunity this arrogant impediment would bounce his way up to center stage and shake his hips Elvis-style while lip­syncing lyrics not even his own, in hopes of catching the attention of any female in the audience. It was not even his simplistic bass lines interfering with 
band returned to the 

stage. "The Sharp Hint of New Tears," probably the most pow­erful song from Dashboard's first album, slipped into mediocrity as the bass and drums drowned out Chris's chord changes and powerful vocals. 
Also, on a note sadly indicative of what to except from Dashboard in the future, the two new tracks that he played for the audience seemed to have been composed with all four members involved, and departed sharply from Carrabba's former distinctive and suc­cessfully abrasive acoustic sound. 
There were a few moments when big Dashboard fans realized why they were there, such as the great rendition of "The Brilliant Dance," and the over­played but well done, "Screaming Infidelities." However. in strong con­trast to most concert experiences, someone might have left the show lik­ing Dashboard less than when they arrived. 
Carrabba's new band is not only unnecessary, but at moments intolera­ble, and all of his new work seems to have digressed to the level of the mid­dle-school audience, both in content and quality, that his record label and friends on TRL obviously want him to seduce. Though the show was on the whole enjoy able, the next time Dashboard comes to town a fan should save their money and buy the new Ben Kweller album instead. 
Contact John Fanning at jfanning@nd.edu 
-· ---·-­

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 9, 2002 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles easily cruise through home opener 9-0 
play against Tri-State so we Scots' returning members. 6-1 win. hand, are 4-0 in the MIAA and 
By KATIE McVOY 
were really debuting on our Jeannie Knish took her match With that win as a backdrop, finally saw some real competi­
Associate Spom Editor 
home court. It was difficult. A in two sets, allowing her oppo­the Belles will face their tough­tion in Alma. lot of us had great matches," nent only three games total and est MIAA competition today. Saint Mary's will be focusing 
In their past three matches, said Ryan. "A lot of times in Katilin Cutler at No. 3 singles The Flying Dutch of Hope on taking the points at the net the Belles have come home tennis, the score doesn't reflect had a match as close as College will hit South Bend with and dominating at the serve, without losing a single individ­the match." Knish's, hopes of avenging last year's hoping to interrupt Hope's ual match. But in Saturday's The Belles took winning unseating. usual confidence and take match, despite a 9-0 score, they home their third con -"Nobody wants to be the 6-3, 6-0. Prior to the Belles' champi­home conference win number felt like they played solid com­secutive 9-0 MIAA best ofthe worst. You K r i s onship last year, the Flying five. petition. And the team is feeling victory, taking all six Spriggle Dutch had dominated women's "Where the confidence shows
want to take pride in the

Like they're starting to beat real of their matches in at No. 4 tennis. Hope was undefeated on the court is in coming on the competition. two sets. Despite the fact that you've beaten singles for the first three years Saint match. If you can come to the 
"It makes the day feel more fact that Alma good people. " a n d Mary's was in the MIAA before net and close the match it productive," said No. 5 singles couldn't string Angie the Dutch fell to the Belles last destroys the confidence of the player Elisa Ryan. "Nobody together enough Sandner season. other team and builds your
Elisa Ryan

wants to be the best of the game wins to win at No. 6 "Just as Notre Dame has a confidence," Ryan said. "The worst. You want to take pride even one set, it still Belles player singles tradition, and when a team other area is the serve. The in the fact that you·ve beaten felt like a battle. b o t h plays them they're not just stronger your serve, the weaker good people. I'm really glad we "[The woman] I played still defeated their opponents 6-1, playing the team, they're play­their return. If you have a weak had a match like the Alma had me nervous," Ryan said. "I 6-0 and Ryan took her oppo­ing the tradition, when we're serve you're opening the door match to precede our match was feeling as if I was in a tie­nent 6-0, 6-1. playing Hope we're playing a for them to smash the return against Hope." breaker." Doubles was just as success­very, very impressive record of and get to the net faster." 
Saturday was the Belles MIAA At the singles spots, the Belles ful. In the closest set of the conference championships," The match gets under way home opener. The regular were able to take their oppo­match, the No. 1 doubles team Ryan said. "They wear their today at 3 p.m. outside of Belles line-up played on their nents without allowing the of Knish and Knish defeated its confidence in their name and Angela Athletic Facility. home courts for the first time. Scots to win more than three opponent 6-4 in the second set it's not just a match." 
"[Saturday was) what I would games a match. No. 1 singles to win the match 6-1. 6-4. Hope, with a 4-7 overall like to consider our first chal­player Annie Knish led off the Hyan and Cutler won their record, has only played one lenging match at home because victories with a 6-3, 6-1 victory match 6-1, 6-1 and Spriggle MIAA match against last place Contact Katie McVoy at the normal line-up really didn't against Sarah Pipas -one of the and Sandner took home a 6-0, Olivet. The Belles, on the other mcvo5695@saintmarys.edu. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Surprising Buckeyes to challenge No. 11 Irish 
match-up for both teams. down south. Notre Dame is coming off a time Big East defensive playerBy CHRIS COLEMAN Ohio State started the year On Saturday, Ohio State lost four-game winning streak that of the week, and the Irish 
Sports Writer 
unranked after a disappoint­a heart-breaker on a last-sec­included the first-ever defeat defense may very well have ing 7-8 record last season that ond goal to No. 17 Johns of No. 7 Syracuse, as well as the stingiest program in the 
Today's game between No. included a loss to Notre Dame. Hopkins. The disappointed an impressive come from country, allowing only 6.44 11 Notre Dame and No. 13 Despite being pegged as a Buckeyes will be looking to behind victory over Big East goals per game. Ohio State wasn't supposed to mediocre team, the Buckeyes redeem themselves against the foe Connecticut. Offensively the Irish have be important. The tournament started this season off strong Irish, who will be their fourth Their only loss of the season five players that have record­this weekend, when the Irish by winning their first six consecutive ranked opponent. was a 10-9 decision to Cornell, ed 12 or more goals, and the will host No. 6 Duke and No. games. "They are going to come out where the Irish outscored the team averages 11.74 goals per 12 Yale, was supposed to the The Buckeyes then lost to ready to play," midfielder Big Red 6-2 in the second half. game. focus of the attention. No. 5 North Carolina, but Danielle Shearer said. "This is The Irish have been domi­
But since the Buckeyes have edged then-No. 7 Maryland by always a big rivalry. They nant on both the offensive and gotten off to a quick start, a goal. The 7 -1 Buckeyes were have been playing really well." defensive ends. Contact Chris Coleman at today's game is a critical No. 13 after the weekend But so have the 8-1 Irish. Goalkeeper Jen White, two-ccolemal@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Summer Employment for College Room in DC 2000 Grad subletting Furn. 1 bedroom house w/ garage. MOVING TO CHICAGO? Student Care for 11 and 9 year old. furnished, air-conditioned room in 1 mi N of campus. Avail mid-May to 1999 ND Alum has 2-2BR/1 BA Apt Fun, relaxing summer. Good pay. NW DC house, mem. day wknd. to mid-August. $550/month all util incl. for rent in BUCKTOWN, ALL NEW, 
r NOTICES FOR SALE 
Hours 9am-5pm. sept 1 2002, three roommates (2M, Hwdfl, Exp Brk Wis, Fplc, AC, New 
1F) Safe neighborhood, free street Call Laura 514-8568. Apl, Dishwshr, Lndry, Jacuzzi, $250 a day potential/bartending Please call Lisa 631-9947. Men s new black NOTRE DAME parking, washer/dryer in house. two Deck, Training provided 1-800-293-3985 leather jacket (med) $150. 631· blocks from bus to downtown. 1-1 /2 New York City Apt-2 bedroom/con-Gar Spee Avl, No Pets, $1,395, ext. 556 Portrait Photographer. Available 30-6234 or 616-684-6692. miles from Tacoma Metro, vert 3 New building in East Village 
40 hours per week 1 to 3 years $390/month + 1/4 utilties, call Large kitchen with island A/C, 773-791-5810 Well maintained houses near cam-experience working with high PASSAT VW 1996. $7500 obo. Michelle 202/829-3725, or videophone,Dish,Micro,Laundry. pus 2-4-5 & 8 bedroom houses 4 school seniors? Fine arts educa-KellyBB=$8900. Black, all avail krup78@hotmail.com Free access to nearby LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES-left for 2002-2003 Also leasing for tion? Enjoy career opportunity with options, heated, leather seats, gym,No Broker TIONABLE AREA. NICE HOME 2003-2004 award winning studio? manu trans, no fluid leaks, 150k, OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 ·NORTH OF ND 
tight fast sporty bedroom house, wshrldryr/sec Fee $2600/mo(heat and hot water Call Kramer 234-2436 or 274-9955 Call Priscilla 1-800-844-5725 sophisticated. Call Jason 634-4645 sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom included) 2773097 
Ext 124 house-air,sec sys/parking 2-bed-FEMALE SUB-LET IN CHICAGO 2 Couch, loveseat, and recliner. $450 room cottage..cute.. DAVE 291-Bethany NO 2000 (347)524-5823. recent ND grads seek a roommate Reliable businessman looking to or best offer. Less than a year old. 2209 to share spacious 3 bdrm, 2 bth rent or housesit 2+ bedroom home Perteet condition. 233-0360 Summer Rent 2 bdrm, Castle Pt PERSONAL apartment-close to Wrigley, EL, for 9 to 12 months or longer. ASAP. 3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM-part furn Amy 243-0195 very safe 5/1-8/31 Call for Selling all household goods. Good PUS. FURN.,LOW RATES 272­details (312)-696-1579 Call Tim 574-250-8552. Lv. mes-quality & cheap. For info: 277-1379 6306,292-6717 1500+ sqft 4 bed/1.5 bath house Unplanned Pregnancy? 
sage if necessary. after 12 pm daily. with lots of updates. DW/wash/dryer 
CHILD CARE/near UP mall/well­behaved daughter-1.5/son­9Hours&live-in with own bath/bed option6/10-8/15call243· 1228after6:00 
WANTED 
SMC alumna looking tor someone to do childcare in my Granger home for school year 2002-2003, 2-3 hours per day, M-F. Must have own car. Call 247-0690. 
Looking for single Castle Point roommate coming summer and/or fall. Free high-speed DSL internet. currently $323 per month + utils. 
Call 574.277.9322 if interested. 
FREE 1 BEDROOM APT FOR THE RIGHT GRAD STUDENT IN EXCHANGE FOR 21 HRS/WK LEASING APTS AND OFFICE WORK. SOME WEEKENDS. IMMEDIATE OPENING YEAR ROUND. GEORGETOWN APART· MENTS 272-7286 4 Paul Mccartney tickets, seated together-4/11/02-Chicago. Will sell 
for cost. 
Sec 216, Row 3,Seat 15-18. Call Cathi 284-4805(w) or 256-2198(h). 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
MMMRentals.com 
3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. CIA. Security system. Close to campus. 616-699-5841 
Nice 3-4 bdrm, 1.5 bath, CIA, gas heat, W&D. fenced backyard across from park, VERY SAFE NEIGH­BORHOOD. fireplace, 2 car garage $1 050/mo+dep. Call 232-4527 or 616-683-5038 
2 Great Homes: 4 & 5 Bdrm. W&D. close to campus. Well Kept! Great Location! ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. Call Karey 255-8403. 

inc. Walking distance to campus Do not go it alone. If you or some-Spacious yard tor tailgating, recre-one you love needs confidential ation, or just relaxing. $1400 + sec support or assistance, please call or $325 ea for 5+ Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1­
7819 Call 277-8450 or email house@newwebtech.com For more information, see our 
weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. shorVlong term 3 mo. max. Matt 631-2000 3·11pm M·F $250/mo. ELECTRONIC DIGITAL PRINTING 1/2 mile to ND Black & White or Full Color al THE 
COPY SHOP LaFortune Student 

Lrg lux 1-bdrm aptin historic home. Center Submit your work via email Garage. Must Seel for details call: 
Call Tamrny(616)684-1049. 57 4-631-COPY 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
ND SOFTBALL 
Pitchers dominate for Irish 
By AARON RONSHEIM Spotts Writer 
Pitching, pitching and more pitching. 
The Irish pitchers gave up only two runs over four games as the team shut out St. John's twice and limited Seton Hall to only a single in each game last weekend. Over the 28 innings the Irish only allowed 11 base hits. 
The pitching duo of Steff1;tny Stenglein and Carrie Wisen continued their Big East suc­cess as they each picked up two victories over the week­end. 
"They both threw very well," said head coach Deanna Gumpf. "I was very pleased with both of their perfor­mances. Most of it has to do with playing the tough pre-sea­s on. Both of those pitchers have faced the best teams in the nation. They are realizing now what it takes to get there. They are getting better and better and that is all that I wanted." 
The Irish crossed the plate with a combined 27 runs in their four games. 
"I think we're more confident and more relaxed because our offense is doing such a great job," Stenglein said. 
One of the reasons for the success of the Irish offense has been Lisa Mattison on first base. Mattison was named Big East player of the week after hitting .556 with two doubles, two home runs and nine RBIs over the past six games. 
"Lisa Mattison was tremen­dous, Andrea Loman was tremendous, Jarrah Myers was tremendous and so was Jenny Kriech," said Gumpf. "They were all huge." 
In the first game against the Red Storm, Myers provided the difference with a three-run home run in the third inning. That was all Stenglein and Wisen would need as they combined for a five hit shutout and defeated St. John's 4-0. 
In the second game the Irish jumped on the scoreboard early with four runs in the first inning. The big hit of the inning was a two-run double 
· by Mattison. 
· The Irish would add another run in the sixth on an RBI sin­gle by Kriech and three runs in 
· the seventh on a two-run sin­gle by shortstop Andria Bledsoe, followed by an RBI double by Mattison. The Irish would go on to defeat the Red Storm by the count of 8-0. Stenglein pitched six scoreless innings, striking out nine, en route to her 10th victory of the season. Against Seton Hall the Irish continued their strong hitting. Centerfielder Jenny ,Kriech was six for nine with two runs scored in the two games against the Pirates. "It is extremely important for 
Jenny to get on base," Myers said. "She is one of the best leadoff hitters in the country and when she is cooking every­body else is going to fall in." 
The Irish won the first game of the double header by the score of 8-1 behind Wisen's first career home run. 
In the second game against the Pirates the Irish jumped on Seton Hall pitching to score three runs before the Pirates even came to bat. The Irish would add two more runs in the sixth inning on Loman's fourth home run of the season and an RBI single by Mattison. 
After playing 27 of their first 28 games on the road th'e Irish will have a 13-game home stand starting on Tuesday when they face off against Valparaiso. 
The Crusaders are 9-8 on the young campaign. So far this season the Crusaders have relied heavily on their starting pitching in order to keep the games close. Pitcher Lisa Kendall has been leading the Crusaders. Kendall has a record of 4-5, but has posted an impressive 1.82 E.R.A. The Crusaders have only hit one home run as team while Notre Dame has hit 20 as a team. 
"We have 13 games at home and we can't wait to get going," said Gumpf. 
Contact Aaron Ronsheim at aronshei@nd.edu. 

WOMEN'S ROWING 
CrelV takes 5th-place at San Diego Classic 
"We were hoping to make
By MARK ZAVODNYIK 
the finals," said sophomore
Sports Writer 

Natalie Ladine. "Saturday 
relieved a lot of stress." 
Confidence catapulted the On Sunday the Irish got off to No. 20 Irish over the likes of a slow start, but caught fire nationally ranked teams at the over the last 1000 meters to San ,Diego Crew Classic. The catch Virginia and take fifth 
first varsity eight crew of place.Michelle Olsgard, Ashlee During the week, Stone Warren. Natalie Ladine. Jayme made some changes to the Szefc, Becky Luckett, Diane 
race plan. These new strate• . 
Price, Katie Besson, Katherine gies were a major factor over Burnett and coxswain Cassie 
the weekend. Markstahler snagged fifth · "[The new plan] definitely
place over No. 9 USC, No. 14 helped on Sunday. It helpedTexas and No. 19 Oregon get past Virginia," said Stone. State. The second varsity eight also "I believe we can do any­made it to the final on Sunday.
thing. If you are a Notre Dame However, the windy conditions team, you can win anywhere," caused many of the Irish row­said head coach Martin Stone. ers' oars to get caught under 
Stone was not surprised by the surface of the water. the success of the Irish. "I 
To perform this well in one thought that we were a three · of the biggest regattas of the 
seed. I thought we raced real­season could bump the team ly well. Our kids believed we up in the new national rank­could win." 
ings, which will be released 
During Saturday's prelimi­Wednesday evening. nary heat, the first varsity 
"We were surprised by being
eight crew for the Irish had a seeded 12th," said Ladine, "We blazing start, taking the lead were underestimated. Now after the first 1000 meters. they definitely respect us." This start propelled the Irish to 
The crew team will compete 
a third place finish in their this weekend at the Indiana heat and a spot in Sunday's Crew Classic at Eagle Creek grand final. 
Reservoir in Indianapolis.
"Saturday's race was confi­dence building," said Stone, "We knew that we could run Contact Mark Zavodnyik at with these schools." mzavodny@nd.edu. 
This 
Weel< in 
Campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 
E'--da_v_______ 
Confirmation Session #14 
7:00 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Bible Study/CBS 
7:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center Fr. Al D'Alonzo, csc, Director 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
M!nesdav 
Sant' Egidio Community 
6:00 p.m. Log Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 p.m. Morrissey Chapel 

Eucharistic Adoration 
11 :30 a.m. -4:45 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
ROTC Senior Retreat 
April 12-13 Moreau Seminary 
Freshman Retreat #41 
April 12-13 Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
April 12-13 Fatima Retreat Center 

RCIA-Mystagogia 
10:00 a.m. 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.m. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

Retreats 
sion
.........:.......UPS 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
Freshman Retreat #41 
Retreat Date: Apr. 12-13 
Pick up applications: 
Monday, Feb. 25 -Monday, Apr. 8 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

Confirmation-Celebration of the Sacrament of Confirmation 
7:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
The Way Bible Study 
8:30 p.m. 331 Coleman-Morse Center 
Eucharistic Adoration 
Monday through Tuesday 
11 :00 p.m. -11 :00 p.m. Fisher Hall Chapel 
Saturday April 27 
9:30 a.m. -1:00 p.1n. 
Shotgun Start • Foursome Scramble Prizes for : Low Score, Longest Drive, Closest to Pin Sign-up by Friday April 12th in 114 Coleman-Morse 
Fee: $7.00 • Notre Dame Nine Hole Course 
FOR INFO: Fr. Tom Badnar, CSC, 1-9246 or Badnar.2
1st Annual G.O.L.F.* Scramble & Cool~out (*G.1d Offer Listing Fria11ds/1ip) 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 9, 2002 
BASEBALL 
Irish to saddle Broncos 
won the last two meetings
By CHRIS FEDERICO against the Irish and hold a 63­
Sports Editor 
58-1 advantage in the all-time series. Last season, the Broncos The Notre Dame baseball 
came into South Bend and left team takes a break from Big with a 7 -6 victory.East play today when it hosts "They are a team that has Western Michigan at Frank Eck played us very tough the last Stadium. couple of years," the senior co­
The game against the 
captain Bushey said. "The older Broncos is situated in the heart guys, especially. are aware that 
of Big East a team like competition this can
"We realize that these
for the Irish, 
come in and 
who won two mid-week games are very beat us any out of three 
important . ... We know time." 
games against T h e
we have to be prepared 
conference 
Broncos are 
rival St. John's for these games." 9-11 on the last weekend. 
season and 
The Irish, 
coming off a
Andrew Bushey
who struggled 
four-game
early in the Irish co-captain 
series split 
season but have won eight of their last nine games, realize how important these non-conference games can be. 
"We realize that these mid­week games are very impor­tant," third baseman Andrew Bushey said. "Games like these play a very important role in the R.P .I., which could mean the difference in a possible at­large bid for the NCAA tourna­ment. We know we have to be prepared for these games." 
If any opponent should demonstrate the need to be prepared, it would be Western Michigan. The Broncos have 
with Mid­American Conference rival Miami (Ohio). Hitting is the strength of this Western Michigan team that boasts a . 322 team batting average. 
The Broncos are led at the plate by a pair of seniors each hitting over .400 for the season. 
Third baseman Tim Frankhouse has knocked 12 doubles on the year, leading to 
a .450 batting average. Third baseman Sam Flamont just trails his classmate, batting .410 with three home runs and three triples. 
The Broncos have struggled a bit on the mound this season, having allowed 153 runs on the season with a team ERA of 7 .32 compared to their opponents' 126 runs and 6.13 ERA. 
If the Irish are to take advan­tage of this stat, they will have to continue to improve in situa­tional hitting with runners on base. 
"After the three losses to Connecticut earlier in the sea­s on, Coach [Paul Mainieri] pulled the team aside and told us we really had to work on sit­uational hitting," Bushey said. "I think we have really improved in that in these last few games. We realize that we're not a team that's going to hit a lot of home runs, so we have to manufacture runs and take advantage of the opportu­nities we get." 
ln their 4-3 loss to St. John's this weekend, the Irish only hit 2-for-21 with runners on base, but in Sunday's 5-2 Notre Dame victory, the Irish improved to 7­for-14 with runners on . 
The Irish are currently hat­ting .303 as team,. led by cen­terfielder Steve Stanley. The senior co-captain went 6-for-10 over the weekend series to push his team-leading batting average to .447. 
The -two teams are scheduled to take the field tonight at 6:05 
p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Federico at cfedericl@ncl.edu. 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Lotta's 240 strokes leads team to 11th 
By KATIE HUGHES 
Spons Writer 

What a Lotta. 
The Notre Dame women's golf team shot a final round of 313 at the Indiana Invitational last weekend to give the Irish a 54-hole total of 967 and an 11th-place finish, led by fresh­man Karen Lotta. 
Lotta tied for 28th, 21 shots behind the leader. She had rounds of 78, 84 and 78 for an 18-over par 240. 
Sophomore Rebecca Rogers turned in her best single round of the season with a three-over par 77. She tied for 37th with a 54-hole total of 242. 
"I think that was one of [Rebecca's] best tournaments. ... For me. my putting could have been a little better, but overall it was ok," said Lotta. 
Notre Dame finished 48 strokes behind Michigan. The Wolverines moved from third place into first on Sunday, shooting a five-over par 301 to finish with a 919 score. 
Indiana had led by 36 holes after Saturday's competition, but Michigan made up 12 shots in the final 18 holes to edge the host Hoosiers by two strokes for the title. 
"The competition was pretty tough this weekend, and we were happy the way we played Sunday," said Lotta. "We were happy we put a good final round together." 
Terri Taibl tied for 53rd with a 246 (85-82-79) and senior Kristin McMurtrie matched her final round 79 to tie for 59th with a 248 (89-80-79). Shannon Byrne tied for 61st with a 249 (80-86-83) and Lauren Fuchs tied for 78th with a 262 total (89-85-88). 
Illinois finished third with a 923 (307-308-308). Kent State 
(924) and Michigan State (925) finished fourth and fifth respectively as six shots sepa­rated the top five teams for the weekend. 
"All of us are starting to per­form better together, and it's showing in the last few tourna­ments," said Lotta. 
The Irish are off next week­end and then close out the reg­ular season on April 20 and 21 when they participate in the Ohio State Buckeye Invitational. 
"We just want to continue our streak and finish strong." said Lotta. 
Contact Katie Hughes at hughes.39@nd.edu. 

KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES 
Some Undergraduate Courses for fall 2002: 

IRISH LANGUAGE IRST 101 Beginning Irish I An introduction to modern spoken and written Irish: basic principles. of grammar and sentence structure, as well as core vocabulary. Emphasis is placed on the application of these principles in every-day situations. Students learn how to conduct simple conversations: talking about oneself and asking information of others; talking about family and home; describing the weather and daily activities. 
HISTORY OF IRELAND IRST 3268 Irish History I This course explores the main themes in Irish history from the Plantation of Ulster in the.early C 17th through the rebellion of 1798, a period that witnessed the emergence of many forces and rivalries that have shaped modern Irish society and politic. ·
·k 

IRST 441 The Vikings Did the Vikings contribute anything to western civilization other than plunder and piUage,-pagan savagery, and horned helmets? This course examines the Vikings' impact on Europe and Norlh America over four centuries. Discussion centers on primary sources from England, Ireland, France, Russia, and Scandinavia, archaeological evidence and modern treatments of Vikings in film and literature. IRST 235 The Irish American Experience For sophomores only, this course will examine the history of the Irish in the U.S. In many respects the Irish are the great success story in American history. They have moved from the shanty towns to the board rooms of Wall Street. Along the way they have left their mar~ on American politics, literature, religion, and the Labor Movement; these are the areas that the course will study. The heart of the course will be the century of immigration, 1820-1920. · 
IRISH LITERATURE IRST 471 Dying Cultures: Studies in Six Irish Writers 1910-2000 Bram Stoker, W. B. Yeats, J.M. Synge, Elizabeth Bowen, Seamus Heaney, Medbh McGuckian. The aim of the course is to look at the exemplary role assigned to the notion of a dying culture in the work of the authors listed here~ The versions of sucl(~ultures are the pre-modern (Stoker); the Anglo-Irish and the Modern (Yeats and Bowen); the traditional Gaelic culture (Synge); and Northern Ireland (or 'the North'), in Heaney and McGucltiali. Close examination of the fiction, drama and poetry involved will be reinforced by an analysis of the versions of history deployed by these authors, most especially those versions dominated by the notion ofa conflict between,'.l.(adition' and 'modernity'. • IRST 453 Visits to Bedlam 'He gave the little wealth he had,/ To build a house for fools· and mad·. :· .' riean'·swift's obsession with establishing a hospital for the 'insane' in Cl 8th Dublin signals a wider interest in the 'Age of Reason' with madness, the irrational, and what Freud called the unhe,imlich/'or tbs;,~unclilfu.y/TTBeginning with Don Quixote, a work that did much to construct early modern ideas about madness, the course moves through short readings in C 17th and C 18th writers, philosophers, and physicjans_who faia_J.yzed madness. A key question is to what extent was madness seen as a 'national' trait and to what extent did that idea and its supposed opposite, 'rationality', define certain views of .'Englispness'? ~The coursfen~s with a consideration of later representations of madness. including Dracula and Dr. Jekyll mul Mr. Hyde. ·v •.. i . '· '.:<~!': . IRST 302 Crime and Violence in the Nineteenth-Century Irish and British Novel This course explores diff.ett.nt dimensions of the Cl9th concept of crime through no11els written in Ireland and Britain during the last half of the century. Key tei1ts, including Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's SherwckHolfnes, an extcnsive·-•~li:ction of Fenian prose, Bram Stoker·s Dracula and Joseph Conrad's The Secret Agent, provide diverse perspectives on history and literature and a framework for discussion of violence and social change, sexu~~,}~conomics, and politics. IRST 303 Victorian Empire Writing 1868-1901 The late Cl9th United Kingdom witnessed considerable de.rilqCl:atization, a process that many conservatives feared would lead to anarchy throughout the Empire. In fact, crown and empire became ever more popular. This course explores bow literature bolstered the i~lqgy,ofilqperialism in the popular imagination, paying particular attention to the intersection between the troubled categories of race and gender and e,tploriog Ireland's anomalous ~~tjonsbip t~.Emp,~J ~)' ?~Ing Irish:w~i~n.g w~th th~t of India and Africa. 

ANTHROPOLOGY :-'· ,;.·_. ,.,,.,.:: ..,,A,,.,,,..·.,·'., '.1;~i",',~ 

IRST 321 Folklore, National Culture and Irish Identity The notion of folklore emerged.,in the late Cl8th arid ci9~~~~YJIS8~a · ~JI\ ideas of cultural relativism, from the romantic period on it became an importanl resource to national movements in search of cultural authenticity. Th.is course explores the idea offolkf ' · . · ;the·, ·· · ,Qfildeas and examines the relationships between folklore and popular culture and m_odernity.. ~t looks at the Irish c~se in detail. from the be~~_ng~;9J~holarly inter~stin popul~ colture)l, .,,., }i~Ff~'. . , . ~90 p,f. f~Iklore study in ~he south~rn state: . . . IRST 324 lnsb Traditional Culture Yes, 1t had to happen; finally. a course•abput the Leprechaun-but not as you know.him·,:,•,... ;:'JJlis~:eolll'se 1s concerned with narrative trad1t10ns (stones and storytellrng), popul~ religion_ (folk belieO and material c~lture (folklife}, 1!aditionally the core areas for. researcher$ in. fo~lC?fC}~fi~teJ~}~~~es the notion of 'traditional culture·, implicit or ei1plicit in the work of folklonsts,.relatrng that work to anthropolog1cal and other wr1tmg 9n Ireland. -.. · ;;,....~-i~;;t•/., ,.:.. \> \::t'f:'•'/:~:',:.".'':;:i/C··.:.. •.ff'.•~:':. IRST 482 Archeology or Ireland This course examines the cultural and historical trajectory of the ~l~gy of'Jrl\1!@1:~:~~g1of richly illustrated lectures, organized chronologically, that trace cultural, social, and technological developments from t~e Neolithic tbr?U~ V!_~ng periods. Integrated ~~~,~-l~ttn'e~~~t~~-,-f6'.f concurrently on alternate days, will be a series of seminar and d1scuss10n classes focused upon a number of anthropolog1cal and arth~~~~,~ssu,pla:d to each of these pi:r1~~f-~;:~~oli:! .: ·.. ; 
',1,4' ,,ttlf i'+, •• ~; ·-... . ,... . .· L A~_·,•1 r ' '':, 
See Dart Registration Book for other Iris/J Studies courses~)"i~!-8!{ ,.· , i:~l~~,lim,~! : ;{; :,::< · : ' .. ,. ,.,.· · 
Graduate courses to be announced shortly; for additionalin/Ji'!· /_ ~,;i~ltBrearn&i:,t~J~~;~~•J';; 
.. · ._; a~~"4. ··.·!t,;~.~~~~~'.~~~ ·.,: ,fl}i.? .,;.~~it}.'.. -"· ·.: ·!!!t·,Jh_, --~ ­

Tuesday, April 9, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SMC SoneALL 

Belles prepare for young Calvin squad 

By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's softball play­ers have their work cut out for them Tuesday as they face Calvin College. 
"We've had really good prac­tices this weekend," said junior catcher Susan Kutz. "The next Calvin game will show how much we've learned since our last game." 
The Belles lost to Adrian and Albion in their first four MIAA matches, and will enter the game against Calvin with a 5-9 record. Calvin pitcher Rachel Heyboer was MIAA Pitcher of the Week last week. 
The Knights, though 0-2 in MIAA play, defeated Franklin College last Saturday, 9-0 and 22-2. Heyboer, a freshman, has a 5-4 record so far for the Knights. She has allowed only one home run and has struck out 32 of 206 opposing batters. 
Saint Mary's defeated Calvin last year, 8-0 and 13-12. But this is clearly going to be a game where Calvin will use its fresh­men to even the match. 
The Knights return looking for revenge after last year's losses. 
But Belles shortstop and lead­ing scorer Marnie Walsh said, "We're going to go for it." 
The Belles won against the Knights last year, under head coach Amber Warners. Warners led the team to two NCAA Tournament berths and was named 1997 Great Lakes Region Coach of the Year. 
Walsh leads the Belles with two runs in the four MIAA games. 
Calvin is also counting on freshman Laurel Sands to lead them in scoring. Sands is the only Calvin player to earn a home run so far this season, and leads the team with 20 runs. 
Saint Mary's will counter with experienced players and the new style of first year Belles head coach John Ganeff. Ganeff comes to Saint Mary's with several years of experience in softball, first as a player, on national ASA teams, and then as an assistant coach, for Big Bend Community College in Washington and North Idaho College. 
"We haven't worked on any­thing specific for Calvin, but we've been working on situa­tional hitting and situational defense," Kutz said. "We're going to work together and make sure our defense helps out our offense." 
Contact sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 

THE KEOUGH INSTITUTE FOR IRISH STUDIES FALL 2002 COURSES 
IRISH FOLKLORE AND ANTHROPOLOGY 

IRST 321:01 MWF 9:35-10:25 
Diarmuid 6 Giollain Minors only thru 2nd Dart period 
Folklore, National Culture and Irish Identity 
The notion of folklore emerged in the late Cl8th and early Cl9th. Closely associated with ideas of cultural relativism. from the romantic period on it became an important resource to national movements in search of cultural authenticity. This course explores the idea of folklore within the history of ideas, examines the relationships between folklore and popular culture and modernity and outlines the development of folklore as an academic discipline. It looks at the Irish case in detail, from the beginnings of scholarly interest in popular culture in Ireland to the central intellectual engagement of the literary revivals with it at the end of the Cl9th, leading ultimately"to the institutionalization of folklore study in the southern Irish state. 
IRST 324:01 MWF 11:45-12:35 
Diarmuid 6 Giollain Minors only thru 2nd Dart period 
Irish Traditional Culture 
To examine Irish peasant culture, this course focuses on materials accumulated by folklotists since the late C19th. Folklorists recorded a huge volume of information as part of a project to rescue and rehabilitate the Gaelic tradition within .a modernizing Ireland. This information was from peasant society, but was often seen as transcending it (Gramsci's 'national.,,popular'). The course interrogates the notion of 'traditional culture,' implicit or explicit in the work of folklorists, and relates that work to anthropological and other writing on Ireland. There will be particular emphasis on naffative traditions (stories and storytelling), popular religion (folk beJi~f) and mateijal culture (folklife), traditionally the core areas for researchers in folklore and folklife. ' · ,;, 
?IY 

Professor Diarmuid OGiollain of University College Cork, is the leading authority on Irish Folklore. He has published extensively on Irish folk belief, including seminal studies of the Leprechaun, Fairies and Dwarfs and the 'pattern' or local saint's festival. His Locating Irish Folklore (2000) won the prestigious Katherine Briggs Folklore Prize. 0 Gfollain is a highly regarded teacher. 
page 16 Tuesday, April 9, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

csc Center or Socia{Concerns 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


~n~~ 


http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: M-F 8AM-10PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 


Do you know ...someone on the Faculty who has completed one or more research projects that address a need or concern of a local non­profit or community based organization? If so, please nominate that person for the 
Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D. Faculty Community-Based Research Award 
For more information on this monetary award and what to include in your nominating letter, see the Center's website at http://centerforsociaJconcerns.nd.edu/ganeyaward.html Nominations should be sent (emails are accepted) to Mary Beckman, Ph.D., Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research, Center for Social Concerns (bcckrnan.9@nd.edu), by no later than April 15th at 5pm. 
Current Volunteer Needs 

CSC Student Assistant Positions Open for Fall/Spring '02/'03! 
Geometry Tutor -Brenda Madison -233-3997 
She is looking for a tutor for her 16 yr old son for geometry. Time commitment would be 2 hours a week max, preferably after 5pm. Transportation to ND can be provided. 
( Tutor for 12 yr old -reading help 
· Ken Stacy-287-2316 x 334 -ken@tirerack.com He is looking for a tutor to help his son Joshua with his reading skills. Time commitment would be about 3 hours a week. He can bring Joshua to campus if the tutor would like. 
Tutor for 6 yr old & 10 yr old -need help in reading -Wendy -254-7652 She would like a tutor for her children who are struggling with reading. She can bring the chil­
dren to ND on Tues &/or Thurs after 5 pm. 
***If you have any questions about these volunteer projects feel free to email cscvols@nd.edu. *** 

Reminder to all 
Summer Service 
Students: 
Orientation is next week! Tuesday OR Wednesday 
(4/16 OR 4/17) 
6:00 to 9:00 PM at the 
Center for Social Concerns 

Applicatio11s are available now at CSC Front llall Desk and Reception Office! Student Assistant Open Positions Include: 
Appalachia and Educational Immersions 
• Communitv Parlllerships and Service Leaming Volunteer Requests Coordinator 
Experiential Learning/Leadership Development 
Experiential Leaming/Research/Program Development 
General Office Assistant to Associate Director 
Research on Community Based Leaming 
Publications and Graphic Design 
Summer Service Projects and Alumlli Relations 
For more information, check Student Employment web page! Application Deadline: TOMORROW, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10rn! 

'lfazaretfi Conversations 
Join us in reflecting on social concerns, peace, and faith issues! 
"Simple Lives, Simple Choices" Thursday April 11th, 2002 
6:30 to 8:oo p.m. CSC -Coffee House 
Soup and bread will be served. 
An opportunity to Reflect and Integrate Faith and Justice Issues For more information, contact Fr. Felipe Morel at morel.2@nd.edu 

r-------------------------------~
I I 
I  "Suin~ the Generals"  I  
I  Come hear the testimonies of two Salvadorans who were arrested and tortured  I  
I  by the Salvadoran National Guard during the civil war in El Salvador and their  I  
I  quest for justice through the U.S. courts.  I  
I I  Wednesday,April 10, 7:00 PM  I I  

CSC Coffee House 
L-------------------------------JI 

"'The Breatest chaffenBe ofthe day is how to brinB aGout a revolution efthe lieart, a revo{ution which has to start with each one efus." 
~'Dorotfiy 'Day 

Coming Soon! 
The Fall 2002 edition of the booklet "Social Concerns Courses with Experiential and Community-Based Learning" will soon be available for all interested students, staff and faculty at the Center for Social Concerns and several other locations on campus. 


"P~ ct Heft.: HIV/Af1)5~~" 
Sue Weissert (Maryknoll) & ISSLP students will discuss a quilt project for women with HIV/AIDS 
in Cambodia and highlight connections between AIDS, gender, and poverty. 
Wednesday, April 10 
12:00 Noon Brown Bag Lunch 
(Drinks/Snacks provided) 
CSC Coffee House 

Tuesday, April 9, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 


Enjoy a good challenge? 
You want a personal life, but you also want a career that challenges you. At Ernst & Young, you can have both. True, we have high expectations. And some tasks will no doubt rack your brain. But rest assured. We help our people face assignments with some remarkably handy tools, such as the most advanced technology, information, and resources, bar none. And with a talented pool of colleagues and mentors by your side, success is closer than you think. And so are the rewards. 
FC)RTUNE.
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
TO WORK FOR R; 

ey.com/us/careers 
a/ f RNST&YOUNG 

FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 

Spring 
continued from page 20 
Clark is generally regarded as the best passer in the group, but he has only has taken four snaps in a game -all of them coming in garbage time. But with the new offense, Clark said he feels he has a chance to move up higher oh the depth chart. 
"Obviously, I am lacking expe­rience," said Clark, who report­edly hurt his hand in the off­season because he was practic­ing so hard. "[But] you can try to take charge of things out there and take charge of the huddle. Obviously, it's different in a game situation, but when you show you are a leader in practice you can be trusted in the game." 
Adjusting to the new offense will take time. Diedrick said. While he called it "quarterback· friendly," he admitted it was important to build the confi­dence of Clark, Holiday and LoVecchio as they adapted to the changes. 
"We've been looking at play­books for so long, it was nice to finally Jill.fl up and throw the ball around." Holiday said. "It helps to see a defense to line up again." 
"We prepare a lot before we step out on the field," Lovecchio added. 
Diedrick said it is important for the quarterbacks to gain a fundamental understanding of the offense during the spring so they can learn more during the break between spring and fall practices. 
"They're working through some growing pains right now," he said. "It is one thing having the offense in print in front of them as opposed to all of them going out there and doing it on a physical basis where the speed, the pressure and the tempo is accelerated tenfold." 
"The amount you have to know as a quarterback is pretty unbelievable," Clark said. "When I came in here as a freshman, it was overwhelming and there was a lot to learn. But now I know a little more about college football and I am under­standing things a lot better." 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
The Irish return to action this Saturday when they travel to West Point, N.Y., to take on Army. This marks the final con­test of a four game road trip for the Irish. 
Notre Dame has four games remaining on its schedule -two non-conference games away at Army and Harvard, and two home games against GWLL opponents Fairfield and Ohio State. 
If the Irish remain atop the GWLL standings, they will auto­matically qualify for the NCAA Tournament. 
"There's no question what will happen to us if we win the rest of our games," said Corrigan. "If we lose any games, then we leave our fate in other people's hands." 
Contact Joe Licandro at jlicandr@nd.edu. 


,----------------­
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, April 9, 2002 
MEN'S GOLF 

11th-place finish highest of season for Irish 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Spom Writer 
There's an old adage in golf that claims a player can make three bad shots and just one good shot and still make par. 
This was the case for the Notre Dame men's golf team this past weekend, as they turned in two mediocre rounds before staging a final day charge the saw them move up five spots into 11th place at the Marshall Invitational in Huntington, W.Va. This marked their.highest finish of the season and put them just 23 strokes behind tournament champion Toledo. 
Cumulative rounds of 308 and 300 left the Irish 16th after the first day, but a final round of 292 -a tie for the lowest team round -left head coach John Jasinski in high spirits. 
"It was definitely our strongest performance of the season," Jasinski said. "It's real­ly something we've been build­ing toward." 
Throughout a spring season that yielded unimpressive results, the Irish demonstrated that at their best they are fully capable of competing with the nation's elite. 
In difficult conditions on a treacherous layout, Notre Dame enjoyed better results than in past weeks but the man leading them was no different. Once again senior captain Steve Ratay, led the Irish, firing a one under par 70 on the final day to move into ninth place. This stel­lar effort leaves Ratay with a season stroke average of 72.81, a mark that, should it stand. would be the best in school his­tory. 
"Steve Ratay anchored us," Jasinsld said. "He's an unbeliev­able performer. He really could play anywhere in the country and compete with anybody." 
Snow forced a two-hour delay in play making the greens even slicker and turning the tourna­ment from a slugfest into a plod. 
"It became a real thinking man's course," Jasinski said. "You just had to be smart out there and I'm proud the guys responded well to that." 
Ratay was by no means the only bullet to be on target. Senior Chris Witten had his best tournament in quite some time, notching his best score of the spring, a 73, en route to a 37th 
TAKE 
PORTUGUESE 
AT ND 
AND STUDY ABROAD IN BRAZIL 
Course Offerings for 2002-2003 
• ROPO I 11-112F: Intensive Beginning Portuguese I & !I (Fall/Spring: sequence fulfills the languagi;: requirement) 
• 
ROPO 121-122: Portuguese for Spanish Speakers l & II (fall/Spring) 

• 
ROPO 201: Intermediate Portuguese (fall) 

• 
ROPO 202: Advanced Portuguese (Spring) 



• 
LLRO 180J: Brazilian Film & Literature in Translation (fall) 

• 
ROPO 441: Immigrant Voices in Brazilian Literature {Spring) 


University of Notre Dame 
Dept. of Romance Languages & Literatures Portuguese Language Program Director: Isabel A. Ferreira Tel 63 1-0460 E-mail: ferreira.5@nd.edu 

place finish. While the result was Notre he said. "Good things can have 
"Chris was a huge bright Dame's best of the year, bad results. Good swings aren't spot," Jasinski said. "He had a Jasinski was quick to point out always rewarded. This weekend good start to the year but then that the his team has played things fell into place for us.~ fell off after that. It's disheart­well in other instances without ening when that happens, but necessarily achieving the he came back strong and he desired results. Contact Kevin Bcrchou at knows how to play." "Golf is such a fickle game," kberchou@nd.edu. 

Freeman J. Dyson 
Professor Emeritus of Physics The Institute for Advanced Study Princeton, New Jersey 
Eight Tales for Technologies: Successes and Fallures in Using Technology to Help the Poor Tuesday, April 9 -4:15 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
The World Economic Forum Debates: The Future of Science and Technology Wednesday, Aprll 10 -12:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
'lne Joan 'B. 'l([oc Institute for International Peace Stuaies 

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's Golf, p. 18 
. ND Softball, p. 13 
. 
SMC Softball, p. 15 . Women's Rowing, p. 13 

. 
Baseball, p. 14 . SMC Tennis, p. 12 

. 
ND Women's Golf, p. 14 . Women's Lacrosse, p. 12


PORTS 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002 

FOOTBALL 
. Irish quarterback position wide open among three candidates 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
As the Irish quarterbacks ran through pre-practice drills Monday afternoon, Jared Clark, Carlyle Holiday and Matt Lovecchio worked on handoffs. signal-calling and a variety of passing exercises_ 
Not once did any member of the trio run an option play. 
The absence of the option, a staple of Notre Dame's offense the past three years, shows just how different offensive coordi­nator Bill Diedrick's new bal­anced offensive system is from the system to which Irish fans have grown accustomed. 
Now all Diedrick needs is a 

quarterback to run the offense. 
"They have to make decisions, good decisions, and make them on a consistent basis," he said. "I know they can all physically execute the offense, but the guy who can do it mentally and con­sistently will probably be the guy who wins the job." 
In the weeks leading up to spring practice, head coach Tyrone Willingham repeatedly if.id every starting position was up in the air. But with a new offense and a new set of coach-
Up in the air 
es, the quarterback position is even more wide-open. 
The Irish have no plans to name a No_ 1 quarterback before the end of spring prac­tice, and Willingham even said he was willing to wait to decide until the day before Notre Dame's season opener. But regardless of when the Irish make their choice, Diedrick has three different quarterbacks with three different styles to choose from. 
"When you look at a con­trolled passing game, very simi­lar to what the West Coast is, you need to be very accurate, you need to be a decision maker," he said. "I think all of the other things: the arm strength, the athletic ability, the speed. All those other things are a dimension that is a bonus. You look for a young man who ca.n lead." 
Lovecchio started the fifth game of his freshman season because coaches felt he learned the offense the quickest. He led the Irish to a Fiesta Bowl berth in 2000, but was relegated to a backup role after Notre Dame lost its first two games of 2001. 

Holiday took LoVecchio's place and is considered the most athletic of the three. However, he struggled passing the ball, and Diedrick's offense utilizes the passing game much more than former offensive coordina­tor Kevin Rogers's offense. ANDY KENNNThe Observer 
Rising junior quarterback Jared Clark takes a snap in spring drills. Clark is competing with class­see SPRING/page 17 mates Matt Lovecchio and Carlyle Holiday for the starting role. 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
Berger propels Irish to 3rd straight victory 
By JOE LICANDRO Sports Writer 
Last year as a freshman, Dan Berger rarely got on the playing field for the Irish because he was stuck behind a host of seniors on the depth chart. This season, the sophomore attackman has been the most dangerous offensive weapon for the Irish. 
Berger, the team's leading scorer, continued his impressive play on the road against the Butler Bulldogs in Indianapolis last Sunday. 
His hat trick propelled the Irish to their third straight win in a critical Great Western Lacrosse League showdown. With the 12­8 win over the Bulldogs, the Irish improved their overall record to 4-5 and their GWLL division record to 3-0. 
"Dan did not play much for us last year," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "But we thought he was going to be a guy we could really count on heading into the season. Dan has been there on offense for us all season." 
At the beginning of the season, Notre Dame struggled in the early stages of games, but Sunday was a different story. After giving up a quick goal to the Bulldogs only 48 seconds into the contest, the Irish stormed back with five unanswered goals in the first quarter. 
Berger got the ball rolling for the Irish with his 15th goal of the season at the 12:39 minute mark. Senior captain John Flandina gave the Irish a 2-1 lead off of an assist from team­mate Travis Wells. Brian Giordano and Kyle Frigon then added the third and fourth goals of the quarter. Berger rounded out the scoring onslaught with his second goal of the quarter. 
"We got out to a lead early," Corrigan said. "We had so many close games earlier this year where we were never able to take the lead. After getting that lead. we played much more relaxed and execute much better offensively." 
Senior captain A. J. Wright will probably always remember this game. Wright, the anchor of the Irish defense, scored his first career goal with 3:17 remaining the second quarter to give Notre Dame a 7-2 lcad. 
At this point in the contest, it seemed as if Notre Dame had taken control of the game, but the Bulldogs did not go down without a fight. Butler answered with two goals in the final three minutes by Kyle Tietjen and Matt Eizenber to cut the Irish lead to three heading into halftime. 

The Bulldogs continued their momentum at the beginning of the second half, scoring two more wianswered goals to move within one goal of the Irish. But Berger stopped the Bulldogs scoring run with his third goal of the game, and Kyle Frigon fol­lowed up Berger's goal with his second score of the game. Attackman Steve Claggett contin­ued the Irish scoring streak, stretching Notre Dame's lead to 10-6 with his fourth goal of the 
season. 
Ryan and Wells rounded out the Irish offensive performance in the fourth quarter, adding two more goals to give the Irish 12 on the day. This was Notre Dame's second highest scoring output of the season. 
Goalie Nick Antol earned his seventh straight start and fin• ished the game with 13 saves. Antol's strong play in net has been a key reason to why the Irish have successfully turned their season around during the current three-game winning streak. 
"Nick's been playing really well," said Corrigan. "He's given us good leadership in the cage. He's made some real progress over the course of the season." 
see IACROSSE/page I7 

. SMC Tennis vs. Hope, today, 3 p.m. 

OBSERVER 
. SMC Softball vs. Calvin, today, 3:30 p.m.
RTS 

onUne 
0

. Baseball vs. Western Michigan, today, 6:05 p.m.AT AGLANCE . ND Softball vs. Purdue, Thursday, 3 p.m. http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 
Tuesday, April 9, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
WITH EXPENSES ON THE RISE, IT WAS ONLY A MATTER OF TIME llEFOPE THI: UNIV~SITY ADOPTEC> THE TOLL SYSTEM 
TODAY AND TOMORROW ONLY! RESERVE YOUR COPY OF THE BEST OF 4TH ANO INCHES. LAFORTUNE l 1AM-2PM. OR EMAIL TKEELEY@ND.EDU. PAY NOW OR ON DELIVERY. SUPPLIES WILL BE LIMITED. 
BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 

TOM KEELEY 
COOE RED! CODE REOI TOU JUMPER IN THE t:,EllARTOLO SECTOR! VNITS IN PURSUITI 
RYAN

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
CUNNINGHAM 

'Sij'ls you ,.,.o.'i ,iot -pe,.i:s 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Thurman of 1 Funnyrnan Fox 
"Even Cowgirls Get the Blues"6 Wallop 38 It merged with

11 Little demon Time Warner14 Lagoon 39 Brazilian city,surrounder familiarly15 Suffix similar to 41 2001 SO-Across
-1sh 
nominee 16 es Salaam 48 650, Roman­17 2001 50-Across stylenominee 49 Said 

19 "Exodus" hero 
50 See 17-, 23-, 20 Gush 
31-, 41-and 21 _ vez (again, 63-Across in Spanish) 56 Wacky 22 Virtuoso 57 Race in "The 23 2001 50-Across Time Machine• nominee 58 Sidle 27 Bygone Spanish 62 Pewter dictator component 30 Regret 63 2001 SO-Across 
31 2001 50-Across nominee nominee, with 66 Palindromic "The" preposition 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

67 "Tomorrow" musical 68 Relative worth 
69 Watergate prosecutor Archibald 
70 Like visiting teams, often 71 and drabs 
DOWN 
1 Plays impromptu 2 Above 3 Pouting grimace 4 It "blows no 
good" 5 Yalie 6 Capital of 
Western Australia 7 Stick out like 
thumb 8 Young pigeon 9 Yank 
10 Wide shoe width 11 Its license plates say "Famous 
Potatoes" 12 Former governor 
Cuomo 13 Geo model 18 this earth 22 Small songbird 24 Sgt., e.g. 25 Mess up 26 It makes MADD 
mad 27 Winter ailment 28 Capital of Italia 29 Saudi, e.g. 32 Tit for 33 _ polloi 34 Little toymaker 
HOROSCOPE 

TUESDAY, APRIL 9, 2002 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Hugh Hefner, Dennis Quaid, Keshia Knight Pulliam 
Happy Birthday: Your under­standing of friends and family will help you form solid unions this year. You will be attracted to creative groups that can offer you the inspira­tion you need to develop your own talents. You will be intent on finding perfect harmony inyour life, and you will join organizalions that are insis­tent on making reforms that suit you. Yournumbersare3, 16, 17,22,28,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Use your home for meetings or for a friendly get together. Be accommo­dating but don't tell anyone about your personal life or your secrets. Someone you are dealing with may not be trustworthy 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romantic opportunities will be plentiful if you get out and mingle with people who have similar inter­ests. Your contribution to any group you join will bring you popularity 
0000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't push your luck at work. Focus on what it is you need to accomplish and avoid interaction with others. You would be wise to avoid discussions concerning emo­tional matters. 00 
CANCER (June 21•July 22): You will be drawn to someone who appears to be most dedicated to the philosophy that he or she follows. The more you ca., delve into differ­ent cultural backgrounds, the more you will understand. 00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You should be looking into investments, however, don't be too quick to bor­row money in order to take part. If you can't afford to put money into something you probably shouldn't. 
000 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be charismatic, engaging and will attract a Jot of attention .today. The more you interact with others the better you'll do. Your confi­dence should get a boost that should enable you to move ahead. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): You can get the most done if you work alongside your colleagues or peers. Your unique way of doing things will bring inspiration to those watching you. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll be looking for something a little different to occupy your time. Social events will promote romance or at the very least strong friend­ships. You will learn from those you encounter. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Secret involvements are likely to backfire on you. Changes to your living arrangements will turn out better than you thought pos.5ible. Be prepared to tighten your bell 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec, 22-Jan. 19): It's time to make the effort to rectify any problems you've been having with others. Get together with old friends or relatives and reflect on days gone by in order to appreciate all that you have. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your achievements regarding your professional and financial situation are looking good. Your long hard journey to do and to be the best you can should be paying off by now. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your emotions may be a little frail today but if you concentrate on cre­ative projects you will find that your day can be filled with positive results. Be receptive to those offer­ing sound advice and wisdom. 
00000 

Puzzle by Pelar Gonion 
35 Indomitable spirit 36 Cosecant's 
reciprocal 40 Strange 42 Small whirlpool 43 Point of no 
return? 44 Where Einstein 
was born 45 Old Pan Am rival 46 Env. contents 47 Finished a 
round even 50 Dweller at Tenochtitlan 
51 Nile city 52 Wing 53 Kind of question 54 "What's it all 
about?" guy 55 Courted 59 Noted Surrealist 
6-0 Food that is "rustled up" 61 Scrapes (out) 63 Yak 64 Lennon's love 65 Blockbuster rental, perhaps 
Answers to any clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

TODAY!! 

Notre Dame Baseball Motre Dame Softball
@ ' 
-~ @ 
Western Michigan 6 pm Valparaiso 315 pm Frank Eck Stadium Ivy Field 
First 100 Fans At Both Games Receive Free Hot Chocolate!! 
Birthday Baby: You will need to be allowed the freedom to come and go as you please. Your beliefs will play an important role in your life. You will have a well-developed intuition that will guide you through any diffirulties that you encounter. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) i!) 2002 Urn versrll Press Syndicate 

