
Looking for a lifeline 
Mo.nday
MOSTLY 
Junior Ann Gurucharri tries to find a bone marrow donor to save her

CLOUDY 
father's life. 
APRIL 15, 
HIGH 82° 
LOW62° 
2002
News . page 3 

VOL XXXV NO. 124 


Police 
•

give forensic evidence to lab 
• Investigation of rape allegation due to wrap up this week 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Editor 
St. Joseph County police are handing over evidence from the alleged rape of a Notre Dame 20­year-old female student to a state crime lab, Sheriff Richard Seniff said Friday morning at a press conference. 
The sherifT said the suspects in the alleged rape are one former and three current Notre Dame football players. On April 10, police searched the house of one of the suspects, located about one mile east of the University. 
"The fact that the suspects are Notre Dame football players will have little effect on how we aggressively pur-See Also sue the investiga­"Slate crime tion," said Seniff. 
labs back-
Police have been investigat­logged with ing the rape 
cases" 
accusation since 
page3
April 6, when the alleged victim filed a report with the South Bend Police Department claiming the four men raped her early March 
28. The woman also filed a sepa­rate report with University author­ities on April 10 and will have a hearing with Notre Dame's Office of Residence Life and Housing on Wednesday. 
So far, Seniff said police have interviewed one of the suspects but the remaining three have hired attorneys and would not speak to police about the case. 
"It's a very sensitive case, and we're certainly sensitive to the plaintiff and the suspects," said Seniff. 
No criminal charges have been filed, but Maj. Bob Finn, the public information officer of the St. Joseph County police, said the investigation would be passed on to the county prosecutor this week. 
Seniff said there was no indica­tion of heavy drinking or use of date rape drugs. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Danie and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
SAIL AWAY 

C.SPENCER BEGGS/The Observer 
Four Fisher freshmen plow their way through St. Mary's Lake Saturday in the annual Fisher Regatta. Clockwise, from left, Jimmy Costanzo, Alex LaConde, Tom Gorman and Bill Hessert try to get their hand-crafted "Green Seamen Ill" ahead of the 
pack. Thirty-three boats entered-the race, and Carroll Hall's "Wood-N-Caulk" emerged the victor. 

Faculty Senate prepares for elections 
By SHEilA FLYNN 
News Writer 
The Faculty Senate. revamped with a new body configuration and election process, will collect nominations for 2002-03 senators Friday and will deter­mine election results by April 29. 
Now the reconfigured Senate is waiting to receive nominations for the represen­tatives who will institute the changes in next year's session. 
The changes come after the Senate voted to disband itself last May. During the summer, several members made an effort to restructure the governing body to make it more effective. The final reso­lutions were finalized and approved by University President Father Edward Malloy at the beginning of April. 
Key changes include eligibility for a Senate seat. membership numbers and the election process. 
"Any faculty member can nominate themselves or be nominated," said Jacqueline Brogan. Senate chair. "They 
can be tenured or untenured." 
Under the new election guidelines. departments will elect their own sena­tors, rather than each College. Several separate bodies, such as professional specialists, will also elect their own rep­resentatives. The change will enable sen­ators to more easily report back and lis­ten to specific constituencies. 
The Senate's membership will decrease from 53 to 45. 
Once elected to the Senate, representa­tives will elect chairs of the four standing subcommittees: Administrative Affairs, Academic Affairs, Benefits or Student Affairs. These four chairs, in addition to the Senate chair, will then be ex-officio voting members of the Academic Council. This creates a significant overlap between the Senate and the Council, allowing for more faculty representation than ever before. 
"In addition to the four chairs, Father Malloy added three more faculty to the Council," Brogan said. "That adds seven more faculty to the Council with no new administrators, making it closer to 70 percent faculty. Before the changes the Council was 51 percent faculty and 49 percent administrators." 
The Senate and Council will also form joint committees when necessary to tack­le special concerns. One joint committee is currently examining faculty grievance procedures. 
In the spirit of the new configurations. the Senate will re-elect all 45 members, creating the unlikely possibility that the 2002-03 Senate will consist of an entirely fresh corps of representatives without any veteran senators. The senator terms, normally three years, will be initially staggered due to the completely new elected body. One-third of the depart­ments will elect representatives for three-year positions, one-third will be electing senators for two years. and one­third will be electing senators for one year. 
The newly elected senators will be seated May 15 at the final Senate meet­ing of the academic year. 
Conta~ Sheila Flynn at flynn.S8@nd.edu. 

Monday, April 15, 2002
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Facing the facts 
The jig is up. I've had my last fling as a junior and it's time to admit to myself that I am a senior and graduation is in a month. 
Each year, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame plan parent weekends, and to me these are rights of passage that sig­
Sarah
nify growth and maturity. 

I went to Rome last Rykowski 
spring, so I missed 

Saint Mary's
Sophomore Parent's 

News Editor 
weekend. But I wasn't really a sophomore by then. I missed Senior Dad's weekend while I studied in Washington, D.C. last fall. I was a senior by then, but there was nothing I could do. 
So, a couple weeks ago, l asked my moth­er if she wanted to come up for Junior Mom's Weekend. She said yes, although she reminded me that I wasn't really a junior. 
We had a great time, and after she left Saturday night, I cried. I cried because she'd been there and then she was gone, but I also cried because I knew that there was no chance or time for me to lie to myself anymore. I had to tell myself the truth. 
The truth is, I'm not even 21 yet and I will graduate in May. I was one of the "lucky" ones who took a lot of advanced placement tests in high school. and came into college with a lot of credit from them, but even though I've saved a lot of money because of it, I still don't know if I would do it again. 
The truth is, it is so hard to spend one semester saying hello to long lost friends and making new ones when you know you will only be there until May. It is so hard to do activities with your graduating class when the class of your youth and your heart has another year to go through the hard stuff. It is so hard to grow up and graduate and go to law school when you are so much younger than everyone else.· 
What I have learned is that if you have friends, family, and a school or two behind you, pulling for you, no matter how hard things get, you will be okay. You will grad­uate, and it will be worth it. 
Thank you to my family, my friends, my professors, and my school: from Le Mans to Rome to Washington D.C. to Regina, I have had three wonderful years as a Saint Mary's woman. I know now that l will always be a Saint Mary's woman, just not always on campus. 
Contact Sarah Rykowski at ryko2948@saintmarys.edu. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS 
In a from-page article in the April 9 edilion, The Observer incorrectly spelled the name of Mexican restaurant Boracho Burrico, 1724 N. Ironwood Dr. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have mad.ea mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam :ind vacation periods. The Observer is a member of che Associated Press. All reproduction righcs arc reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE 
Admissions rates hit record low 
HANOVER, N.H. 
Students applying to Ivy League institutions faced for­midable challenges this year as admission rates at sever­al schools dipped to record-low levels in the face of grow­ing numbers of applicants. Dartmouth experienced a sharp drop in its admittance rate which fell to 20 percent while registering a 5 percent rise in total applications, the greatest such increase among its peer institutions. Harvard was still the most selective Ivy, admitting only 
10.5 percent and sending out over 17,000 rejection let­ters. Following close behind was Princeton with a 10.8 percent acceptance rate. Yale, Columbia and Cornell also admitted a smaller proportion of applicants than in the past. Yale granted admission to 2,008 students out of a record-setting pool of 15,443 applicants. The acceptance rate, which fell to 13 percent from 13.5 per~ent last year, was the lowest in the school's history. Cornell had an overall acceptance rate of 24.4 percent this year, down from 25.7 last year. The drop occurred despite a slight decline in the total number of applications. 
. Performance: "Womyn with  . Lecture: "Sleep Disorders,"  . Event: "Teachers as Scholars  
Wings," 7 to 9 p.m., LaFortune  Mini-Med School Lecture Series,  Spring Seminars," 9 a.m. to  
Ballroom  Brian Foresman, 7 to 9 p.m.,  3:30 p.m., McKenna Hall  
. Lectures: "Cavanaugh Chairs  DeBartolo, Room 102  . Concert: Notre Dame Choral  
Inaugural Lectures," all day,  . Film: "A Mongolian Tale." 7  and Chamber Orchestra, 8 p.m.,  
Center for Continuing Education,  and 9 p.m., LaFortune,  Basilica  
McKenna Hall  Montgomery Theater  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
BEYOND CAMPUS 
Berkeley students file lawsuit over alleged gang rape 
BERKELEY, Calif. bar even though bar staffers knew 
Two female Universitv of California­they were underage. The plaintiffs Berkeley students who allege they became very intoxicated, which were gang raped by a group of San played a direct role in their rape, Diego State University rugby players according to papers filed in court. filed suit against the university, its At the bar, the plaintiffs met two of team and the Southside bar where the rugby players and agreed to go to they met their alleged attackers. their hotel room, where they had sex, 
Raleigh's American Pub & Grill, San the suit alleges. Diego State University and its rugby During the sexual activities six other team all were named in the suit that rugby team members entered the was filed earlier this week at Alameda hotel room and also engaged in sexual County Superior Court in Oakland, Berkeley police investigated the alle­acts with the plaintiffs, the suit Calif. gations, but Alameda County District charges. 
The suit alleges all the defendants Attorney's office declined to pursue The suit charges the two UC­behaved negligently, and their behav­the case because of insufficient evi­Berkeley students did not consent to ior resulted in the rapes. dence, said Berkeley police Sgt. Kay the activities because of their intoxica­
The suit, which seeks an unspecified Lantow, supervisor of the sex crimes tion. It also states the two women amount of damages, alleges the plain­unit. tried to escape but were restrained. tiffs were gang raped April 20, 2001, The suit claims the two women, The suit claims the rugby coaches by six members of the rugby team at both younger than 21 at the time, were aware of the gang rape at the the Ramada Inn in Berkeley, Calif., were served alcoholic drinks at the time. 

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA POLY STATE 
Frat not suspect in student's death 
SAN LUIS OBISPO, Calif. 
As the investigation into the death of 19-year-old Brian Gillis continues, the San Luis Obispo Police Department talked to several members of the Sigma Chi fraternity to ascertain the events of April 3, which may have led to Gillis' death. The journalism sophomore was found around 11 a.m. at his Stenner Glen apartment by his roommate, who had beeri gone the night before. Although further information could not be released, police depart­ment Lt. Gary Orback said the investigation team is wait­ing for the toxicology test results to determine the cause of death. Orback said he already has ruled out the possi­bility of murder, and there is no evidence to suspect Sigma Chi of having anything to do with Gillis' death. Orback added the coroner's office will take the normal routine to test for alcohol and other drugs in Gillis' sys­tem; however, he declined to comment on whether or not the coroner's office would be testing for specific drugs. such as GHB that do not normally show up on basic toxicology reports. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather°' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
FRONTS: 


........... .................. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
" 02002 AccuWeather: Inc. 
•.:,:-::.::,

(Ht© D ~ CJ [ill, ~. m i"'< ~k ~~
"y,..;:. 

Hl'.lh Low Showe,a A•jn T-stonn. FlurriN Snow Ice Sunny PL Cloudy Cloudy 
Atlanta 72 58 Las Vegas 88 67 Portland 60 43 Baltimore 78 61 Memphis 71 55 Sacramento 65 40 Boston 62 45 Milwaukee 65 43 St Louis 82 65 Chicago 77 61 New York 71 51 Tampa 73 54 Houston 82 65 Philadelphia 75 59 Washington 65 52
Via Aosochdud Ptrlss On,phicoNBt 

Monday, April 15, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Student organizes bone marrow drive 
. Junior tries to find match to save  Ballroom Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in hopes of findi11g a­match for her father.  have a variety of matches. "We don't know what will be his match," said Gurucharri.  to student government. Coincidentally, both the senior class and the Minority Pre-Med  example," said Senior Class President Pete Rossman. The senior class lost three peo­ 
father's life  In light of recent struggles of Notre Dame students due to can­ Gurucharri started her process of organizing the drive soon  Society wanted to do a bone marrow drive.  ple to cancer ­Murphy, Brionne Clary and Miranda Thomas.  
cer and other diseases, Ann  after discovering her father's ill­ "It was really pretty impr~ssive  Both Rossman and Lisa Sestile,  
By HELENA PAYNE News Editor  Gurucharri said she was opti­mistic that students would be sympathetic.  ness by searching articles online  "You could be the match  that all of this was happening at the same  the senior class secretary, said they remembered the drive for Murphy. which drew hundreds  
When junior Ann Gurucharri discovered that her father, Vincent Gurucharri of Columbia, Mo., was diag­nosed with a Bone life-threaten­ing blood dis-Marrow ease in Drive January, she decided to seek help . Tuesday through the . Lafortune Notre Dame community. Ballroom Along with . 9 a.m. to 4 several Notre Dame stu­p.m. dents, she organized a bone marrow drive that will be in the LaFortune  "I knew that I would get good support," said Gurucharri recall­ing the March 2000 bone mar­row drive for Conor Murphy. a student who died from leukemia last year. Gurucharri's father, a Notre Dame 1967 graduate, currently has a rare disease called myelodysplasia. In a letter to the University's student body, Gurucharri told students, "You could be the match that saves my father's life. Today, there are over three thousand patients waiting for someone like you to have the grace to commit to sharing your marrow." She said she is encouraging people of all ethnicities to come to the drive because her father's mixed ethnic background could  from The time," saidthat saves my father'sObserver Gurucharri.life. Today, there are overa b o u t "We all coordi­University­three thousand patients nated the sponsored efforts and gotwaiting for someone likeblood drives. it going." you to halle the grace toShe contacted Howard Hall, former Zahm commit to sharing your Gurucharri's Hall rector dorm, also sup­marrow.'·'Father Jim ported her as a Lies, who is co-sponsor currently at letter to students from with the other the University two groups.junior Ann Gurucharri of Minnesota. The money Lies helped came from her by giving "The Shirt" her more information about the fund to pay for Life Source blood drive for Murphy, who had been services. A Chicago-based com­a Zahm Hall resident. pany, to come to campus for the Gurucharri talked to Nick drive. Fellers, a friend and Notre Dame "When you talk about a Notre graduate who eventually led her Dame family. this is the perfect  of supporters, and were looking forward to the same turnout. "We'd love to see the same results this time around," said Sestile. adding that she wanted to do "one last thing in memory of our classmates." All potential donors at Tuesday's drive will give about a teaspoon of blood to the National Bone Marrow Donor Program. In the case that a potential donor would be a match for a patient, the donor would receive a call and would undergo additional testing to guarantee a match exists. Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu.  

State crime labs backlogged with cases 
female Notre Dame student. Police mitted to Fort Wayne's lab, the cur­Like most of the labs, the Fort
. Technicians estimate 
said in a press conference Friday rent backlog could be eliminated in Wayne facility accepts evidence from years before all forensic evidence from the allegation four months. Instead, new evidence a wide range of agencies, from evidence can be tested was being handed over to state arrives daily, Vanderkolk said. small-town police forces to much 
crime labs. State lawmakers agreed to spend larger sheriffs departments and fire Fort Wayne has handled the high­additional money on the problem investigators. 
Associated Press est volume of evi-before they Evidence is prioritized by urgency. dence annually since adjourned in If a suspect is still on the street, the FORT WAYNE, Ind. 1998, but it has the ''The backlog has always been mid-March. evidence usually is tested and com­
Technicians at the state's crime labs lowest number of Some of the pleted as a higher priority.
a problem. Before it's always 

say they will likely need years to ana­backlogged cases, funding will be An ever-changing court docket
fallen on deaf ears. More

lyze a mounting backlog of evidence, according to num­used to hire with plea agreements and continued despite lawmakers' attempt to ease bers provided by people are starting to wake new techni-cases further disrupts technicians' the problem with an additional $12.2 Indiana State Police. cians, which schedules.
up.

million. The Fort Wayne lab can take six "We do not rush through the exam, 
"The state earmarking money will is currently working months to two but we reprioritize cases based on help tremendously," said 1st Sgt. John on evidence submit­1st Sgt. John Vanderkolk years. court dates," said Sgt. Rick Oatess, Vanderkolk, manager of the crime lab ted in June 2001. As manager of state crime lab in In the mean­who works at the Fort Wayne lab. in Fort Wayne, which serves about 30 of April 1, the lab is time, as tech­The constant juggling of back­
Ft. Wayne

counties in northern Indiana. "But it backlogged by 779 nology logged cases is nothing new for the will take time to see the impact." cases. advances, still state police technicians. The labs 
All four of the state lab locations -The lab performs latent fingerprint more evidence arrives, Vanderkolk hope to eventually catch up so that Fort Wayne, Indianapolis, Lowell identification, drug screening, ballis­said. everything submitted for analysis is and Evansville -are wrestling with tics testing and firearms identifica­"This is an age-old problem," he returned within 30 days. backlogs of evidence awaiting test­tion. It also prepares DNA and trace told The Journal Gazette for a story "The backlog has always been a ing. evidence samples for testing com­published Sunday. "New technology problem," Vanderkolk said. "Before 
Some of that evidence is from the pleted at the Indianapolis lab. allows for new testing, and service it's always fallen on deaf ears. More rape allegation by a 20-year old If no additional evidence were sub-requests go up. people are starting to wake up."
n 


THE 
OBSERVER 
It's where you get your news. 

A. PRIMEquity .tine-of-Credit Loan at 
2.9o/~APR* 4.75%APR* 
Introductory rota for 6 months Low regular rate 
For information, c:::all our Loan-by-Phone, at 800/567-6328, stop by your nearest branch, or visit our web .site at www.ndfcu.org. 
~~re..~~J~ct~~~ 
.' '. -,, ./,,,.i:.-~ .. 
~·/ ,· z_:, 
·~•t' -~,.. , . 
.....}-...,.f;--:'" .'!JI
~-=\-ff 
'«~.~­
. 
-
" ,_,; 6) 
~IQUAL NOUSING 
~LENDER 

•APR is Annual Percentage Rate Property insurance is required. Not valid witn any other offer Rates are subject to change. Consult a 1aX ar:h.".sor regarding the deductibftity of interest. A bailoott payment witt result. at maturity After the siX•month Introductory period, the APR will revert to the lllQhest pr.me h:nding rate of the pn,oous quarter. The special .-.troduetory rate offer is only avaiable for new lines opene<I through May 31, 2002. Minimum amount ils $5,000; maxfrn1.1m iS $100,000. Independent of the UnJven:ity. 
page4 
Indiana job losses are worst in nation 
As.ociated Press 
Indiana has lost more jobs 
in the past two years than 
any other state. 
The 95,000 jobs -about 3 percent of Indiana's work force, which is seven times worse than the national aver­age -were shed from retail­ing, services and the state's core industry of manufactur­ing, an analysis of recent gov­ernment statistics shows. · 
Economists say prospects for a rebound are uncertain. 
More than in past reces­sions, competitive pressures to cut costs will force some manufacturers to buy machines or move work out of the country instead of hire back laid-oIT employees. 
"Everything depends on the future of manufacturing," Hudson Institute economist Graham Toft told The Indianapolis Star for a story published Sunday. "I am not sanguine about the uptick." 
Declining employment, with its fallout of crimping state tax revenue, is only the latest symptom in a decades­long trend of Hoosiers losing ground in earnings. 
Much of the problem is attributed to international competition and corporate buyouts that swept away well-paying management positions. 
Low unemployment rates are deceptive because they do not track people who drop out of the labor market. As the number of available jobs shrink. so does the number of people looking for work. 
There's nothing new about a recession pounding Indiana. In the eight reces­sions since World War II, only in 1990-91 did Indiana do better than the country as a whole. 
The current recession began in March 2001, and many experts think it ended late last year or early this year.As a barometer of eco­nomic health. employment shows the total number of jobs available. Shrinking job opportunities usually mean people earn less money. 
The two-year period begin­ning in January 2000 dates to a couple of months before the technology bubble bust and more than a year before the recession began, said Indiana University economist James 
C. Smith, who analyzed the Bureau of Labor statistics. 
"Indiana just fared pretty poorly across the board," Smith said. Yet, Hudson Institute's Toft,. who formerly headed the state's economic development think tank, said the 3 .16 percent loss is better than average for the state during recessions. 
Indiana's job-creation woes stretch back further than two years. Few jobs have been created since the mid-90s, leaving total employment stubbornly entrenched at just below 3 million, Toft said. 

The Observer . NEWS Monday, April 15, 2002 
CHECKING IT Our 

ELLIE ASHBYfThe Observer 
Potential Saint Mary's students and parents talk to sophomore Student Body Vice President Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl, left, at Accepted Day on Campus Sunday. The fair in Angela Athletic Facility featured stations where accepted students could find out more about academics and activities at the College. 
Ebersol speaks about changing Olympics 
By JESSICA DALSING 
News Writer 
Executive Producer of NBC Sports Dick Ebersol spoke on Saturday about changing the face of the Olympics. As one of the lecturers featured at the Student International Business Council Forum held this weekend, Ebersol embodied the "peace through commerce" motto of the Council. 
In light of the tragedy of Sept. 11. Ebersol noted that the 2002 Winter Olympics fulfilled "a need for many 
people to feel closer togeth­er." 
Ebersol said the Olympics is an image of, as the promo­tional segment said, "a world as we wish it could be." According to Ebersol, the 2002 Olympics needed a personal appeal. 
NBC highlighted individual stories making each young man or woman come to life for the viewing public. For the participants, an Olympic event is the culmination of a life's work. When an audi­ence can empathize with an athlete's struggle it provides viewers with adrenaline for the race, said Ebersol. 
Ebersol was present at the inception of such personal­ized athlete coverage when he worked with legendary sports producer Roone Arledge. His first job with ABC in the early 1970s con­sisted of being given a credit card without a limit and a mission to learn the stories of Olympic hopefuls. 
Ebersol has fine-tuned the skill of no longer allowing foreign and domestic ath­letes to be strangers to the viewing public. 
To continue making this possible, Ebersol had to turn sportscasters known for their play-by-play announc­ing of informed narrations into prize-winning story­tellers. The announcers had to build emotional attach­ment of the audience to the athletes participating.· 
For Ebersol this approach was logical. "The beauty of sport is that it is unscripted; it's real," Ebersol said. 
Contact Jessica Dalsing at jdalsing@nd.edu. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
!CAREER SEARCH CITY TOllfii 
"I-Iow to Find a Job or Internship" TI-i:E CAREER CENTER 
• AprilJYlz, 2002 
• Nel-V' York C1ty 5.-30 • Waslzi_11gto11 DC 6:00 • St. Lo"L1is 6.-50 • Min.nea.polis 
7:00 
~ e ~~ 
~ 
• 
The CRC T.be CRC The CRC 
Tke CRC 
jh 


SIGN-UP WITJ-f BRIDGETKIBBE· klh.be.l@lldedu More f1Jforn:u1 tion: cc1.reercen ter.ndedu 

ATION 
Monday, April 15, 2002 COMPILED FROM TUE OBSERVER WIRE SER\1CES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arabs reject Arafat's peace appeals: 
Even Arabs who supported Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's decision to speak out against violence called it a painful choice Sunday in Riyadah. Saudi Arabia, and many accused Secretary of State Colin Powell of siding with Israel in his Mideast peace mission. "Once again, President Arafat yields to pressure, especially American pressure," said an unsigned column in the Saudi Al Watan daily. 
Court wants bodies returned: Israel's Supreme Court told the army Sunday that it must give the Palestinians the bodies of those killed in Jenin's refugee camp, a move that could help clear up the escalating dispute over how many Palestinians died in the fierce fight­ing. Also, the army gave journalists a limited tour of the devastated camp. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
People want dressy doctors: Despite the casual appearance of their TV counter­parts, patients want their doctors to dress for­mally and not show up in blue jeans and san­dals, a new study suggests. Name badges, white coats and dress shoes are preferable for both male and female doctors, the patients in the study said. "A carefully dressed provider might convey the image that he or she is meticulous and careful," said the researchers, Drs. Matthew Kanzler and David Gorsulowksy, two northern California denna­tologists. 
Florida Dems still support Gore: 
Florida Democrats' hearts were with Al Gore this weekend, but many delegates said they're keeping an open mind about their preferences for the 2004 presidential race. Gore's speech electrified their state convention in Lake Buena Vista Saturday as the Florida delegates recalled his narrow and disputed loss. 
INDIANA NEWS BRIEFS 
Court keeps silent on judge's case: 
Indiana has lost more jobs in the past two years than any other state. The approximately 3 percent setback -seven times worse than the national" average -is so severe that neighboring industrial states look prosperous in comparison, an analysis of recent govern­ment statistics shows. Among sectors shed­ding the 95,000 workers were retailing, ser­vices and the state's core industry of manufac­turing. Economists say prospects for a rebound are uncertain. Competitive pressures will force some manufacturers to buy machines or move work out of the country instead of hire back laid-off employees. 
Market Watch April 12 

Dow 
10,190.82 +14.74 
Jones 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY/SECURITY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX CQQQ) +1.58 +0.52 33.52 WORLDCOM INC-WO (WCOM) +5.03 +0.24 5.01 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +2.89 +0.43 15.30 SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW) +2.71 +0.21 7.97 GEN ELECTRIC (GE) -0. 59 -0.20 33.55 
COLOMBIA 


Associated Press  entable. I hope that the wounds that my colleagues  was behind the bombing but suspicion was likely to  against the FARC has res­onated with Colombians  
BOGOTA A bus exploded near the motorcade of Colombia's leading presidential candi­date on Sunday, leaving him unharmed but killing two people and injuring two officers, officials said. Alvaro Uribe's caravan  suffered are not serious," Uribe said. Two people who were inside the bus were killed, and two members of a police escort who were rid­ing on a motorcycle were injured, Uribe spokesman Ricardo Galan told The  turn on Colombia's main rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, who have allegedly plotted to assassinate the hard-line candidate on at least one occasion. Earlier this month  fed up with rebel violence. The country's 38-year war pits the FARC and another leftist guerrilla faction against Colombia's U.S.-backed military and an illegal right-wing para­military group. An estimat­ed 3,500 people have died  
was going through the Caribbean coastal city of Barranquilla when a bus exploded nearby. Uribe, a hard-liner running on·  Associated Press by tele­phone from Barranquilla. Television images showed men carrying a body from the site of the  Uribe's vice-presidential candidate, Francisco Santos, said the two were aware they could be tar­gets during the campaign.  annually, most of them· unarmed civilians. The FARC is thought to be responsible for a recent wave of urban bombings  
pledges to crack down on  blast, and two sport utility  Uribe,  a  former state  and  a  mass  kidnapping  
leftist  guerrillas,  told  vehicles pocked with what  governor, holds  a  com­ Thursday, in which rebels  
Caracol radio moments  appeared to be shrapnel  manding lead ahead of  disguised as an army bomb  
later  that  he  was  marks.  May 26 presidential elec­ squad abducted 12 provin­ 
unharmed.  Officials did not immedi­ tions  - in  large  part  cial lawmakers in south­ 
"What happened is lam­ ately say who they believe  because his tough rhetoric  west Colombia.  

Priest abuse allegations top 450 
of abusing them. report about allegations against par­
Associated PreSli 

Court documents released in ticular priests, new clients have come January showed Cardinal Bernard forward accusing those priests of
BOSTON 

Law and other Roman Catholic church abuse.
Attorneys for people who say were 
officials knew Geoghan had been Garabedian said alleged victimssexually abused by Boston-area 
accused of abuse but kept moving him "seem to draw strength from thepriests said more than 450 alleged vic­from parish to parish. media coverage." 
tims have come forward with new Garabedian said he has taken on Attorney Roderick MacLeish told the allegations since the scandal broke in 250 new clients who said they were Boston Sunday Globe he also has January. 
assaulted by Geoghan and other received 100 new clients. A call to his "Some of them realize for the first 
priests. office from The Associated Press was 
time that they're not an isolated inci­"The Geoghan case has opened up not immediately returned Sunday.dent," said Mitchell Garabedian, who the flood gates," he said. Calls for Law's resignation mounted settled with the Boston Archdiocese Attorney Jeffrey Newman said he after MacLeish released personnel last month on behalf of 86 people who has taken on 100 new cases since records at a news conference last accused former priest John Geoghan January. He said that after each nev-1s ·week. 
Monday, April 15, 2002 
page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Powell presses Arafat to end violence 
. Sharon already abandoned idea of making peace with Palestinian leader 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM 
Struggling to get a cease-fire in place and peacemaking started, Secretary of State Colin Powell is pressing Yasser Arafat in his mostly destroyed Ramallah headquarters Sunday to take "effective action" to end Palestinian attacks against Israel. 
The heavily guardec;l visit where Arafat is confined by Israeli troops is bound to boost Arafat's standing as the leader of the Palestinian people and the one Israel must deal with to seek a peace accord. 
Powell also is calling for restraint by Israeli forces on the West Bank and for "unim­peded access to humanitarian organizations" for the Palestinian people caught up in the 16-day Israeli siege. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has already dismissed any notion of making peace with Arafat, whom he accuses of being responsible for a dead­ly rash of suicide bombings. 
But Powell is determined to begin a process that would cul­minate in Palestinian statehood on land Israel captured from the Arabs in the 1967 Mideast war. 
Powell decided to meet with Arafat after the Palestinian leader denounced terrorism on Saturday in a statement the W h i t e H o u s e 
bomber near a Jerusalem marketplace, which killed six and injured scores. 
"We are condemning strongly all the attacks which are tar­geting civilians from both sides and especially the attack that took place against Israeli citizens yes­terday in Jerusalem," Arafat said Saturday. 
Arafat's state­ment, in Arabic, was distributed by the Palestinian news service WAFA and was read sever­al times on Palestinian televi­sion and radio, giv­ing it the circulation the Bush admiois­tration sought. 
Arafat also lashed out at Israel's West Bank operation: "We also condemn very strongly the massacre that was committed by the Israeli occupation troops against our refugees in Jenin and against our people in Ramallah, Nablus and Tulkarem and also the brutal aggres­sion against the church in Hethlehem during the last two weeks." 
Israeli forces moved into more West Bank villages Saturday, and spo­U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell speaks at a press conference with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. radic fighting con­Powell is attempting to negotiate a cease-fire in the Middle East, but Sharon dismissed the idea of peace 

tinued, especially in 
with Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat. Powell met with Arafat Sunday. 
demanded. "We are condemning tia linked to The talks strongly all the attacks Arafat's Fatah 
had been movement.
which are targeting
delayed 24 "We want h o u r s civilians from both sides deeds, not 
because and especially the attack words," said 
Arafat ini­Danny Ayalon,
that took place against 
tially foreign policy 
ignored U.S. Israeli citizens yesterday adviser to 
calls to con­in Jerusalem.,. Sharon. "We demn the cannot be Friday impressed by
Vasser Arafat 
attack of a any condemna­suicide Palestinian leader tion of their 
Nablus where seven Israeli tanks began shelling the main local govern­ment complex. 
The Israeli government dis­missed the Palestinian leader's statement and noted that the suicide bomber who struck Friday was sent by Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade, a mili­
PIZZA CC>MPANV• pizzaclol11eright 
After 8 Party Pak! Lg 1 Topping Pizza, Dozen Chicken Wings (Hot or BBQ) & 2 Liter of COKE Only $14.99!!! 
(Otter Good After 8 PM Only. Before 8 PM Add $2.00) Visa & Mastercard Accepted. Expires 5/3/02 
271-1277 
SR 23 at Ironwood (Next to SUBWAY) 
doings and their own strategies, which contin­
ue." 
State Department spokesman Richard Boucher declined to make a judgment on Powell's chances of securing a cease­fire and steering the two sides to peacemaking and a Palestinian state. 

Boucher said Arafat's state­ment contained "a number of interesting and positive ele­ments," including condemna­tion of terror and a reaffirma­tion of a Palestinian commit­ment to a negotiated peace with Israel. 
Also, the statement called for immediate implementation of a shelved cease-fire plan pre­pared by CIA Director George Tenet, Boucher said. 
"The secretary will work with Chairman Arafat and the Palestinian leadership to show leadership and to help make these statements a reality, with effective action to bring an end to terror and violence and an early resumption of a political process," Boucher said. 
It was disclosed Saturday that U.S. mediator Anthony Zinni had met Friday in Jericho with Palestinian officials. 
Powell consulted by tele­phone with King Abdullah II of Jordan, Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher. Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov and European officials before deciding to meet Arafat. 
Organized by Law Professor Teresa Phelps' Gender Issues and the Law 
Womyn Witli Wings 
A play of skits and songs promoting gender and multicultural awareness. 
Monday April 15th 7:00 --8:00 pm 
LaFortt1ne 
Ballroom Free Admission 
rr!iank§ to the generous (J)onations of 
·'}l(umm Jfa({ · IJ3fack,Law Students of:Notre ([Jame (<BLS:N<D) · Ca1!anaugfi Jfa{( · Par(ey Jfa[( Aow@RKS . qenaer Stutfies 
•:MuUicuCtura(Student Programs ~ Services (:MSPS) 
·:Nati1ie Jf_merican Law Stuaent Jf_ssociation (:NLSJf.) 
•:Notre <Dame £aw Sclioo((']{(D£S) · PangGorn :Ha({ · Women's Leg a[Porum (W[/F) 
Monday, April 15, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS • page 7 
Study finds federal doctors convicted of crimes 
. Most doctors work for VA hospitals 
Associated Pre•• 
WASHINGTON 

More than 100 federal govern­ment doctors have been convict­ed of crimes or disciplined by state medical boards, including one physician now treating vet­erans who was convicted of helping a terrorist group, an Associated Press review of med­ical licenses has found. 
Federal agencies are required to check the backgrounds of doctors they employ but are not prohibited from hiring those with criminal records, revoked licenses or medical punish­ments. 
All a doctor needs is a medical license valid in one state to get a government job. 
Dr. Suzy Melkonian, who is paid $48 an hour as a blood cancer specialist at a Veterans /\ffairs hospital in Los Angeles, was convicted 21 years ago in Switzerland of extorting money for a group that staged terrorist bombings and assassinations. 
Melkonian was reprimanded live years ago by California for failing to disclose her Swiss con­viction when applying for a medical license. 
Despite Melkonian's convic­tion, VA managers believed her training and patient care were good and "she'd be a qualified member of our staff," said Dr. Dean Norman, chief of staff for the Los Angeles VA hospital. 
An AP review of medical board disciplinary records iden­tified at least 118 federal doc­tors who have worked for' the government in the past two vears who were convicted of crimes or punished by state authorities for offenses ranging from sex and drug abuse to incompetence. 
Three of those doctors have been fired in recent months, including one whose conviction for attempted child molestation should have legally barred him from getting his job, and two who had relapses of conduct that prompted earlier punish­ments. 
In all, 0.5 percent of the more than 20,800 doctors employed by the government have been convicted of crimes or punished. the records showed. Nationally, the rate is 2.6 percent. 
But advocates say the govern­ment's choice of doctors should be better than the public at large, particularly because fed­eral physicians serve the vulner­able, the underprivileged and those who fought to keep the countrv safe. 
"Ho~· many times do we have to get screwed over'' Nobody seems to care all that much," said Sherri Siegle, a Choctaw nurse who worked for the Indian Health Service. Siegle said she checked the back­grounds of doctors at her Oklahoma hospital after seeing them make mistakes, and found several who had been previously punished. 
Fourteen punished doctors currently work for IHS. Punished federal physicians 

NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 
SU 


at Northwestern 
earn 
Earn full-year credit in biology, chemistry, physics, and foreign languages. 
accelerate 
Accelerate progress towards your degree. 
fulfill 
Fulfill a distribution or general education reqmrement . • 
en Joy 
Enjoy Northwestern's lakeside campus, just north of Chicago! 
have treated veterans. soldiers. American Indians, astronauts and federal prisoners. ~hey also have researched drug safety, investigated new addiction treatments and acted as agency medical advisers. 
They include: 

. 
At least five reprimanded for neglecting patients who died. 

. 
11 convicted criminals, including doctors who ordered child pornography, defrauded Medicaid and stole drugs from the VA. 

. 
18 punished for sexual mis­conduct, including a doctor dis­ciplin cd for 


chief medical officer. said over­worked hospital officials some­times can miss problems or fail to check a doctor's background thoroughly. The VA has a new computer system to assist back­ground checks. 
Melkonian and other punished doctors said they told supervi­sors about their pasts. 
Melkonian was convicted in 1981 of extorting about $6,000 from a Swiss businessman to help the now-defunct Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia, according to California medical board 
records and 

having with patients.  sex five  "How many times do we have to get screwed  news reports. ASALA, identi­fied by the U.S.  
. Thirty­seven pun­ished for  over? Nobody seems to care all that much."  government· as a terrorist group, claimed  
drug  viola­ credit for scores  
tions, includ­ing three whose drug  Sherri Siegle Choctaw nurse  of bombings and assassinations, mostly of  
use  forced  Turkish targets.  

them to leave surgeries and Melkonian was arrested in three federal prison doctors who 1980 after an explosion in her now treat prisoners for drug Geneva hotel room led police to abuse and other ailments. discover a partly assembled 
The majority-75 -work for bomb. Afterward, ASAI.A and a the VA, the largest federal splinter group began a bombing health care agency. Some veter­campaign aimed at freeing her ans' groups want VA Secretary and an ASAlA leader. Anthony Principi to investigate. Melkonian denied being a 
"If this is true -and these are member of the terrorist group. some serious allegations -I The Swiss court convicted her of assume the secretary will do extortion, gave her an 18-month something about it," said Dick suspended sentence and Flanagan, a spokesman for the expelled her. groupAMVETS. "These events have nothing 
Federal officials acknowledge whatsoever to do with my prac­screening processes are not tice of medicine," Melkonian, 46, always thorough. said in a written statement. She 
Dr. Thomas Craig, the VA's attended medical school in Chicago after leaving Switzerland. 
The California Medical Board reprimanded Melkonian in 1997 for failing to disclose her convic­tion on her 1996 license applica­tion. 
Her lawyer, Theodora Poloynis-Engen, said Melkonian did not know she had been con­victed because Swiss authorit.ies never told her and the court proceedings were conducted in French, which Melkonian does not understand. 
Other punished federal doc­tors include: 
. 
Dr.Brian K. Bevacqua, head of anesthesiology at the VA hos­pital in Madison, Wis. In 1987, Bevacqua pleaded guilty to ordering child pornography and was sentenced to two years' probation and a $1,500 fine. according to Pennsylvania and Ohio medical board and court records. He declined commem. 

. 
Dr.Robert H. Gerner. whose California license was suspend­ed for 60 days in 1994 for hav­ing sex with a patient during psychotherapy sessions. Gerner now makes more than $52 per hour at the VA hospital in Los Angeles. 


Norman, the hospital's chief of staff, said hospital officials knew about Gerner's punishment and required him to be supervised by another doctor. 
. Dr. Stephen John Davis, who earned $111,245 at a Nevada federal prison last year. Michigan and Georgia suspend­ed his medical licenses for six months in 1993 on charges he neglected one of his nursing home patients who died. 
er 
Wealthy, lower class targets for auditors 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The wealthy and low-income people stand a better chance of being audited than the typical middle-class family, which is paying the lowest share of its income to the Treasury since 1957. 
Rich, poor and the middle class all are affected by one tax trend -the 17,000-page, 
2.8 million-word tax code is more complex than ever. One estimate is that it now takes 28 hours and six minutes to tackle the Internal Revenue Service's 1040 form and do the neces­sary record keeping. 
This year's filing deadline is midnight Monday for most of the country. 
IRS date and reports f'rom several tax research organiza­tions depict a tax system that does not treat everyone equally but is, by far, the single biggest source of government paper­work and red tape. 
"An abomination," Treasury Secretary Paul OaNeill calls it. 
Consider IRS audits. Individuals making $100,000 or more and those making $25,000 or less are much more likely to face an audit than the tens of millions in between. High-income people tend to have more complicated returns that invite more audits; about 
0.69 percent of all these returns were audited in 2001. 
Those making under $25,000 usually have simple returns, yet about 0.40 percent were audited last year. That is almost twice the rate of tax­payers in the middle-income range and is largely attribut­able to the earned income tax credit. 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 15, 2002 
Lindbergh flies grandfather's journey again 
• 75 years later, decendant re~reates avfator's historic flight 
AmKiatecl Press 
SAN OTEGO 
The grandson of aviation hero Charles Lindbergh took off frum San Diego under hazy skies Sunday on the first leg of an attempt to duplicate his grandfather's historic 1927 solo crossing of tiic Atlantic. 
Erik Lindbergh's flight re­creation is part of the 75th irnniversary celebration of Charles Lindbergh's cross­Atlantic flight, which 

began in San "Each time one person the Atlantic 
now are less
DiPgo, where 

does it, it's a personal 
than whatth~ original 

challenge and the elder
Spirit of St. 
Lindbergh

Louis was inherently risky." 
faced in
built. 
1927, eventWearing a 

Gregg Maryniak organizers
blue flight 

flight director for the New acknowl­
suit, the y o u n g Spirit of St. Louis edged, but 
Lindbergh, 36, left San 9iego's air­port, Lindbergh Field, at 
9:32 a.m. without speaking to reporters. 
He expected to make the trip to St. Louis in nine hours. From there, he plans to fly on April 20 to Farmingdale, N.Y., where he will begin his crossing of the Atlantic on May 1. 
The cross-Atlantic trip took Charles Lindbergh 33 1/2 hours; his grandson expects to make it in less than 21 hours. 
Erik Lindbergh's New Spirit of St. Louis, made of a glass and carbon composite and outfitted with modern communications technology and safety gear, was built in Bend, Ore., for $289,000. Its average cruise speed is 184 mph, compared to the 108 mph of the original Spirit of St. Louis, which was built for $10,580. 

Dozens of reporters and supporters gathered at Lindbergh Field to see off the young Lindbergh, a commercial pilot and artist who lives in the Seattle area. 
Among them was Tom Young, who as a 6-year-old saw Charles Lindbergh leave the San Diego airfield then known as Dutch Flats in 1927. 
"It's quite a thrill to see the grandchild take off," Young said. "I have a mem­ory of going down to Dutch Flats with my father ... and being moved out of the wav so (Lindbergh) could get in.;, 
"I hope that all these young children here today will remember this in 75 years." Young said. 
The risks 
of crossing 
the challenge 
is still con­
siderable. 

"Each time one person does it, it's a personal challenge and inherently risky," said Gregg Maryniak, flight director for the New Spirit of St. Louis. 
The adventure also is intended to raise awareness of rheumatoid arthritis, which Erik Lindbergh has struggled with for years. 
Organizers also hope the journey will promote the X Prize Foundation, a non­profit group based in St. Louis that is offering $10 million to the first private group that can build and launch a manned spacecraft into space, then repeat the feat within two weeks. 
The competition is mod­eled after the Orteig Prize, the $25,000 bounty won by Charles Lindbergh for mak­ing the New York-to-Paris trip. 

World Bank faces critics 
. Financial 
insitution faces "tough talk" in harsh economy 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
If a worldwide economic slowdown and Argentina's default were not enough to worry about, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are enduring name-call­ing and fingerpointing -even from the finance ministers who set the institutions' poli­cy. 
expected to turn out in the thousands for this weekend's spring meet­ings. 
For example, Clare Short, Britain's outspoken interna­tional development secretary, termed a U.S. proposal to shift World Bank loans to grants "crazy." Not to be outdone, the equally blunt Paul O'Neill, President Bush's Treasury secretary, labeled Short's counterproposal "just stupid." 
Such tough talk in public is not the norm for finance min­isters and central bank presi­dents who meet twice a year to set policy for the 183-nation IMF and its sister lending organization, the World Bank. 
But in the wake of Sept. 11, the rich countries are feeling 
$20,000 

pressured as never before to do a better job of dealing with the 1 billion people in the world -one in six -who live in abject poverty, getting by on less than $1 per day. 
President Bush and world 
leaders were in Monterrey, Mexico, last month to endorse development goals to deal with the economic despair that has proved a fertile breeding ground for terrorist groups. 
Under the consensus reached in Monterrey, the wealthy countries will increase their foreign aid spending and be more selec­tive about which coun­
It's not tries get the
Clare Short, Britain's out­
always the case assistance. 
that the tough­spoken international Favored will 
est language development secretary. be countries comes from that adopt
termed a US. proposal to 
anti-globaliza­sound eco­
shift World Bank loans to 
tion protesters, n O Ill i C who are grants "crazy. " reforms and 
control cor­
ruption. 

Much dis­agreement remain over just how these goals will be put into practice by organizations such as the World Bank, the world's biggest source of development assistance, and the IMF, which specializes in helping countries deal with financial crises. 
At the meetings in Washington, anti-globalization protesters will be joined by anti-war demonstrators who plan to press their opposition to an expanded U.S. war on terrorism and the violence in the Middle East. 
From within, the lending institutions are facing unac­customed criticism. 
William Easterly, an econo­mist on leave from the World Bank, has written a searing indictment that the bank over its 57-year history has wasted billions in failed efforts to boost economic growth in many parts of the world. 
A former chief economist at the IMF said this month in a study that the IMF had botched its handled of the eco­nomic crisis in Argentina. Michael Mussa. who left his IMF post last year, said the IMF did little to avert what became a disastrous default. 
The Bush administration, led by O'Neill, often cites the various critics in the U.S. push for major changes at both institutions. 
For the World Bank, the administration wants to see half of the loans to the poorest nations switched to grants that do not have to be repaid. 
Short and other Europeans contend that change would deplete World Bank funds in the future unless rich nations make a greater commitment to increase their support. 
While touring Europe last week to build support for greater efforts to choke off terrorist financing, O'Neill said he believed both the ter­rorist financing issue and the grants versus loans battle would be resolved during the IMF spring meetings. 
Likewise, the administration is hoping for increased sup­port for a U.S. proposal to make it easier for countries facing economic difficulty to default on their loans, through new clauses in future bond contracts. 
Critics say few countries would willingly adopt such clauses because they would drive up borrowing costs. 
$10.000 
to student winners or teams to their advisor 
PLUS -$2,000 gift certificate to hpshopping.com up to six prizes will be awarded 
the collegiate inventors competition® 

+ 

Each year, we recognize and reward the most outstanding student inventors. 
Be the next generation. 
A PROGRAM OF THE NATIONAL INVENTORS HALL OF FAME• (330) 849-6887 
ENTRY DEADLINE: June 1, 2002 APPLICATIONS AT www.invent.org/collegiate 
:. -~';"t~x ·>+::tit.:~j>-rt}~:\:j~)~i/,t.~~rYi/-•:.. _ _ / ... --... .~ ;:,4·,
1 -i.. • 

+ . • <:;, ,;;.•:;/!',/•·~J.1,1,-<">1it/)PRESENflNG SPONSORS · -:~~~~;•::i~JJ',;~,,wr-,•"..··~·:doRNING . 
~:EMAIU<OPncll ;; ,., -'~Ct··,..,.;~ n ,·: · · .........,.,.,..,..._,.. 
-i.:_;.~~ ·;,I· ,:_,1::~:~-~~-~-;::_\•._ ~t· ,__ . : 

.:,c";: ,.~.co~11lng.com · .. www,goodyaar,com 
~-,_ -~ }&ii~t~i1.i,1r:~i->: 
Monday, April 15, 2002 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 9 
Bridgestone CEO reports strong company 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 

Despite a federal investiga­tion and recall of tires, Bridgestone/Firestone's chief executive, John Lampe. said the company is stronger than ever. 
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration closed its 16-month investiga­tion into Firestone Steeltcx tires last Tuesday, saying it could find no evidence of a design defect. It was the last open federal investigation into Firestone tires. 
rn August 2000, the Nashville-based company recalled 6.5 million ATX, ATX II and Wilde.mess AT tires, many sold as standard equip­ment on the Ford Explorer. 
'Tm convinced we have 

emerged from the recall stronger than we've ever b"-en before," Lampe said at a National Manufacturers Association conference in Nashville. 
Lampe credited the compa­ny's "Making it Right" pro­gram that was aimed at restoring confidence with consumers, regulators and employees. He said the com­pany also benefited from an effort begun in 1992 to build the Firestone brand as a con­sumer tire. 
Through that strategy. the company helped many of its 8,000 independent tire deal­ers expand their businesses and build a loyal network that didn't waver during the hard times of 2000 and 2001. Lampe said. 
"Not one major dealer of ours switched brands because of the recall," he said. 
Last October, Bridgestone/Firestone agreed to recall 3. 5 million more Wilderness AT tires. 
The company, which lost more than $1 billion last year, should return to profit this year, say several analysts who track the company. 
Bridgestone/Firestone, the 

U.S. subsidiary of Bridgestone Corp. of Japan, underwent a major restructuring last year. It divided its operating units into four separate companies and closed its manufacturing plant in Decatur, Ill., because of excess capacity at all of its plants. 
The restructuring and cash reserves already set aside for legal costs should be suffi­cient to handle any further problems stemming from the recall and make all divisions of the company profitable, according to an analyst report prepared last month by Steve Usher of J.P. Morgan Securities Asia. 
Bridges to ne/J-i ires tone intends to build its market share with new products for its Bridgestone and Firestone tire brands with Bridgestone, the company's premium tire brand, making inroads into the consumer market, Lampe said. 
In the aftermath of the recall, Lampe broke off busi­ness ties with Ford Motor Co. in May 2001, ending a 95­year relationship between the two companies. 
Last November, state attor­neys general announced Bridgestone/Firestone will pay $41. 5 million in a settlement to end state lawsuits about the tires. 
Calif. proposes strict audit reforms 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

Corporations would be required to change auditing firms every four years, under legislation being proposed Monday by California lawmak­ers in response to the Enron and Arthur Andersen account­ing scandals. 
The measures also would 

restrict consulting ·work by auditing firms. Critics say the firms' dual role as consultants can create conflicts of interest for auditors who are supposed to maintain their objectivity. 
Lawmakers touted their bills as consumer protection legisla­tion needed to restore investor confidence. They said California investors need better informa­tion and protections to make wise decisions. 
"Our goal is very simple: re­establish credibility to the audit­ing process," said Assemblyman Lou Correa, D-Anaheim, chair­man of the Business and Professions Committee. 
There's no doubt the profes­sion's credibility is in question, said Mike Ueltzen, past presi­dent of the California Society of . Certified Public Accountants. 
BIOSPHERE 2 COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
It's not too late  Visit our Web site  
to apply for summer and fall  www.columbia.edu/biosphere/ca • Hear how the earth and universe programs helped students find careers in government, health, journalism, nonprofit, and science.  
semesters.  • Take a virtual tour inside the 3-acre laboratory, where cutting-edge  
research is under way in its  
tropical forest, coral reefs, ocean,  
and other biomes.  
• Learn why more than 1,000  
students from colleges and high  
schools around the world are  


But Ueltzen, who chairs CalCPA's government affairs committee, said corporations, stock analysts and regulators also are to blame. 
Most of the proposed bills are unnecessary or should be han­dled nationally instead of creat­ing piecemeal regulations in 50 states, Ueltzen said. 
Correa said California can be a national leader while state and federal regulators spend their time "pointing fingers everywhere as to where the problem lies." It's not uncom­mon for businesses to face both state and federal rules, he said. 
"We can't count on the feder­al government to do anything," said Dan Jacobson, legislative advocate for CalPIRG, the California Public Interest Research Group. CalPIRG backed the legislation with eight pages of recommenda­tions. 
Moving to Chicogo?
I 

Contact Ben @ 
NEW WEST Realty 

312.942.1202 bbischmann@hobnail.com 

KMart 
•
revises 
CEO 
salary 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Kmart Corp. has asked a fed­eral bankruptcy judge to approve a $1.5 million annual base salary for chief executive and chairman James Adamson. 
The bankrupt retailer earlier proposed paying Adamson $1 million a year. But in its motion filed Friday night with U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Chicago, Kmart said Adamson's "wealth of experience in both retailing and restructurings" justified paying him the higher amount. 
Attorneys for Troy-based Kmart told Chief Bankruptcy Judge Susan Pierson Sonderby that they would present the revised proposal for Adamson's compensation on April 23 or April 24. 
In addition to the $1.5 million salary, the new proposal would give Adamson a bonus equal to 125 percent of his base salary upon Kmart's emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy. He could receive a smaller or larg­er bonus, depending on the achievement of performance goals. 
The motion also asked to give Adamson to a "success pay­ment" to be determined by the development and execution of Kmart's reorganization plan. The payment would be made by Kmart's unsecured creditors as a combination of cash, Kmart stock or other Kmart securities. 
Additionally, the retailer wants to pay for Adamson's salary, bonuses, incentives, ben­efits and perks with a $10 mil­lion letter of credit pending bankruptcy court approval of the revised employment agree­ment. The letter of credit in effect guarantees that Adamson will be compensated as promised. 
Dame for 25 years! 
Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine fromCalabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
Tuesday-Thursday 

Make your reservations now for 
s:ooto 9:00 
graduation!
Friday & Saturday s:oo to 10:00 
Full bar available 

Free bruschetta with ad, except for graduation weekend 
Francesco's needs servers 

THE 
OBSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, April 15, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDJTOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Kare Nagengast Kevin Ryan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR OPERATIONS MANAGER Andrew Soukup Bob Woods 
NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR; Chris Federico SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs SAINT MAR\"s EDITOR: Sheila Egrs PHOTO EDJT0R, Nellie Williams GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andy Devora 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Matt Lutz AD DESIGN MANAGER: Alex Menze SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Pahvel Chin W£6 ADMINISTRATOR: Scocr Brodfuehrer CONTR0ll.ER: Lori Lewalski DEVELOPMENT MANAGER: Amanda Greco 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFo..............631-7471 fAX. ............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631--4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFJCE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT........................................ .........631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer .scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMSIWEB ADMINISTRAT0RS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/music for 
min ure forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and r-ates ofprint ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include conll!ct information. 
Questiom rtgarding Ob,erver polieie, should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarfey. 
Even in the Middle East, the ends do not justify the means 
The recent violence in the Middle East has polarized many people in the world. The idea of a people searching for a home generates a visceral, gut reaction, As does a people attempting to protect itself from ter­rorism. As does 
Mike Marchand 
the death of so many people in a land three major 
Undistinguished
religions consid­
Alumnus

er holy. So it generates strong feelings, either one way or the other, or on neither side, just hoping the violence will end. 
Essentially, there are two major prob­lems: Israel's occupation of Palestinian territory and Palestine's use of terrorism against Israeli citizens. So many people who've expressed their opinions usually only consider one problem and com­pletely ignore the other. Or, they pro­nounce a moral equivalence between the two. 
But in this case, the problems are not morally equivalent. They are also not conjoined problems; they can be solved separately. In fact, they must be consid­ered separately, because while the Palestinians' claims have merit, their actions do not. 
People who support the Palestinians either totally dismiss the suicide bomb­ings that have killed Israeli citizens or claim that the terrorists are freedom fighters for the worthy cause of the end­ing of Israeli occupation and the creation of a Palestinian homeland. For example, Palestinian Representative to the United States Hassan Abdel Rahman said on "Meet The Press" last week that the occupation is "a systematic, constant ter­ror directed against [the Palestinians] and against their lives because it steals from them their dignity, their livelihood." 
Does he have a point? Of course. But however noble the means, nothing justi­fies the use of terror against innocent civilians. This has been official U.S. poli­cy since Sept. 11, echoed by all the responsible nations of the world. And the organizations responsible for the suicide attacks -Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad and others -should be familiar to all of us, considerJng we declared war on them for associating with Osama bin Laden·s al-Qaeda group. 
The most recent intifada began shortly after Palestinian Authority President Vasser Arafat pulled out of the confer­ence with President Bill Clinton and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak at Camp David in late 2000. Arafat was given very generous concessions, but the poison pill was that the terrorism must stop. He walked away. 
This has been the stumbling block of every major peace negotiation. Arafat and his cronies simply refuse to end the violence, hoping that civilian death will force the Israelis into giving away more land. for once, the Israelis are fighting fire with fire instead of negotiations. When Arafat did not call off the intifada, the Israelis moved in. 
Let's deal with some empty rhetoric right here. First, Palestinian sympathiz­ers argue that there is no way that Arafat can stop the terrorists while under virtual house arrest in Ramallah. However true this may be, he has not even tried. In fact, he recently encour­aged more Palestinians to become sui­cide bombers and "sacrifice themselves as martyrs in jihad for Palestine," according to USA Today. 
Second, the moral equivalency crowd -counters that in the recent military action, Israeli soldiers have killed as many as 250 Palestinians, many of them innocents, women and children. However, deliberate terroristic targeting of civilians must not be confused with the accidental collateral damage that is a tragic yet unavoidable consequence of legitimate warfare. As an act ofself­defense, Israel has the right to move into Palestinian land to root out the terrorists whose only goal is the destruction of the 
Jewish state, just as the United States 
attacked Afghanistan following the Sept. 
11 attacks. 
Third, pro-Palestiniam; claim that the Israelis are violating Palestinians' human rights by herding them into refugee camps and not allowing such things as emergency vehicles in. That is indeed lamentable, but it's a result of terrorism. The terrorists have so effectively blurred the lines between themselves and the innocent that the Israelis can't trust any­one. Is that ambulance going to pick up injured Palestinians, or will it be driven into a crowded Israeli village? ls that young mother really going to get food for her child, or to blow herself up in a busy town square? The current plight of the Palestinians L'l on the hands ofYasser Arafat, not the Israelis. 
The Israelis also have responsibilities. Once they have destroyed the terrorist cells and once Palestine is ready to be ruled by a stable, peace-loving govern­ment, nothing would justify them further occupying Palestinian territory. So, they should pull out as instructed by President Bush and the U .N. Security Council, as well as the much-vaunted Saudi peace initiative. While this would leave them in a precarious defensive position, being as narrow as nine miles wide in the middle and therefore vulner­able to an attack which would cut them in two, if the Palestinians and the rest of the Arab world hold to their agreements, there may finally be a lasting peace in the Holy Land. 
Mike Marchand. class of2001, an ana­lyst for RealClearPolitics and a contribu­tor to The Politix Group, thinks "Ariel Sharon" isn't nearly as cool a name as "Benjamin Netanyahu. "His e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. The 
final "Undistinguished Alumnus" appears April 29. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Petition confirms student voice 
Thank you to all who have signed the petition calling for an increased student voice and a continuation of in-hall dances. The approximately 4,000 signatures we received in just three days shows the im porlance of these issues to students and the necessity of involving everyone in both identifying the problem and creating solutions. 
We are also encouraged by the recently released report co-chaired by University Presidcmt Father Edward Malloy entitled "A Call to Action: Changing the Culture of Drinking at U.S. Colleges." We believe this report provides an important framework for establishing student participation in the creation of programs to address alcohol abuse. As the report notes, "student participation not only improved a school's policy, but also increased campus-wide 'owner­ship' of the prevention efforts emanating from it." One important recommendation to achieve this level of partici­pation is through direct student-led "reviews of proposed policies before they are finalized." It is this level of active student involvement that we are calling for in this petition. 
The strong support we have received demonstrates the power of a unified student voice. We are committed to ensuring this voice is heard. 
Libby Bishop 
student body president 
Trip Foley 
student body vice president April I 5, 2002 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Noreen Gillespie C. Spenr_,er Beggs Kelly Hager Graphics Helena Payne Katie Malmquist Sports Production Mike Connolly Rachael Viewpoint Protzman Kristin Yemm Lah Tech Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Student Activities censor the names of Bookstore Ba,skctball teams? 
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"More than an end to war, we want an end to the beginnings of all wars. " 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
U.S. president 
O
THE BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 15, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Move Commencement to the Stadium 
Notre Dame is a school which prides itself on tradition. As anyone who knows me could attest, I am usually a strong supporter of tradition in gener­al. However, some traditions are not worth keeping and need to be adapted to fit the times. Specifically, the tradi­tion of holding Commencement in the Joyce Center is untenable. and it should be changed. 
Holding Commencement in the Joyce Center means that there is extremely limited seating for graduates' families, such that the University only guaran­tees three tickets (and possibly a fourth) for each graduate. Anyone else who wants to attend must watch on video in DeBartolo. I was lucky enough to get a fourth ticket in the lottery, but this is still unfair. In my immediate family. there are six other people ­my parents and my four younger sib­lings. I was hoping that my grandmoth­er would be able to come to the cere­mony from San Antonio, as well, but if she does, I still have to decide which one of my brothers or sisters will be able to be in the Joyce Center. My sis­ter Theresa, a sophomore in Welsh, many graduates have extended fami­will face the same dilemma two years lies or remarried parents, which might from now. 
automatically put them over the I'm not alone in having to three-person limit. It is make this choice, howev­absurd to require families er. The registrar who have made long announced recently trips all the way to that there were 1,836 . . South Bend for an requests for a fourth \\ AOU \ O event as importantticket, over 200 Live-o.+ as college gradua­more requests than 
J.--~::.:;._;;.;_.:.;;~~~:;;;.=~::-, tion, to be relegated the University was to a nearby class­able to fill. That room building. How means that an to decide who can overwhelming attend? Graduates majority of the should not be graduating class forced to make this wanted a fourth decision. ticket, and quite This problem does probably still more not have to exist, tickets. Memo to the though. In fact, the administration: this was solution is simple and not an unforeseeable with precedent at other event. At the very least, one schools, and I urge the would think that a Catholic uni­University to consider it: move versity would not expect most families Commencement from the Joyce Center to consist simply of two parents and to the football stadium. Each gradu­
1.5 children. Besides that, of course, ate's family would then be able to view the ceremony directly. not on monitors in a classroom building. I imagine that few families (or graduates) would be so tied to the "tradition" that they would not want to see the ceremony for themselves. having travelled in many cases very long distances to be here. 
I understand there are concerns about security and about having to prepare two locations in the event of rain, but these are not insurmountable challenges. Adequate security can be arranged in the Stadium and a deci­sion can be made a day or two ahead of time as to the final location. If there looks to be inclement weather, well. the three or four tickets each graduate has already been assigned would easily allow the move back into the Joyce Center. 
In the meantime, most seniors I know would agree to the alternative: hold Commencement in the Stadium. 
Kimberly Blackwell senior 
Lyons Hall April 15, 2002 

Donor drive supports Domer 
Today, over 3,000 patients await a gracious bone marrow donor to save their life. We invite the entire Notre Dame commu­nity to join us in offering a second chance to those in need. 
Tuesday, the class of 2002, Howard Hall and the Minority Pre­Medical Society will sponsor "Domer Donors," a bone marrow drive to register new potential donors in the National Bone Marrow Bank. Join us on Tuesday in LaFortune ballroom any­time from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. You will not have to pay the typical $70 registration fee, and you will be registered until age 61. Entering the National Registry requires an initial blood sample, similar to a mono or strep blood test. 
The drive came together in response to the growing awareness of the necessity of bone marrow donors within the Notre Dame community. Please support the senior class in remembering three classmates who died ofleukemia, a cancer that, at times, is cur­able with a successful bone marrow transplant. Because minori­ties are under-represented in the National Registry and matches are often consistent with ethnic backgrounds, we join the Minority Pre-Medical Society in extending a special invitation to those ofus of non-Caucasian and mixed ethnicities. 
Perhaps most personally, please have your blood tested to see if you are the match that saves the father of Howard Hall resident Ann Gurucharri. 
Having your bone marrow typed not only enables you to help a stranger, this information might one day quicken a family mem­ber's search or even your own in the case that you yourself become sick. However, the decision to register should be consid­ered a commitment to donate, as there is nothing more devastat­ing than thinking a match has been found but the donor will not share his or her marrow. 
If you do become someone's life-saving match, you will undergo both a physical exam and a secondary blood test to ensure that you are indeed a genetic match and able to give you marrow. You will go to the nearest collection center, either Port Wayne or Chicago, to have approximately one pint of marrow drawn from your hipbone under either local or general anesthesia. Typically, the donor feels slight pressure in the hip area for about three days following the procedure. Most return to normal activity the day after donation. The cost of this outpatient procedure and travel is covered by the recipient's insurance. 
Though walk-ins will be welcomed on Tuesday, interested donors may save time by pre-registering online. To schedule an appointment, check your eligibility or for more information, visit www.nd.edu/-class02/donor. For more information regarding the National Bone Marrow Donor Program visit www.rnarrow.org. 
See you on Tuesday. 
Ann Gurucharri drive director 
Peter Rossmann 
class of2002 president 
Lisa Sestile 
class of 2002 secretary April I5, 2002 

Israelis fight for survival 
No one ever thought that the Oslo Accord in 1993 would ever take place, and yet it hap­pened. After the signing of the peace agreement, Israel supplied the Palestinian Authority with police weaponry in order to help govern its peo­ple. And as soon as it assumed its governing role, it started an intensive incitement process and taught many children to hate ferociously the Israelis and hope for the total destruction of Israel. These children have grown up surround­ed by propaganda that has become so deep and so rooted in their minds that has made possible for them to go and blow themselves up indis­criminately. It did not and still does not matter if the vaporized humans are elderly, young men and women or even babies, as long as they are Israelis. This exhaustive and deadly encourage­ment is the true reason the suicide bombers blow themselves up, not the alleged occupation issue. 
The Oslo Accord was just one step of Y asser 
. Arafat's strategic mission in getting closer to his and his terrorist militants' vision -eliminating Israel. In the last nine years, Yasser Arafat has been the only Palestinian Chairman in the region while four Israeli prime ministers have come and gone, practicing true democracy. Not one of them was good enough for Arafat to lead his people to the "peace of the braves" as he always puts it. The sad reality is that the entire world claims that Arafat is the free elected pres­ident of the Palestinian people and the fact that we must negotiate peace only with him is ques­tionable. Well, what the world calls free elec­tions I call fiction since no Palestinian official dared to run for presidency against Arafat; most likely he or she would have been shot. Furthermore, the international observers who supervised these elections policed how people voted but failed to see that the results were already set. U is also worth mentioning that there have not been any elections in the Palestinian territories since 1996. 
During the last couple of weeks, the Israeli Defense Force (IDF) has been cleaning up the "mess" that Arafat left all over the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Its mission is to root out all ter­rorist infrastructures, which Arafat has been supporting all along right after the Oslo Accord. The amount of illegal weapons and documenta­tions uncovered by the IDF directly proves how Arafat supports attacks against Israelis while talking about peace. The IDF found documents that lead not only to the financing of weapons, such as the ship carrying 53 tons intercepted by Israeli Commandos. but also to the financing of suicide bombers so that they can blow them­selves up in public areas in Israel. Had Arafat used these funds to improve the economic condi­tions for his people, the Palestinians would have been better off today and many lives would have been spared. 
Just 18 months ago, Arafat had an agreement to sign: the Palestinians would get back over 95 percent of the West Bank, 100 percent of Gaza Strip, a foothold in East Jerusalem and the chance of declaring it as their capital. Arafat blew the deal by saying he could not sign this agreement because the Hamas and Islamic Jihad would kill him if the agreement would not include the return of the refugees to their initial houses located all over Israel. He knew that by bringing in this demand, it would be like asking the American government to allow all Native Americans to go back to their past houses before the first English settlers. now Americans. arrived. 
Since 1993, Arafat has had all the time in the world to truly prepare his people for making peace with the Israelis. Instead, he resorted to what he knows best: the use of terrorism for his personal agenda -not the use of wisdom to make his people prosper. Arafat and his mili­tants brought a disaster to the Palestinian peo­ple instead of freedom and self-determination. They encouraged innocent Palestinian youths to confront the IDF and risk their lives instead of sending them to schools and teaching them peace. 
As an Israeli, I can assure you that Arafat, with his terror campaign, is responsible for Ariel Sharon's election as prime minister. The Israelis panicked with massive bombings and voted for the man who just happens to know Arafat's ter­ror tactics best. Sharon was elected only to com­bat terrorism, nothing else. At the present, the IDF is fighting to achieve peace in the region for the long run and not for letting another Arafat or his terror militants arise once again. 
Now the Israeli mental state is in a stage were its own survival is at stake and the only time when true peace can be realized will be when the true mission of those who seek to eliminate Israel are gone for good. Yes, innocent people, both Israelis and Palestinians, suffer because of this war. But as Golda Meir, a former Israeli prime minister, once said, "The only time when the Arab World would recognize Israel's right to exist will be when they start loving their chil­dren more than they hate us." Now think about that. 
Hagay Amrami senior 
off-campus April 11, 2002 




'"' I),,,,.·,,.•·•··,. 
, __ ..: ,:l-'·."•'<!:-:--:•,•. ,.. '•·. 
M 
:···•'• '
1


~.,.i . ..:>.·.. 4 
\1;~e: 

World famous illusionist gives South Ben 
and knighted as Chevalier of Arts and Man," he had not yet become the a Lear jet,
By C. SPENCER BEGGS 

Letters by the French government. celebrity that he is today. Copperfield levitating
Scene Editor 

By the time he was 12, the young returned to New York at 19 after leav­over the magician was already performing pro­ing ''The Magic Man" and spent an G r a n d
South Bend will witness a bit of the 
fessionally as "Davino, the boy magi­impoverished year in an apartment Canyon,
impossible today. And, no, the 
cian," in his hometown. In fact, he creating magic and sending resume walking
University has not changed its mind 
was and is the youngest person ever tapes to agents. After a year of barley through the 
on the alcohol policy. Tonight, world 
to be admitted as a member of the being able to pay his heating bills, Great Wall of
famous magician David <;:opperfield 
Society of American Magicians, one of Copperfield received an opportunity of China, riding
will perform his latest stage show, 
the three major fraternal organiza­a lifetime: ABC wanted him to host its over Niagara
"The Portal" at the Morris Performing 
tions for magicians. By the time he upcoming magic special "The Magic of Falls, levitat-· 
Arts Center. And while many recog­
was 16, he was teaching classes on ABC, Starring David Copperfield." ing and van­
nize the magician from his many tele­
his art at New York University; his The success of the special landed ishing the 
vision appearances, few know the fas­
title: Professor of Magic. Copperfield a contract with CBS to Orient 
cinating life that he leads off camera. 
At 18, Copperfield enrolled at produce "The Magic of David Express,
The man now known as David 
Fordham University in New York, but Copperfield" series. It was escaping
Copperfield was born on Sept.16, 
was cast in the lead role of the Copperfield's fifth installment of the f r o m 
David
1956, in Metuchen, N.J., as Chicago-based musical "The Magic series that rocketed him to super­Alcatraz,
Seth Kotkin. When Copperfield was 
Man" three weeks into his freshman stardom when he vanished the Statue escaping 
seven, he learned his first magic trick 
year. Adopting the stage name of of Liberty in front of a live audience. from an 
from his grandfather, "The Four Ace 
David Copperfield from Charles The illusion reportedly cost over imploding
Trick," an illusion that Copperfield 
Dicken's novel of the same name just $500,000 to create and Copperfield building,
will often still include in his shows. 
because he liked the sound of it. the had to get special permission from the s t. a n d i n g
But, Copperfield originally aspired 
young magician left Fordham to work White House to use the national mon­inside of a 
to be a ventriloquist; but when he vis­on the show. Copperfield was the ument. tornado of ited a prop shop that also doubled as 
show: he sang, he danced and he cre­1984's "The Magic of David fire and his a magic shop, he ended up buying a ated most of the original illusions it Copperfield VI" topped the ratings for signaturebag of magic tricks rather than a vent used. "The Magic Man" put its time slot and won two Emmys. Out stage effect, dummy. It would be the beginning of a Copperfield's name on the map; in of the 16 specials, the series has won flying. career that would eventually make fact, the show became the longest a total of 19 Emmys. The specials W h i I e him a household name and even get running musical in Chicago's history. have been the cutting edge of illusion Copperfield is him officially mandated a living leg­Though Copperfield had made a technology. Some of Copperfield's best known 
end by the U.S. Library of Congress name for himself with "The Magic most memorable feats are: vanishing for his televi­sion appear­ances, which have aired in over 40 coun­tries and reached and been seen by an estimated 3 billion peo­ple, his live stage shows are a phe­nomenon unto them­selves. In f a C t , Copperfield performs about 550 shows a year. His latest production, "The Portal," has been touring for almost two years and features the famous illusion of the same name. In the illusion, Copperfield selects 12 members from the audience, vanishes them and has them reappear in impossible places like across the country or even the globe. The rest of Copperfield's show varies at each venue at which he per­forms. He even claims to have multi­ple methods to perform some of his illusions so the audience will not be able to figure out the tricks. Of course, figuring out the trick is not the purpose of going to see a magic show. Copperfield and other professional magicians ask their audi­ences to suspend their disbelief to wit­ness the impossible, not create an "I know how to do this and you don't" kind of atmosphere. Even so, audi­

World famous illusionist D1 his touring show, "The Por Performing Arts Center. 
NIKOLA SOLIC/Reuters 

ences can't help but scratch their Copperfield teaching rope tricks to children In a Croatian hospital. The "Project Magic" program Includes over 1,000 hos­heads when Copperfield completes
pitals worldwide. Copperfield visits patients In person whenever he can. and illusion. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 



page 13 





But perfor­mance isn't 
a I I 
Copperfield is interested in. Copperfield heads a pro­gram called "Project Magic," which teach­es magic to patients who need rehabil­
itation. 
Teams of magicians and occupa­tional thera­pists use var­ious magic tricks to help patients regain some or all of their dexterity, coordination, special per­ception or cognitive pro­cessing. 
Copperfield started "Project Magic" in 19 8 2 after receiving a press clipping of a young magician with whom he had been correspond-i n g Copperfield was astound­ed to discover that his acquaintance was in a wheelchair. He realized 
that magic had helped shape the young man's self-image. Copperfield could relate: As a boy, he had used magic to help him feel more self-con­fident in social settings. He began to wonder whether. magic could be used to help other disabled people gain the same type of self-image. 
Copperfield pitched the idea to Memorial Hospital in Inglewood, Calif. The staff was receptive to the idea and had positive results; the American Occupational Therapists Association has even approved "Project Magic" as an authentic therapeutic treatment. 
Today, "Project Magic" is used in over 1,000 hospitals worldwide. But, Copperfield wants to extend the pro­gram with other performing arts, including: dance, music, photography and puppetry. Furthermore, Copperfield participates in the pro­gram whenever he has time between tours. 
His house in Nevada is home to the International Museum and Librarv of the Conjuring Arts, a collection that preserves antique magic props, books and other artifacts from the world of conjuring. Eventually, Copperfield Rushmore and straightening the Leaning Tower of Pisa. 
But, the man who has so much mys­tery around him has also been chased by rumors. Copperfield, a very private man, has said little to the media 
would like to create a monu­ment that cele­

David Copperfield's "The Portal" 
brates magic as a performing . The Morris Performing Arts Center at 211 N. 
art. Michigan St. Of course. 
. Tonight at 6 p.m. and 9 p.m.
Copperfield dreams big. In . Admission is $42.50, $32.50 to $22.50. the mid '90s he 
Seniors, students, military personnel and
announced 

plans for children under 12 get $5 off with proper
a 


magic-themed identification; children under three do not need restaurant 
c a l l e d tickets. Copperfield . Call the box office at (574) 235-9190 to 
M a g i c reserve tickets. 
Underground to be opened in Times Square and Disney World. Although plans for the restaurant aren't in the near future, Copperfield is hopeful to get the project off the drawing board. That is, of course, after he completes designing his wanted illusions of putting a woman's face on Mount 
regarding these tales except to succinctly deny
them. Among favorites are that he and his ex-wife, super­model Claudia Schiffer, had a contract to fake a marriage to cover up the fact that Copperfield was secretly gay. In fact, the rumor was started by the French gos­sip magazine Paris Match 

after receiving photos that they believed were incriminating. Copperfield sued the magazine for defamation and won. 
Some rumors. however, have a little more truth to them, such as the story that Copperfield's illusions were held hostage by the Russian Mafia during his tour there last year. Copperfield has declined to divulge the details of the incident, but allegedly Copperfield paid a very large bribe and received a favor from higher ups on Capitol Hill to get the equipment returned. 
In the end, Copperfield has led a magical life in every respect. His art has touched the lives of almost half the globe. Now if he would just make the new alcohol restrictions vanish. he'd be the best magician in history. 
David Copperfield's "The Portal" will be performed tonight at the Morris Performing Arts Center in downtown South Bend (211 North Michigan Street). There will be two shows beginning at 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. respectively. Tickets range from $42.50, $32.50 to $22.50. Seniors. students, military personnel and chil­dren under 12 get $5 off with proper identification. Children that are three and younger can sit on laps and don't need tickets. Call the box office at 
(574) 235-9190 to reserve tickets. 
Contact C. Spencer Beggs at beggs.3@nd.edu. 

Copperfield also has an interest in Magician David Copperfield before his "Tornado of Fire" illusion. Copperfield will take up to seven years to design and giving back to the magic community. properly prepare an Illusion. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 15, 2002 
MASTERS 
Woods proves to be unstoppable in Masters 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA. Ga. 

Not the best players in the world, not a toughened up Augusta National could stop Tiger Woods' march to Masters history. 
An early burst of birdies gave Woods control of the redesigned course Sunday, and he never let anyone closer than two strokes the rest of the way. He closed with a 1-under 71 to claim a three-stroke victory over U.S. Open champion Retief Goosen to became only the third player to win back-to­back titles. 
"After the front nine, I knew it was all over for me," Goosen said. "I just tried really hard for second. It is obviously diffi­cult playing with Tiger." 
Despite all the changes to the course, the scene was all too familiar. 
Woods walking up the 18th fairway in a victory parade, tugging on the brim of his cap to acknowledge the applause. Give him the lead at Augusta ­or just about any major -and just wait for everyone else to back down. 
Woods looked to the sky and smiled when his 18-foot birdie putt just missed, but he tapped in for par and walked over to hug his parents. 
He finished at 276 and won a green jacket for the third time in six years. He became the first player to repeat as Masters champion since Nick Faldo in 1990. Jack Nicklaus was the only other, in 1965-66, and Woods' victory put him halfway to Nicklaus' mark of six Masters. 
Last year, Woods battled Phil Mickelson and David Duval down the stretch to win the Masters and become the first player to sweep the four pro­fessional majors. 
Another tight finish loomed, with six of the top seven play­ers in the world all poised to win the Masters. By the end of the day, they were scratching their heads, trying to figure out what they could do -if any­thing -to tame Tiger. 
"We were all trying to make something happen to catch Tiger, because we knew he wasn't going to falter," said Mickelson, who closed with a 71 to finish third, his 39th major and still regarded as the best to never win one. 
Woods accepted his green jacket from Augusta National chairman Hootie Johnson ­usually, that's the job of the defending champion. 
"I think we're going to wear this jacket out putting it on you before your career is over," Johnson told Woods as he slipped it over his shoulders. 
Johnson is the one who ordered the changes at Augusta, adding 285 yards, stretching the bunkers and shifting the tees, all designed to make the Masters a tougher test. 
Rain softened the course and allowed for lower scoring. Perhaps it was Woods' pres­ence that turned so many top challengers into mush. 
Two-time U.S. Open champi­on Ernie Els tried to make a charge, and wound up with an 8 by hitting into the trees and into the creek. 
Former Masters and PGA champion Vijay Singh went into the creek, into the crowd, into the trees and then took a 9 on No. 15. Goosen, who started the final round tied with Woods, was already three strokes behind after three holes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Dependable caregiver for Sunday Need 1 or 2 Grad tix Call Dave @ mornings infant &toddler nursery. 247-1148 Greatly Appreciated 
Must have references & transportn. Resume to Lost: Necklace with gold + diamond Secretary,FPC,333 W.Colfax, 
LOST & FOUND 
FOR SALE
cross. Near West Quad area. Call So.Bend 46601 
4-1640 3 law students seeking 4th room­mate for next year. House has AC, washer/dryer,
WANTED 
dishwasher & is close to campus. $300 a month. Please call 315­Summer Employment 1or College 4185. 
Student. Care for 11 and 9 year old. Fun, 99 ND grad seeks male to share relaxing summer. Good pay. Hours spacious Lincoln Park, Chicago apt. 
Couch, loveseat, and recliner. $450 or best offer. Less than a year old. Perteet condition. 233-0360 
98 Honda Civic EX, 2-dr., auto, 49k miles. All power, air, cassette+ 6 CD changer $10,900 obo. Call Mark 631-7716 or email mshaw­cro@nd.edu 
3-4 person home. Avail. June 2002. C/A. Security system. Close to campus. 616-699-5841 
Nice 3-4 bdrm, 1.5 bath, CIA, gas heat, W&D, fenced backyard across from park, 
VERY SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD, fireplace, 2 car garage $1050/mo+dep. 
Call 232-4527 or 
616-683-5038 

MOVING TO CHICAGO? 1999 ND Here this summer? Law students Alum has 2-2BR/1 BA Apt for rent in wish to sublet house. Furnished BUCKTOWN, ALL with AC. Terms NEW, Hwdfl, Exp Brk Wis, Fplc, VERY negotiable. Call 289-5651. AC, New Apl, Dishwshr, Lndry, Jacuzzi, Deck, Gar Spee Avl, No Pets, $1,395, 
PERSONAL 

n3-791-5810  
Unplanned Pregnancy? Do not go it  
LIVE IN A GREAT NOT QUES- alone. If you or someone you love  
TIONABLE AREA. NICE HOME  needs  
NORTH OF ND 2773097  con1idential support or assistance,  
HOUSES FOR RENT: 1) large (6-9  please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude,  
people) 2) medium (3-5 people)  CSC,at  
Call Bill at  1-7819.  
For more in1ormation, see our  
532-1896,  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  

9am-5pm. Please call Lisa 631-1or 3-9 9947. months. Great location & furnished. 
Call George Carr at (773) 975-0563 Reliable businessman looking to or rent or housesit :2+ bedroom home e-mail at George.E.Carr@us.ander­for9to12 sen.com 
months or longer. ASAP. Call Tim 574-250-8552. Lv. message if nee-Do you like being outside? Do you essary. enjoy being your own boss? Do you 
like working your own hours? Do Looking for single Castle Point you want to make $10 an hour? We roommate coming summer and/or are looking tor dedicated people to fall. Free go out and give our non-customers high-speed DSL internet. currently in our service area estimates. $323 per month + utils. Call Training is paid and you can start 574.277,9322 immediately until you go back to if interested. school. Call Tara Wagoner@ 574­
233-9700 for more information. FREE 1 BEDROOM APT FOR THE TruGreen -Chemlawn RIGHT GRAD STUDENT IN 
EXCHANGE FOR 21 HAS,WK SUMMER CHILDCARE NEEDED LEASING APTS AND OFFICE THREE DAYS PER WEEK AT WORK. SOME WEEKENDS. HOME IN ST. JOE, Ml OR YOUR IMMEDIATE OPENING YEAR HOME 7 MTH OLD HOURS AND ROUND. WAGE NEGOTIABLE REFER­GEORGETOWN APARTMENTS ENCES REOD CALL LYNN @ 272-7286. 616·649-7022 Gently used Themas A. Peterson doctoral gown for sale. Fits 5 ft. 8" female $100. Call 234-8607 
FOR RENT 
MMMRentals.com 272-1525 mmm­rentals@aol.com 
MMMRentals.corn 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING Huge 5 bedroom house, wshr/dryr/sec sys/prking... Nice 3-4 bedroom house-air.sec sys/parking 2-bedroom cottage..cute... DAVE 
291-2209 

3-6 BDRM HOMES.NEAR CAM· PUS FURN., LOW RATES 
272-6306, 
292-6717 New York City Apt-2 bedroom/con­vert 3 New building in East Village Large kitchen with island A/C, video­phone,Dish,Micro,Laundry 

Free access to nearby gym.No Broker Fee 

$2600/mo(heat and hot water included) Bethany ND 2000 
(347)524-5823. 

Lrg lux 1-bdrm apt.in historic home. Garage. Must Seel Call 
Tammy(616)684·1049. 

4&5 Bdrm, W&D, CLOSE. ND Alum. WE KNOW WHAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR. 
Call Karey 255-8403. 

Upstairs apt., single person, no  ELECTRONIC DIGITAL PRINTING  
smoking/pets. All util.paid. Avail  Black & White or Full Color at THE  
now or  COPY SHOP  
Fall 02. For info, call 574-255-1738.  
Close to ND.  LaFortune Student Center Submit  
your work via email for details call:  
3 BEDROOM 2 BATH HOUSE  
WITH CENTRAL AIR, GARAGE,  574-631-COPY  
AND A DECK, WASHER &  
DRYER.  GOLF CLUB REPAIR, LESSONS &  
CORNER OF EDDY AND  CUSTOM FIT GOLF CLUBS by  
HOWARD 3 BLOCKS SOUTH OF  local PGA professional.  
LOGAN CENTER. FREE KEG  
WITH  Call Dick at 276-9670.  
RENTAL. Call Gary or Lynne 616·  
699-5841  Want to write for Observer sports?  
HOUSE FOR RENT 7/1/02-5/31/03,  Call Chris Federico at  
5 blocks from ND, 4 bedroom, 2  
bath, central  1-4543  
ale, washer &dryer, alarm system,  
Don't forget to Recucle The  
call 773-486-8822.  Observer after reading  

Monday, April 1S, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
nice shooting touch. 
At halftime, the All-Stars treated the crowd to a Last Supper of white bread and potato chips. One of the female fans also washed the feet of the players. 
Throughout the game, the All-Stars' coach tried to intimidate The Outsiders with The Word Of God. The Word Of God chastised The Outsiders frequently for breaking the Seventh Commandment: lhou shall not steal (the ball), but The Outsiders kept sinning and cruised to an easy victory. 
Youth was served in another game Sunday as Pasty Moe And The Amazing Technicolor Dream Coat defeated Dootin The Vitamin G 21-14. The all-freshman squad pulled away in the second half from the all-senior Vitamin G. Pasty Moe took a 12-7 lead early in the second half and held on to win. 
"They had the height advantage, and lhey were better shooters. They were also faster." Vitamin G's Kyle Eller said. 
Three members of the Saint Mary's basketball team bowed out of the tour­nament early this year as With Ourselves defeated Hardcore Strokers 21-10. 
With Ourselves used its height and athletic advantage to jump out to a 10-4 lead and never looked back. The first­round Bookstore loss was the earliest of Saint Mary's senior Anne Blair's career. 
"Usually we play really easy or funny guys in the first round who don't take it very seriously," Blair said. "These guys didn't take it easy on us. I think they will go pretty far." 
First-round Bookstore games continue today and Tuesday at Stepan, Lyons and McGlinn courts. 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Ganggrene upsets No. 31 Manstallion 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Senior Staff W ritcr 
The first of the mighty have fallen. 
No. 31-seeded Manstallion lost to unranked Team Ganggrene 21-17 in the first round of Bookstore Basketball XXXI Friday. Manstallion is the first ranked team to report a loss in this year's tournament. 
"We played hard," Gangrene's Ben Dillon said. "We got some lucky bounces and banked some shots in." 
Ganggrene built a 17-11 second-half lead before Manstallion stormed back to cut the lead to 19-17. Matt Horney scored the last two points for Ganggrene to steal the upset 
win. 

Ganggrene is made up of four seniors and a junior from Zahm. Three of the players have played together for three years. Their previ­ous experience together gave them an advan­tage, according to Dillon. 
"We play a lot together," he said. "We just enjoy playing basketball. We know how each other play." 
Although the 21-17 victory was an upset, it was not necessarily a surprise. Three players from Ganggrene made it to the round of 32 in 2001 but requested not to be ranked this year. 
"We thought [a ranking] would pretty much jinx us," Dillon said. "We got a good draw last year. We don't really feel like we are one of the top 32 teams. We figured if we were ranked, we would just lose in the first round." 
Contact Mike Connolly at connolly.28@nd.edu. 



CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents The Eighteenth Annual Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality 
Compassionate Respect: A Feminist Approach to Medical Ethics 
by Margaret A. Farley, Ph.D. 
Gilbert L. Stark Professor of Christian Ethics, Yale University Divinity School 
Thursday, April 18, 2002, 7:30 p.m. (EST) Moreau Center Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC INFORMATION: (574) 284-4636 E-MAIL: mauuszak@saintmarys.edu 
Saint M$s Colleg~ 
O

NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
page 16 The observer . SPORTS Monday, April 15, 2002 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Minnesota faces NCAA infractions 
Associated Press 

SAVANNAH, Ga. 
Minnesota administrators spent nearly 11 hours before an NCAA infractions commit­tee Saturday arguing against sanctions for alleged rule vio­lations in its women's basket­ball program. 
The NCAA could impose cuts in scholarships and recruiting or even shut down the pro­gram for two years if it rules Minnesota violated a four-year probation that began in October 2000. The school expects a decision in no more than six weeks. 
Both the NCAA and the uni­versity have accused former women's basketball coach Cheryl Littlejohn of giving $200 to $300 to a player, buy­ing clothes for others and encouraging players to lie in an investigation. 
The alleged violations of NCAA rules were discovered after Minnesota went on pro­bation for a messy academic fraud scandal in the men's basketball program that led to the dismissal of coach Clem Haskins. 
University officials argued Littlejohn actually broke the rules before the probation began for the men's basketball affair. 
"Our position is that there's a magic date -October of 2000," university president Mark Yudof said after the hearing. 
Since Littlejohn's alleged violations occurred before 
then, administrators argue the university shouldn't be subject to the penalties in the NCAA's "repeat violator rule." They argue self-imposed sanctions, such as cutbacks in recruiting visits, are enough punishment. 
The hearing was closed to reporters, and Yudof declined to discuss specifically what happened. 
"I thought they were very thorough," he said. "I thought they'd done their homework. But whether they were favor­ably or unfavorably disposed, I'm really not supposed to say. And it would be total specula­tion anyhow." 
Littlejohn, who was fired last May and now coaches at Chicago State, attended Saturday's hearing but declined to comment. 
The hearing Saturday capped two difficult weeks for the Minnesota athletics pro­gram. On April 3, women's basketball coach Brenda Oldfield was hired away by Maryland after one season, in which she led Minnesota to its first NCAA tournament in eight years. 
And last week, Minnesota decided to merge its men's and women's athletic depart­ments to reduce chronic bud­get deficits. Administrators also recommended cutting men's gymnastics and men's and women's golf. 
"It's been a hectic week," Yudof said. "But I actually have not felt that worn down or discouraged. I think people overestimate that." 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles fall to Alma 7-0, 6-5 
By NATALIE BAILEY 
Sporn Writer 

The Belles pulled out a sur­prising performance Saturday in their doubleheader against the MIAA's top team but still lost bolh games to Alma, 7-0 and 6-5. 
With an 0-4 re.cord, Saint Mary's entered tho games as the underdogs, but once the Belles warmed up, they showed 8-0 Alma a high level of compe­tition. 
"In the second game, we did a lot better than we have all year long." Belles coach John Ganeff said. "The multiple hits within the innings really helped us out in the second game. Timely hit­ting and shutting down Alma's hitting was key for us." 
The H"elles lost the first game 7-0 after Alma scored five of its seven runs in the sixth inning. 
Until the fifth inning, the sec­ond game was much like the first. Hut in the bottom of the fifth, the Belles came alive. 
With a runner on first, the Belles anticipated a bunt and caused a double play to end the inning. First baseman Rachel Deer knocked in two runs in the top of the sixth with a homo run to give the Belles a 5-4 lead, and in the bottom half of the sixth, Saint Mary's set Alma down 1-2-3_ 
In the seventh, the Belles strung together several hits but could not score a run. 
With the door open, Alma wrapped up the game with two base hits and two runs batted in with a hit into left field to win the game 6-5. 
Libby Wilhelmy pitched two strikeouts and shortstop Marnie Walsh, who made several key defensive plays, stopped a line drive making for an impressive defensive display. 
"Our defense was strong but the offense is what makes or breaks a game," senior co-cap­tain Melissa Hayes said. 
Although Saint Mary's lost both games on Saturday, the Belles are walking away from their doubleheader with a new confidence. 
"We need to take the momen­tum from our last game and continue to hit strongly," llayos said of their upcoming game against Olivet. 
The two losses dropped the Belles to 0-6 in the MIM and 5­10 overall. 
Contact Natalie Bailey at baill407@saintmarys.edu. 
MLB 

Brewers end losing streak 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
Barry Bonds left after the third inning with a hamstring injury, and the Milwaukee Brewers rallied past the San Francisco Giants 4-3 Sunday to stop a seven-game losing streak. 
Bonds, who hit 574th home run Saturday to move past Harmon Killebrew into sole possession sixth place on the career list, walked leading off the third inning, advanced on an infield groundout and scored on Shawon Dunston's single. 
Bonds left the game at the end of the inning, and the Giants said he had a mild right hamstring strain, an injury he first sustained dur­ing the final week of spring training. 
Milwaukee trailed 3-2 in the eighth when Felix Rodriguez (0-1) walked Geoff Jenkins with one out and pinch-hitter Matt Stairs dou­bled off the right-field wall to drive in the tying run. 
Raul Casanova was inten­
tionally wal'ked and, one out later, Ronnie Belliard walked to load the bases. Alex Sanchez then singled home the go-ahead run. 
Belliard was thrown out at third by left fielder Marvin Benard before Casanova could cross the plate with another run. 
Luis Vizcaino (1-1) induced a seventh-inning double-play grounder by Yorvit Torrealba, his only batter. as the Brewers came from behind for the first time this season. 
Please Recycle The Observer. 
The Notre Dame Department of Film.Television, and Theatre presents 

ATTENTION GRADUATING SENIORS!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions is accepting applications for the position of Admission Counselor 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff. the Counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communications wit~in the . . . geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting grou.p/!nd1v1dual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities. including the poss1b1hty of diversity recruitment, will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Prefened start date is July I. 2002. 
Apply on-line via Human Resources web site or submit resume, cover letter and reference infmmation by Wednesday, April 17, 2002 to: 
Admissions Counselor Joh# 2007-077 Departmcnl of Human Resources University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Monday, April 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer Senior captain Alissa Moser contributes to the Irish cause as Notre Dame falls to the Blue Devils in triple overtime. 
Tina Fedarcyk, Kathryn Lam, Henwood and Kelly Mccardell. took control of the game and lessened some of the pressure off Irish keeper Jen White who had a career­high 15 saves. 
Henwood made an end-to­end run to almost store a third goal on tho day, but the Irish didn't convert and entered halftime trailing by one. 
Duke opened the half with a quick goal, but Loftus and Danielle Shearer both responded to tie the game 5­5. 
Eleanor Willie, trying to even the game again at six after another Duke goal, ran over her defender and caught a pass from Shearer which she quickly dumped in the net to tie it again. 
The scoring then slowed down with the game tied, and neither team could find the net. 
Gallagher finally broke through the Irish defense and 






scored with eight minutes goalie again using her crease left. Duke then scored again spin move to give the Irish to take an 8-6 lead with six the lead.
Drwnbeats and Dia1ogue 
minutes left. McCardell got her first goal Shearer, the Irish leading of the year off a pass from
Creating New Rhythms for Diversity in Higher 
scorer, got a yellow card with classmate Shearer. Anne
Education 
l 3:14 left. Duke controlled the Riley, also a junior, got the , ball well after the penalty and final goal for the Irish in the
A Symposium convened by the African & African American 
it appeared that its two-goal half, putting them up 6-3.
Studies Program 
lead was unbreakable. The Sargent then responded for 
University of Notre Dame 
Irish finally forced a turnover Yale, making it 6-4 in the 
and with 1 :40 to play, half.
16-17 Apri1 2002 
! 
Maureen Henwood got fouled The Irish would not let the
Keynote Speaker and workshop Faci1itator 
and scored on the free posi­Bulldogs get any closer, get­
Ro1and Smith, Ed.D. 
tion chance. ting second-half goals from 
The Irish got the ball again Simon, Fischer, Loftus and
Associate Provost• Rice University• Houston, Texas 
! 
and with 27 seconds left, two from Moser with the Irish
Schedu1e of Events 
Simon hustled for the loose ending up on top 11-8. 
Tuesday• 16 Apri1 2002 
ball and circled around the The Irish face Georgetown 
net to tie the game at eight. Saturday in Washington in a
7: 00 PM -Keynote Address: 
Strategic Planning for Diversity: Some Reflections on 
Both teams scored one goal game that will decide the fate
I 
I 
in the first overtime to force a
Best Practices 
I 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
second, and no one scored in Contact Chirs Coleman at Reception immediately following in the Hesburgh Center Great Hall 
the second. ccolemal@nd.edu. 
I 
Wednesday• 17 Apri1 2002 
l 9:00 AM-Workshop #1 
I 
Diversity and Curriculum: Values, Ideals, and 
I 
Objectives 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music Series presents 
Hesburgh Center Rooms Cl04-105 
10:45 AM-Workshop #2 
Defining Outreach and Its Implications for Diversity 
Hesburgh Center Rooms C104-105 
2:00 PM-Workshop #3 
Rethinking Faculty and Staff Recruitment and Retention 
Hesburgh center Room C103 
5:00 PM-Fireside Chat 
Building Friendships and Maintaining Community 
Morris Inn• Notre Dame Room 
/ll.:xandcz BlacMy. diucto1 
Event coord~nators 
Co-Sponsors 
Wed.,.April 17, 2002 

Dean's Office, College of Arts and Letters• Graduate School • Hesburgh 
8 pm, Basilica Free and open
Center Mendoza College of Business• Office of Institutional Equity• President's 
of the Sacred Heart to the public 
Office• Provost's Office 
For more information, please call (574) 631-6201 or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/-congoers 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
the Irish closed off defensive­ly and started winning more balls. Senior captain Alissa Moser then took things into her own hands. 
Despite being double teamed, she spun off her defenders, scored and brought the game back to within two. 
In the third sudden death overtime, after Loftus' near game-winning shot rang off t_hc post, Megan Miller scored her second goal of the game to end the 72-minute contest, 10-9. 
The hard-fought comeback gave the Irish momentum heading into their game with No. 12 Yale as the Irish won 11-8. 
"We came off the loss from Duke, and we were pumped," said Irish 
Then Moser assistant
"I knew we were going to 
found teammate c o a c h
win against Yale. There
Anne Riley Danielle 
streaking was no way we were 
Gallagher. toward the net going to let that happen "Somebody for an easy put­had to pay
to us twice.,,
in to make the for it -it score 4-3. was Yale." The Irish Meredith Simon "I knew defensive four, Irish player we were 
going to 
w i n against Yale," said Simon, who had three goals against the Bulldogs. "There was no way we were going to let that happen to us twice." 
The effort against Yale was led by Simon but was helped out by performances off the bench from Kassen Delano, Eleanor Wcille and Elizabeth Knight. Loftus and Moser both scored twice in the victo­ry. 
The Irish let Yale open the scoring, but Delano came back and scored quickly. Defenses picked up and nobody scored until Katie Sargent weaved through the Irish to score her first of three for the Bulldogs. After Yale scored another, the Irish went on a run. 
Simon started the run using the same move that put the Irish in overtime against Duke, a run around the back on the net, then Loftus scored off a free position chance. 
Simon then burned the 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 15, 2002 
SMC GOLF 
Belles finish 2nd at 1st tournament 
By DONNA LUBBERS 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's golf team fin­ished a close second at a tourna­ment at the Brookwood Golf Course Saturday just two strokes behind tournament winner DePauw. 
"ft was our first tournament of the spring season, and with nerves and all, we just couldn't put it all together," Belles' coach Theresa Pekarek said. 
The Belles shot a team total scoro of 363. Freshman Julia Adams led the way with the team low of 87, followed closely by freshman Stephanie Simmerman shooting 88 and senior captain Megan Keleher with 91. 
"The consistency of our fresh­men is probably one of our biggest strengths right now," Pekarek said. "They'll definitely be leading the way over the next three years." 
"[ feel like I could have shot four or five strokes better," said Adams. "J missed three or four two-foot putts that I probably should have made. It felt good to lead the team, but I still feel like I could improve." 
Playing at Brookwood Golf Course in Buchanan, Mich., the Belles definitely felt like they had home course advantage. 
''I felt like we knew the course a little better because we play it so much. We got some of the holes the other teams mossed up on," Adams said. 
"The greens were recently aerated and bumpy -they are always tough to read," said Simmerman. "My putting wasn't up to pa, either." 
The Belles had hoped to finish first Saturday but are more con­fident in their upcoming tourna­ment at Tri-State University, Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m. and 10 a.m., respectively. They will only have two tournaments for the spring season. 
"I think we all played well but could have done a little better," said Adams, "I was pretty happy overall.". 
"It was our first competition this season," Simmerman said. "We went out there expecting a good time. I'm looking forward to a better overall finish for myself and for the team next weekend." 
Contact Donna Lubbers at lubh7272@saintmarys.edu. 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame upsets William & Mary 
0 bserver Staff Report 
The 25th-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team captured its second victory against a top-20 opponent this season, downing No. 14 William & Mary, 5-2, Saturday afternoon at the Busch Tennis Courts in Williamsburg, Va. 
The win moved the team's record to 13-11 on the season, while the Tribe falls to 15-7. 
"This is a huge win for us because it gives us two top-20 wins," Notre Dame head coach Jay Louderback said. "We've come so close to getting some other big wins, so for us to get this one, it definitely helps our confidence going into the [Big EastJ tournament." 
For the third consecutive match, the Irish got off on the right foot, picking up the criti­cal doubles point. On Saturday, Notre Dame took two of the three doubles matches, as Katie Cunha and Lindsey Green won 8-2 at the No. 1 flight, and Sarah Jane Connelly and Alicia Salas ral­lied from a 5-6 deficit to claim an 8-6 victory at the No. 3 spot. 
Notre Dame will wind up its two-match road swing today at 5:30 p.m. when it squares off with No. 10 Texas in the regular-season finale at the Penick-Allison Tennis Center in Austin. The Irish then will look ahead to the Big East Championships which begin Friday in Coral Gables, Fla. 
Notre Dame is the defending champion after winning its fourth title in six years with a 4-1 victory over Miami last season. 

TRACK AND FIELD 

Irish men take 1st place 
By DAVE COOK 
Sports Writer 
Exactly one year ago, Ayesha 
Boyd won her first collegiate 
race -the 400-meter dash at 
the Tom Botts Invitational. 
Last weekend, Boyd returned 
to the Invitational not as an 
aspiring freshman but as an 
experienced veteran. She won 
all three races she competed in 
and earned Female Athlete of 
the Meet honors. Boyd led the 
Irish women to a second-place 
fmish, while the men finished in 
first place among the four teams 
present at the meet. 
"Ayesha has made tremen­
dous improvements," sprinting 
coach John Millar said. "She's a 
lot more confident in what she's 
doing. It was just a matter of 
time with her." 
Although Boyd continues to be strong in the 400, she has found her own niche as the .top Irish runner in both the 100-and · 200-meter dash. She won both the 100-and 200-meter dashes at the Invitational and concluded her impressive showing with a victory in the 4xl00 relay. Boyd's 100-meter time of 11.73 
seconds was also a personal­
best for the sophomore. 
Boyd set the pace in a meet 
dominated by [rish sprinters. 
The sprinting corps, in its most 
impressive showing of the year, 
won 12 of the 13 events. Its only 
loss came in the men's 400­
meter hurdles where Napoleon 
Suarez came in second place, 
losing to winner Ryan Boyington 
of Missouri by only .12 seconds. 
Overall, the sprinting corps 
had 26 top-five finishes with two 
Irish runners scoring in each of 
the 10 individual events. 
"On the women's side, we had 
some people who we felt could 
go in there and win," Millar said. 
"I was really excited about the men. Going into the meet we didn't expect to win the 100­and 200-meter. Our men's sprinters in the last couple weeks have really improved and arc on a mission to do well and perform well." 
The men's sprint team showed their depth this weekend, finish­ing with 16 top-five finishes in the seven sprint events. After losing three of their top sprint­ers at the conclusion of the indoor season, several runners, such as sophomore Ryan Hurd and freshman Trevor McClain­Duer, stepped up. 
The two sprinters combined for four victories on the week­end -Hurd in the 200-meter and 4x100 relay and McClain­Duer in the 400-meter and 4x400 relay. Also having a strong weekend was Nick Saracco, who ran a personal­best 400-meter time in 49.56 seconds and was also part of the 4x400 relay team. 
"I noticed this weekend that the morale on the team was pretty high," Saracco said. "ft was just a great meet and a great boost and we're now look­ing forward to all the meets coming up because we're very confident we can perform well in all these meets." 
The women's sprinting corps continued its record-breaking season this weekend under the stellar performance of Liz Grow. Grow finished the meet with two victories -the 400-meter dash and the 4x100 relay -and a second-place effort in the 200­meter. Her times in the 400 and the 4x100 relay also provisional­ly qualified her for the NCAA championships in May. Her 53.14-second time in the 400 is also her second-best time of the season behind a 53. I-second effort at the Alex Wilson Invitational during the indoor season. 


"I feel comfortable and confi­dent about where she's at right now," Millar said. "We hoped she would be right around the [NCAA] automatic time so we wouldn't have to worry about her qualifying anymore." 
Also with multiple wins on the weekend was junior Tameisha King, who has proved to be per­haps the most versatile athlete on the Irish squad. King had vic­tories in the 100-meter hurdles, the long jump and the 4x100 relay at the Invitational. A 2002 NCAA Indoor Championship qualifier in the long jump, King out-jumped her opponents by almost seven inches in the long jump competition. 
In the men's 1.500-meter run. Pat Conway defended his title at the Invitational with a 3:50.7 4 effort. Conway is also looking to defend his 1,500-meter title next week at the Mt. SAC Relays. 
Fellow senior Luke Watson was re-acclimating himself in the 3,000-meter steeplechase, running an 8:50.68 time good enough for a NCAA provisional qualifier. The last time Watson competed in the steeplechase was sophomore year at the 2000 NCAA Outdoor Championships. 
The success of the Irish track and field team was only sec­ondary to its ultimate goal: to get ready for next weekend's Mt. SAC Relays and the Big East Championships that are only three weeks away. 
"It's a good gauge to see where we're at," Millar said. "We're healthy, and going into the next three weeks we have things we want to achieve." 
Contact Dave Cook at dcook2@nd.edu. 
Now Hiring 

Student Program 
Assistants 
The Student Activities Office will be hiring 3 Program Assistants for the 2002-2003 school year. Program Assistants responsibilities include: 
Learn the program planning methodology and implement programs using a standard process Coordinate, produce and staff weekly, campus-wide week­end programs including Crafting Corner, Tournaments and Karaoke Support Student Activities Office events/activities Coordinate special projects for the Student Activities Office Provide administrative assistance to Student Activities staff members, as needed.' 
This position is a stipend position and requires 7-10 hours per week. Applications are available outside the Student Activities Office located at 315 LaFortune. 
For more information contact Karen Alkema in the Student Activities Office at 631-4602. 
Monday, April 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

Baseball 
continued from page 24 

'You just have to keep playing hard and there's a lot of baseball still to be played and people are going to beat each other in this league. If you just keep plugging away and keep battling, good things can happen."' 
In the first game, which was scheduled for seven innings, the Hokies scored first in the top of third inning after loading the bases against Jrish starting pitcher Ryan Kalita. Kalita was a late decision after freshman pitcher Chris Niese! could not throw because of an illness. · 
With two outs, Kalita induced a ground ball to short<itop Javier Sanchez. Sanchez, however, bobbled the ball, allowing Virginia Tech to score an unearned run and take the early 1-0 lead. Kalita came back to strikeout the next batter to retire the side. 
The Irish offense, on the other hand, had the unpleasant job of facing Hokie ace Joe Saunders. Saunders entered the game with a 5-0 record and an ERA of only 
2.32. He baffled Notre Dame's hitters for most of the game by. locating his pitches and using both sides ofi.he plate. The Irish, however, finally got to him when center fielder Steve Stanley hit a bloop double down the left line to open the sixth inning. Two batters later, right fielder Kris Billmaier drilled a 1-2 pitch into the outfield, scoring Stanley and tying the game at 1-1. 
Not until the bottom of the 11th did the score change, when Bok's triple and Thaman's infield single ended the game. 
The main reason the Irish were able to keep pace with the Hokies was because of the out­standing Kalita's outstanding pitching performance. 
"The key to the whole night for us was the way Ryan Kalita went out there and just pitched so marvelously and gave us a chance to win that first game," Mainieri said. "We were going up against a kid that, I would say, is a lock to be a first-round draft -pick and be in the big leagues probably within a couple of years, and Ryan went out there and matched him pitch for pitch for six innings. He gave us a chance to win the ball game." 
Right-hander J.P. Gagn·e also played a major role in keeping the score tied at 1-1 for several innings. 
"What can you say about J.P. Gagne? He was just a gutty com­petitor, like he always is," Maineri said. "He pitches five scoreless innings and holds [Virginia Tech] until finally were able to get a big hit from Matt Bok, and then in the 11th inning we're able to win that game:" 
In the nightcap, the Irish jumped out to the early lead when Stanley singled and was later knocked in by left fielder Brian Stavisky's sacrifice fly. 
Virginia Tech bounced back to take a 2-1 lead in the top of the third when center fielder Chris Winterfeldt singled and was fol­lowed by back-to-back doubles by Marc Tugwell and John West off Notre Dame starter Paul Ogilvie. 
Those would be the only runs the Hokies could score off Ogilvie, who went the distance for the victory and, more impor­tantly, saved the Irish from using any pitchers in relief. 
"We go out there in the second game knowing we have a very thin bullpen, and Pete Ogilvie goes out there and pitches a complete game for us," Mainieri said. 
Despite not feeling his best when the game started, Ogilvie became stronger and more dom­inant as the game progressed. 
"During the game I actually didn't feel all that great," Ogilvie said. "But as the game went, I started to settle in and r felt almost stronger as the game went on. We made some great plays in the field, and I think I just pitched well to do the job." 
Notre Dame tied the game in the bottom of the third inning when Bok singled and Stavisky doubled him home a few batters later. 
The Irish took the lead for good in the sixth when Stavisky walked. O'Toole bunted him over to second before Billmaier knocked him with a single two batters later. 
In the seventh, Notre Dame added an insurance run when Bok singled and Stavisky dou­bled him in a few batters later. 
The Irish will face three straight Mid-American confer­ence teams this week, beginning with Central Michigan on today. Mainieri believes it is important for the Irish to continue to play well and pick up some much­needed victories. 
"It's important fur us to contin­ue to play good baseball and continue to build the confidence in ourselves which I think is growing with each passing game," Mainieri said. "So we're going to take these games very seriously." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettlec@nd.edu. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

LSU faces recruiting violations by coaches 

see life as 
we see it. 
A lifetime opportunity FOR GRADUATING SENIORS 
www.nd.edu/ ~vocation 
Associated Press 

BATON ROUGE, La. 
LSU has disciplined head football coach Nick Saban and two assistants for three minor NCAA recruiting violations. 
"All schools that self-report, schools like us, report 25 to 30 of these violations a year," ath­letic director Skip Bertman said. "They are benign rule vio­lations that are so cumbersome because of the large amount of information in the NCM manu­al." 
LSU found that either Saban or the assistant coaches, whose names the university would not release, may have improperly contacted two potential recruits. It also found that a former assistant violated a rule about telephone contact with recruits. 
As a result, the university reduced the number of days the three coaches can go on the road during the spring evalua­tion period from 24 to 18 and ordered the football staff to stop recruiting two players. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 15, 2002 
FOOTBALL 
Irish use 6th practice to play in game atmosphere 
ByANDREW SOUKUP Sports Writer 
And on the sixth practice, the Irish scrimmaged. 
For 30 minutes of Notre Dame's two-hour practice Saturday, the Irish drew on nearly four months of study­ing playbooks and a week's worth of practices as they practiced full-speed in a simulated game atmosphere. 
"We had a very good session, but the session was probably focused more on good things coming from our energy level and nut necessarily from our execution," lrish head coach Tyrone Willingham said about the scrimmage that included officials. "There were some bright things, but overall we need a lot of work." 
The Irish still have a long way to go before they completely understand the new systems that Willingham's staff is implementing. But the focus of Saturday's scrimmage was less on execution and more on intensity. 
"You havc to understand the process they're going through," Willingham said. "You understand that some things will not be as a coach would like it, but at the same time, there's still progress being made, even though the execution may not be flawless yet." 
"The thing I was really interested in today was did we play hard?" said defensive coordinator Kent Baer. "... I know there's going to. be mistakes, you just have to keep coaching and hope they don't make too many mis­takes." 
While the players are being asked to learn a lot of new things in a short period of time -something Willingham is more than well aware of -he says he can't forgive execu­tion errors even at this early stage. 
"You're always tough on all aspects. That's the only way we can get truly better and become the team we should become," he said. "The guys worked hard, but there's a lot of thought process in what they do right now, and that usually inhibits the execution. so we're about par for the course." 
Note: 
While the Irish were busy practic­ing Thursday, Tiger Woods shot a third-round 66 at The Masters to claim a share of the lead. Woods won the tournament Sunday. 
Willingham, formerly Stanford's head football coach from 1995 to 2001, was pleased to learn after practice that Woods, who golfed for Stanford from 1994 to 96, had jumped into the lead. 
'Tiger did some great things for us in terms of being a model student­athlcte," Willingham said. 
But the Irish coach added that he has yet to play a round with Woods. "I would not put my game in the same foursome as Tiger," he said. 
Woods, who is sponsored by Nike, has recently worn a hat with the let­ters "1W" embroidered on the front. After practice, a reporter wondered if Willingham would wear one of those hats. 
"I don't think so," the coach laughed. "We have a conflict of spon­sors." 
Notre Dame is sponsored by adidas. 
Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 

Andon Tuesday, 
Provide Hope hv Becoming a 

Tuesdav, April 16th, from 9am­4PID laFortune Ballroom. Please sign up for the Bone Marrow Drive: www.nd.edu/~c1ass02/donor/ 
Monday, April 15, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

"We started swinging at strikes," said Gumpf. "We started

Softball 
laying off the rise ball and she had to bring it down." 

continued from page 24 
Bledsoe set the first pitch of the fourth inning down the left-fieldThe Orangewomen jumped on line to tie the score at one. After

the scoreboard early in the sec­ond game with a run in the first Talyor Peterson relieved Brown, 
Irish center fielder Jenny Kriech

inning on an RBI double by hit a bloop double down the
Syracuse first baseman Cheryl right-field line to score first base­
Julicher that scored catcher 
man Lisa Mattison and designat­Katie Kaempfer. 

ed hitter Carrie Wisen. 
In the third inning, Kaempfer The three runs would hold up,would give DiMaggio another run as Stenglein would shut down the to work with as she sent a 2-2 Orangewomen the rest of thepitch from Irish pitcher Steffany way for the 3-1 victory.

Stenglein over the left-field fence On Friday against the Huskiesfor a 2-0 lead. 
the Irish relied on the arm ofThe Irish bats, which had been Stonglein (14-9) as she picked upon fire since the beginning of Big her 12th and 13th victories of the Ea.st play, cooled off as the Irish year. Stenglein had been battlingonly squeezed out eight hits on 

Sunday. · a groin injury over the past week. "I felt really good," Stenglein 
"We didn't play well all day," said. "I was happy to be back onGumpf said. •~we were able to the mound throwing again." 

fight a little bit harder in the first In the first game against thegame and found a way to get it 
Huskies, Stenglein and

done. We didn't hit the ball all 
Connecticut pitcher Barbara
day." 
Cook squared off in a pitchers'The Orangewomen added an 
duel as they matched zeros

unearned run in the seventh as through the first seven innings.
they improved their record to 17 ­
11 and 5-1 in the Big East. "She [Cook] is a good little pitcher," Gumpf said. "We hit her 
In the first game of the double­decent. We got seven hits off her, header, the Irish were able to get but we just didn't get the runs we

to Syracuse pitcher Heather 
needed."
Brown in the fourth inning. 
After being frustrated all day by Cook, the Irish were finally able to push a run across ·the plate in the eighth inning. With two outs, right fielder Megan Ciolli started the rally with a dou­ble just inside the right-field line to put a runner in scoring posi­tion. Third baseman Andrea Loman lined Cook's 2-0 pitch into center field to score Ciolli from second and give the Irish 1-0 vic­tory. 
"I was definitely looking for a fastball all the way, she just hap­pened to throw it right in there and I was looking to hit it hard somewhere," Loman said. 
In the second game of the dou­bleheader, both teams started the same starting pitchers, hop­ing for a repeat performance. The Irish were the ones who received a repeat pitching perfor­mance as they defeated the Huskies 8-0. 
Unfortunately for the Huskies, Cook was forced to leave the game in second inning when she was struck in the face by a Mattison line drive. On the play, Bledsoe scored to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
The Irish scored three more runs, one of them unearned, in-we'll help take care of the the fourth to take a commanding 
4-0 lead. 

In the sixth, the Irish would score four runs on only two hits. After consecutive walks to
[tuition]E 
Bledsoe, Mattison and leftfielder Liz Hartmann, designated hitter Nicole deFau singled through the left side of the infield to score

If you wantto give your nursing career a shot in the arm, you need experience -
Bledsoe. After a wild pitch allowed Mattison to score, pitch

not the headache of how to pay your tuition. Qualify for an Army ROTC nursing 
hitt-er Annie Dell'Aria knocked in Hartmann and deFua as she dou­

scholarship, and you'll not only get hands-on clinical training, you'll develop~ 
bled down the left field line. Stenglein and Wisen's pitching

leadership skills you'll be able to tap into for your entire career. Talk to us.a-t the 
silenced the Husky bats Friday. The two combined to give up only
Army ROTC department We'll take care of you. 
eight hits and no runs in 14 innings. 
· "Steffany did a great job," Gumpf said. "She did exactly
AR MY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take. 
what I needed her to do: set the tone and keep them off balance a bit. Then Carrie comes in with her changeup and shuts the door." 

The Irish will have a chance to start a new winning streak Wednesday as they take a break from Big East play and square off against Indiana State. The Irish will then play Bowling Green on Thursday and then resume Big East play on Saturday against Virginia Tech. 
For more information about our Scholarship Programs, o/;.; can Captain Bart Hennessey at (219) 631-4656 or 1-800-UND-ARl'I)': Contact Aaron Ronsheim at 


.1#;)~~ ,. . ·::, 
a.ronshei@nd.edu . 
;,,;Jl'!:''• 


' 
I I 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, April 15, 2002 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish end home winning streak with loss to Kentucky 
By JOE LINDSLEY 
Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team entered the weekend look­ing to finish the season unde­feated on the squad's home courts. 
The Irish, 19-6, failed in that respect, but they still finished the weekend strong, closing with their best regular-season record since 1994, when they went 21­9. 
Their home winning streak was halted as the No. 16 Kentucky Wildcats handed the seventh-ranked Irish a 4-1 Joss at the Courtney Tennis Center. The Irish redeemed themselves on Sunday, though, defeating Ball State 4-3. without the ser­vices of three players, including No. 18 Javier Taborga. 
"We got a little down [after the loss] on Saturday because it was our big match: but we all got fired up and fought well [on Sunday]," sophomore Luis Haddock-Morales said. 
Both days began the same way, with the Irish posting wins in the first doubles matches. On Saturday against Kentucky, after that promising start, Notre Dame went on to lose the dou­bles point, as well as four of six singles matches. Against Ball State, though, the Irish earned the doubles point and won the first three singles matches, clinching victory. 
Taborga could not play on Sunday because of NCAA play­ing-date restrictions. Notre was also without freshman Brent D'Amico, who was hurt while playing the Wildcats and junior Brian Farrell, who is out for the rest of the season due to injury. 
Sunday's match, though, saw Casey Smith and Ashok Raju, replacing Smith's usual partner Taborga, defeat Ball State's Kevin Burnett and Jason Pressel, 8-5. It was the Irish duo's first time playing together. 
After their victory and a loss by seniors James Malhame and Aaron Talarico, the sophomore duo of Haddock-Morales and Matt Scott gave the Irish the· doubles point for the first time in four matches with their 8-4 tri­umph against Klint Knable and AndrewSeni. 
Although the duo of Taborga and Smith is ranked fourth nationally. the rest of the Irish doubles pairs, whose make-up has varied over the past weeks, continue to be a concern for the team, even after the win against unranked Ball State. 
"We have the tools, but we need to put it together," Haddock-Morales said. 
Sunday's victory was secured for Notre Dame by the singles triumphs of Scott, ranked 79th nationally, senior Andrew Laflin and Haddock Morales. 
All three defeated their oppo­nent in straight sets. 
"The score was four to three, 

An Irish player returns the ball as Notre Dame finished the weekend with a regular-season record of 19-6. 
but the four points we won, we wrong with his players, because had a good day." won quickly," Haddock-Morales everything theoretically should The Irish hope their win said. have gone well for the Irish. against the Cardinals on Sunday 
After Notre Dame had secured "Every now and then, not will help propel them into the victory against Ball State, the often, we'll have a match where Big East Championships, which Irish suffered three post-clinch­a number of plays don't have a begin on Friday. Notre Dame is ing losses by No. 87 Smith, good day," Bayliss said. "Andrew expected to receive the No. 1 Talarico and Malhame. Laflin played exceptionally well seed in the tournament. 
Bayliss called the loss to [on Saturday]. Matt Scott, after a Kentucky a bad day, saying that slow start, really regrouped well. Contact Joe Lindsley at he could not analyze what went None of the other players really jlindsle@nd.edu. 

Monday, April 15, 2002 
The Observer . TO DAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 

FOXTROT 

CROSSWORD 

BEFUDDLED AND BEMUSED 
~•W 
tkJ ·J:-; fv-ol~ Wc-r"", you CW' :l k wr>.\'cs 1.viH, ~, i"sh:Ad oi drlllb".S b, 


RYAN 
CUNNINGHAM 
0~ sure, ru6 il ;11. / 

\ 
65 1963 Peter, Paul and Mary hit 68 Capital of Peru 69 First month on a calendario 70 Emile Zola novel 71 Grandson of Eve 72 Gain a monopoly over 73 Knock 'em dead 
DOWN 
1 Slugger Sammy 2 Voguish 3" it the 
truth!" 4 Ponderosa stray 5 "Ulysses" poet 6 "Bali " 7 2001 erupter 
8Name 9 2004 Olympics 
site 10 Voting yes 11 Studio sign 
12 Fly without an engine 13 Church council 
ACROSS 1 Whole bunch 5 Letter before 
29-Down 10 Heavy mists 14 Cincinnati's 
home 15 Lose ignominiously, in slang 16 "For, Your Eyes 
17 1952 Gene Kelly classic 20 Film director's cry 21 Pub pints 22 Altar vow 23 One-named New Age singer 25 Walked in 27 Remodeled Clay? 30 P.D.Q. 
32 "Wailing" instrument 
33 "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" writer Anita 
35 Metallic rocks 37 To the point 41 1929 Irving 
Berlin song 44 Death row 
reprieves 45 Scruff 46 Ivan or Nicholas 47 Old Ford 49 Alan of "Shane" 51 Pitcher's stat. 52 This could raise 
a pitcher's 51-Across 56 End-of-the-week cry 58 Ailing 59 "_my words" 61 Got around 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
...,,......,,....~.,.......,,,..,...,,,......,.... 
....,-+....+-+-+-+,T...+-A,... 

-=i~=+.,,.+....+E=+R~ 181nnerHebndes island N L 19 Kind of sale
D E 

24 Vice President Burr A N 26 Put out, as effort L 1 27 Austrian peaks · -..~~_,_-._...,...._u....._N..... 28 Oaf ­29 Letter before 
AV kappa R E T I R E -:-+,,.+:-+-:,+,:+e-+-e-i 31 Serving to E M E A I T I I N E R T I A punish 
0 E R A L T E B A D S E E D 34 Vogue 

Puzzle by Ranull J. Hartman 
36 March 17 53 Tuckered out 62 Obsolescent honoree, for phone feature
54 Replay feature 
short 

63 Sicilian resort 38 and shine 55 Father, Son and 
64 June 6, 1944 
Holy Ghost
39 Headliner 66 Lived 

40 Old Testament 57 Baby deer 67 1990 one-manbook 
60 Was in on Broadway show
42 Panama and others 43 Fly a crop Answers to any clues in this puzzle are duster available by touch-tone phone: 48 Keaton and 1-900-285-5656 ($1.20 per minute). Sawyer 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 50 Ring fix? best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 52 Holy book years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, APRIL 15, 2002 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Roy Clark, Emma Thompson, Leonardo da Vinci, Thomas HartBenton 
Happy Birthday: Excitement, adventure and entertainment are a must this year. You will pick up and travel from one place to another sud­denly. You'll have a great need to interact with others, along with hav­ing a strong attraction to art. You're likely to show your feelings for oth­ers through monetary means and must be careful not be taken advan­tage of. Your numbers are 19, 23, 28, 3'.3,35,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Strategically positim yourself so that you can make the most of every opportunity that presents itself this year. You will have a passion for what you do best and will reach your highest potential today. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You11 have to work hard in order to keep up with everything that is hap­pening in your life. Don't spread yourself too thin. Instead, set your priorities and stick to them 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Greater interaction with officials or government agencies will add to your frustration today. Try to get all your papers in order to avoid too manydelays.000 
CANCER Oune 21-July 22): Your involvement in groups with sub­stance will boost your reputation and put you in a key positim. Bide your time and let things develop nat­urally. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There 
may be lots going on around you today but be an observer for the time being. Someone may tzy to rockyour boat ifyou leave yourself in too vu!­nerable a position. Sports activity will be exhilarating and probably your best outlet 00 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): You can make your mark if you practice what you preach. You will have excellent ideas and although not everyone will agree, ifyou fight hard enough you will gain ground and accomplish your goals. 00000 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): Some­one may tzy to get you to donate to a cause you dm't necessarily believe in. Tell that individual that charity begins at home and invest in your­self. There are all sorts of valid opportunities for you. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Your personal life may be going through some changes today that may appear to be disruptive. U you are patient and let things wuold as they may, you will ctiscover that you are actually sitting in a pretty good position. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec n): Advancement can be yours. You can make financial gains through your efforts at work. Your ability to go above and beyond your call of duty will bring you additional prai~e. 000 · 
· CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's time to do something that will bring you great joy. Test the waters, try new things and dm't be afraid to make some personal changes that you've been thinking about. 00000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Difficulties with family members may cause alarm. Be careful not to overreact to the situation. Take time to listen to everyone's side of the story before you decide what to do. 
00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can expect to hear something from afar today. E-mail, snail mail or pack­ages will be forthcoming. This is a great day to do things with your friends. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You will have a need to live well but will never squander in order to do so. You will always tzy to help others but will not forgive if someone treats you poorly. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
© 2002 Universal Press Syndicate 

-------~-----------------~----------------------------------------------~~ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $95 for one academic year D Enclosed is $50 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

Campus Sports OTHE Campus Sports
BSERVER 

. Men's Tennis, p. 22 
. SMC Golf, p. 18 
. 
Football, p. 20 . Track and Field, p. 18 

. 
ND Women's Tennis, p. 18 . Bookstore Basketball, p. 15


PORTS 
Monday, April 15, 2002 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXI 
Team Inebriation lives up to its name with playing style 
original shirts. Although it had took a fast break chance and Outsiders beat the Biblical All• Jesus, a.k.a. Steve Gillespie.By MIKE CONNOLLY the height and athletic advan­charged right past the basket. Stars 21-8 in first round "But we were wrong, God has Senior Staff Writer tage over its opponent, He continued down another Bookstore Basketball action forsaken us." 
Longitude, Team Inebriation's court and scored a lay-up in Sunday. Shane Hudnall, dressed as 
As soon as Falco's 1985 hit choice of playing style hurt its wrong basket, on the wrong Dressed as Adam, Jesus. Adam. played the entire game "Rock Me Amadeus" started chances for victory. court. Moses, David and an Obscure barefoot and clad only in fig blasting across Stepan Courts, "If they weren't drunk, we "We were absolutely con­Bible Guy, the five men from leaves. Despite playing the sec­all predictability went right out probably would have lost," fused," Slattery said. "I didn't Stanford could not overcome ond half with one hand the window. Longitude's Steven Schrantz even know what court we were the athletic advantage of The because he was eating an 
Team Inebriation strutted said after his team's 21-11 win. on." Outsiders. apple, Hudnall still displayed onto the court, living up to its Point guard Brendan Slattery Five guys all older than 2,000 "We thought that God was effective ball handling and a name and garbed in old-school typified Team Inebriation years old could not defeat their with us and if God was with us. basketball uniforms and other bizarre playing style when he youthful rivals as The who can be against us?" asked see BOOKSTORE/page 15 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish lose in triple overtime 
By CHRIS COLEMAN 
Sports Writer 
When down 8-6 with 1:40 left, the ninth-ranked Irish could have given up and gone 
.... home. The No. 7 Blue Devils would have been happy to take the win. But the Irish refused to give up and took the Blue Devils to triple over­time before falling 10-9. The game was pushed into overtime by a free position score from Maureen Henwood followed by Meredith Simon's wrap around goal with 19 seconds left. "The Duke game was unbe­lievable, unfortunately we didn't come out with a win," White said. "As a team we did the best we've ever done. Defensively. I've never been more proud of them." Duke scored the first goal in overtime but Shearer r_esponded for the Irish and evened the game at nine. In the third overtime period ­sudden death -Notre Dame's Natalie Loftus beat the entire Duke team and the goalie, but her shot clanged off the post. Duke marched downfield and found a seam to steal the game from the Irish. 10-9. Duke had jumped out to an early lead, 3-0, by capitaliz­ing on several turnovers by the Irish, especially on the offensive end. Loftus. who was constantly running around Duke defend­ers, opened the Irish scoring to make the game 3-1. When Duke scored again 
see LACROSSE/page 17 


BASEBALL 

Irish oust Hokies in doubleheader 
By JOE HETTLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Neither Matt Bok nor Joe Thaman started the opening game of a doubleheader against Virginia Tech Friday night for the Irish baseball team, but they definitely did their part to help end it. 
Bok's pinch-hit triple in the bottom of the 11th inning was followed by Thaman's hard ground ball up the middle that ricocheted off Hokie pitcher Matt Crisci's head, allowing Bok to score from third base and give the Irish a 2-1 win. 
A day after head coach Paul Mainieri challenged his team to play better, the Irish picked up their second win of the evening a few hours later in the night cap by defeating the Hokies 4­2. 
With the wins, Notre Dame improves to 8-6 in the Big East and 21-12 overall, while Virginia Tech dropped to 7-5 in Big East play and 15-15 over­all. 
"Those two wins for us against Virginia Tech were as big of wins as we've had this season," Mainieri said. "I keep telling our players all year that 
see BASEBALL/page 19 
ND SOFTBALL 

Syracuse snaps 
·Irish win streak 
By AARON RONSHEIM 
Sports Writer 

For the Notre Dame softball team, the weekend opened with a bang but closed with a whim­per. 
On Sunday afternoon, the Irish (22-9, 9-1) saw numerous streaks snapped by Syracuse and Orangewoman pitcher Tara DiMaggio in the second game of a doubleheader. The 3-0 loss ended Notre Dame's 14-game win streak. its 26­game Ivy Field win streak and its Big East conference regular­season win streak at 36. 
"The one thing we have to do is bring some energy to the field," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "I think we were a little flat. We're here playing and we have to give it our all and we didn't." 
see SOFTBALL/page 21 

. Baseball vs. Central Michigan, today, 6:05 p.m. 
OBSERVER
. Women's Tennis at Texas, today, 5:30 p.m.
SPORTS 
onllne 

. Softball vs. Indiana State, Wednesday, 4 p.m.
AT AGLANCE http:/www.nd.edu/ ~observer 




