
VOL XXXV.11 NO. 66 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Virus infects 200 Notre Dame students 
By COLLEEN GANEY  is highly contagious," said Matt Storin, vice president of  "The overnight census is up," according to Pat Brubaker. assis­ order to prevent a campus out­break. Lodging several infected  After vomiting begins, Brubaker said, "The best thing l'i to give the  
News Wric"  Communications at Notre Dame.  tant director of University Health  patients could have spread it to  guts a vacation for two to four  
The virus thrives in closed com­ Services.  students visiting Health Services  hours."  
An unnamed gastrointestinal  munities like a  The  infir­ for other reasons.  During  this  time,  people  
virus infected over 200 Notre Dame students in the past 10 days, according to Notre Dame  college campus. It has also affected South  "Ifstudents share air or spit. the virus is going to  mary usually has three to four overnight  "If students share air or share spit, the virus is going to get passed," Brubaker said, specifying  shouldn't ingest any food or liq­uids, including water. They should then consume clear  
Health Services. Symptoms include nausea, vom­ Bend schools and Channel 16  get passed."  patients suffer­ing from the  that drinking glasses, doorknobs and keyboards are convenient  liquids. Powerade and Popsicles are good options, he said, but not  
iting, a low-grade fever and diar­rhea. but should not be confused  employees. which may  Pat Brubaker  disease during the week  modes of transfer. She emphasizes that hand  milk or orange juice. Brubaker said that people  
with influenza, which is an upper  explain  their  assistant director of  before  washing is the best way to ward  should seek assistance if they  
respiratory virus marked coughing and a high fever.  by  coverage of it Monday night.  University Health Seivices  Thanksgiving, but this year  off the disease. "Health Services is not alarmed  become dehydrated. "When you can't keep up with  
As with all viruses, time is the  The bug usu- Health Services  at all," said Storin.  what you're putting out, [then] go  
only renrndy, according to Health  ally affects the most number of  was averaging eight students per  Some people can ride out the  to the health center," she said.  
Services. This virus usually lasts  people after winter break, but has  night.  disease without seeking medical  
anywhere from 12 to 48 hours. "It's a fairly normal illness that  swept through campus early this year.  In fact, the infirmary closed its doors from Nov. 25 until today in  attention, but they must still be conscientious. \  Contact Colleen Ganey at cganey@nd.edu  

ND grad commands space shuttle 
. Mission focused on improving station's equipment 
By HELENA PAYNE Ncews Editor 
Notre Dame graduate and commander of the space shuttle Endeavour Jim Wetherbee landed Monday after an 11-day mission to the international space sta­tion that orbits 240 miles above Earth. 
Wetherbee, a 1974 alum­nus, majored in aerospace engineering and has been See Also with NASA 
"Endeavour

since 1984 
when he was 
unlocks from selected to be space station" an astronaut. 
page9

"Building t h c International Space Station orbit is an in.credible engineering [feat!." said NASA spokes­woman Kylie Moritz. 
While leading the Endeavour mission, Wetherbee has worked pri­marily with Hussian cosmo­nauts and U.S. astronauts in an international effort to learn more about the effects microgravity on the human body. 
"The fact they're working together gains a lot of experi­ence for both of the nations," said Moritz. 
Along with Russia, the U.S. is working with about 16 countries, including repre­sentatives from the European Space Agency. 
The Space Station has been inhabited for about two years and the most recent crew was the sixth that has gone. 
Wetherbee, who has logged more than 1,200 hours in space, completed his sixth mission Monday. 
The Endeavour left Nov. 23 with seven members on board to exchange three resi­dent crew members who 
hers of Lhe Endeavour installed a new segment, the Port Trust, which Moritz 
were at the Space Station. The crew remained in space for eight days before returning with seven people. 
The new crew will stay on board until March. Moritz said, adding 
"The fact they're working together gains a lot of experience for both ofthe nations." 
Kylie Moritz NASA spokeswoman 
called "the backbone of the S p a c e Station." The Port Trust has support for solar rays as well as an air con­ditioning system. 
that missions are usually five In addition to leading the months long. mission, Wetherbee also pro­During the mission, mem-vided some camera views of 


activity occurring at the Space Station, Moritz said. 
In addition to Wetherbee's position as a space shuttle commander, he is also a cap­tain in the U.S. Navy and he served as the director of Flight Crew Operations Directorate, the office where the astronauts reside. 
According to Moritz, space crews will be making trips to the International Space Station for the next 15 years. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.30@nd.edu. 

Prof aids UN program 
By KIFLIN TURNER 
Associate N cws Ediwr 
This spring, a professor will travel to a nation ready for change and ripe for interna­tional support. 
T h e country of S o u t h Africa, coming off the heels of apartheid, is ready to compete in 


the global Williams community is among the first in the world to partic­ipate in a new initiative intro­duced by Kofi Annan, secre­tary-general of the United Nations. Annan is determined to give South Africa and other coun­tries the chance to excel in a global market. With the efforts of Father Oliver Williams, Notre Dame associ­ate professor of management, spearheading the campaign in South Africa, the project is slated to begin in January 2003. The initiative sprouted from Annan's address at the Davos World Economic Forum three year ago resulting in the for­m a ti on of the UN Global Compact composed of nine principles aimed to infuse humanity into economics. But the plan came full circle this year when the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. with Williams sitting as chair 
see WILLIAMS/page 6 

Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
page 2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 


It's Chrisbnas 
Well all the signs are here: ice, snow, frozen cars and falling stu­dents. It is winter in South Bend. 
Sitting at home not far away in Indianapolis, I watched the television weather guys go on about bow bad the weather in South Bend was and talk about how lucky we were not to be there. Yeah, well not that lucky for me, I had to come back. 
While over the break I saw some snow flakes in Indy, none of it stuck around, .and on the drive back there wasn't any snow until I got about a half hour away from the Bend. It just always surprises that even though I'm still in Indiana it feels like a different state up here. 
It's not that I don't like winter but it's a lot nicer to be able to just sit in your room and enjoy a cup of tea, watching the snow fall through the window. 
It's a lot different outside, trying to struggle through the cold wind and over icy sidewalks and already my car door froze shut. Luckily, I could get the passenger side open and I just crawled over to the driver's seat. 
Of course, like most people, I enjoy the holidays (Christmas, Hanukkah or whatever you choose to celebrate), the end of the semester (if I don't go insane first) and I get the added bonus of celebrating my birthday (Dec. 31, in case you want to get me something), but I never fully realize how close the end of the year is until I see the snow. 
Ultimately, the snow and ice always tells me that Christmas is almost here, making me want to listen to Christmas music and wrap presents. Instead of doing homework when I got back to campus Sunday night I decided to decorate my room with Christmas decor and watch A Christmas Story. This includes setting up my all important dorm Christmas tree, which isn't that hard since it is the size of my hand and just needs to be taken out of the box. 
There is something about the sea­son that definitely brings out the little kid in me. I still wake up before the sun is up on Christmas day, the only day of the year I'm up before 6 a.m., to ohh and ahh the tree. And even though I've grown up with snow my whole life, I still look forward to the first snowman of the season, snowball fights and snow angels. 
With the start of the winter weather at least there are many things to look forward to because despite the draw­backs the positives outweigh the neg­atives. 
So along with the snow, ice, winter coats and earmuffs at least you can be safe in the knowledge that the semester is almost over (can you tell I can't wait?) and the fun is just start­ing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Sarah Nestor at Nest9877@saintmarys.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­1io11 and strives for che highest standards of journal­ism ac all times. We do, however, recognize rhac we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE 
CAMPUS WORLD& NEWS NATION 
SMC's BOG U.N. weapons prepares for Inspectors the holidays search missile 
plant in Iraq 
Saint Mary's U.N. weapons Board of Gover-inspectors combed nance dedicated over the Karama Monday's meeting ballistic design to planning for the plant on Monday holidays. in the fifth day of 
renewed inspec­tions 
page3 page 5 
WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lccturn. "Organizing, Educating and Advocating." Bill Fletcher. DoBartolo Hall, room 141. 8 p.rn. 

. 
Alumni Ilall Night of Faith. Alumni IIall Chapel, Dec. 4, 9 p.m. 


WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. 
Lecture. General Tilu Kera. Stapleton Lounge, 12:15 p.m. 

. 
Senior Class Board Meeting. Haggar College Ilall, room 304, 9 p.m. 


WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Fried cheese ravioli, Swiss steak, herb-garlic russet pota­toes, haddock with herbs and chicken strips. 
Today's Dinner: Fried cheese ravioli, sherried chicken thighs, grilled redfish, couscous, french dip sandwich, french fries, chicken and pea pod stir fry. 
BUSINESS VIEWPOINTNEWS 

Capellas Schill lobbies assumes new against job as consumerism, WorldCom advocates CEO simplicity 
Michael Capellas Student colum­quietly began work nist Amy Schill as WorldCom's lat-rejects America's est CEO. urge to consume, WorldCom recent-urging a simpler ly declared bank-life. ruptcy. 
page 7 pages 10 
. 
Ballroom dance lessons. ~ponsored by th~1 l?allroom Dance Club. Hocknc Brnld111g, 8 p.m. 

. 
Play. "Hamlet." The Not-so­Hoyal Shakespeare Company. DeBartolo llall, room 101. Dec. 5, 


7:30 p.m. 

. 
Junior Class Board· Meeting. Haggar College Ilall, room 303, 9 p.rn. 

. 
Lilly Challenge Pep Hally. Guest Speaker Tyrone Willingham. Angela Athletic Facility, 4:30 p.m. 


South Dining Hall 

Today's Lunch: Basil pepper tomato mostaccioli, Italian sausage marinara, sausage-pizza. pretzel sticks, chicken jambalaya, rotisserie chicken, fried cheese ravioli and chicken Acapulco. 
Today's Dinner: Italian sausage marinara, four cheese pizza, buffalo chicken wings, grilled pork chops, sesame soy chicken and pork tamales. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:r: 
~ 
==
...I 
c( 
(.) 


..J 0 HIGH 19 HIGH 22 HIGH 26 HIGH 27 LOW 13 LOW 17 LOW 17 LOW 18 
,,......
SCENE SPORTS 

Music critic: Trojans spoil Snoop Dogg's Notre Dame's latest album Thanksgiving Isn't shizzlin' weekend 
Snoop Dogg's Notre Dame fell latest work, "Paid to the USC Trojans Tha Cost to be da on Saturday. The Bo$$," isn't all that, Irish lost 44-13 in according to The their worst game of Observer music the season. critics. 
pages 12 Insider 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Car hits fence, sign 
NDSP responded to a report that a vehicle hit a warning sign and a fence on Angela Blvd on Saturday. There were no reported injuries. 
Intoxicated driver 
arrested 
A visitor was arrested on Saturday for driving intoxicat­ed. The passenger was also issued a restraint violation. 
NDSP cites driver 
A driver on campus was issued a state citation on Friday for driving while sus­pended and exceeding the posted speed limit. 
Visitors apprehended 
NDSP apprehended two visi­tors outside of Knott Hall on Friday. The case is currently under investigation. 
Lost bike recovered 
An abandoned bike was found on Friday and taken to the Security Building. 

Complied from NDSP crime blotter 
Noble Family Dining Hall 
Today's Lunch: Turkey noodle soup, cream of mushroom soup, club loafer, fresh tomato and pesto and cheese piz­zas, deli bar, monte cristo sandwich, hamburger, french fries, bean burger, herbed pasta, Italian deli wrap, bal­samic chicken and chicken wrap. roasted carrots, ranch beans, California sushi roll and fresh three bean salad. 
Today's Dinner: Turkey noodle soup, cream of mushroom soup, cheese enchiladas, bacon spinach alfredo and cheese pizzas. grilled chicken breast, Texas style grilled cheese sandwich, french fries and fettuccine. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


'.···•• 

HIGH 31 HIGH 37 LOW 21 LOW 26 
Atlanta 58 / 38 Boston 25 / 20 Chicago 24 / 16 Denver 44 / 24 Houston 68 / 50 Los Angeles 71 / 51 Minneapolis 19 / 1 O 
New York 30 / 21 Philadelphia 32 / 18 Phoenix 66 / 47 Seattle 49 / 38 St. Louis 35 / 22 Tampa 74 / 57 Washington 35 / 21 


Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE
SMC takes action against FGM 


By SHANNON NELLIGAN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's is taking a stand against female genital mutila­tion (FGM), a practice common in parts of Africa. 
Assistant professor of English Alexis Brooks-DeVita is provok­ing interest in the global issues oy sharing her experience with FGM. She is currently urging the Saint Mary's community to sponsor women who have run away from their homes to escape FGM. 
"l first read about it [FGM) occurring in my Diaspora class with Dr. Brooks-UeVita and then in my World Civilization class with [associate professor of history) Dr. llamilton," said Katie Vincer. president of Holy Cross llall and senior literature major. 
Last summer Brooks-DeVita returned to her childhood home of Uganda to chair a panel on African/Diaspora women's liter­ature at the Women's World 
2002 Congress. Upon her return to cam­pus she grap­pled with the memories and realized that some things needed to change in Uganda. 
It is ideas like this one that prompted 
Vincer to complete her senior comprehensive on the book "Desert Flower: The Extraordinary Journey of a Desert Nomad" by Waris Dirie. The book describes the strug­gles and life of the Somali 
•· . 
right around the holidays," 
Sarah Brown, sophomore class president said. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTR;1E DAME 

·.~WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
•• ,.# 

•
Studyin the nation's capitol 

•
Workin aninternship 

•
Fulfillphilosophy, theology,and fine arts requirements 


•Studypublic affairs 
•live in anexciting city 
John Eriksen, Director 338 O'Shaughnessy Eriksen. l@nd.edu 

,!f:tr··~·-·:.r ··· ·· · www.nd.edu/~se1neste?'·· , 
• 1... ' • ' •• ' 
"We have all asked all of our board and club reps to bring this up at their next board meeting." 
Sara Mahoney president of Student Diversity 
Board 
said. "Granted the problem may not be happening directly to us here at SMC. hut someone coming from SMC may go into a position that effects the deci­sions on helping the eradication ofFGM." 
native who runs away from an Student government at Saint 

Students gear up
arranged marriage to an older Mary's has also become inter­man. She flees to England and ested in pursuing the topic of must deal with her own FGM, FGM and educating the com­"Most startling is how severe munity on the issue by encour­

for holiday season 
and prevalent it [FGM] is. I also aging the donation of funds for 
thought of it as part of African the girls who are attempting to 
cultures and to find out that it escape the 
is present in Europe. the Middle East and in the United States," said Vincer. "It could be in your back­yard and you wouldn't even know about it. 
That's what really got me and that women don't have a choice." 
Education is the key to under­standing and helping women in the West and in Africa to understanding the logistics of FGM. The process facilitates the spread of AIDS and is detri­mental to the health of the girls 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
•Applications for Fall 2003 & 

Lack of attendance 
Spring 2004 are now 

slows body's progress 
being accepted online 
•Open to Freshmen, 

By MICHAEL CHAMBLISS 
News Writer 
Sophomores, and 

The Campus Life Council
Juniors from all 
colleges 
"Jnf orming women on FGM is one ofthe reasons I wanted to do my senior comp on the book ... 
Katie Vlncer Holy Cross Hall president 
who the pro­cedure is performed on, Vincer said. 
"Informing women on FGM is one of the rea­sons why I wanted to do my senior comp on the book," she 

ented activi­more at home and it is a ends the stu­secondary school or teacher 
from their villages, put them in 

ties. dent govern­
good stress buster when
"It makes ment's sea­
training colleges, and help 

people feel people need it." sonal service
them eventually return to their 

more at home to students.
villages as self-supporting. high status young women able to 

and it is a Saint Mary's
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl
good stress and Notre
earn their own livings and to 

Saint Mary's
buster when Dame student
bring honor to their families 

people need student body vice president 
governments
because of their enhanced 
,, ·.~11.•,, · 
procedure. 
By NATALIE BAILEY
Donations are 
News Writer 
being sent to USA/Uganda From feeding to entertaining

godparents 

the student body, Saint Mary'sAssociation. 
Board of Governance is
" T h e spreading cheer this Christmas

women who 
season.
run the pro­

Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl,gram help student body vice president.
girls sched­
acknowledges
uled for cir­the value ofcumcision to 

holiday ori­"It makes people feel the holidays
escape safely site are currently being worked out. The Web site will display daily events and activities in a calendar for­mat. 

The leadership task force reported on its decision not to create a new Web site. Instead, the task force is considering instituting a leadership program similar to one that exists at Creighton University. The Creighton program consists of a series of extracurricular activities that immerse par­ticipants in the study and practice of leadership. 
Contact Michael Chambliss at mchambli@nd.edu. 
In addition to the sounds of Christmas, the smell of the season will fill residence halls with blessed and decorated Christmas trees. 
"Seeing the trees makes me think of the tree my family will have at my house," Kate Weiss, resident of LeMans Hall said, "It gets me excited to go home for the holidays." 
Getting peo­
ple home for 
will be fund­

ing trans­portation from campus to the airport for Christmas Break travel, dates and times are still to be decided. 
"This was a good service for students for Thanksgiving trav­el so we have decided to pro­vide the service again," Notre Dame representative Mark Hayes said. 
Other BOG News: 
. 
Pictures from Senior Dad's Weekend are available to view and order online. 

. 
Deposits for the Senior Dance will be $50 and due before break. 

. 
Seniors will have a reflection weekend from Jan. 31 to Feb. 1 at Moreau Seminary. 


Contact Natalie Bailey at bail l 407@saintmarys.edu. 
prestige as cd ucators." said Brooks-De Vita. 
According to Sara Mahoney, president of the Student Diversity Board, the board has sent $300 for the immediate relief efforts for the school in Uganda. 
"We have all asked all of our board and club reps to bring this up at their next board meetings and we are asking for financial support of any amount after Thanksgiving," said Mahoney. "As of now, RHA has committed $200." 
Contact Shannon Nelligan at nell2040@saintmarys.edu. 
it,.. she said. 

Festivities start this Thursday with the annual Christmas Around the World from 5-7 p.m. in LeMans Lobby. Many clubs and organizations will be sponsor­ing tables of food. crafts and entertainment from countries around the world. 
"Christmas Around the World is a good show case for clubs," Jablonski-Diehl said. "It gives people in clubs like the irish dance club an opportunity to show off their talents and hard work." 
The holiday spirit will contin­ue when the class boards carol throughout the residence halls on Dec. 12 to raise money for 22 Ways of Giving. 
"It will be really exciting for students to have a little bit of Christmas brought to them 
ti~~D 

~j 

did not conduct any official business during its Monday meeting because not enough council members were in attendance to meet the three-fourths attendance rule. 
The leadership and the communication task forces did informally report to those council members who were present on the status of their projects. 
Jane Ong of the communi­cations task force told the CLC that the small details of a new student events Web 

Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
page4 The Oburver . NEWS 
Sen. Kerry increases criticism of president 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Democratic presidential hopeful John Kerry attacked the Bush administration Monday, saying it gave a boost to insurance companies last week while allowing 1 million people to lose their unemployment benefits just after Christmas. 
"This administration is will­ing to do terrorism insurance for big industry, but they weren't willing to do unem­ployment compensation for people who are out of work," the senator from Massachusetts said a day after announcing he would form a presidential exploratory committee. "That's the big difference in how we approach the econo­my." 
The White House said Kerry was making a political jab at 
the president.  
"It's the political  season  
beginning  for  the  
Democrats,"  said  White  

House spokeswoman Claire Buchan. "The American peo­ple know that the president has demonstrated leadership in fighting the war on terror­ism and fighting for economic security for the American people. That's the president's focus." 
Congress adjourned for the year without extending job­less benefits for laid-off workers facing the expiration of federal unemployment compensation starting Dec. 28. 
Last week, President Bush signed a bill that would reim­burse the insurance industry up to $100 billion in a future terror attack. 
At a news conference Monday, Kerry gave a brief preview of his economic plan, which he planned to lay out Tuesday in Cleveland. 
He charged that Bush is focusing on his tax cut while overlooking the plight of working Americans. 
"President Bush, beginning with the snows of New Hampshire in the year 2000, has consistently talked about only a tax cut for the wealthi­est Americans as his one pro­gram," Kerry said. 
Kerry reiterated his call for a "tax break to the working families of America now in the form of a payroll tax deduction." He also said he would call for some spending cuts. business tax incentives and "a major infrastructure investment in America." 
"We need to invest in our cities, in our rural communi­ties," Kerry said. "This administration has ignored that and that's how you put people back to work." 
Kerry, a leading Senate lib­eral and a decorated Vietnam War veteran. announced his presidential intentions Sunday. He said an official announcement of his candi­dacy is months away. 
Exploratory committees are established by budding can­didates mainly to raise money, finance travels and help gauge voter support. 
Asked Sunday night about the prospect of running against Kerry, Bush smiled at reporters but said nothing. 
Kerry, a 58-year-old former prosecutor first elected to the Senate in 1984, was unop­posed for re-election in November to a fourth term. 
Vermont Gov. Howard Dean already is running for presi­dent. Former Vice President Al Gore, the 2000 nominee, and North Carolina Sen. John Edwards expect to disclose their plans after Christmas. Outgoing House Democratic leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri is expected to begin telling colleagues whether he plans to run. 
William.s 
continued from page 1 
and director, invited the UN to hold a dialogue on the Compact in efforts to amass more prominent U.S. corpo­rate support on human rights, labor and environ­mental values. 
"Kofi Annan had the strong conviction that if the UN is to be relevant today that it must enlist the help of multination­al companies," said Williams. "[He] argued that shared val­ues provide a stable environ­ment for a world market and that without these explicit values businesses could expect backlashes from pro­tectionism, populism, fanati­cism and terrorism," he said. 
Expecting to serve a one­ye a r appointment to the National Global Compact Network, Williams along with members of the UN will attempt to forge together broad corporate support in placing South Africa in the position to compete in the global market. 
"In the world we live in, we've got to find some way to have ground rules for the global economy so that there is a level playing field," said Williams. "We must find some way to develop moral standards that will be fol­lowed by all multinational companies; that is the role of the UN Global Compact." 
But persuading companies to voluntarily adopt the Compact is sometimes a diffl­cult matter -especially U.S. of adopting the Compact multinationals. With over two because of the substantial hundred companies joining increase in social responsibil­the Compact, only five U.S. ity. companies have chosen to "Given the great power of become members. multinational companies in 

Williams pointed out that the global economy, it is only while most international right that they should have multinational companies are more responsibilities in committed to helping South bringing peace and harmony Africa, developed countries, to troubled parts of the like the world," said 
U.S. that Williams. 
c o u I d "/ am extremely happy to Also serving 
potentially assist the UN in this as chair on influence the U.S. board
noble cause and I hope 
local finan­of the United
and pray that the Global 
cial mar­States-South k e t s , Compact will yield much African remain Leadership
good fruit for the poor of
hesitant to Development
the world." 
commit to Program t h e (USSALEP). Compact Williams
Father Oliver Williams 
primarily hopes to
management professor
because of apply his 
issues sur­rounding accountability and human rights. 
While the Compact lacks any legal stipulations in the event that a company neglects the code of conduct, Williams stated that the media often acts as a deter­rent and as means of enforcement in international affairs. 
"We don't have a world government so there are no sanctions or jails for multina­tionals that break the rules in developing countries, but bad behavior can be exposed by the press and that exposure can be a powerful correc­tive," said Williams. 
Companies are also weary experience in 
building busi­ness relationships at the local level. 
"[USSALEP] has brought me in touch with a number of companies in South Africa," said Williams. "Perhaps my contribution in South Africa will be to interest more com­p a ni es in joining the UN Global Compact." 
The moral implications are great but imperative, accord­ing to Williams. 
"l am extremely happy to assist the UN in this noble cause and I hope and pray that the Global Compact will yield much good fruit for the 
Contact Kiflin Turner at kturner@nd.edu. 
Associated Press 
The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks produced the single deadliest day in the history of 
U.S. law enforcement -72 officers killed -yet almost as many died in nonterrorist inci­dents during 2001 as violence against police rose to a four­year high. 
The collapse of the World Trade Center in New York after the twin towers were struck by hijacked airliners accounted for 71 of last year's 142 law enforcement killings. the FBI reported Monday. The 72nd victim was a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service officer who died when a plane com­mandeered by terrorists crashed in a Pennsylvania field. 
Overshadowed by the enor­mity of those numbers is another statistic: 70 other law enforcement officers were killed by criminals around the country in 2001, the highest number since 1997 and a 37 percent increase over the 51 slain in 2000. 
"Law enforcement is a high­risk occupation," the FBI report says. "The men and women who serve the public in this way place themselves in danger as a matter of rou­tine." 
Still, the nonterrorism deaths are far below those recorded in the 1970s, when it was common for more than 200 officers to die violently or in accidents every year, said Craig Floyd, chairman of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund in Washington. That number for 2001 would be about 148. 
"Fewer police are being killed in the line of duty than there were 30 years ago," Floyd said. "We've got more police on the street than we've ever had. Thev have better training and they're no longer outgunned by the criminals." 


Campus Ministry Internship Information Night 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
Find out if a year of ministry in the Notre Dame community is for you... 
Wednesday, December 4 6-7pm 
316 Coleman-Morse Center 
Pizza and Applications 
Will Be Available 
Violenceagainstpolice reaches 4-year high 

Contact Darrell Paulsen, 1-5827 for more information 
WORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 3, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 
U.N. weapons inspectors search Iraqi missile plant 
Associated I'ress 
BAGIIDAD It was combed over by inspec­tors. then blasted for days by 
U.S. air attack. But four years later the Karama ballistic <lcsign planL is still a focus of world concern. a place where new U.N. inspectors Monday conducted tlrnir longest search yet. looking for signs of out­lawed Iraqi missiles. 
l\fter six hours in the well­guarded Baghdad compound, they dopartcd, and the plant's deputy director said all went well. "They didn't !'ind any­thing." Brig. Mohammed Salah told reporters. 
The inspectors, as usual, had no immediate comment for wailing journalists. But a U.N. report later Monday said some equipment of' interest at Karama was missing. The Iraqis said some of the missing equipment had been destroyed in U.S. air attacks and some had been transferred. 
It was the fifth day of renewed arms inspections after a four-year break. Until Monday. the longest inspections had been running about four hours, some much shorter. 
The inspections come under a new U.N. Security Council man­date requiring Iraq to shut down any nuclear, chemical or biological weapons programs as well as any facilities to build missiles with more than the 90­mile range allowed under U.N. resolutions after the 1991 Gulf War. 
A second U.N. team, of nuclear inspectors, visited industrial sites north of Baghdad on Monday. 
Inspectors in the 1990s elimi­nated tons of Iraqi chemical and biological weapons and the equipment to make them, dis­mantled Iraq's effort to build nuclear bombs, and destroyed scores or longer-range Iraqi missiles. Those inspectors didn't believe they found all of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, however. 
President Bush threatens to wage war on Iraq -with or without U.N. sanclion -if it doesn't disarm. Bush indicated Monday he wasn't impressed with Iraq's cooperation thus far, saying inspectors don't have the duty or ability to uncover weapons of mass destruction hidden in the vast country, but that Iraq has a responsibility to provide evi­dence of total disarmament. 
"So far, the signs are not encouraging," Bush said in a toughly worded speech at the Pentagon. 
Other governments say that only the Security Council can authorize such an attack on 


Reuters Photo 

U.N. weapons Inspectors search the al-Karamah military Industrial complex on the out­skirts of Baghdad Monday. The experts launched a fifth day of Inspections In Iraq on Monday as Western officials planned steps to maintain propaganda pressure on Baghdad. 
Iraq, in a situation not involving ing for a peaceful resolution of States wants to disarm Iraq immediate self-defense. The the U.S.-Iraqi showdown. without war but that the threat presidents of Russia and China, In London, U.S. Deputy of force is vital to ensure that two of those governments, Secretary of Defense Paul Saddam's regime realizes its issued a statement Monday call-Wolfowitz said the United survival is at stake. 
EGYPT 
Al-Qaida statement claims responsibility for attack 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 

A statement attributed to al-Qaida claimed responsibility Monday for last wcnk's car-bombing of an Israeli­owned hotel in Kenya and the attempt to shoot down an Israeli airliner the same day. 
The statement. posted on an Islamic Web site, called the Thursday attacks a Hamadan greeting to the Palestinian people and referred to the al-Qaida attacks against U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. 
"At the same place where the 'Jewish Crusader coalition' was hit four years ago ... here the fighters ... came back once again to strike heavily against that evil coalition," the statement said. "But this time, it was against Jews... " 
In Washington, U.S. counterterrorism oflicials said they considered the claim credible and part of growing evidence that al-Qaida was involved in the Kenya attacks. 
Three suicide bombers attacked the Paradise Hotel, where 16 people were killed including the three bombers. Just minutes before the hotel bombing, two Strela missiles narrowly missed an Israeli charter plane departing from Mombasa's airport, in what was the first phase of the dual attack on Israelis in Kenya. 
The 5-page claim was made in the name of "The Political Office of al­Qaida Jihad Organization." 
Unlike four years ago, when the United States was the target in Kenya, the statement said this time the mes­sage was for Jews. 
"We send them a message: Your practices in corrupting earth, occupy­

ing sacred places, criminal acts against our families in Palestine ... all your practices will not pass peacefully with­out firing back," it said. "Your children for ours, your women for ours, your elders for ours, and we will follow you wherever you are because you made us live in terror and fear." 
It pledged that further attacks would be carried out. 
The only other claim of responsibility for Thursday's attacks came from the previously unknown Army of Palestine. Palestinian officials have denied any involvement by Palestinian groups. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
4 Palestinians die in West Bank violence: 
Four Palestinians, including a teenager, died Monday in violence in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, while a U.N. aid group charged that Israeli forces destroyed a warehouse of food for needy Palestinians in Gaza. Separately, Israel's military chief denied reports that he said Israel eventually would dismantle most Jewish settlements. Israeli forces were involved in three of Monday's fatalities. The teenager was shot dead when rock-throwing Palestinians clashed with Israeli troops. 
American convicted in Monaco killing: 
i\n American nurse was convicted Monday in the arson deaths of billionaire banker Edmond Safra and another nurse. and sentenced to 10 years in prison. 'fod Maher was convicted of arson leading to d!lilth. The 1999 fire in this wealthy Mediterranean enclltvc also killed one of Safra's other nurses, Vivian Torr<~nw. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 
Court to decide affirmative action case: 
The Supreme Court agreed Monday to decide if minorities can be given a boost to get into universi­ties, a subject still heatedly contested a quarter-cen­tury after the justices first addressed affirmative action in college admissions. The court will tell uni­versities how much weight, if any. they may assign to an applicant's race. At stake are race-conscious admissions policies at many public and private col­leges, law schools and medical schools. The only time the Supreme Court considered a college race case, the justices issued a split 1978 ruling that banned racial quotas but gave states little other direction. Both sides of the affirmative action debate wanted the court to try again. Justices will consider whether some white applicants to the University of Michigan and its law school were rejected unconsti­tu ti o naI ly because of their race. under the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection for all undt•r the law 194 sick in latest cruise-ship outbreak: A Carnival cruise ship returned from a three-day voyage Monday carrying nearly 200 people sickened by a gastrointestinal virus, with symptoms similar to those plaguing other cruise liners. A total of 190 passengers and four crew members on the 

Fascination reported vomiting and diarrhea, but experts had not yet confirmed whether they had a Norwalk-like virus. said Tim Gallagher, a Carnival Corp. spokesman. So-called Norwalk-like viruses have plagued more than 1,000 people on other cruise ships in the past few months, including Holland America Line's Amsterdam and Disney Cruise Line's Magic, causing those companies to cancel one sailing each to thoroughly disinfoct thP ships. The illness is seasonal, peaking in thn roldPr months, and is not uncommon, said Dr. StPvP11 Wiersma. tlw state epidemiologist. "\\'p'vp alrPad\ sern some (cases) in Florida -this is not jusl a rruise ship issue'." hP said 
page 6 The Ohserver . NEWS Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
CHINA 
Russia, China draw closer 
AssociaLed P r~s 
BEIJING 
The leaders of Russia and China vowed Monday to strengthen their "strategic partnership" and declared common positions on key foreign policy fronts. urging peaceful solutions in lraq and North Korea and promising to support each other's battles with Muslim separatists. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin and China's Jiang Zemin signed a 13­page joint declaration call­ing for a ''multipolar world" -a phrase used by both to express dissatisfaction with 
U.S. global dominance. 
Putin emphasized that Russia -which spans Europe and Asia -wants partners and power in both the East and West. 
·"We're absolutely certain that the special strategic relationship between Russia and China will not only enable us to solve the prob­lems facing our countries, but also will create a basis for stability in the world," Putin said. 
His two-day visit comes after a year in which he improved relations with the United States and Europe by supporting the interna­tional anti-terror campaign and accepting NATO enlargement. 
Putin spoke Tuesday morning at Peking University, where he was 
month that the 1994 agree­ment had collapsed after the United States, South Korea, Japan and the 15­nation European Union sus­pended fuel oil supplies. The cutoff was meant to punish the North for start­ing a new nuclear weapons program. 
The statement urged the "normalization of relations" between Washington and Pyongyang. 
"At this stage we are talk­ing about a political dia­logue within the framework of which any questions could be discussed including those that raise concerns for either America or North Korea," said Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Richard Boucher welcomed the appeal ·to North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program. 
"I think our view is that the more often the interna­tional community makes clear to the North Koreans that only by complying will they be able to obtain the benefits they seek from the international community," Boucher said. 
Jiang and Putin also said the conflict over weapons of mass destruction in Iraq can only be solved through diplomatic means and pledged to "continue to work '"'1ether within the United 1'wl11, 10 ensure that l' .N . S1; r: u, , J n c il 

Operas, symphonies hurt by poor economy 
Associated Press 

NEWYORK 
Tenor Placido Domingo, who always packs the house at the Metropolitan Opera, didn't always thic; fall. 
· The Lyric Opera of Chicago and the San Francisco Opera have each dropped plans to produce two operas they had announced for next season. 
The San Jose Symphony declared bankruptcy last month. 
A weakened economy means many U.S. opera companies and orchestras are facing financial crunches, reflected in less-than­resolutions are not violated. 
The United States has threatened war to disarm Iraq if it violates the latest Security Council resolution, but Russia and China insist that only the council can make that decision. Both are permanent council members with power to veto U.N. actions. 
Moscow and Beijing have tried to restrain U.S. domi­nance by insisting that the United Nations should have the last word in interna­tional affairs. 
Putin and Jiang also offered each other mutual backing for China in its struggle against separatists in its Muslim northwest and Russia's war in predomi­nantly Muslim Chechnya. 
The leaders accused other governments of "double standards" on terrorism and human rights. saying they reject "the use of human rights questions as a lever for pressure in inter­national relations." 
They said "terrorists and separatists" in Chechnya and northwestern China are international terrorists who "should be condemned and become the object of a com­mon fight on the part of all the states of the world." 
Putin also met with Premier Zhu Rongzhi, leg­islative chief Li Peng and Hu Jintao, who replaced Jiang as Communist Party leader last month and is expected to become presi­dent in March. 
brisk box-office sales, delayed ticket purchases, declines in subscriptions and fund-rais­ing, and cur­tailed pro­grams. 
"It really is the economy, stupid," says J a c k McAuliffe, vice president of the American 

"The box office has been 
cent of iL'i seats 
somewhat soft -proba­filled so far for each event.
bly because of the eco­
Preparing for its
nomic situation and the 
50th anniver­ejfect it has had on sary season in 2004-05. the
tourism." 
company dropped plans Francois Guiliani for new produc­
Metropolitan Museum of Art tions of Berlioz's
spokesman 
Symphony 
Orchestra League, a New York­based nonprofit association that represents most of the nation's 1,800 orchestras. 
Met spokesman Francois Giuliani agreed, 'The box office has been somewhat soft -proba­bly because of the economic situa­tion and the effect it has had on tourism." The Met also had to write off a $4 million pledge when philanthropist Alberto Vilar failed to deliver. 
Nine blocks south of the Met. Carnegie Hall is drawing close to past years' capacity, but cus­tomers are waiting longer to buy tickets. "That means our market­ing department is sitting there and thinking, 'How is this going to play out?"' spokeswoman Ann Diebold said. 
The shiver of uncertainty extends nationwide. 
The Ilouston Grand Opera. where star soprano Renee Fleming is singing in Verdi's "La Traviata," has laid olT 14 adminLc;­trative employees and cut back on performances. 
Chicago's Lyric, which posted 14 consecutive years of sold-out 
houses, is aver­
aging 94 per­
"Benvenuto 
Cellini" and Montemezzi's "L'Amore di Tre Re" next year. They were replaced with two standard works that may be an easier sell and cost less to produce. 
William Mason, the Lyric's gen­eral director, said he has taken some heat from devoted fans. 
'Tm grateful for their passion, but they're not any more disap­pointed than I am to have to do it," he said. "It's basic economics. It's an art and we must never lose site of that, but it's also a business." 
expected to take questions from students. 
Monday's statement called for a nuclear-free Korean peninsula and appealed to the United States and North Korea to engage in dialogue and stick to a 1994 agree­ment for the North to give up its nuclear program in exchange for foreign energy aid. 
North Korea said last 

Call 259-1000 for more details 

I 
I 
'EAAnvLKQ 

SUMMER LANGUAGE 

GRANTS 

UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO STUDY LANGUAGES FOR WHICH THE UNIVERSITY DOES NOT HAVE LARGE OVERSEAS STUDY PROGRAMS, 
Fordetails and application forms, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/---sumlang/ or 
Pick up appllcatlons from the Office of International Studies• (154 Hu~ey Building• Ph1.S,03) 
application deadline: 3/7/03 



Sponsored by the Offia ofthe Assistant Provost for International Studies and the College ofArts and Lettm 

• ~  . t... -~~.  l :  GREAT WALL  
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row  
Szechuan • Hunan • Cantonese • American  .  
Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days  

Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 1 O 
(574) 272-7376 -222 Dlxleway South 
(U.S. 3~ In ROHiand} So1,lh Bend, IN 




Tuesday, December 3, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Markot Watch December 2 
DowJones 
8,862.57 • -33.52 
NASDAQ 
1,484.78 
+6.00 
S&P500 
934.53 -1.78
•
AMEX 
813.00 +0.34
•.
NYSE 

494.59 -0.68
•
TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX (QQQ) + 1. 01 +0. 28 28. 00 
1 SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) -3. 52 -0 .15 4 .14 
!·Nt·gbJ:;'.~;g!(:~;!;illllllf!!llllll~;;:r' ·llf!~I 
CIS,S8.•,~~~[:11i::l!i,ilJ.l!i:l!l!llf!::1!~:, ........!liilll1ill!ill 
LUCENT TECH {NDRU) +6. 78 +0.12 1. 89 
IN BRIEF 
Argentina eases partial bank freeze 
President Eduardo Duhalde eased a year­old partial banking freeze on Monday, allow­ing Argentines unfettered access to their checking and savings accounts. 
"Today, life begins without the 'corralito, "' declared Alfred Atanasof, a government spokesman, using the Spanish nickname for the widely unpopular restrictions imposed last Dec. 1 as the economy unraveled. 
Atanasof said the government had decided to relax the restrictions on the anniversary of the freeze in an effort to stimulate the coun­try's slagnant economy. Restrictions still remain on longer-term certificates of deposit. 
Since October, the governn:ient has been slowly reopening the banking system, which was virtually locked down last year after Argentines pulled $20 billion from the banks during a panicky run that threatened to col­lapse the financial system. At major banks in Buenos Aires. Argentines lined up to with­draw cash from newly unfrozen accounts Monday. Others crowded exchange houses, hoping to change their pesos for dollars. 
Bank, insurers face off in Enron trial 
A $1 billion trial over who will share the blame -and Lhe cost -for the Enron Corp. debacle began Monday with a bank and a team of insurance companies claiming to be victims of the energy company's collapse. 
J.P. Morgan Chase and Co. is suing 11 insurance companies for refusing to pay more than $1 billion for guarantees on failed oil and gas trades arranged between Enron and a Chase-alllliated offshore company. 
The Chase alTiliate, Mahonia Ud., made six deals known as prl'paid commodity forwards with Enron beginning in 1998, in which Enron was paid in advance for oil and natural gas to be d1ilivercd months or years later. The insurance companies counter the trades were really disguised loans. financial shams designed to pump more cash into the com­modities-trading company .. 
WorldCom CEO begins work 
. Capellas deals with $9 billion in accounting fraud 
Associated P~ss 
JACKSON, Miss. 
WorldCom Inc. 's new chairman and CEO Michael Capellas quietly slipped into his new role Monday. 
Capellas, who has cho­sen to work out of WorldCom's Asburn, Va. office instead of the com­pany's Clinton, Miss. headquarters. granted no interviews and aides refused .to discuss the agenda for his first day on the job at the bankrupt telecommunications giant. 
Capellas is expected to spend the next several weeks burrowing into the company's corporate cul­ture before making any more bold public pro­nouncements. When Capellas announced sev­eral weeks ago that he was leaving the No. 2 job at Hewlett Packard Co. to head WorldCom, he said he would lead it out of bankruptcy and do it without a clean sweep of management or breaking up the company or losing 

Michael Capellas began his work as CEO of troubled WorldCom, Inc. on
major corporate accounts. 

Monday in the midst of the largest company bankruptcy In U.S. history.
"Now his task is to get the lay of the land from the inside, and I think for billion in accounting Johnstone, a telecom ana­"This is the worst man­the next few weeks he fraud -can find a formu­lyst with Davenport & Co., agement nightmare that will be measuring the la to become profitable a Richmond, Va. broker­any new CEO has ever mettle of his lieutenants, and emerge from the age firm. faced, but he's bobbing putting together his slate biggest bankruptcy ever Capellas's freedom to and weaving between of board candidates and filed. Industry analysts impose his own strategic these enormous power in his spare time learning expe'ct Capellas to try to plan on WorldCom blocs and he's showing the business," said Frank exit some of the carrier's became even more limited great leadership," said Dzubeck, a telecom strat­bandwidth contracts with last week. Already under Jeff Sonnenl'ield. associ­egy consultant and presi­competitors and shed. the eye of two federal ate dean at Yale dent of Communications noncore assets. judges and its creditors, University School of Network Architects in "I don't see major WorldCom agreed to a Management and head of Washington, D.C. changes over the next partial settlement of its .Chief Executive 
At the same time, several weeks, but just fraud charges with the Leadership Institute. "He Capellas will be under shoring up the business Securities and Exchange is somebody that is noted pressure to find a way to and stemming the flow of Commission that gives not only for his tenaaity cut costs so that customers away from MCI greater oversight powers but for his humility, WorldCom -which has would be a major contri­to court-appointed moni­which may be his greatest admitted to more than $9 bution," said F. Drake tor Richard Breeden. asset." 

SWITZERLAND 

EU asks Swiss banks to drop secrecy 
Associated Press 
BERN 
Swiss banking secrecy, epitomized by the legendary numbered bank account, is under attack. Again. 
Leading the offensive are Britain and its European Union allies, who want the Swiss to blow the whistle on wealthy EU nationals who put their money in Swiss accounts to dodge taxes at home. 
But Switzerland, which sees itself as the victim of unfair pressure from the 15-nation bloc, is refusing to budge. Swiss oflicials argue that tough new laws passed in the 1990s mean secre­cy is readily lifted and accounts are frozen in investigations into money laundering and terrorism. 
But while tax evasion is a crime in many EU countries, it is only an administrative offense in Switzerland. 

"We're prepared under certain cir­cumstances to help our EU neigh­bors," said Swiss President Kaspar Villiger, who also acts as finance min­ister. "But we always start from the position that the citizen is basically honest and should be treated as such." 
Frustrated by failure to agree on common rules, EU finance ministers will meet Tuesday in Brussels, Belgium, to discuss possible measures against the Swiss government. 
The bloc wants Switzerland auto­matically to release information about deposits of EU nationals in Swiss bank accounts to prevent the collapse of an agreement among member nations to exchange information on cross-border savers. 
The EU plan, adopted in 2000 and due to come into force on Jan. 1, was to enable tax authorities in a deposi­tor's homeland to levy taxes on any interest earned on the savings. 
However, Luxembourg, Austria and Belgium insisted that if they were to loosen their own bank secrecy laws, then non-EU countries like Switzerland and the United States would have to agree on similar mea­sures. 
The EU has said it is close to a deal with the United States, but negotia­tions with Switzerland have dead­locked, jeopardizing talks with small­er tax havens like Liechtenstein. Monaco, Andorra, San Marino and the island of Jersey. 
Switzerland has made some conces­sions, offering to levy a 35 percent tax on the interest EU citizens earn on their savings in Swiss accounts and to pay part of the money directly to EU nations without revealing the account holder's identity. 


page 8 Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Centerfor Socia( Concerns 
SOCIAL 
~.CQ£~
CONCERNS 


http://centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu * 631-5293 * Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 8AM-10PM Fri. 8AM-7PM Sat. 10AM-2PM Sun. 6PM-9PM 
Please remember to donate any extra coat and show 

~~~-;;,, Contact: Robin Fuller at 232-9986. ~~~~ 
your Fighting Irish spirit and generosity. GO IRISH! 
POLITICS, POWER, AND ORGANIZING: THE STRUGGLE FOR ECONOMIC ]UST/CE 
Presentation and Discussion by Dr. Paul Osterman 
Nanyang Professor ofHuman Resources and Management, 
M.I.T. Sloan School of Management & 
Professor ofUrban Studies and Planning, M.l. T. 
Wed, Dec 4 At the CSC 
3:00 PM 
Cosponsored by the Higgins Labor Research Center, the Department ofEconomics, the Department ofSociology, and the Center for Social Concerns 
'Marist Vo(unteers: 'December §raauates are neeaea as teacliersl 
The !vfarist Volunteer Program i~ looking for tn-o teachers for a Catholic elemenraiy school in Lawrence, .MA. for d1e second semester as well as teachen,/volunteers for the next school 
yeai: 
Bro. Sumner Herrick will be on campus TODAY,Dec 3rd, 5­7 PM at the CSC: Volunteers serve in schools as teachers, 
. . 
teacher aides, campus ministry assistants, and as director of an after-school program. Teen crisis work is also available for persons majoring in Psychology~ Sociology or related fields. 
r-------------------,
Project Warmth... 
Project Wannth is heating up again! This year's project runs from October 28th to THIS FRIDAY, December 6th and promises to be the most success­ful collection year ever! All coat donors will receive a 25% discount coupon for use in the Notre Dame Bookstore on any jacket ottheir choice in return for th_eir donations. Social concerns commissioners for the dorms have the coupons for participating students. 

INNER-CTIY TEACHING CORPS INFORMATION SESSIONS TODAY, AT 4:30PM AND 7~00PM 
All Majors Welcome·! 
The Inner-City Teaching Corps is a two-year volunteer service program of outstanding recent college graduates who energize inner-city parochial schools in Chicago as classroom teachers and leaders in extracurricular activities. Corps members participate in a specially designed Alternative Teacher Certification Program, developed in partnership with the School of Education and Social Policy at Northwestern University. Upon successful completion of the requirements for the Alternative. Teacher Certification Program, Corps members are certified to teach in the State of Illinois and e-arn 22 credits toward a Masters of Education at Northwestern University. 
U11able to atte11d the sessions? Want more info on ICTC? 
Visit our website: http://www.ictc-chicago.org/ 
The Northern Indiana Food Bank is experiencing a great shortage in food. Please donate dry goods, paper goods, canned goods, and toiletries. Questions? 
/ / _:,,-/~hj/
____. ,·,// / /,, -·-' _____ .J 
SSI DEC gm MEETING! 
Next Summer Service Internship Info Mtg will_ . he MONDAY, Dec 9th at 6:30 PM at the CSC. 
Going abroad in the spring and planning on an SSI? 
Before leaving campus for Christmas, you m:ust . have attended an info meeting, and have had an interview. · 
Sign up sheets for intervi~ws'are a.v-ctila.ble at the CSC front desk." 
·------------------· 
: Current Volunteer : : Needs : 
I Tutors I 
: A tutor is needed for a sophomore in : 1 geometry. Tuesdays would be best for her~ 1 I she could come to Hesburgh Library. I I Contact Kirn at work @ 284-6256 or home I 
I  @ 288-0844.  I  
:  ***If you have any questions about this  :  
I  volunteer project, please email  I  
I  cscvols@nd.edu.***  I  

a••••••••••••••••••~ 
• FREE FOOD! : An Alternative Thanksgiving : Please join us for a vegetarian 
• dinner on MON, Dec 9, 6-9 : in Coleman-Morse • Sponsored by: •
•
• ·ND for Animals & Students : for Environmental Action 
• Questions?· animals@nd.edu or
. .
• Jankowski.ll@nd.edu
............... ...
~ 

Tuesday, December 3, 2002 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
UNITED KINGDOM

Endeavour unlocks 
Britain accuses Iraq of torture
frolll space station 
Associated Press Rights Abuses," includes intelli­Amnesty said the United 
As.ociami rrcss 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

Space shuttle Endeavour undockcd from the internation­al space station Monday and headed for home with the one American and two Russians who spent the past six months aboard the orbiting outpost. 
"We promise to take good care of space station." astro­naut Donald Pettit told its departing commander, cosmo­naut Valery Korzun. 
Before leaving, shuttle skip­per James Wetherbee urged Pettit to try to keep his sense of humor during the long stretch ahead. "Oh. I will," Pettit assured him. 
Endeavour is due back on Earth on Wednesday, though storms are forecast for Cape Canaveral and could delay the long-overdue homecoming for Korzun, cosmonaut Sergei Treschev and astronaut Peggy Whi1son. 
They spent an extra 1 1/2 months aloft because of vari­ous shuttle problems; Monday was their 180th day in orbit. 
The space station's three new occupants are Pettit, astronaut Kenneth Bowersox and cosmonaut Nikolai Budarin. Unlike the first five se1s of space station residents, they will spend the next four months in solitude, with no one showing up until it is their turn lo go home in March. 
"It's so much quieter here now, Houston. I don't know what the deal is," Bowersox radioed. 
"We're still here with you," Mission Control replied. 


;, 
;, 
;, 
"That's good to know," Bowersox said. "We'd be really lonely without you guys." 
Endeavour departed after its crew delivered and installed a new $390 million girder on the space station. The two space­craft separated 250 miles above Australia, ending one week of joint flight. 
As Endeavour sailed off into the darkness, Wetherbee wished Bowersox .and his crew "fair winds and following seas." Both men arc Navy cap­tains. 
Bowersox thanked Wetherbee for the ride to the space station. "We wish you a safe landing and warm greet­ings and hugs from all your friends and families down below," Bowersox called out. 
Two of Endeavour's crew performed three spacewalks to hook up the 45-foot girder and correct a design flaw in the air­conditioning lines. 
The final spacewalk was especially dramatic. A railcar crucial for station construction got snagged on its tracks by a protruding radio antenna. John Herrington, the first American Indian in space, removed the obstruction and got the railcar moving again. 
Once Endeavour was at a safe distance from the space station, the shuttle crew released a pair of 4-inch satel­lites from a canister in the cargo bay, as part of a Defense Department experiment. The two so-called picosateHites were connected by a 50-foot tether. 
Researchers envision such tiny tethered devices being used one day to inspect orbit-
LONDON 
The British government accused Iraqi President Saddam Hussein on Monday of master­minding the widespread and systematic torture of his politi­cal opponents and other citizens to hold on to power. 
But some commentators dis­missed the evidence in the dossier presented by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw as old news and part of a propaganda war to back up the case for pos­sible U.S.-led military action in lraq. 
"I think that this highly unusual, indeed unprecedented, publication is cranking up for war," said Tam Dalyell, a law­maker from the governing Labor Party. 
The dossier includes the story of Um llaydar, a 25-year-old woman who was dragged from her house and publicly behead­ed in 2001 after her husband, suspected by the authorities of involvement in armed opposi­tion activities, fled Iraq. Guards took away her children and mother-in-law, and they have not been heard from since, the dossier said. 
Straw said the 23-page gov­ernment report showed that the Iraqi people lived in fear and that Saddam's regime was in breach of its international oblig­ations. 
"By disarming Iraq, we not only help those countries in the region which are subject to Iraqi threats and intimidation. we also deprive Saddam of his most powerful tools for keeping the Iraqi people living in fear and subjugation," said Straw. 
The dossier, entitled "Saddam Hussein: Crimes and Human 


Programs and Services ? presents... 
:'.7 
fl~ ;,

;, ;, 
~ ~T(ifil;~~ 
'7 2.'"'~fv··~ ? 
~~-~

, ~ ~~ Li HiiAliH , ,
., ~~~ ,; 
, <E~ .
;, ;,
;, 5:30 p.m. -, 
? Wednesday, Dec. 4, 2002 ,; . Center for Social . ;, Concerns ;,
;, ;, 
;, . Please R.S.V.P. to MSPS (1-6841) ;, 
;,////////////;, 
gence material, firsthand 
accounts of Iraqi victims of tor­
ture and oppression, and 
reports by non-governmental 
organizations. 

"The dossier makes for bar­rowing reading, with accounts of torture, rape and other hor­rific human rights abuses," Straw said in a speech to the Atlantic Partnership, a group that works on improving rela­tions between Europe and North America. 
"It makes it clear these are 
carried out as part of the delib­
erate policy of the regime. The 
aim is to remind the world that 
the abuses of the Iraqi regime 
extend far beyond its pursuit of 
weapons of mass destruction in 
violation of its international 
obligations." 

Legislator George Galloway, whose visits to Iraq and dogged opposition to U.N. sanctions have earned him the nickname "the MP for Baghdad West," said there was no doubt the Iraqi regime was guilty of gross human rights abuses, but that the report had vested interests. 
"There is torture and murder in Iraq, but that isn't a reason per se for going to war and killing tens of thousands," Galloway said. 
Britain and United States have warned they may take action if Baghdad holds back any infor­mation or fails to cooperate with United Nations weapons inspec­tors, who recently returned to the country. 
Amnesty International, one of the non-governmental organiza­tions whose research was quot­ed in the dossier, warned that the human rights situation in Iraq should not be used for political ends. 
[!t,tes ..... 
States and other Western gov­
ernments turned a blind eye to 
reports of widespread human 
rights violations in Iraq during 
the 1980·88 Iran-Iraq war. 
"As the debate on whether to 
use military force against Iraq 
escalates, the human rights of 
the Iraqi people, as a direct con­
sequence of any potential mili­
tary action, is sorely missing 
from the equation," the state­
ment said. 
Even an lraqi scientist asked 
by the Foreign Office to provide 
details about abuses was critical 
of possible military action 
against Iraq. 
'Tm extremely concerned of the consequences of this inter­vention to the Iraqi people." said Hussein Al-Shahristani, a former expert with the Iraqi atomic energy organization. Al­Sh ahristani has said he was held in solitary confinement for 11 years for refusing to work on Saddam's nuclear weapons pro­gram. 
"I'm concerned that weapons of mass destruction, the chemi­cal weapons in particular, could be used again by the regime against the people if they show any opposition or uprising," he added. 
According to the dossier, Iraq is a "terrifying place to live" where "arbitrary arrests and killings are commonplace." 
Political dissidents are tor­tured, women lack basic human rights and are routinely raped by security personnel while in custody, and political prisoners are kept in inhumane and degrading conditions, the report said. 
It details Saddam's persecu­tion of Iraq's ethnic Kurds and the Shiite religious community and provides a checklist of methods of torture, including eye gouging, electric shock and piercing hands with electric drills. 
"Saddam Hussein has been ruthless in his treatment of any opposition to him since his rise to power in 1979," the report concluded. "A cruel and callous disregard for human life and suffering remains the hallmark of his regime." 
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Diniug Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Ja,oa McFarley 
MANAGINC EDITOll  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate Nagengast  Kevin Ryan  
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR  OPERATIONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

NEWS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
SCENE EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR, Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Kacie McKenna SA.INT MARYS EDITOR, Sarah Nestor 
ADVERTISING MANAGER, Mace Lurz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mcghan Goran SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROLLER: Lori Lewa.lski 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANACERIGENEIW. fNF0......•......•631-7471 FAX............................................................. 63I-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EmroR/Assr. ME .................... 63I-4541 Busoo:s.s OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT .................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631--4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.........................................................631-4540 
observer .scene. I@nd.edu 
SAINr MAR.¥'s.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0 ........................................................631-8767 S=MSIWER ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit ow Web site at bttp:l!observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns. as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofrhe Universicy ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insticution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse adverrisernents based on content. 
The news is reported as accur~tely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Ediror must he signed and musr include contact information. 
Que,tiom regarding Observerpo/ic;es should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarky. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObiCCVCr (USPS 599 240) ~ ?ubluhe,d Monday through Friday except during: o::un .nd v:ai:.a.rion pc~, A sub5';nption IO Thf Obic:,va is SI 00 for one~i..: ynr,S-SSforone5Clllbta 
T1,e0Ml'rv(!l' i, publisi,ed :at: ronMASTER 024 South Dining Ha!! Send 11ddrcu oorn:ctio,,, u:r. 
No1rr Dar.nc; JN 4t'i,56 Thi:-0~, 
P.O. R""Q raioJic.l poi.ugc p.illd ,., Norn:. D.mc Nouc D.amc. IN 46556.-0779 and. ;i.ddi,tiom1 mMling uflit:u. 
11-ie Obv.rver il ;i: mrrnbcrciF rh<'.' Auo,..-i.a,te,l P.rcw. AU n:pr<Xfucria11 righ£1 arc r~d­


When drinking a Starbucks Frappaccino, you eventually get to a point at which there's no real coffee left, but your cup is still half full of foam. I've always thought this to be a great metaphor for the consumer Amy Schlll culture that Starbucks repre­sents: in the end, 
Dazed and 
it's all foam and 
Amused 
no substance. 
But before I preach to you about the problems with con­sumerism, let's first establish that I'm the biggest hypocrite in the world. I drink my fancy coffee drinks, wear sweat-shop produced Nikes and con­sume all sorts of useless products on a frequent basis, all the while trying to present myself as an opponent to the world in which I partake. Yeah, I've bought all this stuff, but my shirt cost a dollar at the thrift store, so I'm sticking it to the man, right? I have more buttons and ribbons on my bookbag than a dress on Oscar night, but my actual activism is full of foam. Still, I take solace in the fact that if I stop drinking Chai tea lattes, the ter­rorists will have won. 
In attacking consumerism, I've also set up a convenient threshold for excessive consumption, a threshold I myself could never reach. I deplore Escalades and cruises as wasteful, but then again, I could never afford them anyway. Meanwhile, books and CDs, my primary consumption goods, are obviously perfectly acceptable. The view from my ivory tower is rather nice actually, and the music is great. 
So yeah, hello there kettle, I'm pot, great to meet you. I'm a consumer 

consume you 
just like you, and I have no real right 
to judge, but it looks like I'm in con­
trol of print culture right now, and 
you're not, so put down the Palm Pilot and listen for a bit. 
Consumerism as an end in itself is very problematic. Before you prepare my passport to China. let me explain myself. I'm not suggesting you aban­don all your possessions and live off of roots, herbs and Barbara Striesand albums. After all. if we stop buying Escalades, the hard-working Americans who make them will be out of their jobs and might have to work at Starbucks. 
We've embraced an economic sys­tem that pretty much forces us to buy crap we don't need just to keep the system going, and it appears as though this system is the best one out there. So, because it gives a job to someone else, and because having that DVD player doesn't really hurt anyone, consumerism is arguably morally neutral. So buy, buy away! 
Not so fast, Susie. It's not the things that are bad, but basing your life around attaining more and more materials possessions is. A little while back, my parents lost one of their two -count 'em, two -cell phones. Before it was found, there was curs­ing, spitting and general mayhem. all over something they didn't really need in the first place. Last May I thought the world was going to end when my computer wasn't working properly. My parents and I let our lives be controlled by our possessions, and it is at that point where we have to question consumerism. 
There is a lot of outcry right now about corporate greed, but corporate greed exists because personal greed exists. If we base our lives on attain­ing more money so we can get more stuff, people will indeed get hurt; ask a former Enron employee. No, you're certainly not a bad person for liking your XBox, but when you don't get that paper done because you've spent the last two hours trying to figure out which remote control is for the satel­lite and which is for your automated tie rack/Pez dispenser, you might want to take some time to reexamine your priorities. 
Don't let what you consume con• sume you, whether it be electronics, cars or books on esoteric literary the­ory. And perhaps you might occasion­ally want to spend your money or your time helping those with nothing instead of trying to obtain everything. However, there are plenty of people at this school who do many more good things than I do, so let's just stop my hypocrisy while we can. 
So the point is, you don't really need that Abercrombie shirt, and I don't really need the 100th expansion pack for The Sims. I'm slowly learning, though, that as long as I realize what's really important and work for the day when more people can partic­ipate in economic life, I'm not evil for having a few nice things. I hope you've all learned something. I have to make my Christmas list now. 
Amy Schill is a senior English major and Catholic Social Tradition minor. She can be reached at schill.2@nd.edu. She is proud to announce that she is John Lit/e's favorite liberal. You see, people with disparate political beliefs can indeed be friends. Hug a fascist today. 
The views expressed by this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Andrew Thagard Teresa Fralish Maureen Reynolds 
Viewpoint 
Kristin Yemm 
Graphics 
Andy Devoto 
Sports Lauren Dasso Bryan Kronk Christine Armstrong Scene Julie Bender 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 
NDTODAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"The means ofshowing pecuniary strength, 
Should University employees be allowed to 

and so ofgaining or retaining a good name, 
unionize? 

are leisure and a conspicuous consumption ofgoods. ,,
Vote at NDToday.com by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Thorstein Veblen 
U.S. soclal scientist 

O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, December 3, 2002 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defining racism 

Minorities cannot be racist. Misusing the word "racism" is extremely damaging. and every week in Notre Dame classrooms, The Observer, and conversations around campus. I hear people misstate actions as "racist." Though some use the word correctly based on its intended and true definition. most undermine the message of the word by not fully understanding its meaning. I want to offer some clarification. 
Hacism. as defined by author Beverley Tatum, exists in a "system involving cultural messages and institutional policies and practices -a system [that] clearly operates to the advantage of whites." This element of social power is crucial to understanding racism. Racism goes beyond just "prejudice plus power" but implies an access to social resources by those wiLh social power. In Lhe United States, this includes whites, Christians, heterosexuals, economically privileged and the able-bodied, among others. As such, minorities do not have the traditional and insti­tulional power to be racist. 
Though all people can be prejudiced, discriminatory and cruel, being racist goes beyond individual actions and beliefs. Dr. Moss, assistant vico president of student affairs, uses a definition in his diversity educa­tion class which states that "systematic subordination is supported by cultural norms and values and the institutional structures and prac­tices of society." This system has strong roots and ubiquitous effects. 
There arc certain, specific situations in which a African-American CEO, for example, exercises power over a certain white employee, but as soon as the CEO leaves her office, she is subject to the same institu­tionalized racism and social disadvantages that have been in place for centuries. By and large, she simply does not benefit from the systemat­ic structures of power in society. 
Clearly, most people are simply unaware of full meaning of racism. But consistently overlooking the most fundamental component ofsocial power and what this means in today's society works against the mis­sion of cultural awareness and diversity education. I call on all students and faculty to further explore the dimensions of the issue. More infor­mation is available at the oflice of Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 
Ken Seifert 
senwr 
peer diversity educator Carroll Hall Nov. 28 

Democrats act like sore losers 
I didn't think they could do it. but Tom Daschle, Al Gore and the rest of the Democrats have outdone themselves once again. Last week Daschle blamed conservative radio talk-show host Rush Limbaugh for incit­ing supposed "threats" made against his fami­ly and compared Limbaugh and conservatives to the Muslim fanatics with whom we are cur­rently at war. Daschle declared, "We see it in foreign countries and we think, 'Well, my God, how can this religious fundamentalism become so violent?' Well, it's that same shrill rhetoric, it's that same shrill power that moti­vates ... And that's happening in this country." 
He went on to say, "What happens when Hush Limbaugh attacks those of us in public life is that people aren't satisfied just to listen, they want to act because they get emotionally invested." Who would think that citizens in a democratic republic would want to become "emotionally invested" in the issues facing their country? r think Election Day 2002 clear­ly demonstrates Mr. Daschle's apprehension -the American people became interested in the actions (and inactions) of their elected offi­cials, especially in the aftermath of Sept. 11. Perhaps this is just another indication of why the Democrats are still scratching their heads after their unprecedented defeats on Nov. 5. 
Regarding the "shrill rhetoric" Daschle con­demned, how soon we forget Alec Baldwin's urging, at the height ofthe Lewinsky scandal, that impeachment manager Henry Hyde be stoned to death, or the television commercials warning that black churches would burn if Republicans were elected or most recently George W. Bush pushing an old lady in a wheelchair off the roofof a high-rise building on the Democratic National Committee's own website. 

Then in an interview with the New York Observer, the former Vice-President denounced some news outlets because or their supposed conservative tendencies. The "Pox News network, The Washington Times, Rush Limbaugh -there's a bunch of them," he complained. 
Mr. Gore, there's a reason why the Fox News Channel is "America's Number One News Channel" -the American people are sick of the liberal-adoring, conservative-bash­ing major news networks, CNN and Hollywood. Polls reveal that 89 percent of the media voted for Bill Clinton in 1992, and upwards of93 percent voted for him in 1996. Need I say more? 
Regarding the Washington Times: When the ultra-liberal Washington Post is your number one competitor, anything even remotely close to the center appears bent "to the right." And why is Rush Limbaugh so popular with 20 mil­lion listeners daily? In addition to his incredi­ble talent "on loan from God" (his words), it is because radio is the one news outlet that lib­erals have not conquered. 
These recent outbursts by two of the most prominent members of the Democratic Party demonstrate the state of leadership (or lack thereoO currently within the party. They had better learn to handle defeat gracefully and grow from their failures and shortcomings like the rest of us; otherwise, 2002 could prove to be just the first of many resounding defeats for the once-proud party of "the common man." 
Michael Derocher 
sophomore Saint Joe's Hall Dec. 2 

Homosexuals should not be blamed for Church scandals 
I would like to clarify some of the miscon­ceptions in Stephen R. Sanchez's Nov. 25 letter, "Homosexuality presents problem to priesthood." Sanchez scapegoats and blames gay priests for the recent instances of sexual misconduct. Sanchez charges the "homosexual minority" with cover-up when the bishops, conse­crated to act as the rep­resentatives of Christ and shepherds of the people, single-hand­edly covered up cases of abuse and allowed the abuse to contin­ue by transferring pedophiles. 
The idea of a pow­crful gay subculture in seminaries is a myth. Granted, gays make up a significantly large number of those in religious formation, but in the context of a celi­bate lifestyle everyone is viewed as an equal, regardless of sexual orientation. 
Sanchez is adamant that "Homosexuals cannot escape the temptations of the world by becoming priests." The priesthood has never been about removing temptation; rather, formation has sought to help priests deal with and control temptation. To say that straight men can control their tempta­tions while gay men cannot is prejudiced. 
Sanchez writes that the priesthood is, "not something you do because you can't do something else." What Sanchez fails to real­ize is that when gay men enter the semi­nary, they are leaving many other options. Whether the Church will recognize it or not, 
homosexuals can have fulfilling, exclusive 
same-sex relationships. Sanchez cites disagreement with Church practice as a cause of the 
scandal. Had the Church remained faithful to its own 
teachings coming out of Vatican II and decentralized some power, cover-ups by our 
bishops would not have been able to occur on so grandiose a scale. 
The Church is attempting to 
avoid accepting responsibility for the scandal by shifting blame and scapegoating gays. 
If gays are restricted from the priesthood, the seminary will certainly become a more sexual­ly repressive place. A repressive seminary produced the sexually immature priests who abused in the 
first place. If the Church is to restrict gays, aside from a major downturn in the number of men ordained. the decades to come will foster scandal by sexually imma­ture priests on a much greater scale than has been seen in the past year. 
Robert J. Davidson 
sophomore Old College Nov. 26 

Requiring alternative vehicles won't ease pollution 
I am writing in regards to Joanna Mikulski's Nov. 26 column "What Would Jesus Drive?" 
Jesus was a carpenter, and he would drive the very type of vehi­cles this group seeks to discredit: light trucks. Most likely he would have a Ford F150 with a big V8, a lumber rack and tool box in the bed for work and a large SUV -perhaps a Ford Excursion -for hauling around all the apostles and their fishing boats. 
As for mandating alternative fuel vehicles, it is a serious mis­take. California's Air Resources Board (CARB) has tried many times to do this. However, by ultimately forcing manufacturers down the dead-end road of the electric car, it is actually creating more pollution by refusing to allow car companies to cut emis­sions other ways like buying up gross polluters, selling more ULEVs and Hybrids and replacing defective gas containers and pumps. GM's effort to meet the new CARB requirements alone cost them an estimated $1.5 billion and resulted in 1,000 EV1 electric cars (that's $1.5 million per car). These losses were inevitably passed on to the consumer. As for EVls. they can't even give them away. 
Good old gasoline, though demonized by environmentalists and now apparently Christian fundamentalists, is still the most effi­cient way to propel a car down the road. Even the environmental­ly exalted Fuel-Cell, "whose only emission is pure water," actually pollutes more per mile than gasoline because producing the hydrogen it requires is an extremely energy intensive process. The industry, driven more by consumers than Congress, is already moving in the direction of Zero Emission Vehicles (ZEVs), but in small, logical steps, such as hybrid technology first. Trying to force ZEVs on the industry and consumers will only result in more disasters like CARB. 
Brian Malin 
class of '02 Nov. 26 


THE OBSERVER 


Tuesday, December 3, 2002
page 12 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Fo' shizzle Snoop needs some work 
By MIKE SCHMUHL 
Scene M11sic Critic 
Snoop Dogg, formerly Snoop Doggy Dogg, is one of the most popular and influ­ential gangsta rappers of all time. His work and activities with Dr. Dre, Warren G and the late Tupac Shakur landed him his first solo record with 1994's Doggystyle. 
Since then, Snoop Dogg's fame has ele­vated not necessarily because of his rap­ping and multiple albums released to date, but the fact that he's always getting in trouble with the law. In 1993 Snoop was arrested and tried for the murder of a rival gang member, but was not convicted. From 1996-1997 Snoop 's popularity rose with the conviction of Death Row head hauncho Suge Knight and the deaths of Tupac and Biggie Smalls (Notorius 8.1.G.). Snoop was the last man standing. Fo' shizzle. 
After releasing a few smaller, relatively unsuccessful albums with Master P and No Limit Records, Snoop survived with hit sin­gles like "Lay Low" and guest appearances with other popular rappers. 
With the release of his sixth major album, Paid Tha Cost To Be Da Bo$$, Snoop attempts to show the rap world that he's still the Top Dogg. The first song, "Tha Bo$$ Would Like To See You," sets the tone for the album. Snoop isn't simply entertain­ing, he's preaching that he's better than everyone and has the money, the style and the hoes to prove it. 
The songs "Stoplight," Wasn't Your Fault," "Hourglass" and "I Miss That B-" are all co-produced and performed with the help of none other than George Clinton and some P-Funk members. The songs all include many different sound effects that 
Paid Tha Cost to Be Da Bo$$ 
SnoopDogg 
Priority Records 

create an absurd commotion of noise. Snoop's presence on these songs is hardly apparent and he mumbles lines like "You can't control this game" during pauses in the beat. 
The songs "I Believe in You" and "Ballin"' sound as though they should be on Whitney Houston's Christmas album and Burt Bacharach's Greatest Hits, respectively. "I Believe in You" features a gospel singer in the backgroillld as Snoop testi­fies, "I couldn't give you away/ No matta what my friends s-iz­ay/ When I'm gone/ Away from home/ I'm alone everyd-iz-ay." "Ballin' contains a piano melody throughout the song with a delirious samba beat. Snoop and fellow rappers place 

their ego in the forefront and the "talent" they talk about is certainly absent from this song. 
The rest of the songs are overproduced and stray from the quality of Snoop's earli­er work, with the exception of "Lollipop" and "From Long Beach 2 Brick City." "Lollipop" includes the production of the Neptunes and a brisk flute and conga beat. Snoop's rapping is humorous and the guest appearances of Jay-Z, Soopafly and Nate Dogg construct a strong song. "From Long Beach 2 Brick City" sounds like a Doggystyle song with a gurgling bass beat and smart rapping from the professionals 

Snoop Dogg's new album shows that fo' shlzzle he needs to spend his time working on his rap rather than behind bars. 
Redman and Warren G. 
Paid Tha Cost to Be Da Bo$$ is summed up by Snoop in his own words on the self­centered track "Suited N Booted." "G-ed up from the feet up,' Fo' shizzle my nizzle/ D-0 double gizzle back up in the hizzle/ Fo' shizzle." Snoop needs to focus more on his music than his lifestyle and create rap albums with entertaining lyrics and a solid beat. If he sticks wit his shizzle, he's bound not to fizzle, won't be no lo$$. but will be Da Bo$$. 
Contact Mike Schmuhl at schmuhl.5@nd.edu 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Quality defines McCartney's music 
By JULIE BENDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It is only in rare instances that a music reviewer can know the quality of an album before listening to it. Even the most credi­ble artists in the music business have their dud albums. The Beatles, however, are an exception. To look back on their albums now, one is awed at the quality of music 
that lies on each track. The Beatles are one of the few bands whose albums can be listened to in their entirety with­out skipping any tracks. Every album, from the nascent strumming of Please Please Me to the smooth medleys of Abbey Road, is remark­able. It is this consistent musical quality which earned the Beatles their reputation as the greatest band of all time, an opinion which 
hardly  anyone  can  
refute.  
Even  though  any  

hope of a Beatles reunion has faded since the deaths of John Lennon and George Harrison, the band's songs continue to rep­resent the highest qual­ity of music just from the mere mention of their titles. That is why a quick look at the list of songs on Paul McCartney's latest release, Back in the U.S. Live 2002, is enough to give the album an excellent review. Any album that includes songs like "Hello Goodbye," "All My Loving," "Blackbird," 'The Fool on the Hill," "Can't Buy Me Love," and "Yesterday," can only be of the best quality. Listening to the album is an unnecessary confirmation of what is already known from a brief scan of 
the track listing. 
The album is 
the exact set list McCartney treated fans to on his recent Driving Rain tour throughout the United States. Disc 1 gets off to a buoyant start with the delight­ful surprise " H e l I o Goodbye." Next comes "Jet," a crowd-pleaser f r o m McCartney's years with Wings, the band that he formed with his late wife Linda in the 
Back In the U.S. live 2002 


'70s. 
Some other highlights from the disc include a gorgeous rendition of the delicate "Blackbird." For this song, McCartney accompanies his vocals with only an acoustic guitar, emphasizing the tenderness of this classic song and the strength he still possesses in his voice. Showcasing some of his newer songs, McCartney also includes the Oscar­nominated "Vanilla Sky." the theme from the movie of the same name, and "Your Loving Flame," a lovely piano ballad dedicated to his new wife, Heather. 


Disc 2 continues the magic with McCartney banging out classic after classic right from the start. He 

opens with a haunting version of Photo courtesy of rollingstone.com "Eleanor Rigby" from the Beatles' Paul McCartney gives his fans only the 1966 masterpiece, Revolver. From best music from rock and roll to balladry. 
that same album, McCartney plays the melodious "Here, There And Everywhere" before he shakes things up with the energetic numbers "Band on the Run" and "Back in the USSR." 
On disc 2, McCartney shines on the many piano ballads he chooses to include. "Maybe I'm Amazed," "Let It Be," "Hey Jude" and "The Long and Winding Road" are only a few examples of the memorable melodies McCartney is famous for. 
Rounding out the album, McCartney fit­tingly selected perhaps his most well­known song, "Yesterday." His gentle guitar picking accompanied by mournful lyrics is as poignant now as it was in the 1960s, showing that McCartney is still a possessor of immense talent in both performance and songwriting. 
In order to bring the album to a proper ending, McCartney rocks out with a medley combination of "Sgt. Pepper Reprise" and "The End," a song from 1969's Abbey Road that toots McCartney's final words of advice, "And in the end the love you take is equal to the love you make." 
With such an excellent selection of songs, Live -2002 is a wonderful compilation rep­resentative of McCartney's vast musical career. McCartney. however, doesn't need the glory and praise his songs deserve. As this album shows, from the oldest song to the newest, his music speaks for itself. And oh, what an echo it leaves. 
Contact Julie Bender at bendec.l O@nd.edu 
NSIDER 
O
THE 

Tuesday, December 3, 2002-BSERVER USC 44, Notre Dame 13 


Carson-ogenic 
Palmerproves deadly to Irish in 44-13 Trojan victory 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Sp"m Edi ror 
LOS ANGELES 

In a match-up that promised a renewed rivalry and return to glory for two of the nation's premier foot• ball programs, the Trojans proved they were a little closer to their return to national prominence. as No. 6 Southern California trounced No. 7 Notre Dame 44-13 in the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
After claiming a 13-10 lead with just over a minute to play in the first half, the Irish yielded 34 unanswered points as the Trojans moved the ball at will on the ground and through the air in the second half. 
"The best thing I can say is that we played a good football team today, and that they took it to us and we were not able to stay with them," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
Trojan quarterback Carson Palmer pir.ked apart the Irish secondary all night. The fifth-year star shone bright in the national spotlight Saturday, going 32-for-46 passing for 425 yards, with rour touchdowns and two inter­ceptions. 
"I thought Carson did everything he needed to do tonight. I know he wish­es he could have a couple plays back," Trojan coach Pete Carroll said. "Everything else about him, he was stclla:, tonight as only he knows how to be. 
Palmer was near perfect against the Irish, making a late season statement for his place in the ileisman trophy race. The 425 yards passing and 610 total yards given up by the Irish were the highest in the team's history. 
"We were clicking. rolling -it got to the point where every time we didn't score, we were mad," Palmer said. "A lot of people say Notre Dame doesn't have a weakness, and we found them all over the place." 
While the Trojan offense kept the chains moving and the Irish defenders on their heels, the USC defense, led by "I thought it was an extraordinary start of a big night for the Trojan's On the other hand, USC scored on Jim Thorpe Award finalist safety Troy night for our defense -might be the leading receiver Williams, who fin­five of seven drives, outscoring the l'olamalu. was a nightmare for quar­best night we've put together," Carroll ished with 10 catches for 169 yards Irish 27 -0 in the half. terback Carlyle lloliday and the Irish said. "We have so much respect for and a pair of touchdowns. The back breaker for the Irish came offense. The junior signal caller fin­Notre Dame. For us to stop them like The Irish appeared to take control of at the beginning of the fourth quarter. ished only 10-for-29 for 70 yards with that, it was just fantastic." the momentum just before halftime With the Trojans leading 30-13 and three interceptions. Holiday entered The Irish jumped out to an early when fifth-year senior linebacker deep in Irish territory, Palmer threw a Saturday's game with only two inter­lead on USC, using the successful for­Carlos Pierre-Antoine blocked a Tom pass over the middle that was inter­ceptions on the season. mula they have followed all year of Mallone punt and recovered the ball cepted at the goal line by Watson, who 
"I thought the [USC] defense did a capitalizing on opponents' mistakes. in the end zone for the 13-10 Irish returned the ball 60 yards to the USC great job' in every category, not just in The Irish turned a missed Ryan lead with just 1:07 left to play in the 40-yard Jine. (limiting] our quarterback's ability to Killeen field goal and a fumbled kick­half. But the Irish were unable to capital­scramble." Willingham said. "I off by Dennis Hershel into a pair of But Palmer engineered a seven-play, ize, turning the ball over on downs in Lhought they pressured us ut great Nicholas Setta field goals for an early 75-yard drive capped off with a 19-four plays. Seven plays later, USC run• times. kept us off balance, didn't allow 6-0 lead at the end of the first quar­yard touchdown strike to Williams just ning back Sultan McCullough scam­us to get very much rushing and made ter. before the half to give the Trojans the pered into the end zone for an 11-yard it very difficult even when we had The Trojans responded in their first Jead and the momentum. touchdown run and the Trojan 37-13 time to find the right throwing lanes. I drive of the second quarter with anl1-In the second half, the Trojan rout lead. thought they did an excellent job." play, 93-yard scoring drive, capped off was on. In the half. the Irish managed 
The Trojans held Notre Dame to just by a six-yard touchdown pass from only eight drives, six of which ended 
Contact Chris Federico at 
109 yards of offense, with just 15 of Palmer to freshman Mike Williams. in punts, one turnover on downs and 
cfederic@nd.edu
those coming in the second half. The touchdown catch was just the one interception. 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Carson Palmer 11w Trojan signal caller passed for 425 yards and four touchdowns. /Je  610 total number ofTrojan offensive yards -the most any team has  Mike Williams 19-yard touchdown reception at the end of the first half The Trojan touchdown was the .first  "I Just want to go home and throw up.  
led a very successful Trojan offense  scored against Notre Dame in  seven of34 unanswered points for  Jordan Black  
that left the Notre Dame defense  history  USC. It took momentum awayfrom  Irish offensive lineman  
totally stymied.  the Irish and set up the second half  

--. ---------------------------------. 
page 2 Tuesday, December 3, 2002
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
D-
quarterbacks: Hurt thumb or not, Holiday didn't get the job done. His 
passes were off target all night and he totaled only 79 yards while tallying three interceptions. 
D C­D­
D
+ C+ 
D 
A­
D-
running backs: You can't win a game with 39 rushing yards. Although they didn't fumble. Grant, Wilson and Powers-Neal just couldn't move the ball. 
receivers: The Irish receiving corps didn't have much of a chance to make good catches because Holiday was off his mark. But they did noth­ing extraordinary to help the effort. 
ottensive line: The line gave Holiday no protection and opened up no holes for the Irish rushing attack. Holiday was sacked three times and the Irish got only 39 yards on the ground. 
defensive line: Th~ defensive line gave Palmer all the time he needed to throw passes. There was no pres­sure, no forced fumbles and no good stoppage of the run game. 
linebackers: The linebackers were the most effective part of an ineffective lrish defense. Watson and Goolsby each had an interception. 
defensive backs: There was some effort on the part of Duff and Walton but Palmer was more than the secondary could han­dle. The safeties didn't offer any help and the result was 425 passing yards. 
special teams: Special teams was the highlight for the Irish. Pierre-Antoine blocked a punt and recovered it for a touchdown, Setta hit two field goals and Duff had a 52-yard punt return. 
coaching: Southern Cal outcoached Notre Dame on both offense and defense. The Irish were not prepared to play USC and it showed. 
1.44 overall: The Irish grades are low enough to put them on probation after their worst outing of the season. 
adding up the numbers 
number of third downs Notre Dame converted out of 13 attempts 
0 
34 
straight points USC scored alter being down 13-10 
total number of offensive yards gained by the Irish in the last 45 minutes of play 
26 
4 
number of Irish first downs, two in the first quar­ter and two in the fourth quarter 
total Trojan offensive yards -the most yards any team has scored against Notre 
610
Dame in history 
425 
Trojan passing yards -another record against Notre Dame 
number of times Carlyle Holiday threw an inter­
3 
ception -he had thrown only two prior to Saturday's game 
52 
number of times the USC band played their fight song 

Irish not BCS material 
LOS ANGELES 
An 8-0 start under new coach Tyrone Willingham had Notre Dame fans talking about a 12th national championship several weeks ago. 
After an upset 
home loss to Boston College, a lackluster per­formance versus the Naval Academy and 44-13 trouncing at the hands of USC Saturday 

night, the only championship Joe Hettler Irish fans may look for is one from the Cotton Associate or Gator Bowl. Sports Editor 
And after Saturday's loss, that's how it should be. 
If the defeat to USC told Notre Dame anything it was that although they had a very good season, one better than almost anyone could have imagined. the Irish are still a step or two behind the elites of col­lege football. 
It also told the Irish something else -they shouldn't be selected for a BCS bowl game. 
No way. No how. 
If the Irish had kept it close against USC, one might argue Notre Dame still deserves a chance to play in a BCS bowl game. However, that didn't happen. 
The Trojans offense simply toyed with a good Notre Dame defense. They threw at will. They ran at will. They scored at will. 
And all the Irish could do was watch Carson Palmer elevate his Heisman status more and more each play. He threw for 425 yards and three touchdowns while lead­ing USC to an outrageous 610 yards of total offense. Both the passing and total yards were the most ever given up by a Notre Dame defense in 1,081 games, dating back to 1887. 
Sadly, Notre Dame's offense might have been worse than the defense. 
The Irish tallied 109 yards of offense and four first downs -for the entire game. 
In the final 45 minutes of the possibility of


"This wasn't this year's 

game, Notre making a BCS Dame's offense team. it was last year's bowl. gained 26 yards. 
team that showed up "After the way 
That's not even we played, we
tonight."

close to a yard per don't deserve to minute and that's play in the also something a Jordan Black Orange Bowl." BCS-caliber team Irish offensive 
offensive tackle
just doesn't let happen. 
ln Notre Dame's defense, USC isn't just a good team -they're teetering on greatness. The Trojans arguably have the best quarterback in the country, the best wide receiver tandem and two very good running backs. The Trojans also scored 30 points or more in eight games this season, which marks the first time a USC team accomplished that since 1974. 
They came into the Notre Dame game ranked 14th in total defense and showed why they are one of the most underrated units in the coun­try. 
That combination of an incredible offense and a suffocating defense make USC as good as any team in the nation. 
Still, had Notre Dame been worthy of a BCS bowl berth, they would have hung with the Trojans a lot more than they did. 
After the game Willingham argued that one game shouldn't ruin Notre Dame's chances at a BCS berth. 
"I can make a case for us going to a BCS bowl," Willingham said. "The case is that we've played 12 ball­games and we've won ten of those ballgames and we've been a very improved and very sound football team. This one game can not be a true indicator of that." 

However, the Irish players had mixed feelings concerning the 
tackle Jordan 
Black said. "This 
wasn't this year's team, it was last year's team that showed up tonight." 
Irish quarterback Carlyle Holiday didn't really make a great case for the Irish either. 
"I don't know what [the loss] does," Holiday said. "I'm not really concerned about that. The only thing we're concerned is about com­ing out and performing well in our bowl game, whatever bowl that may be." 
Likely that bowl would be the Cotton or Gator bowl, although there are several other possibilities too. 
One of which could still be the Orange Bowl. 
If Washington State beats UCLA next week, the Cougars go to the Rose Bowl and USC should, by all means, pack their bags for Miami. But if UCLA pulls off the upset, USC clinches the Rose Bowl berth to like­ly face Iowa. 
This leaves teams like Oklahoma, Notre Dame and Kansas State the chance to sneak into the Orange Bowl. However, Saturday's perfor­mance should have made the BCS selection committee remember back to 2000 when Notre Dame was picked to play against Oregon State in the Fiesta Bowl, only to see the Beavers hand the Irish their worst bowl loss ever, 41-9. 
That type of blowout could happen again if the Irish are undeservingly matched against a much better team. And that'd be a real shame for this team, especially the seniors who've done such a great job of returning the Irish to back to glory. 
Notre Dame is close to having a great team. Willingham and his coaches have done an almost mirac­ulous job turning around a sputter­ing program in such a short amount of time. 
But the loss to USC shows that Notre Dame isn't quite at the level of the nation's best football teams. 
So the most deserving option for Notre Dame would be an invitation to a Jan. 1st bowl game and a chance to reach the 11 win plateau. 
That scenario would be a great ending to an excellent season for the Irish. 
But if the best teams are supposed to play in the BCS bowl games. then Notre Dame shouldn't be there. A 31-point loss proves that. Being out gained by 501 yards proves that. Gaining two first downs in the sec­ond half against the Trojans proves that. 
Black may have said it best when described what the loss to USC felt like. 

"I just want to go home and throw up," Black said. Point taken. -
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Joe 1/ettler at jhettler@nd.edu. 
Tuesday, December 3, 2002 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
In the palm of his hands 

. Palmer throws for 425 yards as he looks to BCS, Heisman 
By ANDREW SOUKUP 
Sporrs Writer 
LOS ANGELES 

Fans chanted his name. Teammates chanled "Heisman." But all Carson Palmer wanted to do was savor the final moments of his final game in Los Angeles Coliseum. ''I don't even know how I'm feeling right now, lhis is amazing," Palmer said. "To finish our careers here, this way. I don't know how to explain the way I'm feeling right now. This is amazing." 
i\s Palmer walked off the field after orchestrating the most successful offensive performance by a Notre Dame opponent, he allowed himself a briuf smile -one of many the senior quarterback cracked Saturday evening. 
All Palmer did was complete 32-of­46 passes for 425 yards and four touchdowns, handily picked apart a normally stingy Irish secondary, and single-handedly improved the Trojans case for making a BCS bowl and his chances for winning the llcisman Trophy. 
In his wake, the Trojan quarterback left a befuddled Irish defense search­ing for answers and sent BCS officials scrambling back to meeting rooms. 
"I hope we showed that we're BCS worthy." Palmer said. "I hope every­body paying attention looks at the score and realizes that it was a domi­to score touchdowns every series, even passes. Palmer threw just 39 touch­nating game. we're for real and able to if we're playing Notre Dame's down passes in his first three years as compete in the BCS." defense." a starter with the Trojan. He also 
What made Palmer so effective'? He Palmer set all sort of records in the broke a 23-year old record for most picked apart Notre Dame's defense at Trojan victory. His 425 passing yards passes thrown without an interception will, often threading passes past the were the most ever recorded by a until Mike Goolsby picked off a second­outstretched arms of Irish defensive Notre Dame quarterback and the quarter throw. Palmer later threw backs and into the hands of Trojan Palmer-led offense posted 610 yards, another interception to Courtney receivers. In all, Palmer connected the most a Notre Dame defense sur­Watson in the third quarter. with eight different receivers. rendered in its illustrious history. Those two picks were on Palmer's 
Of course, USC has a horde of talent­To put USC's offensive dominance in mind even as he celebrated the victory ed receivers, beginning with freshman perspective, the Trojans had 328 yards in the locker room after the game. sensation Mike Williams, who caught at the end of the first half. Notre Dame When a reporter asked Palmer if he 10 passes for 169 yards and a pair of allowed only three other teams to sur­thought he would be disappointed if he touchdowns. pass that total in a game. More impor­wasn't a finalist for the Heisman, 
But Palmer was at his best creating tantly, USC scored 34 unanswered Palmer shrugged and brought up his offensive masterpieces. During a sec­points against an Irish defense that two mistakes. ond quarter when the Trojans scored hadn't allowed an opponent to score "It's kinda like the BCS, I have no two touchdowns, Palmer first led the over 25. control over that from here on out," he Trojans on a 93-yard drive to give "A lot of people say Notre Dame said. "Those 2 stupid picks might keep them a 7-6 lead. Then, after the Irish doesn't have a weakness," Palmer me out of it, but whatever. I'm happy blocked a punt for a touchdown. said, "and we found them all over the to be a part of this team." Palmer led the Trojans 75 yards in place." A team that. with Palmer's arm, 

1:02 for the touchdown that put USC Palmer also broke a pair of school might be headed for a BCS bowl. ahead for good. records. He moved past Rob Johnson 
"We were clicking, rolling, and it got for first on the single-season touch­to the point where every time we don't down passes rankings, finishing the Contact Andrew Soukup at score we're mad," he said. "We expect regular season with 33 touchdown asou.kup@nd.edu 

Irish, Trojans leave BCS fate up in the air 
for a spot for his Irish in one them 29-6 in the second half. Trojans came away on top.

Observer Suff Repon 
of the four BCS bowls. This time the records were Williams, the leading receiver "I can make a case for us reversed, but the 9-2 Trojans for USC this season, grabbedWhile Notre Dame had the going to a BCS bowl," he said. moved the ball 610 yards -10 passes for 169 yards,

opportunity to guarantee 
"The case is that we've more than any team has ever including the Trojans' first

itself a spot in a BCS bowl 
played 12 ballgames, and gained against the Irish -two touchdowns of the game.

with a victory against 
we've won 10 of those ball­and outscored 10-1 Notre Junior Keary Colbert added

Southern Cal, the Trojans 
games, and we've been a Dame 27-0 in the second half. another solid performance

wore hoping to attract the 
very improved and very "It feels exactly like the with five receptions for 7 5

eyes of the BCS with their 
sound football team. This one Fiesta Bowl," Irish offensive yards, and six other Trojans

primetime performance 
game cannot be a true indi­tackle Jordan Black said af'ter caught passes from Palmer inSaturday against lhe Irish. 

cator of that." the game. "I want to go home the game. 

Now both teams leave 
and throw up. I feel awful." ''I'm so fortunate to be athemselves at the mercy of 

part of an o(fense with so

the polls and the heads of the No time for a Fiesta 
many guys that can catch the

BCS bowls in selecting tho For some around the Irish Spreading the wealth 
ball and so many guys whoteams to 1111 only two at-large program, Saturday night's Irish defensive backs have can make big plays," Trojanspots in the four bowls. loss to USC was reminiscent faced some of' the top 

quarterback Carson Palmer

"I hope we showed that of the 2001 Fiesta Bowl. in receivers in the country this said.
we're BCS worthy," Palmer which a supposed up-and­season in Michigan State's 
said. "I hope everybody pay­coming, 10th-ranked Notre Charles Rogers, Florida ing attention looks at the Dame team was outmuscled State's Anquan Bolden and Gameday captains score and realizes that it was and outhustled by No. 5 Stanford's Teyo Johnson. Captains for the Irish 
a dominating game, that Oregon State in a 41-9 lop­But this time freshman Saturday were wide receiver we're for real and able to sided victorv. standout Mike Williams led a Arnaz Hattie, offensive guard compote in tho BCS." In that game, the 10-1 corps of talented USC Sean Mahan, safety Gerome 
Meanwhile Irish coach Beavers outgained the 9-2 receivers against the Irish Sapp and cornerback Shane Tyrone Willingham lubhied Irish 446-155 and outscored defensive backfield, and the Walton. 
•
scoring suinmary 

1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 6 7 0 0 44 USC 0 17 13 14 0 
First quarter 
Notre Damo 3, USC 0 
Nicholas Sella 34-yd FG with 4:10 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 63 yards, 3:10 elapsed 
Notre Dame 6, USC 0 
Sella 32-yd FG with 3:46 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 6yards, 0:17 elapsed 
Second quarter 
USC 7, Notre Dame 6 
Mike Willlams 6-yd reception from Carson Palmer (Ryan KIiieen kick) with 10:49 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 93 yards, 4:11 elapsed 
USC 10, Notre Dame 6 
Killeen 22-yd FG with 3:34 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 66 yards, 4:45 elapsed 
Notre Dame 13, USC 10 Carlos Pierre Antoine 27-yd blocked punt ... return (Sella kick) with 1:07 remaining 
USC 1 7, Notre Dame 13 Williams 19-yd reception from Palmer (KIiieen kick) with 0:05 remaining Drive: 7plays, 75 yards, 1:02 elapsed 
Third quarter 
USC 24, Notre Dame 13 Malaefou MacKenzie 15-yd reception from Palmer (KIiieen kick) wllh 12:01 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 55 yards, 1:58 elapsed 
USC 27, Notre Dame 13 KIiieen 27-yd FG with 6:36 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 67 yards, 3:32 elapsed 
USC 30, Notre Dame 13 KIiieen 29-yd FG with 2:15 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 41 yards, 2:10 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
USC 37, Notre Dame 13 Sultan McCullough 11-yd run (KIiieen kick) with 11 :58 remaining Drive: 6plays, 50 yards, 2:57 remaining 
USC 44, Notre Dame 13 
Malaefou MacKenzie 15-yd reception lrom Palmer (KIiieen kick) wllh 12:01 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 55 yards, 1:58 elapsed 
statistics 


passing yards 
-NOTRE DAME 70
llru[se;\:JW!i ti· •·•·.··...·.•.·••·••·· /·j425 
eassing 

Holiday 1D-29-3 Palmer 
rushing  
Grant Holiday McNalr  10·16 Fargas 6-12 McCullough1-5 Dennis  20-120 8-44 3-19  
Loplenskl  1-3 MacKenzie  3-6  
Wilson  1·3 Rogers  1-2  
Powers-Neal  3-0 Palmer  3-(·6)  
Jenkins 3-33 WIiiiams McKnight 2-20 Colbert 


return yards 
22·39 
10-29·3 
9-338 
1-0 
5·50 4 
rushes-yards comp-att-int punts-yards fumbles-lost penalties-yards first downs 
receiving 


38-185 32-46-2 4-126 1-1 
9-51 
31 
32-46-2 
10-169 

OTHE Tuesday, December 3, 2002 BSERVER USC 44, Notre Dame 13 

BRIAN PUCEVICH/The Observer 

Amaz Battle dives after a badly thrown pass. Holiday had trouble finding his receivers all evening and passed for only 79 yards during the 44-13 Irish loss. 


ESTRUCTION 


USC found every single one of Notre Dame's weaknesses and capitalized on them. The Irish 
couldn't pass, they couldn't run, and they couldn't defend against the Trojans. USC picked up 610 offensive yards -the most of any opponent in Irish history -and managed to hold the Irish to a total of 26 yards in the final three quarters of the game. For Notre Dame, it was worse than not getting it done, they couldn't get it started. 


THE OBSERVER 


Tuesday, December 3, 2002 page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 

Clapton, a legend on guitar 
By EMILY TUMBRINK 
Scene Music Critic 
Universally regarded as one of the great­est guitar virtuosos of all time, Eric Oapton has had many opportunities to collaborate with some of the most highly respected musicians in the industry. From his not-so­humble beginnings with the British blues band The Yardbirds, whose lineup would eventually include fellow guitar legends Jimmy Page and Jeff Beck, to his more recent solo successes, Clapton has created some of the most emotive rock and blues music throughout his lengthy career. 
After suggesting that the 2001 Reptjle World Tour would be his final large-scale tour, it seemed almost inevitable that Eric Clapton would release an album commem­orating the event. Slowhand did not disap­point loyal fans with the recent release of a two disc live album, One More Car One More Hider. 
Recorded during the Los Angeles and 
Tokyo stops on his tour, One More Car One More Rider includes many favorites from Clapton' s vast catalogue such as "Layla," "Cocaine," "Wonderful Tonight" and "Tears in Heaven," to name just a few. 
Clapton demonstrates the diversity of his guitar and vocal talents throughout the first disc beginning with six straight acoustic songs and finally taking up his trusty electric on "My Father's Eyes." 
Disc 1 contains two songs from his one time collaboration with Derek and the Dominoes, "Key to the Highway" and "Bell Bottom Blues," but mostly consists of songs from his more recent albums, the multi­Grammy winning 1998 solo release Pilgrim and Reptile, Clapton's most recent studio album. 

The second disc, on the other hand. con­tains many of Clapton's earlier rock hits, allowing him to truly wail. It is on this disc that Clapton reclaims "Layla" as a rock classic, despite the huge popularity of the acoustic version from his previous live release. Unplugged. Disc 2 also includes a rockin• version of the Cream classic, "Sunshine of Your Love" and proves Oapton's intense devotion to early blues legends, with obvious blues inspiration on "Hoochie Coochie Man" and "Have You Ever Loved a Woman?" Rounding out the set is a lovely rendition of "Over the Rainbow," the theme song from the 1939 movie The Wizard of Oz. Clapton pulls off this ballad quite nicely, remembering the forgotten song to his audience. 
Musically. disc 2 is much stronger than the first. It adequately showcases Clapton's blues inspired guitar riffs in ways that the songs of the first disc could not. Parts of the first disc even come across as somewhat easy listening, while disc two is purely rock and blues. 
As the only triple inductee into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, as a member of both The Yardbirds and Cream and also as a solo artist, Eric Clapton reveals the vast range of his talent on One More Car One More Rider. Highlighting his immense tal­ent as a guitarist and proving his close ties to the blues, One More Car One More Rider 

.. 


ALBUM REVIEW 

Sigur Ros, foreign sound from frozen soil 
By RYAN RAFFERTY 
Scene Music Critic 
Not many people have heard the name Sigur Ros mentioned in everyday music conversations, but they are the biggest band to come out of Iceland. While Sigur Ros (Icelandic for "a victory rose") has been popular in Europe for several years. they've only recently gained attention in America. Their debut album in the United States. Agaetis Hyrjun, 
(Icelandic for "a good start") received critical acclaim in 2000, and some of their music was even featured in the movie Vanilla Sky. Shortly after releasing Agactis Byrjun. Sigur Ros wrote several new songs while on tour in America. Eight of these songs make up their latP.st release. 
Sigur Ros· newest album has no title, but instead is represented by two paren­theses. This untitled theme carries over to the songs themselves; none of them are titled eithrr. Sigur Ros carries this mini­malist approach throughout the entire CD. The insert has no lyrics or credits, only several transparent pages on which the listener is encouraged to write their interpretations of Jonsi. Sigur Ros' lead singer's, lyrics. That brings up another intornsting aspect of ( ), none of the lyrics are real. Every word Jonsi sings is part of a made-up language the band calls Hopclandic. But what about the music it.self? 
While it is very 

suddenly, track 2 
difficult to get past 

fades out into the
(]
all the artsy 

piano centered 
themes on this album, once you hear Sigur Ros' music, none of that seems to matter anymore. The music on ( ) carries a funeral pace in its tempo and rate of development, but it is noi without its moments of transcendent beau­ty. Most of the songs start off incredibly soft and slow. and then inevitably crescen­do into a beautiful third track. 


The standout track on ( ) is the fourth track. Known as Njosnaelin, or the Nothing Song, to fans, this track was featured in the movie Vanilla Sky. The song begins with soft timpani pounding out a slow beat, and a guitar played with a cello bow lightly res­onating in the background. The 
mix of guitars. 


song quickly adds 
strings, and key­

sl!veral other lay­
boards. The songs 

ered guitars to 
then fade out very 

piGk out the ongo­
quickly leaving only an impression of mood rather than melody. The second track, for example, opens with a slow guitar riff over a groan­ing organ. This eventually gives way to Jonsi's aching vocals that can only best be described as the high pitched singing of whales. The song then explodes into a perfect blend ofJonsi's bowed guitar, ritu­alistic drums and haunting strings. Then fourth and fifth tracks. There is an obvi­ous shift in mood and melody on the last four tracks. The first four songs are lighter and have an optimistic feel to them, while the final four songs have a darker feel. The final song, for instance, starts off with a subdued guitar riff that could come from any modern pop song. Sigur Ros puts their signature touch on it, however, with Jonsi's vocals dancing over the thunderous drums and distorted gui­tar. This final track is ( }'s loudest track, but also it's darkest. The song crescendos until the last possible second and then abruptly ends with only the hum of Jonsi's distorted guitar fading out. 

Sigur Ros' ( ) is a refreshing breath of originality in a music industry where everything sounds very similar. It is safe to say that there is nothing like Sigur Ros in music today. The closest comparison would be Hadiohead, but even an experi­mental band such as them doesn't quite compare to Sigur Hos' sound. The band is like Radiohead's "Knives Out'' on a slow morphine drip. 
( ) may not be the most popular album or have the most familiar sound. but the band has created a beautiful ambient masterpiece that captures everyday emo­tions in eight haunting, layered orchestral songs. 
Contact Ryan Rafferty at raffert,3@nd.edu 
ing melody, and then Jonsi's choirboy-like vocals enter. The song pauses in the middle for a sim­ple organ solo, but flows right back into the pounding melody and eventually fades out to the end of the first half of the album. 
Sigur Ros divides ( ) into two halves, much like a vinyl album is structured, with a 30-second pause in between the 

Tuesday, December 3, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 

NBA 
Pierce's 27 points help lift Celtics over Magic 
plateau for just the second time Nick Van Exel had 17 points in a

As.odarcd Press 
this season while enjoying their reserve role and Michael Finley first lopsided victory. added 15 for the Mavericks, who ORLANDO, Fla. Latrell Sprewell added 20 improved their league-best 

Paul Pierce scored 27 points points and 11 assists for the record to 16-1. and Eric Williams added a sea­Knicks. who have won three in a Nash shot 7-for-8 from the son-high 21 as the Boston Celtics row for the first time since last field and 10-for-10 from the line. won for the sixth time in seven January. Led by Thomas guing and finished with seven assists. games by beating the Orlando 11-for-15, the Knicks shot 53 Alvin Williams scored 27 Magic 102·97 Monday night. percent from the field. points, Morris Peterson added 24 
Pierce hit four free throws in Dajuan Wagner had 25 points and Antonio Davis 18 f'or the 
the final 1:07. shooting 10-for-12 and 10 assists for the Cavs, who Raptors. who lost for the seventh from the line. to snap the are closing in on the longest los­time in nine games. Magic's three-game winning ing streak in franchise history _ Vince Carter, who scored 17 streak. He also had 10 rebounds 19 games during the 1981-82 points, picked up his fifth foul and eight assists. season. The 32-point margin of with 2:17 left in the third quar• 
Orlando's Tracy McGrady, his defeat matched their second• ter and didn't return until 8:51 first step diminished after turn­largest of the season. remained in the game. ing an ankle early, used his out­Cleveland was without three The Mavericks held a 93-84 side game to score 25 points. key players, Ricky Davis (team advantage when Carter Grant Hill had 22 points and a suspension), Tyrone Hill returned, and Dallas pushed its 
,,. season-high 13 rebounds, while (sprained ankle) and Darius advantage to 95•84 on Van Mike Miller had 18 points. Miles (knee tendinitis). and only Exel's layup with 8:23 left. 
The Celtics went ahead 94-93 managed to keep the game com­Carter had two baskets during on Williams' dunk with 4:01 petitive for a few minutes. a 10-4 run as the Raptors closed remaining, and Antoine Walker Things started to go south for within 99-96. But Nowitzki followed with a fast-break lay.in. the Cavs as soon as backup cen­scored from close range on con­Walker had 19 points and eight ter Michael Stewart entered the secutive possessions, Nash hit a rebounds. game midway through the first 3-pointer from the left wing with 
After McGrady hit a jumper to quarter with Cleveland leading 3:51 left, and added two layups cut the deficit to one point with 14-12. The Knicks went on a 14-to cap an 11 ·2 spurge that gave 
2:41 to go, Orlando missed four 2 run ending with an 11-foot Dallas a 110-98 lead with 1:45 shots and committed two runner by Houston for a 26·16 left. turnovers. lead. Dallas took an 82-78 advan­
McGrady, picked earlier New York had a 9-0 run to tage into the fourth quarter. Monday as the Eastern start the second quarter and an The Mavericks opened the Conference's Player of the 8-0 run later on in the period, game with a 1O·O run, but the Month, appeared to turn his left taking a 26-point lead on two Raptors got their offense on ankle on a drive to the hoop late free throws by Clarence track following a timeout and in the first quarter. He hobbled Weatherspoon with 5:42 left that finished the first quarter leading around the court in obvious pain made it 52·26. 25-24. before collapsing on his back. Thomas had all of his blocks Dallas held a 53-52 halftime 
He returned to the game after by halftime, and the Knicks had lead. Nowitzki and Bradley each a brief visit to the locker room, a 29-14 edge in rebounding at scored 10 points in the first half. but he ran gingerly for the rest intermission. Peterson's 18 points and of the night, even passing up a Houston gave New York its Carter's 11 led the Raptors in dunk on a second-quarter first 30•point lead on a 3-pointer the first half. breakaway for a layin where he just 1:12 into the third quarter, barely jumped. then hit three more 3s over the Heat 100, Suns 90 (OT) od. Miami going to a zone defense, 
McGrady shot 9•for•21, includ• remainder of the period to help Travis Best was perfect in The rest of the Heat's 21 after the Suns had opened a 13­ing 4-of-8 on 3-pointers. the Knicks take a 99·71 lead into overtime -after a nearly imper• points in the extra period -point lead in the third quarter. 
Boston's usual barrage of 3· the fourth. feet performance in regulation. their most ever in a first over­For a team not noted for its pointers was cut short in the first Houston left for good with 9:16 Best made a tying layup with time -came on foul shots. accuracy, the Suns were very half by Orlando's perimeter left and the Knicks leading 108-3 7 seconds left in regulation, Best finished with 16 points. proficient in the first half, con­defense, which held the Celtics 75. then added three baskets in Eddie Jones led Miami with 21 necting on 51.3 percent of their to 1-for-9 shooting beyond the Prior to the game, Knicks pres­overtime, leading the Miami points, rookie Caron Butler had shots (20-for-39) in building a arc. ident Scott Layden said the team Heat over the Phoenix Suns 20 and Brian Grant had 17 44-41 lead at the break. Coming 
But Boston found its outside was unlikely to use the $4.5 mil• Monday night. points and 17 rebounds. into the game, Phoenix ranked shooting touch after the break, lion medical exception it After missing his first nine Miami scored its final 12 27th in the league in field goal making four of its first six 3-received for the season•ending field-goal attempts of the game, points on free throws, six by percentage (.401). point tries en route to an 81-75 knee injury to Antonio McDyess. Best made five shots in a row to Grant. as the Suns fouled des­The Heat stayed close because lead entering the final quarter. The exception was due to expire boost the Heat. perately in an effort to catch up. of their rebounding. They outre­
at midnight. In the extra period, Best made The Heat finished 27 •of-31 from bounded the Suns 23-13, includ­Knlcks 125, Cavaliers 93 all three of his field goal the foul line, while Phoenix was ing 12 off the offensive glass, Allan Houston scored 29 points Mavericks 113, Raptors 102 attempts. including two 3-point­ll-of-12. The Heat also outre­and had 17 second-chance 
and Kurt Thomas had a career­Steve Nash scored seven of his ers, and both his free throw bounded the Suns 49-35. points to only two for Phoenix. high six blocks to go with 22 25 points during a crucial tries. Shawn Marion topped the Grant had nearly as many points as the New York Knicks fourth•quarter run and the He opened the overtime with a Suns with a season-high 30 rebounds as the Suns with 11 at dealt the Cleveland Cavaliers Dallas Mavericks extended their 3-pointer for an 82•79 lead and points, rookie Amare Stoudemire halftime. their 15th straight loss Monday home winning streak to nine followed that with a driving had a season•high 20 points, and Jones gave the Heat their night. games with a victory over the layup. He capped his late•game Stephon Marbury scored 18. biggest lead in regulation. 53-48, 
In a game that wasn't close for Toronto Raptors on Monday field goal splurge with another 3. Marion and Stoudemire each by scoring 10 consecutive points, the final three quarters, the night. giving him the only three field had nine rebounds. including two 3•pointers, early in Knicks surpassed the 1DO•point Dirk Nowitzki added 23 points, goals for Miami in the extra peri-Another key to the game was the third period. 

The Observer acceplli classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr•day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid, 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SPRING BREAK INSANITY!  #1 Spring Break Vacations!Mexico,  LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO  BCS BOWL TICKETS FOR SALE  We still need a tiebreaker on the  
NOTICES  WWW INTER-CAMPUS.COM OR CALL 1-800-327-6013 GUARAN- Jamaica, Bahamas, Florida, Texas• Campus Reps Wanted' Best Prices.  FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD­ (ALL LOCATIONS) Local(574)654­0168. TOLL FREE(800) 272-8553  naked hOuse issue.  
TEED LOWEST PRICES. FREE  Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234·  ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED.  Speaking of houses, here's to the  
MEALS AND DRINKS! CANCUN,  7007 endlesssumrnertours. corn  $99,500. Williamson.1@nd.edu  housesitter!  
·•At Last Spring Break .. Book. now  JAMAICA, FLORIDA AND  PERSONAL  
Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free  BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE! 17  Andrew-• are you protected by the  
Trips,LowestPrices sunsplash­tours.com 1800426771 O  YEARS EXP.! REPS WANTED!  WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME  FOR RENT  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  power of the white light?  
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR  YEARBOOKS. CALL 233-1296.  not go it alone. If you or someone  Beware of the haunted palm pilot!  
2003/2004:Anlan Properties, L.L.C.  you love needs confidential support  
ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI•  532-1B96 Call Bill.  All size homes available for 2003­ or assistance, please call Sr. Mary  The Observer: we're all over sports  
TOURS-SPRING BREAK• The only  2004 mmrnrentals@aol.com  Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For  like last summer's umbrella!  
company exclusive to Acapulco!  Male roommate for Spring sames- www.mmmrentals.com  more information, see our bi-weekly  
Thats why we re the BEST."Go Loco In Acapulco" with the #1  WANTED  ter, Turtle Creek Town Home. Call Leonard 272-8582.  2 & 4-bdnn houses for 2003. Close  ad in THE OBSERVER  Note to overly happy K-Mart guy· stop dancing and put on some  
Spring Break Company in Acapulco  to ND. 616-699-5841.  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS  clothes!  
for 16 years! Call 800-875-4525  Americas #1 Student Tour Operator  
Today. www.bianchi-rossi.com. Be  Bartenders needed! Earn up10 $300  Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free  HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATIE!!  
a Rep, travel FREE-ask how'  per day. No experience necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884 ext U187.  FOR SALE  TICKETS  Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  Tenia tu mama and ella era bien!  
> •••­-.......  - -,,,, . ..,  .r • ~:...,~ •• .., ..,.•• .J.  


Tuesday, December 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Packers beat Bears 30-20 to secure NFC North 
As,ociatcd Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Spectacular touchdown-sav­ing plays by two backups named Walker allowed the Green Bay Packers to win their first division title in five years. 
The Packers won the NFC North by beating the Chicago Bears 30-20 Sunday, despite losing running back Ahman Green to a knee injury after he had produced 123 yards of offense. 
Hookie Tony Fisher, an undraftcd free agent from Nolrc Dame, ran for 91 yards and a Louchdown on 17 carries as the Packers (9-3). who were coming off two straight losses, became the lirst team to clinch a playoff spot and remained the only team without a loss at home. 
They couldn't have done it without rookie receiver Javon Walker. who chased down a cornerback headed for the end zone to prevent the Packers' halftime deficit from reaching 15 points. 
Then nose tackle Rod Walker forced a fumble from the Bears' center on first-and­goal at the Packers' 1 in the third quarter. 
"The Walkers rep-re-sent-ed today!" defensive end Vonnie Holliday said. 
On a cold. windy day at Lambeau Field, Brett Favre threw two second -half touch­down passes and improved to 33-0 at home when the tem­perature is 34 or below. He beat the Bears for the 18th time in 22 tries. 
The Packers trailed 14-6 at halftime after Javon Walker third-string quarterback A.J. ran about 100 yards and Feeley did just enough to help chased down Roosevelt Philadelphia beat the Rams Williams as ho was about to 10-3 Sunday in a rematch of dance into the end zone at the last season's NFC champi­end of the first half. onship game. 

"It would have been devas­The NFC East-leading Eagles tating to have them score like (9-3) shut down St. Louis' 
that  right  once-potent  
before  the  offense, forc­ 
h  a  l  f  .  "  "The Walkers  ing  five  
Packers coach Mike  rep-re-sent-ed today!"  turnovers and sacking  
Sherman  Warner eight  
said.  Vonnie Holiday  times,  
Green Bay  Packers defensive end  including  

still appeared on its way to another defeat when Rod Walker, filling in for injured Gilbert Brown, snatched the ball from center Olin Kreutz just as he was snapping it to quarter­
back Jim Miller.  
"Those  were  two  huge  
plays,"  Bears  coach  Dick  
Jauron lamented.  

Rod Walker timed the snap perfectly, grabbed the ball and pulled it back to his chest, cov­ering up all in one fluid motion. 
"I had a friend who did it all the time in high school, so I thought I might as well try it," Walker said. "I just went directly for the ball." 
Eagles 10, Rams 3 
Backed by a dominant defense, the Philadelphia Eagles proved they can win with their No. 3 quarterback. The St. Louis Rams still haven't won without theirs. 
Bobby Taylor returned an interception of Kurt Warner 23 yards for a touchdown, and 
four by back­
up defensive 
end N.D. 
Kalu. 
"When we go out and play and there's no letdown in any quarter, there's no team we can't beat," All-Pro safety Brian Dawkins said. 
Feeley, starting his first game since his junior season at Oregon in 1999. completed 14 of 30 passes for 181 yards, and lost one fumble. He played because Donovan McNabb is out with a broken right ankle and Koy Detmer has a dislo­cated left elbow. 
"It felt great. It's been a long time since I played a whole game," said Feeley, who start­ed eight games his junior sea­s on, before getting hurt and losing his job to Joey Harrington. 
Warner, the NFL MVP last season, was 20-for-42 for 218 yards and two interceptions. He also lost a fumble in the first quarter, and lost 9 yards when he dropped the ball on a pump fake. 
The Rams (5-7). who beat 
2003-2004 Assistant Rector Applications 
for 
University Residence Halls are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
or go to 
www.nd.edu/-stdntaff/AsstRector.html for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed Applications must be submitted by February 7, 2003 

the Eagles 29-24 in the confer­ terback Hay Lucas to a nerve  
ence title game 11 months  injury in his neck, couldn't be  
ago, are 0-6 when Warner  carried by Williams alone.  
starts. They won five straight  Williams scored on 45-and  
when No. 3 quarterback Marc  55-yard runs and set a single­ 
Bulger stepped in after backup  game franchise record.  
Jamie Martin went down in his  Williams also set a single sea­ 
first game playing for Warner,  s on franchise record with  
who broke his pinkie in Week  1,284 yards, beating the mark  
4.  of 1,258 set by Delvin Williams  
"We made mistakes all  in 1978.  
across the board." said  Ricky Williams almost also  
Warner, whose right hand was  set less-glorious NFL record:  
wrapped in ice after the game.  His rushing total was the sec­ 
"In the past, we've always  ond-most by a player in a loss.  
been able to overcome it. For  O.J. Simpson set the mark  
whatever reason this year, we  with 273 yards in Buffalo's 27­ 
haven't."  14 loss to Detroit on Nov. 25,  
1976.  
Bills 38, Dolphins 21  "I've been preparing for it  
Drew Bledsoe overcame the  since Monday. I'd check on my  
elements and the Buffalo Bills  phone to see the forecast and  
overcame Ricky Williams' best  look on the computer every  
rushing performance.  chance I had," Williams said of  
Braving a cold wind and a  the weather. "I was a little  
slick field, Bledsoe passed for  nervous about it. It was cold  
three touchdowns and scored  and miserable, but we did a  
one on Iris own, sparking the  good job up front and it made  
Bills to a 38-21 victory over  my job easy."  
the Miami Dolphins on  
Sunday.  Panthers 13, Browns 6  
It was enough to deal with  The Carolina Panthers were  
the elements and Miami's  smiling, laughing and hugging.  
Williams, who set a Dolphins  A season soured by suspen­ 
record with 228 yards rushing  sions, an arrest and an ugly  
and scored two touchdowns.  light was finally fun again.  
The game began with a tem­ After nearly three months of  
perature of 25 degrees and  self destruction, the Panthers  
ended in near whiteout condi­ finally damaged somebody  
tions as a heavy snow fell  else's season.  
through most  Dee Brown  
of the fourth  rushed for  
now 3-7 start as when the to take." Carolina temperature ended an is 27 degrees eight-game


quarter. "This is a really tough 122 yards in While the his first
loss because ofhow much 
Dolphins, career NFL
it meant to us. It's tough 
Tim Couch
or colder, losing streak have tradi­Browns quarterback Sunday with 
tionally had trouble play­ing in wintry conditions, the Bills and Bledsoe are much more accustomed. 
"I've played in cold weather for a long time now, since high school," said Bledsoe, who grew up and played college football in eastern Washington, and spent his previous nine seasons in New England. "It never has been a real factor as far as throwing the ball. I've got big hands. I can throw the ball." 
Bledsoe finished 15-for-27 for 306 yards, breaking the game open by leading Buffalo on three consecutive touch­down drives in the second half. 
It was a prolific turnaround for a once-sputtering offense that produced 36 points in its previous three outings. It was also a historic performance. 
Buffalo's Eric Moulds, with 130 yards receiving, and Peerless Price, with 93 yards, each surpassed the 1,000 yard receiving mark. Travis Henry with 151 yards rushing, broke the 1,000-yard plateau. It marked the first time three players on the same team have done so in the same game. 
The Bills (6-6) ended a three-game losing streak while jumping back into the AFC East playoff race, inching within a game of the Dolphins (7-5). Miami fell into a tic with the New England Patriots. 
The New York Jets (6-5) could make it a three-way lie for first with a win at Oakland on Monday. 
The Dolphins, who lost quar­
a 13-6 win 
o v e r Cleveland, crippling the sloppy Browns' playoff chances. 
The Panthers (4-8), who 
began the season 3-0, won for 
the first time since Sept. 22 
and ended a string of futility 
that included all sorts of off­
field problems -the most 
notable being wide receiver 
Steve Smith's assault of team­
mate Anthony Bright during a 
film session. 
"So many bad things have 
happened to us," said tight 
end Wesley Walls, who scored 
the game's lone touchdown. 
"That made this one sweet, 
real sweet. This is our most 
satisfying win because of what 
we've been through." 
During the losing streak, Carolina lost four games by three points or fewer and had ·blown fourth-quarter leads in 
all four. 
"A bounce finally went our 
way," said cornerback Reggie 
Howard. 
Like so many of Cleveland's games in the past two seasons, this one had some controversy as officials waved off an apparent go-ahead TD by Browns wide receiver Kevin Johnson with 1 :57 remaining. 
The Browns (6-6) committed five turnovers and quarter­back Tim Couch threw three interceptions, including one on a bobbled ball that Carolina's Emmanuel McDaniel picked off with 1 :45 left. 
"This is a really tough loss because of how much it meant to us," Couch said. "It's tough to take." 


------~­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
Men 
continued from page 24 
"We didn't stay disciplined even when we made that come­back," Marquette coach Tom Crean said. "We used so much energy to come back, I don't think we had anybody th.at could play that many minutes." 
The score could have very easi­ly been much worse. Carroll only connected on 1-of-11 3-point attempts and generally struggled to find the basket all night. 
"We would have definitely had over a hundred," Carroll laughed about how high the score might have been. "It's a great sign when I don't shoot the ball too well and we still score 90 points. That says a lot about our team." 
The Irish held vaunted guard Dwyane Wade, who entered the game averaging 25.3 points, to 19 points on 7-of-19 shooting. Most of Wade's points came 

r 
against Notre Dame's defense. which used a zone for the first half, then switched to man-to­man in the second half. 
Nearly lost in Notre Dame's offensive flurry was the play of freshman Torin Francis. Francis, who struggled against Creighton and only played six minutes, was left to fend for himself down low, as the Irish used a lineup that featured four shooters. But Francis walked away with 13 rebounds. 
"We can make shots," Brey said. "We can put numbers up. We scored 91, but I think some guys thought we should have had more." 
Notes: 
. 
Former Irish forward David Graves, now playing with a Nike exhibition team, after a stint with the Chicago Bulls, attended Monday's game. 

Graves' team beat North Carolina, coached by former Irish coach Matt Doherty, in an exhibi­tion a month ago. But Graves broke his thumb about a month ago and hasn't played since, although he said he would be ready to play in a couple of weeks. 

. 
The Irish split their Thanksgiving break games, los­ing to Creighton 80-75 Tuesday but blowing out Albany 90-55 Saturday. 


Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu 
notice Thomas' spectacular line -32 points. 10 assists, 
Irish 
five rebounds, five turnovers. The 11,418 fans crammed
continued from page 24 
into the Joyce Center picking 
up the stat sheet might be sur­he drove to the basket, hesitat• prised the Irish guard didn't ed. drove again, hesitated have 32 assists. again, then tossed up an ugly With national television cam­shot as Todd Townsend eras invading the Joyce chopped his arm down like a Center, Thomas arguably cherry tree. played his finest game of the 
The ball dropped straight young season. He looked to through the net. pass before he shot. He creat­
Thomas jogged under the ed open shots for his team­basket and toward a jubilant mates with his dribble pene­bench, a smile on his face, tration. He swung the ball with 
three more  ease around  
points on his resume and  "They brought all kinds  the perime­ter.  
one foul left  ofdefensive players to  And when  
on the stat sheet. "They brought all  me. When I started getting rolling. I knew none ofthose guys could  the ball came back to him, Thomas  
kinds of defensive  guard me."  didn't hesi­tate to pull  
players at me," he said.  Chris Thomas  the trigger. Notre  
"When I  Irish guard  Dame lost to  

started get­ting rolling, I knew none of those guys could guard me." 
When the Irish lost their first game of the season to Creighton a week ago, Brey chastised his team for getting out of its half-court offense. Mistakes Brey saw the Irish make in blowout games early in the season manifested themselves to chew away Notre Dame's unbeaten record. 
So he told the Irish in gener­al, and Thomas in particular, to do what they do best -stay patient, pass the ball around, play unselfishly and wait for the shot to happen. 
"Just go ahead and give it up," Brey remembers telling Thomas earlier in the week. "You're gonna get it back." 
The casual observer who picks up a stat sheet the morn­ing after Notre Dame torched Marquette can't help but 
Call 259-1000 for more details 
"As You Wish" 'g'... ,,,, -WALLET
-PURSES 
-'--' -INCENSE . \ -HAMMOCKS
I t
mpor 5 .,, , 
-CHANGE PURSES 
LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY, SILVER RINGS AND lOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/BEDSPREADS AND MUCH MUCH MORE 
DIRECT IMPORTERS! LOW PRICES! 
UNIQUE CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Guatemala -Bollvla -Peru -Mexico -Thailand -India 
Lafortune Room 108 Dec. 2-7 (Sat.) 10·5pm 
Proc,,ede, from ,sales of]ewell)I ~uaran~ th,: lovln1 han,h; of Guatemalan famlll11., .3 tlm,,. th•lr ave111ge 681ary, as well a& func:ls for tn•lr edu~ailon. 
Give your car a winter break! 
Store Inside a secure space.. 
Reservations by email or phone. storage@sbwd.com 
574-239-1310 
Free ride to campus from warehouse! 
Creighton 
because the 
Irish tried to do too little on offense. In try­ing to rally their team, each individual player put the bur­den of responsibility on his shoulders. Thomas failed to create something out of noth­ing. Matt Carroll tried to force 3-pointers. Dan Miller rushed his shots. 
The result was a '1' in the 'L' column. 
Later that week, Brey called the three players into his office for a little conference. With Torin Francis struggling on the inside, Brey essentially told his squad that if they wanted to win. they had to help the other guys and not try to take the game over individually. 
"It wasn't selfishness on the part of Miller, Carroll and Thomas," Brey said. "It was we're young on that front line and [them thinking], 'We have to do it."' 

Notre Dame's strength lies in the play of its perimeter play­ers. Brey looking down his bench resembles an execution­er staring at a table of lethal tools, trying to decide which ones to use. 
When the Irish put Chris Quinn on the floor with Thomas, Carroll and Miller, Notre Dame has a potent group of shooters. The guard­heavy lineup the Irish used successfully against Marquette creates matchup problems on offense. They trade size for speed and run away with the advantage. 
And they take the focus off the post. This early in the season, much is already clear. 
Francis will emerge into a dominant player down low, but he needs time before he's ready to fill Hyan Humphrey's Orlando Magic-sized sneakers. 
If Notre Dame wants to make a run for a Big East title, their perimeter will have to form the foundation while the post is under construction. 
Although the Irish sharp­shooters will carry much of the offensive burden for the Irish, Notre Dame's sophomore point guard has to make solid on­court decisions. Any shooter shoots best when defenders are caught scrambling for position, something created by a fluid halfcourt offense involv­ing the entire team. 
Thomas' points will come no matter what he does. But by involving his teammates, he takes pressure off himself and his teammates at the same time. 
And that, as Monday night showed, will lead to great things for the Irish. 
The opinions expressed in this column are that ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Andrew Soukup at asoukup@nd.edu. 
Women 
continued from page 24 
35-20 in the second half. 
"[Success in the second half] was a combination of a lot of things," McGraw said. ''I'm excited because that was a great win on the road against a good team. That's a definite NCAA tournament team. I'm really pleased we were able to pull that out." 
Notre Dame also got a look at how a physical team 
-plays. The Irish 's first win over Cleveland State didn't prepare the team for the kind of game they had against USC. The Trojans bumped the Irish forwards around and their guards hand checked Notre Dame all night. But the experience of playing a team like use should help Notre Dame later in the season. 
"They were really physi­cal," Ratay said. "They real­ly crashed the boards and I think that caused some problems for us and kept them in the game. We haven't seen such an athlete team. I think we'll be ready for it now when we see it again." 
Borton agreed. 
"They play a really intense defense. they over play so it's different than some teams that we play," Borton said. "We had to step it up and counter their pressure defense and look for the backdoor and look what they would give us." 
The Irish have three games left on their current four-game road trip and will travel to Valparaiso to take on the Crusaders Wednesday. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 



Mr. Notre Dame 
The Life and Legend of Edward "Moose" Krause By Jason Kelly This new biography details the life of a gentle giant who roamed the Fighting Irish campus as a player, coach, athletic director and sports ambassador for over 50 years. $24.95 cloth • ISBN 1-888698-40-3 Diamond Communications 
Notre Dame Game Day 
Getting There, Getting In and Getting in the Spirit By Todd Tucker Foreword By Lou Holtz For the first time, Notre Dame fans have a travel book to call their very own -one tailored to making the most out of the home football game experience. $16.95 paper • b &w photos throughout ISBN l-888698-30-6 Diamond Communications 

l,oyal Sons and Daughters 
A Notre Dame Memoir By jean Lenz, OSF In 1972, after 125 years of all-male education, the University of Notre Dame went co-ed. Lenz, the rectress of the all-female dorm Farley Hall the first year gives readers a peek at life for the first class of women, and the men who welcomed them. $27.95 cloth• ISBN 0-7425-2274-l Rowman & Littlefield Publishers 
Signs of Grace 

Meditations on the Notre Dame Campus By Father Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. The perfect guide to a campus tour or a keepsake of the vivid picture of the spiritual side to Notre Dame. $19.95 cloth• ISBN 0-7425-2189-3 Rowman & Littlefield Publishers 

Tuesday, December 3, 2002 The Obseroer . SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Oklahoma State upsets Oklahoma again 
A.soci.a1cd l'rc:s. 
STILLWATEH. Okla. 

Hashaun Woods and Josh 
Fiolds did it to Oklahoma again. 
One year after ruining the Soonors' postseason plans with a late touchdown in Norman, Fields and Woods connected for three TDs as Oklahoma State pullud off a 38-28 upset of Oklahoma on Saturday. 
Woods had 12 catches for a school-record 226 yards. while Fields completed 18 of 27 passes for 357 yards and four touch­downs against the nation's ninth-ranked defense. 
"We played our best opponent; we played our best football," CowLoys coach Les Miles said. "Considering all of our big wins this year, this was undoubtedly our best 0110." 
Last year's 16-13 stunner by Oklahoma State cost Oklahoma a trip to the Big 12 title game, wlrnre a victory would have sent th1\ Sooncrs lo the national title garnn. Oklahoma (l 0-2. 6-2) came into this game with the South Division title sewn up, but the Sooners have no shot of playing for a national title. 
"Them are no excuses," Stoops said. 'They did an excel­lent job all around -their coaches and players -and just b1mt us." 
Oklahoma, which will play No. 13 Colorado for the Big 12 title next week in Houston. had no answer l'or Woods. 
lie caught TD passes of 41, 60 and 13 yards in the first half and had three catches on the Cowboys' first drive of the third quartur, when they took a 35-6 lead. Woods then had two more receptions on a clinching fourth­quarter drive that led to a field goal and a 38-21 lead. 
The Cowboys set the tone for the game by driving 64 yards for a touchdown on their lirst pos­session. Mixing the pass and run. the Cowboys drove to the 30 before Seymore Shaw broke free. lie fumbled at the 1, but receiver John Lewis picked it up and fell into the end zone for a touchdown. 
Oklahoma State needed just two plays to make it 14-0. After 
LOFT SHOW 

a personal foul put the ball at 
the Oklahoma 41, Woods got 
behind cornerback Andre 
Woolfolk on a post pattern and 
was wide open when he caught 
Fields' perfect pass. 
The Cowboys immediately seized the momentum back, going 71 yards in three plays for another touchdown -this one a 60-yard pass to Woods, who again burned Woolfolk. 
Oklahoma State . "8-6 
on a 13-yard pass from Fields to 
Woods midway through the sec­
ond quarter. The big play on the 
drive was the long completion to 
Bajema.. 
Oklahoma scored its final 
touchdown on a pass from Hybl 
to Tront Smith with 2:14 left, but 
couldn't recover the onside kick, 
and tho Cowboys ran out the 
clock. 
Florida State 31, Florida 14 
All of a sudden, the season doesn't seem so bad for Florida State. 
Taking advantage of his sec­ond chance, Chris Rix ran for 83 yards and threw two touch­downs to Anquan Boldin to help the Seminoles earn their biggest win of the year, 31-14 over Florida on Saturday night. 
"We finally looked like Florida State." a relieved coach Bobby Bowden said. 
Freshman tailback Leon Washington ran for 134 yards. Linebacker Kendyll Pope returned an interception for a touchdown. A week of turmoil melted away with a big post­game celebration, and a season of disappointments took a long­awaited positive turn for the Seminoles (9-4). 
On the other side, Ron Zook had no more luck in his first year than Steve Spurrier did in 12 seasons when it comes to winning at Doak Campbell Stadium. The Gators (8-4) still haven't won in Tallahassee since 1986. 
"I guess the streak continues," Florida offensive lineman Shannon Snell said. 
Florida's hopes grew dim with 10 minutes left in the third quarter when Grossman flipped a pass to tight end Aaron Walker. Walker tipped it into the 
CON¢ERT 
illiam 


hands of Pope, whose 13-yard interception return gave the Seminoles a 24-6 lead. 
A little later, Grossman, who finished with 303 yards, led the Gators on an 84-yard touch­down drive to cut the deficit to 
10. 
But Rix and Boldin answered with what might have been Florida State's best drive of the season. They connected for a 26-yard gain and for a 19-yard touchdown as part of an 80-yard drive that made the score 31-14 and turned the rest of the night into a Seminole celebration. 
It was an odd combination, considering Boldin was in McPherson's corner when Rix struggled earlier this season and several Seminoles were calling for a change. 
Arkansas 21, LSU 20 
Now LSU knows how it feels to lose on the last pass of the game, too. 
Matt Jones threw a 31-yard touchdown pass to DeCori Birmingham with 9 seconds left, and David Carlton made a long extra point to give Arkansas a 21-20 victory over the Tigers on Friday. 

The ending was nearly as stunning as LSU's win over Kentucky on Nov. 9, when Devery Henderson caught a 75­yard touchdown pass on the game's final play for a 33-30 victory. 
Arkansas scored twice in the last half of the fourth quarter to win the SEC's West Division title and advance to the conference title game against Georgia next Saturday in Atlanta. 
Trailing· 20-14 with 34 sec­onds left, the Razorbacks (9-3, 5-3 SEC) got the ball at their 19. Jones completed a 50-yard pass to Richard Smith on the first play. 
After an incompletion from the LSU 31, Jones found Birmingham in the back right corner of the end zone. The sophomore slipped behind Randall Gay and outleaped him for the ball. LSU's Travis Daniels was too late to break up the pass. 
"It was a triple post route and Matt threw it deep in the end zone and I just jumped up and made the catch," said Birmingham, who had only 14 receptions coming into the game. "I kind of gave (Gay) a lit­tle stick to make him think I was running a much shallower route. He bit for it so we went a little deeper." 

Arkansas was penalized 15 yards for excessive celebration, however, setting up a 35-yard extra point. Carlton's kick was plenty long enough, but it curved left and was barely good. 
Randall. who came off the bench in a 14-13 win over Ole Miss last week, completed four of six passes on the opening drive. Green caught his second pass of the season on a wide­receiver screen, and he turned it into a 67-yard touchdown with 
6:44 left in the first quarter. 
Jones tried to throw the ball where Smith could catch it in the back of the end zone, but Webster stepped in for his SEC­leading seven th interception. Arkansas made six first downs on the drive, which lasted 17 plays and took 8:10 off the clock. 
Arkansas responded by hold­ing LSU to three plays, and a 10­yard punt return by Birmingham gave the Razorbacks their best field posi­tion of the game at the Tigers 47. 
LSU didn't allow Arkansas to take advantage of that either, holding on three plays and forc­ing the Hazorbacks' third punt of the half. 
The Tigers took over at the 10 with 3:18 remaining and drove 58 yards in 10 plays to set up Corbcllo's 49-yard field goal on the last play of the half for a 10­0 lead. 

Friday Dec. 6 LaFortune 
allroom Free 
9 pm 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Aggies, Huskers, Cardinals fire coaches 
. Solcum fired after 6-6 season at Texas A&M 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION. Texas 

Texas A&M head coach R.C. Slocum, the winningest coach in Texas A&M history, was fired Monday after the Aggies went a disappointing 6-6 in the regular season, capped by a 50-20 loss to Texas. 
During his 14-year tenure as head coach, Slocum's 123 career wins were the most in school history. 
But A&M fans were disap­pointed that the Aggies have become less competitive in the Big 12 South -their 3-5 finish was their first losing record in league play since 1984. 
"It was with great sadness and disappointment that I learned today that I was being fired as the head football coach at Texas A&M," Slocum said in a prepared statement. 
"We had a season where we lost several close games that could have gone either way and no one was more disappointed than me with our record. However, we have some really outstanding young players and 1felt our future was bright," he said. 
In a statement, the school said A&M President Robert M. Gates asked Slocum to step down as head football coach Monday and assume the role of special adviser to the president. 
"Coach Slocum is one of the most respected and admired members of the Aggie family, and he has much still to offer the university he has served so long with rare integrity and skill," Gates said. 
Slocum, 58, was in the fourth year of a seven-year deal he signed in 1999 worth $1 million annually, including a base salary of $300,000. 
The rest of the package was to come from radio and televi­sion programs, a housing allowance, cars, a country club membership and shoe contract. 
Slocum leaves after a 6-6 sea­son that matched his worst 
. Lynch let go after unsuccessful tenure at Ball State 
Associated Press 
MUNCIE, Ind. 

Bill Lynch was fired as Ball State's football coach Monday after producing only two win­ning seasons in his eight years at the school. 
He will be reassigned to an unspecified job within the uni­versity for the final year of his contract, athletic director Bubba Cunningham said. 
Lynch had a 37-53 record at Ball State, with his only win­ning seasons coming in his first two years. The Cardinals lost 21 straight games in 1998-00, which at the time was the nation's longest losing streak. 
Ball State finished 6-6 this season after Saturday's 38-14 loss to Marshall. 
"Bill has brought in good students and good people," said Cunningham, who 
with the Aggies. A&M last post­ed a 6-6 record in 1996. 
He won four conference championships, including the Big 12 title in 1998. His overall record was 123-47-2. 
Slocum told players of the fir­ing at a team meeting earlier Monday. 
'Tm disappointed. He's a great guy and a great football coach and I hate to see that happen to him," senior line­backer Brian Gamble said. "The guy has been a father fig­ure for me for four, almost five years. To see him go is really disheartening." 
Slocum had to deal with his share of tragedy. Last week, freshman defensive lineman Brandon Fails died after col­lapsing in his dorm. He was the third Aggies player to die dur­ing his tenure. 
And in 1999, the campus was stunned when the log stack for the university's traditional bon­fire collapsed and killed 12 people and injured 27. That year, Texas A&M rallied in the second half for a 20-16 victory. 
Since a 30-26 win over then No. 1 Oklahoma, the Aggies lost in double overtime to Missouri, and closed the regular season with a loss to Texas. 
"Although disappointed with Dr. Gates' decision, I do recog­nize that the university has the right to decide who coaches the team," Slocum said. "I have spent 30 years of my life here and have deep feelings for Aggieland. I will cherish the memories of my many relation ­ships over the years with the students and former students of this university." 
Slocum had been a part of A&M's football operations all but one year since 1972, when he joined Emory Bellard's A&M staff as offensive end coach. 
Slocum was named A&M's defensive coordinator under Tom Wilson in 1979. In 1981, he left to be defensive coordi­nator at Southern California but returned to A&M the fol­lowing year when Jackie Sherrill became the Aggies' new coach. 
Slocum succeeded Sherrill in 1988. 
became athletic director in August. "However, we also expect to excel on the field. We have not achieved the suc­cess we had hoped we would." 
Telephone messages were left at Lynch's home and office. 
In 2001, the Cardinals fin­ished 5-6 overall and 4-1 in the Mid-American Conference West for a share of the divi­sion championship. Former athletic director Andrea Seger announced at the time that Lynch's contract would be extended to January 2004. 

NqRTHFAa
ai.iJ~ 
CUTPCST s ors 
Cold Weather Experts 
Sminutes from Campus 
Call 2s9-1000 for more details 
. Solich cuts 3 assistants, looks for new defensive coordinator 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Nebraska coach Frank Solich fired three of his defensive assistants and said Monday that he no longer will call the team's offensive plays. 
Defensive coordinator Craig Bohl, secondary coach George Darlington and rush ends coach Nelson Barnes were let go. 
The announcement came three days after the Cornhuskers finished their worst regular season in 41 years. With a 7-6 record, Nebraska barely became eli­gible for a postseason bowl game. 
Solich said he has not decided who will take his spot as offensive coordinator. Solich, like his predecessor Tom Osborne, had served in that role while also head coach. 
"We are taking the neces­sary steps to get this program turned back around," Solich said. 
He said hiring a new defen­sive coordinator is his top pri­ority. 
Solich said defensive line coach Jeff Jamrog and gradu­ate assistant Jimmy Burrow will handle the defensive game plan for the Cornhuskers' upcoming bowl game. Nebraska will accept a bowl invitation for an NCAA-record 34th straight year, probably to the Dec. 27 Mainstay Independence Bowl in Shreveport, La., against an opponent from the SEC. 

The university will honor all terms of the fired coaches' contracts, which run until June 30, 2004, and pay a combined $525,356. Bohl will receive $207,600, Darlington $179,120, and Barnes $138,6%. 
"We made some changes today that we think are in the best interest of the University of Nebraska, and I want you to know I support Frank Solich completely on those," repeatedly this season that he does not plan to retire. 
"To have been a part of one of the most dominant and respected programs in the history of the sport fulfills a boyhood dream," Darlington said. 
Bohl, who played for Nebraska from 1977-79, was promoted to defensive coordi­nator in 2000 after five years as the team's linebackers coach. He did not return a message left on bis phone by The Associated Press. 
Barnes, a former defensive line coach at Texas, had been Nebraska's rush ends coach 

athletic director Bill Byrne said. "We are taking the "We need to 
necessary steps to get 
turn this 

this program turned back
program around and around." we're going to do it." 
Frank Solich
Solich said 

Nebraska coach
firing three of his assis­tants wasn't since 1997. 
T h e Huskers are 7-8 in their past 15 games. Nebraska's once-feared Blackshirts defense has struggled since giving up 62 points 
easy. 

"I appreciate that these coaches have dedicated them­selves to this profession and this program, but we feel we need to move forward at this time," Solich said. 
Darlington was a Nebraska assistant for 30 years. Hired in 1973 in Osborne's first year as head coach, Darlington worked most of his career alongside Solich, who was an NU assistant for 19 years before being pro­moted to head coach in 1998. 
Darlington said Monday that he has enjoyed his career at Nebraska. He has said to Colorado near the end of last season. They gave up an average of 35 points in losses to four opponents ranked in the AP Top 25 this year. 
"The coaches can only do so much," rush end Trevor Johnson said. "Some changes needed to occur.... I think change is going to help us." 
Solich was one of only a dozen Division I-A head coaches who also served as offensive coordinator. The Huskers' offense has been criticized this season for being one-dimensional and lacking the physical power of past squads. 

Accepting Applications for Controller for Observer 
Sophomore Accounting Majors Need to contact Business Office 

or email: 
·/ewalski.1@nd.edu 
----~--­

AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 3, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVER WIRE SERVICES page 19 
• {<!(lift 

t:/ 5;i!,~;f*·•:: 
4,:.,.. ___ Co~n.~~treur 
5\,.,,,,,. =::l'ennessn A6:;::• \r~f!l!li :d(.
:: , · .:i~~:::1;~ ];iriir= ...­
lf !!~:;~.... 
H. r=~~;1:;:~]:i~li11111~i 
15 Arkansas 16 Texas. 17 Minnesota '" . ,,,. ,, 
1a Iowa stat• ... ·,lfn w->@. -~,s ·-w \w:: 
19 Boston Colle90 \ ::. . f;.o 
··· · ,230 · ,; 
~·· I~if.il(~,~,a,~ 
ti?am 

1 Aritona(31)
2 rem. 
3 Duke 
4 Plllibufilll 
5 Alabama/ 6 Orego1t · 7 Oklahoma a Maryland .. 
9 Florlda . 
1o Marquette 
11. Indiana 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 
19 
20 21 22 23 24 25 
:·\.:. 

....··.•. .-·,.=:-:::::. ........ '.'.'.\i;!il::rliti::-= 
\I [::;;!J:~i;l1!~t#\..;:;:,.. 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Ohio State vs. Duke 7 p.m., ESPN Penn State vs. Clemson 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 Purdue vs. Xavier 7:30 p.m., CH 11WHME 
MLB 


Associated Press new ballpark in 2004. 927 RBIs in a 12-year the Phillies in 2000 in the The Phillies agreed to a major-league career. trade that sent Curt $17 million, four-year con­Thome hit .304 with 118 Schilling to Arizona.
PHILADELPHIA 

tract with third baseman RBIs, 122 walks and a .445 The Indians won six divi­
Jim Thome, the most cov­

David Bell on Nov. 24. The on-base percentage last sion titles and went to the
eted hitter in the free-agent 

Phillies also have a $30 mil­season. He has hit at least World Series twice during
market, agreed Monday to 

lion, three-year offer out to 30 homers seven straight Thome's tenure. The
a six-year contract with the 

left-hander Tom Glavine, years and has driven in Phillies, meanwhile, are
Philadelphia Phillies, two 

the top free-agent pitcher. more than 100 runs in six coming off their 14th losing 
baseball officials said. 

Phillies general manager of the last seven seasons. season in 16 years. 
Thome, who hit a club­

Ed Wade wouldn't discuss While Bell takes over at Thome began his career
record 52 homers for the 

whether Thome had signed. third base from All-Star as a third baseman, but
Cleveland Indians last sea­

The 32-year-old Thome Scott Rolen, traded to St. moved to first when the
son, accepted a deal worth 

turned down a $60 million, Louis last summer, Thome Indians acquired Matt
about $87.5 million, one of 

five-year offer from the replaces Rolen's power in Williams before the 1997
the officials said on the con­

Indians, the only team he the middle of a lineup that season. Thome hit 40
dition of anonymity. 

has played for since he was includes Bobby Abreu and homers in 1997, 49 in
For the deal to become 

a 13th-round pick in the Pat Burrell. 2001. Though he has had
final, Thome must pass a 

1989 amateur draft. The Thome's arrival signals some back trouble, Thome
physical. 

left-handed hitting first the end of Travis Lee's time has played at least 146
Philadelphia is aggres­

baseman has a .287 batting as Philadelphia's starting games in six of the last
sively trying to improve as 

average, 334 homers and first baseman. Lee came to seven seasons.
it prepares to move into its 
IN BRIEF 

Warner out for at least 2 against the Kansas City Chiefs, with his frustration over the losing streak, games Marc Bulger -5-0 as an emergency Jordan said: "Both." 
Kurt Warner's throwing hand is starter this season but now hampered broken, and he will miss at least the by a sprained index finger on his Fiedler to start against Bears St. Louis Rams' next two games. throwing hand -as the backup. Dolphins quarterback Jay .Fiedler 
Coach Mike Martz ordered Warner will start next Monday night against to have his right hand X-rayed Jordan back in starting line­the Chicago Bears after sitting out six 
Monday after the quarterback insist­up weeks with a broken right thumb. ed several times during a meeting The doubts about the knees are Ray Lucas, who started at quarter­that he is fine. The exams showed a gone. Michael Jordan has made his back Sunday, underwent an MHI hairline fracture, which won't require inevitable return to the starting line­exam Monday. but results will not be 
surgery. Warner could play, in theo­up, and he's there to stay. available until Wednesday. ry. but Martz said the pain is too The experiment that had Jordan Lucas was knocked out of the game 
strong. coming off the bench for the in the third quarter with a deadened 
The two-time NFL MVP appeared to Washington Wizards went on the nerve in his shoulder and neck. have trouble gripping the ball in shelf for good Saturday night against Fiedler played in the third and Sunday's 10-3 loss to the Eagles. He Philadelphia. Jordan will start again fourth quarters in a 38-21 loss to the fumbled trying to tuck the ball in, and Tuesday against Milwaukee and plans Buffalo Bills in the snow Sunday. He 
also lost control of the ball trying to to do so as long as his body holds up. reported no lingering problems with pass. Jordan and coach Doug Collins the thumb despite throwing an inter­
Against Philadelphia. Warner threw agreed that he wasn't ready to start ception on a wobbly pass. two interceptions and lost his third at the beginning of the season The loss ended the Dolphins' two­fumble of the season. He has three because he had rested his knee so game winning streak and dropped touchdown passes and 11 intercep­much over the summer and had their record to 7-5. Miami is in a tie tions in going 0-6 as a starter in 2002. played so little in the preseason. for first place in the AFC East with 
Martz said backup quarterback Asked if his desire to start was the New England, while Buffalo is a game Jamie Martin will start next weekend result of his knees feeling better or behind at 6-6. 
-------------------------------------------, page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, Deceinbcr 3, 2002 
MENS SOCCER 
Hoosiers end Irish season with 1-0 victory 
By BRYAN KRONK 
Sports W ricer 
One trend this season for the Notre Dame mens soccer team was rather odd: In its two pre­vious games this season in which a player was ejected for receiving a red card. the eject­ed player's team -in both cases. not the Irish -won the game. 
That streak was broken Wednesday night, as the ejec­tion of Irish midfielder Justin Ratcliffe with 27 minutes remaining forced the Irish, already trailing to Indiana 1-0, to play 10-on-11. 
The Irish were unable to overcome both deficits, and fell to the Hoosiers in the seco.nd round of the NCAA Tournament in Bloomington. 
"I thought it was a very com­petitive game," said Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark. "We are very disappointed, because I thought we con­trolled large parts of the game." 
The Irish seemed to control much of the early part of the first half of the match. culmi­nating in a scoring opportunity by midfielder Kevin Goldthwaite that went just wide, as well as an 18-yard shot by midfielder Greg Martin that was just barely saved on a dive by Indiana goalie Jay Nolly. 
However, after this early stretch that saw the Irish defense hold the Hoosiers without a shot, the Irish offense fell silent for a long stretch that lasted well into the second half. 
Indiana finally got onto the scoreboard at the 51:03 mark, as midfielder Ned Grabavoy knocked a lead pass to ·Brian Plotkin standing at the edge of its offensive penalty area. Plotkin -the Big Ten's Rookie of the Year -chipped a shot over charging Irish goalie Chris Sawyer to put the Hoosiers ahead. 
The goal was Plotkin's first of the season. 
"It was almost like a slap in the face to dominate a team like that and not come out with a victory," Sawyer said. "If we can take anything out of it, we can feel good about the way we played. But I know this team expected to go further." 
The Irish then became more aggressive on the offensive side of the ball, which led to the red card on Ratcliffe. With 
27:37 left, Ratcliffe was ejected for a hard tackle on the Irish offensive side of the field, and the Irish were forced to play a man down for the rest of the game. 
"He's an incredibly passion­ate player and we all realized he was just doing everything he could to help the team and it just didn't go in his favor," Sawyer said. "We really admired his passion all season so you really got to hand it to the kid and feel for him after a game like that." 
Without its senior captain at midfield, the Irish struggled, yet still managed some late scoring attempts. In the 89th minute, defender Jack Stewart led a late charge deep into Indiana's end of the field and booted a solid shot that sailed just wide of the net. 
With the victory, the Hoosiers advanced to the 


NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Observer 

Irish forward Rafael Garcia avoids a tackle during Notre Dame's victory over Akron in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. The Irish lost to Indiana Wednesday 1-0. 
Sweet 16 of the NCAA down to 10 men." be. Tournament to face off with The win also extended "We played here last year Connecticut. Indiana's home unbeaten and won 1-0. but I felt that we 
"The hard thing was after streak to 13 games, dating actually controlled more of the the ejection, when we went back to the middle of last year, game this year," Clark said. down to [playing with] 10 when the Irish knocked off the "It's a great in-state rivalry men," Clark said. "To play Hoosiers. and we love to play here." Indiana is a tough enough task With last year's win, the Irish when you are 11 versus 11. felt they had a slight edge over But I was really proud of how previous Hoosier opponents. Contact Bryan Kronk at 
bkronk@nd.edu 


Fathers Bill Miscamble, C.S.C. and Pat Neary, C.S.C. at Moreau Seminary. 
...Providing leadership to the Next Generation. 

www.nd.edu/"'vocation 
ANSWER ~ 
THECALL '<J:/ 

Ifyou are ready for 
something different... rbados is waiting for you! Legendary beaches and fantastic nightlife makes Spring Break in Barbados · c-, -.: unforgettable 
To my Notre Dame Leaf Raking Angels 
Erin Cushing Allie DePaola Austin Fazio Conor O'Brien John Sarson 
Just in time! Thank You 


page 21

Tuesday, December 3, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS 
VOLLEYBALL 
NCAA awards Notre Dame tournament site 
TIM KACMAR/The Observer 

Sophomore outside hitter Emily Loomis goes for the ball during a match earlier In the season. The Irish won their third straight Big East Conference Tournament championship on November 24th. 

Coleman-Morse Center• 631-7800 www.nd.edu/~ministry 
M!-d-av_______ 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 
Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
10:00 -11 :00 p.m. Morrissey H all Chapel 
IMdav 
807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 
Las Posadas Celebration 
7:30 p.m. Traditional Posadas procession around campus with food, fun and fellowship to follow. Procession will start from the Hesburgh Library. 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday-Saturday Fatima Retreat Center 
Freshman Retreat #44 
Friday-Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Retreat Center 

RCIA Session 
10:00-11 :30 a.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge 
RCIA -Rite of Welcome 
11 :30 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Spanish Mass 
1:30 p.rn. Zahm Hall Chapel 
Law School Mass 
5:00 p.m. Law School Chapel 
Advent Lessons and Carols 
7:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
MBA Mass 
7:00 p.m. Mendoza College of Business Chapel 

Rejoice! Mass 
10:00 p.m. Coleman-Morse Chapel Celebrant: Fr. J. Steele, csc 

Feast of the Immaculate Conception 
11 :30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rehearsals to Sing at the Basilica this Advent and Christmas 
7:00-8:45 p.m. 329 Coleman-Morse 

Pick up applications for these retreats in Room 114 of the Coleman-Morse Center or check with your Rector. 
NDE Retreat #74 Retreat Date: January 31-February 2 
Sign-up dates: December 2-6, 2002 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Campus Ministry Retreats • 631-6633 
. Irish face College of Charleston in first round Saturday 
ByMATTLOZAR 
Sports Writer 

After winning its third con­secutive Big East Conference Tournament championship Nov. 24, the Irish were rewarded over the weekend by being named a host of the lirsl and second rounds of Lhe NCAA Tournament. 16th­seeded Notre Dame (23-7) will play College of Charleston (29-5) Saturday at 6 p.m. 
The College of Charleston won lhe Southern Conference and is making its first appearance in the NCAA Tournament. The Irish have never faced the Cougars. 
The Cougars have won 22 straight matches -the sec­ond longest active streak in the country. 
The Irish are currently on a 
35-game winning streak at 
home. including a win over 
ninth-seeded Pepperdine on 
Sept. 14. 
Notre Dame last hosted a 
NCAA Tournament game in 
1996 losing to Ohio State in 
the second round after 
dcfeating llofstra in the first 
round. 
Overall. the Irish are 8-1 at 
home in the NCAA 
Tournament. 
The Irish enter the NCAA Tournament after sweeping Miami and Connecticut in the semifinals and finals of the Big East Tournament. respec­tively, en rouie to earning an automatic bid. 
The Irish won their seventh conference title overall. 
Michigan State (19-11) and George Mason (22-7) will play in the first semifinal Saturday at 4 p.m. 
The Spartans are partici­pating in their ninth straight NCAA Tournament and fin­ished fifth in the Big Ten. George Mason won the Colonial Athletic Association and has not qualified for the NCAA Tournament since 1996. The Patriots and Spartans have never played each other. 
Saturday's winners will play at 4 p.m. on Sunday. The winner of that game should face number one seed USC in the regional semifinals next weekend. 
In last season's NCAA Tournament, Notre Dame was eliminated in the first round by Michigan State 3-1. 
The Irish have not 
advanced past the second 
round since making it to the 
regionals in 1995. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

page 22 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, December 3, 2002 

[>R1cEWATfRHOUsE@JPERS I 
VOTED •1 IDEAL EMPLOYER BY BUSINESS STUDENTS, UNIVERSUM UNDERGRADUATE STUDY, 2002 
Investors need to be able to trust the information that companies supply to the public. Help us audit that information and we' II help you build a career. 
For opportunities and information go to: 
www.pwcglobal.com/lookhere 
Look beyond the numbers. 

Tuesday, December 3, 2002 The Observer . TODAY · page 23 

JACK MONAHAN 
Stop weezin' theJu-uuuice 
Oh, that Paulie. 
I 

SCHOOL DAZE 
HAPPY TOWN 
Hey, Encino Man is on! 
\ 
.... 
CLARE O'BRIEN 
JUMBLE 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinar words. 
FLEAB 

I CADETH 
1 
• www.jumble.com

t~YNTIG t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: A "( I I )" l 1 I I I I J (Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: JUROR YODEL INTENT PLURAL Answer: What the bully did when he got into a "jam" ­TURNED TO JELLY 
Stumped? Call 1-900-776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Great! That'll REALLY slim you down 
~ 

WHAT SHE: GWE: HE:!< DIE:TING HU5~AND WHE:N 
HE HAD A 
MIDNIGHT SNAC..K. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 "Sharp Dressed Man• band
1 Immunizations 6 Places for tents 36 Spring in the 
Sahara

11 HBO rival 
40 "Of course" 

14 "The Planets" 
43 Dined at home

composer 44 Holy radiances
15 Golden­(oldster~ 45 Bake sale organizer, for
16Ad-_ 
short

17 Nebraska's 
46 Costa Sol

largest city 48 Hectic hosp.
18 "Of course" 
areas 

20 'Of course" 
49 Letters akin to

22 Memorial Day 
P.D.Q.

weekend event, 
50 Asian shrines

for short 54 Drum locale
23 Fork providers?: Abbr. 56 Baseball's Jesus
24 Leather from the sea 57 "Of course" 26 Float gracefully 63 "Of course" 29 Old Mideast 65 Confused inits. 
66 Fraction of a 32 Beehives and joule others 
67 Replays may be 33 "Honesr man played in it 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
OAFS COLDS WHET 
S W A p O N 5 E T H y D E CARE STALE EPIC A R M E D T O T H E T E E T H 

1-:-<~-,,+.,,+-+::-t.,._ 
F 5 
~~,;.;,,i.~~ 

~~~~-i,.;.;~~.,,,. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
68 Newly waxed 69 Fish eggs 70 Family car 71 Upscale hotel 
room features 
DOWN 
1 Booted? 2 Web browser button 3 Regal Norwegian 
name 4 Underwear top 5 Request when 
the national anthem is played 
6 Play group 7 Malaria symptom 8 Haggard of country music 9 Victimized, with "on· 10 Speedy jet to 
J.F.K. 11 Move sinuously 12 Language of 
Delhi 
13 Future mom's doc 19 Condemn from 
the peanut 
gallery 21 Trooper maker 25 Untethered 26 "S.N.L." 
character Baba 
27 Some 28 Grand banquet 30 "_boy!" 31 Court game 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puule by MlchHI Shtey11111n  
34 Like land in a  47 Apt to change  55 Pile up  
city  49 Franklin with  58  mater  
35 Petted pet's sound 37 Doesn't guzzle  soul 50 Harness racer 51 Oldsmobile  59 City on the Rhone  
38 Small quantity  model  60 Like  
39 •_ out of it!"  52 Mountain  61 Hawaiian bird  
41 Avoided a dragnet  climber's obstacle  62 Simon  
42 Painting holder  53 Church council  64 Ninny  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puule and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.oom/diversions ($19.95 a year) . Crosswords for young solvers: The Leaming Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ 
Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIF5 BOR'I ON TIIIS DAY: Ozzy Osbowne, Andy Williams. Brendan 
n=r,Duy) Hamm 

Happy Birthday: You will be ulral of your lirre aJXI cenainly light years in fimt of the crowd Your ability to wreel and deal will amaze lh= around yoo, but don't be too eager to get involved in joint ventures. Focus on yourself and your own advanccnxnt !hisµ. Yrurrurrmsare 1215,28.31,35.44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may not want to deal with the problems facing cxhers. however. don't be too quick to refuse. Rcwanls can be yours if you leoo a helping haJXI. *·irldrlc TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your partrer may be justifiably jealous if you have been spending loo much tim, away from horre. Career advancenxnt will be yours if you're willing to pay the pnce. Only you know if the price is too high. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Romance will be plentiful. but don\ gel involved with sorreore at wm. Meet )XXllle through friends er groups you are involved with Iui\ leaJ scmxre oo ifyou mm\ cml)Jctely sure how you feel. -1ctt CANCER (June 21-July 22): Yoo atn enjoy the oompany of sorreorc you coosidcr to re spocial, however, you sbouldn\ feel the necessity to pay his er her wuy if you really can\ affml to. Rem,mber that you want this pe=n to apixecialc you fer you. **'* LEO (July 2.1-Aug. 22): You will have a tcndeocy to take unoo:essary risks that could end in disasta. Think befcre you leap. Don't let som,ore you love good you into doing lhingsyrn'drrefernottoch H*** 
VIRGO (Aug, 23-SepL 22): Social activity will open up romantic possibilities as well as bring you in touch with individuals who can lead you to a higher pa;ition. Take :dv-dltl,ge ofthe rmny CW(l1Unities Iha! ,i,, av-Jilable. -lrtt* LIBRA (SepL 2.l-Oct. 22): Concentmte on your wcrk; lovers will only interfere with yoor being able lo uccomplish yoor oojectives. Yoo haven't been seeing things too clearly al an emoliooal level. Your time would be better spent focusing on your career. *'** SCORPIO (Oct. 2.1-Nov. 21): Depression due lo a donxstic problem is quite likely. Direct your effcrts into your work. The present starts now. so move forward with qxirrism. -lctt SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be able to charm the world, but you had better have some concrete answers when dealing with authority figures. Lies will careto:k to lwnt yru Make StDe yoursanres are am1m1e. tt CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Romantic connections can be made through social er organizational ocquainlances. Get out and interact with a variety of JXXllle. You can ~pcµimty ifyou voo:ah.urunilarian qjnim -1ctt AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Ffb. 18): Ifyru rave aJmllem with aliiend er loved one, seek sound advice from sonxone you respect. You may be deceiving ycmelf, sodosare soul~. tttt PISCF.S (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional mishaps may lead to an estmngenxnl with sonrone you care about. Direct your energy into physical activities. You will re abr ID lUffll)llih agreat cbJl ifyou (lll your nind to iL tt 
Birthday Baby: You will be a self-starter. You will be engaging, entertaining and an excellent cmvers.lirnalist You will know how to WCJk aauwd aJXI lnw to gJ:t what yru wura. 
Oxck out Eugenia's Web Sites al astroadvice.com, eugenialast.cooi. astromale.com. 
COPYRIGHTnl2 UNNOOALPRFSS SYNDICA'JE 

PORTS 
Tuesday, December 3, 2002 
MENS BASKETBALL 
Golden Boy 

. Irish knock off No. 10 Marquette with 92-71 win 
By ANDREW SOUKUP Sport, W ricer 
When the Irish basketball team walked in to the locker room before Notre Dame played No. 10 Marquette Monday night, they noticed a small surprise waiting for them in their lockers. 
Printed on a sign hanging from their lockers, Irish players saw a list of all the ranked teams that ha.d fallen this season with the score after each game. At the bot­tom of the list, Notre Dame and Marquette was printed with question marks taking the places of scores. 
It didn't take the Irish long to turn those question marks into exclamation points. 
Behind 32 points from Chris Thomas and a 50 percent shoot­ing performance from the field, the renewal of the Notre Dame­Marquette rivalry quickly turned into a blowout as the Irish humili­ated the Golden Eagles 92-71 on national television. 
... "Quite frankly, what do rank­ings mean right now?" Irish coach Mike Brey asked after the game. "I don't really know. I put all of the so-called upsets up. Why not us?" Why not Notre Dame, indeed. Less than a week after the Irish lost their first game of the season to Creighton, a game Brey said the Irish walked away from con­vinced they had to adjust their style of play, Notre Dame put on 
their most impressive offensive output of the young season in a renewal of one of the school's fiercest rivalries. 
The Irish used a strong half­court game to spread the ball around the perimeter, and they played a lineup that included Thomas, Matt Carroll, Dan Miller, Torin Francis and Chris Quinn to spread the Golden Eagles' defense out. 
The result an Irish shooting clinic put on for the benefit of Golden Eagles. Miller finished with 20 points, Carroll had 14, Quinn had 12 and Francis had 11. 
"We got tons of open looks," said Thomas, who also finished with 10 assists. "You give our team tons of open looks, we'll make most ofthem." 
With the score tied at 11, the Irish reeled off seven unanswered points to take a 18-11 lead. After the Golden Eagles scored a lay­up, the Irish proceeded to score on 11 of their next 14 offensive possessions, turning a tight game into a 42-26 blowout. 
Marquette didn't back down. Slowly but surely, they chipped away at Notre Dame's lead. Finally, when Chris Thomas picked up his fourth foul with 
9:28 left and Travis Diener made both free throws, the Golden Eagles had closed the margin to 67-63. 
But that was as close as the vis­itors would get. Keyed by a trio of Thomas 3-pointers, the Irish went on a 25-8 run to close out the Golden Eagles. 
see MEN/page 16 


. Thomas' 32 points key balanced attack 
Marquette had just cut a 16­point deficit to four points. The Golden Eagles couldn't miss a shot. Chris Thomas had just picked up his fourth foul. And more than nine min­utes remained. 
Yet Mike Brey didn't think about pulling his sensational sophomore for a sec­ond. 
Sure, Notre Dame's Sports Writer point guard had picked up four points and three fouls in a seven-minute span in the sec­ond half. 
But Brey figured that Thomas had played enough basketball to know how to play with four fouls. 
"I thought in the back of my mind that I had to stay in the game for us to win," Thomas said. 
Flash forward seven more minutes. 
Thomas, who had only left the game for a minute's rest, dribbled the ball around the perimeter, trying to kill time. As the shot clock wound down, 

see IRISH/page I 6 

WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Irish win first road victory of season at USC 
"That put us up ten and we felt and [USC] is a good team ... about her quite a bit at half­Severe lay-up with 15:07 left in By JOE HETTLER that was going to be enough they played a good game and time," McGraw said. "I don't the game. Five minutes later,
Associate Sports Editor 

cushion. [Ratay's] a veteran we did too, so it's exciting to know how many she got in the Borton's layup gave Notre 
LOS ANGELES player and someone we can win." second half but I thought we Dame its biggest lead of the 
Megan Duffy provided the count on in the clutch situa­Ratay led the Irish with 22 did a much better job." game to that point, at 52-45. dagger, and Alicia Ratay drove tion." points, and .Jacqueline Batteast Notre Dame cut the Trojan After a USC timeout, the it through the Trojans' heart. With the win, Notre Dame (2-added 14 points and 11 lead to 13-9 before finally Trojans cut the Irish lead to 
Duffy assisted Ratay's 3-0) gained its first road victory rebounds. grabbing their first lead of the three, but Duffy's layup and a pointer with 4:55 left in the of the young season. The Irish Notre Dame looked lost as game at 15-13 with 13:36 pair of free throws from Katy game that gave Notre Dame a didn't win on the road until the game started and quickly remaining in the first half. Flecky pushed it back to seven 10-point lead, and helped the Jan. 2 last season. fell behind 11-2. Trojan for­The game see-sawed for the points at 56-49. Irish hold off a physical use "This is a big deal for us," ward Rachel Woodward tallied rest of the half, until USC went The teams then exchanged team 69-57 Friday night at the said Teresa Borton, who with nine of USC's first 11 points. on a small 9-5 spurt and took a field goals before Ratay nailed Los Angeles Sports Arena. her 10 points was one of five She ended the first half with 16 37-34 lead into intermission. the pivotal 3-pointer. 
"I think that was the turning Notre Dame players who points. The Irish came out strong in Notre Dame outscored USC point of the game," Notre Dame scored in double figures. "I'm ''Woodward had a phenome­the second half and overtook coach Muffet McGraw said. so excited to win on the road nal first half and we talked USC 42-41 on a Le'Tania see WOMEN/page 16 

VOLLEYBALL 
MENS SOCCER 
FOOTBALL 
WOMENS BASKETBALLMENS BASKETBALi. 

After winning their third 
Indiana 1 

Notre Dame 92 Notre Dame 69
USC44 
straight Big East Conference 
Notre Dame 0 
Notre Dame 13 

Marquette 71 USC 57 
Tournament on Nov. 24, the Irish secured a host position A goal by Indiana's Brian 
Notre Dame struggled to 

Chris Thomas scored 32 
Alicia Ratay helped fend in the second round of the 
Plotkin sinks the Irish in the 
keep up with the Trojan 

points to help the Irish upset off a ferocious USC attack. 
NCAA Tournament. 
second round of the NCAA offense. 

No. 10 Marquette. Tournament. 
back pagepage 21 page 20 
Irish Insider 

back page 




