
VOL. XXXVII NO. 62 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Senate passes resoluton in support of bike program 
ator. presented a resolution to sup­
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
port the SBOBRT's efforts to 
Asmrant News Editor 
become a chili. The University previouslySr.nators passed three resolu­
banned the rugby club twice for tions Wednesday to support a bike 
misconduct before any of the cur­d(!posit program, the South Bend 
rent members joined the team,Old Boys Hugby Team and the said Williams. Williams met with Sexual Assault Awareness poster. Bill Kirk. assistant vice president
Jeremy Lao, sophomore class for Hesidence Life and said Kirk prr.sidcnt. and Matt Kinsella, did not dislike the rugby team but sophomore class treasurer, pre­was not in favor of granting it club 
sented thn rnsolution for a bike 
status. 
deposit program. Lao initially 
"We have four years here and it included a community bike pro­hw1.s the current people t.o wait for gram on his platform when he ran 
the institutional memory to die for sophomorn class president and 
down," said Williams. 
researched progra..ms at other col­
After many revisions, the Senate legr.s with similar programs. The 
approved the Sexual Assault resolution said the progrn.m will 
Awareness poster. Courtneyprovidr. students with refurbished Kohout, chair of the Diversity com­low-cost bikes and asked for a one 
mittee, discussed the poster with and a half year trial period. 
Kirk and the Sexual Assault The program will begin next 
Advisory Committee approved the spring and students may rent a 
poster. The poster will be sent bike and lock from Notre Dame 
back to Kirk for review and Security/Police for $25. At the end Residence Llfe will provide funding of the semester, students who 
for the project, said Trip Foley, stu­return their bikes will receive a 
dent body vice president. $15 refund, said Lao. The remain­The poster will be laminated and ing $10 will be used for mainte­
printed in teal, the color for sexual nance purposes. assault awareness. Posters will be learning opportuties at Notre and others should look at," said for individuals with problem solv­
Lao said he and Hex Rakow, provided for each dorm's bath­Dame. Distance learning is cur­Brenner. ing, communication, writing, lead­director of NDSP discussed the rooms and RA's rooms. In rently offered for a business MIS . Joanna Cornwell, chair of the ership and critical thinking skills. program and Rakow gave him a response to concern that the course, said Brenner. Ethics Committee, said her com­"With a Notre Dame education if tentative thumbs-up. "All of these posters would be torn down, Staley said distance learning mittee met Wednesday to discuss you are focused you will he suc­details aren't tentative, but they Kohout said, "It is better to try than would provide additional opportu­the attendance policy and said, cessful," he said. will be worked out," said Lao. to not try at all." nities for abroad students who "We feel there is no issue that we . Jason McFarley, editor in chief 
NDSP collected abandoned or needed to take courses at the need to pursue at this point." ofThe Observer, submitted a letter lost bikes to use in the program In other Senate news: Notre Dame campus in Indiana. . Lee Svete, director of the Career to Senate regarding disclosure of and will maintain the bikes for stu­. Dave Brenner, Dillon Hall sena­"The lack of knowledge and lack of Center, provided information about information. Several senators 
dents throughout the year for free. tor, presented a letter to Senate willingness to explore distance the career center and its services. Sean Williams, St. Ed's Hall sen-regarding the need for distance learning that we feel Provost Hatch Svete said companies are looking see SENATE/page 6 
ND seniors share home and hearts with reformed convicts 
campus houses. Wasmuth and have been able to integrate their
By TERESA FRALISH 
Sturm share their home with academic lives and Dismas expe­
Assistant News Editor 
other former offenders who come riences smoothly. from South Bend and other areas "We have our own room that 
The house at 521 South St. throughout the Midwest to live in we can relax in," said Wasmuth. Joseph Street looks much like any the diverse community called "I usually find myself hanging out other ofT-campus student house. Dismas House. here with other residents." In many ways, Notre Dame "Basically our mission is recon­When they first choose to live at seniors Sally Wasmuth and ciliation and to be a community Dismas, residents agree to abide Lauran Sturm, who live in num­and to be positive. The way we by seven house ground rules that ber 521, arc typical college stu­bring the offender together with include refraining from the use of dents -they balance classes, society is across a dinner table," drugs and alcohol and smoking projects, work, and consider the said Maria Kaczmarek, director outside the house. ever present question of what of the house since 1996. As part "Everybody has a chore," said they arc going to do after gradua­of their commitment to living at Kaczmarek. "We do have a tion. Dismas House, all residents agree Tuesday night meeting that 
But when friends come to visit to make a strong effort to attend everyone attends where we can these Notre Dame seniors, they the evening meal at 6:30 Monday work on any kind of problems." encounter a spucial community through Thursday. In addition to Wasmuth and uniquely different from most off-Wasmuth and Sturm say they Sturm who live at the house per­

manently, many service groups from Notre Dame and the larger South Bend community come to prepare meals at Dismas and share their lives with the resi­dents since South Bend's Dismas House was first organized in the call ofjustice." a year-long commitment this fall 1986. The halfway house for former to live at the house while attend­
"How many bank presidents prisoners is sponsored by Dismas ing classes, although students can would sit down with a former of Michiana, part of the national commit for either a semester or a offender? But here they do," organization Disrnas Inc., a pro­year. Initially, other service activi­Kaczmarek said. gram begun in 197 4 that seeks to ties and previous visits to the 
In addition to cooking meals, help former prisoners integrate house led Sturm and Wasmuth to Notre Dame students have themselves back into society. consider living at Dismas during offered support to the Dismas Kaczmarek, a full time Dismas their last year in college. Strum. program in a wide variety of staff member, works to coordi­who is from the South Bend arna, ways. "They've bought TVs and nate the experiences of all the helped cook dinner for the refrigerators," said Kaczmarek. residents and bring students and Dismas residents one evening, an "When we have a need they've former offenders to live at the experience that she said sparked responded. The students at Notre home. Dame have always responded to Both Notre Dame seniors made see HOME/page 4 





Thursday, November 21, 2002 
page2 The Observer . WHAT'S UP 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Family ties keeg.spiritalive 

While I celebrate the success of the Notre Dame football team I have another team to be proud of this year. Making strides this year is Scecina Memorial High School's football team, which just hap­pens to be my Sarah Nestor alma mater. 
Scecina, a small Catholic school in Saint Mary's Indianapolis, was Editor not expected to do much of anything this year but has continually stunned their competition. Beating much larger schools from across Indiana my small little school from the city has made it to the semistate game. This Saturday Scecina takes on Southridge and is only two victories away from a state championship. 
No. I'm not one of those people obsessed with the "good ol' high school days" but having a sister who is cur­rently a sophomore at Scecina has allowed me to keep a link alive. This link to my high school has drastically changed since I graduated, but is maintained through my sister. This is especially true in regards to the foot­ball team since my sister Susan is a cheerleader, ensuring that I have to make it to at least one game. This is so I can both cheer her on and tease her. Believe me if you ever had to see her struggle to do a push up after the team scores, then you would make fun of her too. 
But as she strives to balance home­work, cheerleading, choir, student gov­ernment and what seems like a million other things it is fun for me to be able to share my experiences and wisdom [yes I am very wise] with my sister. Imparting knowledge about which teachers to avoid, especially the ones who charge you a dollar for having your shirt untucked, [remember this is a Catholic school with uniforms] and that a lunch should be packed every­day, because hot lunches from the cafeteria can be a little shady (as in unidentifiable]. 
Being the older sister I've never had to deal with being associated or com­pared to a sibling, as I got to be the first to have the new experiences. but for my sister this has not been true. Especially annoying to her is when she is accidentally called by my name in class. It's not even like my sister and I look a lot alike, she's four inches short­er than me, with dark hair and eyes, basically the complete opposite of me. 
One thing she has had that I never did while I attended Scecina was a successful football season and as my sister and her classmates experience the ups and downs of high school I can only hope that this weekend gives Scecina students, present and past, lasting memories. 
Good luck Scecina Crusaders! 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Sarah Nestor at nest9877@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In Tuesday's story, "CLC addresses The Paiietals Question." Andrea Brault ofWalsh Hall was mis­

i 
takenly identified as Andrea Barton ofWalsh Hall.i I The Observer regrets the error. The Observer regards itself a-5 a professional publica­
I 
tion and strive, for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rime•. We do, however, recognize rhar we 
~ will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please i:ontact us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
WHAT'S INSIDE  
CAMPUS NEWS  WORLD& NATION  BUSINESS NEWS  VIEWPOINT  SCENE  SPORTS  
SMC holds fair to promote study abroad opportunities  Bush challenges NATO to stand firm toward Iraq  United Union yields concessions  Walk with two feet of service  Hollywood films reviewed  Irish sign another top class  
A fair will be held on Saint Mary's campus today to feature information on both current and new abroad pro­grams.  President Bush addressed the Prague Atlantic Student Summit and urged NATO members to stand firm against Saddam Hussein.  United machin­ists agreed to a $1.5 billion wage and benefit cut in order to help the airline keep away from bankruptcy.  An abroad columnist writes about the homeless situation in London and how a simple idea and a Big Issue have given opportunities to the needy.  Scene takes a look at the movies "Frida," "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets" and "8 Mile."  The Irish baseball program signed nine high school seniors to letters of intent because of the momentum the program has had since last year.  
page 3  page 5  page 7  page 12  page 14  page 28  

WHAT'S HAPPENING @ ND 
. 
Lecture: "An Anrnrican Paradox. A First IIand Account of Justice on Death How," with Sheila Murphy. 4 p.m. in the 1lcsburgh Center Auditorium. 

. 
Lecture: "William Blake: Irish Visionarv. I lis lnl1ucnce on Yeats, Joyce and Van Morrison," with 'l'om Paulin, 7 p.m. in the Auditorium of the Ilcsburgh Center. 

. 
Drama: "llow I Learned to Drive," 7:30 p.m. in 

• 
Washington Hall. 




WHAT'S HAPPENING @ SMC 
. Women's lligh School Choir Festival '02, 8:30 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre of the O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
. 
Panel discussion: "Diverse Perspectives on the Death Penalty," with moderator Mike Collins, 8 p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium of Madelevel 

. 
Executive Board Meeting, 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. in room 304 of the Haggar College Center. 




WHAT'S COOKING 
North Dining Hall 

Today Lunch: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, tri-color rotini, buffalo chicken lasagna, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, Hawaiian pizza. pretzel sticks, minestrone soup, chicken in the pot soup, tomato soup, roast, whipped potatoes, long grain and wild rice and scrambled eggs. 
Today Dinner: Boiled thin spaghetti, boiled shells, tri-color rotini, buffalo chicken lasagna, pepperoni pizza, cheese pizza, vegetable pizza, Hawaiian pizza, pretzel sticks. minestrone soup, chicken in the pot soup, tomato soup, fresh spinach, hamburger, chinese noodles, chicken taco, Spanish rice and peas. 
South Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Neapolitan spaghetti, basil-pepper-tomato mostaccioli. Italian sausage marinara, sausage pizza, cherry turnover, pretzel sticks, cheese and rice croquettes, broiled tomato halves, chicken jambalaya, beef and noodle casserole, rotisserie chicken and Italian rice pilaf. 
Today Dinner: Neapolitan spaghetti, basil-pepper-tomato mostaccioli, Italian sausage marinara, 4-cheese pizza, cherry turnover, broccoli rice casserole, Italian blend vegetables, buffalo chicken wings, rotisserie beef churrascarias and grilled pork chops. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
IX 
I.LI 
s ::c 3 
..J 
c( 
(.) 


0 

...I HIGH 43 HIGH 36 HIGH 38 HIGH 48 LOW 38 LOW 22 LOW 30 LOW 28 
WHAT'S GOING DOWN 
Car accident reported 
On Monday NDSP responded to a two-car acci­dent in the vicinity of Moose Krause Circle. There were no injuries reported. 

Employee finds property in lot 
Miscellaneous cards were found in the A09 Old Laundry Lot by a University employee and turned in to NDSP for safekeeping on Tuesday. 

Property taken from unlocked car 
A student reported her University Kontrol Kard was taken from her unlocked vehicle while parked in the B02 Library Lot on Sunday. There are no suspects. 

Student's car towed 
A student's vehicle was towed from Moose Krause Circle for a parking violation on Sunday. 

Bike stolen outside Rockne Memorial 
A student reported the theft of her locked free­standing bike from outside Rockne Memorial on Nov. 1. There are no suspects. 
Compiled by NDSP Crime Blotter. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall 
Today Lunch: Cheese pizza, chicken and pesto pizza, cool ranch turkey loafer, hamburgers, Greek-style tuna loafer sandwich, bacon, avocado and tomato club, french fries, meat loaf, whipped sweet potatoes, green peas grilled vegetables and quinoa wrap and marinated artichokes. 
Today Dinner: Smoky Southwestern minestrone soup, cream of chicken soup, fettuccine. roast turkey breast, baked ham, savory stuffing. whipped fresh potatoes, turkey gravy, fresh cut green beans. cream of mushroom soup, creamed corn, glazed carrots, cheese stuffed shells and waldorfsalad. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 35 HIGH 33 LOW 25 LOW 18 
Atlanta 57 / 36 Boston 50 / 40 Chicago 40 / 28 Denver 58 / 38 Houston 70 / 47 Los Angeles 80 / 52 Minneapolis 40 / 28 New York 55 / 41 Philadelphia 56 / 40 Phoenix 81 / 52 Seattle 54 / 42 St. Louis 45 / 30 Tampa 72 / 53 Washington 56 / 40 
:-------------------------------------­
Thursday, November 21, 2002 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC holds fair to promote study abroad opportunites 
By KA TE DOOLEY 
News Writer 
The Center for Women's lntcrcultural Studies will be host­ing a study-abroad fair today to highlight expanded international programs and services on Saint Mary's campus. 
The fair will feature informa­tion on both current and new abroad programs. Financial aid advisors and academic counselors will be available to show students that they can afford studying abroad and fit it in their schedule. 
Saint Mary's college created CWIL in part to emphasize the importance of intercultural expe­riences for the students. 
"President Marilou Eldred has mudc it clear that increasing the intcrcultural experience of the Saint Mary's students is an important part of our mission. Thanks to our faculty and CWIL, wn arc getting the opportunities to make going abroad more accessible to the students," said Elaine Meyer-Lee. director of International and lntercultural I.earning. 
Meyer-Lee's goals incorporate easier accessibility to financial aid funding and a wider variety of programs to help people get the true immersion experience that they desire. 
The new programs begin in the spring of 2003 and applications for these will be available at the fair. The new programs include a Greece summer study tour, a one­have already benefited from the credit Haiti spring break course abroad experience. and a Fremantle, Australia ''l think it is vital for eve11'one exchange program. to have some kind of experience 
Organizations from IFSA-Butler outside of Saint Mary's communi­and the Great Lakes College ty," said Katie Sandford, who Association will have booths at spent a year in Innsbruck, the fair to Austria. "In give stu­fact, part of a dents infor­liberal arts
"We are making agree­
mation on education is 
ments with other programs 
programs being exposed that Saint in order to open more doors to and aware Mary's does of things that
for Saint Mary•s students 
not have, in we do not see 
to study abroad."
places such in our own as Latin community. America My experi­

Elaine Meyer-Lee
a n d ence in

director of International and
Scotland. Austria really 
CW I L lntercultural Leaming opened my 
continues to work on future abroad programs for the 2004 school year. Among the locations being considered are Japan and Honduras. 
"We are making agreements with other programs in order to open more doors for Saint Mary's students to study abroad," Meyer­Lee said. 
Current study abroad programs offered at Saint Mary's include Maynooth, Ireland; Seville, Spain; Dijon, France; Innsbruck, Austria (through Notre Dame); Rome, Italy; a European Summer Study Tour and a Semester Around the World program. Students also do service projects abroad through the SURV center. 
Many students at Saint Mary's eyes." 
Along with the study abroad fair, Meyer-Lee has also started a resource center for abroad program information outside her office on the Saint Mary's College library mezzanine. 
"The center is filled with hooks, advice and information about going abroad," she said. "If you cannot attend the fair, but are interested in finding out more about the old or new programs, the resource center is the place to get information." 
The fair will be held today from 
4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. 
Contact Kate Dooley at dool6 l l0@saintmarys.edu 


ND chemistry professor earns national honor 
By HELENA PAYNE 
News Ediror 
Notre Dame chemistry profes­sor Dennis Jacobs will be named the U.S. profes.5or of the year for research and doctoral universi­ties by two prominent education­al organi­zations. 
"It's a g r e a t honor and it's hum­bling to be 


Jacobs

thought of," Jacobs 
said in an interview. 
The award, given by the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, will be presented today at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. . 
Since 1988, Jacobs has taught in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry. Prior to that. he was a professor at Stanford University and the University of California at Irvine. 
At Notre Dame, Jacobs devel­oped the Chemistry 113/114 sequence that incorporates coop­erative learning with the typically lecture-based introductory chemistry course. 
"Chemistry 113 is a much more active course where stu­dents are engaged with discus­sion with each other in class," Jacobs said. 
He also inserts cooperative learning into other classes, which prompted senior Erin Carmichael to write one of the letters from Notre Dame to nomi­nate Jacobs for the teaching award. 
"He approaches teaching from a lot of different angles so what­ever your learning styles you can grasp the material." Carmichael said. 
Jacobs' latest educational pro­ject is Chemistry 331, "Chemistry in Service of Society," where stu­dents use science to confront a community problem: lead poi­soning. 
"Students are building off of and expanding their academic expertise," Jacobs said. 
The class, which works with the City of South Bend, Memorial Hospital, local company Greentree and the Center for Social Concerns, involves testing samples of dust, paint and soil collected from local homes. 
Jacobs said he wants to contin­ue challenging students to apply their classroom learning to thp, outside world. 
Carmichael, who helped Jacobs form Chemistry 331, said Jacobs commitment to students is why he deserves to be hon­ored. 
"Aside from being a wonderful professor, he really puts the stu­dents first," Carmichael said. 
Contact Helena Payne at payne.JO@nd.edu. 
I  Visit  WWW.ndusc.com/Schedule.htm for more information. The Notre Dame Club of LA provides several special events.  
Notre Dame Pep Rally Held on Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the Anaheim Marriot Ballroom. Admission is $5. ~  
(~ Bus Transportation to Game Visit www.ndusc.com/Schedule.htm or call (626)795-6363 for details.  
Irish Fest ... Pregame Tailgate Party The L.A. Club will be hosting a tailgate outside of the Coliseum before the game.  
For more information on these and other events, call (626)795-6363 or visit www.ndusc.com/Schedule.htm. Ad sponsored by Sludcnt Government.  

Thursday, November 21, 2002
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Ho01e 
continued from page 1 
her interest in the Dismas pro­gram. 
"I hung out for a while [and} I just enjoyed talking to different residents," said Wasmuth. "I kept [Dismasl in the back of my 
mind." 
Sturm happened upon a Dismas flyer at the Center for Social Concerns and said the program seemed like it might be for her. 
"I thought it sounded really interesting," said Sturm. "I came and visited and sat at dinner and talked to Maria." 
Students are a major factor in making Dismas a welcoming and supportive environment, said Kaczmarek. 
"Student residence really takes it from a halfway house into actually a community," said Kacmarek. "It has a huge impact." 
Kaczmarek said finding stu­dents to live at Dismas is some­times challenging because the Dismas program requires a mature, balanced caring stu­dent. 
"Students are the hardest to recruit," said Kaczmarek. "I think it takes some uniqueness [and] somebody who isn't preju­diced." 
According to the students, the chance to live and learn in a dif­ferent environment played a large part in their decision to live at Dismas House. "I wanted a different kind of experience senior year," Sturm said. "I was ready to be out of the dorms but I was also ready to live with non­students." 

In addition to a unique living experience, Wasmuth also cited the opportunity to live with peo­ple of diverse backgrounds as a key part of her decision to live at Dismas House. 
"I enjoy living here more because there's more to be learned on a day to day basis," said Wasmuth. "I was also ready to put myself in a 
"I was ready to be out of
different ''You really do community the donns but I was also get a better than what sense of your­
ready to live with 
I'd been seIf," Sturm
non-students."
used to." said. Former When their offenders time at
Lauran Stunn 
come to the Dismas House

Dismas student participant
h o u s e through a variety of paths and stay for anywhere between three months to one year, said Kaczmarek. "The average stay is six months. It gives [the former offenders] time to reconnect it gives them time to find a job," she said. 
Many residents come to Dismas House through the state system while on parole. but all make a commitment to commu­nity living at the home. "You get to meet different people that have different goals and mind­sets," said Jessi.e Snowden. one ofthe home's residents. 
Learning from the diversity of backgrounds and experiences is a main part of the Dismas House opportunity, said the students. "It's different then being in a dorm because you're living with people who sometimes are struggling to find jobs," Sturm said. "[Sally and I] were both a little tired of the pettiness and sometimes the drama about things that really are not dra­matic." 
Along with shared diversity, the Dismas program helps peo­ple learn about themselves and break down traditional barriers, said the students. 
"You have to able to not look at the definition of a criminal or an offender as somebody that's that different from yourself," s a i d Wasmuth. 
e n d s , 
Wasmuth and 
Sturm said they \\-ill carry the lessons they have learned into their experi­ences after graduation. 
"You take with you skills on how to see people at eye level and see people for what they have to say and what they have to teach you," said Wasmuth. 
Both students intend to contin­ue to make service a part of their lives after they leave Notre Dame. 
"I want to do Teach for America or some type of teach­ing opportunity," said Sturm, who eventually plans on earning a law degree. 
Wasmuth said she intends to spend at least the next summer working in New York City with the service program Kids Corporation. 'Tm also thinking about going abroad, possibly to Africa," said Wasmuth. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 




SMC creates rape prevention program 
don't think they are going to 
ByJAMIE BELCHER get raped here," said junior News Writer 
Lynda Szanyi, who added it 
is unfortunate many women 
Saint Mary's is bringing a do not already know how to program to campus to help protect themselves against with rape prevention. Hape an attacker. Aggression Defense [RAD] But junior Mandy training has been successful Alexander is one Saint at other colleges and is Mary's student who will expected never fall to come into that to the category.
"It's a good idea because 
S a i n t Already
the mentality ofa lot of
Mary's with 10 campus women here is that they years expe­
in the don't think they are going rience of' 
spring. karate
to get raped here." 
T h e under her R A D b e I t , program Lynda Szanyi Alexander 
h a s thinks the
Saint Mary's junior
trained over a quarter of a mil­lion women since its incep­tion 13 years ago. 
Signs were posted around the Saint Mary's campus to warn women to avoid walk­ing or jogging alone at night, to travel in groups and to always put safety first. 
While the plan is a pre­ventative measure, some students say the program is great but it is unfortunate that it is needed. 
"It's a good idea because the mentality of a lot of women here is that they 
program  
will  be ben­ 
eficial  for  
women  who  
are  not in the position that  
she is in.  

"I think it's a good idea for these people that don't have any defense training," said Alexander. 
The cost to bring the pro­gram to campus next semester is approximately $1,200 and the instructors will come from Notre Dame Security Police. 
Contact Jamie Belcher at belcS l O l@saintmarys.edu 


' 



WORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 21, 2002 COMPJLED FROM THE OBSERVER WYRE SERVICES page 5 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
Bush challenges NATO to stand firm toward Iraq 
A day before the formal 
Associated Press NATO vole, Bush endorsed 
plans to usher seven former 
PRAGUE communist nations into the fold 
President Bush, rcca!Ung -Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Europe's grim history of Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia "excusing aggression." chal­and Slovenia. And he renewed lenged skeptical NATO allies his call for greater expansion. Wednesday to stand firm "We strongly support the against Saddam Hussein as the enlargement of NATO. now and alliance expands in size and in the future," the president 
might to combat terrorism. said. 
Should the Iraqi leader deny As leaders gathered in the next month that he possesses medieval city of cathedral weapons of mass destruction, spires, Bush used the center­"he will have entered his final piece address of his five-day stage with a lie," Bush said on European trip to press them to 
the eve of a two-dav NATO "take up global responsibilities summit. • or choose to live in isolation 
"And deception this time will from the challenges of our not be tolerated. Delay and time." defiance will invite lhe severest While he did not directly of consequences," he declared. accuse Europe's leaders of 
Even as Bush spoke, indifference toward Saddam, President Jacques Chirac of Bush's sternly worded appeal France renewed his position for action against terrorists and that the United States cannot like-minded regimes was clear­determine on its own whether ly aimed at the likes of to wage war against Iraq. Germany, which opposes mili­The U.N. Security Council "is tary action in Iraq. and France, 
Reuters Live Photo 

the only body established to put which forced the United States 
President Bush addresses the Prague Atlantic Student Summit Wednesday while attending the 

in motion action of a military to water down a U.N. resolution 
two-day NATO summit. Bush urged NATO members to stand firm against Saddam Hussein if the 

nature, to take the responsibili­to disarm Saddam. ty, to commit the international Iraqi leader denies the presence of weapons of mass destruction.
"The world needs the nations community," Chirac said. of this continent to be active in The Bush administration has accounting of his weapons of grounds for war. 
Czech President Vaclav Havel the defense of freedom, not quietly contacted 50 countries, mass destruction. Bush said "It's a huge hypothetical," said he would prefer that Iraq inward looking or isolated by including Canada, Britain and Iraq had a "short time" to come Bartlett said. "We'll wait and disarm without force. "If, how­indifference," the president told Germany, to solicit contribu­clean. see." ever, the need to use force does students in this Bohemian capi­tions of troops and war materi­White House communications NATO Secretary-General Lord arise, ( believe that NATO tal. al in the event Bush decides to director Dan Bartlett refused to Robertson predicted, "There should give an honest and "Ignoring dangers or excusing use force, a senior administra­be pinned down on whether the will be total unity of the heads speedy consideration to its aggression may temporarily tion official said Wednesday. United States intends to use any of state and governments on engagement as an alliance," he avert conflict, but they don't Saddam has until Dec. 8 to Dec. 8 Iraqi declaration it support for the t..i.N. Security said. bring true peace," he said. give the United Nations an deems deceitful as automatic Council resolution." 


Prisoner says 20th hijacker only played backup role in attacks 
Qaida operative Khalid Shaikh ed statements posed a threat to the Moussaoui. who was arrested at a
Associated Press Mohammed, said Mohammed provided prosecution's stated goal of executing Minneapolis area flight school in August WASHINGTON Moussaoui with contacts in the United Moussaoui if he's convicted. The experts 2001. was in custody on Sept. 11. An al-Qaida prisoner's reported States -but the two men were not con­were less certain about the effect on the "The statute was intended to cover a description of Zacarias Moussaoui as fident that Moussaoui could keep a guilt or innocence phase without more person who hires a hit man," Bruck merely a backup figure could weaken secret, said officials speaking on the details about possible Moussaoui knowl­said. "Being a stumblebum on the lhc government's argument for execut­condition of anonymity. edge of the Sept. 11 plot. Moussaoui has fringes, who was too unreliable to be ing the man accused as a Sept. 11 con­Moussaoui, acting as his own lawyer, admitted his loyalty to al-Qaida but has trusted and then abandoned by plotters, spirator, legal experts said Wednesday. and a defense team appointed by the denied a role in the hijackings. is not committing an act that leads to 
U.S. officials said Tuesday that a top judge have asked that Binalshibh be a David Bruck, a Columbia, S.C., lawyer anybody's death." al-Qaida operative, Ramzi Binalshibh, defense witness. The request is compli­who heads a death penalty project for Stephen Bright, director of the told interrogators that Moussaoui met cated in Moussaoui's case because the federal public defenders, said the feder­Southern Center for Human Rights in with the suspected mastermind of the government may not want enemy com­al death penalty law requires the gov­Atlanta, said the Supreme Court has Sept. 11 attacks in late 2000 or early batants like Binalshibh to reveal sensi­ernment to prove a defendant's inten­made it clear that major participation in 2001 in Afghanistan. tive information in courtrooms. tion to kill -and that victims died as a taking a life is necessary for imposition 
Binalshibh. a former aide to top al-Legal experts said Binalshibh's report-result of his actions, of the death penalty. 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Plans solid for Iraq weapons inspections: 
"Business-like" talks with Iraqi officials have set the stage for a decisive new round of weapons inspec­tions starting next week, including possible unan­nounced drop-ins on President Saddam Hussein's palaces, the chief U.N. inspectors said Wednesday. "The world and the Security Council want assur­ances that Iraq has no more weapons of mass destruction," the chief of the U.N. inspection team, Hans Blix. said on a stopover in Cyprus after wrap­ping up two days of talks in Baghdad. 

21 [ndians dead after bush catches fire: 
A bus overturned and caught fire in central India on Wednesday. killing 21 people and seriously injuring 28 others, police said. The bus Jost con­trol after a tire burst outside the industrial town of Maneri in the Madhya Pradesh state, said J\rakshya Kailash Varma, aide to the local police chief. 
NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS 

Tower to be built on former WfC site: 
/\. 750-foot glass-and-steel office tower -with better fireproofing and wider stairs for quick evacuation -will be built on the site of one of the smaller buildings to collapse at the World Trade Center complex. The plans, unveiled Wednesday, represent the first major rebuilding project at the World Trade Center to be announced. 
Doctors praise cervical cancer vaccine: 
Early testing shows an experimental vaccine to be 100 percent effective against the virus that causes cervical cancer, raising doctors' hopes of someday sending the lethal disease into retreat in the same way as smallpox and polio. "It appears to be the real thing," said Dr. Christopher Crum. a pathologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. "You're looking at some very com­pelling evidence that this vaccine will prevent cervical cancer." 
N.J. jury convicts rabbi of killing wife: 
A rabbi was convicted of murder Wednesday for hiring two men to beat his wife to death so he could carry on an affair with a woman he met while min­istering to her dying husband. lie could now face a death sentence. The verdict against Rabbi Fred J. Neulander, 61, came nearly a year after his lirst trial for the 1994 slaying of Carol Neu lander at their suburban Philadelphia home ended in a hung jury. 
Escaped inmate captured in Indiana: 
The second of two escaped inmates suspected of abducting a South Carolina woman during a multi­state crime spree was captured Wednesday in Indiana. The woman's whereabouts were not imme­diately known. Chadrick E. Fulks. 25. was being questioned Wednesday afternoon. FBI agent Kathy Guider said federal agents had notified Goshen offi­cials that Fulks might be headed there because his father and brother live in the area. 

page 6 Thursday, November 21, 2002
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 




'61 grad confirmed as Labor Relations chair 
Special to The Ob,crver 
Robert Battista, a 1961 graduate of Notre Dame, has been confirmed as chair­man of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). 
Nominated for the position by President Bush on Oct. 4, Battista was confirmed by the U.S. Senate last week. His term extends until Dec. 16, 2007. 
"Battista is a renowned employment lawyer of the highest skill, experience and integrity," Robert Hunter, a former member of the NLRB and current director of labor policy for the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, wrote in an editorial. "We can expect to see great advancement in employee protections under his mature and balanced leadership. The president could not have made a wiser choice in appointing Battista." 
The NLRB is an indepen­dent federal agency created to investigate and remedy unfair labor practices by 

Fax (574) 674-0033 I ::JD themed baskets our specialty! 
employers and unions. It was created by Congress in 193 5 to administer the National Labor Relations Act, the primary law govern­ing relations between unions and employers in the private sector. The NLRB imple­ments the national labor pol­icy of assuring free choice and encouraging collective bargaining as a means of maintaining industrial peace. 
A graduate of the University of Michigan Law School, Battista has prac­ticed with the Detroit law firm Butzel Long since 1965. From 1985 to 1992, he was manager of the firm's Labor and Employment Law Group. 
He is a member of the Michigan advisory commit­tee of the American Arbitration Association, a fellow of the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers, and a member of the Michigan Employment Relations Commission's advi­sory committee. 
theclogstore.com 
l-800-948-CLOG 
Staley, senator from Sorin College, said reviewers of the records



Senate 
would not know how to correctly 
continued from page 1 interpret them. Jesse Norman, 
senator from O'Neill Hall. referred questioned the need for disclosing to the Attendance Policy attendance records and Jeremy Amendment and said it was each 


Come Meet 
committee chair's discretion to mark an absence and these records should be made public. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

America's envoy to the Vatican, Alnbassador Jint Nicholson 
Ask Ambassador Nicholson your questions about the job ofrepresenting the U.S. abroad 
Friday, November 22, 2002, 2:30-4:00 pm in 117 DeBartolo Hall 
Organized by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies 

For more information contact The Nanovic Institute 211 Brownson Hall 574.631.5253 -www.nd.edu/~nanovic 

. ,·.
Friends and Brother·s in Holy Cross 

Third year seminarians Dan Parrish, C.S.C. and Michael Wurtz, C.S.C. will be ordained in April 2004. 


Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support &Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
. 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 


. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

. 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, l-7163 

. 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 


. 
Susan Steibe~Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

. 
Ann E. Thompson, Health Services, 1-8286 




South Bend Community Resources: 
. 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

. 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 








www.nd.edu/ro..1vocation 
ANSWER ~ 

THECALL W 


Thursday, November 21, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 7 
MARKET RECAP Market Watch November 20 
DowJones 

8,623.01 ~ +148.23 
.N4SDAQ 

1,419.35 
+44.84 


S&P500 

914.15 +17.40
~ 



A.MEX 

823.66 +4.61
!t 



NYSE 

484.43 +7.32
e 

TOP 5 VOLUME LEADERS 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WORLDCOM INC (WCOEQ) -25.93-0.07 0.20 


c1sco.•··.$i§~$~~::;::::~§$~filt!~:~l;irt!iiili;li!$'.@1t1~:::gl~1~i 
NASDAQ-100 INDEX(QQQ) +4. 25 +1.09 26. 74 
1

lNTEl ·••CbRel•t·1~t9~~:::111111!J!1:w:1:ttJ:hl:ill11i.~i;l[;lll:it 
SUN MICROSYSTEM (SUNW) +1.12+0.04 3.62 
IN BRIEF 
Oct. housing construction plunges 
Housing construction lost momentum in October, plunging by 11.4 percent, the biggest drop since 1994. 
But even with the sharp decline -which came after the level of housing construction shot up to a 16-ycar high in September -the number of housing units for which builders broke ground in October was still considered to be in the healthy zone. 
Builders began work on 1.60 million hous­ing units, at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, representing a 11.4 percent decline in October from the previous month, the Commerce Department reported Wednesday. 
While October's housing activity level was weaker than analysts were expecting, econo­mists predicted September's red-hot pace could not be sustained. Housing construction jumped by 11 percent in September to a rate of 1.81 million units, the highest level since December 1986. 

EchoStar, NBC settle legal problems 
EchoStar Communications Corp. and NBC have settled litigation over whether the satellite television company can broadcast local NBC channels from one city to another. 
Details of the settlement, which was announced Wednesday, were not disclosed. 
This is the second such move by the satel­lite TV company following a lengthy court battle. EchoStar settled with ABC in April. An EchoStar spokesman declined to com­ment on litigation with CBS and Fox. 
The networks sued Echostar in 1998 in Miami over the broadcast of distant network channels and accused Echostar of copyright infringement. 
They have argued that EchoStar should broadcast programming only from affiliates in each customer's viewing area. EchoStar contends that barring viewers from receiv­ing distant networks violates free-speech rights. 





United union yields concessions 
. Machinists for United Airlines approve cutbacks 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

The union representing 37,500 United Airlines machinists tentatively agreed Wednesday to $1.5 billion in wage and benefit concessions, giving United an important boost in its bid to stave off bankruptcy. 
The machinists were the only employee group not to have committed to its share of $5.8 billion in labor cutbacks over 5 1/2 years -the centerpiece of United's financial recovery plan. 
The financially ailing carrier hopes the cuts arc steep enough to persuade the government to grant a $1.8 billion loan guarantee United says it needs to avoid filing for. Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection by year's end. 
The mechanics, baggage handlers, reservations employees and other work­ers represented by the JAM will vote Nov. 27 on the agreements. 
Union leaders said they agreed to the cutbacks to help prevent a bankruptcy filing. 
"Too many airlines have take its restructuring plan mitment which can trans­The airline faces a $375 been forced into bankrupt­into bankruptcy court. late into a competitive million debt payment on cy, never to return," said But investors are advantage for United Dec. 2 that poses a stilT test Randy Canale, president of increasingly hopeful. send­Airlines." of' its dwindling cash IAM District 141, one of ing United's stock soaring United's 8,800 pilots reserves, and is working to two districts involved in the in after-hours trading fol­already have ratified $2.2 arrange bankruptcy agreements. "Despite lowing the late-afternoon billion in cutbacks, and its financing. obstacles and unprecedent­announcement. After clos­flight attendants are voting Scotty rord, president of ed economic pressures, I ing down 23 cents at $3.10 on a tentative agreement the machinists' District still believe our greatest in regular trading on the for $412 million in wage 141-M, said the unions had days lie before us." New York Stock Exchange, reductions. with results to to act. 
It remains highly uncer­shares in parent company be announced next week. "United Airlines is strug­tain whether United's aus­UAL Corp. sold 22 percent Salaried and management gling to overcome the com­terity plan will be enough higher in post-session employees will contribute bined effects of 9-11 and to convince the Air activity, gaining 70 cents. another $1.3 billion in an unrelenting worldwide Transportation "This agreement offers labor savings, with travel recession," Ford Stabilization Board the air-further compelling evi­United's top executives said. "We tried to balance 1ine is back on course dence of United's ability to expected to provide the United 's urgent need to toward profitability, justify­transform itself through rest. avoid bankruptcy with our ing a hefty loan guarantee. collaboration among all United is losing more members' needs for job 
Despite the unprecedent­work groups," said Glenn than $7 million a day and security and proper com­ed labor concessions and Tilton, who took over in has said it is preparing for pensation for the vital ser­reductions, some analysts September as United 's the possibility of a bank­vices they provide United say the actions won't solve chairman and CEO. "The ruptcy filing if it doesn't Airlines." the problem of declining fact that all six union receive the loan guarantee, Details of the changes to airline revenues and are groups have reached tenta­although it has pledged to pay and vacation accrual too little, too late to pre­tive agreements is evidence keep flying its normal daily were being posted on vent United from having to of a new attitude and com-schedule regardless. union Web sites. 


Boeing announces 5,000 more job cuts 
from its prolonged downturn. Since board," Cogswell said. 

Associated Press 
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Boeing For the Machinists union, which lost 
SEATTLE has deferred deliveries of more than thousands of workers in the past year 

Boeing Co. expects to eliminate 500 jets as airlines, bleeding billions and then failed to win stronger job 5,000 more jobs next year in addition of dollars. canceled or rescheduled security guarantees, the prospect of to the nearly 30,000 cuts the aero­orders. more losses hits hard. space company has made since the By the end of 2003, the Renton, "We've been cut pretty bare bones," 2001 terrorist attacks. the company Wash.-based commercial planes divi­said union president Mark Blondin. said Wednesday. sion expects to have a work force of "We kind of assumed this was leveling 
Half of the new cuts would be made 60,000, from its current 65,000, out right now." 
through attrition and the rest through spokesman Bill Cogswell said. The The company has spent the last few layoffs in the commercial airplane first layoff notices will go out on weeks trying to determine how many division, unit chief executive Alan Friday, and take effect on Jan. 24. he people it will need in the coming year Mulally told employees in a meeting. said. to match employment with production 
The company signaled more than a "We believe the employment reduc­levels, Cogswell said. The company month ago that it will need to make tions will impact all of our areas, all expects to deliver between 275 and further cuts, since it is unlikely the of our employees, nonsalaried mem­285 jets in 2003, down from the 380 airline industry will recover soon bers and executives across the expected for this year. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 21, 2002 


66-year-old killer 
executed in Texas 
Associated Press into a home in Fort Worth in 
May 1988 and began shooting 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas people with a silencer-equipped 
A 66-year-old convicted killer gun as they slept. Killed were was executed by injection Alexandra Heath, 27; her step­Wednesday -becoming the father, Elbert Sitton, 71; and her oldest inmate Texas has put to mother, Martha Lindsey, 50. death -as he bitterly professed But police believe he missed his innocence on the gurney his intended target, ex-girlfriend before the drugs stopped him Jane Sitton, who had moved out mid-sentence. of her parents' home because 
William Wesley Chappell she feared for her safety, and angrily insist-Heath, her half­ed he should sister, took her 
have had addi­"You all are murdering room. 
tional DNA me and I feel sorry for A year before tests on evi­the kiilings,
you. I don't know what
dence and Chappell was 
suggested oth­else to say. Please go convicted of ers were to church and say ... " indecency with 
responsible for a child for the fatal shoot­molesting
William Wesley Chappell
in gs of three Sitton's 3-year• people in a executed inmate old daughter. 
revenge spree. 
"My request to you is to get yourself in church and pray to God he for­gives you because you are mur­dering me," Chappell said. He also denied molesting a 3-year­old child that authorities said led him to commit the slayings. 
Jane Sitton, the mother of the girl and the woman who author­ities believe was Chappell's intended target in the shootings, watched the execution through a window. 
"You know damn well I didn't molest that child," Chappell said to her as the drugs flowed into his body. "You all are murder­ing me and I feel sorry for you. l don't know what else to say. Please go to church and say ...," he said, unable to complete his sentence. 
He was pronounced dead at 
6:17 p.m., 45 minutes after the 
U.S. Supreme Court denied his final appeals. 
Chappell was the oldest con­vict executed in Texas since the state took over capital punish­ment duties from counties in 1924. 
Authorities say Chappell broke 

He was sen­
tenced to five years in prison but was free on bond, pending appeal. 
"It's over and done with," Sitton said after watching Chappell die. "There's no more chance of appeals. There's no more chance of something get­ting thrown out on a technicali­ty, which happened to us before." 
In Missouri, William R. Jones was executed earlier Wednesday for killing Stanley Albert, a man he met at a Kansas City park frequented by gay men. 
Prosecutors said Jones plotted the killing after dating Albert and deciding he wanted his Camaro. Jones shot Albert five times and dumped the body near a nature center. The defense contended Jones shot Albert in self.defense after the man made unwanted sexual advances. 
On Tuesday, Texas executed Craig Ogan, 47, by injection for the 1989 slaying of a Houston police officer. Two more execu­tions are set in Texas this year, both in December. 
In 1966, Holy Cross College opened with a handful of students and. a mi.,sion..The mission was to provide a personal, canng, educational environment that would prepare students to transfer successfully to the fourayear institution of their choice. 
J:loly Cross College now has over 500 students, a residence life program and an ever-increasing selection of course offerings, amenities and social opportunities. But no matter how much we grow, we will never lose sight of our fu~damental mission. Every year, our students develop the sk1l_ls n~<;essary to transfer to outstanding colleges and un!vers1t1es lrke Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Indiana Umvers,ty and scores of other fine four-year institutions. 
Our mission is what h~s.ma?e us su~cessful. So while many things change, our m1ss1on 1s one thing that will not. 
P.O. Bo, 308 • Notre Dame. IN 46556•0308 • 574-239-8400 • FAX 574.233.7427. wwwhcc-nd.edu 

Los Alamos property missing 1 
Auociatcd Pres• from the lab about that, and 
I'm sure if they thought he had 
LOS ALAMOS, N.M. two of their printers, I would 
A memo released by whistle­have heard from them," said blowers at Los Alamos John Cline, one of Wen Ho National Laboratory says near­Lee's lawyers. ly $1.3 million worth of com­Lee was charged with 59 puters, phones and other prop­counts of mishandling data 
erty w~s unaccounted for in and spent nine months in soli­the budget year 2001. tary confinement before plead-
Pete Stockton, ing guilty in senior investi­September gator for the "[The situation] 2000 to a single Project on count of using
illustrates a serious
Government an unsecured 
Oversight, a flaw in the security computer to 
Washington, procedures at the download a D.C.-based defense docu­
lab ... " 
watchdog group ment. A federal that received judge freed him the memo, said Steve Aftergood with an apolo­missing com· gy.

project coordinator 
puters pose "one hell of a potential security problem." 
"There's no way they can assure us those computers didn't have classified informa­tion on them," said Stockton, who was a special assistant to Energy Secretary Bill Richardson -now New Mexico's governor-elect -in the Clinton administration. 
The inventory of missing items also included two print­ers whose custodian was listed as Wen Lee. There was no immediate confirmation as to whether that person was Wen Ho Lee, a former scientist who was fired and accused of lab security violations in down­loading nuclear codes. 
No other employee by that name appears on a lab tele­phone list. 
Lab spokeswoman Linn Tytler did not respond on Wednesday to repeated requests for comment on the Lee notation and the memo overall. 
"I haven't heard anything The · memo 
from the nuclear weapons laboratory's chief financial officer, dated April 10 of this year, was dis­tributed anonymously. Stockton said he believed it was from the same lab employ­ees who released another memo earlier. 
The whistleblowers daim that lab leaders have been cov­ering up criminal activity including credit card, purchas­ing and voucher fraud. 
The Department of Energy's Office of Inspector General was at the lab this week investigat­ing allegations of wrongdoing. 
The Albuquerque Journal reported Sunday that internal lab documents indicated nearly $3 million worth of lab-owned items disappeared or were reported missing between 1999 and 2001. The newspa­per cited a March report from the lab's Office of Security Inquiries. 
The April 10 memo from Thomas M. Palmieri, the lab's chief financial officer, cited "disturbing negative trends regarding Laboratory manage­ment of Government property." 

It said missing property from the budget year 2001 inventory totaled $723,000 -nearly triple that of the previous year -and lost or stolen property totaled $533,000. 
"We are still trying to account for these items," the memo said. 
"Neither the Lab or DOE, can accept $1.3M in unaccounted property. We must do a better job protecting and accounting for the Government property that we manage for DOE," Palmieri wrote. 
The memo said corrective action plans were to be devel­oped. 
"Our intent is that property management at this institution be a non-issue a year from now," the memo said. 
Inventories attached to the two memos listed missing property including computers, cellular telephones, cameras and copiers, as well as more technical equipment. 
Steve Aftergood, who coordi­nates the Project on Government Secrecy for the Federation of American Scientists said any information left on those computers would be so specialized that it would be "useless or even incompre­hensible" to the average user. 
But it's a different matter if the computers fell into the hands of foreign intelligence personnel, Aftergood said. 
If nothing else, Aftergood said, the situation "illustrates a serious flaw in the security procedures at the lab -and if this particular incident did not pose a threat, it suggests that a future incident could well do so, unless the defects are corrected." 
• Study inthe nation's  • Applications for  
capitol  Fall 2003 &  
• Work in aninternship  Spring 2004 are now  
• Fulfill philosophy,  being accepted online  
theology,and fine arts  •Open to Freshmen,  
requirements  Sophomores, and  
• Study public affairs  Juniors from all  
• live inan exciting city  colleges  



Thursday, November 21, 2002 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
~ ---====-===================================================================================== 
107th Congress assesses legacy as term ends 
A,sociarcd Pre••  drugs, tighter bankruptcy laws, drought aid for farmers  Republicans ran the House during the 107th's two-year  Leader Trent Lott, said Wednesday.  R-Miss ..  "We're certainly in a differ­ent place because of 9/11,"  
and extra counterterrorism  session, while Democrats con­ The  Senate  adjourned  Daschle said Wednesday.  
WASHINGTON  funds all fell victim to partisan  trolled the Senate since June  Wednesday.  The  House  The response by lawmakers'  
The 107th Congress began  stalemate.  2001. That lay the groundwork  seemed likely to  to the terrorist  
fading into the history books Wednesday, its legacy includ­ Still other problems were largely ignored -reducing  for gridlock -especially dur­ing the run-up to the Nov. 5  hold a final ses­sion Friday with a  "We're certainly in  attacks was perhaps their  
ing a colossal agency to gird  newly  resurgent  federal  congressional elections. Each  skeleton  crew  a different place  defining activi­ 
the nation against terrorism. new curbs on corporate behav­ deficits and addressing the long-term solvency of Social  party blamed the other for obstruction, but leaders agreed  voicing approval of legislation,  because of9/11."  ty. Within days,  
ior and campaign spending,  Security and Medicare, for  more could have been accom­ including  a  bill  Congress  
and deep tax cuts.  example. Both parties conclud­ plished.  creating  a  Tom Daschle  churned out a  
Even as they addressed some high-profile issues, lawmakers  ed there was no public clamor for the politically painful tax  "There's no use trying to fix blame, but the fact of the mat­ Homeland Security  Senate Majority Leader  $40 billion package for  
left  others  languishing.  increases  or  benefit  and  ter is a lot of important things  Department.  defense.  coun­ 
National  energy  policy,  spending cuts that would likely  that needed to be done were  It was the last Congress !'or  terterrorism and rebuilding  
patients' rights, prescription  be needed.  not done," Senate Minority  99-year-old  Sen.  Strom  New York and the Pentagon as  

An American Paradox: Justice and the Practice of the Death 
Thursday, Nov(•mber 21 
4:00 pm, l leshnrgli Centt>r A11ditori11m, Uuiversity of Notre Danw 
(fin,t ca111JHJ:-; l,ldg. 011 right. of ;\otrc da11w Aw., going north) 
Lecture: Sheila Murphy, 
Retired Presiding Judge of 
the Sixth Municipal District 
Circuit Court of Cook 
County An American 
Paradox: A First Hand 
ccount ofJustice on Death 

Row. 
.______________. 

Shella. Murphy ls an avid and outspoken opponent of the death penalty. She is retired Presiding Judge of the Sixth Municipal District Clrcut Court of Cook County, and ls now council to the Chica.go la.w firm of Rothschild, Barry & Myers. As ajudge, she ordered crucial DNA testlng for Verneal Jimerson, lea.d­ing to the exoneration of him and the other members of the "Ford Heights Four" from death row, and giving wide publicity to the problem of false convictions on death row ln Illlnolse. She has also established children's rooms 
In courthouses, drug treatment courts, and a courthouse school for at risk 
Sheila Murphy 
defendants. 

Penalty 
Thun;day, l"ovember 21 7 :00-9:::W pm, Carrol Auditorium, :Made!eva Hall, St. lVlary's College 
(enter culllfllls by 111ain entrance, follow signs t.o 
:VIHdelcva) 

Lecture: Sheila Murphy, 
n American Paradox: ustice and the Death 
Penalty Today 

Panel Discussion-8:00pm 
Moderator: Mike Collins, News Anchor, WSBTTdcvision, Ch. 22 Judge Jerome Frese, S1. Joseph county Superior 
Cour[ 

rrofessor Paolo Caron.a., Associate Professor, University of Notre Dame Law School Mr. Paolo Mancinelli, Sant' Egidio Community Ms. Charlo1<c D. Neifer. Director ofSrudenc and Community Relations, IUSB Mr. John Maciejczyk, Chief Deputy Prosecutor, St. Jo,eph County 
Friday, November 22 12:00-l:30pm, Center for Social 
Concerns, University of Notre Dame 
Open discussion: The death penalty and the work of the Sant'Egidio Community 
Sheila Murphy Paolo Mancinelli, Sant'Egidio Community Darrin Belousek, Assistant Professor, Goshen College 
Sponsored by the Sani' Egidio Community and the Joan B. Kroc lnstitue for International peace 
Studies 
Thurmond, R-S.C., and partisan rifts were ignored. Democrats let him end his Lawmakers also approved the record 47-year Senate career use of force by Bush against by gaveling the chamber into terrorists. new federal powers adjournment. for spying and investigating 
"It· s over," he said a ft er terrorism at home, and billions banging the gavel to a standing in loans and grants for finan• ovation from aides and a hand­cially ailing airlines. ful of colleagues. Even as partisan rancor 
Rep. James Traficant, D­increased this year, a fresh Ohio, left less ceremoniously, $28.9 billion anti-terror pack­expelled in July for taking age was enacted, plus a record 
bribes  and  $355 billion  
kickbacks. T h i  s  "There's no use trying to  defense measure,  
Congress was  fix blame, but the fact of  bills creat­ 
born  just  the matter is a lot of  ing federal  
weeks after George W. Bush won the  important things that needed to be done were  terrorism insurance and anti­ 
disputed, pro­ not done."  bioterrorism  
longed  2000  programs,  
election  and  a  reso­ 
against  Al  Trent Lott  lution back­ 
Gore. Things  Senate Minority Leader  ing military  
grew  only  action  by  
more  tempes- Bush against  
tuous.  Iraq.  

A robust economy grew fee­The homeland security ble. Record federal surpluses agency was also established. faded into shortfalls. A country But a budget fight between at peace was staggered by the Bush and Congress -includ­terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, ing some Republicans -left 2001. And as lawmakers left most spending bills unfinished. Washington this week, the freezing in limbo tens of bil­nation was poised for war with lions extra the president want­Iraq. ed for anti-terrorism, schools 
Terror hit lawmakers direct­and his other priorities. ly. The Capitol was evacuated Lawmakers will revisit those the day Washington and New bills early next year. York were attacked. A month The 107th began with later, anthrax was found in let­Republicans narrowly control­ters mailed to the office of ling the House and Senate ­Senate Majority Leader Tom the latter by Vice President Daschle, D-S.D. That forced Dick Cheney's tic-breaking shutdowns of the congressional vote in a 50-50 chamber. Even office complex, disrupted law­so, Bush was in command and makers' work and produced a by May Congress shipped him sense of vulnerability that still his top campaign priority: a pervades on Capitol Hill. $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut. 
But the arm-twisting cost Vermont Sen. James Jeffords 


MIKE O'DRISCOLL PRESIDENT, ASTON MARTIN JAGUAR LAND ROVER NORTH AMERICA 

Mendoza's Jordan Auditorium Friday, November 22, 2002 at 10:30 am 
Mr. O'Driscoll will be discussing 

¦ 
The Development of3 famous British Car Companies 

¦ 
The Democratization of Luxury within the Automotive Market 

¦ 
Business and Brand Strategy for Jaguar in a Turbulent Economy 


l\1{100Si:Jtli'l 
ASTON MARTIN 




PLUS, Make sure to see the Jaguar XKR on display in Mendoza's courtyard Friday (8:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m.) from the new James Bond 007 movie, opening in theaters, November 22nd. 
to bolt the GOP and tilt Senate control to Democrats. They will relinquish that in the new Congress, thanks to election losses this month. 
Ifyou armady for 
something different... 
•Barbadoi Is waiting for you/ 
Legendary beaches and fantaitic nightlife makes Spring Break in Barbados 
,. __ ,. unforgettable 
Thursday, November 21, 2002 

page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
----------------~-------------advertisement-----------------------------­
CAL TOPS 'CANES IN LATEST POLL 


Can the 'Canes repeatl Can theSooners make it two out of the last three? Who will win the 1-Ieisman? How many polygons does a Butkus Award winner get? Where is Berkeley? The answers to these (No. No. Look to Texas. Thousands. Take 1-80 west and follow the signs.) and other pressing questions can be found in this year's College Football Top 25 poll: 
1 CAL 
So they went 1-1Olast year. Big deal. Serious time spent in the Blue Chip Recruiting Mode has made this team into a rough bunch on the gridiron. That combined with a new Power I fonnation adds an unexpected threat for this tum-around team. 
6 TEXAS 7 FLORIDA STATE 8 FLORIDA 9 UCLA 
10 UNIV. 0 F TOLEDO 
11 WASHINGTON STATE 
12 ALABAMA 
13 OREGON 
14 OHIO STATE 
15 WASHINGTON 
16 LSU 
17 NEBRASKA 
18 USC 
19 BOISE STATE 
20 AUBURN 
21 SOUTH CAROLINA 
22 MARSHALL 
23 TEXASA&M 
24 LOUISVILLE 
25 PENN STATE 

How good is this team? Eight or nine oftheir starters should be in NFL Game Day·· next year. The 'Canes may have the toughest schedule in football, with games against Florida, Tennessee, Virginia Tech and the Florida State Seminoles. About the only qual­ity teams not on their schedule are in the NFL. 
3 OKLAHOMA 
New Hot Routes can put the 2000 NCAA champs right back at the top. Which means almost as much to this Sooner team as beating their heated rival, the Nebraska Comhuskers. 
4 COLORADO 
Will the Buffs defend their Big 12 crown using the wishbone? The flexbone? The full house? Only the coach controlling the play­book knows for sure. 
5 TENNESSEE 
New high-low tackling might give the Volunteers their toughest defense in years. 
6 TEXAS 
Can their quarterback capnue the 1-ieisman Trophy against what may be the toughest conference in Division I football? Can the defense come up Texas big? Not even our highly evolved artificial intelligence can answer that one. 
FLORIDA 
-------~ 
Look for the Bruins to utilize a sensational receiving core and Hot Routes to vie for a national cham­pionship. Then look for them to vie for a championship all over again in NCM Final Four' 2003. 
10 UNIV. OF TOLEDO 
A great run in Career Mode gets these overachievers a major RCS Bowl bid and a Top 10 finish. And their coach the chance to take over a major college powerhouse. Enjoy that animated contract, coach, 
11 WASHINGTON STATE 
A strong passing offense makes them a team to beat. Explosive gameplay makes this perennial Pac IO little brother into a legiti­mate head-turner. WAZZU is ready to tangle with the big boys. 
12 ALABAMA 

The Crimson Tide has the polygons and offensive line to muscle anyone in college foot­ball. If that's not enough, new high-low tackling gives their defense the bite it needed. 
13 OREGON 
Blue Chip recruiting made the loss oftheir200 I Heisman can­didate easier to stomach. A new wishbone offense could help the 2002 Ducks rain on just about anyone's parade. 
14 OHIO STATE 
More control over the running game puts them at the top oftheir conference. But they must beat arch-rival Michigan for the Big 10 Conference title first, which won't be easy, but definitely a possibil­ity for the Buckeyes. 
15 WASHINGTON 
Unproven defense must come through for a Rose Bowl berth. Total Control Passing gives this Husky team a very potent attack. 
16 LSU Tigers are looking to claw their way to another SEC title. 
Louisiana State University's pass-and run-blocking is top­notch this year. ­
Just avengethe Colorado University mauling and beat the Sooners for all to be right in Huskerland. 
18 USC 

19 BOISE STATE 
Say hello to the first "Houston Bowl" winner. Increased frame rates show that this year these boys are definitely on their way up. 

Old coach sacked in Career Mode. Tigers should improve drastically 
on both sides ofthe ball. 
21 SOUTH CAROLINA 

Lots ofexcitement building for 'Cocks this year. Volatile offense could be a threat with the addi­tion of a full-house formation. Could make some noise this year, despite the fact that they are in a tough conference. 
22 MARSHALL 
A weak schedule equals strong wins. Will Keith Jackson, in GameBreaker's booth, call them "rumbling" or "bumbling"? 
23 TEXASA&M 
Several players converted to defense. Too bad they're in the country's toughest conference. 
24 LOUISVILLE 
Gamebreakers on both sides of the ball. Look for the Cardinals to go to their Wing T offense for big points. Look for them to top Conference USA. 
Same classic CCI unifonns. Same classic stadium. Same classic coach. Same classic spot in polls. 


,.... 
PlayStatione2
I II. 
The 'Officially License\:! Collegiate Products• label i5 the exclusive property ofThe Collegiate Licensing Company. The "Collegiate Licensed Product' label is the property of the Independent Labeling Group. All names, logos, team icons and mascots associated with the NCAA, universities. bowls and conferences are the exclusive property of the respective institutions. Heisman Memoria!Trophy and lilceness of the actual trophy are registered service marks owned by the Downtown Athletic Club under registration numbers 936,853 and 935,852, respec­1\v,ly. lleisman and HeismanTrophy Award a,e servir< marks owned by the Downtown Athltlit Club of New York City, Inc. The NCM Football logo is a regi>tered trademark of th< NCM licensed 10 NCAA Football USA, Inc. GameBrealm, 9H9 and the 989 Sporu logo are rcgis­teml trademarks, and Total Control Passmg and Analog Camera System an, trademarks ofSony Computer Entertainment America Inc. Designed and developed by Red Zone Interactive, Inc., and 989 Spons development team. 'PlayStation• and the •ps• Family logo are registered trademarks ofSony Computer Entertainment lnc. li!l2002 Sony Computer Entenainment America In<. 
Thursday, November 21, 2002 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
SPAIN 
Winds hamper oil clean-up 
AUSTRALIA 
Troops start to leave Afghanistan region 
Associated Press tary operations shills to recon­
struction and building institu­
SYDNEY tions. 
Australia will begin with­The prime minister said that drawing its 150 commandos Australian defense officials had from Afghanistan this month. already held contingency talks but defense officials have with their U.S. counterparts already drawn up plans for a over a possible strike against possible deployment to Iraq, Baghdad. Prime Minister John Howard Australia has had 150 Special said Wednesday. Air Service commandos in 
Australia has not yet decided Afghanistan since December. whether to send the troops, but Australia also contributed two Howard said commanders were surveillance aircraft, three navy readying contingency plans. In frigates, four fighter jets and a a speech to a troop carrier to group of econ­the U.S.-led coali­
"Most will return
omists, tion -a total of Howard said to Australia before about 1,500 per­the withdrawal sonnel.
Christmas,
f r o m Howard said 
Afghanistan allowing them to that by January was on the­celebrate the only two surveil­advice of lance aircraft and 
holiday season
Australia's two navy frigates
with their 
defense chief, working under an General Peter families." international Cosgrove. force to police "Most will U.N. embargoes
John Howard
return to on Iraq would 
Australia Australian Prime Minister remain in the before Persian Gulf Christmas, region. 
allowing them to celebrate the Australia is a staunch ally of holiday season with their fami­the United States; in recent lies," Howard told the months Canberra has backed Committee for the Economic Washington's tough stance on Development of Australia. Baghdad and refused to rule 
Howard said the need for out supporting a U.S. attack on special forces in Afghanistan is Iraq, even without U.N. back­dwindling as the focus of mili-ing. 

Associated Press Exxon Valdez crude-oil spill off 
Alaska in 1989. CAION Spain said Wednesday it had 
Winds reaching 60 mph and spotted four oil slicks, including high waves hindered shoreline one 10 miles long and 3 miles cleanup and seafood farmers wide, near the wreckage about scrambled to salvage the cock­150 miles off the Galician le, mussel and clam harvest coast. Wednesday, a day after the Two smaller slicks are about tanker Prestige and its cargo of 40 miles west of Cape fuel oil sank off Spain. Finisterre, and a third is just 
Yet the high winds, which off the coast at the Muros inlet, 
pushed  waves  Spanish officials  
lo 26 feet, helped break up  "We have to wait and  said. Portugal said a large  
a large oil slick off Portugal as Spanish author­ities worried  be prudent because we still don't know whether we have  s1.ick it was monitoring Tuesday appar­ently dispersed  
the storm was shoving a sec­ond fuel oil slick  passed the threshold ofthis crisis. "  in rough seas. S p a n•i s h Environment  
closer  to  the  Minister Jaume  
coast.  Jaume Matas  Matas said oil  
Seeking to ease fears of an  Spanish environmental minister  has contaminat­ed nearly 180  

Exxon Valdez­style catastro­phe, Spain's Interior Ministry said no fuel had spilled since the single­hulled vessel broke apart and sank about 150 miles off the Spanish coast Tuesday, six days after it ruptured in a storm. Officials said they hoped the oil would solidify two miles down in frigid water, limiting damage in the short­term. 
The Prestige has spilled about 1.6 million of its 20-mil­lion gallon load of heavy fuel oil, a total twice the size of the 
miles of 
Galicia's scenic 
coastline and rich fishing waters. During a visit to a soiled beach near the fishing port of Caion. he esti­mated economic losses at $42 million so far, and said the cleanup could take six months. 
"We have to wait and be pru­dent because we still don't know whether we have passed the threshold of this crisis," Matas said. 
Crews with shovels and buck­ets worked in strong wind and heavy rain to scoop up sludge along Galicia's craggy coast. 
The government said more than 250 tons of fuel oil had been recovered so far. half on land and half at sea by skim­mer boats. 
Rough seas kept two of the vessels -sent from France and Holland -out of the mis­sion Wednesday, the interior ministry said. 
In some coastal areas not yet hit by the fuel oil. seafood farmers rushed to harvest mus­sels, clams and cockles ahead of schedule. Spain's fishing industry is worth $330 million a year. 
In the inlet of Ria de Arosa, described as one of the world's top mussel grounds, harvesters pulled up ropes on which clus­ters of black mussels grow, and plucked them all. Normally smaller ones arc left behind to mature. 
"The accident has hit us very hard," said Francisco Gomez, a 41-year-old fisherman in the viUage of Cosme. "The conse­quences are going to last a long time, at least two years." 
Luis Ferreira, 42, was pes­simistic and recalled that the people of Galicia have a long history of emigration, often to Latin America. "If the situation does not change we will have to pack our bags, just like our ancestors did." 
He accused the government of understating the amount of oil in the water and said officials don't know the sea. "They only go there on vacation," he said. 


O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, November 21, 2002 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Ha.JI, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Jason McFarley 
MANAGING EDffOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Kate NagengCL, t  Kevin Ryan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  0PERA1lONS MANAGER  
Andrew Soukup  Bob Woods  

Nl"WS EDITOR: Helena Payne VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Lauren Beck SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Federico 
ScENE .EDITOR: C. Spencer Beggs PHOTO EDITOR: Nellie Williams 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Katie McKenna 
SAINT MAJty's EDITOR: Sarah Neswr 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Mace Luc-L 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Meghan Goran 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Ted Bangert 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CoNTR0UER: Lori Lcwalski 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 FAX.............................................................63I-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHI£F ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EotroR/AssT. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. J@nd.edu 
SPORTS........................................................631-4543 
observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE......................................................... 631-4 540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu 
SAINT MAR¥'s............................................. 631-4324 
observer .smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS............ .....631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:!lob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons and reviews. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saine Maiy's Coll~e. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse advercisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent che opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom rtgarding Observer policies shoula be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefJason McFarley. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh}Crvc-r (USPS 5'.i9 Htl) u puhluhcd Monda)· through Frid.i.y ao:p, during a:am and .,.;11,;arion pcriocu, A,ub..::riptiun u;,Th< Oluc:m-rU SIDO for.om:audcmic 
year. l)5 for unc 1.ttnc,tc,. 
The Oh1ervcr if publilhc-d ar;: J'OSTM.ASTER 024Souch Oinw.g H;..JI '>end .i.Jdrc:n .:.:irra:ri0u1 m: Notf(' Dame, IN -46556 The Obsef'V<"r 
!'.0. Bo-.Q Pttlodial p<>atagc ptld. at Nam Dunc Nut11: Dune, tN 46SS6-0ffl :md ;uldi1ional mMling oflicc.l. 
Tiu: ObJl:rva i, 1. mcmhcr ofthe Auocialed P!'ftS. All rq,rrn:foction righu mo' rcscrvci.L 


It was four weeks ago that I met Danny J. Being homeless, he spent the time we shared over coffee at McDonald's telling me about St. Mungo's, the place he hoped to stay that night. 
Andrew

Even though he couldn't say where DeBerry the shelter was, a night's stay at St. 
ND Going

Mungo's cost £20, 
Global

and he was walk­ing the streets ask­ing for change. He story was shady, but I was humbled the next day to find a website on St. Mungo's -London's largest homeless agency. I resolved to visit the place that gives 1,200 people like DJ a place to sleep at night. 
On Halloween night, I rode on one of the big red buses to a London neigh­borhood. I passed trick-or-treaters dressed as dead soccer players, ghouls and she-devils who asked me for candy and found the sign: "St. Mungo's ­Central Office." 
The neighborhood street was quiet, but the work that takes place within is earthshaking. 
St. Mungo's leads London's services for people who are homeless and vul­nerable. Their 11 hostels offer food for the body and companionship for the soul. Forty-five supported-housing schemes support tenants who are expected to cook, clean and shop for themselves, while staff members visit regularly to help with practical mat­ters. One hundred fifty-six residents with serious mental and physical health problems stay in locally-funded high-care homes. Resettlement and community support teams help people integrate into their own flats. Skills Training, Employment and Placement Services teams provide the employment skills needed to reenter the labor force. 
St. Mungo's comforts the wounds of homelessness. However, more is need­ed to alter the factors that cause home­lessness. The solution for many is what's known as the Big Issue. 
To some, the Big Issue is their means to a revitalized lifestyle. To others, the Big Issue is a source of current per­spectives on politics, business trends and new films. 
The Big Issue is a magazine that the homeless can sell for profit. They sign a professional code of conduct and form a sales pitch to become vendors. I first talked to a vendor when wander­ing home from a museum after an art history class. A clean-shaven man in a flannel shirt with a badge around his neck was standing on a street corner and holding out an issue. He appreciat­ed the magazine, saying, "It puts a lit­tle money in me pocket." He had bought each issue at 40 pence to be sold at £1.20 for a 65 percent commis­sion. 
The idea behind the Big Issue is sim­ple but phenomenal. The publication identifies and combats the lack ofjob qualifications which is a major obstacle to rehabilitation. Instead of judging the homeless as helpless people needing free services, the publication has faith in their potential and empowers them to be contributing members of society. 
The magazine has had an inspira­tional story since its inception. The idea for the publication came from Gordon Roddick of The Body Shop d ur­ing a visit to the United States when he saw Street News, a newspaper sold by the homeless in New York. With the assistance of The Body Shop International, Roddick teamed up with 
A. John Bird, whose own life had been resurrected from homelessness in London. Together they launched the first issue in 1991. 
Currently, the Big Issue Magazine sells 250,000 copies a week and is read by over one million people. The publi­cation now has branches in Australia, Scotland, South Africa and Los Angeles. The venture has given literally thousands a route out of social exclu­sion. The project proves that given the opportunity, the disadvantaged do want to work to improve their lives. 
The magazine's success has lead to a foundation that provides additional services. Financial training and voca­tional education promote practical liv­ing skills. Workshops rebuild self-confi­dence with creative work in various areas such as drama and photography. These innovative efforts have prove an important fact: business can be a key power for doing social good. 
There are 50 efforts in the United States similar to the Big Issue. One called StreetWise is based on South Michigan Avenue in Chicago. Graduates, who often note the lack of passionate faith after Notre Dame. can keep their souls engaged by putting their various skills to the test with SteetWise's larger Volunteer Network. 
Feeding the homeless at a shelter like St. Mungo's or teaching them job skills with the Big Issue show two types of service. Direct service comforts the pains from social problems, with activi­ties such as food drives for the hungry. Conversely, social action addresses the core causes of those problems. by edu­cating disadvantaged children. for example. Acting with these two feet of service is the mantra of the CSC ser­vice-learning seminars, and both bring out the thrill of being alive. 
With our Notre Dame background, we will have the great power to direct­ly comfort people like DJ or to be phil­anthropic greats like Gordon Roddick. 
Recognize your divinity, for you are God's answer to someone's prayer. So, what will you do? 
Andrew DeBerry is a senior studying in London with the Jlesburgh Program for Public Service. He hopes to be a rich engineer when he grows up living in a project where he can build service organizations. I/is column appears every other Thursday. lie can be reached at adeberry@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Justin Krivickas Joe Hettler Sarah Nestor Rachael Joe Trombcllo Protzman Viewpoint Charee Kristin Yemm Holloway 
Graphics Scene 
Chris Naidus Emily Howald 
Lab Tech 
Nellie Williams 

NDT0DAY/OBSERVER POLL QUESTION 
Should Notre Dame reconsider the number of University requirements necessary to graduate'? 
Vote at NDToday.com by today at 5 p.m. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Service is the rent that you pay for room on this earth. " 
Shirley Chisholm former U.S. Congresswoman 

.----------------------------------------------------­
O
THE 
BSERVER 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 21, 2002 page 13 
Proposed ban on homosexual priests will create, not solve, problems for the Church 
On Nov. 6, the Vatican press office released a statement acknowledging a new internal document thal is being con­sidered that. if passed, will attempt to exclude homosexual men from becoming priests. In its cur­
Richard

rent form, the doc­ument stales that 
Friedman 

seminaries should screen men with 
A Skewed

"homosexual ten­
Perspective

dencies" from join­ing. 
Response to the document has varied widely, but I for one feel that fact that the document is even being considered is an insult to many Catholics. Not only does it falsely place blame for I.he Church's scandal on homosexual priests, but banning homo­sexuals from the priesthood will only serve to further alienate a population which has been repeatedly ostracized by the Catholic Church. 
To begin, the idea of blaming the recent scandal on homosexual priests has little logical basis. Even though many of the children molested were boys, in-depth research has never found a link between homosexuality and pedophilia. Likewise, it has been shown that there is little correlation between an adult's sexual preference and the gender of his chosen victims. While pedophiles tend to chose victims of one gender, that chosen gender seems to be linked to many outside variables much more than adult sexual preference. 
As with almost all things in life, sexual­ity does not affect the way one acts. This is especially true of most things relating to the priesthood. For one thing, all priests are required to live celibately. Whether their secular relationship choic­es may have been of different genders, all priests -gay or straight -must give up those types of relationships as part of their vocation. How then does one's the­oretical sexual preference make any sort of difference'? 
Along a similar line, I have also heard that gay men should not be priests because an integral part of the priest­hood is the sacrifice of a wif'e and chil­dren, something that a gay man wouldn't have anyway. 
This logic is also flawed, however, since while it is true that based on Church doctrine gay men should not be engaging in homosexual activities, celi­bate gay relationships are considered acceptable. Jn fact, several Catholic groups, such as Dignity, encourage just such a relationship. Giving up this possi­bility is just as much of a sacrifice for a gay man as giving up the possibility of a wife for a straight man. 
Besides, this reasoning also reduces the priesthood to a matter of sexual sac­rifice; whereas I would think that being a good priest is a lot more about your per­sonal relationship and calling with God than about what you have given up for it. 
Secondly, the idea of banning gay priests is likely to backfire on many lev­els. In regards to the recent scandal, a ban on homosexuality will likely end honest discussion and communication about any sexuality, a situation that is likely to breed the type of hostile envi­ronment that lead~ to the kind of abuse that the church is trying to prevent. Instead of allowing seminarians and priests to deal openly with their sexuality and to come to healthy terms with it, they will instead be forced further into the closet. Instead of having emotionally healthy priests who have dealt with their sexuality. we will have people who are suffering in silence and unable to appro­priately cop'e with their stresses and feelings. 
But it is not only the gay priests who will be suffering because of this docu­ment. The Catholic Church does not have the best track record with homosexual members as it is, but this would likely cause a large rethinking on the part of many gay Catholics. In recent times the Church has seemingly made progress towards respecting and welcoming gay members, especially on the more local­ized levels. This document would basi­cally negate all these recent efforts. 
How could the Church continue to preach that we should love our homo­sexual brothers and sisters while at the same time discriminate against them? 
The recent scandals have caused a lot of controversies in the Catholic Church and have brought out a number of issues that need to be dealt with. The Catholic Church was caught off-guard. and now it is looking for a way out. Instead of accepting the blame for what has hap­pened, the Church is instead trying to place it on others. This "step forward" they are proposing is really just the opposite. 
Gay Catholics arc already leaving the Church because of feelings that they are unwelcome and not understood. Falsely blaming homosexuals for an unrelated scandal and banning them from taking an active part in the religion will only further these feelings and cause more dissension. This document does nothing to solve the current issues or to even help them along; instead, it harms an already injured population and serves to skirt the Church's real responsibilities. 
Richard Friedman is a senior double majoring in architecture and psychology. His column will run every other Thursday, and he always welcomes your comments at rfriedma@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Arbitrary sanctions on Iraq exist only to control oil 
I am deeply disturbed and offended by Dan Lindley's Nov. 18 letter concerning sanctions on lraq,"llls caused by sanctions don't make war wrong." Saddam Hussein did not choose sanc­tions. Instead, sanctions were imposed against Iraq in response to the invasion of Kuwait and were to be lifted upon the with­drawal of Iraqi forces from that country. 
There have been no Iraqi troops occupy­ing Kuwait for the last 11 years, but the sanctions have not been lifted. Instead, the criteria for lifting the sanc­tions was changed to require the destruction of Iraq's weapons of mass destruc­tion. 
By the mid 1990s, U.N. inspec­tors were reporling that task had been basi­cally accomplished, despite Iraqi obstruction. Contrary to pop­ular perception, the inspectors were not ordered out by the Iraqi government, but with­drawn by the U.N. to prepare the U.S. bomb­ings of December 1998. Meanwhile, the criteria for lifting the sanctions had again been changed to require the elimination of Iraq's capability to build chemical and biological weapons. This requirement led the inspectors to burn biology Lext books -the very same sort of books that many Notre Dame students will be purchasing at the Hammes Bookstore in preparation for next semester's biology classes. 
There is a pattern here. Every time Iraq has gotten close to fulfilling the requirements of lift­ing the sanctions. the criteria have been 
changed to make it impossible for Iraq to comply. The latest resolution goes even farther by demanding total Iraqi compliance without making any provision for lifting the sanc­tions at all. Let's be honest. The 
sanctions are being manipulated by the West, and the United States in 
particular, to control the Iraqi oil supply and the economic power that goes with it. To claim that Saddam Hussein 
"chose" the sanctions is nothing more that a transparent attempt to 
place the United States on the moral high ground and avoid admitting that we as a 

nation are complicit in the mur­der of half a million innocent chil­dren. 
To hear a professor of Notre Dame make the claim is deeply disappointing. This is one of the best Universities in the country. I think that we have a right to expect better from our pro­fessors. 
John Wiens webmaster Robinson Community Learning Center Nov.19 
Give the basketball team the support it deserves 
As one of the few who actually went to the first two mens basket­ball games, I have been appalled by the abysmal student turnout. While I recognize that the early-season slate is not exactly filled with national title contenders, it is more than ridiculous that fewer than 500 students, of the more than 3,000 with tickets. managed to drag themselves away from their precious lab reports to cheer on their fellow students for the first two games. 
Trying to gather guys from my dorm to go to the games, I have encountered mostly whiny pleas from people who claim to have "too much work." This is quite affi'fddffd tired excuse, and l assure you that the two hours of work you might miss at the game are not going to cause your GPA to plummet. 
As anyone who looks at the pictures in the Joyce Center's display cases can see, there was a time not long ago when over half of Notre Dame's undergrads packed the Joyce Center and screamed for two hours, making it one of the toughest places in the country to play and allowing the Irish to pull off some stunning victories. The stu­dent tickets the administration allots us sold out quicker than ever this year, but this means nothing unless we actually go to the games. 
As anyone who's followed us under Coach Mike Brey or attended the last two games knows, we have a talented, explosive and young team that is not far from becoming an elite squad. It needs our sup­port to help make the Joyce Center a tough place to play again. So put down your books. gather your friends, realize life needs a little fun and go scream for the Irish for a couple of hours. 
If 8,000 can rightfully pack the student section to watch our out­standing football team crush Rutgers, then there is no reason why 3,000 shouldn't pack the Joyce Center for every basketball game. We play at 9 p.m. Friday, leaving plenty of time for partying both before and after the game. Be there. 
Steve Mattingly 
sophomore O'Neill Hall No>'. 20 

O
r----------------------------------------------­THE 
BSERVER 


page 14 Thursday, November 21, 2002 
'Frida:' a bit too unconventional 
"Frida," is a rigorously competent and compelling art house film that distills perhaps a bit too much of the unconventional life of Mexican artist Frida Kahlo. The true story chronicles the life of political. 
artistic and sexual revolutionary Frida (Salma Hayek) in beautiful, broad­brush strokes of narrative and color. In addition to being a great artist, Kahlo (1907­

54) was a bisexual Anne Hamilton and a Communist 
struggling with an abusive husband, a 
Scene Movie
life of wracking 
Critic
pain following a trolley accident, the amputation of a leg and finally, drug and alcohol abuse which killed her at age 47. 
The film follows her unconventional and often rocky relationship with her husband, Diego Rivera (Alfred Molina) who also served as her confidant, comrade, and mentor, as the pair took the art world by storm. From her complex and enduring relationship with Rivera to her controversial affair with Leon Trotsky (Geoffrey Rush), to her bisexuality, and her illuminating and visceral interpretations of her life, the film attempts to capture, and does with some success. the enigmatic force that was Frida Kahlo. 
Director Julie Taymor's trademark surreal touches blend seamlessly into the biography of this Mexican painter and 20th century icon. The first is a nightmarish sequence of chattering skulls, which represent a part of Frida's consciousness immediately after her accident. They culminate in a scene wherein Taymor uses a clip from one of the old "King Kong" movies, replacing Rivera's face for the great ape's, and Frida's own for the damsel in distress. 
The surrealism also helps to give a feel for the beauty and macabre of Frida's work. (After a miscarriage, Frida insists on painting her dead child.) It also allows for amazing tran­sitions between canvas and film. Often in the film, Taymore takes Frida's original artwork and recreates the scene, using the same dress, back­ground, hairstyle. lighting etc., and slowly, seamlessly, fades from the canvas to the scene, or vice versa. (It's an amazing, and startling, effect.) 
The colors she chooses are also spectacular. My favorites are when Frida's peasant dress, green and magenta, is caught hanging out to dry just as it begins to snow on an after­noon in New York City, and also in a hotel in Paris, when Taymore chooses to color the stained-glass fixtures and canopy in the atrium, but leaves the people in sienna shades of light. 
The most beautiful and terrible scene in the film is immediately after the accident wherein Frida lays motionless on the floor of the trolley, impaled from behind, bleeding, and covered with the gold dust spilt by a miner who was also a passenger in the crash. 
Hayek and Molina both give good performances; however, neither has what it takes to fill the tall order each is presented with in playing Frida and Rivera. Hayek comes off as being too sweet and too pret­ty (which Frida definitely was not), and Molina pre­sents a Rivera who could be passed off for a Mexican Santa clause with a paint­brush. The acting in this film is by no means exceptional. but what it lacks in quality it makes up for in quantity of talented actors who appear on the screen. 


Ashley Judd plays Tina Modotti, a famed Italian pho­tographer, Antonio Banderas plays David Alfaro Siqueiros, an artist and Rivera's rival, and Edward Norton plays Nelson Rockefeller, who famously contracted Rivera to paint the lobby mural of Rockefeller Center, only to renege because it included a portrait of Lenin. 
Others in their eclectic cir­cle of friends included Russian leader and refugee Leon Trotsky (Rush) just before Stalin had him assas­sinated, muralist Jean Charlot, painter Pablo O'Higgins, composer Silvestre Revueltas, photog­rapher Edward Weston, and briefly singer Josephine Baker, with whom Frida sup­posedly had an affair. 
The cinematography and score are also well done. Rodrigo Prieto ("8 Mile," "Original Sin") does an excellent job with the lively colors of Mexico and the art­work in the film. as well as with the contrast between Frida's home and the cooler, grayer skies of New York and Paris. 
Composer Elliot Photo provided by Miramax Goldenthal, student of both 
Frida (Salma Hayek) and Diego Rivera (Alfred Molina) gaze Intimately at one another In 

Copland and Corigliani, 
"Frida." Hayek and Mollna starred In "Frida" along with Ashley Judd and Antonio

shrewdly sublimates his 
Banderas.

modernism in service of the 
rich, evocative music and 
songs of Mexico and Central 
America. Utilizing performers that "Chaplin" do. 
range from the contemporary. to the Frida was dark and mysterious. and 
folk-classic Goldenthal generously displays the breadth of "Frida" 
Mexican folk music, while seamlessly infusing it 


with the min­Director: Julie Taymor im alist cor­Writer: Clancy Segal ners of his Starring: Salma Hayek, Alfred Molina, Ashley Judd 
own under­and Antonio Banderas score. 
Despite the film's beauty and compe­tency, some­thing is lack­ing in "Frida." 
First, even though Frida Kahlo died at a relatively young age, Hayek doesn't age at all in this film. Her dewy skin and youthful optimism stay afresh throughout her lifetime. Also, the film does not succeed in fully cap­turing the essence of the main charac­ter, as other epics such as Richard Attenborough's "Gandhi" and although "Frida" is candid about her life, it is not candid enough or in the right way for this particular figure. 
Hollywood succeeds too much in making her lovable and domesticat­ed when Frida. as a 
bisexual alcoholic artist, was anything but. However, the film does seem to capture a bit of the Van Gogh-like madness she exhibited in her self-por­traits (look for the one right after she has cut off her hair). 
The film also does not address the unresolved issues surrounding her death, which many believe was caused by her own hand. 
L_ __ _ 
The real Frida may have been attractive, but she was by no means so in any conventional sense. Often painting herself in men's suits with her hair cropped, or bleeding from self-inflicted wounds, and always sporting her infamous brow, it is easy to confuse what is interesting about Frida for what is beautiful. 
Taymor and the writers of this film, through the course of events in her life, try to crystallize Frida into an injured butterfly, when what she real­ly seems to be is a night-winged crea­ture. 
Both sadistic and selfish, absorbed and alcoholic, pathetic and powerful, sharp and sensuous, Frida Kahlo is not a creature anyone can easily cast light upon, and while this film does an admirable job, it is no exception. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Anne Hamilton is an overly opinion­ated film critic who spends far too much time watching movies. You can rontact her at ahamilton@nd.edu. 
O
THE 
BSERVER 


Thursday, November 21, 2002 page 15 
Potter's 'Chamber' captures everything but the soul 
ByJACK WATKINS Scene Movie Cricic 
Children, Harry Potter fans, and fanta­sy addicts will find much to love in "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets", but it might just not be worth it to anyone else. 
Director Chris Columbus's follow-up to last year's hit "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone" lacks the thrill and charm of the original, relying on the audience's supposed familiarity with the novels to keep interest high. The result is nn oddly soulless movie that drags for much of the first half before the inher­ent strength of J.K. Rowling's story picks up the film and carries it through an exciling and special-effects tilled climax. 
The story is that Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe), upon returning to Hogwarts for his second year, encounters a plot to eliminate students of non-wizard her­itage, including his friend Hermione Granger (Emma Watson). 
In the novel, the nature of the plot gives us a glimpse are merely hinted at. 
Beyond that, much of what was wondrous in the first "Potter" has lost its impact. In fact, the movie often seems formulaic. 
Several scenes from the first film are repeated: Harry's obnoxious relatives. Quidditch, a trip into the dark forest, Harry cowering under his invisibility cloak, etc. The nov­els avoid this problem because the depth of the content is var­ied, even if there is a certain formula for it's presentation, and because, after all, the nature of life at a school is for­mula. But it is simple truth that what is a non-intrusive formula in a 250-page novel is stifling in a two-and-a-half hour movie. 
The actors, on the other hand, cannot be blamed. It is astonishing that a film that relies so heavily on young actors can be so 

Photo provided by Warner Bros. 

into wiz­"Harry Potter and the success­
Harry Potter (Danlel Radcliffe) challenges his schoolmate, Lucius Malfoy (Jason Isaacs) 

ard poli­ful in 
tics and Chamber of Secrets" doing so. In "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets." 
allows for 
Radcliffe, S O m C Watson, Felton, semi-seri­and Hupert Grint, ous dis­who plays Harry's · 
Director: Chris Columbus

cussion of friend Ron, all
Writer: Steven Kloves

issues of reprise their roles
Starring: Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and
prejudice. with great success.
Rupert Grint

Due to time con­strain ts 
a n d 
Columbus's apparent need to cram in every possible second of special e!Tects, the movie omits these scenes, and the themes that give the book its meaning The returning adult actors do fairly well: Robbie Coltrane and Alan 
Rickman (Hagrid and Snape, respective­ly) are again the standouts. The additions to the adult cast also acquit themselves well. Jason Isaacs is 
perfect as the sneering, villainous Lucius Malfoy, and Kenneth Branaugh gleefully hams it up. The treatment of minor characters is disappointing: many char­acters from the novel are included for a brief cameo, as a treat for the book's readers. This has the unfortunate side­effect of making the screenplay feel oddly like a role-call -a character appears in a scene, someone (usually the late Richard Harris) intones their name, they smile and nod, and speak a line or two, and are forgotten. 
There's still quite a bit of good in the film. The second half of the movie recaptures the urgency and fun of the first film, and, of course, for Harry Potter fans, it's practically a must sec. After all, the book's readers don't need to be drawn into Harry's world, or have the book's points of interest highlighted for them. But the average movie-goer looking for a fantastic adventure would probably do better to wait for "The Two Towers." 
Contact Jack Watkins at Watkins.25@nd.edu 

'8 Mile' a crossover success for Eminem 
contest and a poetry slam, at a local Eminem. as the seedy side of '50 Los Angeles in By C. SPENCER BEGGS rap club called The Shelter by night. And, as with the rapper's albums 1997's "L.A. Confidential" and the Scene Editor After breaking up with his girl­that exploit defining and redefining sardonic depiction of Pittsburgh's friend, Rabbit crawls back to his trou­his political content, "8 Mile" throws academia in 2000's "Wonder Boys," b I ed trailer home and even more a number of sucker punches into the getting the oppressive Rust Belt feel 
Unlike other TRL darlings' jump troubled mother (Kim Bassinger). film to soften Eminem's angry straight of urban Detroit is second nature to from music to movies, Eminem's first While Rabbit struggles with conflict­white-boy persona such as Rabbit's Hanson. foray onto the silver screen is surpris­ing drives undying affec­Despite any labels that can be ingly good. to leap into tion for his applied to the underlying philosophy 
The multi-platinum selling rapper his dreams younger sister of the film, "8 Mile" makes a provoca­
"8 Mile"

has ruled the radio waves and spot­or conform and his rap­tive point that is too often overlooked light for the last few years with his to the 
battle defense and not understood by pundits. There intense mix of provocative content harsh real­of a homosex­is more than one underprivileged and virtuoso talent as a rapper. ity of his ual co-worker. class in the United States. While Unlike the rest of the TRL gang that situation, It is unfortu­politicians fight like jackals for the
Director: Curtis Hanson
writes bubble gum pop that ambigu­he must nate that these urban black vote promising to end the
Writer: Scott Silver
ously applies to anybody with a balance cheesy plot racist system that keeps it segregated,
Starring: Eminem, Kim Bassinger, Brittany Murphy,
pulse's life, Eminem has a certain loyalty to devices need nobody champions white trailer trash.
and Mekhi Phifer
honesty that, if questionable in his his family to be included In a society that truly has come to music, is verified on celluloid. and friends in the script to believe that white men are the source 
The purportedly semi-autobiograph­with his make Rabbit of all societal ills, impoverished white ical film follows Jimmy Smith Jr. opportuni-seem to be a families can only be seen as being in ­(Eminem), nicknamed ''Bunnv ty to get at redeemable their situation by a failing of their Habbit." in his frustrated attempts to something character. own. make it big in the rap and hip-hop better. Homophobes "8 Mile" is a thoughtful look at race industry. Born on the wrong side of 8 One slight failing of "8 Mile" is the and misogynists that lvve their fami­and class differences in the country. Mile, a geographical racial boundary fact that Erninem plays himself. lies arc just homophobes and misogy­And though Eminem paints a picture in urban Detroit, Rabbit is a white Eminem never gets past the 'Tm nists that love their families. that many do not want to sec, he's got man in a black man's world. After extremely dark and intense" stoic Director Curtis Hanson, rather than a point. grueling hours at a bumper-stamping look the rapper has mastered. So the Emincm, is really what drives the suc­job during the day, Habbit competes idea that Eminem is acting is not cess of this film. or course, with other Contact C. Sepncer Beggs at 
Beggs.3@nd.edu

in "battles," a cross between a rap quite true, he's just acting like city-centric films under his belt such 
-

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 21, 2002 
NBA 
Delk, Williams each score 21 to lead Celtics to victory 
Asrociated Press 
BOSTON 

Tony Delk and Shammond Williams each scored 21 points to lead the Boston Celtics to a 96-79 victory over the New Jersey Nets on Wednesday night in a rematch of last sea­son's Eastern Conference finals. 
Delk went 6-for-7 from 3­point range, and Boston made 14-of-25 from the arc to snap a two-game losing streak. Paul Pierce had 18 points and 13 rebounds, and Antoine Walker added 16 points. but it was the first time this season that nei­ther of them Jed Boston in scor­ing. 
Jason Kidd scored 19 points and Dikembe Mutombo had 13 rebounds for the Nets, who scored just 14 points on 4-for­22 shooting while giving the game away in the third quarter. 
Rodney Rogers, who played for Boston at the end of last year before leaving as a free agent, had 10 points and eight rebounds. 
The teams did nothing to calm the budding rivalry that flourished in last year's play­offs, when the Nets bristled at Boston's behavior after their epic, 26-point collapse in Game 
3. Taunts directed toward Kidd's wife and son by the Celtics fans brought emotions to the boiling point before the Nets won in six games and advanced to the NBA Finals. 
Wednesday's rematch lacked the importance or the drama of that series, as the Celtics took a double-digit lead with a pair of 11-0 runs in the third quarter and never looked back. 
The Celtics led 44-39 early in the third before scoring 11 con­secutive points, getting a dunk from Tony Battie, two 3-point­ers from Pierce and one from Delk. Later in the third, Boston turned a 60-48 lead into a 22­point game with another 11-0 run, punctuated by a break­away dunk by Williams with 5 seconds left in the quarter. 
Williams was called for a technical foul -the fifth in the game -for hanging on the rim, and Kidd sank the free throw to make it 73-51 heading into the fourth. New Jersey cut it to 14 in the fourth on Kenyon Martin's three-point play, but the Celtics wou1d not reprise the Nets' unprecedented col­lapse in last year's playoffs. 
San Antonio 95, LA Lakers 88 
Stephen Jackson made eight straight 3-pointers and scored a career-high 28 points as the San Antonio Spurs rallied for a 95-88 triumph over the sputter­ing Los Angeles Lakers. 
Jackson missed his first 3­point attempt but made his next eight shots from beyond the arc. The third-year forward eclipsed his previous career high of 25 points set against Atlanta on December 26, 2000. 
Jackson kept the Spurs (8-4) in the game for the first three quarters and Tim Duncan stepped up when San Antonio needed it. 
The Lakers held a 70-67 lead entering the fourth quarter, but Duncan, who had just six points through three periods, scored six of the Spurs' first eight points. 
With Duncan and Jackson clicking, San Antonio opened the quarter with a 22-8 run and coasted thereafter. Jackson capped the spurt with a 3-point­er that made it 89-78 with 3:24 to go. 
Lakers superstar Kobe Bryant criticized his teammates follow­ing a lackluster loss to Dallas on Tuesday. Again without star center Shaquille O'Neal, Los Angeles played hard but had lit­tle chance when Duncan joined Jackson on the offensive end. 
Bryant scored 25 points but made just 8-of-25 shots. 
Indiana 97, Toronto 95 
Al Harrington scored 16 of his 22 points in the second half as the Indiana Pacers matched their best start with a 97-95 victory over the Toronto Raptors on Wednesday night. 
Jermaine O'Neal added 20 points for the Pacers, who are 9-1 and tied the team record set in the 1969-70 ABA season. 
Indiana has won eight straight since losing at New Jersey on Nov. 1, and have the NBA's second-best record behind the undefeated Dallas MaV'ericks. 
Voshon Lenard had 22 points, and Alvin Williams 21 for the short-handed Raptors, who have lost three straight. 

Harrington scored six straight points to give the Pacers an 88­85 lead with 5:04 remaining. 
Morris Peterson tied it for Toronto with two free throws with 1:41 left, but Jamaal Tinsley made one of two free throws to give Indiana the lead. 
Williams later stole a pass from Tinsley with 19 seconds left, but Antonio Davis missed a short jumper -with 4 seconds remaining. Ron Artest grabbed the rebound, was fouled and made two free throws to give Indiana a 97-94 lead with 2.8 seconds left. 
The Pacers then intentionally fouled Peterson, who made his first throw before the Raptors committed a lane violation to seal the victory for the Pacers. 
The Raptors. who dressed just nine players, signed guard Jermaine Jackson earlier in the day after being granted their second roster exemption this month by the NBA under a spe­cial hardship rule. 
Vince Carter, sidelined with a strained left quadriceps tendon, isn't expected back for at least a week. 
Detroit 79, Miami 68 
Ben Wallace had 19 rebounds, a season-best 12 points and tied a franchise high with 10 blocks to lead the Detroit Pistone; to a 79-68 victo­ry over the Miami Heat on Wednesday night. 
The triple-double was the sec­ond of Wallace's career, and he matched the team record for blocks, which he shared with Edgar Jones. 
Chucky Atkins scored a sea­son-best 21 points in place of the injured Chauncey Billups, and Cliff Robinson added 13 for the Pistons. 
Eddie Jones scored 15 points. while Vladimir Stepania added 12 points and 13 rebounds for Miami, which failed to reach 70 points for the second time in three games. 
The Pistons led 37-34 after a slow-paced first half. Detroit's lead could have bigger, but the Pistons missed eight of 12 free throws in the half. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
..... - NOTICES "At Last Spring Break" Book now Free Meals, Parties,Drinks,2 Free Trips,LowestPrices. sunsplash­tours.com 18004267710 Buy/Sell N D Football Tickets.Student discount avail­able.289-8048 HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004:Anlan Properties, LLC. 532-1896 Call Bill.  WANTED #1 Spring Break VacationstMexico, Jamaica, Bahamas. Florida, Texasl Campus Reps Wanted! Best Prices. Free Parties & Meals! 1-800-234­7007 endlesssummertours.com Bartenders needed! Earn upto $300 per day. No experi­ence necessary. Call 1.866.291.1884extU187 WANTED: OLD NOTRE DAME  FOR SALE LARGE ONE-BEDROOM CONDO FOR SALE. ONE MILE TO ND. NON-RENTAL NEWLY REMOD· ELED. FULLY EQUIPPED. $99,500. Williamson.1 @nd.edu 2 -1988 National Champion Footballs. Autographed by players, coaches and Lou Holtz. 574-256­7322. FOR RENT  3-Bedroom Home 1 mile from ND. Garage, alarm system, AfC. Avail.immed., $650/mo. Call 220­0499. HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2003/2004: Call Bill at 532·1896. SUBLEASE AVAILABLE-fully fur­nished 2 bdrm apt avail. spring semester or from Jan-Aug 03, w/d incl, DSL, heated parking garage. 4 miles from ND & located on bus route, $950/mo (util. incl.) call 234· 4536 nice 3 & 4 bdrm houses. 288-9673. Avail now.  Very comfortable & clean home on ND Ave., beginning Summer or Fall, 2003. 4 BR, 1.5 BA. security system, washer/dryer. Huge rooms. Owners have references from previ­ous tenants! Max of 5 seniors or grads. Lease details 255-5852, leave message with name and phone TICKETS N.D. tickets buy and sell. Please check our prices. 273-3911. WANTED: ND tickets. HIGHEST  NEED 2 TIX FOR RUTGERS. PLEASE CALL 674-6593. BCS BOWL TICKETS FOR SALE (ALL LOCATIONS) Local(574)654­0168. TOLL FREE(800) 272-8553 PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
YEARBOOKS.  PRICES PAID 251-1570  
ACAPULCO-BIANCHI-ROSSI· TOURS-SPRING BREAKI The only company exclusive to Acapulco! Thats why we re the BEST."Go Loco In Acapulco' with the #1 Spring Break Company in Acapulco for 16 years! Call 800-875-4525 Today. www bianchi-rossi.corn. Be a Rep, travel FREE-ask howl  CALL 233-1296 TAX PREPARERS needed by local tax firm -full & part time for the upcoming tax season. Experience a plus. Call Mrs. Johnson 234-4564.  All size homes available for 2003­2004 mmmrentals@aol.com www.mmmrentals.com Firefly Resort 30 Minutes from Notre Dame -Perfect for Football Weekend Resort in Union Pier on Lake Michigan. Most units rehabbed in 2002 -269-469-0245  3-bdrm,2 full bath 1,594 sq.fl. house. Close lo ND. All appli­ances,big yard,garage,C/A. Beautiful. Must see. $1000/mo. 243-9901. 2 & 4-bdrm houses for 2003. Close to ND. 616·699-5841.  ND TICKETS FOR SALE LOWEST PRICES 289-9280 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANT­ED AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  SPRING BREAK 2003 with STS Americas #1 Student Tour Operator Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravef.com excessive accessories -friday night! be there. or you're not cool that's all kids  

-
Thursday, November 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Free agent Jim Thome talks with Chicago Cubs 
AssociatcJ Press 
CHICAGO 

The Chicago Cubs treated free agent Jim Thome to lunch on Wednesday, hoping they can entice the first baseman to stick around !'or the next few years. 
that llec Seop Choi gets a chance to play," Hendry said. "Pat may get back to me on some things, but Jim has a lot of things on his plate and I think it was just a matter of him wanting to express to me that this is one of the places that he really wanted to think 

"/ would say right

Thome, the most about." coveted slugger in now that you never Meanwhile, this winter's free the Indians,
say never, but we are 

agent market. and who made 
very committed to

his agent, Pat Thome a Hooncy, met with making sure that Hee four-year general manager offer worth
Seop Cho gets a 

.Jim llendry at about $45
chance to pl«y." 

Wrigley Field. "It million on was a good visit," Oct. 31, are Hendry said. "I eager for
Jim Hendry

have known Jim a Thome to get
Cubs' manager 

back to them.
little bit before,  
and  I  know  Pat  
Hooney  real  well.  It  was  a  
pleasant lunch."  
Thome,  who  grew  up  in  

Peoria, Ill., rooling for the Cubs, rnqucsled the meeting. 
It's doubtful the Cubs will make a serious attempt at sign­ing Thome, who is already mulling over offers from the Cleveland Indians and Philadelphia Phillies. 
Chicago didn't pick up the option for first baseman Fred McGrilT, but the club appears to be set on playing minor leaguer lice Seop Choi next season. 
So is signing Thome impossi­ble? 
"I would say right now you never say never, but we are very committed to making sure 
"We· v e been told we're going to get a last shot," Clevelr1nd general manager Mark Shapiro said Wednesday. "We want to give them our last shot." 
The Phillies have reportedly offered Thome a five-year, $75 million package. 
Chicago's hiring of manager Dusty Baker and Thome's state tics made the Cubs an option Thome wanted to consider. lle's already chatted with Baker. 
"I talked to Thome mostly about duck hunting and deer hunting," Baker said. 
Hendry wouldn't speculate on whether Thome would be will­ing to accept less money to come to Chicago. 
® 


222 S.Michigan, South Bend1'.~74.23f~5200:heartlandsouthbend.com 
. . .· ~ ..... 
Kick-off the weekend early TONIGHT. AThursday Tradition... 



Thursday, November 21, 2002 

page 18 The Obseroer . SPORTS 
BOXING 
Tyson will face Etienne in the Pyramid arena 

,r 
Mike Tyson will return to Pyramid arena to fight Clifford Etienne on Feb. 22. Tyson fought Lennox Lewis in the same ring. 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Mike Tyson will begin his lat­est comeback in the same ring where he took a beating his last time out against Lennox Lewis. 
Tyson will fight Clifford Etienne on Feb. 22 at the Pyramid arena in Memphis, Tenn., where Lewis stopped him in the eighth round of their heavyweight title fight. 
"I guess they liked my show the last time," Tyson said Wednesday in confirming the fight. 
Tyson's manager, Shelly Finkel, said a press conference would be held next Tuesday in Memphis to formally announce the fight. 
Tyson hasn't fought since los• ing to Lewis on June 8 in a fight that drew a crowd of 15,327 and is generally considered the biggest sporting event in Memphis history. 
He will likely have more suc­cess against Etienne (24-1-1 ), who was knocked down twice and managed a draw July 27 in his last fight against Francois Botha. 
Tyson's fight with Lewis in Memphis was boxing's most lucrative ever, with ringside ticket prices of $2,400 and pay­per-view sales trailing only the second fight between Tyson and Evander Holyfield. 
Memphis got the bout only after Nevada boxing authorities refused to let Tyson fight in Las Vegas, partly because of a melee he and Lewis were involved in at a January press conference announcing the fight. 
The city got generally high marks for its first major cham­pionship fight, however, and it brought an estimated $30 mil­lion into the economy as well as the attention of hundreds of journalists during the week of the bout. 
Tyson was also pleased with the reception he got in Memphis, where he was a big­ger attraction than Lewis for most fans in the days leading up to the bout. 
The 35-year-old Tyson needs to look good against Etienne not only to get a rematch with Lewis but also to bolster his confidence that also took a beating against the heavy­weight champion. 
Sixteen years after he became the youngest heavy­weight champion ever at the age of 20, Tyson was exposed by Lewis as an aging fighter with limited skills who can't intimidate anyone anymore. 
Tyson had a rematch clause in his contract for the first fight, though both fighters were allowed to take a fight before meeting again. 
Lewis has also not fought since beating Tyson, though he is expected to return to the ring in the spring to defend his WBC heavyweight title against No. 1 contender Vitaly Klitschko. 


... 
Close to campus! (Behind Dairy Queen on S.R. 23) 
Special Event Friendly!! Student Atmosphere!! 
Campus View Apartments 
1801 Irish Way 
(574) 272-1441 

Thursday, November 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Clarett hopes to return to OSU lineup against Michigan 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Maurice Clarett promised to be in Ohio State's lineup against No. 12 Michigan. Whether the freshman running back will actually play Saturday is unknown. 
Clarett has been struggling to recover from a shoulder injury that has limited his play in the last three games for the No. 2 Buckeyes. 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr was asked if he thought Clarett would play in Saturday's game against the No. 12 Wolverines. 
"I'm too smart to expect that he won't," Carr said. 
Before being injured, Clarett vaulted into contention for the llcisman Trophy by piling up almost 1,000 yards rushing and 15 touchdowns in seven games. 
After last week's overtime victory against lllinois, Clarett made it clear what he thought of the Michigan game. 
"I wouldn't care if I was 20 percent. You 're going to see Maurice Clarctt on the field (against Michigan)," he said. 
Clarctt also missed a game early in the season after arthroscopic knee surgery. 
The freshman's shoulder injury is described as a stinger. In games against Penn Stale and Minnesota, Clarett played, but ran to the sideline with his left arm dangling after taking a hit on his shoulder. 
Clarett was not among the 
NOTRE 

15 or so Buckeyes who met with reporters Monday. Ohio State's practices this week are closed to reporters. 
Coach Jim Tressel described Clarett's status this-week as similar to last week when doc­tors and trainers said he could be available to play. 
"I can't promise you that he will," Tressel said. 
Tressel said he expected Clarett to play -just as he expected him to play at Illinois. 
"The trainers say that his strength is much better than it was a week ago," Tressel said. But, he added, the ultimate decision would come down to Ohio State's medical staff and Clarett himself. 
After stringing together five consecutive games with more than 100 yards rushing, the shoulder injury has limited Clarett to 91 yards in the last four games. 
With 1,071 yards this sea­son, he needs 56 yards to break Hobert Smith's fresh­man rushing record. 
Tressel believes Clarett will play because the Buckeyes wiU have plenty of time to recuper­ate before a bowl game. 
"We've got six weeks," he said. 
Clarett's status isn't a mys­tery to Michigan defensive tackle Shawn Lazarus. 
"I think he's going to play," he said. "I think they want him to play. We'll just have to step up to that challenge." 
DAME 

·GOES COLD TURKEY 

Join the Notre Dame Community on Thursday, November 21, 2002 for THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 
Turn in your tobacco products and receive Coupons for a FREE turkey sandwich may be redeemed at these locations:
acoupon for aFREE turkey sandwich. 
Reckers 

Tobacco products can be turned in at the following 
Greenfields 
locations and times: 

HuddleMart 311 LaFortune 9am -noon, 1pm -4pm Decio Commons Cafe Poche (Bond Hall)
Huddle llam-lpm 
Irish Cafe (Law School)

North Dining Hall llam-1pm 
Waddicks (O'Shaughnessy) South Dining Hall llam-1pm Common Stock Sandwich Co. Cafe de Grasta
Cafe de Grasta 11am -1pm 
.,.-;;:,-,~ 
~­
This program is sponsored by: IRISHealth, American Cancer Society, Notre Dame Food Services, PILLARS, and Alcohol and Drug Education. 

page 20 Thursday, November 21, 2002
The Observer . SPORTS 

HORSE RACING 
Harn pleads guilty in $3 million horse betting scam 
Auocia~d P,ess 
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. 

A computer programmer admitted in court Wednesday he was the inside man for a series of betting scams on horses that culminated with a $3 million win from the Breeders' Cup last month. 
He also implicated his two co­defendants, who were his fra­ternity brothers in college. 
Chris Harn, 29, of Newark, Del., told a federal judge he used his job at Autotote, which handles most of the nation's racetrack and off-track betting, to manipulate bets during races. 
In pleading guilty to fraud and money laundering conspiracies, Harn said he used one co-defen­dant's Off Track Betting account to place a Pick Six bet on the Oct. 26 Breeders' Cup "and later modified it so it would win." 
The wager -six bets costing a total of$1,152 -immediately drew the scrutiny of authorities because of its unusual nature. The $3 million was not paid, and an investigation was launched. 
On a Pick Six wager, bettors try to select the winners in six consecutive races, but they usu­ally choose different combina­tions to increase their chances of winning. The suspicious bet picked the same combination six times, selecting the winners in the first four races and every horse in the last two. 
Because of a routine delay in reporting bets to the Arlington racetrack near Chicago, Harn was able to change the wager after the first four races to make sure the bet had the four winning horses, which included two long shots. That guaranteed winning tickets. 
Now, all bettors who picked five of the six winners at the Breeders' Cup stand to earn more money. The racing com­mission in Illinois will determine how to redistribute the win­nings. 
Also Wednesday, the National Thoroughbred Racing Association announced that a consulting firm headed by for­mer New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani had been hired to review the industry's electronic wagering system. 
"We have a great sport that is threatened by wrongdoing," NTRA commissioner Tim Smith said. 
The NTRA has already intro­duced steps for improved secu­rity in electronic wagering at tracks nationwide. 


PAT HADEN NBC COLOR COMMENTATOR FOR ND FOOTBALL GAMES SPEAKING THIS FRIDAY, 22 NOVEMBER 3 PM MONTGOMERY THEATRE (IN LAFORTUNE)  

1 ~ -!' ~ :: •••••• ---••• -7 : •. -• ii ••••• -'; •• 
·· · .111 ---¦ ii1 ¦ 1-11 ¦¦ --1-1 ¦ 1--,i-11•••••••-• ¦ r­
=-=-~•···········--········•-, ¦­

Thursday, November 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Faulk may return to St. Louis lineup this week 
behind Kurt Warner on Sunday passing yards and points. OK. When you're not doing well, right, we've got something going' 
Associated Press 
Wucrffel will be making his that's the remarks you're going -and that's when I got scared," second start, having lasted one to get." Maddox said. "I realized I still

ST. LOUIS Washington Redskins 
series before injuring his shoul­Wuerffel had not taken a snap wasn't moving my legs, and thatMarshall Faulk may return to Danny Wuerffel wm start der Oct. 6 at Tennessee. in an NFL regular-season game was the tough part." 

the St. Louis Hams lineup this Sunday for the Washington 
''When you got a group of since 1999 and hadn't started The easy part for Maddox

week after missing the Chicago Redskins, the fourth quarterback quarterbacks who, maybe one since 1998. Spurrier, his old came Wednesday. Three daysgame Monday night with ankle change of the season by coach there's not a Jot of dif.lerence in college coach at Florida, traded after getting the scare of his life,and foot injuries. Steve Spurrier. 
how they play, to me you have to for him in the offseason. he became a football playerCoach Mike Martz, who called Trying to reverse a two-game give them all a chance," Spurrier "I think Coach again. Heoff practice on Wednesday, said losing streak as well as mount­said. "Danny really has not had wants to give us all rode anhe was hopeful that Faulk would ing criticism from within his own a chance this year. an opportunity to "It's hard. You think exerciseplay Sunday in Washington. team, Spurrier said Wednesday "Hopefully this is not the way play and see what b i k e ,

Faulk has a sprained right ankle that Wuerffel will have a the about your kids, your 
we're always going to be. You'd happens," Wuerffel hugged

and a strained opportunity wife . ... I just thank God
like to have a set team and go said. h i s

tendnn on the to play the 
it worked out the way it
play. but we're just not all that He relieved Steelersbottom of his left "I would imagine he'll be entire game 

foot. against the set at some positions on Matthews in the worked out. " t e am ­
ready, but we can't say offense." second half of the mates,
"I would imag­St. Louis
thatfor sure until we see In Spurrier's rookie season as second and third tossed a
ine he'll be Rams. 
Tommy Maddox

"He's our an NFL coach, receivers have games this season football
ready, but we him practice and he has 
openly questioned his constant before starting Pittsburgh quarterback casually,

can't say that for quarter­
a chance to test it." 
lineup shuffling, and running against Tennessee. attendedsure until we sec back. his 

him practice and game and back Stephen Davis has been He was 8-for-14 for the daily 
Mike Martz away we unhappy with the pass-happy 82 yards with two interceptions quarterbacks meeting and began he has a chance 
to test it," Martz go," said play-calling. Davis had just 59 and an abysmal rating of 34.5 on plowing through a stack of 1,000 
St. Louis coach 

said. "To draw Spurrier, yards rushing on 19 carries the season when be was hurt. e-mails sent him by relieved and 
who cut against the Giants. "l was frustrated and obvious­appreciative fans. 
any conclusions ly would have liked things to go
about where he is would be pret­short his post-practice remarks With the offense going He has watched replays of the 
different," Wuerffel said. "If ever

ty hard right now." after several questions put him nowhere, defensive tackle Daryl unremarkable hit by Titans line­
in your mind you write a script,

Team trainer Jim Anderson on the defensive. Gardener wondered Wednesday backer Keith Bulluck that caused 
that's not how you write it. But

said Faulk likely would be listed Spurrier said he never serious­whether his unit would have to him to lose consciousness and 
that's part ofhfe." 

as questionable, just as he was ly considered playing Wuerffel start posting shutouts to win. his head to twist into the 
Wuerffel resumed practicing

last week. But Anderson said and rookie Patrick Ramsey for "Defensively, when you look at Tennessee turf, his arms and 
last week. and he said he's "as

Faulk probably would practice one half each, as he suggested it, we're not in bad shape," legs instantly going numb. 
healthy as he can be."

on Thursday. Monday. Gardener said. "But it looks like He remembers none of it -his 
Spurrier has often cited

"He's feeling pretty good "We were just making conver­now we're going to have to start face mask being cut off, both 
Wuerffel's performance in exhi­

today," Anderson said. "He'll do sation about the halves deal," scoring on defense and keep the teams praying for him, the ride 
bition games, when he had a 

some stuff in practice tomorrow Spurrier said. teams from scoring on us." in the ambulance -until wak­
104.9 rating. However, most of

and we'll just kind of judge him Spurrier was noncommittal The criticism is indicative of a ing up in Nashville's Baptist
his completions came against

day to day from there. when asked if Wuerffel is now team with a 4-6 record and ten­Hospital and realizing he
backups, and he struggled when 

Hookie Lamar Gordon, Faulk's the regular starter. uous playoff hopes. couldn't move anything.
he faced first-string defenses. 

backup, made his first career "He's our quarterback. Let's "It always happens when you "That's when it started bother­
Ramsey will be the No. 2 quar­

start against the Bears. Gordon just put it that way," the coach lose," Spurrier said. "And let me ing me a little bit," he said. "It's
terback this week. 

carried 16 times for 45 yards said. tell you, it's not the first criti­hard. You think about your kids, and caught a 22-yard touch­The latest change comes after cisms I've ever had, nor the last. your wife .... I just thank God it's down pass in the 21-16 victory. a 19-17 loss to the New York "You want us to run three and Pittsburgh Steelers wor,~ed out the way it worked 
Quarterback Marc Bulger Giants, during which Shane punt every time? When we can Tommy Maddox went from a out. won't practice until Friday Matthews completed 15 of 35 run the ball effectively or throw football game to an X-ray table, At one point on that Sunday because of a sprained right passes for just 113 yards. The it, we try to do both. I know you with a doctor hovering above night he doesn't fully remember index finger, but the team Washington offense is ranked all know a lot more about it than him and asking the quarterback but will never forget, Maddox 
expects him to be the backup 26th in the NFL in total yards, I do, a lot of people do, that's to squeeze his hand. was told Titans quarterback 
Imagine... A sea of your design 
Design The Shin , 
2003 
Entries due Friday, December 6 
Drop off in Student Activities Office 314 Lafortune 
Questions? Email schuster.13@nd.edu 
Dazed, confused, not knowing why he still wasn't playing the game or what had happened, the Pittsburgh Steelers' quarter­back instinctively squeezed back. 
"I heard them saying, 'All Steve McNair was there to see him -and Titans running back Eddie George came into the room instead. 
"Then I knew I was really knocked out," Maddox said, smiling. 
Learn about our programs in: Argentina, Australia, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba, England, New Zealand, & Scotland 
Scholarships Available 
SludV Abroad Fair Thursdav, November 11, 1001 4:00 P-111. -5:30 p.m. EST Stapleton lounge -in the middle ol lemanslall 
Meet Represenrauve -Opal leeman Banz1s 
IFSA-B11tler study abroad programs are non-Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. .
1 
aoo.:;;:;229 fo~o/3
www.ilsa-butler.org au rLE R uN, vER s, r v 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 21, 2002 
GOLF 
Woods annoyed at call to stand against sexisin 
Woods has repeatedly said he 
A,sociatcci Press 
thinks women should be allowed to join the club, but 
MIYAZAKI, Japan that he is an honorary member 
Tiger Woods is becoming and doesn't have voting rights annoyed by the calls for him to on membership. skip next year's Masters Woods also said Wednesday because of the all-male mem­he is getting tired of having to bership at Augusta National repeatedly address the issue. Golf Club. "A tournament without Mr. 
"It's frustrating because I'm Woods would send a powerful the only player they are ask­message that discrimination ing," Woods said Wednesday, isn't good for the golfing busi­two days after a New York ness," the New York Times edi­Times editorial urged him to torial said. skip the Masters as a gesture Augusta National declined against sexism. comment. 
"They're asking me to give up The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who an opportunity no one has ever says his Rainbow/PUSH had -winning the Masters Coalition will organize protests. three years in a row," said at the Masters if a woman is Woods, who was in Japan for not a member by April, called this week's Dunlop Phoenix. the Times editorial "unfair and 
No one has boycotted the inconsistent" for singling out Masters before, he added. Woods. 
. 0•00•.0•00•.0•.0•00•.0•.0•.0• D 
0 0.
• IT'S GREEK TO ME! 

. .
0 0 
• . . .
0 0 
I 
I I 
I . . 
I -0 
0 

• • 
D 0 0 
. 

. .
0 0 
. D 
0 0 
. 
• 

. .
0 0 
. D 
0 0 


BOXING 
Vargas sentenced for steroids 
of his IBP heavyweight title in Though Vargas and his 
Associated Press 
1995 for testing positive in attorney, Pat English, never Germany. came out and blamed the
LAS VEGAS 
''I'm a man. I take full camp nutritionist for giving
Fernando Vargas went 
responsibility." Vargas said. him steroids, they made itbefore Nevada boxing author­"The only thing is the layoff is clear the nutritionist hadities Wednesday prepared to definitely going to be hard." been fired and that anytake his punishment for using Vargas said he had hired a future employees would havesteroids. He just didn't expect nutritionist in the weeks their backgrounds scrutinized so much of it. 
before the much more.
Despite putting himself at 
fight to help "I don't
the mercy of the Nevada 
"/ live and die in that
him lose place blame
Athletic Commission. Vargas 
was suspended for nine weight and ring. I don't want people on anyone make the except
months and fined $100,000 to ever feel I needed
154-pound myself,"
for testing positive for 
something like this.,, 
steroids following his Sept. 14 limit, and Vargas said. knockout loss to Oscar De La 
took a num-"At the end of 
Hoya. ber of differ­Fernando Vargas the day I'm 
Though the suspension was ent nutri­Boxer the captain of retroactive to the De La Hoya tional sup­my ship." fight, it means Vargas cannot plements Vargas, fight until June 15 and will and vitamins given to him who appeared well over the miss a proposed April come­without questioning them. 154-pound weight class back fight that was to be tele­He said he had never felt or where he won two world 
vised on network TV. looked so good before a fight, championships, appeared in a 
"We like Mr. Vargas but we but had attributed it to the suit and tie and brought his feel like this is the right thing fact he had trained hard and flance and two young sons to to do," commission Chairman maintained good nutritional the hearing in a cramped 
Luther Mack said. habits. conference room. 
Vargas spent two hours in Vargas said he went to Mike Tyson also showed up front of the commission, three different clinics to give to watch the proi::eedings and telling them he would take a urine sample after being offer moral support to his responsibility for the positive taken to the hospital after the friend and fellow fighter. test, but that he never know­fight, and was shocked when "It was an innocent mis­ingly used steroids while he got a phone call while take: He's Just naive," Tyson preparing to meet De La Hoya vacationing in Hawaii two said afterward. "Hopefully for the 154-pound titles. weeks later that he had test­he'll grow from this." 
"I live and die in that ring. I ed positive. Nevada just this Vargas and English did not don't want people to ever feel year began testing for contest the steroid test result, I needed something like this," steroids. and said they tracked it down Vargas said. The urine test revealed the to a liquid supplement called 
Commissioners appeared to steroid stanozolol, the same Decavar that Vargas was tak­believe the steroid use was drug that cost sprinter Ben ing. Someone in the training inadvertent, but still voted 4-Johnson his gold medal and camp, they said, apparently 1 to penalize Vargas and send world record in the 100 added the steroids to the sup­a message that steroids won't meters at the 1988 Olympics. plement. be tolerated. It was believed "I obviously knew I was Vargas said he wasn't even to be the first time a boxer .going to be tested for aware that steroids co.uld be has been suspended for steroids," Vargas said. "I taken orally. He said he steroid use, although went out of my way after the thought they had to be Francois Botha was stripped hospital to look for a clinic." administered by a needle. 
LAFAYETTE QUll'RE
T O W N H O M E--S 
We have whatyou nredin off-campus living! I.otsofapart111ents available for 2003-04! 
· 4 & 5 Pr i.v a t e B e d r o o m Apt s -S P LI T the rent! ·3 Floors Tall/Patio Area 
•Central 
Air/Cable Hook-Up ·Stove, Fridge, Dishwasher ·Washer/Dryer in EACH Unit 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus ·ADT Security Systems 

•24-Hour 
Maintenance 


CALL TODAY FOR APERSONAL WALK-THROUGH! 
574-234-9223 
TCLARK@CBRESB.COM 
"BEST VALUE PER STUDENT" -ONLY $281 PER STUDENT FOR A S BEDROOM PROFESSIONALLY MANAGED BY REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. 

AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 21, 2002 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 23 
~:!'~! 
··. y ., ·: 
..>,:'\-:· ·:::.-,::--_:.. 
·team• 

1 " .l)nite .2$} / .····· ..· 
2 · ,r,~n,nQe tth< : . ::nsas:Slate ·...··. .·• .... 
:·•••tlt;~:bii~t·~t::••:j;!!: i!.!!i:/~/:!'u;:;•·•· 
7 <Purdue:,.. ,· • 8 Valldei'ftll! • 
.~o .. ei1J:ar~;b :::••;:,.,Ai:t:•;::i'.;. 
.·11:•:.'<f~~t•···:· \''(:
"!ft§:' 
17 ·. Mlone$ota .. 
18 · .fOi.tli ~-ll . 
19 .·JCl.h 
20 8~~ to11ege
21 •'.CiticJ1111aCl ···: ... 
22 •..· Ol110nmfo1on :.. 
23 • : M.b11i11ip11i St,,: 
24 Cotoraao State 
25 Otlanoma · \\ : 
·· j•; ·i:F§i1t:tMfiW1-:{: ;'} 

around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Pittsburgh at Miami 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA BASKETBALL Rockets at Mavericks 7:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL HOCKEY Sharks at Flyers 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. 

West Virginia's Brian King intercepted Bryan Randall's pass in the end zone with 12 seconds left as the Mountaineers defeated Virginia Tech (No. 12 ESPN/USA Today. No. 13 AP} 21-18 Wednesday night. 
Tech coach Frank Beamer surely will be questioned about calling two straight passes into the end zone when the Hokies already were well in range for the game-tying field goal. 
Before that, the Mountaineers (8-3, 5-1 Big East) stopped Virginia Tech (8-3, 3-3) on three consecu­tive rushes from inside the 1 yard-line with under five minutes remaining, and bar­ley hoog on. 
West Virginia's play-it-safe strategy following the defen­sive stops nearly backfired. After gaining only 2 yards on three straight rushes, Mark Fazzolari stepped out of the end zone for a safety with 2:30 remaining, closing the deficit from five points to three. 
But then Todd James· free kick went out of bounds, giv­ing the Hokies the ball at midfield with 2:26 left. Randall guided his team to the 11, and Tech seemed content to run down the clock and kick the field goal on third down. 
Randall's first pass was low and incomplete, but King stepped in front of the next pass, sealing Tech's third straight loss after an 8-0 start. 
Like Pittsburgh and Syracuse before it, West Virginia had no trouble run­ning the ball against a defense once ranked as the nation's stingiest, getting 125 yards on 11 carries from Quincy Wilson and 263 yards rushing overall. 
Wilson's big night included a 42-yard run for the Mountaineers' final touch­down, a play on which he ran untouched through a huge hole. 
Virginia Tech (8-3, 3-3) lost its third in a row for the first time since 1992, allowing an average of 246 yards per game on the ground in the stretch. 
Wilson, who set up West Virginia's first touchdown with runs of 24 and 27 yards on consecutive plays, gave West Virginia a 21-10 lead ½ith his big run, and then the Mountaineers held on against a late rally. 
Virginia Tech responded immediately to the touch­down, driving 69 yards in seven plays with Randall's 6­yard touchdown pass to Keith Willis. Randall tried a 2-point conversion pass, but it was intercepted in the end zone. 

IN BRIEF  - 
Tarheels improve record North Carolina's early season confi­dence builder meant a berth in the  left, but fell apart down the stretch against a North Carolina lineup of three freshmen and two sophomores.  was determined that the terms of the Hamister bid should be accepted," NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said.  
semifinals of the Preseason NIT.  "I told the team at one point that  "We will work with Mr. llamister to  
Rashad Mccants scored eight of his 18 points over the final 6:25 and North Carolina rallied for a 71-67 victory over Rutgers on Wednesday night to improve to 12-2 all-time in the tourna­ment.  Carolina is known for comebacks," Doherty said as the Tar Heels closed with a 23-8 run. "This may not rate as one of the best comebacks in Carolina history. but it's the best comeback for this team."  conclude the transaction as quickly as possible." Bettman said the closing should take place in the first quarter of 2003. The proposed transaction is condi­tional, and approval by the NHL Board  
The Tar Heels, despite 20 turnovers, are off to a 2-0 start off last season's  Sabres get new owner  of Governors is required. Hamister owns the Arena Football  
worst-ever 8-20 record and now head  Bu!Talo businessman Mark 1:-Iamister  League's Buffalo Destroyers, and is  
to Madison Square Garden in New York. On Nov. 27, North Carolina will face the winner of Friday night's sec­ond-round game between N.C.­Greensboro and No. 2 Kansas.  has been chosen by the NHL to pur­chase the financially troubled Buffalo Sabres. "l am proud to have been selected by the parties to move forward to con­ chairman of National Health Care. He was the first to submit a bid to the NHL last month, and is backed by Todd Berman, president and founder of Chartwell Investments, a private  
"I'm so proud of my young team, the poise they showed when they could have easily folded," Doherty said. "They arc fighters and they hung in there and hung in there and hung in there and made plays -in spite of ourselves at times. It's nice to gut it out."  clude the purchase of the Buffalo Sabres," Hamister said Thursday. A news conference was scheduled for Thursday afternoon at Hamister's office. Hamister beat out Hochester billion­aire B. Thomas Golisano in bidding for the team.  equity group. "News like this gives us an extra boost," Sabres general manager Darcy Regier;. "I think just the knowing: Number one, that the team is staying in Buffalo ­that's the most important thing for this community ­and num­ber two, there's going to be strong  ...  
Rutgers (1-1) led 59-48 with 7:26  "After narrowing the bid process, it  ownership."  

page 24 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 21, 2002 
-
" 
..,, 
This 
Week in 
campus Ministrv 
Coleman-Morse Center • 631-7800 

Freshman Retreat #44 
Retreat Date: December 6-7 Sign-up: November 11-December 2 114 Coleman-Morse Center 

807 Mass 
8:00 p.m. 
Hammes Student Lounge Coleman-Morse Center 

RCIA Session 
10:00-11:30 a.m. 
Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Tour of the Basilica for International Students & Scholars 
2:00 p.m. Reception to follow, 103 Coleman-Morse 
.......
· dav 
Campus Bible Study 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
Confirmation Session #6 
7:00-8:45 p.m. Siegfried Hall Chapel 
Weekly Spanish Mass 
10:30 p.m. St. Edward's Hall 

Graduate Student Christian Fellowship 
8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Restoring Trust: Perspectives after Dallas 
The Place Where the Church Does its Thinking 
¦ by Fr. Richard Warner, c.s.c. Director of Campus Ministry 
Holy Cross Father Ted Hesburgh, who served as president of Notre Dame from 1952 until 1987, often referred to Notre Dame as "the place where the Church does its thinking." If that was true fifteen years ago, and it was, it is all the more so today. Three recent events underscore this unique and important service of the University to the bishops of the Catholic Church during a time of great difficulty and challenge. 
Last March, Father Malloy appointed a fifteen person committee comprised of members ofthe administra­tion and faculty, to help the bishops prepare for their meeting in Dallas, when they would attempt to address the scandal caused by the infidelity of350 priests who were charged with sexually abusing minors ten or fifteen co fifty years ago, and some bishops and religious superiors who reassigned these men to ocher parishes, often without advising the new pastors or faithful of their past offences. This meant that some of these priests were able to continue to take advantage of children entrusted to their care. 
The bishops did meet in 1993 and developed a policy regarding chis issue in a document entitled "Restor­ing Trust". Since that date, very few accusations of sexual misconduct by priests has been dramatically re­duced. But the actions and practices that took place prior to 1993, exploded in the media about one year ago, and has been a topic covered continuously since then. 
The Committee Father Malloy appointed, referred to as the "Church Study Committee", began meeting in March to prepare a report which would be distributed to the bishops prior to their June 2002 meeting in Dallas, as Father Malloy had requested. Countless hours of work were dedicated to this task by the Commit-· 
tee.  Experts in the areas of journalism, law and  
The  bishops present  were  somewhat  psychology were brought to campus to share their expertise with the Committee in a session which  
spellbound as they listened to one expert  lasted over twelve hours. After further discussion,  
after another, most of them members of the  a report was prepared which Father Malloy sent to the bishops without fanfare. Many bishops  
Notre Dame faculty. The opportunity to be  wrote to Father Malloy indicating that the docu­ 
exposed to these great teachers and scholars, which I suspect we take too often  ment prepared by the Notre Dame committee was "substan­tial, objective, profound and respectful." A leading member of the hierarchy in the U.S. called the document "the only  
for granted, was a rare privilege for them. They experienced liturgies which moved  material any bishop needed to bring to Dallas because of its excellence." The report is now available on the Notre Dame Web site.  
them, and hospitality which overwhelmed  The Church Study Committee then began to prepare a  
them.  For them, it was obvious that Notre  workshop for the Notre Dame Community and another for bishops and other diocesan administrators. The presenta­ 
Dame was still "the place where the Church  tion for the community was offered in October.  
does its thinking."  The workshop for the bishops, entitled Restoring Trust: Perspectives after Dallas, attracted over fifty participants. The  
bishops present were somewhat spellbound as they listened  
to one expert after another, most of them members of the  

Notre Dame faculty. Their areas of expertise included history, law, Canon Law, psychology, theology and philosophy, among others. The opportunity to be exposed to these great teachers and scholars, which I suspect we take too often for granted, was a rare privilege for them. As one presenter after another took to the podium, the bishops present continually commented on the richness of the experience. They lamented the fact that too many of their fellow bishops were not present and should have been. They experienced liturgies which moved them, and hospitality which overwhelmed them. For chem, it was obvious that Notre Dame was still "the place where the Church does its thinking." 
Last Wednesday, Father Malloy, Professor John Cavadini and I, along with others, hosted a reception Notre Dame offered for the bishops as they finished their three days ofmeetings in Washington which basically confirmed the decisions they made in Dallas, adding safeguards to provide due process for accused priests. Over 125 bishops attended the recep­tion. Many commented on how important the role Notre Dame plays in the life ofthe Church in the U.S. is for them and for so many others. Some expressed their admiration for the rich gift to Catholic life that Notre Dame represents. Others suggested additional ways Notre Dame might serve the Church during the current crisis and in many other future ways as well. All expressed their gratitude for what was and will continue to be offered them and others by the University. 
It is important for all of us to catch at least this brief glimpse of how essential it is for the Catholic Church in particular, including its bishops, to have such a rich resource at their disposal. Notre Dame is truly the place where the Church does it thinking. That was true during the 35 years of Father Hesburgh's administration; it is true today in spades under Father Malloy's guidance. 

¦ Baslllca 01 the Sacred Hean ¦ Around campus 
Saturday, November 23 Sunday, November 24 30 minutes after the game Spanish Mass 
Rev. David E. Schlaver, c.s.c. 1:30 p.m., Zahm Hall Chapel 45 minutes after the game (Stepan) Rev. Thomas W. Smith, c.s.c. Law School Mass 
Sunday, November 24 5:00 p.m., Law School Chapel 
8:00 a.m. 
MBA Mass
Rev. Thomas W. Smith, c.s.c. 
7:00 p.m., Mendoza COB Faculty Lounge
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Thomas W. Smith, c.s.c. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. David E. Schlaver, c.s.c. 

¦ SlnlaV'SScllllbnReadlrlllS 1st Rdg Ez 34:11-12, 15-17 2"" Rdg 1 Cor 15:20-26, 28 Gospel Mt 25:31-46 

Thursday, November 21, 2002 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Montreal Expos will play part of season in Puerto Rico 

Al Wire Photo Service Montreal's Bartolo Colon pitches In a previous game this seaon. Colon and the Expos will play 22 games In Puerto Rico. 
Win AFree DVD! 
Win Sleeping Beaufy,WhileYou Were Sleeping, Nightmare on Elm Street or Sleepless in Seattle 

Just email us at UBWelll@ND.edu with the correct answer and be entered into adrawing to win. 
What percentage ofAmericans are sleep deprived! 
Look in tomorrow's Observer for achance to win an ~~O gift certificate to Dick's Sporting Goods or aday at the spa! 
2002-2003 Mainstage Season Norre Dame Film, Television, and Thearre PRESENTS 
wRrnEN BY pa.ula vogel • DIRECTED BY wendy arons 
Washington Hall 
WED, NOVEMllER 20, 7:J0 1'.M. 
THU, NOYEMHE.R Z l, 7,J0 l\M. FR[. NOVEMBER 22, 730 PM. SAl, NOVEMBER 23, 7:30 1'.M. 
SUN. NOVEMBER 21, 2,_ln l'M. 
Tickets 
RESERVED SE.ATS $JO SENIOR CITIZENS $9 ALL STUDENTS $7 Avaihble at the LJfortunc Srndenr Cemer ricket office. Mas,ctcml and Vi;;t orders call 574-631-8128. 
This prnducrion is "'l'l"meJ 1-iy the Institute for Scholarship in rhe Lil>eral Am. 

UBWELL2@ND
.EDU 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
The Montreal Expos will play 22 of their 81 home games in Puerto Rico next year, and the Oakland Athletics and Seattle Mariners will start the season with the major leagues' second opening in Japan. 
Expos president Tony Tavares said that with the guaranteed income from the games in San Juan, his team will not have to conduct a "fire sale" of players such as Vladimir Guerrero and Bartolo Colon. Still. he did not reveal the Expos' planned payroll. As baseball owners ended their meeting Wednesday. commissioner Bud Selig also formed a committee to deter­mine the long-term fate of the Expos, who were purchased from Jeffrey Loria earlier this year. and formed a marketing task force to examine how baseball attracts fans. He also said he will present ideas to owners in January on the All­Star game, which ended in a tie last July when the teams ran out of pitchers. 
Baseball announced that the Expos would play three home­stands at Hiram Bithorn Stadium in San Juan without identifying specific opponents, but the hoped-for schedule was revealed by several base­ball officials spoke who on the condition of anonymity. 
Subject to negotiations with the players' association. the Expos would play a 10-game homestand in San Juan in April, with games against the New York Mets (April 11-14). Atlanta (April 15-17) and Cincinnati (April 18-20). revenue from the games on 
The second homestand the Caribbean island. would include the World "We went there last year to Series champion Anaheim open the season. It was terrif­Angels (June 3-5) and Texas ic," Rangers owner Tom Hicks (June 6-8). and the last would said. "We're totally open to it.'' have Florida (Sept. 5-7) and The players' association had the Chicago Cubs (Sept. 9-11 ). argued for two homestands in 
"It doesn't affect me where San Juan instead of three, we play." Expos manager seeking to minimize disloca­Frank Hobinson said Tuesday tion. The union. which must after agree-approve the ing to come games, wants
"ft doesn't affect me
back for a baseball to second sea­where we play. It will be pay for fami­
son in great to play in front of lies to join 
Montreal. "It players on the
the people down there. 
will be great shifted home­to play in They're great fans." stands and front of the also wants people down additional
Frank Robinson
t h e r c . meal money.
Expos manager
They're great "This is 
fans. I spent nine years down there managing in win­ter ball." 
San Juan was the host for its first regular-season game· in 2001, the season opener between Texas and Toronto. 
The Expos have been at or near the bottom in attendance in recent years at Olympic Stadium in Montreal, and the commissioner's office wants to cut losses. 
Montreal drew just 812,000 fans to its home games this year, and baseball isn't ready to decide on a permanent move. The games in San Juan 
are  seen  as  a  method  to  
increase revenue.  
"Puerto Rico will help  a  lot  

because you are collecting 
U.S. dollars and certain dol­lars, if you will, because there are guarantees involved," Tavares said. 
Baseball has asked Puerto Rican organizers to guarantee 
going to 
require some discussion with us. This is not a done deal." Gene Orza, the union's No. 2 official. said shortly before the announce­ment. 
Baseball officials hope to have a permanent solution for 2004, and probably will hold a bidding process. Charlotte, N.C., Portland. Ore., and Washington, D.C., are among the possible contenders. Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief oper­ating officer, hopes to have a decision by midsummer. 
The games between the A's and Mariners at the Tokyo Dome also require the union's approval. They are scheduled for March 25 and 26 -nearly a week ahead of most teams, who open March 31. The New York Mets and Chicago Cubs played the first regular-season games in Japan. opening the 2000 season with a two-game series at the Tokyo Dome. 


Tancredi 
continued from page 28 
making friends and going out. I started to be myself again." 
Tancredi is quick to give credit to assistant coach Amy Edwards for helping her recover from the injury and redevelop her soccer skills. 
"I remember going out to practice early and having Amy Edwards re-teach me how to strike a ball. Not fun, nor easy. The coaches did their best to keep me incor­porated, but being so hard on myself I was not going to be happy until I could prove to them what I could do on the field." 
After a year of arduous rehab, it still took Tancredi some time to establish herself alongside fellow forwards Amy Warner and Amanda Guertin. Throughout her sophomore year, she suffered from a variety of nagging injuries that limited her abili­ty on the field. 
"It took me a while to get used to their styles of play and our system on offense, but they really helped me become a better soccer play­er. As the season went along, I grew more confident." 
Coming into this season fully healthy for the first time in her career, Tancredi expected to have a breakout season on offense. but she has experienced a breakout season on defense instead. With a modest record of 7-6 and injuries to starters Gudrun Gunnarsdottir and Vanessa Pruzinsky, Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum desperately needed someone with the right mentality to solidify his struggling defense. 
"Last year the coaches hint­ed at it, but I was terrified of being a defender. This year when Gunna and Vannesa went down, the coaches turned to me," said Tancredi. "I was kind of disappointed at first that I had to change positions because I'd been a forward all of my life. But I will do anything to help the team win. This is a team thing not a personal thing. As much as I hate to admit it, I kind of like playing defense now." 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 21, 2002 
Baseball 
continued from page 28 
have weekday starters who would be weekend starters at most other top-20 programs," Spelman said. 
In addition, the utility player Vasami could provide an imme­diate surge to the Notre Dame lineup with his hitting ability. As a junior at Mamaroneck High School in Mamaroneck, 
N.Y.. Vasami hit .544 with seven home runs and 27 RBI while going 8-2 on the mound wil.h a 1.10 ERA and 113 strike­outs in 70 innings. 
"Chris is an imposing player with great bat speed and excel­lent mechanics that allow him to hit with power to all fields," Mainieri said. "He also throws a heavy, hard fastball that tops out in the low 90's." 
As several recruits indicated, Notre Dame's rise in the base­ball world has made the South Bend school an attractive alter­native to baseball recruits all 
Dido & Aeneas The Happy Prince
over the nation. Recent acco­lades of the Irish baseball pro­
--Henry Purcell --Malcolm Williamson 
gram include 14 consecutive 40-win seasons, the top-rated high school recruiting class two years ago, the school's first 
Audition dates: November 26 & 27, 2002 
No.1 national ranking during 
12:00 pm to 5:00 pm
the 2001 season and Notre Dame's first appearance at the College World Series in 45 
SIGN UP IN CROWLEY HALL RM. 105 
years last season. "My visit solidified things, seeing the tradition of the 
Auditions will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium, 
school and the baseball pro­
basement of the Snite Museum of Art. 
gram firsthand," the Fairfield, Conn., recruit Fournier said. "It was great to see the dedication 
Please bring one prepared aria or song (from memory)
that they have to go back to Omaha for the College World 
and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Series. It's a great baseball pro­
Opera performance dates are April 25 & 26, 2003. gram and school, and I knew I couldn't go wrong." 
Solo and Chorus roles available 
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 
ALL ARE INVITED!! 


Major contemporary Latino poets will read from their work, debate literary 
issues, and celebrate Hispanic culture and poetry during the Latino Poets 
Conference. This unprecedented gathering will take place at the University of 
Notre Dame November 21-23, 2002. The events include poetry readings, panels 
on contemporary poetry and translation, Q & A sessions, and an open-mic 
poetry night. Conferees include renowned award-winning writer Gary Soto as 
well as the following fine poets, critics, and translators: Francisco Alarcon, Raul 
Barrientos, Lisa Chavez, Maurice Kilwein Guevara, and Aleida Rodriguez. The 
event is sponsored by Institute for Latino Studies, the Creative Writing Program, 
the Department of English, and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Schedule of Events: 
Thursday Nov. 21 
2:00 pm Reading: Aleida Rodriguez, Hes burgh Center C-103 
3:00 pm Panel: "Latino poetry in 2002," Hesburgh Center C-103 
4:15 pm Reading: Maurice Kilwein Guevara, Hesburgh Center C-104-105 
5:30 pm Pand: "Latino Poets," Hesburgh Center C-104-105 
8:00 pm Reading: Gary Soto. Reading will be coffee-house style, followed by open-mic poetry reading, Hesburgh Center, Greenfield's 
Friday Nov. 22 
2:00 pm Panel: Discussion of translation issues, moderated by Orlando Menes, with Francisco Alarcon/Francisco Aragon, Raul Barrientos/Ben Heller, Hesburgh Center C-103 
3:15 pm Reading: Reading oforiginal poetry by Raul Barrientos with translations by Ben Heller, Hesburgh C-103 
4:30 pm Reading oforiginal poetry by Francisco Alarcon with translations by Francisco Aragon, Hesburgh Center C-103 
8:00 pm Reading: Lisa Chavez, followed by light reception, Hesburgh Center, Greenfield's 
Saturday Nov. 23 
10:30 am Panel: Latino Poetry & spirituality, led by Orlando Menes, Hcsburgh Center C-103 
11 :30 am Student Readings: undergraduate and graduate student poets, Hes burgh Center C-103 

For Tancredi, the most dif­ficult aspect of the adjust­ment from offense to defense was changing her mental approach to the game. 
"At forward, you are always in more of a rush to score right away. It's kind of a panic. On defense, it's a totally different mentality," said Tancredi. "You have to be smarter. You have to calm yourself down. You can't jump into things right away. There's more pressure. A lot more depends on you because you're the last line before the keeper." 
"I think the position change has really been good for her," added Waldrum. ''At for­ward, she was so hard her­self. Now that swagger and confidence in her abilities is really starting to show. With her superior size, speed, and skills, she can match up with anyone in the country. She gives us that intimidating, physical presence we need back there." 
Since Tancredi's switch to defense, the Irish have won six of their last seven games and now find themselves in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament. While Coach Waldrum has been extremely impressed with the way his new defender has performed, he is even more pleased with Tancredi's demeanor and attitude. 
"She has that charisma that all the players look up to," said Waldrum. "She has a great sense of humor and a great wit about her. She's a real practical joker. I'd like to see her to continue to develop her leadership qualities. I don't think she realizes how much the other players look up to her." 
Contact Joe Licandro at Licandro. l@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
-Used Books bought and sold -25 Categories of Books -25,000 Hardback and Papctback 
books in stock -Out"°f-Print scan:.h semce -Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six . Tuesday through Sunday 10XTE.Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232..-8444 


Thursday, November 21, 2002 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
SCHOOL DAZE Ht:-LLO CLA'iS, ANO WHCOM(:; lb M~lf.AN 0ALLRDOM. Pl£A~£. MNOCliYl..'1' UNG: UP BY S'-){ AND DAt.fef-WllH l1lE" flAATNER OPfO, :SIT£: YCJJ..  CLARE O'BRIEN  
HAPPY TOWN  JACK MONAHAN  


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRJON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Amold and Mike Arglrlon
JJ~~[R
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ZAREC 
(J I 
02002 Tribune Madia Ser.ilcea, lnc 
All Righla Rusi,rved 
YAHIR 


GABNIK 
I rJ b
www.Jumble.com 
tMOODDE I Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 
A [IIXJ(XIXJ
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: LITHE BAGGY LACING TWINGE Answer· Experienced by most when put on hold ­CALL, WAITING 
Stumped? Call 1-900-776-6718 (99 cents a minute) 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS  30 Destructive  61 Silk dress: Var.  
1 Figuring-out shout 4 Switch material  digger 33 Directions, part 3  62 License issuer, for short 63 Stationer's  CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Marlo Thomas, Goldie Hawn, Mariel Hemingway, Joseph Campanella  
9 Register transaction  36 Producers of green eggs  supply 64 Business. e.g.  Happy Birthday: You have to fight for what's yours this year. The limitations of the past have lifted and it's time to put your life back in order. Learn from  
37 William13 Ball honoree Shatner's 14 Where enfants War" are educated 38 Missouri River 15 One may be native impounded 39 & 43 Where the 16 Columnist Smith directions at 17-, 17 Start of some 22-, 33-and directions by 57-Across lead 49-Across 44 Young or little 19 Elicited follower 21 Coup 45 Mason's burden participant, e.g. 46 Same: Fr. 22 Direct1on5, 48 Fresh from the part 2 shower 24 With 9-Down, 49 See 17-Across pickup points 53 Melodramatic 25 "Love and cry Squalor" girl of 56 Actress Andress literature 57 End of the 26 "That was sure directions something!" 59 Cool 27 Personality part 60 Tough tests ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE R G ~~~-­ 65 Shade of blue DOWN 1 Grace of "Will & Grace" 2 Spyri heroine 3 Feminist Bella 4 Attacks 5 They form when melted snow refreezes at roof edges 6 "Arabian Nights" menace 7 Sun block? 8 Some are cooped up 9 See 24-Across 10 Italian busts, e.g. 11 "The Wizard of Oz" actor 12 One of Argus's array 15 Like lights on a Christmas tree  Puzzle by Susan Harrington 30 Taster's choices 31 Black cat, e.g. 32 Pampers rival 34 Prepare to drag­race  Smith 42 Fixes, as an instrument 47 Consolidates 48 Things to draw from  52 1980's White House name 53 Hidden mike 54 "The Good Earth" wife  your past experiences and don't venture down avenues that appear to be risky. llse your intuitive guidance and follow your instincts. Your numbers arc 6, 19, 28, 31,33, 45 ARlES (March 21-April 19): Look for a promotion or a new position that will lead to financial gains. Be cautious that peers don't try to make you look bad. Don't leave yourself open for criticism and all should go smoothly. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be most concerned with your professional accomplishments. Don't let your personal life interfere with your career. The possibilities are endless. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Expand your circle of friends. Check our groups or organizations with similar interests to yours. This is a perfect time to consider having children.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Good partnerships can be fostered through the company you keep. Don't hesitate to get involved in humanitarian groups. Refrain from taking drastic measures when dealing with children. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Concentrate on work, not your personal life. You can accomplish more in the office than at home. However, make sure you don't neglect your domestic responsibilities entirely. Try to maintain a balance. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel plans should be made -· either for business or pleasure, or both. You can get into self-improvement projects 1hat will enhance your appearance. Avoid letting others influence your decisions. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be careful what you consume: Weight gain is a strong possibility. Set up a health-conscious regimen for diet and exercise. Be proactive in all areas of your life.***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A friend or relative may lead you astray with opinions regarding your present situation. Listen but remember that you are the one who will suffer the consequences. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The possibilities of meeting individuals who can promote your career objectives are grand. Don't hold back; enhance your reputation by using your charm and diplomacy. ***  
..,..+-:-r~=-1-::-1 1  18 Persian Gulf emirate 20 Ott-heard word in a portrait studio 23 Took home  35 Nine-_ (some golf courses) 40 French cathedral city 41 Untrue  49 Like prisons 50 Cheese (snack) 51 Disheartened cry  55 Fonzie's name for Richie's mom 57 Trump 58 Bank offering, for short  CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your changing attitudes could, in fact, cause you to alienate yourself from friends and family. Be careful not to ruffle feathers or make statements that could offend others. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Try not to get bogged down with tedious details. Maintain an overview of the situation. You should try to spend time catching up on reading or getting together with those who can offer you mental stimulation. *****  
0 I ..,..+-+--+.,,,+~--+--1  26 Authority-defying dare 27 James  For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554 .  PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:h 20): New partnerships or friends can be established through travel or group activities. Don't partake in dubious get-rich-quick schemes. Contact a financial adviser before you put your cash on the table. **  
T E -,-t-.,,...,,-+-,-1  nicknamed "Miss Peaches" 28 "You were  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000  Birthday Baby: You'll be drawn to excitement and adventure. You will engage in a wide variety of interests that will bring you knowledge and a very versatile outlook.  
saying ... "  .  past puzzles, nytimes.com/diversions ($19.95 a year).  Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.  
-+-~~ 29 Lacking width and depth  Crosswords tor young solvers: The learmng Network, nytimes.com/leaming/xwords.  COPYRIGHT 2002 UNIVERSAL PRFSS SYNDICATE  

-~-----~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 


PORTS 
Thursday, November 21, 2002 

BASEBALL 
Irish sign another top class 
By CHRIS FEDERICO 
Sports Editor 
After making its first appear­ance at the College World Series in 45 years last summer, the Irish baseball program used that momentum in signing another stellar recruiting class Saturday, 
Notre Dame signed nine high school seniors to letters-of­intent, including four pitchers, four position players and one of the nation's premier two-way players. 
"We met certain needs by signing power pitching arms, power bats, a tremendous two­way player, a great catcher and an outstanding athlete who can play the outfield," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. 
The signees include righthanded pitchers Jeff Manship, Derik Olvey, Jess Stewart and Dan Kapala, utility player Chris Vasami, first base­man Mike Oury, infielder Chris Fournier, catcher Sean Gaston and centerfielder Danny Dressman. 
Four of the signees -Manship, Olvey, Dury and Vasami -are ranked among the nation's top-100 high school players by either the Perfect Game/Baseball America "Prospects Plus" or Team One Baseball. 
"Notre Dame again has signed one of the best classes in the nation, and it's an incredibly-balanced group, with speed, power, good arms and defense at several key areas," said Jeff Spelman, editor of TeamOneBasebail.com. "I'd cer­tainly grade this class an 'A'." 
The highlight of the Class of 2007 could be Manship. The San Antonio right-hander is rated the sixth best high school player in the nation, and the top player in Texas, by Perfect Game/Baseball America Prospects Plus. As a junior last spring at Reagan High School, Manship recorded a 9-1 record with a 0.66 ERA, 159 strikeouts, 19 walks and just 19 hits allowed in 74 innings. His nine wins included three no-hitters and one perfect game, 
"Jeff Manship has an out­standing fastball and a devastat­ing curveball," Mainieri said. "With his experience against top-level competition, he should make an immediate impact." 
The signing of Texas native Manship could be quite a coup for the Irish, who lured the pitcher away from in-state pow­erhouses Texas and Rice, both teams that appeared in the College World Series in 2002 with the Irish. The signing is a testament to how far the Notre Dame program has risen in recent years in the ranks of the college baseball elite. 
"Notre Dame really turned the corner with making it to Omaha, and there is nothing they can't offer a recruit now," Spelman 

San Antonio Express-News 
Righthanded pitcher Jeff Manship has signed to play baseball next year for the Irish. Manship signs with eight others who were attracted to the momentum of Notre Dame's baseball program. 
said. "What is exciting to see is trios of pitchers to sign with the the freshman and sophomore that they are maintaining things Irish. The three were listed sec-pitchers already are at Notre on a high level and building on it ond, 32nd and 53rd, respective-Dame, you could envision them -they are not a 'flash-in-the-ly. in Perfect Game/Baseball back in Omaha [at the College pan."' America's list of the nation's top World Series]. because you'd 
Manship, Olvey and Vasami pitchers. could provide one of the top "If you add these signees to see BASEBALL/page 26 

WOMENS SOCCER 
Tancredi shows a tough face on the field 
joker inside." toughest player was missing mates and friends, strutted Tancredi mentally as she By JOE LICANDRO When asked to describe from the lineup while serving a 'Shane Walton-style' in front of struggled to find her niche at Sports Writer 
Tancredi's personality, team­suspension for having accumu­the fans and promptly put her Notre Dame. 
mate and fellow Canadian lated four yellow cards. In last hands on her hips before her "I tore my ACL a month 
No one could ever accuse Candace Chapman responded Sunday's rematch in the sec• teammates mobbed her. The before reporting into the pre­Melissa Tancredi of being shy. with a laugh, "You mean clean­ond round of the NCAA raucous crowd roared with se as on for Notre Dame. I'd On the field, the starting full­ly? No, Melissa is great. She's Tournament, Tancredi approval in appreciation of never been hurt before. That back for the Notre Dame wom­one of my best friends here. returned to the lineup to lead 'Canada's' gesture. was my first major injury," ens soccer team is that special She likes to have fun and joke the Irish to victory. "We're usually not the team said Tancredi. "Coming into a type of player who can take around on and off the field. On the defense, she com­to celebrate," said Tancredi. "I new country, new team, and over a game with her passion Before the games, she loves to pletely shut down Purdue's guess I'm a little different in new school made it really and swagger. Off the field, the do these one-on-one dances in leading scorers Annette Kent that way. I'm just spontaneous tough. No one ever saw me twenty-year old native of the locker room that make and Jennie Moppert. The for­because it gets the team going. because I was depressed. I just Hamilton, Ontario, is a fun-lov­everyone laugh." mer forward did not forget I just love to have fun out stayed in my room the whole ing, outgoing prankster, always While Tancredi's teammates how to contribute on offense there." time. I didn't want to talk to quick with a smile and a joke. might laugh at her humorous either. With just under seven Tancredi's soccer career at anyone. I wasn't doing to well 
"I really don't see any point antics, Notre Dame's oppo• minutes left in the game, Notre Dame has not always in school. I didn't want to have in taking everything so serious­nents don't find her rough, Tancredi's flying header off a been all fun and games. Before anything to do with soccer, but ly all the time," said Tancredi. physical style of play so funny. corner kick from teammate her freshman year, she suf­the strength coaches really'Tm very sarcastic. It's just so Just ask the Purdue Amanda Guertin put the finish­fered a devastating knee injury helped me a lot. Getting into much easier to face life that Boilermakers. ing touches on a 3-1 victory for that put her Irish career in rehab really got me excited way. If anyone saw me on the One month ago, the the Irish. After the incredible serious jeopardy before it ever about soccer again. I started field, I might look like a mean Boilermakers easily defeated score, 'Canada', as she is affec­started. Even worse, tearing person, but I'm a really big the Irish 3-1, but Notre Dame's tionately called by her team-her ACL took a real toll on see TANCREDI/page 26 

NBA  MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL  COLLEGE FOOTBALL  
Celtics top Nets 96-79  Expos will play home away from home  Clarett struggles to overcome injury  
Tony Delk and Shammond Williams each score 21 to lead Boston to a victory.  Montreal will play 22 of its 81 home games in Puerto Rico.  Maurice Clarett hopes to return to the OSU line­up against Michigan.  
page 16  page 25  page 19  






